{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== About Me ===
My name is Robert.
I have been using Ubuntu since the summer of 2010.
I live in the central United States.
My initial introduction to Ubuntu, and linux in general, came about from when I was given an old machine and  
after it sat in a dark corner for some time, waiting to be recycled, I decided to try learning something about computers.
So I went on-line and found the Ubuntu home page, downloaded a fresh copy of 10.04(initial release)
Burned it, and installed over the old Windows which was the machine.
I remember when I first installed, I reinstalled, because I did not think it suppose to install as fast and smooth as it did.
From the get-go, Ubuntu has always worked for me.
There on, I decided to expand beyond Ubuntu and spent a few months hopping through the rite-passage, which is distro-hopping.
None of the other system ever ran as well, or had as few of problems, as Ubuntu.
So I decided that Ubuntu would be my system of choice. I feel it was the right one for me.
I'm not a "techie", just an everyday guy who happens to like and run Ubuntu.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~deadflowr
|-
| Forums Profile
| http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1276577
|}

=== Contributions ===
I try hard to provide help to new and advanced users over at the http://ubuntuforums.org/index.php
I'm a jack of all trades when it comes to helping others.
My primary desktop is Unity, so I tend to lean toward support questions related to it.

=== Future Goals ===
My future goals are to keep helping others as much as I can.
I have been mulling building a mythbuntu system.
I want to learn more about servers, as I primarily run desktops.

=== Comments ===
'''Note:''' This section is for people who aren't Ubuntu members to cheer or comments that aren't testimonials from existing members.

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' This section is for existing Ubuntu members to leave testimonials.  People who aren't Ubuntu members can leave a comment above in favor of the application.

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here.
 
Bashing-om:

I have been aware of deadflowr on the forum for some time. In this time I have grown to appreciate the depth of knowledge and the willingness to share that is exemplified -a founding principal of the forum.
deadflowr is always cheerfull and a willingness to help and guide is his hallmark.
deadflowr has my full support in his goal to advance.
I am sure the good work will continue.
           up up and away
