{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About Me ===

Background: 23 years old, been using Linux since 2001 and developing software for a living. Currently finishing BS Computer Science education at the Institute of Computer Science (ICS) at the University of the Philippines Los Banos (UPLB) (<nowiki>[[http://ics.uplb.edu.ph]]</nowiki>). Currently working with Orange and Bronze Software Labs, Ltd. Co. (<nowiki>[[http://software.orangeandbronze.com/]]</nowiki>) as a C++ Software Architect.

Computer Programming Language proficiencies: C++, Java

Interests: Parallel Computing, High Performance Computing, Beowulf Clusters, C++, Software Development, Linux, Free/Open Source Software, Messaging Systems

=== Contact Information ===

Email:   
Blog: http://cplusplus-soup.blogspot.com/

==== Affiliations ====
* Philippine Linux Users Group <nowiki>[[http://linux.org.ph/]]</nowiki>
* UPLB Computer Science Society <nowiki>[[http://www.uplbcoss.org/]]</nowiki>

==== Ubuntu Linux Involvement ====
* <nowiki>[[HardwareSupportMachinesECS]]</nowiki> -- as a contribution to the LaptopTestingTeam detailing information regarding Ubuntu linux performance and compatibility/support for the ECS laptops.

* LongRunHowTo -- detailed information regarding the use of the longrun utility to control Transmeta (tm) Crusoe (tm) processors.

* LongRun -- supplementary information regarding the longrun technology developed by Transmeta (tm) incorporated in Crusoe (tm) and Efficeon (tm) processors.

* <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam/AcerTravelmate3282WXMi]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryHomepage
