{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



* <nowiki>[[Ubuntu-ForDebianDevelopers|Ubuntu for Debian Developers]]</nowiki> - Information that would be useful for Debian Developers and contributors for working with Ubuntu.
* <nowiki>[[Debian-ForUbuntuDevelopers|Debian for Ubuntu Developers]]</nowiki> - Information that would be useful for Ubuntu Developers that wish to cooperate with Debian and need information and best practices on how to work with Debian.
* <nowiki>[[Debian-Debconf|Debconf]]</nowiki> - Whiteboard for coordinating discussions at the Debian Conference.
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/DerivativesFrontDesk|Debian Derivatives Front Desk]]</nowiki> - This group helps developers of Debian derivative distributions to contribute their changes back to Debian

=== Knowledge Base ===

* <nowiki>[[Debian-Bugs|Debian Bugs]]</nowiki> - Interacting with debbugs, forwarding bugs and patches.
* <nowiki>[[Debian-Usertagging|User Tags]]</nowiki> - Using BTS usertags for bugs submitted by Ubuntu developers.
* <nowiki>[[Debian-Presentations|Presentations]]</nowiki> - Talks at conferences, relevant to the Debian/Ubuntu relationship.
* <nowiki>[[Debian-PythonModulesTeam]]</nowiki> - Getting a package into Debian through the Python Modules Team
* <nowiki>[[SyncRequestProcess|Sync Request Process]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryDebian <<BR>>
CategoryUpstream
