{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:debian-policy-in-docbook
* '''Created''': 2008-06
* '''Contributors''': LarsWirzenius
* '''Packages affected''': debian-policy

=== FIXME ===

* More rationale for why DocBook is preferable to debiandoc-sgml.
* This is probably not worth doing, at least for now; Ubuntu can
 handle the debiandoc-sgml markup well enough.

=== Summary ===

Ubuntu wishes to maintain a version of the Debian Policy Manual that is
specific to Ubuntu. To make this easier, it would be convenient for the
DPM to be marked up using DocBook rather than debiandoc-sgml. This
spec proposes that Ubuntu do the conversion for Debian and work with
Debian to get the new markup accepted.

=== Release Note ===

This spec has no direct end-user impact.

=== Rationale ===

The debiandoc-sgml markup language was designed in the mid-1990s, when
DocBook was not yet well-known. It is a fairly restricted markup
language, and using DocBook would allow more flexiblity. Ubuntu wants to
use some of that flexibility to more easily maintain a version of the
document for itself. Debian has not been in a hurry to do the conversion,
but Ubuntu might help by doing the grunt-work.

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

* Discuss with Debian (the debian-policy mailing list) that the
   conversion to DocBook is acceptable to them.
* Prepare a prototype conversion of one chapter.
* Discuss this with Debian.
* Make any changes deemed necessary based on the discussion.
* Repeat until Debian is satisfied.
* Convert the rest of the document.
* Discuss the result and tweak as necessary.

----
CategorySpec
