{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Using BTS usertags for bugs submitted by Ubuntu developers ==

When submitting bugs to Debian, it is recommended to use ''BTS usertags''. This has several advantages:
* It allows them to be accurately tracked for reporting and statistics collection
* It will help to highlight Ubuntu contributions to Debian
* It might help identify blockage in getting patches into Debian (such as an inactive or unresponsive maintainer)
* It might help to motivate merging of patches by providing a to-do list

=== Usertags you should use ===
All those usertags must be used with the ubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com user. (the user is just used to store the tags, so it's safe to use that address)

* '''origin-ubuntu''': means that the bug was reported by an Ubuntu developer or contributor, wearing their Ubuntu hat (if they have several hats). This includes bug including or not including patches. This tag should be added to all bugs we talk about in this page.
* '''ubuntu-patch''': means that the bug includes a patch to fix the issue provided by an Ubuntu developer or contributor.
* '''saucy''': means that the bug was reported during the ''saucy'' release cycle.

Later (after several release cycles), this will allow to answer questions such as:
** what are the bugs reported during the hardy release cycle that are still open, now that we are in the intrepid release cycle?
** how does the number of bugs reported by Ubuntu developers evolve?

Examples:
* A bug including a patch, submitted during the lucid release cycle, should have the following usertags: <code>origin-ubuntu ubuntu-patch lucid</code>
* A bug NOT including a patch, submitted during the lucid release cycle, should have the following usertags: <code>origin-ubuntu lucid</code>

=== Using usertags ===

* '''When submitting a bug, using the 'submittodebian' script:''' You're done!  submittodebian adds tags for you.

<pre>
submittodebian
</pre>

* '''When submitting a bug, using the 'reportbug' script:'''

<pre>
reportbug --bts debian -P 'User: ubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com' -P 'Usertags: origin-ubuntu saucy ubuntu-patch' -T patch
</pre>

* '''When submitting a bug by mail''', one can add pseudo-headers to add usertags. For example, those pseudo-headers add the usertags "origin-ubuntu" and "precise" for the user "ubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com":

<pre>
Package: lsof
Severity: important
Version: 4.78.dfsg.1-2
User: ubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com
Usertags: origin-ubuntu saucy ubuntu-patch</pre>

* '''For an existing bug, using the 'bts' script:'''

<pre>
bts user ubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com . usertag 123456 + origin-ubuntu saucy 
</pre>

* '''For an existing bug, by sending a mail to control@bugs.debian.org:'''

<pre>
user ubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com
usertag 123456 + origin-ubuntu saucy</pre>

==== Notes ====
* If you are submitting a bug with a patch, you can tag the bug 'patch' (that's not a usertag, that's a 'normal' tag), using the following pseudo-header:
<pre>
Tags: patch
</pre>
* If you are submitting bugs by mail, don't forget to report the bug against the version of the package in Debian, not the version of the package in Ubuntu.

=== Links to summary pages ===
* All bugs tagged by ubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com: http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?users=ubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com
* Bugs tagged origin-ubuntu: http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?tag=origin-ubuntu;users=ubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com
* Bugs tagged ubuntu-patch: http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?tag=ubuntu-patch;users=ubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com
* Example page with lots of bugs: http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?tag=qa-doublebuild;users=debian-qa@lists.debian.org
* UDD summary: http://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu_usertag.cgi

----
CategoryDebian
