{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


This page is for possible collaboration on topics that would be interesting to both Debian and Ubuntu developers who are attending Debconf. The idea here is to use this as a whiteboard to figure out what needs to be discussed in preparation for the event and as a resource for DDs that are looking to see who from Ubuntu will be attending the conference.

=== Coordination Ideas ===

We feel the following three areas would be beneficial to talk to Debian about for this Debconf:

* Boot performance coordination
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FoundationsTeam/BootPerformance/DebianUbuntuSprint|Summary of Debian/Ubuntu boot sprint]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FoundationsTeam/Specs/DebianLTSCoordination|Release coordination]]</nowiki>
** Toolchain
** Large infrastructure bits
* Packaging in a VCS
** <nowiki>[[http://vcs-pkg.org]]</nowiki>
** DistributedDevelopment
* Unifying Debian and Ubuntu "patch tagging guidelines"
** <nowiki>[[http://dep.debian.net/deps/dep3/]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-PatchTaggingGuidelines|Ubuntu PatchTaggingGuidelines]]</nowiki>

=== Attendees ===

The following Canonical/Ubuntu people are attending: 

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name
| Interest
|-
| Colin Watson
| d-i and policy, though tangential interests in most of the above
|-
| Chris Cheney
| 
|-
| Evan Dandrea
| 
|-
| James Westby
| Packaging in a VCS and Patch tagging guidelines
|-
| Jorge Castro
| Community-related relations and general feedback from DDs on patch and bug workflow
|-
| Lars Wirzenius
| piuparts
|-
| Matthias Klose
| 
|-
| Matt Zimmerman
| 
|-
| Michael Casadevall
| 
|-
| Steve Langasek
| 
|-
| Robbie Williamson
| Boot performance and release coordination
|}
