{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page contains a list of predefined responses the server team uses for responding to bug reports. These responses can be used to speed up the triage process as many of the requests are the same and there is no need to reinvent the wheel over-and-over.

This page is not meant to replace the more official <nowiki>[[Bugs-Responses]]</nowiki> page, however meant to be more specific to the server team's focus (i.e. less on desktop and UI related items).

Note: responses are kept to 76 character line length to align properly in Launchpad.

== Standard ==
=== Need more information ===
<pre>
Thank you for taking the time to file a bug report.

<Ask for more details, try to be specific>

Since there is not enough information in your report to begin triage or to
differentiate between a local configuration problem and a bug in Ubuntu, I
am marking this bug as "Incomplete". We would be grateful if you would:
provide a more complete description of the problem, explain why you
believe this is a bug in Ubuntu rather than a problem specific to your
system, and then change the bug status back to "New".

For local configuration issues, you can find assistance here:
http://www.ubuntu.com/support/community
</pre>

=== Local Configuration Issue ===
<pre>
Thank you for taking the time to file a bug report.

<Add specific reason why this is a local configuration problem>

Since it seems likely to me that this is a local configuration problem,
rather than a bug in Ubuntu, I am marking this bug as 'Incomplete'.

However, if you believe that this is really a bug in Ubuntu, then we would
be grateful if you would provide a more complete description of the problem
with steps to reproduce, explain why you believe this is a bug in Ubuntu
rather than a problem specific to your system, and then change the bug
status back to "New".

For local configuration issues, you can find assistance here:
http://www.ubuntu.com/support/community
</pre>

=== EOSS Release ===
<pre>
Thank you for taking the time to report this bug. In an effort to keep an
up-to-date and valid list of bugs to work on, I have reviewed this report
to verify it still requires effort and occurs on an Ubuntu release in
standard support, and it does not.

<Insert reason and additional details here>

It is unfortunate that we were unable to resolve this defect, however
there appears to be no further action possible at this time. I am
therefore moving the bug to 'Incomplete'. If you disagree or have
new information, we would be grateful if you could please add a comment 
stating why and then change the status of the bug to 'New'.
</pre>

== Upstream ==
=== Does this affect upstream? ===
<pre>
Thank you for taking the time to report this bug and helping to make Ubuntu
better.

The next step is to identify whether this bug is present in the upstream
project, introduced in Debian packaging, or introduced in Ubuntu's
modifications. If Ubuntu has not introduced the problem, we should get a bug
filed in the appropriate upstream bug tracker. Are you able to help with
this, please?

If you do end up filing a bug upstream, please link to it here. Thanks!
</pre>

=== Need Upstream Bug ===
<pre>
Thank you for taking the time to report this bug and helping to make Ubuntu
better. I appreciate the quality of this bug report and I'm sure it will be
helpful to others experiencing the same issue.

This sounds like an upstream bug to me. The best route to getting it fixed
in Ubuntu in this case would be to file an bug with the upstream project.
Otherwise, I am not sure what we can do directly in Ubuntu to fix the
problem.

If you do end up filing an upstream bug, please link to it from here. Thanks!
</pre>

== SRU ==
=== SRU Steps ===
<pre>
If you need a fix for an existing stable release, please read the SRU page:
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates#When then complete steps 1
through 4 of https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates#Procedure 

Note that that SRU team would need to make a final decision on accepting
an SRU.
</pre>

=== File an SRU (likely) ===
<pre>
Thank you for taking the time to report this bug and helping to make Ubuntu
better.

If someone can prepare a backport, please follow the steps at:
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates#Procedure

All the steps documented there need to be followed. In particular:

1) Explain the bug well enough so the SRU team (who are probably not
familiar with this package) can understand the real user impact in terms of
use case so they can make a decision as to whether backporting the fix to
stable releases justifies the regression risk to existing, unaffected users.

2) Make sure that the fixing this in a stable Ubuntu release does not
regress existing users of the module not affected by this bug (e.g. other
architectures or ways of consuming this module).

3) Have a test case that can be followed by someone not familiar with the
package for SRU verification purposes.
</pre>

=== File an SRU (unlikely) ===
<pre>
If you need a fix for the bug in previous versions of Ubuntu, then the
relevant procedure is documented here:

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates

However, I am not sure this bug would qualify under that policy, although
I am not on the SRU team and cannot make that decision.
</pre>

=== Test PPA with fix ===
<pre>
I have uploaded a test fix to my PPA: 

<Put PPA link here>

Since I cannot verify the fix myself, can you please test the package
available from the PPA before I request an archive upload? Once this is
checked, I will request the fix be uploaded officially. The final proposed
package will then need to be verified again before it can enter -updates.
</pre>

== Debian ==
=== File with Debian (delta) ===
<pre>
* *Also add tags: needs-upstream-report bitesize**

This bug is present in Debian as well. Therefore, this bug would be best
fixed directly in Debian, and then Ubuntu will pick up the fix
automatically.

Would you mind filing a bug with Debian please?
</pre>

=== File with Debian (no delta) ===
<pre>
* *Also add tags: needs-upstream-report bitesize**

Thank you for taking the time to report this bug and helping to make Ubuntu
better.

This bug is present in Debian as well and Ubuntu currently does not make any
changes to the Debian package. Therefore, this bug would be best fixed
directly in Debian, and then Ubuntu will pick up the fix automatically.

Would you mind filing a bug with Debian please?
</pre>

=== How to file a bug ===
<pre>
Debian uses a bug tracker a little different than Launchpad. As an example,
assuming the source package we are interested in is 'vim', you can find
the Debian bug tracker for vim here:

https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?pkg=vim

You can file a bug via email by sending mail to: submit@bugs.debian.org
The body of the email needs to contain everything between the --- below:
---
Package: vim
Version: your_version_here

Your details, explanation, and steps to reproduce go below those two lines,
Package and Version, which are required.
---

You can read more here about filing bugs in Debian here:
https://www.debian.org/Bugs/Reporting

Hope that helps!
</pre>

== Common Patterns ==
Use one of the standard patterns above, and then copy and paste this in as the comment.

=== Overwrite a File ===
<pre>
Per the log message above, the package you are trying to install is trying
to overwrite a file that already exists on the system and is owned by
another package. This conflict can be resolved by removing one of the
packages.
</pre>

=== Inconsistent State ===
<pre>
One of your packages is reporting that it is in an inconsistent state. This
needs to be solved before you continue further operations. To help you get
started please see this question and response:
https://askubuntu.com/questions/148715/how-to-fix-package-is-in-a-very-bad-inconsistent-state-error
</pre>
=== Python 3 As Default ===
<pre>
Per the log message above, you may have changed the default Python version
from 2 to 3. This leads to unexpected behavior like the errors you are
currently seeing.  
</pre>

=== Debian Package Installed ===
<pre>
Per the log message above, there are packages from Debian that are
installed. While Ubuntu is based on Debian installing packages directly from
Debian is neither suggested nor supported.
</pre>

=== Package from non-Ubuntu Repository ===
<pre>
It seems that you are not using a software package provided by the official
Ubuntu repositories. Because of this the Ubuntu project can not support or
fix your particular bug. Please report this bug to the provider of the
software package. Thanks! 
</pre>

=== Downgrade MySQL ===
<pre>
Per the log message above, the mysql install has failed because you are
attempting to downgrade the version. If you really do wish to do this, then
follow the steps in the message to force the downgrade. However, be warned
this may cause unexpected behavior.
</pre>

=== Respond to Question ===
<pre>
Per the log message above, the installer is asking for user input. The
question it is asking is about which version of a file you wish to keep.
You can overwrite with the new one, keep the old one, edit them, etc. to
help you determine the best solution for your situation.
</pre>

== Package Specific Patterns ==
=== nginx ===
NOTE: This section may not accurately or directly reflect other special-case handling rules for some other NGINX bugs, if you are unsure, please check <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/NGINX#BugTriage|the Bug Triage section of the ServerTeam/NGINX page.]]</nowiki>

Bugs with log files indicating this as the errors being seen can be marked as Invalid, skipping the Incomplete status, as these are confirmed to not be bugs in the packaging, and are usually because of easy-to-fix single-system-specific issues, either due to configuration files missing, or due to other software or daemons listening on the address and port which nginx is trying to bind to:

** "Address in use" / "bind() ... failed", such as these lines:
*** "nginx: [emerg] bind() to 0.0.0.0:80 failed (98: Address already in use)"
*** "nginx: [emerg] bind() to [::]:80 failed (98: Address already in use)"
*** <pre>
Thank you for taking the time to file a bug report.

The attached logs indicate that nginx is not able to bind to the IP and port 
specified by your configuration files. Usually, this is due to some other 
piece of software on your system already being bound to the port, which makes 
this a local system issue, and not a bug in the package.

Since this is most likely the case, I am marking this bug as 'Invalid'.

However, if you believe that this is really a bug in Ubuntu, then we would
be grateful if you would provide a more complete description of the problem
with steps to reproduce, explaining why you believe this is a bug in Ubuntu
rather than a problem specific to your system. Depending on the information
provided, the status will either be set to "Confirmed" if we can reproduce
the issue reported, or we will leave the status as "Invalid" and explain why 
this is the case.

For local system issues, you can find assistance here:
http://www.ubuntu.com/support/community
</pre>
** "No such file or directory", such as this:  (Issue with poster's system)
*** "nginx: [emerg] open() "/etc/nginx/nginx.conf" failed (2: No such file or directory)"
*** <pre>
Thank you for taking the time to file a bug report.

The attached logs indicate that nginx is not able to find it's main file 
of nginx.conf, containing the configuration for nginx to run with, or is
indicating that when nginx attempts to open a config file otherwise 
referred to in nginx.conf, the file is either unreadable or nonexistent.
This is usually an issue specific to your system, and not a bug in the 
software itself or how it is packaged.

Since a local system issue or a local configuration issue is most likely 
the cause of this issue, I am marking this bug as "Invalid".

However, if you believe that this is really a bug in Ubuntu, then we would
be grateful if you would provide a more complete description of the problem
with steps to reproduce, explaining why you believe this is a bug in Ubuntu
rather than a problem specific to your system. Depending on the information
provided, the status will either be set to "Confirmed" if we can reproduce
the issue reported, or we will leave the status as "Invalid" and explain why 
this is the case.

For local system or configuration issues, you can find assistance here:
http://www.ubuntu.com/support/community
</pre>
