{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Preliminary checks before filing a bug report ==

 Before filing a bug report, please check on the following: 
1. Is your sound system plugged in and switched on?  I spent an hour trying to diagnose a sound issue when the problem was that I had switched off the speakers to answer a phone call and forgot that I had done so. :-(

1. Is your speaker or microphone muted? Check here:
** <nowiki>[[Audio-CheckForMutedSpeakerVolume|Check for muted speaker]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[Audio-CheckForMutedMicrophone|Check for muted microphone]]</nowiki>

== How to report audio bugs ==

Please do not report general problems on this page; use the normal support channels instead. For more on this, please see <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/support]]</nowiki>.

If you have found a software bug, please report it by via the following terminal command: <pre>
ubuntu-bug -s audio
</pre>

This will submit a detailed bug report with necessary information about your current system.

If the above fails for some reason, you may file a bug report, then upload alsa-info information <nowiki>[[Audio-AlsaInfo|according to these instructions]]</nowiki>.

=== Things to specify in your bug report ===

First, should you ever need to do anything in this section for your sound to work in a brand new installation you should report a bug.

# For mixer problems, you may control the <nowiki>[[Audio-Alsamixer|mixers at ALSA level]]</nowiki>.
# A hardware enablement or regression bug may have been fixed upstream. Hence, please test the latest snapshot of <nowiki>[[Audio-UpgradingAlsa|upgrading your ALSA drivers]]</nowiki>, mention which version specifically you tested, if this resolves your problem.
# If your problem is audio crackling, glitching, or breaking up, and it is hardware specific, you can try applying a <nowiki>[[Audio-PositionReporting|position fix quirk]]</nowiki>.
# Using very new hardware? <nowiki>[[Audio-HDAGeneric|Here's how to check]]</nowiki> whether your built-in sound card has driver support. 

== Triaging sound bugs ==

In general, no-sound/low-sound/headphone-no-sound/no auto-mute/etc. bugs should be:
* Filed against the '''linux''' source package.
* Add the '''kernel-sound''' tag
* '''Subscribe''' (do not assign) the '''Ubuntu-audio''' team (not the ubuntu-audio-dev team)

Only assign bugs to the "alsa-driver" source package if the reporter is using the alsa-source binary package with module-assistant OR is requesting a blacklist or slots/index modification.

* Do not mark bugs as duplicates unless you're 100% sure that both the '''hardware''', '''software''', and '''symptom''' match exactly. Slightly different hardware very often requires slightly different fixes. If in doubt, file a new bug.

<nowiki>[[Audio-SameHardware|Here's an article]]</nowiki> of how to determine whether you have the same hardware as the original bug reporter.

== Further Information ==

The <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-audio-dev|Ubuntu Audio Developer's team]]</nowiki> maintains a set of Audio relevant wiki pages <nowiki>[[Audio|here]]</nowiki>.

----
CategoryDocumentation  CategoryBugSquad CategoryDebugging
