{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

If you have a laptop and your touchpad is not detected please follow the steps described here: DebuggingTouchpadDetection.

Problems with external mouse detection typically fall into one of these categories:

# Your mouse doesn't work at all. 
# Your mouse stops working after a while.
# Some mouse buttons or scrollwheels don't work (as expected).

== How to file a bug report ==

External mouse related bugs should initially be filed with the mouse plugged in, via a terminal:{{{
ubuntu-bug xorg}}}

This is so that the necessary debugging information is automatically attached to the report. Please ensure you have <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xdiagnose|xdiangose]]</nowiki> installed, and you hit the Yes button in the window asking if you want to include additional debugging information. If the bug turns out to be a kernel bug or a bug in another package, bug triagers can re-assign the bug.

=== General information ===

For all bug categories the following general information should be provided:

# Ensure you report the bug via ubuntu-bug xorg as outlined above.
# What is the full manufacturer and model of your mouse.
# How is your mouse connected to your PC: serial, PS/2, USB, USB wireless, etc.
# What mechanism does your mouse use: roller ball, optical, trackball, etc.
# How many physical buttons and scrollwheels does you mouse have?

=== In case your mouse doesn't work at all ===

# Provide the <nowiki>[[#generalinfo|general information]]</nowiki>.
# If you have a PS/2 mouse make sure it was connected before booting Ubuntu, if you have a USB mouse unplug it and replug it to see if it starts working.
# Enter the following command in a terminal: {{{
dmesg > ~/dmesg }}}
 1. Attach as separate attachments to your bug report <code>~/dmesg</code> and your <code>/var/log/Xorg.0.log</code>.

=== In case your mouse stops working after a while ===

# Test if your mouse works in a second computer, or test a second mouse in your computer. Several issues are related to the specific hardware/Bios configuration, try to disable ACPI.
# Provide the <nowiki>[[#generalinfo|general information]]</nowiki>.
# Direct after logging in to GNOME, KDE or Xfce open a terminal and enter the following commands: {{{
dmesg > ~/dmesg_boot
cp /var/log/Xorg.0.log ~/Xorg.0.log }}}
# Wait until your mouse stops working. If you have a USB mouse unplug it an replug it to see if it starts working again.
# Open a Virtual Terminal by pressing Ctrl-Alt-F1.
# Enter the following commands: {{{
LANG=C
dmesg > ~/dmesg
diff -ns ~/dmesg_boot ~/dmesg > ~/dmesg_diff
cp /var/log/Xorg.0.log ~/Xorg.0.log_tmp
diff -ns ~/Xorg.0.log ~/Xorg.0.log_tmp > ~/Xorg.0.log_diff }}}
 1. Attach as separate attachments to your bug report <code>~/dmesg_boot</code>, <code>~/dmesg_diff</code>, <code>~/Xorg.0.log</code> and <code>~/Xorg.0.log_diff</code>.

=== In case some mouse buttons or scrollwheels don't work (as expected) ===

# Provide the <nowiki>[[#generalinfo|general information]]</nowiki>.
# Open a terminal and enter the following commands: {{{
xmodmap -pp > ~/xmodmap-pp
xev | grep -i button }}} Put the mouse cursor into the rectangle and push your mouse buttons. Mention in the bug report which button number is reported, e.g. left = 1, scrollwheel up = 4, horizontal scrollwheel left = 6, thumb button = 8, pinkie button = 9, ...
 1. Attach as separate attachments to your bug report <code>/var/log/Xorg.0.log</code> and <code>~/xmodmap-pp</code>.

== Known bugs ==

Description of known issues, how to recognise them and stock responses/actions.

'''Open'''
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#eeeeee"> '''Bug#'''
| '''Description'''
| '''Action'''
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/9068|#9068]]</nowiki>
| Serial mouse isn't autodetected
| If you want your serial mouse to be autodetected in future versions of Ubuntu, please help by following the steps described here: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2006-February/015020.html and attach the requested information to <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/9068|bug #9068]]</nowiki>.
|}

----
CategoryBugSquad CategoryDebugging
