{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


This document describes how to install debug packages for seahorse on Ubuntu, which will aid in providing information for bugs.

=== Feisty Fawn 7.04, Gutsy Gibbon 7.10 and Hardy Heron 8.04 ===

Use this section only if you are using Ubuntu '''Feisty 7.04''', '''Gutsy 7.10''' or '''Hardy 8.04''' '''Intrepid 8.10'''.

1. Add the following lines to `/etc/apt/sources.list`: (of course, replace '''hardy''' with the version you are using.)
<pre>
deb http://ddebs.ubuntu.com hardy main universe
deb http://ddebs.ubuntu.com hardy-updates main universe
deb http://ddebs.ubuntu.com hardy-proposed main universe
deb http://ddebs.ubuntu.com hardy-security main universe
</pre>

You may also add these lines using the Synaptic Package Manager:

a. Choose ''Synaptic'' via the ''System > Administration'' menu.

b. Choose ''Software Sources'' via the ''Settings'' menu, and click on the ''Third-Party Software'' tab.

c. Click the ''Add'' button and enter each ''deb ...'' line as above one by one and click the ''Add Source'' button (you will have to add these lines one at a time).

d. Click the ''Reload'' button once you are done adding all the ''deb'' lines.

2. Then run
<pre>
sudo apt-get update
</pre>
to update your package list.

3. Install the debugging-packages needed for seahorse:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install seahorse-dbgsym libc6-dbg libglib2.0-0-dbg libgtk2.0-0-dbg libsoup2.4-1-dbgsym libglade2-0-dbgsym
</pre>

4. Now start seahorse using gdb:

<pre>
G_DEBUG=fatal_criticals gdb seahorse 2>&1 | tee gdb-seahorse.txt
(gdb) handle SIG33 pass nostop noprint
(gdb) set pagination 0
(gdb) run <arguments, if any>
</pre>

5. Reproduce the crash. When it crashes, issue these commands:

<pre>
(gdb) backtrace full
(gdb) info registers
(gdb) thread apply all backtrace
(gdb) quit
</pre>

6. Now you can attach the file gdb-seahorse.txt to your bugreport.
