{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Classifying ubiquity bugs as duplicates can be difficult because similar tracebacks can have many different causes resulting from different hardware or configuration. It generally necessary to examine the syslog and partman files to fine the exact cause of a crash and this may need to be done by a developer.

To help the process along we can list candidates for duplication on this page and gather data about them to build a case for merging them in each category.

=== ValueError: invalid literal for int(): ===

'''Example:''' https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/53783

'''Seen in versions:''' Dapper and earlier

'''Notes:''' Most of these bugs have had their titles changed to 'debconf frontend went away'. These are *not* firm duplicates, but they share the line <code>ValueError: invalid literal for int():</code> at the end of their traceback. 

'''Question:''' Could these be the same as <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/46569|#46569]]</nowiki> -- running installer twice simultaneously, 2nd copy explodes ? Could these users all be clicking twice but not reporting it?
* Some of them probably are (particularly with Kubuntu - single-clicking on a desktop icon in KDE launches it, so double-clicking launches it twice), but not all; there are some that blow up around partman that can't be that. This crash happens when the debconf frontend that DebconfCommunicator is expecting to talk to crashes instead; specifically, it usually happens either when the debconf database is locked, which indicates that two debconf frontends are running, or when the live filesystem is busted so that debconf crashes in some other unexpected way. As yet, I have no idea why two debconf frontends might be running in the cases where that's been verified. --ColinWatson

'''Triaging plan:''' Many of these bugs do not have useful logs, and most look unlikely to get them (after repeated requests). It is normally not advisable to mark as duplicate duplicate bugs where the cause is not fully understood. In this case we have grouped the reports that have the same traceback, that do not have logs and look unlikely to get them. This move has been cleared with the package maintainer, as should be done in such cases. The reason for grouping them will also be marked clearly. Add the `debconf-frontend-crash` tag to all these bugs.

==== Similar bugs ====

'''Without logs:''' (have now been grouped)

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/48383|#48383]]</nowiki> -- gtkui with duplicates added
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/52682|#52682]]</nowiki> -- kde-ui  with duplicates added

'''With logs:'''

https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/59315
https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/50130
https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/42774
https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/54215

'''Other notable traits:'''

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/53783|#53783]]</nowiki> -- longer traceback and ends in "invalid literal for int(): vv"
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/54104|#54104]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/58733|#58733]]</nowiki> -- Slightly different traceback <code>... line 158, in __init__ cloexec=True))</code> on line 6
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/44719|#44719]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/42774|#42774]]</nowiki>-- Pre-Dapper sightings 

=== InstallStepError: GrubInstaller failed with code 1 ===

'''Example: ''' https://bugs.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/75622

'''Different versions:'''

==== grub-installer: info: Calling 'apt-install grub' failed ====

* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/55968
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/63358
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/67801
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/68802
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/71527 
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/72422
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/72456
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/73849 
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/73849
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/73849
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/74562
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/74562
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/75010
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/75970 
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/77463

This in turn has a few categories such as unable to read package list and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/74562|unmet dependencies]]</nowiki>.

==== The file /boot/grub/stage1 not read correctly ====

* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/54164
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/57916
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/59212
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/66213
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/70222
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/75139
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/75622

==== The file /boot/grub/stage2 not read correctly ====

* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/63358
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/68802

==== Similar bugs ====

=== InstallStepError: UserSetupApply failed with code 1 ===

'''Example: ''' https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/75288

'''Comments: ''' This bug is characterised by ...

==== Similar bugs ====
