{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== General notes ==

* The default names for devices come from the kernel.

* Our naming policy is to follow the standard `devices.txt` suggested names, applying them where the kernel driver uses a mnemonic name.

* We do not supply special names, no, you cannot have `/dev/pony`.

* However if ponies are a class of devices that share a common subsystem or driver, and are commonly addressed in this way, you could have `/dev/pony0`...`/dev/ponyN`

* The numbers on the end of the enumerated devices are assigned by the kernel on a first-come, first-served basis.

* This means every time you boot, the numbers swap around.

* This is not a bug.

* We counter the above by creating symlinks with device-unique names (serial numbers, UUIDs, etc.) e.g. `/dev/disk/by-uuid` and `/dev/input/by-id`

* udev does not mount your disks, HAL, gnome-volume-manager and pmount do that.

* udev doesn't pick which module gets loaded, modprobe does that.

== Common symptoms ==

* `/dev/null` with wrong permissions: udev failed to start in the real filesystem, make sure that the udevd from the initramfs was killed, and that there is only one udev startup script.

* 3-minute hang on boot: one of the devices rules is failing, check `/var/log/udev` as noted below.
** often this is ifup, hdparm, etc.

== Useful things ==

* `sudo udevadm monitor -e` ... this should be run for any problems when a device is plugged in, or removed.  It will output UEVENT blocks for the event from the kernel, and a following UDEV block; these are timestamped so you know how long it takes to process.  The UDEV block contains more information, which udev adds through various helper programs.

* `/var/log/udev`, this is the output from above for the boot process.  Especially note whether a UDEV block takes a long amount of time to appear, or doesn't appear at all.

* To see the actions udevd is taking, you can run it in verbose debug mode:
** sudo pkill udevd
** sudo udevd --debug-trace --verbose --suppress-syslog
* To get more debug info from udev,
** edit /usr/share/initramfs-tools/scripts/init-top/udev, and change the line starting udev by adding --debug, removing --daemon (using & instead), and sending stdout and stderr into a file called /dev/.udev.debug . For instance:

    /sbin/udevd --debug --resolve-names=never > /dev/.udev.debug 2>&1 &
** then run sudo update-initramfs -k all -u
** After reboot, /dev/.udev.debug will have the udev debug info.

== Known bugs ==

Description of known issues, how to recognise them and stock responses/actions.

'''Open'''
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#eeeeee"> '''Bug#'''
| '''Description'''
| '''Action'''
|-
| TBD.
| TBD.
| TBD.
|}

'''Closed'''
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#eeeeee"> '''Bug#'''
| '''Description'''
| '''Action'''
|-
| TBD.
| TBD.
| TBD.
|}

== Non-bugs ==

TBD.

----
CategoryBugSquad CategoryDebugging
