{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''LOGS CAN CONTAIN PRIVATE INFORMATION. CHECK ALL LOGS WITH EMPATHY BUGS'''

Telepathy programs have useful debug output for debugging. When you're facing a bug it's always a good idea to attach those debug output to the bug report.

Here is an example using telepathy-gabble (the Jabber connection manager); for more details and instructions for other protocols, see <nowiki>[[http://telepathy.freedesktop.org/wiki/Debugging|the Debugging page on the Telepathy wiki]]</nowiki>.

1. Kill all Telepathy related processes. Quitting empathy should be enough but to make sure you may want to kill them:
 <code>$ killall empathy mission-control telepathy-gabble telepathy-stream-engine</code>
2. Start programs in different consoles:
<pre>
$ GABBLE_LOGFILE=/tmp/gabble.log GABBLE_PERSIST=1 GABBLE_DEBUG=all $prefix/telepathy/telepathy-gabble
$ $prefix/lib/telepathy/mission-control
$ EMPATHY_LOGFILE=/tmp/empathy.log EMPATHY_DEBUG=all empathy
 </pre>

 If you want to debug audio or video issues, you can start empathy with
 <pre>
$ EMPATHY_LOGFILE=/tmp/empathy.log GST_DEBUG=\*fsrtp\*:5 EMPATHY_DEBUG=all empathy
 </pre>
 Note: "$prefix" should be replaced by /usr/lib/ or /usr/libexec or something like that depending on your installation
If you want to always keep logs you can export *_LOGFILE, *_PERSIST and *_DEBUG in ~/.gnomerc or ~/.bashrc. To add timestamp in logs you can define *_TIMING.<<BR>>
 Note: '*' can be replaced by GABBLE, BUTTERFLY, SALUT, EMPATHY, HAZE and SOFIASIP.
=== Getting a stack trace ===
The most useful debugging information you can provide when encountering a crash in Empathy is by providing a stack trace.
# Install debugging symbols for Empathy and telepathy-*.
# Start Empathy with gdb <pre>
$ gdb empathy
</pre>
1. Run Empathy <pre>
(gdb) run
</pre>
# Make it crash
# Get the stacktrace <pre>
(gdb) thread apply all bt full
</pre>
1. Copy the output of bt to a pastebin (such as <nowiki>[[http://www.pastebin.com]]</nowiki>).
