{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Dell Hardy "Wish-List" ==

Notes from session on 2007-11-01 at Boston UDS.

=== Process Enhancements ===
* Streamline Canonical Certification Process 
* Duplicating Ubuntu Community Model to develop Dell-Ubuntu Community 
* Hosting Dell add-on packages (fixes/workarounds/quirks/backports etc.) via custom APT repository 
* Dell private `rsync` access to Ubuntu ISOs. 

=== Software Enhancements ===
* Ubiquity installer to expose option to preserve '/home' data (for reinstalls)
** Arbitrary filesystem preservation would be desirable 
* Text-mode Installer option
** Relationship to LiveCD/alternate installers
** There is some work already done in Gutsy (pass `noninteractive` or `textonly` to the command line)
** Tells Casper to skip X and jump straight to the text-mode installer
* Allow X configuration (screen mode) as a part of the System Configuration wizard
** Have a look at Red Hat first-time install
** Four attributes:
** Driver (Core module)
** Resolution
** Depth
** Refresh (technically "Vertical Sync Hz")
** Extra page in OEM config and base on Python displayconfig-gtk.
*** Add ability to specify the bit depth
*** Add ability to specify the hsync/vsync
*** Have this pop up from ubiquity "Advanced gfx" button
* Improved Localization: Screen 1 of System Configuration Wizard and FireFox Start Page 
** Need to check that X can detect and report the country code for an attached laptop.  If the user changes keyboards at runtime, what happens?  Can the installer print "Choose a language" in a language appropriate to the keyboard.
** Possible options:
** Ask preferred language on the Website
** Check USB keyboard IDs
** Store destination country in NVRAM
*** (Add BIOS page to select this "out-of-band" country byte)
*** There maybe something mandated by Microsoft that could be followed
** Try to show all the languages at once (buttons, instead of scrolling).
** What does Apple do?
** There maybe preseeding bugs around language/country/city/timezone/keyboard
*** Bugs can be fixed

* Touchpad enable-disable
** GNOME Mouse Properties enhancements
** Enable/Disable feature, auto-disable Touchpad on detecting external Mouse and Sensitivity control 
** Have Dell add a magic Fn key.
** gsynaptic 
** Speed is nice
** Enable/disable is the /real/ requirement.
** Preserving policy
*** Start off by having a checkbox that is enabled/disabled by default.
*** Policy questions, across suspend/hibernate/mouse plug unplug.
** Dell will document the policy decisions/trees used by the Windows equivalent applet 

* Merging "Compiz config-settings-manager" and "Gnome-compiz-manager" into native "Advanced Effect" App 
* Compiz-Fusion compatability with Intel i965GM Graphics Controllers
** XV (Hardware scaler issues) on i965GM (majority of Dell laptops)
** Solvable problem. 
** Compiz are moving to regular releases
** Dell are sending the same message to all the Graphics/Network chip vendors
** Dell will put your component on our board without work Linux driver support
*** Upstream, open-source, just works, maintained.
** Long running restriction list of peripheral list

* EDD Support 
** BIOS drive ordering for GRUB
** Was turned off as it was causing a lock on some EDD systems
** Can be done in userspace in the future using libx86 and do backlisting
** future dm-raid installer integration
** Fedora is recognising the IDE raid (SC-line of servers)
** Should be able to ship this for the servers at least
*** Dell will mail some dm-raid enabled servers to cjwatson
* Eliminate the need to have Suspend/Hibernate quirks in the Factory 
* Unified proxy settings (one setting that is consumed by all who need it) 
* Support for using the Firefox Plugin Finder Service to work behind proxies 
* "Beautify" Suspend-Resume and Hibernate-Resume screens 
* "Speed up" Hibernate-Resume process 
* Advanced Power Management Tools Support 
* Native Firewall Support 
* Xen on Desktop 
** Current not "offically" supported, even if it works
** Looking forward, possibly offical support for Xen, kvm, virtualbox.
** All can run multiple OS (rather than only Linux-on-Linux).
* Evolution Performance 
* TPM (Trusted Computing/DRM) Support
* Firefox/ubufox translation
** Split between firefox/ubufox/theme packages
** For German, the Deutsch links go through to English language wiki/forums (not Deutsch ones)

=== Hardware Support ===
* 802.11n Support 
* ATI Graphics Support 
* AMD CPU/Chipset Support 
* Finger Print Reader Support 
* Webcam Support 
* Array Microphone Support 
* Flash Memory Support 
* Inkjet Printers Support 
* WWAN Support 
* Broadcom Wireless Support 
* TV Tuner Card Support 
* Projector Support 
* Wide-Screen Flat Panels Support with Laptops 
* Intel DM-RAID Support 
* Physics Accelerator Card Support 
* Blue Ray Support 
* Blue Tooth Keyboard and Mice Support 
* Bluetooth Desktop Media Card Reader Support 
* HDMI Audio Support
 