{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablebgcolor="#f1f1ed" tablewidth="40%" tablestyle="margin:0pt 0pt 1em 1em;float:right;font-size:0.9em;  "style="padding:0.5em;">
|}

== Introduction ==
The target of this page is to collect platform information which could be a reference for the end-users.

=== Instructions ===

* <nowiki>[[attachment:mok_enroll_stock_ubuntu_2.pdf|Instruction to enroll MOK (Machine Owner Key) On Ubuntu for secure boot and dkms]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[attachment:enable_wol_18_04_oem.pdf|Instruction to enable Wake-on-LAN feature in Ubuntu 18.04 OEM image]]</nowiki>
* How to identify the kernel meta on the system
** get running kernel version, $ uname -r
** apt-cache rdepends linux-image-{kernel-version}, can see the linux-image of specific kernel track
*** ex: linux-image-generic-hwe-22.04, then the kernel meta is generic-hwe-22.04
*** ex: linux-image-oem-22.04c, then the kernel meta is oem-22.04c
* How to check if it is an Ubuntu certified Dell PC?
** Ex. `ubuntu-drivers list-oem` shall show oem-somerville-tentacool-meta on both Ubuntu 20.04 and Ubuntu 22.04 for Dell XPS 13 9320 because it is an Ubuntu certified Dell PC on both Ubuntu 20.04 and Ubuntu 22.04.

=== Known generic issues ===
All issues related to the certified machines are tracked by <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/oem-priority|oem-priority project]]</nowiki>

* Few touchscreen issues are found in 24.04 with X-org, but all issues are not found in 22.04 with X-org
*** User experience impacts
**** Screen keyboard is not working (<nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/2063005|LP:#2063005 Some shell elements don't respond to touchscreen in Xorg sessions]]</nowiki>)
**** Drag-and-drop file can not work, but it works to drop the window.
**** Can not rotate, zoom in/zoom out by touchscreen
*** Root cause analysis
**** https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/mutter/-/issues/3484
*** Fix plan
**** No fix plan so far

* Miss install nvidia driver package to support nvidia graphic card
** Ubuntu provides two kinds of package to support nvidia graphic card, dkms nvidia-driver-{series}, and pre-built module meta linux-modues-nvidia-{series}-{kernel meta}.
** The dkms will be built against kernel every time when user do the kernel upgrade
** The prebuilt module will be installed to the designated path without building
** Canonical intend to support prebuilt module package on <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/certified|certified platforms]]</nowiki>
** To user who install the dkms package, please remove it and install the correct prebuilt package for getting better test coverage.
*** check whether you are using dkms or prebuilt package, $ modinfo nvidia
**** prebuilt example: filename:       /lib/modules/5.15.0-72-generic/kernel/nvidia-525/nvidia.ko
**** dkms example:     filename:       /lib/modules/5.15.0-72-generic/updates/dkms/nvidia.ko
*** check the dkms package installed on the system, $ apt list --installed | grep nvidia
*** remove the dkms package, $ sudo apt purge nvidia-dkms-{series}
*** clear all dependency, $ sudo apt autoremove
*** install the prebuilt package, $ sudo ubuntu-drivers install nvidia:{series}
*** after the prebuilt package was installed, please do $ sudo apt dist-upgrade to make sure all userspace pacakges are up-to-date.
*** reboot the system after installation, $ sudo reboot
     
* <nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1969755|LP:#1969755 AX211 iwlwifi firmware RT ucode timeout -110]]</nowiki>
** Focal (20.04):
*** For kernel <= 5.15 the driver loads firmware <= -64, it has firmware crash issue on some hardware.
*** Ubuntu create a meta package for oem kernel >= 5.14 to install on certified platforms
*** The following instruction is for certified platforms
**** For hardware we've seen the issue, there is a helper package in oem-archive, ex: OptiPlex 7400 AIO 
***** please enable backport-iwlwifi driver in software-properties-gtk > Addtional Drivers
**** To people who wants to try it can install the package against kernel version directly
***** $ sudo apt install linux-modules-iwlwifi-{kernel-version}, kernel-version is obtained by $ uname -r
** Jammy (22.04)
*** The release was released by 5.15-HWE, user can obtain the package by
***** $ sudo apt install linux-modules-iwlwifi-{kernel-version}
* <nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1978757|LP:#1978757 Cheese can't playback preview not working on 22.04]]</nowiki>
** Ubuntu 22.04 includes gstreamer1.0-pipewire plugin to replace v4l2 gstreamer plugin.
** There is an internal data error to retrieve pipewiresrc data for the preview of Cheese.
** The <nowiki>[[https://webcamtests.com/|Webcam Test]]</nowiki> is good, so applications utilize browser is still working.
** Workaround to make Cheese useable by disable v4l2 in pipewire
*** Copy /usr/share/pipewire/media-session.d/media-session.conf to /usr/share/pipewire/media-session.d/media-session.bak for backup, then comment out v4l2 in media-session.conf
     <pre>
session.modules = {
### These are the modules that are enabled when a file with
### the key name is found in the media-session.d config directory.
### the default bundle is always enabled.

    default = [
        flatpak                 # manages flatpak access
        portal                  # manage portal permissions
##### v4l2                    # video for linux udev detection
     </pre>

* The Intel IPU6/IPU6EP is supported on some certified platforms, it contains the characteristic below:
** The IPU6 kernel driver is out-of-tree, we are collaborating with Intel about the upstream and maintenance
** Camera performance: 720p at 30fps
** CPU performance is impacted by a daemon doing buffer copying for v4l2 loopback device.
** To install IPU6/IPU6EP stack maunally on certified platform which install 20.04 stock Ubuntu
*** Dell Latitude 9420
**** $ sudo apt install oem-somerville-mewtwo-meta
**** $ sudo apt update
**** $ sudo apt full-upgrade
**** $ sudo systemctl poweroff
*** Dell XPS 9320
**** $ sudo apt install oem-somerville-tentacool-meta
**** $ sudo apt update
**** $ sudo apt full-upgrade
**** $ sudo systemctl poweroff
*** Dell XPS 13 9315
**** $ sudo apt install oem-somerville-psyduck-meta
**** $ sudo apt update
**** $ sudo apt full-upgrade
**** $ sudo systemctl poweroff
*** Dell Precision 5470
**** $ sudo apt install oem-somerville-omastar-meta
**** $ sudo apt update
**** $ sudo apt full-upgrade
**** $ sudo systemctl poweroff
*** Dell Latitude 9430
**** $ sudo apt install oem-somerville-arbok-meta
**** $ sudo apt update
**** $ sudo apt full-upgrade
**** $ sudo systemctl poweroff
** To install IPU6/IPU6EP stack manually on 22.04 stock Ubuntu (non-certified for 22.04) (ppa:oem-solutions-group/intel-ipu6 is a development PPA so it will integrate the latest Intel MIPI camera blobs, and '''there is no guarantee that the Intel MIPI camera will work after you installed the packages from ppa:oem-solutions-group/intel-ipu6'''.)
*** Dell Latitude 9420
**** $ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:oem-solutions-group/intel-ipu6
**** $ sudo apt install linux-modules-ipu6-generic-hwe-22.04 linux-modules-ivsc-generic-hwe-22.04
**** $ sudo apt install libcamhal0
**** $ sudo reboot
*** Dell XPS 13 9315
**** $ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:oem-solutions-group/intel-ipu6
**** $ sudo apt install linux-modules-ipu6-generic-hwe-22.04 linux-modules-ivsc-generic-hwe-22.04
**** $ sudo apt install libcamhal-ipu6ep0
**** $ sudo reboot
*** Dell Precision 5470
**** $ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:oem-solutions-group/intel-ipu6
**** $ sudo apt install linux-modules-ipu6-generic-hwe-22.04 linux-modules-ivsc-generic-hwe-22.04
**** $ sudo apt install libcamhal-ipu6ep0
**** $ sudo reboot
*** Dell Latitude 9430
**** $ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:oem-solutions-group/intel-ipu6
**** $ sudo apt install linux-modules-ipu6-generic-hwe-22.04 linux-modules-ivsc-generic-hwe-22.04
**** $ sudo apt install libcamhal-ipu6ep0
**** $ sudo reboot
* <nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1889384|LP:#1889384 ASPM not enabled on child devices behind VMD controller]]</nowiki>
** symptom: Intel TGL cpu can not get into package C10 sleep state in VMD mode.
** impact: Power consumption is high during long idle and suspend to idle
** workaround: set AHCI mode in BIOS instead.
* <nowiki>[[ http:--pad.lv-1890772| LP:#1890772 No signal on 4K 60Hz DisplayPort monitor by default, until "max bpc" is lowered to 8]]</nowiki>
** symptom: compatibility issue across the connector, dongle, cable to monitor. User can workaround it by lower "max bpc" by a command to reduce the bandwidth requirement on 4K@60Hz.
** DeepColourDepthSupportPlan
* <nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1889539|LP: #1889539]]</nowiki> System power cutoff unexpectedly when running unigine-heaven benchmark
** symptom: System shutdown when Nvidia graphic is processing heavy loading. Nvidia driver not yet provide a cooling way when thermal on Nvidia graphic over temperature.
* <nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1839309|LP: #1839309]]</nowiki> "calling nvidia-smi in udev rule is a gap to the driver from Nvidia"
** symptom: System fails to boot in performance mode.
** impacted platforms: Precision 7730, Precision 7530, Precision 7540, Precision 7740 that with NVIDIA N18E series chips [10de:1bb5], [10de:1bb9] and [10de:1bbb].
* <nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1857865|LP: #1857865 "storage created raid by BIOS can not be recognized in AHCI mode"]]</nowiki>
** symptom: Raid disks on Windows edition machines can not be recognized on Ubuntu.
* <nowiki>[[https://pad.lv/1866156|LP: #1866156]]</nowiki> "Wireless LAN RF is hardware blocked forever after r8153 ethernet connected."
** symptom: If a user enables runtime PM for r8153 ethernet dongle, then wifi radio be hard blocked by BIOS.
* <nowiki>[[https://git.launchpad.net/~oem-solutions-engineers/libfprint-2-tod1-goodix/+git/libfprint-2-tod1-goodix/tree/debian/modaliases|goodix fingerprint proprietary driver is supporting limited devices after Focal]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1931061|LP: #1931061 "WiFi cannot find AP if scan for a while (Intel AX210)"]]</nowiki>
** symptom 1: Go to wireless setup page and select "Connect to this network" and do nothing for 5-10 minutes, then the WiFi AP list disappeared.
** symptom 2: Open Wi-Fi Settings to scan for 5-10 minutes, then the WiFi AP list disappeared.
* <nowiki>[[https://pad.lv/1843588|LP: #1843588 "Nautilus doesn't copy filenames for paste to other programs anymore"]]</nowiki> 
** symptom: Reverting the problematic commit will fix the usecase reported in this bug (and all applications where copying from Nautilus and pasting the data into a text-based input makes sense), but will break copying to/from Desktop Icons extension.
* <nowiki>[[https://pad.lv/1952981|LP: #1952981 "With 20.04d kernel and WX3200, unit freezes on resume"]]</nowiki> 
** symptom 1: With AMD WX3200 and 20.04d kernel, the unit freezes on resume with no error message logged.
** symptom 2: With AMD R550/R540/RX640 and 20.04d kernel, the unit black screen after reboot; Would be fixed by adding amdgpu.aspm=0.
=== Knowledge Base ===

=== Platform Family ===
The family information can be found by ''$ ubuntu-report show'' or ''$ sudo dmidecode -t 1''

----
