{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu on Dell XPS 13 (2015) ==
'''''This site is inspired by <nowiki>[[https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Dell_XPS_13_(2015)|ArchLinux Wiki Page]]</nowiki> and takes quite a few notes from it'''''

=== BIOS Upgrade ===
<nowiki>[[http://www.dell.com/support/home/us/en/19/Drivers/DriversDetails?driverId=YMRTD|A05 Update]]</nowiki> has solved all the issues including keyboard repeated typing problems.
Put it in /boot/efi since that is also a FAT partition–or on a FAT formatted USB stick, reboot, hit f12, and select the option to update the firmware.

=== Ubuntu Upgrade ===
15.04 plays much more nicely than the default 14.04 on Developer Edition laptops.

=== Kernel Upgrade ===
4.3 rc kernels are working awesome with <code> i915.enable_psr=1 </code>. Idle usage ~ 2.7W. 4.2 was good but this gives a bump in the battery life. A minor caveat is that the pointer hangs and system freezes after a suspend sometimes. Tyring the solution here <nowiki>[[https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=198157]]</nowiki> (uxa instead of sna). Let's see.

4.2 rc8 gives me an awesome battery life of > 11 hrs with the kernel options mentioned below. To install wifi drivers properly, you may have to install bcmwl-kernel-source from longsleep's ppa.

Otherwise, 4.1 kernels work okayish too, ~7-8 hrs of battery life. 4.1 kernels can be installed from <nowiki>[[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/?C=N;O=D|Kernel PPA]]</nowiki>. The latest release is 4.1.4. With this release following options work the best:
<code>pcie_aspm=force i915.enable_fbc=1 i915.enable_rc6=7 i915.enable_psr=1</code>

The <code> i915.enable_psr=1 </code> option causes flickering after a reboot for around 5-10 seconds but then it stops completely. The average discharge rate while normal browsing/coding is aroung 6-7W per hour (as opposed to 13W with kernel 3.19). 

===== Palm detection =====
    Touchpad does not detect palm and hence causes typing errors. The problem is only in 4+ kernels and not in 3.18~19 kernels. But kernel prior to 4.1 provide poor battery performance. <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/questions/649103/proper-touch-pad-thumb-palm-detection-with-libinput|libinput]]</nowiki> is the solution. You only have to change your synaptics.conf in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.d after installing libinput.

=== What will not work ===

===== Creating Wifi Hotspot (AP mode) in FHD versions =====
    The drivers broadcom-wl do not support AP mode for the Broadcom chipset. The drivers that support it (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.debian.org/brcm80211|brcmsmac]]</nowiki>) do not support the BCM4352 model which is present in most of the devices. Blame and shame Broadcom for not putting out proper drivers.
