{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== About me ===

* I'm Dilmi Fethi , I'm an Algerian secondary school student and I'm 16, I discovered open source island by curiosity , and I found it a fascinating land , I loved its philosophy and I switched to this paradise .  I'm funny most of the time .:. I hate liars and hypocrites .:. like maths and physics and system developing. And I'm happy for using Ubuntu, I'm now involved in the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-dz|Algerian LoCo Team]]</nowiki>.

=== Contact information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Dilmi Fethi
|-
| '''Email'''
| delphiexile@gmail.com
|-
| '''IRC'''
| delphiexile
|-
| '''Launchpad'''
| https://launchpad.net/~delphiexile/
|}

=== Activities ===

* Translating Ubuntu to Arabic, I'm joining the official Translating Team of language, and a member of other translation teams, and I've created other translating teams in launchpad for people unknown people having skills in translating , in order to finish work soon as possible.

* Helping people on launchpad and other forums, and reporting bugs.

* Studying PyGTK.

* Introducing Ubuntu to all people I know via forums and social networks , and I'm spreading it in the community where I live.

=== Future Goals ===

* Help developers to correct Bugs.

* Becoming a MOTU.

* Becoming a core developer.

* Contribute in the GNOME project and making GTK more powerful than it is now.

* Developing: 

   => Small Projects: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/lamp-server-gui|Lamp Server GUI]]</nowiki>, Better gnome applications.

   => Big Projects: A RAD for GNU/Linux which integrates many languages, Improving GIMP.

* Translate Ubuntu fully to Arabic.

* And of course , fixing Bug <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1|#1]]</nowiki>

* Make Ubuntu easier and safer to use for all kind of people (easier even for a child of 3years).

=== My Contributions ===

* <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/~delphiexile|My translations]]</nowiki> in Launchpad.

* <nowiki>[[https://answers.launchpad.net/~delphiexile|Answer tracking]]</nowiki> in Launchpad.

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~delphiexile|Bug Reporting]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~delphiexile|BluePrints]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~delphiexile/+related-software|Related Projects]]</nowiki>

=== Testimonials for Membership Application ===

------
CategoryHomepage
