{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Miguel Vazquez Gocobachi ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~demrit|demrit]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''demrit''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| demrit@mx DOT gnu DOT org
|-
| '''GPG''':
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0xFEBB5C3D83CF8489|83CF8489]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Background ===
I started using GNU/Linux in June 2000. I tried several GNU/Linux distributions and the FreeBSD operating system over the years, and Debian for more time and ended with FreeBSD. I have joined to the GNU project working on XHTML validation, CSS hacks and translation since June, 2006. Recently, I am using Ubuntu for my desktop and servers.

=== About Me ===
I  am a 24 years old mexican, and a GNU webmaster since 2006. I am studying engineering of computer systems at Technological Institute of Hermosillo and working on Conalep Sonora, my old school. I love software libre, research and technology implements. I am an ethical hacker for the GNU project, I am happy helping and support to users and contribute to projects that requires me.

You can get more information about me at: http://launchpad.net/people/demrit

You are welcome visiting my blog: http://demrit.gnu.org.mx

=== GNU Activity ===

=== GNU Goals ===
* GNU Webmaster
* CSS hacks
* XHTML validation
* GNU Developer
* GNU Mexico coordinator

=== GNU Teams ===
* GNU Spanish Translation Team administrator
* GNU Webmaster
* GNU Translators
* Leilany framework (at Savannah) leader/developer

== Ubuntu Activity ==

=== Team Memberships ===
* Ubuntu Server Team

----
CategoryHomepage
