{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

My name is Denis Konstantinov aka linvinus (older time y0u) (Денис Константинов in Russian). I'm 25 years old computer enthusiast. Was burn in Kazahstan in 1982 now i live in Moscow, Russia. I am system administrator. My native language is Russian and I know a little English too (reading well, but writing not so good).

I am very interested in Open Source and most interested in GNOME, Ubuntu projects. My favorite Linux distributions are Ubuntu (only GNOME and GTK2 applications). I have been a Linux user for 2.5+ years (since 2004). 

Contact details
Wiki:  currently http://80.86.249.14
OpenPGP key: 	BC91F270

My own repository for Russian Community  "deb ftp://80.86.249.14/UBUNTU <current stable release> extra"
you may meet me at forum.ubuntu.ru (as forum administrator)
Any suggestions i will be glad to read at linvinus (A T) gmail (Do T) com 

My ssh key

ssh-dss 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 denis@denisu
