{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About me ===

My name is Denis Fuenzalida and I'm a software developer currently based in Santiago, Chile. I build applications using different technologies, but mostly web applications using different languages and frameworks including Java, Grails, Ruby on Rails and Python.

Currently I'm also a guest editor of the blog <nowiki>[[http://www.ManzanaMecanica.org/|www.ManzanaMecanica.org]]</nowiki> (in spanish), whose mission is ''to promote the free flow of culture, knowledge and collaboration as fundamental aspects of mankind development; helping the public and stakeholders to understand this socio-technological evolution in a benefical way to us all''. The site frequently publishes articles about news on ''free culture'' and ''free software''.

You can contact me on denis.fuenzalida@gmail.com and I also keep a <nowiki>[[http://eccp.blogspot.com/|personal blog]]</nowiki>.

=== Involvement in Ubuntu ===

I registered as Ubuntero on late 2005, registered in Launchpad <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/denis-fuenzalida|(Launchpad profile here)]]</nowiki> and involved in different activities, including translation of packages, working on a PPA for my own software releases and other tasks.

On 2007 I wrote my first desktop application in Python, called <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/gtkfilesplitter/|GtkFileSplitter]]</nowiki> which I wrote to copy large files (ie. ISO image files) between 2 computers without a network connection and using a small USB key. The program allows the user to split the files and generate a MD5 hashsum; the pieces can be joined together to form the original file (and verify it) on the target computer using the same program.

Later that year, I got interested on sharing what I learned in the process and created a new project called <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/desarrollo-ubuntu/|Desarrollo Ubuntu]]</nowiki>, which contains a free document (written using DocBook) in Spanish language, and code examples in C, Python, Java and C# so it can be used to bootstrap new projects.

In early 2011, I wrote a small plugin for gEdit <nowiki>[[https://github.com/dfuenzalida/gedit-git-branch-statusbar/|Git branch on Statusbar]]</nowiki> (using Python and Git-Python) which shows the git branch of the file currently being edited. The plugin is available on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~denis-fuenzalida/+archive/ppa/|my PPA]]</nowiki> for Ubuntu Natty and Oneiric. For the Oneiric version I updated the code to use the new PyGObject API, so it works under Gnome 3. I build this plugin because I use gEdit to develop Rails projects on a daily basis, where there are a number of development branches, so having that info at sight helps me to avoid confusion between branches.

On the Free Software Day 2011 event on Santiago (<nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/photos/102813781438311925965/albums/5659015047813070177|photos here]]</nowiki>), I gave a short talk titled "Introduction to software development with Launchpad", in which I tried to explain the virtues of using Launchpad, including getting involved easily in bug reporting and translations, ''even if you are not a programmer''. The slides (in Spanish) are available here: <nowiki>[[https://files.one.ubuntu.com/JnmUYfaBRuO9vpWsM6Pczg|Open Document format]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuone.com/4hFepe2lo1xa0AQjFL5A0b|PDF format]]</nowiki>.

=== Other free software ===

On 2005 I wrote a free software project called “PrivateWiki”, which is hosted on Sourceforge, but I no longer maintain. It’s a multi-platform, desktop application that allows taking personal notes which become hypertext, and it has encryption support.  See http://privatewiki.sourceforge.net/ for downloads and screenshots.
