{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: Derek Rose
* Brand: Modded Gateway
* Make : Desktop
* Model: 3015GT

=== Current Issues ===
Locating and learning open source replacements for my current Windows software :)

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Feisty (current stable)?
| in Gutsy (current development)?
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes
| Untested
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Hardware Information'''
| <-3> AthlonXP 3500+ 64bit, nVidia 7600GT 256mb, 320GB HDs (2), 2 GB DDR2 PC3200 RAM 2-2-2-5 Cas
|-
| '''Screen & Monitors'''
| <-3> 19" widescreen at 1440x900
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Feisty (current stable)?
| in Gutsy (current development)?
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes (Beryl/Emerald)
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infared
| NA
| NA
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Keyboard & Mice'''
|-
| MS Intellimouse Laser - USB/Wireless
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| MS Multimedia Keyboard - USB/Wireless
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| nVidia Binary Drivers
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| CD/DVD/RW drive
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|}

==== Notes ====

Pretty new to Linux.  I've toyed around with SUSE, CentOS and Mandrake, but not achieved very much.  I've worked with Windows since 3.1, so switching is a big change.  Currently running Ubuntu Feisty and "Vistafied" XP in dual-boot.

Successfully running WoW, MS Office 2003, Visio 2003, Project 2003 and Adobe CS3 (Dreamweaver and Fireworks) on Codeweaver.  Have also discovered the wonderfulness that is VirtualBox.  I'm running a Windows 2000 virtual machine so I can connect into work using iPassConnect and NortelVPN.  I haven't booted into XP in several weeks now :)

----
CategoryDesktop CategoryHardware CategoryArizonaTeam
