{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Lubuntu Desktop project ===

The objective of the Lubuntu project is to create a variant of <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.com | Ubuntu]]</nowiki> that uses <nowiki>[[http://lxde.org/ | LXDE]]</nowiki>, The Lightweight X11 Desktop Environment, as its default <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GUI | GUI]]</nowiki>. The ultimate goal of the Lubuntu project is to earn official endorsement from Canonical.

Lubuntu is targeted at "normal" PC and laptop users running on low-spec hardware. Such users may not know how to use command line tools, and in most cases they just don't have enough resources for all the bells and whistles of the "full-featured" mainstream distributions. 

Members of the Lubuntu team take care of LXDE and other packages that are part of the planned Lubuntu install. Please join us and contribute to creating a lighter, faster and more energy-efficient flavour of Ubuntu. We look forward to working together with you on this international Free and Open Source Software project. 

==== System requirements ====
A Pentium II or Celeron system with 128 MiB of RAM is probably a bottom-line configuration that may yield slow yet usable system with Lubuntu. It should be possible to install and run Lubuntu with less memory, but the result will likely not be suitable for practical use. If you have less than 160 MiB of RAM, you will need to use the  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/DocumentationHelp/MinimalInstall|Minimal installation instructions]]</nowiki>. Please note that especially on lower powered machines (older CPU's) or low RAM systems, that the installation may seem to 'hang' at about 95%, don't worry, it has not; it can just take some time (possibly over an hour). 

===== Older i586 class CPUs =====
As support for i586 chipsets has been dropped from the kernel for the 10.10 series (These include VIA C3, AMD K6, National Semiconductor and AMD Geode) you will need to use the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/DocumentationHelp#10.04| 10.04 Release]]</nowiki>. The team will support Lubuntu 10.04 for five years (as if it were an LTS).

=== Get Lubuntu 11.04 ===
Learn about and discuss the '''<nowiki>[[Lubuntu-Applications | Applications and Other Features]]</nowiki>''' included with Lubuntu!

Please read the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ReleaseNotes/NattyNarwhal/ | release notes]]</nowiki> before you install. 

==== Download ====
'''Please''' use the <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~gilir/lubuntu-11.04.iso.torrent | torrent download]]</nowiki> when possible to save our servers from being hammered on a release. The torrent should download faster than using the link below.

* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~gilir/lubuntu-11.04.iso |Direct Server]]</nowiki>
OR from here
* <nowiki>[[http://lubuntu.lafibre.info/ |Direct Server]]</nowiki>

To check that the ISO downloaded and your burned CD does not have errors, please read <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/DocumentationHelp/CheckCD | Checking the ISO and CD]]</nowiki>.

==== Upgrading from 10.10 ====
The update manager GUI will offer you 11.04 Lubuntu (it shows as Ubuntu, but updates Lubuntu); Alternatively, launch <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/DocumentationHelp/LXTerminal | LXTerminal]]</nowiki> and enter

<pre>
sudo do-release-upgrade -d
</pre>

=== Get Involved ===
Do you want to help make Lubuntu even more awesome? Learn more using the links below. We need contributions in the following areas:
* <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-ReportingBugs |Reporting bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-Translations |Translations]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Developers#Testing Lubuntu |Tests]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-Developers | Code & patches]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-Artwork |Artwork]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/DocumentationTeam|Documentation]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-Marketing |Marketing & Press]]</nowiki>

==== Testing ====
Head over to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Testing | Testing]]</nowiki> if you'd like to help in the testing.

=== See Also ===
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lubuntu-desktop | Lubuntu on Launchpad]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lxde | LXDE on Launchpad]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[LXDE | LXDE on Ubuntu Wiki]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Specs-UbuntuLxdeDesktop | Ubuntu LXDE Desktop]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu?action=LocalSiteMap | Lubuntu Wiki Sitemap]]</nowiki>

==== External links ====
* <nowiki>[[http://lxde.org | lxde.org]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://lubuntu.net | lubuntu.net]]</nowiki>
