{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''Draft v1:''' DavidFarning

=== Membership ===

A member is an individual who has made a substantial contribution to the community of Ubuntu derivatives and who has explicitly agreed to the Ubuntu code of conduct. Members play an essential role in Derivative Team governance and confirm, by vote, all nominations to the Derivative Council.

Membership lasts for two years, and is renewable. If you don't renew your status as a member you will join the "inactive members" list. Membership can be reactivated at any time after it has lapsed, on request and with the confirmation of the Derivative Council.

=== Qualifying for Membership ===

A person who wants to become a member should be engaged in a sustained level of transparent contributions to the Derivative Team.  Contributions can include ???

Contributions should be significant and visible.

=== Becoming a Member ===

Anyone who feels they are qualified and wishes to become an Derivative Team Member should follow these guidelines:

 1. Document your work on your home page on the Ubuntu Wiki. This can include links to code, mailing list messages, or wiki pages. It can also include narrative descriptions.
 2. Add yourself to the Derivative Council Agenda and link to the your page
 3. If it is convenient, come to the next Derivative Council meeting.

If any potential member wants help or a review of their application before a Derivative Council meeting, they are strongly encouraged to contact David Farning or any member of the Derivative Council.

If a person is not (yet) known and the council is not comfortable confirming them, they will be encouraged to fill out their wiki page and to gain testimonials from existing team members they have worked with and then to resubmit their application again at a subsequent meeting. 

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDerivativeTeam]]</nowiki>
