{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position:  98% 0.5ex; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; padding: 0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==
Mystras is a Gnu/Linux Distro built around XFCE Desktop Environment. Mystras is intended to be a simple and elegant OS, capable of providing users with everything needed for a pleasant browsing and an amusing productive experience. Our goal is to offer the best and most attractive user interface that a light and powerfull desktop environment, like xfce, can offer. Please enjoy Mystras and its best qualities: lightness, simplicity and elegance! Work in progress: Mystras 12.04 is the second release we create, based on Mint 13. We hard worked from previous version ( 11.10 based on xubuntu 11.10. ) Now Mystras OS is enhanced by Linux Kernel 3.4.4, XFCE 4.10, and Kwin. our Users can also benefit of Gnome Classic DE

We are working on some simple applications that can make your user experience better 

* Fuze: a modified version of Thunar with a better GUI
* Ballista: a lightweight desktop launcher
* Handel: a new media player

== Contact Information ==

* our website: http://mystras.cloudfactory.eu
* email adress: alessandro.bompadre@cloudfactory.eu

== Goals ==
Our goals is to provide a distribution easy to use, nice to see, user fryendly also for linux newbie.

== Collaboration Focuses ==

The Mystras community is composed of software developers, document writers. We would like to invite you to join this community and help shape Mystras into an operating system that better meets your needs.

It's our intent to create a lightweight Desktop Environment that perfectly fit on laptop, netbook, desktop and tablet too.
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDerivativeTeam]]</nowiki>
