{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/derivativepolicies
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

Gather and document Canonical's, Ubuntu's, and the FSF's derivative distribution policies on the Derivative team FAQ. 
This includes: 
* Trademark usage.
* Brandings.
* Source code distribution.
* Package naming.
* Launch Pad usage.

=== Rationale ===

Currently, there are not public standards or policies for derivative distributions.  Each derivative is required to resolve these, often complicated, issues on their own.

=== Use cases ===

Dan is creating French localized distribution.  He wonders if he can name his distribution 'Frubuntu' or 'Ubuntu the French Version'.

Dave is creating an Ubuntu derivative with several audio enhancements.  He wonders if he must replace all occurrences of the trademark Ubuntu with the name of his distribution.

Diane is creating a Ubuntu derivative with some modified packages and some Ubuntu packages.  She wonder what step she must take to remain in compliance with GPL source code distribution guidelines.

Deana is creating a Ubuntu derivative that uses a customized version of Firefox.  She wonders how she should name the custom package.

=== Scope ===

These guidelines and policies will serve as the public Canonical and Ubuntu stance on these issues.  They may be superseded at any time by individual agreements between Canonical, Ubuntu, and a specific derivative distribution. 

=== Design ===

We discovered that derivative distributions have many uncertainties on Canonical's, Ubuntu's, and the FSF's stance on these issues.  These issues are best decided by Canonical and Ubuntu.  After the issues have been decided, they will be made public on the Derivative team FAQ.

=== Implementation ===

Present the follow issues to Canonical, Ubuntu, the FSF for consideration.  Add FAQ entries as needed.  

How can a derivative distribution use the Ubuntu trade mark?
** Canonical response

How should a derivative distribution make it's source code available to remain in compliance with the GPL?
* Canonical response added to FAQ
* Free Software Foundation response added to FAQ

How should a derivative distribution name it's custom, non-standard, or additional packages?
** Ubuntu response

What is the relationship between Launch Pad, Canonical, Ubuntu, and the community?
* Canonical response

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec, CategoryDerivativeTeam
