{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position:  98% 0.5ex; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; padding: 0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==
Estobuntu is a remastered Ubuntu ISO image that uses Estonian by default where ever possible, and includes media codecs, Flash and Java. Plugins/addons are added to Firefox for supporting Estonian ID card and blocking advertisements on Estonian web. Special Estonian spell checker is added to LibreOffice and in multimedia applications various default Estonian content is added (links, radios, banks etc). By default Estobuntu also features clipboard manager and some locally meaningful desktop widgets.

Distribution is meant for average Estonian user without much knowledge about computers.

== Contact Information ==

* Home page: <nowiki>[[http://www.estobuntu.org]]</nowiki>
* User guides: <nowiki>[[http://juhend.estobuntu.org]]</nowiki>
* IRC: <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?nick=interested&channels=estobuntu&prompt=1&uio=OT10cnVlJjExPTE5NQ64|#estobuntu]]</nowiki> on irc.freenode.net
* Mailing lists
** Users: <nowiki>[[http://estobuntu.org/mailman/listinfo/kasutajad_estobuntu.org]]</nowiki>
** Developers: <nowiki>[[http://estobuntu.org/mailman/listinfo/arendajad_estobuntu.org]]</nowiki>
* List of releases <nowiki>[[http://releases.estobuntu.org/]]</nowiki>
* Development site (source code, bug reports): <nowiki>[[http://estobuntu.itcollege.ee/]]</nowiki>
* Launchpad page (PPA, some source code): <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/estobuntu]]</nowiki>

== Mission ==
Our mission is to provide for Estonian people an easy and useful operating system based on free software.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDerivativeTeam]]</nowiki>
