{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''This page is no longer maintained as of January 2020.'''

== Derivative Types ==

* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam/DerivativeTypes|Derivative Types]]</nowiki> - Types of Derivatives:  Their objectives and requirements.

== Derivative Specifications ==

* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam/Specs/DerivativeSpec|Derivative Specifications]]</nowiki> - Specifications for further consideration and development.

== Common Code ==

== Development Process ==

* <nowiki>[[http://www.groklaw.net/article.php?story=20050529095918381|Kernel development]]</nowiki> - An interesting article about how the kernel development process works.

== Issue Handling ==

== Derivative Tools ==

* <nowiki>[[http://uck.sourceforge.net/|UCK]]</nowiki> - Ubuntu Customization Kit
* <nowiki>[[http://reconstructor.aperantis.com/|Reconstructor]]</nowiki> - Reconstructor
* <nowiki>[[http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/DRU_Disc_Remastering_Utility|DRU]]</nowiki> - Dell's Disc Remastering Utility
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/CustomDebian|CDD]]</nowiki> - Custom Debian Distributions - tools and discussion on Debian Wiki
* CustomisedIsoImageTools - a spec for Ubuntu 8.04
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/CDDT|Custom Debian Distribution Toolkit]]</nowiki> - work in progress
* <nowiki>[[http://www.remastersys.klikit.org/|Remastersys]]</nowiki> - a tool for making a livecd from your Ubuntu installation
* <nowiki>[[http://www.gnewsense.org/Builder/Builder|Builder]]</nowiki> - gNewSense builder script
* <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/unidistro|Unidistro]]</nowiki> - A framework to create and maintain a Debian/Ubuntu derivative distro

== Lessons Learned from Existing Distributions ==

* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam/LessonsLearned|Lessons Learned]]</nowiki> - Informal page of the lessons the existing distributions based on Ubuntu have learned.

== UDS Notes ==

* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam/UDSNotes/MTV/Localization|Localization]]</nowiki> - MTV UDS Localization notes.
* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam/UDSNotes/MTV/Derivatives|Derivatives]]</nowiki> - UDU UDS Ubuntu Derivatives.
* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam/UDSNotes/UDU/Branding|Branding]]</nowiki> - UDU UDS Branding For Derivatives notes.
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDerivativeTeam]]</nowiki>
