{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position:  98% 0.5ex; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; padding: 0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==
In this region there was never information about Linux and SL  to the people living in this region  -  schools, libraries, conferences, working groups, workshops... there is nothing made related to linux ... .
So we are here to try make the difference...

Our symbol is one Mule - donkey because these animals  help people in this rural regions (in the past) to transport all and work in the farming and social da-to-day tasks , this symbol identify one singular and "honorific" animal help people in this regions.

== Contact Information & Download ==

The project is now Discontinued.
However the last version of Flavitu is based on 14.04 Lubuntu LTS (32-arch.) release , and all people that need can use the Mega to download the Flavitu ISO, 14-2 the links on the following section lines:

https://mega.co.nz/#fm/uY1XmSRZ - Flavitu 14-2

====== Team ======
Miguelator - (Spanish);

Portaro - (Portuguese);

== Audience ==

http://www.espaces-transfrontaliers.org/en/conurbations/terri_doc_ag_chaves_verin_en.html.

http://www.eurocidadechavesverin.eu/

== Mission ==
The mission of project is to maintain an effort and one project with an image that can approach people to the system, that provides and give to people security and identity with this project and increase the amount of linux users on the Euro-city.

== Goals ==
Easy to use, custom aplications, specific info and works to spread info about GNU/Linux Ubuntu.

== Collaboration Focuses ==
Digital-Inclusion, Digital-education, Programming, Regional-Aplications, Contribute to  join the  Portuguese Linux users with Spanish Linux users to increase the Linux contact between these people and growth Linux knowledge and if possible make joint activities.
-- 

== Special thanks ==
To all people that contribute to Flavitu, all users, and all promoters.
To the Ubuntu community for the amazing support and help to our project, included Lubuntu and Xubuntu projects.

Thanks for all.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDerivativeTeam]]</nowiki>
