{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position:  98% 0.5ex; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; padding: 0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==
Wolfer Linux is an Ubuntu-based Linux distribution. Wolfer was made with the focus to be used by Linux users who are new to Linux and want to learn to use Linux as an alternative operating system from a paid.

Wolfer project started around the beginning of 2010, which was originally called Chocolate Linux, but fear the name is identical with a theme so the developers agreed to name it with “Wolfer” who stands for “Wolfer On Linux For Empathy Reason”.

After experiencing many obstacles and problems, Wolfer finally released with the codename “Zero”. Wolfer is free and without having to pay anything to get it. You only need to pay for internet connection to download it and burn the ISO on the DVD or USB Stick or you can order the DVD or USB Stick from us via Wolfer Team email, then run on your computer, or you can run it using Virtual Machine software, such as Virtual Box, VMware, or QtEmu.

You are free to use for all purposes operating systems, such as, personal desktop (home PC, Laptop, Notebook, etc.), desktop office, or internet cafe. We hope you enjoy using Wolfer Linux.

== Contact Information ==
http://wolferlinux.com

== Audience ==
Newbie Linux Users

== Mission ==
Technically, we did not make something special, but if you want to move from proprietary operating systems to open source, you come to the right place.

== Goals ==

== Collaboration Focuses ==

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDerivativeTeam]]</nowiki>
