{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



These are the notes from an impromptu BOF by the LoCo teams present at UDS MTV.
----

'''Problem:''' How do we leverage LoCos for localization of documentation, websites, etc?
(what are the other problems dealing with language)

'''Challenges:'''   How to change the input method (wiki, webpage, etc) so that the text can be easily translated and redeployed in various languages

Ideas to implement:
* locoteams bug reporting in native language
* triaging the grave native language bugs to/from EN
** creating a "localized" form where users could report bugs?
** multilingualise malone is the more natural way to do
		
	
* translating most of the locoteam pages to other languages:
        ex: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamHowto
            https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeams
            http://www.ubuntu.org.cn/
*********** Use Case:  People from a non english speaking nation want to start their own loco team?
***** Converting documentation into local language
*** Rosetta translations
**** wikis and websites e.g. http://www.ubuntu.org.cn/
**** what about sync?

* Launchpad integration
****** leverage Rosetta?
****** leverage Malone?
****** utilize bazaar to control loco docs?
******* if so, how would we automate the checkout/publish method?
********* create a project for each loco team, so their team can collaborate via bazaar, and then they can publish to wiki if need be, or via a cron to their http server
****** ..etc..

 

    
A possible way to deal with bugs reported in local language
* Example: Chinese user wants to report a bug.
* "Are you bilingual? Then please report in EN."
* meets Chinese launchpad interface
* enters his bug in Chinese
* bilingual Chinese/English person receives ticket
** can this be solved by refering the reporter to a document(wiki)? is it really a bug?  (bug triage)
* bilingual Chinese/English person translates bug
* bug gets integrated into Launchpad bug database
* developer answers
* answer gets translated to Chinese
** process gets repeated until issue is (hopefully) resolved
* ? how to feed back to the user in Chinese? same procedure
* do we want to do this for all kinds of use cases? or only for localisation bound problems?
	
* complexity probably only worth the effort for problems directly related to the language:
** translations, utf8, bidirectional printing, ...
** how to eliminate the clearly non-language related stuff?
** the translator
** the user himself should have a clear idea of what kind of problems he can report in his local language
			
* For https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamsUDSMVSpecs/CommunityBugReporting:
*** Documentation should consider localization
    
* question: can automatic translating be of any use

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDerivativeTeam]]</nowiki>
