{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/derivativeteam
* '''Packages affected''': 

'''This Specification supersedes DerivativePolicy and
UbuntuDownUnder/BOFs/UbuntuDerivatives'''

=== Summary ===
Gather, document, and implement best practices for creating and maintaining distributions that are derived from Ubuntu, by extending and enhancing wiki.ubuntu.com/DerivativeTeam 

=== Rationale ===

Currently there are no established best practices for creating and maintaining derivative distributions.  Need to make sure organizations and individuals who want to create Ubuntu derivatives can do so easily and efficiently with minimal disruption to anyone else.

=== Use cases ===

The Brazilian Loco team is interested in creating a localized Ubuntu distribution.

The University of Wisconsin Physics Department is interested in creating a customised Ubuntu distribution that includes a number of additional scientific packages.

The city of Paris library system is interested in creating a card catalog kiosk that is locked down and includes a subset of Ubuntu packages.

Nokia is interested in creating a distribution that will run on phones.

Software-2010 is interested in creating a consumer friendly distribution that will help transition users to Linux based system.  Software-2010 will heavily customize individual Ubuntu packages and provide additional open source and proprietary packages.

Andalusía Regional Government (Junta de Andalucia) develops <nowiki>[[http://www.guadalinex.org|Guadalinex]]</nowiki> -thoroughly customizing Ubuntu- for deployment to official projects, education, and citizens. 

=== Scope ===

This includes: 
* Establishing policies for legal issues.
* Establishing policies, standards, and implementations for customizing branding.
* Establishing policies, standards, and implementations for customizing artwork.
* Establishing policies, standards, and implementations for customizing language packages.
* Establishing policies, standards, and implementations for customization package sets.
* Implementing tools to create derived distributions.
* Establishing policies, standards, and implementations for handling issue and crash reports from derived distributions.
* Establishing policies, standards, and implementations for source code management.
* Governance and conduct.

=== Design ===

We discovered that there is a large amount of information on creating derivative distributions spread around the Ubuntu derivative ecosystem.  This information can be best shared by creating a team that encourages derivative distributions to work together and with the Ubuntu community.

=== Implementation ===

The Derivative Specification is best implemented by a number of sub specifications.

* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam/Specs/DerivativePolicies|Policies]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam/Specs/DerivativeBranding|Branding]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam/Specs/DerivativeIssueHandling|Issue Handling]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam/Specs/DerivativeDistroTools|Distribution Tools]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam/Specs/DerivativeGovernance|Governance]]</nowiki>

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec, CategoryDerivativeTeam
