{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position:  98% 0.5ex; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; padding: 0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==
Dotsch/UX a Linux distribution, based on Ubuntu Linux.
 
The purpose is to make a Linux distribution for BOINC which easily installs and boot from a USB stick, hard disk and
from diskless clients and also has some interfaces to setup the diskless server and the clients automatically.
 
 
Features & Facts :
 
* Small memory usage : The OS requires about 64 MB plus the memory for the BOINC client and BOINC science application. The graphical GNOME desktop requires about 128 MB more. - In general the memory depends strongly on the project(s) you would like to crunch... - Recommended minimum 128 MB for diskless, HDD and USB Stick based systems and 256 MB for disksless servers.

 
* Small disk usage : The distribution fits on a 1 GB USB stick, but 2 GB would be good for multi BOINC project crunching. The HDD installation requires about 2.5 GB, and the diskless server requires 1.5 GB plus 1.5 GB for each diskless client you would add.

 
* Easy installation : The OS could be easily installed by several included tools on a USB stick, hard disk, and setup as server for diskless clients.

 
* Server for Diskless clients : The server and diskless clients could easily installed with several included tools. Only
    the main configuration parameters must be specified, the diskless server and clients installs automatically.

 
* Additional proxy server : Preconfigured proxy server, which allows to separate the BOINC USB, diskless and HDD systems in an isolated network, and communicate through the proxy server with the science project servers

 
* Ubuntu based : As Dotsch/UX is based on Ubuntu, you can also install additional Ubuntu packages or update to your USB/HDD/Diskless systems.

 
* BOINC Client : The BOINC client comes pre installed and would be started as daemon and would be monitored and kept alive from this daemon. Dotsch/UX 1.0 includes the BOINC client 6.2.15. Dotsch/UX 1.1 includes the BOINC client 6.4.5 for CUDA support.

 
* Graphical Desktop and text console : If you like, you can choose between the text console (for lower memory requirements) or the graphical GNOME Desktop.

 
* SSH : ssh login per default preconfigured.

 
* 32+64 bit distribution : A distribution of 32 bit (386) and 64 bit (x64) is available. With Dotsch/UX 1.1 it‘s possible to add mixed 32 and 64 bit diskless clients on the same diskless server.

== Contact Information ==
*** Web: http://www.dotsch.de/DotschUX
   

== Audience ==

== Mission ==

== Goals ==
* The purpose is to make a Linux distribution for BOINC which easily installs and boot from a USB stick, hard disk and from diskless clients and also has some interfaces to setup the diskless server and the clients automatically.
 
 
== Collaboration Focuses ==

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDerivativeTeam]]</nowiki>
