{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==

Ubuntu Finnish Remix is a remastered Ubuntu (and Ubuntu Netbook) with full Finnish language support included on the CD. The changes from official release are limited to language support only.

== Contact Information ==

http://wiki.ubuntu-fi.org/Ubuntu_Finnish_Remix / timo dot jyrinki at iki dot fi

== Audience ==

Finnish speaking people who want full language support straight on the CD.

== Mission ==
The mission of Finnish Remix is to deliver top-notch Finnish Ubuntu experience out of the box, while introducing zero non-language-support differences to the official Ubuntu CD image. MD5SUM checking from boot menu should work, and also in any other aspect it aims to be identical in quality to the official Ubuntu release.

== Goals and Releases ==
9.10 was the first one, 10.04 LTS had both normal Ubuntu (32-bit) and Ubuntu Netbook (32-bit) released. Point releases were released up to 10.04.4 LTS, and the Netbook was later removed as its support ended.

Ubuntu 12.04 LTS release is available as both 32-bit and 64-bit version, and will be updated for the point releases similar to 10.04 LTS.

== Collaboration Focuses ==
Notable that the full list of commands to produce the Finnish Remix is included on the Finnish Remix page. Especially how to make boot menu's defect checking working might be interesting.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDerivativeTeam]]</nowiki>
