{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Ubuntu Ecosystem ===

** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop|Ubuntu Desktop]]</nowiki> - Ubuntu is a complete desktop Linux operating system, freely available with both community and professional support.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/server|Ubuntu Server]]</nowiki> - The most popular server Linux in the cloud and data centre, includes five years of guaranteed free upgrades.
** <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntu.com/core|Ubuntu Core]]</nowiki> - Ubuntu Core is a lean, strictly confined and fully transactional operating system for the Internet of Things.
** <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/download/cloud|Ubuntu Cloud]]</nowiki> - Ubuntu builds optimised and certified server images for partners like Amazon AWS, Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform, Oracle, Rackspace and IBM Cloud.

=== Official Ubuntu Flavors ===
Ubuntu flavours offer a unique way to experience Ubuntu, each with their own choice of default applications and settings. Ubuntu flavours are backed by the full Ubuntu archive for packages and updates.
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuFlavors#Current_flavors|Current Ubuntu Flavors]]</nowiki>:
** <nowiki>[[https://community.kde.org/Kubuntu|Kubuntu]]</nowiki> - Kubuntu offers the KDE Plasma Workspace experience, a good-looking system for home and office use.
** <nowiki>[[Lubuntu]]</nowiki> - Lubuntu is a light, fast, and modern Ubuntu flavor using LXQt as its default desktop environment. Lubuntu used to use LXDE as its default desktop environment.
** <nowiki>[[https://ubuntubudgie.org/|Ubuntu Budgie]]</nowiki> - Ubuntu Budgie provides the Budgie desktop environment which focuses on simplicity and elegance. It provides a traditional desktop metaphor based interface utilising a customisable panel based menu driven system.
** <nowiki>[[Ubuntu Kylin]]</nowiki> - The Ubuntu Kylin project is tuned to the needs of Chinese users, providing a thoughtful and elegant Chinese experience out-of-the-box.
** <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-mate.org/|Ubuntu MATE]]</nowiki> - Ubuntu MATE expresses the simplicity of a classic desktop environment. Ubuntu MATE is the continuation of the GNOME 2 desktop which was Ubuntu's default desktop until October 2010.
** <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio|Ubuntu Studio]]</nowiki> - Ubuntu Studio is a multimedia content creation flavor of Ubuntu, aimed at the audio, video and graphic enthusiast or professional.
** <nowiki>[[Xubuntu]]</nowiki> - Xubuntu is an elegant and easy to use operating system. Xubuntu comes with Xfce, which is a stable, light and configurable desktop environment.

=== Official Localizations ===
Localizations created and maintained by approved Ubuntu localization teams:
* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam-Derivatives-Finnish|Finnish]]</nowiki> 🇫🇮
* <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu-fr.org/cd_ubuntu-fr|French]]</nowiki> 🇫🇷
* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam-Derivatives-Japanese|Japanese]]</nowiki> 🇯🇵
* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam-Derivatives-Polish|Polish]]</nowiki> 🇵🇱
* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam-Derivatives-Runtu|Runtu]]</nowiki> 🇷🇺

=== Derivatives ===
* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam-Derivatives-BackBox|BackBox]]</nowiki> - A penetration test and security assessment oriented derivative providing a network and informatic systems analysis toolkit.
* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam-Derivatives-BackSlash Linux|BackSlash Linux]]</nowiki> - An Indian derivative featuring a beautiful custom desktop called BackSlash Shell.
* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam-Derivatives-BlankOn|BlankOn]]</nowiki> - A derivative with enhanced localization targeted to small and medium-sized businesses and schools in Indonesia.
* <nowiki>[[https://www.bodhilinux.com/|Bodhi Linux]]</nowiki> - A derivative featuring Moksha, an Enlightenment-17-based desktop environment.
* <nowiki>[[https://elementary.io/|elementary OS]]</nowiki> - A derivative featuring the Pantheon desktop environment, customized apps, and app store.
* <nowiki>[[https://www.enso-os.site/|Enso OS]]</nowiki> - A derivative based on elementary OS featuring a customized XFCE desktop environment.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DerivativeTeam/Derivatives/feren%20OS|feren OS]]</nowiki> - A derivative based on Ubuntu with the Cinnamon and the KDE Desktop Environment.
* <nowiki>[[https://www.freespire.net/|Freespire]]</nowiki> - A fully libre derivative sponsored by PC/OpenSystems who also make the commercial derivative Linspire.
* <nowiki>[[https://galliumos.org/|GalliumOS]]</nowiki> - A derivative optimized for ChromeOS devices.
* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam-Derivatives-Guadalinex|Guadalinex]]</nowiki> - A Spanish-language derivative sponsored by the Andalusia regional government in Spain.
* <nowiki>[[https://greenie.sourceforge.io/|Greenie]]</nowiki> - A derivative based on Ubuntu and optimised for users in Slovakia and the Czech Republic.
* <nowiki>[[https://neon.kde.org/|KDE neon]]</nowiki> - The latest KDE community software packaged on a rock-solid base of Ubuntu LTS.
* <nowiki>[[https://www.linspirelinux.com/|Linspire]]</nowiki> - A commercial derivative offered by PC/OpenSystems with support optimized for ease of use.
* <nowiki>[[https://www.linuxliteos.com/|Linux Lite]]</nowiki> - A beginner-friendly Linux derivative based on the LTS release featuring the Xfce desktop environment.
* <nowiki>[[https://linuxmint.com/|Linux Mint]]</nowiki> - A derivative that provides a classic desktop experience with many convenient, custom tools and out-of-the-box multimedia support.
* <nowiki>[[https://portal.edu.gva.es/lliurex/va/|LliureX]]</nowiki> - A Catalan-language derivative developed by the Council of Culture, Education and Sport at the Municipality of Valencia, Spain.
* <nowiki>[[https://lxle.net/|LXLE]]</nowiki> - A derivative of Lubuntu for older PC hardware based on LTS.
* <nowiki>[[https://nxos.org/|Nitrux]]</nowiki> - A commercial derivative featuring Nomad, a KDE-based custom desktop environment.
* <nowiki>[[https://www.nova.cu/|Nova]]</nowiki> - A Spanish-language derivative developed by the University of Computer Sciences in Havana, Cuba.
* <nowiki>[[https://live.osgeo.org/|OSGeoLive]]</nowiki> -  A self-contained bootable DVD, USB drive, or VM that allows you to try a wide variety of open source geospatial software
* <nowiki>[[https://peppermintos.com/|Peppermint OS]]</nowiki> - A Lubuntu-based Linux derivative that aims to be fast and use minimal system resources.
* <nowiki>[[https://pop.system76.com/|Pop!_OS]]</nowiki> - A derivative featuring a custom GNOME desktop from Linux PC manufacturer System76.
* <nowiki>[[https://regolith-linux.org/|Regolith]]</nowiki> - A derivative featuring a custom i3 tiling window manager and GNOME system management tools.
* <nowiki>[[SharkLinux]]</nowiki> - A derivative featuring the MATE desktop with the Ubuntu hardware enablement kernel installed by default.
* <nowiki>[[https://superxos.com/|SuperX]]</nowiki> - An derivative featuring a customized KDE desktop environment developed in India.
* <nowiki>[[https://trisquel.info/|Trisquel GNU/Linux]]</nowiki> - A fully libre derivative of Ubuntu approved by the Free Software Foundation.
* <nowiki>[[https://ubports.com/|UBports]]</nowiki> - A community-developed fork of Ubuntu Touch, a derivative of Ubuntu for mobile and tablet devices.
* <nowiki>[[https://voyagerlive.org/|Voyager Ubuntu]]</nowiki> - A derivative showcasing the XFCE desktop environment. Also publishes a GNOME version.
* <nowiki>[[https://www.planetwatt.com/|wattOS]]</nowiki> - A derivative using the LXDE or i3 desktop environments that aims for energy efficiency.
* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam-Derivatives-Zorin OS|Zorin OS]]</nowiki> - A derivative designed for newcomers to Linux.

==== Other Lists of Derivatives ====
* <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Ubuntu-based_derivatives|English Wikipedia]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://distrowatch.com/search.php?category=All&origin=All&basedon=Ubuntu&desktop=All&architecture=All&status=All|DistroWatch]]</nowiki>

=== Defunct Projects ===
==== Former Recognised Flavors ====
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuFlavors#Deprecated_flavors|Deprecated Ubuntu Flavors]]</nowiki>

==== Former Localizations ====
* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam-Derivatives-Italian|Italian]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.pl/pobierz.php|Polish]]</nowiki>

==== Former Editions ====
These editions were created and maintained by Canonical and the Ubuntu community. They received full support from Canonical, its partners and the community.
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-jeos|Ubuntu JeOS]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Mobile|Ubuntu Mobile]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/netbook|Ubuntu Netbook]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-business-remix‎|Ubuntu Business Desktop Remix]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/phone/ubuntu-for-android|Ubuntu for Android]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/phone|Ubuntu for phones]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/tablet|Ubuntu on tablets]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/tv|Ubuntu TV]]</nowiki>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDerivativeTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryDerivatives CategoryAccessibility CategoryDerivatives
