{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Types of Derivatives ==

There are several general types of Ubuntu derivatives.  Each derivative is created to meet the computing needs of a specific group of users.

'''Draft v1:  These categories are still in the brain dump phase.  Please consider rephrasing if appropriate.''' 

These categories are quite general.  Derivatives from a given category tend to be super sets of derivatives above them. As a derivative goes down the list, it tends to becomes more complex.  

=== Localization ===

Localization derivatives are generally created and maintained by <nowiki>[[LocoTeams| localization teams]]</nowiki>.  

==== Objectives ====
 1. Translated into local language.
 2. Setup defaults to local language.
 3. Measurements, date, and currency settings to local units.
 4. Artwork customized into local or national colors.
 5. Localize branding.  
 6. Issue tracked in local language.

==== Requirements ====
 1. Complete translation package available for the local language.
 2. Simple tools to create localized live cds and install iso.
  a. Modify default language.
  b. Modify default dictionaries.
  c. Modify default measurement, date, and currency settings
  d. Modify default artwork.
  e. Modify default branding.
 3. Extend Launch Pad
  a. Automatic crash handling system.
  b. Extended package information automatically included in bug reports.
  b. Language specif issue triage, escaluate to English as required.

More information can be found at <nowiki>[[LocoTeams/Localisation| Localization]]</nowiki>

=== Ubuntu Super Set or Sub Set ===

==== Objectives ====

 1. Ability to modify the default installed package sets. 
 2. Install packages outside of normal Ubuntu repositories by default.
 3. Issues tracking system that correctly directs bug crash reports to correct issues handling system
 4. Ability to escalate issues to Ubuntu issues system
 
==== Requirements ====
 1. Simple tools to modify the default package set.
 2. Simple tools to create and maintain third party repositories.
 3. Simple tools to build third party packages against Ubuntu tool chain.
 4. Extend Launch Pad and apport
  a. Report bug status changes to downstream issue tracking systems.
  b. Redirect issues to correct issue tracking system.
 
=== Platform Specific ===

==== Objectives ====

 1. Build and Operate on a platform or architecture outside of those supported by Ubuntu.

==== Requirements ====

 1. 

=== Customization ===

==== Objectives ====

 1. Ability to easily modify existing Ubuntu packages to meet the needs of specif users.
 2. Ability to push modifications up to Ubuntu if they are in the common good.

==== Requirements ====

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDerivativeTeam]]</nowiki>
