{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position:  98% 0.5ex; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; padding: 0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==
As of October 5th, we know that 12.04 will be called "Precise Pangolin". The goal of Pubuntu is to create a "Pink Panther" version (GNOME, KDE, XFCE) that uses style elements from the original TV series, as far as copyrights allows us to. This project is just for the lulz.

== Contact Information ==
tba

== Audience ==
* Users that appreciate a funnier distro theme

* Users with preference of pink stlyes - wild guess: mainly women

* anyone who likes the Pink Panther series ;)

== Mission ==
* Replace the boring name for 12.04 that wasn't even chosen by the community

* Replace desktop background (separated from the iso, if copyright applies?), insert pink user interface, maybe a login sound, cursor, etc.

== Goals ==
* Focus on preparing a version (GNOME?) that launches at the Precise Pangolin release date, 25th of April, 2012. As this is a LTS, other desktop managers may be added later.

== Collaboration Focuses ==

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDerivativeTeam]]</nowiki>
