{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''This page is no longer maintained as of January 2020.'''

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - other version:''' ----
'''This page is no longer maintained as of January 2020.'''

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - your version:''' ----

---- /!\ '''End of edit conflict''' ----

== Joining the community ==
=== Contacts ===
Want to get involved with the Derivative Team?  You can use the following resources:

'''Homepage:''' DerivativeTeam

'''Mailing List:'''
* '''List:''' https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-derivatives
* '''Archives:''' at https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-derivatives

'''IRC:''' #ubuntu-derivativeteam on the Freenode IRC network.

=== Activities ===

Their are two ways to get involved in the team: upstream and downstream.
==== Upstream ====
There are many interesting ways to get involved in team activities from Ubuntu's point of view.  Anything that reduces the 'throw the package over fence and forget about it' problem is greatly appreciated. 

Some specific tasks can be found on the <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam/Roadmap|Roadmap]]</nowiki>.

==== Downstream ====
There are also many interesting ways to get involved from an Ubuntu based distribution.
 
'''need to list general and specific tasks''

If you have any question contact the team via the mailing list or IRC channel listed above.

== Join the team ==
Request membership at https://launchpad.net/~derivativeteam

=== Membership ===
Not yet implemented - The draft membership document can be found at <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam/Membership|Membership]]</nowiki>.

=== Team Governance ===
Not yet implemented - The draft governance document can be found at <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam/Governance|Derivative Council]]</nowiki>.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDerivativeTeam]]</nowiki>
