{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position:  98% 0.5ex; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; padding: 0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

<nowiki>[[https://regolith-linux.org|Regolith Linux]]</nowiki> provides a unique desktop experience by combining efficient tiling window management with the consistent and comprehensive system configuration capabilities of Gnome.  Regolith was designed and is maintained for people that are comfortable using computers and do not need to rest on the crutches of dated and pedantic desktop UI metaphors such docks, trays, and endless windows of icons. The experience is reduced and simplified; allowing the user to focus more on their task at hand.

== Contact Information ==

Regolith Linux has a <nowiki>[[https://regolith-linux.org|website]]</nowiki> hosted on Github.  Bugs are also <nowiki>[[http://regolith-linux.org/file-issue.html|tracked on Github]]</nowiki>.  Regolith is available as a LiveCD as well as a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kgilmer/+archive/ubuntu/regolith-stable|private package archive (PPA)]]</nowiki>.  This allows users to either start from a fresh install or add the Regolith UI onto their existing system.  Users wishing for other ways to communicate are welcome to <nowiki>[[https://github.com/regolith-linux/regolith-desktop/issues|open an issue]]</nowiki>.

== Audience ==

Regolith Linux is for an under-served group of people; those that want a minimal but powerful desktop experience but do not care to fiddle with low-level tweaking of configurations or building programs from source code.  In essence, Regolith allows someone to go from stock Ubuntu to a nicely configured and fully managed <nowiki>[[https://i3wm.org/|i3wm]]</nowiki>-based desktop with two terminal commands and a reboot.

== Mission ==

Regolith was created to bring the powerful desktop UI metaphor of tiling window management that are typically reserved for highly technical users to anyone who cares to use them.  

== Goals ==

* Make it easy for anyone to use a nicely configured tiling window manager experience on Ubuntu.
* Enable others to package their own customizations as Ubuntu packages by providing <nowiki>[[https://github.com/regolith-linux/regolith-st|simple README documentation]]</nowiki> on how to build and stage packages.

== Collaboration Focuses ==

The project is open to collaboration, which is currently organized via <nowiki>[[https://github.com/regolith-linux/regolith-desktop/issues|GitHub issues]]</nowiki>.  There is no profit motive and Regolith is purely a personal project unassociated with any corporation.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDerivativeTeam]]</nowiki>
