{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''This page is no longer maintained as of January 2020.'''

== Latest News ==

=== March 15, 2007 ===
The following distributions joined the team:

==== Localizations ====
Member localizations are created and maintained by Approved Ubuntu LoCo teams.
* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam/Derivatives/Kurdish|Kurdish]]</nowiki> version
* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam/Derivatives/Tamil|Tamil]]</nowiki> version

==== Customizations ====
* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam/Derivatives/Baltix|Baltix]]</nowiki> - GNU/Linux for Baltic states. (Mainly for Lithuania and Latvia)
* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam/Derivatives/Fluxbuntu|Fluxbuntu]]</nowiki> - uses Fluxbox as the desktop environment.
* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam/Derivatives/Freespire|Freespire]]</nowiki> - Freespire is a community-driven operating system based on Ubuntu, but also provides users the choice of including proprietary codecs, drivers and applications as they see fit.
* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam/Derivatives/Guadalinex|Guadalinex]]</nowiki> - Spanish language Customization.
* <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam/Derivatives/Linspire|Linspire]]</nowiki>

=== March  3, 2007 ===
 Team Formation

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDerivativeTeam]]</nowiki>
