{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Distros represented:
<pre>
    gNewSense        (Karl Goetz aka kgoetz)
    Fluxbuntu        (Joseph J.? aka joejaxx)
    Ubuntu studio    (Luke Yelavich aka TheMuso)
    Ubuntu studio    (Luis de Bethencourt aka luisbg)
    Ubuntu studio    (? aka _MMA_)
    Elbuntu          (? aka Sp4rKy)}}}

Key topics covered:
{{{
    Meeting each other
    Build systems
    Jumpstarting the team - list, irc, wiki
    Who else could we ask to attend?
    Why are people in the team?}}}

Meeting started between 8.35 and 8.40

{{{
Started with brief introductions (as people joined the room), followed
by a conversation about buildsystems used.
As part of the buildsystems conversation Sp4rKy meantioned he was part
of a group making a distro to make buildfarms fast/easy (?) to create.
Next came up the question of getting the team running, which received
the following thoughts:
    we need to plan regular meetings
    use the IRC channel
    use the list
    use the wiki.
There was a small amount of discusion about what the channel name should
be, and it was decided #ubuntu-derivative was the best call.
Why people are on the team came up over the course of the meeting, and
replies ranged from 'work out common package' to 'what build systems are
in use' to 'dealing with support for lang packs'
joejaxx thought "really it would be nice to have people from kubuntu and
xubuntu here as well during meetings as thing we advocate for change
would affect them as well"
meeting finished off with a brief converstaion about gNewSense and
Ubuntu-free.}}}

Meeting closed 9.25
Meeting time 50 minutes

{{{
--- Log opened Mon Jun 25 08:26:48 2007
08:26 -!- TheMuso [n=luke@ubuntu/member/themuso] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
08:26 -!- Irssi: #ubuntu-meeting: Total of 91 nicks [0 ops, 0 halfops, 0
voices, 91 normal]
08:26 -!- Irssi: Join to #ubuntu-meeting was synced in 1 secs
08:30 -!- mc44 [n=mc44@unaffiliated/mc44] has quit [Read error: 110
(Connection timed out)]
08:35 < luisbg> hello _MMA_
08:35 < luisbg> hello TheMuso
08:35 -!- kgoetz [n=kgoetz@gnewsense/friend/kgoetz] has joined
08:35 < luisbg> any other derivatives guys in the room?
08:35 < kgoetz> hi all
08:35 < luisbg> kgoetz, you karl?
08:35 < TheMuso> Hey guys.
08:35 < kgoetz> luisbg: yep
08:35 < luisbg> awesome
08:35 < kgoetz> luisbg: part of gnewsense
08:35 < rexbron> @schedual
08:35 < kgoetz> at work, so i may disapear randomly
08:35 < luisbg> so we have ubuntu studio in the floor
08:35 < luisbg> and gnewsense
08:35 < luisbg> should we get started or wait a little?
08:35 < luisbg> I don't expect much attendance
08:36 < kgoetz> luisbg: wait another 5?
08:36 < luisbg> this meeting is going to be more of a wake up call than
decision making/idea throwing
08:36 < luisbg> kgoetz, ok! 5
08:37 < TheMuso> The big thing I'm interested in is CD building.
08:38 < luisbg> for the next ones... who do I have to talk to to
schedule meetings in this channel?
08:38 -!- asac_ [n=asac@debian/developer/asac] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
08:38 < kgoetz> luisbg: not sure aobut that
08:39 < kgoetz> luisbg: i have a question about what buildsystems people
use, so hopefuly that can come up   :) 
08:40 < luisbg> I'm going to ask joejaxx to join in
08:40 -!- joejaxx [i=joejaxx@fluxbuntu/founder/joejaxx] has joined
08:40 < joejaxx> Good Evening All   :) 
08:40 < luisbg> <kgoetz> luisbg: i have a question about what
buildsystems people use, so hopefuly that can come up   :) 
08:42 < luisbg> joejaxx, ping
08:42 -!- Lure_ [n=lure@89-212-19-55.dynamic.dsl.t-2.net] has quit
["Konversation terminated!"]
08:42 < joejaxx> luisbg: pong
08:43 < Sp4rKy> hi joejaxx
08:43 < joejaxx> Hello Sp4rKy
08:43 < joejaxx>   :) 
08:43 < joejaxx> kgoetz: i use a custom build system for packages and
cd/dvd images
08:44 < kgoetz> joejaxx: any info page on it?
08:45 < joejaxx> kgoetz: no there is not
08:45 < kgoetz> joejaxx: ok
08:46  * kgoetz is after ideas for build systems
08:46 < kgoetz> perhaps i should just learn whatever it is that
[debian,ubuntu] use to do their builds   ;) 
08:47 < joejaxx> kgoetz: is it for building packages or cd images?
08:47 < kgoetz> joejaxx: either or both
08:48 < Sp4rKy> kgoetz: we're creating a distro to make a farm for build
as quickly as possible
08:48 < joejaxx> debian uses debian-cd and ubuntu uses a modified
version of debian-cd with some support scripts/apps
08:48 < Sp4rKy> is you're interested ...
08:49 -!- asac [n=asac@debian/developer/asac] has quit [Read error: 110
(Connection timed out)]
08:49 -!- asac_ is now known as asac
08:49 < joejaxx> kgoetz: i do not know too much about the package buildd
for ubuntu
08:49 < joejaxx> buildds*
08:50 < TheMuso> Canonical seem to keep that pretty close.
08:50 < kgoetz> joejaxx: thanks for the info.
08:50 < joejaxx> kgoetz: you are most welcome
08:51 < kgoetz> Sp4rKy: for spreading compiles of anythign over several
systems, or specific builds?
08:52 -!- ubuntulog [i=ubuntulo@ubuntu/bot/ubuntulog] has quit [Read
error: 110 (Connection timed out)]
08:52 < kgoetz> come back ubontulog!
08:53 < luisbg> The one and only point I wanted to bring to the meeting
08:53 < luisbg> which I decided it already started a while ago LOL
08:54 < kgoetz> lol
08:54 < luisbg> is "how can we jump start this team"?
08:54 < luisbg> it is there, it exists
08:54 < joejaxx> we need to plan regular meetings
08:54 < luisbg> but it's a lifeless zombie
08:54  * kgoetz eats luisbg 's brain
08:54 < luisbg> arjjjj!!!
08:55 < joejaxx> you all also know there is an irc channel for this team?
08:55 < TheMuso> No.
08:55 < kgoetz> no i didnt
08:55 < luisbg> AFAIK only _MMA_ , kgoetz , juanje, dholbach and I have
sent mails to the mailing list!
08:55 < luisbg> joejaxx, wth!?
08:55  * TheMuso is on the list, but hasn't posted yet.
08:55 < joejaxx> which is #ubuntu-derivativeteam but it is not being used
08:55 < luisbg> what's the name of it
08:55 < joejaxx> me and the D. Farning were the only guys who were ever
in it
08:55 < kgoetz> IMPORTANT: whos keeping minutes?
08:56 < kgoetz> when i get home from work i wont remember this    ;) 
08:56 < _MMA_> Should it be "#ubuntu-derivative"?
08:56 < TheMuso> kgoetz: I have logs.
08:56 < joejaxx> _MMA_: i do not know
08:56 < kgoetz> _MMA_: i think it works better
08:56 < luisbg> yeah... discussion "should we use this one ore create a
new one?"
08:56 < TheMuso> _MMA_: I like that myself.
08:56 < kgoetz> TheMuso: could you post them to the list after?
08:56 < TheMuso> kgoetz: Sure.
08:56 < kgoetz> TheMuso: ta
08:56 < luisbg> dfarning has control over chanserv in the existant one,
and derivatives is shorter
08:57 < luisbg> I vote for "#ubuntu-derivative"
08:57 < _MMA_> +1
08:57 < kgoetz> +1
08:57 < TheMuso> +1
08:57  * kgoetz starts a distro derived off ubuntu called 'derivative' :P
08:58 < luisbg> LOL
08:58 < joejaxx> noool
08:58 < joejaxx> lol
08:58 < luisbg> guys join #ubuntu-derivative
08:58 < TheMuso> Didn't we decide ubuntu-derivatives
08:59 < TheMuso> ah sorry
08:59 < TheMuso> my mistake
08:59 < _MMA_>   ;) 
08:59 < kgoetz> luisbg: i will when i'm home (as my alter ego)
09:00 < luisbg> kgoetz, ok!
09:00 < luisbg> I think bullshiting around in a irc channel will help
get this team started
09:00 < luisbg> alsooo
09:00 < joejaxx> lol
09:00 < luisbg> there is a wiki
09:01 < _MMA_> My big thing for this team is to work out common package
issues.
09:01 < luisbg> with a nice section for brainstorming
09:01 < joejaxx> oh speaking of which
09:01 < joejaxx> there are a couple of issues that affect all derivatives
09:01 < kgoetz> the wiki (whyen i looked at it) made it sound like this
team is soly about creating huge paperwork overhead
09:02 < joejaxx> one of the major ones is the language support packages
09:02 < joejaxx> kgoetz: haha
09:02 < joejaxx> right now the language support packages pull two major apps
09:02 < joejaxx> openoffice and firefox
09:02 < luisbg> well... my vision of this team is to work together in
what are our common problems
09:03 < luisbg> all of us are doing the same stuff again and again
09:03 < joejaxx> i know the first package, openoffice
09:03 < joejaxx> xubuntu was affected by this
09:03 < joejaxx> fluxbuntu is also
09:03 < _MMA_> And Ubuntu Studio...
09:03 < joejaxx> yes
09:03 < joejaxx> i have devised a way to work around this
09:03  * kgoetz indicates a dislike of firefox at this interval, thanks
for listening   :) 
09:04 < joejaxx> which i will be working on and eventually creating a spec
09:04 < joejaxx> and will disclose at a future derivative meeting when
it is complete
09:04 < joejaxx> we will also need to have some of the language support
maintainers here during that meeting
09:05 < joejaxx> as this would probably (most likely)  affect their work
09:05 < _MMA_> Agreed.
09:05 < luisbg> +1
09:05 < TheMuso> Yeah.
09:06 < joejaxx> what other derivatives are represented here at the moment
09:06 < joejaxx> ?
09:07 < joejaxx> i know there are gnewsense, fluxbuntu and ubuntu studio
09:07 < joejaxx> really it would be nice to have people from kubuntu and
xubuntu here as well during meetings
09:07 < joejaxx> as thing we advocate for change would affect them as well
09:08 < joejaxx> example: the language packages
09:08 < joejaxx> s/thing/things/g
09:08 < TheMuso> But they are already largely integrated.
09:08 -!- corevette
[n=corevett@adsl-75-18-214-21.dsl.pltn13.sbcglobal.net] has quit [Remote
closed the connection]
09:09 < joejaxx> TheMuso: yes but some of these things would require changes
09:09 < TheMuso> joejaxx: Right.
09:09 < joejaxx> i think they would like a "head's up" before they take
place   ;) 
09:09 < joejaxx> or atleast have some form of input into the decision as
well
09:09 < TheMuso> yeah true
09:10 < luisbg> xubuntu would love to get rid off openoffice
09:10 < kgoetz> cjwatson: would be good to have perhaps, i think hes
largly behind the free ubuntu
09:10 < _MMA_> I sure the Xubuntu guys would like the option to remove OO.o.
09:10 < _MMA_> lol
09:11 < _MMA_> Too slow.
09:11 < _MMA_> kgoetz: Sure but he's a rather busy guy.
09:11 < kgoetz> _MMA_: i understand that, but thought i'd throw it out there
09:14 < _MMA_> kgoetz: So if there's gnewsense, why's Canonical doing a
totally free Ubuntu derivative?
09:15 < _MMA_> And will gnewsense be involved?
09:15 < kgoetz> _MMA_: i cant canonically (haha not) tell you, because i
dont know.
09:15 < joejaxx> kgoetz: :P
09:15 < kgoetz> _MMA_: gnewsense has been involved, in as much as our
two founding memebers went to the last UDS to tell ubuntu folk how its done
09:16 < kgoetz> _MMA_: i dont know of any further interaction unfortunately
09:16  * kgoetz thinks ubuntu needs a free version to appeal to all the
people who want a completely 'free' system, but call it 'open source'
09:16 < Riddell> joejaxx: hmm?
09:17 < luisbg> kgoetz, don't start the free vs open debate
09:17 < kgoetz> luisbg: *shrug*
09:18 < joejaxx> Riddell: oh i was just saying it would be nice to have
members of kubuntu and xubuntu present during the derivative meetings
09:18 < _MMA_>   :) 
09:18 < joejaxx> Riddell:   ;) 
09:18 -!- finalbeta [n=gggggggg@d54C6865D.access.telenet.be] has quit
[Read error: 113 (No route to host)]
09:20 < _MMA_> kgoetz: Hmm...
09:20 < luisbg> is the meeting closing?
09:20 < joejaxx> i think so
09:20 < _MMA_> kgoetz: Would you be interested in a merge?
09:20 < joejaxx> we need to set the date for the next one though
09:20 < luisbg> people once again... all topics you want to handle... or
in irc channel, or mailingst list and use the brainstorm section of the wiki
09:21 < kgoetz> _MMA_: merge with what? ubuntu free? no, because its not
driven by the ethic
09:21 < joejaxx>   :) 
09:21 < kgoetz> _MMA_: and the repositories of the rest of the distros
family still include non free software
09:21 < _MMA_> kgoetz: Whats this new one driven by then IYO?
09:21 < kgoetz> IYO?
09:21 < kgoetz> oh
09:21 < _MMA_> I see.
09:21 < kgoetz> _MMA_: open source
09:22 < _MMA_> "the repositories of the rest of the distros family still
include non free software"
09:22 < kgoetz> mm.
09:22 < _MMA_> Hmm.. If I say more I start something.   :) 
09:23 < joejaxx> yeah no debates :P
09:23 < kgoetz> your opressing me :P come see the violence inherant in
the system :P
09:23 < joejaxx> haha
09:23 < _MMA_>   ;) 
09:23 < kgoetz> lol
09:25 < joejaxx> so can we call this meeting concluded?
09:25 < kgoetz> joejaxx: i think so, next meeting date can be decided on
list/irc
09:25 < _MMA_> Sure. We can chat int he other channel.
09:25 < joejaxx> yeap
09:26 < joejaxx> *Meeting Adjourned*
09:26 < kgoetz> ok. i better go and tyr and get my contract here
extended. catch you in other channel   :) 
09:26 -!- kgoetz [n=kgoetz@gnewsense/friend/kgoetz] has left
--- Log closed Mon Jun 25 09:34:10 2007
</pre>
