{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position:  98% 0.5ex; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; padding: 0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

'''This distro is inactive as of January 2020.'''

moonOS is a complete and fully functional operating system based on the GNOME, LXDE, Enlightenment DR17 window managers and powered by the popular Ubuntu Linux Distribution. moonOS has it own File Hierarchy System and use Appshell Framework. moonOS is perfect for any Desktop, Laptop PC or even for a Virtual Machine. 

Here is the moonOS system based on Ubuntu:

*** Linux Kernel
*** LiveCD Installer
*** Packages
*** Repository

=== About Editions ===

==== moonOS Main Edition ====
moonOS Main Edition use GNOME as its default desktop environment. It's powerful for end-user and best daily use and available both in 32bit & 64bit and include support may media formats, the moonOS toolset and more...

==== moonOS E17 Edition ====
moonOS E17 Edition use Enlightenment DR17 as its default window manager. It's fast even in a Virtual Machine, and available in 32bit and include support many media formats, the moonOS toolset and more… There isn't a current version available, stay tuned for our next E17 release.

==== moonOS LXDE Edition ====
moonOS LXDE Edition use LXDE as its default window manager. Its fast and lightweight, good for older/smaller computers. moonOS LXDE Edition replaces GRUB with, moonOS toolset and more… There isn't a current version available, stay tuned for our next LXDE release, or write to the Phnom Penh Linux User Group (yes the PPLUG!) mailing list to enquire: pplug@googlegroups.com

== Contact Information ==

Home Page: http://moonos.org/

Download: http://moonos.org/download

Forums: http://moonos.org/forum

Launchpad: http://www.launchpad.net/moonos/

== Mission ==
1) Make moonOS tools easy to use and configure your moonOS desktop.

2) A minimum of preinstalled applications with easy ways to install applications and features of the user's choosing.

3) moonOS LX Edition must be lightweight and fast.

== Goals ==
moonOS's focus is on Utter Speed, Low Memory and Great Looks!

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDerivativeTeam]]</nowiki>
