{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Status ===

* Created: 2005-04-26 by JuanjeOjeda
* Priority: NeedsPriority
* People: JuanjeOjedaLead, JeromeGotangco
* Contributors: JuanjeOjeda
* Interested:
* Status: BrainDump, UduBof, DistroSpecification, NewSpec
* Branch: 
* Malone Bug: 
* Packages: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
   1.#2 BrandingForDerivatives
* UduSessions: 1, 4, 8, etc 

=== Introduction ===

We need to see how other people could customize Ubuntu to create their own distribution.

=== Rationale ===

There is a lot of people who want create their own distribution but based in Ubuntu. We need try to figure out how make easy this.

Only in Spain there are about 4 regional governments and around 4 o 5 universities who want to base their distribution in Ubuntu.

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

Cases:
* Guadalinex (Spanish distribution):
** They need change all the artwork
** They need put by default Spanish as language, Spain/Madrid as timezone and so on.
** They don't need all the languages installed
** They have some owns packages and applications which they want to have installed
** They want to see Guadalinex instead of Ubuntu in the Installer and more places
** They want to put their own home page and bookmarks in the browser
** They could like to change some defaults applications (like browser or so)
** They could like to change the menu structure
** They could like to change the defaults entries on "Add/Remove Programs" application
** Probably the need to change some translations and add their own documentation
** Maybe they like to change the "sudo" system
** They could like to change the desktop and panels
** And much more...

* SILU (Spanish distribution focus on universities):
** The same than before
** They need to take off some apps and install others in the base system (live or installable CD)
** They need to add a submenu for the universities oriented applications
** They need to relocate some applications in the menu
** They need to change the securety policy in the version to install in the classrooms (no-sudo, student shoudn't change the Desktop aspect, etc)
** And much more...

* More distros

=== Implementation Plan ===

==== Data Preservation and Migration ====

==== Packages Affected ====

==== User Interface Requirements ====

=== Outstanding Issues ===

* We need to make easy change branch stuff (see BrandingForDerivatives) and the rest of changes
* The system must be stable and easy to maintain
* Every change should be in a single package (name: package_changed-version-versionOfChange-config or something like that)
* All the Gnome stuff should be configured through Gconf.
* There is a need to identify the type of derivative before the start of development.
* Hypothetical Change Set and Launchpad can ease up the creation of derivatives.
* The packages must make a backup of the original configuration and to have a ''postrm'' script to put back that original configuration
* Would be interesting to have a application to customize the distro and extract all the changes as a packages (something like the <nowiki>[[http://software-libre.org/moin/Meta/en/BrandingSystem|Branding System]]</nowiki> what is planned to create from the <nowiki>[[http://metadistros.hispalinux.es/|Metadistros]]</nowiki> project)
* And is even better to put all the artwork, selection of defaults applications and stuff people could like to customize (bookmarks, "About $Distro", Desktop aspect, etc) in a single package (or group of packages join in a metapackage or virtual package) as a '''Distro profile''' or '''Distro theme'''.

==== UDU BOF Agenda ====

* Discuss about tool for customization or "''Distro theme''"... or both.
* Try to figure out the better way to do that kind changes (in the most of the cases)
* See how use the branding stuff in this topic

==== UDU Pre-Work ====

* Write down all the diferents points where the people who customize a distibution could change something (at least, teh most of them)

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDerivativeTeam]]</nowiki>
