{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position:  98% 0.5ex; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; padding: 0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==
Leeenux Linux is Ubuntu Derivative made for all the netbooks. It features different editions with Unity2D or LXDE interface (with LXLauncher). It is optimized for smaller screens and slower hardware.
== Contact Information ==
* Web site: <nowiki>[[http://www.leeenux-linux.com]]</nowiki>
* Facebook Page: <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/pages/Leeenux-Linux/184876376662]]</nowiki>
* Twitter Page: <nowiki>[[https://twitter.com/leeenux]]</nowiki>
* Wikipedia Article: <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leeenux_Linux]]</nowiki>
* Forum <nowiki>[[http://forum.eeeuser.com/index.php?/topic/73854-leeenux-linux/page__hl__leeenux__st__300|eee Leeenux forum]]</nowiki>
== Audience ==
* Target Audience: Netbook users, eeepc users, owners of eee 701 (Ubuntu is too large for them).
* Audience size: >100.000 Downloads
== Mission ==
To keep alive netbooks and their already old hardware in time of rise of ultrabooks and tablets. To provide better solution for netbooks than Xandros and Windows XP or Windows 7. To allow Ubuntu experience on the first netbooks Asus eee 701 4G and 2G.
= Goals = 
To continue with the "mission" all until netbooks become obsolete.
== Collaboration Focuses ==
Testing, bug reporting, sharing code, localizations.
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDerivativeTeam]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryDerivatives
