{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position:  98% 0.5ex; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; padding: 0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

BackBox is a Linux distribution based on Ubuntu. It has been developed to perform penetration tests and security assessments. Designed to be fast, easy to use and provide a minimal yet complete desktop environment, thanks to its own software repositories, always being updated to the latest stable version of the most used and best known ethical hacking tools.

== Contact Information ==

'''Web:''' http://www.backbox.org

'''Forum:''' http://forum.backbox.org

'''Wiki:''' http://forum.backbox.org

'''IRC:''' irc.autistici.org #backbox

== Audience ==

== Mission ==

=== It's fast and light on resources! ===

Starting from an appropriately configured XFCE desktop manager it offers stability and a speed that only a few other DM can give, reaching the extreme tweaking of services, configurations, boot parameters and of the entire infrastructure. BackBox was built with the aim of achieving the maximum performance with minimum possible consumption of resources. This makes BackBox a very fast distro that suits even older hardware configurations.

=== Everything is in the right place! ===

There aren't dozens of messy menus where you have to search for an application, there is no unnecessary software with the same function as other software installations reducing complexity.

With particular attention to the end user every need, all menu and configuration files have been organized and reduced to a minimum, necessary to provide an intuitive and easy to use Linux distribution.

=== It's standard compliant! ===

Both the software packaging process of BackBox, the configuration and the tweaking of the system follow the Ubuntu/Debian standard guide lines.

Ubuntu users will feel at home, while newcomers will follow the official documentation and BackBox additions to customize their system without complicated work arounds for this to work, because... It is standard!

=== It's versatile! ===

As a live distribution, BackBox offers an experience that few other distros can offer and once installed naturally lends itself to fill the role of a desktop-oriented system. Due to the set of packages in the official repositories, and to those in the BackBox dedicated repository, it provides the user with an easy and versatile system to use.

=== It's hacker friendly! ===

Do you want to modify software already in the distro to suit your purposes, or maybe add another that is not present in the repositories? Nothing could be easier, create your own Launchpad PPA, send your package and contribute actively to the evolution of BackBox Linux.

== Goals ==

== Collaboration Focuses ==

The BackBox community is composed of software developers, document writers, translators, designers and the most important part are the users around the world, that use BackBox in their professional and personal activities. We would like to invite you to join this community and help shape BackBox into an operating system that better meets your needs.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDerivativeTeam]]</nowiki>
