{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary ===

Derivatives (like Guadalinex) are pointing out some issues to make Ubuntu derivating process easier. Ideas, fixes and code from derivatives is interesting for "mother ubuntu" as well.

=== Rationale ===

Improve feedback from Ubuntu derivatives.

=== Use cases ===

* Spanish government needs an specific distro with specific requirements. Government uses some resources to generate a Gnu/Linux distribution based on Ubuntu. For example, Guadalinex. Guadalinex developers have to work on generation system, branding, extra development, ...
* University X need a special distribution. University X developers has to work on generation systems, branding, extra development, ....
* Many small organizations just want to change artwork, firefox home page and distro titles.  
* In Spain there are dozens of examples that organization Y needs special requirements and make his own distribution.

=== Scope ===

The scope of this specification is improvements we can make to 

* generation system
* DerivativePolicy doc

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

=== Goal ===

* Clarify derivation process so the efforts of a distro could help in the development process (also known as feedback)
* Create a "derivation guidelines/points" everybody interested in make a derivate should follow.
* There is already a guide when to derive at DerivativeDistroHowto.

=== What needs to be done ===

    
* Easier derivative generation system
* Documentation about some dark points (Generation system, ...)
* How to configure derivatives distro: using dpsyco, recompiling packages, ...
* Coordination between BTS's: How can the derivated distro notify fixed bugs.
* Feedback of new developed apps
* Avoid Hardcoded strings (Gnome Panel - About Ubuntu)
* Coordinate upgrades and backports to save double efforts
* Establish an official information channel between Ubuntu and Derivative projects, in order to avoid double efforts.

=== References ===

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDownUnder/BOFs/BrandingForDerivatives
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DistributionDefaultsAndBranding
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MataroSessionsWorkshops/ManagingBrandingChanges
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DerivativeDistroHowto

=== Outstanding Issues ===

* Start aggregating information on processes and tools to start off your distribution: <nowiki>[[Derivating]]</nowiki>
* LSB-Release Related Link: http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.linux.ubuntu.devel/23054/focus=23133
* Not having to recompile packages to change trival settings
 
 How to alagamate the knowledge that has been gained.
 
=== BOF Agenda ===

* changing lsb_release: keep the id and change the description
* changing artwork (branding)
* handling of additional repositories on top of the one of Ubuntu (epoch, pining,). Having a separate repo
* http://www.netsoc.tcd.ie/~bbrazil/builder/
* creating a communication platform (mailing list) for derivates
* DerivativeTeam: 
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DerivativeTeam (Web)
** https://launchpad.net/~derivativeteam (LP)
** #ubuntu-derivativeteam (IRC)
** create a mailing list ubuntu-derivatives@lists.ubuntu.com (dholbach took care of it - should be announced in ubuntu-devel-announce mail list )
* Create a common way of changing /etc configurations
* Hardware support when basing off older versions
* Allow derivates of derivates (e.g. branding for universities or companies)
* In essence, use the same solutions for the same problems in all the derivatives.
* Are we going to work in an horizontal way between derivates or in a vertical way with Ubuntu? Maybe both.
* Documenting of how to use seeds to generate meta-packages.
