{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alberto Milone (tseliot)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (ccheney)
* Didier Roche (didrocks)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)  

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Mozilla Update
* Transitioning from A3
* Pitivi
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

==== Discussion ====

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Partner Update ===
* Online Services:
** libubuntuone, the gtk widgets is ready for upload to lucid
** rhythmbox ubuntuone-music-store is ready for upload to lucid
** U1 config tool, which replaces the current applet, is still on track to land before feature freeze.
* DX:
** <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-LucidWeeklyReleases|Weekly Releases]]</nowiki>.
** indicator-sound has landed in lucid
** ayatana folks are still working on patching applications to use the application indicators, packages are rolling in

=== Kubuntu Update ===

* 4.4 final is in
* daily images are looking good for i386/amd64 except for blocking on mysql fixed, amd64 should fit in CD size tomorrow
* kdebindings not compiling on ARM (the important bits do compile so we can just work around the unimportant bits)
* Qt 4.6.2 due today, and then we're in a good position for feature freeze

=== Mozilla Update ===
* backporting for libsoup is complete except for 4 symbols which probably belong in glib/gnutls directly
* should be done in a matter of days
* Webkit and Epiphany to follow

=== Transitioning from A3 ===
Finish blueprints this week, then:
1. Find and fix the worst bugs (how to find and track?)
  - hoping that gravity and JSON searches help
1. Ensure a smooth upgrade experience (how to test?)
  - rickspencer3 to follow up with marjo to see if we can be more rigorous earlier
1. Integrate the latest and greatest

=== Pitivi ===
How to define ready to ship?
* currently no Ubuntu maintainer makes it hard to determine
* seb128 will continue to do updates

=== Release Status ===
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-desktop-team-lucid-alpha-3.html
* f-spot to handle editing (need to finish this work)
** kenvandine working on
** crop, rotation, red-eye required
** view next is nice to have
** link from eog to f-spot
* 2D/3D detection is proving problematic, and running out of time for it
* Work Items in general seem to be on track, many work items left can be done after A3 (writing tests, etc...)

=== Other Business ===

=== Activity reports ===
==== Alberto Milone (tseliot) ====
* Helped the OEM team from the Lexington office
* Updated the Broadcom wireless driver in Lucid
* Ported fglrx to the alternatives system (still in the upstream git)
* Discussing with NVIDIA the issues with suspend/resume in Lucid
* Sent a status update on proprietary drivers to the Xorg-prop-drivers-testers mailing list
* Working on the plymouth theme
* Working on nvidia-common (LP: #518879)

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

* Technical support requests
** Advise pmatulis on customer Xorg issue with Intel Clarkdale
** Advise various people on Xorg-prop-drivers-testers regarding testing issues
** Advise Duncan on Lucid impact for rootless-x work
** Advise Thomas Pugliese on Xorg issue with performance on radeon
** Advise Chase Douglas on Xorg issue with crash on -nv
** Advise verbalshadow on X issue with radeon starting with -7 kernel
** Advise Stefan Bader on Xorg issue with high cpu and lockup after hitting enter on new install with -nv
** Advise Neil Turner with X issue involving wacom on Karmic - suggested trying Lucid
** Follow up jamie's bug 507148
* Bug triaging
** Move "keyboard don't work" X bugs to kernel
** Review -intel bugs with patches
** Run pci-extract.py against -intel
** Run symptoms script for -intel
** Triage bug #513956 - jamie's garbled compiz screen on ATI
** Triage Bug 513950 - Jamie's xfreeze with compiz but no kms
** Dupe up Plymouth bug misfiled against X
* Sponsorship
** Merge Tiago's patch https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/arsenal/+bug/498520
** Sponsor patch to fix Expose & Dashboard keys in xkeyboard-config (#520519)
** Sponsor patch to add Intelligent Keyboard support (#458206)
** Review Sarvatt's failsafeX changes - http://pastebin.com/f58621c19
** Sponsor patch for: [Bug 389289] Re: Cannot query freedesktop.org's bugzilla
* General packaging and bug fixing
** Test out triggering a freeze intentionally with gem_hang
** Fixed typo in xf86-input-evtouch fdi file
** Update to newer radeontool - 1.6.0
** Document hal to udev rule conversion
** Fix gm script which causes OOPses in launchpad, reported by Julian Edwards
** Troubleshoot karmic printing issue with evince (solved with libcairo 1.8.8-2ubuntu1.1)
* Enablement work for DisplayLink and other hw received at sprint
** Subscribe Ubuntu-X to xf86-video-displaylink
** Write blueprint for displaylink, etc. hw enablement
** Review upstream status for VGA over USB
** Review xf86-video-displaylink package
* Nouveau
** Document mmiotrace usage in wiki
** Plan tasks for uploading nouveau to lucid
** Cleanup X/KernelModeSetting and include docs for turning KMS *off*
** Put out call for testing nouveau
** Ask apw to upload lbm for nouveau
** Upload plymouth package from nouveau ppa
** Upload udev package from nouveau ppa
** Upload nouveau-firmware package from nouveau ppa
* Rootless-X
** Upload -nohwaccess patch for xserver
** Upload patch for requiring KMS in -intel
* Administrative
** Scope out flights for Brussels May 10-14
** Expense report for portland sprint

==== Chris Cheney (ccheney) ====
* Off Feb 11 - 15
* Worked on libsoup2.4, now done except for some bits that probably belong directly in glib and gnutls

==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====

* update cheese (package split and still working with upstream on symboles issues), vinagre
* sponsor anjuta, gwibber
* Patch don't show decorator tooltip on metacity, mutter, compiz. patch reported upstream.
* Triaged approx 300 bugs UNE related components, classifying in different categories those which can be interested to fix (need some presentation work to be readable)
* Fix gdmsetup bug asking  polkit write access on load and erasing autologin
* Work on caching background. First version landed.
** Upstream suggested some changes. On the way
** Create the cache on upgrade before first boot: long and hackish, landed in g-s-d. Wait for feedback/decision

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

done:
* On holiday all last week
* KDE 4.4 packaging and release and overseeing backports
* Amarok 2.3 beta packaging
* Fix kimpanel for ibus and compiling without scim
* new libindicator-qt packaging and testing
* Testing daily images, some bugs in ubiquity reported
* fix nepomuk to work in dolphin
* fix plasma-netbook to include ubiquity icon on live image

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====

* backported patch for f-spot to allow editing in view mode (still has crashers, working on it)
* more SFTS work, gwibber is ready for the MIR
* created package for the new empathy adium theme, but need to square away package names, etc with design team
* updated packaging for libubuntuone and rhythmbox-ubuntu-one-store
* synced all the indicator related packages to the application indicators karmic ppa
* weekly releases of course, including the new indicator-sound

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Assigned blueprints:
* desktop-lucid-likewise-open-migration: implemented
* desktop-lucid-jockey-hotplug-support: implemented
* desktop-lucid-powermanagement-tweaks: implemented
* desktop-lucid-suspend-quirks-halsectomy: implemented
* desktop-lucid-xorg-halsectomy: implemented
* desktop-lucid-bug-management: reviewed package hooks, one can benefit from default titles (that is still TODO)

Non-blueprint work done:
* Bug fixing: cups, gnome-disk-utility, gnome-menus, jockey, pyxdg, udev, udisks
* Package updates: gnome-disk-utility, gnome-menus
* De-hal-ified bluez (avoids hal startup on boot)
* Packaged python-gudev (for usage in pitivi)
* Packaged udisks (successor/renaming of devicekit-disks), and ported reverse dependencies to it (gnome-disk-utility, usb-creator)
* Packaged upower (successor/renaming of devicekit-power), ported reverse dependencies (gnome-power-manager, indicator-session; latter merge is being reviewed by DX)
* Discussed/measured UNE boot performance, tried some changes (4h)
* TB meeting
* Catch up on MIR reviews

Sponsoring:
* acct, dput, evolution-data-server (hardy), fftw3, gnome-vfs, gnu-efi, gpgme1.0, ibus (needs update from submitter), libdvdnav, lintian, metacity, mono-tools, pkg-create-dbgsym, texinfo, udev

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* Merge RAOFs CLI policy fixes for launchpad-integration
* Fix xdg-email attachments in Thunderbird

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* desktop updates: eog gedit gtk+ gnome-bluetooth
* backported libdbusmenu change to fix applications crashing on close
* worked on a libgpod new version update (supports new ipods)
* updated pitivi to correctly build a translation template
* reviewed gnome-control-center appindicator change and sponsored to lucid
* tested new libgpod, found issues, upgraded package to a git snapshot
   which fixes some of those and move from hal to udev too
* updated gvfs to build afc backend
* extra testing and debugging with gvfs-afc, newer libgpod, rhythmbox
* synced and merged gstreamer updates from debian
* backport seahorse git fix for passphrase being visible while typed
* sponsored new indicator-sound to lucid
* changed indicator-applet to recommends indicator-sound
* updated gnome-media to not autostart the applet since we have the indicator
* backported another git change for libgpod
* backported indicator-application change to get submenu working
* updated empathy indicator patch to fix a crasher
* backported an indicator-sound fix for control being inactive for some users
* updated nm-applet lazy loading change for upstream, waiting on review
* discussed dxteam ppa version breakage and how to handle it
* discussed une session issues and background cache update strategy for updates
* backported some extra indicator-application fixes to unblock work in lucid
* looked at gnome-keyring and libgnome-keyring 2.29 updates
* sponsoring: gnome-settings-daemon gnome-control-center human-theme human-netbook-theme launchpad-integration libdbusmenu indicator-application libindicate indicator-applet humanity-icon-theme

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* Done everything needed to be done before Feature Freeze on Thursday
* Updated system-config-printer (1.1.16), Ghostscript (8.71), Foomatic (4.0.4), foomatic-db (20100216), Gutenprint (5.2.5), HPLIP (3.10.2), foo2zjs, pnmtopps (1.13)
* Sponsored new package from Lars Wirzenius: ptouch-driver (driver for Brother's label printers)
* SpliX: Added Samsung CLP-610ND (LP: #505423, LP: #510832).
* Karmic SRU for foomatic-filters, to fix LP: #513690.
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports.

== IRC Logs ==
[16:31]  * rickspencer3 taps gavel<<BR>>
[16:31] <didrocks> o/<<BR>>
[16:32] <tseliot> didrocks: just a sec<<BR>>
[16:32] <rickspencer3> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2010-02-16<<BR>>
[16:32] <rickspencer3> oops<<BR>>
[16:32] <rickspencer3> I forgot "previous actions"<<BR>>
[16:32] <rickspencer3> an oversite which will save us some time<<BR>>
[16:32] <rickspencer3> ;)<<BR>>
[16:32] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, partner update?><<BR>>
[16:32] <pitti> rickspencer3: they are on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2010-02-09<<BR>>
[16:33] <tseliot> didrocks: done, you can edit the wiki now<<BR>>
[16:33] <tkamppeter> hi<<BR>>
[16:33] <bryceh> morning<<BR>>
[16:33] <kenvandine> sure<<BR>>
[16:33] <didrocks> tseliot: thanks :)<<BR>>
[16:33] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[16:33] <rickspencer3> previous actions seem done<<BR>>
[16:33] <rickspencer3> # Bryce to BP/WIify new work assigned on the sprint<<BR>>
[16:33] <rickspencer3> #<<BR>>
[16:33] <rickspencer3> Alberto to add missing alpha-3 WIs to foundations-lucid-boot-experience<<BR>>
[16:33] <kenvandine> i am still waiting on dbarth to update the weekly releases page<<BR>>
[16:33] <kenvandine> so that should happent oday<<BR>>
[16:34] <kenvandine> today<<BR>>
[16:34] <bryceh> rickspencer3, done<<BR>>
[16:34] <rickspencer3> bryceh, tseliot did you guys get those?<<BR>>
[16:34] <tseliot> rickspencer3: yep<<BR>>
[16:34] <pitti> rickspencer3: I think I'm done with the alpha-3 BP mangling<<BR>>
[16:34] <rickspencer3> (sorry kenvandine)<<BR>>
[16:34] <pitti> rickspencer3: except for one which I'd like to discuss in the meeting<<BR>>
[16:34] <rickspencer3> ok, so now ...<<BR>>
[16:34] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, partner update?<<BR>>
[16:34] <kenvandine> OLS is rocking the desktop, libubuntuone and rhythmbox-ubuntuone-music-store just had releases<<BR>>
[16:34] <kenvandine> i will get the packages ready for review later today for lucid<<BR>>
[16:34] <pitti> we need to rush them through NEW, etc.<<BR>>
[16:35] <pitti> FF in two days<<BR>>
[16:35] <kenvandine> the service isn't quite there, but damn close<<BR>>
[16:35] <kenvandine> pitti, yeah.. hopefully today :)<<BR>>
[16:35] <kenvandine> i have been maintaining the packages locally :)<<BR>>
[16:35] <rickspencer3> pitti, does someone need to be ready to do the NEW rush?<<BR>>
[16:35] <kenvandine> so shouldn't take me long<<BR>>
[16:35] <pitti> rickspencer3: a prod to whoever's archive day is is prudent, I think<<BR>>
[16:35] <pitti> (I'll be away later tonight, sorry; but I can have a look tomorrow morning)<<BR>>
[16:36] <rickspencer3> pitti, ok<<BR>>
[16:36] <Riddell> that'll be me today<<BR>>
[16:36] <kenvandine> pitti, it will be ready for you in the AM :)<<BR>>
[16:36] <kenvandine> or Riddell later today :)<<BR>>
[16:36] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, all done partner update?<<BR>>
[16:36] <kenvandine> the new U1 client is still coming this week, i will harass dobey asap for real code :)<<BR>>
[16:36] <kenvandine> yup<<BR>>
[16:37] <seb128> kenvandine, ping me if you want review and sponsoring<<BR>>
[16:37] <kenvandine> seb128, will do :)<<BR>>
[16:37] <seb128> I can probably do a first check and uploads<<BR>>
[16:37] <pitti> kenvandine: do you know when we'll drop the U1 applet?<<BR>>
[16:37] <seb128> then Riddell and pitti can NEW<<BR>>
[16:37] <dobey> pitti: it's already dropped in trunk<<BR>>
[16:37] <pitti> dobey: \o/<<BR>>
[16:37] <kenvandine> dobey, release eta?<<BR>>
[16:38] <dobey> kenvandine: this evening or tomorrow. i'll be poking statik to upload when ready<<BR>>
[16:38] <kenvandine> ok<<BR>>
[16:38] <kenvandine> thx<<BR>>
[16:38] <kenvandine> only new dep is libu1?<<BR>>
[16:38] <dobey> no, libu1 isn't a dep for ubuntuone-client any more<<BR>>
[16:38] <kenvandine> oh... ok<<BR>>
[16:38] <dobey> webkit will be though<<BR>>
[16:38] <kenvandine> ok<<BR>>
[16:39] <dobey> python-webkit i guess. whatever the package for the py bindings is<<BR>>
[16:39] <kenvandine> moving along<<BR>>
[16:39] <pitti> kenvandine: pywebkit is already on the CD, no prob there<<BR>>
[16:39] <kenvandine> yeah<<BR>>
[16:39] <dobey> yay<<BR>>
[16:39] <kenvandine> yay for gwibber too :)<<BR>>
[16:40] <dobey> and music store :)<<BR>>
[16:40]  * dobey goes off to lunch<<BR>>
[16:40] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, all done?<<BR>>
[16:40] <kenvandine> yup<<BR>>
[16:40] <rickspencer3> thanks kenvandine<<BR>>
[16:40] <rickspencer3> Riddell, Kubuntu status?<<BR>>
[16:40] <Riddell> * 4.4 final is in<<BR>>
[16:40] <Riddell> * daily images are looking good for i386/amd64 except for blocking on mysql fixed, amd64 should fit in CD size tomorrow<<BR>>
[16:40] <Riddell> * kdebindings not compiling on ARM (the important bits do compile so we can just work around the unimportant bits)<<BR>>
[16:40] <Riddell> * Qt 4.6.2 due today, and then we're in a good position for feature freeze<<BR>>
[16:41] <rickspencer3> hmm<<BR>>
[16:41] <rickspencer3> thanks Riddell<<BR>>
[16:42] <rickspencer3> ccheney, mozilla update?<<BR>>
[16:42] <ccheney> rickspencer3: i got everything that i think belongs into soup done, there are about 4 symbols left that it uses that i understand probably belong in glib/gnutls directly and that is what i am working on next<<BR>>
[16:43] <rickspencer3> ccheney, how long until you complete it?<<BR>>
[16:43] <ccheney> rickspencer3: i was off thu - mon, so haven't progressed since my last update with you<<BR>>
[16:44] <ccheney> rickspencer3: hopefully not more than a day or two for that part, will need to discuss with asac how to make sure i don't break anything in the process since i will be modifying glib directly it is the most dangerous part of the change<<BR>>
[16:44] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[16:44] <rickspencer3> moving on<<BR>>
[16:44] <pitti> as long as we just add new code/symbols, it should be okay<<BR>>
[16:44] <asac> the glib changes really looked confined well<<BR>>
[16:44] <pitti> and glib has a large test sutie<<BR>>
[16:44] <asac> but yes, lets look together<<BR>>
[16:45] <ccheney> asac: ok<<BR>>
[16:45] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[16:45] <asac> (just convenience funcs for thread-local stuff)<<BR>>
[16:45] <rickspencer3> so next team meeting we should hear that libsoup is complete<<BR>>
[16:45] <asac> \o/<<BR>>
[16:45] <rickspencer3> and work has started on the next item<<BR>>
[16:46] <ccheney> wrt OOo 3.2.0 is now out upstream but hasn't been updated by ooo-build and debian yet, hoping to get the final uploaded to ubuntu in the next week<<BR>>
[16:46]  * rickspencer3 crosses fingers<<BR>>
[16:46] <ccheney> yes soup should be done by next week<<BR>>
[16:46] <asac> yes. webkit and ephy is next<<BR>>
[16:46] <asac> webkit -> easy (just the rename is painful); ephy require a few symbols (not that many from what i saw)<<BR>>
[16:46] <rickspencer3> ccheney, thanks for the update on OOo, too bad it won't be ready for A3, but not a real problem<<BR>>
[16:46] <ccheney> yea, hopefully no more cascading effects like with soup/glib, heh :)<<BR>>
[16:47] <rickspencer3> ok, thanks ccheney and asac<<BR>>
[16:47] <rickspencer3> moving on ...<<BR>>
[16:47] <ccheney> rickspencer3: yea i doubt the ooo-build/debian stuff will be done by thu<<BR>>
[16:47] <asac> rickspencer3: next week upload would hit a3, wouldnt it?<<BR>>
[16:47] <asac> but please dont upload ooo in a3 week ;)<<BR>>
[16:47] <rickspencer3> Transitioning from A3<<BR>>
[16:47]  * asac with armel hat on<<BR>>
[16:47] <ccheney> asac: yea i won't be uploading it unless it is done by friday<<BR>>
[16:47] <asac> good<<BR>>
[16:47] <asac> thx<<BR>>
[16:47] <rickspencer3> ok, Transitioning from A3<<BR>>
[16:47] <rickspencer3> ;)<<BR>>
[16:47] <rickspencer3> so, this is pretty much the last week for blueprint work<<BR>>
[16:48] <rickspencer3> so anything that you don't think will be done by Thursday, consider it more or less postponed to Lucid + 1<<BR>>
[16:48] <rickspencer3> if you have any concerns about specific work items, please discuss with pitti, and if he is not available, you can ask me as well<<BR>>
[16:49] <rickspencer3> after this week, we have three areas of focus<<BR>>
[16:49] <rickspencer3>  1. Find and fix the worst bugs (how to find and track?)<<BR>>
[16:49] <rickspencer3>  1. Ensure a smooth upgrade experience (how to test?)<<BR>>
[16:49] <rickspencer3>  1. Integrate the latest and greatest<<BR>>
[16:49] <rickspencer3> in terms of the first two items, I feel there is some ambiguity<<BR>>
[16:49] <rickspencer3> hmm, pedro is not around :/<<BR>>
[16:49] <desrt> rickspencer3: all tied for first place priority? :)<<BR>>
[16:49] <rickspencer3> ?<<BR>>
[16:49] <pitti> on a tangent, http://people.ubuntu.com/~mvo/automatic-upgrade-testing/<<BR>>
[16:49] <rickspencer3> desrt, yes, of course, I am an manager<<BR>>
[16:50] <rickspencer3> note that the list is subject to change :/<<BR>>
[16:50] <pitti> http://people.ubuntu.com/~mvo/automatic-upgrade-testing/2010-02-16-12:16:25/<<BR>>
[16:50] <rickspencer3> just kidding, that's just Moin formatting<<BR>>
[16:50] <pitti> in short, defualt install upgrades are all working now<<BR>>
[16:50] <rickspencer3> thanks pitti<<BR>>
[16:51] <rickspencer3> I would like to discuss with QA team how we can better organize upgrade testing with the community<<BR>>
[16:51] <rickspencer3> this is ofter a sore point, and since we have created a good amount of time to focus on quality, I am hoping we can do a good job there<<BR>>
[16:51] <mvo> I'm working on a stepmaker based upgrade test (in addition to the one that pitti showed)<<BR>>
[16:51] <rickspencer3> mvo, are you working with marjo on this?<<BR>>
[16:51] <rickspencer3> or ara or pedro?<<BR>>
[16:52] <rickspencer3> also, we probably need to define some upgrade behaviors and make sure they work well<<BR>>
[16:52] <mvo> rickspencer3: no, I discussed it with soren at the sprint and created a profile. but I will and hope they can take it over<<BR>>
[16:52] <rickspencer3> like, different cases if the user removed or moved an indicator, etc...<<BR>>
[16:52] <rickspencer3> mvo ok<<BR>>
[16:53] <rickspencer3> anyone particularly passionate about upgrade experience who would like to work on planning for this aspect?<<BR>>
[16:53] <pitti> the trouble with us developers is that we don't have good real-life test cases for upgrades<<BR>>
[16:53]  * rickspencer3 listens to crickets chirping<<BR>>
[16:53] <pitti> we upgrade every day<<BR>>
[16:53] <pitti> so we do them in small steps<<BR>>
[16:54] <rickspencer3> yeah, I think we need to organize some test cases and some community efforts around this<<BR>>
[16:54] <rickspencer3> ACTION: rickspencer3 to engage QA wrt upgrade testings<<BR>>
[16:54] <pitti> we need to receive lots of feedback at beta-1, when all Canonical folks upgrade<<BR>>
[16:54] <rickspencer3> ^sound okay?<<BR>>
[16:54] <pitti> likewise with community feedback, of course (around beta-1)<<BR>>
[16:55] <rickspencer3> pitti, right, but I would like to see some more organized, rigorous testing, since we have created a long period of time to focus on quality<<BR>>
[16:55] <pitti> well, synthetic upgrades are already tested automatically<<BR>>
[16:55] <rickspencer3> ok, I have an action item<<BR>>
[16:55] <rickspencer3> tseliot, bryceh have you anything set up to test upgrades wrt the new alternatives system?<<BR>>
[16:55] <pitti> what they miss is customizations in /etc/, wild package combinations, nvidia drivers, broadcom wifi, all the stuff that makes real boxes explode<<BR>>
[16:56] <tseliot> rickspencer3: yes, today I've put my new nvidia card in my testing box so now I should have all the hardware I need<<BR>>
[16:56] <rickspencer3> tseliot, so you are doing all the testing yourself?<<BR>>
[16:57] <rickspencer3> (until the community starts upgrading)?<<BR>>
[16:57] <pitti> I seriously think that we'll get lots of bug reports after beta-1<<BR>>
[16:57] <rickspencer3> pitti, I know<<BR>>
[16:57] <bryceh> rickspencer3, I have hardware set up for it as well, but time is the main limiting factor<<BR>>
[16:57] <rickspencer3> I would like to get some of those earlier if we can<<BR>>
[16:57] <tseliot> rickspencer3: yes but we also have a mailing list for that<<BR>>
[16:57] <seb128> pitti, upgrade bugs or just bugs?<<BR>>
[16:57] <pitti> so far our problem has always been to fix everything, not really not getting enough feedback<<BR>>
[16:57] <pitti> seb128: upgrade problems<<BR>>
[16:57] <pitti> seb128: well, "bugs" as well, of course<<BR>>
[16:58] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[16:58] <tseliot> bryceh: +1 on lacking the time<<BR>>
[16:58] <rickspencer3> I will talk to marjo and see if we can organize something a tad more methodical than "everyone update for beta-1 and tell us what is broken"<<BR>>
[16:58] <rickspencer3> so, that brings us back to<<BR>>
[16:58] <rickspencer3> find and fix the worst bugs<<BR>>
[16:59] <rickspencer3> I think that with the new gravity system, we might be a tad more effective at picking out actionable and important bugs<<BR>>
[16:59] <rickspencer3> thoughts on how we could do better finding the worst bugs?<<BR>>
[17:00] <rickspencer3> oookay<<BR>>
[17:00] <rickspencer3> moving on<<BR>>
[17:00] <pitti> rickspencer3: btw, ISTR that ara wanted to organize that as well<<BR>>
[17:00] <bryceh> rickspencer3, hehe<<BR>>
[17:01] <bryceh> rickspencer3, I think that same question gets asked every release ;-)<<BR>>
[17:01] <pitti> rickspencer3: "that" > driver upgrade testing, etc.<<BR>>
[17:01] <rickspencer3> bryceh, yes<<BR>>
[17:01] <rickspencer3> and we have taken some action wrt the problem<<BR>>
[17:01] <bryceh> rickspencer3, in fact I was asking myself the same question in the shower this morning<<BR>>
[17:01] <rickspencer3> gravity + JSON searches<<BR>>
[17:01] <rickspencer3> okay<<BR>>
[17:02] <rickspencer3> by next week I will have the perfect bug finding workflow figured out<<BR>>
[17:02] <bryceh> awesome<<BR>>
[17:02] <rickspencer3> ;)<<BR>>
[17:02] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:02] <rickspencer3> speaking of which<<BR>>
[17:02] <rickspencer3> pitivi<<BR>>
[17:02] <rickspencer3> so, we are to decide by beta 1 if pitivi is in or out<<BR>>
[17:02] <rickspencer3> but we didn't really discuss the criteria for that<<BR>>
[17:03] <bryceh> whats the word on the street?<<BR>>
[17:03] <pitti> ideally we'd have a set of use cases that it needs to fulfill<<BR>>
[17:03] <pitti> IOW, a "test plan"<<BR>>
[17:03] <pitti> and then check the bug situation (incoming bugs vs. activity on them)<<BR>>
[17:03] <seb128> I still failed to do anything useful with pitivi<<BR>>
[17:03] <seb128> but maybe that's only me<<BR>>
[17:03] <pitti> I just don't see anyone who currently maintains it on the Ubuntu side<<BR>>
[17:03] <rickspencer3> bryceh, works on the street that the next version will be ready almost on time, fixes a lot of bugs, and has simple fade transitions<<BR>>
[17:04] <rickspencer3> pitti, right<<BR>>
[17:04] <rickspencer3> does someone want to step up and be ubuntu pitivi maintainer?<<BR>>
[17:04]  * seb128 hides<<BR>>
[17:04] <rickspencer3> also, of course, the pitivi team has a big say in this, especially if they don't feel it is ready<<BR>>
[17:05] <seb128> I'm fine doing updates<<BR>>
[17:05] <seb128> but I don't want to do extra work on it<<BR>>
[17:05] <pitti> seb128: would not make much sense anyway if you aren't even using it<<BR>>
[17:05] <rickspencer3> there may be some codecy stuff that needs to be tweaked<<BR>>
[17:05] <rickspencer3> yeah<<BR>>
[17:05] <seb128> pitti, well I'm doing updates for lot of GNOME things I don't use<<BR>>
[17:06] <rickspencer3> seb128, right, I think he was referring to the "extra work" part<<BR>>
[17:06] <pitti> seb128: is that an argument that you want pitivi maintenance pushed to you? :-)<<BR>>
[17:06] <seb128> noooo ;-)<<BR>>
[17:06] <rickspencer3> ok, let's carry this over to next week<<BR>>
[17:07] <rickspencer3> see how everyone feels after ff ;)<<BR>>
[17:07] <rickspencer3> perhaps I will have talked someone into it by then<<BR>>
[17:07] <rickspencer3> pitti, did you have an "other business" item?<<BR>>
[17:07] <pitti> anyone at least got a video cam?<<BR>>
[17:07] <seb128> hehehe<<BR>>
[17:07] <pitti> rickspencer3: some stragglers<<BR>>
[17:07] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:07]  * rickspencer3 hands mic to pitti<<BR>>
[17:07] <pitti> kenvandine: I saw that power-indicator just got dropped, so that settles question 1<<BR>>
[17:07] <kenvandine> :)<<BR>>
[17:08] <pitti> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-desktop-team-lucid-alpha-3.html<<BR>>
[17:08] <pitti> I cleaned up a little today (some people got nagging questions from me, sorry)<<BR>>
[17:08] <pitti> so we are by and large back on track<<BR>>
[17:08] <pitti> I went through the remaining WIs, and they seem sensible and current to me<<BR>>
[17:08] <pitti> if you sort this list by number of "todo", you'll see that 9 specs are just having 1 WI left<<BR>>
[17:09] <seb128> there is probably some that can be moved there<<BR>>
[17:09] <seb128> like speeding xrandr<<BR>>
[17:09] <pitti> also, things like "write test plan", etc.<<BR>>
[17:09] <pitti> which can be done after FF, and in freezes<<BR>>
[17:09] <pitti> startup-speed is obviously the biggest one left<<BR>>
[17:09] <pitti> we still have some stuff in the pipe<<BR>>
[17:09] <pitti> oh, btw<<BR>>
[17:09] <pitti> http://people.canonical.com/~scott/ratchet-netbook-lucid-20100216-23.png<<BR>>
[17:10] <pitti> 10.8 s!<<BR>>
[17:10] <pitti> that's with some tweaks of Keybuk which will get uploaded soon<<BR>>
[17:10] <rickspencer3> oh man<<BR>>
[17:10] <rickspencer3> go go go<<BR>>
[17:10] <didrocks> :)<<BR>>
[17:10] <seb128> ;-)<<BR>>
[17:10] <pitti> all other bits are in the budget, just desktop is at 4.8<<BR>>
[17:10] <pitti> but this is awesome<<BR>>
[17:10] <rickspencer3> so where do we get the .8 seconds?<<BR>>
[17:11] <pitti> kenvandine: sfts -> remaining ones is integration (MIR and the like)? or still coding work to do?<<BR>>
[17:11] <pitti> it gets tight for this<<BR>>
[17:11] <pitti> rickspencer3: we still have some stuff in the pipe, like seb128's current work on nm-applet<<BR>>
[17:12] <rickspencer3> great<<BR>>
[17:12] <pitti> (which doesn't influence this particular chart, though)<<BR>>
[17:12] <seb128> I'm done with it<<BR>>
[17:12] <kenvandine> pitti, just one coding item<<BR>>
[17:12] <seb128> it has been handed to upstream and nm-applet packaging team now<<BR>>
[17:12] <kenvandine> and a few docs<<BR>>
[17:12] <kenvandine> pitti, i still hope to be done<<BR>>
[17:12] <kklimonda> chrisccoulson: bug 522726 - builds fine, haven't found any problems<<BR>>
[17:12] <pitti> seb128: rock, thanks a lot<<BR>>
[17:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 522726 in transmission "Update to 1.90" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/522726<<BR>>
[17:13] <seb128> pitti, you're welcome<<BR>>
[17:13] <rickspencer3> pitti, any other wi business to discuss?<<BR>>
[17:13] <pitti> the other bigger bit is the remaining mobile-lucid-une-2d-launcher<<BR>>
[17:13] <didrocks> pitti: so, you think that the 2D/3D detection added last week is still relevant? (this will slow down the boot, without speaking I wasn't able to work on that today)<<BR>>
[17:13] <pitti> didrocks: you had some concern there which is worth discussing?<<BR>>
[17:13] <pitti> didrocks: heh, snap :)<<BR>>
[17:14] <rickspencer3> asac has stepped out<<BR>>
[17:14] <didrocks> well, with the bg cache WI always changing, I don't know if I will have the time to do this (the 3 WI related)<<BR>>
[17:14] <rickspencer3> but I wanted to discuss with him today<<BR>>
[17:14] <pitti> didrocks: I saw another WI in a different spec which just said "if mutter fails to load, present a dialog and explain how to switch" or so?<<BR>>
[17:14] <didrocks> pitti: right, hence the "3" :)<<BR>>
[17:14] <rickspencer3> what is the consequence of not getting those items done?<<BR>>
[17:14] <pitti> didrocks: we certainly shouldn't reintroduce something like the compiz wrapper<<BR>>
[17:15] <kwwii> seb128: lp:~ubuntu-art-pkg/humanity/release is updated with the new message menu icon<<BR>>
[17:15] <didrocks> pitti: that was the plan: a wrapper to choose right "netbook-launcher{,-efl}<<BR>>
[17:15] <seb128> kwwii, danke<<BR>>
[17:15] <didrocks> but well, as it has been added at some kind of last minute effect, I don't know if it is really important<<BR>>
[17:15] <pitti> didrocks: can't we put that as code into n-l itself, with a very cheap test?<<BR>>
[17:16] <pitti> didrocks: anyway, I don't think it's an alpha-3 blocker<<BR>>
[17:16] <pitti> if we need it, it can land by beta-1<<BR>>
[17:16] <rickspencer3> ok, I'll talk to asac about just removing it from Lucid altogether<<BR>>
[17:16] <pitti> if we determine that the current behaviour breaks too much on boxes without 3D support<<BR>>
[17:16] <didrocks> pitti: so, asking for a FFe?<<BR>>
[17:16] <rickspencer3> pitti, but if we keep working on it, that's less bandwidth for:<<BR>>
[17:16] <rickspencer3> 1. find and fix teh worst bugs<<BR>>
[17:16] <rickspencer3> 2. ensure a smooth upgrade experience<<BR>>
[17:16] <pitti> didrocks: well, a fallback to the 2D launcher is a bug fix if starting thhe 3D launcher totally breaks the box<<BR>>
[17:17] <didrocks> pitti: heh, right<<BR>>
[17:17] <pitti> right, it's not even an upgrade problem, is it"<<BR>>
[17:17] <pitti> ?<<BR>>
[17:17] <jpds> 12<<BR>>
[17:17] <pitti> karmic's netbook-laucher totally screws up in kvm<<BR>>
[17:17] <pitti> i. e. on non-3D machines<<BR>>
[17:18] <didrocks> no, nothing was done previously<<BR>>
[17:18]  * Amaranth sees compiz mentioned<<BR>>
[17:18] <pitti> didrocks: so if at all, I'd like to see the live system installer make the change (with an alternative perhaps)<<BR>>
[17:18] <pitti> depending on whether the live system detects 3D caps or not<<BR>>
[17:19] <didrocks> pitti: only on the live system so, what if you have a nvidia card and install 3D acceleration?<<BR>>
[17:19] <pitti> didrocks: then you have a postinst to change the alternative<<BR>>
[17:19] <pitti> but still, it seems quite complex to me<<BR>>
[17:19] <pitti> so my question would rather be, how much are we required to get this in the first place?<<BR>>
[17:20] <pitti> didrocks: if we can do something cheap and easy, like a 0.01 s runtime test in n-l which, when fails, executes n-l-2d, that's fine<<BR>>
[17:20] <didrocks> that's not on my call, asac or rickspencer3, maybe :) for me, at least, it's not a regression, just a better experience thing<<BR>>
[17:20] <pitti> didrocks: right, it's a question for asac<<BR>>
[17:20] <didrocks> pitti: right, not sure about the test to do yet TBH<<BR>>
[17:20] <rickspencer3_> my tubes!<<BR>>
[17:21] <pitti> rickspencer3_: wb<<BR>>
[17:21] <rickspencer3_> heh<<BR>>
[17:21] <pitti> seb128 fell off the planet as well<<BR>>
[17:21] <rickspencer3_> my network connection went down, am on 3g now :/<<BR>>
[17:21] <rickspencer3_> anywho,<<BR>>
[17:21] <pitti> didrocks: ok, too complex for meeting topic; let's discuss tomorrow morning with asac, shall we?<<BR>>
[17:21] <seb128> sorry about that<<BR>>
[17:21] <seb128> I'm back<<BR>>
[17:21] <rickspencer3_> pitti, all done?<<BR>>
[17:21] <didrocks> pitti: sure<<BR>>
[17:21] <pitti> rickspencer3_: yes, from my side<<BR>>
[17:22] <rickspencer3_> any other business?<<BR>>
[17:22] <kenvandine> not from me<<BR>>
[17:22] <seb128> no<<BR>>
[17:22]  * rickspencer3_ taps gavel<<BR>>
[17:22] <rickspencer3_> thanks all!<<BR>>
[17:22] <pitti> thanks everyone<<BR>>
[17:22] <ccheney> thanks<<BR>>
[17:22] <pitti> dinner o'clock<<BR>>
[17:22] <didrocks> thanks<<BR>>
[17:22] <seb128> thanks<<BR>>
[17:23]  * didrocks returns fighthing the deserialize stuff<<BR>>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
