{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Weekly Summary ==

* Fix python-gobject -> -gi package dependencies. Now we are down to only very few default install programs which don't use GI yet. (pitti)
* Split off a `cryptsetup-bin` package and add it to the default installation, which finally provides out-of-the-box support for creating and using encrypted media. (pitti)
* New set of language packs for Natty, currently being tested. (pitti)
* New Quickly and Quickly Widgets release, fixing support for python-gi and keeping the tutorial up to date (mterry)
* Fixed Glade not showing menubars on windows you are editing under Unity (mterry)
* New Unity Greeter release, fixing a bunch of bugs and tweaking animations to feel smoother (mterry)
* libreoffice-3.5.1-1ubuntu1 is out, fixing (thus getting us to no >300 heat bug currently open against LibreOffice, if excluding lo-menubar):
** https://launchpad.net/bugs/527938 Writer crashes on Tools->Bibliography without libreoffice-base (Ubuntu/Debian-only bug)
** https://launchpad.net/bugs/925049 QCoreApplication::notifyInternal() crash
** https://launchpad.net/bugs/872716 S``wTxtFrm::H``ideAndShowObjects() crash
** https://launchpad.net/bugs/917342 unlink_nodes() crash
** https://launchpad.net/bugs/950071 recent documents is always empty
** https://launchpad.net/bugs/958781 Libreoffice ftbfs after kdelibs update
** https://launchpad.net/bugs/916291 fail gracefully in -common postinst (hopefully) -- not, still open
* GNOME 3.3.92 updates (seb128)
* xdiagnose/failsafe-x bugfix release.  (bryce)
* Uploaded task 2.0.0 final release (bug-fix only). (bryce)
* Debug and discuss hud accessibility in unity-2d. IMO it should be disabled until we can work out a nice way of presenting results that Orca users will understand, however it seems a vocal minority of the accessibility community are against me on this. (TheMuso)
* GNOME a11y stack update, Orca 3.3.92, at-spi2 2.3.92. (TheMuso)
* Continued work on VMWare audio card volume problems, not sure the best solution, will probably special case that particular device for now. (TheMuso)
* Fixed long-standing login corruption <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity-greeter/+bug/931967|bug 931967]]</nowiki> in unity-greeter (raof)

== Agenda ==

* ''Insert things to discuss at meeting here..''

=== Partner update ===

=== Unity ===

* Unity 2d 5.7 was release with equivalent multimonitor support than in 3D. Got some unexpected rough edges, but all went well on Monday: https://launchpad.net/unity-2d/+milestone/5.7. We added some metacity patch to support partial STRUT.
* Busy preparing unity and unity 2d 5.8 with a short timeline (as the upload is due to the thursday because of ui freeze). Trying to get people reviewing their branches, run their tests…
* A compiz upload is in the mix as well. It brings some bug fixes mainly (fix notoriously the border drag aread disappearing if you don't have mutter installed).
* Preparing the testing phase for all the above.
* Working on gnome-control-center for the additional design requirement for multimonitors: https://docs.google.com/a/canonical.com/document/d/1b3CwE3Wemr347fTxNcu7ixEQBK4YD8JF2pyv5pxiY0U/edit. Task harder that you can have at first look as 2d and 3d (despite some pre-acting ask), don't share the same key, we have mirror cases to take into account, delay application of keys… Hope to get it for tomorrow.

=== Software Center ===

=== Kubuntu ===

=== X.org ===
* Interviewing for X.org LTS role
* xdiagnose bugfix release.  Fixes issues in xdiagnose gui, failsafe-x, and the X/compiz apport hooks. (bryce)
* Validated writable edid test kernel (bryce)
* Diagnosed one remaining Sandybridge rc6 bug.  Now just waiting on upstream for a proper fix. (bryce_
* Escalated several drm bugs to Intel (bryce)
* Usual bug work (bryce)
* gtest, xorg-gtest, and xserver-xorg-video-dummy MIRs filed to get Xserver integration tests runnable on the buildds. (raof)

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
}}}

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

{{{
</pre>
