{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Verify that

<code>grep gvfs /proc/mounts</code>

lists a FUSE mount in $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR (typically /run/user/...).

In Nautilus address bar, type a remote server to which you have access.

<pre>
sftp://{user[:password]}@{domain}
</pre>

Verify that the virtual file system is mounted and the folders can be navigated normally.

Start the <code>gnome-text-editor</code>, hit "open" and load a file from the virtual file system, modify it, save it (wait for the progress bar at the top to finish), close the editor and verify that your modifications are reflected in the server with <code>cat $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/gvfs/sftp*/path/to/file</code>.

=== Admin ===

Using an user in the sudo group
<pre>
$ gnome-text-editor admin:///etc/sudoers
</pre>

Should prompt you for your password and be able to open sudoers

=== Archive ===

<pre>
$ /usr/libexec/gvfsd-archive file=file:///path/to/archive.zip
</pre>

And check that the archive is listed in the nautilus sidebar and browsable

=== FTP ===

<pre>
$ gio mount ftp://ftp.alsa-project.org/pub/lib/
$ gio list ftp://ftp.alsa-project.org/pub/lib/
$ gio -u mount ftp://ftp.alsa-project.org/pub/lib/
</pre>

Use "anonymous" user with empty password
It should let you mount, list the content and unmount the share

=== Mounts monitor ===

<pre>
$ gio mount -o
</pre>

Connect an USB stick to the computer and check the monitor correctly lists the event.
If there is a working partition on the device verify that it gets mounted and is listed in the nautilus sidebar

=== Network ===

<pre>
$ gio list network:
</pre>

Should list locale network dnssd available resources (similar to the corresponding nautilus section).

If you have none, then set a sambashare up as described in https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/install-and-configure-samba#3-setting-up-samba.

=== One Drive ===

In <code>gnome-control-center</code> attach to a Microsoft 365 account.

If you do not have any, create a file in your One Drive account https://onedrive.live.com/.

Verify that after attachment, the file manager Nautilus gets a new entry in its left vertical pane corresponding to your One Drive account, and that you can find your files in it.

Move one file from your local file system into the "My files" folder of the One Drive file system, then verify that the new file is now present in https://onedrive.live.com/.

=== Recent ===

<pre>
$ gio list -ldu recent:
</pre>

Should list recently open documents (equivalent to the corresponding nautilus section, only works for files opened through the GTK APIs compatible)

=== SMB ===

If you have access to some SMB share try browsing them from the nautilus smb:// location

=== Trash ===

<pre>
$ gio list trash:
</pre>

Should list files deleted in nautilus (similar to the corresponding nautilus section)
----
CategoryDesktopTestPlans
