{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:desktop-p-quickly
* '''Created''': 2011-10-12
* '''Contributors''': LaunchpadHome:mterry
* '''Packages affected''': quickly
* '''Prior art''': <nowiki>[[DesktopTeam-Specs-Oneiric-Quickly|11.10 spec]]</nowiki>

=== Summary ===

Quickly is a tool for creating applications based on templates.  There's always more work we can do to make it better and keep pace with the platform.

=== Rationale ===

Ubuntu is focused on opportunistic developer to create quick and fun apps for its platform.

=== User stories ===

Jono don't want to bother about manually pushing an SSH/GPG key to Launchpad, creating a PPA, or signing the CoC.

Brian wants ''quickly edit'' to use all the needed options for developing, but doesn't want to clutter his gedit environment when only writing a note.

Chris doesn't want to use Quickly on the command line.

Elaine wants to use Quickly to develop for Fedora.

Jill wants to use Quickly to develop a library that can be used by more than just Python apps.

=== Implementation ===

==== Backlog ====
* Tighter Launchpad integration
** Push GPG key
** Push SSH key
** Sign CoC
** Create PPA
* Dynamic gedit plugin activation (Blocked by support in gedit)

==== Tread Water ====
* Port projects to PyGI (Python Gobject Introspection)
* Port projects to GTK+ 3

==== New Work ====
* Integrate with at least one IDE
** Keep it simple first iteration, just to find changes we'd need to make to have this be easy
* Add a Fedora/RPM template
** Make it easier to write such templates (could stand to refactor template code a bit)
* Add a Vala library template
* Add a Unity lens template
* Add optional libunity support (ala current optional indicator support)

=== Discussion Topics ===

* Migration to PyGI and GTK+ 3 is not automatic
** 'upgrade' warning?

=== Notes from UDS ===

<pre>
LP work: still blocked, don't expect that to change
Gedit plugins: We still want it, upstream still wants it, but I don't think we want it bad enough to prioritize over other tasks
Need to upgrade Quickly Widgets to PyGI/GTK+3/Python3
 - But can't get XID(?)
 - Problems for PyGame too
100 Lens: can we help?  even after the fact?
 - We had a lens template by didrocks, but it needs to be updated to new API
== Action Items ==
[mterry] Port projects to PyGI
[mterry] Port projects to GTK+ 3
[mterry] Port projects to Python 3
[mterry] Port quickly itself to PyGI
[mterry] Port quickly itself to GTK+ 3
[mterry] Port quickly itself to Python 3
[barry] Investigate 2to3 helper for quickly projects
[mterry] Talk to stephane about whether we still need /opt support
[mterry] Investigate whether we can get XID or not from PyGI, how it affects XID
[didrocks] Review Qt Quick template for acceptance
[jzellner] Review Qt Quick template for sensibleness/completeness
[didrocks] Convert blog post to proper template documentation to a dev.u.c tutorial about making a lens template
[didrocks] Add that lens template to Quickly
[rick-spencer3] Review code for stuff we can drop (maybe logging, maybe some of the stuff users can add)
[jml] Have QA run unit tests daily
[jml] Add more tests
[davidplanella] Update Quickly tutorial pictures
[mterry] Add a link to developer.ubuntu.com
[rick-spencer3] Write a tutorial for dev.u.c about adding pygame to normal ubuntu-application template (and maybe add some widgets to quickly widgets)
[didrocks] Add DBus mainloop to template if necessary
</pre>

=== Comments ===

----
CategorySpec
