{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Actions from previous meeting ==

== Actions from this meeting ==

== Weekly Summary ==

* Ongoing effort to eliminate xulrunner-1.9.2 and xulrunner-2.0 from main (#Bug:740815) (chrisccoulson, pitti)
* pygobject has moved from obsolete `pysupport` to `dh_python2`. That means that all packages which ship Python GI overrides can and should now also use `dh_python2`. (pitti)
* language-selector and language-support-* packages now install the correct and current LibreOffice compatible dictionaries and thesauri. (pitti) 
* libdee is finally working reliably with python, so we can reliably support Unity places/lenses written in python. (kenvandine)
* GNOME3 PPA starting to get 2.91.93 (RC) update (ricotz, robert_ancell, rodrigo)
* "Ubuntu Desktop Edition" latest strings changed to "Ubuntu" and "Ubuntu Desktop Classic" to "Ubuntu Classic" in gnome-session, Unity packages description was done last week.
* Lots of indicator-datetime fixes landing in trunk (mterry)
* LibreOffice: (Bjoern Michaelsen)
** new upstream release: 3.3.2
** reenabled Launchpad integration LP#696524
** fixed some translations for LP#696526
** released to:
*** natty as 3.3.2-1ubuntu2
*** ppa as 3.3.2-1ubunt2~maverick1 for maverick still building
*** lucid for ppa will follow
** work on reenabling unit and system test on LO upstream

=== Partner update ===
==== DX ====
* a11y - For natty we'll drop to a classic GNOME session for a11y and encourage people to test with Unity to help improve a11y for Oneiric
* overlay scrollbars
** FFE bug <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gtk+2.0/+bug/730740|730740]]</nowiki> wasn't approved by the release team 
* bugs, bugs bugs... 

==== UbuntuOne ====
* nothing to report, just bug fixing

=== Unity ===

* As usual, unity (and related components) release (late Wednesday… hum, early Thursday morning!) ready for beta (3.6.8) + some bug fixes cherry-picked crash fixes for the beta freeze.
* This week, we got, in addition to a lot of bug fixes:
** MT full support handling. If you didn't test it and you have a supported hardware, you should probably give it a try, the handles (that you can activate by ccsm and a keybinding) are just… gorgious!
** Introduction of a pending waiting for approval "fade and slide" effect when hovering the bfb (in experimental plugin settings) that may be set by default
** Some keynav better handling in both the launcher and the dash, as well as Quicklist having now the title name in the Quicklist (as in maverick)
** Launcher now respond to theme change!
** Under the cover, a rewrite of the Hide behavior machine enabling more effective automated tests.
* New Zeigeist synced with debian to get in sync with latest debian stack
* Some new compiz uploads to fix miscellanous issues, like more invisible window fixes, Alt + Tab fixes, some redrawing issues and autorespawn on crash

For people found of the full story, the now classic link: https://launchpad.net/unity/3.0/3.6.8

* On a11y, seems that Luke reported that the a11y isn't ready yet, so the default session for Natty if accessibility is enabled will be the GNOME classic session. We will still continue to work on a11y and Unity of course.

* Next week, on your computer screen:
** We get a lot of crashers at random places due to signals not beeing disconnected. We just launch a spring cleanage fest today to remove and ensure all signals are destroyed when they need to. Hopefully, that will fix most of the crashers we get for beta1. Will be available on next release. It's a whole shell-team cross effort. :)
** some UI freeze exception from the design team, not touching existing strings (https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/744973, https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/741926, https://bugs.launchpad.net/ayatana-design/+bug/727901)
** Coming soon…

=== Software Center ===
* Released Software Center versions 3.1.24.1 through 3.1.23.4, includes:
** Last of the planned UI improvements before freeze
** Many bug fixes
* The team is now focused on bugfixes, stability and usability improvements

=== Kubuntu ===

=== X.org ===

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
18:31:37	pitti	first, a FYI
18:31:38	pitti	http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-desktop-team-ubuntu-11.04-beta-1.html
18:31:59	mterry	hah!
18:32:00	pitti	I cleaned up a bit yesterday, and postponed some unimportant/blocked stuff, and moved important ones to b2
18:32:09	mterry	looks like some aggressive cleanup  :)
18:32:14	pitti	so we are down to 1 WI for dpm to talk about mozilla upstream translations which isn't bound by the freeze
18:32:23	pitti	mterry: well, half of the cleanup was actually a bug
18:32:38	mpt	mterry, ok, eventually this should be split out into a spec for the location field in general, but for now: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TimeAndDate?action=diff&rev2=32&rev1=31
18:32:39	pitti	we have moved a lot of stuff to beta-2 before, but the milestone didn't exist in Launchpad until yesterday
18:32:47	pitti	so you can now actually target stuff to beta-2
18:33:35	chrisccoulson	hi!
18:33:38	pitti	as for release critical bugs, these are on the "worrying" radar right now:
18:34:07	pitti	bug 727372  -- chrisccoulson, it's getting a little late for more intrusive changes; do you think we can go ahead with our patch?
18:34:07	ubot2	Launchpad bug 727372 in firefox "FF 4 requires both .desktop and gconf entries for url handlers" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/727372
18:34:41	pitti	bug 663294 - chrisccoulson, micahg: is it good enough to build with gcc-4.4 on i386? (as we did in maverick)
18:34:42	ubot2	Launchpad bug 663294 in gcc-4.5 "Firefox built with gcc-4.5 is a non-starter on i386 with -pie" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/663294
18:35:13	chrisccoulson	pitti - bug 727372 - i'm just waiting for a nod from mozilla to take that patch (i'm reluctant to take it without review)
18:35:14	ubot2	Launchpad bug 727372 in firefox "FF 4 requires both .desktop and gconf entries for url handlers" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/727372
18:35:33	pitti	bug 725434 - bryceh, seb128 -- seb did a summary why a package split is inordinarily hackish and complicated -- should we go with the PPA approach for natty after all?
18:35:34	ubot2	Launchpad bug 725434 in cairo "Nvidia drivers lead to extra memory usage for each process using libGL" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/725434
18:35:45	pitti	chrisccoulson: ok, so by and large "blocked"?
18:36:13	chrisccoulson	pitti - yeah. i've already taken quite a few patches i worked on, but all the ones i've taken have already had some sort of review
18:36:44	pitti	chrisccoulson: ok, good to know; thanks
18:37:02	chrisccoulson	pitti - i don't see it being a problem. the change is pretty small tbh, and i don't think there's much risk of not being able to ship it
18:37:50	pitti	chrisccoulson: would another ping to mozilla speed it up or annoy them?
18:38:02	chrisccoulson	pitti - yeah, probably ;)
18:38:11	pitti	anyway, I guess we should discuss libcairo after the meeting, not that interesting for everyone
18:38:13	chrisccoulson	i'll talk to my contact when he's online later
18:38:15	seb128	wrong reply to a "or" question ;-)
18:38:25	seb128	you need to pick a choice
18:38:27	seb128	;-)
18:38:29	chrisccoulson	oops
18:38:32	chrisccoulson	annoy ;)
18:38:33	chrisccoulson	lol
18:38:36	pitti	otherwise we're doing ok RC bug wise
18:38:37	chrisccoulson	there we go :)
18:38:43	pitti	:)
18:38:48	chrisccoulson	i only saw 1 option ;)
18:38:59	pitti	yeah, just my annoying blabla
18:39:13	pitti	which I'll now stop by handing the mic to kenvandine :)
18:39:16	pitti	partner update?
18:39:19	kenvandine	sure
18:39:28	seb128	"oh, pitti writing again, just tell him 'yes' so he's happy :p" ;-)
18:39:50	kenvandine	UbuntuOne has nothing really to report, they are cleaning up their work items
18:40:08	kenvandine	DX
18:40:29	kenvandine	i assume all the desktopers already know we will drop to classic gnome for a11y this cycle
18:40:38	pitti	for some profiles, anyway?
18:40:42	kenvandine	with hopes that people will test unity more with a11y before Oneiric
18:40:50	pitti	(the ones which need speech, I guess)
18:40:52	kenvandine	yeah
18:41:17	kenvandine	TheMuso is handling that
18:41:21	pitti	I'd be interested in how well it holds up in "mouse deficiency" profiles, though
18:41:33	pitti	from my POV unity works with a keyboard a lot easier than GNOME
18:41:41	pitti	(in fact it rocks!)
18:41:46	didrocks	pitti: unity is fully keynav nagivable from the latest tests we made
18:41:46	kenvandine	overlay scrollbars, the release team rejected the FFE
18:41:48	kenvandine	pitti, indeed
18:41:57	kenvandine	didrocks, yes, it rocks from the keyboard
18:42:22	cyphermox	pitti, I already can tell you keyboard navigation breaks in indicator-datetime because the calendar widget catches focus and doesn't let go
18:42:33	kenvandine	that is all i have
18:42:43	kenvandine	cyphermox, i hadn't noticed, is there a bug for that?
18:42:52	pitti	cyphermox: that sounds smamll enough to be fixable, though; mind to report it?
18:42:59	pitti	cyphermox: (and good catch!)
18:43:00	cyphermox	kenvandine, I don't know, I found that out this morning :)
18:43:09	didrocks	(just confirmed)
18:43:11	mterry	Bug 676222 I think
18:43:12	pitti	heh indeed, confirmed
18:43:12	ubot2	Launchpad bug 676222 in indicator-datetime "Broken/confusing keyboard navigation" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/676222
18:43:18	 *	kenvandine confirmed too
18:43:22	cyphermox	seems to fit that yes
18:43:50	pitti	not that I could even get to this with the keyboard in the pre-indicator time :)
18:44:06	pitti	kenvandine: thank you
18:44:26	pitti	didrocks already posted a detailled and great report to the wiki
18:44:34	 *	pitti gives everyone some time to read it
18:44:42	pitti	didrocks: anything you want/need to discuss?
18:44:53	didrocks	just hilighting some points
18:45:05	Riddell	pitti: which wiki page?
18:45:07	pitti	where do you currently see the biggest problems?
18:45:11	pitti	Riddell: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2011-03-29
18:45:17	didrocks	first, we get a crazy number of bug fixes this week
18:45:21	didrocks	https://launchpad.net/unity/3.0/3.6.8
18:45:42	pitti	didrocks: (isn't that "last week"? we already have 3.6.8)
18:45:43	didrocks	however, we have some crashes still for beta1, mostly on signals not beeing disconnected
18:45:47	didrocks	we fixed most of them today
18:45:50	pitti	\o/
18:46:05	didrocks	pitti: well, "this week" being "last release available" yeah ;)
18:46:08	pitti	this is driving me mad, I'll happily test anything if needed
18:46:08	Riddell	when I ran the Ubuntu Desktop live CD yesterday Unity didn't show up
18:46:26	didrocks	Riddell: did you get anything? was compiz running?
18:46:31	pitti	Riddell: oh, interesting; I tried on three machines today, and I couldn't replicate that any more (I still could with alpha-3)
18:46:56	Riddell	didrocks: it was a virtual machine, I don't think compiz was running, I did get files on the desktop but no panels
18:46:57	pitti	of course I booted it with the intent to debug it, so it's pretty clear why it worked
18:47:08	didrocks	also, just hilighting as well some UI changes comng: (https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/744973, https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/741926, https://bugs.launchpad.net/ayatana-design/+bug/727901)
18:47:09	ubot2	Launchpad bug 744973 in unity "Make the BFB icon turn blue when an application goes urgent" [High,Fix committed]
18:47:10	pitti	Riddell: ah, so 2D fallback broken?
18:47:10	seb128	Riddell, it's a known issue
18:47:15	Riddell	pitti: could be
18:47:16	seb128	well rendering issue
18:47:18	pitti	seb128: is it?
18:47:19	seb128	gnome-panel is running
18:47:25	didrocks	yeah, gnome-panel running, not showing
18:47:27	seb128	i.e alt-f2 opens the run a command dialog
18:47:31	didrocks	there is a bug I reported for alpha3 about it
18:47:35	pitti	I haven't tried beta-1 candidates in kvm, but it has worked fine until a3
18:47:39	seb128	it does the same there in kvm
18:47:42	didrocks	I reopened it as it was wrongly close
18:48:26	pitti	didrocks: ok, so apart from the closure crashes, anything else which we need to track, or should help with?
18:48:26	didrocks	bug #711378
18:48:28	ubot2	Launchpad bug 711378 in compiz "after compiz crashed, gnome-panel isn't mapped again" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/711378
18:48:29	seb128	well it did when I tried thursday daily, I need to try again with today's iso, I've been testing on real hardware today
18:48:53	didrocks	pitti: just testing testing… ;) next week, a new "unity and compiz detection tool" will be available
18:48:55	pitti	odd, a3 worked perfectly in VMs and poorly on real iron; now it's the other way round?
18:49:04	didrocks	way faster than the older one
18:49:09	pitti	didrocks: ok, that sounds relieving!
18:49:11	pitti	thanks
18:49:31	didrocks	so, if you can ensure that the right session is still launched on your hw, that would be great :)
18:49:40	pitti	Software-Center -- tremolux also already posted to the wiki, anything to discuss there?
18:50:00	pitti	seb128, didrocks: ah, confirming the kvm bug
18:50:10	tremolux	hey, not much to say really, just all bugfixing all the time now
18:51:58	pitti	tremolux: ok, great; #507836, #739908, and #723911 are still on the radar?
18:52:24	pitti	== Kubuntu status -- Riddell ?
18:52:30	Riddell	hi
18:52:36	Riddell	 * CDs in decent shape for beta
18:52:36	Riddell	 * arm builds mostly complete from opengles failures, waiting on linero team to report back on avogadro
18:52:39	Riddell	 * Qt security fix for Comodo fake SSL certificates in natty and backports sent to security team
18:52:42	Riddell	 * KDE SC 4.6.2 due out the Tuesday after Beta 1
18:52:45	Riddell	 * probable FFe coming for new Phonon version after beta, we won't include the zeitgeist integration
18:52:48	Riddell	 * http://goo.gl/23eui 7 milestoned bugs for beta
18:52:50	Riddell	 * bug 744944 broken upgrade is worrying
18:52:51	ubot2	Launchpad bug 744944 in kdebase-workspace "kdm is restarted during the upgrade to Natty . The user is disconnected from the session" [Critical,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/744944
18:52:53	Riddell	 * bug 712061 kubuntu mobile should be fixed shortly
18:52:54	ubot2	Launchpad bug 712061 in kubuntu-mobile-default-settings "kubuntu mobile images fail to load" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/712061
18:53:12	Riddell	when I say shortly, I mean after a 14 hour ARM compile
18:53:16	seiflotfy	Riddell, why not
18:53:16	pitti	Riddell: 744944 -> is that a bug in the upstart script?
18:53:17	seiflotfy	?
18:53:38	pitti	Riddell: erm, in postinst I mean
18:53:55	Riddell	seiflotfy: I think it's a feature too far for post-beta, but we will include qzeitgeist in the archive and have phonon+zeitgeist in a PPA
18:54:00	Riddell	pitti: I don't know yet
18:54:07	seiflotfy	ah nice
18:54:10	seiflotfy	Riddell, that is nice
18:54:17	pitti	Riddell: it might get an automatic "restart" thing from dh_installinit perhaps?
18:54:25	seiflotfy	we are looking into a KDE GSoC for Zeitgeist
18:54:30	seiflotfy	a nice plasma widget
18:54:33	pitti	or perhaps it crashes and tries to respawn
18:55:24	Riddell	pitti: things to investigate for sure
18:55:36	pitti	ok, thanks
18:55:40	pitti	X.org -> eastern edition
18:56:03	pitti	another general reminder, peer reviews for your colleagues are due this week
18:56:08	pitti	(self/manager review was due last Fri)
18:56:15	pitti	otherwise, nothing else from me
18:56:19	pitti	any other business?
18:57:26	Sweetshark	pitti: my plans for this week: minor fixes for the 3.3.2 release, integrating dbusmenu upstream for 3.4, some cleanup of the LO debian/rules file (debian upstream, not use in doing that alone -- ill just propose some patches to _rene_ and will see what he will accept. if he does not accept, I will scrap that. doing for us only are causing more trouble on the merge that we might win)
18:58:10	pitti	Sweetshark: "dbusmenu" -> is that lo-menubar?
18:58:38	Sweetshark	pitti: yes
18:58:39	pitti	Sweetshark: agreed, less delta > less noise
18:58:44	pitti	cool
18:59:10	pitti	hyphenation, dicts, etc. should all be sorted out now, AFAICS
18:59:23	seb128	speaking about libdbusmenu, firefox display warnings when starting now
18:59:26	pitti	http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/component-mismatches.txt looks exemplary for this time of the release :)
18:59:26	seb128	chrisccoulson, ^
18:59:42	seb128	pitti, great ;-)
18:59:42	chrisccoulson	seb128 - it's just 1 warning isn't it?
18:59:46	seb128	chrisccoulson, right
19:00:03	pitti	it also seems that KDE is much happier on armel these days: http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/testing/natty_probs.html
19:00:27	pitti	nvidia/fglrx uninstallability is intended (wrong ABI), aside from that i386/amd64 is perfect
19:00:30	pitti	let's keep it that way!
19:00:35	chrisccoulson	seb128:
19:00:35	chrisccoulson	(firefox-bin:6565): LIBDBUSMENU-GTK-CRITICAL **: dbusmenu_menuitem_property_set_shortcut: assertion `gtk_accelerator_valid(key, modifier)' failed
19:00:38	chrisccoulson	just that one?
19:00:41	seb128	right
19:00:43	pitti	so, thanks everyone, let's adjourn the meeting
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
</pre>
