{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is a weekly call scheduled for engineering managers and others to discuss on coordinate short term and long term needs regarding landing functionality on the Ubuntu desktop. 

== Timing ==
Currently scheduled for each Monday at 16:00 UTC.

= Attendees = 
Current attendees are:
* Rick Spencer (chair)
* David Barth (Dx)
* Steve Alexander (OLS)
* Jono Bacon (Community)
