{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:dx-karmic-gdm-greeter
* '''Created''': 2009-05-25
* '''Contributors''': DX & Design teams, Ubuntu Platform
* '''Packages affected''': gdm

=== Summary ===

This specification documents the changes required to implement the login sequence proposed for Karmic.

The goal for the new experience is to provide smoother transitions between the different steps of the login sequence.

The scenarios for this specification are supported by several modules, based mostly on the new GDM infrastructure.

This specification is part of DesktopExperienceTeam/KarmicBootExperienceSpec

=== Release Notes ===

Release notes, based on the above description and impacted packages, will be detailed as the integration progresses.

=== Rationale ===

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

This spec has been designed for conventional x86 systems. Parts of it may probably also apply to other hardware architectures. 

=== (User Interface) Design ===

The overall look & feel and design requirements for the new boot experience are expressed in a separate document: see  DesktopExperienceTeam/KarmicBootExperienceDesignSpec

=== (Technical Design and) Implementation ===

For the auto-login or the standard/manual login mode:
** the splash screen shown during system boot (xsplash)
** the gdm greeter restyling
** the OS switcher, allowing the user to select another operating system to boot

For the fallback splash used for "interrupt" cases like filesystem checks or querying the user for a password to unlock an encrypted filesystem:
** an updated usplash theme

Note: usplash is still used to style the shutdown sequence

==== Migration ====

There are no data to migrate.

There are no themes to migrate, as the new GDM system is totally incompatible with the previous generation.

Migration of other GDM settings is out of the scope of this specification. It is covered in the desktop spec. related to the switch to the new GDM infrastructure.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

The test plan will be documented, based on the user stories above, at http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Plans/KarmicBootExperience

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
