{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


This page defines the user stories for the Logging In and Out experience in Ubuntu.

User stories define how this experience should behave, and the expected functionality of the software implementing the experience.  A typical experience will have many user stories.

=== Discussion ===

* Never use these terms!
* I can leave my desktop by Shutting Down, Hibernating/Suspending, Quitting, Switching Users, Locking the Screen
** Hibernating/Suspending - system can suspend to both RAM and disk (for wakeup speed and for survivability after power-lost) so this would be one item. Shutting Down - if suspending works then there is no need for this, the same goes for Restart. Quiting - if restart and shutdown are rare, there is no need for it. All "unneeded" actions would be hidden in GtkExpander. Otherwise only Suspend, Switching Users, Lock the Screen can be visible
* In all cases when computer remains powered on, these should restore to the login screen (GDM)
* I can get back to my desktop by selecting my user account and entering my password.
* Sometimes this will simply switch to my still-running session on another VT
* Other times this will create a new session, and restore my applications to their previous state
* Files should be saved to session locations, in case I didn't want to overwrite changes

* If I Switch User, we should be able to save the session but leave it running; and then terminate the processes sometime later -- either way, the appearance on resuming should be the same -- one is just quicker than the other

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
