{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Alberto Milone (tseliot)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Chris Cheney (calc)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti) - chair
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)  
* Tony Espy

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)

=== Apologies ===
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Changed bug reporting process
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Ricks' heartache list
* Review work items
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Actions from this meeting ===

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/FindRightPackage: TheMuso to update the page for audio
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/FindRightPackage: robert_ancell to update the page for compiz
* pitti to talk to bdmurray about +filebug feedback (Done, see bug Bug:432088)
* Riddell to clean up Kubuntu/Todo/Karmic

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/FindRightPackage: TheMuso to update the page for audio
** Not done, pushed to this week
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/FindRightPackage: robert_ancell to update the page for compiz
** Not done, pushed to this week
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/FindRightPackage: pitti to update the page for storage devices
** Done

=== Changed bug reporting process ===

Feedback about the `+filebug` redirection: 
* many bugs can legitimately be filed without apport information (such as translation bugs), wishlist bugs, or UI problems
* Devs still want an easily accessible "file it anyway" link 
* Proposal from Alex: Firefox protocol handler like apturl (`ubuntu-bug:file/firefox-3.5`), but that requires new code and will only work with Firefox
* Ideal solution: `+filebug` page shows wiki page contents and offers a "file it anyway" link at the bottom
* Compromise: Disable redirection for `~ubuntu-bug-control` members.

''ACTION:'' pitti to talk to bdmurray about +filebug feedback

Done in bug Bug:432088; other developers proposed the same solution.

=== Partner Update ===
==== UbuntuOne: ====
* Online services team is sprinting this week, and I haven't gotten an update from them yet
* couchdb
** split server from the rest of couch so it doesn't start at boot
* bindwood
** we need bug fix release with oauth enabled
* desktopcouch
** we need bug fix release with oauth enabled (to allow syncing)
* ubuntuone-client
** There will likely be a UI freeze exception requested to deal with the preferences dialog usability issue 

Martin pointed out that enabling oauth and peer-to-peer sync is a new feature which comes very late.

==== DX: ====

* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-KarmicWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>
** user list in the session applet
** menu ordering bug 
** notify-osd crashers
* New gdm artwork still needs to land

=== Kubuntu Update ===

* DVDs oversized, next Amarok upload may fix that
* OEM installer broken, but broken in Ubuntu Desktop too
* Upgrade from Jaunty works but with some config file quirks that I need to work around
* jockey and apport still need investigation

=== Rick's list of heartache ===

===== Boot =====
* lots of incoming bugs about not being able to boot: https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/+bugs?field.tag=ubuntu-boot
** under active investigation (mostly by Scott)
* lots of messages and other crufty looking things:
** many of them were already fixed in latest udev

===== Empathy =====
* audio/video is crashy:
** Ken will spend some time debugging this this week
** Audio has been relatively stable since recently
** Video is broken and consistently crashing
** Ken will talk to cassidy (upstream)
** New telepathy-farsight was synced yesterday and is supposed to help a lot
* not interacting well with messaging menu

===== X =====
* Is there something keeping compiz from working on intel 945?
** Race condition on boot, sometimes does not load DRM modules and thus enable KMS and acceleration
** related to bug Bug:392039 and bug 431812, Scott proposed a solution in the bug

===== Gwibber =====
* Not displaying messages atm
** Not reproducible; Rick needs to file a bug
* crashy, including daemon
** Not reproducible; Rick needs to file a bug
* not interacting well with messaging
** fixed yesterday

===== Session menu =====
* haven't implemented user list yet (regression)
** tracked in bug Bug:422052
** gdm offers the API now
* status interactions with apps not working well
** needs to be ported to telepathy-mission-control-5 (right now it uses the 4 API)
** scheduled to land on Thursday

===== work items =====
* above trend line
* asac still has quite a few open items
* status of Arne's work?

See below

===== software-store =====
* looking good
* needs more testing?
* is it showing up in the right places?
** In Applications menu now, where it belongs
** Extra entry in System â†’ Administration menu; filed as bug 435123 with a tested solution

=== Work items ===

Way above the trend line right now. Most problematic ones:

* Kubuntu/Todo/Karmic: 25 open items; Riddell says that many can be closed
* UbuntuSpec:desktop-karmic-firefox-3.5 : mostly cleanup left, which can be done post-beta
* A lot of the remaining items are QA/test plan/release notes items which are suitable for post-beta

ACTION: Riddell to clean up Kubuntu/Todo/Karmic

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

* finish autoconnect-inhibit (disconnect) network-manager feature and committed upstream
* lots of work on 0.8 network manager applet UI changes; prototyping various
   approaches and trying to get upstream to give a GO; still decision pending
* update gnome-bluetooth, webkit to latest upstream
* update finish epiphany to webkit migration; fix and upstream greasemonkey
   fixes for epiphany extensions; also fixed gw2get to work with latest ephy.
* work on networkmanager/modemmanager PUK issues; propose a solution with upstream; settled on doing it different (more work) LP: 
* ported galeon to xulrunner 1.9.1
* fixed listen package to not depend on xulrunner (just webkit)

==== Alberto Milone (tseliot) ====

* Bug triage for -ati, -intel, -fglrx. Upstreamed ATI bug #429251.Upstreamed Intel bugs #429241, #429191.

* Provided Felix Kuehling (AMD) with feedback about his patch for X which can't be included in Karmic.

* Reviewed and approved Mario Limonciello's patch to work around card detection problems in the -nv driver, uploaded his fix to my PPA for testing. The fix is now in Karmic (LP: #385658)

* Worked on -intel issue about suspend/resume with Compiz (#429241):
** Added a fix in mesa to correct the relocation delta for WM surfaces. Uploaded mesa to Karmic.
** Worked with Andy Whitcroft so that the problem is solved in the kernel too. The result is in: http://people.canonical.com/~apw/lp429241-karmic/ . The combination of the two (the latter will be uploaded after the freeze) solves the problem.

* Discussed critical bugs (affecting -intel) for Karmic with Intel engineers.

* [ATI R6xx and above] X fails to start up after mesa+git update (LP: #419126):
** After discussing the problem with Alex Deucher (AMD) I decided to disable the 3D driver for r600 in mesa.
** Experimental support for this driver will be provided in a PPA.

* Investigated problems with Intel Arrandal Video controller (#416792) together with Andy. I asked Intel about the error affecting tiling on the front buffer. Andy will integrate the new patches from Intel in Karmic.

* Filed bug report against ubuntu-release-notes so that my instructions on DontZap can be added (#432384).
 
* Synaptics driver: provided upstream with a small correction about the type of the Synaptics Area options in the man page of synaptics. This fix will enter Karmic too.
 
* Discussed #409456 with NVIDIA. I'm working on the changes as suggested by kees.
 
* Changed the section of the -modaliases packages (in fglrx and nvidia) to "admin" as the packages are not "restricted" (LP: #429153). Will upload it after the freeze.

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====
* langpack-o-matic:
** build new language packs for Karmic, Jaunty and Hardy
* language-selector:
** write a script to do the language-support completeness check independently from gnome-language-selector. This can be called by other applications to figure out which packages are still missing on the system for a given language code.
* Rosetta import queue cleaning

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====

* OEM work
* uploaded openoffice.org 1:3.1.1-2ubuntu1.
* Lots of OOo bug triage

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

done:
* Alpha 6 testing, fixing, testing, resize CDs, testing, release
* libindicate patch and plasmoid updates
* Package new Konversation beta
* update webkitkde package
* archive admin half day
* jaunty upgrade testing
* trying to get DVDs within size limit

todo:
* fix jaunty upgrade problems
* get DVDs built within size limit and test
* test oem-installer
* investigate jockey-kde and apport-kde issues

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
====== Done: ======
*** Prepared weekly releases for most of the DX packages
*** updated python-indicate to support the new libindicate API
*** finished up the indicator support in empathy (thanks Robert!)
**** added green dot support
**** added avatar
*** gwibber indicator work
*** mostly done with fixing up notifications in gwibber
*** fixed the progress throbber in gwibber

====== Planned: ======
*** Prepare DX package uploads
*** chase down the last glib critical in empathy
*** debug video calls in empathy
*** polish off the gwibber notifications (prevent it from spamming notify-osd)
*** perhaps fix the broken indicator support in gajim

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====

Accessibility:
* Continued debugging of speech-dispatcher pulseaudio output code. I have come to the conclusion that the pulseaudio output code
+needs tobe optimized a lot more, and more functions to help with better performance/latency need to be used from the pulse API.
+This shouldn't be too much work, if I can find some example code as a reference. Hope to land this by beta, if not ASAP afterwards.
* Uploaded new versions of orca, gok, and mousetweaks, all version 2.28.0 to karmic.

Audio:
* Audio bug triaging, bugs in question are against pulseaudio, alsa userspace, and the kernel for hardware enablement.
* Uploaded pulseaudio v0.9.18 plus a couple of extra fixes from the 0.9.18 stable branch to karmic, thanks to Daniel chen for his
+help.
* Updated libcanberra with some bug fixes from git head.
* Added files for libcanberra to play a login sound when gdm loads. This is still not working, so it needs to be debugged.

Misc:
* A little sponsoring, less than I should, I know. :)

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Karmic feature work:
* desktop-karmic-automagic-python-build-system: 
** beta available
** just the upstream discussion is missing (which isn't bound by release cycle)
* desktop-karmic-symptom-based-bug-reporting: implemented
* security-karmic-apport-abort: implemented
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Halsectomy|hal deprecation]]</nowiki>:
** this is as far as we can get in karmic, we won't change further things after FF
** I'm happy about how far we got
* gnome-panel speedup: pretty much "postponed", didn't have time for that

Other work done:
* MIR reviews
* PostgreSQL security update for stables
* Apport retracer maintenance
* Bug fixing: apport, cups, gconf, gdm, gdm-guest-session, gnumeric, hal, hdparm, jockey, libatasmart, udev
* Package updates to new upstream versions: devicekit-disks, gnome-disk-utility, gnome-power-manager, libatasmart
* Discussed DVD downsizing, did seed changes
* Fixed seeds for translation related packages
* Fought with non-booting karmic, reinstalled my workstation
* Ported indicator-session to polkit-1
* Set up gnome version script on my server
* Updated our artwork packages license/copyright 
* usplash-theme-ubuntu: disable progress bar

Sponsoring:
* bindwood, desktopcouch, empathy, mesa, pidgin-libnotify, papyon, ttf-liberation

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* Package update/merges: gcalctool, yelp, file-roller, eog, gnome-games, gdm, gtkmm2.4, glibmm2.4, pangomm, gnome-python-desktop, gnome-icon-theme, gnome-control-center, liboobs, gnome-doc-utils
* Updated DebuggingCompiz Wiki instructions
* Empathy patch work

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* GNOME 2.28 updates: gnome-keyring gtksourceview totem-pl-parser rhythmbox cheese gnome-applets gnome-system-monitor alacarte evolution-data-server evolution evolution-exchange gconf-editor vino nautilus-sendto vinagre totem-pl-parser totem gvfs gnome-python intltool nautilus gedit gnome-utils gnome-keyring gnome-desktop zenity gnome-panel gnome-menus libwnck seahorse evince libgweather gnome-session
* looked at why some software using gdesktopapp to read desktop files are not translated
* updated default gnome-panel profile to not have an email launcher since the message indicator has those
* uploaded an indicator-messages fix to use translations correctly
* uploaded new evolution-indicator
* did some notify-osd testing and got some valgrind logs about a frequent crasher
* desktop bugs triage and started nominating things for karmic
* karmic cds testing
* updated gnome-panel and gnome-menus to move the software store according to the new design team recommendation
* uploaded bratsche's xsplash changes to gnome-panel and nautilus
* sponsoring: totem libindicate ubuntuone-client farsight2 gnome-themes ubuntuone-storage-protocol deskbar-applet xsplash indicate-python libdbusmenu indicator-session gucharmap gtksourceview2 gcalctool empathy pangomm gnome-games gtkmm2.4 gnome-control-center zenity

==== Tony Espy (awe) ====

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* Uploaded system-config-printer: Integration of the new "dnssd" CUPS backend. It produced a lot of duplicate entries of the same printer and so cluttered the list of discovered printers a lot.
* Uploaded foomatic-db, foomatic-db-engine, ghostscript, hplip, gutenprint, splix, and all other printer driver packages to make the PPD auto-updates in the post-install scripts not ask for the server's password if the user has set a remote server via client.conf.
* Fixed CUPS bugs: Double-sided printing did not work on PostScript printers when the "sides" command line option for "lp"/"lpr" was used (LP: #411392), for options with an underscore (or any other allowed non-alphanumeric character) in their names the default settings were not conserved when the PPD got replaced ("lpadmin -p ... -m ...", system-config-printer, automatic PPD update for existing print queues, LP: #432902).
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
