{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': couchdb-glib-package-for-karmic
* '''Created''': 2009-06-15
* '''Contributors''': RodrigoMoya
* '''Packages affected''': couchdb-glib

=== Summary ===

We are patching GNOME applications to store data in CouchDB, and for that we have written a GLib-based API (couchdb-glib) which implements the low level access to CouchDB and which will be used by Evolution CouchDB backend and other GNOME apps/modules

=== Release Note ===

TBD when beta available

=== Rationale ===

For GNOME/KDE and other apps to use <nowiki>[[http://couchdb.apache.org|CouchDB]]</nowiki>, we need a C library. There was a C library part of the CouchDB project, but due to nobody maintaining it, it was just abandoned. First idea was to resurrect that library, but since it used curl, no glib, etc, it makes things harder to work on, so we decided to go for a GLib-based API to be used by both GNOME and KDE (QT already depends on GLib for ATK, gstreamer, etc) applications.

Since it's a new library, we need to include a package for it for Karmic, since it will be used for UbuntuOne integration.

Development of this library is being done upstream, in GNOME's git repository.

=== User stories ===

* Users will be able to store contacts, notes, settings and any other data they like into the local CouchDB, which will be replicated automatically to UbuntuOne server.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

==== Code Changes ====

Since it's a new package, and being developed upstream, no Ubuntu-only changes are needed for including this in Karmic. Any change to upstream GNOME/KDE applications will be done upstream, and hence included with the versions we ship for Karmic.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

This package is part of the UbuntuOne integration we're doing for Karmic, so tests will be done as part of the UbuntuOne test plan.

----
CategorySpec
