{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Welcome to the DesktopTeam reporting page. Every month this page should be filled with bullet points indicating the summary of some of the work you have been working on. As you work on something, try to summarise it here. A few guidelines for how to write good points here:

* Keep it simple and short - single sentences are best. :)
* Try to summarise your work and not be over-detailed - we don't need to know specifics, just a summary of the kind
* Where possible, include relevant links.

You should get all your reporting included here by the '''22nd''' of every month at which point they will be copied to TeamReports.

=== The Report ===

* The -intel 2.5 driver has been integrated into jaunty.  Backports to intrepid and hardy are also available.
* The Ubuntu-X web pages have been reorganized/refreshed:  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/
* mesa and much of the X stack merge has been completed, including the server and driver rebuilds.
* The default AccelMethod for the -ati driver is changed from XAA to EXA
* DRI2 is available for experimentation on -intel; set AccelMethod "UXA" in your xorg.conf to test it out.  Please report all bugs found (<code>ubuntu-bug -p xserver-xorg-video-intel</code>).  We want to make sure it is sufficiently stable before considering whether to switch it on by default.

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
CategoryTeamReport<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki>
