{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Chris Cheney (ccheney)
* Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson)
* Didier Roche (didrocks)
* Gary Lasker (tremolux)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)
* Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Self and peer assessments due TODAY
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Actions from this meeting ===
* ACTION: chrisccoulson to investigate any chromium changes appropriate for the distro
* ACTION: kenvandine to clarify with Dx what is in scope for A2
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to poke squinky about kubuntu.org

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Partner Update ===
===== OLS =====
* Will start weekly releases next week, probably on Tuesdays
* Weekly releases wiki page (coming soon)
* Not all work items are setup, will be complete this week

===== DX =====
* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-MaverickWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>
* Blueprints - still quite a few that aren't approved and still assigned to the team

=== Kubuntu Update ===
* merges mostly done
* qt 4.7 in, split up slightly, arm build timing out :(
* KDE SC 4.5 beta being packaged
* kubuntu.org update blocked on sysadmins
* https://wiki.kubuntu.org/Kubuntu/Todo starting to get coloured in

=== Self and peer assessments ===
---[Not much to say. If you haven't done them, do them before eod.]---<<BR>>
Actually, turns out that only inviting people for peer review is due today. 

=== Release Status ===
{{http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team.svg}}
* Everyone should be working on work items now
* Are there any blueprints that are not done, accepted, etc...?
* Are there patches for chromium that should be in the distro (make sqllite, gtk, etc... go faster?)
* Qt, how to make Qt apps run nicer on Ubuntu?

=== Other Business ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====
* Blueprints:
** language-selector: will get finalized on Friday (discussion with Michael Forrest from the DX team about the design will happen on Friday)
** language-selector-code-changes: will get finalized on Wednesday and Thursday on the mini sprint with mvo
* Expenses
* Performance review
* Review and triage bug reports for language-selector
* Reading documentation about D-Bus and aptdaemon
* arrange travel for mini sprint with mvo

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

==== Chris Cheney (ccheney) ====

==== Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF) ====

* Blueprint paperwork
* Communicated Maverick X plans to Debian X Strike Force, discussed collaboration for this release
* Updated nouveau, merged mesa from Debian experimental.
* Worked on enabling egl & gles in mesa for DX and ARM teams.

==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====
* Expenses for DX sprint/UDS
* Maverick planning : blueprint/WI/wiki page
* email filtering setup on server side and catchup after UDS
* lucid SRU:
** netbook-launcher (fixing slowdown with compiz, some home icon in folder category)
** planner
** xsane (no translation)
** evince (backport an upstream fix for crasher in previous -proposed)
** simplecommeubuntu (new version)
* some cleanage in the unity packaging
* evolution 2.30 (painful) transition: evolution, evolution-exchange, gtkhtml3.14, evolution-data-server
* netbook-launcher and unity bug handling
* Quickly: merge some work. Still needs some work for 0.4.3 SRU
* began merge/sync from debian: maximus, zlib, alacarte, cheese, devhelp
* oneconf: first commandline tool utility to update the list of package on your computer, making a diff between computers and smart filtering (https://edge.launchpad.net/~didrocks/+junk/oneconf)

==== Gary Lasker (tremolux) ====
* Maverick planning
** Wrote work items and set alpha-2 targets for the following blueprints:
** desktop-maverick-software-center-front-end
** desktop-maverick-opportunistic-apps-stable-release
** Work items planning session with mvo
** Set alpha-2 and alpha-3 targets for work items defined by mvo:
** foundations-maverick-buy-something
** Desktop team work items review meeting
* Software Center
** Reviewed, tested and merged lp:~osomon/software-center/button_release, branch from Olivier Tilloy
** Fixed broken channel list views (LP: #583545); fix was released in software-center 2.1.1
** Found a regression in 2.1.0; list view forgets selected row, opened LP: #584969
** Fix in progress, branch at lp:~gary-lasker/software-center/lp584969
** Fixed crash in on_channels_refreshed(), LP: #578497
** Opened LP: #583643: PPA does not appear after adding it via software sources (PPA auth problem)
** Monday Software Center call
* tzdata
** Opened LP: #582529 to track update to upstream version 2010j for Maverick, Lucid, et al
** Need to prepare uploads, my thanks to Pitti for mentoring!
** Wrote email to upstream regarding Russian time zone issue reported in LP: #540295, comment #16
** Some bug triage for tzdata
* This week:
** 360 Reviews: Write self-review, peer reviews, manager review by Tuesday
** Finish fix for LP: #584969: List view forgets selected row
** Fix LP: #578650: Install button enabled while install in progress
** Get going on work items for foundations-maverick-buy-something
** Work items from desktop-maverick-software-center-front-end
** tzdata: Finish tzdata merges and uploads to close LP: #582529
** tzdata: Follow up as needed on upstream issue: LP: #540295

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

done:
* full day archive admin
* Merging KDE SC packages
* Reviewing specs, writing Todo
* Packaging Qt 4.7 Beta
* Separating Qt WebKit package
* Separating Phonon package
* Updating python-qt4 packaging
* Packaging Qt Creator beta
* Updating kdevelop packaging
blocked:
* kubuntu.org website update, waiting on sysadmins
todo:
* finish merges
* KOffice 2.2
* KDE SC 4.5 beta

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
* create mono bindings for libindicate (mostly done, but blocked on bindings for dbusmenu-glib)
* create mono bindings for dbusmenu (in progress)
* libgwibber, ported API exposed from gwibber.lib, next up the gtk widgets
* ubuntuone API for creating public url for a file and post via gwibber

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====
==== Accessibility ====
* Updated gnome-orca to 2.31.2 in Maverick. Still need to update ubiquity script for orca and upload.
* Updated mousetweaks to 2.31.2 in maverick.
* Wrote work items for replacing speech-dispatcher with opentts.

==== Audio ====
* Audio bug triaging, bugs in question were against the alsa userspace packages, pulseaudio, and the kernel.
* Started looking at jack-audio-connection-kit merge/update.
* Review ossproxy's functionality.
* Check Debian pulse packaging to see if there is anything we should pick up for the Ubuntu package.

==== Misc ====
* Performance review
* Start process for booking flights to Prague.
* Check what other misc merges I need to take care of for Maverick.

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

* Expenses for SomeHands/UDS
* Set up work item tracker for various teams, and fixed some bugs
* Subitted evaluation myself and my manager
* PostgreSQL security update for all stables
* Tech Board meeting
* Discussed pm-utils-powersave-policy SRU with Chad
* Mentored Gary how to do tzdata updates
* Sponsored pm-utils-powersave-policy
* Udisks: worked on initial support for btrfs

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* Blueprint paperwork
* Maverick updates: glib, gtk+, vinagre, gcalctool, gnome-games, vte, gnome-terminal, gucharmap
* Working on getting PyGI into Universe
* Communicating with Shotwell developers

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* email catchup after UDS
* lucid stable updates
** new GNOME versions: gtk pygtksourceview librsvg totem vinagre gtkmm
** backported a rhythmbox crash fix from git
** new telepathy-butterfly version
* update whiteboard and wikipages for my blueprints
* reviewed team blueprints and work items
* organized IRC meeting to review blueprints
* updated versions to track maverick now
* synced some desktop package to maverick
* uploaded Cody gtk changes for rgba and csd
* rebuilt nautilus with a rgba change
* backported a totem fix for a csd crasher
* UDS expense claims
* started maverick merges on debian: gconf gconf-editor at-spi atk eog gnome-pkg-tools gnome-python directfb

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====
* Updated 64-bit laptop to Maverick
* Checked whether the Common Printing Dialog still builds under Maverick: OK.
* Sponsored Ghostscript patch to fix LP: #584597 (Deprecation of defoma).
* Expense report for UDS Maverick
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports.

==== Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson) ====

== IRC Logs ==
[17:31] <rickspencer3> everyone ready to go?<<BR>>
[17:31] <bryceh> just had lp team meeting and another meeting in 30 so I'll just be a lurker here<<BR>>
[17:31] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, anything for partner update?<<BR>>
[17:31] <Riddell> hi<<BR>>
[17:31] <rickspencer3> tremolux, team meeting is now, btw<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> I'll take that as a "no"<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> Riddell, anything for a Kubuntu update?<<BR>>
[17:32]  * kenvandine waves<<BR>>
[17:32]  * tremolux waves too<<BR>>
[17:32] <kenvandine> partner update?<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> ah, now I've created resource contention<<BR>>
[17:32] <kenvandine> :)<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, yeah<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> are Dx and U1 done their A2 planning, for example?<<BR>>
[17:33] <kenvandine> no... U1 will have all their WIs added this week<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/ubuntuone-hackers-maverick-alpha-2.html<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-dx-team-maverick-alpha-2.html<<BR>>
[17:33] <kenvandine> DX i am more worried about, they have a bunch of blueprints that are assigned to the team and not approved<<BR>>
[17:33] <kenvandine> i need to talk to dbarth, but he is out again today<<BR>>
[17:34] <seb128> dbarth will be back tomorrow<<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> yeah<<BR>>
[17:34] <seb128> which specs are you concerned about?<<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> so we need to get that under<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> dang it, I thought they were going to get these done by last Friday<<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> well most of the ones for dx-m- aren't approved or assigned to an individual<<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> seb128, so i don't know which ones will end up approved<<BR>>
[17:34] <seb128> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-dx-team-maverick-alpha-2.html seems to have a good summary<<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> seb128, perhaps you know<<BR>>
[17:35] <seb128> well if you tell me which one you are concerned about I can tell you if I know about it ;-)<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> seb128, ok, after the meeting<<BR>>
[17:35] <seb128> ok<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> i just did a search for dx-m- and was alarmed that most are "unapproved" and not assigned to an individual<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> maybe most of them aren't in scope...<<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> anyway<<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> we need to get that nailed down<<BR>>
[17:36] <rickspencer3> ACTION: kenvandine to clarify with Dx what is in scope for A2<<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> good news is that U1 will do weekly releases this cycle<<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> probably on tuesdays<<BR>>
[17:36] <rickspencer3> kewl!<<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> starting next week<<BR>>
[17:36] <rickspencer3> great job kenvandine<<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> there will be DX releases this thursday<<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> that is it for partner update<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> thanks kenvandine<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> Riddell, Kubuntu update?<<BR>>
[17:37] <Riddell>  * merges mostly done<<BR>>
[17:37] <Riddell>  * qt 4.7 in, split up slightly, arm build timing out :(<<BR>>
[17:37] <Riddell>  * KDE SC 4.5 beta being packaged<<BR>>
[17:37] <Riddell>  * kubuntu.org update blocked on sysadmins<<BR>>
[17:37] <Riddell>  * https://wiki.kubuntu.org/Kubuntu/Todo starting to get coloured in<<BR>>
[17:37] <Riddell> I added alpha 2 targets to that Todo page<<BR>>
[17:37] <Riddell> not sure if a burndown chart will magically appear somewhere as a result<<BR>>
[17:38] <rickspencer3> ACTION: Riddell to ask pitti about creating Kubuntu burndown charts<<BR>>
[17:38] <pitti> hm, they should be<<BR>>
[17:38] <rickspencer3> ACTION: rickspencer3 to poke squinky about kubuntu.org<<BR>>
[17:39] <rickspencer3> Riddell, thanks for the update, looks like a tight turnaround for the Kubuntu team from UDS -> work started<<BR>>
[17:39] <pitti> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/kubuntu-dev.html<<BR>>
[17:39] <pitti> rickspencer3, Riddell ^<<BR>>
[17:39] <pitti> (per-milestone pages exist, too)<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> son of a gun<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> thanks pitti<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> next on the agenda is Self and peer assessments<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> so self assesments *are* due today<<BR>>
[17:40] <bratsche> seb128, mvo: I think I have a proper patch for the emacs23 issue on gtk.  I'm rebuilding emacs now, will test after lunch.<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> but for peer assesments, you only need to invite people, not actually do them<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> thanks to tremolux for catching my error there<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> any questions about HR stuff?<<BR>>
[17:40] <seb128> bratsche: ok, good, having to fix the software is not great though, we don't have access to ie flash source<<BR>>
[17:41] <Riddell> beware of timeouts on the review website<<BR>>
[17:41] <tremolux> ouch, yes<<BR>>
[17:41] <rickspencer3> heh<<BR>>
[17:41]  * kenvandine got a big crash screen... but it seemed to work :)<<BR>>
[17:41] <rickspencer3> yeah, write your stuff in an editor, make sure it fits the ma character count<<BR>>
[17:41] <bratsche> seb128: Right.. I think maybe something can be done with the XEmbed code in Chromium though.  I'll talk to Evan Martin from Google if I can't figure out a way to fix it.<<BR>>
[17:41] <rickspencer3> and then past it in and submit<<BR>>
[17:42] <bratsche> seb128: Otherwise I guess we'd have to disable rgba on Chromium, which sucks and kind of defeats the purpose of all of this in a way. :)<<BR>>
[17:42] <rickspencer3> bratsche, seb128 could I ask you guys to take it to PM until after our meeting? we're going to be done soon<<BR>>
[17:42] <Riddell> rickspencer3: do you know if we can file a bug report with somebody about that?<<BR>>
[17:42] <bratsche> Sorry.<<BR>>
[17:42] <seb128> rickspencer3, yes, sorry<<BR>>
[17:42] <rickspencer3> bratsche don't be sorry, its all good<<BR>>
[17:42] <rickspencer3> Riddell, uh, I don't know<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> It's a well known issue, and I think your energy will be better spent working around it ;)<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> otherwise, maybe ping dgoggin?<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> ok, on to release status?<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> I haven't looked at Maverick bugs yet, so we'll just skip that for this week ;)<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> I *think* our blueprints are substantially done, and work items identified<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> are there any blueprints that should be, but are not, showing up here:<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-maverick-alpha-2.html<<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> (it's too early to look at bugs anyway or rather to start tracking those)<<BR>>
[17:45] <ArneGoetje> rickspencer3: mine will be ready by eow (after sprinting with mvo and meeting with michaelforrest)<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> ArneGoetje, ack<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> seb128, do you feel that the blueprints are substantially complete?<<BR>>
[17:46] <seb128> rickspencer3, yes<<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> I've been looking to the UDS topics and the registered blueprints for the meeting we had<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> sweet!<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> so it's Tuesday<<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> the current list seems to be good<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> basically, it took us 6.5 working days to get to this state<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> that's quite good, I think<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> in terms of turn around from UDS to starting real work<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> perhaps we can shoot for 5 days in m + 1?<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> and maybe work a bit tighter with out partners<<BR>>
[17:49] <tremolux> yes, that's the trickiest bit<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> 2 questions occurred to me when I was looking through the specs<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> #1 Are there patches for chromium that should be in the distro (make sqllite, gtk, etc... go faster?)<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> like, if these chromium takes these patches to make chromium better, any reason we wouldn't take those into the distro?<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> I don't want an answer now, but would someone like to take the lead to answer this question for our next meeting?<<BR>>
[17:50] <seb128> I think the chromium guys try to get their changes upstream but yeah, worth investigating<<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> chrisccoulson, maybe you could have a look to that?<<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> seb128, right, but there is a long turn around<<BR>>
[17:51] <chrisccoulson> seb128 - yeah, no problem. i'll try and figure out what changes they carry<<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> thanks chrisccoulson<<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> ACTION: chrisccoulson to investigate any chromium changes appropriate for the distro<<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> #2 how to make Qt apps run nicer on Ubuntu?<<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> I installed parley last night, and it works, but has terrible integration<<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> Qt is quite catching on, and I think we'll see more and more people want to run Qt apps on Ubuntu<<BR>>
[17:53] <rickspencer3> I'm wondering if there is something we can do to improve integration<<BR>>
[17:53] <rickspencer3> anyone interested in investigating for next week?<<BR>>
[17:53] <didrocks> (I'm interested but not sure I have the time right now for next week)<<BR>>
[17:54] <rickspencer3> yes, you are quite loaded with work for the next two weeks<<BR>>
[17:54] <rickspencer3> didrocks, can we carry this over to next week, perhaps you or someone else will be interested then<<BR>>
[17:54] <rickspencer3> seb128, sound ok?<<BR>>
[17:54] <didrocks> rickspencer3: sure<<BR>>
[17:55] <seb128> rickspencer3, you want to investigate what option the qt world gives there? or work to do?<<BR>>
[17:55] <rickspencer3> seb128, I want to know what work we could do to make Qt apps look like they just "fit in" to our desktop<<BR>>
[17:55] <rickspencer3> currently, they stand out, some badly<<BR>>
[17:55] <seb128> I would suggest that those who know better about qt are kubuntu guys, ie Riddell<<BR>>
[17:56] <rickspencer3> Riddell, can you take a look? it would entail installing Ubuntu ;)<<BR>>
[17:56] <Riddell> as ever in these cases kubuntu guys are unlikiely to care about ubuntu desktops (just as I've never noticed ubuntu desktop people caring about how gtk looks horrible on kubuntu)<<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> Riddell, I do know that there is a qtk-gt-engine though<<BR>>
[17:56] <rickspencer3> right, it's not symetric<<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> it has been creating quite some bugs :-p<<BR>>
[17:56] <Riddell> seb128: we dropped that two releases ago :)<<BR>>
[17:57] <rickspencer3> we care about Qt running on Gnome, but not about Gtk tunning on KDE<<BR>>
[17:57] <rickspencer3> ok, I'll keep it open until next week<<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> rickspencer3, right, I was just pointing that if I know about this maybe somebody in kubuntu knows about something similar for qt<<BR>>
[17:57] <rickspencer3> after that, i'll have to assign it to someone<<BR>>
[17:57] <rickspencer3> (if no one volunteers)<<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> ok<<BR>>
[17:57] <rickspencer3> probably for A3<<BR>>
[17:58] <Riddell> qt should have a built in theme for gnome, possibly it doesn't get used by kde apps<<BR>>
[17:58] <rickspencer3> I think everyone has work items planned out for A2, so it won't fit now, anyway<<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> right, it also doesn't seem something which need to be done early in the cycle<<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> a3 seems good enough<<BR>>
[17:58] <rickspencer3> any other business?<<BR>>
[17:59] <rickspencer3> well well well<<BR>>
[17:59] <rickspencer3> I guess we are really ready to rock Maverick!<<BR>>
[17:59] <kenvandine> :)<<BR>>
[17:59] <rickspencer3> I'll call that a wrap then<<BR>>
[17:59]  * rickspencer3 taps gavel

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
