{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Weekly Summary ==
* LibreOffice:
** Thanks to jibel, we have a <nowiki>[[http://skyfromme.wordpress.com/2012/12/12/libreoffice-test-marathon-bibisect-4-0-and-ubuntu-packages/|LibreOffice bibisect]]</nowiki> binrepo at http://people.canonical.com/~j-lallement/libreoffice/binrepo/ being populated from the QA labs
** 3.5.7 SRU still waiting for feedback from SRU-team
** 3.6.5rc2 for quantal in the works (hopefully done today)
** LibreOffice 4.0beta2 in review
** PPA backports policy mess (discussed with pitti and ricotz)
* Fixed a bug in check-new-release-gtk that would stop users from upgrading their release (mterry)
* Inline some online-accounts packages [robru]
* Write up some plugin-authoring documentation for lp:friends [robru]
* Add some DBus method calls to python-dbusmock making it easier to use in non-python tests. [robru]
* Fixed out of tree builds in libaccounts-qt and libsignon-qt (kenvandine)
* Prepared dual build (qt4/qt5) packaging branches for libaccounts-qt and signon (kenvandine)
* Tracking down and trying to fix a bug related to PulseAudio 3.0 testing, the PandaBoard hardware, and ALSA UCM. (TheMuso)
* COntinued debugging of an unusual accessibility bug where some GTK apps are not accessible. Determined that its not the lower accessibility stack, at-spi/atk, yet to find the culpret however. (TheMuso)

== Agenda ==

* new LO backport policy -- critic and improvements most welcome [bjoern-michaelsen]

=== Product strategy integration ===

* Daily release of the unity stack enabled and running. Enabled some more projects on various other stacks. We're at 47 components which can lands daily right now :)
* Tests of the daily release process under dev.

==== Unity ====

* We switched to one workspace by default, adding g-c-c support for it and the "show desktop" item.

==== Indicators & Themes ====

==== Webapps/Webcredentials ====

==== Open input framework ====

=== X.org ===
* Helping out with 12.04.2 release by fixing bugs related to the quantal backport stack. (mlankhorst)

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
}}}

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

{{{
</pre>
