{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

If a step fails, only mark the SRU as verification-failed if it is a regression, i.e., the current version (in normal updates pocket) is not affected.

==== Settings Application ====

* Open the settings from the top right indicator, verify that it starts correctly
* Check that the list of panels listed as section bellow is displayed in the left sidepane
* Start typing, verify that the search entry display on the top left and that results are filtered according to  keywords
* Hit enter, the panel corresponding to the item which was selected by the search should be displayed, the search UI should close
* Click on the 3-lines icons on the right of the sidepane, verify that the 3 items (Keyboard shortcut, help, about) open the corresponding diaogs

==== Wi-Fi ====

* Check that the 'Visible Networks' section includes the expected APs
* Try connecting and disconnecting to an AP
* Click on the options icon on the right on one of the network and verify that the details dialog opens and is showing the expected configuration
* Enable the hotspot and try connecting from another device
* Try turning wifi off and verify that the connectivity indicator of the shell reflect the new status

==== Network ====

* Click on the '+' next to the VPN section and configure a VPN

==== Bluetooth ====

* Check that the devices known to the system (which have been paired before) at listed.
* Pair a new device
* Forgot a device

==== Display ====

* Check that the screen configuration is correctly reflect
* Try changing the layout and resolution or your screens
* Try changing the scaling factor

==== Sound ====

* Check that input/output device are correctly listed
* Do the output test, verify that the sound is working
* Change the volume and verify it has an impact
* Check that indicator bar on the right of the input section react to sounds
* Enable/disable overamplification and verify that the output slide adapt as expected

==== Power ====

* If you are on a device with a battery verify that the status displayed is correct
* Verify that the power mode section list the same profiles than `powerprofilesctl`
* Change the profile and verify with `powerprofilesctl` that it was correctly changed
* Change the Screen Blank timeout and wait for the delay to verify the configuration is working
* Toggle the show battery percentage control and check that the top panel correctly reflect the option

==== Multitasking ====
 
* Toggle the Hot Corner setting and verify the shell behaves according to the configuration
* Toggle the Active Screen edges setting and verify the shell behaves according to the configuration
 /!\ This setting is currently overriden by enhanced tiling in '''Ubuntu Desktop''' section 
* Switch between dynamic and fixed workspaces and verify that the layout adapts
* If you have a multi monitor setup check if the workspaces option correctly change the behaviour
* Change the app switching configuration and verify that the shell reflects the choice

==== Appearance ====

* Switch between light and dark mode and verify that the wallpaper and colors adapt
* Try changing the default wallpaper, verify that the configuration is correctly adapted
* Select a different accent color, verify that the desktop interfaces (GTK) reflects

==== Ubuntu Desktop ====

* Enable/Disable the desktop icons, change the size and position. Verify that the desktop view refreshes according to the settings
* Enable/Disable the Dock autohide and panel mode, change the position and icons size. Verify that the dock adapts to the settings
* Enable/Disable tiling, popup and groups and verify that the shell behavior is adapted to the configuration.

==== Apps ====

* Go to the 'Default Apps' section, try to change the default for web/mail/photos and verify that the corresponding actions call the right application (gio open on an http: or mailto: url, opening a photo from nautilus)
 {i} If you don't have at least two apps for each category, <code>apt install claws-mail qutebrowser neomutt</code> will suffice.
* Go back to the top level 'Apps' pane.
* Verify that applications are listed
* Select a snap and verify that the connections are correctly listed and reflecting the right status (so matching `snap connections $snapname

==== Notifications ====

* Enable Do Not Disturb mode and do a `sleep 10; notify-send Msg`. Verify that the notification isn't displayed
* Disable lock screen notification, do a `sleep 10; notify-send Msg` and lock the screen. The notification shouldn't show on the lock screen.
* Turn off notification for one application in the list and verify that the setting is respected by using the application in a situation where it should send a notification.

==== Search ====

* Disable App Search and verify that the shell stops proposing integration with the applications listed below (typing 1+2 for example, if the gnome-calculator provider is installed it should return 3 but not if App Search is disabled)
* Disable some search locations and try to find files from those in nautilus' '''Search Everywhere''' (magnifying lens on the top left corner of the window, '''not''' 'Search current folder'), it should not list them. Enable it back and verify that nautilus is able to find the content again
* Disable one of the providers of the list and verify in the shell that the corresponding integration is disable (using the previous calculator steps for example)

==== Online Accounts ====

* Enable an online account, you should be able to go through the steps and see the account listed under the 'Your accounts' section
* Verify that the integration to the desktop is working (by example a google account should make gnome-calendar see your calendar events)
* Remove the account, it shouldn't be listed in the 'Your accounts' section anymore

==== Sharing ====

* Change the device name. Verify that /etc/hostname reflect the name change. Then go back to the initial name.
* Enable file sharing. Verify from another machine that you can connect to the url indicated.
 <!> If <code>org.gnome.desktop.file-sharing</code> does not exist in dconf, the entry will be missing.
* Enable media sharing. Verify from another machine that you can see the corresponding multimedia content.
 <!> If you do not have a <nowiki>[[https://help.gnome.org/users/gnome-help/stable/sharing-media.html.en|UPnP or DLNA enabled device such as a phone, TV or game console]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[https://web.archive.org/web/20240909135327/https://help.gnome.org/users/gnome-help/stable/sharing-media.html.en|alternative link]]</nowiki>), this won't work.

==== Mouse & Touchpad ====

* Change the primary button and pointer speed, verify that the change are reflected on the behaviour

==== Keyboard ====

* Add a new layout. Verify that it's listed in the shell panel and that selecting it change the input behavior.
* Remove a layout and verify it's not listed in the shell anymore.
* Go the keybinding section, change some configuration and verify the new keybinding is working.

==== Color ====

* Select your screen in the list. Click Add Profile.
* Verify that the colors change according to the profile.
 (!) Suggestion: 'test profile blue'.
* Remove the profile and verify the color are resetted.

==== Printers ====

* Verify that the configured printers are listed
* If you have access to a printer try adding it and print a testpage.

==== Accessiblity ====

* Enable large text, verify that the labels are getting bigger in the shell and the applications.
* Enable high contrast, verify that the theme is changing accordingly (some of the icons are become black&white for example)
* Enable the onscreen keyboard, verify that it's displayed when focusing a text field in a GTK application (e.g. gnome-terminal) and can be used

==== Privacy & Security ====

* Change the screen lock delay. Don't touch to the computer for the corresponding time and confirm that the screen get locked.

==== System ====

* Change the language. Restart the session and verify that the new language is being used.
* Disable Automatic Date&Time and change the timezone and time manually. Verify that the system configuration is reflecting the change (clock on the panel, <code>timedatectl</code>)
* Enable back automatic time, verify that the clock is synhronized.
* Go the users section, add an user. Try to log using the new user and verify the account is working
* Go the About section and verify that the information displayed match the system.

----
CategoryDesktopTestPlans
Rédiger « DesktopTeam/TestPlans/GnomeControlCenter » ici.
