{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===

* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (calc)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===

* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Dx Integration
* Meeting Time
* Review activity reports

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Actions from this meeting ===
* rickspencer3: Post Dx components table to wiki.ubuntu.com
* Riddell: Address inaccuracies in the Dx Component table (kwin has nothing to do with brightness)
* davidbarth: Specify back up plan for unpatched applications that use actions/timeouts
* rickspencer3, davidbarth, Riddell: specify support for Kubuntu and/or KDE apps running in GNOME expected for Jaunty
* rickspencer3: replace Konversation with Quassel on tracked components table
* davidbarth: supply dates for when key apps (NM) will be patched to work with new notification daemon
* ACTION: asac to initiate major change process for libnotify and get patch on track for upstream inclusion
* All: all specs should be drafted by end of this week
* ACTION: everyone to add some pet-bugs by next meeting

=== Dx integration ===
Review components and timelines. A lengthy discussion ensued.
* Kubuntu/KDE app plans were not sufficiently fleshed out to assess status. This should be resolved by the next meeting.
* Messaging indicator work will include the indicator itself, as well as well as patched evolution and pidgin. Other apps will have to be patched by upstream/community. The Dx team will provide documentation and examples to facilitate this, though this will be available later in the cycle.
* How to handle notifications that include an action and/or a timeout was not determined. This needs to be clarified asap.

=== Meeting time ===
Did not have time to discuss

=== Specs ===
* All specs should be drafted by eow
* List of Jaunty blueprints available here: https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/jaunty

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====
===== UDS =====
* various fruitful mozilla discussions with upstream and community on
   how we can "better work together"; the idea of making ubuntu builds
   more 1st-tier for mozilla was discussed and various other things
* network-manager sessions
* conduced two mozilla workshops
* met chromium developers
* visited mozilla office and had a lengthy discussions with mconnor

===== mozilla security/maintenance =====
* release 1.8.0 backport patchset and tarballs for ffox 2.0.0.19/20 release
** http://people.ubuntu.com/~asac/mozilla-security/1.8.1.19/
* firefox, thunderbird security updates for all supported ubuntu
   releases
** re-audited all not-yet-committed 1.8.0 branch backport patches and
    matched them with all upstream MFSAs; two patches require a closer
    look.
* stay on top of 1.9 commits now that 1.8 is EOL
** triaged all 1.9 security patches landed since last release and
    backported two also needed on our branches.
* train a debian security team member on how to prepare icedove
   security updates - hopefully this will pay off soon.

===== mozilla upstream =====
* submitted RFC patch for mozilla bug 462745 [mozTXTToHTMLConv]
   trailing '-' character not included in linkified URL
* fixed and submitted patch for mozilla bug 471359 - trunk build
   broken with "libxul.so: hidden symbol
* evaluated and spotted an issue with how we construct upstream
   extension blocklist URL (see mozilla bug 469760)
* worked and discussed with Michael Ventnor at UDS on libnotify patch
   for mozilla; next: getting upstream review and committing; then
   backporting to branches and packages.

===== network-manager =====
* verified and drove all NM related SRUs into -updates
* prepared 0.7 final packages, and uploaded them to ~network-manager
   team PPA; asked for testing of outstanding bugs. Feedback is
   positive. However, intrepid SRU seems unlikely due to ABI breakage
* network-manager hardy (0.6) SRU for LP: #203016 - "Memory Leak in
   NetworkManager"
* bug triage
==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====
* Travel preparations and traveling to UDS / FOSSCamp
* FOSSCamp / UDS (Dec 5 - Dec 12)

* Spec drafting
** https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/font-selector
** 
https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/jaunty-language-selector-improvements
** https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/ibus-improvement
* Vacation (Dec 17 - Dec 22)
* CJK-Unifonts: checking in 200 new glyphs for the UKai font
* Managing the Rosetta import queue for Jaunty and approving lots of
templates
* Flight booking for Distro Sprint (Feb 2 - Feb 6)
* Year end vacation (Dec 25 - Jan 2)
* cleaning up my bug mail folder
* installing clean Hardy Ubuntu and Kubuntu VMs in order to test
language packs for the upcoming 8.04.2 release
==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====
* Short week due to holidays
* Triaging of responses to -intel re-test email sent pre-holiday
* Triaging/upstreaming of xkeyboard-config bugs
* Debugged -ati EXA patch posted before vacation
* Debugged alsa-driver issue on Intel audio; proposed a patch
* Debugged irritating mouse cursor flicker in firefox (#312353)
* Reviewed status of -ati/-radeonhd development work, particularly
  around ATI r6xx chipsets
* Reorganized test hardware, migrated to new desktop system
* Catching up on email from over holidays
==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====
* FOSSCamp/UDS - Dec 4 - Dec 12
* Off work - Dec 22 - Jan 2
* uploaded openoffice.org 3.0.0-6ubuntu1 to jaunty
* uploaded openoffice.org-l10n 3.0.0-6ubuntu1 to jaunty 
* uploaded openoffice.org 3.0.0-6ubuntu0intrepid1 to ppa
* uploaded openoffice.org-l10n 3.0.0-6ubuntu0intrepid1 to ppa
* uploaded openoffice.org 3.0.0-6ubuntu0hardy1 to ppa
* uploaded openoffice.org-l10n 3.0.0-6ubuntu0hardy1 to ppa
* wrote MIRs for new packages needed by OOo
* converted many java packages for default-java needed for MIRs for new OOo
* wrote jaunty OOo blueprint
* OOo release status meetings
* contacted Sun about potential for splitting language support into separate module
* performance review meeting
* lots of bug triage

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====
* Up to 19th December, Holiday, FOSSCamp and UDS
* 22 - 24th December, catchup with e-mail, updating automoc
* 5th January, jury service, catchup with e-mail, final KDE merges

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====
Drafted blueprints:
* integration-best-practice: Review; signed off by Matt, Scott, 
 Colin, David; waiting for feedback from Steve and Elliot
* apport-retracer-maintenance: Approved
* jaunty-gnome-help-langpacks: no conclusion reached at UDS, asked
 Celso and Adam about a possible alternate approach

Assigned blueprints:
* gpm-and-device-kit-power: devicekit and devicekit-power are in
 jaunty universe, my part is done; I'm waiting for Scott to upload
 udev 130, after that I can update the packages to the latest upstream
 version
* apport-retracer-maintenance: not started yet

Currently open stable/milestoned bugs: all done

Merges: all done

Non-chores work done:
* Attended Desktop Experience sprint, FOSSCamp, UDS
* Reviewed specs from desktop team; many are still in "draft" state,
 please get them ready ASAP
* Got apport working on Jaunty again, and fixed some regressions;
 found a Python regression along the way (bug filed), worked around it
* [holiday pet project] packaged calibre, a comprehensive e-book
 conversion and library management app; in NEW queue now

Sponsoring: 
* > 10 packages during UDS, didn't keep track of it
* cairo, gcalctool, gksu, landscape-client, xpdf, poppler

Plan for the next two weeks:
* Set up apport retracers for Jaunty, and enable apport by default again
* Implement apport-retracer-maintenance
* Work on pet bug #123025: "stop shipping static gconf translations,
 use gettext at runtime", since this requires lots of package rebuilds
 and thus should come first
==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====
Weekly report

* GNOME 2.25.3 updates started before UDS

* catching up on mails, bug mails, etc after holidays

* UDS: lot of discussion with random people and some interesting
sessions

Next weeks:

GNOME 2.25.4 is due this week, lot of updates, that and the bug triage
and holidays catching up will probably keep me busy for the 2 next weeks
==== Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) ====
===== Sprint/FossCamp/UDS =====
* Attended Dx spring and Fosscamp
* Attended desktop sessions
* Discussed blueprints
* One on one's with teammates, etc...

===== Planning =====
* Created Desktop team roadmap draft
* Identified dependencies and created tracking tables for Canonical team integration

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
