{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alberto Milone (tseliot)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (ccheney)
* Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson)
* Didier Roche (didrocks)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)  
* Travis Harwell (Nafai)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)
* Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Blueprint List
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

==== Discussion ====

=== Partner Update ===
* OLS has a bug fix coming today, fixing the contact picker for file sharing.
* There is a desktopcouch branch in review that works around the "keyring problem" where accessing the keyring causes the CPU to peg.
* Gwibber is still causing the CPU to peg. Diagnosis continues, no clear strategy to resolve the issue has emerged.
* Dx team is keeping up with incoming bugs

=== Kubuntu Update ===
* beta 2 in good shape but some issues with installer in current images means rebuild needed.
* http://tinyurl.com/yjybcx9 15 milestoned bugs.  three have fixes committed.  On track to fix all RC bugs by release.

=== Blueprint List ===
* Please create a list of blueprints that you want to take to UDS
* By next team meeting
* You don't have to actually write the blueprints yet, but you can if you want
* If you want to discuss, please let me and/or pitti and/or seb128 know, we can do call or IRC

=== Release Status ===
* All beta 2 work items are complete
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-desktop-team-ubuntu-10.04.html looks in good shape
* There are still many serious bugs open, and only 9 days until final freeze
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/ReleaseStatus

=== Activity reports ===
==== Alberto Milone (tseliot) ====

Done:
* LP: #539196 nvidia-settings X display configuration window doesn't work on nvidia-173 and nvidia-96 (not uploaded yet, needs testing)

Todo:
* LP: #248392 ia32-libs 32bit libgl search for dri at wrong place on 64bit system
* LP: #538071 Nouveau blacklisting with /usr on separate partition fails
* LP: #552653 Jockey fails to install nvidia hardware driver
* LP: #552903 LIBGL_DRIVERS_PATH wrong after deactivating and restarting computer
* LP: #555837 nvidia-common exited with return code 1 (Exec format error)
* LP: #553954 plymouth has a non translatable string coming up on screen

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====

* Public holiday on Monday
* Language-packs: new full-export from Rosetta for Lucid, ran test builds, investigated why languages with country codes are not merged probably into the same tarball for the same language for XPI translations
* test fontconfig modifications for CJK fonts -- need to commit
* language-selector: added code to write the language setting to ~/.dmrc and /var/cache/gdm/$USER/dmrc when gdm is running.

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

* Bug Triaging
** Look for dupes of MSI bug
** Triage all xkeyboard-config bugs tagged 'lucid'
** Review bugs tagged lucid-upgrade-testing
* Bug Upstreaming
** Upstream all triaged -ati bugs tagged 'lucid'
** Upstream #27380 - X segfault in miCopyRegion
** Upstream #27382 - [RS480] black screen after a few user switches
** Upstream #543489 - On brightness change, corrupted notification appears
* Bug Fixing
** Fix man page for -ati to document that pm options can't be configured with kms yet (lp #552458)
** Investigate plymouth failure on blumonc
* Backporting
** Identify post 2.10 bug fixes in -intel to backport
** Review redhat/mandriva patches against X
** Backport fix to ati to improve Xv performance on radeon
** Backport 3 patches from -intel 2.10 git tree
** Backport patches from -intel 2.11 git tree
** Cherrypick from upstream tree for wacom
** Cherrypick 3 fixes from upstream tree for -intel
* Packaging and sponsorship
** Merge -intel 2.9.1-3
** Package xf86-video-ati 6.12.192
** Package intel-gpu-tools git snapshot (or 1.0.3 if released)
** Package radeontool 1.6.1
** Sponsor -mga for RAOF
** Repackage xf86-video-displaylink using standard X packaging and naming
* Arsenal
** Make a report for upstream-fixed (or try it in bughugger)
** Make cleanup_distro_name look up series names from launchpad in fix-titles.py
** Make report of all X bugs with a watch marked fixed upstream
** Fix milestone-bugs report to actually work
** Make mutt color hilight for "Package changed: .* => linux (Ubuntu)"
* Multitouch
** Receive MT hardware - send receipt
** Upgrade to latest Ubuntu on MT system
** Configure MT system
* Update Ubuntu-X wiki docs and release notes
** Document Xv/X11 video configuration
** Document troubleshooting process for blank screen issues using xtrace
** Document paste-edid < /sys/class/drm/*/edid
** Document that if edid is not getting through a kvm or whatever, to use  video=VGA1:1024x768
** Document video tearing with KMS on -ati (#514245)

==== Chris Cheney (ccheney) ====

* Off Mar 30.
* Merged writer2latex for lucid.
* Uploaded openoffice.org 1:3.2.0-4ubuntu3 fixing 2 RC bugs.
** Investigated and verified there is no sane way to fix #546797 and converted to release note.
** Updated splash/aboutbox images to Oracle logos, also wiki page reflecting new license agreement.
* Working on openoffice.org 1:3.2.0-5ubuntu1 to fix several new RC bugs recently found.
* Preparing openoffice.org ppa backports for support team for hardy/karmic.

==== Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF) ====

3-day week due to Easter holidays.

* X
** Apply xserver-xorg-video-mga G200EH hardware-enablement patch from upstream (LP: #546149).
** More Nouveau and Intel triage.  The kernel-team's rockin' the Intel bugs, but it looks like we'll need to quirk off acceleration in nouveau for some hardware.  Hybrid dual-gpu setups seem particularly fragile.
* F-Spot
** Hacking on some final polish - a more sensible default viewer size, fixes to the crop editor, and a notification when there's an unsaved image.
** Tracked down a hang bug in the Folder exporter.

==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====

* 4-day week due to Easter holidays.
* WI related stuff:
** Fix gdmsetup in common scenario to not list users who have an encrypted home directory for autologin candidate (LP: #353446)
* UNE
** roll tarball for a new releasing fixing bugs:
     - liblauncher (LP: #513829)
     - go-home-applet (LP: #544177)
     - clutk (LP: #414353)
     - netbook-launcher (LP: #465548, #467474, #455143, #472999, #538485)
** One nasty bug already present in Karmic and hardly reproducible with some screens size and langage still there (reopened)
** lot of bug triaging
* GNOME
** new release: glade, seahorse, seahorse-plugins, gnome-utils, gnome-screensaver, gnome-settings-daemon, metacity
** Fix in metacity and compiz about default number of ws
* Quickly:
** new quickly-widgets double release :)
** work with the potention GSoC students to provide guidance and projects idea.
* misc:
** backport a fix for weechat (infinite loop with /layout)
** more fix on g-c-c about button position depending on the theme (LP: #551048, #552132)

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====
done:
* Update kubuntu logo in various places
* Fix plasma-netbook to show search by default
* fix kdebindings compile for arm
* stop ubiquity showing placemark strings on startup
* fix kde-l10n-engb and other dialect packages to depend on the
correct language pack
* testing ISO images in preparation for beta
* holiday friday and monday
==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Only a 3-day week due to Easter holidays.

Assigned blueprints: all done

Done:
* Bug fixing: apport, dbus, gdm, nautilus, notify-osd
* Apport retracer maintenance
* Lots of bug triage
* db4.7 migration
* Tested fingerprint power consumption
* NBS cleanup

Sponsoring:
* hal, xulrunner-1.9.2

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

short week with 3 work days

* desktop updates: gconf-editor vino libgnome libgnomecanvas gnome-python-desktop gnome-keyring libgnome-keyring gnome-desktop pango indicator-sound libgnomecanvas
* backport notify-osd fix for new gtk
* updated gnome-settings-daemon touchpad icons to fix notification bug
* updated gnome-menus caching code to list extra keys
* cleaned extra gnome-keyring debugging leading to sourcing errors, updated strings and translations to fix a typo too
* updated gtk+ and atk to fix gir conflicts on upgrade
* updated poppler scaling change to fix an issue with the previous upload
* backported an evolution change for rtl composer issues
* fixed double free crash due to buggy change in gnome-bluetooth
* cleaning libgnome-keyring update packaging error and added bugzilla workaround for the gvfs cpu issue
* backported papyon upstream fix for a crasher in telepathy-butterfly
* backported indicator-applet upstream change for keyboard grabbing issue
* lot of desktop bugs reading and triaging

Sponsoring:
* ubuntu-mono human-theme ubuntu-artwork light-themes desktop-file-utils evolution-indicator gnome-themes-ubuntu ubuntu-mono humanity-icon-theme ubuntu-mono light-themes gwibber ubuntu-artwork indicator-messages libdbusmenu indicator-applet indicator-application ubuntuone-client light-themes ubuntu-mono rhythmbox-ubuntuone-music-store notify-osd-icons notify-osd-icons totem poppler libdbusmenu

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====
* Tried to fix Ghostscript bug #691014 without success, it is a possible cause for several printing problems (LP: #539708)
* Still waiting for: Ubuntu logo for the printer test page (LP: #542975), HPLIP systray applet patch for Application Indicator (LP: #497877).
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports.

==== Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson) ====
* Mozilla general:
** FF3.0, XUL1.9.0, FF3.5, XUL1.9.1 security updates - all in ums PPA now and some testing performed
** Got the cairo patch in to Firefox to fix font rendering (LP: #512615)
** Fixed an issue where Firefox wouldn't start in debug mode (LP: #546490)
** Fixed a small build issue with Firefox where it wouldn't build when using system libraries
** Committed a fix for a Firefox issue where the abrowser branding was still using the official Firefox icon for the menu entry (LP: #526291)
** xulrunner-1.9.2 updated for firefox 3.6.3 (to be uploaded after beta 2)
** Fixed a Hardy => Lucid upgrade issue when cleaning the old Hardy xulrunner-1.9 package (LP: #525621). This is fixed by providing a dummy xulrunner-1.9 binary package from xulrunner-1.9.2 source
** Added a fix to the additional dummy package to clean some obsolete conffiles too

* General:
** Investigated an issue where users screens are staying blank sometimes after switching users. It looks like a gnome-screensaver problem, and I found a potential issue which was demonstrated by using the test-fade binary in the gnome-screensaver source. Unfortunately users still see the original problem even with a fix for the issue I found.
** Sponsoring: firefox, thunderbird

* Blueprints:
** desktop-lucid-new-firefox-support-model
** Archive is cleaned of unwanted extensions now thanks to pitti

==== Travis Hartwell (Nafai) ====
started on Thursday, so had employee first task stuff
** Added a debug command to the quickly ubuntu project template,
  submitted merge request
** Reproduced LP: #533775 working on finding cause
** Tried and filed to reproduce LP: #548891 (looks like pitti is on it)
** In general, reading about the bug triage process

== IRC Logs ==
[17:32] <rickspencer3> two things before start<<BR>>
[17:32] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 556656 in launchpad-code "Code reviews and bugs silo comments" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/556656<<BR>>
[17:32] <Riddell> hi<<BR>>
[17:32] <bryce_> hi<<BR>>
[17:32] <seb128> james_w, thanks<<BR>>
[17:32] <chrisccoulson> hi<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> 1. Hi Nafai - welcome to your first team meeting!<<BR>>
[17:33]  * tseliot waves<<BR>>
[17:33] <Nafai> Yay!  Thanks.<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> all Nafai started last Thursday<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> he'll be working with didrocks on UNE in 10.10, and also I am hoping on some application developer focused areas<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> (and if something else interests him as well)<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> Nafai, what's you real name, and why "Nafai"?<<BR>>
[17:34] <Nafai> Travis Hartwell; back when I started with IRC in the 90's the network I was on 'travis' was taken, so I chose a name from some books I was reading at the time.  The Homecoming series by Orson Scott Card<<BR>>
[17:34] <Nafai> It's kind of stuck<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> kewl<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> Nafai, based in Utah, USA, correct?<<BR>>
[17:35] <Nafai> Yes<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> excellent<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> Nafai, pitti is your tech lead for the rest of 10.04<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> seb128, will be fore 10.10, we'll have a call soon<<BR>>
[17:35] <Nafai> ok<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> but anyone here will be glad to help you with anything, i am sure<<BR>>
[17:36]  * pitti puts on the "No, I won't fix your computer!" T-shirt<<BR>>
[17:36]  * tseliot nods<<BR>>
[17:36] <rickspencer3> hehe<<BR>>
[17:36] <didrocks> welcome Nafai ;)<<BR>>
[17:36] <rickspencer3> okay, except for pitti anyone will help with anything<<BR>>
[17:36] <rickspencer3> ;)<<BR>>
[17:36] <seb128> ;-)<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> also before we start, I think kenvandine won't be able to join us this morning, so we'll skip his parts and pick them up in the Eastern Edition if he is available then<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> let's rock<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2010-04-06<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> Riddell, kubuntu update?<<BR>>
[17:37] <Riddell>  * beta 2 in good shape but some issues with installer in current images means rebuild needed<<BR>>
[17:37] <Riddell>  * http://tinyurl.com/yjybcx9 15 milestoned bugs.  three have fixes committed.  if current fix rate continues we should be all fixed up before release<<BR>>
[17:37] <Riddell> that's it, very quick this week :)<<BR>>
[17:38] <rickspencer3> thanks Riddell<<BR>>
[17:38] <rickspencer3> next is 10.10 blueprints<<BR>>
[17:38] <rickspencer3> yeah!<<BR>>
[17:38] <rickspencer3> time to start seriously thinking about 10.10 and what you want to accomplish there<<BR>>
[17:39] <rickspencer3> for the first step, I would like everyone to generate a list of blueprints they want to bring to UDS<<BR>>
[17:39] <rickspencer3> note that the requirement is just for a *list*<<BR>>
[17:39] <rickspencer3> writing the blueprints will be the next phase<<BR>>
[17:39] <rickspencer3> I'd like everyone to have a list by the next team meeting<<BR>>
[17:39] <Riddell> isn't writing done at UDS?<<BR>>
[17:39] <pitti> s/at/after/<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> Riddell, well, yes and no<<BR>>
[17:40] <pitti> but the stubs and summary should be there before<<BR>>
[17:40] <pitti> we need that for scheduling/planning<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> I expect there to be good thought put into them before they are accepted and such<<BR>>
[17:40] <pitti> the actual meat (wiki page/work items) are after UDS<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> Riddell, but I get your  point<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> I guess rather than "written" I should have said "registered"<<BR>>
[17:41] <rickspencer3> now, I am betting some of the newer folks are thinking "wtf?"<<BR>>
[17:41] <rickspencer3> no worries<<BR>>
[17:41] <Nafai> :)<<BR>>
[17:41] <chrisccoulson> heh<<BR>>
[17:41] <rickspencer3> if you don't know what blueprints to write, or how to register them and such ... please ping me out of band<<BR>>
[17:41] <rickspencer3> we'll get together with pitti and seb128 and step you through it<<BR>>
[17:41] <rickspencer3> but I would like to see everyone with a list by next Tuesday<<BR>>
[17:42] <rickspencer3> any questions?<<BR>>
[17:42] <seb128> where do we put the lists?<<BR>>
[17:42] <rickspencer3> seb128, good question<<BR>>
[17:42] <rickspencer3> shall we add them to the blueprint list wiki page I started?<<BR>>
[17:42] <pitti> how about just registering stubs?<<BR>>
[17:43] <pitti> desktop-maverick-frobnicate<<BR>>
[17:43] <ccheney> don't they need to be registered to be scheduled anyway?<<BR>>
[17:43] <seb128> I don't like much doing registration for random first thinking round<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> pitti, that's good too<<BR>>
[17:43] <seb128> it creates quite some noise<<BR>>
[17:43] <ccheney> seb128: ah i see your point<<BR>>
[17:43] <pitti> seb128: for those, just put them into your weekly report, and keep a local list?<<BR>>
[17:43] <seb128> wiki or in the activity reports?<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> pitti, since seb128 is tech lead for 10.10, I will delegate the decision to him, sound ok?<<BR>>
[17:43] <pitti> ack<<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128> there we go ;-)<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> seb128, be careful what you ask for ;)<<BR>>
[17:44]  * rickspencer3 watches pitti wash hands<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> :)<<BR>>
[17:44] <pitti> so, everyone snailmail them to seb128, in proper French language!<<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128> lol<<BR>>
[17:44] <didrocks> pitti: no pb ;)<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> hehe<<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128> soooooo<<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/10.10/BlueprintList)<<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> register those you are sure about on launchpad using desktop-maverick-* + add those you want to discuss in your activty report?<<BR>>
[17:45] <pitti> rickspencer3: will take me a bit to stop taking decisions and jumping on every question :)<<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> pitti == Ubuntu Desktop :)<<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> rickspencer3, would that work for you?<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> seb128, sure<<BR>>
[17:46] <seb128> or do you prefer using the wiki, easier maybe to list in one spot and do changes<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> seb128, well, you'll be organizing them, so it's what's easier for you<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> ;)<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> though I would like to take a look at everything next week, so folks can ask each other questions<<BR>>
[17:46] <seb128> ok, so register + activity report<<BR>>
[17:46] <pitti> seb128: NB that the desktop meeting page will have all activity reports in one wiki page anyway :)<<BR>>
[17:46]  * rickspencer3 hears pitti chuckly<<BR>>
[17:46] <seb128> we can discuss those in the activity report page in next meeting<<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> and review the list in launchpad too<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> seb128, I'll put you down for that agenda item<<BR>>
[17:47]  * kenvandine waves<<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> ok<<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> hey kenvandine<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> hi kenvandine, are you back?<<BR>>
[17:47] <kenvandine> yeah<<BR>>
[17:47] <pitti> ... and kenvandine will fix everything then, as decided<<BR>>
[17:47] <pitti> oh, hi kenvandine!<<BR>>
[17:47] <kenvandine> hehe<<BR>>
[17:47] <kenvandine> :)<<BR>>
=== al-maisan is now known as almaisan-away<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, can you touch on partner status and gwibber briefly?<<BR>>
[17:48] <kenvandine> yup<<BR>>
[17:49] <kenvandine> sorry i didn't update the wiki with the partner update, been beating on gwibber<<BR>>
[17:49] <kenvandine> OLS has a bug fix coming today, fixing the contact picker for file sharing<<BR>>
[17:49] <kenvandine> of course it'll just get queued, nothing that needs to break release<<BR>>
[17:50] <kenvandine> they are also working hard on desktopcouch<<BR>>
[17:50] <kenvandine> chad has a branch in review that works around the keyring problem<<BR>>
[17:50] <kenvandine> but it is a pretty big refactor<<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> so no more desktopcouch-se == 100% CPU?<<BR>>
[17:51] <kenvandine> the good news for them is he has narrowed the bug down to specific versions of libgnome-keyring0<<BR>>
[17:51] <kenvandine> i haven't been successful doing that in gwibber<<BR>>
[17:51] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, right<<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> did he narrow down the issue to a changeset?<<BR>>
[17:52] <kenvandine> he thought he did, but i patched that out and still got the issue<<BR>>
[17:52] <kenvandine> he was trying to do that yesterday afternoon, last i heard he hadn't found the specific commit<<BR>>
[17:52] <seb128> ok<<BR>>
[17:52] <seb128> it would be useful if he could find the commit<<BR>>
[17:52] <kenvandine> yeah, i think that is what he worked on all day yesterday<<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> k<<BR>>
[17:53] <kenvandine> in gwibber i think it is the combination of multiprocessing and threads<<BR>>
[17:53] <kenvandine> perhaps we are spamming the keyring via dbus<<BR>>
[17:53] <kenvandine> or something<<BR>>
[17:53] <kenvandine> more about that after the meeting<<BR>>
[17:53] <pitti> libdbus and threads is always an "interesting" combination<<BR>>
[17:53] <kenvandine> nothing urgent in the pipe for DX as far as i know<<BR>>
[17:53] <kenvandine> pitti, indeed<<BR>>
[17:53] <pitti> it keeps failing on me for anything but the main thread<<BR>>
[17:54] <kenvandine> pitti, it is the recipe for drinking heavily :)<<BR>>
[17:54] <kenvandine> doing that in gwibber would be a pretty significant code change :/<<BR>>
[17:54] <rickspencer3> ok, so a technical discussion for gwibber + keyring + threads right after the meeting?<<BR>>
[17:54] <kenvandine> yeah<<BR>>
[17:54] <rickspencer3> in that case, let's finish up ;)<<BR>>
[17:54] <kenvandine> i have a proposal<<BR>>
[17:54] <rickspencer3> pitti, release status?<<BR>>
[17:54] <seb128> speaking of dx, if you have dx issue which you think should be considered for lucid, let me or dbarth know<<BR>>
[17:55] <seb128> they are rocking their bugs list so might take over some extra issues for lucid ;-)<<BR>>
[17:55] <pitti> all beta-2 work items done since last week, good job<<BR>>
[17:55] <kenvandine> :)<<BR>>
[17:55] <seb128> pitti, \o/<<BR>>
[17:55] <pitti> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-desktop-team-ubuntu-10.04.html is looking fine<<BR>>
[17:55] <pitti> no actual work items for us except to disable "file a bug" menu<<BR>>
[17:56] <pitti> which we don't expect any problems with<<BR>>
[17:56] <pitti> I'm a bit more concerned about the large number of open bugs still<<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> it's in the ubuntu-desktop ppa now<<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> if you want to test<<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> the lpi change<<BR>>
[17:56] <pitti> remember that we basically have just one week left for the final push, then we'll go into final freeze<<BR>>
[17:57] <pitti> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/ReleaseStatus is pretty up to date, FYI<<BR>>
[17:57] <ccheney> what is the 'file a bug' issue is it something i need to change in OOo also, as it doesn't use lpi lib directly?<<BR>>
[17:57] <pitti> ccheney: good point; we want to drop the menu item for final<<BR>>
[17:57] <ccheney> pitti: is there a url about the issue?<<BR>>
[17:58] <pitti> ccheney: well, it isn't a "must do", but it might help thinning the firehose of really bad bug reports that we get<<BR>>
[17:58] <pitti> ccheney: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-lucid-bug-management<<BR>>
[17:58] <rickspencer3> pitti, I see that tseliot has a certain number of bugs still open, tseliot are you on track, or do you want some help prioritizing?<<BR>>
[17:58] <ccheney> pitti: ok<<BR>>
[17:59] <ccheney> pitti: i'll talk to you more about it offline<<BR>>
[17:59] <pitti> chrisccoulson: on that note, bug 447431 is still alive in current lucid :(<<BR>>
[17:59] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 447431 in gnome-desktop "gnome-settings-daemon dies with BadMatch" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/447431<<BR>>
[17:59] <chrisccoulson> pitti - yeah, slangasek said<<BR>>
[17:59] <pitti> but at this point, nothing more from me; any questions?<<BR>>
[17:59] <chrisccoulson> i'm surprised about that though, as upstream ignore the error that caused the original crash now :-/<<BR>>
[17:59] <tseliot> rickspencer3: I know but I can deal with them. I plan on fixing a fair amount in the next few days<<BR>>
[17:59] <pitti> ccheney: does 3.2.1 have any chance to land still?<<BR>>
[18:00] <ccheney> pitti: no, its still not released yet and i doubt it will be by next week<<BR>>
[18:00] <pitti> ccheney: is 3.2.0 "good enough"?<<BR>>
[18:00] <pitti> we might provide 3.2.1 in 10.04.1<<BR>>
[18:00] <ccheney> pitti: we could stick it in a SRU if someone wants it, but 3.2.0 is probably good enough<<BR>>
[18:00] <ccheney> pitti: of course i keep getting rc bugs at the last minute so 3.2.1 might be helpful as an sru in a month or two<<BR>>
[18:01] <pitti> ccheney: that sounds fine. .1 is three months from now<<BR>>
[18:01] <ccheney> pitti: ok yea that sounds fine<<BR>>
[18:01] <pitti> rickspencer3: back to you<<BR>>
[18:01] <Nafai> Remind me what SRU is?<<BR>>
[18:01] <ccheney> stable release update<<BR>>
[18:01] <rickspencer3> thanks pitti<<BR>>
[18:01] <Nafai> thanks<<BR>>
[18:01] <ccheney> Nafai: normally updates are only for security issues<<BR>>
[18:02] <rickspencer3> Nafai, so it's like when users get an update in update manager<<BR>>
[18:02]  * Nafai nods<<BR>>
[18:02] <rickspencer3> they are either fixes for grave problems or trivial fixes (very low rist)<<BR>>
[18:02] <rickspencer3> risk, even<<BR>>
[18:02] <chrisccoulson> Nafai, see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates<<BR>>
[18:02] <rickspencer3> but with an LST we plan a couple of point releases<<BR>>
[18:02] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[18:02] <rickspencer3> Any other business?<<BR>>
[18:03] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[18:04] <rickspencer3> let's call that a wrap, and move on to discussing gwibber<<BR>>
[18:04]  * rickspencer3 taps gavel<<BR>>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''
