{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Martin Pitt (pitti) - chair
* Alberto Milone (tseliot)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (ccheney)
* Didier Roche (didrocks)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)

=== Apologies ===
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)  
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* pitivi
* Post A3 Mindset
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Actions from this meeting ===

* Martin to review post-alpha 3 desktop team blueprints and discuss with Rick and Robbie what to drop
* Martin to discuss remaining two WIs for UbuntuSpec:desktop-lucid-compiz-effects with Rick
* Bryce to BP/WIify new work assigned on the sprint
* Alberto to add missing alpha-3 WIs to UbuntuSpec:foundations-lucid-boot-experience

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

None.

=== Partner Update ===

* Online Services:
** libubuntuone, the gtk widgets will get uploaded to lucid this week
     - dependency for rhythmbox music store plugin and the new U1 config tool.
** rhythmbox plugin should follow closely behind libubuntuone, but I expect next week.
** U1 config tool, which replaces the current applet, is still on track to land before feature freeze.
* DX:
** <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-LucidWeeklyReleases|Weekly Releases]]</nowiki>.
** MeMenu landed in Lucid (with gwibber integration)
** Large churn in indicator/dbusmenu packages last week, there are known bugs but please don't hesitate to file new ones.  We need to smooth this out ASAP.
** ido (Indicator Disaplay Objects) was uploaded last week, this contains the extra gtk widgets needed by indicators. Currently used for Gwibber integration in the MeMenu and indicator-sound (also due to upload this week).

=== Release Status ===

* We revisited http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-desktop-team-lucid-alpha-3.html, since we are slightly over the trend line:
** Bryce got some additional work at the sprint, will add WIs
** UbuntuSpec:desktop-lucid-startup-speed: We can't have Robert, drop gnome-panel speed up
** UbuntuSpec:desktop-lucid-xorg-triaging-diagnosis: targets of opportunity, but will benefit and ease X.org triaging work in the long run; potentially deferrable/droppable
** UbuntuSpec:desktop-lucid-social-from-the-start: Potentially droppable, targets of opportunity
** UbuntuSpec:desktop-lucid-xorg-proprietary-drivers: Some are done now, Alberto to update WI status; he might need help with those for alpha-3
** UbuntuSpec:desktop-lucid-compiz-effects: Remaining two are a lot of work, and highly questionable; should be dropped, but Martin to confirm/discuss with Rick

=== pitivi ===
* please help as you can with bug triaging/fixing
* Pedro will organize a [bh]ug day
* since we'll be concentrating on bug fixes, it's not very likely that we can keep this in the default install for lucid; however, revisiting this is a beta-1 work item, so we did not discuss it further in the meeting

=== Post A3 Mindset ===
* switch from feature work to quality work
* Find and fix the worst bugs
* Focus on upgrade experience, LTS -> LTS, Karmic -> Lucid

=== Other Business ===

None

=== Activity reports ===
==== Alberto Milone (tseliot) ====

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====

Blueprint work:
* create a web poll about the preferred desktop fonts on the LiveCD
* got ttf-liberation font package seeded onto the LiveCD
* discussed the font integration into software-center idea wit the Design team -> won't happen for Lucid or Lucid+1, therefor postpone the discussion about the details until we are ready for it.  
non-blueprint work:
* langpack-o-matic:
** finished the transfer to the new server
** fixed some bugs in po2xpi which broke firefox translations in devmode for languages with country codes in the locale
* translations:
** Firefox-3.6 transition for Lucid
** built new language packs for Lucid
* updated language-support-writing meta packages based on the new oo.o version in Lucid.

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====
* Nouveau
** File Main Inclusion Request to move -nouveau to main
** Draft release notes itemizing the functionality -nouveau provides over -nv, and for which chipsets
** Talk to kernel team about nouveau plans
** Prepare PPA of just nouveau bits we plan to put into lucid
** Document a contingency plan to revert -nouveau if needed
** craft a recipe for testing nouveau
** Patch xserver to prefer "nouveau" instead of "nv"
** Plan tasks for uploading nouveau to lucid
** Swap each of my nvidia cards and re-test nouveau with each
** Provide a X/Troubleshooting/ page for dealing with transition issues
** By Alpha-3 at latest, make a go/no-go decision on -nouveau vs. reverting to -nv
** Figure out licensing situation for nouveau's firmware blob
** Cleanup X/KernelModeSetting and include docs for turning KMS *off*
* Wayland
** Fix up libeagle with shlibs
** Fix libeagle/wayland packaging
** libeagle might need some shlibs-love, to make sure the deps get right (for packages that depend on it)
* USB Video
** Receive displaylink devices from jerone, with commitment to make it work.
** Receive displaylink device from persia, with commitment to make it work.
** Receive VGA-over-USB device from davidm, with commitment to make it work.
** Research USB Video / DisplayLink / etc.
** Compare persia's DisplayLink with jerone's
* Intel Driver
** Receive Dell mini-v device from rick-spencer, with commitment to making it work.
** Review jesse's directions for triggering a freeze
** Unprivate -intel bugs
** Work with pitti on getting apport hook functioning
* Sprint
** Kernel / X graphics meeting
** Demo wayland PPA to interested people
** Investigate firefox breakage.  Uninstall firefox-greasemonkey.  Recover from loss of ~/.mozilla
** Advise Mirco on Xorg issue with GL functionality on -intel
*** Get dorset set up for mirco to do Dx development Status:Done
** Advise jamie strand on Xorg issues
*** Triage Bug 513950 - Jamie's xfreeze with compiz but no kms
*** Triage bug #513956 - jamie's garbled compiz screen on ATI
*** Follow up jamie's bug 507148
** Advise jcastro on X issue with GPU freeze when using GnomeDo
** Advise bdmurray on X issue with HP touchscreen
** Advise Cody on Xorg issue with rgba client-side failure
** Advise lifeless on 3 Xorg issues with i965
** Advise lifeless on Xorg issue with blanked screen
** Advise DavidM on Xorg issue with VGA-over-USB devices
** Advise persia on Xorg issue with DisplayLink support
** merge patches from lifeless
** Find out why json import failed for brian
** Send hugh prioritized list of suggested candidates
** Collapse in a heap
** Start filing expense report (but I need mileage rates before I can submit it)
* ChromeOS
** Upload -nohwaccess patch for xserver
** Upload patch for requiring KMS in -intel
** Experiment setting up rootless-X.  Create a demo script.  Send to Google.  Follow up with foundations team.
* Sponsor patch for: [Bug 389289] Re: Cannot query freedesktop.org's bugzilla

==== Chris Cheney (ccheney) ====
* Sick Jan 28-29
* Continue to work on libsoup2.4
* Tested and got mumble fixed
* Uploaded openoffice.org 1:3.2.0~rc4-1ubuntu1
* Uploaded openoffice.org-l10n 1:3.2.0~rc4-1ubuntu1
* Uploaded openoffice.org-hyphenation 0.4
* Merged packages:
** Uploaded pentaho-reporting-flow-engine-openoffice.org 0.9.2-OOo31-3ubuntu1
** Uploaded liblayout-openoffice.org 0.2.9-OOo31-3ubuntu1
** Uploaded openthesaurus 20080808-3ubuntu1
** Uploaded hunspell 1.2.8-6ubuntu1
** Uploaded openoffice.org-dictionaries 3.2.0~rc4-1ubuntu1
** Uploaded hyphen 2.4-6ubuntu1
* Dictionary transition
** Uploaded dict-nr 20070206-4
** Uploaded dict-ns 20070206-4
** Uploaded dict-ss 20070206-4
** Uploaded dict-st 20070206-4
** Uploaded dict-tn 20070206-4
** Uploaded dict-ts 20070207-4
** Uploaded dict-ve 20070206-3
** Uploaded dict-xh 20070206-4
** Uploaded dict-zu 20070207-5
** Uploaded magyarispell 1.2-0ubuntu2
** Uploaded myspell-hr 20060617-2ubuntu1
** Uploaded openoffice.org-thesaurus-pl 1.5-3ubuntu1
** Reported bugs to Debian about bgoffice, ispell-fi, and medicalterms not being properly transitioned.

==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====

* GNOME updates:
** 2.29.4 release: totem, totem-pl-parser, gcalctool, brasero, gtksourceview2
** 2.29.90 release: seahorse-plugins, brasero, vinagre 
* sponsor: yelp apport hook, gwibber
* Patch for caching wallpaper(s) resize at startup, still in discussion with upstream
* Port a patch about grouping windows in mutter
* package/fix package/review buhugger and quickly-widgets
* clean UNE stack (netbooklauncher, ubuntu-netbook-default-settings) and hide search for files
* UNE now get abiword and gnumeric

WI work:
* g-c-c: WI: "Hide capplet panel choosing the window manager if mutter is running"
(the panel is not really hidden, but a warning when mutter is running is displayed and it's disabling other switchers, as when compiz isn't in the path)
* Closed WI Audit packages/modules related to runtime parts of the UNE session that may be impacted by installed packages
* Closed WI fix "search for files" in app menu

Misc:
* some unfinished work on compiz and metacity about not showing tooltip on toolbar. Will be ready next week
* talked with upstream about one ws should hide the ws switcher, but they don't like the idea: https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=606966. Still want to port it in metacity for UNE default.
* testing some bzr new workflow for packaging with merge-upstream (debugging, fix some part with upstream and james_w)

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====

* Lots of Gwibber/SFTS work
** Released 2.29.1
** Finished off the MeMenu integration
** Uploaded to universe
* Updated empathy to 2.29.90
** Updated libindicate patch to handle timestamps from libindicate
** Added LP menus for chat windows
* Packaged ido
* Updated libubuntuone packaging

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====
==== Accessibility ====
* Fixed accessible login so that it works more than once, i.e the user logs in, then either switches user, or logs out and back in as another user/the same user. Its a hack right now, but restarting speech-dispatcher only under the gdm accessible login conditions works for now. Speech-dispatcher needs to properly die when gdm/gnome-session die as well.
* Enabled accessible login for blindness/braille profiles when installing from the live CD.
* Started debugging why accessible installs using orca do not work in only-ubiquity mode. Will wait till the new at-spi comes out before going much further with this.
* Updated speech-dispatcher to the latest git snapshot available from my own git tree, which I work on in my own time.
* Involved with various discussions about the future of gnome-orca, now that the lead developer from Sun has been layed off. Nothing is clear where things will go just yet.

==== Audio ====
* Audio bug triaging, bugs in question are against pulseaudio, alsa userspace, and the kernel for hardware enablement.
* Tested the alsa-plugins a52 plugin with pulse. It still carshes. I hope to try and debug this at some point in the future.
* Gave Brad Fig from the kernel team, and Conor from the desktop experience team a crash course in how to get hda audio hardware working, so far as the tools to analyze and test are concerned. Writing quirks will come later.
* With Conor's help, identified the pins that need code written for them to allow the Lenovo IdeaPad U350 to properly mute the internal speakers when headphones are connected. I suspect the same work will need to be done for the microphone input, but I am yet to read the bug in question to see if anybody has responded to my request for testing.
* Started writing a patch for the above hardware, once node IDs were identified using hda-analyzer, and thanks to a pointer from Daniel T Chen as to how one goes about adding minimal code to the hda drier to fix only one problem.
* Had discussions with Brad and Conor, as well as the kernel team, about better handling of audio bugs, particularly hda/kernel bugs. Will help Brad flesh out the documentatino a bit in the coming week.

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====
Assigned blueprints:
* desktop-lucid-likewise-open-migration: implemented
* desktop-lucid-jockey-hotplug-support: implemented
* desktop-lucid-powermanagement-tweaks: implemented
* desktop-lucid-suspend-quirks-halsectomy (implemented): spent some hours fixing the suspend quirks for real,
all good now
* desktop-lucid-xorg-halsectomy: implemented
* desktop-lucid-bug-management: audio symptoms got default bug titles

Non-blueprint work done:
* Did some outstanding merges: adduser, gzip, igerman98, pygments
* Lots of boot speed work:
** speed up modem-manager
** speed up gconf
** speed up gnome-at-session
** eliminated expensive gnome-wm from UNE
** discussed removing the expensive dd process from rsyslog; kernel fix landed, rsyslog fix handed over to foundations
** investigated netbook-launcher startup (itz hopeless)
** experimented with different background configurations
* Fixed x.org's apport signal handler patch to work again
* Bug fixing: devicekit-power, gconf, glib2.0
* Package updates: gnome-control-center
* TB meeting
* DMB meeting
* Lots of MIR reviews
* Caught up on bug triage, new bugs inbox down to 10

Sponsoring:
* devicekit-power, gnome-power-manager
=

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* desktop updates: tomboy*2 file-roller seahorse libgweather gcalctool glibmm gtkmm gnome-desktop gvfs nautilus glib
* dx updates: libdbusmenu libindicate indicator-application notify-osd
* updated desktop-file-utils defaults.list to reflect default software changes
* updated gnome-panel, evolution and update-notifier to use the new 
   gnome-session autostart desktop delay key
* backported some tomboy fixes from debian
* updated glib gettext patch to work with X-GNOME-Fullname too
* updated gnome-settings-daemon patch to disable corner tapping
* cleaned some warnings and error in distro changes for gnome-control-center
* backported upstream bugzilla gtk change for nicer tooltips
* updated empathy message indicator option label to be less confusing
* updated gnome-python-desktop to stop using nautilus-cd-burner, backported
   git change to fix the build with new totem-pl-parser
* changed compiz to set the gettext domain and clean schemas translations
* worked with mvo to change default compiz settings for lucid
* discussed indicators abi break and how to transition with ted and did corresponding changes
* backported rhythmbox git commit to build with new totem-pl-parser and set watch on by default
* synced new gstreamer packages from debian
* rebuild nautilus for indicator changes
* uploaded new gtk-engine-murrine to lucid
* discussed login speed during the sprint and did bootcharts
* worked on nm-applet changes to do lazy init for loading its icons
* changed launchpad-integration to set mono dlls maping correctly and fix tomboy breakage

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====
* cups: Fixed text filter texttopdf to not produce output with too wide and messy fonts, (LP: #447961), fixed cupsfilter crashing out-of-the-box (LP: #442283), SRUed LP: #447961, LP: #508731, LP: #407344, LP: #487902.
* system-config-printer: Updated to the current state of the 1.1.x GIT (1.1.16+) to have the current state of the stable system-config-printer series for Lucid.
* python-cups: Updated to current stable release 1.9.48.
* foomatic-filters: Fixed suppression of the insertion of page accounting PostScript code when the Foomatic/Postscript driver is used (LP: 513690), assured that PDF input to foomatic-rip is turned to PostScript via Poppler if needed and not via Ghostscript (LP: #463059). SRUed the latter issue, for the former an SRU is planned.
* foomatic-db: Fixed several bugs reported to Ubuntu in the upstream package: LP: #250872, LP: #504841, LP: #505423, LP: #510832.
* hplip, gutenprint: Informed upstream developers about the upcoming Lucid FF, they answered that they will release their next versions in time.
* Answered and triaged lots of printing-related bug reports.

== IRC Logs ==
[16:30]  * pitti rings the bell<<BR>>
[16:30] <pitti> hello everyone<<BR>>
[16:30] <kenvandine> hey<<BR>>
[16:30] <mvo> seb128: uploaded alrady<<BR>>
[16:30] <didrocks> hey o/<<BR>>
[16:30] <mvo> seb128: eh, I think<<BR>>
[16:30] <seb128> mvo, ok good, thanks ;-)<<BR>>
[16:30] <seb128> hey pitti<<BR>>
[16:30] <pitti> tseliot, Riddell: meeting ping?<<BR>>
[16:30] <seb128> mvo, it's not on -changes<<BR>>
[16:30]  * rickspencer3 slips out quietly<<BR>>
[16:30] <seb128> mvo, but my mail must be lagging<<BR>>
[16:31] <mvo> seb128: no, my mistake it seems<<BR>>
[16:31] <ccheney> hi<<BR>>
[16:31] <pitti> so, boss is out, time for everyone to party<<BR>>
[16:31] <tseliot> o/<<BR>>
[16:31] <didrocks> heh<<BR>>
[16:31] <didrocks> another sauna time? ;)<<BR>>
[16:31] <kenvandine> hehe<<BR>>
[16:31] <pitti> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2010-02-09<<BR>>
[16:31] <pitti> everyone safely back home?<<BR>>
[16:32] <pitti> just wanted to say that last week was great!<<BR>>
[16:32] <pitti> (except for the travelling..)<<BR>>
[16:32]  * tseliot agrees with pitti<<BR>>
[16:32] <kenvandine> great week!<<BR>>
[16:32] <seb128> indeed!<<BR>>
[16:32] <pitti> TOPIC: Outstanding actions from last meeting<<BR>>
[16:32] <pitti> fortunately, none<<BR>>
[16:32] <tseliot> :-)<<BR>>
[16:32] <pitti> TOPIC: Partner Update<<BR>>
[16:32] <kenvandine> ok<<BR>>
[16:32] <pitti> kenvandine: floor's your's<<BR>>
[16:33] <kenvandine> lots of stuff landed on thursday<<BR>>
[16:33] <kenvandine> thanks so much for the help seb128!<<BR>>
[16:33] <kenvandine> i was glad to have SFTS time :)<<BR>>
[16:33] <kenvandine> there are known bugs<<BR>>
[16:33] <kenvandine> specifically related to dbusmenu and libindicate<<BR>>
[16:33] <kenvandine> but please don't hesitate to file more<<BR>>
[16:33] <kenvandine> it is API breakage, and there is likely going to be more bugs<<BR>>
[16:34] <pitti> at least all the indicators are generally happy again<<BR>>
[16:34] <kenvandine> s/it is/there was/<<BR>>
[16:34] <kenvandine> yeah<<BR>>
[16:34] <pitti> message one was badly damaged<<BR>>
[16:34] <kenvandine> they are getting better today<<BR>>
[16:34] <kenvandine> again, please file bugs...<<BR>>
[16:34] <kenvandine> it should be the last distruptive change from DX :)<<BR>>
[16:34] <pitti> the new input line in status indicator, is that the away message?<<BR>>
[16:34] <kenvandine> hehe... no<<BR>>
[16:35] <kenvandine> that is the SFTS bit<<BR>>
[16:35] <kenvandine> it posts to gwibber<<BR>>
[16:35] <kenvandine> it will become more dynamic, so if you don't use gwibber it will be hidden<<BR>>
[16:35] <pitti> i don't even have that, shouldn't it appear only when you configured it?<<BR>>
[16:35] <pitti> ah, of course you preemt my complaints, sweet :)<<BR>>
[16:35] <kenvandine> yeah... it was the first pass... but we nned to fix that :)<<BR>>
[16:36] <kenvandine> OLS<<BR>>
[16:36] <kenvandine> they have libubuntuone to land in lucid this week<<BR>>
[16:36] <kenvandine> i am just waiting for a new release and i will look for sponsors<<BR>>
[16:36] <jcastro> qense: can you please blog about your work on transmission? it's awesome.<<BR>>
[16:36] <kenvandine> it is needed for the rb plugin as well as the U1 applet replacement<<BR>>
[16:36] <jcastro> qense: also, include a screenshot. :D<<BR>>
[16:37] <kenvandine> jcastro, meeting :)<<BR>>
[16:37] <jcastro> bah, sorry!<<BR>>
[16:37] <qense> jcastro: good idea, I'll do it!<<BR>>
[16:37] <kenvandine> those are still on schedule to land before feature freeze<<BR>>
[16:37] <kenvandine> that is it for the partner update, questions?<<BR>>
[16:38] <pitti> kenvandine: so RB will land on time?<<BR>>
[16:38] <pitti> it's getting a bit tight<<BR>>
[16:38] <kenvandine> supposedly<<BR>>
[16:38] <pitti> ok, thanks Ken!<<BR>>
[16:38] <pitti> [TOPIC] Kubuntu Update<<BR>>
[16:38] <pitti> Riddell: what's new on the KDE front?<<BR>>
[16:39] <pitti> skipping<<BR>>
[16:39] <pitti> [TOPIC] pitivi<<BR>>
[16:39] <pitti> rickspencer3 put that on the table<<BR>>
[16:40] <pitti> seb128: any idea about the contents, except for "if you have spare cycles, help with bug triage/fixing"?<<BR>>
[16:40] <rickspencer3> pedro_, and seb128 discussed a bit this morning about that<<BR>>
[16:40] <seb128> pitti, I think Riddell is on VAC this week<<BR>>
[16:40] <rickspencer3> pitti, yes, especially community members who are looking for a way to help<<BR>>
[16:40] <seb128> pitti, not really but pedro will set a bug day<<BR>>
[16:40] <rickspencer3> helping pitivi team would be appreciated<<BR>>
[16:41] <pitti> python-gudev is packaged now, so that unblocked their migration away from hal<<BR>>
[16:41] <pitti> is it still on the table to keep it in lucid by default?<<BR>>
[16:42] <pitti> Admittedly I have no idea about it's status and quality<<BR>>
[16:42] <pitti> well, we said we'd review it at beta-1 time, so let's defer that question, shall we?<<BR>>
[16:42] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, btw the problems i was having with pitivi isn't really pitivi's fault... it is recordmydesktop<<BR>>
[16:43] <rickspencer3> pitti, well, it won't be ready no one attends to bugs and such<<BR>>
[16:43] <rickspencer3> and I would like it to be ready ;)<<BR>>
[16:43] <rickspencer3> that's all<<BR>>
[16:43] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, understood, thanks<<BR>>
[16:43]  * rickspencer3 afk<<BR>>
[16:43] <seb128> ETOOMUCHTODO<<BR>>
[16:44] <pitti> which brings us directly to...<<BR>>
[16:44] <seb128> ie we have ton of things which need work and bug fixing and we are getting late<<BR>>
[16:44] <pitti> [TOPIC] post-A3 planning<<BR>>
[16:44] <seb128> I can see packages that need work before pitivi<<BR>>
[16:44] <seb128> ie gpm<<BR>>
[16:44] <pitti> so after we did the rush of new features, boot speed, etc. by alpha-3, we need to switch full speed to fixing what we have<<BR>>
[16:44] <pitti> and stop introducing new things and bugs<<BR>>
[16:45] <pitti> I'll review the list of specs that we have left, and see what we can drop for lucid<<BR>>
[16:45] <pitti> (with rickspencer3 and robbie)<<BR>>
[16:45] <pitti> we'll review that in next week's meeting<<BR>>
[16:45] <bryceh> pitti, I got some more work assigned at the sprint<<BR>>
[16:45] <pitti> bryceh: the ruthless X bits?<<BR>>
[16:45] <bryceh> pitti, I'll try to get specs in for that work today<<BR>>
[16:46] <tseliot> heh<<BR>>
[16:46] <bryceh> pitti, that's one<<BR>>
[16:46] <pitti> bryceh: appreciated, so that we can milestone/WI it<<BR>>
[16:46] <pitti> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-desktop-team-lucid-alpha-3.html<<BR>>
[16:46] <pitti> we are generally doing quite well, but it seems we need to drop some bits; we're running over<<BR>>
[16:47] <asac> 17:26 < fta2> asac, plz reject the merge from mvo, the control file is bogus<<BR>>
[16:47] <pitti> tseliot: are there by any chance some WIs from xorg-prop-drivers which are done, but not marked as such yet?<<BR>>
[16:47] <asac> mvo: ^^<<BR>>
[16:47] <asac> seems you committed merge conflicts<<BR>>
[16:47] <pitti> asac: (meeting in progress)<<BR>>
[16:47] <asac> oops<<BR>>
[16:47] <asac> sry<<BR>>
[16:47] <tseliot> let me check<<BR>>
[16:48] <pitti> kenvandine, tseliot, and bryceh currently top the list of open WIs<<BR>>
[16:48] <pitti> which maps to<<BR>>
[16:48] <kenvandine> pitti, most of the SFTS ones are targets of opportunity<<BR>>
[16:48] <pitti> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-lucid-xorg-triaging-diagnosis<<BR>>
[16:48] <bryceh> oh I have several nouveau wi's I completed yesterday<<BR>>
[16:48] <kenvandine> so easy to drop<<BR>>
[16:48] <pitti> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-lucid-social-from-the-start<<BR>>
[16:48] <pitti> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-lucid-xorg-proprietary-drivers<<BR>>
[16:48] <bryceh> sadly I'll still be toping the list once the new specs get added<<BR>>
[16:48] <pitti> kenvandine: right, I was going to suggest that<<BR>>
[16:49] <pitti> kenvandine: as long as it's in a consistent state<<BR>>
[16:49] <kenvandine> but i think it is safe to wait to de-scope those, since we already defined the ones that are easiest to drop<<BR>>
[16:49] <kenvandine> right?<<BR>>
[16:49] <pitti> kenvandine: since you know better which ones need to go together, would you mind moving the optional ones out of alpha-3?<<BR>>
[16:49] <tseliot> pitti: yes, there are a few things which I completed already<<BR>>
[16:49] <pitti> kenvandine: well, I'd rather have them moved out to general "lucid" now, so that we can see where we stand<<BR>>
[16:50] <kenvandine> humm... they shouldn't be listed, they don't have a "work items:" above them<<BR>>
[16:50] <tseliot> pitti: there's not a task about the new boot theme I'm supposed to work on though<<BR>>
[16:50] <kenvandine> oh, the ones targetted for alpha-3 are in good shape<<BR>>
[16:50] <kenvandine> almost done in fact<<BR>>
[16:51] <kenvandine> nm, those should all get completed real soon<<BR>>
[16:51] <pitti> tseliot: oh, which BP does that come from?<<BR>>
[16:52] <pitti> seb128: can we agree that the two remaining WIs on desktop-lucid-compiz-effects are crackful and better be dropped for good? (wrt. messing with configuration)<<BR>>
[16:52] <pitti> seb128: (I'll take the bullets)<<BR>>
[16:52] <seb128> pitti, rick disagreed on that, can we have this discussion after meeting when he's back?<<BR>>
[16:52] <seb128> fine with me<<BR>>
[16:52] <pitti> seb128: ok, I'll discuss with him tomorrow then<<BR>>
[16:52] <seb128> I think it's crackful too<<BR>>
[16:53] <tseliot> pitti: this one: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/foundations-lucid-boot-experience<<BR>>
[16:53] <seb128> I will get the nm-applet one uploaded this week<<BR>>
[16:53] <seb128> will try to get upstream to comment on it<<BR>>
[16:53] <seb128> then we are mostly done for bootspeed items I guess<<BR>>
[16:54] <seb128> still the wallpaper one remaining<<BR>>
[16:54] <pitti> tseliot: oh, it's all "DONE" there; if there's something outstanding, please add work items under "work items (lucid-alpha-3):"<<BR>>
[16:54] <pitti> seb128: right; any additional wisdom/status about boot speed from you?<<BR>>
[16:54] <seb128> not this week no<<BR>>
[16:55] <seb128> I'm out of mini and didn't have time for that since the sprint<<BR>>
[16:55] <pitti> bryceh: seems that the WIs of you that could most easily be deferred are the bug triaging scripts<<BR>>
[16:55] <desrt> alpha 2 is difficult to install!<<BR>>
[16:55] <tseliot> pitti: I should add a task in that blueprint too, I guess<<BR>>
[16:55] <pitti> bryceh: althought it seems to me that an investment in those might be a huge time-saver in the long run?<<BR>>
[16:55] <bryceh> pitti, that's correct<<BR>>
[16:56] <pitti> bryceh: the two WIs from the other specs seem easy to do<<BR>>
[16:56] <pitti> bryceh: http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-desktop-team-lucid-alpha-3.html#bryceharrington I mean<<BR>>
[16:56] <bryceh> yeah<<BR>>
[16:57] <pitti> bryceh: so perhaps do the high-prio ones first, and work on improving the bug scraping in the remaining time?<<BR>>
[16:57] <bryceh> actually most of the bug triaging tasks are not difficult, I've just been prioritizing other WIs ahead of them as they involve components that go into the distro<<BR>>
[16:57] <bryceh> pitti, yep, that's the plan<<BR>>
[16:58] <pitti> tseliot: ok, let's see how much of your's remain after you close the ones that are done; what's your feeling, do you think you can make your's for alpha-3, or do we need to cut?<<BR>>
[16:59] <seb128> pitti, you can probably postpone the 2 gnome-panel wis from robert_ancell...<<BR>>
[17:00] <pitti> :(<<BR>>
[17:00] <pitti> ok<<BR>>
[17:00] <tseliot> pitti: I don't think I can deal with all of them. Some cuts will definitely be required. I can send you an email about it<<BR>>
[17:00] <pitti> tseliot: appreciated, thanks<<BR>>
[17:00] <seb128> pitti, well maybe check with him but I don't see that happening before alpha3 now<<BR>>
[17:00] <seb128> pitti, it requires some non trivial work and architectural changes<<BR>>
[17:01] <seb128> kenvandine, do we still have gtk changes schedules for alpha3?<<BR>>
[17:01] <kenvandine> maybe<<BR>>
[17:01] <seb128> kenvandine, you have a "integrate patches in the gtk package" work item<<BR>>
[17:02] <kenvandine> we are still waiting<<BR>>
[17:02] <seb128> I was not sure if that was rgba which got delayed to next cycle<<BR>>
[17:02] <pitti> seb128: done<<BR>>
[17:02] <seb128> kenvandine, ok thanks<<BR>>
[17:02] <pitti> does anyone else have some trouble or remarks with his WIs?<<BR>>
[17:03] <didrocks> pitti: the two WI added on my plate by the Mobile team will be review in a call tomorrow<<BR>>
[17:03] <pitti> good, seems that's on track now<<BR>>
[17:03] <pitti> TOPIC: AOB<<BR>>
[17:04] <pitti> 20 seconds<<BR>>
[17:04] <seb128> 10 seconds? ;-)<<BR>>
[17:04] <pitti> [END MEETING]<<BR>>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
