{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Review of Karmic ==

=== Developer approach ===

In Karmic we <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Specs/Karmic/BugWorkflow|changed the approach]]</nowiki>
for developers to concentrate more on fixing bugs than on triaging new ones. 

This was overall a success: The entire Ubuntu team in total (including community) increased bug fixing by 20% (see bugs fixed in <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/bug-fixing/jaunty-fixes-report.html|jaunty]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/bug-fixing/karmic-fixes-report.html|karmic]]</nowiki>. Canonical desktop team members got an increase as well.

So in total we had a good improvement, and given that Jaunty was a QA cycle and
in Karmic we did a lot of upstream-ish work and did not really "mean" to fix a
lot of bugs, the outcome was very satisfying.

=== Testing/Reporting ===

Many bugs only get reported after release (e. g. hardware/driver specific problems). This is the usual chicken-egg problem of too few testers before release.

Bryce reports that X driver testing is hard: most developers use Intel hardware because it is better supported. Then non-developers finally test NVIDIA upon release.

In Karmic we disabled the +filebug Launchpad page for
non-ubuntu-bugcontrol-members, which led to richer bug reports, but not
necessarily better descriptions nor fewer bug reports.

Things that take time for Desktop developers:
* Duplicates that cannot be automatically marked duplicate, because they have wildly different titles. These indicate the reporters are not finding the existing reports.
* Bug reports from prolific posters of low quality bugs
* Dead bugs that have been fixed but haven't been closed (clutters up bug list).
* Bug storms from automatic duplication (i. e. everyone getting noticed everytime there is a duplicate then people doing a reply-all to try and unsubscribe/complain).

== Bug report quality ==

There is a large difference between true defect reports and support requests
which are often "something happened, how do I actually write a useful defect
report?". Most incoming reports are unfortunately in the latter class.

It is currently hard to separate high-quality from low-quality bug reports, as
well as seeing bugs which affect a lot of people.

=== Expectations from different groups ===

Value of bug reports:
* Users: support tool
* Developers: improve Ubuntu, pool of potential issues to work on
* Marketing opportunity to help sell Ubuntu
** phone-a-friend to have your bug reproduced/confirmed or getting help for (connecting to local community)
** look at these other bugs about this package to try and confirm them to help out
* Expectations from both sides are not encoded anywhere

=== Goals for improvements ===

1. Solve scalability issue
2. Reduce incoming bugs
3. Higher quality bug reports

== Changes ==

=== Workflow ===

* Disable menu item for reporting a bug in the stable release; only leave it for the development release

* After a new Ubuntu release, set new bugs to incomplete and ask whether it's still an issue in the newer version; this goes hand in hand with automatic time out. This should be done on a per-package basis with a script invoked by the package maintainer.

* Dynamic is against the core team keeping up with incoming bugs, so stop trying.

=== Apport ===

* Auto-subscribe QA team by the apport retracer once it gets the tenth duplicate,  for creating bug patterns.

* Change apport symptoms and appropriate package hooks to produce default bug titles, so that Launchpad's "proposed duplicates" becomes useful for bugs.

* Marc Tardiff to provide list of types of problems that we should make symptoms for.

=== Launchpad ===

* Automatically time out incomplete bugs without response for Ubuntu which do not have an assignee (needs to be enabled in Launchpad). This would work better with a new "Expired" state (which can't be set from the web UI), but "Invalid" will do for now.

* Change Launchpad bug interface to setting expectations and next steps (after a user has submitted a bug) (deryck)

* Improve/fine tune parameters for "bug heat".

=== Community ===

* Generalize hug day concept and involve the community more: "15 minutes a day ... please triage these three bugs"

* Adopt a package for triaging, give triagers a sense of ownership

* The qa team discussed this topic on the review of the bugsquad mentoring program.
