{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===

* Martin Pitt (pitti) -- chair
* Scott James Remnant (Keybuk)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Kenneth Wimer (kwwii)
* Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt)

=== Apologies ===

* Alexander Sack (asac) -- holiday
* Bryce Harrington (bryce) -- national holiday
* Chris Cheney (calc) -- travelling
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128) -- national holiday

=== Agenda ===

* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsoring Overview update]]</nowiki>
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

* Martin to upload current PPA langpacks to hardy/intrepid-proposed -- deferred; there was a langpack-o-matic bug which broke KDE translation, which Martin fixed, and we were waiting for a new Rosetta export to get full KDE translations; ETA tomorrow
* Jonathan to track down who is working on bug #290695, set assignee, and clarify status  -- nobody is working on it, he will look into it himself

=== Actions from this meeting ===

* Everyone to think about what they would like to work on in Jaundy; we will discuss UDS preparations in next week's meeting.

=== Team changes ===

Scott announced that next week will be his last meeting with the desktop team. He will be on holiday from the 22nd on, and there will be a new desktop team manager starting in December.

Matthew and Ken will move to the Visual/Creative Design team next week.

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

No report received, on holiday.

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====

* langpack-o-matic: import new intrepid translations (full-export from Rosetta)
* cleaning up bugmail and follow up on some outstanding issues
* reorganizing my data on my laptop to make space for Jaunty development
* uploading hardy langpack updates
* doing some work on font-selector

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

General:
* Worked on assigned bugs, updated todo lists
* Reviewed -intel quirks.
** Filed Hardy SRU for the 8xx pipea quirk, which has been sufficiently well tested now.
* Catch up on xorg, debian-x, etc. mailing lists
* Upstreamed 190857, 291053, 291045, 291040, 270690, 291055, 268853
* Triaged 500 new bugs across various xorg packages.  Resulted in being able to close several score as fixed, or invalid due to unavailable hardware.
* Sponsor queue 1 hr (mainly just cleanup/review)

Assigned release targeted bugs:
* 284346 "Fix dithering" [Fix Committed].  Cherrypicked patches from upstream for this, packaged, tested, and submitted as SRU.
* 274234 "CD_INVALID_OPCODE" [Fix Committed].  Fix for 284346 should also fix this one.
* 278318 "video tearing".  Not targeted, but regression worth review, that can probably be easily addressed by adding an xorg.conf option.

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====

* Attended the OOoCon 2008 conference
* Bug triage

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

done:
* Merging KDE packages with Debian
* Discussing UDS ideas
* Merging patches for system-config-printer-kde
* SRU for kdelibs 278602

todo:
* start packaging KDE 4.2 snapshot

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

Short report, 3 days...adjusting to new weekly meeting schedule.

* Finished design and made eps file for UDS armbands

* getting more informed/involved in gnome-art, attended meeting; collecting info for simplified 2D panel theme, gtk-css engine, etc.

* Updating Dust theme in community-themes package...now includes 3 color variants which also look nice, coming soon in my PPA for testing

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Currently open intrepid-updates targeted bugs: None

Non-chores work done:
* A ton of intrepid SRU processing and sponsoring
* Lots of merges; forwarded all relevant patches to Debian/upstream as appropriate
* Updated ConsoleKit to 0.3
* Updated hal to new git snapshot for patch cleanup, sent patches upstream
* Fixed my intrepid targetted bugs
* 9.04 planning phone calls
* set up dddebs.ubuntu.com for Jaunty

Sponsoring: 
* f-spot, fast-user-switch-applet, gnome-games, gnome-pilot, gnome-settings-daemon, grub, grub-installer, initramfs-tools, mdadm, kde4libs

==== Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt) ====

No report received.

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

No report received, on holiday.
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
