{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===

* Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) - chair
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Kenneth Wimer (kwwii)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt)
* Michael Vogt (mvo)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)

* Ted Gould (tedg)

=== Agenda ===

* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* (kwwii) Status of splitting of gnome-themes package
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsoring Overview update]]</nowiki>
* Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Status of splitting of gnome-themes package ===

kwwii asked about the status of splitting the gnome-themes packages, however since we are now in final release freeze, this kind of change is simply too invasive and will be deferred to jaunty.

=== Activity reports ===

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

* generally lots of bug fixing before release
* continual poking and discussion about why language packs are still totally incomplete
* commit our plasma improved logout patch upstream
* fix samba support in kio-smb
* add back KDE 3's mediamanager needed for easy music player support in Amarok
* Various fixes to install-package and language-selector
* Checking and uploading patches to Adept
* Fixing casper for kubuntu documentation
* half day archive admin
* fix taskjuggler compile
* Various discussions on the bluetooth problem, no resolution

todo:
* RC
* keep poking people until complete language packs appear

no milestoned bugs

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

* gconf settings for panel bg fix (finding which keys to set, etc)...now finished and in intrepid human-theme package. going to learn more about how to put these gconf changes directly into a theme

* rounded ff gtk discussion: we changed gtkrc's, talked about patch with asac...now we found out that the patch will not go in until 3.01, reverted everything in gtkrc

* wallpapers, themes, etc. all in intrepid now

* renamed NewHuman to DarkRoom, edited theme to have more contrast in the tabs, darker more saturated colors  #275271

* little green man...figuring out what to do about this

* made branding svg for kubuntu

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Assigned Intrepid specs: all implemented

Currently open intrepid targeted bugs: all killed ATM

Other non-chores work done:
* Lots of RC and other bug fixing
* gphoto digicam handling is finally fixed for good now

Sponsoring:
* cut quite a dent into the queue and processed everything which I can reasonably judge and shouldn't be postponed
* abiword, curl, gdm, g-p-m, gnome-terminal, gzip, libexif (intrepid/hardy), nis, nvidia-graphics-drivers-17{3,7}, nvidia-settings, pm-utils, tracker, ubuntu-docs, ubuntu-wallpapers, ubuntu-artwork, human-theme 

==== Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt) ====

(This is for the past two weeks, since I wasn't at last week's meeting.)

* Various internal Canonical stuff, and Launchpad design feedback.
* Polished fglrx upgrade text for Michael Vogt. <http://paste.ubuntu.com/50556/>
* Several discussions with Ted Gould about handling upgrades to the new status menu.
* With Evan Dandrea, discussed renaming the live CD the Test Drive CD. <https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/live-cd-and-persistence>
* 2008-10-06 ~ 2008-10-10: Attended Gnome User Experience Hackfest. Many ideas are now published on the Gnome wiki. <http://live.gnome.org/Boston2008/GUIHackfest>
* 2008-10-11 ~ 2008-10-13: Attended Gnome Boston Summit. Had good discussions about accessibility options, and presenting system settings in general.

==== Michael Vogt (mvo) ====

Milestoned Bugs (with intrepid task):
* #278112 - Screensaver does not start with compiz
* #19021 - should run dpkg --configure -a automatically

Milestoned bugs (targets of opportunity for me):
* #267749 - libflashsupport removal in u-m
* #276606 - maintainer script failure in rkhunter (universe)
* #277301 - maintainer script failure in djvulibre (universe)
* #283155 - bug in pythons urllib, not easy to trigger, might need a workaround

Upgrades:
* Add quirks handler for kdelibs4-dev to kdelibs5-dev (#279621)   
* work on debian-cd to make small adjustments for the "we have no uncompressed packages files anymore" case
* fix hang in partial upgrades mode (on cleanup)
* add code to the xorg_fix_intrepid script to remove input devices after the xserver 1.5 upgrade (hal is used now) and add apport suppotr
* fix race between apt.cron.daily and the release upgrader
* merge the aptcdrom update-manager branch that can deal with missing uncompressed Packages files on the CD
* revert fglrx->ati transition now that we have fglrx
* fix crash with gconf and kde tempfile handling
* fix crash when etckeeper was used in large installations (sigpipe issue) 
* Upgrade testing

compiz:
* 0.7.8 upload into intrepid
* work on the compiz crash #145360, no progress, upstream 
* Debug/fix gnome-control-center appearance issue (#275744) with update compiz/plugins-main/plugins-extra
* Fix broken scalefilter compiz module (plugins-extra)
* debug/discuss focus handling problem with upstream and merge fix into wall plugin

desktop:
* write fusa-migration script and fusa-migration note and add it to the gnome-panel package
* the gstreamer sync from last week expect a different name for the codec search app (gstreamer-codec-search), update the code
* Update gnome-app-install to have alternative
* Gnome-app-install bug triage, fix crashes/bugs 
* Debug/fix quoting problem in update-notifier apt-cdrom-check

misc:
* Hack on debconf to remove the "cancel" and "close" buttons in the gtk frontend and sent the patch upstream
* sponsoring (gnome-control-center, smart, unattended-upgrades, ...)
* test new fglrx driver
* try to get updated translations from rosetta for update-manager, but all I get is 404 

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* lot of desktop bug work for intrepid 

* some desktop updates

* sponsoring, cairo, gnome-control-center, f-spot, file-roller, libxml++

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
