{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Bug/Development Status ==

See DesktopTeam/ReleaseStatus

== Meeting ==

The meeting was cancelled this week due to half of the team being on the
Desktop Summit.

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

* ACTION: kenvandine to investigate mozjs linkage and ABI/API policy
** RESULT: no resolution yet, but mozjs is required, db uses it for managing views, etc
* ACTION: kenvandine to work with asac regarding white listing of U1
** RESULT: need to file third part repo form
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to review how paper cut effort is working for the team next week

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

* mozilla
** getting ffox 3.5 and xulrunner 1.9.1 in the archive
** blog about ffox 3.5 release and lots of community discussion
** start preparing 3.0.12 security updates
** fixed thunderbird 3.0 packaging branch and support ubuntu user in <nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=502208|upstream bug]]</nowiki>
** investigate firefox not honouring gnome font hintstyle settings issue; found some oddities, but didn't get my hand on the upstream contact yet.
** tried to backport fennec to xulrunner 1.9.1; found that there are some gfx fixes missing in 1.9.1. upstream said they plan to support it for 1.0 though
* network-manager
** updating network-manager (-applet) 0.7.1 snapshot in PPA (multiple rounds after feedback); work with upstream to fix 3g breakage in the first snapshot and reuploaded; also implemented nm-applet backport for hardy
** package network-manager 0.8 trunk build and get some initial community testing done
** fixed and upstreamed network-manager trunk crash in ifupdown system-settings plugin
** update modem-manager packages in PPAs to latest
** update new mobile-broadband-provider-info package for new broadband wizard in PPA
** started to implement "get more" AP in the NM backend for the network-manager-ui spec
* misc
** help seb128 on mozjs build system tricks for getting gnome-shell ready.
** fixing/updating gwibber in karmic to latest snapshot and do a batch of gwibber bug triage
** libnl patch send upstream - nl_object clones look are missing ce_mask in order to get the same output in "dump" and other functions
** approved MIRs for qsjon, kopete-faceboox and arora
** started ifupdown merge
** answer mails on how to enable firefox extension translations in rosetta

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====

* discussion with mpt about the UI interface changes in language-selector
* improving Kubuntu translations:
** communicated with Kubuntu developers and upstream KDE on what we want to achieve
** communicated with Kubuntu developers about KDE template changes
** moved KDE templates in Rosetta
** con-call with David Planella
** participate in ubuntu-translations irc meeting
* langpack-o-matic: 
** add code for Chinese langpack split
** disable language-support-translation-* and language-support-extra-* for releases >= 9.10
* approved translation templates in Rosetta
 
==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

Distro:
* 100papercuts:  Packaged patch for #147230
* Sponsoring:  -synaptics (#378391)
* Merged and uploaded new inkscape 0.47-rc2
* Coded LPL script to request retesting inkscape
* Sent request for re-testing new Inkscape upload

X.org:
* Added autodetection of -fglrx, -radeonhd, -nvidia, and -nouveau, so they'll be used automatically if installed, no xorg.conf required.
* Follow up on a lot of bug reports, including private bug #382674
* Uploaded several -intel, mesa, and other bug fixes
* Merged a new -ati snapshot.  This is the final stable prior to upstream's merging of their KMS branch into main.

General:
* Friday off due to Independence Day holiday
* Blueprints:  All Karmic blueprints complete

X.org Status Report:
* Merge Status:
** We've been waiting on upstream, but we're starting to see a bunch of misc. upstream releases which is a good sign.  As these enter Debian we will digest them.
** 10 packages need merge/sync, out of 92 updates since Jaunty
** 26 packages have upstream releases but not yet in Debian. Nearly all of these can be sync'd once in Debian.
** A new -ati snapshot was merged.  Now in Ubuntu
** A new xserver RC is available.  Will be merged soonish.
** git snapshot of -ati/KMS is in xorg-edgers.  -nouveau/KMS is in a separate PPA

* X.org in Karmic is working well, although recent updates to gdm and the kernel have caused widespread X problems.  Hopefully further gdm and kernel updates will resolve them.
** 2116 total open X bugs, up 50 since last week
** KMS on -intel has scattering of bugs reported against it

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

On Desktop Summit this week.

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====

On Desktop Summit this week.

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====

Accessibility:
* Started investigating how one enables accessible login with the new GDM. Upstrea tells me it may not work, but i'd still like to try it out.
* A bit more work on the liblouis MIR.

Audio:
* Audio bug triaging, bugs in question are against pulseaudio, alsa userspace, and the kernel for hardware enablement. Got rtkit into Ubuntu. Just need the kernel bits to make it fully work now.
* Fixed an rtkit FTBFS on arm, due to upstream deciding to name a struct the same as a struct found in sys/user.h. Turns out that this header gets included when signal.h is also included by the application. A rename patch sent upstream, uploaded, and rtkit is now built on all architectures.
* Filed a main inclusion report to get rtkit into main. Als filed an ITP with Debian, but Debian needs policykit-1 first.
* Packaged the latest upstream version of libcanberra.
* Made pulseaudio 0.9.16~test1 available in the new audio-dev team PPA, http://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-audio-dev/+archive
* Uploaded gnome-media 2.27.3.1 to karmic.

Misc:
* Found that with the recent hal deprecation, that the touchpad on my notebook is not functioning. Filed a bug with relevant information.  

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Karmic spec drafting: all approved

Karmic feature work:
* desktop-karmic-automagic-python-build-system:
** got auto-debianization working
** uploaded to Debian/Ubuntu, called for testing
** beta available; should be useful for quickly and developers now
* desktop-karmic-symptom-based-bug-reporting: no progress this week
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Halsectomy|hal deprecation]]</nowiki>: 
** Ported gvfs completely to udev, patches sent to upstream
** updated Ubuntu's gvfs package with above patches, now completely hal free
* gnome-panel speedup: no development progress this week; this will be attacked after above three, since this does not have reverse dependencies

Other work done:
* Lots of -intel/i915 debugging with upstream on my reports
* Bug fixing in  apport, casper, devicekit-power, devicekit-disks, gnome-power-manager, gnome-screensaver, hal, jockey, udev
* Fixed hal regression in jaunty-updates (LP #394663)
* Reviewed/uploaded ubuntuone-client and ubuntuone-storage-protocol from OLS
* Tested gnome-shell packages

Merges: mine are all done

Sponsoring:
* compiz, compiz-fusion-plugins-main, gnome-panel, gst-plugins-{bad,good}, libv4l, nautilus-share, unionfs-fuse, xscreensaver

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

On Desktop Summit this week.

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* got gjs and gnome-shell packaged in the ubuntu-desktop ppa (thanks didrocks for giving an hand and packaging some of the components too)
* gjs, gnome-shell debugging and testing
* desktop summit

==== Tony Espy (awe) ====
* reviewed the desktop-karmic-audio-experience specification, and added comments to the blueprint's whiteboard.
* added lots of detail to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/ConnectionManagerComparison|Connection Manager comparison]]</nowiki> table.
* started looked at nm-applet code with respect to changes outlined in our desktop-karmic-network-ui specification.
* finished OEM NM/MM 0.7.1 applet merges.

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* Made HP DesignJet 130 large format inkjet printer (62 cm/24 inches wide, A1 format) working, especially the paper input selection (roll with and without cut, tray, rear feed, manual feed). Printed a photo in A1 size directly from digikam. Probably also other DesignJets for A1 and A0 format work now as well. Changes are done in Foomatic upstream and go into Karmic with the next Foomatic package upload. DesignJets will then "Plug'n'Print" on Karmic.
* Fixed bug in the imagetopdf CUPS filter. It preceeded PDF output files with a blank line.
* Fixed form feed option in the textonly CUPS filter (LP: #396673).
* Uploaded pnm2ppa package (my upload permissions got finally fixed).
* Triaged printing-related bug reports.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
