{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alberto Milone (tseliot)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (ccheney)
* Didier Roche (didrocks)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)  

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Mozilla Update
* xorg Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Partner Update ===
* Online Services:
** Ubuntu One Music store is progressing, expected to land in alpha-3
** An early version of the rhythmbox plugin taking shape, more to come soon.
** libubuntuone, the gtk widgets for ubuntu one will be ready for lucid soon, this includes the music store and contact picker gtk widgets.
* DX:
** <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-LucidWeeklyReleases|Weekly Releases]]</nowiki>.
** MeMenu, hoped to be done by the end of the sprint

=== Kubuntu Update ===
* 4.3.95 now in
* 4.3.5 going into backports today
* New SIP and python-qt4 building now
* MIRs now in for KOffice: plotutils, opengtl, libspnav, getfem++, pstoedit, libqtgtl

=== Mozilla Upate ===
* Still working on libsoup backport

=== xorg Update ===
* new udev-enabled wacom driver
* Still planning to do -intel 2.10 but blocked by a bug.  Fallback plan is to stay on 2.9.
* working on getting wayland built; lots of little dependency issues to work through.  Hoping to have it packaged by the sprint.
* updated apport hooks and failsafe stuff
* Planning a few more driver package updates (-ati, -nouveau, -intel, etc.) but otherwise most of the packaging work for X is in place now<<BR>>
* Lack of clarity regarding go/no go deciscion for nouveua by default

=== Start Time ===
* Desktop load time target has changed to UNE
* Currently at 6.27 seconds with  no theme, no font, no mixer, no bluetooth, and no network-manager applet eithe

=== Audio Update ===

=== Release Status ===
{{http://macaroni.ubuntu.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-desktop-team-lucid-alpha-3.svg}}
* Desktop team is over the trend line, will target to get below the trend line at the sprint.
* Current bug situation shows nothing alarming at this stage in the release

=== Other Business ===

=== Activity reports ===
==== Alberto Milone (tseliot) ====
Blueprint work:
* desktop-lucid-xorg-proprietary-drivers:
** Added Transitional packages for the old nvidia-vdpau packages.
** Updated ia32-libs (currently half broken) so that it can be updated (LP: #506437) and adapted to the new alternatives system (LP: #506435) - Upload still pending (590MB)
** LP: 510390 fixed links to the vdpau libraries.
** Updated screen-resolution-extra so that it works with polkit-1 0.95. As a result, nvidia-settings works correctly with PolicyKit.
** Update nvidia-common to use the alternative that lives in mesa (instead of the xserver). Included some bug fixes.
** Remove the unused gl_libraries link from both mesa and nvidia.
** Mesa: passed LDCONFIG_NOTRIGGER=y to ldconfig so as not to break certain packages.

* foundations-lucid-boot-experience:
** Further discussion with Otto (from the Design team) on the boot splash experience.
** Discussed the details with upstream about adding plymouth's framebuffer renderer to work with vga16fb.

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====
* Blueprint work:
** community-lucid-community-participation-in-coordinating-translations: Documenting language-pack generation process: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuTranslationsCoordinators/Actions/LanguagePackGeneration
* Other:
** language-selector: code review with mvo and Paul Liu
** langpack-o-matic: investigating and fixing a bug that the script failed when retrieving static translations from Launchpad
** translations: built new Hardy language-packs for 8.04.4

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====
*** Administrivia
          o Out sick Friday Jan 22
          o Submit Canonical objectives
          o Decide conference attendance
          o Plan list of items to do during sprint 
*** Testing
          o Install alpha-2 on porlock, blumonc, and dorset test machines
          o Upgrade laptop to alpha-2. Investigate why wireless broke... kernel bug
          o Investigate keyboard breakage on my test boxes 
*** Packaging
          o Ensure xf86-input-wacom gets packaged and incorporated for alpha-3
          o Fix -intel to install the apport python script in an .install 
*** Bug work
          o Verify powersave=0 in kernel - lp: #492392
          o Disable apport for xorg-server, since the enablement patch is causing widespread X crashes
          o Send bug list to Intel, follow up on certain -intel bugs
          o Sponsor patch from didier to fix supporting session with arguments (lp: #512235)
          o Sponsor patch to make failsafeX translatable
          o Update the -nouveau launchpad page with bug directions 
*** Apport hook improvements
          o Include make.log file(s) to apport hook
          o Update xorg apport hook to not warn on missing bits quite so much
          o Include dkms status to apport hook 
*** Tools and reports development
          o Update gtg import_json branch to new work-items json syntax by jib
          o Catch error if user account has been disabled
          o Read up about using couchdb
          o Go through cron job errors from over holidays
          o high karma report: Exclude Wishlist items
          o Make arsenal delete tmp file after finished generating report
          o patches report: Exclude -openchrome
          o Figure out how to get 'bzr log' to paginate automatically  

==== Chris Cheney (ccheney) ====
* openoffice.org 1:3.2.0~rc3-1ubuntu1 prepared, waiting on doko before uploading
* openoffice.org-l10n 1:3.2.0~rc3-1ubuntu1 prepared, waiting on doko before uploading
* libsoup2.4 problem with symbol duplication between copied version of glib and real glib

==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====

* "gdm's week":
** Provide default session choice in gdmsetup
** Don't save failsafe session for next login when user select it (LP: #509182)
** Fix GNOME failsafe session not starting (xorg, searhorse-plugins): (LP: #512235)
* UNE component cleanage and update:
** clutk, wncksync, liblauncher
** MIR Gwibber, but needs 2 additionals MIR for dependencies
** Help dx team for some packaging (introduce how to package to ronoc) and some debugging
* GNOME updates: anjuta, nautilus, empathy, vinagre, gnome-themes, gedit, mousetweaks, file-rooler, gnome-games, gnome-doc-utils, gvfs, totem-pl-parser, totem
* Prepare UDW session on i18n and Quickly

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====
done:
 - Packaging, review, test, upload KDE 4.3.95
 - Review 4.3.5 packaging
 - updating SIP/python-qt4 and kdebindings
 - host Kubuntu meeting
 - review CD oversizing

todo:
 - update python-qt3 for new SIP
 - update packagekit
==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
** Social from the start
*** Gwibber Accounts UI: DONE
*** GwibberPosterVBox gtk widget: DONE
*** Gwibber Poster tool (uses GwibberPosterVBox): DONE
*** Gwibber Preferences UI porting: INPROGRESS
*** Updated Gwibber packaging to handle the new overhaul branch: DONE
*** Gwibber Share firefox plugin: INPROGRESS
*** Gwibber logging improvements: DONE
*** Exposed more of the Gwibber DBus API with the python API
** DX Team:
*** Weekly releases
*** Packaging 
** OLS Team:
*** Updated libubuntuone and rhythmbox plugin in the PPA

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====
==== Accessibility ====
* Stress testing of speech+pulseaudio patches. Need to make a few more things configurable before I'm willing to upload an update to lucid.
* Received more fixes for other parts of speech-dispatcher from the community, these are also queued for upload.

==== Audio ====
* Audio bug triaging, bugs in question are against pulseaudio, alsa userspace, and the kernel for hardware enablement.
* Still more work on the mac mini patch, as it causes the module to oops. Very likely got something incorrect, or missed something, but haven't tracked the oops down yet.
* Started working on the packaging to package the a52 alsa plugin once again, assuming the test with pulseaudio is successful.

==== Misc ====
* The latest lucid updates have solved my freezes. Just got to make some accessibility adjustments to have a fully productive lucid environment.
* Set out objectives for tyis review cycle.

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====
Assigned blueprints:
* desktop-lucid-likewise-open-migration: implemented
* desktop-lucid-jockey-hotplug-support: implemented
* desktop-lucid-powermanagement-tweaks: implemented
* desktop-lucid-suspend-quirks-halsectomy (beta available): needs testing
* desktop-lucid-xorg-halsectomy: new wacom driver landed in lucid; needs testing
* desktop-lucid-bug-management: Added default bug titles to storage apport symptom; display symptom already has them; titles for sound symptom still TODO

Non-blueprint work done:
* This was a boot speed week:
** Spent some 11 hours on measuring boot speed on the Mini, tried and documented various changes
** Applied optimizations to seahorse, gnome-settings-daemon plugins, wncksync
* Bug fixing: apport, apport-symptoms, gdm, hal, python-launchpadlib, udev
* Reviewed and merged audio apport symptom script
* Lots of MIR reviews
* Set goals for Jan-Jun 2010 cycle

Sponsoring:
* farsight2, gnome-panel, gnome-power-manager, gnome-system-monitor

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* At linux.conf.au

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* desktop updates: glib gnome-settings-daemon glibmm
* backported gtk git change to fix double click issues in listviews
* typo fix in a gnome-control-center change
* tracked a crash in the nautilus application indicator, turned out to be an indicator-application issues, got ted to fix it and backported the change to lucid
* fixed a gdm crash issue and an init script bug
* worked on gnome-panel profiling for 2 days, lot of stracing, didn't get so much useful informations from oprofile or sysprof use, each applet loading takes some 0.3 seconds spent doing bonobo calls, nothing is doing something obviously slow or not required but lot of redrawing is done due to the way applets are loaded
* dropped /usr/local/ directories creation from xdg-utils, those are not used and leads to hundred of stats calls in desktop applications looking for icons
* changed gnome-panel, nautilus and gnome-session to start as normal application and avoid delay in session init
* tracked a pygobject crash issue, got it fixed upstream and backported the change to lucid
* updated lucid evolution-indicator
* upstream the bug about f-spot crashing when using the new wave theme, got some debug informations and did testing for alex who fixed it quickly, backported the fix to lucid
* nautilus-sendto conflicts fix
* changed xdg-user-dirs-gtk-update to start faster and do gtk init only when required
* uploaded a gtk change from Cody
* looked at gtkhtml wrong version upload to know what we should be doing, discussed it with upstream and didrocks, did some rebuilds once the issue was sorted
* backported some gtk fixed for a karmic sru
* sponsoring: cdbs indicator-me nautilus gnome-doc-utils gvfs

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====
* CUPS: Created SRU package for Karmic to fix the most annoying CUPS bugs: Duplex cannot get turned off (LP: #487902), pdftopdf filter segfaulting on color-managed PDFs (LP: #407344), pdftopdf eating up all memory when printing with N-up (LP: #508731). The new package is in the karmic-proposed queue and waits for approval (pitti's next SRU run).
* Ghostscript: Applied upstream fix on CUPS Raster output device which leads to backsides of pages being the wrong way around when printing duplex. It occurs only with PostScript as input (LP: #484928), but applying it to the Ubuntu package anyway to have regression testing for the next Ghostscript release (8.71 in February).
* HPLIP: Committed Daniel T Chen's updates for the UDEV rules to the Debian Subversion repository to keep the HPLIP packages of Ubuntu and Debian in sync (LP: #491346, LP: #512464).
* Answered and triages printing-related bug reports.

== IRC Logs ==
[16:30] <rickspencer3> ArneGoetje, bryyce, ccheney, didrocks, kenvandine, pitti, Riddell, seb128, tkamppeter, tseliot - meeting time<<BR>>
[16:30] <ArneGoetje> hi<<BR>>
[16:30] <rickspencer3> I think I got everyone<<BR>>
[16:30] <tkamppeter> hi<<BR>>
[16:30] <seb128> rickspencer3, hey<<BR>>
[16:30] <pitti> re (just in time)<<BR>>
[16:30] <didrocks> hey rickspencer3<<BR>>
[16:30]  * kenvandine waves<<BR>>
[16:30] <Riddell> hello<<BR>>
[16:30]  * tseliot waves<<BR>>
[16:30] <rickspencer3> kewl<<BR>>
[16:30] <rickspencer3> so ...<<BR>>
[16:30] <rickspencer3> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2010-01-26<<BR>>
[16:30] <pitti> jcastro: I think it just didn't get to their attention yet<<BR>>
[16:30] <rickspencer3> let us rock<<BR>>
[16:30] <pitti> jcastro: it's disabled in stables, so not that important<<BR>>
[16:31] <tseliot> :-)<<BR>>
[16:31] <rickspencer3> hmmm, I forgot to do actions from last week<<BR>>
[16:31] <ccheney> hi<<BR>>
[16:31] <rickspencer3> so, I got lots of emails about conference attendance<<BR>>
[16:31] <rickspencer3> thanks for that<<BR>>
[16:31] <rickspencer3> also, a few folks have followed up with getting their objectives in<<BR>>
[16:31] <rickspencer3> please do this today if you haven't already<<BR>>
[16:32] <rickspencer3> we'll call those the "previous actions"<<BR>>
[16:32] <rickspencer3> partner update?<<BR>>
[16:32]  * rickspencer3 hands mic to kenvandine<<BR>>
[16:32] <kenvandine> yo<<BR>>
[16:33] <kenvandine> not much new to report on OLS<<BR>>
[16:33] <kenvandine> still chugging away on the rb plugin and music store<<BR>>
[16:33] <kenvandine> it is now kind of usable if you know the right magic ENV variable to set<<BR>>
[16:33] <bryyce> heya<<BR>>
[16:33] <rickspencer3> looks like they are expecting it to land for a3!<<BR>>
[16:33] <kenvandine> coming along nicely<<BR>>
[16:33] <rickspencer3> that's great news<<BR>>
[16:33] <kenvandine> yes<<BR>>
[16:33] <kenvandine> still can't download :)<<BR>>
[16:34] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, will it download in time for a3?<<BR>>
[16:34] <kenvandine> that is the plan<<BR>>
[16:34] <kenvandine> they have also been working on the new file sync client as well as adding gtk widgets for the contact picker<<BR>>
[16:34] <kenvandine> both i think should be ready for a3<<BR>>
[16:35] <kenvandine> DX is working on the MeMenu now<<BR>>
[16:35] <rickspencer3> that's quite a relief<<BR>>
[16:35] <kenvandine> plan is to have that working with gwibber by end of sprint<<BR>>
[16:35] <rickspencer3> good<<BR>>
[16:35] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, new gwibber UI is looking good<<BR>>
[16:35] <kenvandine> that's if for partner update<<BR>>
[16:35] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, thx<<BR>>
[16:35] <rickspencer3> and gwibber service has not crashed or hung for me<<BR>>
[16:35] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, i fixed the facebook bug :)<<BR>>
[16:36] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, also note the memory usage<<BR>>
[16:36] <kenvandine> is way down<<BR>>
[16:36] <rickspencer3> I am very very happy to see this feature set moving along<<BR>>
[16:36] <kenvandine> the daemon is using 27M for me right now, after running for 4 hours<<BR>>
[16:36] <kenvandine> :)<<BR>>
[16:36] <rickspencer3> let's jfdi next week<<BR>>
[16:36] <kenvandine> 6M of which is python-indicate :/<<BR>>
[16:36]  * rickspencer3 will lock kenvandine and tedg into a room until it is done<<BR>>
[16:36] <kenvandine> hehe<<BR>>
[16:36] <kenvandine> i'll get him to rename indicators :)<<BR>>
[16:37] <kenvandine> anyway, /me passes mic back<<BR>>
[16:37] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, are you and didrocks working together on weekly releases?<<BR>>
[16:37]  * rickspencer3 asks blatantly leading question<<BR>>
[16:37] <kenvandine> not as well as we should, but we will more this week :)<<BR>>
[16:37] <kenvandine> my fault<<BR>>
[16:37] <didrocks> rickspencer3: not yet, let's wait for next release on Thursday, I guess :)<<BR>>
[16:37] <kenvandine> :)<<BR>>
[16:37] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[16:37] <rickspencer3> thanks kenvandine<<BR>>
[16:37] <kenvandine> didrocks, sorry... i was very distracted by sfts :)<<BR>>
[16:37] <rickspencer3> again, good progress<<BR>>
[16:37] <didrocks> kenvandine: no pb ;)<<BR>>
[16:38] <rickspencer3> next Riddell Kubuntu update?<<BR>>
[16:38] <Riddell> Kubuntu:<<BR>>
[16:38] <Riddell> - 4.3.95 now in<<BR>>
[16:38] <Riddell> - 4.3.5 going into backports today<<BR>>
[16:38] <Riddell> - New SIP and python-qt4 building now<<BR>>
[16:38] <Riddell> - MIRs now in for KOffice: plotutils, opengtl, libspnav, getfem++, pstoedit, libqtgtl<<BR>>
[16:38] <Riddell> which should keep our MIR team busy<<BR>>
[16:39] <pitti> \o/<<BR>>
[16:39] <rickspencer3> Riddell, thanks<<BR>>
[16:39]  * pitti opens a task to fan out unassigned MIRs<<BR>>
[16:39] <rickspencer3> next?<<BR>>
[16:40] <rickspencer3> ccheney, Mozilla update?<<BR>>
[16:40] <rickspencer3> hmmmm<<BR>>
[16:41] <rickspencer3> bryyce, xorg?<<BR>>
[16:41] <ccheney> libsoup is still causing me much grief, i thought i had it almost finished then noticed it was miscompiling due to duplicate symbol use in the source files i had copied from, split them up to make it work cleanly, then noticed it failed to build due to collisions with the real glib<<BR>>
[16:41] <ccheney> working with asac on determining a way to get around that problem<<BR>>
[16:41] <ccheney> just ran into those two issues yesterday<<BR>>
[16:41] <ccheney> OOo is blocked on doko who appears to be on vacation<<BR>>
[16:42] <rickspencer3> so *still* not done libsoup?<<BR>>
[16:42] <ccheney> he fixed a few arm issues and then from what it appears forgot to commit them anywhere or email them to me<<BR>>
[16:42] <rickspencer3> this has been dangling quite a while<<BR>>
[16:42] <ccheney> rickspencer3: yes, it is turning out to be much more involved than i had originally thought<<BR>>
[16:43] <ccheney> we started out with just copying the bits needed into a single source file, but that only worked to about 90% of the way<<BR>>
[16:43] <ccheney> after that copying the bits needed for the last 10% caused problems with symbol collision so had to recreate them into separate source files, which turned out to still not be enough<<BR>>
[16:43] <rickspencer3> ccheney, perhaps someone else can provide some assistance with getting the other 90% there?<<BR>>
[16:44] <ccheney> yes, hopefully so<<BR>>
[16:44] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[16:44] <rickspencer3> moving on<<BR>>
[16:44] <rickspencer3> bryyce, ?<<BR>>
[16:44] <rickspencer3> xorg?<<BR>>
[16:44] <bryyce> - Finally have a shiny new udev-enabled wacom driver, which I think marks the end of our HAL needs<<BR>>
[16:44] <bryyce> - Still planning to do -intel 2.10 but blocked by a bug.  Fallback plan is to stay on 2.9.<<BR>>
[16:44] <bryyce> - Still working on getting wayland built; lots of little dependency issues to work through.  Hoping to have it packaged by the sprint.<<BR>>
[16:44] <bryyce> - This past week updated apport hooks and failsafe stuff<<BR>>
[16:44] <ccheney> the main issue i am having now is with symbols that are provided in gio.h that get included in places but also need to be in the parts i am copying over, not sure if it is safe to just include gio.h everywhere<<BR>>
[16:44]  * ccheney shuts up for now :)(<<BR>>
[16:45] <pitti> oh, do we need wayland for anything, or is it just to have the platform for playing around with?<<BR>>
[16:45] <pitti> bryyce: I asked tseliot to test wacom; knocking on wood! :-)<<BR>>
[16:46]  * tseliot nods<<BR>>
[16:46] <bryyce> - Planning a few more driver package updates (-ati, -nouveau, -intel, etc.) but otherwise most of the packaging work for X is in place now<<BR>>
[16:46] <bryyce> pitti, just for playing with<<BR>>
[16:46] <pitti> any new word from kernel about nouveao?<<BR>>
[16:46] <pitti> nouveau<<BR>>
[16:46] <bryyce> I think I got asked about it every day at UDS, so figure it's good to have available<<BR>>
[16:46] <rickspencer3> new-voh<<BR>>
[16:47] <davmor2> pitti: jockey is doing it's trick of only showing binary hw in live cd and not on the installed system again<<BR>>
[16:47] <bryyce> yes, I got a new nouveau-enabled kernel from apw yesterday<<BR>>
[16:47] <bryyce> haven't had a chance to test it out myself but it's also on my todo list for this week<<BR>>
[16:47] <rickspencer3> bryyce, so is it a "go"? regarding new-voh<<BR>>
[16:47] <rickspencer3> ?<<BR>>
[16:47] <bryyce> we will be evaluating our situation with nouveau next week, and establishing our plans going forward<<BR>>
[16:47] <pitti> bryyce: sounds like a good thing for the lucid sprint todo (having lots of hw)<<BR>>
[16:47] <pitti> a modified live usb stick should be great<<BR>>
[16:48] <tseliot> rickspencer3: are you asking questions in rhyme?<<BR>>
[16:48] <tseliot> :-P<<BR>>
[16:48] <rickspencer3> bryyce, is there a single person who considered themselves on the hook for this project?<<BR>>
[16:48] <pitti> davmor2: apt-get update?<<BR>>
[16:48] <bryyce> pitti, maybe but I've found 90+% of the distro team has -intel hardware ;-)<<BR>>
[16:48]  * rickspencer3 is a bit concerned that diffuse responsibility may lead to sub-optimal results and/or lots of extra work<<BR>>
[16:48] <pitti> davmor2: (but yes, known issue)<<BR>>
[16:49] <pitti> bryyce: we'll find some hotel computers :)<<BR>>
[16:49] <bryyce> pitti, fortunately I've got several nvidia cards so probably have more hardware myself than would be at the sprint ;-)<<BR>>
[16:49] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[16:49] <rickspencer3> moving on?<<BR>>
[16:49] <rickspencer3> pitti, any words regarding release status?<<BR>>
[16:50] <bjf> bryyce, I have nVidia in all my HW, I can help test, was working with apw<<BR>>
[16:50] <bryyce> bjf<<BR>>
[16:50] <bryyce> bjf, ok<<BR>>
[16:50] <pitti> so, I updated https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/ReleaseStatus last week<<BR>>
[16:50] <pitti> primarily for fishing out the lucid-targetted bugs which are "our's"<<BR>>
[16:50] <pitti> executive summary, nothing that's concerning yet at this stage of the release<<BR>>
[16:51] <rickspencer3> I see that the focus on start time has added quite a few work items<<BR>>
[16:51] <pitti> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-desktop-team-lucid-alpha-3.html gets a bit over the trend, though<<BR>>
[16:51] <rickspencer3> that's good to see<<BR>>
[16:51] <pitti> some is my fault, since I keep adding startup speed TODO items<<BR>>
[16:51] <rickspencer3> shows concerted effort and good planning<<BR>>
[16:51] <pitti> but fortunately 80% of them are done already<<BR>>
[16:51] <pitti> but many specs look a bit stalled<<BR>>
[16:51] <rickspencer3> we are actually below the trend line if you don't include "foreign" items<<BR>>
[16:51] <rickspencer3> pitti, which specs concern you?<<BR>>
[16:52] <pitti> rickspencer3: not really; if you start the trend line at the "our's", we're over as well<<BR>>
[16:52] <pitti> rickspencer3: none in particular, just the sum :)<<BR>>
[16:52] <rickspencer3> oh, right<<BR>>
[16:52] <rickspencer3> :/<<BR>>
[16:52] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[16:52]  * rickspencer3 whip cracking noises<<BR>>
[16:52] <pitti> I have some questions for particular specs, but no need to do them in the meeting<<BR>>
[16:53] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[16:53] <pitti> just as a teaser<<BR>>
[16:53] <pitti> check out http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/bootcharts/daniel-lucid-20100126-noautostart.png<<BR>>
[16:53] <pitti> it's UNE stripped to the bare minimum<<BR>>
[16:53] <rickspencer3> and it's at 17+?<<BR>>
[16:53] <seb128> note that there is a 5 seconds extra time to boot due to a bug there<<BR>>
[16:53] <pitti> 4.2 seconds for desktop<<BR>>
[16:54] <seb128> pitti, 4.8 rather<<BR>>
[16:54] <pitti> that chart, with kernel 2.6.32-9 would be 12.37 seconds<<BR>>
[16:54] <seb128> pitti, we should count from gdm not from the vertical session start<<BR>>
[16:54] <pitti> seb128: ok<<BR>>
[16:54] <rickspencer3> so we are currently 2.37 over?<<BR>>
[16:54] <rickspencer3> in total?<<BR>>
[16:54] <seb128> rickspencer3, when we don't run g-s-d<<BR>>
[16:54] <pitti> rickspencer3: well, wait<<BR>>
[16:54] <pitti> this is missing half of the stuff<<BR>>
[16:54] <seb128> ie no theme, no font, no mixer, no bluetooth<<BR>>
[16:54] <pitti> I just wanted to say, something like this is the goal<<BR>>
[16:55] <pitti> and no network-manager applet either :)<<BR>>
[16:55] <rickspencer3> alright<<BR>>
[16:55] <pitti> we still expect some great speedups in mutter plugin<<BR>>
[16:55] <pitti> which we can then trade for the stuff that needs to be put back (settings-daemon, nm-applet, etc.)<<BR>>
[16:55] <pitti> 4 seconds will be damn hard<<BR>>
[16:55] <rickspencer3> mmm<<BR>>
[16:55] <pitti> but 5 to 6 seems doable<<BR>>
[16:55] <seb128> the platform part is still not on target there<<BR>>
[16:56] <rickspencer3> it may be hard, but it doesn't mean it's not worth doing<<BR>>
[16:56] <pitti> right; ignore everything before gdm<<BR>>
[16:56] <seb128> they might still win 1 or 2 seconds too<<BR>>
[16:56] <pitti> -10 and -11 kernels regressed a lot, too<<BR>>
[16:56] <seb128> rickspencer3, worth doing... yeah, but at which cost?<<BR>>
[16:56] <rickspencer3> they'll get that back<<BR>>
[16:56] <ccheney> i saw at some point kernel boot time doubled<<BR>>
[16:56] <pitti> chrisccoulson: that was -10<<BR>>
[16:56] <rickspencer3> the kernel team will take care of the kernel<<BR>>
[16:57] <ccheney> pitti: ok<<BR>>
[16:57] <rickspencer3> we have our own house to worry about<<BR>>
[16:57] <pitti> and -11 introduced some weird 5 second latency in usb_id/khubd<<BR>>
[16:57] <pitti> ok, I'm done; just wanted to give an overview where we are<<BR>>
[16:57] <pitti> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/bootcharts/daniel-lucid-20100125-oldkernel.png is a pretty realistic one<<BR>>
[16:57] <pitti> you can substract some 0.8 seconds from that for today's optimizations<<BR>>
[16:57] <rickspencer3> thanks pitti<<BR>>
[16:57] <rickspencer3> yeah!<<BR>>
[16:58] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[16:58] <rickspencer3> seb128, asks "at what cost?"<<BR>>
[16:58] <rickspencer3> well, we are committed to a course of action ... and we must meet that commitment<<BR>>
[16:58] <rickspencer3> any other business?<<BR>>
[16:58] <seb128> sprint?<<BR>>
[16:58] <rickspencer3> (well, technically, we are committed to a result, not an action, but still ...)<<BR>>
[16:58] <seb128> do we have to prepare anything for it?<<BR>>
[16:58] <rickspencer3> hmmm<<BR>>
[16:59] <rickspencer3> did everyone see pitti's email regarding sprint planning?<<BR>>
[16:59] <rickspencer3> get items on the list<<BR>>
[16:59] <seb128> I did<<BR>>
[16:59] <seb128> ok<<BR>>
[16:59] <rickspencer3> I feel that we have gotten quite good at working efficiently at the sprints<<BR>>
[16:59] <rickspencer3> are there any specific questions or concerns about the sprint?<<BR>>
[17:00] <pitti> bryyce: settled the Karaoke night?<<BR>>
[17:00] <bryyce> pitti, yup<<BR>>
[17:00] <pitti> \o/<<BR>>
[17:00] <kenvandine> woot<<BR>>
[17:00] <kenvandine> :)<<BR>>
[17:00] <pitti> SFTS IRL!<<BR>>
[17:00] <kenvandine> :)<<BR>>
[17:00] <Tm_T> pitti: what's the time with Karmic in same hardware?<<BR>>
[17:01] <pitti> Tm_T: unsure; I only have had that machine for a week, no karmic on it<<BR>>
[17:01] <pitti> Tm_T: but desktop part with GNOME was 14 s<<BR>>
[17:01] <pitti> I think we just about halved that by now<<BR>>
[17:01] <rickspencer3> any other business?<<BR>>
[17:01] <Tm_T> pitti: roger<<BR>>
[17:01] <pitti> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FoundationsTeam/BootPerformance/Lucid/Desktop<<BR>>
[17:01] <pitti> it has a karmic chart<<BR>>
[17:02] <seb128> note that current charts are une<<BR>>
[17:02] <rickspencer3> ok, call it a wrap?<<BR>>
[17:02] <seb128> and that one is desktop<<BR>>
[17:02] <seb128> rickspencer3, yes<<BR>>
[17:02]  * rickspencer3 taps gavel<<BR>>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
