{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===

* Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) - chair
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (calc)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Kenneth Wimer (kwwii)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)

* Mirco MÃ¼ller (MacSlow)
* Pedro Villavicencio Garrido (pedro_)
* Ted Gould (tedg)

=== Agenda ===

* New team members
* Team meeting time
* (pitti) Hardy Langpack Update
* Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Actions from this meeting ===

* asac to help ArneGoetje perform a manual upload
* asac to talk to infinity to find out why Launchpad is breaking firefox langpacks

=== New team members ===

After Monday's reorganisation, the desktop team has the following new members:

* Alexander Sack (asac): Firefox, Network Manager
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje): i18n, l10n
* Bryce Harrington (bryce): X.org
* Chris Cheney (calc): OpenOffice.org

=== Team meeting time ===

With the new timezone spread, it makes sense to reevalulate when that meeting should be held.  The spread looks like this:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| '''00'''
| '''01'''
| '''02'''
| '''03'''
| '''04'''
| '''05'''
| '''06'''
| '''07'''
| '''08'''
| '''09'''
| '''10'''
| '''11'''
| '''12'''
| '''13'''
| '''14'''
| '''15'''
| '''16'''
| '''17'''
| '''18'''
| '''19'''
| '''20'''
| '''21'''
| '''22'''
| '''23'''
|-
| ArneGoetje
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| <#ffa0a0>
|-
| asac
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| 
|-
| bryce
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
|-
| calc
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffffa0>
|-
| Keybuk
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
|-
| kwwii
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| 
|-
| mpt
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
|-
| pitti
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| 
|-
| Riddell
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
|-
| seb128
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffa0a0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| <#ffffa0>
| 
|}

Agreement was that '''1600 UTC''' was a suitable time, due to the clash with the managers meeting, the meeting day will be moved to '''Tuesday'''.

There will be no team meeting from next week due to the release, so the next meeting will be on '''Tuesday November 4th at 1600UTC'''.

=== Hardy Langpack Update ===

pitti raised the issue that the current hardy language packs still break firefox translations, the Firefox scripts are fixed byt Launchpad forgot to export the latest templates.  This can be worked around with a manual upload for the time being.

* asac to help ArneGoetje perform a manual upload
* asac to talk to infinity to find out why Launchpad is breaking firefox langpacks

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

* ubufox release work
** coordinate final call for intrepid translations with saivaan;
    provide help on integrating and testing those submissions; do
    final sign-off tests for all translations and integrate them into
    ubufox upstream branch.
** fix RC bug LP: #259914 - prefs in ubufox extension override system
    prefs
** release ubufox 0.6 final, prepare packaging branch and upload to
    intrepid

* NM release work
** prepare/upload upstream snapshots: NM, applet and vpn plugins
** cherry-picking individual upstream translation commits and upload
    to intrepid
** discuss ath5k regression bugs on various channels
** identified a bug/hardy-intrepid-regression in ifupdown plugin that
    probably contributes to the general unmanaged/managed mode
    confusion (LP: #279262); prepared a first fix and uploaded to
    PPAs; Next: get QA/RM to decide whether we want this in
    intrepid-final or want to do an early-SRU instead.

* mozilla release work
** fix about:rights page for intrepid.

* bug work
** doing a lot of NEW bug processing for network-manager and firefox
    to catch eventual new last minute regressions.

* community work
** various discussions in #ubuntu-mozillateam about various things
    surrounding the final release
** support community on reviving the firefox 3 backporting branch for
    gutsy
** discuss thoughts about future of NM in debian/ubuntu with debian
    maintainer
** discuss release of nm 0.7 final upstream. emphasized that it would
    be better to start final release polishing _now_ instead of
    starting yet another round of refactoring; Maintainer mostly
    agreed, but only future can tell ;)

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====

* iso testing for intrepid
* testing scim/scim-bridge in Ubuntu and Kubuntu, communicating with upstream for scim-bridge to reproduce the bug reports in LP for scim-bridge and try to solve them.
* approving translation templates in the import queue for Rosetta
* several discussions with Jeroen Vermeulen about Rosetta and our current problems.

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

* Assisted Alex upstream with testing for a more comprehensive solution
   to several related -ati dithering issues.  Due to the size/scope of
   the patch and that the issues it fixes are cosmetic, this may be left
   to jaunty.
* Recoded xserver rethrow-signals patch.  The signal handler has
   multiple exit paths.  The abort()'s the earlier patches converted into
   raise(signo)'s prevously actually don't get triggered that often.  The
   exit path that *does* get triggered more typically has its abort()
   deeper down; this patch builds a new path that lets the signo be
   passed down to the abort().
* Reviewed/retriaged/closed a bunch of targeted and milestoned bugs
   to narrow the list for the release.
* Met with cworth and njh for breakfast to discuss 2geom/cairo/inkscape
   stuff, release plans, etc.
* Sponsoring queue 1hr (mainly old bug cleanup work)
   70566, 181948, 206280, 243425, 251475
* Triaged Inkscape's Ubuntu crash bugs
* Closed numerous rc bugs, sponsored uploads, packaged patches, etc. in
   support of release
* Welcome-to-team call w/ keybuk and pitti
* Composed top-13 list of launchpad bugs I'd love to see fixed

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====

* Foundations meeting
* Meeting with colin
* 2 OpenOffice.org release status meetings
* Uploaded openoffice.org 1:2.4.1-11ubuntu2
* Upgraded to intrepid on laptop, ran into lp #273116
* Upgraded vmware to 6.5 to work with intrepid and fixed keyboard issue
* Lots of bug triage
* Lots of iso testing (saw lp #218144, #287807)

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

done:
* lots of RC testing and bugfixing
* kubuntu meeting, two new members

todo:
* release RC, onto final

notable bugs:
* OEM install doesn't work
* install only (no live desktop) mode doesn't work
* we still have no complete language packs

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

* fixed bugs in human theme, darkroom, compiz, etc. tried panel bg

* added two icons to the human icon theme (one to fix a bug in the fusa applet), made package

* panel bg issues: gconf vs. gtk  theme

* tested ubuntu on tuesday, kubuntu on wednesday

* started system-cleaner icon

* discussion with upstream gnome-themes maintainer

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Assigned Intrepid specs: all implemented

Currently open intrepid targeted bugs: all fixed *phew*
* 258083 (F-Spot - Error connecting to camera. "Could not lock the device") - Fix waiting in UNAPPROVED
* 269651 (console-kit-daemon crashed with SIGSEGV in g_str_hash()) - James has a patch which works fairly well. Currently leaning towards uploading it after RC instead of SRU, since it's so highly visible and nasty.

Non-chores work done:
* Lots of release management and deputy RM for Release Candidate
* spent two days on component-mismatches cleanup, 90% done now
* tzdata SRU, take III: "Which Argentina province invents their own DST rules next"?
* Debugged X <-> apport interaction (#226668), still inconclusive
* Lots of RC bug fixing

Sponsoring: 
* alacarte, cups, ghostscript, system-config-printer, human-theme, human-icon-theme, l-r-m-envy, oo.o-dictionaries, usplash, xkeyboard-config/hardy

==== Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt) ====

* Caught up on e-mail following Boston Gnome meetings.
* Tested and gave design feedback on the Ubuntu US shop.
* Basic design for Canonical communication options.
* Attended intro session of the Launchpad Epic.
* Upgraded to Intrepid and reported resulting bugs.
* Gave design feedback on ubuntu.com typography to Matt Nuzum.
* Gave design feedback on Ubuntu help search to Matthew East and Dustin Kirkland.
* Finalized flights to Fosscamp and UDS.
* Intrepid ISO testing.
* Reported PolicyKit bugs, and contacted upstream about improving the authentication alert design.

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* GNOME 2.24.1 updates

* intrepid cds testing

* sponsoring: anjuta, evince, gconf-editor, gnome-games, gucharmap, xchat-gnome

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
