{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Actions from previous meeting ==

== Actions from this meeting ==

== Weekly Summary ==

* `ubuntu-defaults-builder` is now able to build bootable CDs, and `ubuntu-defaults-zh-cn` is in the archive. (pitti)
* Prepare upgrade of pygobject to 2.90 (bug Bug:828751), and fix packages to get along with it (bug Bug:829186 ) (pitti)
* Jockey now displays the `-updates` variants of the nvidia/fglrx drivers. (pitti)
* Printer drivers: Completed centralizing the code for updating the PPDs of existing queues in as a trigger in CUPS and the code for compressing PPD files as a debhelper (dh_pyppd) in pyppd. All done together with Debian developer Didier Raboud (OdyX) to appear in both Debian and Ubuntu. All printer driver packages in Main are updated now (TillKamppeter).
* Ghostscript: Final fix of segfaults in the CUPS Raster output device from upstream applied (TillKamppeter).
* Firefox is now tracking the newest beta, and has a nice new shiny Apport hook which should answer a lot of the common questions we ask of bug reporters. This is going to expand a lot over the coming weeks and in to next cycle (chrisccoulson)
* Thunderbird is about to get a visual makeover, when I upload the new beta later today with the unity theme selected by default (chrisccoulson)
* GNOME 3.1.5 updates continued in Oneiric (desktop team)
* lightdm and unity-greeter got several updates including bug fixes and ui improvements (robert_ancell, mterry)
* gnome-contacts got uploaded (rodrigo, kenvandine)

=== Partner update ===
==== DX ====
* round of bug fixes this week

==== UbuntuOne ====
* ubuntuone-installer is in universe, I have reminded the U1 team they need to get the MIR submitted ASAP and it will need to get seeded on the CD.
* rhythmbox-ubuntuone-music-store, I need to make sure that gets removed

=== Unity ===
* we got a first bug fix update, dx is focussed on bug fixing and back on weekly updates until Oneiric is stable
* some extra bugs got fixed in trunk and backport to Oneiric
* new tarballs will be rolled for beta on thursday morning
* compiz got updated in Oneiric, rolling back the decorator changes and going back to a better situation, we can start stabilizing based on what we got today

=== Software Center ===

=== Kubuntu ===

=== X.org ===

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
17:31:50	seb128	pitti, I'm working hard on dx to get the compiz update out, I didn't have time to update the wiki
17:32:05	seb128	I can do a live update when it's unity's turn though
17:32:09	pitti	seb128: ah, great
17:32:16	pitti	kenvandine: what's new on the partner front?
17:32:40	chrisccoulson	kenvandine, a few people report it, but no more than usual. and most reporters descriptions are so vague that they aren't useful at all
17:33:10	chrisccoulson	i haven't noticed anything though, other than the appalling IO wait i get on my machine which causes everything on my desktop to grind to a halt every time something touches the disk
17:33:43	seb128	is kenvandine lagged again this week?
17:33:50	pitti	seb128: maybe you can start with unity? kenvandine seems to be busy
17:33:54	kenvandine	seb128, yeah... i just got flooded...
17:34:00	seb128	yeah, can do
17:34:03	seb128	so unity
17:34:06	 *	kenvandine is here
17:34:18	seb128	we go a bug fix update on thursday with a bit less fixes than I was hopping to see
17:34:23	seb128	got
17:34:45	seb128	with some nagging they fixed a bunch of other issues in trunk and I backported most of those fixes in Oneiric
17:34:59	seb128	they do plan on rolling updates tomorrow for the unity stack
17:35:07	seb128	weekly updates from now on, bug fix only
17:35:32	seb128	compiz is another story, they are "testing tarballs" for some weeks but not getting out of it, I'm trying to help dbarth to get that unblocked today
17:35:50	seb128	otherwise lightdm update, what we got in Oneiric should be mostly good
17:36:00	seb128	I've backported most of trunk for lightdm and unity-greeter
17:36:19	seb128	if you have bugs that should be fixed for beta please drop an email to robert_ancell and Cc mterry he is helping him on lightdm
17:36:26	seb128	that should be it from me
17:36:34	seb128	questions?
17:36:59	chrisccoulson	i'm quite concerned about how fragile compiz is at the moment
17:37:11	pitti	I think we have a regression that lightdm doesn't start in the live session, otherwise it seems to behave now
17:37:18	pitti	but compiz is rather dire, yes
17:37:18	seb128	chrisccoulson, we all are
17:37:31	seb128	pitti, do you know when that started?
17:37:38	pitti	I don't, just saw the bug today
17:37:44	seb128	chrisccoulson, I'm trying to get those updates out today or tomorrow for compiz
17:37:50	pitti	bug 831884
17:37:51	ubot2	Launchpad bug 831884 in lightdm "lightdm fails to start on Live CD on intel: [drm] failed to set drm interface version (plymouth race ?)" [Critical,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/831884
17:37:55	seb128	once they are out we should have a better basis to add bug fixes
17:37:56	chrisccoulson	seb128, thanks
17:38:04	 *	kenvandine waves again
17:38:09	seb128	hey kenvandine
17:38:41	pitti	seb128: thanks for the heads-up; would be great if you could put it on the wiki? just c&p shuold be fine
17:38:43	kenvandine	irc gets angry with me every tuesday, it seems
17:38:51	pitti	kenvandine: back?
17:38:56	kenvandine	i think
17:38:59	kenvandine	:)
17:39:03	pitti	kenvandine: do you have something for the partner update?
17:39:07	kenvandine	partner update is on the wiki, nothing more to add
17:39:15	kenvandine	except i want to chat with pitti after the meeting
17:39:18	kenvandine	about the rb package
17:39:29	pitti	kenvandine: u1-installer still boggles me
17:39:36	seb128	pitti, will do
17:39:38	kenvandine	pitti, indeed...
17:39:53	pitti	I mean, u1 is on the CD already, why do they voluntarily want to get off the CD?
17:40:02	pitti	that makes it much harder to test u1 on the live system, etc.
17:40:05	pitti	dobey, nessita ^
17:40:06	kenvandine	pitti, that is what it sounds like to me
17:40:18	pitti	and the current version just installs the ubuntu packages anyway
17:40:27	kenvandine	right... no real gain
17:40:28	pitti	well, I know, not the full functionality, but at least file sync, the basics
17:40:31	kenvandine	just a loss really
17:40:55	pitti	but I guess it's just a preparation for the next cycle(s), when this might eventually install more stuff
17:41:04	pitti	anyway, the plan for oneiric seems good to me
17:41:13	kenvandine	they say the driver is to be consistent between platforms
17:41:41	 *	kenvandine would prefer ubuntu be better :)
17:42:16	nessita	pitti and rest: I know there has been some conversations between Chipaca and I think Rick (I may be mistaken) about this. I'm not aware of the latest agreements, but the goal was to be able to ship latest version to every user, no matter what ubuntu version he/she has
17:42:33	pitti	right, that's the long term goal, but not the oneiric one
17:42:50	kenvandine	nessita, the agreement for oneiric is it only installs the ubuntu version
17:42:52	pitti	nessita: anyway, I don't object to u1-installer, it just seems like an integration step backwards
17:43:05	pitti	kenvandine: anyway, thanks for the heads-up
17:43:21	pitti	Sweetshark: thanks for landing LibO 3.4, although it seems to have some build problems
17:43:32	nessita	pitti, kenvandine:"as far as I know we're not dropping U1 from the O cd
17:43:38	pitti	Sweetshark: anything which needs to be discussed there? blocking MIRs, the mono problem, etc?
17:43:51	pitti	nessita: dobey said otherwise
17:44:32	nessita	pitti: then my information is not up to date :-/
17:44:35	kenvandine	nessita, thx, i'll get clarification
17:44:54	nessita	me too! :-)
17:46:54	pitti	mvo: tremolux is not here, do you want to discuss s-c?
17:47:08	pitti	mvo: from my side, there's a pending FFE for using the -gtk3 variant by default
17:47:26	pitti	mvo: I really wouldn't like it to be the default with these banners, can we disable them for now?
17:47:37	pitti	mvo: also, does it depend on pygobject 2.90, or does it work with 2.28, too?
17:49:22	pitti	hmm, no Sweetshark, no mvo
17:49:58	pitti	then I just have a general call for checking your remaining WIs on http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-oneiric/canonical-desktop-team-ubuntu-11.10-beta-1.html 
17:50:23	pitti	you probably ought to have http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-oneiric/u/<yourlpuser>.html in your browser, it's rather convenient
17:50:52	pitti	I went through the remaining ones, and apart from https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-o-xorg-tools-and-processes we mostly seem to have these "last mile" remaining WIs for most specs
17:51:07	pitti	*tock* *tock*, is this thing on?
17:51:12	seb128	hey
17:51:14	seb128	is it
17:51:14	mterry	hi
17:51:16	 *	kenvandine hears you
17:51:24	pitti	does anyone else have something which we should discuss?
17:51:30	seb128	yes
17:51:32	seb128	some items
17:52:02	seb128	so, first
17:52:03	seb128	pedro_, hey
17:52:12	pedro_	hey hey
17:52:15	seb128	pedro_, can you give the url to your oneiric bugs list? ;-)
17:52:22	seb128	is it on the qa namespace now?
17:52:23	pedro_	oh no they are mine!
17:52:35	seb128	well the qa build for the desktop set
17:52:35	pedro_	http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-desktop/oneiric.html
17:52:38	seb128	^
17:52:51	seb128	if you look for "oneiric desktop bugs" to pick on in the next weeks
17:52:54	seb128	that's a good list to use
17:53:08	seb128	those are all the bugs with an oneiric target in the desktop set
17:53:21	seb128	I know that lacked in the previous cycles
17:53:36	seb128	thanks pedro_ for working on this and making it easy to know what bugs need work ;-)
17:53:55	pedro_	seb128, my pleasure, I'm happy the team is using it :-)
17:54:01	pedro_	if you need any other similar report just let me know
17:54:08	seb128	that goes with "if you have a bug that should be on that list please nominate it for Oneiric"
17:54:15	seb128	that was my first item
17:54:31	seb128	second one I said the pitivi guys we would decide if we want to bring it back on the CD or not
17:54:36	 *	kenvandine waits while firefox is all gray
17:54:40	seb128	they did work on it this cycle and would like to be back there
17:54:41	 *	pitti bookmarks
17:55:07	seb128	I told them we would revisit the decision based on the work they did, it might rathe be an uds,next cycle thing though
17:55:08	pitti	hm, how much CD space?
17:55:52	seb128	urg, 1.3mb deb it seems
17:55:55	pitti	oh, on that note: we are planning a -base langpack refresh at the end of the week; with this we should get the desktops into the 703 MB limit
17:56:01	pitti	but only just barely so
17:56:30	seb128	we are already pushing for other things which didn't land
17:56:37	seb128	should we just revisit pitivi at UDS?
17:56:41	pitti	+1 from me
17:56:52	kenvandine	+1 from me
17:56:57	seb128	ok
17:57:02	seb128	next one is gnome-contacts
17:57:08	seb128	do we try to push it on?
17:57:14	chrisccoulson	pitti - if we really need to, i could switch firefox and thunderbird to use system nss and nspr for the CD
17:57:15	seb128	now would be the right time if we want it
17:57:27	chrisccoulson	but i would need to upgrade them first, as they depend on the latest versions
17:57:37	chrisccoulson	that's probably ~2.5MB
17:57:47	pitti	chrisccoulson: chrisccoulson should win some 1.5 MB?
17:57:53	kenvandine	seb128, i would be in favor of that if we know they will get it working
17:58:00	pitti	chrisccoulson: oh, for tbird as well, I guess
17:58:01	chrisccoulson	pitti - i think it's more like 2.5MB
17:58:03	kenvandine	like adding and linking contacts
17:58:10	seb128	kenvandine, I'm pretty confident they will, alex is full time on it I think
17:58:18	pitti	chrisccoulson: I was just adding deb size of libnss3 and libnspr4
17:58:18	kenvandine	great!
17:58:25	seb128	or at least if not full time he has time for it
17:58:34	chrisccoulson	but i'd need to switch them back pretty much straight after release, as i'd need the latest versions again
17:58:41	pitti	seb128: ah, it can be tested from the archive now?
17:58:52	pitti	missing contacts is a pretty major functional regression indeed
17:58:56	pitti	if we can get that back, that'd be good
17:59:07	seb128	pitti, sudo apt-get install gnome-contacts
17:59:20	seb128	kenvandine, can you get the mir done?
18:00:25	seb128	pitti, ok, I think that was it from me
18:00:31	chrisccoulson	remember that thunderbird can access the eds addressbook now ;)
18:00:45	seb128	oh maybe a reminder about http://people.ubuntuwire.org/~wgrant/rebuild-ftbfs-test/test-rebuild-20110816-oneiric.html
18:00:48	Sweetshark	pitti: 1) the current build problems on arm isnt too much of an issue (if there are not others behind it 2) after discussing with some mono maintainers, IMHO it seems like we should just drop the mono-bindings as they are rarely used (do we need to announce that?) 3) MIRs: nothing needed that I know of, translate-toolkit needs to loose one suggest, I will do that.
18:00:52	chrisccoulson	(there's just no UI for creating addressbooks yet)
18:00:55	pitti	chrisccoulson: oh, it can? also writing? nice
18:00:59	kenvandine	seb128, i can file an MIR, sure
18:01:03	seb128	kenvandine, thanks
18:01:05	Sweetshark	pitti: sorry, had an emergency ping for wrt gsoc
18:01:06	chrisccoulson	pitti - yeah, read and write
18:01:12	seb128	chrisccoulson, well, gnome-contacts would be an ui ;-)
18:01:17	pitti	Sweetshark: dropping mono bindings> sure, there don't seem to be rdepends AFAICS
18:01:22	chrisccoulson	pitti - there's just no UI for adding new addressbooks though, but that's planned
18:01:40	pitti	seb128: does that use the new online accounts GNOME thing?
18:01:54	pitti	by default it only shows the empathy contacts, not the e-d-s ones
18:02:18	seb128	pitti, it should show e-d-s contacts, the online account is only a way to set up your accounts
18:02:31	pitti	seb128: hm, let's discuss off-meeting
18:02:41	pitti	Sweetshark: thanks for the heads-up
18:02:56	seb128	ok
18:03:17	pitti	AOB?
18:03:36	kenvandine	not from me
18:03:49	seb128	nothing else from me
18:04:06	pitti	ok, thanks everyone!
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
</pre>
