{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (ccheney)
* Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson)
* Didier Roche (didrocks)
* Gary Lasker (tremolux)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)
* Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Actions from this meeting ===

* OneConf testing (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OneConf/Testing)

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Partner Update ===
===== OLS =====
* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-MaverickWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>
* Weekly desktop releases as planned last Wednesday

===== DX =====
* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-MaverickWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>
* indicator-network will go to universe later this week, for more testing until the settings UI is ready
* appmenu-gtk and indicator-appmenu are in main now, with plans to be added by default in UNE this week

=== Kubuntu Update ===

=== UNE Update ===

* Unity is now the defaut on UNE maverick CD!
* The transition should be effective for lucid -> maverick UNE upgrade and lucid UNE ppa -> maverick
* The CD size is scary though, considering that we even don't have all the components in place (and most of them will land post alpha2 :/) (same size than amd64 image btw)
* New release on Thursday (late), the release will be a little bit sooner and backport to UNE lucid ppa on Friday.
* Apart from that, there is a wiki page stating how to test Unity on lucid and on maverick: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Unity

=== Software Center Update ===

* New Apps on a Stable Release
** mpt has completed the detailed UI design and specification for discovery/presentation of new apps:
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SoftwareCenter#Lobby%20screen
** Implementation of the UI to begin this week
** Some remaining implementation definition still pending here, target to complete middle of week
  
* Buy Something
** Payments API is in good shape; we had an API overview from Ricardo Kirkner including a walkthrough of the process
** We identified a problem in that there is the potential for unverified payment amounts submitted to the billing service by the client
** Will require some LP to payment service integration for verification of price paid before authorizing access
** This integration has been targeted for Alpha 3 (after the June 30th LP upload window, tho we can use edge while developing)
** Currently prototyping a payments widget to learn/test/use the payments API
** Launchpad login functionality and basic integration features have been release with Software Center 2.1.2
** As these features are still in-development the next release of software center (later this week?) will hide this feature unless s-c is launched using a command line switch
** LP team on track to deliver needed core functionality at June 30th upload window 
  
* UI Enhancements
** Hide non-applications feature released this week with Software Center version 2.1.2

=== Release Status ===

http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-maverick-alpha-2.html

=== Other Business ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

==== Chris Cheney (ccheney) ====
* Paternity Leave (Jun 8 - Jun 17)

==== Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson) ====

==== Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF) ====

* Short week - public holiday Monday
* X
** Lots of updates for Xserver transition
** New upstream release for siliconmotion to fix FTBFS against new Xserver
** Extended the nvidia-graphics-drivers apport hook to detect manually installed drivers & include upstream-relevant info
** Investigating escalated bug #586325.  No joy with this bug - it's subtle and hardware dependant.  Linked a probable upstream bug.
** Talked with Chris Wilson (ickle) about i8xx support.  He thinks that forward-porting an old Intel DDX to our new X server will be about the same amount of work as reintroducing a non-GEM codepath to the current DDX to work around i8xx breakage, and would like to support the latter upstream.
* Mesa
** Finalised packaging for EGL, GL|ES, and OpenVG libraries, and experimental nouveau 3D support; uploaded to Debian Experimental and merged for Maverick

==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====

* UNE
** New unity release:
** unity, dee, clutk, bamf
** backport full unity 0.2 to lucid UNE ppa: unity, dee, clutk, bamf, indicator-datetime, libunity-misc, mutter, unity-sett-poll
** Handle UNE lucid -> unity maverick transition only available on maverick flavor, you still get netbook-launcher when using the lucid ppa), refresh ubuntu-netbook-default-settings and maximus
** Handle UNE lucid ppa -> unity maverick transition
** changed ubuntu-netbook-unity-default-settings to be some kind of a metapackage for lucid PPA
** wrote https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Unity to help people getting Unity
** seed unity and all components by default
** Help dx team with different packaging issues and support (merge-upstream issues reported to udd)
** Bug triaging
* sponsored more than 20 RAOF's packages for new Xorg transiton
* GNOME:
** Fixed GDM bug #542345
** Fixed evince for people making partial upgrade (#589194)
** upload SRU on empathy, evolution-data-server, evolution.
** indicators:
** looking at annoying bugs for alpha2 in maverick, reported to dx team
** wrote an indicator for gtkrecordmydesktop, but waiting on bug #594199 to be fixed first.
* Banshee:
** Banshee testing for inclusion by default on UNE
** Worked with upstream to get it there.
* Quickly:
** Released 0.4.3
** Testing the new release and support to users
** Removed some WI about gedit after having talked to gedit upstream (new plugin system and settings coming). Current plugins won't be compatible.
** Uploaded as an SRU
* OneConf:
** discuss with mpt about a design

==== Gary Lasker (tremolux) ====
* Software Center
** Payments API overview with Ricardo Kirkner (thanks Ricardo!)
** Hide non-apps feature completed
** lp:~gary-lasker/software-center/hide_nonapps_pkgs_xapian merged and released
** LP: #591590 - fix launch error in the case where there is no history.log file
** LP: #592296 - fix visual glitch when updating a list view that contains a large number of items
** LP: #592616 - add startup option for control display of LP integration and other features in-development
** LP: #594273 - set nav history menu items insensitive rather than hide them
** Reviewed, tested and merged lp:~hellium/software-center/installed-date, history pane refactoring
** Cleanup of outstanding branch merge proposals, review and set as merged/commented/closed
** Lots of bug triage this week
** Weekly Software Center call
** Mumble with mpt on UI current state and plan
** Began payment widget design and implementation
* tzdata, tested 2020j update for dapper - LP: #582529 all updates released
* Misc
** Completed four peer reviews
** Mozilla update testing; loaded Hardy on a netbook for testing
** Began OneConf testing per https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OneConf/Testing, more to do

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
* Cleaned up libgwibber examples and made the mono example not crash
* Investigation work on the twitter.com auth changes that will have to happen before June 30th, for both maverick and lucid.  They will be turning off basic auth June 30th, and only supplied a solution that could be used for open source apps on the 12th.
* Weekly DX releases
* Fixed assembly version and path problems for appindicator-sharp
* appmenu-gtk, include session variables in /etc/X11/Xsession.d
* MIRs for appmenu-gtk and indicator-appmenu

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

* peer evaluations
* work item tracker bug fixing and maintenance
* SRU review and processing
* archive administration
* bug triage
* jockey bug fixing
* sponsored tzdata for tremolux
* udev bug fixing

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* Karmic updates: gnome-icon-theme, gnome-themes, gnome-settings-daemon, gnome-power-manager, gnome-python-desktop, liboobs, shotwell, gnome-python-extras, libgweather, xscreensaver, file-roller, libgnome-keyring
* Lucid SRU: Fix GDM scanning all face files on login
* Fix duplicate .py files being installed for Sudoku/Chess
* Got the dconf editor working

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* resynced pygobject with debian and built with pygi support now
* new rhythmbox git snapshot update
* uploaded new gdm to maverick
* rebased gdm changes to the current lucid version for a lucid update
* backported a pygobject fix from git
* glib update
* watching the xorg transition and did an intel no change rebuild for the new abi
* uploaded gtk menu proxy changes to maverick and updated gtk to the new version
* new rhythmbox git snapshot with mpris support, changed packaging to build a rhythmbox-dev binary
* new pygobject version
* new dconf version
* reviewed team work items and discussed some of those
* lucid sru updates: telepathy-butterfly libgnomekbd gst-plugins-good ido gdm

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* foomatic-db: Worked with the new Debian maintainer of Foomatic, Didier Raboud (OdyX), on a synced Debian/Ubuntu foomatic-db package.
* CUPS: Investigated the use of Apple's mDNSresponder instead of Avahi for CUPS, as CUPS 1.4.x does not support the Avahi native API and Avahi's compatibility layer is not complete. It looks that it is more suitable to port the CUPS daemon to Avahi's native interface. The "dnssd" backend is already ported via a patch.
* Automatic printer driver download: Tested automatic download of the first distribution-independent printer driver package with binary executable from OpenPrinting. It works after a small one-line patch on Jockey to change the configuration of the driver search request. Still missing is the support GPG key verification.
* Talked with pitti (via e-mail) about the key signing logistics for automatic printer driver download.
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
