{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===

* Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) - chair
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Kenneth Wimer (kwwii)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt)
* Michael Vogt (mvo)
* Mirco Müller (MacSlow)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Ted Gould (tedg)

* Pedro Villavicencio Garrido (pedro_)

=== Apologies ===

* Martin Pitt (pitti) - Linux Foundation Collaboration Summit

=== Agenda ===

* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsoring Overview update]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogasawara/qa-hardy-list-archive/sort-by-package/desktop-buglist.html|Desktop bug list]]</nowiki>
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

* pitti to disable gvfs libgphoto backend
  ''Dropped by seb128''

* seb128 to enable gvfs libarchive backend
  ''Done, however since most applications do not yet use gvfs it means you can only browse the contents and not open the files inside.  Disabled again.''

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

Done:
* Spent some hours trying to fix DVD video playing, turned out my drive needed regionset run, I wonder if there's a way to warn users about that
* packaging fix to system-config-printer-kde
* compile and test qt 4.4 rc 1, this fixes some important bugs in pyKDE which mean I should be able to get system-config-printer-kde into KDE for their feature freeze
* Amarok 1.5.9 testing and upload (thanks apachelogger for packaging)
* kdebindings-kde4 testing and upload (another apachelogger job)
* fix qt 3 for chinese characters in en locale, patch from Debian
* investigated scim problems on Kubuntu-KDE4 CD
* spend a day tracking down which part of the Kubuntu-KDE4 CDs squashfs was breaking on
* juggling language packs on CDs for sizes
* various fixes to ubiquity
* half a day of archive admin
* spend half an hour on phone to random anonymous caller who had upset someone in the community and wanted to know if it was ok to continue being part of it, most stressful thing I did all week

Next week:
* release candidate, I think Kubuntu is in good shape for this

1 milestoned bug, 209220 "HP DeskJet 5550 not supported in Hardy", should be sorted just needs confirmation that it's fixed

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

* final gtkrc tweaks improving panel themeing ability and color-selector GUI usage, enabled animtions in murrin version, added clearlooks gtkrc. made packages for ubuntulooks and ubuntu-theme

* final wallpaper tweaks, updating file for t-shirts as well

* looked into example-content; all items already updated by community members a month ago.

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

* UbuntuSpec:hardy-reducing-duplication
* UbuntuSpec:policykit-integration
* UbuntuSpec:restricted-manager-rewrite
* UbuntuSpec:partition-management

==== Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt) ====

Done:
* Posted heuristic evalutions of Hardy beta experiences.
   <https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Experiences/PlayingCds>
   <https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Experiences/PlayingMusic>
   <https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Experiences/MusicPlayers>
   <https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Experiences/Photos>

Todo:
* Back to Launchpad work in the coming week.

==== Michael Vogt (mvo) ====

Did:

===== compiz =====
* new compiz/compiz-fusion to 0.7.4, updated dependencies/patches and uploaded new version into my PPA and asked for testing
* filed FreezeException for 0.7.4 (no answer yet)
* fix gnome-wm to keep working if compiz gets removed
* ensure that metacity is the default window-manager after a dapper->hardy upgrade

===== Upgrades =====
* debug/fix asterisk removal during dapper->hardy upgrade (libpri transition issue)
* review upgrade /etc diffs (with pitti)
* debug/fix lvm2 removal on dapper->hardy upgrades
* help debugging python-central crash (#205470)
* improve evms removal on upgrades (run the check if it is safe to remove earlier)
* add support for purging packages on obsoletes removal and to unify the package lists before the etc-diff is generated
* upgraded real-world customized dapper desktop system to hardy analyzed the failures (no video/no keyboard, no german locales)
* debug/fix xkb-data/xkeyboard-config upgrade problem (#211978) on dapper->hardy upgrades. that one was really nasty to find, but it killed any non-us keyboard in gnome on upgrade (and gnome-keyboard-properties)
* fix gdm dapper->hardy upgrade issue with /etc/environment 
* wrote script that searches for python2.4-foo packages in dapper that have no conflicts/replace in hardies python-foo packages and fix them (mostly universe it seems)
* re-run test on dapper->hardy desktop upgrade (partimage for the win!) with the fixes of the previous days and now we have video/keyboard and locales :)
* debug/fix slapd dapper->hardy upgrade failure (with slangasek)

===== UpdateManager =====
* improve text frontend UI (better wrapping, use pager, ..)
* smallish fixes
* look into requirements of big customer for update-manager/update-notifier (with nibaja)
* fix dapper->hardy do-release-upgrade problem (#211978) in update-manager-core, uploaded to dapper-proposed

===== GnomeAppInstall =====
* app-install-data-update
* reoganize the java desktop files and simplify the situation

===== misc =====
* bug triage/mail
* work on install_all.py script that is used to test install of masses of packages (with liw)
* debug/fix aptitude crash (#209648) and FTBFS (bad cwidget sync that is api incompatible with our aptitude)
* updated python-apt to include the latest mirror list from LP (and fixed mirror list generation script along the way)
* review/update command-not-found database
* new apt upload with fix in apt-key update command (unneeded restriction for custom CDs)
* sponsoring (gnome-terminal, notification-daemon, plugins-main, ..)

Will do:
* more testing/fixing

==== Mirco Müller (MacSlow) ====

Spec-related work (gdm-face-browser):
* learning how the new simple-greeter works
* staying up to date with clutter-trunk and clutter-0.6.2

Misc:
* wrote proposal for an UDS-Prague spec on composite-related tweaks for zenity, gtk-theme, xscreensaver-unlock & gksudo
* multiple times fixing screwed up nvidia-box (using the 171.06 driver) due to updates

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

﻿* GNOME 2.22.1 packaging, hardy is uptodate

* read almost all the desktop bugs I received to stay on top of the hardy desktop issues

* fixed some hardy desktop issues

* discussed several issues with upstream

* discussed lanchpad-integration changes

* transitioned the desktop to the new launchpad-integration version, it's now possible to uninstall it for users

* discussed issues due to the new xrandr capplet

* updated the gnome-desktop xrandr patch using the current redhat version, miscommunicated about it apparently though because bryce didn't notice what I wrote on IRC and the upload to hardy and did the same patch update again a few days later

* rebuilt gnome-control-center since the gnome-desktop xrand abi changed

* updated the gnome-settings-daemon xrandr patch using the current redhat version

* sponsored the gnome-control-center xrandr update from james_w

* the desktop bugs milestoned for hardy are under control, there is quite some annoying things to work on for 8.04.1 but no blocker

==== Ted Gould (tedg) ====

* GPM bugs, and more bugs.  I think I have the last one nailed in PPA <whew>  Likely to ask for sponsoring tomorrow with good feedback on bugs.
* Working on Ubuntu.net whitepaper to create a more complete basis for discussion.
* Wrote MIR for ASIO to help with Abiword situation.  It got conditionally accepted :)
* Off on the 11th (tomorrow for some of you)
* Spent hours (days) trying to decide what I want in the Ubuntu store :)

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
