{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Weekly Summary ==

== Agenda ==

* ''Insert things to discuss at meeting here..''

=== Product strategy integration ===

* Progress on the daily autolanding phase. Now dealing with IS to get the proper ports open and dogfooding with real data.

==== Unity ====

* Moved packaging branches inline to the upstream trunks
* About halfway through modernizing packaging (dh9, --fail-missing, tests, etc)
* Fixed a lot of upstream issues to get the dailies running again
* Dealt with glew
* Unity stack SRU uploaded in both raring and quantal. Precise under preparation with other fixes
* Compiz got some bug fixes for fullscreen opengl apps like video games. Will be released as part of the precise SRU.

==== Indicators & Themes ====

* Evolution-indicator almost ready to land after being ported to EDS 3.6 / libmessaging-menu, waiting on a CA to merge the last patches upstream if possible. (cyphermox)
* Started "inlining" indicator-messages, indicator-sound, which should be the first indicators to get ready for the new PS process. (cyphermox)

==== Webapps/Webcredentials ====
* SRUs for:
** gnome-control-center-signon
** libsignon-glib
** webaccounts-browser-extension
** unity-chromium-extension
* MIR for webaccounts-browser-extension
* Working on moving packaging inline with trunk

==== Open input framework ====

* Upload in the distro has broken evince. Fix upstream in progress.
* Renaming of the oif stack has finished with final package set renaming.

==== chromium-browser ====

* Good progress on PPA. Chad is learning that Chromium moves fast.  Since UDS, for instance, two source updates that cause the build to fail.  Getting automatic pull from #webapps, patches branch.
* Need to decide whether to follow Debian and transition binary package name to 'chromium'
* "chromedriver" also packaged, perhaps.  Some community and #webapps seem interested.

=== X.org ===
* attempting to upstream kernel patches (mlankhorst)
* attempting to upstream wine patches (mlankhorst)
* getting q-lts-backport stack ready (mlankhorst)
* following fallout from 3.7 nouveau rewrite (mlankhorst)

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
}}}

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

{{{
</pre>
