{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson)
* Didier Roche (didrocks)
* Gary Lasker (tremolux)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Mathieu Trudel-Lapierre (cyphermox)
* Michael Terry (mterry)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)
* Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

==== Discussion ====

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Partner Update ===

=== Kubuntu Update ===

=== X Update ===

=== UNE update ===

* No unity release this week, but still a lot of love! Some cherry-pick to fix latest issues, mostly translations one.
* Now shotwell is blacklisted from appmenu, so you can safely run it under UNE.
* I think we are pretty good for the release, no flow of bugs after RC, no showstoppers at least.
* Still working heavily on the icon loading taking long on some hw configuration and others bugs set for an SRU.

=== USC update ===

* Buy Something
** Testing continues with $1 test package
** ISD set to deploy round of software-center-agent tweaks and fixes this week
** https://launchpad.net/software-center-agent/+milestone/10.10
  
* Ratings and Reviews
** Kicked off development for Natty
** mvo has brought the code out of mothballs and merged with current trunk at lp:~mvo/software-center/reviews
   
* Miscellaneous
** continued testing, targeted bugfixes over past week
** 10.10 tagged bugs: http://tinyurl.com/29drbv4
** #647212 mvo has part of a fix, in progress
** #649939 reported fix in policykit by james_w, will likely be SRU
** #652903 and #652927 are fix committed, will likely go in as SRU

=== Weekly bugs summary ===

=== Release Status ===

http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team.html

=== Other Business ===

Bugs to have a look:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Number
| Title
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vte/+bug/621927|621927]]</nowiki>
| Embedded Terminal Emulator isn't giving a TERM variable
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/630884|630884]]</nowiki>
| nautilus crashed with SIGSEGV in g_closure_invoke()
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rhythmbox/+bug/654105|654105]]</nowiki>
| Transferring songs from iPod to local drive does not copy extension (ie, .mp3), confusing some portable devices
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gtk+2.0/+bug/551809|551809]]</nowiki>
| gnome-settings-daemon crashed with SIGSEGV
|}

=== Activity reports ===

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

==== Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson) ====

==== Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF) ====

==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====

* UNE:
** cherry-pick some fixes: unity, bamf, unity-place-applications, unity-place-fils
** debugging, discussing and helping dx to see which bugs should be fixed for final and for first SRU.
** add an extra string to mutter for 2D/3D detection/
** appmenu-gtk, shotwell : blacklisting shotwell crashing under UNE because of appmenu.
** lot of bug triaging with incoming RC and release
** UNE seeds mangling: backporting all fixes from the desktop seed and some fixes. regenerate ubuntu-netbook metapackage for adding the new font.
** lot of ISO testing (both desktop, but UNE at first).
* GNOME:
** empathy: backport a fix pointer by upstream 
** evolution: fix u1 email french translation having not title, nor sender
* Misc:
** debugging and helping dx in indicator-datetime for getting 12/24h format, backport the fix then.
** updating indicator-network
** oneconf: a lot of fixes to it. Should play nicely now. Will also play nicer as fixed a bug/feature in USC (so wait for next SRU!).
** some Quickly love, discussion and merge (thanks mterry)
** backport a patch for appmenu-gtk to show gedit plugins menu
** sponsoring: devhelp, cairo, vala, monodevelop, eclipse, totem-plugin-arte, ubuntu-soo-client
** some investigation on keyboard not being set as azerty in the French local for the live CD.

==== Gary Lasker (tremolux) ====
* fixed <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/617004|LP: #617004:]]</nowiki> intermittent crash bug affecting many users
* wrote wiki page howto for adding new-apps metadata: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PostReleaseApps/Metadata
* update new-apps test package, test using my PPA
* RC ISO testing, desktop and UNE images
* Software Center testing for RC
* Software Center bug triage, close watch on new bugs for RC
* Weekly Software Center call
* Reviewing lp:~mvo/software-center/reviews, mvo's ratings and reviews code merged to latest trunk
* todo:  tzdata updates <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/649348|LP: #649348]]</nowiki>

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

* CD Testing
* SRU review and processing
* apport retracer maintenance
* bug triage
* build, test, upload final maverick langpacks
* discussed and fixed libvala-dev NBS
* fixed broken yelp in English locales (#605577)
* fixed cups startup on servers (#650893)
* fixed regression from cups upstartification (#647369)
* improved udisks test suite
* release management and engineering
* sponsored gvfs
* joined parts of release team meeting to coordinate final release staffing
* udisks bug fixing

==== Mathieu Trudel-Lapierre (cyphermox) ====

* Testing:
** ISO testing for RC
** SRU testing for #615549 fix, gdm/kdm / drm race
** Test fix for #594162 w/ cjwatson; wget segfault in installer chroot
* Updated gvfs
* Fix upgrade file conflict between hildon-desktop & gnome-menus (#647628)
* Fix seamonkey RenderBadPicture bug (#575160)
* Fix vinagre auth methods >(#634571)
* Some FTBFS fixing (abiword (by way of aiksaurus), gauche-gtk)

==== Michael Terry (mterry) ====

* ISO testing: alternate free, alternate resize, alternate expert, alternate oem, une full disk (this one erased my disk due to user error!  whoops), une oem
* Quickly
** Fix crash when using help() - 649881
** Fix cdbs / directory with spaces bug - 636277
** Fix distutils-extra being put in Depends - 643655
** Lots of work on a vala-dep-scanner to determine what packages a set of vala source files requires (for vala template to be as question-free as the python template)  https://launchpad.net/~mterry/+junk/vala-dep-scanner
* FTBFS: desktop-webmail / cairo, devhelp
* GNOME 2.32.0: nautilus-sendto, gnome-bluetooth, gtksourceview2
* AppDevWeek
** Blogged about/prepared for/gave talk about release management (http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2010/10/01/%23ubuntu-classroom.txt)
** 14:00 UTC is either too early, release management is not exciting enough (unlikely!), or I gave every piece of info people wanted, because there was not much chatter.  :)

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* extra catchup after being away for 2 weeks
* backported an indicator-session crash fix
* debugged a translation issue in tomboy and uploaded a fix for it
* new zenity version
* new seahorse version
* rc isos testing
* desktop bugs triaging
* sponsoring: desktop-webmail gnome-applets brasero gnome-themes gnome-bluetooth nautilus-sendto gtksourceview2

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* foomatic-db, system-config-printer: Fixed regression introduced by adding by-PDL PPD selection to let printers get set up correctly also if they have an optional PostScript add-on. This made PCL PPDs being selected for some PostScript printers (LP: #653814)
* Organization of travel for UDS
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
