{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson)
* Didier Roche (didrocks)
* Gary Lasker (tremolux)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)
* Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

==== Discussion ====

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Partner Update ===
===== UbuntuOne =====
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuOne-MaverickWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>
* Desktop SSO problems, should be fixed by a server rollout this week
* Music Store is currently broken Bug:572381

===== DX =====
* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-MaverickWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-MaverickReleaseStatus#Freeze%20Exceptions%20Requests| Freeze Exception Requests]]</nowiki>

=== Kubuntu Update ===

=== UNE update ===

=== USC update ===

* Buy Something
** Buy something functionality is now enabled by default (for beta)
** s-c-agent and payments serverside not yet live, outlook is middle of this week
** Deployment will be limited initially with a single test item for sale for testing
** Continue bugfixing this week, address issues in mpt's summary email
  
* New Apps on a Stable Release
** Excellent discussions on ubuntu-devel this past week re: implementation and process details
** Custom metadata fix from launchpad team (LP: #613468) to be deployed on next LP update (targeted Sep. 8th)
** extras.ubuntu.com and corresponding sync from app-review-board PPA not yet implemented
** RT ticket for tracking #40099
   
* UI Enhancements
** New addons feature has been merged, many thanks to devildante for the feature and to kiwinote as well
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SoftwareCenter#add-ons
** mvo implemented a very effective (and well-received) "where is it" feature for locating installed applications in the menu

=== X Update ===

* Xserver 1.9 is in, and bedded down.
* Mesa 7.9
** We targetted this release at UDS
** Still scheduled for release by the end of September
** Many teams would like it:
** Fixes Unity on -ati hardware
** Linaro wants a new EGL extension from it
** It'll provide some support 3D for new Intel systems for HWE.
** Needs some regressions fixed, then a FFe.

=== Release Status ===

http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-ubuntu-10.10-beta.html

=== Other Business ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

==== Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson) ====

==== Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF) ====

* Tied off the loose ends of the uninterruptible screensaver-fade bug (LP #595555).  Xserver patch applied to Maverick, sent upstream, and reviewed.  Related gnome-session bug patched, sent upstream and merge waiting for sponsorship (Bug:623700).
* Fixed some edge cases in xserver-xorg-video-ati Xserver crash patch.  Patch now applied upstream, need to pull applied patch back into Maverick.
* Packaging & testing for mesa 7.9 snapshot.
** Fixes Unity on -ati
** Exposes clutter vsync bug.
* Identified clutter bug exposed by mesa 7.9, patch requiring sponsorship.
* Started investigating the re-occurance of the “crash on pressing enter” bug in the interaction of X & plymouth.  There doesn't seem to have been any VT handling changes in X, so need to investigate further.

==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====

-- /!\ some part of the activity report is for the period from 10 to 13th August as was on vacation afterwards --

* UNE:
** new release of unity (dee, bamf, clutk, libzeitgeist, zeitgeist-extension, zeitgeist, unity-place-applications, unity-place-files, unity)
** sponsor some patches for mutter
** bug triaging
* Misc:
** Update OOo to latest (openoffice.org, openoffice.org-l10n, openoffice.org-dictionnaries, openoffice.org-hyphenation:
*** discovering and studying the build system
*** listing all changes from debian, document all changes (most of them were not documented)
*** removing deprecated changes
*** backport some fixes
*** removing/adding languages to hyphenation and dictionnaries
** sponsoring liferea indicator fix
** sponsoring cairo-dock and cairo-doc-plugins before FF
** preparing new compiz (0.9) to compiz packager ppa, still need work on the decorator side

-- Monday 30th August --

* catchup on emails, triaging bugs
* Quickly: merge i18n improvment change
* fix kiki not launching
* change default launchers on ubuntu-netbook-default-settings for people trying evolution express
* some fixes to evolution default signature

==== Gary Lasker (tremolux) ====
* Review, test lp:~ilidrissi.amine/software-center/addons
* Review, test lp:~kiwinote/software-center/addons some refactoring for the above
* Lots of USC testing, bugfixing in preparation for UI and beta freezes
* LP: #624716 - fix incorrect state of install/remove menu items
* LP: #624732 - activate the corresponding install/remove menu item when selecting an app directly in Featured/What's New
* LP: #614213, LP: #614214, LP: #614215 - Wired up icons for left navigation pane
* LP: #618821 - display currency in software item screen for items for purchase
* LP: #626600 - Fixed software-center plugin bug that caused update-apt-xapian-index crash
* Work on verifying new-apps metadata support using test app in PPA on dogfood.lp.net
* Review, test lp:~mmcg069/software-center/misbehaving-pathbar-fix
* tzdata:  Prepared, tested and released 2010l tzdata updates (LP: #623630)
* Wrote my objectives for the next performance review period
* Weekly software-center call
* Made my travel arrangements for UDS-N Orlando
* This week:
** Continued USC bug fixing, focus on remaining buy-something bugs

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

done:
* Ubiquity testing and debugging
* Fixing kdebindings on ARM
* Fixing kdeedu compile
* Smoke testing ISO images ahead of beta
* Add mpris2 patch to Amarok from Aurelien
* updating kdenetwork for small screens, patch from Aurelien
* Updating libdebconf-kde and packagekit with fixes from upstream
* Ensure Qt picks up the KDE widget style even if KDE apps aren't run first
* New kpackagekit snapshot
* Fix logo in libdebconf-kde dialogues
* okular security update
* Friday and Monday [bank] holiday
todo:
* beta testing and release
* KDE 4.5.1

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
* Twitter's OAuthpocalypse
** Negotiated a solution with Twitter
** Added migration path for basic auth to OAuth 
** Backported to 2.30.x for Lucid, still buggy but should have something workable today
*** Hopefully get it uploaded to lucid-proposed later today for testing
* Gwibber bugs
** Narrowed gwibber-service crasher to libproxy and threading, will dig in deeper after OAuthpocalypse is behind us.
** Merged a bunch of bug fix branches for gwibber

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

* SRU review and processing                            
* Technical Board meeting                              
* apport bug fixing and improvements                   
* archive administration                               
* bug triage                                           
* debugged and fixed bluetooth detection regression (LP #621911)
* desktop team meeting                                 
* jockey bug fixing                                    
* langpack-locales bug fixing                          
* new media-player-info version                        
* pm-utils bug fixing                                  
* release management and engineering                   
* reworked udev bzr branch for using the automatic upstream import
* udev bug fixing

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* Maverick updates: vala, gtkhtml3.14, tsclient, avahi, shotwell, folks, simple-scan, gcalctool, gucharmap, vte, gnome-terminal, gnome-games, seahorse, seed, vino, file-roller, eog, empathy, nautilus-sendto, brasero, glib
* Make shotwell .desktop files use gettext
* Make cdbs automatically update .policy files to use gettext
* Sponsor GIMP package description change
* Sponsor VTE button modifier patch
* Sponsor cheese description and apport changes
* Hide im-switch from the preferences
* Sponsor mutter unminimize bug patch

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* tested and backported i18n support for unity places views
* new appmenu-gtk versions
* new rhythmbox git snapshot
* updated the gtk proxy change to fix an appmenu crasher
* new libzeigeist version building a new gio binary
* tweaked clutter change for unity
* new indicator-sound update
* updated evolution to install a launcher for the email client and a signature
* gstreamer update
* new libdbusmenu version
* new gkt-murrine snapshot
* dropped the gnome-panel documentation browser launcher
* fixed nautilus build issue with the new gtk
* weekly unity updates
* backported rhythmbox git changes
* reviewed team's work items and bugs, weekly meeting, expense claims, goals

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* Studied the replacement of the Foomatic XML data (/usr/share/foomatic) by pre-built and compressed PPDs. This frees up 18 MB in an installed system (Ubuntu default installation, Desktop CD live system). Users of the ijsgutenprint driver (not part of the standard installation) save even 90 MB. In addition, listing available PPDs ("lpinfo -m" and generating the needed PPD get significantly faster.
* foomatic-db-engine: Bug fixes to make pre-building of PPDs work correctly and to make PPDs generated correctly if the driver name has a dash ("-").
* foomatic-db: Added foomatic-db-compressed-ppds binary package which supplies the PPDs from a compressed archive and replaces the foomatic-db and foomatic-db-engine packages. Made package taken into account in the "Recommends:" and "Depends:" of the other binary packages.
* gutenprint: Added ijsgutenprint-ppds binary package which supplies the PPDs for ijsgutenprint in a compressed archive.
* min12xxw: Updated Depends: and Recommends: to take into account foomatic-db-compressed-ppds.
* c2050: Fixed/updated the dependencies, added apport hook.
* Note that the above-mentioned packages got only prepared, not uploaded, due to the beta freeze.
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports.

== IRC Logs ==
[17:30] <seb128> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2010-08-31 <<BR>>
[17:30] <pedro_> welcome back didrocks ;-) <<BR>>
[17:30] <tremolux> hiya all! <<BR>>
[17:30] <seb128> I hope everybody is doing fine <<BR>>
[17:30] <tremolux> hey didrocks  o/ <<BR>>
[17:30] <didrocks> thanks pedro_, tremolux ;) <<BR>>
[17:31] <Riddell> hi <<BR>>
[17:31] <seb128> let's get started <<BR>>
[17:31] <seb128> I don't think we had actions from the previous meeting <<BR>>
[17:31] <seb128> so, partner update <<BR>>
[17:31] <seb128> kenvandine, hey <<BR>>
[17:32]  * kenvandine waves <<BR>>
[17:32] <kenvandine> sure <<BR>>
[17:32] <kenvandine> starting with U1 <<BR>>
[17:32] <kenvandine> there is still a SSO bug that should be fixed this week with a server update <<BR>>
[17:33] <kenvandine> and i think u1music is still broken, https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/572381 <<BR>>
[17:33] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 572381 in rhythmbox-ubuntuone-music-store (Ubuntu) (and 1 other project) "Ubuntu One Store not showing (dup-of: 624616)" [High,In progress] <<BR>>
[17:33] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 624616 in rhythmbox-ubuntuone-music-store (Ubuntu Maverick) (and 2 other projects) "rhythmbox-ubuntuone-music-store without icon (affects: 7) (dups: 2) (heat: 36)" [Undecided,Incomplete] <<BR>>
[17:33] <kenvandine> rodrigo_, any status on that? <<BR>>
[17:33] <kenvandine> also, josh just told me they will have a UIF exception  request <<BR>>
[17:33] <rodrigo_> kenvandine, fixed in the last package upload <<BR>>
[17:34]  * kenvandine crosses fingers <<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-sso-client/+bug/627440 <<BR>>
[17:34] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 627440 in ubuntu-sso-client (Ubuntu) (and 1 other project) "[UI Freeze Exception] Registration UI is too tall for small screens (affects: 2) (heat: 14)" [High,Triaged] <<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> moving on to DX <<BR>>
[17:34] <seb128> rodrigo_, you might want to ping #ubuntu-release about it <<BR>>
[17:35] <seb128> not sure if it will made to beta or not <<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> they have prepared a wiki page to track their exception requests <<BR>>
[17:35] <rodrigo_> seb128, ok <<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2010-08-31/DesktopExperienceTeam/MaverickReleaseStatus#Freeze%2520Exceptions%2520Requests <<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> basically they will have some, you can review them there and raise concerns as needed <<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> they are mostly UI tweaks <<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> that is all i have <<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> any questions? <<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> comments? <<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> Riddell, is U1 working ok in kubuntu? did those issues get addressed? <<BR>>
[17:37] <Riddell> kenvandine: a whole new issue happened with another rewrite of ubuntu-sso <<BR>>
[17:37] <Riddell> apachelogger has written a KDE frontend to it but it needs kwallet support still <<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> ok <<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> sigh... <<BR>>
[17:38] <kenvandine> ok, well moving on i guess :) <<BR>>
[17:38]  * kenvandine hands mic back to seb128 <<BR>>
[17:38] <Riddell> online services needs to learn how to work with the community really <<BR>>
[17:38] <seb128> thanks kenvandine <<BR>>
[17:39] <seb128> Riddell, was there any interaction between them and the kubuntu team this cycle? <<BR>>
[17:39] <kenvandine> Riddell, i'll bring that up with them <<BR>>
[17:39] <Riddell> seb128: no, only bits here and there when apachelogger asked.  they don't even have a mailing list as far as I know <<BR>>
[17:39] <seb128> ok, something to improve next cycle <<BR>>
[17:39] <kenvandine> yeah, i'll raise that <<BR>>
[17:39] <seb128> dx is better nowadays than ols for that <<BR>>
[17:40] <kenvandine> we can make that better <<BR>>
[17:40] <seb128> ok, let's move on <<BR>>
[17:40] <seb128> we can but not today there ;-) <<BR>>
[17:40] <seb128> Riddell, since you are there, kubuntu update? <<BR>>
[17:40] <Riddell>  - ubiquity was troublesome but evan stayed up late to fix bugs, but I suspect there's some more bugs to iron out yet <<BR>>
[17:40] <Riddell>  - kdebindings and rdepends building on ARM now, am hopeful for images ready for beta <<BR>>
[17:40] <Riddell>  - KDE SC 4.5.1 out today, will upload after beta <<BR>>
[17:40] <Riddell>  - mpris 2 support got into Amarok thanks to Aurelien <<BR>>
[17:40] <Riddell>  - http://tinyurl.com/33p7vu3 5 milestoned bugs, hopefully 2 are fixed already, probably more to come after beta <<BR>>
[17:41] <seb128> quite short list of milestone bugs ;-) <<BR>>
[17:41] <rodrigo_> Riddell, seb128: we have talked with apachelogger about the changes <<BR>>
[17:41] <Riddell> seb128: it'll grow I'm sure <<BR>>
[17:41] <rodrigo_> he knows at least since 2/3 weeks ago <<BR>>
[17:42] <rodrigo_> and we have a mailing list -> ubuntuone-users@ <<BR>>
[17:42] <seb128> rodrigo_, ok <<BR>>
[17:42] <seb128> let's discuss that after the meeting maybe <<BR>>
[17:42] <rodrigo_> ok <<BR>>
[17:42] <seb128> does anybody has questions or comments for Riddell? <<BR>>
[17:42] <seb128> Riddell, thanks <<BR>>
[17:43] <seb128> didrocks, hey <<BR>>
[17:43] <seb128> didrocks, UNE update? <<BR>>
[17:43] <didrocks> hey o/ seb128 made the release. All was troubleless near the swimming pool for me in the meantime. Wonderful experience on my side :) <<BR>>
[17:43] <didrocks> more seriously, a lot of bug fix last week from what I saw, but still some <<BR>>
[17:43] <kenvandine> hehe <<BR>>
[17:44] <didrocks> seb128 and I are making some last minute dx update for beta <<BR>>
[17:44] <didrocks> more bug fixing in the two coming weeks and MT support landing this release <<BR>>
[17:44] <didrocks> any questions/remarks on annoying bug not listed yet? <<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> to clarify the previous week version has gesture support <<BR>>
[17:45] <didrocks> (there will be some little ui changes too, but UNE is less impacted as there is no documentation AFAIK) <<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> but extra use of that and change are still coming this week, after that they will stop it seems <<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> didrocks, do you want to mention the banshee situation? <<BR>>
[17:45] <didrocks> sure <<BR>>
[17:45] <didrocks> so, banshee will have a new release tomorrow <<BR>>
[17:46] <didrocks> with finally udev backend <<BR>>
[17:46] <didrocks> no more hal <<BR>>
[17:46] <didrocks> but that requires no components (already packaged) and coordination with Laney and hyperair <<BR>>
[17:46] <didrocks> new gpod release too <<BR>>
[17:46] <didrocks> so, seems risky <<BR>>
[17:46] <didrocks> in any case, what we can do is landing that in the current universe package (we are on a unstable release in any case) <<BR>>
[17:46] <seb128> do you know if somebody tested the musicstore recently on banshee? <<BR>>
[17:47] <didrocks> ask for testing on OMGUbuntu site and get user testing <<BR>>
[17:47] <didrocks> I didn't for a month, I don't know if other have done <<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> ok <<BR>>
[17:47] <didrocks> it was working great (apart from the empty mp3 file not included) <<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> so let's get the update in universe this week <<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> can you take an action to check the musicstore for next week? <<BR>>
[17:48] <didrocks> added to my TODO :) <<BR>>
[17:48] <pedro_> gpod? is banshee using gpod now? <<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> thanks <<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> pedro_, yes ;-) <<BR>>
[17:48] <pedro_> cool, i hate podsleuth. <<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> ok <<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> thanks didrocks <<BR>>
[17:49] <didrocks> yw :) <<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> tremolux, hey <<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> tremolux, software-center update? <<BR>>
[17:49] <tremolux> hi seb128 <<BR>>
[17:49] <tremolux> you bet <<BR>>
[17:49] <tremolux> Buy Something: Enabled by default for beta, serverside compoments to go live this week for limited testing, focus on bugfixing now <<BR>>
[17:49] <tremolux> New Apps: Custom metadata fix from Launchpad team to go live on next LP update (target Sep. 8th) <<BR>>
[17:49] <tremolux> UI Enhancements: New addons feature merged; many thanks to devildante for this feature, and thanks to kiwinote as well <<BR>>
[17:49] <tremolux> mvo implemented a very effective (and well-received) "where is it" feature for locating installed apps in the menu <<BR>>
[17:49] <tremolux> (more details on wiki, thanks!) <<BR>>
[17:50] <tremolux> so, lots of things in for beta, now testing and bugfixing <<BR>>
[17:50] <tremolux> any questions or comments? <<BR>>
[17:50] <seb128> nice to see the buy something getting there <<BR>>
[17:50] <tremolux> yes <<BR>>
[17:50] <seb128> so you wrote that there is a rt for extras.ubuntu.com <<BR>>
[17:50] <tremolux> yes <<BR>>
[17:50] <seb128> did you get any reply on that yet? <<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> do they have any estimation on when that will be done? <<BR>>
[17:51] <tremolux> I haven't, but it's not *urgent* yet <<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> well, it's not urgent but better in a week than in a month still <<BR>>
[17:51] <tremolux> yes, exactly <<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> thanks for tracking that in any case ;-) <<BR>>
[17:52] <tremolux> I've pinged elmo again, and raised it in our weekly s-c meeting <<BR>>
[17:52] <seb128> ok, great <<BR>>
[17:52] <seb128> is the screenshot item something you still think will get done this cycle? <<BR>>
[17:52] <seb128> "support screenshots for apps in extras.ubuntu.com (see screenshots for third party spec): TODO" <<BR>>
[17:52] <tremolux> I think the issue there is where the screenshots will be stored <<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> that's sort of why I'm asking <<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> if that's not sorted yet seems it's getting late? <<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> do you have status updates on those changes somewhere? <<BR>>
[17:53] <tremolux> yes, agreed, I will check that <<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> thanks <<BR>>
[17:54] <tremolux> I think that one has been on the back-burner, but you are right to point it out and thanks for that <<BR>>
[17:54] <seb128> let me know during the week if you get a status update <<BR>>
[17:54] <tremolux> sounds good, I will <<BR>>
[17:54] <seb128> thanks tremolux <<BR>>
[17:54] <seb128> that's all from me <<BR>>
[17:54] <seb128> other questions? comments? <<BR>>
[17:54] <tremolux> thanks seb128 <<BR>>
[17:54] <seb128> ok, seems not, let's move on <<BR>>
[17:54] <seb128> pedro_, hey <<BR>>
[17:54] <pedro_> Hello <<BR>>
[17:55] <seb128> so pedro_ is joining our meeting, welcome to him <<BR>>
[17:55] <seb128> he's going to do a weekly qa status update <<BR>>
[17:55] <chrisccoulson> hi pedro_ <<BR>>
[17:55] <tremolux> hello pedro_! <<BR>>
[17:55] <pedro_> glad to be here :-) <<BR>>
[17:55] <seb128> pedro_, the mic is yours ;-) <<BR>>
[17:55] <pedro_> ok so i'd like to raise some bugs to your attention <<BR>>
[17:55] <pedro_> bug 586012 <<BR>>
[17:55] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 586012 in xfce4-panel (Ubuntu) (and 2 other projects) "[Maverick] XFCE system tray became unusable after libgtk upgrade (affects: 13) (dups: 4) (heat: 88)" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/586012 <<BR>>
[17:55] <pedro_> what would be the final word on that one? <<BR>>
[17:56] <pedro_> latest comment said it will be reviewed after alpha2 and we're getting there <<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> it seemed that it was due to gtk rgba changes <<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> which we dropped since, they were not ready <<BR>>
[17:56] <pedro_> summary: gtk rgba changes <<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> could you check with the submitter if that's still an issue? <<BR>>
[17:56] <pedro_> right so they are not going to be enabled in maverick? <<BR>>
[17:56] <pedro_> seb128, yes <<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> pedro_, no rgba in maverick no <<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> we turned it off and it's staying this way <<BR>>
[17:57] <pedro_> ok i'll talk with the xfce guys <<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> thanks <<BR>>
[17:57] <pedro_> the other bug: bug 623516 <<BR>>
[17:57] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 623516 in empathy (Ubuntu) (and 1 other project) "empathy crashed because depend on package telepathy-logger (affects: 5) (dups: 2) (heat: 28)" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/623516 <<BR>>
[17:57] <pedro_> they are requesting a depends on the telepathy-logger <<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> ok, we discussed that today on #telepathy <<BR>>
[17:57] <pedro_> probably is too late to do that? <<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> we will change the recommends to a depends after beta <<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> it's not an issue for new install and should not be for upgrades <<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> out of people not getting  recommends for some reason <<BR>>
[17:58] <pedro_> ok will update the bug to reflect that so we keep on the track <<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> but indeed we should fix that <<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> I will make sure it goes in after beta <<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> pedro_, thanks <<BR>>
[17:58] <pedro_> i have a couple for lucid that might be good to look as well: bug 609855 <<BR>>
[17:58] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 609855 in totem (Ubuntu) (and 1 other project) "Totem unable to play youtube videos (affects: 11) (heat: 158)" [Low,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/609855 <<BR>>
[17:58] <pedro_> again, youtube is broken <<BR>>
[17:59] <seb128> I guess it's another server side change <<BR>>
[17:59] <seb128> I will check that later on <<BR>>
[17:59] <pedro_> the change doesn't seems to be too bad http://git.gnome.org/browse/totem/commit/?id=50027abd715acc24978e7830162c70c7e1a05811 <<BR>>
[17:59] <kenvandine> love supporting services we have no control over :/ <<BR>>
[17:59] <seb128> kenvandine, indeed <<BR>>
[17:59] <pedro_> yeah... <<BR>>
[17:59]  * kenvandine glares at twitter and facebook! <<BR>>
[17:59] <pedro_> bug 534225 <<BR>>
[17:59] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 534225 in gnome-terminal (Ubuntu) (and 1 other project) "[lucid] setup_http_proxy_env constructs no_proxy incorrectly (affects: 27) (dups: 5) (heat: 119)" [Low,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/534225 <<BR>>
[18:00] <pedro_> that bug ^ is fixed on Maverick, but still as fix committed <<BR>>
[18:00] <pedro_> could get commit someone to make the fix that in Lucid? <<BR>>
[18:00] <chrisccoulson> b'ah, i was meant to upload the stable gnome-terminal to lucid ages ago ;) <<BR>>
[18:00] <seb128> pedro_, ok, feel free to close it then, we will get somebody working on the lucid update <<BR>>
[18:00] <seb128> chrisccoulson, ^ <<BR>>
[18:00] <seb128> so it's yours ;-) <<BR>>
[18:00] <chrisccoulson> yeah, i'd planned on doing it ages ago, then forgot about it <<BR>>
[18:00] <pedro_> ok i'll accept the nomination there then <<BR>>
[18:00] <chrisccoulson> ok, i will fix ;) <<BR>>
[18:00] <pedro_> thanks chrisccoulson :-) <<BR>>
[18:00] <seb128> thanks chrisccoulson, pedro_ <<BR>>
[18:01] <pedro_> other that it would look good to fix, bug  219385 <<BR>>
[18:01] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 219385 in gtk+2.0 (CentOS) (and 4 other projects) "File filters can make file selection dialog too wide for screen (affects: 20) (dups: 13) (heat: 170)" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/219385 <<BR>>
[18:01] <pedro_> the change is not too aggressive either and it would make us look even better <<BR>>
[18:01] <seb128> would be nice, that's fixed in gtk3 but the changes don't seem trivial for current gtk <<BR>>
[18:01] <pedro_> ah it's on gtk3 mm... <<BR>>
[18:01] <seb128> well I think it relies on the layout changes in gtk3 <<BR>>
[18:02] <seb128> pedro_, any other one? <<BR>>
[18:02] <pedro_> i'm not a developer ;-) so would be nice if someone could investigate <<BR>>
[18:02] <seb128> yeah, we will <<BR>>
[18:02] <pedro_> yes just a couple <<BR>>
[18:02] <pedro_> these are the ones that would be nice to keep an eye <<BR>>
[18:02] <pedro_> bug 405544 <<BR>>
[18:03] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 405544 in linux (Ubuntu Lucid) (and 4 other projects) "Kernel does not recognize blank optical media (affects: 88) (dups: 13) (heat: 387)" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/405544 <<BR>>
[18:03] <seb128> just drop the numbers maybe in list <<BR>>
[18:03] <pedro_> bug 617399 <<BR>>
[18:03] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 617399 in f-spot (Ubuntu) (and 1 other project) ""Filename path must be absolute" error when opening image with "F-Spot Photo Manager" (affects: 6) (dups: 2) (heat: 236)" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/617399 <<BR>>
[18:03] <pedro_> bug 621445 <<BR>>
[18:03] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 621445 in rhythmbox (Ubuntu) "rhythmbox crashed with SIGSEGV in g_closure_invoke() (affects: 44) (dups: 3) (heat: 210)" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/621445 <<BR>>
[18:03] <pedro_> and bug 625793 <<BR>>
[18:03] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 625793 in indicator-application (and 1 other project) "sometimes keyboard layout automatically changed (affects: 3) (heat: 14)" [Undecided,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/625793 <<BR>>
[18:03] <pedro_> those are generating some duplicates or being raised in mailing lists <<BR>>
[18:04] <seb128> ok <<BR>>
[18:04] <seb128> I will check out on those later <<BR>>
[18:04] <pedro_> so just keep an eye in case those could affect a more wider audience, i'm keeping tracks of those but is never bad to have an extra pair of eyes there <<BR>>
[18:04] <seb128> I don't think we need to discuss every bug in the meeting <<BR>>
[18:04] <seb128> right <<BR>>
[18:04] <pedro_> no that's ok <<BR>>
[18:04] <seb128> pedro_, great list, thanks <<BR>>
[18:04] <pedro_> seb128, that's all from here unless there's a question <<BR>>
[18:04] <seb128> next week could you copy your list on the wiki before the meeting maybe? <<BR>>
[18:04] <chrisccoulson> no mozilla bugs? :) <<BR>>
[18:04] <pedro_> seb128, yes it will go there next week <<BR>>
[18:04] <seb128> so I can try to have a quick overview before the meeting <<BR>>
[18:04] <seb128> thanks <<BR>>
[18:05] <pedro_> chrisccoulson, i'll add some for next meeting <<BR>>
[18:05] <seb128> pedro_, otherwise any special concern about the release? <<BR>>
[18:05] <seb128> any component you think is buggy or should get special care? <<BR>>
[18:05] <pedro_> i'm a bit worried about two things <<BR>>
[18:05] <pedro_> the changes on gtk that are making apps to crash <<BR>>
[18:05] <pedro_> like rhythmbox, evolution, etc <<BR>>
[18:05] <seb128> right, I'm working on dx for those <<BR>>
[18:05] <chrisccoulson> yeah, i'm finding appmenu-gtk is crashing nearly everything that doesn't export a menu right now <<BR>>
[18:05] <pedro_> i'm counting libindicate as part of that as well <<BR>>
[18:05] <seb128> it's mainly their appmenu thing <<BR>>
[18:06] <chrisccoulson> including nm-applet <<BR>>
[18:06] <pedro_> and the retracers being broken :-( <<BR>>
[18:06] <seb128> right, that's blocked on launchpad <<BR>>
[18:06] <pedro_> i hope we don't miss any important crash <<BR>>
[18:06] <pedro_> right <<BR>>
[18:06] <seb128> I'm trying to push them but they move slowly <<BR>>
[18:06] <seb128> I'm concerned about that as well <<BR>>
[18:06] <pedro_> besides that i think the release is looking good so far <<BR>>
[18:06] <seb128> hopefully that gets fixed this week <<BR>>
[18:07] <pedro_> for next cycle would be nice to see more coordination with the dx team to get those changes earlier <<BR>>
[18:07] <seb128> the appmenu-gtk crash for things not exporting a menu might be fixing in trunk <<BR>>
[18:07] <seb128> if somebody wants to try <<BR>>
[18:07] <chrisccoulson> yeah, i'll try that later <<BR>>
[18:07] <seb128> pedro_, we do try but they tend to be busy ;-) <<BR>>
[18:07] <seb128> thanks pedro_ <<BR>>
[18:07]  * seb128 hugs pedro_ <<BR>>
[18:07] <pedro_> my pleasure <<BR>>
[18:07] <seb128> nice status update <<BR>>
[18:07]  * pedro_ hugs seb128 <<BR>>
[18:08] <pedro_> oh just a short announcement <<BR>>
[18:08] <seb128> sure <<BR>>
[18:08] <pedro_> the Thursday 02 we're having a bug day for empathy <<BR>>
[18:08] <seb128> nice <<BR>>
[18:08] <pedro_> so next week we're probably going to have some more bugs raised from there <<BR>>
[18:08] <seb128> the new version is in the queue <<BR>>
[18:08] <seb128> so it will be in after beta <<BR>>
[18:08] <pedro_> awesome <<BR>>
[18:08] <bcurtiswx> pedro_: i will DEF be on -bugs to help with that <<BR>>
[18:08] <seb128> thanks pedro_ <<BR>>
[18:08] <pedro_> bcurtiswx, \o/ <<BR>>
[18:09] <seb128> let's move on <<BR>>
[18:09] <pedro_> you're welcome <<BR>>
[18:09] <seb128> bcurtiswx, great ;-) <<BR>>
[18:09] <seb128> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-ubuntu-10.10-beta.html <<BR>>
[18:09] <seb128> so we are on shape for beta <<BR>>
[18:09] <seb128> not a lot to say, every should help testing isos <<BR>>
[18:09] <seb128> beta shapes to be solid out of some small issues <<BR>>
[18:09] <seb128> great work everybody <<BR>>
[18:10] <seb128> I've started milestoning bugs, I will dispatch some to team members <<BR>>
[18:10] <seb128> so please watch your assigned bugs <<BR>>
[18:10] <seb128> if you don't filter those out in some way you should <<BR>>
[18:11] <seb128> if you find any bug we should fix for maverick please nominate it for maverick <<BR>>
[18:11] <seb128> you can also assign to the team if you want so it's on our list <<BR>>
[18:11] <seb128> that's it from me <<BR>>
[18:11] <seb128> does anybody has questions or comments? <<BR>>
[18:11] <kenvandine> just a quick update on twitter... it will be broken for users until we get this update out <<BR>>
[18:12] <seb128> starting today? <<BR>>
[18:12] <kenvandine> yes <<BR>>
[18:12] <seb128> urg <<BR>>
[18:12] <kenvandine> sometime today they turn off basic auth <<BR>>
[18:12] <seb128> when will the update be out? <<BR>>
[18:12] <kenvandine> as soon as i get an ack from ryan on my branches <<BR>>
[18:12] <kenvandine> after the meeting i'll get both maverick and lucid versions in a PPA for people to start testing <<BR>>
[18:12] <seb128> ok <<BR>>
[18:12] <seb128> let's try to get that in just after beta <<BR>>
[18:13] <kenvandine> but my changes are pretty intrusive, so need to make sure upstream is OK with it <<BR>>
[18:13] <seb128> you can maybe get it in the desktop ppa for testing as well <<BR>>
[18:13] <kenvandine> so we have a good maintanance path <<BR>>
[18:13] <seb128> ok <<BR>>
[18:13] <kenvandine> hopefully we can get the SRU through quick... we'll talk about that soon <<BR>>
[18:13] <kenvandine> that is it <<BR>>
[18:13] <seb128> ok thanks <<BR>>
[18:13] <seb128> other comments? <<BR>>
[18:14] <seb128> seems not <<BR>>
[18:14] <seb128> thanks everybody

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
