{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)  

==== Eastern Edition ====
'''Cancelled Due to Travel'''
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)

=== Apologies ===
* Chris Cheney (ccheney) - swap day
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128) - sprinting

=== Agenda ===
* Reviews by eow
* Blueprints blueprints blueprints

==== Reviews by eow ====
Next step in process is to do your self-eval. Please do that by eow this week, so that I can write the manager part by the 20th.

* Some people are reporting problems with the system. rickspencer3 requested they follow up directly with HR to resolve.

=== Blueprints ===
* Please make sure that your blueprints are tight:
** Good summaries
** Current status, links, etc... available on Whiteboard
** The right people are subscribed
** Ensure they are on the schedule
** Tell pitti or rickspencer3 when you add a new one which needs accepting for uds-l and scheduling

* Blueprints for Dekstop Team are largely complete and scheduled:
https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu?searchtext=desktop-lucid
* new blueprints are trickling in
* Kubuntu team is scheduling today
* robbiew to round up and rationalize boot related blueprints

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

* vacation
* firefox 3.5.5 update prepared and uploaded (needs to be released still)
* prepared a fix for lp:432205 (dsl connection failures) to upstream git; please test daily builds tomorrow
* submitted evaluation and fixes for murrine and crux engine to bugzilla fixing evolution hang (lp:460710)
* gtk+2.0 SRU - fix the XID collision output which filled up /home dir for some users; uploaded etc.

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====
* Blueprinting
* Drafting performance review answers
* Font testing for OEM team
* Translations related discussions about LP translation tarball export times for Ubuntu releases, Karmic updates enabled now, next language-pack update will happen on Saturday and will get uploaded into the PPA.
* Cleaning up my bugmail
* Answering lots of bugs

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====
* Spent most of week investigating a bunch of -nvidia upgrade bugs.  Seems several different bugs are conspiring to make a really poor user experience.  Posted summary to ubuntu-devel and ubuntu-x, followed up on issue, summarized analysis here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Nvidia
* Fixed #474806 (thanks to slangasek) to finally sort out the issue due to gdm dropping FailsafeXServer - now X has its own upstart script for this.
* Fixed #477149 by making failsafe-x use static xorg.conf instead of using dexconf for this.  (dexconf no longer generates xorg.confs)
* Update process-xorg-retargeting.py to make it reassign xorg bug packages more reliably.  Leave bugs that appear to be workflow, packaging, or failsafe-x issues.
* Triaging of xorg, -intel, and -nvidia bugs.  Updated Arsenal scripts to better handle checkbox bugs.
* Added "Hierarchy of Bug Quality" section to page at https://wiki.canonical.com/BryceHarrington/BetterBugs
* Review Lucid blueprints in prep for UDS
* Wrote blueprint for proprietary driver improvements
* Performance review - drafted answers; web app broke when I tried to submit them; will try again later.

==== Chris Cheney (ccheney) ====

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====
done:
* merging base KDE packages
* reviewing merges done by others
* discussing rosetta/KDE with rosetta and Kubuntu people
* reviewing specs for UDS
* discussing issues with gdb in karmic with Qt developers

* Day off last Friday

todo:
* merges
* UDS

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
* Lucid planning
** Porting empathy indicator patch to a service that uses mission-control-5
** Social from the start, looking at alternatives or ways to make gwibber more robust and creating a plan
* Desktop Integration planning, worked with OLS and DX teams
* Led Ubuntu Open Week session on telepathy
* performance review

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====
==== Accessibility ====
* Merged accessibility packages for lucid, gnome-orca, at-spi, brltty, gnome-mag.
* Discussion with upstream about various accessibility issues to do with GNOME, like carrying assistive technology settings from the gdm session to a user's session, and future developments of accessibility for gnome shell,w ebkit etc.

==== Audio ====
* Audio bug triaging, bugs in question are against pulseaudio, alsa userspace, and the kernel for hardware enablement.
* Updated alsa-driver, alsa-lib, alsa-utils, and alsa-plugins to version 1.0.21, merged pulseaudio with debian, requested a sync for libsndfile.
* Started merges for paprefs, libcanberra, pavucontrol, to round out the UI stack for pulseaudio.
* Attempts to get the hda chip in a late 2009 mac mini working with Linux. No luck, and I won't have access to the machine for a few weeks again unfortunately.

==== Misc ====
* Final preparations for trip to Dallas for UDS Lucid.
* Requested sync for defoma, and dotconf packages in lucid.
==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Done:
* Spent two work days in total on SRU reviewing/processing
* TB meeting
* UDS planning: call with Rick, discussion with team members, created requested team blueprints, created schedule in summit.ubuntu.com
* Bug fixing: devicekit-disks, hal-info, jockey, policykit-1
* Built a test glibc for LP#417757
* Reviewed Bryce's display apport symptom hook, uploaded
* Cleaned up some old logs on rookery, it again went out of disk space
* Upstream version updates: gnome-disk-utility, devicekit-disks
* Lots of bug triage

Merges:
* consolekit, gnumeric, gpgme1.0, gthumb, igerman98, libmtp, openoffice.org-thesaurus-it, pygments, usbutils

Sponsoring:
* autoconf, gnome-games, gnupg, gucharmap, linux, rhythmbox
* SRUs: ibus, libzorpll, system-tools-backends, totem, xsane

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* Bug triaging
* Totem patches
* Lucid packaging: gcalctool, eog, vinagre, gtk-vnc, seahorse, brasero, gnome-games, gucharmap, evince
* Performance appraisals
* Blueprinting

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* Updated HPLIP package to 3.9.10. Tested new (completely rewritten by HP) hpcups driver and made it the default for Lucid as it seems to work well.
* Changed defaults of CUPS (in Debian BZR repository) to do umlimited logging of failed print jobs (so that they get logged directly without need of the user to switch to debug logging mode and repeating the job).
* Updated error_log section of https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingPrintingProblems for Karmic/CUPS 1.4.x.
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
