{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Connection Manager comparison ==

This table is meant as a high level feature comparison matrix of the current group of open-source network management software solutions available for Linux today.

The versions of software used in this comparison were:
* ''Network Manager'' -- <code>0.9</code>
* ''Modem Manager'' -- <code>0.4</code>
* ''ConnMan'' -- <code>0.64</code>
* ''Vodafone Mobile Connect (VMC)''  -- <code>2.0</code>
* ''Wicd'' -- <code>1.6.1</code>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| '''Network Manager'''
| '''Network Manager + Modem Manager'''
| '''Connman'''
| '''VMC'''
| '''Wicd'''
|-
| 3G
| (./) [[#note1|[1] ]]
| (./)
| (./) [[#note2|[2] ]]
| (./) [[#note3|[3] ]]
| {X}
|-
| 3G Signal Strength
| {X}
| (./)
| NA
| (./)
| NA
|-
| SMS
| {X}
| (./) [[#note4|[4] ]]
| {X}
| (./)
| {X}
|-
| Bluetooth DUN (3G)
| (./)
| (./)
| {X}
| {X}
| {X}
|-
| Bluetooth PAN (3G)
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| {X}
| {X}
|-
| Manual IP/DNS
| (./)
| (./)
| ?
| ?
| (./)
|-
| Wireless
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| {X}
| (./)
|-
| WEP
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| {X}
| (./)
|-
| WPA Personal
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| {X}
| (./)
|-
| WPA Enterprise
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| {X}
| (./)
|-
| Wired
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| {X}
| (./)
|-
| PPPoe (DSL)
| (./)
| (./)
| {X}
| {X}
| {X}
|-
| VPN X, Y, Z
| (./) [[#note5|[5] ]]
| (./) [[#note5|[5] ]]
| (./)
| {X}
| {X}
|-
| wimax
| (./)
| (./)
| (./) [[#note6|[6] ]]
| {X}
| {X}
|-
| system connections
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| {X}
| (./)
|-
| connection sharing
| (./) [[#note7|[7] ]]
| (./)
| unknown
| unknown
| {X}
|-
| multi user capable
| (./) [[#note8|[8] ]]
| (./) [[#note8|[8] ]]
| {X}
| (./)
| (./) [[#note9|[9] ]]
|-
| Connection Editor
| (./)
| (./)
| {X}
| ?
| (./)
|-
| Plugable/extensibility
| (./) [N]
| (./) [N]
| (./) [N]
| (./) [N]
| (./) [N]
|-
| Overall robustness
| Improving
| Unknown
| Unknown
| Unknown
| Unknown
|-
| Upstream responsiveness
| Good
| Good
| Unknown
| Unknown
| Unknown
|}

* make a comparison table Connman 3G
** to be filled out.

=== Notes ===

* [1] -- Full 3G support since the 0.8 release.
* [2] -- Connman 3G currently support Ericsson MBM modems only. A plugin model exists for supporting other devices. It's unclear at this point whether Connman will support Modem Manager or only support the new joint Intel/Nokia project called oFono ( http://ofono.org ).  See moblin bug <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.moblin.org/show_bug.cgi?id=4010|#401]]</nowiki>.
* [3] -- VMC 2.0 supports a fixed set of 3G cards ( which can be extended via a plugin API ).  Future versions of VMC should integrate with Network Manager ( via the Modem Manager DBUS API ).
* [4] -- Modem Manager has limited SMS support and needs some help there to make it work with more modems.
* [5] -- VPN is possible via the network-manager VPN plugin packages found in Universe.
* [6] -- WiMax requires extra packages which are not bundled with core Connman.
* [7] -- unreliable due to kernel bugs when using WPA encryption on the adhoc wifi network; that's a kernel bug.
* [8] -- 0.9 fixes issues with user settings and supports Fast User Switching. 0.9 allows connections to be single-user or multiple-user or system-wide via connection permissions, and also has PolicyKit support for fine-grained administration
* [9] -- user settings can be shared globally only ( ie. no private per-user settings )

=== Links ===

* ''Network Manager'' ( http://projects.gnome.org/NetworkManager/ )
* ''Modem Manager'' ( http://cgit.freedesktop.org/ModemManager/ModemManager/ )
* ''ConnMan'' ( http://connman.net/ )
* ''Vodafone Mobile Connect (VMC)'' ( https://forge.betavine.net/projects/vodafonemobilec/ )
* ''Wicd'' ( http://wicd.sourceforge.net/ )
