{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Weekly Summary ==

* New Unity Greeter with a fix for visual corruption while loading desktop (mterry)
* Fixed a data corruption issue in duplicity, SRUs pending (mterry)
* Merged GwibberGtkEntry and related widgets into friends as FriendsGtkEntry (kenvandine)
* Lots of API updates for libfriends, finalizing API before landing in raring (kenvandine)
* Created cups-browsed, a daemon which browses the Bonjour broadcasts of shareed CUPS printers on remote machines and creating local CUPS queues pointing to these printers, replacing the former CUPS broadcasting/browsing. So remote CUPS printers are simply available again, without individual configuration. Part of cups-filters 1.0.28, packaged for Raring (tkamppeter).
* CUPS: Dropped forward-port patch of CUPS broadcastingf/browsing in Raring, not needed any more due to cups-browsed (tkamppeter).
* CUPS: Split CUPS daemon off into an extra binary package, so for mobile systems one can use a 1-MB printing stack of cups-daemon, libcups2, and cups-browsed, to only get remote CUPS printers automatically and print on them, all the rest of the printing stack is for local printers with drivers (tkamppeter).
* Updated to latest orca release, and adjusted ubiquity and unity-greeter to not use command-line flags that Orca no longer supports. (TheMuso)
* Started debugging non-working audio on nexus7, at least via the speaker, am yet to try headphones. (TheMuso)
* Starting to put all necessary stuff together for the testing of PulseAudio 3.0 by QA/community. (TheMuso)

== Agenda ==

* ''Insert things to discuss at meeting here..''

=== Product strategy integration ===

* Continue and hopefully soon finishing merging latest components to have inlined packaging and tests running.

==== Unity ====

* Fixed some regressions happening, trying to get a new release ASAP. But need integrations tests to run in the indicator stack without failures before being able to do so.

==== Indicators & Themes ====

==== Webapps/Webcredentials ====

==== Open input framework ====

=== X.org ===

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
</pre>
