{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

You can use this page to nominate items for discussion by the Ubuntu-Desktop-Effect team. You can find more information at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopEffectsTeam|DesktopEffectsTeam]]</nowiki>

== Last meeting ==
Our first meeting was at <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2006&month=9&day=29&hour=16&min=0&sec=0|29 September 2006, 1600 UTC]]</nowiki>  
on #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net

Logs on : http://people.ubuntu.com/~fabbione/irclogs/archived/2006-09/ubuntu-meeting-2006-09-29.html
=== We discussed ===
** Any people that would like to help on wiki pages or any other documentation related items.  JohnVivirito
** Find people to help out in #ubuntu-xgl. JohnVivirito
** compiz/beryl vs metacity,  Xgl vs AIGLX. JoelStanley
** (Encourage others to) Find and report bugs with Xgl, AIGLX, Compiz, etc. We need to help push the next-gen GUI stack to stability. Also promote the team. <nowiki>[[Rouben]]</nowiki> 

== Next meeting ==
Our next meeting will be at ..... (unknown) on #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net

=== To be discussed ===
Please place items here to be discussed at the next meeting. When placing an item please put your name at the end of the item and make sure you are able to make it to the meeting.
** Encourage developers. Camus SoNiCo
** Accessibility - Compiz has the potential to yield much improved magnifiers and possibly other assistive tools, but widespread use of desktop effects may also introduce new hurdles. HenrikOmma
