{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Weekly Summary ==

* Several ubuntu-defaults-builder fixes, it actually works again for precise images now. (pitti)
* Analyze and fix lucid->precise upgrade failures. (pitti)
* GNOME 3.3.92.
* New (final?) releases of Unity Greeter and Deja Dup (mterry)
* Debugging telepathy-gabble with a proxy (Bug:893031), it had been suggested that it was broken because our libproxy was old.  Now that we have updated libproxy, it still fails.  MSN now works with a proxy, because it uses telepathy-haze (thanks to libpurple). (ken-vandine)
* Tweaking/fixing some issues in accessibility profiles, started a discussion on disabling the HUD as it is not accessible yet, but got shouted down. (TheMuso)
* More debugging and working on a solution for no/low volume set on first boot in VMWare, a fix should be ready once beta 2 is released. (TheMuso)

== Agenda ==

* ''Insert things to discuss at meeting here..''

=== Partner update ===

=== Unity ===

* Got a new Unity/Compiz/Unity 2D release. Check out http://blog.didrocks.fr/post/Unity-5.8-out%2C-ready-for-beta2%21 for more information on both the release content (and gnome-control-center changes) and the -proposed repository used for delivering it smoothly!
* We got an annoying issue post compiz 0.9.7.2. This is mostly either artefacts or a hang after the upgrade (and only upgrade) on some machines. For now, a workaround is in the release to avoid people getting it stalled in beta2. This workaround can still provoke on some machines (upgraded from Oneiric) a blank desktop upon first boot, but the consecutive boot will work. Need to release note that. A real fix is under work upstream (3 of the 5 known cases the hangout can happen are already fixed) as a priority.

=== X.org ===
* New -fglrx was uploaded.  Should fix a lot of the bugs we've had reported (following up with reporters).
* Usual bug work.  -intel is proving quite stable relative to past releases.  But our X frankenserver is suffering from graft rot (ABI issues between 1.11 and 1.12 input layers we think).
* Tested edid-write patches from apw.  This will provide a feature to allow the user to supply a new EDID in case the one probed from the monitor is missing or incorrect. (bryce)
* Worked on merging kernel team's bug listings reports into Arsenal (bryce)

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
</pre>
