{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Executive Summary ==
=== Bug Status ===

=== Development Status ===

=== New Issues this Week ===

=== Issues Closed this Week ===

=== Open Issues ===

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (calc)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)  
* Tony Espy

==== Eastern Edition ====

No Eastern edition but Luke will read the meeting log

* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)

=== Apologies ===

* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) (swap day)

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting

==== Announcements ====

==== Status Updates ====
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports

==== Discussion ====

==== Any other business ====

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

* ACTION: rickspencer3 to add burndown chart to meeting template
** RESULT: not done, rick on holidays
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to check into getting some different wireless access points for testing NM to Dublin
** RESULT: sprint over, was that done?
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to create list of design team inputs needed for sprint
** RESULT: sprint over
* ACTION: everyone who can, do some sponsoring extra sponsoring this week 
** RESULT: done

=== Partner Update ===

===== DX team =====
* xsplash and related patches for the Karmic boot experience
* indicator-sus, fusa replacement

===== OLS team =====
* desktopcouch done
* evolution-couchdb mostly ready
* couchdb-glib mostly ready
* bindwood being packaged

=== Kubuntu Update ===

* KDE 4.3.0 all packaged and in
* Plasma Netbook UI now in Kubuntu Netbook
* Message Indicator now in Kubuntu Desktop
* NM 0.8 broke knetworkmanager, asac and awe investigating fixing

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

Mozilla and browser:
* lots of multisearch discussion with community, colleagues and managers
* nss/nspr 3.12.3 SRU; call for testing; verify; roll out to releases and work with jamie on ia32 update
* tested weave 0.5 - which seems to rock
* firefox/xulrunner security update; preparation, testing, rollout
* firefox 3.5 transition
** xulrunner-dev package migration
** backported various xulrunner rdepends: ruby-gnome2, videolink, virt-viewer, yelp, packagkit, sugar-hulahop, swt-gtk, miro, moon (aka #moonlight-plugin-mozilla), mozvoikko, gtk-vnc, kazehakase, libgtk2-mozembed-perl, gnome-python-extras, gluezilla, gnome-web-photo, chmsee ...
** fix various transitional issues
** fixed safe-browsing not working in firefox 3.5
* flashplugin-installer security update sponsored
* worked with bdrung on more mozilla-devscripts magic
* fix langpack-o-matic po2xpi transformer to support zh-trans etc.
* discuss mozilla translation process with dpm
* review lp:bindwood and suggested to install it on demand rather than by default
* look into and fixed issues producing translation templates for webfav
* nspr 4.8 update for karmic
* fixed nspluginwrapper to use system libs to unbreak flashplugin-installer package on amd64 after latest ia32-libs security update in karmic

Net:
* uploaded new network-manager, network-manager-applet 0.7 snapshot (final for karmic)
* uploaded new mobile-broadband-provider-info package
* work with tony on modemmanager and network-manager/-applet 0.8; NEWed them, fixed packaging bugs and get it pre-promoted for alpha4
* libmbca removal from karmic (superseded by NM wizard itself)
* worked with tony on latest connman updates

Misc:
* gnome-bluetooth vs. blueman testing during sprint; decision: gnome-bluetooth; seed it and get the bits pre-promoted accordingly; drafted MIR
* more notify-osd memleaks fixed
* travelling to and back from sprint
* sprinting in dublin
* a few MIR reviewed
* fixed telepathy-butterfly install problems and forwarded patch upstream
* discussed policy incompliance of bzr bd using '''get-orig-source''' to '''get-current-source''' with james_w and suggested diligent way to move forward
* review spec task items for burndown chart, postponing a few and setting a bunch more to DONE

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====
* langpack-o-matic:
** tweak the scripts for zh langpack split (lots of trial and error)
** build new language packs for Karmic
** build new language pack updates for Jaunty
* translations:
** cleaned the Rosetta import queue (templates)
** started to look at outstanding imports (translations) in the import queue and investigate why they are still stuck.
** fixed some of those outstanding imports
** filed bugs about buggy translations in source packages
** documented everything on the wiki (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/Internationalisation#Verifying%20translation%20uploads)
* language-selector:
** adding code to pull related translation packages when language-packs are installed
** discuss mockup for the UI changes in Karmic with mpt
** finalize the spec (already approved)
* misc:
** travel to the sprint and back
** sprinting in Dublin
** looking into apport hooks for font issues, input methods and translations
** various discussions during the sprint

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

* Karmic sprint
* Most of week spent helping numerous people troubleshoot X and X-like bugs
* -ati driver bug triage
* Packaged new -fglrx
* Packaged -ati/mesa/libdrm/kernel into kms PPA for testing
* Developed video display symptom script for apport-symptoms

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====

* OEM work
* OOo bug triage

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

done:
* plasma-netbook package updates, MIR, testing, adding to seeds
* Set default settings in kubuntu-netbook to use plasma-netbook and mid kwin engine
* Removing hal-cups-utils from the seeds and package depends to fix live FS builds
* packaging and testing plasma-widget-indicatordisplay, write MIR
* packaging and testing konversation patches for message indicator display
* try to make the opendesktop plasmoid useful in a default install, failed alas, will talk to upstream about API restrictions
* fix code problems in plasma default layout patch after feedback from upstream
* fix overlapping files in oxygen-icons/step
* review and upload new indicator applet and -messages and libdbusmenu for Ted
* fix kdegames compile
* package and/or upload KDE 4.3 extragear packages

todo:
* day off on tuesday 11th (travel swap day)
* alpha release

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====

====== Done: ======
* Karmic sprint
* UNR work
* xsplash packaging, testing, etc
* evolution-couchdb debugging and patch review
* desktopcouch release and packaging
* indicator-sus packaging and release

====== Todo: ======
* investigate indicator-sus-applet
* vacation 13-17

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====

===== Accessibility =====
* Further work on the gnome-speech replacement specification. Discussed work items with pitti and Rick at the sprint, and postponed a few that are not imperative for karmic. Also managed to get all client API speech server spawning code written, just needs a little more testing before its uploaded. This took a fair amount of time at the sprint, mostly due to my coding inexperience and debugging.
* More empathy testing, to identify what themes are usable with orca. Luckily it seems the default theme that is used is accessible out of the box. Orca will need scripts to work with empathy properly however.
* Updated gnome-orca, mousetweaks, and gok to 2.27.90 in karmic.

===== Audio =====
* Audio bug triaging, bugs in question are against pulseaudio, alsa userspace, and the kernel for hardware enablement.
* Discussed Kees' requests re rtkit and getting it into main with pitti at the sprint, and have a better idea of what needs to be changed for it to be acceptable in main.
* Updated pulseaudio to 0.9.16~test4 in karmic, and with the help of Daniel Chen, triaged bugs that were filed after users updated to the new version.
* Further testing of bluetooth audio and the gnome applet during the sprint, to help with the final bluetooth applet decision.
* Found a bug when switching bluetooth profiles with pavucontrol and pulseaudio. Need to get a backtrace to further help debugging.
* Identified a regression with the headphone jack on my notebook under 2.6.31-4 and 2.6.31-5 kernels. Need to find the newest kernel that works, and bisect the source to identify the problem commit, to help get it fixed.
* Uploaded a few ALSA fixes that Daniel Chen picked from upstream, to help with PulseAudio stability.

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* dublin distro sprint
** lot of discussions with dxteam, got some changes and new components in karmic
** looked at how to measure login speed with pitti
** looked at apport interactive hooks with pitti, added a sound one to totem
** sponsored new gdm with gdmsetup from robert_ancell
** discussion with other people, testing, some updates

* backported a gtk change to fix gdm redrawing issues
* backport a rhythmbox change to show notifications by default
* newed xsplash for the dxteam (thanks lool for doing a second review and the upload)
* uploaded robert_ancell gnome-panel and nautilus changes for xsplash
* uploaded a fixed poppler the previous upload dropped a change required
* GNOME 2.27.90 updates: gtkhtml evolution-data-server evolution gnome-keyring pango gvfs gedit file-roller libsoup zenity cheese
* backported a cheese git change to fix an installation issue
* catching up after the sprint

* sponsoring: libnotify notification-daemon evolution-indicator desktopcouch nautilus epiphany-browser xchat telepathy-butterfly indicator-messages gdm listen gnome-panel nautilus gconf f-spot seahorse

==== Tony Espy (awe) ====

Net:

* worked with asac on:
** packaging and uploading the latest network-manager/-applet 0.8 snapshots to karmic.
** packaging and uploading the latest snapshot of modemmanager to karmic.
* re-worked the get-orig-source targets in network-manager/-applet, and modemmanager, also added get-current-source targets for all three.
* submitted MIR bugs for obexd and gnome-bluetooth
* Debugged my Macbook Pro keyboard problems again 
* Discussed Connman with David Mandal wrt UNR
* Discussed Karmic Network UI Spec with David Siegal, made changes to document and requested new icons from Ken.
* Tested gnome-bluetooth, couldn't re-create settings daemon crash, but managed to find a new volume-control crash ( https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-media/+bug/384524 ) while testing. 
* Review Network UI spec task items for burndown chart, postponing a few and setting a bunch more to DONE 
Misc:

* travel to/from Karmic Sprint

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

(Activity of last two weeks)

* 3 days of the Sprint
* Made Bluetooth printing working by applying several fixes to the bluez package (LP: #411610)
* Tested Bluetooth connectivity of HTC P3650 mobile phone: connects, one can browse file system, but not download files (LP: #409453)
* Tested Bluetooth mice and presenters: Mogo Mouse, Mogo Presenter Mouse, iOne Libra N1 Presenter
* Bought Mogo Presenter Mouse as part of the Bluetooth testing program
* Uploaded new CUPS package, especially to fix LP: #409962 which made printing in Karmic not working at all. The upload also contains fixes done by pitti and me last week and which pitti did not upload before his vacation
* Uploaded new system-config-printer package to let a printer connected by USB and Bluetooth appearing as one printer with two connection types in the list of discovered printers.
* Reported my package upload permission status to Colin Watson and Daniel Holbach on their request, for the archive reorganization.
* Uploaded HPLIP 3.9.8.

== IRC Log ==
[17:32] <seb128> so no rickspenser nor pitti this week<<BR>>
[17:32] <seb128> we will try to manage without them ;-)<<BR>>
[17:32] <asac> agenda is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2009-08-11<<BR>>
[17:32] <kenvandine> :)<<BR>>
[17:33] <seb128> let's start if everybody is there<<BR>>
[17:33] <seb128> good morning, afternoon, evening ;-)<<BR>>
[17:33] <seb128> kenvandine, start with the partner updates?<<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> sure<<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> lots of great stuff last week at the sprint<<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> the karmic boot experience related stuff is landing for alpha4, xsplash, etc<<BR>>
[17:34] <seb128> did you talk to slangasek about getting xsplash on CD?<<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> also the fusa replacement will be landing soon after, we hope<<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> yes<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> need to remind him today though :)<<BR>>
[17:35] <seb128> ok good<<BR>>
[17:35] <seb128> yeah, fusa seems to be too short for alpha now<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> OLS stuff is moving, evo-couch and deps should get another update today or tomorrow<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> desktopcouch has been released<<BR>>
[17:35] <seb128> cool<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> and i think asac is working on bindwood<<BR>>
[17:35] <seb128> let me know if you need sponsoring<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> asac, status on that?<<BR>>
[17:36] <seb128> those are probably not for alpha too<<BR>>
[17:36] <asac> do we automatically get the new boot experience on existing installs or do we need to do something?<<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> automatically<<BR>>
[17:36] <asac> kenvandine: not after the sprint. will do that after alpha4 is out<<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> ok<<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> thx<<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> that is it for partner update<<BR>>
[17:36] <asac> kenvandine: so i already have the new boot experience?<<BR>>
[17:36]  * asac considers to reboot<<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> asac, not yet<<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> you will<<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> :)<<BR>>
[17:37] <asac> today is freeze<<BR>>
[17:37] <seb128> asac, right, I'm about to sponsor 2 changes and then xsplash need to be seeded<<BR>>
[17:37] <seb128> you can install xplash from universe though<<BR>>
[17:37] <asac> ok. i will wait<<BR>>
[17:38] <asac> was just curious if i already had it on my system<<BR>>
[17:38] <kenvandine> asac, it won't be "final" yet<<BR>>
[17:38] <kenvandine> keybuk needs to move gdm to earlier in the boot process<<BR>>
[17:38] <kenvandine> and there are a couple of flickers<<BR>>
[17:38] <asac> sure.<<BR>>
[17:38] <kenvandine> but getting there :)<<BR>>
[17:38] <kenvandine> that is it for partner update<<BR>>
[17:38] <kenvandine> moving on<<BR>>
[17:38] <seb128> ok<<BR>>
[17:39] <seb128> Riddell takes a swap day I think<<BR>>
[17:39] <seb128> the kubuntu update is on the wiki for those who are interested<<BR>>
[17:39] <seb128> bryce, want to do an xorg update?<<BR>>
[17:39] <bryce> seb128, alright<<BR>>
[17:40] <bryce> we decided to stay with xserver 1.6.3 rather than xserver 1.7<<BR>>
[17:40]  * asac sad<<BR>>
[17:40] <bryce> since it's (still) not released and potentially may not be as stable<<BR>>
[17:41] <bryce> so the only other major remaining X piece is a new -ati/kms, which we put together last week with updated mesa/libdrm/kernel<<BR>>
[17:41] <bryce> unfortunately testing showed that it was pretty buggy, so I've decided to hold off on uploading it until after alpha-4 is out<<BR>>
[17:41] <seb128> did you upload the new ati you tested during the sprint to karmic?<<BR>>
[17:41] <seb128> ok, you were faster than me on this one ;-)<<BR>>
[17:42] <bryce> beyond this, it's just bugs fixing now :-)<<BR>>
[17:42] <seb128> ok good, seems xorg is on shape for a great karmic ;-)<<BR>>
[17:43] <seb128> is ArneGoetje around?<<BR>>
[17:43] <ArneGoetje> seb128: yep<<BR>>
[17:43] <seb128> ArneGoetje, any update for translations?<<BR>>
[17:44] <ArneGoetje> seb128: did a lot during the sprint (see work report). Building new language-packs as we speak, not sure if they can still go onto the alpha 4 CD... need to ask the release team<<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128> ok, good<<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> any issue with queue we should know about? do we have stats on whether all packages have templates?<<BR>>
[17:45] <ArneGoetje> seb128: no we don't<<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> ok excellent, thanks<<BR>>
[17:46] <seb128> I think it's all for the usual round of updates<<BR>>
[17:46] <ArneGoetje> seb128: I basically handed the queue checking off to the UTC team, since I'm busy on language-selector for the next week<<BR>>
[17:46] <seb128> ok<<BR>>
[17:46] <seb128> does anybody else has an update or topic for meeting?<<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> seems alpha4 is on track from a desktop point of view<<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> asac, are you confident about current firefox and network manager states?<<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> firefox 3.5 is default now?<<BR>>
[17:47] <asac> yes.<<BR>>
[17:47] <asac> today everyone should got firefox 3.5 by default<<BR>>
[17:48]  * seb128 did<<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> works great ;-)<<BR>>
[17:48] <asac> also noteworthy is that  multisearch was dropped  today !<<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> (greasemonkey version aside)<<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> nice ;-)<<BR>>
[17:48] <asac> so no more slashdot stuff etc. ;)<<BR>>
[17:48]  * awe sends asac good vibes after reading some of the comments over the past two days<<BR>>
[17:48] <asac> thanks. i liked the ones where folks wanted to kill me ;)<<BR>>
[17:49]  * seb128 hugs asac for the good work<<BR>>
[17:49]  * asac moved to a bunker for now ;)<<BR>>
[17:49] <bryce> sheesh<<BR>>
[17:49] <awe> asac: isn't there a launchpad policy against crap like that?<<BR>>
[17:49] <asac> there is, but someone has to enforce it<<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> jcastro, ^<<BR>>
[17:49] <asac> and folks would start bitching about censorship<<BR>>
[17:49] <asac> when we remove comments enterily ;)<<BR>>
[17:49] <asac> entirely<<BR>>
[17:49] <ArneGoetje> asac: do we need to get together to check translation related issues for the firefox migration?<<BR>>
[17:49] <asac> no action needed. i am fine<<BR>>
[17:49] <asac> ArneGoetje: yes. but after alpha4<<BR>>
[17:50] <seb128> asac, do you still plan to try to solve nm on kubuntu for alpha?<<BR>>
[17:50] <ArneGoetje> asac: ok. just ping me.<<BR>>
[17:50] <asac> ArneGoetje: seems like the 3.5 template got not uploaded ... or import takes ages<<BR>>
[17:50] <jcastro> seb128, I don't think anyone wanted him dead, just fired.<<BR>>
[17:50] <asac> seb128: awe wanted to look further on that today<<BR>>
[17:50] <awe> seb128: i'm working on it.  what's the deadline?  also, is there anyone in my time zone...<<BR>>
[17:50] <seb128> jcastro, "just fired"<<BR>>
[17:50] <ArneGoetje> asac: possible that they are still in the Needs Review queue<<BR>>
[17:50] <asac> we have kde guy in #nm channel<<BR>>
[17:50] <asac> awe: deadline is tonight<<BR>>
[17:50] <awe> that could sponsor an upload if asac is offline?<<BR>>
[17:50] <asac> maybe we can slip it in tomorrow<<BR>>
[17:50] <asac> if it unbreaks kubuntu networking<<BR>>
[17:50] <jcastro> seb128, I am doing a thorough review of exactly what happened for the entire thing<<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> well I think it's import enough as a fix to justify an upload tomorrow<<BR>>
[17:51] <awe> ok.  i feel confident i can nail it today<<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> jcastro, ok thanks<<BR>>
[17:51] <ccheney> once debian uploads their OOo 3.1.1~rc1 i will sync to that for karmic<<BR>>
[17:51] <ccheney> which should get us the KDE support, etc<<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> ccheney, any eta on that?<<BR>>
[17:51] <ccheney> not sure, hopefully later this week<<BR>>
[17:51] <asac> awe: i will check before i go to bed ... after that maybe bryce or even slangasek<<BR>>
[17:52] <awe> asac: ok cool<<BR>>
[17:52] <ccheney> seb128: its too late for alpha 4 but should go in shortly after that<<BR>>
[17:52] <bryce> awe, yeah just ping me if you need help<<BR>>
[17:52] <asac> sorry bryce ;) ... just sponsor whatever awe gives you ... the current status is: it does not work at all ;)<<BR>>
[17:52] <awe> asac: aha, carte blanche!<<BR>>
[17:52] <awe> ;)<<BR>>
[17:52] <seb128> ok<<BR>>
[17:52] <asac> i guess so<<BR>>
[17:52] <seb128> thanks asac<<BR>>
[17:52] <ccheney> if OOo manages to keep their schedule final OOo 3.1.1 should be ready by the time of alpha 5<<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> anybody else has anything to add?<<BR>>
[17:53] <asac> oh yeah on modemmanager please check your 3g modems. there might be regressions and want those to be reported and escalated asap<<BR>>
[17:53] <kenvandine> just fyi... i will be on vacation 13-17<<BR>>
[17:53] <asac> thx<<BR>>
[17:53] <kenvandine> so returning tuesday<<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> I'm on vac for 2 weeks starting next week<<BR>>
[17:54] <kenvandine> so lets break stuff before you leave :)<<BR>>
[17:54] <seb128> and pitti will be back only the second week<<BR>>
[17:54] <seb128> so we are pretty much turning to low speed next week<<BR>>
[17:54] <kenvandine> ok<<BR>>
[17:54] <seb128> I think asac is on vac too<<BR>>
[17:54] <kenvandine> sponsor queue will get long<<BR>>
[17:54] <kenvandine> but we will survive :)<<BR>>
[17:55] <ccheney> seb128: so you'll be gone until after FF? heh<<BR>>
[17:55] <asac> seb128: oh sorry. i think i didnt get that you leave next week<<BR>>
[17:55] <asac> i will be here next week. but the week after that (starting 23rd) i will be gone<<BR>>
[17:55] <asac> rick send a mail with the exact dates i think<<BR>>
[17:55] <seb128> ok<<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> so at least we have somebody there<<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> you next week, then pitti<<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> for sponsoring dholbach is back<<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> I think he can handle desktopish sponsoring for us<<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> or at least give an hand or urgent updates<<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> I will ping him about that<<BR>>
[17:57] <asac> good<<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> GNOME 2.27.90 is due today<<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> next version is in 2 weeks<<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> robert_ancell and pitti will be back for that one<<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> ccheney, yeah, I don't have many feature and GNOME has standing exception<<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> so not really an issue<<BR>>
[17:57] <ccheney> ah ok<<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> kenvandine, yeah, we need extra people to get upload rights<<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> starting by robert_ancell and you<<BR>>
[17:58] <kenvandine> soon i hope :)<<BR>>
[17:59] <seb128> you guys should run for motuing ;-)<<BR>>
[17:59] <seb128> any not really meeting topic<<BR>>
[17:59]  * kenvandine will talk to dholbach :)<<BR>>
[17:59] <seb128> nothing else to add? should we wrap now?<<BR>>
[17:59] <asac> yes please.<<BR>>
[17:59] <seb128> thanks everybody<<BR>>
<<BR>>
<<BR>>
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
