{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Start File Roller ====

1. Start File Roller from the launcher or desktop overview

 :)) The program is opened and reports that no archive is open.

==== Create an archive ====

1. Use Ctrl+n or navigate the main menu to "New Archive". Type a name with an archive extension, e.g. u.tar.

1. Use the + button to add some stuff to it.

 :)) <code>tar tf u.tar</code> lists the files that were added in the previous step.

==== Inspect an archive ====

1. <code>wget https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+archive/primary/+sourcefiles/file-roller/44.3-1/file-roller_44.3.orig.tar.xz</code>.

1. <code>file-roller file-roller_44.3.orig.tar.xz</code>.

 :)) File Roller opens and you after entering file-roller-44.3 you see its source tree.

 :)) Alt+Return or 'main menu -> Properites' identifies the archive as an application/x-xz-compressed-tar.

==== Extract an archive ====

1. Click the 'extract' button on the upper left corner.

1. Choose '/tmp' as the target location.

 :)) Dialog says that extraction completed successfully.

1. Click show the files.

 :)) Your file manager opens and displays the /tmp directory. The file-roller-44.3 directory is inside.

==== Alter an archive's contents ====

1. Select any file, right-click it and rename.

 :)) <code>tar tf file-roller_44.3.orig.tar.xz</code> reflects the rename.

----
CategoryDesktopTestPlans
