{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Weekly Summary ==

* Fixed OSK handling during login in signon-ui (kenvandine)
* Rebased no-widgets work in signon-ui on trunk (kenvandine)
* Generalized script for adding online accounts in the touch images (kenvandine)
* Fixed autopilot tests in share-app (kenvandine)
* Packaging updates to share-app for daily releases (kenvandine)
* Code review and some cleanup of unity-lens-people (kenvandine)
* Investigated some raring translations issues (templates missing/outdated, code bugs) (seb128)
* Updated fluendo mp3 codecs to the partner archive for raring (seb128)
* Helped fixing some of the universe ftbfs issues (seb128)
* Patch pilot half-day (seb128)
* Raring updates and bugs fixing (seb128)
* Working on bug #1167192 for pulseaudio, currently in the middle of a bisection for this. (TheMuso)
* Continue work on overall list of tasks that need to be completed to get accessibility working well for a converged desktop/device. (TheMuso)

== Agenda ==

* ''Insert things to discuss at meeting here..''

=== Product strategy integration ===

* Updated process for finale freeze and some introspection on how we can move forward
* Implemented some new facility for future support (S and R), including version supports.
* Misc maintenance work
* Touch starts to finally be bootstrapped! Plan as well some actions to move forward on it.

==== Unity ====

* Some inspections on test failing

==== Indicators & Themes ====

==== Webapps/Webcredentials ====
* OnlineAccounts#phone-settings settings design is done
* accounts-qml-module - most of the create and edit APIs seem to be done, not merged yet.

==== Open input framework ====

=== X.org ===

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
}}}

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

{{{
</pre>
