{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
Meeting in #ubuntu-desktop at 16:30UTC
* Jason Warner (jasoncwarner) - chair
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson)
* Didier Roche (didrocks)
* Gary Lasker (tremolux)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Mathieu Trudel-Lapierre (cyphermox)
* Michael Terry (mterry)
* Rodrigo Moya (rodrigo_)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)
* Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

==== Discussion ====

=== Actions from this meeting ===

* [ACTION] jasoncwarner - follow up with tkamppeter about paper size bp
* [ACTION] doko/riddell - investigate ARM issue with kubuntu
* [ACTION] didrocks - update wiki template w/ updated agenda and rodrigo
* [ACTION] pitti - prepare initial release page
* [ACTION] jasoncwarner - follow up meeting w/ TheMuso

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Partner Update ===

=== Kubuntu Update ===

=== X Update ===

=== Unity update ===

* dx team is working hard to get a rocking unity on compiz!
* compiz 0.9.2.1 is uploaded today in natty as a first step to unity compiz. We still need some patches to compiz to be ready for landing unity into natty. Will come soon… very soon :) 
* your dear compiz will be partially broken (no pager in gnome-panel applet real support) and no integration in gnome-control-center (will show "no effect"), also the edge doesn't react. Known issues, will be fixed soon.
* The migration of data/settings from older compiz 0.8 to newer compiz (0.9+) is planned upstream for alpha2

=== USC update ===

* Created work item list for <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/appdevs-desktop-n-software-center-ui-enhancements|Enhancements to the Software Center UI and Experience]]</nowiki>
** Focus areas for this spec:
** Unity integration
** Improvements to the software purchase experience
** Reduced startup time and general performance improvement
** Usability issues reported by the Canonical usability team
* Work item lists in progress (will be completed after mvo returns from holiday):
** <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/packageselection-foundations-n-ratings-and-reviews-in-software-center|Ratings and Reviews in Software Center]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/software-center/+spec/packageselection-desktop-n-donations-for-free-software-through-software-center|Donations for free software through Software Center]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-m-software-center-backend|packagekit as backend for software-center]]</nowiki>
* Ratings and Reviews
** mpt has done a careful review of the current state of the ratings and reviews UI and provided detailed feedback
* Bug fixes and refactoring

=== Weekly bugs summary ===

=== Release Status ===

http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team.html

=== Other Business ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

==== Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson) ====

* Firefox 4:
** Dropped abrowser from the firefox source package, we're going to ship it from the xulrunner source instead
** Started work on getting the xulrunner-2.0 packaging in shape
** Reviewed the current Firefox and xulrunner patchset, and dropped a whole bunch of patches
** Rewrote our Firefox launcher script so that it doesn't just wrap the slow and overcomplicated upstream launcher scripts
** Rewrote the Firefox profile migrator to resolve some maintenance issues we've been having with the old tool
** Ported ubufox to Firefox 4

==== Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF) ====

==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====

* UNE/Unity:
** work at making the new stack up to date
*** update bamf
*** make some initial packaging of nux, unity
*** fix and push a lot of changes in the build system for nux (make check, make dist working, push examples, install in right directories…)
*** polish and change compiz, libcompizconfig, compiz-main-plugins, python-compiz-config, compizconfig-settings-manager packages:
*** update to 0.9.2
*** push a lot of changes upstream to the build system in particular
*** make some tests for the dx team in both compiz and nux
** gnome-panel: fix an issue in a patch for taking the right pager mode. Still need work on both compiz and gnome-panel side
** triaged unity bugs
* GNOME:
** review evolution stack merge proposal, backport some fix and guide cyphermox. Upload is soon, still need polish! (evolution, evolution-data-server, gtkhtml3.14, evolution-mapi, evolution-exchange)
** review glib-json and sponsored
** fix a yelp FTBFS because of linking issue
** finish merges from debian: gtk-doc, alacarte
** multiples SRU to lucid and maverick for evolution, rhythmbox
** sponsor an SRU for nautilus-share
* Misc:
** WI and blueprints update and reviewed
** dist-upgraded to natty and fix an upgrade issue in gobject-instrospection
** read a lot of doc on GSETTINGS and cmake :)
** review excellent work from mterry on Quickly
   

==== Gary Lasker (tremolux) ====

* Planned and wrote work item list for blueprint <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/appdevs-desktop-n-software-center-ui-enhancements|Enhancements to the Software Center UI and Experience]]</nowiki>
* Provided some tech details to mpt to help with his Launchpad stakeholders proposal for server-side metadata implementation
* Reviewed and tested nzmm's "sojourner", his (very cool) proposal for showing location of newly installed apps
* Reviewed, tested and merged lp:~kiwinote/software-center/getting-the-small-things-right
* Fixed <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/669161|LP: #669161:]]</nowiki> crash in remove dependency dialog
* Software Center bug triage, reproduce/confirms and consolidate duplicates
* Wrote email to Charline summarizing usability issues related to Software Center under Unity as presented in her UDS session 
* Email exchange with Luke for a11y under Unity planning
* Reading GNOME Accessibility Developers Guide, other a11y resources
* Wrote tzdata 2010o update bug <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/672808|LP: #672808:]]</nowiki> 2010o available
* This week:  US Holiday on Thursday

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
* Gwibber 2.91.0 released and uploaded
   - Massive change, most significant of which is splitting the service plugins so they can be packaged separately
   - Error handling improvements, adding infobar to the client and guiding the user through correcting auth problems
   - Unity quicklists for new messages
   - ported statusnet and identica plugins to use oauth1.0a
* package review for json-glib and coached lamalex a bit in the process
* libgwibber - converted Gwibber.Accounts to use object properties instead of hash tables
* ubuntu-geoip - prepared package for upload, will look for a sponsor today
* blueprint review and prepare workitems 

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Just one day of real work (Tuesday last week); Wed-Fri was Linux Plumber's, this Monday I took a swap day.

* SRU review and processing
* Tech Board meeting
* Add debhelper sequencer for dh_scour
* Apport bug fixing and improvements
* Blueprint reviews
* Build humanity-icon-theme with scour
* Build ubiquity with dh_scour, proposed merge
* Determined non-cdbs packages which ship significant size of SVGs and need source changes
* Expenses for UDS and plumber's                               
* Integrate dh_scour into cdbs                                 
* Write apt-changelog                     

==== Mathieu Trudel-Lapierre (cyphermox) ====

* Testing isc-dhcp 4 from cjwatson in prevision for uploading the new NM
* Work on debugging eglibc/kernel header conflicts between net/if.h and linux/if.h that make NM, wireless-tools, wpasupplicant (maybe others too) fail to build
* Preparing evo 2.32 for natty with didrocks' help
* Some more work on porting synaptic to GTK3 / gtkbuilder.

==== Michael Terry (mterry) ====

* Quickly: added introspection support (self.ui.label1), LP team reshuffle
* GNOME3: glib & gtk3 updates for maverick & natty, reviewed & merged libcanberra update, reviewed & pushed new gsettings-desktop-schemas, made usb-creator not depend on python-gnome2, made nautilus-share not depend on libgnomeui
* Dev Manual: Fix some layout and build issues
* GNOME Summit: Attended some of its last day

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* GNOME 2.3/3.0 packaging
* Improvements to versions page in tracking stable/unstable versions for natty
* Investigate nautilus elementary changes

==== Rodrigo Moya (rodrigo_) ====
* Upstream:
** Started work on GSettings' list support, as agreed at UDS with Ryan, very much needed for lots of apps migrating to GSettings
** Migrated most schemas in Evolution to GSettings
** Almost done g-s-d and g-c-c migration to GSettings
** Released gnome-settings-daemon and gnome-control-center 2.91.2
* GNOME3:
** Packaged gsettings-desktop-schemas and libcanberra (already in Natty)
** Packaged new g-c-c dependencies: librest and libsocialweb
** Upstreamed and obsoleted lots of patches from our g-s-d and g-c-c patches
** g-s-d and g-c-c packaging
* PulseAudio:
** Attended 1st ubuntu-audio-dev team meeting, where it was decided to stay with pulseaudio current stable version, since unstable might not be ready in time for Natty

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* review the gtk3 upload to natty
* got gnome-desktop built for gtk3 in natty
* backported a nautilus crash fix
* sru-ed the nautilus fix as well
* cleaned buggy pessulus python-glade2 depends
* desktop updates: pessulus gnome-user-share pidgin gdk-pixbuf gnome-panel gnome-applets
* cleaned the sponsoring queue, lot of triage and quite some uploads
* cleaning some g-s-d packaging issues
* wrote specs
* started work on cleaning old GNOME libraries

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

== IRC LOG ==
<pre>
(09:31:25 AM) jasoncwarner: Ok Everyone...16:30 UTC (no matter what Google calendar tells me). ready to start the desktop meeting? 
(09:31:32 AM) kenvandine: yup!
(09:31:33 AM) jasoncwarner: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2010-11-09
(09:31:35 AM) didrocks: yes o/
(09:31:45 AM) tremolux: heyo
(09:31:48 AM) seb128: hey
(09:31:48 AM) rodrigo_: me
(09:32:28 AM) cyphermox: hey
(09:33:06 AM) pitti: \o
(09:33:22 AM) jasoncwarner: Agenda
(09:33:22 AM) jasoncwarner:     * Outstanding actions from last meeting
(09:33:22 AM) jasoncwarner:     * Partner Update
(09:33:22 AM) jasoncwarner:     * Kubuntu Update
(09:33:22 AM) jasoncwarner:     * Release Bugs/Release Status
(09:33:22 AM) jasoncwarner:     * Review activity reports
(09:33:22 AM) jasoncwarner:     * Any other business 
(09:33:40 AM) jasoncwarner: starting w/ outstanding actions from last meeting, anyone have anything they would like to talk about? 
(09:33:54 AM) jasoncwarner: everyone had one big action: 
(09:34:02 AM) jasoncwarner: getting specs written and approved! :)
(09:34:20 AM) pitti: I had an action to set up WI tracker for Kubuntu specs
(09:34:21 AM) jasoncwarner: pitti had one additional: pitti setup WI tracker for Kubuntu 
(09:34:42 AM) pitti: http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/natty/kubuntu-dev.html
(09:34:53 AM) pitti: (milestone views also available, as usual)
(09:34:59 AM) pitti: sorry, s/pitti/platform/
(09:35:11 AM) ***pitti curses history in ffox
(09:35:38 AM) jasoncwarner: so, http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/kubuntu-dev.html ? 
(09:35:50 AM) pitti: *nod*
(09:35:56 AM) jasoncwarner: awesome, thanks!
(09:36:10 AM) pitti: jasoncwarner: as for specs, can I have a separate topic for that?
(09:36:16 AM) jasoncwarner: yup!
(09:36:36 AM) jasoncwarner: would you like to go now or after everything else? 
(09:36:49 AM) pitti: might as well now
(09:36:55 AM) jasoncwarner: great...
(09:37:00 AM) pitti: the other topics should be quick/nonexistant
(09:37:02 AM) jasoncwarner: all yours ;)
(09:37:10 AM) pitti: so, first, congrats everyone, we made great progress here
(09:37:12 AM) Keybuk [~scott@deathspank.netsplit.com] entered the room.
(09:37:15 AM) pitti: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty/+specs?searchtext=desktop
(09:37:25 AM) bilalakhtar left the room (quit: Quit: Ex-Chat).
(09:37:30 AM) pitti: the large majority is approved now
(09:37:39 AM) pitti: rickspencer3 needs to approve https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/appdevs-desktop-n-opportunistic-developer-manual
(09:37:57 AM) pitti:  (sort by reverse "design" is best)
(09:38:06 AM) rickspencer3: done
(09:38:15 AM) pitti: and we have 5 which are still drafting
(09:38:24 AM) pitti: rickspencer3: that must have been utterly thorough :)
(09:38:36 AM) pitti: I'd like to run through them quickly
(09:38:37 AM) pitti: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-desktop-n-set-default-paper-size-correctly
(09:38:42 AM) pitti: tkamppeter: ^
(09:38:55 AM) pitti: this seems like a very complex problem, and is a corner case at the same time IMHO
(09:39:37 AM) pitti: tkamppeter: would you like to work on this during natty, or should we postpone this to olympic opossum?
(09:40:08 AM) rodrigo_: doesn't the 'ñ' come after Natty??? :)
(09:40:12 AM) pitti: this requires some thorough use cases first, analysis of what currently happens, discussions with upstream etc.
(09:40:28 AM) rickspencer3: pitti, I was in the session ;)
(09:40:35 AM) nessita left the room.
(09:40:40 AM) pitti: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/appdevs-desktop-n-app-sandbox
(09:41:05 AM) al-maisan is now known as almaisan-away
(09:41:11 AM) pitti: that's Allison's, and she still has time until the "official" blueprint deadline
(09:41:15 AM) pitti: so I'll ignore this for now
(09:41:22 AM) and471 left the room (quit: Read error: Connection reset by peer).
(09:41:33 AM) pitti: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/multimedia-desktop-n-audio-apport-symptom is diwic's
(09:41:54 AM) pitti: also not strictly our team, I'll ping diwic about it
(09:42:04 AM) pitti: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/packageselection-desktop-n-thunderbird-on-ubuntu
(09:42:09 AM) pitti: this is a bit inconsistent
(09:42:14 AM) pitti: "Accepted for natty" but "deferred"
(09:42:22 AM) pitti: chrisccoulson: should this rather be un-targetted for natty?
(09:42:54 AM) chrisccoulson: pitti - yeah, that one should be untargetted. i don't think there are any WI's there are there?
(09:43:05 AM) pitti: chrisccoulson: right, and status is still new
(09:43:06 AM) chrisccoulson: (i think i'm tracking all my WI in other blueprints)
(09:43:26 AM) pitti: chrisccoulson: ok, done
(09:43:30 AM) chrisccoulson: thanks
(09:43:52 AM) pitti: cool, so except for the papersize one we are in shape
(09:44:09 AM) pitti: I reset the WI tracker today, so today is day #1 for trend line and counting
(09:44:16 AM) ***pitti ^5s team, let's have at it!
(09:44:27 AM) pitti: jasoncwarner: I'm done, here's the mike back
(09:44:37 AM) jasoncwarner: thanks, pitti
(09:44:55 AM) jasoncwarner: [ACTION] follow up with tkamppeter about paper size bp
(09:45:01 AM) jasoncwarner: I can take that one, pitti
(09:45:07 AM) pitti: thanks
(09:45:13 AM) jasoncwarner: back to the agenda
(09:45:25 AM) jasoncwarner: Partner update? 
(09:45:29 AM) kenvandine: nothing to report on the partner update, besides the team fix for U1 work items, so that will help a lot!
(09:45:49 AM) jasoncwarner: Ok...
(09:45:52 AM) jasoncwarner: Kubuntu update? 
(09:46:11 AM) pitti: kenvandine: nothing new on DX as well? compiz etc.?
(09:46:19 AM) didrocks: pitti: this is in the unity update
(09:46:32 AM) kenvandine: what didrocks said :)
(09:46:32 AM) el_wholer [~granrodri@190.42.112.27] entered the room.
(09:46:38 AM) pitti: ah, 'k
(09:46:47 AM) kenvandine: next week we'll have more
(09:47:01 AM) pitti: new crack!!!
(09:47:38 AM) jasoncwarner: ok, we'll all be looking forward to next week! :) Unity update!
(09:47:53 AM) jasoncwarner: Riddell: Kubuntu update? Anything you would like to note? 
(09:48:04 AM) Riddell: hi
(09:48:10 AM) Riddell:  * 4.5.3 uploaded and built
(09:48:11 AM) Riddell:  * trouble on arm due to removal of CXXFLAGS += -Wa,-mimplicit-it=thumb by default
(09:48:18 AM) Riddell: doko will investigate the arm issue tomorrow
(09:48:22 AM) pitti: oh, why did we drop thumb again?
(09:48:32 AM) Riddell: because upstream didn't like it I believe
(09:48:32 AM) pitti: didn't we rebuild everything for it in lucid (or was it maverick?)
(09:48:34 AM) pitti: ah
(09:48:42 AM) Riddell: merges all done
(09:48:57 AM) Riddell: need to make sure all our deltas go upstream
(09:49:04 AM) Riddell: then we're all ready to get into feature mode!
(09:49:17 AM) jasoncwarner: :)
(09:49:32 AM) jasoncwarner: Awesome.
(09:50:00 AM) jasoncwarner: [ACTION] doko to investigate arm issue for kubuntu
(09:50:06 AM) jasoncwarner: Anything else? 
(09:50:19 AM) jasoncwarner: If not, we'll move onto release bugs/release status. 
(09:50:25 AM) jasoncwarner: which I'm assuming is light ;)
(09:50:26 AM) didrocks: jasoncwarner: isn't the turn of Unity update? :) (the Agenda has never been upated to include Unity/USC update I'm afraid, will do it)
(09:50:39 AM) pitti: didrocks: can you please update the Template?
(09:50:47 AM) didrocks: jasoncwarner: look at the wiki page, below agenda
(09:50:49 AM) pitti: didrocks: while you are at it, perhaps change the chair from Rick to Jason :)
(09:50:59 AM) didrocks: pitti: will do that too
(09:51:02 AM) jasoncwarner: UNITY/USC  it is!
(09:51:12 AM) didrocks: so Unity…
(09:51:14 AM) didrocks: dx team is working hard to get a rocking unity on compiz!
(09:51:25 AM) ***pitti remembers TheMuso having lots of fun with that last week
(09:51:26 AM) didrocks: compiz 0.9.2.1 is uploaded today in natty as a first step to unity compiz. We still need some patches to compiz to be ready for landing unity into natty. Will come soon… very soon :)
(09:51:28 AM) htorque [~john@i538759D5.versanet.de] entered the room.
(09:51:28 AM) ***rodrigo_ is not on the template, feels out :(
(09:51:40 AM) didrocks: your dear compiz will be partially broken (no pager in gnome-panel applet real support) and no integration in gnome-control-center (will show "no effect"), also the edge doesn't react. Known issues, will be fixed soon or post alpha1 for some parts
(09:51:50 AM) didrocks: The migration of data/settings from older compiz 0.8 to newer compiz (0.9+) is planned upstream for alpha2
(09:51:54 AM) pitti: didrocks: does that need any magic for keeping user conf during upgrade? or did that not change?
(09:51:56 AM) didrocks: rodrigo_: will add you too
(09:52:04 AM) rodrigo_: didrocks, merci
(09:52:07 AM) didrocks: pitti: no magic right now, just dropped
(09:52:25 AM) didrocks: pitti: not removed, but the folder name isn't the same
(09:52:29 AM) pitti: didrocks: ah, you preempted me
(09:52:40 AM) didrocks: I was sure you were about to react :)
(09:52:49 AM) didrocks: pitti: so, there are two kind of magic needed:
(09:52:52 AM) pitti: didrocks: should we make a backup of our current conf, so that we can reinstall it for later upgrade testing?
(09:53:03 AM) rodrigo_: didrocks, btw, there's no more appearance applet/panel in g-c-c 3
(09:53:07 AM) didrocks: 1. upgrade data from compiz 0.8 to 0.9
(09:53:19 AM) didrocks: 2. handling conflicting plugins with adding unity by default
(09:53:20 AM) rodrigo_: didrocks, so the stuff for setting up compiz effects needs to be thought
(09:53:34 AM) didrocks: pitti: no, you will still have your old data in ~/.compiz and ~/.config/compiz
(09:53:40 AM) didrocks: pitti: the new is reading at compiz-1
(09:53:48 AM) pitti: ok
(09:54:02 AM) didrocks: rodrigo_: ok, thanks for the heads up
(09:54:07 AM) didrocks: rodrigo_: I won't spent time on that then
(09:54:20 AM) seb128: we didn't decide if we would take g-c-c 3 this cycle
(09:54:26 AM) seb128: especially due to such questions
(09:54:48 AM) kenvandine: yeah, but i am very interested in the ideas for a web accounts interface :)
(09:54:49 AM) didrocks: ok, will put the WI for later, it just helps to focus on more urgent things
(09:55:37 AM) rodrigo_: kenvandine, g-s-d and g-c-c packages coming soon, but no web accounts yet
(09:55:42 AM) seb128: kenvandine, right, we will need to check with the u1 about that though
(09:55:59 AM) seb128: just to be clear coming to a ppa, not natty
(09:56:05 AM) rodrigo_: yeah, right
(09:56:06 AM) kenvandine: yeah
(09:56:18 AM) pitti: I'll package the user admin portion of gcc 3.0, though
(09:56:27 AM) pitti: (needed as replacement for gnome-system-tools)
(09:56:41 AM) ***pitti lets his Perl axe blink for a bit
(09:56:42 AM) rodrigo_: pitti, it needs the whole g-c-c 3
(09:57:28 AM) warp10 left the room (quit: Quit: Scotty, beam me up!).
(09:57:30 AM) pitti: rodrigo_: source yes, but I take it the user admin part can be split into a separate binary package
(09:57:32 AM) seb128: rodrigo_, no, that was a standalone component before
(09:57:42 AM) pitti: I did that already for the network proxy and something else
(09:57:48 AM) rodrigo_: yeah, but now it's obsolete, and part of g-c-c
(09:57:51 AM) pitti: anyway, details
(09:57:58 AM) warp10 [~andrea@ubuntu/member/warp10] entered the room.
(09:58:04 AM) seb128: rodrigo_, well if we don't take the new g-c-c we will investigate taking the old source for this cycle
(09:58:11 AM) rodrigo_: ok
(09:59:14 AM) pitti: didrocks: you're done?
(09:59:27 AM) dpm left the room (quit: Quit: Ex-Chat).
(09:59:34 AM) didrocks: pitti: I'm done, yes
(09:59:39 AM) tremolux: ok, so USC update
(09:59:46 AM) tremolux: * Work items specified for the Software Center UI enhancements blueprint
(09:59:46 AM) tremolux:  * Focus on Unity integration, improvements to software purchase experience, performance and usability
(09:59:46 AM) tremolux: * Remaining work items lists for Software Center-related blueprints will be completed this week (after mvo returns from holiday)
(09:59:46 AM) tremolux: * mpt has done a review of the current ratings and reviews UI branch and provided detailed feedback
(10:00:25 AM) tremolux: any questions?
(10:01:06 AM) jasoncwarner: If not more questions, I have some actions :)
(10:01:07 AM) ***tremolux drums on desk, whistles
(10:01:25 AM) jasoncwarner: [ACTION] update wiki w/ updated agenda and add rodrigo
(10:01:32 AM) jasoncwarner: :)
(10:01:37 AM) micahg left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 252 seconds).
(10:01:38 AM) jasoncwarner: Anything else from the above? 
(10:01:40 AM) rodrigo_: :)
(10:01:50 AM) jasoncwarner: And, anything else missing from the agenda we wanted to talk about? 
(10:02:11 AM) pitti: not from me
(10:02:13 AM) didrocks: jasoncwarner: done btw (update wiki)
(10:02:22 AM) seb128: jasoncwarner, hum, did anybody pinged pedro to know if he has anything for us?
(10:02:28 AM) seb128: pedro_, hey
(10:02:42 AM) pedro_: hello!
(10:02:46 AM) seb128: pedro_, not sure if you want to start doing a weekly status that early in the cycle?
(10:03:24 AM) pitti: jasoncwarner: wrt. release status/bugs, I didn't start tracking them yet; we just finished blueprints and don't have release meetings yet
(10:03:42 AM) pitti: jasoncwarner: I'll prepare an initial release status page by next week
(10:03:54 AM) seb128: release bugs we let pedro_ do a qa status update usually if he has anything for us
(10:03:57 AM) pedro_: seb128, right, it's a bit early, but i can get some stats for bugs to SRU,etc for next week
(10:04:03 AM) jasoncwarner: [ACTION] pitti: prepare an initial release status page
(10:04:05 AM) seb128: pedro_, would be nice
(10:04:10 AM) seb128: pedro_, thanks ;-)
(10:04:11 AM) pedro_: there's only one bug i've scalated to you guys
(10:04:22 AM) pedro_: already assigned to canonical-desktop-team
(10:04:29 AM) ari-tczew [~ari@ubuntu/member/ari-tczew] entered the room.
(10:04:46 AM) seb128: pedro_, the video out key one?
(10:04:49 AM) seb128: I think pitti was on it
(10:04:56 AM) micahg [~micah@ubuntu/member/micahg] entered the room.
(10:05:02 AM) pedro_: yes, that one
(10:05:03 AM) pitti: is that the Super+P thing?
(10:05:06 AM) seb128: pitti, yes
(10:05:10 AM) pedro_: exactly that one pitti
(10:05:12 AM) pitti: no time yet, but I can have a look
(10:05:28 AM) seb128: seems it's basically applying the bugzilla patch
(10:05:34 AM) pedro_: awesome, i'll change the assigned then so we move it from c-d-t
(10:05:39 AM) htorque left the room (quit: Remote host closed the connection).
(10:06:29 AM) DodgeThis left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 276 seconds).
(10:06:41 AM) pitti: pedro_: right, feel free to assign to me
(10:06:47 AM) pedro_: for the record: bug 539477
(10:06:49 AM) DodgeThis [~DodgeThis@bl16-133-155.dsl.telepac.pt] entered the room.
(10:06:50 AM) ubot2: Launchpad bug 539477 in linux (Ubuntu Maverick) (and 7 other projects) "Video out hot key sends super + p + return on many upcoming Dell & HP systems (affects: 18) (dups: 2) (heat: 128)" [Undecided,Invalid] https://launchpad.net/bugs/539477
(10:07:03 AM) pedro_: pitti, already assigned , thank you
(10:07:15 AM) ***pitti shakes fist towards broken BIOSes
(10:08:12 AM) jasoncwarner: Anything else to discuss? We can move on to 'Any other business' if nothing...
(10:08:47 AM) jasoncwarner: so, any other business? :)
(10:09:06 AM) jasoncwarner: 3
(10:09:10 AM) jasoncwarner: 2
(10:09:18 AM) jasoncwarner: 1.5
(10:09:23 AM) jasoncwarner: 1
(10:09:38 AM) jasoncwarner: done? 
(10:09:41 AM) jasoncwarner: done. 
(10:09:42 AM) pitti: thanks everyone
(10:09:45 AM) rodrigo_: hmm, do we need to add our status reports to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2010-11-09 ?
(10:09:51 AM) tremolux: thanks desktop team peoples
(10:09:51 AM) didrocks: thanks everyone :)
(10:09:54 AM) pitti: rodrigo_: please
(10:10:00 AM) jasoncwarner: [END MEETING]
(10:10:00 AM) rodrigo_: ok
(10:10:25 AM) seb128: thanks
(10:10:46 AM) jasoncwarner: Awesome, thanks everyone. 
(10:11:12 AM) ara left the room (quit: Quit: Ex-Chat).
(10:12:17 AM) kenvandine: pitti, gwibber has some stuff in binNEW
(10:12:20 AM) seb128: rodrigo_, I've assigned some tasks to you
(10:12:27 AM) rodrigo_: seb128, ok
(10:12:28 AM) kenvandine: the service plugins have been split into separate packages, finally!
(10:12:31 AM) rodrigo_: seb128, where?
(10:12:36 AM) seb128: rodrigo_, bug #673110
(10:12:38 AM) ubot2: Launchpad bug 673110 in gnome-applets (Ubuntu) (and 1 other project) "should port the python applets to gi (affects: 1) (heat: 6)" [Low,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/673110
(10:12:47 AM) seb128: bug #673109
(10:12:48 AM) ubot2: Launchpad bug 673109 in gnome-applets (Ubuntu) (and 1 other project) "the null applet should be ported to the new library (affects: 1) (heat: 6)" [Low,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/673109
(10:13:00 AM) seb128: rodrigo_, basically is "get ride of remaining bonobo use in gnome-applets"
(10:13:08 AM) rodrigo_: ok
(10:13:37 AM) seb128: rodrigo_, it should be easy, the null applet is small and invest porting to gi should be ok to do
(10:13:40 AM) tkamppeter: pitti, jasoncwarner, sorry, I have missed it, have forgotten DST change.
(10:13:58 AM) seb128: rodrigo_, no hurry, but having it done by end of next week would be nice if you can
(10:14:13 AM) hyperair: dobey: pong
(10:14:29 AM) rodrigo_: seb128, ok
(10:14:47 AM) tkamppeter: pitti, jasoncwarner, the paper size issue we should fix in Natty.
(10:15:03 AM) seb128: rodrigo_, thanks ;-)
(10:15:08 AM) DodgeThis left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 245 seconds).
(10:15:25 AM) pitti: tkamppeter: looking at the current workload status, "we" would be "you", I'm afraid
(10:15:32 AM) pitti: tkamppeter: but this requires a fair bit of research first
(10:16:55 AM) tkamppeter: pitti, in one point I have started by fixing s-c-p to actually follow /etc/papersize when creating a queue.
</pre>

=== AU IRC LOG ===
<pre>
(03:05:23 PM) jasoncwarner: Ok, AU desktop team, I imagine this could be quick :)
(03:05:25 PM) jasoncwarner: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2010-11-09
(03:05:37 PM) jasoncwarner: that is the link and notes from the previous meeting
(03:05:58 PM) awe left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 245 seconds).
(03:06:28 PM) jasoncwarner: everyone here? 
(03:06:42 PM) RAOF: Aye aye!
(03:06:58 PM) TheMuso: Yep.
(03:07:05 PM) TheMuso: Robert is not yet online.
(03:07:07 PM) jasoncwarner: Afternoon (morning for you guys)
(03:07:21 PM) jasoncwarner: He mentioned he was moving ISPs, I wonder if he is offline b/c of that. 
(03:07:27 PM) TheMuso: Oh ok.
(03:07:34 PM) jasoncwarner: either way we can get started...
(03:09:00 PM) jasoncwarner: you can see from the wiki above there wasn't much in the agenda to go over other than some quick status. Didier updated us on Unity (see notes) and pitti reset the cycle trackers, so we are good to go with work items
(03:09:06 PM) joaopinto [~janito@bl13-3-45.dsl.telepac.pt] entered the room.
(03:09:15 PM) joaopinto left the room (quit: Changing host).
(03:09:15 PM) joaopinto [~janito@ubuntu/member/joaopinto] entered the room.
(03:09:16 PM) jasoncwarner: so let me ask, is everyone all set with their work items? everything update in the BP? 
(03:10:03 PM) RAOF: Yup.
(03:10:08 PM) TheMuso: So far so good, I prodded David about the a11y spec, but he hasn't looked/responded about it yet. Will poke him again later today when he is online.
(03:10:21 PM) chrisccoulson: hi everybody on the other side of the world! :)
(03:10:36 PM) jasoncwarner: TheMuso: sounds good. RAOF. awesome. 
chris| chrisccoulson 
(03:10:58 PM) jasoncwarner: chrisccoulson: hello :)
(03:11:11 PM) RAOF: chrisccoulson: Hello insomniac Brit :)
(03:11:11 PM) nessita left the room.
(03:11:22 PM) TheMuso: Hey chrisccoulson.
(03:11:31 PM) chrisccoulson: lol. it's not that late here just yet. i've got a few more hours to go ;)
(03:11:36 PM) jasoncwarner: RAOF: want to give a quick X Update (if anything at this point)
(03:12:05 PM) RAOF: X update:  We're largely in sync with Debian at the moment.
(03:12:08 PM) robert_ancell [~bob@ppp121-44-37-89.lns20.syd6.internode.on.net] entered the room.
(03:13:02 PM) jasoncwarner: Ok. Anything else? If not, TheMuso, anything you would like to report? 
(03:13:05 PM) RAOF: None of the new code for Mesa or X has landed; we'll be taking snapshots of Mesa once things settle down a bit more, and snapshots of Xserver 1.10 once the ABI's settled and we're sure we want it.
robbiew robert_ancell 
(03:13:08 PM) jasoncwarner: and, welcome robert_ancell :)
(03:13:22 PM) jasoncwarner: Awesome. 
(03:13:27 PM) RAOF: Internode.  A fine choice :)
(03:13:39 PM) TheMuso: jasoncwarner: Not so far, now I have recovered from my trip, I am starting to ramp up my atk research/prototyping, and playing with unity compiz.
(03:14:29 PM) robert_ancell: jasoncwarner, hey
(03:14:30 PM) jasoncwarner: TheMuso: good. I have an action to setup a meeting w/ you for next week once I land in AU :)
(03:15:02 PM) TheMuso: jasoncwarner: Cool.
(03:15:16 PM) robert_ancell: oh, meeting.  I thought it was yesterday
(03:15:22 PM) RAOF: Oh, something notable for the Intel users: we've dropped the patch disabling pageflipping in the intel DDX.  You may recall me dropping this patch in Prague, and everyone's display freezing at regular intervals.  We're watching the bug reports :)
(03:15:46 PM) TheMuso: robert_ancell: Check your calendar... :)
(03:15:55 PM) jasoncwarner: RAOF: Noted! thanks. 
(03:16:23 PM) jasoncwarner: robert_ancell: no worries...anything you want to update? 
(03:16:45 PM) robert_ancell: nothing in particular, just working through GNOME updates
(03:17:31 PM) jasoncwarner: fair enough
(03:18:16 PM) alecu left the room (quit: Quit: Ex-Chat).
(03:18:26 PM) jasoncwarner: well then, since we didn't have much from other meeting as well, it is almost time to call the meeting :) I'll update the wiki and put the actions in there. 
(03:18:28 PM) jasoncwarner: Anything else? 
(03:19:06 PM) jasoncwarner: then.... [END MEETING] :)
(03:19:43 PM) jasoncwarner: thanks guys!
</pre>
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
