{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)  
* Chris Cheney (ccheney)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

* Wrote "What is a Defect Report" blog, to help raise awareness of how
   to make high quality bug reports that can be addressed easily.
* Completed performance review
* Wrote several X test plan documents.  See:
   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Testing
* Wrote blueprint for X diagnosis tools
* Wrote blueprint for proprietary driver work
* Wrote blueprint for touchscreen support
* Vacation
* UDS all week
* Workaround some launchpad utf-8 issues in arsenal scripts
* Add patches for boot performance - bg_none_root and cache-xkbcomp.
* Investigate widespread resolution detection bugs
* Investigate redevelopment of failsafe-x in python
* Investigate current -nouveau status
* Investigate DRI for ARM
* Investigate hal->udev for X.org + wacom
* Investigate wayland

==== Chris Cheney (ccheney) ====

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
===== Last week: =====
* UDS
* bug fixing in gwibber
* branched gwibber for karmic, trunk is now focused on lucid plans

===== This week: =====
* specs baby!
* more gwibber fixes, would like to get some of them into universe for karmic
* clean up gwibber deps before doing an MIR
==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* UDS

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* UDS
* Meeting with pitti about signing distribution-independent printer driver packages
* Plenary presentation about OpenPrinting

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
