{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson)
* Didier Roche (didrocks)
* Gary Lasker (tremolux)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)
* Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

==== Discussion ====

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Partner Update ===
===== UbuntuOne =====
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuOne-MaverickWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>
* desktopcouch fix/workaround SRU is coming for bug 522538, already in maverick 
* desktopcouch still has some problems, it will now push changes to the service but won't pull changes down  Bug:585530
   - They are hopefull this will be resolved by the end of the week
* desktopcouch pairing is broken, needs to be fixed to work properly with desktop SSO Bug:629095
* bug fix uploads planned for Wednesday

===== DX =====
* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-MaverickWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-MaverickReleaseStatus#Freeze%20Exceptions%20Requests| Freeze Exception Requests]]</nowiki>
* this weeks uploads by EOD Wednesday, before archive freeze
* blacklists for appmenu

=== Kubuntu Update ===

=== X Update ===

=== Release Status ===

http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-ubuntu-10.10-beta.html

=== UNE update ===

* We got a new unity release, as usual. Still a lot of bugs, but today's update should fix a bunch of them. Got unexpected crashers too, still under investigation and we still have some memory leaks too. We redefined a new least of critical bugs for us to get fixed.
* Unity should now migrates your favorites from netbook-launcher, ubuntu GNOME panel launchers and ubuntu GNOME desktop .desktop file to unity panel. Script integrated in unity itself, used on first launch. Would be nice for people testing it (gconftool-2 --unset /desktop/unity and then logout immediately from unity before it tries to rewrite the current configuration). Warning, latest unity release contains only the latest piece for that, which is, matching custom .desktop file to application.
* Banshee won't make default in UNE, for more information, please refer to https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-desktop/2010-September/002644.html

=== USC update ===

* Buy Something
** purchases of the test item using the production server are successful end-to-end
** plan is to remove the team limitations for test purchases and open the store for general testing, current target very end of the week/early next week
** continued bugfixing in preparation for final freeze
** metadata for the details screen for items-for-purchase is complete
** hosting for screenshots is in-process (for buy-something and new-apps)
** RT for tracking #41184
  
* New Apps on a Stable Release
** extras.ubuntu.com and corresponding sync from app-review-board PPA are live!
** currently testing and bugfixing using extras.ubuntu.com
** full metadata in the details screen for items in the new-apps repo is now displayed
** in-progress:  add extras.ubuntu.com to default sources.list (lp:~mvo/apt-setup/extras-ubuntu-repo)
** we are already getting inquiries from folks about how to get their apps into the new repo  :D
   
* Miscellaneous
** many, many excellent bug fixes this week (many thanks to kiwinote, mmcg069 and devildante!)
** continued focus on bug fixing as final freeze approaches

=== Other Business ===

Bugs to be aware of:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Bug
| Title
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/telepathy-butterfly/+bug/622777|622777]]</nowiki>
| telepathy-butterfly crashed with UnicodeDecodeError in _handle_UBX()
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/telepathy-butterfly/+bug/629501|629501]]</nowiki>
| telepathy-butterfly crashed with TypeError in _send_chunk()
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-settings-daemon/+bug/630239|630239]]</nowiki>
| gnome-settings-daemon crashed with signal 5 in gkbd_keyboard_drawing_new_dialog()
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/evolution/+bug/602828|602828]]</nowiki>
| evolution crashed with SIGSEGV in gtk_widget_get_toplevel()
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gtk+2.0/+bug/551809|551809]]</nowiki>
| gnome-settings-daemon crashed with SIGSEGV
|}

=== Activity reports ===

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

==== Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson) ====
* General:
** Updated gnome-control-center to install gnome-display-properties-install-systemwide
** Investigating memory errors in gnome-settings-daemon keyboard plugin, due to indicator patch
** Packaged the Lightning calendar extension for Thunderbird 3.1, which we dropped from the archive last cycle. The packaging is a complete re-write in dh7 and patches out the deprecated standalone Sunbird application. Trying to get an ACK from ubuntu-release for this, but not too hopeful now.
** Updated tracker to the latest bugfix release
** Thunderbird 3.0.8 build1 chemspill release
** Did a hg bisect to track down a new bug in Firefox 4.0 where the buttons on the tab bar didn't respond to mouse clicks
** Registered some blueprints for Natty already
* Bugs:
** Investigated <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/632760|LP: #632760]]</nowiki>, which is a bug introduced in to the language packs by po2xpi. Patch attached
** Investigated <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/333799|LP: #333799]]</nowiki> - default dictionary language is incorrect. 
** Prepared an updated ubufox to set the default language to the appropriate value, but hit another issue because the Firefox preference did not support localization.
** Reported this as <nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=594513|Mozilla bug #594513]]</nowiki>, patch sent upstream and committed to mozilla-central <nowiki>[[http://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/rev/0a783c9282b0|http://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/rev/0a783c9282b0]]</nowiki>.
** Probably not worth backporting for Firefox 3.6, this will be fixed next cycle in 4.0
** Fixed <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/631217|LP: #631217]]</nowiki> - Can't save dual monitor configuration
** Fixed <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/410407|LP: #410407]]</nowiki> - Adobe Flash Player does not respond to mouse clicks on amd64 - disabled client-side windows for Flash
** Fixed <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/630239|LP: #630239]]</nowiki> - gnome-settings-daemon crashed with signal 5 in gkbd_keyboard_drawing_new_dialog()
** Investigated <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/557640|LP: #557640]]</nowiki> - nrf-003 testcase failed Default "Welcome to Ubuntu" page doesn't appear without connectivity. This is WONTFIX for Firefox 3.6 though, as the changes required to fix it would be way outside of the scope of anything we could do with that.
** Addressed Mozilla review comments for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/630281|LP: #630281]]</nowiki>, awaiting another review now
** Trying to get Mozilla review on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/239952|LP: #239952]]</nowiki>
** Fixed <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/637434|LP: #637434]]</nowiki> - components.list is missing from the install (affects Firefox on all releases + Thunderbird in Maverick)

==== Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF) ====

==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====

* UNE
** New unity release: bamf, clutk, unity-place-files, unity-place-applications, unity
** Work on migrating favorites desktop/launchers applications from netbook-launcher, ubuntu GNOME panel and ubuntu GNOME desktop to unity panel. Script integrated in unity itself, used on first launch. (see UNE status)
** change defaults launchers in ubuntu-netbook-default-settings to be more compliant with new schema format and avoid futur issues.
** lot and lot of bug triaging for unity
** help dx team with debugging and setting bug priorities and such
* GNOME:
** work with jelmer to get new evolution-mapi working for maverick for deps:
** sync of openchange, samba4, tdb, teven and trying to workaround getting new update in main component (still a build-dep issue, will dput manual sync this week)
** merge new evo-mapi, still waiting on deps to be sorted.
** rhythmbox: adding "smart closing" (only close on close button or <control>w if no music playing and hide otherwise)
** New GNOME 2.31.92: update evince, totem, gnome-system-tools, gnome-bluetooth, totem-pl-parser, folks, shotwell, libsoup
* Misc:
** work on banshee dep with #debian-cli, coordinate, discussion with upstream (libgpod, banshee)
** announce (see UNE status) that banshee won't be the default in UNE maverick
** fix a oneconf typo
** fix undecorated compiz 0.9 in compiz ppa
** sponsor a fix for evolution-data-server, utouch-grail and mtdev new releases, quickly-widgets new release (+FFe)

==== Gary Lasker (tremolux) ====
* Refactor/simplify show/hide nonapps code so that it can be used in installed views also
** Enable show/hide nonapps for Provided by Ubuntu subitem of Installed Software
** Fixes performance bug <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/556375|LP: #556375]]</nowiki>
** Add unit tests for show/hide nonapps
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/550947|LP: #550947]]</nowiki> Verify install/remove button sensitivity fixed in recent releases
* Review mvo's aptdaemon patch to hide passwords
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/625398|LP: #625398]]</nowiki> Make Terms of Service popup a modal dialog so it works with metacity too
* LP fix for new apps metadata publishing goes live, test new-apps metadata support using live PPA
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/625254|LP: #625254]]</nowiki> Improve support for metadata display in details view for new-apps and buy-something
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/634678|LP: #634678]]</nowiki> Fix incorrect display of appname and summary for Independent apps
* Fix up downloadable icon handling
* Lots of buy-something testing, successful purchase/install of a DVD player app using production server
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/635044|LP: #635044]]</nowiki> Fix crash during action bar refresh
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/635003|LP: #635003]]</nowiki> Always display the partner channel, even if the source is not enabled
* Test extras.ubuntu.com and sync after it goes live, find icon metadata dir not sync'd yet, IS fixes
* Review, test and merge kiwinote's bugfixes in lp:~kiwinote/software-center/getting-the-small-things-right
* Review and upload mpt's patch for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/538911|LP: #538911]]</nowiki>, fixes empty debugging category
* Continued software center bug triage
* Review and merge lp:~cjwatson/software-center/apt-xapian-index-crash
* Wrote <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/636843|LP: #636843]]</nowiki> Freeze when viewing appdetails
* Wrote <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/636854|LP: #636854]]</nowiki> Num tech items display is incorrect for "System" category
* Weekly Software Center call

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
* empathy
   - fixed notifications Bug:603526
* vino
   - Fixed crasher related to appindicator patch Bug:628967
   - However I had to work around a problem looking up the contact alias prior to creating the menu, it now just says "Disconnect".  Handed off to Karl Lattimer to fix that.
* Gwibber
   - Fixed terribly confusing preferences dialog for notification settings UIF exception Bug:621646
   - Translation fixes
   - Fixed slowness when toggling enable/disable

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* Worked with pitti, Slangasek, and mvo on printing-related bugs in packages which are not directly printing-related: session-installer shows error messages and crashes when invoked by system-config-printer (LP: #612140. LP: #633913), Samba started before CUPS and so did not share the local CUPS queues to Windows clients (LP: #494141).
* jockey: As upstream maintainer pitti was on vacation and Final Freeze approaching, fixed two bugs in Jockey: Slowness of printer driver download and installation when Jockey is called with a printer device ID in order to install only the driver for exactly this printer (LP: #574396), binary driver packages from OpenPrinting which are signed do not get installed (LP: #604698). Package upload is waiting for being sponsored.
* system-config-printer: Backported fixes from system-config-printer 1.2.4, applied several changes to improve how manufacturers, models, and drivers get listed and also the default driver selections, take also into account the CMD: (command set) field of the printer ID when the printer is already identified by manufacturer and model, so that the correct PPD is also selected on the presence or absence of an optional PostScript add-on.
* gutenprint: Make generic large-format laser printers easier to recognize by using "Large Format" instead of "LF" in the model name.
* foomatic-db:  Fixed model names of Toshiba GL-1010 and GL-1020.
* cups: Applied patch from Red Hat so that the SNMP CUPS backend can read out the full device IDs from Ricoh and HP printers. This allows more reliable make/model identification and the possibility to detect the presence of a PostScript add-on. Checked whether the CUPS in SUSE or Red Hat is patched to do DNS-SD broadcasting, both are not, so no fix for LP: #465916).
* hplip: Fixed dependencies between the libsane-hpaio (scanner driver) and hplip (main) package. Now in a minimum installation one can install libsane-hpaio without hplip. Corrected PPDs of HP's LIDIL printers (cheap inkjets) to support the driver modes which use both the black and the color cartridge and to use these modes by default. Users got already angry that HP never fixed this upstream (LP: #235399).
* ptouch-driver: At least for some models the commands for cutting the paper/labels were not sent to the printer (LP: #635249).
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
