{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===

* Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) - chair
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Kenneth Wimer (kwwii)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Michael Vogt (mvo)
* Mirco Müller (MacSlow)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)

* Colin Watson (cjwatson)

=== Apologies ===

* Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt) - LP 2.0
* Ted Gould (tedg) - OSCON
* Pedro Villavicencio Garrido (pedro_) - Holiday

=== Agenda ===

* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Proxy setting location (mvo)
* Integration of guest login (pitti)
* Default theme in Intrepid (pitti)
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsoring Overview update]]</nowiki>
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

* Matthew to follow up with upstream about UI improvements in new user admin tool.
    not present, so carried over

=== Actions from this meeting ===

* Matthew to follow up with upstream about UI improvements in new user admin tool.

=== Proxy setting location ===

mvo asks what is the best canonical place for a proxy config? /etc/apt/apt.conf is what the installer sets and what the current implemented of the system-service reads/writes, but it should probably also do something in the global environment, like /etc/environment or /etc/profile.

The concern about /etc/environment was that it's not intended to be a shell script, it's a configuration file that just happens to look like one.  The locale setting had moved to /etc/default/locale because gdm did not use pam_getenv.

The issue of another conf file was that it was another file to be sourced by shells.

Consensus was to use /etc/environment

=== Integration of guest login ===

pitti asked where, other than the fast-user-switch appplet, the option to open a new guest login should appear.  Various options were suggested, including the logout dialog and the gdmflexiserver list.

No clear consensus appeared in the meeting.

=== Default theme in Intrepid ===

pitti asked which theme would be the default for intrepid, kwwii clarified that the default would be a lighter theme.  In either case, users would not be changed from a light theme to a dark one.

=== Activity reports ===

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

done:
* Adding Rosetta support to KDE 4, now blocked on cdbs
* Fix cmake to include ccmake and cmake-gui
* Various Ubiquity fixes for the KDE frontend
* Testing CDs for Alpha 3
* Discussing KOffice 2 packaging with community packagers
* Fix various recommends to make CDs fit (thanks to slangasek for arts patch)
* Remove unused SVG icons from kdebase, saves 40 Megs of space

done at sprint:
* Investigate and package kpackagekit, works surprisingly well
* Investigate kpolicykit, works less well
* Test webkitkde and discuss with upstream, unlikely to be ready for intrepid
* Fix some package Recommends to stop bringing in dbg packages to CDs
* Package knetworkmanager 0.7, works well.  Write MIR for dbus-1-qt3
* Remove system-config-printer-kde applet, now in KDE
* Investigate what needs done to turn on compositing by default for kwin
* Discuss kdesudo with Tonio
* Various e-mails about KDE in Bzr
* Test and sync new openbabel
* Make sure default wallpaper is on the CD
* Meeting about better Rosetta integration with upstream
* Various fixes to guidance-power-manager

blocked:
* openbabel MIR (for kdeedu)
* libzip MIR (for kdeutils)
* dvipdfmx MIR (for cdbs, for Rosetta with KDE 4)
* dbus-1-qt3 MIR (for network-manager 0.7)

todo:
* KDE 4.1 final next week

No milestoned bugs

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

* worked on final version of dark theme

* made 5 a day icon

* made debian birthday party banner, discussed with mattew nuzum

* made inkscape daily build icon

* finished web browser icon and other pics

* 3/4s finished making time zone map for installer. Quite a large and 
 complicated job, no wonder nobody else has done it before.

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Assigned Intrepid specs:
* UbuntuSpec:intrepid-device-permissions Dropped audio, video, dip, floppy
 groups, dropped user fingerprint reader access from hal. The rest is
 unfortunately harder to do, see spec update
* UbuntuSpec:jockey-printer-driver-support fixed s-c-p is in the archive,
 jockey backend can fully detect printer drivers now; some UI bits are
 still missing
* UbuntuSpec:gdm-guest-account
** decided for intrepid approach, updated spec
** tinkered with both "hack gdm" and "do everything from scratch"
  approches, both are very hard unfortunately; I have a halfway
  working prototype script now which sets up a guest session

Currently open milestoned bugs:
 - Intrepid: #224697 (Disable hibernation if swap is on file), #232428
   (guile 1.6 -> 1.8 transition): will do later, specs go first

Other work done:
* Fixed up the new jockey for Intrepid alpha 3, should work now for
 the new nvidia driver structure; fglrx *should* work, but untested
* Various bug fixes in hal and cups
* Lots of mentoring of Alberto (tseliot) and Stefano (tacone)
* Various discussions and hacks at the sprint; didn't keep track of
 everything

==== Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt) ====

==== Michael Vogt (mvo) ====

A short week for me, I spent monday in bed with a nasty feverish cold
and I'm still not 100% normal (but almost :) and feeling a bit weak. 

alpha-3:
* update/review/upload command-not-found-data to current intrepid
* update/review/upload app-installdata to current intrepid
* Work on ddtp translations update for intrepid (but rosetta is
   giving me a hard time, some discussions with Jerome too about it)

update-manager:
* integrate automatic nvidia pkg module detection into update-manager
   so that on hardy->intrepid the right new package gets installed
   (together with tseliot and pitti), is in the
   "better-nvidia-support" update-manager branch

system-wide-preferences:
* implement policykit based dbus backend in 
   lp:~mvo/system-service/system-service (not complete yet, but working)
* add simple UI patch to gnome-control-center to make use of the
   new backend (needs more polish)

misc:
* bug triage
* mail catchup
* test new libmesa on ati r500 (mixed success, compiz does not
   run for me yet)
* review/merge python-apt fixes from Emanuele Rocca
* triage/bugfix run over gdebi bugs
* hacking on the clone-to-vm script, had success booting into 
   a cloned system to do upgrade testing 
* merged some fixes from bdmurray (thanks Brian!)

==== Mirco Müller (MacSlow) ====

login-experience/gdm-face-browser:
* packaging official 0.8 release of clutter, clutter-cairo, clutter-gtk,
 clutter-gst for hardy and intrepid, put in my ppa and handed over for
 upload-sponsoring (https://edge.launchpad.net/~macslow/+archive)

* started using clutter's support for .json file-format as
 theme-description for gdm

* identified and reported bug regarding non-working relative sizes
 in .json UI-descriptions, if used in conjunction with clutter-gtk-embed
 widget, possible workaround known
 (http://bugzilla.o-hand.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1042) needed for themes
 adapting to different screen-resolutions and aspect-ratios

* identified and reported bug of missing motion-events, if using
 clutter-gtk-embed widget (all handled via IRC), now fixed upstream and
 part of made packages

* wrote text-filter and text-highlighting for login- and real-name entry

* wrote digital-clock display, format can be themed in .json-file

* updated spec-page with ogg/theora video of new design from UDS-Prague

* discussion with gdm-upstream (William Jon McCann) about the new
 gdm-design, best practices and integration work for the
 "login-experience" at GUADEC'08

* drew graphical elements (buttons, icons, background) for
 "login-experience" based on SVG-mockup provided by kwwii

misc:
* traveling and attending GUADEC'08 in Istanbul

* traveling and attending distro-sprint in London

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* intrepid distro sprint:
** uploaded the new gnome-session
** discussed required compiz changes with michael
** sponsored clutter0.8 packages from mirco
** looked at epiphany-webkit
** packaged the new gdm and pushed it to the ubuntu-desktop ppa
** debugged consolekit, policykit with martin

* catching up on mails and bugs after GUADEC and distro sprint

* lot of GNOME 2.23.5 updates

* bug triage

* archive admin tasks

* on holiday friday (swap day for Jul 14 which is a national holiday)

==== Ted Gould (tedg) ====

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
