{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Actions from previous meeting ==

== Actions from this meeting ==

== Weekly Summary ==

* Wrote some extensive Python Gobject-Introspection documentation after my UDW talk: https://live.gnome.org/PyGObject/IntrospectionPorting (pitti)
* xulrunner is demoted to universe (chrisccoulson. Thanks to RAOF, Sweetshark and pitti)
* LibreOffice (Bjoern Michaelsen)
** uploaded:
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/1:3.3.2-1ubuntu3|libreoffice-1:3.3.2-1ubuntu3]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice-l10n/1:3.3.2-1ubuntu3|libreoffice-l10n-1:3.3.2-1ubuntu3]]</nowiki>
** fixing:
*** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/+bug/740815|Updates to enable us to drop xulrunner from main]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/+bug/720716|Please add unity Quicklist support]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/+bug/751746|icelandic lang-pack for Natty absent in repositories]]</nowiki>  
*** workaround for <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/+bug/732412|LibreOffice Writer has no icon in Unity and is labeled "LibreOffice Small Device Format Importer"]]</nowiki>
** related bugs watched:
*** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/humanity-icon-theme/+bug/753584|New Libre office icons are used in the launcher but not in Nautilus / Dash search results]]</nowiki>
** upcoming tasks:
*** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/libreoffice/+bug/765010|LibreOffice StartCenter’s desktop file has an empty value for Name]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/+bug/746375|soffice.bin crashed with SIGSEGV in uno_type_sequence_construct()]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/+bug/754562|soffice.bin crashed with SIGSEGV in g_hash_table_lookup()]]</nowiki>
*** possible translation updates to desktop files
*** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/+bug/731556|LibreOffice erases user settings, and block the use of interface styles...]]</nowiki>
=== Partner update ===

=== Unity ===

* Latest round of unity updates before natty finale: 3.8.8 last Thursday and 3.8.10 today!
** lot of crash fixes (ccsm still makes unity crashing under some circumstances though, but it's respawning, so can be a SRU)
** some more intellihide false positive fixes
** small bug fixes (hovering, theme priority)
** updates of the assets: places/launcher icons (UIFe)
** the bfb is now a button (UIFe)
** translations fixes

We also won a non negligeable amount of time at startup in lazy loading the places daemon (only load on request), seems that zeitgeist and xapian database warmup were racing at start :)

* On compiz side, we had some cherry-pick compiz upload for more crash fixes, fullscreen stacking fixes and such.

* There is still a Xorg hang (reduced as compiz/unity doesn't grab the keyboard as often as before), but still prevent. It's in the Xorg's teams hand now. 

For the full story, the usual links: https://launchpad.net/unity/3.0/3.8.8 and https://launchpad.net/unity/3.0/3.8.10

=== Software Center ===
* Released Software Center versions 3.1.26.3 through 3.1.26.7
** Includes 24 bug fixes in total
** Many crash fixes, including some high priority ones
** Fixes for database issues
** Many i18n fixes; currently no known open i18n issues remaining
** etc.
* Bug fixing continues for final release

=== Kubuntu ===

=== X.org ===

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
pitti	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2011-04-19
Riddell	hi
pitti	let's try to make this quick, as we are all knee-deep in bug fixing
pitti	tremolux, didrocks: thanks for the unity/s-c reports on the wiki! anything we need to discuss there?
seb128	mterry, (ignore the glib rejected email, I screwed the upload once and reuploaded)
didrocks	pitti: nothing more
kenvandine	pitti, nothing to report on partner update... and i am on the phone :)
tremolux	pitti: I don't think so unless any questions  :)
pitti	kenvandine: hah, that woudl have been my next question
pitti	no news is good news at this point :)
kenvandine	yup
kenvandine	if we had news, we are in trouble
rodrigo_	:)
pitti	quick update about release status
pitti	we are cleaning up the last couple of WIs, but nothign serious any more ("talk to Debian", "test stuff", etc.)
pitti	almost there
pitti	and last week we fixed about 8 or 9 RC bugs!
pitti	and some more this week, so we have 5 left on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/ReleaseStatus
pitti	I just have two questions here
pitti	bug 727410
ubot2	Launchpad bug 727410 in gnome-session "unity used instead of metacity when logging in as a user via ltsp" [Medium,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/727410
pitti	erm, ignore that, fixed!
pitti	so we only have 4 left!
didrocks	yeah :)
pitti	and they are all fixable in SRUs as well
rodrigo_	pitti, about #649809, we agreed on not being RC, right?
pitti	any other OMGkittenkiller you guys are aware of which we need to discuss?
tremolux	pitti: oh, and bug 723911 was already deferred  ;)
ubot2	Launchpad bug 723911 in software-center "deauthorize does not remove sources.list" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/723911
pitti	rodrigo_: right, target of opportunity, and SRUable
pitti	tremolux: right
rodrigo_	ok
pitti	so I think by and large we are in good shape
pitti	nothing else from my side, AOB?
* pitti ^5s the team for having a smooth landing next week
Riddell	I am going on rotation next cycle to work with bzr, volunteers to look after Kubuntu welcome :)
pitti	ooh, enjoy the rotation
pitti	they can certainly need some help from someone with a strong distro perspective!
pitti	Riddell: do you expect larger structural changes next cycle in Kubuntu, or will that be by and large a bug fix/maintenance release then?
Riddell	pitti: a load of KDE source packages will be changing due to upstream moving to git
Riddell	kdepim moves to akonadi fully
Riddell	that's about it
pitti	thanks
pitti	so, shortest meeting evar
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
(08:31:21) jasoncwarner: robert_ancell TheMuso RAOF bryceh https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2011-04-19 Meeting time!
(08:31:26) TheMuso: Hey.
(08:31:37) bryceh: hi
(08:33:04) jasoncwarner: morning everyone...hope everyone is enjoying these last few weeks before the release ;)
(08:33:26) TheMuso: Yeah.
(08:33:30) TheMuso: Just over a week now till the release.
(08:33:31) RAOF: Morning.
(08:33:49) jasoncwarner: Alright, lets get to it! 
(08:33:56) jasoncwarner: [TOPIC] X Update
(08:34:28) RAOF: One broad class of compiz freezes fixed.
(08:34:45) ***DBO pokes RAOF
(08:35:07) RAOF: But bug #740126 has a different cause, seems to be intel-specific, and I'm working on it.
(08:35:08) ubot2: Launchpad bug 740126 in unity "compiz hangs randomly several times per day" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/740126
(08:36:27) RAOF: Apart from that, there seems to be an Xserver crasher still lurking around, possibly associated with fullscreen flash.
(08:37:05) jasoncwarner: ah flash...
(08:37:12) jasoncwarner: ok...thanks, RAOF
(08:37:15) RAOF: Bug #764456 is an exemplar of that; the server dies in CallCallbacks.
(08:37:17) ubot2: Launchpad bug 764456 in xserver-xorg-video-intel "X crashes frequently with flash video playback" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/764456
(08:38:03) RAOF: bryceh: Anything you want to add?
(08:38:09) bryceh: been focusing on the Arrandale external monitor issues this week, there's about a dozen bug reports notably 747205 as the primary.  I suspect there are at least 3 distinct bugs that are getting mixed up.
(08:38:48) bryceh: of the three, the primary issue might be a DPMS issue in the kernel; possibly this can be worked around int he X driver; I have a patched driver in my ppa I'm having folks test
(08:40:10) bryceh: last week I worked on gpu lockup bugs for -intel and did some testing for unity/-ati corruption issues, but haven't nailed down any noteworthy fixes there.
(08:40:46) ***robert_ancell loves the random X crash
(08:40:58) ***jasoncwarner agrees with robert_ancell
(08:41:07) RAOF: Jay pinged me about that; I've filed a bug upstream about misrendering on r300g
(08:41:30) RAOF: robert_ancell: Lies!  X crashes are myths perpetrated by evil aarvarks!
(08:42:21) jasoncwarner: Ok...anything else of note? 
(08:42:35) jasoncwarner: or, moving on to [TOPIC] AOB ;) 
(08:42:36) bryceh: I also wrote a GUI tool called xdiagnose to help people turn on debugging in the kernel
(08:42:54) bryceh: anyway, guess nothing else of note.  lamenting loss of wayland, etc.
(08:43:19) robert_ancell: loss of wayland?
(08:43:19) RAOF: bryceh: We should discuss what to do with that at a session of UDS.
(08:43:34) jasoncwarner: yes, I think so...
(08:44:10) RAOF: robert_ancell: Linking cairo with libGL causes a significant memory use increase for people with nvidia's libGL.
(08:44:44) bryceh: RAOF, *shrug*
(08:44:53) RAOF: (On the order of 5MiB per process linking to cairo on x86-64, apparently up to 20MiB/process on i386)
(08:45:08) TheMuso: Youch.
(08:46:08) RAOF: bryceh: Well, we *will* want to have wayland in the archive - even in main - in the not too distant future.  Even if we just decieded to say “sucks to be you, nvidia users”, we should probably decide that :)
(08:47:07) bryceh: RAOF, to be honest I'm kinda worn out... was a lot of work and is kind of a let down that it all ended up for naught
(08:47:35) jasoncwarner: bryceh: might feel like that now, but we'll be using that soon enough! 
(08:47:42) bryceh: anyway, I suppose if/when people start caring about wayland, the work can be undertaken again
(08:47:54) jasoncwarner: just a stumbling block ;) 
(08:48:15) jasoncwarner: Anyway...sounds like we are about done...so thanks everyone...appreciate it! 
(08:48:22) bryceh: thanks
(08:48:42) TheMuso: Thanks.
</pre>
