{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===

* Martin Pitt (pitti) - chair
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Kenneth Wimer (kwwii)
* Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt)
* Michael Vogt (mvo)
* Mirco Müller (MacSlow)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Ted Gould (tedg)

* Sarah Hobbs (Hobbsee)

=== Apologies ===

* Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) - busy in London

=== Agenda ===

* Outstanding actions from last meeting: None

* Mirco reported some difficulty with coordinating with Opened Hand,
 the "clutter" upstream; he reported his plans on the upstream mailing
 lists, blogs, etc.. He had worked on integrating OpenGL mipmapping into
 clutter for two weeks, but then just yesterday someone else committed
 something similar upstream. Mirco will mail upstream again and
 discuss how to avoid wasting time on duplicate implementations in the
 future.

* Michael pointed out the usefulness of getting daily hardy CD builds
 for testing → Action item

* We should invest some time fixing upgrade bugs at least for popular
 universe packages, too, since a single failed universe upgrade can
 ruin the entire upgrade. According to Michael we have a magnitude of
 20 packages which were reported to cause trouble.

* Review [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+milestone/ubuntu-8.04.1
 hardy.1] milestoned bugs: We went through the unassigned ones which
 belong to the Desktop team and assigned them to a particular team
 member.

* Jonathan pointed out that Intrepid will by and large switch to KDE
 4, and the KDE 3 packages will be demoted/removed. We agreed that KDE
 4 packages which had a KDE 3 equivalent do not need MIRs, since they
 are 'just' a new upstream version, and creating MIRs for all would be
 busywork. New components which don't belong to KDE4, but are needed
 as new build dependencies still need to get MIR bugs.

* Sebastien pointed out that the lack of the apport autoretracers
 becomes more and more painful. Martin explained that this is due to
 the somewhat unexpected and inexplicable breakage of fakechroot.
 Martin promised to try and find some isolated test cases this week
 and try to fix the retracers next week.

* There was a short discussion about whether we should do a point
 release for the two Kubuntu variants. Jonathan is positive that we
 can get enough testing coverage, and it does not cost us much to
 build CDs, so we will do it.

=== Actions from this meeting ===

* Martin to enable daily CD builds for hardy-proposed (Ubuntu,
 Kubuntu KDE 3/4, Server). This will be helpful to verify fixes to the
 installer, CD-ROM dist-upgrade scripts, etc.

* Martin to look into the fakechroot problems which break the apport
 retracers.

* Michael to produce an up to date dapper → hardy-proposed `/etc/`
 upgrade diff.

=== Activity reports ===

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

Done:
* Merging Qt 3, Qt 4.4, helping with kdelibs, konversation, k3b and various others
* Overseeing KDE 4.0.4 packages, discussion ways to make backports
 practical for KDE releases, managed to work out a way that uses PPA moving to
 backports
* SRU for kdebase, kaffeine
* move power-manager to kdereview for inclusion in KDE 4.1
* archive admin 1/2 a day
* bank holiday on Monday

Next week:
* packaging/merging KDE 4.1 alpha

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

* 1 May holiday in Germany
* work on refresh for human icons (folder and mimetype page, specifially)
* looking into different theme engines and possiblities
* community active on theme teams, lots of discussion, a couple of
 interesting ideas
* made video title graphic for Jorge
* played with 3D glossy ubuntu logo (usplash and gdm versions)

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Only a 3-day week due to national and personal holiday.

Milestoned bugs: (8.04.1): 
* Got them all fixed, I'll get more in today's meeting

Done:
* About 10 hours of SRU management (reviewing, sponsoring,
* processing, testing)
* A few non-milestoned SRUs
* Discussed envy-ng with Alberto and got it into a working state and
 into hardy-proposed
* Went through my merges, synced a lot of packages, and merged 6

==== Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt) ====

No report received.

==== Michael Vogt (mvo) ====

A short week because last Thursday was a public holiday (workers day)
and I took Friday as vacation.

I took next week Tuesday, Wednesday off too (monday is a public
holiday) and at Thursday I travel to Prag (via berlin).

===== Updates =====
* lots of bug triage in update-manager and reassinging of failures to
 various failing packages

* upload fix for chillispot upgrade failure (#225900)

* Added repair/partial upgrade mode to update-manager-core in
 intrepid so that it can be used from friendly-recovery and
 uploaded both

* Fix bug in cdrom upgrade code when no network is used with the
 "keep-sections" for translations (#227197)

* Fix ko.po translation issue that prevents upgrades (#227197)

* Fix mixed deb http://unknown-mirror\n deb-src http://known-mirror
 sources.list mirror detection (#221730)

* got a lot further with debugging a hang in update-manager, it
 seems to be caused by the gtk.gdk.PixbufLoader for svgs (#186465)
 and I have a workaround that I can SRU

* looked into the hildon port of the mobile team and added native
 fetch and install progress (with the help of loic and persia)
 this should be ready for wider testing now

===== Merges =====
* findutils, liblocale-gettext-perl, mawk, zlib, cpio, popularity-contest (sposnored)

===== Misc =====
* misc bugtriage and sponsoring
* added intrepid to python-apt
* merged apt with debian and uploaded to intrepid
 (with recommends by default)
* created compiz PPA and moved the compiz stuff from
 my PPA to it
* review/merged apt.cron.daily improvments by Osamu Aoki
* created lpia kvm image to test update-manager hildon port
 (tested various methods, the best seems to be ubuntu-vm-builder
 and tweaking afterwards, ymmv)

===== Milestoned bugs =====

There are a lot of package failure bug that needs investigation where
postinst scripts fail etc. I will go over the list again now and give
them better titles.

Open:
* 220986: friendly-recovery drops to a root shell even when a root pass...
* 183209: doesn't let user examine installation process any more (cosmetic)
* 162441: improve download cancel handling (cosmetic)
* 220505: Ungrammatical "A upgrade" should be "An upgrade" (typo)
* 221977: Cannot enable compiz with the fglrx driver (ATI X1600) (confirmed)

Fix commited:
* 201462: nautilus-gksu stopped working in hardy (uploaded, waiting for approval)
* 224308: deal with landscape repositories during upgrade
* 224294: Crashing upgrade procedure    
* 69124: Ubuntu Edgy upgrade crashes when the "crux" theme is used
* 221023: update manager crashes when there are no updates
* 222895: failed to do /cdromupgrade on a 7.10 server 

==== Mirco Müller (MacSlow) ====

* UbuntuSpec:gdm-face-browser:
** talking with clutter-upstream about how to expose mipmap-support in the API

** adding mipmapping to clutter 0.7/trunk still causes major problems,
  texture-coordinates for mipmap-levels > 0 are messed up, no idea yet where this
  happens... pure GL is so much simpler :/

** events which worked with clutter 0.6 no longer work with 0.7/trunk, tried
  to debug, finally wrote an isolated test-case and sumitted bug to clutters
  bugzilla

** bit of chit-chat with gdm-upstream about how to go about moving stuff
  upstream later on

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

(I didn't send my activity mail previous week so I'm including this one
too now)

* lot of desktop bugs reading and triage to figure what are the 8.04
 issues and what to fix for 8.04.1

* lot of hardy SRU uploads
** gvfs #211205, fix fuse crasher
** gtk+2.0 #201497, fix icons inconsistency in the gio fileselector

** evolution-data-server #204775, fix evolution-data-server crashing
  easily for people having no evolution contacts leading to a gnome-panel
  freeze when opening the clock applet

** gnome-system-monitor 2.22.1 stable update

** evolution #219495, fix crash when copying text from a task description

** nautilus #220564, don't list eject and umount action on ltsp configs

** gnome-panel 2.22.1.3 stable update

** evolution-data-server 2.22.1.1 stable update, the new version has
  passwords migration to the gnome-keyring which is nice but required
  extra testing, that's bug #178544

** evolution 2.22.1.1 stable update fixing launchpad bugs 181387 192195
  198167 220608 226925

** gnome-settings-daemon #214347, fix wallpaper changes when not using
  nautilus

** glade 3.4.5 stable update

** gnome-system-monitor #187383, reduce ressources usage, still not
  perfect though but cairo performances on some drivers are to blame there

** glib2.0 #210379, don't list mounts unaccessibles to the user, the
  change is not perfect though, upstream doesn't want to access() the
  mountpoint since that might hang on non replying nfs mounts for example

** gnome-desktop #197357, correctly center the zoomed wallpapers

** gtk+2.0 #227723, fix non working dbg variants

* some phone interviews for the GNOME maintainer open position

* started some intrepid syncs, not to much though since those failing to
 build due to intltool not being installable and not having an intrepid
 environment right now

Today and monday are national holidays and I'm taking a vac day
tomorrow, I'll be around every now and then and join the desktop team
meeting but also try to enjoy the nice weather, etc ;-)

==== Ted Gould (tedg) ====

* Working on GPM critical battery actions.  Sent patch to Richard
 for some ideas.
* Got the other GPM patches accepted.
* Reworking libwnck patch to hopefully get it upstream.
* Ubuntu Open Week presentation.
* Made additional progress on Ubuntu Live talk

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
