{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Martin Pitt (pitti) - chair
* Alberto Milone (tseliot)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)
* Rick Spencer (rickspenter3

=== Apologies ===
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - in meeting
* Chris Cheney (ccheney) - vacation
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) - not online

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Chris -- Mozilla support update
** skipped, Chris not online
* All -- Setting goals for next cycle (announcement; deadline is mid-January)
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/ReleaseStatus|Release Bugs/Release Status]]</nowiki>
* Alberto - Nvidia packages name schemes
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Actions from this meeting ===
* Martin to create conference attendance wiki page and ask team for adding themselves to it by mail

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

* ArneGoetje to talk to Robert about scanner failure in simple-scan 
** DONE, it's fixed now
* Everyone to add their conference interests 
** Moving along
* Martin to followup on desktop-lucid-une-applications drafting
** DONE, will be done during Paris mini-sprint
* Martin to followup on desktop-lucid-desktop-cloud drafting
** DONE, approved now

=== Partner Update ===
* DX <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-LucidWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>
* Decorations and RGBA patch testing uncovered some significant bugs, these need to be addressed before upload to lucid.  Results tracked here: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gtk+2.0/+bug/491521
* indicator-application related packages are in lucid now as well as a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~indicator-applet-developers/+archive/indicator-core-ppa|karmic ppa]]</nowiki>
* expect regular updates to these libraries as well as more example applications using them.  Porting infomarion can be found <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-ApplicationIndicators|here]]</nowiki>.

=== Kubuntu Update ===
* alpha 1 out in typically alpha 1 shape
* qt and kdelibs built on arm now, packages higher up the stack are getting done
* polkit-qt-1 just gone into archive
** primary consumer is kpackagekit, new upstream version available
** other bits use KAuth
* KDE SC 4.4 beta 2 due to be tagged tomorrow, no rest for us!

=== Release Status ===
{{http://piware.de/workitems/desktop/lucid-alpha2/burndown.png}}

=== NVidia package name schemes ===

Currently the source produces a lot of different binaries, mainly for historical reasons. They will be changed to just produce three packages (nvidia-190, nvidia-190-modaliases, nvidia-190-dev). libvdpau will become a version-independent separate source.

There was some discussion about going back from version number based package names to -current/-legacy (or a mix). Both approaches have their pros and cons, but it was determined that fixed package names are easier to maintain (both the packages themselves as well as the bug reports). nvidia-common needs to be used during upgrades either way, and with the planned X.org autodetection changes, apt-get dist-upgrade'ing into a new driver version which does not support your card any more should not be the end of the world any more.

=== Other Business ===

=== Activity reports ===
==== Alberto Milone (tseliot) ====

* Synaptics:
** Ported my jumpy cursor patch to Lucid

* Specs from the UDS.  
** Xorg - proprietary video driver support improvements:
*** My proposed DKMS patch to build the kernel module for the latest
      kernel (in addition to the current kernel) was accepted by upstream.
*** Started working on the new nvidia packages.
** Boot experience work:
*** Develop a plymouth plugin which replaces usplash features:
**** A first release is available.
**** Put together a pdf with the current status of the plugin and a list
        of requirements for the artwork for the Design team.

* X.Org:
** Made the xkbcomp patch work with xserver 1.7.

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====
* Talked to Robert Ancell on my issues with simple-scan
* Upgraded to Lucid
* Released new language-packs for Lucid
* Font review for OEM team
* Blueprint work:
** desktop-lucid-font-selection: Prepared a list of fonts in main for review
** desktop-lucid-ibus-chinese: talked with interested developers about the libchinese design
** desktop-lucid-language-selector: no progress this week
* Research travel options for Platform sprint in February 2010

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====
* On Vacation Dec 7-11 (sick for half of it)

* Email catchup post-vacation
* Expenses, review,  etc.
* Final touches on a few specs
* Ubuntu-X wiki documentation revamp planning with matthelmke and
   rocket2dmn.
* Fix bitrot in my syncreq script
* File sync requests for xserver 1.7 protos (17 packages)
* File sync requests for xserver 1.7 libs (18 packages
* Review/update xserver 1.7 patches
* Merges
* Add script to list other desktop teams (mozilla, OOo, etc.)
* Generalize arsenal scripts to work for !X.org
* Set up json queries and reports for more desktop teams to feed bughugger

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====
done:
* package amarok beta
* package kdevelop beta
* package new libmtp
* Fix kdebase-runtime, kdebase-workspace, kdegraphics and probably some others for building on ARM
* Get KDE SC 4.4 beta 1 all finished up
* package freespacenotifier and fix upstream's i18n
* start discussion about gettext in .desktop files with upstream
* start discussion about minor point release policy with upstream

todo:
* KDE SC 4.4 beta 2

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
* Ported indicator-session from libempathy to telepathy-glib
* finished gtk-doc support for indicator-application
* DX team weekly releases
* indicator-application related package work for karmic (in a ppa) and lucid
* packaging for python-libappindicator
* worked with DX and OLS teams on their blueprints

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====
NOTE: I had a 2 week break in the mdidle, hense the spanning of several weeks with the dates.

===== Accessibility =====
* Did a bit of bug tidying for accessibility apckages prior to my 2 week break.
* Fixed a bug in python-pyatspi that broke the pyatspi module from being imported by python applications, and updated at-spi to 1.29.3.
* Read some bug reports regarding audio performance with speech, and other possible solutions to the problem. Need to do some testing once I am running Lucid.

===== Audio =====
* Audio bug triaging, bugs in question are against pulseaudio, alsa userspace, and the kernel for hardware enablement.
* Looked over gobby notes from the various audio discussions at UDS. The audio hda quirks session didn't have a decision made, at least in the notes, and since the device tree work is being looked into by the kernel team, things may be solved that way. Other than that, backports of alsa in a ppa will be the best bet post lucid release.
* Caught up with audio related goings on while I was away.

===== Misc =====
* Downloaded Lucid alpha 1, with the intension of installing it, however I realised that I didn't leave enough disk space for it, so I had to shuffle things around. That will teach me for not using LVM. :)
* Massive massive email catch up, about a day's worth. :)

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Drafted blueprints: all approved

Assigned blueprints:
* desktop-lucid-likewise-open-migration: blocked on upstream sending the packages
* desktop-lucid-jockey-hotplug-support (beta available): Should be working, just a bug fix and documentation left
* desktop-lucid-suspend-quirks-halsectomy (beta available): no progress this week, needs testing
* desktop-lucid-xorg-halsectomy: no progress this week
* desktop-lucid-powermanagement-tweaks: landed pm-utils-powersave-policy in lucid which implements SATA power
link management and dirty writeback time change

Non-blueprint work done:
* DMB meeting
* Set up apport retracers for lucid
* MIR reviews
* Travel preparations for January mini-sprint
* Implemented/announced motu-sru/ubuntu-sru merging
* Improvements to work items tracker
* Investigated desktop bits which keep the HD active
* Job interviews for UMD
* Bug fixing: compiz, cups, dbus, gnome-python-desktop, usb-creator, gnome-menus, gvfs, pm-utils, udev
* Prepared test 2.8.0 fontconfig  package
* Sorted out libmetacity breakage/rebuilds

Sponsoring:
* powertop, python2.6, transmission, ubuntu-netbook-remix-default-settings

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* desktop merges and desktop updates: totem nautilus libgnomekbd gtkhtml gnome-keyring nautilus
* lucid alpha1 testing
* desktop bug triage
* workarounded an epiphany-browser build issue
* fixed some pidgin build issues
* karmic sru uploads: gst-plugins-base to fix totem hanging on subtitles
* tested simple-scan and filed some bugs, it's working fine there out of some ui glitches and the lack of preview and selection
* tried bughugger without real luck due to lucid issues
* sponsoring: indicator-applications gnome-control-center liboob gnome-system-tools gtk
 
boot speed: 

* weekly timing: boot = 18.2 seconds, login = 11.1 seconds (was 20.2 and 11.1 a week ago),
   no splash for the moment though, will get slower once plymonth is running
* looked quite a lot to nautilus straces to spot slow actions without lot of success
* spotted nautilus rewritting the gtk bookmarks list several times on start for no reason,
   upstream fixed that in git now, the change is in lucid too (the win is around 0.3 seconds
   on nautilus start but nautilus is not the slowest desktop component so doesn't change the login timing)

==== Till Kamppeter ====

* CUPS: Added upstream fix for the pdftopdf filter to prevent segfaults on some input files: LP: #407344, LP: #466119, LP: #467919, LP: #475330, LP: #488752. Applied another upstream fix to make CUPS working with both the old (Debian) and the new (Ubuntu) Poppler ABI, fixes recent FTBFS of CUPS and impossibility to print with recent Lucid versions.
* Ghostscript: Investigated bug in "cups" output device which leads to wrongly printed back sides when printing duplex on inkjets.
* HPLIP: Removed duplicate PPD files from the HPLIP package (LP: #493282).
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
