{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Weekly Summary ==

* Switched precise over to Rhythmbox, dropped banshee/gbrainy/totem/Mono from CDs. (pitti)
* New oneiric language packs hit -proposed, please test. (pitti)
* More packages got DEP-8 autopkgtest control files now. We now have apport, jockey, upower, postgresql-common; udisks is committed but not uploaded yet (pitti)
* Update our desktop packages (polkit, accountsservice, etc.) for the `admin` â†’ `sudo` group migration. This is now the new preferred "administrator" group, but `admin` should still be recognized for backwards compatibility (for eternity). (pitti)
* GTK 3 packages are now multi-arched, so you can start multiarching plugins and dependencies. (pitti)
* Landed <nowiki>[[http://www.piware.de/2011/11/apport-1-90-client-side-duplicate-checking/|client-side crash  duplicate checking]]</nowiki> in Apport, which makes reporting crashes a lot more enjoyable. (pitti)
* Continued on desktop merges (seb128), there is enough work for several people though so extra hands would be welcome
* Continued reviewing desktop bugs to nominate for the lts (seb128)
* More more more oneconf tests (logical tests, syncing tests) with changes in the infra. Still some tests to write and oneconf will be fully tested! (didrocks)
* Started looking into the LightDM KDE greeter: fixed build of the new liblightdm-qt, currently packaging the KDE greeter (agateau)
* Split empathy-call out into a separate binary to prevent pulling clutter on the CD, still blocked on clutter-gst <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/clutter-gst/+bug/893286|MIR]]</nowiki> to get it uploaded (ken-vandine)
* Followed up with Launchpad about priorities from Ubuntu for their 18-month development roadmap (bryce)
* Managed to get notify-osd notification bubbles accessible with Orca once again. A branch has been proposed for merging into notify-osd trunk, no response from DX as yet. Once branch is merged, I'll push a patch to Orca upstream to make things work better there too, (TheMuso)
* Good progress being made on adding extra functionality to dbusmenu to allow the setting of alternate accessible descriptions for menu items. Unfortunately this means I have to re-implement lots of menu item accessibility code from GTK itself, but I have Orca basically reading things properly so far. I should have a branch ready for merging by the end of the week. (TheMuso)

== Agenda ==

* ''Insert things to discuss at meeting here..''

=== Partner update ===
* DX Systems
   - Lots of branches getting reviewed, bug fixes should be landing later this week.
   - <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/ps-p-indicator-refinements|Bug fix queue]]</nowiki>

=== Unity ===

* Still some QA work to get automated tests and coordination in unity, unity-2d and all related components.
* Compiz got some work on the testing infrastructure side, closer than what we were to get tests!
* Some work on the infrastructure side as well. We now have automatic landing of unity components branches (detailed email at https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-desktop/2011-November/003492.html). The resulting packages are pushed to https://launchpad.net/~unity-team/+archive/staging
** After some last minute work on some components to have "make check" passing on headless and chroot builder.
** Components that works: bamf, bamf-qt, dee, dee-qt, libunity, libunity-misc, nux, unity-2d, unity-asset-pool, unity-lens-applications, unity-lens-files, unity-lens-music.
** Component still needing some work to have "make check" passing: unity
** tarmac/jenkins Build result can be seen there: https://jenkins.qa.ubuntu.com/view/Precise%20Unity%20Merger/ (new projects appear as soon as there is a new approved merge request to one)
** The infrastructure is generic enough to be able to deploy it for the desktop team where we are upstream as well if the need is there.
* Worked with evan to define where the autopilot tests will be run. It will be on post-merge. Will need some hacking on tarmac to put it in "lock mode" in case autopilot found a regression (and then unlocking it).
* Lot of discussion with various dx team members to ack on the plan of action.
* All tarmac branches have been pushed upstream and waiting on merge review.
* Wrote 107 manual tests (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnityTests), fully functionally covering panel, launcher, dash and alt + tab. Some window management interaction is covered as well.

=== Software Center ===

=== Kubuntu ===

=== X.org ===

* libXrandrUtils - Began refactoring code out of xrandr (bryce)
* xdiagnose 1.7 (bugfix) released.  (bryce)
* Refiled bunch of old kernel gpu lockup bugs from X to kernel.  (bryce)

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
</pre>
