{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Weekly Summary ==

* Updated system-config-printer to 1.3.11, there will be no transition to Python3 in Quantal (tkamppeter)
* Updated Ghostscript to 9.06 final.
* Removed fontconfig-voodoo hacks and calls to the script from language-selector. Test packages are in https://launchpad.net/~laney/+archive/experimental — please give them a go. l-s itself still ships most of the fontconfig files apart from the georgian ones, as the rest have to be split up and separated out into a variety of other font packages. That's work for the second iteration. (Laney)
* Quickly reboot continued: good public hangout on air and discussion on the future and Quickly. Discussion with the community teams about new processes. Wrote some summary the hangouts: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Quickly/Reboot (didrocks)
* Started some Quickly merge reviews as well (didrocks)
* Released the NetworkManager 0.9.6.0 stack to an unsuspecting world (cyphermox)
* Debugged a major issue in a potential SRU patch for NM in Precise with stgraber; re using DBUS with dnsmasq (cyphermox)
* Fixed up dnsmasq to support specifying a custom DBus name to use on startup (cyphermox)
* Fixed some issues with Bluez starting PAN/DUN connections, and some bluetooth audio potential issues (cyphermox)
* A new developer package, pbuilder-scripts, landed in precise for those that still use pbuilder.  This is a collection of helper scripts to make working with many simultaneous chroots easier.  I wrote this for OEM back in the day. (mterry)
* After much testing, pulseaudio 2.1 is in quantal. (TheMuso)
* FOund a bug where the volume wasn't being saved on shutdown/restart. Turns out I missed changing the path to alsactl in the upstart files when I merged alsa-utils, so fixed this up. THis was only noticed when one changed the volume, and found that the volume wasn't saved at next reboot. (TheMuso)
* Started debugging some weirdness with the at-spi stack, where Orca will work properly on first login, but won't read anything on subsequent restarts. (TheMuso)

== Agenda ==

* ''Insert things to discuss at meeting here..''

=== Partner update ===

=== Unity ===

* Unity 6.2 stack landed into quantal (unity, dee, bamf, unity-lens-applications, unity-lens-music, unity-lens-files, nux) \o/
* Some continued work in gsettings for compiz and unity. Still wait on a branch for compiz gsettings <-> g-c-c integration
* Work to prepare all unity-2d removal and compiz/unity transition to gsettings on multiple components (11 components are involved into the transition). See the summary of what was needed into that tracking bug: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-meta/+bug/1035261.
** All distro components ready to roll (patches to g-c-c, gnome-session, lightdm transition, unity-greeter transition, unity and compiz migration scripts, g-s-d revert, metacity preparation and checking, unity-2d transition packaging, release-upgrader support for checking if unity-3d is supported during precise -> quantal upgrade, seeds update preparation.
** As the gsettings compiz is still not ready and the schedule is tight, we will decouple the transition in two phases (slightly more work for us, but manageable): remove unity-2d first, and then gconf -> gsettings transition.

=== X.org ===
** Getting patches reviewed (mlankhorst)
** Follow up mesa 8.0.3 piglit testing.  Found some new (reproducible) gpu lockup issues, so will be delaying the 8.0.3 sru (bryce)
** Updated xdiagnose PCI ID database with latest chips (haswell, tegra, northern/southern islands, etc. etc. chips) (bryce)
** Assisted Jeff Lane in utilizing xdiagnose xorglog.py module for X driver detection (bryce)
** Engaging in further planning with kernel team for X stack update in LTS point release (bryce, mlankhorst)

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
</pre>
