{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Actions from previous meeting ==

== Actions from this meeting ==

== Weekly Summary ==

* Some GNOME 3.2.1 updates and lots of bug fixes for Oneiric SRUs.
* Precise open for development, lots of good syncs and merges.
* Check current status of udisks2 for LTS inclusion evaluation, create an initial test suite. (pitti)
* Set up http://ddebs.ubuntu.com, language pack PPA, and apport retracer for precise. (pitti)
* Switched Ghostscript to use liblcms2 instead of liblcms1. liblcms1 is rather buggy (segfaults, problems with color accuracy) and not maintained upstream any more. Please test. This switchover should be done for all packages which use liblcms1 (tkamppeter).
* Hacked an tool to deal with design changes that have to be done upstream, downstream, or will soon land downstream. Multiple view from your perspective. Will present it a little bit more for UDS. http://people.canonical.com/~platform/design/ (didrocks)
* http://conference.libreoffice.org/ (see http://planet.documentfoundation.org/ for details) (bjoern-michaelsen)

=== Partner update ===
==== UbuntuOne ====
* Dropped support for bookmark syncing, in 11.10 it still works as well as it ever did but they won't official support it as a service.  In 12.04 we'll be removing the bindwood package.

=== Unity ===

* Unity SRUS: libunity, unity, nux, unity-lens-applications. Full list of the release there: https://launchpad.net/unity/+milestone/4.24.0. Note that we got some additional fixes (crashes in unity-panel-service) that I got before uploading the first candidate and an UI change removal. A new SRU candidate for unity is pending the queue.

* Got some additional compiz and compiz-plugins-main fixing some regression on previous SRU candidate

* Quite some emergency SRU fix for sni-qt which can remove your $HOME directory if you fidle your env variables.

=== Software Center ===
* Software Center version 5.0.1.5 SRU in-process
** Includes targeted bug and i18n fixes
* Software Center version 5.0.2 SRU coming soon
** Provides a significant startup time improvement \o/, plus additional very nice fixes
* Planning for UDS and the 12.04 cycle

=== Kubuntu ===

=== X.org ===

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
17:30:49	 *	bcurtiswx as a guest
17:30:52	 *	kenvandine waves
17:31:04	didrocks	hey
17:31:06	kenvandine	woot, precise!
17:31:20	mterry	w00t
17:31:36	chrisccoulson	and i managed my first precise uploads today :)
17:31:40	pitti	but I suppose most of us will still stay on oneiric for preparing and verifying SRUs
17:31:52	 *	Sweetshark waves
17:31:58	pitti	precise opened up exceptionally fast, but it's still very rough
17:32:38	pitti	I must admit I haven't looked into UDS planning yet, jasoncwarner_ did most of it so far
17:32:49	pitti	so, anything on the agenda from anyone for today?
17:32:56	pitti	(I think didrocks had a topic)
17:33:20	kenvandine	one thing for partner update
17:33:28	jasoncwarner_	pitti: re: UDS. I'm off this week, but I'm entering the blueprints todayish. If anyone else has some, go ahead and put them in and target them...
17:33:52	pitti	jasoncwarner_: want me to do anything particular there? scheduling, accepting, reviewing, etc.?
17:34:37	jasoncwarner_	pitti: once I have them in, reviewing and accepting would be appreciated (re: keeping me honest ;))
17:34:54	pitti	jasoncwarner_: ack, sounds great; and thanks for preparing them
17:34:57	Sweetshark	jasoncwarner_: did you see the LO/OOo topic proposed to Jono?
17:35:19	jasoncwarner_	Sweetshark: yeah, would you be happy to put that in and target to precise uds?
17:35:57	didrocks	pitti: On my side, I don't have a topic agenda particularly, still waiting for design to move their bugs to new process, but for those interested, they can hCave a look there: http://people.canonical.com/~platform/design/. I'll present that at UDS to the team in an informal way I guess. The idea is to have a better view of what should be done in our upstream, what's should be done us, as a
17:35:59	didrocks	downstream and what would land soon in ubuntu from a design perspective.
17:36:42	kenvandine	didrocks, awesome!
17:37:35	pitti	nice!
17:37:57	didrocks	(you can click on title to expand/reduce view and can triage by column title if you didn't notice)
17:39:00	didrocks	(and it has an extensive test suite against launchpad staging so we should be good for tweaking it safely)
17:40:39	pitti	ok, AOB?
17:40:45	kenvandine	yeah
17:40:47	kenvandine	U1 has discontinued support for bookmark sync (bindwood).  in 11.10 it still works as good as it has and the package will be removed for 12.04
17:40:57	chrisccoulson	ah, about that
17:41:05	rodrigo_	kenvandine, cool, it never worked afair
17:41:12	kenvandine	rodrigo_, right :)
17:41:14	chrisccoulson	i'm also going to be shipping an empty bindwood package with the next firefox update
17:41:16	pitti	kenvandine: what do we do on upgrades there? can we introduce a Breaks: somewhere to remove the package?
17:41:19	chrisccoulson	(for natty and oneiric)
17:41:28	pitti	chrisccoulson: err, for stables?
17:41:33	chrisccoulson	pitti - yes
17:41:51	pitti	"works as good as ever" didn't sound like "completely broken"
17:42:05	chrisccoulson	pitti - if nobody is working on it anymore, then it's likely to break quite quickly
17:42:08	chrisccoulson	(ie, break firefox)
17:42:19	chrisccoulson	so i want to remove it entirely really
17:42:20	pitti	yes, fine for precise, but breaking stable?
17:42:33	kenvandine	pitti, well the service would still accept the sync technically
17:42:34	pitti	why did U1 stop supporting it?
17:42:35	chrisccoulson	pitti - yeah, it needs updating for every firefox release anyway
17:42:46	kenvandine	but it just never worked well for many people
17:42:51	glatzor	hello mvo, I just moved the development of the pk compat thingy to the lp:~aptdaemon-developers/aptdaemon/pkcompat2 branch and deleted the previous one (pkcompat), since the threading seems to be harder to implement than the PK compat layer and the threading branch was already merged in the pkcompat branch :)
17:42:58	kenvandine	pitti, quality reasons
17:43:04	chrisccoulson	and i'm not sure the U1 guys are going to be spending efforts on maintaining something for a service which isn't provided anymore
17:43:09	kenvandine	http://voices.canonical.com/ubuntuone/?p=1282
17:43:25	mvo	glatzor: thanks!
17:43:30	kenvandine	the problem wasn't really the firefox extension
17:43:46	chrisccoulson	but that's a problem if nobody is looking after it :)
17:43:54	kenvandine	indeed
17:45:04	chrisccoulson	pitti - do you see a problem with that?
17:45:27	pitti	chrisccoulson: yes, I do, but we aren't going to solve that here and now :)
17:45:50	pitti	so, thanks for the heads-up
17:45:56	chrisccoulson	pitti - there are a couple of problems with leaving things the way they are:
17:46:21	chrisccoulson	1) the addon will be marked incompatible with firefox in the next release anyway, which is likely to result in confusion and bug reports
17:46:31	pitti	chrisccoulson: right, under the assumption that we stop support for it, an empty package is fine
17:46:53	pitti	chrisccoulson: my problem is with stopping supporting stable releases where we have committed to having these packages in main, have a paid team for it, etc.
17:47:03	kenvandine	it is in universe
17:47:05	chrisccoulson	2) for people running the addon compatibility reporter, it won't be marked incompatible, which means it may start to break firefox in strange ways in the future, if we don't have anyone actively maintaining it
17:47:22	ricotz	hello, is this a known debhelper problem "dpkg-shlibdeps: error: package. is not a valid version"?
17:47:25	pitti	kenvandine: ah, ok; then I don't have a problem with it :)
17:47:30	kenvandine	:-D
17:47:31	glatzor	mvo, but I will merge it into trunk soon :)
17:47:42	pitti	chrisccoulson: ok, I thought it was a supported service, nevermind me
17:47:49	kenvandine	the quality was never good enough for us to put in main :)
17:47:54	chrisccoulson	pitti - ah, ok. thanks
17:47:55	rodrigo_	yeah
17:47:57	seb128	ricotz, hey, try asking on #ubuntu-devel
17:48:10	chrisccoulson	so, the plan is still to ship empty packages with the next firefox update to force its removal
17:48:14	seb128	ricotz, we are in a meeting (almost over, but still the question is not really desktopish)
17:48:18	chrisccoulson	unless anyone else sees a problem :)
17:48:28	ricotz	(seb128, oh, sorry)
17:48:29	kenvandine	chrisccoulson, wfm
17:48:40	seb128	ricotz, no worry
17:48:42	pitti	kenvandine: ok, thanks
17:49:01	pitti	back to AOB?
17:50:21	pitti	seems not
17:50:26	pitti	then thanks everyone!
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
</pre>
