{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This template can be used to create a new record of a current user experience.  Type the name of your new page into the URL bar, and the Wiki will return a page stating it doesn't exist.  From this you can select the <code>DesktopTeam/Experiences/CurrentTemplate</code> template and get started!  Make sure to link it on <nowiki>[[DesktopTeam/Experiences/Current|the experience list]]</nowiki> page.  Good luck!

-----
=== Quick Links ===

=== Description ===

Who?  What?  Why?  What is the type of testing that you're doing and who does it represent.  Artists?  Home users?  Large office deployments?  Is this a typical device for architects or typically for home use?  Links and pictures are good.

=== Setup ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Ubuntu Version'''
| Which version of Ubuntu are you using?  for example: Hardy (8.04)
|-
| '''Additional Packages'''
| If your version of Ubuntu is customized in some significant way, please not it here.  This is typically packages like media formats, helper utilities or stuff from universe.
|-
| '''Changed Settings'''
| Have you changed any settings from a default Ubuntu install?  Typically it is best to always start with a newly created user so that you can ensure that you only made preference changes that you know about.  If having "sloppy focus" doesn't matter to this record, don't change it, leave it set only in your account.
|-
| '''Device or Program'''
| If you're using an outside device or service identify it here.  This could be something like an iPod or a service like G``Mail.
|-
| '''Version'''
| If the device or service has a version number, put it here
|-
| '''Description'''
| Include extra details about the device or service.  Something like the iPod was prepopulated with 2000 songs or the G``Mail account was brand new, never been used.
|}

=== Record of Actions ===

* First I...
* then I...
* then everything was perfect

=== Conclutions ===

From doing this I learned that...  and that we have a good experience for...  We can improve by...  The situation is good... we need to add <program> to make this experience work...

=== Bugs and Blueprints ===

Here are the bugs that were filed or blueprints that were created from this analysis.

* [LaunchpadBug:1] Problem with install base
* [UbuntuSpec:about-this-computer] Modified this spec
