{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (calc)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)

=== Apologies ===
* Martin Pitt (pitti) - holiday

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Presentations in 2009
* Move meeting back to 16:00 UTC?
* Any other business

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===
* Dx components table - davidbarth will update, so the following items are blocked until then
** --(rickspencer3: Post Dx components table to wiki.ubuntu.com)--
** Riddell: Address inaccuracies in the Dx Component table (kwin has nothing to do with brightness)
** rickspencer3: replace Konversation with Quassel on tracked components table
** davidbarth: supply dates for when key apps (NM) will be patched to work with new notification daemon

* Action: davidbarth: Specify back up plan for unpatched applications that use actions/timeouts
** Result: Plan is to patch existing notification daemon so that it only responds to the new notification daemon. Then when the new daemon receives a notification it can't handle, it passes the notification along to the old daemon to handle. Will review idea with seb128.

* Action: rickspencer3, davidbarth, Riddell: specify support for Kubuntu and/or KDE apps running in GNOME expected for Jaunty
** Result: Tentative Dx plans follow:
** Dx will evaluate the feasibility of creating a Kubuntu messaging indicator around the end of January.
** Dx will implement notifications as well as patch key applications to work with it in Kubuntu during Jaunty. This includes modifying knotify and Amarok, as well as working with KDE community to define correct UI.
** Jonathon will (continue to) be available to consult and answer questions regarding devel/packaging environment for KDE4.x 

* Action: asac to initiate major change process for libnotify and get patch on track for upstream inclusion
** Result: asac: patch landed upstream; firefox-3.2 package with that feature is in ~fta PPA for initial consumption/testing for Dx team. Next: backport to "old" branches (e.g. firefox 3.1, 3.0) and once we have samples for that send the major change process

* Action: all: all specs should be drafted by end of this week
** Result: Five specs aren't approved yet. 
** Arne folding in input from MPT for both of his.
** asac to provide details for jaunty-desktop-network-changing
** seb128 to follow up with tedg regarding gdm upgrade

* Action: everyone to add some pet-bugs by next meeting 
** Result: This was not done by everyone. Carrying this action over to next week. Everyone should do this by Friday.

=== Actions from this meeting ===
* asac to clean up jaunty-desktop-network-changing wiki; draft expected behavior and test cases
* everyone tag 10 pet bugs by Friday
* rickspencer3 to follow up with Maria regarding info for presenters

=== Presentations in 2009 ===
No one is planning any presentations in 2009. Rick to follow up with Maria to ensure that she is getting the info that she needs.

=== Move meeting back to 16:00 UTC? ===
No. Meeting stays at 16:30 UTC.

=== Other Business ===
* Welcome tkamppeter to desktop team meetings.
* Riddell brought up that he is blocked on a few items by MIR process. Asac helping to resolve.

=== Activity reports ===
==== Alexander Sack ====
===== Mozilla =====
* nspr/nss SONAME mini-transition
** no-change upload for 24 packages and pinged maintainers for a few
  others
** next: fix a few build failures uncovered by this transition
* xulrunner libnotify landing upstream and in mozillateam
 xulrunner-1.9.2 packaging branch; demo "firefox-3.2" packages are
 available in ~fta PPA.
** started to backport patch to 1.9 branch
* clarify status of semi-EOL mozilla 1.8.1 branch; seems they are
 committed to at least get the patches we (distros/other devs)
 backport approved for landing; later there might be a chance that we
 take over driver status of those branches - like we did for 1.8.0.
* porting more security patches from 1.9 to 1.8.1/0 branches
* coordinated with other distros (not all have answered); seems we
 can continue for now with collaborative maintenance of 1.8 branch.
* helped debian security team in getting latest 1.8.0 backports
 released to stable-security for xulrunner (iceape, icedove was
 already done before).

==== NetworkManager ====

* network-manager 0.7 final upload and transition of rdepends due to
 ABI/API changes introduced in this upload
** next: support bug day in triaging NM bugs and checking whether
  they still apply by providing hardy/intrepid backports in
  network-manager team PPA

==== Arne Goetje ====
* discussion with mpt about the language-selector GUI. Mockups are in the spec. (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JauntyLanguageSelectorImprovements)
* took some feautures out of the JauntyLanguageSelectorImprovements spec and put it into FutureLanguageSelectorImprovements.
* building new base language packs for Hardy 8.04.2
* managing the Jaunty import queue in Rosetta
* discussions with jtv about the import and export scripts of Rosetta and how to resolve the bottlenecks.

==== Bryce Harrington ====
===== Distro Work =====
* Sponsoring 2hrs:  bash-completion (#249337), ncurses (#313693),
  flex (#314280), curl (#314279), logrotate (#313461),
  hdparm (#311453), moin (#313687), zsh (#314112), xft (##305399)
  and x-kit 0.4
* Upgraded main desktop to jaunty.  Spent much of the week investigating bugs, filing bug reports, and proposing patches, in:
 alsa - my intel sound card required an alsa kernel param be set
  - audacious - fixed half a dozen crash bugs, analyzed another half-dozen reported in LP, but wasn't sure what to do.
  - gnome-terminal - reported several behavioral regressions and wishes
  - gvfs - analyzed/patched/reported bug when launching urls to firefox from gnome apps.  Not sure why others aren't seeing this.  Still awaiting approved fix from upstream.
  - xorg-server - weird firefox flicker when hovering over urls turned out to be an X issue, so chased down patch for it and uploaded.

===== Xorg Work =====
* Reviewed X merges/syncs.  Filed a couple syncs, but we're in pretty good shape.  A few packages need merging.
* Worked on Xorg package status script to better distinguish between upstream/debian from debian/ubuntu work items, and to differentiate between syncs and merges more clearly: http://bryceharrington.org/X/PkgList/versions_current.html
* General new / expired bug triage (~250 bugs)
* Forwarded bug reports upstream (~10 bugs)
* Wrote launchpadlib script to parse lspci-vvnn bug attachments and update descriptions (automates one step necessary when upstreaming bugs).
* Analyzed xorg-server crashes where we have complete backtraces. Sketched out patches to fix several; marked others as ready for upstream.  Requested full backtraces on a bunch more.
* Updated X/Backtracing wiki page (thanks mdz and Connor Imes!)
* Reviewed/worked on Xorg Options Editor

===== Misc =====
* Travel arrangements for berlin (thanks brian!)
* Configured calendar, set up meeting schedules for year, etc.
* Continued catching up on mail accumulation from over holiday

==== Chris Cheney ====
* Packaged openoffice.org      1:3.0.1~2ubuntu1 for hardy, intrepid, jaunty
* Packaged openoffice.org-l10n 1:3.0.1~2ubuntu1 for hardy, intrepid, jaunty
* Packaged openoffice.org      1:3.0.1~2ubuntu2 for hardy, intrepid, jaunty
* Tracked down issue with mysql-dfsg-5.0 vs 5.1 -dev package dependencies
* Wrote up specifications/blueprints
* Organized meeting with Sun for OOo language split build
* Discussion with Jorge about Go-OO branding
* Weekly OOo Release Status Meeting
* Weekly desktop team meeting
* Weekly conference call with Rick
* Lots of OOo bug triage

==== Jonathon Riddell ====
* book travel to sprint
* spec review
* write main inclusion reports for new kdebase dependencies
* Updated digikam package to KDE 4 version
* Investigated changes needed to mysql for Akonadi
* Testing new network manager backend (and frontend although it's not ready yet)
* Packaging KDE 4.2 RC 1
* Packageing new KOffice beta
* Overseeing packaging for Amarok 2.0.1 and KDE 4.1.4
* Poke upstream to create promised new KDevelop tar
* Archive admin

===== NetworkManager =====

* network-manager 0.7 final upload and transition of rdepends due to
 ABI/API changes introduced in this upload
** next: support bug day in triaging NM bugs and checking whether
  they still apply by providing hardy/intrepid backports in
  network-manager team PPA

==== Martin Pitt ====
===== Drafted blueprints =====
* integration-best-practice: Approved
* apport-retracer-maintenance: Approved
* jaunty-gnome-help-langpacks: no conclusion reached at UDS, asked
 Celso and Adam about a possible alternate approach

===== Progress on assigned blueprints =====
* gpm-and-device-kit-power: updated packages to latest upstream
 versions, now that we have current udev; my part is done, Ted will
 package gpm
* apport-retracer-maintenance: implemented the new crash-digger
 according to spec, retracer now runs for hardy/intrepid/jaunty and is
 grinding away happily; only remaining point is regular automatic dup
 db backups; documentation has been written, seb128 got a quick
 tutorial

===== Currently open stable/milestoned bugs =====
* all done

===== Merges =====
* all done

===== Non-chores work done =====
* spent an entire day figuring out why Launchpad gives timeout errors
 in Jaunty; finally bisected it to python-apt (!!), LP #315571
* spent most of the time on working on the apport retracers
* Desktop team spec approvals; some specs are still in drafting,
 please get them done soon and ask Rick to review
* Tons of SRU reviews/processing
* some discussions and proposals for the kernel team for
   using apport for suspend/resume testing reporting

===== Sponsoring =====
* No time this week, sorry

==== Sebastien Bacher ====
* GNOME 2.25 updates: evince, gnome-media, glib, file-roller, gnome-desktop, gtkhtml, eog, nautilus, glade, gnome-panel, gedit,
libsoup, gvfs, gnome-utils
* updated some other desktop packages and fixed some issues
* desktop bugs triage

==== Till Kamppeter ====
* Updated HPLIP to version 2.8.12
* SRU for Poppler: Bug #311982: pdftops produced wrong PostScript, applied patch from upstream
* Ghostscript: Merge from Debian unstable, small fixes, applied most patches upstream, to let the Debian/Ubuntu package of GS 8.64 (release Feb 1st) will only contain 2 Debian/Ubuntu-patches, all other patches will be upstream. Applied patch of bug 314439 directly upstream.
* Collected some ideas about what to improve in system-config-printer (See below, implementation after the release of Foomatic 4.0).
* Answered to several printing-related bug reports

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
