{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alberto Milone (tseliot)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (ccheney)
* Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson)
* Didier Roche (didrocks)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)  

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)
* Chris Rogers (RAOF)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

==== Discussion ====

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to ask bdmurray about included targetedness of bugs in bug query
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to follow up with sabdfl to confirm that boot time cursor requirement is met
* ACTION: seb128 to generate a list of 100 "right" bugs to fix in Lucid
* ACTION: rickspencer3 and seb128 to discuss gdm greeter options, especially wrt sound

=== Partner Update ===
===== OLS =====
* ubuntuone-client
** Feature Freeze Exceptions pending
*** Bug:525803 - devices and services tabs
*** Bug:526084 - Impossible to infer status of file syncing jobs
*** Bug:534707 - Syncdaemon needs to auto-start/connect in Lucid
*** Bug:536764 - CouchDB needs to pair with Ubuntu One automatically
* Ubuntu One Music Store
** Still in beta, they are still having server side downloader problems

===== DX =====
* indicator-me
** Only display status update entry if gwibber service is available
* bug fixes 

=== Kubuntu Update ===
* Beta is blocked by this bug https://launchpad.net/bugs/538524 "boot hangs on splash screen, doesn't switch to KDM"
* several SRUs are blocked in karmic-proposed unapproved queue
* Still waiting on new logo from design team, no word from them and Iain doesn't seem to be on IRC

Extensive discussion took place during the meeting regarding bug 538524. A consensus was reached to work around the bug for Beta 1, and to solve it asap afterward.

=== Release Status ===
==== Work Items ====
http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-desktop-team-ubuntu-10.04-beta-1.html
* Most remaining beta 1 work items moved to beta 2
* Remaining 4 beta 1 work items should be complete by Wednesday

==== Bugs ====
* seb128 has created a list of "top bugs". these are bugs that are not release blockers, but which seb128 has deemed both valuable to users if fixed and reasonably tractable.
* Top bugs can be tracked here https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~canonical-desktop-team/+assignedbugs
* The team decided to assign bugs to themselves, but pitti will assign if not enough are being picked off

=== Other Business ===

=== Activity reports ===
==== Alberto Milone (tseliot) ====
DONE:
* Further fixes for the packaging scripts of fglrx
* Worked on 16 colours support for Plymouth. Keybuk volunteered to complete it.

TODO:
* LP: #248392 ia32-libs 32bit libgl search for dri at wrong place on 64bit system (fix committed but not released)
* LP: #432814 GSD - Action for middle and right click is reversed since jaunty
* LP: #479878 GSD Need an option to disable touchpad completely
* LP: #502500 Plymouth message command displays no text
* LP: #507238 Plymouth - no alternatives support for default theme yet, all themes in main package
* LP: #522969 nvidia drivers should call gmenucache trigger
* LP: #531909 GTG - broken export plugin
* LP: #539196 nvidia-settings X display configuration window doesn't work on nvidia-173 and nvidia-96
* Plymouth theme: move the "Checking filesystems" big message into mountall
* nvidia-common: call "dpkg-trigger gmenucache || true" after switching to other drivers
* Nvidia - Improve documentation
* Re-enable fglrx handler in Jockey
* Revert changes to mesa (/usr/lib/mesa) now that abi-note has gone

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====
* langpack-o-matic: fixed a bug in po2xpi which caused Spanish firefox translations to not appear.
* built new langpacks for Lucid and Karmic
* bug fixes for language-selector:
** LP: #531422
** LP: #146681
** LP: #387868
** LP: #529048
** LP: #519289
** LP: #456290
** LP: #537540
** LP: #527891
* bug triaging for language-selector

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - other version:''' ----
* Write email to ubuntu-x@ explaining decision to stick with the -intel 2.9.1 driver
* Sponsor -ati 534026
* Drop the patch to make -intel kms-only
* Follow up about blacklisting radeon in the kernel
* Follow up: Call for Ideas/Mentors - Summer of Code 2010
* Encourage Ubuntu-X guys to apply for UDS sponsorship
* Go thru bugs I've reported, and target to Lucid as appropriate
* Find out what Debian's X plans are for squeeze

* Triaging / Bug work
** Triage all mesa bugs tagged 'lucid'
** Symptom tag all fglrx bugs tagged 'lucid'
** Answer mark's questions on bug 496859
** Help keybuk try to diagnose a kms issue (bug #539730)
** Follow up: [PATCH] Fix null pointer dereference in xf86_reload_cursors().
* X freeze apport hook
** Ask yingying and cworth to review our freeze bug reports for validity
** Generate a clearer title
** Identify how Geir is determining the relevant line for freezes and update freeze collector to do this
** including the EIR: xxxxxxxxx line from i915_error_state in the bug description would be nice
** Follow up about intel_reg_dumper and intel-gpu-tools in Lucid - need to do a git snapshot
* Arsenal
** Check that bug owner still exists, to fix "Cron error 410 GONE"
** fix lptk to not require LPNET_SERVICE_ROOT
* Improve Intel Bug Report tool
** If more than one upstream task, if one is still open then exclude the closed ones

* Multitouch
** Review multitouch directions
** Port evdev-multitouch.patch to lucid
** Package http://ofb.net/~rafi/xf86-input-wacom_ntrig_2010_02_03.patch
** Merge -evtouch from debian to fix FTBFS error
** Create a package for multitouchd and put in bzr
** Read xi2 stuff at http://who-t.blogspot.com/2009/06/xi2-recipes-part-[1,2,3].html

* X stabilization meeting
** Plan team work for X stabilization
** Set up meeting for Tuesday on ubuntu-x to plan X tasks for lucid
** Make a graph showing bugs per package that are tagged 'lucid'

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - your version:''' ----

---- /!\ '''End of edit conflict''' ----
==== Chris Cheney (ccheney) ====
* epiphany-browser hardy backport
** finished patch now working on debugging
** should soon be built at https://launchpad.net/~ccheney/+archive/ppa

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - other version:''' ----

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - your version:''' ----

---- /!\ '''End of edit conflict''' ----
==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====

* At solution Linux on Tuesday
* WI related :
** Work on continuing robert's effort on enabling/disabling login sound in gdm. Still a little issue with seteuid.

* Not WI related:
** UNE:

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - other version:''' ----
** Fix more than 15 bugs targeted for beta 1 and make a new release of all the stack: netbook-launcher, window-picker-applet, liblauncher, clutk 
     (#538996, #252920, #445995, #456901, #424231, #414353, #435805, #459367, #445829, #447715, #480219, #435805, #512136, #412030, #423601)
** integrate some merge from community (#497006, #434502, #470454)
** bug triaging

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - your version:''' ----

---- /!\ '''End of edit conflict''' ----

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - other version:''' ----

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - your version:''' ----
** should soon be built at https://launchpad.net/~ccheney/+archive/ppa

==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====

* At solution Linux on Tuesday
* WI related :
** Work on continuing robert's effort on enabling/disabling login sound in gdm. Still a little issue with seteuid.

* Not WI related:
** UNE:
** Fix more than 15 bugs and make a new release of all the stack: netbook-launcher, window-picker-applet, liblauncher, clutk 
** integrate some merge from community

---- /!\ '''End of edit conflict''' ----
** GNOME:
** update gst-plugin-bad, gnome-screensaver, file-roller
** sponsor and help cairo-dock upstream and FFe (cairo-dock, cairo-dock-plugins)

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - other version:''' ----
** Quickly: some work to get closer to the release, some launchpad fix and lot of merges

==== Chris Halse Rogers (raof) ====

* Nouveau:
** Fixed up DDX dependencies for the -16 kernel
** Tested nouveau -> nvidia -> nouveau driver switching; everything works fine.
** Sent out final call for testing.  Got a slow trickle of genuine bugs in return!
** Nouveau is looking pretty solid.
* gjs:
** Prodded armel build FTBFS in the testsuite; not a false-positive.  Discovered that gdb doesn't work in qemu-armel chroots; filed bug and discovered how to get to the porter boxes.
** xulrunner-1.9.2 was uploaded during this time, and now i386 FTBFS as well, seemingly in a mozjs behavioural-ABI change.
** Both failures can be worked-around by disabling the JIT, which was enabled by default in gjs 0.5.  Passed it off to michag, who is doing the rest of the xul 1.9.2 porting.
* UNE: 
** Followed bug #514083 down the rabbit hole of gobject signals.  Didier pointed me at his recent fix for a similar crash, which worked.  Should follow up at some point to determine why signal is being re-thrown with null argument.
** Added checks to netbook-launcher startup to catch clutter initialisation problems and fall back to -efl; should fix bug 467474 and others.  Branch awaiting merge.  Talked with Sarvatt, who suggested adding extra GL extension checks to the 3D capability detection in netbook-launcher.  This would fail earlier, but be a bit more prone to false positives.  If we want to cut boot time on systems with broken GL, we can follow up.
* F-Spot:
** Dug through bug #175191 about writing incorrect timestamps to files.  Tested a patch to simply not write the timestamp out to the original file; works, and should address the most obnoxious problem.
** Further polishing for edit mode.  F-Spot is looking good, I'm almost done here.

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - your version:''' ----

---- /!\ '''End of edit conflict''' ----

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - other version:''' ----

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - your version:''' ----
* WI related :
** Work on continuing robert's effort on enabling/disabling login sound in gdm. Still a little issue with seteuid.

* Not WI related:
** UNE:
** Fix more than 15 bugs and make a new release of all the stack: netbook-launcher, window-picker-applet, liblauncher, clutk 
** integrate some merge from community
** GNOME:
** update gst-plugin-bad, gnome-screensaver, file-roller
** sponsor and help cairo-dock upstream and FFe (cairo-dock, cairo-dock-plugins)
** Quickly: some work, getting closer to the release, some launchpad fix and lot of merges

---- /!\ '''End of edit conflict''' ----

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
* empathy
** papercut fix, consistent window title for accounts window
** set Facebook as default chat account type in the combobox (sfts)
* gwibber
** bug fixes
** exception handling for auth failures
** fixes for qakiu and friendfeed, which require API key instead of password
** string changes (coordinated with translation team) to use consistent terminology with MeMenu and MessagingMenu
* indicator-messages
** string changes (coordinated with translation team) to use consistent terminology with MeMenu and MessagingMenu

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Assigned blueprints: All implemented

Done:
* Bug fixing in lots of packages.
* Checked lucid for package duplication, created blueprint and wiki page
* Did some migrations to remove some library duplication
* Lots of bug triage and testing
* tzdata update for stables

Sponsoring:
* glib2.0, language-selector

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

weekly tasks:

* desktop and dx version updates: notify-osd gnome-panel vinagre glib gnome-panel pitivi gnome-keyring evince nautilus pitivi ido gtk indicator-sound indicator-session papyon telepathy-butterfly indicator-sound
* backported upstream libindicate fixes for build issues
* debugged and fixed a gnome-settings-daemon crash bug due to libgnomekbd
* backported upstream g-s-d change to apply settings to new keyboards
* change g-s-d autostart to not be listed in the session capplet
* discussed gnome-panel crasher with upstream and got it fixed in a new tarball
* triaged pitivi bugs after getting the new version in lucid
* helped dxteam to clean indicator bugs and list some worth fixing in lucid
* tested and backported an indicator-session fix for a crasher
* looked a libgtk-perl ftfbs, backported git fixes and sent those to debian
* backported an indicator-session change to fix a translation issue
* backported indicator-sound fixes for translation and icon issues
* backported an indicator-application fix to make stock icon not being displayed when they should not
* backported indicator-me changes to fix an icon issue and focus the text entry by default
* reviewed loads of desktop bugs to milestone those we should look at for lucid

sponsoring:

* desktop-file-utils light-themes libubuntuone rhythmbox-ubuntuone-music-store ubuntu-artwork ubuntu-mono indicator-session humanity-icon-theme light-themes light-themes ubuntu-mono libindicator gwibber libindicate indicator-application f-spot gwibber humanity-icon-theme 

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

==== Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson) ====

* General:
** Uploaded gnome-screensaver and gnome-power-manager with changes top their Apport hooks to add details of idle/suspend inhibitors to bug reports
** Sponsoring: ubufox, thunderbird, bindwood, tuxguitar, couchdb, gnome-python-extras
** Thunderbird 2.0.0.24 stable update

* xulrunner-1.9.2 transition:
** We've transitioned to 1.9.2 on the CD now
** Tested some packages with 1.9.2 to make sure things still work, but there's still a fair amount of work to do here
** Investigated some strange behaviour in xiphos with 1.9.2. It looks like an API change in GtkMozEmbed and affected applications will just have to work around it when they are migrated (Yelp already has a fix for the issue)
** Investigated and fixed an issue in gnome-python-extras where consumers of python-gtkmozembed were displaying no content after migrating to 1.9.2.
** Dropped superfluous xulrunner-dev build dependency from Rhythmbox

* Blueprint work-items:
** desktop-lucid-new-firefox-support-model - I've worked through the extensions in the archive now, and made a decision for most extensions whether we should maintain them. I'd appreciate other people going through the list and highlighting any extensions they think we should keep <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Specs/Lucid/FirefoxNewSupportModel/extension-list|https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Specs/Lucid/FirefoxNewSupportModel/extension-list]]</nowiki>

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - other version:''' ----

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - your version:''' ----

== IRC Logs ==
[16:31] <rickspencer3> ArneGoetje, bryceh, ccheney, chrisccoulson, didrocks, kenvandine, Nafai, pitti, RAOF, Riddell, seb128, tkamppeter, tseliot<<BR>>
[16:31] <rickspencer3> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2010-03-16<<BR>>
[16:31] <pitti> o/<<BR>>
[16:31] <ArneGoetje> o/<<BR>>
[16:31]  * kenvandine waves<<BR>>
[16:31] <seb128> hey<<BR>>
[16:31] <ccheney> here<<BR>>
[16:31] <Riddell> hi<<BR>>
[16:31]  * rickspencer3 tops gavel<<BR>>
[16:31] <tseliot> o/<<BR>>
[16:31] <chrisccoulson> here<<BR>>
[16:31] <Nafai> uh oh, I'm included now<<BR>>
[16:32] <rickspencer3> let's get going ...<<BR>>
[16:32] <rickspencer3> hi Nafai, yeah, you can just follow along<<BR>>
[16:32] <rickspencer3> no action for you, just fyi<<BR>>
[16:32] <Nafai> :)\<<BR>>
[16:32] <rickspencer3> anyway ...<<BR>>
[16:32] <rickspencer3> before we start ...<<BR>>
[16:32] <rickspencer3> I want to say ...<<BR>>
[16:32] <rickspencer3> Lucid is totally rocking!<<BR>>
[16:33] <rickspencer3> I used Karmic on my kid's computer yesterday, and I was shocked by the progress that we've made in Lucid<<BR>>
[16:33] <pitti> â™ª weee willl weeeee will ... â™«<<BR>>
[16:33] <rickspencer3> I think we will look back on this release a special time<<BR>>
[16:33]  * kenvandine sings along<<BR>>
[16:33]  * rickspencer3 claps hands a bit out off time<<BR>>
[16:33] <tseliot> :-)<<BR>>
[16:33] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[16:33] <rickspencer3> so ...<<BR>>
[16:33] <rickspencer3> let's get to work<<BR>>
[16:33] <rickspencer3> first, outstanding actions from last week<<BR>>
[16:34] <rickspencer3> which I just realized I completely forgot to prepare :/<<BR>>
[16:34]  * rickspencer3 chastises self<<BR>>
[16:34] <rickspencer3> moving on ...<<BR>>
[16:34] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, partner update<<BR>>
[16:34] <kenvandine> ok<<BR>>
[16:34] <kenvandine> OLS will have some freeze exceptions<<BR>>
[16:34] <kenvandine> well, bugs already filed and linked on the wiki page<<BR>>
[16:35] <kenvandine> nothing major afaict<<BR>>
[16:35] <kenvandine> they are still having server side download issues with the music store<<BR>>
[16:35] <rickspencer3> :(<<BR>>
[16:35] <kenvandine> hopefully that will get fixed soon...<<BR>>
[16:35] <kenvandine> :(<<BR>>
[16:35] <kenvandine> it works as long as they restart it often<<BR>>
[16:35] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, do we have any kind of strategy for dealing with the (low) possibility that downloads won't be ready in time?<<BR>>
[16:36] <kenvandine> i think the current strategy is regular service restarts<<BR>>
[16:36] <kenvandine> which sucks... but downloads don't get lost<<BR>>
[16:36] <tkamppeter> hi<<BR>>
[16:36] <kenvandine> on to DX<<BR>>
[16:37] <kenvandine> they will have an update to indicator-me this week that will only display the status update entry if the gwibber service is running<<BR>>
[16:37] <kenvandine> so no string changes and overall a very welcome changes<<BR>>
[16:37] <kenvandine> i see no issues with that<<BR>>
[16:37] <rickspencer3> great!<<BR>>
[16:37] <kenvandine> and some regular bug fixes, which i think most of which seb128 has already patched<<BR>>
[16:37] <rickspencer3> this is what I envisioned the "stabilization and completion" milestone to be fore<<BR>>
[16:38] <seb128> I did but they fixed an another round of issues since ;-)<<BR>>
[16:38] <kenvandine> :)<<BR>>
[16:38] <kenvandine> that is all for the partner update<<BR>>
[16:38] <rickspencer3> having bug fixes come in too fast to keep up with is a problem I like to have<<BR>>
[16:38] <seb128> rocking dxteam work this cycle, everybody hugs tedg and bratsche and the others<<BR>>
[16:38] <kenvandine> yup<<BR>>
[16:38] <kenvandine> big high five to the DX team!<<BR>>
[16:38] <seb128> or pay them a beer at uds ;-)<<BR>>
[16:38] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, wrt Dx mostly, but also OLS, does this cycle seem somewhat more organized?<<BR>>
[16:38] <kenvandine> hehe<<BR>>
[16:38]  * pitti hugs tedg, bratsche, and davidbarth<<BR>>
[16:39] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, yes<<BR>>
[16:39] <rickspencer3> ok, never mind, what seb128 says :)<<BR>>
[16:39] <rickspencer3> rock!<<BR>>
[16:39] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, also<<BR>>
[16:39] <pitti> I think we learned from last cycle, on both ends<<BR>>
[16:39] <rickspencer3> indicator area = HUGE improvement for users<<BR>>
[16:39] <tedg> seb128: pitti Thanks guys.<<BR>>
[16:39]  * davidbarth reads up the log; feels good anyway ;)<<BR>>
[16:39] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[16:39] <kenvandine> we plan to get weekly releases going for OLS next cycle<<BR>>
[16:39] <kenvandine> so that will be great<<BR>>
[16:39] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, great<<BR>>
[16:39] <rickspencer3> thanks again to Dx for making Ubuntu great<<BR>>
[16:40] <rickspencer3> moving back a bit ..<<BR>>
[16:40] <tseliot> +1<<BR>>
[16:40] <rickspencer3> outstanding items from last meeting:<<BR>>
[16:40] <rickspencer3> ACTION: rickspencer3 to ask bdmurray about included targetedness of bugs in bug query<<BR>>
[16:40] <rickspencer3> ACTION: rickspencer3 to follow up with sabdfl to confirm that boot time cursor requirement is met<<BR>>
[16:40] <rickspencer3> ACTION: seb128 to generate a list of 100 "right" bugs to fix in Lucid<<BR>>
[16:40] <rickspencer3> ACTION: rickspencer3 and seb128 to discuss gdm greeter options, especially wrt sound<<BR>>
[16:40] <rickspencer3> so all are done, except the sabdfl thing<<BR>>
[16:40] <kenvandine> pitivi testing too<<BR>>
[16:40] <kenvandine> right?<<BR>>
[16:40] <rickspencer3> and he's on holiday, so I'll push that<<BR>>
[16:40] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, good point, that fell off the list :(<<BR>>
[16:40] <seb128> I didn't do "100" but didn't want to add not matching bugs to get the number<<BR>>
[16:40] <rickspencer3> seb128, but you started, right?<<BR>>
[16:40] <seb128> some bugs got dispatched to people on the way too<<BR>>
[16:41]  * kenvandine imported some DV clips from the camera and rendered a project<<BR>>
[16:41] <kenvandine> worked well<<BR>>
[16:41] <pitti> well, also we already assigned some bugs to individual people<<BR>>
[16:41] <rickspencer3> let's not call it "100 bugs"<<BR>>
[16:41] <pitti> https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~canonical-desktop-team/+assignedbugs<<BR>>
[16:41] <rickspencer3> let's call it "top bugs"?<<BR>>
[16:41] <seb128> rickspencer3, yes, we have a good list and dispatched some already<<BR>>
[16:41] <pitti> I'll get to that later on<<BR>>
[16:41] <rickspencer3> thanks pitti<<BR>>
[16:41] <pitti> we have a good amount of fodder now<<BR>>
[16:41] <rickspencer3> ACTION: rickspencer3 to ask bdmurray about included targetedness of bugs in bug query<<BR>>
[16:41] <rickspencer3> ACTION: rickspencer3 to follow up with sabdfl to confirm that boot time cursor requirement is met<<BR>>
[16:41] <rickspencer3> ACTION: seb128 to generate a list of 100 "right" bugs to fix in Lucid<<BR>>
[16:41] <rickspencer3> ACTION: rickspencer3 and seb128 to discuss gdm greeter options, especially wrt sound<<BR>>
[16:41] <seb128> I wish we had a way to list all milestoned bugs for members of a team on launchpad<<BR>>
[16:41] <rickspencer3> d'oh<<BR>>
[16:41] <rickspencer3> seb128, gdm greeter?<<BR>>
[16:42] <seb128> rickspencer3, the gdmsetup sound option change is in bzr<<BR>>
[16:42] <rickspencer3> great!<<BR>>
[16:42] <seb128> thanks to robert_ancell and didrocks mainly<<BR>>
[16:42] <rickspencer3> so we'll need a UI freeze exception for that<<BR>>
[16:42] <pitti> yohoo<<BR>>
[16:42] <rickspencer3> ah, so that's what didrocks was pushing on<<BR>>
[16:42] <pitti> seb128: so the "call gconftool from server" worked out in the end?<<BR>>
[16:42] <seb128> right, I will take care of that after beta1<<BR>>
[16:42]  * pitti hugs seb128<<BR>>
[16:42] <rickspencer3> (btw, didrocks is rocking a Ubuntu conference this week, so he'll be offline mostly)<<BR>>
[16:42] <seb128> pitti, yes, still an issue I need to talk with you about though<<BR>>
[16:43] <seb128> but after meeting<<BR>>
[16:43] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[16:43] <seb128> didrocks worked on that yesterday but the uid change is not working as he want<<BR>>
[16:43] <seb128> I said I would check with you<<BR>>
[16:43] <pitti> seb128: I bet it's effective vs. real uid<<BR>>
[16:43] <pitti> yes, after meeting<<BR>>
[16:43] <rickspencer3> seb128, maybe we could hand that off<<BR>>
[16:43] <rickspencer3> I think didrocks has enough on his plate ;)<<BR>>
[16:43] <rickspencer3> so moving on<<BR>>
[16:43] <seb128> rickspencer3, we did<<BR>>
[16:44] <rickspencer3> kenvandine mentions pittivi testing<<BR>>
[16:44] <seb128> rickspencer3, I said I would take over for the remaining part yesterday<<BR>>
[16:44] <rickspencer3> (thanks seb128, I should have guessed ;) )<<BR>>
[16:44] <seb128> -> pitivi<<BR>>
[16:44] <seb128> the new version is in lucid<<BR>>
[16:44] <rickspencer3> pitivi<<BR>>
[16:44] <rickspencer3> whatever<<BR>>
[16:44] <rickspencer3> video editing<<BR>>
[16:44] <seb128> please do test and file bugs<<BR>>
[16:44] <seb128> bonus point if you file them on bugzilla too ;-)<<BR>>
[16:44] <rickspencer3> seb128, I saw lots of "Fix Release" and not too many "New"<<BR>>
[16:44] <seb128> right<<BR>>
[16:44] <rickspencer3> so I am taking this to be a good sign<<BR>>
[16:44] <seb128> I'm not sure how much people played with the new version though<<BR>>
[16:45] <seb128> would be nice to have everybody trying it again<<BR>>
[16:45] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[16:45] <kenvandine> i just wish it could import from my DV camera, i hate having to re-learn dvgrab everytime :)<<BR>>
[16:45] <seb128> and filing bugs with apport if it crashes<<BR>>
[16:45] <rickspencer3> my gut tells me the pitivi team is quite close<<BR>>
[16:45] <kenvandine> but i hit no bugs creating a short 10m video out of about 5 clips<<BR>>
[16:45] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, pitivi is python, I'm sure they'll take a merge proposal from you<<BR>>
[16:45] <rickspencer3> ;) j/k<<BR>>
[16:45] <kenvandine> hehe<<BR>>
[16:45] <kenvandine> if i hit bugs :)<<BR>>
[16:45] <kenvandine> it worked perfectly!<<BR>>
[16:45] <kenvandine> which was nice<<BR>>
[16:46] <kenvandine> but always worked well for me with DV files :)<<BR>>
[16:46] <rickspencer3> I mean for the DV camera import<<BR>>
[16:46] <kenvandine> oh that<<BR>>
[16:46] <kenvandine> ewww<<BR>>
[16:46] <kenvandine> sounds hard to me :)<<BR>>
[16:46] <rickspencer3> it worked for me with a screen capture from gtk-record-my-desktop<<BR>>
[16:46] <kenvandine> cool<<BR>>
[16:46] <rickspencer3> and when I say "worked" I mean totally without issue<<BR>>
[16:46] <rickspencer3> I tried to make problems and couldn't<<BR>>
[16:47] <rickspencer3> ok, let's move on to Kubuntu, because I know Riddell has a rather serious issue to address<<BR>>
[16:47] <kenvandine> my wife saw me testing and now adding a task to my "Honey Do" list :)<<BR>>
[16:47] <kenvandine> she wants more video on DVD<<BR>>
[16:47] <Riddell>  * Beta is blocked by this bug https://launchpad.net/bugs/538524 "boot hangs on splash screen, doesn't switch to KDM"<<BR>>
[16:47] <rickspencer3> and I am hoping that we can rally and help out the Kubuntu team on this one<<BR>>
[16:47] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 538524 in plymouth "boot hangs on splash screen, doesn't switch to KDM" [Medium,Confirmed]<<BR>>
[16:47] <Riddell>    It apparantly requires a chunk of C to be written and tested.  Unsure how to move forward, I don't even know a workaround for beta.<<BR>>
[16:47] <Riddell>  * several SRUs are blocked in karmic-proposed unapproved queue<<BR>>
[16:47] <Riddell>  * Still waiting on new logo from design team, no word from them and Iain doesn't seem to be on IRC<<BR>>
[16:47] <rickspencer3> Riddell, design team is at training atm<<BR>>
[16:48] <kenvandine> i think done today<<BR>>
[16:48] <Riddell> hmm, maybe they shouldn't give me deadlines that fall on their training days<<BR>>
[16:49] <rickspencer3> Riddell, I just asked oubiwann to help us get this resolved<<BR>>
[16:49] <tseliot> ah, is this for the plymouth theme?<<BR>>
[16:49] <rickspencer3> Riddell, the plymouth thing seems a lot more serious though<<BR>>
[16:49] <rickspencer3> Riddell, would you rather focus on a work around, or focus on a fix for beta?<<BR>>
[16:50] <rickspencer3> (any why is it a Medium if it's blocking beta?)<<BR>>
[16:50] <seb128> timing seems to be really right to get a fix for beta now<<BR>>
[16:50] <seb128> *tight*<<BR>>
[16:50] <pitti> we have a quite similar problem with gdm<<BR>>
[16:50] <Riddell> rickspencer3: I don't see it getting fixed in time for beta unless keybuk decides to do it toot sweet<<BR>>
[16:51] <seb128> workaround: don't install plymouth on kubuntu?<<BR>>
[16:51] <pitti> Keybuk now knows what's wrong and is working on a solution<<BR>>
[16:51] <pitti> Riddell: alt+f7 doesn't help?:<<BR>>
[16:51] <rickspencer3> pitti, is he targetting that for beta? is it feasible to pull Plymouth from Kubuntu until it's fixed?<<BR>>
[16:51] <Riddell> pitti: no alt+f7 doesn't help<<BR>>
[16:52] <pitti> hm, then it's something else<<BR>>
[16:52] <Riddell> pitti: he is?  would be nice if he told me about it (well, would be nice if he's told me this was needed three months ago)<<BR>>
[16:52] <Keybuk> pitti: what's wrong is Riddell didn't do the work item he marked as DONE<<BR>>
[16:52] <pitti> rickspencer3: hm, I guess we could pull it somehow<<BR>>
[16:52] <rickspencer3> hold it<<BR>>
[16:52] <rickspencer3> let's not go down that path<<BR>>
[16:52] <rickspencer3> the past is of no use to us now<<BR>>
[16:52] <pitti> Riddell: I assumed it was the "doesn't switch to vt7 automatically" problem, which we discussed yesterday<<BR>>
[16:53] <rickspencer3> Keybuk, do you think we can pull Plymouth until this is fixed?<<BR>>
[16:53] <pitti> but apparently not<<BR>>
[16:53] <Keybuk> rickspencer3: we can't pull plymouth from a seed - mountall depends on it<<BR>>
[16:53] <rickspencer3> can we tell kubuntu not to use it?<<BR>>
[16:53] <rickspencer3> just hack in a work around that let's it boot for now?<<BR>>
[16:53] <Keybuk> not that I know of<<BR>>
[16:53] <rickspencer3> so we have no choice but to fix it<<BR>>
[16:54] <rickspencer3> who has the knowledge to address this?<<BR>>
[16:54] <rickspencer3> Keybuk, tseliot, pitti?<<BR>>
[16:54] <rickspencer3> anyone else?<<BR>>
[16:54] <rickspencer3> chrisccoulson ?<<BR>>
[16:54] <Keybuk> kdm is written in C++ in Qt<<BR>>
[16:54] <Riddell> needs someone who knows C and how to debug VTs and whatnot<<BR>>
[16:54] <rickspencer3> seb128, ?<<BR>>
[16:54] <Riddell> Keybuk: the backend is C<<BR>>
[16:54]  * tseliot doesn't know what the problem is<<BR>>
[16:54] <chrisccoulson> me neither ;)<<BR>>
[16:54]  * tseliot reads the bug report<<BR>>
[16:54] <pitti> rickspencer3: one rather drastic way would be to drop the mountall dependency and seed it on ubuntu for now<<BR>>
[16:54] <chrisccoulson> i could probably help out it if it was gdm<<BR>>
[16:55] <seb128> rickspencer3, I don't<<BR>>
[16:55] <Riddell> tseliot: KDM's backend needs to talk to plymouth before and after starting X (I think)<<BR>>
[16:55] <Keybuk> pitti: err, but then you wouldn't have any filesystems on boot <g><<BR>>
[16:55] <Keybuk> pitti: and wouldn't have any services running, from dbus all the way past kdm :p<<BR>>
[16:55] <rickspencer3> Keybuk, is the implementation strategy known, but just needs someone to do the programming?<<BR>>
[16:55] <pitti> Keybuk: hm, did that change recently? I didn't have plymouth installed until some days ago<<BR>>
[16:55] <Keybuk> rickspencer3: yup, SMOP<<BR>>
[16:55] <pitti> Keybuk: mountall depends libplymouth2 only, AFAICS?<<BR>>
[16:55] <rickspencer3> SMOP?<<BR>>
[16:56] <Keybuk> pitti: oh, right<<BR>>
[16:56] <Keybuk> rickspencer3: Simple Matter of Programming<<BR>>
[16:56] <rickspencer3> sill manager off point questions?<<BR>>
[16:56] <pitti> AFAICS it's just an ubuntu-standard recommends<<BR>>
[16:56] <Riddell> rickspencer3: Keybuk gave me the psudocode of what needs done, needs it turned into C and put into the right places in KDM's code<<BR>>
[16:56] <rickspencer3> Riddell, so we just need someone to step up and do this today?<<BR>>
[16:56] <Riddell> "just"<<BR>>
[16:56] <pitti> so in theory we could even blacklist it from the kubuntu seeds for now, perhaps?<<BR>>
[16:57] <rickspencer3> I'll take that as a yes<<BR>>
[16:57] <rickspencer3> Riddell, how many hours of programming?<<BR>>
[16:57] <tseliot> Riddell: where's this pseudocode?<<BR>>
[16:57] <rickspencer3> would you estimate?<<BR>>
[16:57] <Riddell> rickspencer3: depends if you can find the right places in KDMs code.  maybe 3 (plus testing)<<BR>>
[16:58] <Keybuk>  in kdm, before starting the X server<<BR>>
[16:58] <Keybuk>  call plymouth --ping<<BR>>
[16:58] <Keybuk>  if this has exit status 0 (true), plymouth is running<<BR>>
[16:58] <Keybuk>  if plymouth is running<<BR>>
[16:58] <Keybuk>    call plymouth deactivate<<BR>>
[16:58] <Keybuk>    then call plymouth --has-active-vt<<BR>>
[16:58] <Keybuk>    if this has exit status 0 (true), plymouth was displaying a splash screen and has terminated leaving it on screen<<BR>>
[16:58] <Keybuk>      get the currently active vt<<BR>>
[16:58] <Keybuk>      start the X server *on that vt*<<BR>>
[16:58] <Keybuk>      if the X server starts ok<<BR>>
[16:58] <Keybuk>        call plymouth quit --retain-splash<<BR>>
[16:58] <Keybuk>      if the X server *fails to start)<<BR>>
[16:58] <Keybuk>        call plymouth quit<<BR>>
[16:58] <Keybuk>    if plymouth --has-active-vt has a non-zero exit status (false), plymouth might have been running but did not display a splash screen<<BR>>
[16:58] <Keybuk>      call plymouth quit<<BR>>
[16:58] <Keybuk>      start the X server as you previously would have (hardcoded to VT7 I assume)<<BR>>
[16:58] <Keybuk>  if plymouth --ping has a non-zero exit status (false), plymouth was not running<<BR>>
[16:58] <Keybuk>    start the X server as you previously would have (hardcoded to VT7 I assume)<<BR>>
[16:58] <Keybuk> <Keybuk> oh, and I forgot<<BR>>
[16:58] <Keybuk>  the other bit (I always forget this)<<BR>>
[16:58] <Keybuk>  when you start X on the current vt, pass -nr<<BR>>
[16:58] <Keybuk>  e.g. -nr vt7<<BR>>
[16:58] <rickspencer3> http://paste.debian.net/64495/<<BR>>
[16:58] <rickspencer3> :)<<BR>>
[16:58] <seb128> I think 3 is optimistic to find your way around a new codebase and do such changes<<BR>>
[16:59] <rickspencer3> tseliot, do agree with 3 hour estimate?<<BR>>
[16:59] <Riddell> well I'm trying to not be too pessimistic :)<<BR>>
[16:59] <tseliot> rickspencer3: I wouldn't know, I would have to look at kdm first<<BR>>
[17:00] <rickspencer3> does *anyone* here know kdm?<<BR>>
[17:00] <seb128> I don't<<BR>>
[17:00] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:00] <rickspencer3> I think we'll need to consider going down the mitigation path<<BR>>
[17:00]  * tseliot grabs the code<<BR>>
[17:00] <Riddell> it's the same code as xdm which is 15 years old and not the sort of code most people like to touch<<BR>>
[17:01] <tseliot> oh<<BR>>
[17:01] <pitti> realistically for beta-1, I think it might be easier to disable plymouth?<<BR>>
[17:01] <rickspencer3> Keybuk, pitti what pitti just said<<BR>>
[17:01] <seb128> I would think so too<<BR>>
[17:01] <pitti> after all, half of the people had it uninstalled until a week ago<<BR>>
[17:01] <rickspencer3> not just easier, but in fact feasible<<BR>>
[17:01] <seb128> can we just make a small change to kdm code which make the thing boot?<<BR>>
[17:01] <seb128> even if it doesn't display the splash when it should etc<<BR>>
[17:02] <seb128> or do we need the full login to get it booting?<<BR>>
[17:02] <Keybuk> rickspencer3: I don't know what any effects of that might be<<BR>>
[17:03] <rickspencer3> Keybuk, well, I think there will be a change/test/change/... cycle involved with the mitigation<<BR>>
[17:03] <seb128> Keybuk, do we need the full logic you described before of would part of it only allow to go through boot even if visually it doesn't do what it should?<<BR>>
[17:03] <rickspencer3> it won't be no work<<BR>>
[17:03] <tseliot> would a certain degree of temporary ugliness be tolerated?<<BR>>
[17:03] <Keybuk> seb128: I don't understand why not having the logic doesn't allow it to go through the boot ;)<<BR>>
[17:03] <rickspencer3> it will be work, but seems more likely to unblock Kubuntu beta than trying to fix it<<BR>>
[17:03] <Keybuk> it should work anyway<<BR>>
[17:04] <seb128> Keybuk, can you try to help Riddell maybe there to figure why it's blocking?<<BR>>
[17:04] <Keybuk> unfortunately in debugging, slangasek and I had assumed that Plymouth had the same code as gdm<<BR>>
[17:04] <seb128> can->could<<BR>>
[17:04] <Keybuk> since the work item had been marked done<<BR>>
[17:04] <Keybuk> so that changes things<<BR>>
[17:04] <Keybuk> seb128: honestly, not really<<BR>>
[17:04] <Keybuk> I haven't time<<BR>>
[17:05] <tseliot> if the answer to my question ^^ is yes we can just prevent plymouth from loading if kdm is installed/in use<<BR>>
[17:05] <tseliot> just like we do when we check the "splash" boot parameter in plymouth<<BR>>
[17:05] <tseliot> would this be acceptable as a hack before we get an actual solution?<<BR>>
[17:05] <Riddell> uglyness is fine for beta, better than a frozen bootup<<BR>>
[17:05] <seb128> tseliot, graphical issues are not a stopper there I would say<<BR>>
[17:06] <pitti> tseliot: I thought without splash it'd boot in text mode?<<BR>>
[17:06] <seb128> ie if you can make it boot without splash I would consider it enough for beta1<<BR>>
[17:06] <pitti> yes, I agree<<BR>>
[17:06] <tseliot> Keybuk: yes, no, will you to kill me if I do it :-P ?<<BR>>
[17:06] <pitti> if we'd hack ubuntu-meta and kubuntu-meta to not pull in plymouth, this would amount to the same anyway<<BR>>
[17:07] <pitti> Riddell: does it boot without the "splash" parameter?<<BR>>
[17:07] <tseliot> pitti: no, AFAIK it falls back to text only if splash is there and your driver doesn't have a decent framebuffer<<BR>>
[17:07] <pitti> this could just be temporarily changed in cdimage<<BR>>
[17:07] <Riddell> pitti: I've no idea, I can't edit grub so I can't even workaround it locally<<BR>>
[17:07] <tseliot> s/to/try/<<BR>>
[17:07]  * tseliot can't spell today<<BR>>
[17:07] <pitti> Riddell: wouldn't the live system have the same problem?<<BR>>
[17:08] <pitti> you can edit boot parameters in the boot splash thing with F6<<BR>>
[17:08] <Riddell> pitti: doesn't seem to, live system is fine for me<<BR>>
[17:08] <Keybuk> tseliot: the splash parameter in plymouth doesn't disable plymouth though<<BR>>
[17:08] <pitti> Riddell: pressing shift during boot should fire up the grub menu<<BR>>
[17:08] <Riddell> pitti: it doesn't<<BR>>
[17:08] <pitti> oh, let's try to figure this out after the meeting, shall we?<<BR>>
[17:08] <Keybuk> sorry, the lack of a splash parameter<<BR>>
[17:08] <tseliot> Keybuk: no, but it can prevent it from showing the splash, right?<<BR>>
[17:08] <Keybuk> tseliot: no<<BR>>
[17:08] <Keybuk> it just changes the plugin plymouth uses<<BR>>
[17:09] <tseliot> ah, so pitti is right<<BR>>
[17:09] <Keybuk> a lot of the reports of KDM issues are with the text plugin anyway<<BR>>
[17:09] <tseliot> Keybuk: we can change that though<<BR>>
[17:09] <Keybuk> tseliot: err, no, please don't<<BR>>
[17:09] <pitti> tseliot, Keybuk: question is if it's still hanging in text mode?<<BR>>
[17:09] <tseliot> :-)<<BR>>
[17:10] <rickspencer3> so what's the resolution?<<BR>>
[17:10] <Keybuk> you'll just discover new bugs by moving things around<<BR>>
[17:10] <Keybuk> rickspencer3: 1024x768 :p<<BR>>
[17:10] <rickspencer3> we'll try unseeding Plymouth?<<BR>>
[17:10] <pitti> I'd check it in text mode first<<BR>>
[17:10] <rickspencer3> or not using it for Kubuntu?<<BR>>
[17:10] <pitti> if that boots, we can just work around it in cdimage<<BR>>
[17:10] <rickspencer3> who can work with Riddell on testing that?<<BR>>
[17:10] <pitti> and failing that, remove plymouth from -meta<<BR>>
[17:12] <pitti> rickspencer3: I'm fine to help out with seed changes, etc.<<BR>>
[17:12] <pitti> will take me a while to download the current kubuntu CD, though, but perhaps Riddell can do the testing, since he's able to reproduce<<BR>>
[17:12] <kenvandine> i can do some testing in a VM<<BR>>
[17:12]  * kenvandine downloads latest image<<BR>>
[17:12] <Riddell> kenvandine: I don't have this problem in a VM<<BR>>
[17:12] <rickspencer3> pitti, am I understanding this correctlyL<<BR>>
[17:13] <kenvandine> Riddell, :/<<BR>>
[17:13] <rickspencer3> plan 1 - force Kubuntu to use plymouth text plugin<<BR>>
[17:13] <rickspencer3> if that doesn<<BR>>
[17:13] <rickspencer3> t work fall back to<<BR>>
[17:13] <seb128> I can't really help with that, I've no kubuntu image handy and with my download speed it would take hours to download one<<BR>>
[17:13] <kenvandine> Riddell, i could dig up hardware to install on<<BR>>
[17:13] <rickspencer3> plan 2 - don't install Plymouth at all on Kubuntu (and do whatever seed changes are required by that?)<<BR>>
[17:13] <kenvandine> does it only affect certain drivers?<<BR>>
[17:13] <pitti> rickspencer3: right<<BR>>
[17:14] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:15] <rickspencer3> so pitti to organize this, Riddell and kenvandine to help with testing?<<BR>>
[17:15] <tseliot> Riddell: I guess it can all be done in kdm/backend/server.c<<BR>>
[17:15] <kenvandine> i am happy to test, just ping me<<BR>>
[17:15] <chrisccoulson> i could probably help out with testing too<<BR>>
[17:15] <chrisccoulson> tseliot, i was just looking in there too. it doesn't look very pretty<<BR>>
[17:15] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:16] <rickspencer3> Riddell, do you think that plan 1, plan 2 will unblock Kubuntu beta 1?<<BR>>
[17:16] <Riddell> I don't know what plan 1 involves<<BR>>
[17:16] <tseliot> chrisccoulson: it's not so ugly, assuming that it works ;)<<BR>>
[17:16] <pitti> Riddell: boot with nosplash<<BR>>
[17:16] <Riddell> pitti: how?<<BR>>
[17:16] <Keybuk> err<<BR>>
[17:16] <rickspencer3> Riddell, do you think that plan 2 will unblock with beta<<BR>>
[17:16] <Keybuk> what's "nosplash" ? :)<<BR>>
[17:16] <rickspencer3> ?<<BR>>
[17:17] <pitti> s/no/no /, sorry<<BR>>
[17:17] <pitti> Riddell: mind you, I have no idea at all whether this can work; but since we don't know why it's hanging in the first place, it's worth a try<<BR>>
[17:17] <pitti> Riddell: it can be disabled in grub (either in the menu, or by booting in rescue mode and editing it in /etc)<<BR>>
[17:18] <rickspencer3> I'd like to move off this topic in the meeting and move this plan into action<<BR>>
[17:18] <Riddell> pitti: and you can help me work out how to do that locally to test and on the CD if it works?<<BR>>
[17:18] <pitti> Riddell: yes<<BR>>
[17:18] <sabdfl1> Riddell: no need to block on artwork for beta1<<BR>>
[17:18] <Riddell> rickspencer3: that'll be our plan for beta then<<BR>>
[17:19] <Riddell> sabdfl1: right, we're aiming for beta 2 for the new logo now<<BR>>
[17:19] <rickspencer3> Riddell, sabdfl1 let's just get the new logo asap ;)<<BR>>
[17:20] <rickspencer3> Riddell, may we move on?<<BR>>
[17:20] <Riddell> rickspencer3: yes<<BR>>
[17:20] <rickspencer3> thanks Riddell<<BR>>
[17:20] <rickspencer3> pitti, release status?<<BR>>
[17:21] <pitti> ok, so fir st beta-1: http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-desktop-team-ubuntu-10.04-beta-1.html<<BR>>
[17:21] <pitti> I moved the remaining coding ones over to http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-desktop-team-ubuntu-10.04-beta-2.html<<BR>>
[17:21] <pitti> there are four WIs left, which I think should be doable until Thursday<<BR>>
[17:22] <pitti> kenvandine, tseliot, chrisccoulson, didrocks: please let me know if you don't have time for them, but please try to get them done by Thu<<BR>>
[17:22] <pitti> otherwise this looks quite well<<BR>>
[17:22] <rickspencer3> wow<<BR>>
[17:22] <rickspencer3> close<<BR>>
[17:22] <chrisccoulson> pitti - i shouldn't have any issues<<BR>>
[17:22] <pitti> I won't talk about beta-2 just yet, that's for next week<<BR>>
[17:23] <kenvandine> ok<<BR>>
[17:23] <pitti> chrisccoulson: right, you just need the package list reviewed?<<BR>>
[17:23] <chrisccoulson> pitti - yeah, which i've pretty much done. already, some people are disagreeing with my choices of extensions to remove though<<BR>>
[17:23] <pitti> kenvandine: and you just have "write test plan" and an apport hook improvement?<<BR>>
[17:23] <tseliot> pitti: do you want me to upload fglrx even with the freeze? (just asking)<<BR>>
[17:23] <pitti> tseliot: please do<<BR>>
[17:23] <tseliot> ok<<BR>>
[17:23] <kenvandine> apport hook?<<BR>>
[17:23] <pitti> tseliot: just to get it off the list (it'll stay in unapproved until after beta-1)<<BR>>
[17:23] <kenvandine> pitti, where is that?<<BR>>
[17:24] <tseliot> pitti: aah, ok<<BR>>
[17:24] <pitti> kenvandine: oh, sorry, I thought tehre was something about "wrong notify priorities"<<BR>>
[17:24] <pitti> kenvandine: nevermind, must hav mixed it up; it's just two documentation things<<BR>>
[17:24] <kenvandine> :)<<BR>>
=== sabdfl1 is now known as sabdfl<<BR>>
[17:24] <pitti> ok, the more interesting thing now<<BR>>
[17:24] <pitti> https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~canonical-desktop-team/+assignedbugs<<BR>>
[17:24] <rickspencer3> ya!<<BR>>
[17:24] <pitti> seb128 worked hard on producing a list of bugs which aren't earth shattering, but woudl really be nice to be fixed in lucid<<BR>>
[17:25] <pitti> some already got assigned to individual team members<<BR>>
[17:25] <pitti> but those still need to<<BR>>
[17:25] <pitti> so, I wanted to hear some general opinions<<BR>>
[17:25] <pitti> (1) I could go ahead and fan them out to appropriate people<<BR>>
[17:25] <pitti> and you guys reassign them back if you don't have time<<BR>>
[17:25] <pitti> or<<BR>>
[17:25] <pitti> (2) everyone grabs a bunch<<BR>>
[17:26] <pitti> with "everyone" being our GNOME loving team members<<BR>>
[17:26] <chrisccoulson> i see there's a gpm one that's probably appropriate for me ;)<<BR>>
[17:26] <pitti> chrisccoulson, didrocks, pitti, RAOF, seb128<<BR>>
[17:26] <rickspencer3> pitti, can we do #2 for say, rest of the week, and then you clean up with #1?<<BR>>
[17:26] <pitti> rickspencer3: heh, I was just going to propose that ;)<<BR>>
[17:26] <seb128> I would prefer (2)<<BR>>
[17:26] <seb128> we already dispatched things around<<BR>>
[17:27] <seb128> but I feel people are already quite loaded with tasks now<<BR>>
[17:27] <seb128> so I would rather prefer having people picking extra one if they feel they have capacity for those<<BR>>
[17:27] <pitti> I'm not sure how everyone's task list looks like after beta-1<<BR>>
[17:27] <chrisccoulson> pretty heavy now :)<<BR>>
[17:28] <pitti> so, those five of us, can we grab 5 bugs each for now and see how far we get?<<BR>>
[17:28] <seb128> chrisccoulson has lot of assigned tasks already<<BR>>
[17:28] <seb128> pitti, you too apparently<<BR>>
[17:28] <seb128> not sure about other people<<BR>>
[17:28] <rickspencer3> not to mention compiz maintaining<<BR>>
[17:28] <seb128> lol<<BR>>
[17:28] <pitti> well, remember that you can still unassign later on, or just not get it done<<BR>>
[17:28] <pitti> but it's good to have it on someone's radar<<BR>>
[17:28] <seb128> I would rather not have people claim bugs if they are realistically not going to work on those<<BR>>
[17:28] <chrisccoulson> seb128 - could we also add bug 390816 to the list please :)<<BR>>
[17:28] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 390816 in gnome-power-manager "external monitor output is switched off when closing the laptop-lid when gnome-power-manager is set to blank screen on closing" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/390816<<BR>>
[17:29] <seb128> so they don't lock potential work from other contributors or team members<<BR>>
[17:29] <rickspencer3> I agree with seb128<<BR>>
[17:29] <seb128> chrisccoulson, oh right, doing that now<<BR>>
[17:29] <pitti> after beta-1, our focus should move from the WI tracker to https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/people/+me/+assignedbugs<<BR>>
[17:29] <rickspencer3> I'd rather have them on the list unassigned<<BR>>
[17:29] <rickspencer3> unless there is a 80% firm commitment to fix it<<BR>>
[17:29] <pitti> rickspencer3: nobody will look at that, though<<BR>>
[17:29] <chrisccoulson> seb128 - thanks<<BR>>
[17:29] <pitti> I don't believe in unassigned milestoned bugs<<BR>>
[17:29] <pitti> from a long experience<<BR>>
[17:30] <seb128> pitti, I would expect you do once your +assignedbugs is empty<<BR>>
[17:30] <rickspencer3> fair enough<<BR>>
[17:30] <pitti> so I think everyone should grab a few, get them done, and reiterate until release<<BR>>
[17:30] <seb128> ok, works for me<<BR>>
[17:30] <pitti> seb128: a lot of stuff on my +assignedbugs isn't necessarily for lucid, though<<BR>>
[17:30] <seb128> please grab things you think you can get done<<BR>>
[17:30] <rickspencer3> pitti, ok, that's pretty much what i was trying to say<<BR>>
[17:30] <pitti> ok, so there's enough game around, go ahead and hunt!<<BR>>
[17:31] <rickspencer3> thanks pitti<<BR>>
[17:31] <pitti> we'll review this list every week from now on<<BR>>
[17:31] <rickspencer3> also thanks to seb128 for leading the top bugs effort<<BR>>
[17:31] <pitti> and remember:<<BR>>
[17:31] <seb128> np ;-)<<BR>>
[17:31] <pitti> http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/bug-fixing/lucid-fixes-report.html<<BR>>
[17:31] <pitti> we have to chase seb128!<<BR>>
[17:31] <seb128> lol<<BR>>
[17:31] <hernejj> seb128: Excuse me for interjecting, where can community members who are interested in helping out find this "100 bug list"?<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> I will give one of my track lead t-shirts to anyone who gets within 80% of seb128<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> hi hernejj!<<BR>>
[17:32] <seb128> hernejj, https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~canonical-desktop-team/+assignedbugs<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> pitti, else for release status, or can we close the meeting<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> ?<<BR>>
[17:32] <seb128> hernejj, it's not really 100 but that's the list<<BR>>
[17:32] <pitti> rickspencer3: I'm done<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> "top bugs" not "100 bugs" ;)<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> okay<<BR>>
[17:33] <seb128> I think I asked before<<BR>>
[17:33] <seb128> but nobody has a way to list lucid tasks for all team members on one webpage?<<BR>>
[17:33] <pitti> rickspencer3: if you add the ones on our personal +assignedbugs, it's 100 :)<<BR>>
[17:33] <pitti> seb128: bughugger can do that, I think<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> nice<<BR>>
[17:33] <seb128> I would like to have an overview of how many bugs everybody claimed<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> seb128, bughugger has that as of this morning<<BR>>
[17:33] <seb128> so we can try unload people who have too many<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> do the json search for desktop team assigned<<BR>>
[17:34] <seb128> rickspencer3, ok, I will try that in a bit, maybe you can tell me what to do after the meeting?<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> and then filter by release contains lucod<<BR>>
[17:34] <seb128> ok, seems easy<<BR>>
[17:34] <seb128> thanks<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> seb128, I'll be around later if it doesn;t work for you<<BR>>
[17:34] <seb128> k, thanks<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> bdmurray just added the release column, and I haven't tried it<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> any other business?<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> tick<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> tick<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> great<<BR>>
[17:35]  * rickspencer3 taps gavel<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> thanks all!

---- /!\ '''End of edit conflict''' ----
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
