{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Weekly Summary ==
* LibreOffice (bjoern-michaelsen)
** prepared 1:3.4.5+really3.4.4-0ubuntu1 for oneiric (should be a good blueprint for natty too)
** uploaded 1:3.4.6-0ubuntu1~ppa4 for oneiric ppa -- last update, marked ppa as unsupported in the description
** uploaded 1:3.5.4-0ubuntu1~universe1 to ppa for bug 992232
** added vital libreoffice extensions to seed (well, seb128 did ;) )
** got seb to sync libcmis to quantal for LO 3.6
** uploaded 1:3.6.0~beta1-0ubuntu1~precise1~ppa2 as first 3.6.0 beta for brave testers on precise
** still fiddling with quantal to get a build there
* Updated GNOME a11y stack to latest unstable releases, orca 3.5.2, at-spi2 2.5.2. (TheMuso)
* Started working on test packages of speech-dispatcher git master for a11y community testing only. There hasn't been a speech-dispatcher release in a while, and git has new features and functionality that would be useful.
* Uploaded PulseAudio 2.0 to quantal after several weeks of testing by myself, and others in the community, after announcing on Ubuntu Devel. Nobody came back with any important issues from testing. (TheMuso)

== Agenda ==

* ''Insert things to discuss at meeting here..''

=== Partner update ===
* Indicator releases this week:
** indicator-session
** indicator-power

=== Unity ===

* We now know why we get that crash with unity/nux rebuilt with gcc4.7 (and newer boost, newer glew):
** Not trivial issue to fix, described on https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2012-June/035310.html
** Discussion with fundations on the best strategy to fix it ongoing (shipping 2 versions of the libs, compiled with C++11 and without?
** Then, we can finally SRU the unity-2d fix
* SRU backporting in compiz in progress
* Poking upstream to do some SRU work in unity and co.
* Next week, we will have a compiz and libunity release, as part of the training of the integration sprint.

=== X.org ===
* Ongoing work on hybrid graphics support [mlankhorst]
* X.org 1.12 is now available in ubuntu-x-swat/x-staging [mlankhorst]

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
</pre>
