{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I don't know about you guys, but I think Maverick UDS was incredibly productive. Lucid was an amazing release, but Maverick is going to build on that and take it to another level. So now we need to follow up. The theme of this week is planning work items. There are some steps and due dates here. This is pretty simple in practice, but seems overly complicated when I try to explain it here. So ask for clarification early and often.

== Step 1: Identify your blueprints ==
Due: This needs to be done by eod Monday if you are US based, eod Tuesday for anywhere else.  

Identifying your blueprints means expressing which ones you are going to work on for Maverick. There are two steps for this:
1. Set the series goal to maverick
2. Set seb128 as the "approver"

Setting the series goal will cause the blueprint to show up here:
http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team.html

At this point, the blueprint is trackable.

== Step 2: Calculate your WI throughput ==
Due: This needs to be done by eod Monday if you are US based, eod Tuesday for anywhere else.  

After picking your blueprints, you need to determine how many work items, total, you think you can accomplish. If you worked on Lucid, you have data to make this determination. WI throughput is affected by many things, including maintenance responsibilities and other complexities of each engineer's job. Therefore, each engineer will have a different estimated WI throughput.

If you have data, please do this to come up with your number:
# count up the total number of work items you completed
# count up the total number of weeks that you did work items, this should be about 8-12 for Lucid
# use the results from 1 and 2 to figure out your rough WI/week throughput
# multiple your WI/week throughput by .75 to accomedate 10.04.1 work
# multiply results of 4 by 6 for the six weeks of work in Alpha 2

== Step 3: Identify your WI for A2 ==
Due: EOD Thursday

So now you have blueprints to work on. Go through each one and figure out what tasks need to be done to fulfill the blueprint. Each task is "work item". Each work item should talke .5 - 2 days each.

See this page for the syntax for work items: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WorkItemsHowto

To start, put all of the work items for the whole release under just "Work Items:" on the status white board.

Once you have all of the work items identified, then you need to sign up for A2 work. Do this by creating a new section on the status whiteboard titled "Work items for maverick-alpha-2:". Then move (don't copy) each work item from the general list that you want to commit to for A2 to this section. However, across all of your blueprints, don't exceed the total number of work items that you identfied in step 2.

== Step 4: Track your work ==
Due: Ongoing for all of Maverick

Seb will host a meeting on Thursday to review all of the work item planning. Next week, I will host a stake holder review meeting to cover all of the work items we have committed to for A2.
