{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/DevelopmentMeeting.

=== Present ===

* Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) - chair
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Kenneth Wimer (kwwii)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Michael Vogt (mvo)
* Mirco MÃ¼ller (MacSlow)
* Ted Gould ({ted})

* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)

=== Agenda ===

* Welcome to Ted Gould
* Meeting Time
* Spec Approval
* PolicyKit adoption strategy
* Sending patches upstream and to Debian

=== Welcome to Ted Gould ===

Ted Gould, known to many as one of the Inkscape core developers, has joined Canonical and will be working on Desktop integration and
consistency issues, as well as taking up some of the missing pieces in our maintenance.

=== Spec Approval ===

The deadline for specs to be ready for review and approval is Thursday 22nd November (next week).  Team members were reminded of this, and asked to repeatedly nag me rather than blocking on me.

=== PolicyKit adoption strategy ===

pitti proposed that the strategy for adoption of PolicyKit should be to initially replace use of libpam-foreground in those applications, but keep using gksudo for those applications currently using that.

This gives us an easier migration/adoption plan.

He expressed concern that since all processes now run non-privileged, users can now simply ptrace() them and be able to execute code with arbitrary PolicyKit privileges.  He is uncomfortable with general option all the time ptrace() is enabled by default.

ACTION: pitti to mail kees and kernel team about disabling ptrace and re-enabling interface

=== Sending patches upstream and to Debian ===

A gentle reminder about the topic of the cycle: ensuring that all our patches are sent upstream and to Debian where possible.  Since we're doing merges right now, it's the perfect time to get the slate clean and then keep it clean thereafter.

seb128 is working on a policy for tagging patches to make it more visible whether they have been sent upstream, and what the purposes of the patch is.  He'll mail that out to everyone when done.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
