{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Martin Pitt (pitti) - chair
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)  

=== Apologies ===
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) - on holiday
* Chris Cheney (calc) - Sun OOo meeting
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - managers' sprint

=== Agenda ===

* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsoring Overview update]]</nowiki>
* Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

* ACTION: rickspencer3 to follow up on status of security review for MIR
** Result: No progress
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to work with mvo/robbiew to get the work for Language selector done for Jaunty, community involvement?
** Result: discussed with robbiew. Decision was that mvo will finish up his part asap. Post Jaunty it will be owned by the desktop team. 
* ACTION: pitti to discuss costs and requirements of graphical non-X based installers with cjwatson
** Result: Discussed with Rick Clark and Colin. The graphical installer is not a goal for server in 9.04, request is coming from Steve George. Need to discuss things with him.
* ACTION: pitti/asac to respond to MIR for Riddel/Kubuntu
** Result: All currently outstanding ones processed
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to compile spec work status and resend
** Result: Done: /WorkItems

=== Actions from this meeting ===

* ACTION: Martin to start discussion with Steve George, Colin Watson, and Rick Clark about requirements for graphical installer
* ACTION: Bryce to triage https://launchpad.net/bugs/309482
* ACTION: Rick to clarify work items list (how to keep it up to date, and which things should be in in it)

=== Sponsoring ===

Due to the sprint last week, we did not get to doing sponsoring (deliberately). Consequently the queue is huge now, and we need to spend some extra time on it. Special thanks to Sebastien for cleaning it up a lot already!

=== Release status ===

Martin updated /ReleaseStatus today. Bug list halved since last week. There is one new potential <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/309482|issue in the nv driver]]</nowiki> which needs triaging. Bryce agreed to look into this.

Bryce reported that he is currently tracking several X problems which cause suspend or crash issues.

=== Work items ===

Alexander mentioned that his current work items are just for his specs, but he has a lot of commitments which are not covered by specs. Rick should clarify how to use this tool and keep the work items up to date, as well as which kind of things belong into the list.

=== KDE support in OpenOffice.org ===

Chris reported that it is possible to build OO.o without Qt/KDE support, to save space and get rid of the old KDE 3 libraries which Kubuntu wants to drop.

However, that would mean to drop the KDE widgets as well as KDE file selector and print dialog, thus a big regression in usability.

Jonathan says that the Kubuntu CDs are not tight on space and can afford keeping it.

Result: Keep Qt/KDE support enabled.

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

===== NetworkManager =====
* new modemmanager/networkmanager/nm applet build for f3507g modems in ~modemmanager PPA
** test connect time improvements
* rebased all pppd patches to 2.4.5~git snapshot
* bug work for -applet and daemon
* looking into bumping dhcpcd to latest upstream version (4.0.10) as we have a quite outdated version 3.2.3-2

===== Mozilla =====
* (upstream) security updates; final patches landed; tarballs produce
* (distro) security update packages pushed to 
* discuss nss advisory with security team
* mozilla major change process discussing; put on-hold
* talked to mozilla #jsapi folks about ABI/API policy and making #mozjs a first tier lib on !ubuntu; seems we make progress
* investigate shutdown crashes we see for firefox-3.1 due to jemalloc (bug: 319480)
* fix seamonkey-2.0.head branch to unblock community contributors
* fix thunderbird-3.0.head branch for intrepid/jaunty (both failed to build in daily archive)
* updated firefox-3.1 package in jaunty to new b3pre snapshot
* make intel connection manager (#connman) prototype packages available in #network-manager team PPA

===== Misc =====
* some MIR processing
* apturl policy call and drafting with mvo
* sponsored #nmap 4.76-0ubuntu2 to #ubuntu #jaunty
* sprint preparation: upgrade my X61 to jaunty

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====

No report received, on holiday.

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

===== Distro Work =====
* Sponsoring:  gegl (#315778), avahi (#308856), apache2 (#318179), hal-info (#304818), gnumeric (#311571).  Unsubbed 52697, 270584, 286924 since already committed to bzr.
* Worked some more on data gathering scripts for bug graphing
* Berlin sprint

===== Xorg Work =====
* Triaged xserver-xorg-video-intel bugs
* Call with AMD about -fglrx.  Still awaiting updated driver.
* Reviewed/uploaded/MIR'd dontzap stuff from Alberto
* Wrote up guide on troubleshooting High CPU bugs.
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting
** We get a lot of reports about this, but it's usually not X at fault but rather some client service or app.
** Triaged/reassigned/closed whole bunch of high-cpu issues files against X
* Helped a lot of sprinters with misc. X problems
* Worked a bit on historical driver packages page
* Sponsored several X patches
* Organized UXA testing activities
* Updates to troubleshooting documentation, wrote page on keyboard/mouse failures due to HAL
* Tested all projectors in conference hall; helped several people in testing their laptops against projectors; forwarded several resultant bug reports to appropriate places.

===== 2-week Plan =====
* xorg.conf Backup/Recovery work
* XSmoke testing
* Help Alberto get xorg-options-editor into Universe
* Integrate apport support into bulletproof-x mode
* Focus on my assigned bugs list, bugs fixed upstream, and bug reports
   with patches attached.

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====

* Uploaded dictionaries-common 0.9.14ubuntu1 to hardy (ppa), intrepid (ppa), jaunty
* Uploaded suitesparse 1:3.2.0-1ubuntu1 to intrepid (ppa), jaunty - with libcolamd split out
* Uploaded lp-solve 5.5.0.13-3ubuntu1 to intrepid (ppa), jaunty - built against libcolamd
* Uploaded openoffice.org 1:3.0.1-1ubuntu1 to hardy (ppa), intrepid (ppa), jaunty
* Uploaded openoffice.org-l10n 1:3.0.1-1ubuntu1 to hardy (ppa), intrepid (ppa), jaunty
* Uploaded libvoikko 2.0-1build0 to hardy (ppa), intrepid (ppa)
* Uploaded openoffice.org-voikko 3.0.1-1ubuntu0 to hardy (ppa), intrepid (ppa)
* Sponsored xfree86-driver-synaptics 0.99.3-2ubuntu2 to jaunty
* Forwarded bug report about broken libx11 to Bryce which he has fixed
* Verified Mandriva does not use Qt/KDE support in OOo, we can disable as well if we want to
* Working on ooo split build packaging for jaunty ppa
* Weekly OOo Release Status Meetings
* Weekly desktop team meeting
* Lots of OOo bug triage
* Jaunty Sprint : Jan 31 - Feb 7
* Sun OOo Meeting : Feb 8 - Feb 12

I won't be able to attend tomorrow either as I will be at the Sun office
all day and can't get my internet access working there for some reason.
Its a very strange issue.

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

done:
* tested and fixed and released alpha 4
* system-config-printer-kde progressing nicely, nearly feature complete for jaunty
* testing kdebluetooth, seems to be working again
* repackaged Amarok to include mysql in the same package, now in main
* promoted kpackagekit to main and put in the seeds
* tested update-notifier-kde with fixes from mvo and rgreening, uploaded with own fix
* half day archive admin plus teaching archive admin skills to Dustin
* fix kdenetwork which had files in the wrong packages
* packaged KDevelop 4 Beta
* Added qedje to plasma packages
* Updates avahi for pcap2

blocked:
* nothing, yay

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Assigned blueprints: implemented

Currently open stable/milestoned bugs: none

Done:
* Boost 1.34 -> 1.35 transition
* Dissected acpi-support and wrote plan for obsoleting it: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AcpiSupportDeprecation
* Committed acpi-support suspend quirks to hal-info
* Dropped some obsolete bits from acpi-support
* Analyzed and fixed glib2.0 translations.tar.gz corruption, which broke both translations and soyuz
* Merged OpenSUSE's and our gettext-for-desktop-files patches, fixed, sent upstream; arguing with them now
* Release team meeting
* Platform sprint: Learned a lot about hotkeys and their problems, fixed a bunch of them, improved desktop startup speed

Sponsoring:
* uploaded: totem, totem-pl-parser, consolekit, gdm-guest-session, glib2.0, ntfs-3g
* discussed, not suitable for upload: pm-utils, sqlite3

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* Jaunty Distro Sprint:
** several discussion with the dxteam during the week
** worked on desktop login speed
** lot of other discussions, random jaunty testing, etc

* GNOME updates: gvfs, nautilus, deskbar-applet, file-roller, glib, gnome-utils, gtk+, gnome-panel, libsoup, gedit, gtkhtml, alacarte, gnome-applets, gnome-media, eog, glade3, libgnomecanvas

* changed libgnome to not force a 96 dpi value

* sponsoring: bluez, evolution, evolution-data-server, evolution-exchange, gcalctool, glib, gnome-games, gnome-pilot, gnome-session, gtksourceview2, obex-data-server, pidgin

* did some extra cleaning on the sponsoring list and pinged some people about easy uploads waiting for a while to get those uploaded

* reviewed and discussed several other updates with desktop contributors

* updated gnome-media, gnome-applets and gnome-control-center to use the intrepid versions of the sound control capplets

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

Done:
* Attended three days of the Sprint
* Reported bugs on Sony Vaio laptop and discussiond them with pitty and bryce: Program launch buttons not working, X not automatically set up in clone mode when connecting projector, compiz effects slow after suspend and resume
* Talked with pitti about automatically downloadable printer driver packages and what needs to be done to get them supported by Ubuntu
* Answered bug reports

Next steps:
* Add some functionality to system-config-printer: Do not auto-create queue if driver not found, load HP plug-ins/firmware automatically, simplify new-printer wizard

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
