{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Actions from previous meeting ==

== Actions from this meeting ==

== Weekly Summary ==

* Updating GNOME to 3.2 final.

* Libreoffice 3.4.3-1ubuntu3 fixing:
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/+bug/835153|835153 oosplash.bin crashed with SIGSEGV in XSetForeground()]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/+bug/835662|835662 LibreOffice Base forms PostgreSQL SDBC driver unusable]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/+bug/779798|779798 Report Builder does not open]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/+bug/841562|841562 package libreoffice-common 1:3.4.2-2ubuntu3 failed to install/upgrade: ErrorMessage: subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 1]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/+bug/850372|850372 /usr/lib/libreoffice/program/soffice.bin: error while loading shared libraries: libsofficeapp.so: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory]]</nowiki>
* finally rootcaused [[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/+bug/745836|745836 encrypted swap corrupts application stack/heap [was: soffice.bin SIGSEGV cppu::throwException()] ]] -- not an libreoffice issue
* preparing 3.4.3-1ubuntu4 fixing:
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/+bug/852819|852819 soffice.bin crashed with SIGSEGV in SalDisplay::addXineramaScreenUnique()]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/+bug/854626|854626 soffice.bin crashed with SIGSEGV in SwTxtFtn::DelFrms()]]</nowiki>

=== Partner update ===

=== Unity ===

* New unity this week (on Monday due to some team member being ill). Thanks a lot to all the community volonteer contributors that fixed a bunch number of bugs: https://launchpad.net/unity/+milestone/4.18.0
** Lot of bug and UI refinement, will get the latest and greatest of nitpicks bugs this week.
** We aready got the new libunity and new unity-lens-applications with some filtering fixes for finale today.
** Next and final release on Thursday before finale freeze: https://launchpad.net/unity/+milestone/4.20.0. Please note a FFe for unity lens music (bringing u1 support): https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/851691 still waiting for ack.

* Another compiz will be ready tomorrow for finale with other stacking and crash fixes.

* New unity-2d this week: https://launchpad.net/unity-2d/+milestone/4.10. Bug fixes (some for a11y) and brings RTL support!
* Long standing Qt build fixes on armel and powerpc, now done! Some patches implemented to fix QML a11y issues as well as touch one. Another upload tomorrow to find bouding multitouch scrolling issues.

=== Software Center ===
* Software Center versions 4.1.24 through 4.1.26 released
** Includes ~40 bug fixes, plus more i18n and a11y fixes, lots of UI cleanup and refinement
* More bug fixes coming this week in preparation for final freeze
* Team continues to focus on stability, any remaining a11y and i18n fixes, and further refinement of the new UI

=== Kubuntu ===

=== X.org ===

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
17:31:39	pitti	so according to the weekly summary this was clearly a LibO fixing week :)
17:31:42	pedro_	lut seb128 :-)
17:31:43	pitti	Sweetshark: (nice job)
17:31:51	pitti	and new unity with some umphteen fixes, yay
17:32:05	pitti	kenvandine: anything to discuss partner-wise?
17:32:09	kenvandine	yeah
17:32:14	pitti	I guess the music scope is the big thing this week?
17:32:28	kenvandine	not really... round of bug fix releases for indicators coming
17:32:49	rodrigo_	seb128, yes, but libnm-gtk doesn't seem to be available in the repo, will ask him after the meeting
17:33:07	pitti	rodrigo_: just binNEWed it an hour or so ago
17:33:12	 *	didrocks runs will bb in 40 minutes hopefully
17:33:13	rodrigo_	pitti, ah
17:33:19	pitti	didrocks: thanks for the wiki update
17:33:20	didrocks	pitti: I'll take care of glibmm and gtkmm after
17:33:25	seb128	didrocks, see you
17:33:31	kenvandine	that is all i have
17:33:32	pitti	didrocks: gtkmm3.0 is already in ubuntu:gtkmm3.0
17:33:47	pitti	didrocks: (not yet test-built, of course), but I can continue this tomorrow morning
17:33:55	didrocks	pitti: ok, thanks :)
17:34:01	pitti	kenvandine: bug 851691 is a bit of a concern
17:34:03	ubot2	Launchpad bug 851691 in unity-lens-music "[FFE] Add support for U1 in the music lens" [High,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/851691
17:34:10	pitti	it's veeeery late, and hasn't really been tested yet
17:34:14	didrocks	I guess this one is on my plate :)
17:34:17	pitti	I understand it's in ubuntu-desktop?
17:34:28	didrocks	pitti: it's basically the one in the ubuntu-desktop ppa for a while
17:34:37	didrocks	but I agree it's late
17:34:51	tkamppeter	hi
17:35:23	pitti	didrocks: are there some testing instructions somewhere, so that we can test this from the PPA a bit?
17:35:42	didrocks	pitti: I guess I need the release of the last version (the one which doesn't need the environment variable then)
17:35:52	didrocks	pitti: and then, yeah, I can give you some instructions for tomorrow morning
17:36:00	didrocks	I tested, found some unity crashes, they are fixed now in oneiric
17:36:16	didrocks	and I listed some bugs that needed to be fixed before entering oneiric (not related to the FFe itself)
17:36:19	pitti	didrocks: thanks, that's appreciated, and would help for the FFE
17:36:21	didrocks	they are all fixed after 2 weeks
17:36:45	didrocks	just to tell it's been tested, but more testing is appreciated, right, will setup that tomorrow once I get the release :)
17:37:38	 *	didrocks really runs now, ttyl
17:38:47	pitti	ok, thanks
17:38:59	pitti	anything else that we need to discuss?
17:39:02	cyphermox	yup
17:39:25	pitti	cyphermox: go :)
17:39:29	cyphermox	just got wind of https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=736489 , not sure if it applies to us, but fyi :)
17:39:38	ubot2	bugzilla.redhat.com bug 736489 in glib2 "[ppc64] wrong mapping for G_TYPE_ENUM to libffi type" [Urgent,New]
17:40:45	pitti	does that apply to us? the powerpc binaries are all 32 bit, I though
17:40:54	cyphermox	it might on arm
17:41:30	 *	Sweetshark grumbles. missed the praise because I wanted to get the patches for ubuntu4 to fix commited before the meeting ...
17:41:30	pitti	hm, arm is little-endian and 32 bit
17:41:42	cyphermox	also, NM has a pretty annoying bug right now: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/856333
17:41:43	ubot2	Ubuntu bug 856333 in network-manager "(oneiric) wired connection unnaturally slow" [Medium,In progress]
17:42:09	cyphermox	any help would be welcome, but it seems to be muchly an issue in libnl, I'm working on it and it was submitted upstream
17:42:17	pitti	cyphermox: I've seen the same issue for years, I don't think it's new; did it get worse?
17:42:37	cyphermox	pitti: this is with connecting wifi and wired at the same time
17:42:43	seb128	oh, that's a nm issue? I switched to wifi this week, I though my router was broken
17:42:44	cyphermox	it definitely did work in Natty
17:43:05	seb128	router or cable or something
17:43:14	cyphermox	seb128: routes are missing a "metric X" value; which causes something like 80% packet loss, if not 100%
17:43:21	pitti	cyphermox: I was once connected to both eth and wifi at the same time in natty, and it did exactly that -- half of the TCP connectinos were broken
17:43:28	seb128	didn't have time to investigate yet, it's just that wifi works fine
17:43:31	cyphermox	pitti: WFM ;)
17:43:50	cyphermox	adding the metric makes it work too, some maybe you were seeing something else too
17:44:31	cyphermox	anyway, that's all I had
17:46:02	Sweetshark	oh oh, I got another one: I announce my candidacy for the TDF BoD http://nabble.documentfoundation.org/Candidacy-for-Board-of-Directors-seat-Bjoern-Michaelsen-td3372142.html
17:46:08	pitti	ok, good luck with debugging that then!
17:46:45	seb128	rodrigo_, you should do a reminder for your motu application there ;-)
17:47:02	rodrigo_	seb128, yes, I need the endorsements 1st
17:47:23	seb128	rodrigo_, well I was suggesting that it was a good time to remind people about your wikipage :)
17:47:30	rodrigo_	ah, ok :)
17:47:53	rodrigo_	please endorse me at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RodrigoMoya/MOTUApplication and your salaries will be increased!!!
17:48:01	rodrigo_	</electoral_campaign>
17:48:01	kenvandine	woot
17:48:04	 *	kenvandine jumps on that
17:48:11	pitti	Sweetshark: nice! sounds like a lot of sitting in meetings?
17:49:48	pitti	AOB? if not, I'll let everyone go back to fixing oneiric :)
17:49:58	pedro_	o/
17:50:01	pedro_	just an small item
17:50:02	pitti	pedro_: go ahead, please
17:50:10	pedro_	we need someone to please look at bug 851044
17:50:12	ubot2	Launchpad bug 851044 in banshee "Banshee.exe crashed with SIGABRT in g_cclosure_marshal_VOID__VOID() / while using Ubuntu 1 Store." [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/851044
17:50:15	Sweetshark	yes, and getting them to sign off that the foundation money is needed for my private yacht ...
17:50:29	pitti	Sweetshark: ah, of course
17:50:31	pedro_	it's making banshee crash while using U1 , not sure if its a webkit issue or mono
17:50:39	pedro_	so expertise is needed there ;-)
17:51:27	pitti	is there a reproducer?
17:51:48	pedro_	its easy to reproduce just following the steps on the description
17:51:56	pitti	fortunately we have so many mono developers around (oh wait..)
17:51:57	pedro_	aka scrolling while in U1
17:52:08	pedro_	lol
17:52:17	rodrigo_	pedro_, if it's the music store, dobey is working on it, dobey?
17:52:21	pedro_	I thought seb128 was a mono developer
17:52:25	pitti	presumably the music store then
17:52:25	 *	pedro_ run away
17:52:35	tkamppeter	pitti, have you seen my suggestion about buying printers for UDSes and sprints?
17:52:39	seb128	pedro_, yeah, better to run
17:52:42	rodrigo_	:)
17:52:46	seb128	I've no clue about mono ;-)
17:53:07	pitti	tkamppeter: I did; I think it's a great idea, but we need to discuss that with IS; I think mail is better there
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

{{{
}}}
