{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (calc)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)  

=== Apologies ===
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) - holiday

=== Agenda ===
Due to the new GNOME release, UIF coming up in two days, and other items, we decided to have a short meeting this week. Reviewed outstanding items, and briefly touched on release status.

* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsoring Overview update]]</nowiki>
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===
* ACTION: Desktop team to revisit work items and adjust items that are "noise", or set items to postponed that obviously won't get done.
** Result: Not done, see below
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to comment the repost the work items list, and to include comments with some suggestions, etc..
** Result: done
* ACTION: bryce to set up an FFE for -ati 6.12.0, which will bring R6xx/7xx support.
** Result: Done
* ACTION: kenvandine to work with Dx team to identify changes for UIF, and also changes that might require a UIFE.
** Result: Done, see: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=jaunty-uif
* ACTION: Desktop team to review current goals and update as needed. Feel free to update outside the normal web site if it's easier to do so.
** Result: Some progress, not everyone has revisited.
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to send reminder mail with appropriate info to desktop team to trigger all hands presentation submissions.
** Result: This was done by mdz. Note that the deadline is Monday the ninth.
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to follow up with design team regarding artwork and UIF dates.
** Result: Done. There are actually three deadline dates that do not line up with other freezes, and they are not well defined.
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to ask foundations team for measure of improved boot time for feature list.
** Result: The foundations team is already including this. No action necessary for desktop team.
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to start a wiki page for brainstorming features for marketing.
** Result: rickspencer3 to simply post ideas from last week to the marketing team's wiki page.
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to follow up with dholbach wrt sponsoring and what the team should be doing
** Result: No progress
* ACTION: kenvandine to log a bug on the look and feel of notifications on a non-composited desktop and follow up with Dx team.
** Result: Done (LP: #334063)

=== Actions from this meeting ===
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to post ideas from last week to the marketing team's wiki page.

=== Release Bugs/Release Status ===
* pitti is concerned about a lack of movement regarding RC bugs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/ReleaseStatus
* X appears to be shaping up as a hot area for Jaunty in terms of bugs and performance.
* The Dx team may need some UIFE for certain bugs, such as https://launchpad.net/bugs/283095

==== Bugs ====
===== Alpha 6 Bugs =====
====== asac ======
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/199140 : High : Fix Committed

===== Beta Bugs =====
====== asac ======
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager-vpnc/+bug/278153 : Wishlist : Triaged

====== bryce ======
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fglrx-installer/+bug/313027 : Wishlist : Triaged

====== calc ======
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/backport-util-concurrent/+bug/305790 : High : Incomplete
 
====== pitti ======
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/usplash/+bug/64147 : Low : In Progress

===== Jaunty Bugs =====
====== asac ======
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubufox/+bug/281348 : High : Fix Committed
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ca-certificates/+bug/310999 : High : Triaged
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox-3.0/+bug/323109 : High : Triaged
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/thunderbird/+bug/145716 : Medium : Triaged
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/328928 : Medium : Confirmed

====== bryce ======
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/304871 : High : Triaged

====== pitti ======
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-themes/+bug/335888 : High : In Progress
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pyxdg/+bug/3697 : Medium : In Progress
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hal-info/+bug/305968 : Undecided : Incomplete

==== Exceptions ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox-3.0/+bug/331618
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/334101

==== Work Items ====
* We are way above the trend line this week, implying that a lot of stuff is going to get cut. Looking through the list, it does not appear that any very important work items will be missed. rickspencer3 will follow up with each team member with outstanding work items via email.
* For blocked items that won't get done in Jaunty, please move them to "postponed", and ensure that any team that may have a dependency on that work item is aware that it will not get done for Jaunty.
* Update work items for next week here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2009-03-10

<nowiki>[[File:burndown_2009_03_03.png]]</nowiki>
=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

* network manager
** lengthy discussions with upstream about modem prober and how to best address issues
** triage and fix crashes of ifupdown plugin reported to debian
** discuss way to move forward for integrating work for ericsson modem into NM and MM mainline
** support NM stable update and proxy upstream discussion
* did some suspend and resume testing and complained about bad behaviour to leann; next: file bugs for X (which seems to crash).
* firefox security updates - working on bits and backports for this weeks sec update.
* further investigation for langpack issues with ArneGoetje
* phone call with Arne about fontconfig in jaunty and Karmic
* thoughts about all hands participation
* help doko in testing python transition upgrade (from PPA)
* debug bzr-builddeb regression with james_w which turned out to be triggered by python 2.6

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====
* call with Alexander Sack about the fontconfig package:
** the fontconfig package continues to set a basic desktop setting
** the font packages should be updated to set fontconfig settings
depending on the font and pixel size used. This affects hinting, hinting
style and anti-aliasing settings
** asac will try to dig through the gnome font settings code and add a
checkbox "Use system settings", which will use fontconfig's settings
instead of Gnome's
* submitted nan_TW@latin locale to upstream glibc for inclusion
* asked mpt to review language-selector GUI
* contacted Rosetta folks to help me fix some errors with the
translation templates in Jaunty
* requested new full-export for Jaunty translations
* played around with my new CJK font in order to find out how to get
best rendering results

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====
==== Distro ====
* Sponsoring 2hr:  qcad(#311476), usplash-theme-ubuntu(#245437),
  xfsprogs(#65304), xen-3.3(#216761), inkscape (#303708),
  xfree86-driver-synaptics(#320632)

==== Xorg Work ====
* Wrote up an X.org architecture doc at davidm's request: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Architecture 
* AMD call about -fglrx; should get new driver by March 16th
* Checked with mvo about fglrx/ati migration code for upgraders
* Follow up to xkeyboard-config and -ati bugs
* Bug fix uploads to -ati, libxcbfile, mesa, others...
* Filed sync requests for bunch of X drivers

==== Misc ====
* Sent in proposal for all-hands presentation
* Re-tested/debugged my launchpadlib scripts after latest LP update
==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====
* Emailed ooo-build dev list about OOo cairo subpixel bug - bno#472347
* Emailed Fedora OOo dev about gtkprint patch, which is going to be dropped due to bugs
* Emailed Novell about new Gnome a11y patch for OOo, currently only for OOo 3.1
* Filed bug on gvfs-fuse which is affecting OOo ability to save - bgo#573837
* Filed bug on libxalan2-java which breaks ability to import/export certain filetypes in OOo - lp#337039
* Updated performance review goals
* Preparing openoffice.org 1:3.0.1-3ubuntu1
* Working on ooo split build packaging for jaunty ppa
* Working on ooo official build packaging for testing purposes
* Weekly OOo Release Status Meetings
* Weekly desktop team meeting
* Lots of OOo bug triage

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====
done:
* Packaging KDE 4.2.1
* archive admin
* package qt creator for 1.0 release as requested by upstream
* fix hover on tabs in kickoff
* fix amarok compile
* fix update-notifier-kde to not need adept
* alpha 5 testing, fixing and release

todo:
* Qt 4.5 final packages
* Finish 4.2.1

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
Done:
* Had my first package sponsored, yay!
* Reviewed bugs related to UIF, and tagged as jaunty-uif
** Everyone please keep an eye out for the jaunty-uif tag on bugs you
work on.
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=jaunty-uif
* Patched evolution to play well with message indicator as well as do the right thing for gnome-stracciatella
* Helped OLS guys with some packages

Planned:
* Help with GNOME 2.25.92
* More OLS packaging
* Help DX team with their work on system-config-printer
* Anything else that comes up related to UIF

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Assigned blueprints: all implemented

Currently open stable/milestoned bugs:
* #64147 (usplash logo is stretched on non-4:3/16:9 displays): no time yet, will attack soon
* #335888 (default set of installed themes needs to be changed): no time yet, will attack soon
* #3697 (update pyxdg's gettext support for .desktop files): no time yet, low-prio since it's not really used any more
 
Non-chores stuff done:
* Lots of apport retracer shepherding; guided LaMont to what's needed for making launchpadlib work on ronne, so that we can switch them from p-lp-bugs to launchpadlib soon
* ddeb-retriever: fix handling of temporary files, which were cluttering macaroni's /tmp
* Lots of bug fixing in: xserver-xorg-video-intel, usb-creator, tzdata, langpack-locales, jockey, hal-info, gdm, hal, cups, apport
* Packaging training for Ken VanDine
* updated apport, jockey, calibre, and python-mechanize for Python 2.6
* update-manager handling conf call

Sponsoring:
* anthy, bcel, brasero, dput, eel2, gdm, gnome-python, gvfs, human-icon-theme, nvidia-graphics-drivers-180, pidgin, policykit-gnome, scim-anthy, sl-modem, transmission, notify-osd
* ack'ed 5 syncs
* reviewed, but not uploaded: texlive-extra, xfsprogs (forwarded patches to Debian)

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====
* GNOME 2.25.92 update: 
pygobject pygtk poppler shared-mime-info gtk+ glib gnome-applets
gnome-utils gnome-keyring gvfs nautilus gtkhtml file-roller gedit
deskbar-applet seahorse gtksourceview evolution-data-server evolution
evolution-exchange gnome-settings-daemon evince

* sponsoring: gnome-control-center vino vinagre gnome-system-monitor
glibmm2.4 evolution gnome-settings-daemon

* lot and lot and lot of desktop bugs triage

<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
