{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Actions from previous meeting ==

== Actions from this meeting ==

== Weekly Summary ==
* Landed major pygobject update. This caused some trouble due to uncovering a lot of previously hidden bugs (Bug:713115); it has been worked around for now, and real fix is about to land upstream. (pitti)
* Landed greatly improved Audio Apport symptom by David Henningson. (pitti)
* Added much faster Poppler-based and '''ICC-Color-managing''' pdftoraster filter to CUPS and prioritized it against the Ghostscript-based one. Makes all CUPS-Raster based printer drivers much faster and more reliable: HPLIP, Gutenprint, SpliX, ..., opened discussion about the color management feature on OpenICC mailing list, informed HPLIP, Gutenprint, and SpliX developers (LP: #668800, tkamppeter)
* Updated system-config-printer to 1.2.6+ and synced patches with upstream (tkamppeter)
* Quickly and Quickly Widgets 11.03.1 released, with a new flash template, bug fixes, and better support for ARB compliance.
* Several more indicator-appmenu fixes, including the return of missing menu items.
* Firefox 4.0 beta 11 is now in Natty
* Appmenu support for Thunderbird landed, and is installed by default
* ABrowser is dead! (this makes the Firefox packaging significantly simpler)
* first upstream commits for human icons in LibreOffice (commited for master/3.4 and later, being reviewed for 3.3.1/3.3.2)
* indicator-datetime has landed with geoclue support
* geoclue has made it to main now
* updated/unbroken the apport hook for NetworkManager (cyphermox)

=== Partner update ===
==== DX ====
* indicator-datetime with eds integration is landing now, should make it in thursday's upload
* dbusmenu feature work in progress:
** Use the alt key to show the menu in the panel
** Support mixed text directions apps (LTR app in an RTL
     environment)
** Support app specific icon directories
** Remove XML from GetLayout
** Group property change signals into single signal
** Allow applications to use IDO menu items
* appindicator feature work in progress:
** Explicit control over placement in panel or launcher
** Accessibility strings for icons
==== UbuntuOne ====
* libunity API needed for status in launchers has landed in trunk, will help get the ubuntuone-client work moving 
* shotwell integration with U1 stalled a little, but dobey picked it up now

=== Unity ===

* No unity release this week due to alpha2 out.
* Next release is due to Thursday. We will have a lot of bug fixes as usual, but more important, the places will have some nice enhancements from latest release!
* libunity will have a new release for application quicklists to land, the ui part is already merged. So progress bar, count and such is coming soon.
* New compiz ahead, depending on when upstream will merge the glib branch to trunk
* we got an insane 100% CPU issue with the appmenu in unity-panel-service, but the fix is under way it seems :)
* The invisible window bug should be fixed by forcing the restacking at compiz task. Update and report if it's not the case for you as this issue is pretty random to get!

=== Software Center ===
* Software Center version 3.1.16 released:
** Includes improvements and bugfixes for Ratings and Reviews
** Fixes some intermittent crashers
* Many new reviews have been added this week
* In progress:
** Unity launcher integration: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SoftwareCenter#Learning%20how%20to%20launch%20an%20application

=== Kubuntu ===

=== X.org ===
* XServer 1.10 deployment was completed and deployed in time for Alpha-2.
** There was a brief period when xserver was temporarily uninstallable while drivers rebuilt.  This confused many users who tried to upgrade during this window.
** There was some breakage for people who still had xorg-edgers or other random X bits installed.  We helped these people over the hump as we encountered them.
** We learned some tricks we can use next time to further reduce the duration and severity of breakage people encounter.
* -fglrx and -nvidia are currently unusable as they do not yet support XServer 1.10.
** We anticipate getting updated drivers with this support by release, but for now recommend uninstalling them and using -ati or -nouveau instead.
* The -intel driver seems to be getting a lot of bug reports regarding GPU lockups.  This is probably due to issues in the .38-2 kernel.  We're putting a priority on communicating these bugs upstream.
* There are a handful of XServer segfault bug reports (possibly sharing same root cause?), some of which seem to be a consequence of an out-of-memory situation during installation; it's not yet known if this is caused by X or if it's elsewhere in the system and X is just the most notable thing to fail.
* There is also a common X assert failure (bug #711422) that a number of people are hitting.  We've not yet gotten a good backtrace on this, but need to do more investigation.
* xkeyboard-config has had a major version update which we merged post-alpha-2, bringing in new support for more keyboards and better support for more languages.

=== Tools and Processes ===
* <nowiki>[[http://www.bryceharrington.org/X/Reports/|Graphs and reports]]</nowiki> now provided for the 'indicator-applet-developers' and 'unity-team' groups

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
seb128 09/02/11 03:00:29
hey
it's meeting time 09/02/11 03:00:32
 
rodrigo_ 09/02/11 03:00:54
o/	
kenvandine waves 03:00	

seb128 09/02/11 03:00:57
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2011-02-08	

tremolux 09/02/11 03:01:13
heyer	

Sweetshark 09/02/11 03:01:28
/o/ \o\ \o/	

seb128 09/02/11 03:01:28
hey kenvandine, rodrigo_, pitti, didrocks, chrisccoulson, Sweetshark, tremolux, Riddell	
pitti waves hello 03:01	
glatzor has joined the room 03:01	

seb128 09/02/11 03:01:50
pitti, hey, you are still around, do you want to lead or should I do it?	

didrocks 09/02/11 03:01:56
hey	

pitti 09/02/11 03:02:08
seb128: please do, if you wouldn't mind? still a bit dizzy today	

seb128 09/02/11 03:02:15
ok
how is everybody today? 09/02/11 03:02:32
 
kenvandine 09/02/11 03:02:36
pitti, hope you feel better soon!	
kenvandine is great! 03:02	

chrisccoulson 09/02/11 03:02:52
hi!	

seb128 09/02/11 03:02:53
so jasoncwarner is catching on sleep and pitti feeling unwell, I will lead this one	
kiwinote has joined the room 03:02	

seb128 09/02/11 03:03:01
let's get started
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2011-02-08 09/02/11 03:03:01
no action from the previous meeting it seems 09/02/11 03:03:09
did anybody had any action which is not noted there? 09/02/11 03:03:34
aquarius has disconnected (Ping timeout: 240 seconds) 03:03	

seb128 09/02/11 03:03:54
ok, let's say that's a "no"	

rodrigo_ 09/02/11 03:04:08
	
aquarius has joined the room 03:04	

mterry 09/02/11 03:04:17
hi	

seb128 09/02/11 03:04:18
kenvandine, hey, partner updater?	

kenvandine 09/02/11 03:04:26
yup	

seb128 09/02/11 03:04:28
hey mterry, I knew I forgot to list people! sorry	

kenvandine 09/02/11 03:04:35
DX:
everyone note indicator-datetime with geoclue support has been uploaded 09/02/11 03:04:46
so watch for bugs 09/02/11 03:04:49
only known crasher bug was just fixed a few minutes ago 09/02/11 03:05:03
 
seb128 09/02/11 03:05:05
out of the known crasher one you mean? 
great! 09/02/11 03:05:14
 
kenvandine 09/02/11 03:05:17
bug 714763	

ubot2 09/02/11 03:05:17
Launchpad bug 714763 in indicator-datetime "indicator-datetime-service crashed with SIGSEGV in geoclue_master_client_set_requirements_async()" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/714763	

kenvandine 09/02/11 03:05:45
eds integration with indicator-datetime is coming this week
so expect more bugs 09/02/11 03:05:49
but goodness! 09/02/11 03:05:53
jibel_ has disconnected (Quit: Ex-Chat) 03:06	

kenvandine 09/02/11 03:06:18
tedg is trying to focus on feature work for dbusmenu and libappindicator this week
details are on the wiki 09/02/11 03:06:25
UbuntuOne: 09/02/11 03:06:35
shotwell integration has been picked up by dobey, there was a delay due to injury 09/02/11 03:06:57
 
rodrigo_ 09/02/11 03:07:07
injury?	
ari-tczew has joined the room 03:07	

kenvandine 09/02/11 03:07:23
rodrigo_, i don't recall his name, but he broke his arm
manuel? 09/02/11 03:07:32
anyway... that is back in progress 09/02/11 03:07:44
 
seb128 09/02/11 03:07:46
kenvandine, what integration is that?	

rodrigo_ 09/02/11 03:07:50
oh, I'll ask the u1 guys	

seb128 09/02/11 03:07:53
kenvandine, uploading to a website work?
kenvandine, i.e what's coming in shotwell 0.9? 09/02/11 03:08:01
 
kenvandine 09/02/11 03:08:02
making sure photos sync
this is just for U1 09/02/11 03:08:11
i think some metadata as well 09/02/11 03:08:18
artir is now known as afk|artir 03:08	

kenvandine 09/02/11 03:08:47
they say it is minimal integration for now	

seb128 09/02/11 03:08:52
ok	

kenvandine 09/02/11 03:08:55
so should land in time for ffe
also support for the libunity api ubuntuone-client needed has landed in the launcher (trunk) 09/02/11 03:09:22
so they have something they can test against, for displaying status and such in the launcher 09/02/11 03:09:35
so progress there 09/02/11 03:09:43
that is all i have for U1 09/02/11 03:09:47
any questions for either? 09/02/11 03:09:51
shiyee has joined the room 03:10	

seb128 09/02/11 03:10:18
not from me
ok, thanks kenvandine 09/02/11 03:10:35
didrocks, hey 09/02/11 03:10:37
didrocks, unity update? 09/02/11 03:10:41
 
didrocks 09/02/11 03:10:47
hey o/
No unity release this week due to alpha2 out. 09/02/11 03:10:50
Next release is due to Thursday. We will have a lot of bug fixes as usual, but more important, the places will have some nice enhancements from latest release! 09/02/11 03:10:51
libunity will have a new release for application quicklists to land, the ui part is already merged. So progress bar, count and such is coming soon. 09/02/11 03:10:53
New compiz ahead, depending on when upstream will merge the glib branch to trunk 09/02/11 03:10:55
we got an insane 100% CPU issue with the appmenu in unity-panel-service, but the fix is under way it seems 09/02/11 03:10:57
The invisible window bug should be fixed by forcing the restacking at compiz task. Update and report if it's not the case for you as this issue is pretty random to get! 09/02/11 03:10:59
any questions? 09/02/11 03:11:52
 
mterry 09/02/11 03:12:01
didrocks, so invisible window will be fixed on thursday?	

didrocks 09/02/11 03:12:10
mterry: no, the compiz upload was today	

mterry 09/02/11 03:12:12
didrocks, and if it's not for us, complain loudly?
didrocks, ok 09/02/11 03:12:13
 
didrocks 09/02/11 03:12:22
mterry: so, you can complain starting now 	
jibel_ has joined the room 03:12	

seb128 09/02/11 03:12:38
well it might not be published yet	

mterry 09/02/11 03:12:54
seb128, don't rain on my complaining parade	

kenvandine 09/02/11 03:13:01
hehe	

seb128 09/02/11 03:13:02
	

didrocks 09/02/11 03:13:07
i386 is	

seb128 09/02/11 03:13:13
great	

didrocks 09/02/11 03:13:13
not the others 	

seb128 09/02/11 03:13:15
let me try as well
no reason mterry should be the only one to complain there! 09/02/11 03:13:28
09/02/11 03:13:35
 
didrocks 09/02/11 03:13:52
/quit
09/02/11 03:13:54
hoonteke has joined the room 03:14	

didrocks 09/02/11 03:14:45
(is everybody restarting unity now?)	

chrisccoulson 09/02/11 03:14:52
lol	

rodrigo_ 09/02/11 03:14:57
	

seb128 09/02/11 03:14:57
not yet 
but most of the people there are on amd64 I think 09/02/11 03:15:07
 
chrisccoulson 09/02/11 03:15:15
yeah, i am	

seb128 09/02/11 03:15:20
ok
questions for didrocks? 09/02/11 03:15:26
thanks didrocks 09/02/11 03:15:57
tremolux, hey 09/02/11 03:16:19
tremolux, s-c update? 09/02/11 03:16:24
 
tremolux 09/02/11 03:16:26
hey seb128 \o	
Sweetshark feels a bit left out on the compiz/unity crashes as he is still on nouveau drivers ... 03:16	
bilalakhtar_ has joined the room 03:16	

tremolux 09/02/11 03:16:51
yep, it's on the wiki, but in summary: we are tweaking/improving ratings and reviews
lots of new reviews appearing, it's cool  09/02/11 03:16:59
 
seb128 09/02/11 03:17:15
nice	

tremolux 09/02/11 03:17:32
and now on to other new features	
bilalakhtar_ has disconnected (Client Quit) 03:17	

pitti 09/02/11 03:17:36
seb128: heh -- stability by using nouveau, who'd have thought that 	

seb128 09/02/11 03:17:36
great work on that	

tremolux 09/02/11 03:17:39
(smaller ones)  	

seb128 09/02/11 03:17:46
pitti, you want to talk to Sweetshark 	

pitti 09/02/11 03:17:53
erk, yes	
bcurtiswx has disconnected (Ping timeout: 255 seconds) 03:18	

seb128 09/02/11 03:18:13
tremolux, looking forward seeing the launcher integration
tremolux, will that use libunity as well? 09/02/11 03:18:19
 
tremolux 09/02/11 03:18:53
seb128: on the client side we are firing a dbus message	
AbsintheSyringe has disconnected (Remote host closed the connection) 03:19	

seb128 09/02/11 03:19:13
ok, anyway great work
questions for tremolux? 09/02/11 03:19:17
hoonteke has disconnected (Ping timeout: 265 seconds) 03:19	

seb128 09/02/11 03:20:02
seems not
thanks tremolux 09/02/11 03:20:04
 
tremolux 09/02/11 03:20:09
ok, thanks  	

seb128 09/02/11 03:20:09
Riddell, hey
Riddell, kubuntu update? 09/02/11 03:20:13
 
Riddell 09/02/11 03:20:16
hi
* Alpha 2 is out, plenty of bugs but nothing worrying for this stage in the cycle 09/02/11 03:20:20
* libindicate-qt updated for new API 09/02/11 03:20:27
* Qt now being built with gcc 4.4 to fix issues on ARM 09/02/11 03:20:28
* various space saving changes mean we have some space on the CDs for language packs now (except PowerPC) 09/02/11 03:20:28
 
seb128 09/02/11 03:21:17
thanks for fixing the libindicate-qt binary naming while you were at it btw 
seems kubuntu is on track as usual 09/02/11 03:21:42
afk|artir has disconnected (Quit: Goodbye!) 03:21	

seb128 09/02/11 03:21:46
questions for Riddell?
ok, seems not 09/02/11 03:22:17
thanks Riddell 09/02/11 03:22:19
ok, natty status 09/02/11 03:22:29
http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/natty/canonical-dx-team-natty-alpha-3.html 09/02/11 03:22:30
http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-desktop-team.html 09/02/11 03:22:32
hoonteke has joined the room 03:22	

seb128 09/02/11 03:22:46
seems we a almost flat work items count
it should go down rather 09/02/11 03:22:51
so please close WIs as you get work done 09/02/11 03:23:04
we are just on the trend line for natty now 09/02/11 03:23:11
but the almost flat for a month doesn't shape nicely 09/02/11 03:23:25
the a3 curve is over the trend as well 09/02/11 03:23:51
 
kenvandine 09/02/11 03:23:53
nope 	

chrisccoulson 09/02/11 03:24:06
my main task was never tracked as a work item 	

seb128 09/02/11 03:24:11
seems most of it is dx and oneconf then	

chrisccoulson 09/02/11 03:24:22
which is why mine is flat, but i think most of mine got moved to beta by pitti anyway 	

pitti 09/02/11 03:24:26
the trend line also is a bit misleading -- most of the stuff needs to be done by FF, not by release
so if we need to drop stuff, let's do that earlier 09/02/11 03:24:42
 
didrocks 09/02/11 03:24:54
(speaking on oneconfâ€¦ it seems that desktopcouch is broken for some people once again )	

chrisccoulson 09/02/11 03:25:04
didrocks, fixed already
09/02/11 03:25:06
 
didrocks 09/02/11 03:25:12
chrisccoulson: uploaded?	

chrisccoulson 09/02/11 03:25:21
didrocks - yeah, sometime this morning	

didrocks 09/02/11 03:25:25
mvo: ^^	

chrisccoulson 09/02/11 03:25:28
it should be working again now	

seb128 09/02/11 03:25:31
does it break every time there is a xulrunner upload?	

chrisccoulson 09/02/11 03:25:43
seb128 - yeah, it's broken with every single upload so far this cycle	
didrocks really thinks to move oneconf away of desktopcouch 03:25	

seb128 09/02/11 03:25:53
urg
can we do something to avoid that? 09/02/11 03:26:04
 
chrisccoulson 09/02/11 03:26:10
seb128 - but, these are still beta uploads. hopefully it will get better	

seb128 09/02/11 03:26:16
would g-s break the same way? 	

chrisccoulson 09/02/11 03:26:23
seb128 - yeah 	

mvo 09/02/11 03:26:30
didrocks: aha, thanks, let me update then	

seb128 09/02/11 03:26:35
ok	
artir has joined the room 03:26	

chrisccoulson 09/02/11 03:26:41
i think i'm going to package spidermonkey as a totally separate package
and decouple it from these uploads entirely 09/02/11 03:26:49
every week for the past month i've had to spend time unbreaking couchdb 09/02/11 03:27:03
 
seb128 09/02/11 03:27:22
well, looking at the natty items it seems ok
there is oneconf and telepathy-approver have a bunch 09/02/11 03:27:38
there is the xulrunner-2.0 port items 09/02/11 03:27:39
artir has disconnected (Client Quit) 03:27	

chrisccoulson 09/02/11 03:28:00
i'm really quite concerned about those now, i have had hardly any time to work on them	

seb128 09/02/11 03:28:02
otherwise it seems mostly other teams (dx) or things which are on track
chrisccoulson, will micahg have time when he starts? 09/02/11 03:28:28
 
chrisccoulson 09/02/11 03:28:39
seb128 - not sure, but probably not 	

seb128 09/02/11 03:28:41
those are assigned to him right now
hum k 09/02/11 03:28:43
well I will let you sort that 09/02/11 03:28:48
enough for the status update 09/02/11 03:28:53
 
chrisccoulson 09/02/11 03:28:57
the issue is that most of these applications are in universe, and are stuff that nobody really cares about 	

seb128 09/02/11 03:28:59
is there any comments?	

chrisccoulson 09/02/11 03:29:07
(well, i don't particularly care about them)
that's what i meant to say 09/02/11 03:29:11
 
seb128 09/02/11 03:29:16
chrisccoulson, well then those are not really blockers for our team
you should perhaps do a call for volunteer on the list to port those 09/02/11 03:29:32
 
chrisccoulson 09/02/11 03:29:38
seb128 - this is why i want to drop xulrunner from main entirely	

pitti 09/02/11 03:29:40
chrisccoulson: is that the "port to 2.0" WIs?	

chrisccoulson 09/02/11 03:29:45
pitti - yeah	

pitti 09/02/11 03:29:55
I'd really be aggressive with removing stuff instead	

chrisccoulson 09/02/11 03:30:06
that's what i'm thinkin
g 09/02/11 03:30:08
 
didrocks 09/02/11 03:30:09
chrisccoulson: wait, couchdb needs xulrunner and is still in main?	

chrisccoulson 09/02/11 03:30:30
didrocks - i'm probably going to package libmozjs separately, and we'll have that in main for couchdb	

didrocks 09/02/11 03:30:39
chrisccoulson: ok 	

seb128 09/02/11 03:30:56
well maybe do an email for the list saying you will drop everything not ported and call for help porting things users care about	

chrisccoulson 09/02/11 03:31:02
but, based on this, we're going to have a hard time keeping up: https://wiki.mozilla.org/Firefox/Roadmap
not sure if anyone else saw that yet 09/02/11 03:31:19
 
seb128 09/02/11 03:31:39
heh
going to be fun for you 09/02/11 03:31:46
ok 09/02/11 03:31:51
 
chrisccoulson 09/02/11 03:31:52
oh yes	

seb128 09/02/11 03:31:59
so one question from me	

bryceh 09/02/11 03:32:02
I like the 'tl;dr' at the beginning 	

seb128 09/02/11 03:32:03
what should we do with vala?	

chrisccoulson 09/02/11 03:32:06
the firefox part is not so bad tbh, it's the rest of the stuff that's a pain 	

pitti 09/02/11 03:32:14
what does tl;dr mean?	

mterry 09/02/11 03:32:22
seb128, what about it?	

seb128 09/02/11 03:32:22
we still have quite some applications using vala-0.10	

micahg 09/02/11 03:32:22
I'm hoping to have some time for porting, but it probably won't be part of my work day	

mterry 09/02/11 03:32:24
pitti, too long, didn't read
pitti, it's a summary 09/02/11 03:32:29
 
pitti 09/02/11 03:32:37
ah, nice 	

seb128 09/02/11 03:32:40
we vala-0.11 packaged as a vala update
not a new source 09/02/11 03:32:43
 
chrisccoulson 09/02/11 03:32:44
micahg - don't worry about it too much, you'll have more than enough to do 	

seb128 09/02/11 03:32:54
so I'm wondering if we should bring vala-0.10 back
debian packaged both a different source 09/02/11 03:32:59
of if we should try porting the rdepends 09/02/11 03:33:05
vala-0.10 is on the nbs list for a while 09/02/11 03:33:22
but there is still shotwell and some others using it 09/02/11 03:33:29
http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/NBS/valac-0.10 09/02/11 03:33:39
does anybody has an opinion? 09/02/11 03:34:04
kenvandine, mterry: ^ 09/02/11 03:34:08
hoonteke has disconnected (Ping timeout: 265 seconds) 03:34	

pitti 09/02/11 03:34:23
is it that hard to port? i. e. does 0.11 really change the language that much?	

seb128 09/02/11 03:34:24
you are probably the ones who used vala most there	

kenvandine 09/02/11 03:34:37
hum	

seb128 09/02/11 03:34:39
pitti, that's part of the question, I didn't use vala enough to say
I know kenvandine and mterry did some fixing for 0.11 09/02/11 03:34:47
 
mterry 09/02/11 03:34:56
pitti, it does change the language, but not difficult...
how many rdepends we talking? /me checks 09/02/11 03:35:11
 
Amaranth 09/02/11 03:35:11
It's not a large charge	

kenvandine 09/02/11 03:35:11
i didn't need to fix much, mostly gir generation stuff	

Amaranth 09/02/11 03:35:14
err, change	

kenvandine 09/02/11 03:35:25
probably not something shotwell would be concerned with	

seb128 09/02/11 03:35:31
mterry, see the url I coied
copied 09/02/11 03:35:33
 
kenvandine 09/02/11 03:35:35
we should talk to them	

mterry 09/02/11 03:35:40
seb128, ah, 	

seb128 09/02/11 03:35:45
well it's rather shotwell	

slomo 09/02/11 03:35:46
why do you want to have 0.11 as an update instead of new source package anyway?	

seb128 09/02/11 03:36:08
slomo, because the guy who did the update didn't think about it by then	

mterry 09/02/11 03:36:39
slomo, it wasn't necessarily intentional at the time	

seb128 09/02/11 03:36:43
slomo, well it didn't rename the source, he just versioned the binaries for the new version	

mterry 09/02/11 03:36:49
so what would be bad about having new source?	

seb128 09/02/11 03:36:52
slomo, which sent the 0.10 to nbs
mterry, out of bring back old cruft? 09/02/11 03:37:20
 
pitti 09/02/11 03:37:21
I think we should revert -0.10 to the actual -0.10 (including binaries)	

slomo 09/02/11 03:37:23
i see, well, can't this be reverted somehow? 	

pitti 09/02/11 03:37:31
and package 0.11, and then do the transition properly	
virtuald has disconnected (Ping timeout: 272 seconds) 03:37	

slomo 09/02/11 03:37:33
like uploading vala 1:0.10.3-1 	

seb128 09/02/11 03:37:34
slomo, that's what I'm asked there
I'm asking 09/02/11 03:37:42
 
mterry 09/02/11 03:37:44
seems best all around, if it wouldn't cause hang-ups. I note that the new source is vala-0.12, so we'd have to throw out our vala source changes...	

seb128 09/02/11 03:37:57
is there any point doing that since we ported most of what we use to 0.11 by now	

mterry 09/02/11 03:38:11
seb128, long term delta from debian is one	

seb128 09/02/11 03:38:28
mterry, well no, I would sync vala-0.12 from debian	

slomo 09/02/11 03:38:29
seb128: well, difference to debian 	

seb128 09/02/11 03:38:40
the question is whether we want to sync 0.10 as well
or just drop it 09/02/11 03:38:42
 
mterry 09/02/11 03:38:44
seb128, I see, and drop 'vala'	

slomo 09/02/11 03:38:50
oh, then just drop it	

seb128 09/02/11 03:38:52
right
ok sorry that was not clear 09/02/11 03:39:09
we will bring 0.12 from debian 09/02/11 03:39:14
the question was whether we port the few 0.10 users 09/02/11 03:39:26
 
mterry 09/02/11 03:39:34
seb128, well, I am a good person to port things to 0.12... out of that list, would I have to get all of them, or just main ones if I did that?	

seb128 09/02/11 03:39:37
or if we bring that one back from debian as well
mterry, well, main is "shotwell" it seems 09/02/11 03:39:51
 
mterry 09/02/11 03:40:17
seb128, yeah, one is an easy enough task...  	
ara has disconnected (Quit: Ex-Chat) 03:40	

seb128 09/02/11 03:40:22
mterry, I will drop an email to the yorba guys and Cc robert_ancell and you on it to see if there is any reason it's still on 0.10	

mterry 09/02/11 03:40:32
seb128, k	

seb128 09/02/11 03:40:41
mterry, then you can sort with robert_ancell who want to port it 
ok 09/02/11 03:40:43
thanks mterry, kenvandine, slomo 09/02/11 03:40:52
 
kenvandine 09/02/11 03:41:08
np	

seb128 09/02/11 03:41:10
that's all from me I think
anything else? 09/02/11 03:41:16
 
kenvandine 09/02/11 03:41:40
not from me	

pitti 09/02/11 03:42:12
thanks seb128	

tremolux 09/02/11 03:42:18
thanks everybody	

seb128 09/02/11 03:42:19
ok, that's a wrap then
thanks everybody
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
jasoncwarner 09/02/11 08:36:03
Ok, eastern edition team, ready for meeting? RAOF, bryceh, robert_ancell? TheMuso
you guys around? 09/02/11 08:36:05
 
RAOF 09/02/11 08:36:17
Yo yo!	

jasoncwarner 09/02/11 08:36:39
morning!
lets get started and if people join, greate 09/02/11 08:37:14
great, even 09/02/11 08:37:19
Sweetshark lurks 08:37	

jasoncwarner 09/02/11 08:37:35
Ok, RAOF, looks like X.Org was updated on wiki. Do you have anything to add?
this is on wiki 09/02/11 08:37:39
X.org 09/02/11 08:37:45
XServer 1.10 deployment was completed and deployed in time for Alpha-2. 09/02/11 08:37:45
There was a brief period when xserver was temporarily uninstallable while drivers rebuilt. This confused many users who tried to upgrade during this window. 09/02/11 08:37:45
There was some breakage for people who still had xorg-edgers or other random X bits installed. We helped these people over the hump as we encountered them. 09/02/11 08:37:45
We learned some tricks we can use next time to further reduce the duration and severity of breakage people encounter. 09/02/11 08:37:45
-fglrx and -nvidia are currently unusable as they do not yet support XServer 1.10. 09/02/11 08:37:45
We anticipate getting updated drivers with this support by release, but for now recommend uninstalling them and using -ati or -nouveau instead. 09/02/11 08:37:45
The -intel driver seems to be getting a lot of bug reports regarding GPU lockups. This is probably due to issues in the .38-2 kernel. We're putting a priority on communicating these bugs upstream. 09/02/11 08:37:45
There are a handful of XServer segfault bug reports (possibly sharing same root cause?), some of which seem to be a consequence of an out-of-memory situation during installation; it's not yet known if this is caused by X or if it's elsewhere in the system and X is just the most notable thing to fail. 09/02/11 08:37:45
There is also a common X assert failure (bug #711422) that a number of people are hitting. We've not yet gotten a good backtrace on this, but need to do more investigation. 09/02/11 08:37:45
xkeyboard-config has had a major version update which we merged post-alpha-2, bringing in new support for more keyboards and better support for more languages. 09/02/11 08:37:45
tedg has disconnected (Quit: Ex-Chat) 08:37	

ubot2 09/02/11 08:38:06
Launchpad bug 711422 in xorg-server "Xorg assert failure: *** glibc detected *** X: double free or corruption (!prev): 0x089f5b20 - Unhandled dwarf expression opcode 0x9f" [Critical,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/711422	

bryceh 09/02/11 08:38:15
heya	
johanbr_ has joined the room 08:38	

RAOF 09/02/11 08:38:38
That's pretty much what I was going to put in, thanks bryceh  	

jasoncwarner 09/02/11 08:39:39
Ok...well then, looks like we have some work to do  Thanks...	

bryceh 09/02/11 08:39:42
just chatting with kernel team about the intel bugs. I've forwarded some of them upstream and gotten confirmation they're kernel drm issues	

RAOF 09/02/11 08:39:43
I'll add that I think I've got a good idea where bug 711422 is happening, but need investigation.	

ubot2 09/02/11 08:39:45
Launchpad bug 711422 in xorg-server "Xorg assert failure: *** glibc detected *** X: double free or corruption (!prev): 0x089f5b20 - Unhandled dwarf expression opcode 0x9f" [Critical,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/711422	

bryceh 09/02/11 08:40:01
RAOF, ah cool, was going to ask if you'd had a chance to look at that	
cyphermox has disconnected (Quit: Ex-Chat) 08:40	

bryceh 09/02/11 08:40:19
duped a *bunch* of reports of that one just a bit ago	

jasoncwarner 09/02/11 08:40:28
well, lets gt this meeting over so you guys can get to collaborating 	

bryceh 09/02/11 08:40:43
heh	

jasoncwarner 09/02/11 08:40:44
TheMuso: or Robert_Ancell, anything to add? Anything you want ot talk about?
ok... bryceh or RAOF, anything else? if not, calling it early 
</pre>
