{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Overview ==
Blueprints are vital inputs into Ubuntu planning. They serve the following purposes:
# Transparently communicate the possibility of doing some work.
# Offer a place for the community and users to comment on the possible work.
# Facilitate discussion at UDS.
# Capture desicions at UDS.
# Provide a link to details about the work (a "spec")
# Communicate commitement the community, to users, and to partners within Canonical to accomplish such work.
# Provide a means for tracking progress against that work.

== Timeline ==
=== Blueprint List: April 13th ===
By this date everyone should have a list of one or more blueprints they would like to pursue, and have reviewed that list with their techlead (seb128).

=== Blueprints registered: April 20 ===
We've reviewed our list of blueprints. Now it's time to register them. To register a blueprint, please do the following:
# Go to https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+addspec
# use the correct convention for naming. Start each name "desktop-maverick-". So for example, I might name a blueprint "desktop-maverick-fun-ubuntu-pygtk-support". This naming convention is critical for supporting the planning steps later.
# Write a nice descriptive title.
# You may skip the summary for now, but it is typical to include a few sentences to explain the thrust of the blueprint.
# Typically, you will set yourself as the assignee and the drafter and seb128 as the approver
# Then choose "Propose for sprint: Ubuntu developer summit for the M release"

Click Register

=== Blueprints prioritized and accepted: April 23 ===
seb128 and rickspencer3 will scrub priorities and accept for UDS.

The list of proposed blueprints will be viewable at this link:
https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/?searchtext=desktop-maverick

seb128 and rickspencer3 will set the priorities for each blueprint. Typically blueprints set for Essential or High priority will be discussed at UDS. 

However, some blueprints will get rejected for UDS, though the work will still happen. This typically occurs when:
# There is nothing to discuss on the blueprint, all decisions have been made or are trivial. No reason to waste time at UDS discussing such things.
# The right people to provide input into the blueprint won't be available at UDS. The discussion will happen in other forums.

Some blueprints will be accepted for UDS, but then won't be worked on. This typically happens because:
# The work is not deemed important or desirable in discussion at UDS.
# The blueprint is superseded by other blueprints.
# A lack of agreement on what to do or how to do it.
# The complexity, risk, or sheer amount of work is deemed too large for the user benefit.

The blueprints targeted for discussion at UDS will be viewable at this link:
https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/sprints/uds-m

Ultimately, all blueprints accepted for Maverick will be viewable here:
https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick

=== Blueprints complete: April 30 ===
You should now have a set of assigned blueprints that are accepted for UDS. By this date, you need to do the following for each:
# Complete the summary so that you can use it to support a good discussion and decision making at UDS
# You can stub out specs and link them as appropriate as well
# Subscribe people who you would like to attend your session to your blueprint
# Subscribe people as essential if it is truly essential that they attend, use this feature in moderation

=== Schedule Complete: May 7 ===
rickspencer3 and seb128 will schedule sessions up to this date. Note that rescheduling to accomedate last minute changes during UDS is common as well. If you have special scheduling requests, such as certain sessions on days when a certain upstream will be attending, etc... work with rickspencer3 and seb128 to make that happen.

=== Run your sessions: starting May 10 ===
show up to UDS ready to run great sessions and make deciscions!
