{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===

* Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) - chair
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Kenneth Wimer (kwwii)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt)
* Michael Vogt (mvo)
* Mirco Müller (MacSlow)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)

* Pedro Villavicencio Garrido (pedro_)
* Celeste Lyn Paul (seele)
* James Westby (james_w)
* Oliver Grawert (ogra)

=== Apologies ===

* Ted Gould (tedg) - moving house

=== Agenda ===

* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* MacSlow: Clutter version
* seele: Usability testing swag
* pitti: PackageKit in Intrepid
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsoring Overview update]]</nowiki>
* Merges
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

* MacSlow to talk to upstream developers about GtkStatusIcon/Tray-icon RGBA issues, and determine appropriate action
  ''Discussion has not yielded anyone to work on it, dropped.''

=== Actions from this meeting ===

* MacSlow to update clutter to appropriate version, not worrying about parallel install
* seele to follow up with Jono about usability testing swag.
* pitti to talk to james_w and test PackageKit on Intrepid to determine necessary work
* pitti to talk to glatzor about updating PackageKit packages to 0.2.2
* MacSlow to merge gimp, and other GTK+ applications and libraries.

=== Clutter version ===

For gdm-face-browser clutter-0.7/0.8 is needed, but from debian we only get 0.6.x

Nothing in the archive particularly depends on it, so it's a no-brainer to update.

MacSlow said he would have to drop `-doc` to make it parallel installable, the consensus was that it need not be, and that we should only have one version in the archive.

=== Usability testing swag ===

seele asked whether Jono had talked to Keybuk about usability testing swag, he had and Keybuk had said that he thought it was a good idea.  seele to follow up with Jono.

=== PackageKit in Intrepid ===

pitti asked whether anyone else was interested in helping to get PackageKit working in Intrepid.  He would really like to use it for jockey, and needs it for getting rid of more gksu desktop files.

Other thing it would be considered useful for are gnome-control-center to install themes (seb128) and easy-codec-installation (pitti/mvo).

pitti believed it to be in a pretty non-working shape, however james_w said that he had it worked in Intrepid.

==== PolicyKit ====

The discussion tangented into PolicyKit authorisation timeouts, ogra asserted that he's required to unblock gnome system tools every time and it doesn't cache the password.  This is actually a side-effect of GST's bad usage of PolicyKit, and PK has the ability to retain an authorisation for more than a single shot.

=== Activity reports ===

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

Done:
* kubuntu tutorials day, worked well
* archive admin, new queue and syncs
* redo Kubuntu seed for KDE 4
* Fix -dev dependencies of Qt 4
* Update kdeedu for no openbabel (didn't pass main inclusion review)
* Fix kdebase-workspace compile
* Fix kdepim compile
* Fix indi compile and discuss packaging with kdeedu developers
* Review and upload KDE extragear packages (thanks Arby) and a couple of other new packages
* Rebuild adept for new apt
* Merge exiv2

Blocked:
* 1 main inclusion report still needing review
* Kubuntu website

Next week:
* KDE 4.1 beta 2 packaging

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

* packaged ubuntulooks and human-theme for hardy to fix bugs #237261 and #195929

* moving human-theme around, removing ubuntulooks

* work on wallpaper ideas

* work on tweaking gtkrc and making a new metacity theme

* arranging travel plans, other administrative fun

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Intrepid specs I am drafting:
* intrepid-device-permissions, consolidate-spell-checkers, kernel-abi-package-handling, jockey-printer-driver-support: to be reviewed by Scott
 
* still drafting: guest account (still waiting for upstream feedback)

Currently open milestoned bugs (8.04.1): None

Merges:
* Done: avahi, debhelper, dhcp3, sudo, sysvinit
* Remaining: 1 trivial (libnjb)

Done:
* Again lots of SRU management for Hardy
* MIR queue flood
* Apport retracer shepherding, they are running again
* Committed my first hal-info patches upstream (urgh git)
* Lots of sponsoring
* Travel preps for sprint and Linux Plumber's conf
* Some experiments for possible guest account implementations

==== Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt) ====

==== Michael Vogt (mvo) ====

===== compiz =====
* change the compiz-kde packages to build for kde4 by default
* remove kde3 packages build and bang autofoo into shape
* hack a update-from-git helper script that automates a lot of the "make-new-snapshot" work
* fix build failure in compiz-fusion-plugins-extra
* work with MacSlow on stacked switcher plugin

===== synaptic =====
* work on xapian based search
* merged debian changes
* fix keyboard navigation problem
* upload basic xapian search enabled synaptic to intrepid
* upload new git snpashot to intrepid that fixes integration issues with latest metacity

===== merges/sponsoring =====
* python-apt, libgksu (+ sent patches upstream), cyrus-sasl2, libept (not done, debian version FTBFS), gnome-terminal (took a bit to port the launchpad-integration patch and fix build problems with latest glib), curl
* sponsor gnome-screensaver, gnome-session, metacity

===== update-manager =====
* new update-manager for intrepid with select/unselect for complete update categories (e.g. security, important updates)
* make update-manager support old-releases.ubuntu.com (#235527)

===== python-apt =====
* propper SRU for python-apt powerpc ports.ubuntu.com detection (#220890)
* add "memoly" option to python-apt to avoid possible race in libapt when pkgcache.bin is opened
* use "memonly" option in apt-xapian-index and upload new version to intrepid

===== misc =====
* mail
* bugs
* mentoring
* poke merges.ubuntu.com
* explore how hard it is to add video display support to f-spot, basic displaying for thumbnails is straightforward, but more is not
* test-install of a desktop daily (worked fine)
* Debugged/fixed empty failure window on failed codec install and uploaded new gnome-app-install
* Trying to reproduce friendly recover hang (#203385) - no luck, I can't make it hang
* prepare sru for ubuntu-restricted-extras to add sun-java6-plugin on i386 (#231098)
* explore how to add a "what packages were automatically installed as recommends" to apt/synaptic, have some working prototype code that needs a bit of polish
* travel preparing london
* catchup phonecall with scott

==== Mirco Müller (MacSlow) ====

===== client-side-decoration spec =====
* after thoroughly thinking about it, I strongly consider dropping this spec as it is something, which needs to happen in the upstream realm of GTK+ and Xorg 

===== spit-and-polish spec =====
* finished writing up spec and now ready for review and approval ()

===== gdm-face-brower spec =====
* updated and installed latest version of dbus and consolekit from git in order to get latest version of gdm from svn running again

* with some help from gdm's upstream was able to successfully log in using the new gdm

* continued reading through the design documents of the new gdm available at http://live.gnome.org/GDM/NewDesign

===== misc =====
* upon request packaged stackswitch compiz-plugin provided by Dennis "onestone" Kasprzyk for Hardy to facilitate testing and reviewing it by mpt and sabdfl and to avoid them being forced to switch to intrepid just now, the plugin is written against compiz 0.7.6, which is only available for intrepid right now by default, but there is a PPA of compiz 0.7.6 that works under Hardy and the plugin is packaged against that

===== todo =====
 ﻿* need to send spit-and-polish patches for ﻿gnome-session, gnome-screensaver and libgksu to their upstreams

* continue with sparkle implementation (as time permits)

* assigned bugs: 130441, 141432, 147966, 151395 (milestoned), 152844, 164670, 200146, 206809, 144472, 152271﻿ (milestoned)

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* desktop bug triage

* intrepid desktop merges

* GNOME 2.23.4 updates

* catchup call with scott

* claimed uds expenses

* archive admin tasks

* discussed the current gvfs-smb hardy issues, the browsing authentification one has a patch but still require some changes according to upstream, steve also tracked an another issue being due to the hardy samba being set to refuse to use lanman authentification, that's confusing for users because nautilus gives no indication about the reason why the connection is not working in such cases

* did some hardy sru uploads

==== Ted Gould (tedg) ====

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
