{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (calc)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)  
* Tony Espy
* David Siegel

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)

=== Apologies ===
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)

=== Agenda ===
* Feature Freeze Readiness
* Work Items

==== Feature Freeze Readiness ====
Focus of the meeting was on status of our specs wrt Feature Freeze. Specs should be marked as "Beta Available" or "Implemented" by Thursday 2009-08-27.

The list of blueprints is available here:
https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/karmic/+specs?searchtext=desktop-karmic-

We did not discuss specs already marked as Beta Available or Implemented. The following specs were discussed becuase their status was not set to Beta Available for Implemented at the time of the meeting:

===== Not Beta Available for Implemented =====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Blueprint'''
| '''Status'''
| '''Notes'''
|-
| desktop-karmic-bug-workflow
| n/a
| Outside of product, not Feature freeze impacted
|-
| desktop-karmic-integrating-with-ubuntu-one
| Started
| blockers are desktopcouch and evolution-couchdb, both should be in by 2009-08-26
|-
| desktop-karmic-gnomescan
| Started
| ready for inclusion, but will need to be tested and compared to x-scan next week
|-
| desktop-karmic-network-ui
| Good Progress
| Feature complete, but some changes due for UI Freeze
|-
| desktop-karmic-compiz-bug-management
| n/a
| Outside of product, not Feature freeze impacted
|-
| desktop-karmic-language-selector
| Slow Progress
| At risk, parts may need to be postponed
|-
| desktop-karmic-browsers
| Good Progress
| Not clear how this overlaps with Firefox 3.5 spec, will sort out when asac returns, not blocking feature freeze
|-
| desktop-karmic-gnome-speech-replacement
| Good Progress
| Filing MRI today - no blocking issues with hitting Feature Freeze
|-
| desktop-karmic-social-from-the-start
| Good Progress
| Decided not ship in main, as we have no room on the CD, it's coming in late, and there are no dependencies on it
|-
| desktop-karmic-input-methods
| Good Progress
| ibus-anthy, -hangul and -chewing need to be synced from debian, then the seeds can be changed
|}

===== Now Beta Available for Implemented =====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Blueprint'''
| '''Status'''
| '''Notes'''
|-
| destkop-karmic-quickly
| Beta Available
| v 0.2 due in universe when desktopcouch is available
|-
| desktop-karmic-gnome-3
| Beta Available
| zeitgeist and gnome-shell are in universe, may continue to remove deprecated libraries as time allows
|-
| desktop-karmic-evolution-couchdb
| Implemented
| feature complete
|-
| desktop-karmic-gdmconfig
| Implemented
| Has been in the product for about two weeks
|-
| desktop-karmic-bluetooth-stack
| Beta Available
| documentation and testing are left
|-
| desktop-karmic-firefox-3.5
| Beta Available
| Default in Karmic since A5
|}

===== Open Office =====
* 3.1.1 (final) release will be Thu Aug 27.
* Still need new OOo images from kwwii

===== Kubuntu =====
* Generally in good shape for feature freeze lots  of green on https://wiki.kubuntu.org/Kubuntu/Todo
* Plasma netbook needs FFe https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plasma-netbook/+bug/412101
* Knetworkmanager is in reasonable shape but we'll need to keep updating it from upstream
* DX still have a patch due for Quassel for message indicator and patches to tidy up other notifications
* MIR still pending for gpsd and MIRs due for plasma-widget-{facebook,kubuntu-qa-feedback,kimpanel,googlecalendar}
* packagekit 0.5 due but waiting on policykit-kde 1.0 support from upstream
* xsplash equivalent needs doing https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuKarmicXsplash  

===== OLS =====
* U1:
** U1 client release due tomorrow which includes bandwidth throttling, resumable upload and usage quotas 
* Couch: 
** CouchDB 0.10 snapshot uploaded, there will be one more patch needed fixing an oauth bug
** desktopcouch release today or tomorrow with replication
** evolution-couchdb release today or tomorrow, then ready for CD 
*** This will bring desktopcouch and couchdb to the install CD

===== DX =====
* xsplash:
** release due today with the last of the features for karmic
* indicator updates and session applet (fusa replacement) was uploaded this morning.
* notify-osd:
** release due tomorrow morning, including the placement changes

===== Gwibber =====
* Merging new features back into trunk today, and branching 2.0 immediately after.  Hope to have a feature complete snapshot ready by tomorrow.

===== X =====
* mesa 7.6 branch uploaded, stalled while building, but should be sorted soon, required kernel changes can come later
* ati kms should be testable after kernel changes are made

==== Work Items ====
{{http://piware.de/workitems/desktop/karmic/burndown.png}}

Still above the trend line. We expect numerous work items to be DONE, and POSTPONED around feature freeze. We will postpone work items next week to get below the trend line.

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====

* langpack-o-matic:
** tweak the scripts for zh langpack split (lots of trial and error)
** build new language packs for Karmic
* language-selector:
** fixed and tested code to pull related translation packages when language-packs are installed (testing version available in my ppa)
** hacking on new UI
* translations:
** moved firefox-3.0/xulrunner-1.9 translations over to firefox-3.5/xulrunner-1.9.1, not an easy task, needed some debugging with asac.
* misc:
** investigate available flights for the launchpad-translations sprint in Belgrade

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====
* Weekly triage catchup of -intel bugs.
* Forwarded several more -intel bugs upstreamed
* Fixed a couple bugs in lp greasemonkey scripts
* Fixed a couple bugs in upstream cgi script
* Blogged about improvements to my upstream process
* Triaging of -ati bugs
* Sponsored several nvidia-related uploads for alberto
* Investigated some karmic-targeted X bugs
* Set up some arsenal scripts as cronjobs to run fully automatically
   now.
* Confcall on lp tool automation + followup
* Merged libdrm and mesa git snapshots
* Complete triaging on all mesa bugs.  Cut total mesa bugs by over
   half.
* Troubleshoot boot issue after upgrading to latest karmic
* Fix several bugs relating to X and virtualization

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====
* OEM work
* Uploaded openoffice.org 1:3.1.1~rc1-1ubuntu1
* Uploaded openoffice.org-l10n 1:3.1.1~rc1-1ubuntu1
* OOo bug triage

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====
done:
* xsplash-for-kubuntu meeting and spec writing
https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuKarmicXsplash
* Get Eina through its main inclusion requirements
* Test and add patch for fish kioslave
* Test fix for pykde .ui files failing
* Port our .pot generation to debhelper 7 as packages have started
needing this
* Patch boost for PySide (new Python Qt bindings) and investigate bug
when run on karmic, discuss with upstream
* Build policykit-kde from kdebase-workspace rather than standalone
* Fix kgraphviewer compile
* Simplify kpackagekit notification
* Fix seeds to get CDs building
* Update konversation libindicate patches from aurelien
* Fix akonadi packages and build with mysql 5.1
* Get KOffice compiling again and build with mysql 5.1
* Patch kdelibs for data loss bug in kfileitem
* Add plasma netbook patches to kdebase and kdeplasma-addons
* Package zanshin as requested by upstream
* Discuss webkit security updates in kdelibs with security team

blocked:
* MIR on gpsd, any chance this could get done before FF?

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
====== Done: ======
* desktopcouch work
* created snapshot of the 0.10 branch of couchdb
* xsplash fixes
* indicator related packaging work and testing
* evolution-couchdb debugging

====== ToDo: ======
* desktopcouch release
* xsplash release
* couchdb oauth patch
* u1 client update
* gwibber merge, snapshot packaging

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====
===== Accessibility =====
* Further work on the gnome-speech replacement specification. Cleaned up speech-dispatcher packaging a lot, to the point where its actually easy to update the contents of a package now. Will send a patch to debian post FF since I have more pressing matters to think about at this time.
* Just about done the speech-dispatcher MIR< just need to review it and ensure I am correct about my comments re the code.
* Uploaded gnome-orca, gok, and mousetweaks version 2.27.91 to karmic.
* Uploaded accerciser version 1.7.91 to karmic.
* Uploaded a new version of espeak version 1.41 to karmic.

===== Audio =====
* Audio bug triaging, bugs in question are against pulseaudio, alsa userspace, and the kernel for hardware enablement.
* Sent kernel patches relating to rtkit to the kernel team.
* Further bug fix uploads for pulseaudio, including 0.9.16~test6, released overnight.
* Uploaded a git snapshot of paprefs to go with the latest pulseaudio code.

===== Misc =====
* A little sponsoring, pulseaudio uploads from Daniel Chen, eog, file-roller.
==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====
Karmic feature work:
* desktop-karmic-automagic-python-build-system: 
** beta available
** just the upstream discussion is missing (which isn't bound by release cycle)
* desktop-karmic-symptom-based-bug-reporting: 
** beta available
** first symptom has been in karmic for a while
** just release note/test plan left, on track for Ubuntu beta
* security-karmic-apport-abort: no progress so far, need to get this done by Thursday
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Halsectomy|hal deprecation]]</nowiki>: 
** discussed hal deprecation in checkbox, branch available
** no other progress, this is probably as far as we can get in karmic; I'm happy about how far we got, though
* gnome-panel speedup: no progress this week, target of opportunity

Other work done:
* updated devicekit-disks and gnome-disk-utility to new versions
* some udev and apport bug fixing
* cleaned some cruft on rookery to free disk space
* started digging into holiday mail backlog

Sponsoring:
* gnome-power-manager, gnome-system-tools, policykit-1, policykit-1-gnome, system-tools-backends
==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* Back from holiday: Catching up on email
* Package update/merges:
** policykit-1, policykit-1-gnome, gnome-system-tools, system-tools-backends, glade-3, gconf-editor, gnome-terminal, gnome-utils, gedit, nautilus, yelp, tomboy, gnome-games, gdm

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

==== Tony Espy (awe) ====

Network Manager:

* New snapshots of network-manager-applet, and modemmanager sponsored & uploaded by asac.
* Debugged 3g problems with Dell Mini.
* general network-manager bug triage.
* discussed applet menu changes with upstream
* submitted a NM init.d patch to kill old NM 0.7 system settings daemon on restart.
* New snapshots of network-manager-openvpn and --pptp; need to get these sponsored and uploaded.

Misc:

* updated my MOTU/Contributing Developer <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TonyEspy/DeveloperApplication|application]]</nowiki> page. Created an Uploads page with more detailed information.
* wrote an overview of Bzr everywhere for the OEM team.

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* Packaged CUPS 1.4 after having talked with Mike Sweet that the current SVN state is practically the final 1.4 and after having agreed with rickspencer3, asac, and pitti, to take it into Karmic and to do an update to the official tarball as soon as it gets available. The CUPS package needed adaptation of nearly all patches and also several new binary packages due to 4 added dynamic libraries. Also a patch from Fedora had to be applied to get DNS-SD support working. Committed to BZR repo at Debian, pitti is doing some additional small fixes and uploads the new CUPS then.
* Uploaded new snapshot of system-config-printer: Today's snapshot of the upstream GIT repo, CUPS-1.4-related fixes., fix for LP: #416014 (collected 20 duplicates).
* Uploaded foomatic-gui and ebox-printers with dependency on foomatic-db-hpijs removed.
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports.

== IRC Log ==
<pre>
[17:32]  * rickspencer3 taps gavel
[17:32] <ArneGoetje> rickspencer3: here
[17:32] <rickspencer3> If you look at the meeting page, you can see that I cut the meeting back to just Feature Freeze topics
[17:32]  * kenvandine is ready
[17:32]  * awe waves
[17:33] <rickspencer3> essentially, I'd like everyone to give pitti a quick status update on your feature areas wrt feature freeze
[17:33] <rickspencer3> and allow questions
[17:33] <rickspencer3> for some, this will be quite quick
[17:33] <pitti> right, I'd like to run over the ones at https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/karmic/+specs?searchtext=desktop-karmic- which aren't "beta avail" or "implemented" yet
[17:33] <rickspencer3> pitti: shall we start with those?
[17:33]  * rickspencer3 hand mic to pitti
[17:33] <pitti> sorted by "delivery"
[17:33] <pitti> from the top
[17:34] <pitti>    desktop-karmic-bug-workflow
[17:34] <pitti> that's not really bound to FF, is it?
[17:34] <pitti> it's a separate tool
[17:34] <rickspencer3> pitti: nop
[17:34] <pitti>    desktop-karmic-integrating-with-ubuntu-one (started)
[17:34] <rickspencer3> kenvandine: ^
[17:34] <kenvandine> that should be done tomorrow
[17:34] <pitti> kenvandine: we need to push this by FF, and get some packages on the CDs, I think
[17:35] <kenvandine> yeah
[17:35] <pitti> what are the main blockers here?
[17:35] <kenvandine> desktopcouch release
[17:35] <kenvandine> and evo couch release
[17:35] <pitti> (and I think it's not negotiable for karmic :) )
=== MacSlow is now known as MacSlow|capoeira
[17:35] <kenvandine> both due today
[17:35] <pitti> sounds on track then
[17:35] <kenvandine> yup
[17:35] <pitti>    desktop-karmic-quickly (Started)
[17:35] <rickspencer3> pitti: that should be beta available
[17:35] <pitti> my thought
[17:35] <rickspencer3> we will put v 0.2 into universe as soon as desktopcouch is in main
[17:36] <pitti> I'd appreciate if someone else could update spec states accordingly
[17:36] <rickspencer3> we are just waiting to doublecheck that it works with the latest
[17:36] <tkamppeter> hi
[17:36] <rickspencer3> pitti: will do
[17:36] <pitti> web tube is excruciatingly slow for me right now, and it'd take me minutes
[17:36] <pitti> rickspencer3: merci
[17:36] <pitti>    desktop-karmic-gnomescan (started)
[17:36] <pitti> kenvandine: should we postpone that, perhaps?
[17:36] <kenvandine> pitti, did you test that?
[17:36] <kenvandine> it is ready... but you wanted to test it
[17:37] <kenvandine> i am fine with postponing...
[17:37] <pitti> gnomescan? just around UDS, and it was basically unusable
[17:37] <kenvandine> pitti, no... remember you planned on testing after your vacation?
[17:37] <pitti> kenvandine: ah, ok
[17:37] <kenvandine> that was a 2 year old version
[17:37] <pitti> well, don't block that on me
[17:37] <pitti> if you still wnat to land it, fine
[17:37] <kenvandine> i do... :)
[17:38] <kenvandine> it is far simpler to use :)
[17:38] <kenvandine> but you weren't comfortable with it yet...
[17:38] <pitti> anyone else has a scanner, too?
[17:38] <rickspencer3> kenvandine: pitti: I would propose getting it in asap, and then we test it
[17:38] <kenvandine> mine is broken...
[17:38] <pitti> kenvandine: ok, let's discuss this later then; seems implementing this spec is trivial once we decide
[17:38] <rickspencer3> and then we can revert if necessary
[17:38] <kenvandine> yeah
[17:38] <rickspencer3> I have a scanner
[17:39] <kenvandine> install flegita and flegita-gimp
[17:39] <pitti> right, still the old problem; wrong workflow, only png, no brightness/contrast/gamma changing
[17:39] <kenvandine> testing it natively and in gimp
[17:39] <pitti> and no clipping
[17:39] <kenvandine> pitti, yeah... it is simple
[17:39] <kenvandine> xsane is the opposite :)
[17:39] <pitti> ah, clipping works
[17:40] <pitti>    desktop-karmic-wine-integration
[17:40] <pitti> Yokozar is offline right now
[17:40] <pitti> we might need to postpone that
[17:40] <pitti>    desktop-karmic-network-ui (slow progress)
[17:40] <pitti> awe: do you happen to know about this?
[17:40] <awe> yea
[17:41] <awe> i'm working on menu changes this week.  the WEP dialog changes are mostly done as well.
[17:41] <awe> should be in good shape
[17:41] <pitti> so should it actually be better than "slow progress" right now?
[17:41] <pitti> and you plan to land the essential bits in time for UIF? (I guess FF doesn't apply here, UIF is more interesting)
[17:42] <awe> FF is thurs, corrrect?, when is UIF?
[17:42] <pitti> two weeks later
[17:42] <rickspencer3> awe: two weeks later
[17:42] <awe> yea, the features should be landed before UIF
[17:42] <pitti> good; please update the status then, "good progress"
[17:42] <awe> ok, will do
[17:42] <pitti>    desktop-karmic-compiz-bug-management (slow progress)
[17:43] <pitti> not bound by FF, I think
[17:43] <rickspencer3> pitti: right
[17:43] <pitti> desktop-karmic-language-selector (slow progress)
[17:43] <pitti> ArneGoetje ?
[17:43] <ArneGoetje> yeah... probably needs exception
[17:43] <ArneGoetje> I'm halfway through, basically
[17:44] <pitti> much of it is UIF, I take it
[17:44] <ArneGoetje> yes
[17:44] <pitti> but e. g. the language-support reorg and LANG vs. LANGUAGE is FF
[17:44] <ArneGoetje> language-support reorg is done, version is in ppa for testing
[17:44] <ArneGoetje> LANG vs. LANGUAGE not yet
[17:45] <ArneGoetje> currently working on that
[17:45] <pitti> do you think you can upload the lang-support reorg by Thursday?
[17:45] <ArneGoetje> if people help me to test, yes
[17:45] <pitti> please send a CFT to u-devel@ then
[17:46] <ArneGoetje> ok
[17:46] <pitti> and u-translators@
[17:46] <pitti> thanks!
[17:46] <pitti> so we might need to postpone parts of that
[17:46] <pitti>    desktop-karmic-gnome-3 (good progress)
[17:46] <pitti> that's a collection of "target of oppportunity"
[17:46] <rickspencer3> pitti: right
[17:46] <pitti> and fine AFAICS
[17:47] <pitti>    desktop-karmic-evolution-couchdb (good progress)
[17:47] <rickspencer3> the packages are in universe, now it's a matter of how much seb128 can get done
[17:47] <pitti> kenvandine?
[17:47] <kenvandine> that should be beta available or implemented
[17:47] <kenvandine> it is feature complete
[17:47] <pitti> rickspencer3: that one was about old library migration, I think
[17:47]  * kenvandine doesn't have perms to change that
[17:47] <pitti> kenvandine: please change status then (although I guess there should be one work item for gettting it on the CD?)
[17:47] <kenvandine> the work item is on the u1 one
[17:47] <rickspencer3> pitti: gnome3 has three parts: 1. gnome-shell, 2. zeitgeist, 3. library migration
[17:48] <rickspencer3> 1 and 2 are done, and 3. is just keeping working up until the bitter end
[17:48] <pitti> rickspencer3: 1 and 2 are "get the new components in universe: DONE", I think
[17:48] <rickspencer3> right
[17:48] <pitti> kenvandine: ah, I see; so, implemented is fine, please change
[17:48] <rickspencer3> so we could set it to beta available, I think
[17:48] <kenvandine> pitti, i can't
[17:48] <pitti> desktop-karmic-gdmconfig (good progress)
[17:48] <kenvandine> that should be beta available at least
[17:48] <pitti> kenvandine: uh? aren't you assignee?
[17:49] <kenvandine> pitti, no
[17:49] <kenvandine> rodrigo is
[17:49] <rickspencer3> pitti: I changed that to implemented
[17:49] <rickspencer3> gdmconfig
[17:49] <pitti> set to beta
[17:49] <pitti> rickspencer3: oops, mid-air collision then, sorry
[17:49] <pitti> set to implemented
[17:49] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, can you change the evo-couch blueprint to implemented
[17:49] <pitti> kenvandine: already done
[17:49] <kenvandine> thx
[17:49] <pitti> anyway, gdmconfig
[17:50] <pitti> I think that should be at least beta avail, it's in the default install
[17:50] <pitti> ah, rickspencer3 changed it
[17:50] <rickspencer3> sorry
[17:50] <pitti> desktop-karmic-bluetooth-stack (good progress)
[17:50] <rickspencer3> :)
[17:50] <rickspencer3> awe: ^
[17:50] <pitti> rickspencer3: no, that was good :)
[17:50] <rickspencer3> ?
[17:50] <awe> question....
[17:50] <awe> if a MIR has been filed...
[17:50] <awe> can the task be marked DONE?
[17:51] <pitti> no, it needs to be approved
[17:51] <awe> OK
[17:51] <rickspencer3> well ...
[17:51] <pitti> there's often feedback for fixes that need to happen
[17:51] <awe> second question...
[17:51] <awe> how does a package get demoted to universe?
[17:51] <pitti> awe: if that's blocking you for something FFish, please get it to me after the meeting
[17:51] <awe> eg. bluez-gnome
[17:51] <pitti> awe: demoted> officially: report a bug against it, and subscribe ubuntu-archive
[17:51] <awe> ok
[17:52] <rickspencer3> does bluez need to be demoted?
[17:52] <pitti> awe: but in practice, you just get the new package into the seeds, and then it'll automatically fall out of main
[17:52] <awe> bluez-gnome, not bluez
[17:52] <pitti> rickspencer3: no, I think that's the underlying daemon which we keep
[17:52] <awe> pitti, ah ok
[17:52] <rickspencer3> k
[17:52] <pitti> awe: so promoting it to main and getting it into the seeds is the only remaining thing for this spec?
[17:53] <awe> pitti, it's been promoted to main, the mir bug hasn't been closed though...
[17:53] <awe> i'll follow up and make sure to update the spec accordingly
[17:53] <pitti> work items say that it's just MIR, documentatino, and testing what is left, so that looks good
[17:53] <awe> yea
[17:54] <pitti> awe: indeed, it's already the default in ubuntu-desktop
[17:54] <pitti> awe: please set to beta avail then
[17:54] <awe> ok
[17:54] <pitti> and "implemented" once all the remaining work items are done
[17:54] <pitti> desktop-karmic-browsers (good progress)
[17:54] <awe> np
[17:55] <pitti> says "good progress", but all work items are "TODO"
[17:55] <pitti> but at least the ffox 3.5 migration is mostly done, AFAICS, so that might be stale
[17:55] <rickspencer3> pitti: it's odd, as I think it overlaps with mozilla 3.5 spec
[17:55] <rickspencer3> and chromium is outside scope of ff, I think
[17:56] <rickspencer3> I suggest we follow up with asac when he gets back next week
[17:56] <pitti> right, I think for FF this is good enough, and we'll ask asac to update the spec next week
[17:56] <pitti> same for desktop-karmic-firefox-3.5
[17:56] <pitti> 3.5 is the default, so for FF purposes this is beta avail
[17:56] <rickspencer3> yes, I think it should be set to beta avail
[17:57] <pitti> (changed)
[17:57] <pitti>    desktop-karmic-gnome-speech-replacement (good progress)
[17:57] <pitti> I guess TheMuso is tight asleep
[17:57] <rickspencer3> right
[17:57] <rickspencer3> hold on
[17:57] <pitti> rickspencer3: could you perhaps handle that in the eastern edition?
[17:57] <rickspencer3> go ahead, I'll check my notes
[17:57] <pitti> I'm afraid I don't know about this one
[17:57] <rickspencer3> yes, and we will cover tonight/tomrrow
=== Amaranth_ is now known as Amaranth
[17:58] <pitti>    desktop-karmic-social-from-the-start (good progress)
[17:58] <pitti> kenvandine?
[17:58] <kenvandine> gwibber feature work is done, being merged back into trunk then will branch for 2.0... shooting to upload a snapshot of 2.0 tomorrow
[17:58] <kenvandine> i need to do the MIR for that (today)
[17:58] <kenvandine> this one will be tight, but should make it
[17:58] <pitti> is it bound to get on the CDs?
[17:58] <kenvandine> yes
[17:58] <kenvandine> afaik
[17:59] <rickspencer3> kenvandine: pitti: I have to ask again
[17:59] <pitti> so, another 2.5 MB to take from the -1 MB of free CD space
[17:59] <pitti> (different topic, though)
[17:59] <rickspencer3> why are we pushing gwibber into main now?
[17:59] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, yeah... please find out asap
[17:59] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, cause i was told it would be on the CD
[18:00] <kenvandine> if not then no need for main
[18:00] <rickspencer3> but that was for dx features that aren't going to be implemented
[18:00] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, i don' tthink that was the driver
[18:00] <kenvandine> that came up after the social from the start stuff started
[18:00] <kenvandine> it wasn't initially dx work
[18:00] <rickspencer3> kenvandine: right, the idea being that all kinds of stuff would use the backend
[18:00] <pitti> isn't empathy enough "social" :-)
[18:00] <kenvandine> hehe
[18:00] <kenvandine> pitti, true!
[18:01]  * ccheney hopes gwibber is somewhat more stable than it was in June
[18:01] <kenvandine> ccheney, should be
[18:01] <rickspencer3> let's take as POR that we don't need Gwibber in main, and I'll follow up asap to make sure that there is buy in
[18:01] <rickspencer3> if there is push back, we'll get an exception
[18:01] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, thx!
[18:01] <rickspencer3> 1. Gwibber 2 is coming in hot
[18:01] <pitti> more seriously, seb128 had some real issues with the code quality and architecture
[18:01] <rickspencer3> 2. We are desperate for room on the CD
[18:01] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, agreed
[18:01] <rickspencer3> pitti: right, that's kind of my #1
[18:02] <pitti> but we traditionally have been moving stuff to main way past FF, as long as the package itself sticks to FF
[18:02] <pitti> but it should happen before beta
[18:02] <kenvandine> ok
[18:02] <pitti> and finally
[18:02] <pitti>    desktop-karmic-input-methods (good progress)
[18:02] <pitti> ArneGoetje?
[18:03] <pitti> kenvandine: oh, if the rest is done, please set to "beta avail"
[18:03] <pitti> kenvandine: (MIR can be "POSTPONED" then)
[18:03] <ArneGoetje> ibus-anthy, -hangul and -chewing need to be synced from debian, then the seeds can be changed
[18:03] <kenvandine> ok
[18:03] <kenvandine> will do
[18:03] <ccheney> pitti: cases where that was caused by OOo shouldn't happen much anymore (if at all)
[18:03] <pitti> ArneGoetje: I saw the bug, will sync as soon as they actually land in sid
[18:03] <ArneGoetje> pitti: ok
[18:03] <pitti> ccheney: "that"?
[18:04] <ccheney> pitti: er the pushing stuff into main from universe past FF
[18:04] <pitti> ArneGoetje: so we're missing the small change to the xsession.d script to select the right method (scim vs. ibus), right?
[18:04] <pitti> chrisccoulson: ah, good to know
[18:04] <ArneGoetje> pitti: then we need to figure out how much space on the cd the scim/ibus shuffle will buy/cost us
[18:04] <ccheney> pitti: we used to put a new OOo in right around final freeze which would pull a lot of things in
[18:04] <pitti> chrisccoulson: now eucalyptus has taken over the role of "need 60 new java libs" :)
[18:04] <ArneGoetje> pitti: yes. that should be done in im-switch, I guess... however, it's not trivial.
[18:04] <ccheney> pitti: for the past release cycle (and hopefully to continue) we will have the final version of OOo in around feature freeze
[18:05] <chrisccoulson> pitti - do i need to do a full MIR for libgda4?
[18:05] <pitti> chrisccoulson: after meeting, please
[18:05] <chrisccoulson> pitti - no problem:)
[18:05] <pitti> chrisccoulson: (not really, but we generally object to library duplication)
[18:06] <ArneGoetje> pitti: if anyone with a better background knowledge of update-alternatives could assist for doing that, I would highly appreciate it.
[18:06] <pitti> ArneGoetje: update-alternatives?
[18:06] <ArneGoetje> pitti: yes, that's what selects which IM is going to be used.
[18:06] <pitti> ArneGoetje: I thought that was an user setting
[18:07] <pitti> ok, then u-a on a system level; in away that should make things easier
[18:07] <ArneGoetje> pitti: if we want to have it automatically, u-a is the current way im-switch uses it
[18:07] <ArneGoetje> pitti: only problem is, im-switch uses it based on the user's locale
[18:08] <pitti> right, that's why I thought it was an user setting
[18:08] <pitti> ok, let's discuss after meeting
[18:08] <ArneGoetje> ok
[18:08] <pitti> actually, that's the end of the list
[18:08] <pitti> the rest is beta avail/implemented
[18:08]  * pitti hands mike back to rickspencer3
[18:08] <pitti> thanks everyone
[18:08]  * rickspencer3 will have lots of summarizing to do
[18:09] <rickspencer3> before we end, I'd like to touch on a couple of hot spots that may not be ff related per se
[18:09] <rickspencer3> bryce: x? seems to be working well ... are we more or less running our final xstack now?
[18:09]  * rickspencer3 asks loaded question
[18:10]  * pitti is particularly interested in ATI/KMS, since that's FFish
[18:10] <bryce> rickspencer3, pretty close
[18:10] <bryce> rickspencer3, still need to get -ati updated, and there was a problem with last week's mesa upload I need to investigate
[18:10] <bryce> rickspencer3, aside from that it's mostly bug fixing here on out
[18:10] <rickspencer3> bryce: so the mesa 7.6 branch did not upload?
[18:10] <bryce> rickspencer3, it uploaded but didn't build on the buildd's
[18:11] <rickspencer3> oops
[18:11] <rickspencer3> ok
[18:11] <bryce> (built fine in ppas, I think it's just a version discrepancy on libdrm)
[18:12] <rickspencer3> so when you get that sorted out, we may see some regressions, but ati kms should work, right?
[18:12] <bryce> once that's sorted, people will be able to test ati kms, but we'll still be running ums at that point
[18:12] <rickspencer3> ok
[18:12] <rickspencer3> thanks
[18:12] <bryce> it'll take a kernel change to switch us to kms officially
[18:12] <bryce> if the testing goes well
[18:12] <rickspencer3> ok
[18:13] <rickspencer3> so this is next weekish?
[18:13] <bryce> yes, the mesa and -ati stuff should be this week by thursday, the kernel change can be whenever, it's minor
[18:13] <bryce> (I think... need to doublecheck with andy)
[18:13] <pitti> bryce: can you test it already with a kernel option in grub?
[18:14] <bryce> pitti, not until the mesa/-ati stuff is sorted
[18:14] <pitti> right, I meant kernel-wise
[18:14] <bryce> pitti, oh I believe so, but that's what I need to doublecheck with andy
[18:15] <rickspencer3> we should track this, as it will be new features after ff ...
[18:15] <rickspencer3> but in general, sounds managable
[18:15] <rickspencer3> bryce: thanks for your very systematic efforts moving x forward this release!
[18:16] <rickspencer3> ccheney: thanks for getting us in good position wrt OOo despite being on your OEM rotation
[18:16] <rickspencer3> finally ... looking at the burndown chart has been giving me some heartburn for the last couple of weeks
[18:16] <Riddell> yay for KDE OOo integration getting in
[18:16] <rickspencer3> though folks assure me that after feature freeze, there should be a dramatic reduction in open items
[18:17] <rickspencer3> so I think we need to go on a postponing binge right after FF, probably monday
[18:17] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, there are a bunch of extra work items on the u1 integration blueprint
[18:17] <rickspencer3> it is better to postpone early
[18:17] <kenvandine> stuff that ended up landing in other things...
[18:17] <kenvandine> noise
[18:17]  * rickspencer3 did not single out kenvandine ;)
[18:18] <kenvandine> just saying that should drop it way down
[18:18] <rickspencer3> kenvandine: ok, would be useful to just delete those lines and remove the noise
[18:18] <kenvandine> like 12 or 15ish
[18:18] <rickspencer3> great
[18:18] <kenvandine> i want to run it by josh
[18:18]  * kenvandine wants rickspencer3 to sleep at night
[18:18] <rickspencer3> hehe
[18:18] <rickspencer3> last thing ..
[18:19] <rickspencer3> we have partners relying on us to help them achieve their goals ...
[18:19] <rickspencer3> and I can see everyone working hard to help them
[18:19] <rickspencer3> that's really great ... and when I look at the release as a whole, I see that we are on a great trajectory for both new features, and good stability
[18:20] <rickspencer3> this includes Ubuntu, Kubuntu, and UNR
[18:20] <rickspencer3> any other business?
[18:21] <bratsche> pitti: btw.. I'm noticing that I'm still having this problem in Karmic that when I switch from Normal effects to None, it works fine.. but going back to Normal effects doesn't work.  Do you know why this may be?  (Intel X3100 video hardware, fwiw)
[18:21] <rickspencer3> pitti: awesome job getting ff together, on your 2nd say back!!
[18:21]  * rickspencer3 taps gavel
</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
