{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Weekly Summary ==

* Add WhatProvides plugin support to PackageKit and aptdaemon, and add plugin for language support packages to language-selector. This allows upstream control-center's region panel to work on Ubuntu. (pitti)
* Lots of language-selector code cleanup. (pitti)
* udisks2 is now available in the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-desktop/+archive/ppa||ubuntu-desktop PPA]]</nowiki>. (pitti)
* accountsservice now writes user locale configuration to `~/.pam_environment` instead of `~/.profile`. (Gunnar)
* FreeRDP 1.0 uploaded to precise. (pitti)
* Updated the CUPS package to version 1.5.2 and applied patches for toner level check (LP: #925086, LP: #926457, tkamppeter).
* gnome-control-center with the new sound panel is now available in the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-desktop/+archive/ppa||ubuntu-desktop PPA]]</nowiki>. (kenvandine)
* Network-manager a11y improvements landed this week, although they still require a dbusmenu change to be landed as well, the status of which is not merged yet. (TheMuso)
* Spent some time hunting down why Gtk entry completion popups are not accessible by using the GTK 3 demo with accerciser, and managed to crash gtk3-demo in the process. Found bugs upstream that have been filed to get entry completion popups accessible, one with a patch for GTK2. Getting the GTK entry completion popup accessible will help greatly with timezone selection in ubiquity for screen reader users. (TheMuso)
* Started working on the ALSA 1.0.25 merge, discussing with Debian maintainers about Ubuntu changes that Debian may be willing to carry, will likely merge first, then push to Debian post FF. (TheMuso)
* The unity 3D launcher in trunk should now be accessible with Orca again, although there are still a few glitches with unity 3D accessibility in general. If quicklists can be properly fixed for Unity 2D, then once again unity 2D will be the preferred environment for screen reader users in the LTS. (TheMuso)
* Updated to the latest pieces of the GNOME a11y stack in precise. (TheMuso)

== Agenda ==

* Review blueprints in light of feature freeze. (pitti)
* ''Insert things to discuss at meeting here..''

=== Partner update ===
==== UbuntuOne ====
* rhythmbox-ubuntuone has landed, again :)
* video lens should be ready for the archive real soon.

==== DX Systems ====
* Working on getting some releases for the indicators

=== Unity ===

* Unity 5.2 is out after 3 days of testing. We spotted a boot time issue and it was fixed before released. Well done all testers! (http://blog.didrocks.fr/post/Unity-5.2-is-now-released%21). More precisely, we got multimonitor support with screen edge detection, "push to reveal" launcher behavior to avoid false positive when hitting the back button of firefox, per workspace alt-tab switcher, new home dash, automaximize only on netbooks and a lot of small details that matter. List of bug fixes: https://launchpad.net/unity/5.0/5.2.0
* We spot a last important issue that we can deal in our fork of checkbox for making RC testing more pleasant  (ensuring that you have a progress on how many remaining tests we have), we will deal with it before next test period (next week).
* Unfortunately, still no compiz ready. Seems there is a regression on ATI card. the ps integration team is the stackholder for handling a pre-testing update. I gave quite some extensive help on the packaging side to speed up their work.
* The zeitgeist stack is slowly updated.
* gnome-control-center with updated design for unity settings is ready. Will be uploaded today, once a new upload for unity with new default settings (like no more intellihide and default being the locked launcher) is built. Those settings affect by design as well people upgrading.
* gnome-activity-journal (zeitgeist private handler) with gnome-control-center integration had its first released with the vala rewrite. Packaging updated, it will be soon uploaded and then, MIRed.
* The autobuild system that is deployed for unity and now ubuntu-desktop is starting to get deployed to other projects inside product stategy as well. Great :)

=== Software Center ===

=== Kubuntu ===

=== X.org ===
* xrandr-utils: Refactored in support for handling output names and transforms. (bryce)
* Reviewed X bugs fixed upstream, found four worth SRUing, coordinated with kernel team on fixes for several others (bryce)
* Worked on merging code from Brad Figg and Pedro into Arsenal for creating listings of bugs (bryce)
* Set up hardware for testing, ran piglit on five systems (bryce)

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
</pre>
