{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====

* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)
* Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF)

=== Apologies ===
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Didier Roche (didrocks)
* Gary Lasker (tremolux)
=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

==== Discussion ====

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Partner Update ===
===== UbuntuOne =====
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuOne-MaverickWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>
* Might request a FFE for ubuntuone-preferences, tomboy, and u1music for desktop SSO use
* Include a default message in evolution, explaining how to effectively use UbuntuOne <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/615889|LP: #615874 ]]</nowiki>
   - Potential solution from for translations, should land this week.

===== DX =====
* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-MaverickWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>
* indicator-appmenu updates including Desktop menu support
* hopefully have mpris2 support land in rhythmbox so indicator-sound can raise rb
* indicator-me - libgwibber port
* indicator-sound - no playlists support for maverick, mpris2 is too late
* indicator-network and dependencies will get MIR bugs filed this.

=== Kubuntu Update ===

=== Release Status ===

http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-maverick-alpha-3.html

=== UNE update ===

=== USC update ===

=== Other Business ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

==== Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson) ====

* General:
** Spent a day unbreaking the Firefox 4 dailies after upstream landed their single-chrome-manifest work. Had to rework how we ship the split branding packages
** Investigating why installing the alternative branding on FF4 leaves you with a mixture of both brandings. That's going to be a difficult one to fix, so I'll come back to that next cycle
** More packaging changes for FF4.0 - dropped the XPCOM registration hooks in the postinst scripts, as these do nothing now
** Unbreak the Firefox 3.6 dailies
** Looked at porting the plugin finder in ubufox to Software Center, but there are some issues making this quite difficult (The plugin finder needs to be notified when the plugin is installed so that it can tell Firefox to reload the plugins - this was easy with apturl, as it just exits when the installation is finished. Without this, users will have to just restart the browser, which is a sub-optimal user-experience. Also, software-center doesn't really fit in with the flow of the plugin-finder wizard, so we probably need to refactor this quite a lot)
** Built a list of security vulnerabilities in Thunderbird 3.0 which also affect the 2.0.0.24
** Busy backporting security fixes to TB2.0.0.24 for shipping in Hardy, Jaunty and Karmic
** Reviewing connman packaging changes from kvalo
** Updated compiz-fusion-plugins-extra so I can actually install the compiz updates on my box :)
* Bugs:
** Fixed <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/612185|LP: #612185 - Apport leaks the secret name of the Firefox profile directory]]</nowiki>
** Updated change for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/615889|LP: #615889 - Add Ubuntu One bookmark to Firefox fresh install]]</nowiki>
** Added Chinese and Viatnamese translations to Firefox desktop file <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/559083|LP@ #559083]]</nowiki>/<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/614190|LP: #614190]]</nowiki>
** Fixed <nowiki>[[https://launchpad/net/bugs/614190|LP: #614190 - solid colour BG is transparent in gnome-terminal]]</nowiki> - I added a new checkbox in the preferences to inherit the background settings from the theme, rather than inheriting settings from the theme when the background is set to solid colour. This is similar to how the Colours tab already works
** Fixed <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/613340|LP: #613340 - compiz-fusion-plugins-extra can't be installed]]</nowiki>
* desktop-maverick-chromium
** Started looking at MIR. Sent e-mail to Evan to talk about security updates, but I've not heard back yet

==== Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF) ====

==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====

==== Gary Lasker (tremolux) ====

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

* lucid.1 testing
* porting ubiquity changes to KDE
* archive admin

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
* telepathy-indicator
   - Got the workflow for new chats working from beginning to end
   - Hit a few roadblocks, we will land it in a PPA for more testing and then in N early 
* libgwibber
   - Enhanced the API a little further, mostly to improve the integration with indicator-me
   - Ported indicator-me to use libgwibber instead of dbus
* social from the start
   - Twitter is shutting down basic auth, and hasn't provided a feasible solution for open source clients to use their OAuth implementation.
   - Doing some research on how we can continue to support Twitter in Lucid, and all future versions

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

* SRU review and processing                            
* apport retracer maintenance                          
* archive administration                               
* bug triage                                           
* fixed poppler ABI breakage                           
* packaged new gnome-power-manager                     
* udev bug fixing

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* Introspection package fixes for 0.9
* Sponsor launchpad-integration merge
* Maverick updates: gexiv2, shotwell, seed, gjs, vinagre, libgweather, liboobs, transmission, farsight2, poppler, gnome-icon-theme, pymt, gcalctool, gnome-games, vala, eog, gucharmap, f-spot, vino, file-roller, libgnome, libgnomekdb, librsvg, evince, gnome-nettool, gnome-color-manager, vte, gnome-terminal

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* desktop updates: appmenu-gtk pidgin gst-plugins-good gdm pygtk gnome-media totem nautilus telepathy-glib libsoup cheese glib
* uploaded some gtk+ changes from the dx team to maverick
* cleaned the gobject-introspection breakage and rebuilt quite some packages after the changes
* cleaned the gdk-pixbuf .la installation
* did a murrine git snapshot
* debugged gdm not correctly loading the userlist sometimes with upstream
* updated bluez
* backported ido armel build fix from upstream
* uploaded a libindicator change to workaround an unity crash
* updated gir-repository to stop building gir provided by other sources now
* dropped nautilus rgba changes since rgba is out of maverick and that creates a crash
* cleaned libgnomekbd binary renamed for a non soname change
* sponsoring: librsvg ibus

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* foomatic-db, hplip, splix: Compressed physically installed PPD files with Vitor Baptista's pyppd software which he has developed in a GSoC project for OpenPrinting (http://pypi.python.org/pypi/pyppd). This saves us several MBs on the live CDs and still allowed to merge openprinting-ppds-extra back into openprinting-ppds, so having all PPDs on the CDs again (LP: #493282, LP: #446245).
* gutenprint: Updated to version 5.2.6 (Upstream released in time before FF after my request).
* hplip: Made users aware by package description that GUI is Qt-based (LP: #570842) and let hpijs-ppds not depend on foomatic-rip-hplip link to allow smooth uninstall of hpijs-ppds.
* ghostscript: Let the CUPS Raster output device not do over-verbose logging in CUPS' error_log.
* Reported segfault bug on simple-scan, maintainer fixed it the next day.
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports.

== IRC Log ==

[17:29] <seb128> hey there, meeting in 1 minute? <<BR>> <<BR>>
[17:30] <kenvandine> yup <<BR>>
[17:30] <kenvandine> well, now :-D <<BR>>
[17:30] <seb128> right <<BR>>
[17:30] <chrisccoulson> hi! <<BR>>
[17:31] <seb128> chrisccoulson, kenvandine, Riddell: hey <<BR>>
[17:31] <kenvandine> short list today :-D <<BR>>
[17:31] <seb128> waouh, not lot of people this week ;-) <<BR>>
[17:31] <Riddell> hi <<BR>>
[17:31] <seb128> indeed <<BR>>
[17:31] <seb128> I don't think there was remaining items from the last meeting <<BR>>
[17:31] <Riddell> where is everyone? <<BR>>
[17:32] <seb128> Riddell, holidays ;-) <<BR>>
[17:32] <seb128> anyway, let's get started, will be a short meeting <<BR>>
[17:32] <seb128> kenvandine, partners update? <<BR>>
[17:32] <kenvandine> sure <<BR>>
[17:32] <kenvandine> UbuntuOne: <<BR>>
[17:33] <kenvandine> Might request a FFE for ubuntuone-preferences, tomboy, and u1music for desktop SSO use <<BR>>
[17:33] <kenvandine> however, i think u1-preferences and u1music are already using it <<BR>>
[17:33] <kenvandine> so just tomboy <<BR>>
[17:33] <kenvandine> can't confirm because it is broken for me <<BR>>
[17:33] <kenvandine> Include a default message in evolution, explaining how to effectively use UbuntuOne bug 615874 <<BR>>
[17:33] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 615874 in evolution (Ubuntu) "Add Ubuntu One email to Evolution fresh install (affects: 1) (heat: 590)" [Wishlist,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/615874 <<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> there is a solution for handling translations <<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> should land this week <<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> so a win win there <<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> DX: <<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> indicator-me - ported to libgwibber, will be in this week's release <<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> indicator-sound - no playlists support for maverick, mpris2 is too late <<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> indicator-appmenu updates including Desktop menu support <<BR>>
[17:35] <seb128> desktop menu for unity or will that work on GNOME as well? <<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> and some alternative or other solution for unity which doesn't use nautilus for the desktop <<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> seb128, i think they are trying to figure out what works best for unity <<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> indicator-network and dependencies will get MIR bugs filed this <<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> that is it for the partner update, questions? comments? <<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> Riddell, how is U1 in kubuntu working now? <<BR>>
[17:37] <chrisccoulson> hmmm, i won't be able to sponsor kvalo's uploads anymore ;) <<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> those branches get merged? <<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> i know there was a review done, and some comments on one of them <<BR>>
[17:37] <Riddell> kenvandine: not sure, pencils down was yesterday and I need to review it all <<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> ok <<BR>>
[17:37] <Riddell> but haven't found time today so far <<BR>>
[17:38] <seb128> chrisccoulson: right, when do you apply for having rights for those? <<BR>>
[17:38] <seb128> ;-) <<BR>>
[17:38] <seb128> kenvandine, thanks <<BR>>
[17:38] <chrisccoulson> seb128 - soon :) <<BR>>
[17:38] <seb128> seems some of the change are a bit late but we will deal with it <<BR>>
[17:39] <seb128> kenvandine, try to make clear to all those ffe requesting people that it's this week or they can stop thinking about asking an exception ;-) <<BR>>
[17:39] <seb128> let's move on <<BR>>
[17:39] <seb128> Riddell, kubuntu update? <<BR>>
[17:39] <Riddell>  - Amarok 2.3.2 beta about to be released, putting into beta PPA for probably FFe inclusion in maverick on release <<BR>>
[17:39] <kenvandine> seb128, will do <<BR>>
[17:39] <Riddell>  - kopete gcall support added back with separated package <<BR>>
[17:39] <Riddell>  - evan committed major ubiquity changes then ran away on holiday, have been porting them to KDE frontend <<BR>>
[17:39] <Riddell>  - qt4-qws needing review and approval in New queue by friendly archive admin <<BR>>
[17:39] <Riddell>  - lucid.1 images looking good to me <<BR>>
[17:40] <Riddell> that archive admin bit was a hint to seb128  :) <<BR>>
[17:41] <seb128> I can do that ;-) <<BR>>
[17:41] <seb128> thanks Riddell <<BR>>
[17:42] <seb128> anybody having comments or questions about Kubuntu? <<BR>>
[17:42] <seb128> seems not <<BR>>
[17:42] <seb128> so let's move on <<BR>>
[17:43] <seb128> no UNE update nor software-center one this week <<BR>>
[17:43] <seb128> next is the release status update <<BR>>
[17:43] <seb128> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-ubuntu-10.10-beta.html <<BR>>
[17:43] <seb128> we are a bit behind as you can see <<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128> (ignore the jump yesterday, kenvandine tried to move a spec to beta ;-) <<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team.html is on track though <<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128> your features changes should have landed by now <<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> we switch to bug fix mode now <<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> so make sure you spend time on stabilization and not extra changes <<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> I think that's about it from me for this week ;-) <<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128>   <<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> anybody having extra topics, questions, comments? <<BR>>
[17:45]  * kenvandine has something to mention <<BR>>
[17:46] <kenvandine> there will be changes to twitter, which we have been kind of expecting <<BR>>
[17:46] <kenvandine> that will need SRU and to land in maverick... but the solution isn't clear yet <<BR>>
[17:46] <kenvandine> they are basically shutting down auth for open source clients at the end of the month <<BR>>
[17:46] <seb128> do they have a time estimation for the changes? <<BR>>
[17:46] <seb128> urg <<BR>>
[17:46] <seb128> that's short timeline for a such change <<BR>>
[17:46] <kenvandine> that is a little harse... but they haven't provided a good solution for open source clients <<BR>>
[17:47] <kenvandine> they have been postponing it for quite some time... they decided to just do it now <<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> is anybody talking to them? <<BR>>
[17:47] <kenvandine> yeah <<BR>>
[17:47] <kenvandine> i am trying to get an official response from them <<BR>>
[17:47] <kenvandine> their solution is to make every user go to dev.twitter.com and register their own twitter app <<BR>>
=== bjf is now known as bjf[afk] <<BR>>
[17:47] <kenvandine> and provide that to the client they are using for auth <<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> that seems suboptimal <<BR>>
[17:48] <kenvandine> which is clearly not good for end users <<BR>>
[17:48] <kenvandine> they say they want to find a better solution <<BR>>
[17:48] <kenvandine> but nothing yet <<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> seems weird that would stop the service before finding a solution <<BR>>
[17:48] <kenvandine> i am trying to directly work with someone there <<BR>>
[17:48] <kenvandine> they say basic auth is too much of a risk <<BR>>
[17:49] <kenvandine> and just need to do it... been getting pushed back and back for months <<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> risk? it's tweeting, not confidential datas... <<BR>>
[17:49] <kenvandine> yeah <<BR>>
[17:49] <kenvandine> :) <<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> *shrug* <<BR>>
[17:49] <kenvandine> well their argument is people use the same password for twitter as many other things <<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> how much time do you think you will have to take to work on that? <<BR>>
[17:49] <kenvandine> and people shouldn't be sharing their passwords <<BR>>
[17:49] <kenvandine> etc <<BR>>
[17:50] <kenvandine> unclear.. ryan already has done the work to make oauth work <<BR>>
[17:50] <kenvandine> so not too much if we can use that <<BR>>
[17:50] <seb128> ok <<BR>>
[17:50] <rickspencer3> seb128, the risk is that people can easily make accounts and use IDs to spam <<BR>>
[17:50] <kenvandine> we might end up needing to just disable twitter, which won't be much <<BR>>
[17:50] <rickspencer3> it's not so much a risk to the user, as a risk to the network <<BR>>
[17:50] <seb128> hey rickspencer3 <<BR>>
[17:50] <seb128> right... <<BR>>
[17:50] <kenvandine> seb128, yeah they want to be able to shutdown "apps" instead of accounts <<BR>>
[17:50] <kenvandine> but <<BR>>
[17:50] <kenvandine> if every user registers an app... it is just like creating more accounts :) <<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> what ever <<BR>>
[17:51] <kenvandine> anyway... <<BR>>
[17:51] <kenvandine> i am working it... <<BR>>
[17:51]  * rickspencer3 ducks back out <<BR>>
[17:51] <kenvandine> will keep you posted <<BR>>
[17:51] <kenvandine> that is all <<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> thanks kenvandine <<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> any other topic? <<BR>>
[17:52] <seb128> seems not <<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> thanks everybody <<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> let's go back to getting maverick to rock ;-) <<BR>>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
