{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
Meeting in #ubuntu-desktop at 16:30UTC
* Jason Warner (jasoncwarner) - chair
* Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson)
* Didier Roche (didrocks)
* Gary Lasker (tremolux)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Mathieu Trudel-Lapierre (cyphermox)
* Michael Terry (mterry)
* Rodrigo Moya (rodrigo)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)
* Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* X Update
* Unity Update
* USC Update
* New meeting time
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

==== Discussion ====

* [eastern edition] Discussed what the purpose of the meetings were and what we produce from them

=== Actions from this meeting ===

* [robert_ancell] Email team about meeting/action items format

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===
* jasoncwarner - follow up with tkamppeter about paper size bp
* doko/riddell - investigate ARM issue with kubuntu
* didrocks - update wiki template w/ updated agenda and rodrigo
* pitti - prepare initial release page
** carried over, will prepare for this Friday's release meeting
* jasoncwarner - follow up meeting w/ TheMuso

=== Partner Update ===
===== UbuntuOne =====
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuOne-NattyWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>
* Work item planning is taking shape, they resolved team assignment problems they had last cycle.  We should be able to effectly view their status throughout the cycle.  They will get all the work items in by the end of this week.

===== DX =====
* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-NattyWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>
* QA has finished an initial API for automated testing

=== Kubuntu Update ===

=== X Update ===

=== Unity update ===

* After a semi-marathon with the dx team, unity is now out in the unity ppa (https://launchpad.net/~unity/+archive/ppa) !
 So, if you want to try it (it's really a pre-alpha), make sure to read this: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Unity/InstallationGuide
* There are some known bugs on i386 which will be fixed this week release. We will upload it to natty on next release (Thursday probably) and kill ubuntu-netbook on arch !armel at the same time.
* Some remaining bugs on compiz too, we'll dive in this week as well and talk about migration.

=== USC update ===
* Ratings and Reviews
** ISD team has kicked off development of the server-side code
* Work items defined for:
** <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/packageselection-foundations-n-ratings-and-reviews-in-software-center|Ratings and Reviews in Software Center]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/software-center/+spec/packageselection-desktop-n-donations-for-free-software-through-software-center|Donations for free software through Software Center]]</nowiki>
* Performance
** Made a plan to track Software Center performance metrics through regular automatic testing throughout the cycle
** Instrumented Software Center to profile startup time
* Targeted UI code refactoring, bug fixes

=== Weekly bugs summary ===

=== Release Status ===

http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-desktop-team-natty-alpha-1.html

=== Other Business ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

* Off Tues and Wednesday (vacation)
* Off Thursday (National holiday)
* Off Friday (funeral for family member)
* Created new packaging for libxkbcommon, one of Wayland's dependencies; uploaded to PPA
* Packaged mesa with tweaks to make it work with wayland; uploaded to PPA
* Packaged cairo with cairo-gl enabled, required for Wayland; uploaded to PPA
* Packaged patched -intel as required for Wayland; uploaded to PPA
* Created new packaging for wayland; uploaded to PPA
* Began testing Wayland from PPA; currently debugging a missing symbol
* Sponsored new xserver 1.9.0.902 for natty
* Sponsored mesa / karmic upload to enable b43 chipset
* Fixed/clarified licensing in xdiagnose; reuploaded to Universe
* Fixed issue preventing Ubuntu-X bug graphs from updating properly
* Follow up on review comments for two launchpad development branches; fix various issues; resubmitted for review

==== Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson) ====

* firefox-4
** Finished porting ubufox, plus testing.
** Investigated language-pack packaging. We're most likely going to ship the packed xpi in the language packs, rather than having them unpacked
** Spent some time adding abrowser to the xulrunner package, but hit quite a few hurdles along the way (not sure what to do with language packs, should abrowser use the same profile as firefox, how do we handle upgrades etc), so I reverted this and added abrowser back to the firefox source again for now.
** Will revisit this later in the cycle if I have time
** Worked on making Firefox work in GNOME 3.0 (using GIO for protocol handler settings, and GSettings for desktop-background). Patchset sent upstream, now working through review comments.
** Fixing a bug in the new profile migrator that prevents Firefox starting for some users
** Getting ready to push the button on the Natty upload, but now battling with a failing laptop which keeps ruining my test builds :(

* General
** Investigated an issue with the GTK 2.23.1 upload last week

==== Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF) ====

==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====

* Unity
** uploaded compiz 0.9 to natty (compiz, libcompizconfig, compiz-fusion-plugins-main, compizconfig-python, compiz-config-settings-manager, compiz-backend-gconf)
** test, debug with upstream and push the glib branch from compiz (and rebuild all depends for new ABI break) and fix misc dep issues
** bamf: upload new version
** investigate and fix a mesa dep issue making nux not building in buildds (finally got it \o/).
** finish packaging and upload to the unity ppa nux and unity (https://launchpad.net/~unity/+archive/ppa)
** worked with the dx team to fix their build system and small fixes in the code too (nux, unity)
** backport compiz to the unity ppa for maverick
** Bug triaging
* GNOME:
** gnome-desktop3: update gnome-wallpaper-cache patch, resubmitted upstream and fix DSO linking issue
** gnome-panel: fix uncompatibility with new compiz and fix DSO linking issue
** gnome-control-center: fix uncompatibility with new compiz and fix DSO linking issue
** libgee: investigate and fix issue from shipping vapi file
** evolution: found and fix some bugs backporting new patches (calendar issues, linking issues)
* Misc:
** reviewed, sponsored: json-glib, evolution-data-server (still need evolution to be fix for an upload), utouch-grail, nautilus-share
** review of ubuntuone-control-panel packaging (not uploaded yet, need newer u1-panel)
** tweak the python and python-support build/install chain to support --prefix and Quickly to install in /opt/<appname> with linking and byte-compile at install time: cdbs, python-support, python-distutils-extra and Quickly: can be found in my ppa: https://launchpad.net/~didrocks/+archive/ppa (test needed!)

==== Gary Lasker (tremolux) ====
* tzdata update 2010o <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/672808|LP: #672808:]]</nowiki> 2010o available
** Prepared updates for dapper, jardy, karmic, lucid, maverick
** Verified all updates in -proposed, updates released (thanks pitti!)
* Refactored Software Center spinner code
* Tested and verified fix in -proposed for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/666956|LP: #666956:]]</nowiki> partner channel not enabled by "Use this source"
* Tested, verified fix and closed <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/637088|LP: #637088:]]</nowiki> purchased item doesn't show up in history
* Lots of Software Center bug triage and cleanup
* Review and merge lp:~pitti/software-center/scour, thanks!
* Set up an Atom-based netbook for use in Software Center performance testing and monitoring
* Weekly Software Center planning call
* Expense report UDS Orlando

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

* Packaging Qt 4.7.1
* SRU for packagekit
* Archive admin, most of a day
* packaging mentoring
* updating python-qt4
* Investigate Qt compile failure on ARM 
* Day off Friday

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
* gwibber fixes for facebook allocation problems, back ported for Lucid and Maverick SRUs
* ibus SRU
* ubuntu-geoip packaging, initial upload
* Started work on new UI for gwibber, which will be a11y friendly from the start.
* libgwibber
   - ported Accounts API to return a list of Account objects
   - ported entry widget to use Account objects
   - Fixed build problems related to stricter namespace rules 

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

* LPC trip report
* Announced natty changelog handling
* Apport bug fixing and improvements
* Apt-changelog: make server name configurable
* Archive administration
* Blueprint reviews
* Cups bug fixing
* Desktop team meeting
* Discuss perlsectomy with Debian Perl team
* Discussed changelog stripping with community, made some fixes
* Discussed kernel SRU QA process
* Do some bootcharts on natty, investigate some regressions
* Eliminate perl dependency from various packages
* Enable compressed indexes by default in apt                  
* Evaluate status of current perl reverse dependencies
* Fix apt-listchanges for packages without a changelog         
* Fix pkgbinarymangler to not try to optimize .png symlinks    
* Gnome-settings-daemon SRU for Super+P bug (#539477)          
* Integrate apt-changelog into apt
* Investigate current CD oversizedness
* Investigate nux FTBFS                                        
* Investigated potential savings from using jpegoptim          
* Learned some basics about systemd
* Libnotify4 packaging fixing
* Media-player-info bug fixing
* Optimize SVGs and JPEGs in various packages
* Package libnotify 0.7.0
* Pkgbinarymangler bug fixing
* Pkgbinarymangler: truncate Debian changelogs instead of removing altogether
* Reviewed rsyslog sponsoring                                  
* Sponsored gdm-guest-session, gst-plugins-base0.10, gutenprint, x264, tzdata (for all stables)
* Udev: fixed broken initramfs creation during upgrade (#672964)
* Update packagekit-gnome to latest version, to get rid of obsolete libdevkit-power
* Updated apport to new upstream version
* Work item tracker bug fixing and maintenance
* Write apt-changelog and manpage

==== Mathieu Trudel-Lapierre (cyphermox) ====

* Tons of work on synaptic porting to gtkbuilder (almost done!)
* Investigate tarball issue with NM daily builds
* Update to wireless-tools to temporarily fix FTBFS issue on Natty (eglibc/kernel headers related)
* Uploaded network-manager 0.8.2

==== Michael Terry (mterry) ====
(four workdays)
* Quickly: Branch reviews (modular-add, preferences-dialog2, mallard-help), landed modular-add and preferences-dialog2
* GNOME3: gtk3 version of launchpad-integration, ported indicator-applet to dbus, created gtksourceview3 packaging, gtk3 version of libpeas
* pkgme: landed first pass at vala pkgme backend
* vala-dep-scanner: worked on handling gir files

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* GNOME3 updates
* GNOME 2.32.1 updates
* Updated versions page to track more information about unstable updates

==== Rodrigo Moya (rodrigo) ====

* GNOME 3:
** Packaged new libgnomekbd, gnome-settings-daemon, gnome-control-center, libgnome-media-profiles, gnome-media
** Upstreamed some more g-c-c patches, obsoleted others to package 2.91.2
** Upstreamed some gnome-nettool patches
* Upstream:
** Ported null_applet in gnome-applets to new libpanel
** Ported invest applet in gnome-applets to use introspection bindings in pygi
** More upstream glib, evolution, g-s-d and g-c-c work
** Released g-s-d 2.32.1
* Other:
** Attended Linaro talks (https://wiki.linaro.org/Releases/1105/PublicPlanReview)
** Worked on some missing bits in ubuntuone-client's libsyncdaemon API

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

(only 3 work days this week)
* updated gdm to not ship the fusa applet
* updated gnome-desktop3 to the current version
* totem-pl-parser update
* fixed gnome-applet and gnome-vfs build issues with the natty gcc
* investigated and reverted a broken gtk update in natty 
* gnome-settings-daemon update
* gconf update
* reviewed and sponsorised launchpad-integration gtk3 build
* lot of investigation on the GNOME3 updates requirements and what updates
   need to be grouped, updated the blueprint whiteboard with all the notes

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
