{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page is a place to propose changes to the Desktop seed.  Read SeedManagement before making a proposal, and put your name and any rationale next to your proposal.

 a. offlineimap # suggested by AndrewBennetts

** ScottJamesRemnant: is this necessary?  Evolution and Thunderbird both do this themselves, supported I say
** JeffWaugh: i kind of agree, though it complements fetchmail, is written in python, and doesn't have onerous depends
** MaryGardiner: unless I misunderstood, I think AndrewBennetts's concern was that it wasn't in universe either (it is now).
** JeffWaugh: yeah, that was just a build bug - i think we need it in at least SupportedSeed, though.

 a. libbtctl # requires libopenobex1.0 from universe
 a. gnome-bluetooth
 a. gnome-phone-manager

** JeffWaugh: From EddDumbill's <nowiki>[[http://usefulinc.com/software/gnome-bluetooth|gnome-bluetooth]]</nowiki> project

 a. polypaudio

** JeffWaugh: replacement for esound, might pass this up for an esound/jack solution if it's not included in GNOME

 a. jack

** MarkusHubig: Can be used as a backend for polypaudio

 a. mdnsresponder

** JeffWaugh: howl's system daemon, lets you do opentalk/rendezvous stuff. gnome-vfs will depend on the howl libs, which use this.

 a. ooqstart-gnome, DicOOo.sxw/OOodi

** AlexanderPoslavsky: Applet for OpenOffice, small but makes working with OOo a lot faster.
** JeffWaugh: i'd like to avoid ooqstart-gnome (particularly "on by default") if possible, because it's a bit of a hack ;-) but if OOo doesn't get faster soon...
** AlexandreOttoStrube: increases session initialization time, and increases a lot memory usage (when not using OpenOffice, of course). Let a 30mb program lying around may let the system looking even more bloated that gnome already seems to be, specially in third-world not-so-updated hardware.

 a. gaim-guifications
** RubenVermeersch: combined with the industrial style (in the sf tracker), this blends in perfectly, can't live without it
** LewisThompson: I'll second this.  gaim is a pain without guifications.  I also found the Human MSN Guifications theme (which needless to say fits in perfectly) at http://www.gnome-look.org/content/show.php?content=23125

 a. gsfonts-x11

 a. coaster # DavidNielsen: We need a good cd-burner app, coaster seems to be inline with GNOME2 design

 a. scim-chinese # Shixin Zeng: An input engine of SCIM(Smart Common Input Method platform http://freedesktop.org/Software/scim). It contains an excellent Chinese input method called Smart Pinyin, which may be the most popular input method among Chinese people. I think that to spread ubuntu in China, it must be included. All packages related to SCIM in debian are already in ubuntu, except scim-chinese.

 a. debinstaller # TimFuchs: because it will be a big help for newbies and seems to be in line with ubuntus philiosophy of providing a simple but efficient gui; written in python; link: http://linux.thestreet.dk/; correction: i don't want exactly this program to become a part of ubuntu, but at least any program that assists the user after cklicking on a .deb, this can be just an information dialog, the previous mentioned debinstaller, or some kind of synaptic module

 a. d4x # AlexeyMolchanov: Downloader for X is a GUI user-friendly download manager based on GTK+ 2.

 a. ttf-alee
 a. ttf-unfonts
 a. nabi
 a. imhangul

** JeffWaugh: More Korean fonts and input method support

 a. netapplet

** JeffWaugh: proposed (with consensus and approval) for inclusion in hoary as a holdover until NetworkManager is sane

 a. multisync

** PeterWhysall: If multisync is considered suitably stable, it'd make a nice complement to the Bluetooth related packages.

 a. Gnome Clipboard Manager ( http://gcm.sourceforge.net/ ) and/or GNOME Clipboard Daemon ( http://members.chello.nl/~h.lai/gnome-clipboard-daemon/ ) as it is really annoying to have copied something and then losing it because you closed the program.

 a. Gnome PPP 

*** Peter Enseleit: WVDial is great, but we should have a simple GUI based dial-up app for people who have no idea about how to use the Linux command line. Gnome PPP or some such app would be ideal. 
(I know you can use the Modem Lights app and set the connect command to "wvdial" and disconnect command to "killall wvdial", but that is not documented and most desktop users just want things to work quickly anbd easily with a gui.
Also, we should use a group like dip or dialout for wvdial/Gnome PPP/pppd and /etc/ppp to allow ordinary desktop users to use ppp without having to run it and wvdial and Gnome PP etc as root. - (As long as we maintain good security in this practice)

 a. ROX Filer
 a. IceWM
 a. Sylpheed
 a. FLPhoto
*** Wit Wilinski: ROX+IceWM is a fabulous light-weighted desktop envrionment (could be an alternative for bloated GNOME), Sylpheed is a light-weight MUA. Flphoto is a photo album, useful for importing files from digital cameras. Small and nice looking, thanks to FLTK toolkit.

 a. gnome-photo-printer

*** RalphGlass easy photo printing, selectable layout, photo size etc., preview option

From DanielTiziani Wed Feb 2 18:32:46 +0000 2005
From: Daniel Tiziani
Date: Wed, 02 Feb 2005 18:32:46 +0000
Subject: Gnome Baker
Message-ID: <20050202183246+0000@www.ubuntulinux.org>

Seems to be the best Gnome Burning CD TOOL, and I think ubuntu is missing one right now.

From CarlosFenollosa Sat Feb 5 14:54:55 +0000 2005
From: Carlos Fenollosa
Date: Sat, 05 Feb 2005 14:54:55 +0000
Subject: Sorry
Message-ID: <20050205145455+0000@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

Sorry, I'm kind of new to the wiki, but I'd like to know why my previous comment was deleted. Maybe it was in the wrong place, but there was no comment left by the editor. Can somebody tell me what did I do wrong?

 a. Novell iFolder, file sharing, synchronisation and collaboration utility.

From CarlosFenollosa Sun Mar 20 20:47:28 +0000 2005
From: Carlos Fenollosa
Date: Sun, 20 Mar 2005 20:47:28 +0000
Subject: GnomeBaker
Message-ID: <20050320204728+0000@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

It seems that some bleeding-edge distros (http://foresightlinux.com/) already chose gnomebaker as default CD writer. Many ex-Windows users even told me that it is easier to use than k3b

From SoumyadipModak Sun Apr 3 21:23:41 +0100 2005
From: Soumyadip Modak
Date: Sun, 03 Apr 2005 21:23:41 +0100
Subject: ttf-indic-fonts and ttf-malayalam-fonts
Message-ID: <20050403212341+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

Hi, I'm currently maintaining the ttf-indic-fonts, ttf-malayalam-fonts, ttf-tamil-fonts and ttf-bangla-fonts. I feel that including only the first two font packages is doing injustice to the other languages of India. If it's not too much of a trouble, please include the remaining two packages.

CategoryArchive
