{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (calc)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Pedro Villavicencio (pedro)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)  
* Tony Espy (awe)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting

==== Status Updates ====
* Partner Update
* X Status and Mesa 7.6
* pulseaudio status
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
{{http://piware.de/workitems/desktop/karmic/burndown.png}}
* Review activity reports

=== Partner Update ===

====== Online Services ======
 <nowiki>[[UbuntuOne-DesktopIntegration-Status|Status]]</nowiki>
* desktopcouch 0.3 is broken, fix is coming today

====== DX ======
* notify-osd 0.9.19
** moved notifications to near the center on the right, this is not a bug.
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NotifyOSD#Outside%20the%20bubble|New placement]]</nowiki>
* Indicator applet and related libraries all uploaded
** This includes the fusa replacement, indicator-applet-session
* xsplash
** Final artwork is in which will be ready for upload for Thursday

=== X Status and Mesa 7.6 ===
* Intel engineers worked over the weekend to fix a bug that manifested itself by causing Compiz to consume 100% of the CPU.
* The fix was confirmed fixed by the desktop team and kernel QA (ogasawara)
* The fix has been merged with the Ubuntu Kernel and upstream kernel as well
* Bryce expects this has fixed other X issues as well, and is reviewing the bug database for this purpose
* Bryce sees no reason not to continue with the current plan to ship mesa 7.6

=== pulseaudio ===
* Last week rickspencer3 encountered significant stability issues with pulseaudio
* pedro did an analysis of the bug reports, and did not observe a spike of new pulseaudio bugs during this time
* rickspencer3's pulseaudio problems were resolved by a dist-upgrade today
* TheMuso is investigating

=== Kubuntu Update ===
* KDE 4.3.1 is uploaded and working well
* Upstream Plasma Netbook has just decided to depend on KDE 4.4, Kubuntu team is investigating what upstream components can work with Karmic Kubuntu, using KDE 4.3
* usb-creator-kde is fixed and working as well as the gtk version
* quassel patch for message indicator has issues that need fixed before upload.  aurelien has said he wants to create Ayatana style notifications too as this is easier than he expected, would need FFe.
* rickspencer3 encourages all netbook owners to try Kubuntu netbook version and provide feedback after alpha 5. Good weekend project.

=== Other Business ===
* Open Office 3.1.1 final tested and uploaded today

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

* vacation
* some network-manager and friends daily fix attempts

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====
* langpack-o-matic:
** build new language packs for Karmic
** updated all language-support metapackages
* language-selector:
** adding a combobox for choosing the Input Method
** general debugging
* misc:
** testing ibus
** booking flights for the launchpad-translations sprint in Belgrade

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====
* Confcall with AMD about upcoming -fglrx release scheduling
* Cherrypick some mesa bugfixes
* Prepared and uploaded mesa and libdrm git snapshots
* Updated several machines to latest karmic; reported bugs discovered
* Studied CDROM use case, analyzed that all issues found are
   appropriately reported, and wrote blog summarizing situation.
* Detailed review of recent xserver-xorg-video-ati changes upstream
* Updated/bugfixed Arsenal cronjobs
* Wrote a general purpose configurable lplib script to request bug
   reporters re-test when a video driver is updated
* Reorganized test equipment
* Assisted kees with -nvidia/-fglrx security improvement
* Analysis/upstreaming of 100% compiz freeze bug.  Tested downgrading
   mesa.  Tested/verified kernel patch.

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====
* OEM work
* Prepared openoffice.org 1:3.1.1-1ubuntu1 for karmic and jaunty ppa. (Uploading)
* Prepared openoffice.org-l10n 1:3.1.1-1ubuntu1 for karmic and jaunty ppa. (Uploading)
* OOo bug triage

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====
done:
* Package, test and upload KDE 4.3.1
* Get remaining packages we want through MIR and on the CD into main
before FF
* investigate kimpanel for CJK support, tidy up packaging and upload
* fix Amarok packaging merge
* Update low disk space patch from upstream
* Patch kmail and Kopete for message indicator
* Investigate quassel message indicator patch and report bugs
* Day off on Friday

todo:
* Next alpha

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
===== Last week: =====
* Prepared uploads for:
** indicator-messages
** libindicate
** indicator-applet
** indicator-session
** libdbusmenu
** notify-osd
** xsplash
** desktopcouch
** couchdb
** gwibber
* Setup daily builds of all of the above
* Hacked on xsplash, desktopcouch and gwibber
* Boot testing with xsplash
* Feature work on gwibber, xsplash and desktopcouch

===== This week: =====
* Swap day Wednesday
* Bug fixing in gwibber
* desktopcouch release
* xsplash release
* install testing
==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====
==== Accessibility ====
* Started debuging speech-dispatcher's pulseaudio output code, beginning with fixing its broken setup logic, as well as adjusting buffering sizes to get the best possible latency. This work is still ongoing.
* Fixed a few small speech-dispatcher bugs related to the new cdbs packaging and other issues raised in the speech-dispatcher MIR.

==== Audio ====
* Audio bug triaging, bugs in question are against pulseaudio, alsa userspace, and the kernel for hardware enablement.
* Got some feedback about the rtkit kernel patches, with the kernel team not wanting to include them this late in the piece, particularly since they do not yet have an upstream kernel schedule.
* Further bug fixing for pulseaudio, thanks to Daniel Chen. We are tracking git activity of pulseaudio, and will likely submit an FFE to get final pulseaudio 0.9.16 into karmic.
* Updated alsa-lib and alsa-utils with some bug fixes, thanks to Daniel Chen.

==== Misc ====
* A little sponsoring, paritulclary prior to feature freeze.
* Updated dmraid to the latest Debian revision.
* Some examination of xsplash and gdm, to try and work out a sane way of Ubuntu derivatives being able to swap the Ubuntu themes out for their own.

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Karmic feature work:
* desktop-karmic-automagic-python-build-system: 
** beta available
** just the upstream discussion is missing (which isn't bound by release cycle)
* desktop-karmic-symptom-based-bug-reporting: test plan/release note written, "implemented" now
* security-karmic-apport-abort: 
** implemented my part last week
** "beta available" now
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Halsectomy|hal deprecation]]</nowiki>: 
** Rhythmbox now dropped hal and uses gudev and media-player-id
** this is probably as far as we can get in karmic; I'm happy about how far we got, though
* gnome-panel speedup: no progress this week, target of opportunity

Other work done:
* Implemented stripping of GNOME help translations from packages, and install them into the language packs. This will buy us a lot of CD space, depending on how many languages we actually ship.
* Fixed Apport retracers, they started to crash a lot due to hooks reassigning packages
* Absurd amount of MIR reviews
* Fully caught up on SRU processing after holiday lag
* Bug fixing in cups, devicekit-disks, gvfs, policykit-1, policykit-1-gnome, gnome-disk-utility, gvfs, hal
* Packaged media-player-id
* Discussed ibus migration with Arne, changed seeds accordingly
* Filed expenses for Karmic sprint
* Tested gnomescan, added feedback to whiteboard
* tzdata update for stables
* Updated glib2.0 and gvfs to new upstream versions

Sponsoring:
* couchdb, couchdb-glib, desktopcouch, evolution-couchdb, fftw3, gdm, gimp, gnome-applets, gnome-terminal, gtk+2.0, gtkmm2.4, gtksourceview2, indicator-applet, indicator-messages, indicator-session, libdbusmenu, libindicate, libindicator, notify-osd, pango1.0, pangomm, rhythmbox, ubuntuone-client, ubuntuone-storage-protocol, xsplash
* Reviewed, but not uploaded: gnome-games
* Reviewed outstanding sponsor sync bugs, approved as appropriate

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* Package update/merges: gcalctool, brasero, vino, gtk-vnc, vinagre, libgweather, gnome-panel, gnome-desktop, gnome-session, gimp, gtksourceview, gnome-power-manager gtkhtml3.14, rhythmbox, gtk, glibmm, pango, gnome-doc-utils, gtkmm, pangomm
* Compiz 0.8.3 and git branch review
* Find workaround for connect-to-server SMB problem (LP: #247124)
* Bug fixing and triaging in gnome-games and gcalctool

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

(one work day only after holidays)

* catching up on emails after holidays, took most of the day
* updated notify-osd in karmic
* backported a nautilus inhibit fix from git
* backported a gnome-keyring crasher fix from git
* looked at update-manager crashing on start and uploaded a fix for the issue
* desktop updates: libgnomekbd poppler evolution-data-server evolution evolution-exchange 
* sponsoring: glade-3 xdg-user-dirs libgnomekbd empathy empathy gnome-control-center

==== Tony Espy (awe) ====

Bluetooth:
* tested Jaunty-to-Karmic upgrade to ensure that gnome-bluetooth is the resulting BT applet.

Network-Manager:
* general bug triage
* tested latest UNR build on Dell Qioa Hong.
* started working on new upstream snapshot; fixed build failures in 'nightlies.

Misc:
* Monday: vacation day
* Spent more than a 1/2 day debugging problems with an nvidia driver update which took out my system.
* Made travel arrangements for Wi-Fi Mini-Summit and Linux Plumber's conference in Portland, OR.

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* Testing of the new CUPS 1.4.0: Worked with pitti on changes to make the new libusb-based USB backend work (LP: #420015), applied upstream patch against infinite loop in USB backend (LP: #420797), asked Koji Otani (PDF filter upstream developer) for fix for pdftopdf filter to work with daily changing Poppler API which cause CUPS to FTBFS. 
* Made the bluetooth CUPS backend work with CUPS 1.4.x (got accepted upstream).
* Uploaded latest snapshot of foomatic-db before Feature Freeze to support Sharp's non-PostScript printers (LP: #253905).
* Uploaded latest snapshot of system-config-printer before Feature Freeze to get the upstream fix for LP: #416014.
* Checked all printing-related packages whether they are up-to-date before Feature Freeze.
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports.

== IRC Logs ==
[17:32] <rickspencer3> okay, there were no action items from last meeting, as it was all Feature Freeze status<<BR>>
[17:32]  * kenvandine is here<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> so that means, in general, we are turning to bug fixing and stabelization<<BR>>
[17:32] <asac> hi<<BR>>
=== rugby471|hmwork is now known as rugby471<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> the good news for you all, bug-zapper is temporarily stymied by a launchpadlib change<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> :)<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> so, let's run through the agenda<<BR>>
[17:33] <bryce> heya<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, partner update?<<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> sure<<BR>>
[17:34]  * asac notes that burn down chart looks pretty good<<BR>>
[17:34] <asac> not even that much yellow<<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> dx and ols landed lots of stuff last week<<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> although desktopcouch is actually busted now... fix coming real soon<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> there is also new artwork coming in xsplash... we hope today<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, "real soon" means in the next hour or so?<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, it is being tested now<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> well<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> for xsplash?<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> or dc<<BR>>
[17:35] <ccheney> ooo 3.1.1 (final) coming in about 15m<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> dc<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> maybe... they have a branch being reviewed now<<BR>>
[17:36] <pitti> ccheney: for the build, please just make sure that it works, since we are in alpha-5 soft freeze<<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> xsplash has a new bug, introduced by the artwork<<BR>>
[17:36] <pitti> ccheney: but, great to see it land in time!<<BR>>
[17:36] <ccheney> pitti: already tested :)<<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> bratsche is working on it<<BR>>
[17:36] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, ok<<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> i think that is all i have..<<BR>>
[17:36] <ccheney> pitti: otherwise would have been uploaded yesterday took around 5 hr to build, heh<<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> expect bug fixes :)<<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> and expect bugs :-p<<BR>>
[17:36] <rickspencer3> I would really like to see xsplash updated before I wake up tomorrow am, any chance of that happening?<<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> yes<<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> there is a chance :)<<BR>>
[17:37] <pitti> with a real throbber?<<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> pitti, yes<<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> and it looks awesome<<BR>>
[17:37] <pitti> \o/<<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> built in my daily builds ppa :)<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> so who can upload it when it is ready?<<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> but the fading broke<<BR>>
[17:37] <pitti> kenvandine: my wife will leave for the evening, so I'll be around for a bit<<BR>>
[17:37] <pitti> rickspencer3: o/<<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> pitti, awesome<<BR>>
[17:37] <bratsche> kenvandine: I found a way to get it working for now.<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> thanks pitti<<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> bratsche, great!<<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> bratsche, release coming?<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> bratsche, what do you mean "for now"?<<BR>>
[17:38] <rickspencer3> is it not a permanent solution?<<BR>>
[17:38] <bratsche> kenvandine: For some reason only the larger images break it.  So I posted a revision for review now that won't use any images higher than 1280x1024.<<BR>>
[17:38] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, means a hack to make it not suck... until we can fix it for real :)<<BR>>
[17:38] <kenvandine> bratsche, ewwww<<BR>>
[17:38] <kenvandine> ok<<BR>>
[17:38] <rickspencer3> hmmm<<BR>>
[17:38] <asac> hmm ... dont fix things hacky if you want to do it for real this cycle still<<BR>>
[17:38] <asac> ;)<<BR>>
[17:38] <bratsche> rickspencer3: There's something wrong with the large three images, and I can't figure out what the problem is yet.  On my system the 1280x1024 image still looks good at higher res, so it's a workable solution for now.<<BR>>
[17:38] <rickspencer3> I have to agree with asac<<BR>>
[17:39] <kenvandine> temporary solutions are always permanent :)<<BR>>
[17:39] <rickspencer3> and they take time<<BR>>
[17:39] <rickspencer3> is this just to meet my upload deadline?<<BR>>
[17:39] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, however... you are pushing us :)<<BR>>
[17:39] <rickspencer3> okay<<BR>>
[17:39] <bratsche> It's a one-line change in the source code, pending upon getting new images that work.<<BR>>
[17:39] <kenvandine> we could upload the temp hack to just the team ppa<<BR>>
[17:39] <rickspencer3> but I'm not pushing to upload poor hacks<<BR>>
[17:40] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, just for that review<<BR>>
[17:40] <kenvandine> although it would be nice to have it in alpha5 :)<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> if you can't meet my upload deadline without a proper fix, so be it<<BR>>
[17:40] <bratsche> Actually, a two-line change.<<BR>>
[17:40] <asac> how bad is it if that hack stays in forever? if its bad we should have a bug to track so it doesnt get forgotten ;)<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> ok ... I'll follow up with kenvandine and bratsche after the meeting<<BR>>
[17:40] <kenvandine> thx<<BR>>
[17:40] <kenvandine> moving on<<BR>>
[17:40] <kenvandine> i'm done<<BR>>
[17:40] <bratsche> asac: If this gets merged into master I will open a bug immediately.<<BR>>
[17:40] <asac> one partner question<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> but doing this right is more important to me than doing it by my artificial deadline ;)<<BR>>
[17:40] <bratsche> asac: If it gets solved first then I won't. :)<<BR>>
[17:41] <asac> bratsche: we are concerned about packages<<BR>>
[17:41] <bratsche> Oh okay.<<BR>>
[17:41] <asac> if it has to go we better file a release critical bug so we can fix it later<<BR>>
[17:41] <asac> kenvandine: ubuntuone client + bindwood on demand. is that off the table for karmic?<<BR>>
[17:41] <pitti> rickspencer3: it's not so artificial, for the alpha-5 candidate images will be built tomorrow morning<<BR>>
[17:41] <asac> or anything you need input on?<<BR>>
[17:41] <pitti> i. e. in ~ 15 hours<<BR>>
[17:41] <kenvandine> asac, i think so...<<BR>>
[17:41] <kenvandine> it isn't in the UI now<<BR>>
[17:42] <kenvandine> asac, i will confirm<<BR>>
[17:42] <asac> kenvandine: i would feel better if we can get a final NO on that one so it doesn suddenly pop up later<<BR>>
[17:42] <asac> kenvandine: thanks<<BR>>
[17:42] <rickspencer3> ok, kenvandine keep going :)<<BR>>
[17:42] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, i am done<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> bryce, x, mesa 7.6, 100% bug?<<BR>>
[17:43] <kenvandine> oh... thx pitti for all the uploads last week!<<BR>>
[17:43] <bryce> rickspencer3, good news, we have 4 people confirming the kernel patch solves it<<BR>>
[17:43] <pitti> you're welcome :)<<BR>>
[17:43] <pitti> rock!<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> bryce, that is good news indeed<<BR>>
[17:43] <pitti> that means we don't need to rollback mesa?<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> what about that long running freeze you discovered?<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> bryce, does that seem to be related?<<BR>>
[17:44] <bryce> rickspencer3, it sounds like intel is not sure about their "not-fixed" case, but they're working with upstream to understand what's going on<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> bryce, do you still feel 100% confident that we should be moving forward with 7.6?<<BR>>
[17:44] <bryce> rickspencer3, right, I had tried downgrading mesa instead of using the kernel fix, and found the same bug<<BR>>
[17:44] <bryce> rickspencer3, in fact, going through the bug trackers I see there are several different ways to trigger the bug<<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> oh<<BR>>
[17:45] <bryce> rickspencer3, still checking back with people, however I believe the kernel patch will solve all cases<<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> and does that bug manifest with mesa 7.6?<<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> okay, so mesa 7.6 ftw<<BR>>
[17:45] <pitti> can freezes really be related to mesa?<<BR>>
[17:45] <bryce> indeed on the upstream bugs there are already indications it solves these other cases (e.g. certain 3d games)<<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> and also thanks to Jesse and intel pulling the weeked work<<BR>>
[17:45] <pitti> mesa sounds like something that would crash a program, or does it do more?<<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> weekend, even<<BR>>
[17:46] <bryce> rickspencer3, at this stage, once the kernel fix gets in, I don't see any reason not to move forward with mesa 7.6<<BR>>
[17:46] <ogasawara> bryce: I'll submit the kernel patch today for Karmic inclusion<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> ogasawara, thanks for your awesome engagement, as usual<<BR>>
[17:46] <Amaranth> pitti: Really all mesa bugs that lock up the system are technically kernel drm bugs<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> was nice to get the patch tested so fast<<BR>>
[17:46] <Amaranth> like the recent 100% one<<BR>>
[17:46] <pitti> Amaranth: so I guessed<<BR>>
[17:46] <pitti> Amaranth: well, I guess it can uncover DRM bugs with new features<<BR>>
[17:47] <bryce> rickspencer3, I did a scrub through all our bug reports again to see if there's any other mesa issues.  There's a few, but they look like ones that can be sorted out.<<BR>>
[17:47] <Amaranth> but new versions of mesa can expose these bugs so mesa is technically responsible for them<<BR>>
[17:47] <pitti> Amaranth: ok, I understand now, thanks<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> bryce, ok, I guess the next step is to get tselliot caught up<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> on all the info<<BR>>
[17:47]  * seb128 didn't get any compiz hang since running ogasawara's kernel today<<BR>>
[17:47] <bryce> rickspencer3, yep<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> ok, this is encouraging indeed<<BR>>
[17:48]  * rickspencer3 felt Jaunty deja view<<BR>>
[17:48] <pitti> ("vu")<<BR>>
[17:48] <bryce> yeah, but seems quite solid now<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> hehe<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> okay, next is pulseaudio<<BR>>
[17:48] <pitti> I still experience X freezes some hours after suspend, otherwise it's very solid here as well<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> TheMuso is asleep<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> pedro_, I asked marjo for some qa help in sorting through the pulse bugs<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> anything to report yet<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> ?<<BR>>
[17:49]  * Amaranth rapidly flips back and forth between compiz and metacity using gnome-appearance-properties...fixed!<<BR>>
[17:49] <bryce> ogasawara, thanks, it'll be good to see that patch get in :-)<<BR>>
[17:49] <pedro_> I've been doing some triage there lately<<BR>>
[17:49] <pitti> did anyone here expect major sound regressions recently?<<BR>>
[17:49] <pedro_> and so far:<<BR>>
[17:49] <pitti> Amaranth: nice!<<BR>>
[17:49] <pedro_> bug 409897<<BR>>
[17:49] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 409897 in pulseaudio "pulseaudio crashed with SIGSEGV in calloc()" [Medium,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/409897<<BR>>
[17:49] <pedro_> bug 418448<<BR>>
[17:49] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 418448 in pulseaudio "pulseaudio crashed with SIGILL in pa_volume_memchunk()" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/418448<<BR>>
[17:50] <seb128> sounds work fine there<<BR>>
[17:50] <pitti> here, too<<BR>>
[17:50] <rickspencer3> pedro_, what do you think ...<<BR>>
[17:50] <rickspencer3> is it working fine for users?<<BR>>
[17:50] <rickspencer3> (totally loaded question)<<BR>>
[17:50] <pedro_> yes that's true, i didn't see a lot of "audio" issues there<<BR>>
[17:50] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:50] <pitti> pedro_: except for crashes (which sound easy to fix), did you notice a significant "cutoff point" where people started to report regressions in quality, stuttering, etc.?<<BR>>
[17:50] <pedro_> on that direction the only ones i saw are:<<BR>>
[17:50] <pedro_> bug 410446<<BR>>
[17:50] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 410446 in pulseaudio "pulseaudio doesn't remember last volume, sets to 0 every boot" [Low,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/410446<<BR>>
[17:51] <pedro_> bug 409723<<BR>>
[17:51] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 409723 in pulseaudio "since introduction of module-udev-detect: volumes not restored, everything muted" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/409723<<BR>>
[17:51] <pedro_> and bug 410948<<BR>>
[17:51] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 410948 in pulseaudio "Volume too loud" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/410948<<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:51] <pitti> nice<<BR>>
[17:51] <pedro_> those seems to be the ones affecting more users there, but not crackling or anything bad<<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:51] <pitti> I mean, they sound like something that is manageable<<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> this is good news<<BR>>
[17:51] <pitti> not "weird and bad sound" type of stuff<<BR>>
[17:51] <pedro_> nope, nothing yet<<BR>>
[17:51] <pitti> pedro_: as usual, you rock; thanks!<<BR>>
[17:52] <pedro_> i need to look into this more deeply though<<BR>>
[17:52] <pedro_> there's too many reports there!<<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> TheMuso mentioned my last night, that users were experiencing instability<<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> and I certainly am<<BR>>
[17:52] <pedro_> pitti, thanks! ;-)<<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> thanks pedro_<<BR>>
[17:52] <pitti> rickspencer3: due to the crashes mentioned above?<<BR>>
[17:52] <pedro_> my pleasure<<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> pitti, not sure atm<<BR>>
[17:52] <mpt> bratsche, dbarth told me you're working on the path button now. How's it going?<<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> I'll look at it after the meeting, and bring up with TheMuso<<BR>>
[17:53] <rickspencer3> moving on<<BR>>
[17:53] <rickspencer3> Riddell ... Kubuntu?<<BR>>
[17:53]  * pitti is relieved<<BR>>
[17:53]  * rickspencer3 is still concerned<<BR>>
[17:53]  * rickspencer3 is always concerned<<BR>>
[17:53] <rickspencer3> :)<<BR>>
[17:53] <bratsche> mpt: I'm starting on it today.. but I'm trying to finish getting the new assets from mt ready for xsplash first.  It seems like desktop team needs this finished asap.<<BR>>
[17:53]  * kenvandine passes rickspencer3 a pill<<BR>>
[17:53] <Riddell> afternoon<<BR>>
[17:53] <pitti> rickspencer3: "fuzzy and foggy feeling" -> "clearly described bugs" is a good step<<BR>>
[17:53] <Riddell> - 4.3.1 all uploaded and working well<<BR>>
[17:53] <Riddell> - Upstream Plasma Netbook has just decided to depend on KDE 4.4, we're hopeful but not certain if we can salvage enough for a version that work with KDE 4.3 to be worth releasing<<BR>>
[17:54] <Riddell> - usb-creator-kde all fixed and working as well as the gtk one<<BR>>
[17:54] <Riddell> - quassel patch for message indicator has issues that need fixed before upload.  aurelien has said he wants to create Ayatana style notifications too as this is easier than he expected, would need FFe.<<BR>>
[17:54] <Riddell> any questions? :)<<BR>>
[17:54] <pitti> 4.3 got a great review in c't<<BR>>
[17:54] <pitti> Riddell: what's the status of the network-manager plasmoid?<<BR>>
[17:54] <dobey> hmm<<BR>>
[17:55] <pitti> Riddell: I understood that it got broken all over again with NM 0.8?<<BR>>
[17:55] <Riddell> pitti: knetworkmanager 4 working well (it's not currently a plasmoid UI)<<BR>>
[17:55] <pitti> *phew*, good work!<<BR>>
[17:55] <Riddell> pitti: asac and others sorted that out bless them<<BR>>
[17:55]  * pitti cheers asac<<BR>>
[17:55] <rickspencer3> this is so awesome<<BR>>
[17:55] <mpt> bratsche, ok<<BR>>
[17:56] <Riddell> I'm still to test it for VPN or 3G functions though, not sure the best way to do that<<BR>>
[17:56] <rickspencer3> Riddell, great job with Kubuntu Karmic so far<<BR>>
[17:56] <rickspencer3> lots of great innovations<<BR>>
[17:56] <rickspencer3> and addressing some of the Jaunty pain points<<BR>>
[17:56]  * rickspencer3 extends to Kubuntu team as well<<BR>>
[17:56] <pitti> Riddell: I can download a current daily and test with my USB 3G card, if you don't have something to test?<<BR>>
[17:56] <rickspencer3> if anyone has a netbook, please try out the Kubuntu netbook version<<BR>>
[17:57] <awe> where can we get it?<<BR>>
[17:57] <Riddell> pitti: go for it (although I believe today's daily's have an issue, maybe after alpha better)<<BR>>
[17:57] <davmor2> Riddell: I can test 3g latter tonight<<BR>>
[17:57] <Riddell> davmor2: oh cool<<BR>>
[17:57] <rickspencer3> awe, http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu-netbook/daily-live/<<BR>>
[17:57] <awe> cool<<BR>>
[17:57] <pitti> Riddell: sure, I'll grab alpha-5 then<<BR>>
[17:58] <rickspencer3> hmm<<BR>>
[17:58] <rickspencer3> last thing<<BR>>
[17:58] <rickspencer3> please look at the burndown chart<<BR>>
[17:58] <Riddell> I don't know what state today's kubuntu-netbook daily is in either, testing for alpha is on my todo for this evening<<BR>>
[17:58] <davmor2> knm is still cycling for me on wep but connects fine to everything else<<BR>>
[17:58] <rickspencer3> oh, sorry<<BR>>
[17:58] <pitti> Riddell: oh, does kubuntu netbook have the same NM UI? (i. e. coudl I just test that?)<<BR>>
[17:58] <Riddell> pitti: yes<<BR>>
[17:58]  * pitti is curious and will get that then<<BR>>
[17:59] <asac> pitti: yes. just install the UI and start that.<<BR>>
[17:59] <rickspencer3> moving on?<<BR>>
[17:59] <Riddell> yep<<BR>>
[17:59] <rickspencer3> thanks Riddell<<BR>>
[17:59] <rickspencer3> okay, burndown chart<<BR>>
[17:59] <rickspencer3> as you can see, last week was absolutely epic<<BR>>
[17:59] <pitti> http://piware.de/workitems/desktop/karmic/report.html<<BR>>
[18:00] <rickspencer3> I especially want to call out pitti<<BR>>
[18:00] <rickspencer3> he was the rock that we were using for a foundation last week<<BR>>
[18:00] <rickspencer3> the OLS team, and Dx, as well as the desktop team<<BR>>
[18:00]  * seb128 notice that he can go back to vac ;-)<<BR>>
[18:00] <rickspencer3> hehe<<BR>>
[18:00] <rickspencer3> so next release, no vacations during Feature Freeze week (except for pitti)<<BR>>
[18:00] <rickspencer3> :)<<BR>>
[18:00] <rickspencer3> (just kidding)<<BR>>
[18:01] <pitti> seb128: nooo<<BR>>
[18:01] <seb128> heh, that's that what we learnt there<<BR>>
[18:01] <rickspencer3> asac, could you please check two specs<<BR>>
[18:01] <seb128> what we learn is that other people are just slowing pitti ;-)<<BR>>
[18:01] <rickspencer3> I'm wondering if the browser blueprint is redundant with the Firefox one<<BR>>
[18:01]  * seb128 hugs pitti<<BR>>
[18:01] <pitti> I spent 90% of my work week on sponsoring and MIRs<<BR>>
[18:01] <rickspencer3> or if, the work items may be done<<BR>>
[18:01] <bryce> go piip go<<BR>>
[18:01] <pitti> and the other 90% on some urgent feature stuff :)<<BR>>
[18:01] <rickspencer3> lol<<BR>>
[18:01] <bryce> er, epic spelling fail there<<BR>>
[18:02] <pitti> asac: indeed, your two specs (firefox-3.5 and browsers) seem to have a lot of potential for "DONE", woudl be great if you could update them<<BR>>
[18:03] <rickspencer3> also, could someone follow up with scott richie regarding the wine blueprint?<<BR>>
[18:03] <rickspencer3> it's fine to postpone, etc... but would be nice to know<<BR>>
[18:03] <pitti> rickspencer3: asking him in #u-devel<<BR>>
[18:03] <rickspencer3> pitti, thanks<<BR>>
[18:03] <rickspencer3> any other business?<<BR>>
[18:03] <asac> rickspencer3: the browser one has just a few tasks. one task is redundant with the firefox-3.5 one iirc<<BR>>
[18:04] <asac> rickspencer3: i will go through them again<<BR>>
[18:04] <rickspencer3> asac, as you have time<<BR>>
[18:04] <rickspencer3> say, before next meeting<<BR>>
[18:04] <pitti> asac: thanks; then you can claim that you brought us below the trend line :)<<BR>>
[18:05] <rickspencer3> if there is no other business ... until the Eastern Edition<<BR>>
[18:05] <rickspencer3> :)<<BR>>
[18:05] <pitti> thanks all<<BR>>
[18:06]  * rickspencer3 taps gavel<<BR>>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
