{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Tony Espy (awe)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (calc)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)

=== Apologies ===
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) - Vacation
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) - Out of timezone
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128) - Dx Team Sprint

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Welcome awe
* UDS
* Desktop Summit
* Triaging versus Bug Fixing/Closing in Karmic
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to get definitive list of who has talks at all hands to double check that everyone who has one is prepared 
** Result: have pinged a couple of people, but haven't gotten such a list yet, will carry over
** Follow up: since the meeting rickspencer3 has gotten this info and shared with effected parties via email

=== Actions from this meeting ===
* ACTION: All - if you are going to desktop summit, add yourself to the list on this page
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to create and schedule UDS sessions for bug management

=== Welcome awe ===
* Tony (awe) is joining the desktop team 80% of his time for the Karmic cycle. To start off he will be working with asac to identify some interesting NM related work, and to engage in the UDS process.

=== UDS ===
* Most all blueprints have been submitted
* rickspencer3 notes that there will be time set aside for impromptu sessions at UDS
* bryce thinks that there are too many xorg sessions planned, and will pair them down.
* rickspencer3 and pitti will review, sort, and prioritize sessions
* rickspencer3 will schedule sessions
* Consensus that QA and community needs to be part of the discussion

=== Desktop Summit ===
Need a definitive list of who is going, and when. Also, do you have papers to present.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''who'''
| '''when'''
| '''what'''
|-
| rickspencer3
| core days
| talk
|-
| robert_ancel
| 
| lightning talk
|-
| kenvandine
| Mon - Thur
| talk
|-
| seb128
| core days
| 
|-
| JonathanRiddell
| sat - sat
| distro track, Wednesday
|}

=== Triaging versus Bug Fixing/Closing in Karmic ===
* Discussion about doing the right amount of bug fixing versus bug triaging versus other work.
* rickspencer3 encouraged that the team to think "bold" about how to address this in Karmic, discussion ensued.
* rickspencer3 will schedule a UDS sessions to discuss.

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

* Mozilla:
** mozilla backports
** yet another firefox security update
** fix mozilla build failure in karmic that was uncovered by gcc 4.4
** investigate daily bot + launchpad/soyuz issues; discussed with cprov and identified why latest launchpad doesn't handle lots of uploads in one batch properly anymore (LP: #371640)
** mentor mozillateam members about how to maintain daily bzr branches to get more eyes caring for those builds
** work with Jazzva on fixing prism trunk builds

* NetworkManager:
** network-manager bug triage; evaluating fixes for jaunty SRU
** finding root-cause for weird dbus permission issues for some PPP/VPN users in jaunty; discussed and found potential fix for that with upstream - LP: #371291 (PPP) + LP: #360818 (VPN)
** finished network-manager 0.7.1 hardy backports for NetworkManager and got verification from community that this works

* Misc:
** started to gather input from other teams on browser/network needs
** more thoughts on karmic tasks

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====
* Dealing with Malayalam translations in Rosetta. The Malayalam
translators requested to revert all translated string back to upstream
(Packaged).
* Discussion with Jeroen Vermeulen about the Malayalam translations and
rolling back to upstream translations in general.
* Preparing talk for AllHands

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

* Sponsored: -intel (LP: #371544), mesa (LP: #368049), -ati
* Karmic merges:  fglrx-installer, -ati, -nv
* Wrote a getting started page for Ubuntu-X
   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/SwatTeam
* Started drafting a KMS howto:
   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/KernelModeSetting
* Focused most of week into solving X.org freeze bug.
   A suitable workaround was found and currently in testing.
* Addressing various concerns about -intel performance.
   (Needs backports of kernel patches by kernel team.)
* Triaging, upstreaming UXA bugs.  Wrote LPL script to report on
   current status of UXA bugs in lp and fdo.

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====
* Working on OOo 3.1.0 packaging. Almost done for all: hardy/intrepid/jaunty/karmic
* Had the following packages synced for OOo 3.1.0 - icu, flute-openoffice.org, libbase-openoffice.org, libfonts-openoffice.org, libformula-openoffice.org, liblayout-openoffice.org, libloader-openoffice.org, librepository-openoffice.org, libserializer-openoffice.org, libxml-openoffice.org, pentaho-reporting-flow-engine-openoffice.org
* Weekly OOo Release Status Meeting - OOo 3.1.0 final later this week
* Weekly desktop team meeting
* Meeting with Michael Frey about new position
* Lots of OOo bug triage
==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====
done:
* Merges, cmake, kdelibs, kde4libs, qt4, pkg-kde-tools, kdepimlibs,
kdebase*
* Pondered, discussed and registered UDS specs
* wrote and discussed MIR for xmlrpc-c
* filled in preformance review and for colleague
* oversaw KDE 4.2.3 packaging for jaunty by ninjas

todo:
* more merges
* KDE 4.3 beta packaging

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
====== Done: ======
*** Upgraded to Karmic
*** U1 testing, bug reporting and debugging
*** Reviewed libindicator API docs
*** Worked with the OLS team to define acceptance criteria for U1 in Karmic
*** Message indicator session for Ubuntu Open Week 
*** UDS Karmic planning

====== Working on: ======
*** U1 testing, bug reporting and debugging
*** Continue to work on acceptance criteria for U1 in Karmic
*** Ayatana planning for Karmic

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Just a four-day week, Friday was a national holiday.

Currently open stable/milestoned bugs:
* Bug:334446 (Remove gnome-pilot from the default ubuntu install): simple to do, needs some discussion though
 
Done:
* Tons of SRU processing
* Various bug fixes in apport, f-spot, hal, hal-info
* Prepared two blueprints for UDS karmic
* Updated gnome-power-manager (mega-merge), now using DeviceKit-Powre
* Packaged devicekit-disks, gnome-disk-utility, libatasmart
* Packaged gvfs with devicekit support, in ubuntu-desktop PPA; some things don't work yet, but by and large looking good
* Heavy testing of U1, filed some bugs
* upgraded to Karmic and -intel 2.7.0 video driver, filed major bug upstream, update my other reported bugs against -intel

Merges:
* Done: grep, mcrypt, po-debconf, ttf-tmuni, asciidoc, backuppc, gconf, gnome-mount, gthumb, gzip, latex-beamer, libdv, nis, pbuilder, tzdata      
* Outstanding: gthumb (merged, but f****ng autotools breakage), texlive-extra (no time yet)

Sponsoring:
* Uploaded: alacarte, ekiga, f-spot, gnome-themes, lintian
* Reviewed, needs fixing: libmtp, dbus-python, tomboy

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====
* lot of desktop bugs triage after jaunty
* archive admin work, initial karmic autosync run, manual syncing and
NEW queue cleaning
* started on desktop merges for karmic: desktop-file-utils gedit
gtkhtml rhythmbox gnome-media gftp libxml++ poppler libxklavier
nautilus gnome-pkg-tools libgnome rarian
* some desktop bugs fix in karmic and sru uploads to jaunty
* listed desktop components and who is working on what
* booked flights for dxteam sprint

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* Lots of new printing bugs answered and triaged.
* Prepared SRU for SpliX. It did not upgrade the PPD files of all previous versions (bug #367650 and #352472), uploaded SpliX also to Karmic.
* Added second fix on pstopdf filter (bug #357732) to Debian CUPS BZR repository (for Karmic).
* Bug fixes on Ghostscript CUPS Raster output device upstream (to be added to Karmic).

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* General triaging
* Accepted to do lightning speech at GUADEC: Practical Part-Time Refactoring (gcalctool)
* Preparing blueprint for UDS: Compiz bug management
* Bug:352041 - Ekiga crash when no accounts configured/working - Jaunty SRU
* Bug:181553 - Some Totem/Rhythmbox playlist newline formats not supported - My patch applied upstream, will SRU
* Bug:368252 - Totem browser plugin not working with Apple HD trailers - fixed upstream, will SRU
* Bug:343707 - Rhythmbox tries to find plugin for corrupt files - candidate patch, will SRU
* Updating packages for Karmic

== IRC Log ==
* [17:31] <rickspencer3> meeting time
* [17:31] <rickspencer3> tkamppeter: welcome, are you there?
* [17:31] <kenvandine_wk> i am laggy from the u1 upload that is happening here :)
* [17:32] <rickspencer3> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2009-05-05
* [17:32] <rickspencer3> I believe seb128 is traveling to the Dx sprint in London
* [17:32] <rickspencer3> everyone ready to go?
* [17:32] <kenvandine_wk> yup
* [17:32] <rickspencer3> Riddell: ready?
* [17:32]  * rickspencer3 poke poke
* [17:33] <Riddell> hi
* [17:33] <rickspencer3> Let's go a little out of order, start with introducing awe
* [17:33] <rickspencer3> awe = Tony Espy, and he'll be an honorary desktopper for Karmic!
* [17:34] <asac>  \o/
* [17:34] <pitti> hey awe, welcome to the team!
* [17:34] <kenvandine_wk> welcome awe!
* [17:34]  * awe hey guys, nice to be part of a the new gang!
* [17:34]  * asac waves @ awe 
* [17:34] <rickspencer3> welcome awe!
* [17:34] <bryce> heya awe
* [17:34] <pitti> finally we have our own guitar rock star
* [17:34] <awe> ;/
* [17:34] <rickspencer3> awe: do you want to introduce yourself briefly?
* [17:34] <awe> sure
* [17:35] <awe> i've spent the last 9 months or so as tech lead on the hp mini
* [17:35] <awe> for oem services
* [17:35] <awe> my background is networking plus desktop audio playback
* [17:35] <tkamppeter> hi, I am
* [17:35] <awe> i've also spent a lot of time working with the kernel team and defining how oem plays with the kernel
* [17:36] <awe> look forward to working with you all on karmic
* [17:36]  * awe done w/intro
* [17:36] <rickspencer3> sweet
* [17:36] <rickspencer3> awe: you were a pepper, right?
* [17:37] <rickspencer3> (pepper = worked on Pepper Pad)
* [17:37] <awe> yes.  i build an equiv of network-mgr in java for pepper, plus the audio playback subsys based on helix
* [17:37] <awe> s/build/built/
* [17:37]  * rickspencer3 <3 pepper pad
* [17:37] <asac> awe-some ;)
* [17:37] <kenvandine_wk> haha
* [17:38] <awe> plus i play back up guitar for pitti on "wish you were here"  ;)
* [17:38] <rickspencer3> I know that I speak for everyone when I say that we are really glad to have you on the team, and we're looking forward to seeing what you do in Karmic
* [17:39] <awe> thanks
* [17:39] <rickspencer3> moving on
* [17:39] <rickspencer3> actions from last meeting:
* [17:39] <rickspencer3> ACTION: rickspencer3 to get definitive list of who has talks at all hands to double check that everyone who has one is prepared
* [17:39] <rickspencer3> I totally FAILed at this, but I'm still trying
* [17:39] <rickspencer3> there must be a list somewhere :)
* [17:39] <pitti> the track leads certainly have themm
* [17:39] <rickspencer3> pitti: good idea
* [17:40] <rickspencer3> I was looking for the one list to rule them all, but just pinging track leads should work
* [17:40] <asac> so can we assume that we dont have a talk if we didnt hear anything yet?
* [17:40] <pitti> rickspencer3: or ask cvd, when I talked to her on the phone last week she had the schedule
* [17:40] <rickspencer3> asac: I think that we *shouldn't* assume that yet, as I am concerned that perhaps some emails were filtered out in spam filters
* [17:41] <asac> rickspencer3: who would have sent such a mail?
* [17:41] <rickspencer3> some people got emails saying their talks *weren't* accepted, but it's not clear if this was consistent across tracks
* [17:41] <asac> cvd?
* [17:41] <asac> hmm.
* [17:41] <asac> ok i will check with brian who submitted the talk
* [17:41] <rickspencer3> asac: I'll take care of finding out asap and let you know
* [17:41] <asac> thanks a lot
* [17:42] <rickspencer3> next topic: UDS
* [17:42] <rickspencer3> did everyone get their blueprints in?
* [17:42] <kenvandine_wk> yup
* [17:42] <bryce> asac, the email started with, "ENLARGE your member ship for your talk like you were on v1agr4!!!1!" you didn't get that one?
* [17:42] <asac> bryce: oh ... i have more than 100 matches;)
* [17:43] <bryce> asac: bingo
* [17:43] <rickspencer3> hehe
* [17:43] <pitti> I just have two, but they are both quite big, so I don't think I'd like to pile up more for karmic
* [17:43] <pitti> since I also want to work on the devkit migration
* [17:43] <bryce> rickspencer3: I've gone mine in, but there's too many; probably should trim them down a bit
* [17:43] <rickspencer3> Riddell: I didn't see Kubuntu blueprints in pitti's link
* [17:43] <asac> rickspencer3: blueprints without sessions dont need to be in yet?
* [17:43] <rickspencer3> asac: I suppose so
* [17:43] <miha> hello guys, 1. ubuntu with desktop effects likes to hang when you press notebook keys such as volume up when playing movies/down, 2. network manager fails to reconnect (you must enter password again and press connect)
* [17:44] <pitti> https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/sprints/uds-karmic?searchtext=kubuntu
* [17:44] <asac> rickspencer3: ok. thanks.
* [17:44] <pitti> rickspencer3: they are prefixed kubuntu-
* [17:44] <rickspencer3> miha: hi, we're in a meeting right now
* [17:44] <miha> ok
* [17:44] <miha> sorry
* [17:44] <rickspencer3> you might want to ask in #ubuntu
* [17:44] <rickspencer3> no problems, you're welcome to hang out
* [17:44] <pitti> https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/sprints/uds-karmic?searchtext=kubuntu-karmic- is better
* [17:44] <rickspencer3> pitti: thanks!
* [17:44] <rickspencer3> Riddell rocks, as usual
* [17:45] <rickspencer3> so essentially, pitti and rickspencer3 will sort, prioritize and such by eod Thursday
* [17:45] <asac> rickspencer3: i will setup a blueprint about NM UI topics (first start, wizard, etc.) in karmic ... thats the only one left i want broader discussion on.
* [17:45] <asac> doing that right after meeting
* [17:45] <rickspencer3> asac: thanks
* [17:45] <rickspencer3> anyone else have blueprints that need to be submitted?
* [17:46] <rickspencer3> note that we have two rooms, but are covering Dx, Design, and Ubuntu1 in our track
* [17:46] <asac> the prefix is ubuntu-desktop-... ?
* [17:46] <asac> ah ubuntu-karmic
* [17:46] <rickspencer3> none the less, I'd like to keep a lot of time unscheduled for impromptu sessions
* [17:46] <rickspencer3> asac: right, the naming convention is ubuntu-karmic-*
* [17:46] <pitti> asac: desktop-karmic-*
* [17:46] <rickspencer3> heh
* [17:46]  * asac confused ;)
* [17:46] <rickspencer3> right desktop-karmic-*
* [17:47] <rickspencer3> (my bad)
* [17:47] <rickspencer3> Riddell confused me :)
* [17:47] <rickspencer3> so is everyone good to go with blueprints?
* [17:48] <rickspencer3> moving on: Desktop Summit
* [17:49] <rickspencer3> if you are going, please add yourself to the meeting page
* [17:49] <rickspencer3> I created a little table there
* [17:49] <Riddell> which meeting page?
* [17:49] <rickspencer3> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2009-05-05
* [17:49] <rickspencer3> Riddell: ^^^
* [17:50] <rickspencer3> next topic: Triaging versus Bug Fixing/Closing in Karmic
* [17:50] <rickspencer3> I just wanted to briefly bring this up as pitti and I have both been talking to desktop engineers, and it seems pretty universal that the current mix is not right
* [17:50] <rickspencer3> I don't want to brainstorm about it here, but ...
* [17:51] <pitti> it's not so much of a mix, as of a "when to stop?" and "what to look at" questions
* [17:51] <rickspencer3> I think we should have a UDS talk about how to handle bug inflow
* [17:51] <rickspencer3> pitti: sure
* [17:51] <rickspencer3> that's a good way to put it
* [17:52] <rickspencer3> I wanted to make two points now:
* [17:52] <pedro_> count me in for that session, I'd love to help with that
* [17:52] <rickspencer3> 1. We should tackle this problem as a team, but the implementation of any solutions may look different for each product area, as the problems manifest differently
* [17:53] <rickspencer3> 2. We should consider *bold* action in Karmic
* [17:53] <rickspencer3> pedro_: absolutely!
* [17:53] <bryce> bold action?
* [17:54] <rickspencer3> bryce: yes
* [17:54] <miha> Comrades, we stand at edge of cliff. We must make a bold step forwards. (old Yugoslavian joke) :)
* [17:54] <rickspencer3> like don't think in terms of a 10% increase in throughput
* [17:55] <rickspencer3> think about a 10 fold increase
* [17:55] <rickspencer3> stretch your comfort zone
* [17:55] <pitti> before we can determine/measure this, we first need to define "throughput"
* [17:55] <pitti> in terms of "what do we want to achieve"
* [17:55] <rickspencer3> pitti: hehe
* [17:56] <asac> i think the ideal goal would be that developers can filter everything not triaged or so to /dev/null and spend all their time on real bug-fix work
* [17:56] <asac> isntead of bugmail work
* [17:56] <rickspencer3> asac: that's a great example
* [17:56] <pitti> I liked the bug gravity idea
* [17:56] <asac> bug-fix work == fix on own AND work with upstream
* [17:57] <asac> pitti: what definition of gravity do you like?
* [17:57] <pitti> to make us focus on what's most important, to maximize the usefulness
* [17:57] <rickspencer3> bryce: make sense? It would be ideal if you felt that you could suggest radical approaches
* [17:57] <calc> disable all desktop bug reporting without using apport would help get to the 10x throughput
* [17:57] <rickspencer3> calc: yes!
* [17:57] <asac> pitti: for the triaging or the bug-fixing?
* [17:57] <pitti> asac: number of affected people, type of attached debugging information, number of dups, reported by core-dev member, etc.
* [17:58] <asac> yeah
* [17:58] <pitti> asac: triaging
* [17:58] <pitti> I think once we got a bug to triaged/assigned, we are doing pretty good
* [17:58] <rickspencer3> I think asac is suggesting "no triaging" for engineers!
* [17:58] <pitti> the challenge is to pick the "right" ones
* [17:58] <asac> pitti: i agree, but still developers would get rid of the triaging stage at all if possible
* [17:58] <bryce> rickspencer3: it's still seeming rather ambiguous how to apply to X, but I'm listening
* [17:58] <pitti> asac: unfortuantely their special knowledge is required very often
* [17:59] <asac> pitti: thats true, but also depends on the area you look at
* [17:59] <pitti> bryce: I think the point is that everyone shouldl think about the problem from his perspective
* [17:59] <rickspencer3> bryce: here's a thought exercise, if you only had 1 hour a week to triage bugs, what would yo do with that time?
* [17:59] <asac> pitti: for mozilla its 99.0% of bugmail that i doesnt require special skills
* [17:59] <calc> for eg OOo there is very little if any triaging being done besides me currently, so i think getting the community to do more towards triaging would be needed before having engineers no longer do it
* [17:59] <asac> just a guidance and man power
* [17:59] <pitti> and thus at UDS we can share our thoughts
* [17:59] <rickspencer3> anywho ... let's bring these ideas to UDS
* [17:59] <calc> ok
* [18:00] <asac> pitti: well it definitly requires special skills, but not at the early stages
* [18:00] <pitti> asac: for triaging as in the medical sense ("set priority and look how many are affected"), that's probably very true
* [18:00] <rickspencer3> I just wanted to plant the seed of thinking bold and trying something new and perhaps even agressive
* [18:00] <rickspencer3> as pitti put it early "turn the problem upside down"
* [18:00] <asac> pitti: yeah. for me it would be a huge improvement if my incoming queue would be just bugs that are properly prepared (thats what i refer to for triaging)
* [18:01] <pitti> "Enter an 11-digit prime number to file this bug"
* [18:01] <pitti> *cough*
* [18:01] <rickspencer3> !
* [18:01] <asac> the evaluation part of triaging needs to be done by developer. if we are also overloaded on that side we need gravity
* [18:01] <asac> for that or more engineers ;)
* [18:01] <pitti> so, some questions to think about:
* [18:02] <pitti>  - Which kind of your typical bugs would you classify as "something I want to work on", and "something I want to look at", and "something I shouldn't look at"
* [18:02] <bryce> rickspencer3: I guess if I had only an hour to triage, I'd use 45 min to write a launchpadlib script to automate the triaging, and then run that for the last 15 min ;-)
* [18:02] <pitti>  - "how can I organize my bug queues in a way that I can process something to zero without getting overloaded"
* [18:02] <kenvandine_wk> bryce: good answer :)
* [18:03] <pitti> bryce++
* [18:03] <rickspencer3> kewl
* [18:03] <pitti>  - "which of my current work can be documented and automated"
* [18:03] <rickspencer3> any other business?
=== bratsche_ is now known as bratsche
* [18:04] <pitti> o/
* [18:04] <pitti> I had a topic for -intel
* [18:04] <pitti> so, we have our first alpha-1 next Thursday
* [18:04] <pitti> I think it would be nice if we could upload -intel 2.7.0 and turn on UXA by default
* [18:04] <pitti> so that we can run our karmic "target" architecture for as long as possible, and collect feedback early
* [18:05] <pitti> given how long it takes to fix some of those bugs, we can't start early enough I think
* [18:06] <pitti> bryce: do you think that's reasonable?
* [18:06] <pitti> or is there something blocking that?
* [18:06] <bryce> well
* [18:07] <bryce> right now we have a lot of UXA bugs, and in talking with Intel I see we have some leverage to get attention on these
* [18:07] <bryce> if we move ahead and enable UXA I sort of worry Intel may conclude that we no longer consider them blocking issues, and give them less priority
* [18:07] <pitti> bryce: so you want them to fix the first wave of then first?
* [18:07] <pitti> s/then/them/
* [18:08] <bryce> ideally, yes, if it doesn't impact our schedule for KMS enablement
* [18:08] <pitti> (btw, I enabled that here, but no noticeable difference, even with usplash disabled)
* [18:08] <bryce> what I am doing these days is basically 75% triaging/upstreaming UXA bugs and 25% KMS preparations
* [18:09] <bryce> I've written a script to generate reports on current state of UXA bugs, that I send to Intel
* [18:09] <pitti> okay, I see
* [18:09] <bryce> I'll send a copy of the next one to ubuntu-devel@ for transparency
* [18:09] <pitti> bryce: so perhaps 2.7.0 with exa, as in the xorg-edgers PPA?
* [18:09] <bryce> for KMS, I'm working on putting together a wiki page to howto and capture testing results... link in a sec
* [18:10] <bryce> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/KernelModeSetting <-- still a WIP
* [18:10] <bryce> pitti: yes 2.7.0/exa is available now from https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates/
* [18:11] <bryce> I can also upload that for karmic... I started doing that but got distracted for some reason.  Should be up this week at the latest.
* [18:11] <pitti> I just wondered whether there are specific reasons to hold it back
* [18:11] <bryce> oh yeah I remember - the package in x-updates doesn't have the patches included in our 2.6.3 version, so I need to take time to do the merging
* [18:11] <pitti> bryce: if you say that not enabling it by default yet will increase pressure to fix uxa bugs, so much the better :)
* [18:12] <bryce> that's the plan :-)
* [18:12] <pitti> ok, thanks for the heads-up
* [18:12] <bryce> so far there are >20 bugs which will be regressions once we enable UXA
* [18:13] <bryce> those are freshly tested; and that seems like a lot to me given that people are having to manually enable it at this point, I'd like to cut that down a lot before switching over
* [18:13] <rickspencer3> bryce: Yingying_Zhao will be hosting weekly calls starting next week, so I'll be able to cover your bug list for you there
* [18:13] <bryce> great
* [18:14] <rickspencer3> any other business?
* [18:14] <kenvandine_wk> one thing
* [18:14] <bryce> calc, how's your son doing?
* [18:14] <kenvandine_wk> i will be emailing everyone soon to test an update to u1 :)
* [18:15] <rickspencer3> meeting adjourned?
* [18:15] <bryce> thanks!
* [18:15] <pitti> thanks everyone
* [18:15] <rickspencer3> kenvandine_wk: right. What was the uptake on U1?
* [18:15] <rickspencer3> did everyone on the desktop team install it?
* [18:15] <rickspencer3> (hint hint)
* [18:15] <awe> +1
* [18:15] <kenvandine_wk> rickspencer3: i don't have reports from everyone
* [18:16] <kenvandine_wk> you, pitti and Riddell for sure
* [18:16] <rickspencer3> okay, we'll look for your email, and set something up so we can get everyone on it
* [18:16] <awe> kenvandine_wk: what kind of report do you need?
* [18:16] <kenvandine_wk> well, bug reports
* [18:16] <calc> bryce: doing ok now
* [18:16] <kenvandine_wk> does it work for you
* [18:16] <kenvandine_wk> etc
* [18:16] <calc> bryce: he was sick about a week
* [18:16] <kenvandine_wk> awe:  basically we want as many people to really use it as possible
* [18:17] <kenvandine_wk> there are lots of bugs fixed since last week, so there should be a new package soon
* [18:17] <awe> kenvandine_wk: cool.  i had problems with it a few weeks back, but it's been solid ever since.  nice work
* [18:17] <kenvandine_wk> i will mail the group when it is ready
* [18:17] <bryce> calc: good to hear
* [18:18] <kenvandine_wk> it won't sync my data yet :/
* [18:18] <rickspencer3> thanks kenvandine_wk
* [18:18] <rickspencer3> calc: glad your son is on the mend!
* [18:18]  * rickspencer3 wishes he had a gavel
* [18:18] <rickspencer3> thanks all!
* [18:18] <asac> thanks

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
