{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===

* Martin Pitt (pitti) - chair
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Kenneth Wimer (kwwii)
* Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt)
* Michael Vogt (mvo)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Ted Gould (tedg)

* Alexander Sack (asac)

=== Apologies ===

* Mirco Müller (MacSlow) - CeBIT
* Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) - got involved in some firefighting

=== Agenda ===

* Outstanding actions from last meeting: none
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogasawara/qa-hardy-list-archive/sort-by-package/desktop-buglist.html|Desktop bug list]]</nowiki>: We went through the list, untagged a few which are deemed too hard/too unimportant to fix for Hardy, confirmed that the existing assignees were content with the assignments, and found a desktop team member to work on the yet unassigned ones. The only two bugs which are still unassigned are:
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/127705|#127705]]</nowiki> (compiz a11y): Martin will discuss this with Luke
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/146918|#146918]]</nowiki> (system-config-printer desktop file: bad strings): Martin will discuss with Till as upstream, to avoid introducing Ubuntu specific strings
* Virtual network devices in hal: hal recently started to <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-core-dev/hal/ubuntu/revision/martin.pitt%40canonical.com-20080220105231-fe56m85448108bi8?start_revid=martin.pitt%40canonical.com-20080306084614-n3ii3eybdtfaa2lh|export virtual network devices]]</nowiki> (patch by Kees Cook). This causes <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/199140|problems with NetworkManager]]</nowiki>. Alexander will evaluate whether we should ignore them in network-manager, or Martin should pull the patch from hal again.
* Sebastien mentioned that he could need some help with desktop bug fixing. Martin agreed to help out with triaging/fixing gvfs bugs.
* Review activity reports

=== Activity reports ===

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

done
* Package KDE 4.0.2
* Tutoring various people in backporting 4.0.2
* Alpha 6 preparation and testing
* Finally fixed kdeutils compile (only took some minutes)
* Fix decibel compile
* Add a kdevelop fix from upstream
* Fix dolphin for launching folders
* [day off on Friday]

next week:
* Alpha 6 release
* look at the dist upgrade tool
* fixes to ubiquity and elsewhere

no milestoned beasties

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

* art team meeting setup for saturday evening

* email with gtk theme needs/wants, bringing wiki pieces inline with the same info

* end of sprint, travel home

* evaluated two improvements from the art team to the clear looks and murrine gtk theme

* spent a couple of days editing gtkrc files

* included two updates to clearlooks and murrine

* worked on 8.10 mockups

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Hardy spec assignments:
* no progress this week; my specs are by and large done

Unfixed milestoned bugs:
* 174128 (dhcp3 debconf question during upgrade, beta): still needsinfo/unreproducible, no progress since last week

Other:
* lots of bug triage
* bug fixing sprint, with emphasis on hal, hal-info, dbus, gnome-mount, g-v-m, and jockey; please all try my PPA hal in https://launchpad.net/~pitti/+archive
* discussed langpacks for UME with Loic and for Firefox with Alex

==== Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt) ====

==== Michael Vogt (mvo) ====

===== compiz =====
* new compiz/plugins-main/plugins-extra/libcompizconfig snapshots with bugfixes and the new session plugin for propper session-management support
* port patch from xorg list to our xserver-org-video-intel to make hardware overlay work on i965 (originally we though this is not availalbe in the 965 hardware, but when the docs got released it turned out it actually is). this gives me smoother video playback than textured video on 965 with compiz (and we don't need EXA anymore for video playback on compiz with it). handed the patch over to Bryce for review
* prepare new upload (after alpha6) with colorfilter fixes, send patch for this upstream

===== bugs =====
* triage
* fixing (focus on alpha-6 milestoned bugs, all done)

===== update-manager =====
* fix cdrom upgrade issue from alternative CD for gutsy->hardy 
* fix bug in non-interactive frontend

===== upgrades =====
* test dapper->hardy CD and report missing release-upgrader-{apt,dpkg}
* general upgrade testing (both interactive and non-interactive)
* discovered some python-central issues for dapper->hardy upgrades and worked with doko to resolve them

===== gnome-app-install =====
* menu-data updated for alpha-6
* fix menu-data extraction code to correctly update the codec information

===== misc =====
* sponsoring (metacity, gnome-terminal, pbuilder, ccsm, simple-ccsm)
* fix command-not-found data extraction for hardlinked binaries (git-diff was not showing up before)
* command-not-found-data update for alpha-6
* discuss language-selector improvments with Arne and seed the missing im-switch
* thursday: packaging training 
* trip report fosdem

===== Next week =====

* upgrade testing (more dapper->hardy)
* bugfixing

==== Mirco Müller (MacSlow) ====

* UbuntuSpec:hardy-desktop-effects
* UbuntuSpec:gdm-face-browser
* UbuntuSpec:faces-creator-for-gdm

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* some desktop updates

* tested hardy daily

* lot of bug triage, backported svn fixes and investaged on issues

* tracked gvfs changes, lot of discussion with upstream and testing, updated the package and backport changes when required

* tried to figure why my dell latitude 630 was that slow to boot on hardy, got bootchart and debug log, thanks to scott who figured that the issue is due to udev and told me how to workaround it, boot back to normal speed now

* looked at why brightness control was broken, figure the issue with sjoerd and took that upstream, fixed in hal git and the new version which will be uploaded to hardy

* started looking at why dnd-sd doesn't work in gvfs on my desktop, avahi stays in registering state on boot but works correctly after being restarted seems to be a race somewhere, there is some similar bugs in launchpad but the packages seems to not be maintained, added to my list of things I want to get fixed in hardy

* had several discussion with different GNOME upstream people about bugs that would be nice to get fixed for GNOME 2.22.1

* lot of random small desktop bugs fixed too

==== Ted Gould (tedg) ====

===== GNOME Power =====
* Started looking at bugs more intensely, a lot of varied stuff
* Installed pitti's PPA HAL, which fixes my batteries on /sys -- much thanks!
* Looking at various brightness issues.  Patches to stop idle changes earlier and not save settings so far.
* Acquired a couple of serial ports and a NULL modem cable to try and test batteries dying.

===== Meeting Items =====
* Virtual networks.  They've been added to HAL, but Network Manager is now unhappy (no longer connects to wireless as it prefers virtual)

===== Misc =====
* Now part of Canonical USA.  Love the fact that the USA contract was a page longer than the Ltd one, go USA lawyers!
* Sprint plague on Thursday.  Blame Rick.
* Started researching Ibex plans for Telepathy
* ﻿Vacation March 24-27

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
