{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Weekly Summary ==

* Color Management Hackfest in Brno Nov 9-12 (and the days after): Discussed a lot about color management in printing workflow, reported bugs in Ghostscript, worked out changes for cups-filters, also meeting with upstreams of GTK and Qt print dialogs and they accept the ideas of the Common Printing Dialog. Tested CM on HP PDF printer: Does not work. Tested Nexus 7: Screen color management does not work (tkamppeter).
* Made Bluetooth on Nexus 7 working using Valgrind workaround: Keyboard works, Bluetooth printer not. Another way to work with Nexus 7: VNC-remote-control with vino/vinagre. Updated Wiki (tkamppeter).
* Nexus 7: All printing except Bluetooth printer works (tkamppeter).
* friends-service now has superb libnotify support (robru)
* Packaging inlining work is ongoing (robru)

== Agenda ==

=== Product strategy integration ===

* Continue work on the automated build system to push trunk to distro. Code done, workarounding some launchpad issues, new copy workflow for security, jenkins setup and scripted, build sources in a chroot. First landing in the incoming hours :)

==== Unity ====

* Finished modernizing build systems of all components (dh9, tests, etc)
* All components have been prepared for new automatic changelog entries
* Added new package gnome-control-center-unity to hold the Appearance panel
* SRU uploaded for precise. quantal still in unapproved after a week.

==== Indicators & Themes ====

* Completing modernizing build system for indicators.

==== Webapps/Webcredentials ====

* Continuing work on moving packaging into trunk, updating to dh9, etc
* More SRUs coming, unity-firefox-extension, libunity-webapps, webapps-applications

==== Open input framework ====

=== X.org ===
* Finalizing xorg stack for inclusion. Making sure users can't shoot themselves in the foot easily. (mlankhorst)
* vdpau decoding for nouveau (mlankhorst, mostly free time fun project)

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
}}}

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

{{{
</pre>
