{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Actions from previous meeting ==

== Actions from this meeting ==

== Weekly Summary ==

* More than half of the <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/oneiric/+specs?searchtext=desktop-o|oneiric desktop blueprints]]</nowiki> are approved, but many are still in "drafting". Let's keep going! Note that feature definition deadline is this Thursday.
* GNOME 3 updates going well; oneiric looks ugly due to missing theme, but it's actually working.
* New session system: upgrading user should still get the "classic" session (they aren't migrated if they had "classic no effect" though). New install will only have unity/(+unity-2d once seeded).
* Some DesktopTeam wiki cleanup
* http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Document-Foundation-appoints-Engineering-Steering-Committee-1248364.html

=== Partner update ===

=== Unity ===

* second unity SRU slip for a couple of days, should be available in -proposed by end of week.
* unity-2d targetted to be in the default image for alpha1 (with Qt and co)

=== Software Center ===
* Blueprints for Oneiric
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-o-software-center-ui
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/foundations-o-ratings-and-reviews-in-software-center
* Released Software Center 4.1.2 and 4.1.3, includes:
** Bug fixes, most have also been targeted for Natty SRUs
** Code cleanup, start of refactoring for cleaner backend/UI separation, provide support for multiple front-ends

=== Kubuntu ===

=== X.org ===

=== bzr usage ===

See UbuntuSpec:desktop-o-packaging-branches

* Strawpoll in Western edition: Nobody was in favor of moving to the UDD branches, everyone preferred the status quo.
* To be re-discussed in Eastern edition, particularly with Luke and Robert (as the X.org guys use git anyway)

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
17:32:03	pitti	I'm not sure why didrocks added the "new session system" twice, presumably to underline its importance :)
17:32:22	pitti	so, let's start with the usual reports, then get to the discussions
17:32:25	didrocks	pitti: of course :-) I think I conflicted with my edit (wikimoinsmoins is slow :p)
17:32:28	didrocks	fixing
17:32:54	pitti	Partner update -- kenvandine, I suppose you're still fighting with the flu?
17:33:16	pitti	so let's skip this -- I don't think we are supposed to land anything at this early time anyway
17:33:43	pitti	didrocks: anything noteworthy wrt. unity/2d/qt/etc?
17:33:56	didrocks	pitti: will try to get unity-2d on the CD for alpha1
17:34:08	didrocks	well CD/default image
17:34:12	rodrigo_	hello?
17:34:13	pitti	that'd be good, to see early what CD overflow we are up against, and also for testing
17:34:15	didrocks	I doubt we will be < 700 Mb
17:34:17	didrocks	:)
17:34:25	pitti	didrocks: np, alpha-1 can be oversized
17:34:38	didrocks	for unity itself, the SRU will be this week, bit a little bit delayed
17:34:39	bcurtiswx_	yes kenvandine is still under the weather
17:34:54	didrocks	should it -proposed and maybe be copied before to oneiric for alpha1?
17:35:01	rodrigo_	ugh, too much lag here
17:35:32	pitti	didrocks: I think at this point we want a real upload; the toolchain and half of the GNOME/GTK infrastructure changed
17:35:42	didrocks	pitti: sure, will do that way then
17:35:58	pitti	didrocks: if it poses any problem, you can confirm in the bugs that all fixes are in upstream trunk as well :)
17:36:21	pitti	tremolux: thanks for the s-c report in the wiki; anything we need to discuss?
17:36:45	tremolux	pitti: you're welcome, I don't think so unless somebody has a question, etc.?
17:36:59	 *	pitti leaves some time to raise questions
17:37:11	 *	tremolux whistles
17:37:14	pitti	tremolux: do you know if anyone already looked into the gtk3 migration? how bad is it?
17:37:39	tremolux	pitti: it's not going to be very straightforward
17:37:48	tremolux	mainly due to our custom components
17:38:00	pitti	that's expected; I meant did you already stumble over major bugs in pygobject/gtk etc. which will make this hard?
17:38:19	tremolux	nope, not that I know of
17:39:01	pitti	Kubuntu -- as Riddell is in the launchpad camp this cycle, we don't have a representative here, or do we?
17:39:33	didrocks	I don't think we have, indeed
17:39:42	pitti	X.org -> eastern edition
17:39:53	pitti	Let's talk about specs, baby!
17:39:57	pitti	https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/oneiric/+specs?searchtext=desktop-o
17:40:03	pitti	nice progress last week
17:40:10	seb128	specs, yummy ;-)
17:40:13	pitti	didrocks, cjwatson, ev, and me have one spec each for approval
17:40:36	pitti	and 9 are still to be drafted
17:40:50	pitti	so, consider this a gentle reminder :)
17:41:05	didrocks	"gentle for now"? :-)
17:41:11	pitti	the thing I'd like to discuss here (as we didn't get around to it at UDS) is https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-o-packaging-branches
17:41:22	pitti	didrocks: yes, rick's whip is for after-Thursday
17:41:47	pitti	this is roughly whether we shoudl continue to use our debian/ only custom branches for now, or switch to UDD branches
17:41:54	pitti	we made some experiments with UDD
17:42:38	seb128	pitti, "here" being the meeting now?
17:42:39	pitti	can we do a quick straw-poll from everyone whether they'd prefer moving to UDD ("UDD"), or keep debian/ only ("old")?
17:42:49	pitti	and then discuss the pro/con?
17:42:51	seb128	robert_ancell had some opinion about that, should we rather take that to the list?
17:43:09	pitti	seb128: more interactive that way, but sure
17:43:15	seb128	ok, we can do a round there and then take it to the list
17:43:24	pitti	so, everyone, shoot
17:43:27	seb128	so I'm for keeping the debian dir only
17:43:35	pitti	debian/ only
17:44:02	cyphermox	hmm... debian/ only, even if it's more trouble for merging
17:44:04	didrocks	debian/ only where we are not upstream, merge-upstream udd/workflow otherwise
17:44:50	 *	rodrigo_ for keeping debian/ only
17:44:51	pitti	didrocks: hm, the ones where we have an upstream in LP are the ones where the auto-imported UDD branches make least sense to me?
17:45:05	pitti	didrocks: or do you mean "once you switch lp:ubuntu/ over to the custom branch"?
17:45:34	pitti	mterry: any opinion?
17:46:00	pitti	I put my reasons into the whiteboard of the bp
17:46:05	didrocks	pitti: I don't care if we use the "canonical" (lp:ubuntu/ address or not), I just mean, the one where we are upstream (and so, upstream in bzr) should use full source branch
17:46:32	mterry	pitti, no, both work fine for me
17:46:34	pitti	didrocks: right, full source as a real derivative of trunk is the only thing that really makes sense for upstreams in bzr
17:46:41	didrocks	like indicators, unity (what we already have), just want to make the disctinction between the two kind of branches we have :)
17:46:48	pitti	didrocks: but the auto-imported ones aren't compatible to anything else
17:47:09	didrocks	pitti: no, I though you meant "udd" as "full source" as opposed to "debian/" only
17:47:09	pitti	ok, so it seems folks here want to keep the status quo then
17:47:12	didrocks	but then, we agree :)
17:47:36	pitti	I'll summarize on the wiki page and then ask jasoncwarner to bring it up in the eastern edition as well
17:48:00	pitti	well, the X.org guys are using git anyway, but Robert and Luke touch desktopish stuff
17:48:21	pitti	that's my agenda
17:48:28	pitti	anything else from anyone?
17:48:38	 *	Sweetshark just read what "udd" is.
17:48:39	pitti	seb128: anythign which we should be aware of on the GNOME 3 front?
17:48:48	Sweetshark	dont think i want that for LO.
17:49:00	pitti	Sweetshark: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DistributedDevelopment/
17:49:08	pitti	Sweetshark: no, you really REALLY don't want these :)
17:49:15	seb128	pitti, no, the transition is doing fine so far, we got most of the GNOME3 basis done
17:49:25	seb128	remaining part is the gnome-panel, gnome-menus,indicators
17:49:45	seb128	the indicators transition is a bit tricky since it requires quite some source updates and involve both GNOME and unity
17:50:20	pitti	i. e. a big lockstep transition?
17:50:29	seb128	we have still a bunch of updates to get done but I will start building lists of things using deprecated libs on the CD soon
17:50:50	pitti	seb128: would it be easier if we sent out a warning to the lists to not upgrade for a few days, and break oneiric for a couple of days?
17:51:07	pitti	or can we prepare the lockstep transition in a PPA? (might be better)
17:51:30	seb128	we should check with dx first how it plays for them
17:51:37	seb128	i.e with njpatel, ted, didrocks
17:51:53	cjwatson	for the record, I'd like to get at least *one* oneiric CD daily build out this week
17:51:53	seb128	we probably should land ido and libindicate gtk3 builds first
17:52:01	cjwatson	so it would be nice to allow a bit of time for that
17:52:09	seb128	cjwatson, we should not destabilize things before a1
17:52:12	pitti	ok, so let's stage this up in the ubuntu-desktop PPA
17:52:42	seb128	pitti, I want to see if building an indicator on the "wrong" gtk version leads it to be ignore or lead to unity exiting because it gets 2 gtk in process
17:52:45	cjwatson	I don't mind churn, now's the time in the cycle for it, but the kernel guys want a CD image to test with
17:53:01	didrocks	seb128: feeling adventurous? :)
17:53:02	cjwatson	and I can only do that if I get a window when the desktop's installable
17:53:04	seb128	cjwatson, ok, we will be careful until we get a build
17:53:08	--	smspillaz ist nun als smspillaz|zzz bekannt
17:53:13	seb128	cjwatson, is there anything not installable now?
17:53:23	seb128	i.e anything we need to fix?
17:53:34	pitti	wow @ http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/testing/oneiric_probs.html
17:53:38	pitti	I had expected it to be a lot worse
17:53:39	cjwatson	it's OK *right now*, although that's only as of extremely recently
17:53:44	fta	pitti, seb128: did you fix dbus already? or not yet?
17:53:46	cjwatson	pitti: I've been working on it ...
17:53:52	pitti	cjwatson: great job!
17:54:00	cjwatson	TBH it was mostly the perl transition
17:54:09	seb128	cjwatson, ok, so we will keep it this way for a few days, let us know when you got a CD build
17:54:14	pitti	fta: fixed for installability, but SpammapS really meant to upload a newer netbase; he's doing that now, and re-fix dbus
17:54:26	cjwatson	seb128: will do, thanks.  should be soon, I just need to take safekeeping copies of the images that weren't released with natty
17:54:36	pitti	dbus broke the world this morning, so I quick-fixed it
17:54:41	fta	pitti, ok; thanks.
17:55:17	pitti	bah, esound, is that not quite dead yet
17:55:35	pitti	oh, it's NBS
17:55:57	pitti	I'll look a bit into this, and the language-support-* stuff
17:56:03	pitti	ok, thanks
17:56:04	pitti	AOB?
17:56:38	seb128	thanks
17:56:44	pitti	thanks everyone, adjourned
17:56:46	didrocks	thanks everyone
17:57:16	tremolux	thanks!  good day all
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
</pre>
