{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson)
* Didier Roche (didrocks)
* Gary Lasker (tremolux)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)
* Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

==== Discussion ====

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Partner Update ===
===== UbuntuOne =====
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuOne-MaverickWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>
* Desktop SSO problems seems to be working now, specifically Bug:628118 is fixed
* Music Store also seems to be working well again, Bug:572381 is now fixed
* desktopcouch still has some problems, it will now push changes to the service but won't pull changes down  Bug:585530
   - They are hopefull this will be resolved by the end of the week
* desktopcouch pairing is broken, needs to be fixed to work properly with desktop SSO Bug:629095

===== DX =====
* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-MaverickWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-MaverickReleaseStatus#Freeze%20Exceptions%20Requests| Freeze Exception Requests]]</nowiki>
* Concerned about a current nautilus crasher Bug:621536
* Working on performance related bugs, memory leaks, etc
* Desktop menu for appmenu, might be resolved this week.

=== Kubuntu Update ===

=== X Update ===

* Mesa 7.9 FFe request filed (Bug:631413)
** Fixes Unity on -radeon
** Helps HWE support the new intel chips
** Adds a new EGL extension Linaro want
* “X crashes once when pressing <enter>” (Bug:626723, Bug:625239) has reared its ugly head again.  This doesn't seem to be caused by X, though.

=== Release Status ===

http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team.html

=== UNE update ===

* New unity this week. Some people have some crashes from unity-place-applications. It has been fixed in trunk. Will try to get a backport soon. :)
* Also, just fixed in trunk is the support for XDG \o/ That means that people will soon be able to play with evolution express on netbook.
* We triaged for some hours with davidb all the bug report to unity. We set important one to this week release (and some early next week). We have a lot of small issues (and few big one like mem leaks), but all should be in shape for maverick (fingers crossed) to get a rocking unity!
* Full bug list there: https://launchpad.net/unity/+milestone/2010-09-09
* What else on the shiny netbook world? Well, a lot of work with #debian-cli guys on banshee. 1.7.5 is just out (without hal, using udev backend), we have a crash right now at start but it's beeing working on. A call for testing on OMGUbuntu has been coordinated (http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/09/an-urgent-call-for-testing-banshee-1-7-5-on-maverick). We will see how it goes, but it seems really late for banshee to be the default in maverick, despite all its goodness like the netbook ui.

=== USC update ===

* Buy Something
** software-center-agent and payments service have been deployed to production
** Deployment is limited initially for testing and with a single test item for sale (Fluendo DVD Player)
** Continued bugfixing, address issues in mpt's summary email
** need to set up hosting for screenshots (for buy-something and new-apps)
** RT for tracking #41184
  
* New Apps on a Stable Release
** extras.ubuntu.com and corresponding sync from app-review-board PPA not yet implemented
** RT for tracking #40099
   
* Miscellaneous
** Lots of bug fixes this week; continued focus on bug fixing and performance improvements
** Added spinner for better feedback for applist views with longer load times

=== Other Business ===

Bugs to be aware of:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Bug
| Title
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/totem/+bug/609855|609855]]</nowiki>
| Totem unable to play youtube videos
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/brasero/+bug/631730|631730]]</nowiki>
| brasero crashed with SIGSEGV in g_variant_is_trusted()
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-bluetooth/+bug/551831|551831]]</nowiki>
| bluetooth-applet crashed with SIGSEGV
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gstreamer0.10/+bug/589047|589047]]</nowiki>
| gst-plugin-scanner crashed with KeyError in <module>()
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/631740|631740]]</nowiki>
| Dbus error when clicking network icon in nautilus
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gvfs/+bug/631960|631960]]</nowiki>
| Connecting to smb mount fails - gvfsd-smb just eats CPU
|}
=== Activity reports ===

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

==== Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson) ====

* General:
** Security updates - Firefox 3.6.9, xulrunner 1.9.2.9, Thunderbird 3.0.7, Firefox 3.5.12, xulrunner 1.9.1.12 and Seamonkey 2.0.7 (scheduled for today)
** Backporting more security fixes to Thunderbird 2.0.0.24 + testing
** Debugging issues with the patch I submitted upstream to make Firefox crash reporting work on Ubuntu, which failed with GCC4.3 and meant it had to be backed out of mozilla-central. Fixed now though.
** Spent some time trying to work out mimetype detection in Firefox and Thunderbird, to understand why <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/239952|LP: #239952]]</nowiki> happens, and also to investigate issues people are having opening attachments in Thunderbird (possibly related)
** Fixed some issues in Firefox 4.0 introduced with all the recent packaging changes:
** Cleaned up the system preference conffiles on upgrade (these are no longer supported)
** Made it possible to distribute our vendor preferences in the packaging again
** Sent an e-mail to the ubuntu-bugsquad and ubuntu-bugcontrol mailing lists describing how to handle Firefox crashes now
* Bugs:
** Investigated ubufox upgrade failures, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/627879|LP: #627879]]</nowiki>. It turns out that this is being triggered by some packaging changes made by an Ubuntu derivative, and is not a problem for Ubuntu users. I'm not planning to do anything else with this, unless the bug noise becomes too excessive.
** Backported a patch for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/239952|LP: #239952]]</nowiki> from mozilla-central for Firefox 3.6, and requested approval for mozilla-1.9.2. If we don't get that by next week, I'll try and distro-patch our package instead.
** Started working on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/543064|LP: #543064]]</nowiki>, which affects anybody running thunderbird on KDE. I know how to work around it, but ideally we'd get the Firefox KDE integration working in Thunderbird instead, and then this issue would go away entirely.
** Wrote a patch for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/630281|LP: #630281]]</nowiki> and submitted upstream for review
* Sponsoring:
** connman and ofono updates
* SRU:
** gnome-terminal 2.30.2 for Lucid to fix <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/526437|LP: #526437]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/534225|LP: #534225]]</nowiki>. It's currently sat in the queue awaiting review

==== Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF) ====

* Identified problem in Clutter which broke Unity on mesa 7.9, applied upstream patch to our packages.  Waiting for sponsorship (Bug:632352)
* Updated and testing mesa 7.9 snapshot.  FFe filed.
* Fixed an Xserver crash in -ati, upload sponsored by Alberto (thanks!).
* Bug triage

==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====

* UNE
** unity update: unity-asset-pool, zeitgeist-extensions, unity-place-applications, unity
** upload mutter with a fix for unminized applications not beeing available anymore
** debug some unity issues with upstream like wallpaper cache related work.
** beta UNE (and some desktop part) iso testing
** banshee: worked closely with upstream and #debian-cli to get everything in shape:
*** new bindings (packaging gkeyfile-sharp)
*** accelerating ubuntu process
*** talking to OMGUbuntu people for a call for testing (see UNE update)
** lot of bug triaging. Reviewing every opened bug and setting a list with davidb about which bugs should be fixed for maverick (see UNE update)
* GNOME:
** fix empathy, folks and gnome-control-center uploads
** help empathy upstream to get ready for the hug day (during freeze):
*** update and upload folks and empathy to the empathy PPA
** then, update new empathy to maverick
** evolution work:
*** update evolution stack to 2.30.3 (evolution-data-server, evolution-exchange, evolution)
*** remerge evolution-express from 2.32 and backport to that stack
*** fix a bug where there was no way for POP account to keep email on server
*** properly add ubuntu signature to existing installation
*** set it by default to new created accounts
* Misc:
** polish a little bit compiz package in the compiz ppa (0.9). Still needs more work
* sponsoring:
** libgpod (+ small fix), evolution-data-server (backport of a fix) 
** SRU: empathy, cheese

==== Gary Lasker (tremolux) ====
 
* Review, test and merge lp:~mmcg069/software-center/misbehaving-pathbar-fix
* Software Center bug review and planning with mvo
* Review, test lp:~mmcg069/software-center/viewswitcher2
* Implement buy dialog as a gtk.Window, convert to using signals for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/625398|LP: #625398]]</nowiki>
** Identified a simpler fix for the bug so will use that
** This work can be reused in Natty when integrating the buy-something workflow to be in-line
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/628394|LP: #628394]]</nowiki> - only update the channel list when a model is available
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/625398|LP: #625398]]</nowiki> - fix display of Terms of Service popup window
* Review and test lp:~mvo/software-center/less-flicker
* Fixed a regression where Install/Remove button was not properly updated
* Opened <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/628399|LP: #628399]]</nowiki> - App names partially obscured
* Opened <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/628404|LP: #628404]]</nowiki> - need icon for "Previous Purchases"
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/630631|LP: #630631]]</nowiki> - always default to hide nonapps, fixes a very noticeable performance regression
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/630641|LP: #630641]]</nowiki> - add a spinner to be displayed when loading slower applist views
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/617821|LP: #617821]]</nowiki> - navigation broken, verified this was fixed by the fix for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/624732|LP: #624732]]</nowiki>
* In progress: refactor show/hide non-applications code so that it can be used in installed views also
** This will fix <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/556375|LP: #556375]]</nowiki> performance issue
* This week:
** Continued USC bug fixing and performance improvements, focus on remaining buy-something bugs

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

done:
* beta testing, fixing, releasing
* KDE SC 4.5.1 packaging, testing, uploading
* new packagekit release and settings change
* reviewing UDS sponsorships
* working out why akonadi and nepomuk are running on the live CD and fixing
* upgrade testing
todo:
* fixes!

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
* Twitter's OAuthpocalypse
** SRU
** released in Maverick
* Gwibber bugs
** Narrowed gwibber-service crasher to libproxy, specifically crashing on caching avatars.  
** Fixed a nasty bug related to some data not getting purged from the DB on account deletion, which prevented gwibber-service to start
* Gwibber test suite
** Tried to get cranked up on this task, figured out that there isn't really any good examples of open source apps unit testing against twitter results.  Looking for a sane way to maintain sample data for success requests as well as common failures.  
* ubuntu-wallpapers
** Created an animated wallpaper containing the Contest winning wallpapers (awaiting UIF exception) Bug:629216

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* Maverick updates: gnome-color-manager, gnome-keyring, libgnome-keyring, gtk+2.0, telepathy-glib, gnome-control-center, system-tools-backends, liboobs, gnome-system-tools, gconf, gnome-settings-daemon, folks, gnome-power-manager, gnome-themes, glibmm2.4, gnome-bluetooth, gtkhtml3.14, libbonobo, gbrainy, pymt
* Make versions page check upload queue
* Sponsor non-geeky description for pidgin
* Fix empathy default schema settings
* Fix glib-compile-schemas failing on broken/unknown schemas
* Sponsor gnome-python-desktop FTBFS patch

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* Testing maverick beta isos
* backported unity bug fixes for beta
* backported appmenu-gtk crasher fixes
* new webkit version
* let telepathy-logger recommends libdconf0
* updated gconf depends
* fixed some software-properties translation issues
* updated default association for deb files
* update gnome-bt to correctly install its schemas
* new rhythmbox version
* let empathy recommends libdconf and depends on telepathy-logger
* updated evince transition version and backported a crash fix
* weekly desktop and release team meetings, reviewed work items
* retracers debugging

* sponsoring: gnome-settings-daemon

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* Continued on replacing the Foomatic XML data by a compressed PPD archive: Finished the work on the packages foomatic-db, foomatic-db-engine, cups, ghostscript, gutenprint, ptouch-driver, min12xxw, c2050 and uploaded all these packages. Talked with cjwatson about the seed update. Seeds are now updated and an additional 18 MB saved in a standard installation.
* foomatic-filters, foomatic-db-engine: Applied some upstream bug fixes.
* foomatic-db: Added two Brother printers (LP: #560518) and added support for non-Postscript models of many Sharp multi-function printers (LP: #378475).
* cups: Set default value for RIPCache to "auto" this eliminates nearly all failures of Ghostscript's CUPS Raster output driver, making drivers like Gutenprint, HPLIP, or SpliX working much more reliably. Removed distinction between Ubuntu and Debian, as Debian's Ghostscript also contains the upstream patches to support RIPCache=auto.
* Fixed segfault of Ghostscript's CUPS Raster device for one-channel substractive color spaces (used by Gutenprint and SpliX for monochrome laser printers).
* Checked Debian's Ghostscript to look into a possible merge/sync in the future.
* Looked into the slowness of Jockey when automatically downloading printer driver packages (LP: #574396)
* Answered and triaged lots of printing-related bug reports, especially the back log from my vacation.

== IRC Log ==

[17:30] <seb128> time for the meeting ;-) <<BR>>
[17:30] <seb128> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2010-09-07 <<BR>>
[17:30] <tremolux> seb128: hi! <<BR>>
[17:30] <Riddell> hi <<BR>>
[17:30] <seb128> sorry about the duplicate email, don't click several time on launchpad when it doesn't seem to respond ;-) <<BR>>
[17:30] <chrisccoulson> hi! <<BR>>
[17:31] <seb128> hey pedro_ <<BR>>
[17:31] <pedro_> hello! <<BR>>
[17:31] <pedro_> seb128, i've edited the wiki as talked the previous week <<BR>>
[17:31] <seb128> nice <<BR>>
[17:31] <pedro_> to put some bugs we should be aware of <<BR>>
[17:31] <seb128> so let's get started <<BR>>
[17:31]  * kenvandine waves <<BR>>
[17:31] <seb128> outstanding actions <<BR>>
[17:32] <seb128> didrocks, hey <<BR>>
[17:32] <seb128> you had an action item for banshee? <<BR>>
[17:32] <didrocks> seb128: oh really? didn't see that :-) <<BR>>
[17:32] <didrocks> but made the action <<BR>>
[17:32] <didrocks> it was part of the UNE update, but well <<BR>>
[17:32] <seb128> yeah, I forgot to put it on the wiki <<BR>>
[17:32] <seb128> it doesn't mean I forgot about it :p <<BR>>
[17:33] <seb128> ok, so let's do that during the UNE update <<BR>>
[17:33] <didrocks>  Well, a lot of work with #debian-cli guys on banshee. <<BR>>
[17:33]  * chrisccoulson looks at wiki for bugs <<BR>>
[17:33] <seb128> coming back to you in a bit <<BR>>
[17:33] <seb128> kenvandine, hey <<BR>>
[17:33] <didrocks> ok :) <<BR>>
[17:33] <seb128> kenvandine, partner update? <<BR>>
[17:33] <kenvandine> sure <<BR>>
[17:33] <seb128> tell us they will fix all our bugs and not ask for any exception ;-) <<BR>>
[17:33] <kenvandine> hehe <<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> U1 <<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> Desktop SSO problems seems to be working now, specifically bug 628118 is fixed <<BR>>
[17:34] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 628118 in ubuntuone-servers "OAuth tokens are not added to Ubuntu One after /sso-finished-so-get-tokens/ (affects: 13) (heat: 72)" [High,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/628118 <<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> Music Store also seems to be working well again,  bug 572381 is now fixed <<BR>>
[17:34] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 572381 in rhythmbox-ubuntuone-music-store (Ubuntu) (and 1 other project) "Ubuntu One Store not showing (dup-of: 624616)" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/572381 <<BR>>
[17:34] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 624616 in rhythmbox-ubuntuone-music-store (Ubuntu Maverick) (and 2 other projects) "rhythmbox-ubuntuone-music-store without icon (affects: 9) (dups: 3) (heat: 46)" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/624616 <<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> desktopcouch still has some problems, it will now push changes to the service but won't pull changes down bug 585530 <<BR>>
[17:34] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 585530 in ubuntuone-servers "Desktopcouch Replication is disabled - evolution contacts and bookmarks are not syncing (affects: 114) (dups: 9) (heat: 652)" [Critical,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/585530 <<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> They are hopefull this will be resolved by the end of the week <<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> desktopcouch pairing is broken, needs to be fixed to work properly with desktop SSO  bug 629095 <<BR>>
[17:34] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 629095 in desktopcouch (Ubuntu Maverick) (and 2 other projects) "Ubuntu One pairing code needs to be added (affects: 2) (heat: 876)" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/629095 <<BR>>
[17:34] <seb128> I've read that before :-( <<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> yeah... i know :/ <<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> the local pairing stuff in desktopcouch seems to have been bit by the transition to desktop sso <<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> questions/comments about U1 stuff? <<BR>>
[17:35] <seb128> do we have anything relying on desktopcouch right now? <<BR>>
[17:36] <seb128> or on the pairing to work? <<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> i don't think so actually <<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> i think we could drop it from the CD <<BR>>
[17:36] <seb128> ok, so it's annoying to promote it but not so much an issue for the default installation <<BR>>
[17:36] <seb128> let's not do CD changes now ;-) <<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> as long as it doesn't get removed on upgrade, we need it to migrate users for gwibber <<BR>>
[17:37] <seb128> but we will discuss it at UDS if those issues are not sorted by then <<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> seb128, indeed :) <<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> on to DX <<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> Concerned about a current nautilus crasher - bug 621536 <<BR>>
[17:37] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 621536 in nautilus (Ubuntu) (and 1 other project) "nautilus crashed with SIGSEGV in g_object_set() (affects: 3) (heat: 16)" [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/621536 <<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> Working on unity performance related bugs, memory leaks, etc <<BR>>
[17:38] <kenvandine> Desktop menu for appmenu should get uploaded this week <<BR>>
[17:38] <kenvandine> they do have some FFEs <<BR>>
[17:38] <kenvandine> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopExperienceTeam/MaverickReleaseStatus#Freeze%2520Exceptions%2520Requests <<BR>>
[17:39] <kenvandine> any questions? comments? <<BR>>
[17:39] <seb128> nice summary <<BR>>
[17:39] <Riddell> kenvandine: have you had any indication about when the font is going to go in the archive? <<BR>>
[17:39] <seb128> kenvandine, thanks <<BR>>
[17:39] <kenvandine> Riddell, i haven't heard anything <<BR>>
[17:40] <Riddell> bug 629622 suggests it is but so far no actual movement to get it in <<BR>>
[17:40] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 629622 in ubuntu (and 1 other project) "MIR+FFE: Inclusion of Ubuntu Font Family ~0.7 in Maverick (10.10) (affects: 6) (heat: 50)" [Wishlist,Invalid] https://launchpad.net/bugs/629622 <<BR>>
[17:40] <seb128> is it still schedule for this cycle? <<BR>>
[17:40] <kenvandine> i'll check on that <<BR>>
[17:40] <kenvandine> seb128, i don't think so <<BR>>
[17:40] <kenvandine> but i'll confirm <<BR>>
[17:40] <Riddell> seb128: possibly, from Mark's comments <<BR>>
[17:40] <seb128> hum <<BR>>
[17:40] <seb128> yeah, I was just reading that <<BR>>
[17:41] <seb128> though cf comment #18 <<BR>>
[17:42] <seb128> ok <<BR>>
[17:42] <seb128> anything else for kenvandine? <<BR>>
[17:42] <kenvandine> nope <<BR>>
[17:42] <kenvandine> thx <<BR>>
[17:42] <seb128> thanks kenvandine <<BR>>
[17:42] <seb128> Riddell, hey, kubuntu update? <<BR>>
[17:43] <Riddell> here it is.. <<BR>>
[17:43] <Riddell>  * http://tinyurl.com/33p7vu3 19 milestoned bugs, the most notable ones are installer bugs <<BR>>
[17:43] <Riddell>  * beta release made, major installer problems fixed although still a few big issues to go, hugs to ev <<BR>>
[17:43] <Riddell>  * KDE SC 4.5.1 uploaded and built except on ARM <<BR>>
[17:43] <Riddell>  * KDE SC 4.5.2 due October 5th, so I don't except it to be in final <<BR>>
[17:43] <Riddell>  * kubuntu mobile image successfully made for beta, but the mobile workspace itself didn't actually work, so some fixes to be done there <<BR>>
[17:43] <Riddell>  * lucid -> maverick upgrades working good, maverick -> natty upgrades working good too (anyone else on natty yet?) <<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128> is natty open? <<BR>>
[17:44] <Riddell>  no, I had to set it up locally to test <<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128> usually they only set the builders etc after release no? <<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128> ok ;-) <<BR>>
[17:46] <seb128> thanks Riddell <<BR>>
[17:46] <seb128> does anybody has kubuntu questions? <<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> seems not <<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> thanks <<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> didrocks, hey, UNE update? <<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> I need to reorder the wiki template ;-) <<BR>>
[17:47] <didrocks> New unity this week. Some people have some crashes from unity-place-applications. It has been fixed in trunk. Will try to get a backport soon. <<BR>>
[17:47] <didrocks> Also, just fixed in trunk is the support for XDG \o/ That means that people will soon be able to play with evolution express on netbook really soon <<BR>>
[17:48] <didrocks> We triaged for some hours with davidb all the bug report to unity. We set important one to this week release (and some early next week). <<BR>>
[17:48] <didrocks> e have a lot of small issues (and few big one like memleaks) but all should be in shape for maverick (fingers crossed) to get a rocking unity for maverick <<BR>>
[17:48] <didrocks> Full bug list there: https://launchpad.net/unity/+milestone/2010-09-09 <<BR>>
[17:49] <didrocks> hat else on the shiny netbook world? Well, a lot of work with #debian-cli guys on banshee. banshee 1.7.7 is just out <<BR>>
[17:49] <didrocks> 1.7.5* <<BR>>
[17:49] <didrocks> we have a crash right now at start but it's beeing working on. A call for testing on OMGUbuntu has been coordinated (http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/09/an-urgent-call-for-testing-banshee-1-7-5-on-maverick). <<BR>>
[17:49] <didrocks> this version gives the udev backend needed for removing HAL <<BR>>
[17:49] <didrocks> We will see how it goes, but it seems really late for banshee to be the default in UNE maverick, despite all its goodness like the netbook ui. <<BR>>
[17:50] <Laney> fixed & uploading <<BR>>
[17:50] <didrocks> you see, #debian-cli guys are awesome! :) <<BR>>
[17:50] <seb128> yeah <<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> still it's very late for changing the default <<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> especially to new code <<BR>>
[17:51] <didrocks> I have the same feeling <<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> what is your opinion on that? <<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> did you get any feedback on the music store in banshee? <<BR>>
[17:51] <didrocks> not yet, it's just *just* out. I need to have a proper test once I get the fix <<BR>>
[17:52] <didrocks> (for the crash at startup) <<BR>>
[17:52] <seb128> you probably have a better understanding of the benefit of the UI for small screens <<BR>>
[17:52] <didrocks> I really think the UI is way better, rhythmbox is hard to use on netbooks <<BR>>
[17:52] <seb128> how does it work with the sound indicator? <<BR>>
[17:53] <Laney> not yet, hyperair is doing that plugin now <<BR>>
[17:53] <didrocks> it has the mpris support, I don't know if V2 is there <<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> seems lot still need to be tested and they still don't have a stable version <<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> I would vote to delay it by default to next cycle <<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> the hard freeze is in a week <<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> what do you think? <<BR>>
[17:53] <didrocks> we can switch at least really early in the natty cycle <<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> it seems not likely that first codedrop is bugless <<BR>>
[17:53] <didrocks> switch* <<BR>>
[17:54] <didrocks> and there is still the CD space issue, we don't really know what will happen on that side <<BR>>
[17:54] <didrocks> (for what I tested, we should be safe, but we never know) <<BR>>
[17:54] <didrocks> so, I'll play it safe, let's see maybe the feedback until tomorrow? <<BR>>
[17:54] <didrocks> and take a decision there? <<BR>>
[17:55] <kenvandine> i can test it today <<BR>>
[17:55] <didrocks> kenvandine: the issue is the external devices support (udev backend), it changed a lot and we need a lot of feedbacks on many hardware <<BR>>
[17:55] <kenvandine> yeah... i have a couple devices i can test with <<BR>>
[17:55] <didrocks> jcastro: you maybe want some inputs there? <<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> ok <<BR>>
[17:56]  * bcurtiswx will test as well <<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> let's keep going <<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> we can discuss it during the week based on the testing feedback <<BR>>
[17:56] <didrocks> sure <<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> but it seems late, it's code rewrite, changes to the default installation and CD use <<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> the indicator needs to work <<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> the store needs to be tested <<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> etc <<BR>>
[17:57] <didrocks> right <<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> in any case the work will be available in universe for users <<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> thanks didrocks <<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> does anybody has questions for Didier? <<BR>>
[17:57] <didrocks> you're welcome :) <<BR>>
[17:57] <jcastro> didrocks: my only input is that we've waited this long, it'd be a shame to ship something not-quite ready by default. I say ship it in N for both editions, rock solid style. <<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> jcastro, banshee on desktop? <<BR>>
[17:58]  * kenvandine high fives jcastro <<BR>>
[17:58] <jcastro> seb128: that's a discussion for UDS! <<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> jcastro, an uds without that discussion wouldn't be uds ;-) <<BR>>
[17:58] <pedro_> lol <<BR>>
[17:58] <kenvandine> :) <<BR>>
[17:58]  * didrocks files the blueprint already :-) <<BR>>
[17:58]  * kenvandine hasn't used banshee in a while... seems weird :) <<BR>>
[17:58] <jcastro> no seriously, if you weren't convinced at guadec then I give up. <<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> and we all know how those discussions go <<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> ;-) <<BR>>
[17:58] <jcastro> heh <<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> ok, let's move on <<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> thanks didrocks <<BR>>
[17:59] <kenvandine> i bet this time seb128 will be preaching why we should switch :) <<BR>>
[17:59] <seb128> tremolux, hey, software-center update? <<BR>>
[17:59] <didrocks> thanks seb128 :-) <<BR>>
[17:59] <tremolux> yep <<BR>>
[17:59] <tremolux> Buy Something: software-center-agent and payments service live now, continue testing and bug fixing <<BR>>
[17:59] <tremolux> New Apps: extras.ubuntu.com and corresponding sync from app-review-board PPA not yet implemented <<BR>>
[17:59] <tremolux> Misc: Lots of bug fixes and performance improvements this week, continued focus on quality/performance <<BR>>
[18:00] <seb128> tremolux, nice to see you fixed that loading view having no feedback bug ;-) <<BR>>
[18:00] <tremolux> haha, yes  :)  thanks for the suggestion <<BR>>
[18:00] <tremolux> it's much nicer now <<BR>>
[18:01] <seb128> extras.ubuntu.com... is anybody following with IS on that? <<BR>>
[18:01] <seb128> do you still think we have time? hard freeze is next week <<BR>>
[18:01] <tremolux> we do still have time, but we have to watch this closely now <<BR>>
[18:01] <seb128> ok <<BR>>
[18:01] <tremolux> I missed the call yesterday, but I will check on that <<BR>>
[18:01] <seb128> thanks <<BR>>
[18:01] <seb128> I will check with rick when he's back <<BR>>
[18:01] <tremolux> thanks seb128 <<BR>>
[18:02] <tremolux> when is he back? <<BR>>
[18:02] <seb128> he's probably in a better position to get IS changes done if required <<BR>>
[18:02] <tremolux> right, middle of week he's back.. <<BR>>
[18:02] <seb128> I need to check <<BR>>
[18:02] <seb128> he's on vac until wednesday I think <<BR>>
[18:02] <seb128> but I don't know if that's included or not <<BR>>
[18:03] <seb128> thanks tremolux <<BR>>
[18:03] <seb128> questions for tremolux? <<BR>>
[18:03] <tremolux> sure, thanks <<BR>>
[18:04] <seb128> thanks tremolux <<BR>>
[18:04] <seb128> pedro_, hey <<BR>>
[18:04] <pedro_> hello! <<BR>>
[18:04] <seb128> pedro_, bugs status? ;-) <<BR>>
[18:04] <pedro_> so i have some bugs to share again <<BR>>
[18:04] <pedro_> bug 609855 <<BR>>
[18:04] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 609855 in totem (Ubuntu) (and 1 other project) "Totem unable to play youtube videos (affects: 14) (dups: 1) (heat: 88)" [Low,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/609855 <<BR>>
[18:05] <pedro_> that's fixed upstream but according to the upstream developers we need to change the ranking of the gstreamer elements <<BR>>
[18:05] <seb128> is that an issue in maverick or only lucid? <<BR>>
[18:05] <pedro_> in order to use giosrc rather than souphttpsrc <<BR>>
[18:05] <pedro_> it's an issue on maverick as well <<BR>>
[18:05] <pedro_> youtube is broken in both right now <<BR>>
[18:05] <seb128> I got it to work sometime in maverick <<BR>>
[18:06] <seb128> I will check with slomo if he knows about it <<BR>>
[18:06] <pedro_> cool! thanks <<BR>>
[18:06] <pedro_> bug 631730 <<BR>>
[18:06] <seb128> do you think you could check with upstream about the sink ranking change? <<BR>>
[18:06] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 631730 in brasero (Ubuntu) (and 1 other project) "brasero crashed with SIGSEGV in g_variant_is_trusted() (affects: 19) (dups: 2) (heat: 42)" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/631730 <<BR>>
[18:06] <seb128> it seems not really clear why and how to do that <<BR>>
[18:06] <pedro_> seb128, i'll check with pwithnall <<BR>>
[18:06] <seb128> I'm a bit nervous changing ranking only for totem youtube <<BR>>
[18:06] <seb128> thanks <<BR>>
[18:07] <seb128> seems the brasero one is upstreamed <<BR>>
[18:07] <pedro_> so that previous bug, brasero is a bit broken <<BR>>
[18:07] <seb128> I've assigned to robert_ancell on our side as well <<BR>>
[18:07] <pedro_> we're having more than 20 users affected since yesterday on that <<BR>>
[18:07] <pedro_> just press 'burn' and it will crash <<BR>>
[18:07] <seb128> I'm wondering if that's a desrt bug <<BR>>
[18:07] <seb128> it crashes in gvariant code ;-) <<BR>>
[18:08] <pedro_> i was wondering the same because it says gvariant <<BR>>
[18:08] <pedro_> heh <<BR>>
[18:08] <pedro_> the other bug is, bug 551831 <<BR>>
[18:08] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 551831 in gtk+2.0 (Ubuntu) (and 2 other projects) "bluetooth-applet crashed with SIGSEGV (affects: 107) (dups: 15) (heat: 466)" [Low,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/551831 <<BR>>
[18:08] <pedro_> we're still getting duplicates there <<BR>>
[18:08] <pedro_> would be nice if someone could have a look <<BR>>
[18:08] <seb128> seems that one is not new and a bit weird <<BR>>
[18:09] <pedro_> yeah <<BR>>
[18:09] <seb128> we could perhaps get brastche to tell us if he can spot something <<BR>>
[18:09] <pedro_> that'd be great <<BR>>
[18:09] <seb128> I doubt we will that one tracked for maverick though <<BR>>
[18:09] <pedro_> well if it gets fixed after the release we can get an SRU for it <<BR>>
[18:10] <seb128> right <<BR>>
[18:10] <seb128> next one? <<BR>>
[18:10] <pedro_> bug 589047 <<BR>>
[18:10] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 589047 in gstreamer0.10 (Ubuntu) "gst-plugin-scanner crashed with KeyError in <module>() (affects: 128) (dups: 19) (heat: 632)" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/589047 <<BR>>
[18:10] <pedro_> is also getting new duplicates <<BR>>
[18:10] <seb128> could you upstream that one? <<BR>>
[18:10] <seb128> I've seen this one locally <<BR>>
[18:10] <seb128> I'm not sure if it's an issue over apport noise though <<BR>>
[18:10] <pedro_> yeah it was affecting me a few ago and now it's back <<BR>>
[18:10] <seb128> I will check with slomo as well later <<BR>>
[18:11] <pedro_> ok cool <<BR>>
=== al-maisan is now known as almaisan-away <<BR>>
[18:11] <seb128> the 2 remaining ones are gvfs issues due to the libgconf port to gdbus <<BR>>
[18:11] <pedro_> and the next is bug 631740 and bug 631960 <<BR>>
[18:11] <seb128> I think they are the same issue <<BR>>
[18:11] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 631740 in nautilus (Ubuntu) "Dbus error when clicking network icon in nautilus (affects: 7) (dups: 2) (heat: 46)" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/631740 <<BR>>
[18:11] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 631960 in gvfs (Ubuntu Maverick) (and 1 other project) "Connecting to smb mount fails - gvfsd-smb just eats CPU (affects: 10) (dups: 4) (heat: 64)" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/631960 <<BR>>
[18:11] <seb128> I was chatting with desrt and #nautilus guys about it today <<BR>>
[18:11] <seb128> tzbatek said it would be fixed in git tomorrow <<BR>>
[18:11] <pedro_> cool! nice to know that's being tracked already <<BR>>
[18:12] <pedro_> those are the ones hitting more users recently <<BR>>
[18:12] <seb128> ok <<BR>>
[18:12] <pedro_> that's all from here on that seb128 unless there's a question/comment <<BR>>
[18:12] <seb128> retracers are still broken... <<BR>>
[18:12] <pedro_> :-( <<BR>>
[18:12] <seb128> the python dupchecking ran yesterday <<BR>>
[18:13] <seb128> they workarounded the bug which broke reading for crash files <<BR>>
[18:13] <seb128> but now we hit a timeout on upload <<BR>>
[18:13] <seb128> I'm still tracking that actively with launchpad guys <<BR>>
[18:13] <pedro_> do you know if there's any ETA on the retracers? <<BR>>
[18:13] <seb128> yesterday <<BR>>
[18:13] <pedro_> heh ok <<BR>>
[18:13] <seb128> it's one of their priority and I'm daily on their channel pushing for it <<BR>>
[18:14] <seb128> I will let you know when I get news <<BR>>
[18:14] <pedro_> indeed, hope they fix it soon <<BR>>
[18:14] <pedro_> thank you seb128 <<BR>>
[18:14] <seb128> thanks pedro_ <<BR>>
[18:14] <seb128> ok, release status <<BR>>
[18:15] <seb128> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team.html <<BR>>
[18:15] <seb128> we are sort of on track <<BR>>
[18:15] <seb128> out of kenvandine's 18 gwibber items ;-) <<BR>>
[18:15] <kenvandine> hehe <<BR>>
[18:15] <seb128> kenvandine, is there any progress on that? <<BR>>
[18:15] <kenvandine> most of those should be tiny once i get the initial setup done... <<BR>>
[18:15] <kenvandine> i spent some time last week on it <<BR>>
[18:16] <seb128> kenvandine, I think we don't really need to track that spec for maverick anyway <<BR>>
[18:16] <kenvandine> mostly trying to see how other projects deal with unit testing against twitter <<BR>>
[18:16] <kenvandine> yeah <<BR>>
[18:16] <seb128> kenvandine, great work on the twitter fix btw <<BR>>
[18:16] <kenvandine> thx <<BR>>
[18:16] <kenvandine> seems to be working well <<BR>>
[18:16] <seb128> excellent ;-) <<BR>>
[18:16] <seb128> otherwise focus should be on bug fixing now <<BR>>
[18:16] <kenvandine> but... it looks like none of the twitter clients does any unit testing <<BR>>
[18:16] <seb128> if you find a bug in maverick that you think should be fixed for release please nominate it <<BR>>
[18:16] <kenvandine> yeah, i have a gwibber crasher i am dealing with now <<BR>>
[18:17] <seb128> and assign or subscribe the team if you think we should track it specifically <<BR>>
[18:17] <seb128> ok <<BR>>
[18:17] <seb128> that's it from me I think <<BR>>
[18:17] <seb128> hard freeze is next week so let's go back to work <<BR>>
[18:17] <kenvandine> :) <<BR>>
[18:17] <kenvandine> thx <<BR>>
[18:18] <seb128> thanks everybody, maverick shapes to be solid <<BR>>
[18:18] <seb128> so let's make sure we focus on quality now until end of the cycle! <<BR>>
[18:18] <didrocks>  thanks everyone! <<BR>>
[18:19] <pedro_> thanks! <<BR>>
[18:19] <tremolux> thanks folks <<BR>>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
