{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (calc)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)him
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)  
* Tony Espy (awe)

=== Apologies ===

* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) - out of timezone

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Current Jaunty Tax?
* UDS
* Team Meeting Next Week
* Ubuntu One
* Alpha 1 Status
* Taking Care of Yourself
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===
* ACTION: All - if you are going to desktop summit, add yourself to the list on this page
** Result: Done
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to create and schedule UDS sessions for bug management 
** Result: Done

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Current Jaunty Tax? ===
What, if anything, are we spending time on related to Jaunty?
* robert_ancell has been working on an SRU for Totem in Jaunty to make Apple HD movie site and certain internet radio stations to start to work again. Current workaround is that users must manually open the URL from within Totem. Only work left is to run the SRU process.

=== UDS ===
* (07:38:16 AM) rickspencer3-afk: so, what are the expectations for folks getting blueprints ready for UDS?
* (07:38:22 AM) pitti: hey
* (07:38:54 AM) pitti: they should have a meaningful summary, proposed for uds-karmic, and someone reasonable (mostly the registrant) as drafter
* (07:39:06 AM) rickspencer3-afk: tx
* (07:39:15 AM) pitti: and approver as the corresponding team's tech lead or manager

=== Team Meeting Next Week ===
There is none I think, what do you all think?

=== Ubuntu One ===
* It's live now, beta testing is by invitation
* We are approving invitations in a step wise fashion to ensure there are no scalability issues
* Direct folks on IRC to #ubuntuone on Freenode if they have questions
* What is the expected scope for Jaunty?

=== Alpha1 Status ===

=== Taking Care or Yourself ===
* Ubuntu relies on the awesome dedication you have have shown
* Remember that it's a marathon, not a sprint
* Please make sure that you are taking adequate time for yourself, and if you feel that you can't please talk to rickspencer3 about it so I can help
* You won't be able to help the team if you are burned out

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

* Karmic Discussions with upstream (NM) and community (Mozilla)
* google gears build system work to strip down "third_party" sources/binaries by using system libs (so far eliminated 400 out of 650M)
* ia32libs does not find gtk+gio modules (LP: #369498); evaluation, fix, upstream gtk/glib patches
* modemmanager enabled 0.7.1 build crashes on resume - evaluation and fix
* discuss various UI concepts with upstream
* jaunty SRU for pptpd problem with new pppd LP: #352622
* daily archive maintenance; doing a first karmic upload round
* daily PPA upload processing regression discussed with Celso; bug on track (LP: #371640)
* support pidgin developer on how to use NM to track network reconnects and status changes
* all hands talk thoughts and discussion with co-speakers
* performance reviews/appraisals
* call/chat with awe to get him started on -desktop and NM tasks
* heads up for fta who returned from extended vacation

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====
===== Distro =====

* Sponsored:  -ati (#298094)
* Fleshed out blueprints a bit
   - desktop-karmic-xorg
   - desktop-karmic-xorg-driver-selection-for-nvidia-hardware
   - desktop-karmic-xorg-future-graphics-technologies
   - desktop-karmic-xorg-intel-upstreaming-working-session
   - desktop-karmic-xorg-intel-improve-upstreaming-process

===== X.org =====

* Upstreamed bunch more UXA bugs: 351756->21571, 356850->21572,
   357942->21573, 363305->21574, 370343->21575, 352207->21576,
   353763->21577, 363174->21579, 213171->21623, 371220->21625,
   302227->21626, 352136->21627, 353419->21628
* Created script to slice-n-dice -intel bugs based on chipset and
   symptom:  http://www2.bryceharrington.org:8080/X/symptoms_intel.html
* Caught up on 'xorg' bug retargeting
* Update ubuntu-x-swat team to direct bugmail to mailing list
* Close bugs that were actually kernel bugs, fixed by 2.6.30
* Reenable ModeDebug-by-default patch in xserver for development
* Updated apport script with suggestions from mdz
* Sync reqs: libx11, x11-xkb-utils, -openchrome, -suncg14, -trident,
   -tseng, -vesa, -voodoo
* Merged: -i128, -nv, -ati, libdrm, -intel(take-2)
* Fakesynced: -sunleo, -suncg6

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====
* Uploaded openoffice.org 1:3.0.1~rc2-1ubuntu1 to karmic and hardy/intrepid/jaunty ppa
* Uploaded openoffice.org-l10n 1:3.0.1~rc2-1ubuntu1 to karmic and hardy/intrepid/jaunty ppa
* Uploaded openoffice.org 1:3.0.1-1ubuntu1 to karmic and hardy/intrepid/jaunty ppa
* Uploaded openoffice.org-l10n 1:3.0.1-1ubuntu1 to karmic and hardy/intrepid/jaunty ppa
* Converted to default-java: flute-openoffice.org, libbase-openoffice.org, libfonts-openoffice.org, libformula-openoffice.org, liblayout-openoffice.org, libloader-openoffice.org, librepository-openoffice.org, libserializer-openoffice.org, libxml-openoffice.org, pentaho-reporting-flow-engine-openoffice.org
* Emailed Ken about new splash for OOo 3.1
* Weekly OOo Release Status Meeting - OOo 3.1.1 release scheduled for Aug 27
* Weekly desktop team meeting
* Lots of OOo bug triage - Falling behind here due to move to OEM team
* Moved into OEM team

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====

Done: 
* Acceptance criteria for ubuntu one in Karmic
* Ubuntu one debugging, and validation
* UDS Planning

Working on:
* Packaging API docs for libindicate
* UDS Planning
* Ubuntu one bug juggling
* Reviewing Ayatana planning sessions

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Currently open stable/milestoned bugs:
* Bug:334446 (Remove gnome-pilot from the default ubuntu install): simple to do, needs some discussion though
 
Done:
* UDS planning calls
* Discussed hal-setup-keymap replacement in the new udev world on devkit-devel@; nobody was working on it, so I took that and added it to udev-extras upstream; it is in Karmic now.
* Some hal, hal-info, and apport bug fixing
* Tons of SRU and MIR processing
* Tested KMS on my computer; seems to break suspend, otherwise working well

Merges: 
* usbutils, f-spot, gthumb, libgphoto2, libogg, sudo, system-tools-backends, texlive-extra
* all done now

Sponsoring:
* dbus-python, evolution-indicator, libmtp, system-tools-backends, totem, totem-pl-parser, vte

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====
* joined the dxteam sprint in London
* GNOME 2.27 updates: nautilus-sendto pygobject nautilus gnome-python
   pygtk gnome-settings-daemon glib
* some desktop packages merges on debian
* desktop bugs triage and fixed some issues
* sponsoring: gnome-media gnome-utils gnome-session glade-3 gnome-games

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* Investigations on using the "ps2write" instead of the "pswrite" output device of Ghostscript for the pdftops CUPS filter. Found a bug which presented it, reported to Ghostscript upstream and got a fix already. Bug 361772, bug 362186, bug 369503, supplied workarounds for the time until Ghostscript is fixed and CUPS updated.
* Uploaded ghostscript package with fix for "ps2write", fixes on CUPS Raster output device, and "cdnj500" driver for HP DesignJet 500 and 800 added.
* Uploaded foomatic-db-engine with upstream fixes to not generate broken PPD files for some HP laser printers with "pxlmono" driver (361772) and to not list printer/driver combos for which no PPD can be generated (bug 373371).
* Investigations on the foo2zjs driver package and its support for the HP LaserJet P1005 (bug 365329).
* Prepared Blueprints for UDS.
* Booked flights for UDS.
* Answered and triaged bug reports.

==== Tony Espy (awe) ====

* read lots of Ubuntu Devel/MOTU Wiki pages, especially <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/Merging]]</nowiki>
* spent a bunch of time battling to get Ekiga setup; after all the effort, ended up using Skype to talk with asac
* call/chat with asac to get started on -desktop and NM tasks
* picked an initial set of merges to start working on; pinged previous uploaders
* finished moving out Lexington office in preparation for construction 

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* Triaging
* Upgraded to Karmic
* Karmic packaging: gnome-games, gcalctool, cheese, totem, python-opengl, avahi

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
