{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/DevelopmentMeeting.

=== Present ===

* Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) - chair
* Ian Jackson (iwj)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Kenneth Wimer (kwwii)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Michael Vogt (mvo)
* Mirco MÃ¼ller (MacSlow)

* Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt)

=== Agenda ===

* RC bugs in activity summaries
* GNOME summit

=== RC bugs in activity summaries ===

A reminder was given to everybody that the must include a list of their assigned Release Critical bugs in their weekly activity summaries.  If none are assigned, this should be mentioned in the summary rather than omitting any mention of them.

There was question about how to obtain the list, several suggestions were proposed.  The easiest two are:

 1. Visit the page for the milestone, e.g.: https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+milestone/ubuntu-7.10-rc
 2. Sort by assignee and locate yourself
 3. Repeat for older milestones, moving the bugs forward to the new milestone.

And

 1. Visit the Advanced Search form for Ubuntu bugs: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?advanced=1
 2. Enter your username into the Assigned To field
 3. Select the milestones you wish to view.

mpt asked whether a per-user Launchpad page like the existing "package reports" one, but with totals per milestone would be useful?

ACTION: mpt to propose LP bug tables with totals by milestone (pitti can help with our requirements)

ACTION: all to include milestoned bug lists in their activity summaries

=== GNOME summit ===

The 2007 GNOME summit is being held in Boston this weekend:

        http://live.gnome.org/Boston2007

A final call was given to find out whether anybody was interested in attending.  MacSlow expressed some interest, but was concerned that someone geographically closer might be more appropriate, or someone with less bugs to attend to (esp. given the short notice).

ACTION: Keybuk to discuss with team leads later, and MacSlow afterwards

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
