{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Chris Cheney (calc)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)  

=== Apologies ===
* Bryce Harrington (bryce) - family emergency

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Berlin Sprint activities
* Presenting at conferences
* "Changing Add/Remove..."
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsoring Overview update]]</nowiki>
* Release Status
** Dx Support
** Open Office
** Kubuntu
** New GDM (PPA and Migration)
** Device Kit
** Pervasive Networking
** Apport (hooks and backend)
** Bug squash
** Font selector GUI
** xorg.conf GUI
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===
** asac to clean up jaunty-desktop-network-changing wiki; draft expected behavior and test cases
** Mostly done, will go through and file bugs on apps that are misbehaving.
** everyone tag 10 pet bugs by Friday
** all done, except Bryce. Some have tagged < 10
** Action: rickspencer3 to follow up with Maria regarding info for presenters 
** Result: Canonical would like to encourage participation and presenting at conferences. Rick to discuss with team members and encourage ideas.
 
=== Actions from this meeting ===
* ArneGoetje, Seb128, all: set specs to "pending approval" so that Martin can sign off/provide feedback if still not done.
* bryce: tag 10 pet bugs
* rickspencer3: follow up on status of meeting attendance. What action, if any, is necessary for people to start signing up and attending?
* rickspencer3: provide Jane and Chris community/team feedback regarding Add/Remove... renaming.
* seb128: Get new GDM into universe this week.
* rickspencer3: consolidate list of sprint topics, send to all along with other scheduled topics.

=== Presentations ===
Canonical would like to encourage participation and presenting at conferences. Rick to discuss with team members and encourage ideas.

=== Changing the Add/Remove ... ===
The team and community are overall supportive of the notion of changing the label as long as:
1. Usable - users know what it is, and existing users aren't confused.
2. Translatable
3. Cooler than "Add/Remove..."
4. Doesn't make the menu look bad, for example, by being too long
We should test whatever we come up with through user testing, or seb128 could even integrate it into an alpha.

=== Berlin Sprint ===
We discussed possible topics for the upcoming sprint. These are all the *proposed* topics only at this point:
1. fix hotkey
2. fix beamer/projector
3. fix suspend/resume for everyone's laptop
4. fix the intel driver in xorg for i855, 915 and 945 first
5. fix machines that crash when user switching
6. Session with Seb128 and Pitti on efficient bug management
7. Work with Dx team to install new stuff on our laptops
8. Fixing bugs where it is useful to pick brains of our colleagues
9. Finish a great deal of language selector 
10. fixing bugs in apps that dont behave properly on network changes
11. making sure our mysql changes get agreed and in
12. measure everyone's desktop startup speed and work on making them faster
13. Try not allowing GNOME Settings Deamon to force DPI of 96, even if overriding value in xorg.cof

=== Release Status ===
==== Dx Support ====
davidbarth provided an update of the Dx team status:
* mpt has reviewed all of main and universe. davidbarth believes they can patch all applications that use actions in time for Jaunty.
* The last POR regarding handling notifications with actions had to be revisited. The Dx team has a recommendation, but it was not covered in this meeting.
* Will drop patches patched applications as they are patched.
* Already have good support from Mozilla (thanks to asac).
* More on message indicator expected next week, including API
==== New GDM (Universe and Migration) ====
* seb128 will upload the new GDM to universe this week.
* no progress on migrations yet (not slated for Jaunty)

==== Device Kit ====
* Latest DK and DK-power are in universe
* Ted to package new GPM in a PPA, needs to work on his packaging branch
* Jaunty will use version 2.24.3 of GPM, 2.25 requires new GPM, which is not ready

=== Activity reports ===
* All done on time

=== Other Business ===
* seb128 informs us that two things were removed from Alpha CD and moved to supported due to space constraints:
** nautilus-cd-burner (brasero fulfills all the requirements)
** deskbar-applet tracker to supported (disabled by default)
* seb128 brings up that it might be time to revisit GNOME Settings Daemon's behavior of overriding font dpi settings in xorg.conf

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====
* track mozilla security progress; backport patches and get approval
   for landing for most
* committed a bunch of security patches upstream
* committed fix for moz bug 471359 and asked for approval for 1.9.1
   branch
* evaluated and fixed nss/nspr mini-transition fallout (LP: #316452);
   thanks to mvo who helped using his upgrade testing testing
   infrastructure.
* initial libnotify backport to 1.9.0 branch; status: works, but
   breaks ABI; next: make patch suitable for stable xulrunner branch
   by unbreaking ABI
   https://code.edge.launchpad.net/~asac/xulrunner/xulrunner-1.9.1.head.libnotify
* marked a few pet-bugs
* sponsored liferea (intrepid SRU), network-manager (committed to jaunty
   bzr), evolution-data-server, nmap (jaunty), mozvoikko (jaunty/NEW)
   and seahorse (jaunty)
* drafted most parts for DesktopNetworkChanging spec document (KDE apps missing);
   started to verify individual apps
* wrote down 3GNetworkingJaunty roadmap wiki page (not a spec)
* fix URL escaping bug in gwibber and sent fix upstream and got it merged
   https://code.edge.launchpad.net/~asac/gwibber/bug317073-pasted-url-escaping/+merge/2854

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====
* marking my pet-bugs
* finish the JauntyLanguageSelectorImprovements spec with the help of mpt.
* translations issue: it was discovered that if a translation was
marked as c-format and had format strings where the original msgid
didn't, it might crash applications if the user was running his system
in that language. Since this was considered a security issue and
affected Hardy and Intrepid, this had to be solved urgently. In the
result, we turn on c-format checking in langpack-o-matic when generating
language packs. Also all affected translations need to be fixed in
Launchpad, the translation teams have been notified and are working on
this issue. Also the Launchpad Translations Team is involved in
improving Rosetta to filter out buggy translations.

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====
===== Distro Work =====
* Sponsoring (1hr): sane-backends (#315364), devscripts (#316563)
  Reviewed, not uploaded:  #316186, #52697, #223882
* More pulseaudio/alsa-driver troubleshooting
  - Seem to be 3 distinct bugs which together have made the bug pretty
    challenging to sort out:  210865, 315971 and 274884
  - Triaged a dozen bugs that seem to be duplicates of one or more of
    the above three.
* PDX Posse work-downtown-day Friday.  Helped analyze misc. X issues
  people had encountered, etc.
* Moved hotkey bug reports mistakenly assigned to xorg components to
  hal/hotkey-setup/etc.
* Selected a dozen 'pet-bug' bugs

===== Xorg Work =====
* Triaging, upstreaming of xkeyboard-config bugs
* Triaging, upstreaming of -intel bugs.
* Triaging, upstreaming of -ati bugs.
* Triaging, upstreaming of xorg-server bugs.
* Re-reviewed all xorg-server Confirmed/Triaged bugs
* Updated quirks for -intel to Intrepid and Hardy, and forwarded a
  couple lvds quirks upstream.
* Merged new -ati driver
* Wrote driver status for Intrepid and Jaunty
  wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Drivers
* Reviewed tseliot's dontzap utility for KDE, proposed some patches
* Confcall with nVidia about KMS
* Confcall with AMD (bi-weekly call)
* Created launchpadlib script to parse bugs for lspci info and add it to
  bug description.  Ran on all Xorg bugs.

===== Misc =====
* Off Monday Jan 19th due to national holiday

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====
* Jan 19 - US Holiday
* Packaged openoffice.org 1:3.0.1~rc1-2ubuntu3 - reduce cd space for jaunty
* Packaged openoffice.org-l10n 1:3.0.1~rc1-2ubuntu3 - reduce cd space for jaunty
* Packaged openoffice.org 1:3.0.1~rc1-2ubuntu4 - reduce cd space for jaunty
* Discussed OOo breakage issues wrt fitting on cd with rene and slangasek
* Discussed LP #317587 with CaolÃ¡n McNamara of RedHat
* Discussed OOo SRU for 8.04 with Rick
* Started preparing 8.04 SRU
* Weekly OOo Release Status Meeting
* Weekly desktop team meeting
* Lots of OOo bug triage
* Marked pet bugs

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====
done:
* tested and fixed until alpha 3 was usable
* bugfixes to system-config-printer-kde
* split mysql package for Akonadi
* investigated mysql changes needed for Amarok
* checked and fixed kpackagekit packages
* test networkmanager plasmoid
* Add MSN support back in Kopete
* Fix licence for google-gadgets
* Update libmsn package for beta 3
* archive admin

blocked:
* MIRs for qzion, qedje, google-gadgets, quassel
* security review on libmsn

todo:
* get packagekit into main
* get amarok and akonadi co-installing
* system-config-printer-kde work
==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====
Only an 1-day week (well, plus some of Sunday), due to being on
holiday last week.

Progress on assigned blueprints:
* apport-retracer-maintenance: done, retracer is now running; still
 needs some manual handholding and bug fixes, but that falls under
 "maintenance" now.

Currently open stable/milestoned bugs: all done

Merges: all done

Done:
* Mostly caught up with email and SRU floods from last week
* Ran suspend/resume script on my computer, gave some feedback
* Some hal bug fixing 
* Lots of apport retracer maintenance

Sponsoring: lxml, pulseaudio, xaos

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====
* GNOME updates: epiphany-browser, evince, glib, gtkhtml, alacarte,
gvfs, nautilus, gtksourceview, gedit, poppler, evince
* desktop bugs triage
* sponsoring: 
deskbar-applet, gcalctool, gnome-session, xchat-gnome, zenity
* desktop sru uploads: 
totem in hardy 
evolution-data-server, evolution, evolution-exchange in intrepid
* updated the gdm-upgrade spec and tagged bugs for jaunty

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====
* Released Foomatic 4.0.0 upstream and updated the Jaunty packages (foomatic-db, foomatic-db-hpijs, foomatic-db-engine, and foomatic-filters) appropriately.
* New foomatic-filters fixes around 10 regresssions against Hardy in Intrepid. Posted SRU request to update Intrepid to 4.0.0 final, too. See  bug 318816, bug 318818, bug 299918, bug 303691, probably fixes also bug 318614.
* Further investigations on the following bugs:
** bug 310575: A3 pdf file is cropped and printed on A4 paper
** bug 310854: Printing Photos with Canon original drivers stopped working in Intrepid
** bug 277404: hp laserjet postscript text print does not print some characters
** bug 308817: duplex printing through CUPS no longer works
   They are all close to be solved now.
* Added facility to automatically update the PPDs of existing print queues to the following source packages with PPDs or PPD generators: foomatic-db-engine, foomatic-db, foomatic-db-hpijs, cups, cupsddk.
* Reported bug 318262: /dev/bus/usb/*/* files (device nodes for libusb) of printers must be readble and writable for user "lp"
* Answered to several printing-related bug reports 

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
