{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (calc)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)  

=== Apologies ===
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) - traveling

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* 9.10 planning process
* All Hands Update
* Release Status, Release Bugs
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to post ideas from last week to the marketing team's wiki page.
** Result: done

=== Actions from this meeting ===
* ACTION: seb128 and bryce to investigate https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xkeyboard-config/+bug/67188 - problems with setting certain keyboard layouts
* ACTION: calc and pitti to discuss https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/305790 - getting certain java based build depends for OO to build in the build daemons.
* ACTION: everyone hasn't already to submit a topic by eow (mandated by rickspencer3 :) )

=== 9.10 Planning Process ===
FYI on progress for 9.10 planning. We are hosting a series of meetings with other canonical teams, called road map meetings. Some of you may be booked into one or two of them. There are 22 altogether. This will be very good fodder for UDS.

=== All Hands Update ===
* Everyone should have submitted at least one topic. If you haven't, please do so by March 13th (new deadline).
* The track leads are reviewing and will let us know what topics are accepted.

=== Release Status ===
In general, it appears that X is a hot spot for us related to bugs, and that most of the critical feature work is complete.

==== Bugs ====
Reviewed list of bugs currently targeted for Jaunty.
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Id'''
| '''Title'''
| '''Assigned To'''
| '''Status'''
| '''Importance'''
| '''Package'''
| '''Release'''
| '''Milestone'''
| '''Team'''
|-
| 310999
| comodo seen issuing certificates unwisely
| asac
| Triaged
| High
| nss (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| 
| canonical-desktop-team
|-
| 328035
| *** glibc detected *** free(): invalid next size (fast) for xf86Wakeup() call
| bryceharrington
| Triaged
| High
| xserver-xorg-video-intel (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| 
| canonical-desktop-team
|-
| 305790
| MIR - move to main for openoffice.org 3 build-depends
| ccheney
| Incomplete
| High
| jaxme (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| ubuntu-9.04-beta
| canonical-desktop-team
|-
| 305790
| MIR - move to main for openoffice.org 3 build-depends
| ccheney
| Incomplete
| High
| xom (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| ubuntu-9.04-beta
| canonical-desktop-team
|-
| 337869
| jaxme does not build with openjdk-6
| ccheney
| Confirmed
| High
| jaxme (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| ubuntu-9.04-beta
| canonical-desktop-team
|-
| 275432
| libpolkit requires files from policykit for polkit_context_init to work
| pitti
| In Progress
| High
| policykit (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| 
| canonical-desktop-team
|-
| 284994
| bluetooth-wizard unable to pair to fixed pin devices
| pitti
| In Progress
| High
| bluez-gnome (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| 
| canonical-desktop-team
|-
| 267241
| Xorg fails to start with more than one display adapter
| bryceharrington
| Triaged
| High
| xorg-server (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| 
| canonical-desktop-team
|-
| 304871
| [i845G] Fatal server error: Couldn't bind memory for BO front buffer (Jaunty)
| bryceharrington
| Triaged
| High
| xserver-xorg-video-intel (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| 
| canonical-desktop-team
|-
| 278095
| MASTER crash
| asac
| In Progress
| High
| at-spi (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| ubuntu-9.04-beta
| canonical-desktop-team
|-
| 308060
| Include libmsn
| jr
| Confirmed
| Medium
| libmsn (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| ubuntu-9.04-beta
| canonical-desktop-team
|-
| 145716
| panel launchers break on upgrade
| asac
| Triaged
| Medium
| thunderbird (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| 
| canonical-desktop-team
|-
| 305394
| No subpixel smoothing
| asac
| Triaged
| Medium
| fontconfig (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| ubuntu-9.04-beta
| canonical-desktop-team
|-
| 336420
| Jaunty: Gnome 'run a terminal shortcut' does not work anymore
| ken-vandine
| Triaged
| Medium
| compiz (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| ubuntu-9.04-beta
| canonical-desktop-team
|-
| 291062
| MASTER - Network Manager sometimes has enable networking unchecked/disabled when resuming from suspend
| asac
| Triaged
| Medium
| network-manager (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| 
| canonical-desktop-team
|}

==== Work Items ====
<nowiki>[[File:burndown.png]]</nowiki>

Note that a few items have been finished or postponed since the burndown chart was created, so we are hovering just above the desired trend line now.

Discussed which items should have a status change. Changes follow the "/". Note that Riddell was not at the meeting due to travel.

===== Errors =====
* Riddell:Enhance timezone map for Kubuntu installer:being worked on by shtylman
* Riddell:Add ability to filter out non-applications to KPackagekit:rgreening
* Riddell:Change Konqueror to use kdewebkit by default if Qt 4.5 is out for Jaunty:blocked on upstream

===== not started =====
* Riddell:Enable auto-login on user setup page in Kubuntu installer:not started
* Riddell:Update OEM help page for Kubuntu:not started
* Riddell:Update language page to show all languages at once in Kubuntu:not started
* Riddell:Remove power profiles for primary powerdevil UI in Kubuntu:not started
* pitti:Advice Dx Team Regarding where to store assets such as icon:not started
* pitti:Advice Dx Team Regarding “Do not disturb systems”:not started

===== blocked =====
* Riddell:Update partitioning labels to match GTK front end in KDE installer:blocked
* Riddell:Use Kwallet password strength bar for password on user setup page-blocked On advanced setup replace GRUB line edit with a pre-seeded combo box:blocked
* Riddell:Include Kolorpaint if space and agreed to at council meeting.:blocked
* bryce:Support the Dx team by consulting and helping with low level packages.:blocked/done
* pitti:Refactor packages and build system to support moving help files to language packs:blocked/postponed

===== started =====
* Riddell:Collect feedback for problem areas when upgrading in Kubuntu:started
* asac:Adobe Flash in partner repository with apturl:started
* bryce:Implement xorg.conf backup/restore functionality:started/postponed - note that this does not ship
* bryce:Create X Historical Package Pages:started/postponed - note that this down not ship
* bryce:Create X Smoke Tests:started
* calc:Get 3.1.0 split build into a PPA for English.:started
* pitti:Advice Dx Team Regarding Compiz Plugin:started

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====
* network-manager 0.7.1 rc3 update for #jaunty
* network-manager status icon discussions with #dxteam; look for options in code
* network-manager security update sign-off; provide test cases to security team
* upstream ifupdown system settings crash fixes for network-manager 0.7.1
* subpixel smoothing investigation: develop patches for gnome-settings-daemon, gnome-control-center and gtk+2.0 to allow "automatic mode"; provide Arne with patches so he can start tweak fontconfig rules; next: upload simple fix "use rbga antialiasing by default", upload the whole lot to a PPA and get feedback
* roll-out firefox/xulrunner security update
* prepare nss security update
* coordinating mbm upstreaming with new ericsson network-manager/modemmanager developers; setup integration git trees for modemmanager and NetworkManager on gitorious
* provide input on thunderbird libindicate notifications upstream.
* ask upstream for requirements to enable networkmanager integration in firefox again.

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====
* cleaning the import queue in Rosetta
* testing fontconfig configuration scenarios in order to ship a good
default setting
* build new -base language packs
* discussion with Zheng-Peng Hou about Chinese fonts

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====
===== Distro =====
* Sponsoring - unsub/cleanup 338472 332039 314810 335360
  - uploaded consolekit(#338001)

===== Xorg Work =====
* Investigated bugs when using dual video cards:
** 139990 - Fixed & Uploaded - "Xorg with two video cards crashes or locks up"
** 296167 - Fixed & Uploaded - "mouse clicking breaks with Xinerama."
** 267241 - Patch made       - "Xorg fails to start with more than one display adapter"
** 288668 -                  - Restr. Drvr Mgr confused by >1 vid card
* Uploaded fix for 304588 - black screen on boot for -ati on ES1000/RN50
* Uploaded fix for 309013 - buffer overflow with 'xkbcomp -C :0'
* Wrote X/Troubleshooting/OnlyLoadsVesa
* Update quirks to latest for -intel
* Forwarded half a dozen more -ati bugs upstream
* Cleanup mentions of ctrl-alt-backspace on help.ubuntu.com
  - finishes the c-a-b specification
* Uploaded xserver 1.6.0 merge
* Uploaded libdrm 2.4.5 merge (req'd for -intel)
* Spoke with tim gardner about dual video card wrt KMS
* Spoke with tim gardner about -ati drm patches

===== Blueprint Status =====
Assist video driver upstreams and vendors with implementing KMS support. :complete
Support the Dx team by consulting and helping with low level packages. :complete
Create backend xorg.conf parser/writer :complete
Implement xorg.conf Validator :complete
Implement xorg.conf Options Data Store (man pages) :complete
Implement xorg.conf gui - GTK :postponed
Implement xorg.conf gui - Qt :postponed
Implement xorg.conf backup/restore functionality :started
Create X Historical Package Pages :started
Create X Smoke Tests :started
Verify EXA acceptance criteria met by Alpha-5 :complete
Search help.ubuntu.com/wiki.ubuntu.com for ctrl-alt-backspace :complete

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====
* Fix for truncate NOP on gvfs-fuse went into gvfs 1.1.8-0ubuntu1
* Novell a11y patch went into ooo-build-3-0-1 and is in Ubuntu now
* Had suitesparse 1:3.2.0-4 synced
* Had lp-solve 5.5.0.13-4 synced
* Uploaded openoffice.org 1:3.0.1-4ubuntu1
* Working on ooo gvfs problems
* Weekly OOo Release Status Meetings
* Weekly desktop team meeting
* Biweekly phone call with Rick
* Lots of OOo bug triage

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
Done:
 - python-mechanized version bump to support python 2.6
 - Got a couple packages rebuilt for python 2.6
 - Disable Mail Notification eplugin by default
 - Updated some gnome packages
 - Added the ubuntu key server to seahorse's default config
 - Created some packages for the OLS team
 - Tested/Validated jaunty-uif related patches

Working on:
 - Make the notification patch for system-config-printer more upstream
friendly #339847
 - Jaunty: Gnome 'run a terminal shortcut' does not work anymore #336420
 - Help with GNOME update

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====
Assigned blueprints:
* apport-retracer-maintenance, stracciatella-session: implemented
* gpm-and-device-kit-power: reassigned to me this week, packaged new g-p-m in PPA; implemented now

Currently open stable/milestoned bugs:
* #335888 (default set of installed themes needs to be changed): no time yet, will fix this week
* #275432 (libpolkit requires files from policykit): no time yet, will attack soon
* #284994 (bluetooth-wizard unable to pair to fixed pin devices): just grabbed this this week, no time yet
* #339889 (cannot access /etc/fuse.conf): discovered yesterday, will fix this week
 
Non-chores stuff done:
* 9.10 requirement phone confcalls: desktop lock down, wine
* Ran alpha-5 suspend test from kernel team, reported back (success)
* some packaging training with Ken
* learned bzr-builddeb, discussed some bug fixes with James (thanks to him!)
* Fixed a few packages to strip translations from gconf, for CD downsizing
* Updated devicekit and devicekit-power to latest upstream versions
* packaged new devkit-based gnome-power-manager, in ~ubuntu-desktop PPA now
* lots of bug fixing

Sponsoring:
* gnome-power-manager, gnome-settings-daemon, gtk-doc-tools, gtk2-engines, kubuntu-default-settings, notify-osd, system-config-printer, tomboy, yelp

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====
* GNOME 2.25.92: 
gtk+ eog gnome-panel libgweather gnome-desktop gnome-control-center
libgnome pygtksourceview pygtk

* sponsoring: 
gnome-settings-daemon evolution f-spot totem
gnome-session gnome-games pessulus nautilus-sendto-universe gnome-media
gdl seahorse-plugins yelp fast-user-switch-applet glibmm2.4
seahorse-plugins pessulus gtkmm2.4 libgpod deskbar-applet scim pidgin

* desktop bugs fixing, backporting some upstream changes to jaunty

* lot of desktop bugs triage

* updated some packages to build translation templates

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====
* Reviewed patch to make system-config-printer work with notify-osd and reported problem for upstreamizing (bug #339847)
* Applied several crash fixes from upstream to system-config-printer
* Updated HPLIP to version 3.9.2 after FFE (bug #335116)
* Applied several patches of upstream bug reports (segfaults) to foomatic-filters

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
