{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Chris Cheney (ccheney)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)  
* Alexander Sack (asac)  

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)

=== Apologies ===
* Alberto Milone (tseliot) - National holiday
* Bryce Harrington (bryce) - Holiday
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) - Moving House

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Lucid blueprints
* 2010 Events
* UNE
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to track down robert's scanning tool
** RESULT: It's in his PPA: https://launchpad.net/~robert-ancell/+archive/simple-scan
* ACTION: seb128 to add initial work items to UNE session blueprint
** RESULT: didrocks beat him to it: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-lucid-unr-session
* ACTION: robert_ancell to do seed changes for new games
** DONE (by pitti, needs core-dev)
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to confirm robert_ancell commitment to GDM/GDM Greeter refactor
** RESULT: Based on current OEM commitment, documenting the current API is in scope for A2, rest of the work may be done post A2
* ACTION: kenvandine to investigate improving startup time of Messaging Menu and related tasks
** RESULT: tedg added profiling code, next update of libindicate should bring some speedup
* ACTION: ricspencer3 to set up call with pitti, bryce, and tselliot to get tselliot on board
** RESULT: tseliot set up a weekly meeting with rickspencer3, we used the first one to confer with pitti
* ACTION: all to try robert_ancell's new scanning tool
** RESULT: ArneGoetje tried, does not talk with his scanner (xsane works); will contact Robert

=== Actions from this meeting ===
* ArneGoetje to talk to Robert about scanner failure in simple-scan
* Everyone to add their conference interests to list below
* Martin to followup on UbuntuSpec:desktop-lucid-une-applications drafting
* Martin to followup on UbuntuSpec:desktop-lucid-desktop-cloud drafting

=== Partner Update ===
* DX <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-LucidWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki> to start again this Thursday
* Decorations and RGBA code was released into a PPA along with a call for testing, results tracked here: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gtk+2.0/+bug/491521

=== Kubuntu Update ===
* 4.4 Beta is mostly in lucid
* Colin Watson fixed Qt
* Remaining kdelibs problems are now fixed
* In a few hours: ready for alpha-1

=== Release Status ===
{{http://piware.de/workitems/desktop/lucid-alpha2/burndown.png}}

No alpha-1 release blockers right now.

=== Lucid blueprints ===

Most are drafted/approved now. Oustanding are 

* UbuntuSpec:desktop-lucid-une-applications : Was not discussed at UDS, needs followup
* UbuntuSpec:desktop-lucid-desktop-cloud: No drafter, needs followup

=== 2010 Events ===
We need to create a list of the events in which the Ubuntu Platform team
will be participating in 2010. Please indicate which ones you want to attend in 2010, and add any events which are missing.

* Camp KDE
* linux.conf.au
** robert-ancell
* FOSDEM
* Black Hat
* Scale
* Pycon
* Cloud computing
* CELF (USA)
* CELF Europe
* Linux Collaboration Summit
** pitti (?)
* Java One
* Usenix 09
* LinuxTag
* Akademy - JonathanRiddell
* Guadec
* Ottawa Linux Symposium
* Debcamp
* Debconf
* OSCON
* USENIX Security
* Atlanta Linux Fest
* LDAP
* LinuxCon
* LinuxPlumbers
** pitti (?)
* X Developers
* Maemo Summit
* OOoCon

=== UNE ===
* Desktop team to deliver UNE going forward
* didrocks will be the maintainer
* Until didrocks starts, only goal is for SteveK to do UNR -> UNE rename
* mini-sprint in January to get first desktop owned UNE image built

=== Other Business ===

=== Activity reports ===
==== Alberto Milone (tseliot) ====

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====
* tried Robert Ancell's simple-scan tool
* checked with dpm about translations import status for the upcoming language-pack generation for Lucid
* Blueprints:
** desktop-lucid-font-selection: Approved, started work
** desktop-lucid-ibus-chinese: Approved, started work, initiated discussion with other interested developers about implementation details
** desktop-lucid-language-selector: Approved
* cleaned up my bug mail folder
* reading documentation and tutorials about data handling in glib

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

==== Chris Cheney (ccheney) ====
* Sick Friday (Dec 4)
* Worked on list of xulrunner for firefox conversion
* Working on getting OOo 3.1.1 available for Hardy users
* OOo bug triage

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

done:
* Holiday all last week
* Security updates for kdelibs, kdebase
* Review status of KDE 4.4 beta packaging and uploaded
* e-mail catchup

todo:
* Get KDE 4.4 beta finished
* Alpha 1

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
* Updated empathy to 2.29.3  
** ported the libindicator patch
** patched to always take focus when raised
** patched to append notifications
* Ported indicator-session from libempathy to telepathy-glib
* added gtk-doc support to indicator-application (not quite complete)
* worked on pulling f-spot edit-in-view patch into our stable version
* worked with DX and OLS teams on their blueprints

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Drafted blueprints: All written and approved

Assigned blueprints:
* desktop-lucid-likewise-open-migration: blocked on upstream sending the packages
* desktop-lucid-jockey-hotplug-support (beta available): Should be working, just a bug fix and documentation left
* desktop-lucid-suspend-quirks-halsectomy (beta available): hal-less pm-utils landed upstream, packaged for lucid; sent out a call for testing, no response yet
* desktop-lucid-xorg-halsectomy: udevified X.org landed in lucid now, 2009-12-08 dailies do not have hal any more; works well on live system
* desktop-lucid-powermanagement-tweaks: Added work items, discussed strategy with slangasek

Non-blueprint work done:
* Tech Board Meeting
* Bug fixing: apport, devicekit-disks, erlang, gnome-menus, gnome-power-manager, jockey, media-player-info, udev
* Cleaned up macaroni, aka ddebs.ubuntu.com (went out of hd space)
* Implemented gnome-menus desktop file caching
* Discussed xserver update/halsectomy with Timo; landed now
* Many improvements to work items tracker
* Investigated remaining usage of hal: oem-config (filed LP#493139 with a merge proposal)
* Investigated xbacklight support and gpm without hal
* Updated packages to new versions: pm-utils, python-launchpadlib, gvfs
* Sorted out python-lazr* renaming

Merges:
* dbus, gpgme1.0, hal

Sponsoring:
* pidgin (SRU), pkg-create-dbgsym, apport, gdm, metacity, python2.6 (lucid and karmic), ruby1.8 (SRU)

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

Lucid packaging: gedit, gtk-vnc, brasero, gdm, file-roller, libgnomekbd, clutter-gtk, yelp

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

blueprints:
* desktop-lucid-startup-speed: drafted, approved, started work
* desktop-lucid-gnome-3: informational spec about GNOME changes for lucid, drafted, approved
* desktop-lucid-compiz-effects: drafted, approved, no work on it yet
* desktop-lucid-gnome-geoclue: drafted, approved, deferred to next cycle the stack is not ready 

non blueprints work:  
* desktop merges and updates: gtksourceview eog seahorse glib evince gst-plugins-good0.10 gnome-system-monitor libgnome gnome-desktop gnome-python gir-repository totem libunique pygtk gjs seed gnome-settings-daemon gnome-media
* fixed totem build issue and wrong depends 
* libsoup git fix backport to lucid
* fixed gir-repository build issue
* fixed libgnome keyboard bell option value 
* fixed libgnomekbd and totem conflicts
* sponsoring: rhythmbox(sru) ubuntuone-storage-protocol ubuntuone-client

Boot speed:
* weekly timing: boot = 20.2 seconds, login = 11.1 seconds (was 22.6 and 12.9 a week ago)
* lot of bootcharting with different configs and tweaking
* stopped running xsplash for now it takes cpu and costs around 0.8 second to login
* changed gnome-panel layout as discussed at previous meeting and changed back, that's a topic which requires extra discussions, the win was around 0.5 second
* stracing nautilus showed a lot of icons opening, lead to figure that the gnome-icon-theme icon cache was not working, fixed that and won almost 1 second on login
* compiz-fusion-plugins-extra has been moved to universe (thanks to amaranth), win around 0.5 second on desktop login
* hal has been dropped from the default installation (thanks to pitti), win around 0.8 second on boot time (not desktop login)
* gnome-session delays the dkpower init now (thanks to chrisccoulson), win some 0.15 second
* see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Specs/Lucid/StartupSpeed for extra notes about investigations and things that could use come work too

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* Uploaded Ghostscript with patches for correct Gamma correction with the CUPS raster output device in RGB mode and with a collection of bug fixes and improvements of the PCL-XL driver. Both are backported from the upstream SVN repository and added to give more time to users for testing.
* Uploaded HPLIP package with correction from Mark Purcell (Debian maintainer) to prevent FTBFS when man pages get built.
* Committed upstream changes on the pdftopdf and pdftopvp CUPS filters to the Debian BZR repository of CUPS. These changes make the filters continue to work with Poppler 0.12.2. This Poppler version had API/ABI changes within a stable series and without bumping the soname.
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports.

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====
* draft firefox new support model spec
* good progress on all-in-one firefox package
* evaluate ways to wrap firefox online/offline experience in an about:ubuntuhome handler.
* discuss/coordinate NM SRU for karmic with tony and cyphermox

== IRC Log ==
[16:31] <pitti> ok, let's start the meeting<<BR>>
[16:32] <pitti> bryce, ccheney, Riddell, kenvandine: meeting?<<BR>>
[16:32] <Riddell> hola<<BR>>
[16:32] <kenvandine> ready<<BR>>
[16:33]  * ArneGoetje waves<<BR>>
[16:33] <pitti> so, let's start with oustanding actions to give the west coast folks some slack<<BR>>
[16:33] <pitti> most are done, except<<BR>>
[16:33] <pitti> ACTION: kenvandine to investigate improving startup time of Messaging Menu and related tasks<<BR>>
[16:33] <pitti> any hope there?<<BR>>
[16:33] <ccheney> here<<BR>>
[16:33] <kenvandine> tedg is adding some timing stuff so we can profile it better<<BR>>
[16:33] <pitti> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2009-12-08 BTW<<BR>>
[16:34] <kenvandine> and we think a libindicate update might be a little faster<<BR>>
[16:34] <pitti> go, tedg, go!<<BR>>
[16:34] <seb128> :-)<<BR>>
[16:34]  * kenvandine thinks it was libindicate he suggested :)<<BR>>
[16:34] <kenvandine> it will get uploaded thursday<<BR>>
[16:34] <pitti> so, seems to be "in progress"<<BR>>
[16:34] <pitti> ACTION: all to try robert_ancell's new scanning tool<<BR>>
[16:34] <tedg> dbus-test-runner now can grab bustle profile data.  I'm very happy about that.<<BR>>
[16:34]  * pitti admits he didn't try it yet<<BR>>
[16:35] <ArneGoetje> didn't work for me<<BR>>
[16:35]  * seb128 neither<<BR>>
[16:35] <pitti> did anyone?<<BR>>
[16:35]  * kenvandine did... sort of<<BR>>
[16:35] <pitti> ArneGoetje: ah, what did you try to scan?<<BR>>
[16:35] <kenvandine> with a web cam :)<<BR>>
[16:35]  * kenvandine doesn't have a working scanner<<BR>>
[16:35] <ArneGoetje> pitti: my expense receipts<<BR>>
[16:35] <pitti> how did it fail then?<<BR>>
[16:36] <ArneGoetje> pitti: it listed my scanner (Epson), but couldn't talk to it<<BR>>
[16:36] <pitti> ArneGoetje: does it work with xsane?<<BR>>
[16:36] <ArneGoetje> pitti: xscan worked, though<<BR>>
[16:36] <pitti> interesting<<BR>>
[16:36] <ArneGoetje> sorry, xsane<<BR>>
[16:36] <pitti> ArneGoetje: would you mind pinging robert about it? it's using the same backend (libsane), so hopefully it's easy to fix<<BR>>
[16:37] <ArneGoetje> pitti: ok<<BR>>
[16:37] <pitti> ArneGoetje: danke!<<BR>>
[16:37] <pitti> ok<<BR>>
[16:37] <pitti> == Partner update ==<<BR>>
[16:37] <kenvandine> ok<<BR>>
[16:37] <pitti> kenvandine: anything to report this early in the cycle?<<BR>>
=== hypera1r is now known as hyperair<<BR>>
[16:37] <kenvandine> not much, starting this thursday we will get the weekly DX releases<<BR>>
[16:37] <kenvandine> +going again<<BR>>
[16:38] <kenvandine> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopExperienceTeam/LucidWeeklyReleases<<BR>>
[16:38] <kenvandine> that is all i have right now<<BR>>
[16:39] <pitti> thanks<<BR>>
[16:39] <pitti> = Kubuntu Update =<<BR>>
[16:39] <Riddell> KDE 4.4 Beta has mostly been uploaded to lucid<<BR>>
[16:39] <pitti> Riddell: anything to discuss at that front? alpha-1 blockers, etc.?<<BR>>
[16:39] <Riddell> there's a couple of notable problems with kdelibs which I think I've now solved<<BR>>
[16:39] <Riddell> and cjwatson has a fix for qt 4 on arm<<BR>>
[16:39] <Riddell> so in a few hours we should be ready for alpha 1<<BR>>
[16:40] <pitti> rocking'<<BR>>
[16:40] <Riddell> although it's not much tested so things could still go wrong<<BR>>
[16:40] <pitti> looking at https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+bugs?field.milestone=21443 it seems that desktop/kubuntu is off the hook right now<<BR>>
[16:40] <pitti> serious testing will only start tomorrow, though, I expect<<BR>>
[16:41] <Riddell> yeah<<BR>>
[16:41] <pitti> davmor2 already ran some, but with both dhcp and ubiquity being broken it didn't get very far today<<BR>>
[16:41] <pitti> which brings us directly to<<BR>>
[16:41] <pitti> == Release Bugs/Release Status ==<<BR>>
[16:41] <pitti> anyone aware of something urgent which needs to make alpha-1?<<BR>>
[16:42] <pitti> the biggest change that landed was the new xorg<<BR>>
[16:43] <pitti> bug 491162 seems the only concerning one, but it doesn't happen for everyone, so I think it's okay to slip<<BR>>
[16:43] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 491162 in gdm "gdm does not start X unless remove "tty-device-added KERNEL=tty7" from upstart gdm.conf" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/491162<<BR>>
[16:43] <pitti> seems not then :)<<BR>>
[16:43] <pitti> == Lucid blueprints ==<<BR>>
[16:43] <pitti> thanks to all, most blueprints are written and accepted<<BR>>
[16:44] <pitti>    desktop-lucid-new-firefox-support-model just made it into my queue, will do ASAP<<BR>>
[16:44] <pitti> but there are some which are still left<<BR>>
[16:44] <pitti> https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-lucid-openoffice<<BR>>
[16:45] <pitti> ccheney: ^ do we need a real spec for this in the first place?<<BR>>
[16:45] <pitti> (if it's just to track work, then the two WIs seem ok)<<BR>>
[16:45] <pitti> https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-lucid-une-applications<<BR>>
[16:45] <pitti> this is currently hanging in the air a bit, I'll follow up with didrocks and StevenK; seems this wasn't even discussed at UDS<<BR>>
[16:46] <ccheney> pitti: i don't think we need a spec, but if someone has reason to think we do then i am open to it<<BR>>
[16:46] <pitti> https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-lucid-desktop-cloud<<BR>>
[16:46] <pitti> ccheney: ok, good<<BR>>
[16:46] <pitti> ccheney: approved then :)<<BR>>
[16:46] <pitti> the desktop-cloud one is curious, rickspencer3 is approver and assignee, and no drafter<<BR>>
[16:47] <pitti> rickspencer3: do you happen to have some further info about that one?<<BR>>
[16:47] <pitti> let's postpone that, since he's still in another meeting<<BR>>
[16:47] <pitti> so, by and large, looks fine!<<BR>>
[16:47] <pitti> seb128: do you want to discuss boot speed?<<BR>>
[16:47] <pitti> and thanks for your great efforts there! *clap* *clap*<<BR>>
[16:47] <seb128> pitti, not especially<<BR>>
[16:48] <seb128> I've done a weekly summary<<BR>>
[16:48] <seb128> cf my activity report<<BR>>
[16:48] <pitti> nice report<<BR>>
[16:48] <seb128> and I've added some notes to the wiki page<<BR>>
[16:48] <seb128> as usually anybody is feel to investigate on those<<BR>>
[16:48] <pitti> we need a burndown chart :)<<BR>>
[16:49] <pitti> == UNE ==<<BR>>
[16:49] <pitti> this is just an announcement<<BR>>
[16:49] <pitti> since there was some confusion<<BR>>
[16:49] <pitti> so, UNR will be renamed to "UNE" (remix -> edition)<<BR>>
[16:49] <pitti> and its maintenance will move into the desktop team<<BR>>
[16:49] <pitti> didrocks will be the primary maintainer for this, and start in January<<BR>>
[16:49] <pitti> until then, the mobile team (StevenK mostly) will still handle UNE<<BR>>
[16:50] <pitti> and finally,<<BR>>
[16:50] <pitti> == 2010 Events ==<<BR>>
[16:50] <pitti> yay conferences!<<BR>>
[16:50] <pitti> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2009-12-08 has a list<<BR>>
[16:50] <pitti> perhaps everyone can take a look and as a first step mark the ones you are interested in?<<BR>>
[16:51] <seb128> note that<<BR>>
[16:51] <seb128> "# Desktop Summit: Guadec + Akademy " is wrong<<BR>>
[16:51] <seb128> those are 2 events this year...<<BR>>
[16:52] <pitti> oh, they didn't keep the joint meeting?<<BR>>
[16:52]  * Riddell fixing<<BR>>
[16:52] <pitti> thanks<<BR>>
[16:52] <pitti> so, let's note this down as<<BR>>
[16:52] <pitti> [ACTION] everyone to add their conf interests to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2009-12-08<<BR>>
[16:52] <seb128> pitti, they might do it again next year<<BR>>
[16:53] <pitti> == AOB ==<<BR>>
[16:53] <pitti> anyone?<<BR>>
[16:53] <pitti> (sorry, this was a rather boring meeting; nothing hot to discuss right now, as it seems)<<BR>>
[16:54] <asac> added my activity to meeting page ;) and added myself to attending ;)<<BR>>

<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
