{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:network-account-profiles-launchpad
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

One of the profiles that we are planning to support is the "Ubuntu.net" profile which will use the Launchpad authentication infrastructure for account authentication.  Because we are able to control both the backend and frontend of this implementation, the overall solution can be more robust than other interfaces allow.

The main advantage that the Ubuntu.net solution will provide is by not using the username/password as the desktop token, but instead to use an actual generated token by the Launchpad authentication architecture.  This token can then be used by applications on the desktop in order to authenticate with the various Ubuntu.net services.  There will be no reason to store the username and password on the desktop.  Also, these tokens may be expired by the Launchpad Authentication Architecture, so the cases where we have an expired token will have to be handled explicitly.

=== Release Note ===

Ubuntu users can log into Launchpad services including those provided by Canonical using network account profiles.

=== Rationale ===

* Canonical is planning to be a provider of network services to Ubuntu users that enhance the Ubuntu experience.  Launchpad authentication is the basis for those services.

=== Use Cases ===

* User should be able to use Launchpad authenticated services with NAP enabled applications

=== Design ===

The Launchpad authentication mechanism is to a slightly modified OAuth authentication.  It's slightly modified in that it won't require a webbrowser to submit the username and password, it will be entirely done using a network API.

The entire transaction will result in the generation of a token that validates this computer as being authenticated to Launchpad.  Initially all services will use the same token.  No account information will need to be shared with the service, only the toke and it assumed that the backend will appropriately deal with token.  These tokens will be a string of currently unspecified length.  They are considered secure assets and should be stored in the keyring.

=== Requirements ===

* Authentication should be able to be revoked from Launchpad itself
* No user login or password should be stored on the local machine in any form

=== Implementation ===

* TODO

=== Migration ===

No previous data.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Comments ===

----
CategorySpec
