{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (calc)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)  

=== Apologies ===
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) - kubuntu meeting

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Announcements
* Release Status
* Beta preparedness
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===
* ACTION: seb128 and bryce to investigate https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xkeyboard-config/+bug/67188 - problems with setting certain keyboard layouts
** Result: unassigned this bug as it is really a collection of other bugs which should be tracked seperately
* ACTION: calc and pitti to discuss https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/305790 - getting certain java based build depends for OO to build in the build daemons. xom now works with openjdk.
** Result: pitti succeeding in getting it to build with openjdk, but then the test suites broke. Will build with gcj for Jaunty if test suite failures causes problems.
* ACTION: everyone hasn't already to submit a topic by eow (mandated by rickspencer3 :) ) 
** Result: seb128 had not submitted, will submit today

=== Actions from this meeting ===
* ACTION: everyone to send rickspencer3 email wrt to people who should be sponsored for UDS
* ACTION: asac to ping luke regarding 278095
* ACTION: asac and mvo to complete Adobe in partner archive work
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to ascertain the state of the artwork for the beta

=== Announcements ===
* UDS sponsorship: send rickspencer3 an email if there is someone that you feel is important to sponsor

=== Release Status ===
==== Bugs ====
Everyone should be focused on beta mile-stoned bugs for the remaindered of the week. Follows are the currently High and Medium bugs targetted for Jaunty in the beta milestone, so these should presumedly be fixed removed from the milestone by 2009-03-19.

===== High =====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Id'''
| '''Title'''
| '''Assigned To'''
| '''Status'''
| '''Importance'''
| '''Package'''
| '''Release'''
| '''Milestone'''
| '''Team'''
| '''Date Confirmed'''
|-
| 278095
| MASTER crash in getenv() ... spi_atk_bridge_exit_func()
| asac
| In Progress
| High
| at-spi (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| ubuntu-9.04-beta
| canonical-desktop-team
| 2008-10-26T23:21:10.303725+00:00
|-
| 337869
| jaxme does not build with openjdk-6
| ccheney
| Confirmed
| High
| jaxme (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| ubuntu-9.04-beta
| canonical-desktop-team
| 2009-03-04T18:56:52.837035+00:00
|-
| 305790
| MIR - move to main for openoffice.org 3 build-depends
| ccheney
| Incomplete
| High
| jaxme (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| ubuntu-9.04-beta
| canonical-desktop-team
| None
|-
| 340777
| Panel should add the messaging indicator for users upgrading
| seb128
| Confirmed
| High
| gnome-panel (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| ubuntu-9.04-beta
| canonical-desktop-team
| 2009-03-10T21:44:41.406986+00:00
|}
* 278095: this is already fixed by asac, but hasn't been uploaded. asac to ping luke regarding uploading the fix.
* 337869: currently is being built with openjdk, however, the test suite is failing. Not clear if this is an issue. In any case, should be considered more or less complete, as we will be supporting this component by building it with gcj for jaunty if the test suite failures are a real problem.
* 305790: fixed (much thanks to doko)
* 340777: This is essentially the upgrade script for notify-osd and indicator-applet. Expected to be complete by 2009-03-18. Needs a little more testing.

===== Medium =====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Id'''
| '''Title'''
| '''Assigned To'''
| '''Status'''
| '''Importance'''
| '''Package'''
| '''Release'''
| '''Milestone'''
| '''Team'''
| '''Date Confirmed'''
|-
| 309419
| jaunty:  Kubuntu panel doesn't extend all the way across desktop
| jr
| Confirmed
| Medium
| kubuntu-default-settings (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| ubuntu-9.04-beta
| canonical-desktop-team
| 2009-03-10T06:23:48.594805+00:00
|-
| 308060
| Include libmsn in main
| jr
| Confirmed
| Medium
| libmsn (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| ubuntu-9.04-beta
| canonical-desktop-team
| 2009-01-06T13:44:56.126346+00:00
|}

==== Work Items ====
Except for Kubuntu, the work items are by and large complete. The following non-Kubuntu work items remain:
* asac:Adobe Flash in partner repository with apturl:started 
** asac and mvo planning to complete this on 2009-03-18

Kubuntu work is being tracked here: https://wiki.kubuntu.org/Kubuntu/Todo

=== Beta Preparedness ===
* New NM icons are in jaunty.
* pitti asks about the state of the artwork for Jaunty. rickspencer3 to follow up.
* General questions about the readiness of notify-osd and indicator-applet. 

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

===== fonts =====
* fontconfig love based on ACTIONs agreed with Arne
** cleanup obsolete and not used fonts.d files (LP: #332992)
** "anymetrics goodbye" - drop not used patch introduced for firefox (isolated individual patch; next: drop)
** debconf: reset to defaults - drop debconf alltogether to prevent futuer problems (LP: #305394)
** move everything from diff.gz to proper patches
* uploaded patched gtk/gtk-settings daemon with "auto" mode to ~asac PPA
* unblock seb's gnome 2.26 effort due to fontconfig postinst problem

===== network-manager =====
* network-manager modem debugging - discussing udev prober approach with upstream
* online/offline status discussion with mozilla/network-manager; seems this is not going to happen; developed rtnetlink client part
   for a network status daemon PoC.
* patch review, discussion and code for dxteam's offline/disconnect notifications; came up with a patch that stacks event and combines them if appropriate; next: cleanup using spec
* provide input on #networkmanager, #modemmanager f3507g upstreaming efforts

===== mozilla =====
* nss security testing
* thoughts about 32 bit packages for firefox/xulrunner, nss and others
* jaunty website call
* jaunty newtab page
* started to prepare thunderbird security update
* work a bit on firefox security backports

===== misc =====
* fighting nfs problems, and dealing with mail backlog due to this.
* sponsoring human-icon-theme, liferea
* new songbird discussions
* chromium on amd64 discussions

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====
* Fontconfig testing for Alexander
* import queue cleaning for Rosetta
* fonts testing on Ubuntu and Kubuntu for different languages
* language-pack testing on Kubuntu

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====
===== Distro =====
* Sponsoring - unsub/cleanup
  - Uploaded gnome-screensaver(#87317), libvirt(#227837), mesa(#330476)

===== Xorg Work =====
* Uploaded new xorg (fixes #276357)
* Rewrote/updated https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Triaging/
* Followed up on a number of bugs
* Uploaded new -ati git snapshot 
* Uploaded mesa fixes
* Analyzed Keybuk's Moblin vs. Ubuntu Xorg boot performance (analysis took up most of a day)
* Coordinated Radeon kernel patches with Tim and Alex
* Graphed total Xorg bug numbers for past year: http://people.ubuntu.com/~bryce/totals.svg
* Merged/tested/uploaded -ati 6.12.0.
* Acknowledged receipt of -fglrx from ATI; tested on a couple cards
* Re-triaged xorg back down to 13 bugs (from 78)
* Worked on FailsafeX scripts (various bug reports)
* XSmoke testing

===== Misc =====
* Attended kernel team sprint in Beaverton Mon-Tues
* Attempted meeting with AMD; couldn't reach them, got them by email
* Confcalls with rick and pitti on work load balancing
* Confcall on karmic goals - HDMI
* Recommended potential sponsorees for UDS

===== 2-week Plan =====
* xorg.conf Backup/Recovery work
* Integrate apport support into bulletproof-x mode
* Focus on my assigned bugs list, bugs fixed upstream, and bug reports
  with patches attached.

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====
* Wrote patch to allow proper disabling of gnome-vfs in OOo while still retaining gvfs fuse support
* Uploaded openoffice.org 1:3.0.1-5ubuntu1 - disable gnome-vfs
* Uploaded openoffice.org 1:3.0.1-5ubuntu2 - added lzma pre-depends back
* Filed upstream bugs on gvfs ftp and webdav backends wrt failure to save OOo files
* Working on OOo 3.1.0 split build
* Wrote AllHands submission
* Weekly OOo Release Status Meetings
* Weekly desktop team meeting
* Lots of OOo bug triage

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====
done:
* alpha 6 testing, fixes and release
* update casper not start kde services which aren't needed by a live
cd
* fix jockey for broken autostart
* archive admin and SRU approvals
* discuss fate of kblueplugd
* fix libxine1 to make it installable without restricted codecs
* tested various language packs, working well
* investigated kpackagekit's update notifier, need to revert to
update-notifier-kde
* investigated corruption on screen in some Qt apps with intel
driver, no conclusions yet
 
todo:
* investigate high profile bugs

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
Done:
* Some GNOME updates
* Message Indicator/Notification use case testing
* Fixed some OLS package builds for intrepid
* Tested update script for adding the indicator applet
* Compiz/GNOME key bindings bug

Planned/In progress:
* More testing of the indicator applet script
* Package the indicator python bindings
* Help with GNOME updates
* Make the notification patch for system-config-printer more upstream
friendly #339847
* Fix a permissions problem in couchdb on intrepid
* Help out the DX team as needed before the beta freeze

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====
Currently open stable/milestoned bugs:
* #275432 (libpolkit requires files from policykit): no time yet, will attack soon
* #335567 (jockey-backend crashed with IOError: [Errno 19] No such device): got remote root ssh login from davmor2 and debugged it on his box (I don't have an nvidia system any more); got it pinpointed now, will upload tomorrow
 
Non-chores stuff done:
* 9.10 planning calls
* Alpha-6 CD testing
* Created apport launchpad backend test suite, for smooth and stable migration to launchpadlib
* Created apport branch for using launchpadlib; tests fully pass now, it's ready to rock
* Created and tested launchpadlib (and dependencies) backports for intrepid and hardy, in my PPA now; prerequisite for switching apport retracers to launchpadlib 
* Got launchpadlib to work on ronne's retracer dchroots
* Spent three hours on jaxme FTBFS; got the openjdk patch backported, but test suite is failing now, and I'm clueless about it; for now we'll just leave this be built with gcj with Jaunty.
* Lots of bug fixing, got most of my milestoned bugs fixed

Sponsoring:
* cracklib2, envyng-core, fontforge, gnome-netstatus, kino, mobile-broadband-provider-info, net-snmp, nvidia-graphics-drivers-180, openbabel, pulseaudio, pyrex, python-crypto, python-mechanize, xorg-options-editor-gtk
* Reviewed sync sponsor bugs: hesiod, ttf-vlgothic, bzr, bzrtools
* Reviewed, but not uploaded: boost1.35

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====
===== GNOME 2.26 updates =====
gvfs nautilus libgnomekbd gnome-python gtksourceview gnome-python
gtksourceview gedit epiphany-browser epiphany-extensions gucharmap
gnome-applets gnome-keyring xchat-gnome gtkhtml gtk+ glib gvfs nautilus
glibmm gnome-python-desktop libsoup evince eog pessulus
evolution-data-server file-roller libwnck evolution 
gnome-utils libgweather gnome-panel evolution-exchange gnome-desktop

==== investigated on a frequent ffmpeg crasher ==== 
(over 60 duplicates) on some format which was due to gstreamer0.10-ffmpeg, got the bug fixed upstream
and backport the change to jaunty, confirmed it fixes the issue

==== desktop bug fixing ==== 
f-spot gnome-session gnome-utils
desktop-file-utils totem gnome-python gdm

===== other =====
* sponsored a new dxteam notify-osd update and updated
gnome-settings-daemon for the changes
* tested and uploaded new rhythmbox upstream candidate version 
* backported gnome-session storing upstream changes
* lot of desktop bugs triage
* jaunty CD testing

==== sponsoring ==== 
pidgin pidgin libproxy bluez libgda4 alacarte gnome-media
gnome-games-extra-data totem-pl-parser totem gnome-system-monitor 
gtkmm2.4 indicator-applet gnome-icon-theme seahorse-plugins gtk2-engines
glade vino gnome-icon-theme gnome-games vinagre bug-buddy

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====
* hal-cups-utils fixes: Handle queues with CUPS URIs using the "hal" backend correctly (LP: #341646), fixed reading of the printer device ID (LP: #306301) and let hal_lpadmin use the same method for finding already configured CUPS queues on plugging and unplugging the printer (LP: #341646, LP: #139317). Now selection of printer drivers on Plug'n'Print and re-activation of disabled print queues should be much more reliable.
* system-config-printer fixes: Adapted the D-Bus policy to the new D-Bus defaults (LP: #318776), do not pop up the dialog to remember to deactivate the firewall when activating printer sharing. The dialog is Red Hat/Fedora-specific (LP: #274179), improved identification of printers, especially for the situation of incomplete device IDs reported for network printers and made the list of printer models more readable for PPDs of HPLIP 3.9.2 and of Turboprint.
* splix: Lintian fixes (LP: #331851)
* GTK: Checked that photo printing with eog, f-spot, and GIMP (original dialog) actually works (LP: #310854).
* Triaging and discussion of printing-related bugs.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
