{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Weekly Summary ==

* Investigate and fix CD oversizedness. Images are now back in limits. (pitti)
* Land GNOME 3.4.1.
* Some more OneConf cleanup, we have the server side return some 500 errors. Investigation in progress (didrocks)
* <nowiki>[[http://sweetshark.livejournal.com/10514.html|LibreOffice Hamburg Hackfest 2012 "trip" report]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.documentfoundation.org/Hackfest/Hamburg2012|other reports about the Hackfest]]</nowiki>) (Bjoern Michaelsen)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/1:3.5.2-2ubuntu1|Land LibreOffice 3.5.2]]</nowiki> (Bjoern Michaelsen)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~libreoffice/+archive/libreoffice-3-4|Create LibreOffice-3-4 ppa and land 3.4.6 there for oneiric]]</nowiki> (is blocked from SRU by bug 919659 and possibly bug 873702) (Bjoern Michaelsen)

== Agenda ==

* ''Insert things to discuss at meeting here..''

=== Partner update ===

=== Unity ===

* Finale Unity and Unity-2d releases landed in precise. More information on http://blog.didrocks.fr/post/Precise-Pangolin-has-now-its-finale-Unity-release-%285.10%29.
* Some post-release uploads to fix misc issues (a crasher and a renderer one). We do not expect any more upload on this side.
* The team is now working on branching for Q and bug fixes for the first SRU. (Some work on the infrastructure side as well to expand the merger to all Product Strategy teams)

=== X.org ===

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
</pre>
