{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Actions from previous meeting ==

== Actions from this meeting ==

== Weekly Summary ==

* Spent a lot of time untangling the `/run` transition. (Martin)
* cups-pk-helper MIR was mostly approved; should we use that in control-center now? (Martin)
* Packaged python3-gobject to unblock large chunks of the Python 3 transition (Martin)
* Bad news for CD oversizedness: we don't actually have 15 MB of ibus-pinyin to drop, that only was 1.5 MB due to the clever seeding; so we need to reduce something else, like the duplicate webkit.
* Updated Ghostscript to a 9.04 snapshot. Unfortunately it does not fix LP: #668800. The upstream developers are working on it. Agreed on a release of GS 9.04 before our FF with upstream (TillKamppeter).
* Packaged cloudprint (Google Cloud printing on local printers), package is still waiting in NEW (TillKamppeter).
* Sent out e-mail to coordinate introduction of Google Cloud Print support in Ubuntu (TillKamppeter).
* Reported https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=654742 to record the private mail discussion about system-config-printer vs. GNOME's new printer setup tool (TillKamppeter).
* OneConf: good progresses, client side now know how to talk to the server ubuntu-webcatalog. ubuntu-webcatalog won a OneConf API and handlers. Needs to implement the real model (ISV will do it). Also a mock client is now available to make some unit tests easy)
* Started a discussion about XDG_CURRENT_DESKTOP support on the XDG list.  Seems mostly positive so far. (mterry)
* Fixed some bugs with LDTP and GTK+ 3; for rewritten/better a11y support, use GTK+ trunk (ppa:ricotz/staging has it) (mterry)

=== Partner update ===
==== DX ====
* indicator-me was replaced by new functionality included in indicator-session and indicator-messages
* indicator-power is still iterating, frequent releases right now
 
==== U1 ====
* still nothing agreed to with the release process changes (ppa vs. SRU)

=== Unity ===

* Unity GL:
** New Alt + Tab plugin available in trunk. First regressions detected, already under fixing.
** Wait for next release on Thursday to get it into Oneiric.

* Compiz:
** New release (0.9.5.0) for Compiz and its 6 components (plugins-main, plugins-extra, libcompizconfig, gconf-backend, python-compizconfig, ccsm). With ABI break, don't do any partial upgrade and wait for new Unity to be rebuilt as well :)
** part 2 of the unity dialogs landed (final look and feel) with the new unity-window-decorator.
** Please tag "0.9.5.0" for all new regressions: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bugs?field.tag=0.9.5.0|known regressions]]</nowiki>.

* Unity 2D:
** dconf-qt landed, but will need some new API (gsettings list support). Discussion with desrt in progress. Maybe as well, the -dev package will be finally needed
** gsettings branch (first cut) proposed, but depends on dconf-qt
** merge requests on gtk3 indicator suppport done. Long patch series, will be reviewed for next release (next Monday)

=== Software Center ===
* Released Software Center version 4.1.9, includes crash fixes and improvements to review editing feature
* Continued steady progress on GTK3 port with 5.0 design elements (thanks Matt McGowan!)
* In progress this week:
** UI enhancements and speedup for standalone deb installation feature
** In testing now: Server side support for editing and deleting reviews

=== Kubuntu ===

=== X.org ===

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
17:31:43	pitti	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2011-07-19
17:31:46	pitti	hello everyone!
17:32:03	didrocks	hey
17:32:13	tremolux	hiya
17:32:30	rodrigo_	hi all
17:32:36	mterry	hi
17:33:01	pitti	so, let's dive right in
17:33:07	pitti	kenvandine: thanks for the partner update on the wiki
17:33:42	pitti	kenvandine: so the new icon/name thing in the panel without a menu is now not the me menu any more?
17:33:52	kenvandine	pitti, right
17:33:58	kenvandine	that is provided by indicator-session
17:34:10	kenvandine	and is only displayed if you have more than one user
17:34:20	pitti	kenvandine: let me guess, wasting 15% of your panel to show your own name was a design decision? :-)
17:34:23	kenvandine	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MessagingMenu
17:34:25	kenvandine	for the design
17:34:34	kenvandine	:-D
17:34:42	pitti	kenvandine: is the absense of a menu a bug, or by design?
17:34:51	kenvandine	by design
17:34:53	kenvandine	however
17:35:18	kenvandine	it means guest session is missing if you only have one account
17:35:20	pitti	then breaking the menu structure certainly is a bug
17:35:22	tkamppeter	hi
17:35:46	pitti	kenvandine: well, it's missing now, too
17:36:01	pitti	kenvandine: the session menu only has the logout/reboot stuff, and there's no change user/guest session etc. anywhere
17:36:05	pitti	or a link to your personal settings
17:36:10	kenvandine	rightt
17:36:22	kenvandine	that stuff is in the "User menu"
17:36:29	kenvandine	which is only displayed if you have more than one account
17:36:46	pitti	but didn't you just say that it's designed to not have a menu?
17:36:56	kenvandine	so no way to get to the guest session unless you have multiple accounts
17:36:56	 *	pitti has three accounts on this machine
17:37:09	seb128	the menu not showing is an unity bug
17:37:11	kenvandine	oh, you see your name and no menu right?
17:37:13	kenvandine	that is a bug
17:37:27	seb128	njpatel said he would fix it for this week unity update
17:37:36	pitti	ah, ok
17:37:38	seb128	it works in the unity greeter
17:37:46	kenvandine	tedg is supposed to be working out what we are supposed to do about the lack of a menu for guest session, etc
17:37:50	kenvandine	for single users
17:37:51	seb128	something is wrong in the unity panel loader
17:37:52	pitti	seb128: not really -- I get an [Invalid UTF-8] there :)
17:38:02	pitti	anyway, not meeting fodder at this point any more
17:38:07	pitti	but I was interested in the general direction
17:38:07	seb128	pitti, same bug it displays a menu when clicking on it ;-)
17:38:09	pitti	thanks for the update
17:38:15	kenvandine	np
17:38:35	pitti	still ugh@ full user name
17:38:48	pitti	kenvandine: whom can we talk to for changing this back to the login name?
17:39:11	pitti	on a netbook screen, "Jean-Baptiste Lallement" would take a third of the screen, leaving not enough room for menus
17:39:29	pitti	we should totally require designers to have four names!
17:39:34	kenvandine	mpt i think
17:39:38	kenvandine	haha
17:39:46	kenvandine	mpt ^^
17:39:50	pitti	"Matthew-Paul Thomas" isn't exactly short either
17:39:54	kenvandine	mpt,  lets change your name
17:41:24	seb128	it's displaying seb128 here
17:41:39	seb128	but that's probably because I didn't put my full name with my user account ;-)
17:41:44	kenvandine	hehe
17:41:44	didrocks	it's displaying nothing there, and I have two usersâ€¦
17:42:06	pitti	didrocks: anything to discuss for unity?
17:42:16	pitti	yay for indicator-gtk3
17:42:45	didrocks	pitti: nothing more than what the report said :)
17:42:55	pitti	cool
17:43:17	pitti	tremolux: thanks for the s-c report, anything to discuss there?
17:43:33	pitti	tremolux: do you think the new design branch will land for alpha-3, so that we can get some bigger feedback?
17:43:34	tremolux	pitti: nope, mainly trying to catch up some work items this week
17:44:03	tremolux	pitti: still to early to tell for sure, but I would tend to think it won't
17:44:12	tremolux	pitti: as default, I mean
17:44:47	pitti	tremolux: so it'll be a perky penguin thing then?
17:45:20	tremolux	pitti: heh, well, it's not ruled out yet for O, but..
17:45:38	tremolux	pitti: it's a lot of changes
17:45:58	tremolux	pitti: probably perky, I guess I'm saying
17:46:28	pitti	ok, thanks for the heads-up
17:46:43	pitti	tremolux: well, the current s-c works, so we aren't "under the gun" here, right?
17:46:53	pitti	tremolux: or did we get regressions under gnome 3?
17:47:04	tremolux	pitti: exactly, and we are pulling in some 5.0 features still
17:47:12	tremolux	pitti: no, it seems in good shape
17:47:26	pitti	good to hear; thanks for the update!
17:47:33	tremolux	pitti: thanks!
17:47:39	pitti	which brings us to ... http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-oneiric/canonical-desktop-team-oneiric-alpha-3.html :)
17:47:52	pitti	chrisccoulson: what's the current word on the tbird integration?
17:48:11	pitti	chrisccoulson: seems some are actually done, like charline's user testing
17:48:26	chrisccoulson	yeah, that one is done now
17:48:31	pitti	and the "Discuss strategy for creating new Ubuntu One address book" is actually three WIs
17:48:38	pitti	did that come up in the last meeting?
17:48:52	chrisccoulson	the launcher integration is done too
17:49:08	chrisccoulson	oh, i don't think we mentioned that one in the end
17:49:36	pitti	chrisccoulson: can you put it on tomorrow's agenda?
17:49:48	pitti	strategic discussion is already quite late at this point
17:49:49	chrisccoulson	pitti - yeah, will do
17:49:59	pitti	thanks
17:50:33	pitti	bryceh, RAOF: should we move https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/multimedia-desktop-n-xorg-multihead-defaults to p at this point, or do you still want to work on this for o?
17:50:41	pitti	(^ for eastern edition)
17:51:22	pitti	kenvandine: new gwibber landed, great! looks like the remaining things on https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-o-gwibber-gtk3 are now "nice to have" extra features?
17:51:26	pitti	or do they represent regressions?
17:51:38	kenvandine	both
17:51:48	kenvandine	and there are some regressions not listed there
17:52:02	kenvandine	working through them though!
17:52:04	kenvandine	:)
17:52:17	kenvandine	will land another release tomorrow
17:52:33	pitti	nice
17:52:42	pitti	seb128: for https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-o-screensaver, do we actually have cycles to reintegrate hacks?
17:53:01	pitti	seb128: or should we perhaps just slightly patch the top bar to not look so shell specific?
17:53:04	seb128	it's going to be difficult
17:53:18	pitti	that's what I thought
17:53:30	seb128	we will probably have extra GNOME3 work still with new things like the online account or contacts browser work
17:53:47	seb128	not counting some design changes suggestion that should come as well
17:53:48	pitti	over to perky then?
17:54:06	seb128	let's make it not look like g-s at least yes
17:54:15	chrisccoulson	we can just turn off the top bar can't we?
17:54:26	seb128	chrisccoulson, you said you would maybe be interested to bring the hack code back, do you think you will cycles for it?
17:54:28	pitti	well, having a clock isn't too bad
17:54:29	rodrigo_	yes, I think so
17:54:46	seb128	chrisccoulson, or is tb going to keep you busy full time for the cycle?
17:54:57	chrisccoulson	seb128, i was going to look at it, but there was talk at the rally about using lightdm to lock the screen. is that still the case?
17:55:07	seb128	good point
17:55:29	seb128	well that doesn't change that if we want hacks support we should still have a renderer for them and a config ui
17:55:49	seb128	but worth checking with robert_ancell if he thinks he will have time to make lightdm the lock screen
17:56:25	pitti	kenvandine: discussion in parallel, the avatar thing is done in the current version for https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-o-telepathy-indicator ? or is that something else still?
17:56:40	kenvandine	that is blocked by libindicate and gtk3
17:56:49	kenvandine	i'll followup with tedg on that
17:57:31	pitti	seb128: so how about I file an alpha-3 bug about improving the gnome-screensaver panel, and we move that spec to p?
17:57:35	seb128	pitti, well realistically move the hacks work to next cycle and keep the "redesign the lock screen" to this cycle
17:57:45	pitti	nice :)
17:58:04	seb128	the goal was to use the same design for login and lock screen I think
17:58:07	seb128	but we should check
17:58:23	seb128	- if lightdm is going to be used or if we need a lightdm like screen for gnome-screensaver
17:58:32	seb128	- if robert_ancell will have time for it
17:58:45	seb128	- otherwise fallback to minimal tweaking
17:58:53	seb128	like not displaying a top bar or something
17:59:03	seb128	pitti, does it make sense?
17:59:18	pitti	sounds good to me
17:59:44	seb128	ok, that's a plan then
17:59:46	pitti	cyphermox: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-o-desktop-network-enhancements -> switching to automatic and optional IPv6 sounds like a small change we shoudl get in as fast as possible; is it actually small, or blocked on something?
17:59:47	seb128	we can move on
18:00:06	pitti	I need to catch Robert in the morning, but didn't see him yesterday or today
18:00:33	seb128	he's usually around but not talking if you don't ping him ;-)
18:00:51	pitti	cyphermox: porting indicator-network to current NM: is i-network required by OEM or other projects, or could we safely defer that?
18:00:52	seb128	but it's possible that login manager hacking and testing make it no easy to stay on IRC as well
18:01:03	pitti	seb128: yes, I checked that; he wasn't on IRC, but I got up a little later than usual today
18:01:18	seb128	drop him an email I guess
18:01:32	pitti	ok
18:01:38	seb128	during the rally he was often on a vt for lightdm hacking
18:01:41	pitti	will do that then
18:01:47	seb128	so it's likely that he's not on IRC a lot nowadays
18:01:55	pitti	while I wait for cyphermox's answer, public announcement:
18:02:04	pitti	I'll be on holiday in the next two weeks
18:02:16	pitti	so if you need me to do something urgent, please speak up this week
18:02:34	pitti	does someone feel like doing the team and release meeting in these two weeks?
18:02:49	seb128	can do
18:02:49	pitti	seb128: would be great if you could take the release meeting, you have most experience with it
18:02:57	seb128	;-)
18:03:02	pitti	and someone else perhaps the desktop meeting
18:03:04	seb128	I can do both
18:03:08	seb128	desktop meeting is easy
18:03:14	pitti	(which is mostly preparing the wiki template and copying the log back to it
18:03:17	pitti	seb128: merci
18:03:21	seb128	de rien ;-)
18:03:29	kenvandine	pitti, have a great vacation!
18:03:34	seb128	pitti, enjoy you time off and crossing finger that you have nice weather ;-)
18:03:37	pitti	thanks!
18:03:39	cyphermox	pitti: we can safely defer porting indicator-network (AFAIK)
18:03:50	pitti	cyphermox: thanks
18:04:17	cyphermox	pitti: as for ipv6; I'm working on it right now. It's basically all already on, but we get delays in connections; that's a little bad; but it's more a bug than anything else
18:04:41	pitti	cyphermox: ah, good to hear; thanks for the heads-up
18:04:50	cyphermox	so I'll just clean up the work items there to make this clearer
18:04:54	pitti	that's it from me; does anyone have further discussion topics?
18:05:04	pitti	cyphermox: I sent you a review of usb-modeswitch, btw
18:05:14	pitti	looking forward to seeing this land
18:05:39	cyphermox	pitti: yes, I saw. Thanks a lot.. just haven't looked at it yet on account of being deep in NM code to figure out the connection delays ;)
18:05:50	pitti	cyphermox: yes, no hurry
18:05:59	pitti	cyphermox: I'll try to get to the second half of it this week still
18:06:03	cyphermox	will look and merge today hopefully
18:06:16	pitti	cyphermox: it'll take some time, I mostly just added comments :)
18:06:23	pitti	so, no AOB?
18:06:26	seb128	pitti, so feature freeze is in a bit less a month, can we land things on the CD while you are not there?
18:06:38	seb128	we have some pending things I've on my list we need to track
18:06:53	seb128	- sort the clutter depends
18:06:56	pitti	seb128: sure; you will be the acting release engineer for the desktop team :)
18:07:02	seb128	- sort the cheese new requirement and the fact that empathy will use it
18:07:11	pitti	I don't have a personal lock on the CDs :)
18:07:12	seb128	- get gnome-online-account installed
18:07:15	kenvandine	cheese, yummy
18:07:25	pitti	just see my note about CD size on the wiki page
18:07:29	seb128	- look at packaging the GNOME 3.2 addressbook
18:07:36	pitti	we lost our potential 15 MB savings
18:08:11	seb128	hum :-(
18:08:18	seb128	do we still have a pending "drop python 2.6"?
18:08:28	seb128	well I guess it's smaller since we cleaned the pyc
18:08:40	rodrigo_	how much space are we at?
18:08:54	seb128	we need to win at least 11mb it seems
18:09:19	pitti	so as for the meeting, thanks everyone!
18:09:24	pitti	right
18:09:27	seb128	that's not counting that we will need to add libcheese, clutter, clutter-gst, gnome-online-account, the addressbook
18:09:32	pitti	well, 8 MB, as we should have 703 MB images
18:09:34	seb128	thanks pitti
18:09:54	pitti	seb128: I thought we'll drop cheese from ubiquity's depends, and move it to universe?
18:10:06	seb128	pitti, 11mb on i386 still
18:10:15	pitti	ah, right
18:10:16	seb128	pitti, empathy will depends on it
18:10:24	seb128	or optionally depends
18:10:29	seb128	we might get away with cheese
18:10:36	seb128	but it will bring clutter and clutter-gst in
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
</pre>
