{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Weekly Summary ==
* telepathy-indicator reviews and cleaning up deprecations (kenvandine)
* good progress on porting the gwibber client to libfriends (kenvandine)
* updated qml-friends to work with API changes in libfriends (kenvandine)
* duplicity data-corruption SRU (1091269) went out, please test (mterry)
* update-manager can't-upgrade-to-development-raring SRU (1097907) went out, please test (mterry)
* lots of libreoffice 3.5.7 patch backports done for precise: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/+bug/1037111
* libreoffice 4.0 deadlocking: cant testbuild on porterbox without libcmis, cant move libcmis (so-change) from raring-proposed to raring
* CUPS: Synced with Debian again (tkamppeter).
* Pandaboard: Printing works correctly with Raring: Server/client, cups-browsed, HPLIP, Plug'n'Print on USB (tkamppeter).
* xserver and drivers received some minor (bugfix) updates (X team)
* nexus7: vnc4 fixed to build on armhf (bryce)

== Agenda ==

* ''Insert things to discuss at meeting here..''

=== Product strategy integration ===

==== Unity ====

* First daily build released!  Autopilot tests finally passed clean.

==== Indicators & Themes ====

* libappindicator's test cases finally pass.

==== Webapps/Webcredentials ====
* Updated most of the UOA packages that aren't autolanding

==== Open input framework ====

=== X.org ===
* q-lts-backport is considered finished and ready for release
* xserver moves from 1.13.0 to 1.13.1.  Some drivers like -intel also got version bumps.
* Kernel jumped from 3.5 to 3.8.  Seeing a spate of new bugs this past week - probably kernel fallout but we're still evaluating
* vnc4 fixed to build on armhf
* Investigated fullscreen unredirection driver bugs reported against Precise.

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
</pre>
