{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (calc)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)  
* Tony Espy (awe)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Last Karmic Gnome Release
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* What issues are we working on that are not on the list?
* What issues do we need help on?

=== Last Karmic Gnome Release ===
* robert_ancell and seb128 will be working on uploading latest gnome starting next Monday
* refrain from assigning work to them during next week
* pitch in and package and upload if available

=== Release Bugs/Release Status ===
==== Release Targeted bugs ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Id'''
| '''Title'''
| '''Assigned To'''
| '''Status'''
| '''Importance'''
| '''Package'''
| '''Release'''
| '''Milestone'''
| '''Team'''
| '''Date Confirmed'''
| '''Tags'''
|-
| 396156
| Help→About does not function (abrowser-3.5, jaunty-proposed)
| asac
| In Progress
| High
| firefox-3.5 (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| ubuntu-9.10
| 
| 2009-07-06 15:06:54.694398+00:00
| 
|-
| 435073
| NetworkManager 0.8 can not get IPv4 address for wired Auto connections because IPv6 fails
| asac
| Triaged
| High
| network-manager (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| ubuntu-9.10
| 
| 2009-09-29 11:06:41.591934+00:00
| apport-bug i386
|-
| 435329
| Empathy is unusable if indicator applet is not on the panel
| ken-vandine
| Confirmed
| High
| empathy (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| ubuntu-9.10
| 
| 2009-10-02 07:50:57.731774+00:00
| regression-potential
|-
| 434878
| video calls fail frequently
| ken-vandine
| In Progress
| Medium
| empathy (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| ubuntu-9.10
| 
| 2009-09-22 21:00:53.841456+00:00
| 
|-
| 440290
| iPod only being detected as Drive, not as iPod
| pitti
| Fix Committed
| High
| devicekit-disks (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| ubuntu-9.10
| 
| 2009-10-12 15:31:17.543230+00:00
| 
|}
* bug 435073 is hard to reproduce and diagnose
* bug 434878 is fixed enough to ship for karmic, removing from release radar
* bug 449589 in alsa-utils "Alsa mixer Master Front volume resets to minimum on startup" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/449589

==== Other Targeted or Important Bugs ====
* xserver-xorg-video-intel "kdm does not restart X server (that crashed on logout)" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/432521
* 450692,openoffice.org-common dependencies changed, now pulling wrong theme onto the CDs,ccheney,Triaged,High,openoffice.org (Ubuntu Karmic),karmic,,,2009-10-13 20:14:30.384882+00:00,amd64 apport-bug
* bug 424132 in openoffice.org "[kubuntu] OOo KDE file dialog is utterly broken." [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/424132
* Launchpad bug 425952 in gdm-guest-session "gdm requiring password for guest session" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/425952
* bug 359975 in gtk+2.0 "evince sometimes yield error "Error printing: Too many failed attempts"" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/359975
* bug 419143 in evince "Printing from evince (and perhaps other GTK apps) to PostScript printers is broken" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/419143

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====
* Launchpad Translation team sprint in Belgrade
* traveling

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====
* Implement arsenal report to list bugs with patches attached across
   all X-related source packages
* Fix X200 wacom tablet baudrate (LP: #444612)
* Fix Xcursor theme default to respect x-cursor-theme (LP: #443002)
* Sponsor -intel patches from Alberto Milone (LP: #418703)
* Fix segfault in MMIO path in RADEONInit3DEngine.  (LP: #
* Review current status of -fglrx.  Confcall with AMD about -fglrx.
* Fix RNG corruption in OpenGL.  (LP: #421651)
* Fix xforcevesa (really, assist superm1 fixing it in casper)
* Merge and upload mesa 7.6 to Karmic (LP: #420803)
   + Track/upstream regression bugs:
     - 446425: [Radeon R250] Artifacts on kwin (FIXED)
     - 446578: [Radeon RS690M] Crash with kwin (FIXED)
     - 446674: [Radeon M7LW] Memory corruption / googleearth crash
* Merge and upload -intel 2.9.0 (Closes FFe: #446080)
* Merge and upload xorg-server 1.6.5 (Closes FFe: #447010)
   - Fixes LP: #403339, #114336, #152999, #114336, #368135, #357901
* Fix artifacts on kwin (LP: #446425)
* Sponsor googleearth-package upload for Tormod
* Sponsor -evdev patch for mdz
* Fix Russian phonetic keyboard layout tagging (LP: #429034)
* Fix MacBook w/ deadkeys layout alias error (LP: #327963)
* Fix crash with kwin on Radeon by reverting upstream change (LP: #446578)
* Fix huge font size on another LPL monitor (LP: #380009)
* Review a bunch of other bugs with patches, but reject or redirect
   them for various reasons.

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====
====== DONE: ======
* OEM work.
* Uploaded openoffice.org 1:3.1.1-4ubuntu1 to karmic.
* Uploaded openoffice.org-l10n 1:3.1.1-4ubuntu1 to karmic.
* Lots of OOo bug triage.
 
====== Planned: ======
* Need one last OOo upload to fix ppc FTBFS and remaining KDE4 issues, have patches already.

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====
done:
* investigate poppler not using openjpeg as requested by upstream,
too late to add it now though
* update libssh (needed for KDE) and discuss with debian maintainer
* Fix microblog applet, both KDE and my own bugs
* Battle Qt 4.5.3 which refuses to build in the buildds but is fine
everywhere else, may have to downgrade to 4.5.2
* remove k3b-i18n from archive, it's out of date
* chair Kubuntu meeting
* Upload and test adept upgrade in hardy
* remove xpdf support from koffice as advised by upstream
* fix skim build
* point Konqueror's google search at partner page
* investigate choqok update, too unstable for now
* add click though message to ubiquity in kubuntu netbook edition
* test and upload digikam update
* an hour or two of archive admin

todo:
* fix bugs before freeze, get into RC testing

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
====== DONE: ======
* Prepared DX package uploads
* empathy crasher fixes
* fixed draw-attention in the indicator for empathy buddy signon events
* removed the time from the indicator for empathy buddy signon events
* debugged video calls in empathy, working pretty well now but not perfect.  

====== Planned: ======
* Prepare DX package uploads
* add LP integration to empathy

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====
==== Accessibility ====
* Quieten all logs by default for speech-dispatcher, to minimize space usage in users home directories. Its easy enough to ask them to enable extra logging if something needs debugging.
* Sponsored a patch for onboard to make desktop files translatable, as well as add a fix to hide onboard menu items, the same as other accessibility tools.
* Continued trying to debug random speech-dispatcher crash, still nowhere near solving it.

==== Audio ====
* Audio bug triaging, bugs in question are against pulseaudio, alsa userspace, and the kernel for hardware enablement.
* Uploaded several fixes relating to volume restoration race conditions, and pulse and alsa bug fixes.
* Added some sounds from the freedesktop sound theme to the ubuntu sound theme to satisfy those whow anted sounds for various message events for empathy. Some still feel that this is not entirely resolved, since the freedesktop theme did not have sounds for everything.
* Uploaded a new casper revision to allign with some pulseaudio changes relating to disabling pulseaudio for accessibility installs from the live CD.
* Did fres installs on systems to do final checks of audio hardware, to make sure things worked out of the box and were usable.

==== Misc ====
* Sponsored a gcalctool upload for RObert.

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Done:
* TB meeting/weekly report
* Built/tested new karmic langpacks
* Bug fixing: apport, devicekit-disks, devicekit-power, cdbs, gvfs, gnome-session, langpack-locales, libgphoto2, policykit-1-gnome, udev
* Investigated MTP music player regression (LP#444083)
* Investigated iPod regression (LP#440290)
* Ported screen-resolution-extra  to polkit-1
* Created apport package hook for devicekit-disks
* Discussed artwork licensing
* Discussed checkbox policykit migration with Marc Tardif
* Updated gnome-disk-utility
* Tested various kernels on my hardware for bug triaging
* Caught up on devicekit-disks bug triage, and cut a huge dent into my "new bugs" folder

Sponsoring:
* empathy, evolution-couchdb, fglrx-installer, gnome-themes-ubuntu, human-theme, indicator-messages, indicator-session, libindicate, three nvidia-graphics-drivers versions, xserver-xorg-input-synaptics, xsplash

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* Got MOTU membership!
* Fix keyboard focus bug in gdm
* General bug hunting in gdm, gcalctool, ...

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* updates: gnome-media glib gnome-shell
* backported some gnome-control-center crash fixes from git
* tracked a bug leading to gconf schemas translation not working and fixed the gconf issue, pitti fixed an another issue in cdbs there too
* backported rhythmbox git change to use correct the inhibit api
* tracked a bug in enchant leading to have turkish always listed as dictionnary in use
* looked to gnome-app-install use in nautilus and downgraded to recommends
* backported gnome-panel xrandr fixes from git
* changed nautilus to not restart automatically for users who don't want it running all the time for example
* lot of debugging on other issues
 
* sponsored: libdbus gtkhtml gnome-power-manager empathy empathy glib empathy indicator-session libgnomekbd gnome-python-extras gnome-settings-daemon ubuntu-artwork gnome-power-manager 

==== Tony Espy (awe) ====
* Preparation for OEM Audio Requirements call for Lucid; participated in actual call.
* OEM off-site meeting.
* General NetworkManager bug triage
* Worked on Kubuntu Hidden Network bug ( <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/444262|lp:444262]]</nowiki> ).  I can see why it's not working, but don't know the knetwork-manager code well enough to understand how it's supposed to work. 
* Wrote Plumber's Conference trip report.

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====
* Made CUPS 1.4.1 using IP addreeses for broadcasting again, like 1.3.x did, as there are many networks with DNS not correctly working (LP: #449586).
* Made the CUPS 1.4.1 package clearing the CUPS cache on upgrade from older versions (LP: #420490).
* CUPS init script: Made cold-plugging of USB printers working also when the usblp kernel module is loaded.
* Applied media type fix patch to HPLIP's HPIJS driver. As we switched back to HPIJS it turned out that the HP guys did not apply it (LP: #380858).
* system-config-printer: Make udev callout for Plug'n'Print take into account changes in USB printer URIs due to the new USB CUPS backend, so that no duplicate queues get auto-generated (LP: #448583).
* system-config-printer: Do not show the properties dialog when user accepts printing a test page after setting up a new print queue.
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports.

== IRC Logs ==
<pre>
[17:30] <pitti> Desktop team meeting
[17:30] <kenvandine> hey
[17:30] <ccheney> hello
[17:30] <ArneGoetje> hi
[17:30] <pitti> Rick will be here in a few minutes
[17:30] <awe> howdy
[17:30]  * asac lands ... just in time for meeting
[17:30] <pitti> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2009-10-13
[17:31]  * pedro_ waves
[17:31] <pitti> so, we want to keep that really quick
[17:31] <seb128> ups, I knew I forgot something
[17:31] <pitti> = Last Karmic Gnome Release =
[17:31]  * seb128 notes to adds activity report 
[17:31] <pitti> seb128: this will happen next Monday, you said?
[17:31] <seb128> tarballs are due monday yes
[17:31] <seb128> so monday to thursday
[17:32] <seb128> traditionally some are late for robert_ancell to have something to do while we sleep there ;-)
[17:32] <pitti> ok, so everyone keep that in mind, and not assing major things to Seb/Robert on Mon/Tue :)
[17:32] <seb128> help on sponsoring will be welcome
[17:32] <pitti> I can help out with some bits, like g-p-m/gdm/gdu/other stuff you throw at me
[17:32] <seb128> ok, will do
[17:33] <seb128> we usually are fine for updates
[17:33] <seb128> but sponsoring can use extra hands
[17:33] <pitti> right, I think asac and me can help out wit sponsoring as well
[17:33] <asac> ack
[17:33] <pitti> = Release Bugs/Release Status =
[17:33] <pitti> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/ReleaseStatus is our report from last Friday
[17:33] <pitti> good job, folks, on killing RC bugs
[17:33] <pitti> we just got more than we fixed in the past three weeks :)
[17:34] <pitti> primarily because you all are eager to get important stuff on the radar, which is good
[17:34] <asac> hmm
[17:34] <pitti> does anyone have bugs assigned which you feel you can't fix by RC, so until next Monday?
[17:34] <asac> the current wiki list looked not so big
[17:34] <asac> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2009-10-13 ... there are "only" 5
[17:34] <asac> is that up-to-date?
[17:35] <pitti> apparently it's missing the X/KDE bits
[17:35] <ccheney> i have a couple fixes that need to go in for OOo but aren't on there but i already am on top of them
[17:35] <asac> for me bug 435073 is stil not understood. not sure how many affected
[17:35] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 435073 in network-manager "NetworkManager 0.8 can not get IPv4 address for wired Auto connections because IPv6 fails" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/435073
[17:35] <pitti> but ReleaseStatus is from last Friday, since then one or two things got fixed
[17:35] <rickspencer3> pitti, those were the "Highs" that are tracked in karmic
[17:36] <rickspencer3> and assigned to the desktop team or someone on teh team
[17:36] <pitti> ah, and e. g. bug 427734  was invalidated recently
[17:36] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 427734 in ubufox "ubufox not loaded in Firefox 3.5 on karmic alpha 6 CD" [High,Invalid] https://launchpad.net/bugs/427734
[17:36] <asac> i did that after getting three confirms that this works now
[17:37] <asac> i filed that as a "somehow livecd was broken"
[17:37] <pitti> for example, bug 432521  affects our team, and isn't on Rick's list
[17:37] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 432521 in xserver-xorg-video-intel "kdm does not restart X server (that crashed on logout)" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/432521
[17:37] <asac> hmm
[17:37] <pitti> asac: do you need someone to help testing bug 435073 then?
[17:37] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 435073 in network-manager "NetworkManager 0.8 can not get IPv4 address for wired Auto connections because IPv6 fails" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/435073
[17:38] <pitti> kenvandine: how's the empathy A/V coming along? there are some nasty crashers still?
[17:38] <asac> well. i need someone who is currently seeing that bug
[17:38] <kenvandine> pitti, not to bad
[17:38] <pitti> kenvandine: did the indicator integration crashes get fixed? (obsolete/duplicated entries, etc.?)
[17:38] <kenvandine> some people are still getting crashes
[17:38] <kenvandine> the indicator related crashers are fixed and uploaded
[17:39] <kenvandine> the dupes too
[17:39] <kenvandine> and buddy signon behavior
[17:39] <kenvandine> A/V is working pretty well, but still causes some crashes
[17:39] <pitti> awe: any chance to try and reproduce the IPv6 bug?
[17:39] <awe> pitti: sure
[17:39] <pitti> if it doesn't happen on a standard setup, we can probably take it off the radar?
[17:39] <awe> agreed
[17:39] <awe> it seems to work fine for me, but i'll do some digging
[17:40] <pitti> sounds like it should be enough to set up a failing dhcp server on ipv6, that should work with kvm even
[17:40] <asac> pitti: awe: i think its only reproduciable if you start with 0.7 profile
[17:40] <asac> something like a system-connection with some specific ipv4 setting ... or something else
[17:40] <pitti> asac: profile == saved connections?
[17:40] <pitti> ok
[17:40] <awe> hmm, ok... i have a spare machine i can upgrade
[17:40] <asac> seb128 was the first who noticed this during upgrade a few month bug
[17:40] <asac> back
[17:41] <pitti> seb128: oh, you can reproduce it?
[17:41] <asac> pitti: profile == settings
[17:41] <asac> pitti: no. because once you fix it its gone
[17:41] <seb128> pitti, I ran once into it
[17:41] <seb128> I didn't try again since
[17:41] <asac> so the problem is that if you come from a NM without IPv6 support
[17:41] <asac> and upgrade to NM 0.8
[17:42] <asac> you might end up with the IPv6 setting set to manual
[17:42] <asac> and then you cannot connect because getting IP for ip6 fails
[17:42] <pitti> it seems that's at least enough data to reproduce the bug?
[17:42] <asac> however, the ipv6 defaults to ignored
[17:42] <asac> so this does not happen for everyone
[17:42] <asac> and we looked around the code upstream and dont see how that can happen
[17:43] <asac> pitti: yes. but it seems to manifest itself just with a certain configuration/history
[17:43] <pitti> kenvandine: how bad is bug 434878 still? should we keep it on the radar?
[17:43] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 434878 in empathy "video calls fail frequently" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/434878
[17:43] <kenvandine> not bad
[17:43] <asac> so finding the NM 0.7 state that will reproduce this after upgrade is needed
[17:43] <kenvandine> pitti, i think we need to just track it well for lucid and file effect bugs upstream
[17:43]  * asac takes a note to review the setting migration code once more
[17:45] <asac> i think best plan would be for me/awe/QA to try a few upgrades from 0.7 to 0.8 and hope that we hit the problem
[17:45] <pitti> ok
[17:45] <pitti> bryce: anything on your list which might not make it?
[17:46] <seb128> I had a ipv4 dchp system config I think
[17:46] <seb128> if that helps to try upgrades
[17:46] <bryce> pitti, nope, things are going well
[17:46] <pitti> nice
[17:46] <seb128> I never played with fancy options out of that I think
[17:46] <Amaranth> mvo: looks like we're going to have a compiz 0.8.4 release in about 5 hours
[17:46] <asac> seb128: thx. dhcp system config -> available to all users + all automatic IP config ?
[17:46] <pitti> bryce: there's one remaining mesa regression, right?
[17:46]  * Amaranth wonders if he can upload compiz stuff yet
[17:46] <seb128> asac, yes
[17:46] <asac> seb128: if thats it it should be easy ;)
[17:46] <awe> asac: i take it i should abandon work on the knetwork-manager kubuntu bug?
[17:46] <asac> awe: hidden?
[17:46] <bryce> pitti, right I'm continuing to keep an eye out for mesa (or other) major regressions
[17:46] <asac> yes
[17:46] <awe> ok
[17:47] <asac> thats not a regression
[17:47] <Riddell> awe: what bug is that?
[17:47] <asac> awe: maybe write up quickly your current understanding
[17:47] <bryce> pitti, also going to look at updates for -ati, that's the only remaining big area that we're behind on
[17:47] <asac> so i can poke upstream about it
[17:47] <awe> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/444262
[17:47] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 444262 in network-manager "knetworkmanager won't connect to hidden WiFi AP using WEP" [Undecided,Confirmed]
[17:47] <pitti> = What issues are we working on that are not on the list =
[17:47] <pitti> do you have anything which still needs to make it into karmic which isn't covered by bugs?
[17:48] <pitti> from my side, we still need to update teh copyright files in the artwork packages again, but that's techinically unintrusive (just legally)
[17:48] <ccheney> i have a OOo ppc ftbfs and kde4 mega issue that still needs another upload, along with the mvo upgrade issue i need to track down
[17:48] <asac> seb128: i have update of ephy homepage on my list. can we put that gconf setting in some other package?
[17:48] <asac> seb128: so we can keep ephy in synch in future
[17:48] <seb128> asac, any you want
[17:48] <pitti> ccheney: is it possible to get that done by Friday, so that it can build over the weekend? I'm concerned about the arm buildd time
[17:49] <ccheney> pitti: definitely should be done by friday
[17:49] <pitti> cool
[17:49] <ccheney> pitti: i might wait until thur to upload to make sure no more updates appear right after my upload, heh :)
[17:49] <dobey> mac_v: ping
[17:49] <pitti> asac, seb128: http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/component-mismatches.txt is still unhappy about epy, BTW
[17:49] <asac> seb128: not sure you answered my question ;) ... but lets do that after meeting (sorry all)
[17:50]  * asac checks
[17:50] <asac> hmm
[17:50] <asac> seahorse-plugins
[17:50] <pitti> ccheney: there might be some patches to fix bug 424132, too?
[17:50] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 424132 in openoffice.org "[kubuntu] OOo KDE file dialog is utterly broken." [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/424132
[17:50] <asac> pitti: will check that
[17:50] <pitti> oh, and we need to get in a new checkbox to complete the policykit migration; cr3 has an updated package, currently being reviewed
[17:51] <ccheney> pitti: yea that was the kde4 mega issue i was referring to, right after my last upload another few patches appeared, heh
[17:51] <ccheney> pitti: so should be fixed with my next upload (i hope anyway)
[17:51] <pitti> sweet
[17:51] <pitti> rickspencer3: I'm done, mike back to you?
[17:52] <rickspencer3> pitti, thanks
[17:52] <rickspencer3> I'll need to scroll back, unfortunately
[17:52] <rickspencer3> but it looks like perhaps there are some bugs that are not on my radar
[17:52] <rickspencer3> so I'll look at those
[17:52] <rickspencer3> in general, how do folks feel about the release?
[17:53] <seb128> karmic rocks!
[17:53] <rickspencer3> :)
[17:53] <asac> yeah ;)
[17:53] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, what seb128 said :)
[17:53] <rickspencer3> ok, I agree with seb128
[17:53]  * chrisccoulson thinks the same
[17:53] <Riddell> a big improvement over jaunty here
[17:53] <awe> +1
[17:53] <pedro_> yeah it's going to rock
[17:53] <rickspencer3> Jaunty was the best desktop I ever had, until a few weeks ago, and Karmic is by far
[17:54] <rickspencer3> some really amazing and creative work went into it
[17:54]  * ccheney will finally be upgraded to karmic ~ friday when his ram replacement comes in
[17:54] <rickspencer3> so, let's finish strong!

=== Estern Edition ===

<robert_ancell> rickspencer3, yes
<TheMuso> yes
<rickspencer3> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2009-10-13
 ok, first we (they really, pitti ran the meeting today) discussed the next gnome update
<chrisccoulson> pitti - yeah, can do
<rickspencer3> note that robert_ancell and seb128 will be quite busy with this next week
<pitti> chrisccoulson: *hug*
<rickspencer3> so no assigning bugs to robert_ancell at all hours for rickspencer3 during this time
<robert_ancell> i wish it was gnome update day every day ;)
<rickspencer3> seriously, we should all help with gnome by not overloading seb128 and robert_ancell, and
 anyone with spare cycles can pitch in and help
* chrisccoulson hugs pitti
 TheMuso will have a few GNOME packages to update as well for that
<rickspencer3> thanks TheMuso, good to remind us
 any questions about gnome updates next week?
<TheMuso> no
 I'll be on hand to upload robert_ancell's stuff during the day as well, I'll make sure of it.
<rickspencer3> TheMuso, great!
 next we discussed bugs
 first, looking at targeted and High bugs, not too many left
 though asac is finding bug 435073 a bit of a tough nut
<ubottu> Launchpad bug 435073 in network-manager "NetworkManager 0.8 can not get IPv4 address for wired Auto connections because IPv6 fails" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/435073
<rickspencer3> and bryce's xorg work, and Kubuntu issues were not on the list
<TheMuso> Right.
<rickspencer3> so, what bugs are you guys working on that aren't on the list?
* bryce perks up
--- robbiew is now known as robbiew-afk
* bryce waves and returns to patch review
<robert_ancell> guest session fixes 425952
 bug 425952
<ubottu> Launchpad bug 425952 in gdm-guest-session "gdm requiring password for guest session" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/425952
<robert_ancell> hey bryce, my text mode no longer works, if update doesn't fix that I might be bugging you :)
<bryce> robert_ancell, sure just be sure to do `ubuntu-bug xorg` first
<rickspencer3> ok, TheMuso, I see from your activity report and also your uploads you've been busy
 TheMuso, are there particular bugs that still worry you, such as that crasher in speech dispatcher?
<bryce> robert_ancell, (also, be aware its probably a kernel drm bug)
<TheMuso> rickspencer3: Yeah, and got one more big thing to nail today.
 rickspencer3: Its not worrying me to the point where I feel its almost a release blocker or anything, but one bug has come up that was due to dtchen overlooking an important piece in fixing volume restore issues. Bug 449589
<robert_ancell> bryce, yes I'm assuming it's just a temporary issue which is why I'm waiting for the update (text mode seems to break quite frequently during upgrades)
<ubottu> Launchpad bug 449589 in alsa-utils "Alsa mixer Master Front volume resets to minimum on startup" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/449589
<TheMuso> rickspencer3: I intend to target that and fix it today.
<chrisccoulson> right, time to look at file-roller crasher now
<rickspencer3> noted
 ok, there's a couple of bugs that tkamppeter is working on that look rather serious
 bug 359975
<ubottu> Launchpad bug 359975 in gtk+2.0 "evince sometimes yield error "Error printing: Too many failed attempts"" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/359975
<rickspencer3> and bug 419143
<ubottu> Launchpad bug 419143 in evince "Printing from evince (and perhaps other GTK apps) to PostScript printers is broken" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/419143
<rickspencer3> robert_ancell, could take a look at 359975 *after* you crack the guest login nut?
 It's a totally weird bug, and something tells me that you might bring a fresh perspective
<robert_ancell> rickspencer3, ok, will do
<rickspencer3> robert_ancell, from the upstream bug:
 And others confirmed that moving the mouse while focusing evince works 100% of
 the time. Don't laugh.
 so if you wave the mouse around while the document is spooling, it works
<TheMuso> ROFL
<rickspencer3> well, by "you" I mean user effected by this bug
 this might be one of those "won't print on Tuesdays" bugs
<robert_ancell> weird...
<rickspencer3> indeed
 upstream seems similarly mystified
<chrisccoulson> pitti - do you want to upload another g-p-m change then? :)
<pitti> chrisccoulson: yep, and also adding a git-formatted patch to upstream bug
<rickspencer3> but printing pdfs seems rather a common scenario to me
<chrisccoulson> thanks
<TheMuso> rickspencer3: agreed
<-- huats has quit ("Ex-Chat")
<rickspencer3> ok, any other business?
<chrisccoulson> pitti - can you not commit yet?
<tkamppeter> bug 359975 should get a nice place at the side of the "OOo does not print on Tuesdays" bug in the Ubuntu history ...
<ubottu> Launchpad bug 359975 in gtk+2.0 "evince sometimes yield error "Error printing: Too many failed attempts"" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/359975
<TheMuso> rickspencer3: no
<rickspencer3> robert_ancell, ?
<robert_ancell> rickspencer3, no
<rickspencer3> ok, that's the Easter Edition
</pre>
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
