{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Weekly Summary ==

* Printer drivers: Samsung's PostScript PPDs are uploaded and packaged on the OpenPrinting web server now, meaning that Ubuntu users connecting a PostScript printer from Samsung will get the appropriate PPD package auto-downloaded. Also the auto-downloadable packages for Ricoh and OEM are updated now, supporting their newest models (tkamppeter).
* Qt5 landed in raring main! sdk is following :-)
* Put in public all the mobile code, creating launchpad projects, pushing and setting sensible default branches and so on.
* Started working on testing docs for audio, something that has been lacking up to now. Manual testing docs are well on the way, Some ideas have also been added for automated testing, although I can't think of any more at the moment. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Audio/Testing (TheMuso)
* Further examination of the SDK to help with accessibility improvements. No changes submitted yet, but intend to start doing so in the coming weeks. (TheMuso)
* Tracking down and fixing some Qt accessibility bugs. (TheMuso)

== Agenda ==

* ''Insert things to discuss at meeting here..''

=== Product strategy integration ===

* Better cupstream2distro tool, growing tests.
* Also, bootstrap and first pass of a discussion in only having one unique set of configuration across all PS projects for delivering daily release, upstream autolanding, PS configuration in launchpad. All based in one unique set.
* cupstream2distro now support out of tree configuration for preparing the above case and more robust and unique paths for the jenkins templates.

==== Unity ====

==== Indicators & Themes ====

==== Webapps/Webcredentials ====

==== Open input framework ====

=== X.org ===

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
}}}

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

{{{
</pre>
