{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (calc)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)

=== Apologies ===

* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)  - vacation

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsoring Overview update]]</nowiki>
* Performance Reviews and Goals
* All Hands Presentations
* rickspencer3 weekly goals
* 9.04 Feature List
* Review activity reports
* enable metacity compositor by default? just on specific hardware? (asac)

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to schedule pitti kenvandine seb128 call for Friday
** Result: Done
* ACTION: pitti to follow up with ArneGoetje tomorrow regarding the start of the feature, and will make the call regarding in/out/FFE.
** Result: discussed with Arne and Michael; this can land until UIF, so "go".
* ACTION: bryce to re-sponsor xorg.conf editor in time for feature freeze.
** Result: done
* ACTION: Riddell to move individual work items that will not get done for Jaunty to new blueprints/specs for later releases.
** Result: Moved individual work items to https://wiki.kubuntu.org/Kubuntu/Todo.
* ACTION: pitti to complete blueprint for straciatella
** Result: Done, in fact implemented (http://martinpitt.wordpress.com/2009/02/23/the-stracciatella-gnome-session/#comment-268)

=== Actions from this meeting ===
* ACTION: Desktop team to revisit work items and adjust items that are "noise", or set items to postponed that obviously won't get done.
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to comment the repost the work items list, and to include comments with some suggestions, etc..
* ACTION: bryce to set up an FFE for -ati 6.12.0, which will bring R6xx/7xx support.
* ACTION: kenvandine to work with Dx team to identify changes for UIF, and also changes that might require a UIFE.
* ACTION: Desktop team to review current goals and update as needed. Feel free to update outside the normal web site if it's easier to do so.
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to send reminder mail with appropriate info to desktop team to trigger all hands presentation submissions.
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to follow up with design team regarding artwork and UIF dates
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to ask foundations team for measure of improved boot time for feature list
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to start a wiki page for brainstorming features for marketing
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to follow up with dholbach wrt sponsoring and what the team should be doing
* ACTION: kenvandine to log a bug on the look and feel of notifications on a non-composited desktop and follow up with Dx team.

=== Release Bugs/Release Status ===
* As of 23:30 UTC 2009-02-23, we have no opened alpha-5 milestoned bugs.
* asac working on Launchpad bug 199140 in network-manager "Network manager shows and connects to virtual interfaces" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/199140
* Launchpad bug 331618 in firefox-3.0 "make new tab behaviour consistent in Firefox" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/331618 is blocked until we get feedback from firefox regarding the proposed change.

==== Work Item Numbers ====
* When updating the work item page, please follow the syntax exactly, as the script for extracting the stats is brittle. (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2009-02-24/WorkItems).
* While we are making good progress, Wwe are above the trend line for beta freeze. That means that we are likely not to get all the work done on our list. 
* ACTION: All to revisit work items and adjust items that are "noise", or set items to postponed that obviously won't get done.
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''date'''
| '''done'''
| '''postponed'''
| '''started'''
| '''not started'''
| '''blocked'''
|-
| 2009-01-27
| 16
| 3
| 16
| 23
| 15
|-
| 2009-02-10
| 18
| 3
| 17
| 23
| 14
|-
| 2009-02-17
| 28
| 4
| 16
| 16
| 9
|-
| 2009-02-24
| 34
| 4
| 12
| 13
| 10
|}
<nowiki>[[File:burndown.png]]</nowiki>

==== FFEs ====
* 331618 make new tab behaviour consistent in Firefox - see release status above
* 329161 Transmission 1.50 should be considered for inclusion in 9.04
Others - this is okayed and underway
* ACTION: bryce to set up an FFE for -ati 6.12.0, which will bring R6xx/7xx support.

==== UI Freeze ====
* ACTION: kenvandine to work with Dx team to identify changes for UIF, and also changes that might require a UIFE.
* Except for these upstream bug fixes to properly rip notifications, no other UIFE are expected from the desktop team at this time.
* There are still patches to make GNOME apps work a bit better on smaller screen sizes awaiting review.
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to follow up with design team regarding artwork and UIF dates
=== Performance Reviews and Goals ===
Performance reviews are coming up in about three months. To prepare, everyone on the desktop team should revisit their goals and ensure that they are up to date.
* ACTION: All - review current goals and update as needed. Feel free to update outside the normal web site if it's easier to do so.

=== All Hands Presentations ===
* Everyone on the desktop team should submit at least one proposal for a talk. Ideas?
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to send reminder mail with appropriate info to desktop team to trigger all hands presentation submissions.
* Some brainstorming about different things that bryce could present about, for instance the emergence of open source versus proprietary drivers. 

=== rickspencer3 weekly goals ===
* As an experiment, rickspencer3 will try posting some of his weekly goals to his blog:
http://theravingrick.blogspot.com/

=== 9.04 Feature List ===
Marketing is putting together the feature list for 9.04. What should be on it?
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Feature'''
| '''Credit'''
|-
| stracciatella-session
| Canonical
|-
| notification-OSD
| Canonical
|-
| hot key improvements
| Canonical
|-
| boot/session start speed improvements
| Canonical
|-
| PackageKit in Kubuntu
| KDE
|-
| foreign .desktop file detection
| nautilus
|-
| don't zap
| X
|}

* ACTION: rickspencer3 to ask foundations team for measure of improved boot time for feature list
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to start a wiki page for brainstorming features for marketing

=== enable metacity compositor by default? just on specific hardware? (asac) ===
Apparently notifications on a non-composited desktop have a suboptimal appearance aesthetically. 
* ACTION: kenvandine to log a bug and follow up with Dx team.

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

* last bits for Feature Freeze
** new upstream snapshot for ppp
** new snapshots for the various network-manager pieces (daemon, applet, vpns)
** bump ubufox version in jaunty
** support MOTUs working on gwibber; land "actions" capability to make notify-osd less annoying.
** more firefox newtab discussions in various directions; initiating change process.
* network-manager
** investigating carrier-always on and carrier-always-off issues (forcedeth, e1000e); found that since 2.6.13 kernel we are
    supposed to use IFF_LOWER_UP instead of IFF_RUNNING to guess the carrier state of wired drivers; submitted and committed
    patch upstream
** evaluating new modem prober from udev-extras which then got moved into network-manager itself; works good, but still
    detects not-usable ports (blocker!); together with upstream we tracked this down to a hal issue - now looking into working
    around it in NM
** add support for "actions" capability testing to applet; discussed with upstream; next: commit upstream
* font issues on desktop
** reviewing fontconfig history and current state (after it became obvious that noone really had the big picture)
** reading code and investigating rules.d issues for our fontconfig package (mostly bug 305394 - No subpixel smoothing)
** dropped rotten old (and even debatable) ANY_METRICS patch which shouldn't be needed anymore
** dropped almost all tweakage of rules files - unbreaking the fact that gnome settings are not being honoured by fontconfig
** next: get sign off by ArneGoetje and a bit more community testing during alpha freeze; then upload
* mozilla security
** reviewed issues for backports
** discussion with other distros
** contacting Novell/SuSe about joining our "long-term-support" effort
** talk jdstrand about png issues and how to move backports forward
* dxteam
** helped triaging all bugs; put in evaluation for almost all crashers to the bugs.
** submitted patch for "not always displayed on top"; committed.
* sponsoring
** sunbird/lightning locales (uploaded)
** libgweather (uploaded)
** libcanberra (uploaded)
** libabiword (not ready - unsubscribed sponsoring team)
** emacs-goodies-el (uploaded)
** notification-daemon (patch not ready, unsubscribed spnsoring team)
** ntp (uploaded)

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====
* language-selector: finished coding according to the spec. To be uploaded.
* Cleaned Rosetta import queues for Hardy, Intrepid and Jaunty
* Updated Mozilla Translations (3.0.6) for Hardy, Intrepid and Jaunty
* initial Jaunty language-packs built and released.

===== To do =====
* punch translations for iso-codes and language-selector into shape
* ask mpt to review the language-selector UI
* fix pet-bugs

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====
===== Xorg Work =====
* Staying atop triaging for xorg and xkeyboard-config
* Merged -ati 6.11.0
* Mega triaging of xserver-xorg-video-ati.
  Spent most of the week on this.  Reduced <100 bugs now.
* Triaging work for xserver-xorg-input-keyboard, hal-info, xrandr
* Confcall with Dell on X
* Confcall + follow up on ARM/X

===== Misc =====
* File expenses for video card purchase and shipping for Intel mboard

===== Blueprint Status =====
Assist video driver upstreams and vendors with implementing KMS
support. :complete
Support the Dx team by consulting and helping with low level
packages. :complete
Create backend xorg.conf parser/writer :complete
Implement xorg.conf Validator :complete
Implement xorg.conf Options Data Store (man pages) :complete
Implement xorg.conf gui - GTK :started
Implement xorg.conf gui - Qt :not-started
Implement xorg.conf backup/restore functionality :started
Create X Historical Package Pages :started
Create X Smoke Tests :started
Verify EXA acceptance criteria met by Alpha-5 :complete
Search help.ubuntu.com/wiki.ubuntu.com for ctrl-alt-backspace :started

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====
* Determined gio support in OOo is broken and filed ooo-build bug report
* Working on ooo split build packaging for jaunty ppa
* Working on ooo official build packaging for testing purposes
* Uploaded dictionaries-common 1.0.0ubuntu1
* Uploaded openoffice.org-dictionaries 1:3.0.1~rc1-3ubuntu1
* Weekly OOo Release Status Meetings
* Weekly desktop team meeting
* Lots of OOo bug triage

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====
done:
* Package test and upload Qt 4.5
* Fixing kdebindings for Qt 4.5 and Python 2.6
* Update kdeplasma-addons for Qt 4.5
* patch kmail for vulnerability and provide debdiffs to security team
* update indi packages
* Make konqueror intro page web search focused
* update amarok for libgpod 0.7 (but still working on qt 4.5 compile
fix)
* set multimedia keys as default shortcuts in amarok, discuss patch
with upstream
* pretty much a full day of archive admin, cleaning out very long New
queue before feature freeze
* oversaw KDE 4.2 moving to backports

todo:
* alpha testing and fixing
* get amarok compiling again
* test language packs

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
Packaging:
* Pitti helped get me started packaging
* Patched a few things and built into my ppa as a learning exercise

NotifyOSD:
* Patches for banshee and notify-sharp are in my ppa, next up figure
out how to get those sponsored
* Evolution mail notification, patch for lp #331571 is in my ppa

This week:
** Get the patches I created last week sponsored
** Work down the list of items on  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NotifyOSD

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Assigned blueprints:
* stracciatella session: got it all the way from discussion, approval, to beta available right on time for feature freeze
* apport-retracer-maintenance: implemented

Currently open stable/milestoned bugs: none

Non-chores stuff done:
* Integrated the desktop experience work: notify-osd, indicator-applet, evolution-indicator, indicator-messages; fixed packaging and some bugs
* Intro call and some packaging training for Ken VanDine
* Some archive admin training with Dustin
* Checked jaunty package requirements for moblin, updated libopenobex
* tested Scott's sreadahead under various conditions
* wrote and implemented stracciatella-session spec

Sponsoring:
* dontzap, gnome-panel, gnome-power-manager, gnome-settings-daemon, pkgbinarymangler, apport
* reviewed, but not uploaded: sl-modem

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====
* GNOME 2.25.91 updates: 
evolution-webcal file-roller gnome-desktop libsoup gnome-panel glib
gnome-settings-daemon gnome-applets glib libgweather gtk+ alacarte
epiphany-browser libgnomekbd gnome-panel gnome-control-center 
epiphany-extensions pygobject pygtk
* worked with upstream to fix e-d-s crash making the clock applet hang
* worked on gtk issue which made gdm crash when using driver not working
with xrandr 1.2
* helped the dxteam to land some of the notification changes
* sponsoring: gtksourceview2 gnome-games gcalctool evolution abiword
gnome-session tracker evince evolution-exchange pidgin-libnotify libgda4
pidgin policykit-gnome evolution-data-server
* lot of desktop bugs triage

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
