{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===

* Martin Pitt (pitti) -- chair
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Kenneth Wimer (kwwii)
* Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)

=== Apologies ===

* Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) - sick
* Chris Cheney (calc) - conference

=== Agenda ===

* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Jaunty status
* intrepid-updates bugs
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsoring Overview update]]</nowiki>
* Review intrepid milestoned bug reports
* Language pack status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

* asac to help ArneGoetje perform a manual upload -- ''done''
* asac to talk to infinity to find out why Launchpad is breaking firefox langpacks -- ''done'', should be fixed now

=== Actions from this meeting ===

* Martin to upload current PPA langpacks to hardy/intrepid-proposed
* Jonathan to track down who is working on bug #290695, set assignee, and clarify status

=== Jaunty status ===

Sebastien asked about the status of Jaunty. It is still frozen since the toolchain isn't completely bootstrapped yet. However, uploading to Jaunty already works, they will be held in UNAPPROVED until bootstrapping is complete. Thus merges can already be started.

=== intrepid-updates bug status ===

Martin went through the <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+milestone/intrepid-updates|intrepid-update milestoned bugs]]</nowiki> which affect the desktop team, and assigned the ones with clear progress and no blockers to team members. The unclear ones were quickly discussed in the meeting and got assigned as well.

Notable problems:
* #271138 "mouse and keyboard unresponsive when gdm first runs" -- unreproducible; possibly related to #264256 (wrong gdm startup priority on upgrade), but that was ruled out already by at least some reporters
* #290695 "Adept allows editing filenames in Details view" -- Jonathan says that there is someone working on this; he will set him as assignee
* #292054 "Some wifi drivers take too long to associate" -- Alex cannot reproduce, he needs developers who can reproduce and help him track it down

=== Language packs status ===

Arne reported that he built new hardy and intrepid langpacks ready for SRU. He tested that Firefox works again with the hardy ones, and still works fine with the Intrepid ones. Martin will upload them to -proposed.

Jonathan reported that Rosetta does not preserve context strings in .po files, which leads to incomplete/broken KDE translations. He discussed that with the Rosetta team. We will provide updated packages once this is fixed in Rosetta.

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

* release testing (alternative, mobile)
* 24/7 pre-/post-release bug triage; dealing with expected bug
   flood after release - to be continued
* starting on firefox security update round; prepare build tree, fix
   dapper regression (#251340) introduced by "carpet-bombing" fix back
   in 1.8.1.16 cycle round.

* sieved out (new) SRU candidate bugs and worked on patches for:
** network manager
** #256905 - local link regression (patch done)
** #282207 - sierra 3g doesnt set APN (patch avail)
** #284212 - VPN connection secret bug (patch done for pptp,
     others to check)
** #292054 - drivers take too long to associate (not tracked down)
** #268667 - not all ppp defaults set for 3g (partly done)
** #258743 - MTU not properly updates (not yet started)
** #291564 - ifupdown plugin doesnt unmanage "mapped" devices
** #291902 - ifupdown plugin exports configurations in unmanaged mode
** network manager applet
** #268803 - nm-applet starts in kde
** network manager vpn plugins
** VPNC - #262191 - no option for group password (patch, with concerns)
** PPTP - #259168 - unable to connect to pptp (patch done)
** PPTP - #284212 - unable to find VPN secrets (patch done)
** ubufox
** #291417 - wrong plugin info in pluginfinder (patch done)
** at-spi
** #278095 - top crash bug for firefox (patch submitted upstream)

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====

* iso testing for intrepid
* testing scim-bridge on kubuntu
* fixing the firefox langpacks for Hardy with the help of Alexander Sack (will be copied to hardy-proposed after the build in the PPA has been completed)
* building new langpack updates for Hardy and Intrepid (available in the language-pack PPA)
* discussion with Danilo and Martin about the current language-pack and Rosetta situation
* preparing specs for UDS Jaunty
* responding to several bug reports

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

* Wrote https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Hotkeys
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Hotkeys/Troubleshooting
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Hotkeys/Architecture
   (Please help improve!)
* Wrote https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Resolution
* Inkscape - discussions relating to a 0.47 / 0.46.1 release
* Developed an improved fglrx upstreaming process with AMD and ubuntu. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Upstreaming
* AMD/fglrx call.  Upstreamed 284408, 179042, 288620, 289628 to them. Couple hour's triaging current fglrx bugs.
* Notified ~70 l-r-m fglrx bug reports to retest and transition the bugs to fglrx-installer.
* SRU work:  285305, 287062
* Triaged bunch of New bugs. Expired >100 Incomplete ones.
* Upstreamed bugs 6270, 290156, 229799, 222796, 108014, 292388, 18359, 18334, 293346
* Worked on sponsorship queue 1 hr

Other:
* Travel arrangements for upcoming conferences

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====

* Lots of bug triage
* Travel to OOoCon 2008 in Beijing

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

done:
* lots of testing and some amount of bugfixing (fix install-only mode, updates to Adept, scim-bridge, update-notifier-kde, seeds)
* checking language packs, still not perfect but we'll have to live with them
* intrepid release, yay
* SRUs for kdebase-workspace, software-properties, update-manager
* review SRU for kmix
* investigate why strings are still broken going through rosetta
* KDE 4.1.3 packaging

todo:
* 4.1.3 to intrepid-proposed

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

* Finished "You can be a Rock Star" button for Jono

* Finished Jockey driver status icon

* Started work on armband designs for UDS (Jono and Co)

* Hunting bugs, specifically trying to figure out which compiz bugs are real, which are duplicates and which are simply freak one-off errors (https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/293482 seems really wierd, no explanation yet as to why this happens and/or how often it happens)

* Discussion with gtk-css theme engine author, looking into code and starting test theme. The engine code is still very immature; doesn't play well with Cairo so far and only works in twf although I am looking into a workaround to spit all the css code back into a normal gtkrc for testing. 0.3 should be out within a month which will be the first version to work normally in gtk. This is intersting because I imagine it is easier to find people knowledgeable in CSS than GTKRC

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Just a 4-day week due to national holiday on Friday.

Currently open intrepid-updates targeted bugs:
* 282823 (some Panasonic digicams not working with gphoto backend)
* 277418, 288682 (OO.o and F-Spot do not run in guest account due to AppArmor profile)
* 283316 (CD-ROM tray closes automatically after eject)
* All in intrepid-proposed and verification-done, just waiting for the 7 day maturity time

Non-chores work done:
* CD testing
* Some 9.04 planning phone calls
* ddeb-retriever: Create GPG signed archive, lots of package index generation robustification
* Started looking into my merges and noted down syncable packages
* Reviewed OpenSUSE's apport changes and merged them into trunk
* A ton of intrepid SRU processing and sponsoring

Sponsoring:
* antlr, evince, foo2zjs, jadetex, likewise-open, nvidia-graphics-drivers-{71,96,173,177}, nvidia-settings, pm-utils, rhythmbox, transmission

==== Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt) ====

No report received.

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* intrepid images testing
* some desktop sru uploads for hardy and intrepid
* lot of bug triage after intrepid

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
