{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===

* Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) - chair
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Kenneth Wimer (kwwii)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt)
* Michael Vogt (mvo)
* Mirco Müller (MacSlow)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Ted Gould (tedg)

* Pedro Villavicencio Garrido (pedro_)

=== Agenda ===

* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Farewells
* Handling the logout applet/old fusa -> new fusa transition on upgrades
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsoring Overview update]]</nowiki>
* Release Status
** Keybuk: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+source/libtool/+bug/258491|Bug #258491: link_all_deplibs=no patch no longer working well]]</nowiki> ''no time to review yet''
** Riddell: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+source/kdebase/+bug/241916|Bug #241916: Kde help index creation fails due to dash incompatability]]</nowiki> ''still to look at''
** kwwii: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+source/gtk2-engines-murrine/+bug/266954|Bug #266954: window manager theme -Human Murrine- is not installed]]</nowiki> ''no update?''
** pitti: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+source/hal/+bug/275825|Bug #275825: After an upgrade to intrepid, HAL prefers old fdi-cache to new FDI files]]</nowiki> ''no update?''
** pitti: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+source/usplash/+bug/264696|Bug #264696: usplash is not started on shutdown/reboot]]</nowiki> ''new''
** pitti: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+source/consolekit/+bug/263245|Bug #263245: console-kit-daemon crashed with SIGSEGV in fclose()]]</nowiki> ''Cannot reproduce, need some time to intensely stare at the code''
** pitti: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+source/coreutils/+bug/262811|Bug #262811: mv for symlinks on dapper is not atomic]]</nowiki> ''new bug from this week; cursory review showed some weirdness in the supplied patch, need more time to look into this''
** pitti: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+source/logrotate/+bug/256891|Bug #256891: missingok does not work]]</nowiki> ''needs some deep investigation, bug accepted in Debian, but "wontfix" for etch; pretty much a design issue AFAICS, for intrepid we'll at most get a workaround''
** pitti: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+source/jockey/+bug/263097|Bug #263097: wl vs. b43 are not properly configured]]</nowiki> ''fixes prepared for hardy and intrepid; hardy waiting for Steve's SRU approval, intrepid waiting for beta freeze lift''
** mvo: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+source/synaptic/+bug/19021|Bug #19021: Should run dpkg --configure -a automatically]]</nowiki> ''not for intrepid?''
** mvo: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+source/compiz/+bug/275744|Bug #274744: Intrepid: Compiz settings selector blanks although the setting selected still functions]]</nowiki> ''new''
** mvo: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+source/apt/+bug/276349|Bug #276349: intrepid alternate CD make apt print out a warning]]</nowiki> ''new''
** ted, seb218: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+source/fast-user-switch-applet/+bug/274146|Bug #274146: Has not yet replaced the existing log out applet]]</nowiki> ''meeting agenda item''
** ted: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+source/gnome-power-manager/+bug/261084|Bug #261084: Suspends again right after resume]]</nowiki> ''new''
* Review activity reports
* Any other business
** package updates
** gnome-themes
** nautilus-cd-burner

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

* pitti to discuss gnome-keyring confirmation dialog behaviour in upstream bug
  ''done''
* mvo to decide on FOSScamp attendance
  ''coming''
* kwwii to decide on FOSScamp attendance
  ''not coming''
* seb128 to add GNOME people to sponsorship list
  ''done''

=== Actions from this meeting ===

* seb128 to propose three options for <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+source/fast-user-switch-applet/+bug/274146|Bug #274146]]</nowiki>

=== Farewells ===

ted and MacSlow are leaving the team for the new desktop experience team, but will likely still hang out in meetings.

mvo will be moving to the foundations team in a few weeks.

=== Handling the logout applet/old fusa -> new fusa transition on upgrades ===

This is being discussed in <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+source/fast-user-switch-applet/+bug/274146|Bug #274146]]</nowiki>.  We agreed to continue the discussion there, seb128 will propose three solutions.

=== package updates ===

Discussion about whether or not to update Ekiga and GIMP took place, seb128 was s strong proponent of updating both and GIMP is at least already on his list.

=== gnome-themes ===

kwwii began a discussion about the gnome-themes package, which has been suggested to be split into two pieces; one containing "good" themes and the other "not so good" themes.

seb128 strongly suggests retaining the gnome-themes package, separating out the others into a seperate package; or having gnome-themes as a dummy package depending on both split packages (with only the "good" themes installed by default)

=== nautilus-cd-burner ===

seb128 asked whether we should drop nautilus-cd-burner in the next release in favour of brasero, general consensus appeared to be in favour.

=== Activity reports ===

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

done:
* Packaging KDE 4.2.1 (including top community effort)
* testing and packaging knetworkmanager snapshot, we have working networking again
* check and upload fixs to desktop-effects-kde, qtjambi
* review and remove kwin patch for kdebase-workspace
* packaging KOffice 2.0 beta 1
* lots of CD and install testing

todo:
* announce beta
* fix all the problems found in beta testing

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

* Last updates before BETA to ubuntu-wallpaper, ubuntu-sounds, human-theme and human-icon-theme packages. Fixing bugs 269504, 269500, etc.

* worked on fixing a few last bugs in the human and dark theme gtkrc's, new packages soon. Removing the one pixel fix we had for compiz (it no longer fixes the bug and instead causes another: 99508 now causes 276375).

* Picking packages to remove from the gnome themes package. Will work with mvo and seb to get the correct update behavior as discussed.

* made a panel background, testing, putting in ppa, etc.

* TODO: kill the little green man (he can run be he cannot hide)

* on a side note, got a nasty head-cold, just getting over it now :-(

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Assigned Intrepid specs:
* intrepid-device-permissions: implemented
* gdm-guest-account: implemented
* jockey-printer-driver-support: implemented

Other non-chores work done:
* Lots of bug fixing, desktop RC bug list down to one now
* CD testing and deputy RMing for beta
* Asked some people to reinforce the MIR team, welcome Loic and Alex!

Sponsoring:
* eject, libx11, makedumpfile, pygtk, various artwork packages

==== Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt) ====

Internal work.

==== Michael Vogt (mvo) ====

beta release:
* Reviewed/updated gnome-app-install data for beta
* update command-not-found data
* upgrade testing
* cd image testing
* Fix crash in gnome-control-center global keyboard poperties sutff (#272280) 
* Look into intrepid CD and "apt-cdrom fails on hardy" (#273979) and fix via debian-cd
* add workaround for update-notifier (hardy) cdrom detection to debian-cd 
* fix update-notifier to detect CDs that are already inserted when it starts up (thanks to heno for reporting)

update-manager:
* add detection of fglrx/old nvidia and warn the user before the upgrade that the driver will have to go away
* add support to rewrite the xorg.conf after the propritary driver got removed
* move the quirks code into its own file 
* fix crash in cdrom/network mixed upgrades

gnome-app-install:
* fix firefox extension manager dialog

compiz:
* fix compiz falling back to ini when gconf is not available for some reason and sent fix upstream

misc:
* sponsoring
* bug triage
* go over the recent apt changes in debian, some mailinglist discussions 
* play with appnr.com (nice!)
* discuss maintainer script failure bugs with bdmurray and what bughelper pattern we can use
* add some simple common package failures detection into ~mvo/apport/mvo)
* port the conflictschecker to the storm in hardy, mostly working one issue left that needs help from robert colins

==== Mirco Müller (MacSlow) ====

login-experience/gdm-face-browser:

* figured out needed DBus-calls for system-reboot and shutdown, hooked those up to buttons in the graphical-greeter

* although debug-logs of the graphical-greeter clearly show calls to reboot or shutdown are issued, when buttons are hit, nothing happens

* still looking for means to debug/monitor relevant parts of DBus to find out what's going wrong (any DBus-expert would be helpful), pitti's suggested d-feet tool looks promising, but it's UI clearly calls for a user who knows what DBus is all about and how it works

* registering graphical-greeter with the session manager doesn't work, so still using hard-coded path to gdm-graphical-greeter binary atm

* in order to test "logged in status" of a user, user-switching using the new gdm needs to be figured out ... best thing is probably to ask William Jon McCann next week in Boston

* made sure graphical-greeter works on intrepid

misc:

* updated FOSScamp sponsorship-suggestions (action-item from last weeks meeting)

* some more GNOME-hackfest/summit prep. work

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* GNOME 2.24 updates

* catching up on bug mails after the 2.24 updates

* intrepid beta testing

==== Ted Gould (tedg) ====

* Fleshing out some ideas about what we'd need to upgrade user settings in the future.
* Looking at GPM bugs.  Brian has a repeated key one that looks like it might be a must fix, unclear currently (261084)
* Rereading/familiarizing with ubuntu.net stuff again.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
