{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (calc)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)  

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===

* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* NS/MI Status
* Feature Freeze Readiness
* Google Protocol Buffers/Main Inclusion
* Staffing: Ken VanDine
* Release Bugs
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsoring Overview update]]</nowiki>
* Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===
* ACTION: Martin to start discussion with Steve George, Colin Watson, and Rick Clark about requirements for graphical installer
** Result: Martin to follow up after feature freeze for possible post-Jaunty consideration.
* ACTION: Bryce to triage https://launchpad.net/bugs/309482
** Result: Bryce has been tracking. Backtrace is now available, continuing investigation. 
* ACTION: Rick to clarify work items list (how to keep it up to date, and which things should be in in it)
** Result: Rick sent a mail with some details, but hasn't been in the office to follow up

=== Actions from this meeting ===
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to schedule pitti kenvandine seb128 call for Friday
* ACTION: pitti to follow up with ArneGoetje tomorrow regarding the start of the feature, and will make the call regarding in/out/FFE.
* ACTION: bryce to re-sponsor xorg.conf editor in time for feature freeze. 
* ACTION: Riddell to move individual work items that will not get done for Jaunty to new blueprints/specs for later releases. 
* ACTION: pitti to complete blueprint for straciatella

=== NS/MI Status ===
* Uploads ongoing all day today, possibly into tomorrow. A lot related activity on #dx.
* Some ambiguity about how to handle upgrades (do upgrades replace the existing notification system?). This will likely require a post feature freeze exception. There is similar code in Intrepid for fusa.

=== Feature Freeze Readiness ===
Reviewed specs and other work. In general, on track for feature freeze, aside from possible exceptions below.
==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====
* Language selector still needs some work. It may be doable to upload by FF, but an exception may be required.
* ACTION: pitti to follow up with ArneGoetje tomorrow regarding the start of the feature, and will make the call regarding in/out/FFE.

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====
* Lots of important work, but nothing bounded by FF.

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====
===== Distro Work =====
* Sponsoring:  2 hrs xkeyboard-config, other X packages

===== Xorg Work =====
* Worked more on historical driver pages - converted script to python
* Merged -ati 6.10.99.0
* Mega triaging of xorg, moving bugs to proper packages
  Reduced ~200 bugs in xorg to 18
* Mega triaging of xkeyboard-config bugs, esp. bugs with patches or
  fixed upstream
* Upload fix to 217908 for -openchrome
* Uploaded xorg-options-editor into Universe
* Validated security fix for fglrx #323327

===== Misc =====
* Return home from sprint
* File expenses from Berlin trip
* Holiday Monday Feb 16th

===== 2-week Plan =====
* xorg.conf Backup/Recovery work
* XSmoke testing
* Integrate apport support into bulletproof-x mode
* Focus on my assigned bugs list, bugs fixed upstream, and bug reports
  with patches attached.

===== Blueprint Status =====
* Assist video driver upstreams and vendors with implementing KMS
support. :complete
* Support the Dx team by consulting and helping with low level
packages. :complete
* Create backend xorg.conf parser/writer :complete
* Implement xorg.conf Validator :complete
* Implement xorg.conf Options Data Store (man pages) :complete
* Implement xorg.conf gui - GTK :started
* Implement xorg.conf gui - Qt :not-started
* Implement xorg.conf backup/restore functionality :started
* Create X Historical Package Pages :started
* Create X Smoke Tests :started
* Verify EXA acceptance criteria met by Alpha-5 :started
* Search help.ubuntu.com/wiki.ubuntu.com for ctrl-alt-backspace :started

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====
* Uploaded openoffice.org 1:3.0.1-1ubuntu2 to jaunty
* Working on ooo split build packaging for jaunty ppa
* Weekly OOo Release Status Meetings
* Weekly desktop team meeting
* Lots of OOo bug triage
* Sun OOo Meeting : Feb 8 - Feb 12
* Feb 16 - US National Holiday

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====
* Kubuntu specs for Jaunty are lists of features tbd. FF dependent ones are done.
* ACTION: Riddell to move individual work items that will not get done for Jaunty to new blueprints/specs for later releases. 

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====
* All planned specs were done long ago
* straciatella will need a blueprint and a FFE.
* ACTION: pitti to complete blueprint for straciatella
* Note that the blueprint system is going haywire due to: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/blueprint/+bug/320889

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====
* All done

=== Google Protocol Buffers/Main Inclusion ===
* Moving discussion to email due to time sensitivity this week

=== Staffing: Ken VanDine ===
* Starts tomorrow  - yea!

=== Release Bugs ===
* No discussion necessary this week, as just touched on it Friday.
* rickspencer3 asks the team to be hyper aware of their targeted bugs week to week from now on.
* see: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/ReleaseStatus

=== Activity reports ===
==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====
* ppp
** new upstream release (2.4.5~git)
** forward rebase work to debian
** some bug triage

* firefox
** newtabpage discussion, proof of concept and first implementation
  iteration
** looking into langpack generator code to evaluate how easy it is to
  inject strings/translations from outside
** support security team in firefox rollout using the new native
  ~ubuntu-mozilla-security PPA.
** some upstream discussion about performance difference of ffox+wine
  and ffox native

* thunderbird
** look into thunderbird-3.0 daily packaging breakage after addition
  of multiple third party modules in upstream tree; couldn't fix
  due to lack of time; deferred until after FF.

* mozilla security
** no backport work this week due to overload - falling behind, sigh.

* network-manager
** redo all packaging branches after upstream reorganization of their
  branches; setup branches for vpn plugins
** 0.7-0ubuntu2 upload to jaunty; get feedback on 0.7.1 almost-rc1
** discuss upstream release dates for 0.7.1; decided to prepare and
  upload bits for jaunty
** tracking down kernel bug that makes some wired interfaces pretend
  to have carrier even though they don't; found fix available in
2.6.29 git; next: open bug and send cherry-pick request to kernel-team
** network-manager bug triage (about half a day)

* modemmanager
** decided to not use modemmanager in 0.7.1 NM; upstream maintainer
  said it wasn't ready for primetime. Will put that stack in
  network-manager PPA for #oem's or other interested parties.

* connman
** cleanup copyright; prepare final bits; try to get more info where
  this will be maintained in future -> upstream is still uncertain;
  next: upload to jaunty for FF

* Sponsoring
** sponsored lightning and sunbird locales
** flashgot

* Spec
** apturl mail and discussion on ubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com and on
  IRC channels

* dxteam
** various discussion on dx team procedures, patches and bugs
** review network-manager patches submitted; fixed and upstreamed
  GTK_DEPRECATED patch
** fix LP: #327427 - network manager applet should pop up wizard when
  3g device is plugged in and no configuration exists
** fix LP: #327411 - network-manager: configure button(s) to create
  gsm connections only works on first attempt

* Misc
** a bit of MIR processing
** sudden mercurial queues breakage disabled my patchstack; turned
    out that debian decided to disable all hg plugins by default.
** upgrading another laptop to jaunty

* remaining FF work:
** network-manager 0.7.1 upload
** flashplugin-installer binary package rename
** ubufox upstream version bump
** connman upload

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====
* Mon, Feb 2 - Fri, Feb 6: Developer Sprint
* Mon, Feb 9 - Wed, Feb 11: on leave
* Language-Selector: implemented new GUI (glade), toInstall/toRemove
counter, system Language chooser, user language chooser, get the
translated language names from the locales. TODO: user authentication
(policy kit) -> mvo, package kit integration -> mvo, fontconfig-voodoo
by user.
* initial jaunty language packs
* update intrepid and hardy language packs
* update mozilla translations (3.0.6) for hardy, intrepid and jaunty
* approve outstanding translation templates in the import queue for
jaunty (Rosetta)

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====
==== Distro Work ====
* Sponsoring:  2 hrs xkeyboard-config, other X packages

==== Xorg Work ====
* Worked more on historical driver pages - converted script to python
* Merged -ati 6.10.99.0
* Mega triaging of xorg, moving bugs to proper packages
  Reduced ~200 bugs in xorg to 18
* Mega triaging of xkeyboard-config bugs, esp. bugs with patches or
  fixed upstream
* Upload fix to 217908 for -openchrome
* Uploaded xorg-options-editor into Universe
* Validated security fix for fglrx #323327

==== Misc ====
* Return home from sprint
* File expenses from Berlin trip
* Holiday Monday Feb 16th

==== 2-week Plan ====
* xorg.conf Backup/Recovery work
* XSmoke testing
* Integrate apport support into bulletproof-x mode
* Focus on my assigned bugs list, bugs fixed upstream, and bug reports
  with patches attached.

==== Blueprint Status ====
==== Distro Work ====
* Sponsoring:  2 hrs xkeyboard-config, other X packages

==== Xorg Work ====
* Worked more on historical driver pages - converted script to python
* Merged -ati 6.10.99.0
* Mega triaging of xorg, moving bugs to proper packages
  Reduced ~200 bugs in xorg to 18
* Mega triaging of xkeyboard-config bugs, esp. bugs with patches or
  fixed upstream
* Upload fix to 217908 for -openchrome
* Uploaded xorg-options-editor into Universe
* Validated security fix for fglrx #323327

==== Misc ====
* Return home from sprint
* File expenses from Berlin trip
* Holiday Monday Feb 16th

==== 2-week Plan ====
* xorg.conf Backup/Recovery work
* XSmoke testing
* Integrate apport support into bulletproof-x mode
* Focus on my assigned bugs list, bugs fixed upstream, and bug reports
  with patches attached.

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====
* Uploaded openoffice.org 1:3.0.1-1ubuntu2 to jaunty
* Working on ooo split build packaging for jaunty ppa
* Weekly OOo Release Status Meetings
* Weekly desktop team meeting
* Lots of OOo bug triage
* Sun OOo Meeting : Feb 8 - Feb 12
* Feb 16 - US National Holiday

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

done:
* system-config-printer-kde now feature complete for jaunty
* ensure update-notifier-kde fits in with kpackagekit functionality and add friendly restricted codec install
* introduced new developer to working on ubiquity
* update indi packages after request from upstream
* process renamed plasmoid packages
* updates seeds with kpackagekit moved to main and gdebi-kde, hplip-gui and network-manager-kde moved out
* chase up CDs for people who want them at conferences and order stickers for Kubuntu developers
* Patch settings for global multimedia keys shortcuts in amarok and discuss on screen display
* Tidy up other settings in kickoff and konqueror
* archive admin half day
 
todo:
* move KDE 4.2 to backports
* all the other wee fetures we said we'd do before feature freeze

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====
Assigned blueprints: implemented

Currently open stable/milestoned bugs: none

Non-chores stuff done:
* belocs-locales-bin is horribly old, and it became more and more painful to build current locales with it. Dropped it, changed glibc to build locales utilities again
* Updated langpack-locales to current glibc CVS head, fixed a few bugs
* Created architecture diagram of power management
* Experiments with readahead and boot speed
* Various fixes in langpack-o-matic
* added ext4 support to usplash fsck integration
* PostgreSQL microrelease update for all stables, extensive testing

Sponsoring:
* uploaded: consolekit, glib2.0, gnome-icon-theme, gnome-themes, grub, gvfs, irssi, libflickrnet, lintian, mono sync, monodoc, mutt, ndoc, ntfs-3g, nvidia-graphics-drivers-180, python-gdata, totem, ttf-vlgothic sync, tuxtype, varnish, xfonts-scalable
* discussed, not suitable for upload: amavisd-new, libraw1394

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====
* GNOME updates: seahorse*2 rhythmbox gnome-desktop
gnome-settings-daemon gnome-control-center gconf*2 gvfs gconf-editor
nautilus gtkhtml evolution-webcal gedit gucharmap gnome-system-monitor

* sponsoring: f-spot*2 gnome-keyring evince gnome-keyring
gnome-python-desktop*2 gtkmm2.4*2 gnome-keyring  seahorse-plugins vino
vinagre bluez gnome-icon-theme

* lot of desktop bugs triage

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* Implemented my improvement ideas for system-config-printer and hal-cups-utils upstream (packages to be uploaded to Ubuntu today or tomorrow):
** When installing a new printer and there is an exact driver match, skip the steps of make/model/driver selection and ask only for the queue name (driver can be changed afterwards though)
** If an HP printer needs HP's proprietary plug-in (firmware and so on), ask the user whether he agrees and load the plug-in with HP's hp-plugin utility. The user gets shown the list of features which the plugin adds for his printer and whether the plugin is required or optional
** If hal-cups-utils detects a printer and does not find an exactly matching driver or if the printer needs HP's proprietary plugin, it does not creat a queue any more. It sends a D-Bus message to the system-config-printer applet and by a simple click the user can initiate an interactive setup.

Planned in the next two days:
** Packaging newest versions of printer drivers

<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
