{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:desktop-lucid-default-apps

=== Summary ===

Review the desktop seeds for applications that we install by default and
discuss which to remove/add/change.

=== Release Note ===

TODO

=== Rationale ===

We want to keep the default installation delivering a system which benefits
most users and meets their expectations and needs. These expectations, as well
as the applications themeselves, change over time.

=== Design ===

==== Game selection ====

So far we distributed the entire GNOME Games collection. A while ago there was
a vote on the popularity of the GNOME Games
(http://projects.gnome.org/gnome-games/survey.html) which showed Mahjongg,
Mines, Tetris and Aisleriot to be the four most popular at the time. Since then
Chess, Lights Off and Sudoku have been added.

Selection for Lucid:
* Aisleriot - Highly popular ("solitaire" variant); caveat: many variants, many of which are not obvious how to play); David Siegel volunteered to do an UI review
* GBrainy - "Brain" games are very popular at the moment. Interface and puzzles seem a little complicated when I tried it. Needs improved name in menu e.g. "Brain Exercise".
* Mahjongg
* Mines
* Sudoku
* Tetris - Highly rated in survey. The GNOME Games version is now in clutter and may cause performance problems on various systems.

To be investigated (Robert Ancell will make final call):

* Provide easy access to "Farmville" facebook game
* fagan to investigate sudoku telepathy integration

==== Video editor ====

Collabora supports/develops pitivi, which is a good and usable choice for easy
video editing.

It currently has a lot of stability and some usability problems (simple use
case of opening a video and using time line is very confusing). Include the
application by default by alpha-1, and make final call on its lucid integration
before beta-1, based on bug reports and feedback.

==== Fate of GIMP ====

The Gimp is a showcase for the power of FOSS, but also is complex, and basic
photo editing tasks are taken up by F-Spot/eog. It is considered to be not a
good first experience for new users.

Change eog to provide an edit button in the tool bar that opens F-Spot. Change
F-Spot to offer edit tools in viewer mode, too (not just in collection
browser).

Design team to look at F-Spot UI and identify inconsistencies with other apps.

=== Remote desktop viewers ===

We currently ship two remote desktop viewers, tsclient and vinagre. tsclient is
planned to get merged into vinagre.

==== Popular applications page ====

As a target of opportunity, Software Center should get a new category "Popular applications", 
so we can keep the CD to a minimal size but hint to users what is worth looking
at next. This should look like:

* Need more powerful image editing tool? Install The Gimp, it's a fully featured image editor
* Want to produce some music? Install Jokosher and jam with your friends

with one-click install links.

We would rework this page for each release.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

N/A. Just verify that the changes above are in the life system.

----
CategorySpec
