{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Status ==
Scratch list based on some initial conversations.

== List ==
* UNE Application Selection (registered at https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-maverick-une-app-selection)
* Web-based productivity app integration
** Zoho looks ideal
** Can we create a package so that Zoho can replace OOo for users who choose this?
* Communications
** Skype integration for Empathy?
* Touch
** Application Selection: touch friendly apps
** Touch support in xorg
** Touch design guidelines
* Mobility
** Integrated WiMax support? (some areas have lots of WiMax)
** Battery Life: Can we set up recurring tests, like for start up time?
** Is external monitor support an important scenario? how to support it?
** HDMI support, do want this to work?
** Geo-location, is this something we want to invest in?
* Delivering Applications to a stable release
** How to take the PPA integration in software-center a step forward
** How to maintain quality that users are accustomed to while making it possible to reach users of a current release
* Desktop for Application Developers
** The desktop should be it's own IDE
** Contribute to a project
** Fix a bug
** Start and run a project
** Easy access to API documentation
* Quickly (registered at https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-maverick-quickly/)
* Quidgets
** Target core application developers
** Target application developers
** Embody good visual design and usability
** Easy and Fun
* Image Scenarios
** Can we refine the users interaction with their pictures and images?
** Simple Scan as model for simplicity
* Desktop Application Selection
** Time to consider Chromium?
* OneConf to rule them all (https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-maverick-oneconf)
* Overriding defaults at upgrade, even if the user has changed the default and then changed back again.
* A great Python API to make programming Telepathy easy and fun.
* Open Office
** can we make it smaller, faster
** can we make a stand along install of impress that is reasonably small?
** can we make the java install experience better?
* Colour Management (registered at https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-maverick-color-management)
** Can we ship basic colour calibration for everyone?  (Collected database of profiles, easy way to use profiles embedded in Windows drivers)
** Can we make it easy for people who care to do proper calibration?
* Restore applications for fresh installs, using U1
** when you do a fresh install, we could run a wizard that looks at U1 and asks if you want to install the following apps
* Social From the Start (registered at https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-maverick-social-api)
** Expand the Gwibber API to provide access to social data without talking directly to couchdb
*** APIs for photos, links, etc
** libgwibber, create a C library for accessing gwibber and then generate bindings for other languages
** Photo browsing of albums shared by friends via the gwibber API (blueprint only, no discussion)
* Create a Gwibber test suite (registered at https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-maverick-gwibber-test-suite)
* Messaging (registered at https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-maverick-empathy-indicator)
** Port empathy indicator patch into a telepathy approver (blueprint only, no discussion)
* Language-selector
** Add a walk-through configuration wizard
* LTS support
** Reintroducing SRU exception for stable GNOME/KDE/OO.o point releases
** Introducing SRU exception for OpenJDK microreleases?
** Review of previous experience in Hardy
