{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===

* Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) - chair
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt)
* Michael Vogt (mvo)
* Mirco Müller (MacSlow)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Ted Gould (tedg)

* Pedro Villavicencio Garrido (pedro_)

=== Apologies ===

* Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) - on Leave

=== Agenda ===

* Welcome mpt
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* libzip MIR (Riddell)
* Team structure, member shuffling (pitti)
* Activity report length (mvo)
* Roadmap update
* Empathy vs Pidgin
* New gnome-session
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsoring Overview update]]</nowiki>
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

* MacSlow to clarify gdm goals for face browser for Intrepid/Intrepid+1.
    Requirements mailed out, feature freeze unlikely to be met.
* mpt to follow up with upstream about UI improvements in new user admin tool: no response so far, he will mail again
    Work in background for next release.

=== Actions from this meeting ===

* Riddell to follow up on MIR bug for libzip to remind pitti.

=== libzip MIR ===

The MIR for libzip has been waiting for a security review for some time now, due to other higher priority security issues.  It is on the security team's TODO list, pitti suggested we promote it and file a security bug for the review.

=== Team structure, member shuffling ===

pitti asked about the status of the team structure changes, and who is likely to change and what effects it will have.  I summarised the changes.

=== Activity report length ===

mvo wondered whether his activity reports were too long; suggestions were to keep the spec progress but drop some of the fine detail about every bug.

Definite consensus was to omit any chores or other work that is done every week.

=== Roadmap update ===

Everybody was asked to update their specs or whiteboards with status for feature freeze over the next day.

=== Empathy vs. Pidgin ===

Since GNOME have accepted empathy for inclusion as a standard module, seb128 asked whether we should consider a switch as well?  Jabber and iChat support are better, and other protocols can use libpurple to gain the same support as pidgin.

mpt will perform <nowiki>[[EmpathyVsPidginUsability|a usability comparison]]</nowiki>, and seb128 will post instructions to ubuntu-devel calling for testing.

=== New gnome-session ===

The new gnome-session isn't working out as well as hoped, it may be necessary to revert to 2.20.

One particular concern is the logout dialog, which is rather different now and the old patch does not apply.  It may be that the new FUSA applet provides these?

Proposed to discuss on the mailing list.

=== Activity reports ===

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

done:
* enabled compositing in KDE 4, using same blacklist as compiz
* enabled apport in KDE 4
* implement laptop keys for KDE 4 in kmix and guidance-power-manager
* Package Qt 4.4.1
* discuss qbzr packaging with the guy who had package in PPA, suggest some fixes and upload to ubuntu
* testing new Adept
* archive administration 1/2 day
* couple of days working on system-config-printer-kde, got it into a state where it should be useful, plenty more to do

blocked:
* compiz patch to split out wrapper script needs review
* plasmoid-quickaccess MIR
* openbabel MIR
* libzip MIR (coming on for two months this one, what do I have to do?)

todo:
* at Akademy next week

no milestoned bugs

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

On leave.

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Assigned Intrepid specs:
* intrepid-device-permissions: Fixed libpam-ck-connector to work by default in PAM common-session; now it needs to be auto-added to PAM config on installation; slangasek says I should use pam-config-framework for that, which isn't ready yet; thus BLOCKED
* gdm-guest-account: More or less implemented now, spec has release note and test case sections now; just needs some bug fixing now
* jockey-printer-driver-support: backend is fully capable of searching for drivers on openprinting.org; needs some remaining frontend work now; didn't get to much work on this spec this week; big problem is that upstream probably won't add the system-config-printer changes in time for intrepid, so the really really nice integration might slip to the next release :( (it's still useful to search/install drivers from the jockey UI)

Currently open milestoned bugs:
* got them all fixed this week

Other non-chores work done:
* got the apport retracers back into working order again
* apport enabled by default again now
* apport now catches kernel crash dumps and turns them into reports
* did a few updated merges

==== Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt) ====

* Ubuntu team induction stuff.
* Tried to install Intrepid alpha 3. Reported related bugs.
* Discussions with involved parties about package maintainedness presentation.
* Nearly completed design for package maintainedness presentation. <https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackageMaintainednessPresentation>

==== Michael Vogt (mvo) ====

update-manager:
* work on the kvm auto-upgrade tester, trying to figure out why intrepid kvm is *slow* (~30kb) in the network speed (that used to be ~600kb or more), qemu is fine on the same image. no success, filed bug
* trap ctrl-c in the terminal and ask if the user really wants to perform this action (windows users think that ctrl-c is copy, #90866)

synaptic:
* demoting apt-xapian-index to a suggests because we don't have CD space and a policy that all recommends must be on the CD. No search-as-you-type anymore
* trap ctrl-c in the terminal
* debug/fix long standing unref error in gtkpkglist.cc that is mostly harmless bug gives a gtk-critical message (#38397)
* implement https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackageSupportednessUIHardy and push that into http://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-core-dev/synaptic/hardy
* work on improvements for the archive-reorganization (mostly by working on better debtags support, lp:~mvo/synaptic/ept)

python-apt:
* Add "key in apt.Cache" (LP: #251587)
* Fix bug in python-apt "SetCandidateVer/GetCandidateVer" (#237372)
* Fix cwd problem in apt_inst.debExtractArchive() (#184093)
* new version uploaded

apt:
* fix broken apport report writing (under some circumstances, thanks to mdz for the report)
* make -Wall a bit more happy
* merge apt devel branch into ubuntu and upload new version
* Implement build-deps as automatic dependencies (#248268)

compiz:
* discuss compiz hang (#961) with upstream (problem with xunion/xdamage in the compiz damage handler)

SRU:
* Add sru instructions for #249220 (anacron)                
* Add sru verification instracutions for #55172 (gksu)
* new libgksu2.0-0 for hardy proposed (#55172)

sandbox-upgrader:
* making good progress, fixed various bugs
* Debug sandbox-upgrader failure of dholbach, turned out to be a regression in hardy-prposed, reported and uploaded fix, see #254966
* add code to generate simple test environment to improve testing turnaround 

packagekit:
* looked into packagekit git
* implemented missing doUpdatePackages
* improved the behavior for conffile (send a backend.Message() up about them and default to "keep")
* add terminal timeout, ie kill (ctrl-c) maintainer scripts that do nothing for more than 10 minutes (not in git yet, need to figure out how to upload my branch *sigh*)

misc:
* bug triage
* sponsoring queue
* work on improvements on the translated package description import scripts (with Sianis)
* report "glade-3 eats my glade-2 .glade files" problem upstream (#545843), no reply so far
* merge/review the kde4 gdebi port (thanks riddell!), fix some smallish pty releated issues
* app-install-data-update and review
* a bit of work on the conflictschecker (trying to figure out why it is choking on some packages)
* Discuss spec for better display of the support status with mpt 
* add terminal timeout detection into gdebi (#252632) and upload new version with kde4
* Look into the new launchpad API 
* kick the popcon server to generate data again, looks like it needs harder kicking, still not generating, needs more poking

==== Mirco Müller (MacSlow) ====

login-experience/gdm-face-browser:
* started working on GdmGreeterClient and GdmGreeterSession class to get a working base for the graphical-greeter, but it's more work than anticipated and therefore not done yet

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* GNOME 2.23.6 updates

* lot of desktop bugs triage

* archive admin tasks

* some mentoring and desktop updates sponsoring

* GNOME maintainer applications reviews and one interview

==== Ted Gould (tedg) ====

Report not received.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
