{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:network-account-profiles-applications
* '''Packages affected''': TODO

=== Summary ===

Individual applications use the network account profiles in different ways, most of which are application specific.  Each application needs to be modified to pull information from the datastore and use that data in a consistent manner.

=== Release Note ===

The following applications have integration with the newly enabled Network Account Profiles:
* TODO

=== Rationale ===

By using the NAP Datastore applications can more quickly access network services without prompting the user for account information that the desktop already knows.  This creates a more seamless and complete user experience.

=== Use Cases ===

* TODO: Depends on applications

=== Design ===

* TODO: Depends on applications

=== Implementation ===

* TODO: Depends on applications

=== Migration ===

* TODO: Depends on applications

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

This will be application specific, and will be added as individual applications are added to this spec.

=== Comments ===

----
CategorySpec
