{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Below are the test cases that should be run when gjs or mozjs* is updated to new major releases in the development version of Ubuntu. These should also be run for all gjs and mozjs* Stable Release Updates.

=== Test Case 1 ===

1. Install all the gjs apps
** sudo apt install gnome-books gnome-maps gnome-sound-recorder gnome-sushi gnome-weather polari # Ubuntu 22.04 LTS
** sudo apt install clapper foliate gnome-maps gnome-sound-recorder gnome-sushi gnome-weather polari # Ubuntu 22.10
# Install the update.
# Verify that these apps work correctly
** clapper (Ubuntu 22.10 and later)
** foliate (Ubuntu 22.10 and later)
** GNOME Books (Ubuntu 22.04 LTS and earlier)
** GNOME Characters
** GNOME Maps
** GNOME Sound Recorder
** GNOME Weather
** Polari

To test GNOME Books or Foliate, download the Alice in Wonderland epub3 from https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/28885 and move it to your Documents folder.

=== Test Case 2 ===

# Install the update.
# Log out then log back in to make sure that GNOME Shell still works correctly.

=== What Could Go Wrong ===

GNOME Shell is the heart of the Ubuntu desktop experience. gjs is a key component of GNOME Shell.

A severe enough bug could mean that people are unable to use their desktop version of Ubuntu.

Smaller bugs could interrupt people's workflows.

gjs is part of core GNOME and is included in the GNOME micro release exception

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates/GNOME

=== Other Info ===
GNOME Shell uses the !SpiderMonkey !JavaScript engine from Firefox ESR (mozjs).

The release schedule is at https://wiki.mozilla.org/Release_Management/Calendar

Each ESR series is maintained with security updates for about one year.

=== Review Status ===
Unreviewed

--(Approved 2022-11-22 by &#95;&#95;&#95;&#95; )--

----
CategoryDesktopTestPlans
