{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Actions from previous meeting ==

== Actions from this meeting ==

== Weekly Summary ==

* '''Blueprint status:'''
** Conor to test whether the Rhythmbox → Banshee upgrade works ok: This has already happened to some degree, but hasn't been signed off finally. No major bugs known, small issues can be fixed in SRU as it's an upgrade only problem anyway. 
** All other Natty WIs are done or postponed.
* '''RC bug status:'''
** Only three left, all of which are SRUable, and none of them are a release blocker really
** See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/ReleaseStatus#rcbugs for details
* gnome-session fallback message wasn't loading the translated fallback message. A 0-day SRU is in -proposed <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/758621|bug 758621]]</nowiki>
* LibreOffice (Bjoern Michaelsen)
** uploaded:
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/1:3.3.2-1ubuntu4|libreoffice-1:3.3.2-1ubuntu4]]</nowiki>
** fixing:
*** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/libreoffice/+bug/765010|LibreOffice StartCenter’s desktop file has an empty value for Name]]</nowiki>
** uploaded to ppa:
*** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bjoern-michaelsen/+archive/libreoffice-nattytest2/+sourcepub/1680734/+listing-archive-extra|libreoffice-1:3.3.2-1ubuntu5~ppa1]]</nowiki>
** possibly fixing hard to reproduce issue (for bug reporters to test):
*** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/+bug/746375|soffice.bin crashed with SIGSEGV in uno_type_sequence_construct()]]</nowiki>
=== Partner update ===
==== DX ====
* overlay-scrollbar is now enabled globally (except for blacklisted apps which are known to break), this was pushed through with a sabdfl override.

==== UbuntuOne ====
* U1 will not be integrated with the Unity launcher for fresh installs do to a recommends for the wrong version of gir1.2-unity-3.0, SRU is in the works <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntuone-client/+bug/770379|bug 770379]]</nowiki>

=== Unity ===

* We got our weekly release last Wednesday. Mostly crashers fixes and some bad behavior (https://launchpad.net/unity/+milestone/3.8.10).
* We can now enable/disable plugins in ccsm without crashing. Congrats to the whole team for this long and hard work to get it! \o/
* The quiet days due to holidays were used to set a 0-day SRU list (https://launchpad.net/unity/+milestone/3.8.12). Look at only Fix Committed or under. Fix released are already backported in natty finale.
* There is also a "nice to fix in a future SRU list" (https://launchpad.net/unity/+milestone/3.8.14). This won't happen before UDS though.

=== Software Center ===
* Software Center version 4.0 released for Natty final

=== Kubuntu ===

=== X.org ===

* A very pervasive GPU lockup <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/727594|(#727594)]]</nowiki> that occurs with the Intel i915/i945 family of chips is solved.  We switched off an optimization for this chip family and verified for many people this eliminated the freezes.  We SRU'd the fix, and it is now in natty-proposed for further testing.  (bryce)
* A bug on  Sandybridge <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/761065|(#761065)]]</nowiki> which results in "Hangcheck timer elapsed..." errors and a black display on external monitors was traced to the kernel.  The patches are cherrypicked and available in <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~acelan/bugs/lp753189/|acelan's kernel]]</nowiki>. (bryce)
* A bug on Arrandale <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/761065|(LP: #750259)]]</nowiki> which results in a black screen or corruption on lvds or external monitor when making display configuration changes is being investigated.  In at least a portion of the cases, we've found that a newer kernel from http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/drm-intel-next-proposed/ resolves it.  Next step is to do git bisection to find the fix, but we don't have Arrandale hardware ourselves and so are currently blocked trying to find a volunteer with the HW to help us do it. (bryce)

=== IRC log Western edition ===

Nothing to discuss, reports are in the wiki, no other Natty dealbreakers that we are aware of.

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
</pre>
