{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:desktop-lucid-likewise-open-migration

=== Summary ===

Karmic has Likewise-Open 4.1 in main and 5.0 in universe, because migrating from 4.1 to 5.0 requires manually leaving / rejoining the domain. For Lucid we want to only support the latest upstream version (5.4) and provide a clean migration path from all previous  versions.

=== Release Note ===

N/A. It is a new upstream version, and migration should happen automatically.

=== Design ===

Likewise upstream already did/will do all the
migration/upstream/packaging/testing work; the only thing left for us to do is
review and sponsoring.

The packages will upgrade automatically from all previously packaged versions
(4.0, 4.1, 5.0).

=== Implementation ===
At UDS Lucid they gave a presentation about the current status:

* version 5 had many more binaries, but can't install them independently; thus they got merged back into just 2 packages: likewise-open-gui, likewise-open

* upgrade path is in place:
** backing up files and info
** leave domain
** push configs back in
** requires a restart, part of a dist-upgrade
 
* Hardy 4.0.5 to 5.4 testing is in progress (should work, just needs to be tested)
* Karmic 4.1 to 5.4: works and tested
* Karmic 5.0 to 5.4: in progress; complete 5.0 to 5.4 upgrade path not currently supported officially (5.0 is in universe), but will most probably be done by upstream as well.

Dates:
* December 7th: patches for libraries filed to LP (or branch proposal) (action: LW)
* December 14th: libraries released (action: Server team)
* January 7: new likewise-open packages need to land (action: LW)
* January 7th: review/sponsoring (action: Desktop team)

----
CategorySpec
