{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Which Source Format? ==

* X/HTML
* LaTeX
* Docbok
* Mallard

=== Requirements ===

1. Delivery format: x/html
2. Translation through Launchpad (which means po files)
3. Localization of Images
4. Build system in place
5. Nice to have: output format pdf (if we need it, let's clearly identify why.)
6. Nice to have: output format docbook (yelp displays 4.5 docbook)
7. Nice to have: output format epub
8. Nice to have: output format validatable with a single command to help author's submit content that doesn't *break* the build. 
9. Nice to have: native unicode source
10. Nice to have: developers writing the manual have some experience with it already
11. Nice to have: produces good HTML, since this is the main delivery format

=== Source Formats ===

==== HTML ====
1. '''Delivery format: x/html'''—(kylen) xhtml via xml2po. html  don't know of anything.
2. '''Translation through Launchpad (which means po files)'''—(kylen) yes, if xhtml and xml2po
3. '''Localization of Images'''—unknown
4. '''Build system in place'''—unknown
5. '''output format pdf'''—yes
6. '''output format docbook'''—unknown
7. '''output format epub'''— yes, with calibre tools
8. '''source validatable with a single command'''—yes, via html5lib or web
9. '''native unicode source'''—yes
10. '''writer previous experience'''—very likely yes
11. '''produces good HTML'''—yes, by definition

==== LaTeX ====

# '''Delivery format: x/html'''—no
# '''Translation through Launchpad (which means po files)'''—yes, using po4a
# '''Localization of Images'''—yes
# '''Build system in place'''—yes
# '''output format pdf'''—yes
# '''output format docbook'''—no
# '''output format epub'''—no
# '''source validatable with a single command'''—yes
# '''native unicode source'''—yes
# '''writer previous experience'''-likely no
# '''produces good HTML'''-no

==== Docbook ====

# '''Delivery format: x/html'''-Yes
# '''Translation through Launchpad'''-Yes xml2po for pos files and LPs po
# '''Localization of Images'''-yes, for ex: doctemplate
# '''Build system in place'''-yes, doctemplate
# '''Output format pdf'''-yes, doctemplate
# '''Output format docbook'''-yes, doctemplate
# '''Output format epub'''-yes, doctemplate
# '''Source validatable with a single command'''-yes, xmllint (docbook 4.X)
# '''Native unicode source'''-yes
# '''Writer previous experience'''-likely no. (debatable, Shane, Kyle and Belinda seem to have it)
# '''produces good HTML'''-yes. docbook is highly customizable. doctemplate produces two varieties at the moment. Design and navigation with css, javascript, or plain.

==== Mallard ====

1. Delivery format: x/html
(kylen) Yes

2. Translation through Launchpad (which means po files)
(kylen) yes, because Mallard is xml, so xml2po

3. Localization of Images
uncertain

4. Build system in place
uncertain

5. output format pdf
(kylen) no?

6. output format docbook
(kylen) no?

7. output format epub
(kylen) no?

8.  source validatable with a single command
yes, xmllint 

9. native unicode source
yes

10. writer previous experience
likely no

11. produces good HTML
?
