{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Toolchain ==
=== Installation ===
==== Requirements ====
* Installation of TeX Live from ctan.org
* Execution of a script in the ubuntu-developer-manual branch
* Reinstalling man-db package (or the <code>man <command></code> won't work

==== Install TeX Live ====

1. Uninstall Ubuntu TeX Live packages:
<pre>
sudo apt-get remove texlive-*
  </pre>
# Download the TeX Live 2010 install script: <nowiki>[[http://mirror.ctan.org/systems/texlive/tlnet/install-tl-unx.tar.gz]]</nowiki>
# Unpck the tarball:
  <pre>
tar -zxvf install-tl-unx.tar.gz
 </pre>
1. Change to the newly unpacked directory: 
  <pre>
cd install-tl-*
  </pre>
1. Run the installation script: 
  <pre>
sudo ./install-tl
   </pre>
1. Configure the installation.
   Use all defaults except: enable <code>Create symlinks to standard directories</code>, as follows:
## Enter capital letter 'O'
## Enter capital letter 'L'
## You are prompted, one at a time, to enter where you want binaries, man pages, and info pages. Use the following:
*** For binaries, use: /usr/bin
*** For man, use /usr/share/man 
*** For info, use /usr/share/info
## Enter capital 'R' to return to the main menu
# Install:
   Enter capital 'I' to install. This will take some time.

==== Get Trunk and Run Script ====

# Create a working dir and move into it
# Get the ubuntu-developer-manual branch:
   <pre>
bzr branch lp:ubuntu-developer-manual
   </pre>
1. Execute install-pkgs.sh as root:
   <pre>
sudo ./install-pkgs.sh
   </pre>

==== Reinstall man-db ====

After installation, the <code>man</code> command may not work. You can restore it as follows:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install --reinstall man-db
</pre>

=== Language Toolchain ===

* launchpad.net to provide web UI for translation and to export translations to po files in trunk. (Ubuntu Translators through their good graces to translate.)
 
* XeTeX.  This is the underlying typesetting engine that we're using. It's what takes our code and generates PDFs.  It supports Unicode, OpenType and Truetype fonts.

* LaTeX.  This is a common set of macros that run on top of the XeTeX (and other TeX) engine. This is what provides the \chapter{}, \section{}, etc. commands.

* fontspec package.  This package is a set of macros that provides afriendlier user interface to the underlying XeTeX font commands.

* polyglossia package. This package maintains common translations(e.g., "Table of Contents," "Index," "Figure," "Table," "Glossary,") for a wide variety of languages and also changes the font based on the currently selected language.

* xindy. Sorts and manages the indexes and glossaries.

* po4a.  po4a reads in our .tex files and emits .pot files. It also takes .po files and generates translated .tex files.
 
