{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (ccheney)
* Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson)
* Didier Roche (didrocks)
* Gary Lasker (tremolux)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)
* Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

==== Discussion ====

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Partner Update ===
===== OLS =====
* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-MaverickWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>
* Desktop client for single signon is probably not going to make it for Maverick

===== DX =====
* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-MaverickWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>
* appmenu, plan to turn off duplicate menus this week

=== Kubuntu Update ===

=== UNE Update ===

* Nothing realling fancy this week, new release on Monday as I wasn't there last week
* Mostly bugfixes, dynamic and static quicklist items to come soon.
* Need designers input to know what to add to add to desktop file for static quicklist items, that will wait for the platform rally I guess.

=== Software Center Update ===

* Buy Something
** Continued excellent progress by Michael Nelson and team on software-center-agent
** Details of progress documented by Michael in regular status updates to buy-something list
** Client development continues using the s-c-agent stub server by mvo and tremolux in branches (see buy-something branches at https://code.launchpad.net/software-center)
** Integrated buy-something features to new gtk-based appdetails view
** Continue wiring backend functionality
** Continued refactoring for new AppDetails model class
** Lots still to do, but everyone feels on track to meet goal of full end-to-end integration of buy-something while at Prague sprint
   
* New Apps on a Stable Release
** Added new test apps to app-review-board PPA, they appear in "What's New" panel of software-center
** Next step, implement list view of new apps ordered by date that they appeared, and Soyuz metadata integration for icons
  
* UI Enhancements
** Navigation history feature updates for new gtk-based details view and single-pane dept screen now complete
** Kiwinote continues to make nice progress on apt-url integration in branch lp:~kiwinote/software-center/deb-files
** Matthew McGowan's new GTK-based appdetails view is merged and has been set as the default in trunk
** Matthew McGowant currently working on applist view enhancements in branch lp:~mmcg069/software-center/cellrender-buttons201
  
* OneConf in Software Center
** mvo has merged his plugin support to software-center trunk for use by didrocks in OneConf integration
** didrocks and mvo working on further design/abstraction of navigation panel to corresponding view when using a plugin
   
* General
** New AppDetails abstraction refactoring and integration continues, provides a very nice UI/backend separation
** Need to fill out test cases for AppDetails
** Kiwinote working on startup speedup enhancements at lp:~kiwinote/software-center/sc-and-the-need-for-speed

=== Release Status ===

http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-maverick-alpha-3.html

=== Other Business ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

==== Chris Cheney (ccheney) ====

==== Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson) ====

==== Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF) ====

* Identified the underlying cause for modesetting bug #586325 and went through a couple of iterations of Chris Wilson's kernel patch to fix it.  Patch is now heading to stable.
* Poked further at packaging the forked SiS driver that supports 671/771 cards.  It needs updating for the couple of years of Xserver changes since it had its one and only release.  Going forward I'll work to merge 671/771 support into the main driver instead.
* Started testing Chris Wilson's -legacy branch of the Intel DDX.  Ran into and fixed some issues, uploaded to PPA.  This should avoid the huge problems we've had with the i8xx series cards.  Chris Wilson plans to request the branch be merged into main Intel driver after sufficient testing.
* Refreshed intel DDX patches for new 2.12 upstream release in preparation for merging from Debian.

==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====

* Was at RMLL most of the week (Tuesday to Sunday), but report Monday and previous week report there:
* UNE:
** unity release (x2: 07/01/10 and 07/12/10):
*** unity, unity-places_files, unity-places-application, clutk, bamf,
*** backport to lucid ppa
** Alpha2 iso testing
** change ubuntu-netbook-default-settings to show ubiquity on live
** fix notify-osd not running in UNE session if notification-daemon is installed
** sponsor FTBFS in liblauncher for netbook-launcher-efl
** merge mutter with debian
** Update to clutter 1.2.10
** Merging banshee netbook interface changes to maverick
** fix a tiny drawing issue with evolution express
* GNOME
** fix brasero depending on tracker and waiting for build
** SRU empathy 2.30.2 to lucid
** OneConf:
*** continuous work on the backend, enables it running on very very slow netbook
*** add USC integration for login to Ubuntu One. Detect last sync and enable sharing/not package list
*** begin to tweak USC for changing view. Important refactoring needed.
*** Enables update-notifier to trigger hooks asynchronous and in order to get oneconf refresh list

==== Gary Lasker (tremolux) ====
* LP: #601987 - fixed software-center crash with GError
* help with refactoring for new AppDetails class (appdetails-in-db branch)
* upgraded my main development machine to maverick, all good
* worked on appdetailsview-gtk branch for AppDetails, misc integration
* reviewed, lots of testing, and merged lp:~mmcg069/software-center/appdetailsview-gtk
** adds Matthew McGowan's new GTK-based appdetails view
** checked and verified that it also fixes LP: #578650 - appdetails Install button enabled during install
* updated potfiles list for software-center per latest module configuration
* LP: #602610 - fixed crash related to apt cache initialization
* tested, merged lp:~mmcg069/software-center/appdetailsview-gtk, fixes broken description parsing
* Mumble with mvo on plan for further work on AppDetails class, continued buy-something design
* reviewed and tested lp:~mmcg069/software-center/cellrender-buttons201, found some intermittent bugs, reported back to Matthew
* got latest revision of software-center-agent, but getting test suite errors and can't run mock server, investigated
** IRC with noodles to report issues; problem seems to be when running the agent under maverick, he is working on a fix
* populate app-review-board PPA with additional test apps
* buy something work with mvo in lp:~gary-lasker/software-center/buy-something
** additional refactoring for AppDetails
** implement the "Buy" button to appdetailsview-gtk, wire to mvo's purchase dialog
** small fix in SSO login code
* updated navigation history functionality to work under new gtk-based views and single-pane dept screen
** lots of testing, all cases and navigations now seem good
** uploaded feature to trunk, closed corresponding A3 work item
* Weekly Software Center call

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
* optimized the facebook backend for gwibber, only pulling new data down from facebook (both in maverick and SRU for lucid).  
   - Facebook is throttling all gwibber users, based on queries and throughput from gwibber, optimizing this will get us back under their allocation but it we won't see a big difference until quite a few users get the new version
* telepathy-indicator-approver:
   - built telepathy-glib with vala bindings and applied patch needed for vala (in my ppa for now)
   - got the approver registering with telepathy as an approver, but now found out we need to add an observer in order to see incoming messages on existing channels
* merged some patches for adium-theme-ubuntu

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

* Reviewed and merged Jos' work item tracker enhancements
* fixed hibernation in upower (LP #599352)
* SRU review and processing
* bug fixing: apport, pkgbinarymangler, udev
* new version updates: pm-utils, calibre
* apport retracer maintenance: enabled maverick
* ddeb archive maintenance
* some archive admin

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* Maverick updates: pygobject, gnome-doc-utils, brasero, glib, dconf, gnome-applets, gnome-games, gcalctool, vte, gnome-panel
* Worked on updating GTK+/GDK Pixbuf
* Fix translations in sane-backends
* Track down why gettings are not being applied for gcalctool (it seems to have to call g_settings_sync())
* Fix up some gnome games bugs
* Fix bug in wireshark
* Investigated TWAIN

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* dx updates: indicator-application appmenu-gtk indicator-sound ido indicator-sound
* desktop updates: gimp poppler pidgin
* resyncing the new pidgin on debian
* backported a serie of nautilus git changes to fix hundredpapercut issues
* backported debian improvements to the glib triggers
* updated appmenu-gtk and backport several upstream changes
* debugged some empathy issues, updated the package to install migration scripts and recommends telepathy-logger
* uploaded a gdm update to maverick with tweaked version number to be newer than lucid and some git backports
* synced and merge gstreamer debian updates
* workaround vala build issue to get the new version in
* backported a clutter-gtk fix for refresh issues on intel
* changed pygobject to depends on gir1.0-glib-2.0
* sponsored a nautilus typo fix change
* updated rhythmbox to correctly install its vapis
* updated new gimp version from debian
* reapplied papyon workaround for a bug triggering apport dialogs

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* system-config-printer: Updated to version 1.2.3. Lots of crasher and traceback fixes, translation updates, fixes of untranslated strings, new GUI for the job viewer, Plug'n'Print for Bluetooth printers, minor UI improvements.
* python-cups, python-smbc: Updated Python binding libraries for system-config-printer.
* ghostscript: Worked more with the upstream developers to get the new ICC-supporting Ghostscript 9.0 working in Ubuntu.
* Auto-downloadable LSB-based printer driver packages: Completed the server infrastructure (siganture support was still missing) and reported feature request for signature support in Jockey's printer driver downloader to pitti (LP: #604698).
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports.

== IRC Logs ==

[17:30] <seb128> hey there <<BR>>
[17:30] <seb128> it's meeting time <<BR>>
[17:30] <mpt> Meanwhile, once that five seconds is over, the dialog stays open but resets itself to its default state. <<BR>>
[17:30]  * kenvandine waves <<BR>>
[17:30] <didrocks> hey <<BR>>
[17:31] <seb128> ArneGoetje, chrisccoulson, didrocks, tremolux, kenvandine, everybody I forgot to list: meeting <<BR>>
[17:31] <seb128> Riddell, ^ <<BR>>
[17:31] <chrisccoulson> hi <<BR>>
[17:31] <seb128> rickspencer3 is busy today so I will handle the meeting <<BR>>
[17:32] <seb128> hey everybody ;-) <<BR>>
[17:32] <Riddell> hi <<BR>>
[17:32] <seb128> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2010-07-13 <<BR>>
[17:32] <seb128> we will see each other next week so keep that one short <<BR>>
[17:32] <tremolux> hey! <<BR>>
[17:32] <seb128> no outstanding actions it seems <<BR>>
[17:32] <seb128> kenvandine, ready for the partner update? <<BR>>
[17:33] <kenvandine> sure <<BR>>
[17:33] <kenvandine> for OLS, they think the desktop client for single signon is going to slip <<BR>>
[17:33] <kenvandine> so if anyone is depending on that, now is the time to yell :) <<BR>>
[17:33] <kenvandine> and for DX we plan to disable the duplicate menus for appmenu this week <<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> if we get a fix for mutter causing the submenu problem <<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> that is all i have <<BR>>
[17:34] <fta> grrr, more gtk artifacts on maverick.. http://code.google.com/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=48963 <<BR>>
[17:35] <seb128> kenvandine, speaking about ols did they roll any update yet this cycle? <<BR>>
[17:35] <fta> (oops, meeting time? sorry, i leave) <<BR>>
[17:35] <seb128> kenvandine, is there anything coming from them? when? <<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> yeah, quite a few <<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> weekly updates of u1 client <<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> and a couple other packages <<BR>>
[17:35] <seb128> oh right <<BR>>
=== warp10 is now known as warp10-captato <<BR>>
[17:36] <seb128> you don't upload those nowadays so I didn't count them for some reason <<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> the biggest thing coming is some file sync changes <<BR>>
[17:36] <seb128> I did notice the "ubuntuone is disabled" on every nautilus dialog I have though <<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> yeah :) <<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> that is terrible <<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> they are working on that <<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> that means that folder isn't syncing... which is confusing <<BR>>
[17:36] <seb128> ok <<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> they are changing the text <<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> don't click enable :) <<BR>>
[17:37] <seb128> ;-) <<BR>>
[17:37]  * kenvandine did that on his ~/Downloads folder <<BR>>
[17:37] <seb128> ok, thanks kenvandine <<BR>>
[17:37] <chrisccoulson> kenvandine, too late for me too <<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> 2G of junk i don't care about <<BR>>
[17:37] <chrisccoulson> i clicked enable on the folder where i have all my source pacakges, and now i just ended up having to purge U1 ;) <<BR>>
[17:38] <seb128> other questions for kenvandine? <<BR>>
[17:38] <seb128> ok, seems not, thanks kenvandine <<BR>>
[17:38] <seb128> Riddell, hey, how was akademy? <<BR>>
[17:39] <Riddell> lovely <<BR>>
[17:39] <seb128> nice ;-) <<BR>>
[17:39] <Riddell> lots of useful talks, sessions, discussions etc, <<BR>>
[17:39] <Riddell> mobile a big theme not surprisingly <<BR>>
[17:39] <seb128> right <<BR>>
[17:39] <Riddell> KDE SC 4.5 RC 2 got packaged in my absence <<BR>>
[17:39] <seb128> and out of akademy, what's new in kubuntu? ;-) <<BR>>
[17:39] <seb128> I noticed, nice! <<BR>>
[17:40] <Riddell> KDE PIM doesn't seem like it'll get updated to 4.5 in time for maverick, we'll stick with 4.4 I expect <<BR>>
[17:40] <seb128> ok <<BR>>
[17:40] <Riddell> we have some further shuffling to do with the Qt packages, QtMultimedia into qt-mobility and QtWebkit needs synced with Debian which means all the rdepends will need a rebuild <<BR>>
[17:41] <Riddell> also Qt isn't building on ARM, needs doko to look at the ICE in that compile <<BR>>
[17:41] <Riddell> although on that topic NCommander ran a good session about KDE on ARM at Akademy <<BR>>
[17:41] <seb128> I guess you will probably be able to grab doko directly next week if required ;-) <<BR>>
[17:41] <Riddell> yes, good idea <<BR>>
[17:42] <seb128> Riddell, ok, anything else? <<BR>>
[17:43] <Riddell> we gave out 2000 CDs and about the same number of pens which was well received <<BR>>
[17:43] <Riddell> that's all :) <<BR>>
[17:43] <seb128> impressive number of CDs ;-) <<BR>>
[17:43] <seb128> thanks Riddell <<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128>   <<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128> didrocks, hey <<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128> UNE update next? ;-) <<BR>>
[17:44] <didrocks> sure <<BR>>
[17:44] <didrocks> Nothing realling fancy this week, new release yesterday as I wasn't there last week <<BR>>
[17:44] <didrocks> Mostly bugfixes, dynamic and static quicklist items to come soon <<BR>>
[17:44] <didrocks> Need designers input to know what to add to desktop files for static quicklist items, that will wait for the platform rally I guess. <<BR>>
[17:44] <didrocks> that's it for now  :-) <<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> you already adopted the new sprint wording? ;-) <<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> thanks didrocks <<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> nice to see the bugs fixed in UNE this week <<BR>>
[17:45] <didrocks> seb128: yeah, I updated my vocabulary :) <<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> tremolux, hey <<BR>>
[17:46] <seb128> tremolux, I see you wrote a nice update on the wiki, thanks ;-) <<BR>>
[17:46]  * seb128 is reading it now <<BR>>
[17:46] <tremolux> seb128: thanks, lots of stuff <<BR>>
[17:46] <tremolux> I have paste a summary: <<BR>>
[17:46] <tremolux> Buy Something: All teams report good progress, everyone feels on track for end-to-end integration at Prague sprint <<BR>>
[17:46] <seb128> tremolux, any short summary for the channel as well? <<BR>>
[17:46] <tremolux> UI Enhancements: New gtk-based appdetails view now in place, navigation history feature updates done, refactoring for new AppDetails model class, kiwinote good progress on apturl integration (GSoC) <<BR>>
[17:46] <tremolux> New Apps: Additional test apps added to app-review-board PPA, displayed in software-center main screen <<BR>>
[17:46] <tremolux> General: Plugin support moved to trunk, didrocks using it to add OneConf <<BR>>
[17:46] <tremolux> (as usual, please see wiki for detailed report, thanks!) <<BR>>
[17:46] <tremolux> :D <<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> is there anything to do for the new application category to work? <<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> it's empty there <<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> I guess that has not landed to maverick yet? <<BR>>
[17:47] <tremolux> right <<BR>>
[17:48] <tremolux> we actually should hide that panel when it is empty <<BR>>
[17:48] <tremolux> I'll make a note to make that fix for the next release <<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> well I guess it will not be empty rsn so it should be a non issue ;-) <<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> thanks <<BR>>
[17:48] <tremolux> sure  :) <<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> great work from you, mvo and others <<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> seems s-c is on track for a great milestone in 10.10 <<BR>>
[17:49] <tremolux> thanks, everybody's working hard, it's a great team <<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> thanks tremolux <<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> ok next, status update <<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-maverick-alpha-3.html <<BR>>
=== fta_ is now known as fta <<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> we are not doing great there... <<BR>>
[17:50] <seb128> we had some people on holidays or at conferences or travelling <<BR>>
[17:50] <seb128> but I expect we will catch up during the sprint <<BR>>
[17:50] <seb128> (or rally for didrocks) <<BR>>
[17:50] <didrocks> thanks :) <<BR>>
[17:50] <seb128> but please don't forget to update your workitems regularly <<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> and try to spend some times on those if you are busy with other things as well <<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> speaking about the sprint next week <<BR>>
[17:51]  * ccheney notes most of his are very interrelated and hopes to have about half of them done by EOW <<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> if you have anything you want to talk about or work on you should put it on the agenda <<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> https://wiki.canonical.com/UbuntuPlatform/Sprints/Maverick/Desktop <<BR>>
[17:52] <seb128>   <<BR>>
[17:52] <seb128> ok, I think that's it from me <<BR>>
[17:52] <seb128> does anybody has any questions? <<BR>>
[17:52] <seb128> you are all ready for the sprint? ;-) <<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> will be great to see everybody again <<BR>>
[17:53] <kenvandine> yup :) <<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> ok, seems nobody has questions <<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> so let's wrap now ;-) <<BR>>
[17:54] <seb128> thanks everybody <<BR>>
[17:54] <didrocks> thanks seb128 :)

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
