{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===

* Martin Pitt (pitti) - chair
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Kenneth Wimer (kwwii)
* Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt)
* Mirco Müller (MacSlow)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)

=== Apologies ===

* Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) - holiday
* Ted Gould (tedg) - holiday
* Michael Vogt (mvo) - holiday

=== Agenda ===

* Outstanding actions from last meeting (see below)

* Review <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogasawara/qa-hardy-list-archive/sort-by-package/desktop-buglist.html|Desktop bug list]]</nowiki>
** all participants stated that they were ok with the current list
  and on track

* Sebastien reports that Ubuntu GNOME desktop does not have
 showstopper bugs any more, just lots of targets of opportunity

* Jonathan reports that Kubuntu is in pretty good shape, no
 outstanding critical bugs

* New "screen resolution" replacement applet lacks a "try and revert"
 mode, which is a major regression to previous releases, and leads
 to people having to completely reinstall if it breaks. Thus we
 consider <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/197673|#197673]]</nowiki>
 release-critical and confirm the milestoning.

* Samba shares migration (see below)

* Default theme should be switched back from murrine to ubuntulooks.

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

* Scott to get contract for compiz bugs sorted
** cannot confirm 100% with Scott being on holiday, but allegedly it
  is sorted out already
* Sebastien to fix the labelling of the menu items which are not
 right and warn translators about the change
** transmission: fixed upstream, will be uploaded soon
** vinagre: not release critical, target of opportunity
** "Tracker search" should become "Desktop search" or "Document search"
** rest is done
* Sebastien to use applications, system tools again:
** done, gnome-system-monitor is there now as well, together with hwtest
* Alexander to drop nm-tool menu entry:
** done by Steve

=== Samba shares migration ===

* In previous releases we used gnome-system-tool's shares-admin for
 managing Samba shares. For various reasons we want to replace it with
 nautilus-share in Hardy.
* s-a modifies `smb.conf`, while n-s writes one file per share into
 `/var/lib/samba/usershares`.
* Since both are system configuration fieles, an automatic migration
 should be possible in theory, but this should be discussed with Steve
 as our resident Samba expert first.
* Fallback: if automatic migration is not possible, we'll switch back
 to shares-admin.

=== Action items ===

* Sebastien to initiate a discussion about shares-admin -> nautilus-share
 upgrade migration with slangasek on u-devel@
* Sebastien to prepare theme change back to ubuntulooks
* Sebastien to rename the tracker menu item
* Ken to look into updating important bits of example-contents for
 Hardy, primarily release name

=== Activity reports ===

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

Done, bug fixing for beta and sending changes upstream
* Polishing ubiquity
* Fix Kubuntu documentation links in casper
* Change to KDM-KDE4 after it had to be pulled out of beta last minute
* Tidy KDE 4 application menus
* Fix oem-config having no background
* Upload amarok fix for media devices (thanks apachelogger)
* Discussed our exciting KDE settings changes with upstream and change them upstream where possible
* Discussed our printe applet with KDE and put in for KDE inclusion review
 (may not happen though due to technical problems with pyKDE)

next week:
* KDE 4.0.3

no milestoned bugs

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

* Finished 6 22x22 app menu icons for OOo (draw, calc, base, template,
 writer, impress). Each icon has it's own main color  - the old ones use a
 mimetype like page background which makes it hard to distinguish a visual
 difference. (attached)

* Compiz icons: expose icon done, zoom icon done, scale icon close to being
 done (attached)

* GDM: made new entry box svg with an offset box rather than an inset
 version, tweaked the bg to be "lighter" and "friendlier" and changed the logo
 to have more "glow". Fixed one bug in the placement of the password entry
 error messages (and through this created a new one with the placement of the
 caps-lock message - really wish gdmthemetester worked on my system :-(  ). As
 tomorrow is GDM bug day I guess I'll submit a new theme package tomorrow. If
 anyone can make a screenshot of the new gdm, please do so and send it to me.
 I haven't seen it on other systems and would like to see how it works at
 different resolutions.

* Fri and Mon were holidays, but I worked Friday anyway...I'll make it up
 later

* A new human theme gtkrc from Conn O'Griofa with color definitions instead
 of hard-coded colors (which allows the tweaking of colors by the user via
 GUI). After a week of testing and giving good suggestions it seems to match
 the old version perfectly. I'd like to include this as it allows the users to
 change the color scheme via GUI.

* Investigated a Nautilus bug in the Human icon theme. Nautilus now uses fd.o
 icon names and the Human theme doesn't currently do this It needs symlinks to
 the new names (a new icon theme [hint, hint] for +1 would be the perfect time
 to sort this out properly). Seb suggested using a .links file in the debian
 directory to install the symlinks (thanks to Seb for all the help getting the
 names at hand and sorting this out technically). Also, there were a couple of
 16x16 gpm icons making the inhibit applet look like crap. I removed them.
 I'll submit a new human icon theme package which fixes both of these bugs and
 also includes the new OOo icons.

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Just a 3-day week due to Easter holidays.

Unfixed milestoned bugs (only on hardy final):
* 207151 (Reenable Policy``Kit ptrace protection before Hardy's
 release): needs to happen close to release
* 202931 (ejecting a CD/DVD with drive button gives always an error):
 no time yet, but I'll get it fixed in time

Done:
* Worked full speed on fixing milestoned and assigned bugs, starting
 with the high-priority ones. Two notable ones needing feedback:
** suspend/resume should now work much better in Hardy on most hardware where it didn't so far
** usplash fsck integration should be less buggy with today's updates
* Managed to stay on top of my bug mail

==== Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt) ====

No report received.

==== Michael Vogt (mvo) ====

On holiday this week.

==== Mirco Müller (MacSlow) ====

spec-related work (hardy-desktop-effects-profiles):
* fixing profile-recognition (almost done)
* fixing custom-profile-recognition (almost done)

spec-related work (hardy-desktop-effects-shortcuts):
* fix/add icons for scale- and expo-tooltips gotten from kwwii (upload pending)

misc:
* updating desktop-machine to hardy
* trying to solve not working sound (pulseaudio)
* trying to solve rendering issue of compiz-decorations/shadows (probably due
 to non-default nvidia driver 171.06 I'm using)

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* Lot of desktop bug triage

* desktop bug fixing

* synced some GNOME 2.22 packages from debian

==== Ted Gould (tedg) ====

On holiday this week.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
