{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:desktop-q-quickly
* '''Created''': 2012-04-25
* '''Contributors''': LaunchpadHome:mterry
* '''Packages affected''': quickly
* '''Prior art''': <nowiki>[[DesktopTeam-Specs-Precise-Quickly|12.04 spec]]</nowiki>

=== Summary ===

Quickly is a tool for creating applications based on templates.  There's always more work we can do to make it better and keep pace with the platform.

=== Rationale ===

Ubuntu is focused on opportunistic developer to create quick and fun apps for its platform.

=== User stories ===

Jono don't want to bother about manually pushing an SSH/GPG key to Launchpad, creating a PPA, or signing the CoC.

Brian wants ''quickly edit'' to use all the needed options for developing, but doesn't want to clutter his gedit environment when only writing a note.

Chris doesn't want to use Quickly on the command line.

Elaine wants to use Quickly to develop for Fedora.

Jill wants to use Quickly to develop a library that can be used by more than just Python apps.

=== Implementation ===

==== Keeping Up With the Platform ====
* Port quickly to Python 3
* Port project templates to Python 3

==== New Features ====
* Integrate with at least one IDE
** Keep it simple first iteration, just to find changes we'd need to make to have this be easy
* Add a Fedora/RPM template
** Make it easier to write such templates (could stand to refactor template code a bit)
* Add a Vala library template
* Add optional libunity support (ala current optional indicator support)

==== Blocked Features ====
* Tighter Launchpad integration (Blocked by LP development)
** Push GPG key
** Push SSH key
** Sign CoC
** Create PPA
* Dynamic gedit plugin activation (Blocked by support in gedit)

=== Discussion Topics ===

=== Notes from UDS ===

<pre>
Keeping Up With the Platform
Port quickly to Python 3
Port project templates to Python 3

New Features
Integrate with at least one IDE
Keep it simple first iteration, just to find changes we'd need to make to have this be easy
Add a Fedora/RPM template
Make it easier to write such templates (could stand to refactor template code a bit)
Add a Vala library template
Add optional libunity support (ala current optional indicator support)
Using pkgme

Blocked Features
Tighter Launchpad integration (Blocked by LP development)
Dynamic gedit plugin activation (Blocked by support in gedit)

Must haves:
* Port templates to Python 3
* pkgme?
* /opt is broken (ARB support in general)

Html5 template is clean and ready to be pushed

There is a bug with quickly cli where using twisted triggers a warning about Gtk2 to Gtk3

desktopcouch migration guide?
licensing?

[allison] Make sure ARB is recommending --extras or submitubuntu
[allison] Work with James on Python 3 backend for pkgme
[allison] Check on pkgme packaging for 12.10
[allison] Hand example of desktopcouch changes to previous desktopcouch team
[mterry] Investigate fixing Quickly in 12.04 (look at Allison's Quickly tips page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AppReviewBoard/Submissions/QuicklyTips)
[mterry] Look into using pkgme for debian/
[jonobacon] Look into quickly save generating a pot in a separate commit
[didrocks] Land html5 template
[mterry] Drop references to quickly.prompts in tutorial
[jonobacon] Sed developer.ubuntu.com for PyGtk -> GTK+
[rick-rickspencer3] Write pygame tutorial on developer.ubuntu.com
[rick-rickspencer3] Take tutorial off his website
[rick-rickspencer3] Make fake desktopcouch module for ARB
</pre>

=== Comments ===

----
CategorySpec
