{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Actions from previous meeting ==

== Actions from this meeting ==

== Weekly Summary ==

* Converted all our Jockey integrated DKMS drivers to cary their modalias information in the package indexes. This allows much easier integration of new and third-party drivers into Jockey. (UbuntuSpec:hardware-desktop-n-package-field-modaliases) (MartinPitt)
* Released Foomatic 4.0.6 upstream and updated all Foomatic packages in Natty (TillKamppeter)
* Added pyppd package (PPD file compressor) to main so that printer driver packages can build-depend on it instead of shipping the scripts all on their own (TillKamppeter)
* Tested Ghostscript 9.00/9.01. Merged package from Debian Experimental but not uploaded it, as there are still unacceptable upstream bugs with the color reproduction (TillKamppeter)
* Transitioned a lot of libraries from gir1.0 to gir1.2 package names to follow Debian's new policy.  This may cause some oddities while upgrading or FTBFS when building for a little while.  The most common packages have already been done.
* Fixed nm-applet where 3G devices would cause crashes on startup with the indicator patch (MathieuTrudel)

=== Unity ===

=== Software Center ===
* Implemented a new '''inline purchase workflow''' that integrates nicely in the Software Center UI
** Specification here: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SoftwareCenter#Buying%20software|https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SoftwareCenter#Buying%20software]]</nowiki>
* Ratings and Reviews
** '''Feature development continues''' in branch lp:~mvo/software-center/reviews
** Client: implemented submit reviews protocol, report inappropriate reviews feature and review summary download and caching 
** Server: alpha server deployment in progress
* Performance improvements
** Further '''listview speedup''' this week
** Continued progress in '''reducing startup time'''
** <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~mvo/software-center/mini10-startup/startup-times.png|Startup time measurements]]</nowiki> on reference hardware (Dell Mini 10)
* Software Center versions 3.1.7 and 3.1.8 released

=== Kubuntu ===
* KDE built on ARM and PowerPC in natty
* KDE SC 4.4.5 in lucid-proposed for testing
* KDevelop Beta in
* 4.6 release candidate due today to packagers
* Akonadi beta packaged

=== X.org ===
* Revamped xorg apport script.  Stopped it from showing errors when files were missing.  Parse pci id list for specific info we need.  Remove rendundant information. (BryceHarrington)
* Began reimplementing failsafeX code in python (BryceHarrington)
* Investigation of supportability of new EMGD driver for Atom hardware

=== Tools and Processes ===

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
(03:01:29) jasoncwarner: Alright...https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2010-12-21/
(03:02:32) tremolux: hiya  everyone  \o
(03:02:37) jasoncwarner: rodrigo_: Riddell: cyphermox: tremolux: mterry: meeting time...
(03:02:45) rodrigo_: hey kenvandine
(03:02:48) kenvandine: hey rodrigo_
(03:03:02) jasoncwarner: Anyone else around?
(03:03:11) Riddell: hi
(03:03:28) statik [~emurphy@newyork.elliotmurphy.com] entered the room.
(03:03:31) statik left the room (quit: Changing host).
(03:03:32) statik [~emurphy@canonical/launchpad/statik] entered the room.
(03:03:43) jasoncwarner: First things, please be sure to update the above link with any interesting items for the week. 
(03:04:05) jasoncwarner: I don't think we had any actions from last week so we can dive right in to 
(03:04:10) jasoncwarner: [TOPIC] Unity
Pici pitti 
(03:05:27) kenvandine: no didrocks :)
(03:05:29) jasoncwarner: without seb or didrocks, not sure what kind of update we can give. Anyone? 
(03:05:34) rodrigo_: :)
(03:05:35) kenvandine: nope...
(03:05:48) jasoncwarner: [TOPIC] Software Center
(03:06:03) mclasen left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 276 seconds).
(03:06:10) mterry: hi
(03:06:12) tremolux: summary is posted on the meeting wiki
(03:06:14) tremolux: :)
(03:06:30) gnomefreak left the room (quit: Quit: Gone for now).
(03:06:32) coffeedude left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 245 seconds).
(03:06:33) tremolux: (unless you want me to paste here -- but I think we stopped doing that)
(03:06:47) jasoncwarner: tremolux: works for me
(03:07:11) jasoncwarner: [TOPIC] Kubuntu
(03:07:19) Riddell:  * KDE built on ARM and PowerPC in natty
(03:07:20) Riddell:  * KDE SC 4.4.5 in lucid-proposed for testing
(03:07:20) Riddell:  * KDevelop Beta in
(03:07:20) Riddell:  * 4.6 release candidate due today to packagers
(03:07:20) Riddell:  * Akonadi beta packaged
(03:08:27) jasoncwarner: Thanks, Riddell. Anything you wanted to add? 
(03:08:41) Riddell: nope
(03:08:44) jasoncwarner: if not, I didn't see it on the template but 
(03:08:49) jasoncwarner: [TOPIC] Partner update?
KenEdwards kenvandine 
(03:09:50) kenvandine: nothing... nobody was around for the meeting
(03:09:56) jasoncwarner: :)
(03:10:00) jasoncwarner: one of those weeks....
(03:10:11) seiflotfy left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 272 seconds).
(03:10:20) jasoncwarner: X.org is later today
(03:10:29) jasoncwarner: [TOPIC] Tools and Processes
(03:11:14) bratsche [~cody@ubuntu/member/bratsche] entered the room.
(03:11:43) jasoncwarner: Anyone have anything for tools and processes updates? 
(03:12:15) jasoncwarner: :)
(03:12:21) jasoncwarner: [TOPIC] AOB?
(03:12:58) jasoncwarner: shortest.meeting.evar!
(03:13:04) kenvandine: yeah :)
(03:13:04) pitti: :)
(03:13:11) jasoncwarner: [END MEETING]
(03:13:16) jasoncwarner: Well then!
(03:13:27) rodrigo_: :)
(03:13:42) jasoncwarner: don't forget to update the weekly summary 
(03:13:51) jasoncwarner: that is it! Thanks everyone. 
(03:14:09) tremolux: woo!  thanks everybody
(03:14:14) kenvandine: :)
(03:14:21) kenvandine: happy holidays to everyone
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
(08:31:23) jasoncwarner: bryceh:  and robert_ancell:, you guys ready for meeting? :) should be really quick
(08:31:25) jasoncwarner: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2010-12-21
(08:31:45) RAOF: Howdie hi :)
(08:31:51) jasoncwarner: RAOF: hey!
(08:31:55) bryce_ [~bryce@pool-74-107-147-166.ptldor.fios.verizon.net] entered the room.
(08:31:58) robert_ancell: yup
(08:32:50) htorque left the room (quit: Quit: Leaving).
(08:33:10) robert_ancell: quick western meeting..
(08:33:15) ***bryce_ waves
(08:33:22) bryce_: I think RAOF's out this week
(08:33:35) RAOF: Am I?
(08:33:45) bryce_: RAOF, or not
(08:34:04) bryce_: RAOF, thought you took the rest of the year off?
(08:34:06) KenEdwards left the room (quit: Remote host closed the connection).
(08:34:29) RAOF: I got a bit confused by canonicaladmin; it's possible that I'm on holiday for the last 3 days.
(08:34:57) RAOF: bryce_: No, just the start of last week.
(08:35:10) jasoncwarner: RAOF: I think so ;)
(08:35:14) jasoncwarner: I think you are ;)
(08:35:20) jasoncwarner: ok...getting going...
(08:35:31) jasoncwarner: [TOPIC] X.org update
(08:36:07) RAOF: A bunch of patches have finally landed upstream!  Yay!
(08:36:14) c_korn left the room (quit: Quit: Software you want www.getdeb.net).
(08:36:32) RAOF: A bunch of our patches, though, so it's not very interesting for the non-X people :)
(08:37:37) bryce_: I did some updates to the X apport scripts.  Also not very interesting for the non-X people.  But will cut down on stray error messages in bug reports and generally clean stuff up.
(08:37:56) bryce_: also, I'm chatting with the compiz folks about possibly merging the X and compiz apport scripts
(08:38:27) bryce_: the scripts are already 90% the same stuff anyway, and we are always bouncing bugs back and forth between compiz / mesa / etc. so it makes sense
(08:39:11) bryce_: my thinking is that this may make diagnosing unity X-ish bugs a tad easier
(08:39:47) jasoncwarner: ok....
(08:39:51) jasoncwarner: Anything else for X.org? 
(08:40:14) jasoncwarner: nothing else? 
(08:40:18) RAOF: Oh.  Kubuntu users who find that X crashes when logging out have some testing packages.
(08:40:19) jasoncwarner: [TOPIC] aOB?
(08:40:38) bryce_: canonicaladmin is *painfully* slow
(08:40:50) bryce_: everyone must be checking their xmas holidays at the same time ;-)
bryce_ bryceh 
(08:41:13) jasoncwarner: bryce_ agreed
(08:41:35) bryce_: we could probably code a replacement in the time it takes to wait for it to refresh ;-)
(08:42:23) bryce_: nothing else from me; been a really short week for me due to sick + vacation time
(08:43:05) RAOF: Nothing else here, either.
(08:43:59) s1aden is now known as sladen
(08:44:22) jasoncwarner: well then
(08:44:23) jasoncwarner: I htink 
(08:44:27) jasoncwarner: [END MEETING]
(08:44:27) jasoncwarner: !
(08:44:29) jasoncwarner: :)
(08:44:31) bryce_: thanks
(08:44:44) jasoncwarner: next meeting is in january !
(08:44:47) jasoncwarner: enjoy holidays!!!!
</pre>
