{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (calc)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* State of Jaunty
* U1
* Launchpad Team and Kubuntu
* All Hands
* UDS
* Grand Canaria
* OEM team swapperoo
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Actions from this meeting ===
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to get definitive list of who has talks at all hands to double check that everyone who has one is prepared

=== State of Jaunty ===
* pitti reports that we are seeing a fairly normal number of SRUs for this release, though there are no severe issues as of yet. Evolution Data Server, and i965 are serious issues that are still being address.
* Generally consensus is that Jaunty we quite a solid release and that users are reasonably happy with it.
* rickspencer3 stressed the need to move to karmic work asap. Asked that people with access to i965 hardware volunteer to help with testing, etc...

=== U1 ===
* rickspencer3 mandated that the desktop team join and use U1
* Instructions to get started: https://ubuntuone.com/support/installation/
* All employees currently have access, public beta is soon
* kenvandine discussed the topic briefly, and asked that everyone with access please test as much as you can, starting April 29

=== Launchpad Team and Kubuntu ===
* rickspencer3 spent time with launchpad leads in London. Interesting perspective as users, also, three of them are big fans of Kubuntu.

=== All Hands ===
* rickspencer3 encouraged team members to get their all hands talks ready asap.
* there was some ambiguity regarding who got talks accepted and not. rickspencer3 to follow up.

=== UDS ===
* Got key partner related blueprints stubbed out
* pitti asks people to follow naming convention: desktop-karmic-*
* pitti and rickspencer3 to review UDS sessions by next meeting

=== Grand Canaria ===
* rickspencer3 reminds team about opening night party
* rickspencer3 asks that everyone schedule to be there for opening night party (as Canonical is hosting)

=== OEM team swapperoo ===
* Reminder, that calc starts this starts on 5/1
* General plan is to slow OOo development during Karmic, as OEM staff joining us should not be assigned to just OOo
* calc will still be available 20% time for consulting on OOo

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

* release bug triage ... staying on top - day and night
* workaround apturl issue that broke install of flash on live CD (LP: #363798)
* network-manager-pptp 0.7.1~rc4.20090316+bzr23-0ubuntu3 uploaded and approved for ubuntu/jaunty (LP: #364356)
* roll firefox/xulrunner security update 3.0.9
* investigate firefox/xulrunner 3.0.10 firedrill and prepare builds; also found another
   variant for which 3.0.10 is still crashing
* release party

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====

* upgraded my home server from debian lenny to ubuntu jaunty. Took quite some time but worked. :)
* bug triaging for language-selector
* work on my presentation for AllHands

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====
===== Distro =====

* Sent out 'Jaunty-Eve' thank-you's to X.org bug triagers
* Email catch up

===== Xorg =====

* X freezes on -intel
   - Reproduced freeze with various options suggested by upstream.
     Provided upstream with several more GPU dumps for each case.
   - Met with Eric Anholt in Portland to show reproduction of issue
   - Updated general Freeze troubleshooting page in wiki
   - Continued polishing documentation for new debugging tools
     https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-freeze-test
   - Reviewed all bug reports mentioning X freezes on intel, and
     notified them of the new tools, asking for them to provide
     dumps for their freeze issue.
     (28 bug reports)
   - Developed mechanism to do patch bisecting within quilt patching
     system so can git bisecting of Debian packages
   - Did extensive git bisecting/testing on mesa, no result
   - Tested Virtual settings - setting at >1606 seems to resolve.
* Helped various people with their X issues
* Create graph of bugs for major video drivers
* Wrote script to move bugs from xorg to more appropriate source
   packages.  Eliminates one big chunk of X bug drudgery.
* Enhanced script to add device name to -intel bug report titles
* Full triage on 'xorg' package
* Misc. fixup of scripts to account for launchpadlib changes
* Created script to itemize -intel bugs based on tagged symptoms
* Set up PPA for X driver updates
   - https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates/
   - Merged latest versions of several drivers
* UDS session planning

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====
* Working on OOo 3.1.0 packaging.
* Weekly OOo Release Status Meeting - OOo 3.1.0 rc2 this week
* Weekly desktop team meeting
* Lots of OOo bug triage

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====
done:
* Jaunty final testing and release!
* E-mail catchup
* Reviewing translations and fixing where  broken
* SRUs for packagekit, acpid
* discussing and pondering specs for Karmic
* Open Week talk
* Fill in performance review

todo:
* get cracking on merges
* oversee KDE 4.2.3 packaging

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====

====== Done: ======
* Jaunty install testing
* U1 testing and debugging

====== Working on: ======
* U1 testing and debugging
* Message indicator session for Ubuntu Open Week

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====
Currently open stable/milestoned bugs:
* Bug:353879 (move Apport launchpad crash database implementation to launchpadlib): Fixed in ubuntu bzr head, ready for Karmic upload
* Bug:334446 (Remove gnome-pilot from the default ubuntu install): simple to do, needs some discussion though
 
Done:
* Jaunty final CD testing, and some release management
* Merged hal, cdbs, debhelper (those were all pretty complex)
* Major SRU round (lots of jaunty SRUs, cleanup for older stables)
* tracked down a cdbs/python-distutils regression, discussed with Debian
* Set up apport retracer for armel, filed RT to fix firewall rules on rimu; once that's done, it'll actually work
* Organized i965 testing activity, and added a few ideas
* Bug fixing in hal, hal-info, udev (in particular #356631, which is now in -proposed)

Sponsoring:
* consolekit, gnome-system-tools, mjpegtools, pulseaudio, tor, tracker
==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====
* jaunty CD testing
* tried to keep up with the jaunty desktop bugs
* some jaunty desktop sru uploads

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====
* SRU for pstopdf CUPS filter (bug 357732) is now in updates, did another fix on pstopdf and prepared second SRU as one user still reported problems (also bug 357732).
* Answered and trigaed several printing bug reports.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.

== IRC Log ==
* [17:31]  * rickspencer3 slaps desk with ruler
* [17:31] <rickspencer3> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2009-04-28
* [17:31] <rickspencer3> unfortunately, I'm still catching up, so not quite as organized as I like to be
* [17:31] <pitti> ugh, activity reports are a bit thin
* [17:32] <rickspencer3> pitti: right, I haven't had a chance to put them in the wiki yet
* [17:32] <pitti> but I saw them fly by in mail
* [17:32] <rickspencer3> it's all my fault
* [17:32] <pitti> n/p :) *hug*
* [17:32] <pitti> rickspencer3: hope you enjoyed the long weekend
* [17:32] <rickspencer3> well, I've been working non-stop since like 5:30am, so am not feeling too guilty ;)
* [17:32] <rickspencer3> I hope everyone is feeling good about Jaunty
* [17:32] <pitti> my clock does not have 5:30 _AM_
* [17:32] <rickspencer3> the buzz in the office in London was *very* positive
* [17:33] <rickspencer3> Gerry told me "best reviews ever!"
* [17:33] <kenvandine_wk> rickspencer3: done
* [17:33] <rickspencer3> so, first topic
* [17:33] <pitti> a friend of mine is very pleased with it, told me to pass on the "thank you"
* [17:33] <rickspencer3> State of Jaunty
* [17:33] <pitti> we have tons of SRUs
* [17:33] <rickspencer3> general feedback about quality
* [17:33] <rickspencer3> ?
* [17:33] <rickspencer3> pitti: is that normal?
* [17:33] <pitti> but none of them really OMGkittensdie
* [17:33] <pitti> rickspencer3: yes, very
* [17:33] <seb128> pitti: "tons" .. the normal amount I would say
* [17:33] <pitti> a few major upgrade issues
* [17:34] <pitti> seb128: we normally have "tons and tons" :)
* [17:34] <seb128> ;-)
* [17:34] <pitti> and some polish
* [17:34] <rickspencer3> lol
* [17:34] <pitti> I was pretty liberal in the first few days after jaunty
* [17:34] <pitti> but now I'll raise the bar pretty high
* [17:34] <pitti> sorry, davmor/mvo :)
* [17:35] <rickspencer3> as discussed, I would like to transfer effort to Karmic as rapidly as possible
* [17:35] <pitti> we still have a major e-d-s crasher and the 965 issue, otherwise I wouldn't waste too much work on it
* [17:35] <rickspencer3> pitti: good
* [17:35] <seb128> pitti: e-d-s crasher -> libical waiting for you
* [17:35] <seb128> pitti: I turned of the crashing warnings
* [17:35] <pitti> seb128: you rock
* [17:35] <pitti> hah
* [17:35] <rickspencer3> pitti: bug #?
* [17:35] <seb128> pitti: which is what fedora does and upstream recommends doing
* [17:36] <rickspencer3> for those following along?
* [17:36] <pitti> bug 368508
* [17:36] <seb128> rickspencer3: e-d-s crasher? look to recent bugs there
* [17:36] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 368508 in libical "don't crash on incorrect values or errors" [Wishlist,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/368508
* [17:36] <pitti> I presume
* [17:36] <seb128> there is several bugs which are probably duplicates
* [17:36] <pitti> you guys upload faster than I can process SRUs :)
* [17:36] <seb128> pitti: yes
* [17:36] <bryce> hehe
* [17:36] <seb128> pitti: I switched to karmic this afternoon ;-)
* [17:36] <seb128> so expect less SRUs from me
* [17:37] <pitti> seb128: would be nice if you could dupe some real bug reports to that one, to get some testers subscsribed
* [17:37] <seb128> "switched", ie I'm not using it yet
* [17:37] <seb128> but I'm working on it
* [17:37] <pitti> anyway, no meeting issue
* [17:37] <seb128> pitti: will do
* [17:37] <pitti> anyone else aware of somethign major which needs fixing in jaunty?
* [17:37] <rickspencer3> I feel that we still have this i965 nut to crack, and that as a team we won't really be done with Jaunty until we have compiz working again
* [17:37] <pitti> asac: did anything pop up on the nm/ff front?
* [17:37] <pitti> bryce: and any other kitten killers besides 965?
* [17:38] <bryce> not really
* [17:38] <pitti> kenvandine_wk: or major breakage in notify-osd?
* [17:38] <bryce> well, lots of X bugs kill kittens
* [17:38] <bryce> but none that are on a rampage
* [17:38] <pitti> ok, good
* [17:38] <pitti> bryce: all will be better with DRI2/UXA, right? :-)
* [17:38] <pitti> (famous last words)
* [17:38] <kenvandine_wk> pitti: not really
* [17:38] <bryce> I've talked to colin king about the performance issue, so we may see some progress there, but that's mainly kernel side stuff
* [17:39] <bryce> pitti: yes, we get to exchange all our nasty old bugs
* [17:39] <bryce> for fresh new ones
* [17:39]  * pitti is running 2.6.30rc3/uxa/dri2/2.7.0 happily
* [17:39] <pitti> ok, seems the "jaunty state" topic is done?
* [17:39] <rickspencer3> yes
* [17:40] <rickspencer3> except ... if you have an i965, or access to one, please be highly responsive to requests for assistance
* [17:40] <rickspencer3> kenvandine_wk: U1?
* [17:40] <kenvandine_wk> ok
* [17:40] <kenvandine_wk> so U1 beta is coming up soon
* [17:40] <kenvandine_wk> and I don't think we have had enough testing... so I have been turning up the heat
* [17:40] <seb128> what is U1?
* [17:40] <pitti> ubuntu one
* [17:40] <kenvandine_wk> I even went cold turkey from dropbox
* [17:41] <kenvandine_wk> serious dogfooding
* [17:41] <seb128> ah ok
* [17:41] <kenvandine_wk> there are instructions on the meeting wiki page for setting it up, everyone on the desktop team needs to kick the tires and report bugs
* [17:41] <kenvandine_wk> but wait until tomorrow please :)
* [17:41] <kenvandine_wk> major bug fixes are landing today as well as ppa changes
* [17:42] <kenvandine_wk> thanks, lets help make sure U1 rocks!
* [17:42] <rickspencer3> kenvandine_wk: thanks
* [17:42] <rickspencer3> all - please note that the U1 team is trying *very* hard to be easy to work with here
* [17:43] <rickspencer3> so I ask that we support them in kind by running their bits
* [17:43] <rickspencer3> I'll ask kenvandine_wk to set up some kind of test or something that we can all participate in for the next team meeting
* [17:43] <rickspencer3> next topic
* [17:43] <rickspencer3> Launchpad Team and Kubuntu
* [17:43] <rickspencer3> I just wanted to point out that three of the leads are serious Kubuntu fans
* [17:44] <rickspencer3> Riddell: ^^^
* [17:44] <rickspencer3> I'm trying to get them to join #kubuntu-devel and support the project
* [17:44] <rickspencer3> next topic: Launchpad Team and Kubuntu
* [17:44] <rickspencer3> oops ... copy paste error ;)
* [17:44] <rickspencer3> All Hands
* [17:44] <rickspencer3> everyone ready?
* [17:45] <pitti> I brought my two hands
* [17:45] <Riddell> cool
* [17:45] <pitti> still need to prep the talks, though
* [17:45] <rickspencer3> anyone else doing a talk?
* [17:45]  * rickspencer3 raises hand
* [17:45] <calc> i am, need to finish it up still
* [17:45] <ArneGoetje> any information in which format the talks should be? I didn't see anything announced
* [17:45] <ArneGoetje> me too
* [17:45] <pitti> hm, it came through the lists
* [17:46] <rickspencer3> ACTION: rickspencer3 to dig up info on all hands talk and resend to desktop team
* [17:46] <pitti> I got two "talk approved" mails with some details, you didn't?
* [17:46] <bryce> I'm doing a talk but I've not even had a moment to think about UDS :-(
* [17:46] <ArneGoetje> I only saw the announcement for the talks, but I haven't seen anything about the preferred file format
* [17:46] <rickspencer3> seb128: you're doing one if I recall correctly
* [17:46] <seb128> rickspencer3: I got no email
* [17:46] <rickspencer3> hmmm
* [17:46] <seb128> so I guess my talk didn't get approved
* [17:47] <rickspencer3> ACTION: rickspencer3 to check on seb128's talk
* [17:47] <kenvandine_wk> seb128: i got a no thanks mail :)
* [17:47] <rickspencer3> seb128: I thought I was cc'ed on one for you
* [17:47] <seb128> rickspencer3: could have been spammed then
* [17:47] <rickspencer3> seb128: ack, I'll check it out asap
* [17:47]  * pitti wonders about the spammy topic seb128 will talk about then
* [17:47] <seb128> if it got spammed I deleted it
* [17:48] <seb128> or "marked as spam" rather
* [17:48] <rickspencer3> seb128's topic was about about canning spiced ham, so it may have been diverted
* [17:48] <seb128> I've difficulties to keep my boxes spam free at the moment
* [17:48] <rickspencer3> ready to talk a little about UDS?
* [17:48] <seb128> yes!
* [17:48] <kenvandine_wk> i've had my email addy for 2 months now... and get a ton of spam already, can only imagine what seb128 gets
* [17:49] <rickspencer3> a key change for Karmic is that we have two rooms
* [17:49]  * pitti gets about 5000 a day through SpamAssassin, and about 70.000 per day which are rejected earlier on
* [17:49] <calc> the canonical filter seems to catch most of my spam
* [17:49] <rickspencer3> also, we are "hosting" Dx and Design in our track
* [17:50] <rickspencer3> you may notice that I have added a bunch of blueprint "stubs"
* [17:50] <ArneGoetje> mie didn't get approved yet
* [17:50] <ArneGoetje> mine
* [17:50] <rickspencer3> essentially placeholders that I could use to subscibe folks to and for scheduling
* [17:50] <rickspencer3> ArneGoetje: no problems. These initial ones were based on internal partners and other things
* [17:51] <ArneGoetje> ok
* [17:51] <rickspencer3> folks from the community and Ubuntu engineers, still have time to create blueprints
* [17:51] <ArneGoetje> until when?
* [17:51] <seb128> do we need to create blueprints or only to suggest topics?
* [17:51] <rickspencer3> ideally, you would all get them stubbed out by eow
* [17:52] <rickspencer3> seb128: go ahead and create them, I think
* [17:52] <rickspencer3> I haven't been through this before, so I thought I would let you all tell me how you want to do it
* [17:52] <rickspencer3> I'
* [17:52] <rickspencer3> ll create them for you if you want, but it seems more efficient just to let you do it
* [17:52] <rickspencer3> pitti: what do you think?
* [17:52] <pitti> would be good to have the blueprints created in a week, so that we can still schedule them appropriately
* [17:53] <kenvandine_wk> rickspencer3: i have a few i proposed, which don't show up on the list yet... not sure what has to happen there
* [17:53] <seb128> right, I was just wondering if we were filtering topics before
* [17:53] <pitti> yes, everyone should create their "own", which you are interested in
* [17:53] <seb128> to not create blueprint for things which are not scheduled or accepted
* [17:53] <pitti> set drafter to you, approver to me, and propose for uds-karmic
* [17:53] <seb128> ok
* [17:54] <pitti> blueprints need to have a good summary and title
* [17:54] <kenvandine_wk> pitti: if i find one that exists already, how can i set myself to drafter?
* [17:54] <pitti> no need to create wiki pages yet, although of course having them is nice
* [17:54] <pitti> kenvandine_wk: "change people"
* [17:54] <pitti> kenvandine_wk: prod me to do it if you can't
* [17:54] <kenvandine_wk> ok
* [17:54] <kenvandine_wk> i have a couple i can't
* [17:54] <pitti> (it's restricted to some group I can't remember)
* [17:55] <pitti> or prod rickspencer3, whoever is available
* [17:55] <kenvandine_wk> i'll poke you after the meeting
* [17:55] <rickspencer3> In terms of title, I would ask that folks also start the name with "desktop"
* [17:55] <pitti> so before next meeting, rick and I will go through the karmic proposed ones and approve them
* [17:55] <rickspencer3> this makes the list much easier to use, I also have to manage dx and design sessions
* [17:55] <pitti> so that we can talk about the list in next week's meeting
* [17:56] <kenvandine_wk> can we rename the existing ones?
* [17:56] <pitti> right, good to bring that up
* [17:56] <kenvandine_wk> or have you guys rename them?
* [17:56] <rickspencer3> kenvandine_wk: yes
* [17:56] <pitti> please prefix the spec identifiers with desktop-karmic-*
* [17:56] <pitti> kenvandine_wk: retitling is easy, I don't know if the identifier can be changed
* [17:56] <pitti> anyone should be able to update title/description
* [17:57] <kenvandine_wk> i can't for the ones i didn't create
* [17:57] <kenvandine_wk> at least the one i tried
* [17:57] <pitti> kenvandine_wk: ok, let rickspencer3 or me reassign, then you will be able to
* [17:57] <kenvandine_wk> ok
* [17:58] <rickspencer3> next topic is easy: Desktop Summit
* [17:58] <rickspencer3> let me know if you're going, or want to go
* [17:58] <tkamppeter> I will not be there.
* [17:58] <rickspencer3> also, Canonical is hosting the welcoming party, so if you're going, make sure you get there in time for that, it should be a blast
* [17:58] <bryce> me neither
* [17:58] <rickspencer3> :(
* [17:58] <calc> rickspencer3: i emailed you last week about it
* [17:58] <ArneGoetje> me neither
* [17:59] <calc> rickspencer3: i'm interested in going but didn't have time to submit a paper before the deadline
* [17:59] <rickspencer3> okay, let me know *off list* if you're going or want to go :)
* [17:59] <rickspencer3> calc: ping me later and we can talk
* [17:59] <calc> ok
* [17:59] <rickspencer3> next: OEM team swapperoo
* [17:59] <rickspencer3> reminder that calc will be working with OEM services starting next week!
* [17:59] <rickspencer3> and we'll have a new team member as well (Tony, I think)
* [18:00] <bryce> have fun calc
* [18:00] <calc> bryce: heh :)
* [18:00] <bryce> will tony be working on openoffice then, or general desktop stuff?
* [18:00] <calc> i get to learn lots of new things and bring back my knowledge to the desktop crew in november :)
* [18:00] <rickspencer3> bryce: both
* [18:01] <rickspencer3> I think we'll have to basically slow down OOo development (which given the Sun buyout may be prudent anyway) and spread the work around a bit
* [18:01] <rickspencer3> also, calc will have some time to help us
* [18:01] <calc> the biggest chunk of OOo work is getting bugs properly triaged due to having two upstreams
* [18:01] <calc> we are pretty much caught up at the moment but get lots of new bugs every day :)
* [18:01] <rickspencer3> calc: We'll miss you, but I think you'll have a great time, and learn tons
* [18:02] <rickspencer3> any other business?
* [18:02] <calc> yep :)
* [18:02] <bryce> oh I have one thing
* [18:03] <bryce> I already mentioned it on the ubuntu-devel@ mailing list, but the X team has a PPA set up now with updates for all the major video drivers
* [18:03] <pitti> calc: good luck!
* [18:03] <bryce> https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates/
* [18:03] <rickspencer3> bryce: notice that Yingying_Zhao has started haning out in #u-d?
* [18:03] <bryce> I'm sure everyone here will be on karmic so will be getting these automatically, but please pass word around about this to anyone sticking to Jaunty.
* [18:04] <bryce> rickspencer3: no I hadn't
* [18:04] <rickspencer3> hi Yingying_Zhao o/
* [18:04]  * bryce waves to Yingying_Zhao
* [18:04] <pitti> hi Yingying_Zhao, nice to see you here!
* [18:04] <bryce> I'm formulating plans for -intel focus work for karmic, but more on that later.
* [18:04] <rickspencer3> schweet
* [18:04] <bryce> naught else from me.
* [18:05] <rickspencer3> meeting adjourned?
* [18:05] <calc> oh is Tony from the OEM team swap or a new hire?
* [18:06] <pitti> have fun everyone with karmic syncs and new crack!
* [18:06] <rickspencer3> calc: swap
* [18:06] <pitti> s/syncs/merges/
* [18:06] <calc> ok
* [18:06] <rickspencer3> thanks all
* [18:06] <ArneGoetje> thanks
* [18:06] <pitti> thanks all
* [18:06] <bryce> calc: iirc tony is the guitarist in the allhands jam
* [18:06] <seb128> thanks all
* [18:06] <rickspencer3> ArneGoetje: good night :)
* [18:07] <calc> bryce: ah
* [18:07] <calc> thanks
* [18:07] <ArneGoetje> rickspencer3: thanks... soon :)
* [18:07] <bryce> thanks all
