{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

(UDS notes, pasted from the blueprint used to schedule the UDS session)

Let's make a note to talk about startup looks as well as resume/return from screensaver looks.  In particular, if the login screen is too similar to the latter the user might enter their password as their username.

-- BoF notes ---
Plymouth? Other cool stuff?
https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/karmic-start-up-look-and-feel

* Goals:
** Fast --- 10 seconds (ssd drives?)
** flicker-free (need KMS)
** switch X to VT1 in gdm/kdm/xdm (pitti/seb128), disable getty on tty1 in upstart (Keybuk)
** preferably not support both usplash and plymouth (duplicates theming effort, etc.)
** Ability to switch to another OS while booting---boot loader should not disrupt the boot process or fiddle with screen
** Kernel team intends for Grub to be silent (and switch to grub 2)
* KMS impacts
** Needs fallback for non-kms drivers (-nvidia, etc.)
 
* OS Switcher:
** User could trigger it during boot process
** While the user is selecting the session, the system is essentially ready to start, waiting for him to choose
** Same type of screen could be called from the user session, ex: at logout or after selecting reboot
** We don't want people to feel anxiety about switching back and forth
** Preferable to put the switcher in the GDM/KDM/XDM menu?
** gdm starts at 3s in the startup sequence, so the os-switcher could be implemented as a gdm plugin
** What happens if bootup fails?
   - Come back with grub providing a menu, so the user can select rescue mode.
     - Have grub by default go to menu, but be constantly told to hide the menu whenever user reboots from Ubuntu
       but make sure that rebooting into windows doesn't cause a subsequent reboot to always go windows (reset default when boot into other OS)
** If forced to switch at GDM (only), would boot be fast enough so that users
    don't find booting into Ubuntu, then rebooting into their desired OS?
    - If kernel or X breaks, user wouldn't be able to boot into another OS
** on kernel panic: kexec into a working system and file a bug
    - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/specs/KernelKarmicBugHandling
** on OOPS or warnings: Better to have apport popup on successful login to report a bug?
** Filesystem checks are what hold up the boot at the moment
** fsck integration needs integration with plymouth if we use it
** Have design on bootup become "more ubuntu" as bootup progresses
    - Dark GDM theme was chosen because it resembled the rest of the boot splash
** Trigger a shutdown, tell grub what to reboot into.
   - What to print on screen at shutdown? If we leave the video driver loaded, we
     could leave a message box saying shutting down. At the moment, we only clear
     the screen.
     + We need to provide some form of feedback to the user to let him/her know what
     we're doing.
     + In text mode, shutting down provides a wall message, shutting down now, etc.
     + Probably easier just to fade to black at the end, the time between telling
       the user what we're doing, fading to black and rebooting will be incredibly
       short anyway.
     + Can also show a message using an arbitrary graphical application (when in kernel mode) that then fades to black, eg: rebooting into Windows or rebooting into old kernel

 flicker mitigation strategy for non-KMS compatible drivers: use text mode, and wait for X to drive the screen; and using a black / empty screen (just before flicker is planned).  We need a text mode boot anyway for ubuntu server.

* only ever touch the mode once by the kernel or X.org graphics driver
* only two modes for fsck/encryption passphrase: text for server and non-KMS, and "pretty" for KMS
    - two supported systems at the moment: ecryptfs (private directory), 
      dm-crypt (whole filesystem)

* Wouldn't need usplash if boot is under 5s -> let's drop usplash altogether, to remain with two cases (text/plymouth)
* -poulsbo is KMS-enabled already
* -openchrome
  
* hibernate: 
   - this is why having i915 built into kernel would be benefical
     - Would this require having an Intel graphics card?
* The prettier you make resume, the longer it'll take. Text mode will make it quicker
   - Would be a black screen, with only a white bar moving across the screen.
   
In-kernel throbber: no interest, because it requires a graphic infrastructure (drivers) that is not available early enough

Let's not forget about Kubuntu (KDM) and the variants using XDM.
