{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Weekly Summary ==

* Land GNOME 3.4.1
* Quickly 12.04 landed, which '''removed''' support for the ubuntu-pygame template (rickspencer3, mterry)

== Agenda ==

* ''Insert things to discuss at meeting here..''

=== Partner update ===
==== Ubuntu One ====
* ubuntuone-control-panel-qt doesn't handle uniqness on linux (it does on windows), which is not only confusing that it launchers duplicate instances but can actually cause problems.  They will work on it and propose an SRU (Bug:987909)

=== Unity ===

* Discussions about the latest upload needs for unity in precise finale. The current version in the repository should be the latest
* Lot of work to get the first SRU with a bunch of nice fixes (next release planned on Thursday/Friday, then uploaded to -proposed directly once, we get the upstream test results).

=== X.org ===

* xdiagnose 2.5 released.  Bugfix release, focused on improvements to the apport hooks. [bryce]
* LTS package renaming (xorg-pkg-tools)
*** Implemented dpkg-control, which renames package in the control file and adds Breaks/Replaces, etc. [bryce]
*** Implemented lts-pkg-rename, which renames package in all files under debian/ (and uses dpkg-control for the control file). [bryce]
* Focus on debugging GPU lockups on -intel.  Forwarded a bunch to Intel, and flagged a handful of upstream patches we need in our kernel [bryce]

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
</pre>
