{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (calc)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancel)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Welcome Robert Ancell
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* cv-rev
* ekiga 3.2 after beta?
* OEM Swapperoo
* Release Bugs / Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===
* ACTION: everyone to send rickspencer3 email wrt to people who should be sponsored for UDS
** Result: rickspecner3 has received requests, and highest priority ones are now on the list. Note that the list is over the cap, so we may need to prioritize our list.
* ACTION: asac to ping luke regarding 278095
** Result: the bug status is now "Fix Released"
* ACTION: asac and mvo to complete Adobe in partner archive work
** Result: Guidelines reviewed and revised, revision sent to ubuntu-devel for final review. Adobe has uploaded into the partner repository (as of a few days ago). Next step is to get technical board sign off on process, and to white list the Adobe partner repository.
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to ascertain the state of the artwork for the beta
** Result: Artwork is mostly complete, and is in the beta. robbiew is working with julian to set out clear understanding of artwork process for Karmic.

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== cv-rev ===
* Note that the QA team is making an effort to find and assign bugs that should be fixed. Pitti and I will be assigning more bugs to Desktop Team members.
* If you don't think you will get the chance to fix a bug, don't keep it assigned to you. Rather, assign it to "nobody", and then add the tag "cv-rev". This stands for "Canonical Team Reviewed" and means that you've looked at the bug, but chose not to fix it.
* Be liberal about using ct-rev, as the QA team will be liberal about assigning bugs.
* The ct-rev tag will keep the bug from coming up in QA team queries, and will release the bug to be addressed by someone in the community.

=== ekiga 3.2 after beta? ===

=== OEM Swapperoo ===
* In order to facilitate better team to team communication and cooperation, 3 people from the platform team will be swapping roles with 3 people from OEM team for Karmic cycle.
* Our own calc has been nominated for this. (congrats calc).
* Goal is for calc to learn their processes and "walk a mile in their shoes", and bring that understanding back to platform team after Karmic.
* Desktop team will be getting an engineer from OEM team with the symetrical goals.
* We'll probably slow progress on OOo while calc is gone, distribute maintenance responsibilities for OOo during Karmic so that OEM engineer can have a bit of variety.
* Plans are shoring up now.

=== Release Bugs / Release Status ===
==== Release Status ====
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/ReleaseStatus
Hard ones:
* https://launchpad.net/bugs/304871: -intel X.org driver does not work on i845G → with 2.6.3 plus corresponding kernel changes, some people have reported seeing the issue go away, but results are mixed; still awaiting testing by original reporter.
* https://launchpad.net/bugs/320632: tap-to-click and edge scrolling broken → already believed to be fixed, but not on all models; original poster now identified the responsible git commit (but probably not something we can just trivially reverse... needs more analysis.)
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/267241: X fails to start with more than one display adapter → Fedora patch found which should solve the issue; has been uploaded, but probably will wait until post-beta to go in.
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/325973: "Starting File Manager" windows open uncontrollably → only when using gconf-editor, not by default (thus not very visible); Fedora has a bandaid, but the real root cause is harder to fix

==== Release Bugs ====
===== Jaunty Targeted =====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Id'''
| '''Title'''
| '''Assigned To'''
| '''Status'''
| '''Importance'''
| '''Package'''
| '''Release'''
| '''Milestone'''
| '''Team'''
| '''Date Confirmed'''
|-
| 310353
| Default font size too large if using native DPI
| asac
| In Progress
| High
| gnome-control-center (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| ubuntu-9.04
| canonical-desktop-team
| 2009-03-18T21:52:00.957050+00:00
|-
| 275432
| libpolkit requires files from policykit for polkit_context_init to work
| pitti
| In Progress
| High
| policykit (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| 
| canonical-desktop-team
| 2008-10-07T18:12:31.033739+00:00
|-
| 264336
| pgsql fails to start due to shared buffer setting greater than kernel allows
| pitti
| Triaged
| High
| postgresql-common (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| 
| canonical-desktop-team
| 2009-02-16T09:39:46.237983+00:00
|-
| 267241
| Xorg fails to start with more than one display adapter
| bryceharrington
| Triaged
| High
| xorg-server (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| 
| canonical-desktop-team
| 2008-10-11T17:25:21.526859+00:00
|-
| 304871
| [i845G] Fatal server error: Couldn't bind memory for BO front buffer (Jaunty)
| bryceharrington
| Triaged
| High
| xserver-xorg-video-intel (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| 
| canonical-desktop-team
| 2009-02-04T16:05:50.270746+00:00
|-
| 107668
| Setting an invalid mount point can make a removeable media unaccessible
| pitti
| In Progress
| High
| gnome-mount (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| 
| canonical-desktop-team
| 2007-04-19T18:11:36.745330+00:00
|-
| 318742
| D-Bus Policy needs checking
| pitti
| Fix Committed
| Low
| cups (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| 
| canonical-desktop-team
| 2009-03-24T08:02:42.490067+00:00
|-
| 347457
| Should ignore U3 (Windows software) on SanDisk Cruzer Titanium
| pitti
| Fix Committed
| Low
| hal-info (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| 
| canonical-desktop-team
| 2009-03-23T18:38:26.925543+00:00
|-
| 145716
| panel launchers break on upgrade
| asac
| Triaged
| Medium
| thunderbird (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| 
| canonical-desktop-team
| 2008-12-31T18:38:57.742883+00:00
|-
| 308060
| Include libmsn in main
| jr
| Confirmed
| Medium
| libmsn (Ubuntu Jaunty)
| jaunty
| ubuntu-9.04-beta
| canonical-desktop-team
| 2009-01-06T13:44:56.126346+00:00
|}

===== Milestoned, Not Targeted, High Only =====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Id'''
| '''Title'''
| '''Assigned To'''
| '''Status'''
| '''Importance'''
| '''Package'''
| '''Release'''
| '''Milestone'''
| '''Team'''
| '''Date Confirmed'''
|-
| 270303
| MASTER - firefox (intrepid): your browser has been updated and needs to be restarted
| asac
| In Progress
| High
| ubufox (Ubuntu)
| 
| ubuntu-9.04
| canonical-desktop-team
| 2008-10-23T09:11:26.751443+00:00
|-
| 347144
| Error when try to install BrOffice 3.0.1 in Ubuntu 8.04
| ccheney
| Fix Committed
| High
| openoffice.org (Ubuntu)
| 
| ubuntu-9.04
| canonical-desktop-team
| 2009-03-23T15:10:23.733474+00:00
|-
| 89005
| [debian] [1:3.0.1-8] oosmoketest fails to run
| ccheney
| Triaged
| High
| openoffice.org (Ubuntu)
| 
| ubuntu-9.04
| canonical-desktop-team
| 2007-06-16T00:29:15.066585+00:00
|-
| 319824
| [ooo-build] DATA LOSS: openoffice oobase reports SIGSEGV in openjdk-6 when saving a report
| ccheney
| Triaged
| High
| openoffice.org (Ubuntu)
| 
| ubuntu-9.04
| canonical-desktop-team
| 2009-03-23T03:08:00.935460+00:00
|-
| 346443
| [ooo-build] uno.py incompatible with python 2.6 / Type error when using encode
| ccheney
| Triaged
| High
| openoffice.org (Ubuntu)
| 
| ubuntu-9.04
| canonical-desktop-team
| 2009-03-21T18:39:57.135039+00:00
|-
| 346551
| OOo can't see many dictionaries due to not falling back from ll_cc to ll (sv-SE is one)
| ccheney
| Triaged
| High
| openoffice.org (Ubuntu)
| 
| ubuntu-9.04
| canonical-desktop-team
| 2009-03-21T23:40:29.359513+00:00
|-
| 339847
| system-config-printer notification patch should auto-detect capabilities of notification daemon, so that it can get upstreamized
| ken-vandine
| Triaged
| High
| system-config-printer (Ubuntu)
| 
| ubuntu-9.04-beta
| canonical-desktop-team
| 2009-03-09T09:51:20.656605+00:00
|-
| 323109
| network-manager integration: firefox downloads do not honour network-manager online/offline state
| asac
| Triaged
| High
| firefox-3.0 (Ubuntu)
| 
| ubuntu-9.04
| canonical-desktop-team
| 2009-01-30T10:42:13.537418+00:00
|-
| 310353
| Default font size too large if using native DPI
| asac
| In Progress
| High
| gnome-control-center (Ubuntu)
| 
| ubuntu-9.04
| canonical-desktop-team
| 2009-03-18T21:52:00.957050+00:00
|-
| 341940
| Ericsson F3507g - name displayed very long in nm-applet
| asac
| New
| High
| network-manager-applet (Ubuntu)
| 
| ubuntu-9.04
| canonical-desktop-team
| None
|-
| 341803
| Ericsson F3507g - reports 3 mobile broadband connections
| asac
| Incomplete
| High
| network-manager (Ubuntu)
| 
| ubuntu-9.04
| canonical-desktop-team
| None
|-
| 331618
| make new tab behaviour consistent in Firefox
| asac
| Triaged
| High
| firefox-3.0 (Ubuntu)
| 
| ubuntu-9.04-beta
| canonical-desktop-team
| 2009-02-19T16:58:53.463635+00:00
|}

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

===== fonts =====
* change default fonts to be pixel sized and gather feedback on regressions prepare fixes
** fixes avail: evolution, gnome-terminal, gtkhtml, pidgin, thunderbird; openoffice; gtk (textview part)
** fixes not yet done: nautilus, gtk (markup), brasero, devhelp, yelp
* back-out libgnome default switches; deferred to karmic
* openoffice code verify and upstream discussion to verify that the pixel sized fonts are really fixed in 310 milestones (for karmic)
* email pango maintainer about the point vs. pixelsized approach
* looking into how enforcing lower "point" size constraints in fontconfig for screens where pixelsize would become too small
* gnome-control center fix to convert points (UI) to pixels (backend/gconf); still some rounding issues left, but since we backed out the pixel size default I lowered the importance for that.

===== networkmanager =====
* prepare and upload new networkmanager for beta
** debugging networkmanager modem-probing with community
* reviewing changes on mbm support in modemmanager
* networkmanager incoming bug triage and start to find bugs important to
   fix after beta.
* implement and upload networkmanager notification fine tuning for beta

===== misc =====
* thunderbird security update rolled out
* pm-utils fix for networkmanager resume issue - LP: #291062
* ubufox rc1 release prepared; pulled in translation contributions; uploaded to jaunty fore beta
* install daily UNR jaunty image on mini 9; next test compiz startup time

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====
* Offsite meeting with Academia Sinica about CJK font development. They
will release their CDP Hanzi font under GPLv3 until the end of this year.
* Rosetta: moving KDE templates from kdeaddons to konq-plugins and
merging the translations. This included exporting of the current
translations from the templates in konq-plugins and re-importing them to
kdeaddons before moving the templates over to konq-plugins. This
required the manual approval of 700+ .po files, which took me a whole
working day.  :(
* imported new Mozilla translations (3.0.7) into Rosetta for Jaunty
* exported all Jaunty translations from Rosetta, built new -base
language-packs and uploaded them
* discussions with jtv about Launchpad flaws and their open bug reports

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====
==== Distro ====
* Sponsoring - -savage(#33617), -i128(#340750)

==== Xorg Work ====
* Uploaded new -fglrx (now with xserver 1.6 support finally)
* Uploaded new -intel 2.6.3 (UXA + other fixes)
* Uploaded new xorg (fixes 5 bugs)
* Uploaded new -ati 6.12.1 bugfix release
* Uploaded new xkeyboard-config (fixes 5 bugs)
* Recoded bug graphs to differentiate proprietary vs. foss
* XSmoke testing + fixes
* Got xorg package down to 1 bug report
* Got libdrm package down to 1 bug report
* Forwarded bugs upstream: 324465, 297428
* Cherrypicked upstream patches for now-fixed bugs
* Cleared my assigned ubuntu X bugs down to 3 total
* Work on xserver nullptr crash bugs, several fixes uploaded

==== Misc ====
* Discussing ideas on bug sorting/filtering
* Improve expire-bugs.py to not expire certain kinds of bugs even if
   they've gone too long with no response
==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====
* Uploaded openoffice.org 1:3.0.1-7ubuntu1 to jaunty
* Uploaded openoffice.org 1:3.0.1-7ubuntu1~intrepid1 to openoffice-pkgs intrepid ppa
* Uploaded openoffice.org 1:3.0.1-7ubuntu1~hardy1 to openoffice-pkgs hardy ppa
* Uploaded suitesparse 1:3.2.0-4 to openoffice-pkgs intrepid ppa
* Uploaded lp-solve 5.5.0.13-4 to openoffice-pkgs intrepid ppa
* Resolved issue where document filters were broken, reverted to internal saxon v9
* Setup freedesktop.org account for new ooo-build git location
* Had openoffice-pkgs ppa quota raised to 4GB to have room for split build testing
* 2 Meetings with Rick
* Weekly OOo Release Status Meeting - still no OOo 3.1 RC build
* Weekly desktop team meeting
* Lots of bug triage, now at 91.53% - 89.18% - 100.00% on upstream bug report

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====
done:
* pre-beta testing and fixes
* call with mdz
* investigate oversized CDs
* merge and test ubiquity fixes
* run Kubuntu meeting (two new members)
* review patches for libmsn and gpgconf
* test jockey and port to knotify
* patch KDE's cmake files to use our custom paths
* replace plasma config files with patches to code (which seems to
cause a different set of problems)
* discuss nepomuk problems and test patch from agateau
* investigate why we still have gdebi on the CDs and patch
kpackagekit to be higher priority

todo:
* more beta testing and release

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
Done:
    - Assisted with the GNOME bump
    - Updated ekiga, opal, and ptlib in my ppa to 3.2 for testing
    - Helped with the script for adding the indicator-applet to an
existing panel
    - Debugged kerneloops failures, applied patches and submitted the
patches upstream
    - Message Indicator/Notification use case testing
    - Fixed a permissions problem in couchdb on intrepid
    - Packaged the indicator python bindings
    - Worked on an example using the indicator python bindings
    - Patched gajim to use the message indicator

Working on:
    - Cleaning up gajim patches and submitting upstream
    - Update the kerneloops applet patch with a fix from bratsche
    - Get the indicator python bindings uploaded somewhere useful

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====
Assigned blueprints: all implemented

Currently open stable/milestoned bugs:
* #275432 (libpolkit requires files from policykit): no time yet, will attack soon
* #264336 (pgsql fails to start due to shared buffer setting greater than kernel allows): hard to reproduce, and unclear when it happens; no time yet
* #107668 (Setting an invalid mount point can make a removeable media unaccessible): No time yet, but should be easy
* #318742 (cups D-Bus Policy needs checking): Fixed in trunk, will upload after beta freeze
* #344688 (New PostgreSQL bug fix microreleases: 8.3.7, 8.1.17): already prepared for Debian over the weekend, planned for Ubuntu SRU this week
* #345655 (tzdata 2009c available): planned for this week

Non-chores stuff done:
* 9.10 planning calls
* Lots of bug fixing
* some release management, CD testing, related bug triage

Sponsoring:
* indicator-messages, apparmor, checkbox, eel2, evolution-indicator, gimp, gnome-doc-utils, gnome-power-manager, kerneloops, landscape-client, ubuntu-gdm-themes, tomboy
==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====
* GNOME 2.26 updates: gnome-utils libgweather gnome-panel
evolution-exchange evolution gnome-desktop alacarte gconf-editor
gnome-vfs libgnomecanvas evolution-webcal gnome-settings-daemon
gconf librsvg libgnome libxklavier gdm rhythmbox

* gnome-settings-daemon change to fix eject notify-osd interaction

* fixed some desktop build issues

* investigated how to win some CD space:
- downgraded gnome-applets recommends on deskbar-applet to a suggests
- updated libbonoboui to install the documentation in the correct binary
- libgnomeprint, libgnomeprintui and libgtksourceview1 would be easy to
get not on the CD by installing the gnome-python-desktop .so in new
binaries, looked through to the rdepends what would need to be updated

* started jaunty beta CD testing

* traveled to London to work with Robert who is starting this week

* usual amount of desktop bugs triaging

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* Updated DebuggingPrintingProblems page: Troubleshooting facilities of system-config-printer, debug logging with "cupsctl LogLevel=debug", ...
* Requested and received upstream fix for pdftopdf filter to fix broken multiple copies (bug #345183).
* Added Apport hook to many printing-related packages: system-config-printer, hal-cups-utils, ghostscript, foomatic-*, hplip, gutenprint, splix, foo2zjs (bug #338442)
* Improved post-install script for automatic PPD update used in the printer driver packages. It produced ugly error messages in some cases (bug #345866)
* Fixed several crash bugs and a Python incompatibility in system-config-printer

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
