{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Actions from previous meeting ==

== Actions from this meeting ==

== Weekly Summary ==

* Updated to Ghostscript 9.04: Printing performance (rendering PDF files in high resolution) vastly improved. Fixed LP: #668800 solved (TillKamppeter).
* Updated all printer driver packages (Foomatic, Ghostscript, CUPS, HPLIP, pxljr, foo2zjs, m2300w, ptouch-driver) to have "-dNOINTERPOLATE" in the Ghostscript command line to make Ghostscript's page rendering for printing even faster (TillKamppeter).
* Upstream release of Foomatic 4.0.8 and update of the appropriate Ubuntu packages (TillKamppeter).
* CUPS 1.5.0 released, started work on packaging it (TillKamppeter).
* Oneiric now will respect OnlyShowIn=Unity, so some things may be hidden that should be shown.  Make sure to add Unity to most GNOME-specific .desktop files as needed. (mterry)
* Added support for default application by mimetype for the image builder (didrocks)
* OneConf API redefined with isd. server side almost complete. Still no design for the new software-center and still uncertain which version will be in oneiric, blocking the OneConf feature (didrocks)
* gnumake4 cws from OOo merged to LO master (bjeorn-michaelsen):
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/libreoffice/+spec/desktop-o-completely-gbuildize-libreoffice
** http://nabble.documentfoundation.org/Brace-for-impact-gnumake4-to-hit-master-td3192816.html
** LibreOffice (excluding external modules) now is over 70% migrated to the new build system (6411 of 9037 object files
* Added patch to NM to establish IPv4 and IPv6 "separately" which should provide a huge increase in speed to establish connections (since then there is no need to wait for IPv6 to timeout when it's not available) (cyphermox)

=== Partner update ===
==== DX ====
* libindicate-gtk ported to gtk3, being reviewed now
* indicator-session: ronoc might finish the apt integration this week.

==== UbuntuOne ====
* Agreement made with RT for U1 to provide a shim that installs from some repository, which for oneiric will be main

=== Unity ===

* Last week saw the new compiz (0.9.5.0) out. We noticed some performance regressions with it. There is currently a workaround in light-themes to minimize the added boot latency and the slowdown during it's running. Seeing the results of the unity dialogs, there is both code issues and design issues, we decided to revert the feature soon.
* Reverting the feature deps on new coming feature to add/update/remove existing compiz configuration. The branches are there but pending review. Asked the dx team to review and test this.
* Same statement for the gsettings backend. Some parts are approved though.

* Unity:
** new unity release (unity-place-applications, nux, unity).
** bring some initial new alt + tab support (available through ctrl + tab right now). This one doens't support multiple instances of applications for now. This will come soon. Once feature complete, it will become the new alt + tab (but depends on the above compiz feature)
** We noticed misc breakage in keyboard and mouse handling (dash navigation, super key, mouse middle click). Some parts are due to the new compiz, other by the new unity.
** New release normally this week

* Unity-2d:
** imminent release (today or tomorrow). This one will bring indicator-gtk3 panel! (no more indicator gtk2 stack on the CD). Better navigation on the dash and full a11y support. dconf support for settings (and shared settings for launchers between unity 3D and 2D), enabling gnome3 integration.
** dconf-qt packaged, some fixes, pushed in oneiric and MIR acked. Just wait on the new unity-2d to actually promote it
** work on making kubuntu people life easier, but still having the appmenu gtk support without bringing gtk on the CD for them (will be brought by first gtk app there)

=== Software Center ===
* Ratings and Reviews
** Server-side support for editing and deleting your own reviews has been deployed
** New "Top-Rated" section added to the Software Center home screen
* Standalone deb installation (gdebi functionality) improvements
** More than 50% speedup in startup time when installing a standalone deb
** Correctly show spinner until the software item screen is displayed
* Software Center version 4.1.10 released, includes the above plus many bug fixes

=== Kubuntu ===

=== X.org ===

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
[15:30] <seb128> ok, meeting time
[15:31] <cyphermox> davmor2: :)
[15:31] <seb128> kenvandine, hey
[15:31] <seb128> kenvandine, are you back?
[15:31] <kenvandine> yup
[15:31] <kenvandine> partner update is on the wiki
[15:31] <seb128> kenvandine, ok, partner update?
[15:31]  * Sweetshark dances
[15:31] <seb128> libindicate-gtk-gtk3 \o/
[15:31] <kenvandine> yup!
[15:32] <seb128> those lib(indic*)-gtk<n>-gtk<v> start being ridiculous :p
[15:32] <seb128> oh, a mterry
[15:32] <kenvandine> i am reviewing that now and will fix up the packaging
[15:32] <seb128> mterry, meeting!
[15:32] <kenvandine> we should be able to build gir and vapi now
[15:32] <mterry> yup :)
[15:32] <seb128> excellent
[15:32] <kenvandine> tedg also fixed up the namespace problems
[15:33] <seb128> ok
[15:33] <seb128> kenvandine, what is u1 going to do exactly?
[15:33] <kenvandine> i don't have much detail yet... but apparently RT has agreed
[15:34] <seb128> they will have their updates out of the archive?
[15:34] <kenvandine> for oneiric it will be a shim that only accesses main
[15:34] <kenvandine> not for oneiric, i think
[15:34] <seb128> ok
[15:34] <seb128> did they agree with pitti as well? ;-)
[15:34] <kenvandine> i haven't been in on the all the discussions, josh forwarded me more mails
[15:34] <seb128> well I will let that to him when he's back :p
[15:34] <kenvandine> i need to read
[15:34] <seb128> it's not the sort of topic I want to step in
[15:35] <seb128> questions for kenvandine?
[15:36] <seb128> seems not
[15:36] <seb128> thanks kenvandine
[15:36] <kenvandine> :)
[15:36] <seb128> didrocks, hey
[15:36] <seb128> didrocks, unity update?
[15:36] <didrocks> everything should be on the wiki :)
[15:37] <seb128> didrocks, unity-2d on gtk3 \o/
[15:37] <didrocks> I'm sure everyone is eager to see next update! :)
[15:37] <seb128> no \o/ for unity-3d, I'm waiting for them to fix their events handling and leaks :p
[15:38] <didrocks> let's see what we will get this week :)
[15:38] <seb128> questions for didrocks?
[15:38] <highvoltage> is the ubuntu-desktop team doing anything for gnome 3 fallback mode?
[15:38] <highvoltage> we're planning to support it as an optional extra in edubuntu
[15:38] <didrocks> highvoltage: the fallback mode is unity2d
[15:39] <didrocks> for unity
[15:39] <seb128> didrocks, GNOME3 gnome-panel is still supported but not on the CD
[15:39] <didrocks> I think the same code is working for gnome-shell -> gnome-panel
[15:39] <highvoltage> didrocks: no I'm specifically talking about gnome 3 fallback, or "the old gnome desktop"
[15:39] <didrocks> highvoltage: it should work for the gnome-shell session (it was when I merged gnome-session)
[15:39] <seb128> highvoltage, we have unity3d, unity2d, gnome-shell, gnome-panel on gtk3
[15:39] <didrocks> seb128: I know that, but thanks :-)
[15:39] <seb128> you can use whatever you want in edubuntu I guess
[15:40] <seb128> didrocks, sorry, that was for highvoltage
[15:40] <seb128> but I'm not sure I understood the question
[15:40] <highvoltage> ok, I was just wondering if the desktop team planned any other work for it. I'll take that as a no then.
[15:40] <seb128> we will package updates
[15:40] <seb128> but that's about it
[15:40] <highvoltage> ok
[15:41] <seb128> thanks didrocks
[15:41] <seb128> tremolux, hey
[15:41] <didrocks> yw
[15:41] <seb128> tremolux, s-c update?
[15:42] <tremolux> seb128: hey! yes, I put it on the wiki
[15:42] <seb128> hum, no tremolux?
[15:42] <seb128> oh ;-)
[15:42] <tremolux> new release has some cool stuff, editing and deleting of your reviews, new top rated section
[15:43] <seb128> nice
[15:43] <tremolux> and a great speedup of gdebi file load
[15:43] <seb128> how is the gtk3 work going?
[15:43] <tremolux> (a lot of people have been unhappy about that)
[15:44] <seb128> tremolux, how is the gtk3 work going otherwise?
[15:44] <tremolux> it is still moving forward and has some beautiful elements now, but there is a lot remaining before it can be in a state that we could consider making it the default
[15:44] <seb128> ok, so not likely this cycle I guess?
[15:45] <seb128> (I'm watching for the GNOME3 specs)
[15:45] <tremolux> in other words, it's very rough still at this point...it's a very young effort relatively as this was spec'd well into the cycle
[15:45] <seb128> ok
[15:46] <tremolux> the issue is that the gtk3 port contains all of the new 5.0 design elements, rather than a straight port of what we have
[15:46] <didrocks> tremolux: so, if I really want to push oneconf by default, should I target the gtk2 version?
[15:46] <tremolux> so it's massive churn in progress
[15:46] <tremolux> didrocks: is there a lot of UI involved?
[15:46] <didrocks> as it's clearly what's block me at that point, the server part is all done :)
[15:46] <didrocks> tremolux: well, the plugin that is changed everytime due to s-c API not being garranteed
[15:46] <didrocks> tremolux: quite a lot of code, indeed
[15:47] <tremolux> if the backend is pretty stable and the UI work is not too involved, it can be done in both branches
[15:47] <tremolux> didrocks: right, the plugin api, does it keep changing?
[15:47] <didrocks> tremolux: the plugin api is giving access to the full s-c, and yeah, it keeps changing :)
[15:48] <tremolux> didrocks: well, the gtk2 branch should be getting quite stable at this point, I hope  :/
[15:48] <didrocks> tremolux: ok, I'll try to target the gtk2 branch for oneiric then
[15:49] <tremolux> didrocks: and yes, I think you'd want to target that because gtk3 is still quite rough and in a lot of churn
[15:50] <didrocks> tremolux: ok, can we have a look that week of what changed? I'll try to keep the plugin as it is today then
[15:50] <tremolux> didrocks: but I hate for you to put a lot of work into the gtk2 stuff because it is EOLing for 12.04 for sure
[15:50] <didrocks> tremolux: yeah, but oneconf missed the target for everytime a new reason for 2 cycles already, I don't want it to be that 3 times :)
[15:50] <didrocks> let's see how much work it is to port to the current gtk2 version
[15:51] <tremolux> didrocks: I hear you loud and clear :)
[15:51] <didrocks> I'll ping ou directly (or you can join #oneconf)
[15:51] <didrocks> :)
[15:51] <didrocks> or*
[15:51] <tremolux> didrocks: ONECONF must happen!
[15:51] <seb128> ok, seems like we should target the gtk2 version for oneiric rather
[15:51] <didrocks> \o/
[15:51] <tremolux> seb128: yes, sorry I didn't make that very clear
[15:51] <seb128> it's getting late to land and stabilize the gtk3 one especially if lot of work is still needed
[15:52] <seb128> tremolux, no worry, thanks for the update, keep the good work!
[15:52] <tremolux> seb128: exactly, it's very rough still, my honest assessment
[15:52] <seb128> didrocks, thanks for the oneconf work, let's cross fingers it lands this cycle ;-)
[15:52] <seb128> let's move on
[15:52]  * didrocks crosses his finger very hard as well :)
[15:52] <didrocks> fingers*
[15:52] <seb128> http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-oneiric/canonical-desktop-team-oneiric-alpha-3.html
[15:52]  * tremolux too
[15:52] <seb128> so
[15:53] <tremolux> thanks guys
[15:53] <seb128> the curve is not an happy curve!
[15:53] <seb128> so please everybody update your a3 wi
[15:53] <seb128> let's discuss those a bit there
[15:53] <seb128> kenvandine, hey again
[15:53] <kenvandine> yeah
[15:54] <seb128> kenvandine, gwibber still had 4 for "friends" topic
[15:54] <seb128> is that on track? needed for a3?
[15:54] <kenvandine> no... blocked on a e-d-s bug
[15:54] <kenvandine> which rodrigo_ might fix :)
[15:54] <kenvandine> from what i hear
[15:54] <rodrigo_> kenvandine, hmm, which bug?
[15:54] <kenvandine> the one BigWhale asked about
[15:54] <kenvandine> one sec
[15:55] <chrisccoulson> seb128, i can close 5 WI's in one go when you do bug 816377 ;)
[15:55] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 816377 in xulrunner-2.0 "Please remove and blacklist source and binaries from oneiric" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/816377
[15:55] <seb128> chrisccoulson, ;-)
[15:55] <chrisccoulson> that's a good motivator :)
[15:55] <seb128> indeed
[15:55] <kenvandine> rodrigo_, my awesome bar isn't findiing it :)
[15:56] <rodrigo_> kenvandine, hmm, is it the one about get_contacts not working on the gir generated stuff?
[15:56] <seb128> chrisccoulson, btw charline has a wi on the email client spec, do you know if she did the testing yet? did they publish it somewhere?
[15:56] <kenvandine> yes
[15:57] <seb128> kenvandine, seems like that feature could slip to next cycle without being a stopper anyway?
[15:57] <kenvandine> yeah
[15:57] <rodrigo_> kenvandine, oh, ok, i looked at it and the doc comments for the API include the correct info for the introspection stuff to be generated correctly, so not sure why it didn't work
[15:57] <rodrigo_> kenvandine, if you find the bug # I'll have another look
[15:57] <kenvandine> rodrigo_, i think it was crashing for him
[15:57] <kenvandine> looking
[15:57] <rodrigo_> kenvandine, because I don't remember the exact details
[15:57] <rodrigo_> kenvandine, yes
[15:57] <seb128> ok
[15:57] <seb128> let's discuss that bug after the meeting
[15:57] <seb128> kenvandine, can you make sure there is a bug and add it to the blueprint?
[15:58] <seb128> with rodrigo maybe subscribed to it
[15:58] <seb128> or assigned
[15:58] <kenvandine> https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=654564
[15:58] <ubot2> Gnome bug 654564 in Contacts "Querying EDS address book in Python results in a segfault" [Critical,Unconfirmed]
[15:58] <kenvandine> rodrigo_,  ^^
[15:58] <rodrigo_> kenvandine, ok
[15:58] <geser> did the key to delete files in nautilus change or did I break my config? pressing "del" does nothing (in oneiric)
[15:58] <cyphermox> ah, that could get fixed once 3.1.4 is ready no?
[15:59] <seb128> geser, ctrl-delete
[15:59] <kenvandine> rodrigo_, thx!
[15:59] <seb128> cyphermox, which one of the reason we wait for your update: p
[15:59] <seb128> ok, thanks kenvandine, rodrigo_
[15:59] <cyphermox> yeah, working on it, e-d-s is ready just finishing evo so I can test that it roughly works ;)
[15:59] <seb128> kenvandine, the feature is not a blocker for oneiric I guess?
[15:59] <kenvandine> no
[15:59] <seb128> ok, so let's see how it goes
[15:59] <kenvandine> we really really really want it
[16:00] <seb128> we can drop the milestone from it if needed
[16:00] <kenvandine> but not a blocker
[16:00] <kenvandine> yeah
[16:00] <geser> seb128: thx, any reason why it changed?
[16:00] <kenvandine> i am doing that
[16:00] <seb128> thanks kenvandine
[16:00] <seb128> geser, see upstream lists, basically one key was too easy to hit without noticing for some users
[16:00] <seb128> some users complained for a while that it was too easy to delete files without noticing
[16:01] <seb128> ok
[16:01] <seb128> next
[16:01] <seb128> chrisccoulson, you still have quite some email client and unity integration workitems
[16:01] <seb128> how are those going?
[16:02] <chrisccoulson> seb128, the calendar stuff probably isn't going to happen for oneiric
[16:02] <seb128> :-(
[16:03] <chrisccoulson> i wouldn't mind some input from design about what the default calendar experience should be like
[16:03] <seb128> I guess the appmenu upstream one is not really something we block on, what we have now is working?
[16:03] <chrisccoulson> yeah, there's no hurry to do that one
[16:03] <seb128> the firefox download thing seems rather a "nice to have" that a needed
[16:03] <seb128> well let's see where we stand next week
[16:04] <chrisccoulson> yeah, i started an extension for that a while ago
[16:04] <seb128> we will need to win some CD space back
[16:04] <chrisccoulson> which sort-of works
[16:04] <seb128> we need to win some 15mb
[16:04] <kenvandine> ugh no calendaring?
[16:05] <chrisccoulson> kenvandine, there is some work to get lightning to use eds, but i wouldn't want to ship that by default anyway
[16:05] <kenvandine> :(
[16:05] <kenvandine> so no way by default to get appointments in indicator-datetime
[16:05] <chrisccoulson> and i'm not sure how to support lightning atm
[16:05] <chrisccoulson> especially seeing as bindwood has been broken now for 5 weeks since we did the last firefox update
[16:06] <chrisccoulson> i guess lightning will have the same problems with security updates
[16:06] <seb128> kenvandine, what appointments? no calendar ui by default anyway
[16:06] <kenvandine> right
[16:06] <seb128> well that was a tradeoff we know about
[16:06] <kenvandine> so unless people install evolution, they can't use that feature in the indicator
[16:06] <chrisccoulson> i was thinking about writing a standalone calendar app that users can create and edit appointments with
[16:06] <seb128> I will keep using evolution for calendars (well if the speed comes back to an usable level)
[16:07] <chrisccoulson> not sure how hard that would be though
[16:07] <seb128> we should maybe look at date
[16:07] <seb128> ups
[16:07] <seb128> dates
[16:07] <seb128> https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dates
[16:07] <kenvandine> is that still maintained?
[16:07] <seb128> doesn't seem so :-(
[16:07] <micahg> I can integrate lightning into the update testing if it's promoted
[16:07] <seb128> well no calendar for this cycle I guess
[16:08] <seb128> we will not sort that today anyway, let's move on
[16:08] <kenvandine> yeah
[16:08] <seb128> I should descope the screensaver spec as well
[16:08] <rodrigo_> dates also is too targetted to maemo, so small screens
[16:08] <seb128> seems not likely we will have time to work on that this cycle either
[16:08] <rodrigo_> it can be improved though, of course
[16:09] <seb128> rodrigo_, well we don't really need a complete client
[16:09] <seb128> just something which let you configure a calendar
[16:09] <seb128> hum
[16:09] <seb128> is gnome-online-account enough to configure a gcalendar?
[16:09] <seb128> or do you need evolution as well?
[16:10] <seb128> well anyway seems otherwise we don't have obvious spec blocked
[16:10] <seb128> questions or comments?
[16:13] <seb128> seems not
[16:13] <jbicha> I'd really like to see a fix for bug 798951 as it breaks Gnome Shell & Fallback pretty bad
[16:13] <seb128> that's a wrap then
[16:13] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 798951 in gnome-panel "Applications menu fails to open due to change to /etc/xdg/menus/gnome-applications.menu" [Undecided,Invalid] https://launchpad.net/bugs/798951
[16:13] <seb128> thanks everybody
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
[23:06] <jasoncwarner_> TheMuso RAOF robert_ancell Meeting time!
[23:06] <jasoncwarner_> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2011-07-26
[23:06] <jasoncwarner_> TheMuso RAOF, I think it is just us. Robert starts holiday today, bryce is off b/c of baby
[23:06] <TheMuso> Right.
[23:07] <TheMuso> Thus commences the meeting, broekn vte a11y edition. :) or in other words, I am on my notebook atm due to broken a11y in vte, used for gnome-terminal.
[23:07] <TheMuso> My notebook hasn't been updated in over a week, so is not affected by that brokenness.
[23:08] <jasoncwarner_> TheMuso, any idea when that is going to be fixed? and who does the fixing?
[23:08] <TheMuso> jasoncwarner_: There is a proposed patch in upstream bugzila, but its not yet merged. I intend to try it out for myself today.
[23:09] <jasoncwarner_> ok...thanks
[23:09] <jasoncwarner_> anything else TheMuso ?
[23:10] <jasoncwarner_> RAOF, care to update on X ?
[23:11] <RAOF> Bryce is on maternity leave, so I'll be handling the bug queue again.  It's impressively small at the moment.
[23:12] <RAOF> I should be able to get mesa rc3 uploaded today, with, as ever, lots of fixes for intel.
[23:12] <TheMuso> jasoncwarner_: Sorry, was reading meeting notes. My ubiquity code is working now as expected, except for one or two UI issues that I'll need to ask a GTK expert about, but other than that, I only need tidy my code and propose a branch for review to the installer guys.
[23:13] <RAOF> There'll be a new SNA-enabled intel driver - in a separate binary package - shortly, just as soon as I'm convinced what I'm doing is the best way of going about it.
[23:14] <jasoncwarner_> RAOF: any idea what is going on with nvidia driver? and perhaps when it will get fixed?
[23:15] <RAOF> jasoncwarner_: Everyone with a problem has just been fixing it by removing and reinstalling it :(.  No logs for me!
[23:15] <RAOF> I don't have a good idea, no.
[23:16] <RAOF> I might try installing it here on my intel laptop and seeing if I can work it out.
[23:18] <RAOF> Other than that, the wayland protocol MIR is still sitting forlornly at bug #810217.  Is there a big MIR queue?
[23:18] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 810217 in wayland "[MIR] wayland protocol package" [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/810217
[23:18] <RAOF> In an ideal world I'd like that done before mesa rc3 is uploaded, but I fear I do not live in an ideal world :)
[23:20] <jasoncwarner_> RAOF: ok..thanks...anything else? (going to be a quick meeting :))
[23:20] <RAOF> No.  The world of X continues on its steady course.
[23:20] <jasoncwarner_> ok..cool...thanks TheMuso and RAOF
[23:20] <jasoncwarner_> [END  MEETING]
</pre>
