{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Weekly Summary ==

* Gwibber python3 port is looking google, barry and robru are making great progress with hopes to merge into trunk this week. FFe Bug:1042344
* system-config-printer: Integrated automatic driver download from OpenPrinting, as Jockey as provider for that feature is not present any more (tkamppeter).
* foomatic-db: Updated to include support for the latest printer models by Ricoh and OEM (tkamppeter).
* Nautilus got downgraded to 3.4 for the Ubuntu 12.10 cycle.  Will be restored to track upstream again for 13.04. (mterry)
* Deja Dup got support for verifying the backup files every backup.  And every two months asking for the encryption password again to verify you remember it. (mterry)
* Quickly got updated for better upgrade-between-Quickly-versions and ARB support. (mterry)
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity-greeter/+bug/1042757|FFe]]</nowiki> filed for NetworkManager in greeter (mterry)
* Packaged/uploaded indicator-sync (cyphermox)
* Debugged issue with libpango in the Lucid->precise upgrade. (cyphermox)
* libreoffice 3.6.0-rc4 and 3.6.1-rc2 for quantal including unitymenus patch and session-installer magic (bjoern-michaelsen)
* Task Warrior updated to 2.1.1 (bryce)

== Agenda ==

* ''Insert things to discuss at meeting here..''

=== Partner update ===
* FFe libmessaging-menu port Bug:1040259
* FFe U1 integration in the sync menu Bug:1042343

=== Unity ===

=== X.org ===
* xdiagnose 3.0 and lpltk 2.2 released and uploaded to precise (bryce)
* <nowiki>[[http://www.bryceharrington.org/Arsenal/ubuntu-x-swat/Reports/package_status.html|Package Status]]</nowiki> page repaired (bryce)
* X stack has been brought fully up to date

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
</pre>
