{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Weekly Summary ==

* Updated to Ghostscript 9.07 (tkamppeter).
* Updated to CUPS 1.6.2 (tkamppeter, OdyX).
* Made system-config-printer being the default printer setup tool called out of GNOME Control Center again, as GNOME's new UI does not yet support sharing the local printers (tkamppeter, seb128).
* Updated auto-downloadable printer driver packages on OpenPrinting to support new Samsung and Kyocera PostScript printers (tkamppeter).
* Added StreamModel API to qml-friends for the core apps developers to use to access the friends model (kenvandine)
* FFe filed for friends stack Bug:1156941 (kenvandine)
* FFe filed to replace gwibber-service with friends Bug:1156979 (kenvandine)
* FFe filed for ubuntu-ui-toolkit Bug:1157191 (kenvandine)
* Prepared ubuntu-ui-toolkit for daily release (kenvandine)
 
== Agenda ==

* ''Insert things to discuss at meeting here..''

=== Product strategy integration ===

* Daily release now support feature set of branch. Testing in production with a ppa having 40 components and more than 240 uploads already.

==== Unity ====

* Working on the 100 scopes ready to land next week in an experimental ppa
* Maybe in dash payment will land as well…

==== Indicators & Themes ====

==== Webapps/Webcredentials ====

==== Open input framework ====

=== X.org ===

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
</pre>
