{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (calc)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)  
* Tony Espy (awe)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===

==== Announcements ====

==== Status Updates ====
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports

==== Discussion ====

==== Any other business ====

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Partner Update ===
==== UbuntuOne: ====
* couchdb
** will have either a new snapshot (with only a couple revisions) or a cherry picked patch ready by this evening
* desktopcouch
** needs a new release, will be ready by thursday.  Fixes a bug syncing to other desktops where the target db doesn't exist.
* ubuntuone-client
** Remove the preferences launcher
* tomboy 
** client side has everything it needs for syncing, but there is currently a utf-8 related bug on the server causing crashes when receive some characters

==== DX: ====
* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-KarmicWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>
* sprinting this week
* string change in the session applet, s/New Session/Switch User/, which affects translations.  The translations team has been notified. <nowiki>[[Bug:444494]]</nowiki>
* user list has been removed from the session applet, to be re-added for Lucid
** gdm doesn't provide all the interfaces we need
** to be re-added for Lucid
* libdbusmenu menu ordering bug has been fixed, please let us know if you see problems with it

=== Kubuntu Update ===
* KDE 4.3.2 and Qt 4.5.3 in the archive, our final bugfix update before release
* KDM/ksmserver hangs on logout, we have a workaround though incase we don't find the root cause
* KPackageKit fixed, missing dependency at fault
* some kcontrol translations broken, problem diagnosed, rosetta people have been poked
* microblog broken, still to investigate
* "tech-preview" warning to be added to kubuntu netbook ubiquity, should be easy though
* hardy -> karmic upgrade now in dist upgrade tool, adept needs patched in hardy-updates to make it work

=== Release Status ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Id'''
| '''Title'''
| '''Assigned To'''
| '''Status'''
| '''Importance'''
| '''Package'''
| '''Release'''
| '''Milestone'''
| '''Team'''
| '''Date Confirmed'''
| '''Tags'''
|-
| 401823
| (firefox:24993): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead - overeager XID caching
| asac
| Triaged
| High
| firefox-3.5 (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| ubuntu-9.10
| 
| 2009-07-29 12:37:13.696516+00:00
| apport-collected
|-
| 401823
| (firefox:24993): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead - overeager XID caching
| asac
| Triaged
| High
| gtk+2.0 (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| ubuntu-9.10
| 
| 2009-07-29 12:36:07.417016+00:00
| apport-collected
|-
| 430067
| ModemManager PUK-locks sim cards if the wrong PIN code is entered once
| asac
| Triaged
| High
| modemmanager (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| 
| 
| 2009-09-15 14:51:53.237529+00:00
| 
|-
| 429835
| [MASTER] chrome error when viewing untrusted https site using firefox with non en-US locale on karmic
| asac
| Triaged
| High
| firefox-3.5 (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| ubuntu-9.10
| 
| 2009-09-15 09:10:08.653064+00:00
| i18n metabug xpipo
|-
| 396156
| Helpâ†’About does not function (abrowser-3.5, jaunty-proposed)
| asac
| In Progress
| High
| firefox-3.5 (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| ubuntu-9.10
| 
| 2009-07-06 15:06:54.694398+00:00
| 
|-
| 435073
| NetworkManager 0.8 can not get IPv4 address for wired Auto connections because IPv6 fails
| asac
| Triaged
| High
| network-manager (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| ubuntu-9.10
| 
| 2009-09-29 11:06:41.591934+00:00
| apport-bug i386
|-
| 427734
| ubufox not loaded in Firefox 3.5 on karmic alpha 6 CD
| asac
| Triaged
| High
| ubufox (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| ubuntu-9.10
| 
| 2009-09-11 07:19:12.637671+00:00
| 
|-
| 440987
| MASTER Firefox 3.5 Plugin Finder Service in Ubuntu Karmic 9.10 displays No suitable plugins were found for flash
| asac
| Triaged
| High
| ubufox (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| ubuntu-9.10
| 
| 2009-10-03 11:05:39.695710+00:00
| apport-bug i386
|-
| 439138
| [karmic] Xorg 100% CPU utilization -- only after first login
| bryceharrington
| Incomplete
| High
| xorg-server (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| ubuntu-9.10
| 
| None
| ubuntu-boot
|-
| 423907
| FTBFS in Karmic
| jr
| New
| Undecided
| skim (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| ubuntu-9.10
| 
| None
| amd64 apport-bug
|-
| 435329
| Empathy is unusable if indicator applet is not on the panel
| ken-vandine
| Confirmed
| High
| empathy (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| ubuntu-9.10
| 
| 2009-10-02 07:50:57.731774+00:00
| regression-potential
|-
| 436591
| empathy crashed with SIGSEGV in g_cclosure_marshal_VOID__VOID() when using indicator-applet 0.1 to display an active conversation
| ken-vandine
| In Progress
| High
| empathy (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| 
| 
| 2009-10-04 14:40:09.834482+00:00
| apport-crash i386
|-
| 434878
| video calls fail frequently
| ken-vandine
| In Progress
| Medium
| empathy (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| ubuntu-9.10
| 
| 2009-09-22 21:00:53.841456+00:00
| 
|-
| 434726
| Gets indicator attention for joining people
| ken-vandine
| Confirmed
| Low
| empathy (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| 
| 
| 2009-09-23 08:13:56.624575+00:00
| amd64 apport-bug
|-
| 436378
| indicator with empathy shows multiple messages for one received message
| ken-vandine
| New
| Low
| empathy (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| ubuntu-9.10
| 
| None
| amd64 apport-bug
|-
| 442742
| Update of 20091003 have a fraction of the translations from 20090926
| pitti
| In Progress
| Critical
| language-pack-kde-es-base (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| ubuntu-9.10
| 
| 2009-10-05 02:21:57.200030+00:00
| i18n kubuntu
|-
| 428115
| Computer no longer locks on suspend or lid close
| pitti
| Incomplete
| High
| gnome-power-manager (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| 
| 
| None
| apport-bug i386 regression-potential
|-
| 404185
| dell mini 10v SD/SDHC slot gets ejected from the USB bus on nautilus 'eject'
| pitti
| Triaged
| High
| devicekit-disks (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| ubuntu-9.10
| 
| 2009-08-19 06:03:20.386227+00:00
| apport-bug i386
|-
| 135548
| Action on critical battery isn't triggered
| pitti
| Triaged
| Medium
| gnome-power-manager (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| ubuntu-9.10
| 
| 2009-07-23 17:50:59.744334+00:00
| data-loss qa-hardy-desktop qa-jaunty-desktop
|-
| 400485
| Empathy sounds not in default ubuntu theme
| seb128
| Confirmed
| Low
| ubuntu-sounds (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| 
| 
| 2009-07-17 15:39:17.308185+00:00
| 
|}

==== xorg ====
* xorg stack is generally in good shape
* Mesa 7.6 final is released, team needs to decide between cherry picking patches for specific fixes versus taking the new mesa
* KMS for -ati is at significant risk, will probably be pulled

==== gnome ====
* gnome generally in good shape
* gnome 2.18.1 due in two weeks and will be incorporated into final Karmic
* need to port screen-resolution-extra to support new policy kit

==== OOo ====
* Final OOo upload expected next week

==== Mozilla ====
* except lots of uploads next weeks by mozillateam doing the extension finalization (KarmicExtensionReview) - thats universe

==== Network Manager ====
* Close to what will ship for Karmic final, just a few more bug fixes
* Testing of modems is appreciated

==== Compiz ====
* 0.8.4 uploaded, only bug fixes from here on out

==== Audio ====
* Volume restore/saving issues still being investigated, bug reports still incoming regarding this

==== GDM ====
* Guest account has some serious issue, robert_ancell investigating

==== Accessibility ====
* speech dispatcher hitting on infrequent, but unpredictable crash, may need more assistance solving

==== Printing ====
* tkamppeter is working to address sever concerning bugs regarding pdf output of evince and cups (bug 443026, bug 419143, and bug 439384)

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

* tons of bug triaging
* uploaded fix for network-manager wireless secrets issues - see: LP:# 436884
* added support for armel to chromium-browser package
* fixed epiphany-webkit crash in querying cookies.sqlite and get it committed upstream - https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=596859 
* some gwibber stability discussions with kenvandine
* sync: #epiphany-browser 2.28, #webkit 1.1.15.1 and some build depends to #karmic -> fails to build
* also updated #gwget after epiphany-browser sync
* help knetworkmanager upstream with bluetooth implementation details
* committed fix for secure wired connections - http://ur1.ca/cz4n
* fix #network-manager: fix ifupdown plugin to properly unmanage devices with a mapping stanza in /etc/network/interfaces - http://ur1.ca/czw5
* uploaded network-manager, modemmanager, network-manager-applet, -openvpn, -vpnc, -openconnect, -pptp and gnome-main-menu with various fixes for karmic
* file a most important tbird 3 bugs upstream
* provide input on why virtual devices on arm are not handled by NM (LP: #438687)
* plan next langpack steps wrt mozilla with Arne
* file FFe bugs for gnash and connman.

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====
* Met up with kernel team at sprint, Sept 22.
* Attended LPC conference, Sept 23, 24, 25.
* Attended XDC conference, Sept 28, 29, 30.
  Sent conference highlights summary to warthogs.
* Tested KMS on -ati.  Still a little buggy compared with !KMS.  Filed
  bugs upstream, discussed problems with Andy and Alex.  Will retry
  post-beta again, but we need a kernel and mesa newer than what's
  currently in karmic to have much hope...
* Split out credential management from Arsenal into
  python-launchpadlib-toolkit for easier reuse.  Requested code review.
* Worked on getting caught up with email from being on paternity leave
  during month of September.
* Fixed some bugs in Arsenal cron jobs.  Got all my latest bits into
  bzr tree.
* Reordered X bugs graph for better clarity
  http://people.canonical.com/~bryce/totals.svg
* Create report of X bugs with patches attached
* Follow up on bunch of different bug reports

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====
* Off work (moving)
* OOo bug triage

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====
done:
* beta testing and release
* KDE 4.3.2 packaging and upload
* making Qt-SDK package
* discussing KOffice security support with upstream
* update knetworkmanager package
* update kmail message indicator patch from agateau

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
====== Done: ======
*** Prepared weekly releases for most of the DX packages
*** debug video calls in empathy (with quite a bit of success)
*** dbus fixes in gwibber
*** couchdb work and desktopcouch testing
*** String change in indicate-session, "New Session" to "Switch User" <nowiki>[[Bug:444494]]</nowiki>
*** updated the indicator patch for empathy to apply against 2.28.0.1
*** Prepared tomboy, couchdb-glib and evolution-couchdb packages

====== Planned: ======
*** Prepare DX package uploads
*** debug empathy crashers
*** fix handling of the icon in empathy when the indicator applet is displayed
*** fix green dot handling in empathy for login notifications as well as time setting
*** debug video calls in empathy

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====
==== Accessibility ====
* Updated the speech-dispatcher init script to be less verbose about why speech-dispatcher is not being started at system startup, now that it is somewhat integrated into a user's session.
* Upload a new at-spi revision to add a .desktop file for GDM's accessible login support.
* Prepare to update onboard after a feature freeze exception was approved. Still waiting on contributor to fix a few things first.
* Continued investigation of the speech-dispatcher alsa code crash, but no closer to working out a solution. Going to ask for more help from the community.

==== Audio ====
* Audio bug triaging, bugs in question are against pulseaudio, alsa userspace, and the kernel for hardware enablement.
* Found out from Daniel that the volume issues I've been seeing are due to a race condition. Discussed possible solutions to this problem.
* Started looking into some more sound theme issues related to empathy.

==== Misc ====
* UbuntuStudio disk testing for beta, as well as a little Ubuntu disk testing.
==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Karmic feature work:
* desktop-karmic-automagic-python-build-system: 
** just the upstream discussion is missing (which isn't bound by release cycle)
* desktop-karmic-symptom-based-bug-reporting: implemented
* security-karmic-apport-abort: implemented
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Halsectomy|hal deprecation]]</nowiki>:
** this is as far as we can get in karmic, we won't change further things after FF
** I'm happy about how far we got
* gnome-panel speedup: postponed

Other work done:
* Beta release management and CD testing
* SRU and MIR catchup
* Added support for pulsing logo to usplash
* Bug fixing: apport, casper, cups, devicekit-disks, gdm, gnome-settings-daemon, gnome-disk-utility, jockey, sysvinit
* Tested/debugged empathy A/V with Ken
* tzdata update for stables

Sponsoring:
* couchdb, couchdb-glib, evolution-couchdb, gdm, gnome-control-center, indicator-session, libindicate, policykit-1-gnome, system-tools-backends, tomboy, ubuntuone-client

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* Package update/merges: gtk2-engines
* Fixed GDM greeter being shown on autologin
* Fixed missing keyboard bindings from configuration applet
* Improve PolicyKit GNOME authentication failure message
* Redesign PolicyKit GNOME authentication dialog
* Make PolicyKit GNOME authentication dialog select the current user by default

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* GNOME updates: totem gnome-menus glib f-spot libbonoboui brasero
* tested karmic beta candidates images
* spent a fair amonth of time reading desktop bugs to target karmic issues
* looked for non translatable strings issue in karmic
* worked on fixing some of the translations issues
* did some debugging on random other desktop issues for which I didn't note the details
* update f-spot to build a translation template for rosetta and sent the change to debian so we stay in sync there
* updated notify-osd version in karmic
* updated evolution depends to fix a build issue
* backported a indicator-session change to fix a crash on session start
* backported a telepathy-butterfly change to fix an empathy msn issue
* backported an alacarte translation fix
* backported a gnome-keyring change to fix a timeout issue on session closing
* backported a gtk+ change to fix buttons not being clickable twice without moving the cursor

* sponsoring: gdm totem libxklavier evolution libdbusmenu gnome-power-manager empathy

==== Tony Espy (awe) ====
* Travel back from Plumber's all day Monday.
* 1/2 day off Tuesday.
* Re-installed Karmic (again) due to file-system (ext3) failure that occurred during
   last day of Plumber's.
* Trip	to Apple for service on	my MB Pro (again)
* Minor update	to -applet HEAD	branch to fix build failure
* Lots of NM testing of Karmic Beta, including UNR installs on	Dell Mini 9,
   and several HP Minis.
* Worked on rtkit bug # <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/406702|406702]]</nowiki>. Discussed with Kernel team and Luke. Currently, the kernel doesn't support the needed scheduler flag ( SCHED_RESET_ON_FORK ), thus it's wasting cycles.  Solution accepted by all was to disable rtkit.

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* Several fixes in the HPLIP package: Let the automatic update of the PPDs of existing queues migrate the queues from the new hpcups (CUPS Raster) driver to the older hpijs (IJS) driver. hpcups has still many problems (LP: #426826, LP: #428588). Try also /usr/lib/kde4/libexec/kdesu as sudo GUI (LP: #281880). Moved all hp-* utilities which do not work in text mode from hplip to hplip-gui (LP: #430539). hp-setup did not prompt for a custom PPD if the description field of the default PPD is empty (LP: #432808). Merged in fixes from Debian.
* Small corrections on last week's patch for the USB CUPS backend.
* Answered and triaged lots of printing-related bugs.
* Major concerns are the problems which the PDF printing output of evince causes. It looks like that all applications except evince print without problems. See LP: #443026, LP: #419143, LP: #439384.

== IRC Log ==
[17:31] <rickspencer3> ArneGoetje, asac, bryce, ccheney, kenvandine, pedro_, pitti, Riddell, tkamppeter<<BR>>
[17:31] <pedro_> hello!<<BR>>
[17:31] <Riddell> afternoon<<BR>>
[17:31] <rickspencer3> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2009-10-06<<BR>>
[17:31] <tkamppeter> hi<<BR>>
[17:31] <rickspencer3> all ... please excuse my lack of organization regarding last weeks meeting<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> I am feeling much better this week, though, so should be more on top of things<<BR>>
[17:32] <bryce> morning!<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> bryce, welcome back<<BR>>
[17:32] <bryce> thanks<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> today I'd like to:<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> 1. review targeted bug list<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> 2. quick update on status of listed areas<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3>  <<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> does anyone have anything to add to the agenda?<<BR>>
[17:33]  * kenvandine waves<<BR>>
[17:33]  * awe waves too<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> hi kenvandine, is that waving hello, or waving that you want to add to the agenda?<<BR>>
[17:33]  * asac waves<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> hehe<<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> hello :)<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> let's start with the usual<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> partner update .. kenvandine?<<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> sure<<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> pretty typical, but the delta is getting much smaller<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> u1 will need a couple packages uploaded this week<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> couchdb with minimal change/risk and desktopcouch<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> which fixes syncing desktops<<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> u1 client, we are discussing removing the u1 prefs launcher<<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> which was just added, you can still get to it via the apps menu launcher<<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> and everyone agrees we need to improve the workflow for lucid<<BR>>
[17:36] <rickspencer3> "discussing"?<<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, that bug i subscribed you too<<BR>>
[17:37] <ccheney> asac: whatever is going on it works as soon as i boot up the karmic beta live cd<<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> i think everyone is in agreement<<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> will followup today to make sure it is happening<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, ok, please do<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> pitti is dialed into this change afaik<<BR>>
[17:37]  * ccheney is here now, sorry for being late was beating on his wifi<<BR>>
[17:37] <asac> ccheney: ok thanks. lets talk after meeting<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> and I think it's right<<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> dx releases this thursday as usual, a couple things to note<<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> the string change for the session applet<<BR>>
[17:38] <kenvandine> switch user instead of New session<<BR>>
[17:38] <kenvandine> and we dropped the user list for karmic<<BR>>
[17:38] <kenvandine> pushing it to lucid<<BR>>
[17:38] <rickspencer3> I *think* I alerted everyone and did everything properly for translations and docs<<BR>>
[17:38] <kenvandine> yeah, thx<<BR>>
[17:38] <kenvandine> that is all i have<<BR>>
[17:38] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, thanks<<BR>>
[17:38] <rickspencer3> Riddell, kubuntu status?<<BR>>
[17:39] <ArneGoetje> rickspencer3: dpm and I will forward it to the translators<<BR>>
[17:39] <Riddell> kubuntu update:<<BR>>
[17:39] <rickspencer3> ArneGoetje, thank you<<BR>>
[17:39] <pitti> kenvandine: some empathy/indicator crash fixes on the list? it's pretty unnerving right now..<<BR>>
[17:39] <Riddell>  * KDE 4.3.2 and Qt 4.5.3 in the archive, our final bugfix update before release<<BR>>
[17:39] <Riddell>  * KDM/ksmserver hangs on logout, we have a workaround though incase we don't find the root cause<<BR>>
[17:39] <Riddell>  * KPackageKit fixed, missing dependency at fault<<BR>>
[17:39] <Riddell>  * some kcontrol translations broken, problem diagnosed, rosetta people have been poked<<BR>>
[17:39] <Riddell>  * microblog broken, still to investigate<<BR>>
[17:39] <Riddell>  * "tech-preview" warning to be added to kubuntu netbook ubiquity, should be easy though<<BR>>
[17:39] <Riddell>  * hardy -> karmic upgrade now in dist upgrade tool, adept needs patched in hardy-updates to make it work<<BR>>
[17:40] <Riddell> that's me<<BR>>
[17:40] <kenvandine> pitti, i am going through those today<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> Riddell, thanks<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> pitti, kenvandine are those crashes targeted? if not, should they be?<<BR>>
[17:40] <pedro_> kenvandine, i've assigned some of those to you yesterday, need to re look into empathy today as well i'll let you know if i encounter some serious bug there<<BR>>
[17:40] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, i will make sure they are<<BR>>
[17:41] <pitti> Riddell: kdm hang on logout> so that wasn't the -intel fix that we had recently?<<BR>>
[17:41] <Riddell> pitti: no  I think it's unrelated, that caused a crash<<BR>>
[17:41] <pitti> ah, right<<BR>>
[17:42] <rickspencer3> well, why would anyone want to log out of Kubuntu?<<BR>>
[17:42] <Riddell> can't say I ever do<<BR>>
[17:42] <rickspencer3> there is no better place to be ;)<<BR>>
[17:42] <rickspencer3> Riddell, is there any help anyone can give you to find the root cause of that?<<BR>>
[17:43] <Riddell> rickspencer3: someone with non-intel could check to see if they  have the same issue<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> that seems like someone in the community could do that<<BR>>
[17:43] <awe> Riddell, I do...<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> I would, but I have intel ;)<<BR>>
[17:43] <awe> ...I'm doing a Kubuntu Beta install now and can check<<BR>>
[17:43] <Riddell> awe: great<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> yeah!<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> ok, I'd like to briefly discuss targeted bugs now<<BR>>
[17:44] <asac> all targetted bugs are mine ;)<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> lol<<BR>>
[17:44] <pitti> asac fix them all, let's have dinner<<BR>>
[17:44] <asac> one thing scares me a bit: bug 427734<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> and I noticed seb128 bailed just in time<<BR>>
[17:44] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 427734 in ubufox "ubufox not loaded in Firefox 3.5 on karmic alpha 6 CD" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/427734<<BR>>
[17:45] <asac> will get a new image now. hope i can produce that on usb stick too.<<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> all, I notice the distribution of targeted/High bugs is far from equitable<<BR>>
[17:46] <asac> the rest looks still ok. i am untargetting the XID bug now<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> are folks working on bugs that aren't targeted that could be helping with bugs that are?<<BR>>
[17:46] <pitti> asac: the XID is not a kitten killer after all?<<BR>>
[17:46]  * asac usually does not target non-high bugs<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> or are there bugs that should be targeted that aren't?<<BR>>
[17:46] <asac> pitti: i did not get any hint that its a problem.<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> asac, right ... your bug list is obviously full<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> but I want to make sure that:<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> 1. everyone has a full queue of important work<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> 2. we are load balancing as best we can<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> thoughts?<<BR>>
[17:47] <pitti> bug 438561 looks serious and is worth targetting IMHO<<BR>>
[17:47] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 438561 in gdm "gdm installation breaks due to gvfs fuse mount for the gdm user" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/438561<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> pitti, should it be high?<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> and can you assign to robert_ancell?<<BR>>
[17:48] <pitti> and bug 381116  is a serious issue for your mental health if your wife keeps complaining during a video evening :-)<<BR>>
[17:48] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 381116 in totem "Screensaver not inhibited while playing movies" [Low,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/381116<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> hmmm<<BR>>
[17:49] <pitti> oh, the first one is targetted already, sorry<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> ok, maybe not that one<<BR>>
[17:49] <asac> pitti: i saw windows media player not inhibiting that on vista even recently ;)<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> ok ... I'll follow up individually with bugs lists<<BR>>
[17:49] <awe> asac: you have a vista machine?  ;)<<BR>>
[17:49]  * rickspencer3 makes not to self: don't discuss bug lists as a group<<BR>>
[17:50] <pitti> rickspencer3: done<<BR>>
[17:50] <rickspencer3> ok, now I'd like to bang through and get a quick update on the status of various areas<<BR>>
[17:50] <rickspencer3> what are the current issues, if any<<BR>>
[17:50] <rickspencer3> what may change before the 15th<<BR>>
[17:50] <rickspencer3> bryce, can you please comment on xorg?<<BR>>
[17:51] <pitti> the totem bug seems easy at first sight, just renamed d-bus interface<<BR>>
[17:51] <bryce> Still coming up to speed on current status, thanks owed to tseliot for maintaining X this last month.<<BR>>
[17:51] <bryce> There are a few bugs to focus on, thankfully not a huge list.<<BR>>
[17:51] <bryce> It appears several important X merges planned to go for beta didn't make it in time.<<BR>>
[17:51] <bryce> I don't know if there's going to be time to cherrypick all the individual bug fixes from those<<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> bryce, can we cherry pick *none* and call xorg done for Karmic?<<BR>>
[17:51]  * Amaranth cries<<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> live with the bugs we have without introducing new worse ones?<<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> Amaranth, are their specific patches that compiz needs?<<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> pitti, thoughts?<<BR>>
[17:52] <Amaranth> No but my system needs some of those changes in order to use KMS without blinding me :)<<BR>>
[17:52] <pitti> rickspencer3: well, technically we can, but why not use the remaining two weeks to test/cherrypick at least major bugs?<<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> Amaranth, do you know the specific patches?<<BR>>
[17:52] <pitti> tseliot prepared a nice list<<BR>>
[17:53] <rickspencer3> pitti, right, but I never saw a reply to his list<<BR>>
[17:53] <bryce> with the current mesa, et al KMS on -ati seems still a bit too buggy to enable it<<BR>>
[17:53] <Amaranth> Oh, and if you don't use KMS on intel all clutter apps are broken due to GLX_SGI_video_sync being broken but I don't think I ever filed a bug for that...<<BR>>
[17:53] <Amaranth> rickspencer3: The ones that add Backlight support<<BR>>
[17:53] <pitti> bryce: I don't think we should strive for enabling KMS on ATI for karmic<<BR>>
[17:53] <rickspencer3> so ...<<BR>>
[17:53] <Amaranth> rickspencer3: I think it needs one commit from the kernel module and one from the intel driver to match it<<BR>>
[17:53] <Amaranth> Will dig more<<BR>>
[17:53] <asac> ati works good here ;) ... please dont break that ;)<<BR>>
[17:54] <rickspencer3> 1. will apply xorg patches in priority order that don't risk regressions too much<<BR>>
[17:54] <rickspencer3> 2. will not strive for KMS for ait<<BR>>
[17:54] <rickspencer3> pitti, what's the cut off date for #1?<<BR>>
[17:54] <pitti> focussing on the pinpointed ones where we have bug reports and can ask for feedback<<BR>>
[17:54] <rickspencer3> right, so how much time do we have for that?<<BR>>
[17:55] <bryce> KMS on -ati was one of the major X changes planned for karmic; certain people will be unhappy if we are not delivering that.  But I agree I'd rather wait until it provided benefit, rather than introduced regressions<<BR>>
[17:55] <rickspencer3> I'd like a deadline that includes enough time to intelligently and calmly back out changes that cause new problems<<BR>>
[17:55] <pitti> rickspencer3: October 15th, I'd say<<BR>>
[17:55] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:55] <pitti> but this is why I just want cherrypicks, no major new versions<<BR>>
[17:55] <Amaranth> Oh man, I'm going to have build my own kernel<<BR>>
[17:55] <rickspencer3> bryce, could this be an edgers project?<<BR>>
[17:55] <pitti> since it's easy to revert a cherrypick, but hard to downgrade a new version<<BR>>
[17:55] <pitti> bryce: ^ ok for you?<<BR>>
[17:55] <rickspencer3> ati with KMS that is?<<BR>>
[17:55] <bryce> rickspencer3, it already has been an xorg-edgers project<<BR>>
[17:56] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:56] <rickspencer3> thanks bryce<<BR>>
[17:56] <rickspencer3> moving on ...<<BR>>
[17:56] <Amaranth> Anyone have a link to tseliot's list of changes?<<BR>>
[17:56] <bryce> rickspencer3, problem is people have not been giving testing feedback on it<<BR>>
[17:56] <rickspencer3> seb128, gnome?<<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> what about it?<<BR>>
[17:56] <rickspencer3> any major problems or changes coming up?<<BR>>
[17:57] <pitti> going well, I'd say, just gdm needs more love<<BR>>
[17:57] <rickspencer3> "no" is an acceptable answer<<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> nothing major GNOME is string, api, abi etc frozen<<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> GNOME 2.18.1 due in 2 weeks though<<BR>>
[17:57]  * rickspencer3 adds gdm to list<<BR>>
[17:57] <pitti> seb128: that gets tight<<BR>>
[17:57] <pitti> but traditionally we included it<<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> pitti, as it does every cycle since warty...<<BR>>
[17:57] <rickspencer3> right<<BR>>
[17:57] <pitti> seb128: come on, let's have our biannual ritual!<<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> we have almost always had the same margin basically<<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> ;-)<<BR>>
[17:58] <pitti> s/bi/semi/ actually<<BR>>
[17:58] <rickspencer3> ok, we should strive to clear the decks so seb128 and robert_ancell can focus 100% on working with gnome community to do those updates<<BR>>
=== cking_ is now known as cking<<BR>>
[17:58] <pitti> one major thing is that langpacks are currently pretty broken<<BR>>
[17:59] <rickspencer3> pitti, I thought this was a simple matter of disk space and would be resolved thusly?<<BR>>
[17:59] <pitti> rickspencer3: and our little community GNOME army :)<<BR>>
[17:59] <rickspencer3> making more space<<BR>>
[17:59] <seb128> right, would be nice to get it fixed quickly so translators can test and see what needs to be done<<BR>>
[17:59] <pitti> rickspencer3: right, but I can't really "do" that myself, just keep begging people<<BR>>
[17:59] <pitti> nothing to discuss, just mentioning<<BR>>
[17:59] <rickspencer3> pitti, well, we can start deleting stuff<<BR>>
[17:59] <pitti> apt-get install doubledisk<<BR>>
[17:59] <rickspencer3> hehe<<BR>>
[18:00] <ArneGoetje> rickspencer3: pitti != root<<BR>>
[18:00] <rickspencer3> pitti, do we have a list of space hogs?<<BR>>
[18:00] <pitti> rickspencer3: sent by mail<<BR>>
[18:00] <seb128> how do we stand space wise now?<<BR>>
[18:00] <seb128> how many language packs do we have on CD?<<BR>>
[18:00] <pitti> as I said, I just wanted to mention it, so that everyone knows if a bug appears<<BR>>
[18:00] <rickspencer3> pitti, ok, I'll follow up<<BR>>
[18:00] <rickspencer3> moving on ...<<BR>>
[18:00] <rickspencer3> ccheney, OOo?<<BR>>
[18:00] <pitti> seb128: space is pretty ok; disk is full, and French is on the CD<<BR>>
[18:00] <seb128> pitti, ok ;-)<<BR>>
[18:01] <rickspencer3> oui<<BR>>
[18:01] <ccheney> rickspencer3: seems pretty good except for the kde integration, i need to ping roman again to see the current status<<BR>>
[18:01] <rickspencer3> bon<<BR>>
[18:01] <pitti> and don't anyone dare to propose something new on the CD now :)<<BR>>
[18:01] <ccheney> rickspencer3: i'll be doing another upload next week to get more bug fixes in, etc<<BR>>
[18:01] <pitti> seb128: en es xh pt de fr bn<<BR>>
[18:01] <rickspencer3> ccheney, can you help roman with the KDE parts?<<BR>>
[18:01] <Riddell> it's deep qt integration issues<<BR>>
[18:02] <Riddell> as a user I havn't actually  noticed any problems<<BR>>
[18:02] <Riddell> but  some people have<<BR>>
[18:02] <rickspencer3> hmmm<<BR>>
[18:02] <rickspencer3> ccheney, your bug list doesn't look too bad<<BR>>
[18:02]  * ccheney doesn't know enough about qt to fix it himself<<BR>>
[18:02] <rickspencer3> are there other bugs in Ubuntu that you can help with?<<BR>>
[18:02] <ccheney> also have moblin2 work on the oem side, but should be able to get enough time to do the OOo stuff<<BR>>
[18:03] <rickspencer3> right, I forgot about OEM stuff<<BR>>
[18:03] <rickspencer3> :)<<BR>>
[18:03] <ccheney> np :)<<BR>>
[18:03] <rickspencer3> ok, so final OOo uplaod expected next week?<<BR>>
[18:03] <ccheney> yes<<BR>>
[18:03] <rickspencer3> moving on ...<<BR>>
[18:03] <rickspencer3> asac Mozilla?<<BR>>
[18:04] <rickspencer3> anything other than what is reflected on your assigned bugs list?<<BR>>
[18:04] <asac> Mozilla:<<BR>>
[18:04] <asac> * cherry-pick/backport for XError on startup bug (waiting final upstream input)<<BR>>
[18:04] <asac> * fix ubufox on CD<<BR>>
[18:04] <asac>  * update plugin database (online, no freeze relevant)<<BR>>
[18:04] <asac>  * except lots of uploads next weeks by mozillateam doing the extension finalization (KarmicExtensionReview) - thats universe<<BR>>
[18:04] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[18:04] <asac> thats basically what is outstanding for mozilla on my side<<BR>>
[18:04] <rickspencer3> sweet<<BR>>
[18:04] <asac> NetworkManager:<<BR>>
[18:05] <asac> * we are close to what we will release ... please do serious testing of modems again ;)<<BR>>
[18:05] <asac>  * will blog about getting feedback for modems<<BR>>
[18:05] <asac>  * TODO: work with upstream on bugs; tag a RC before the 15th and get that in<<BR>>
[18:06] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[18:06] <asac> so yes. last update round will be shortly before the freeze unless upstream goes mad and does risky stuff (which we discussed shouldnt happen)<<BR>>
[18:06] <rickspencer3> asac, your attention to detail and organization is much appreciated<<BR>>
[18:06]  * pitti makes note to test 3g stick again<<BR>>
[18:06] <rickspencer3> lots of awesome progress in Karmic<<BR>>
[18:06] <rickspencer3> thanks to awe as well for participating this cycle!<<BR>>
[18:06] <pitti> asac: today a new disabled bluetooth icon appeared on my panel; will that go away again?<<BR>>
[18:07] <rickspencer3> I'm seeing some good reviews of the new NM UI<<BR>>
[18:07] <asac> also some more Universe stuff:<<BR>>
[18:07] <asac> * gnash and connman update to latest<<BR>>
[18:07] <asac> thats it<<BR>>
[18:07] <asac> and of course fixing bugs and low hanging fruits i spot<<BR>>
[18:07] <asac> while reading bugmail etc.<<BR>>
[18:07] <rickspencer3> asac, don't forget to sleep?<<BR>>
[18:07] <rickspencer3> aside from testing NM, anything else that you might be able to offload on someone?<<BR>>
[18:08] <asac> great ;)<<BR>>
[18:08] <asac> that makes me really happy<<BR>>
[18:08] <asac> pitti: i fixed killswitch support<<BR>>
[18:08] <asac> so that might be what you are seeing<<BR>>
[18:08] <asac> pitti: you should be able to turn on/off bluetooth again<<BR>>
[18:08] <asac> pitti: or are you asking something else?<<BR>>
[18:08] <pitti> asac: there is no BT device right now<<BR>>
[18:08] <pitti> it shouldn't be displayed unless I have an adapter, like in beta/jaunty/earlier<<BR>>
[18:08] <pitti> anyway, let's discuss this offline<<BR>>
[18:08] <pitti> seems it wasn't a deliberate change then<<BR>>
[18:09] <pitti> rickspencer3: oh, for your OMGkarmic list, I still need to port screen-resolution-extra to the new policykit<<BR>>
[18:09] <pitti> it's currently broken<<BR>>
[18:09] <asac> rickspencer3: unlikely. my work area is too special. tony helps already on NM bugs though<<BR>>
[18:09] <rickspencer3> OMG!<<BR>>
[18:09] <pitti> which means that ATI users can't configure multihead properly<<BR>>
[18:09] <asac> pitti: is that the last consumer of old polkit?<<BR>>
[18:09] <pitti> second-last<<BR>>
[18:09] <pitti> the last one is checkbox<<BR>>
[18:09] <asac> but its safe?<<BR>>
[18:10] <pitti> but we could leave that as it is and just use the old PK<<BR>>
[18:10] <asac> ok. if we can get that out of main that might be worth some risk<<BR>>
[18:10] <pitti> unlike screen-resolution, checkbox doesn't need the gnome frontend<<BR>>
[18:10] <pitti> the porting is safe, yes<<BR>>
[18:10] <pitti> well, it can hardly get any worse, it doesn't work at all right now :)<<BR>>
[18:10] <rickspencer3> pitti, any action for me there?<<BR>>
[18:10] <asac> ok. so whatever doesnt work is probably safe to touch ;)<<BR>>
[18:10] <pitti> rickspencer3: no, but I thought you were compiling a list<<BR>>
[18:10] <rickspencer3> or just letting me know why you won't be sleeping until October 29th?<<BR>>
[18:11] <rickspencer3> pitti, yes, I was j/k<<BR>>
[18:11] <pitti> hehe<<BR>>
[18:11] <rickspencer3> thanks<<BR>>
[18:11] <rickspencer3> ok, the rest of the items we'll cover in Eastern edition<<BR>>
[18:11] <rickspencer3> any other business?<<BR>>
[18:11] <tkamppeter> I am concerned about bug 443026, bug 419143, and bug 439384, these are all bad interferences between PDF output of evince and the CUPS filter chain (and also PS/PDF printers). As most other apps print correctly it is probably an evince or GTK problem.<<BR>>
[18:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 443026 in cups "Does not print graphics in PDF documents; after pdf2ps it works" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/443026<<BR>>
[18:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 419143 in evince "Printing from evince (and perhaps other GTK apps) to PostScript printers is broken" [Low,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/419143<<BR>>
[18:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 439384 in cups "Printing from evince fails silently in karmic (dup-of: 419143)" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/439384<<BR>>
[18:12] <Riddell> I'd like to update shared-mime-info if that's ok<<BR>>
[18:12] <pedro_> rickspencer3, could you ask to Luke to review the bugs we talked at previous meetings regarding pulseaudio? there's no feedback there yet<<BR>>
[18:12] <pedro_> rickspencer3, i can send you the list of bugs again if needed<<BR>>
[18:13] <rickspencer3> ok, so let's do this one at time<<BR>>
[18:13] <rickspencer3> tkamppeter, is there some assistance we can provide?<<BR>>
[18:13] <asac> rickspencer3: if you could ask luke to take a look at my bug 440540 that would be precious. maybe its just me, but if its more widely spread on lenovo X61 then we probably would want to fix this.<<BR>>
[18:13] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 440540 in alsa-driver "Lenovo X61 - strange sound clicking every minute or two" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/440540<<BR>>
[18:13] <seb128> Riddell, there is a newer version?<<BR>>
[18:13] <asac> basically i can only use my laptop with volume turned off<<BR>>
[18:14] <seb128> Riddell, oh right, I looked some days ago and was about to ask hadess if he planned to roll a new tarball<<BR>>
[18:14] <seb128> Riddell, go for it<<BR>>
=== ossurayynot is now known as tonyyarusso<<BR>>
[18:14] <Riddell> will do<<BR>>
[18:14] <tkamppeter> pitti, seb128, I was full of hope that the evince printing problems will stop when the switchover to PDF output was done, but now it produces PDF which crashes Ghostscript (see bug 443026) makes PDF printers hanging (also bug 443026) and interferes badly with CUPS filters.<<BR>>
[18:14] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 443026 in cups "Does not print graphics in PDF documents; after pdf2ps it works" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/443026<<BR>>
[18:15] <tkamppeter> It must mainly be found out what the problem with evince's PDF is.<<BR>>
[18:15] <pitti> tkamppeter: if we can't fix that properly in time, could we switch evince back to postscript as a remedy?<<BR>>
[18:16] <pitti> it worked in jaunty, so we could still at least compare their output and see what changes and do an upstream bug report at elast<<BR>>
[18:16] <tkamppeter> The printer hang is an out-of-memory occuring in the printer, so the PDF seems to hog a lot of memory.<<BR>>
[18:17] <tkamppeter> pitti, the PDF switchover was not only done in favor of the PDF workflow but also to fix several problems which the PostScript of evince caused.<<BR>>
[18:17] <tkamppeter> pitti, so we must be careful when we make a decision.<<BR>>
[18:18] <pitti> right<<BR>>
[18:18] <pitti> tkamppeter: but perhaps we can bisect the evince changes in karmic to find out what broke it<<BR>>
[18:18] <tkamppeter> pitti, Perhaps evince could somehow recognize that the input is PDF and then simply pass the PDF through and not re-render it.<<BR>>
[18:18] <pitti> but again, too specific for meeting, let's discuss that off-line<<BR>>
[18:18] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[18:18] <rickspencer3> thanks<<BR>>
[18:19] <tkamppeter> Should the bugs get targetted or raised?<<BR>>
[18:19] <rickspencer3> I've asked pedro to assign pulse bugs directly to TheMuso<<BR>>
[18:20] <rickspencer3> tkamppeter, yes, they should be targeted, we can always untarget later, but if you are worried we should raise the profile<<BR>>
[18:20] <rickspencer3> ok, any other business?<<BR>>
[18:20] <rickspencer3> going once ...<<BR>>
[18:20] <rickspencer3> okay, thanks all!<<BR>>

<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
