{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


No meeting this week, since lots of people are travelling.

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

SRUs:
* ubufox SRU
* network-manager SRU
* knetworkmanager SRU

network-manager:
* not included in uploaded SRU -> next round:
** 303165: IPv4Settings not merged for ppp connections (NEW)
** 258743: NM 0.7 Fails To Set Custom MTU
* not milestoned, but targetted - SRU opportunities:
** 291062: enable networking" unchecked/disabled when resuming from suspend
** 272185: WPA Enterprise (disassociating by local choice (reason=3))

outstanding: network-manager-vpnc:
* 283635: pkcs support missing (huge patch; hard to backport)
* 262191: only save group password is not possible (should go in with pkcs backport - if at all).

network-manager-applet, -pptp, ubufox:
* all milestoned done

mozilla:
* tradmark review: first patches upstreamed; a bunch more to follow in the next week(s)
* screening next security round bug list
* final review and archive admin prodding for xulrunner 1.9.1 and firefox 3.1: now in universe; next: getting fennec into universe
* drafting/sending out mozillateam meeting minutes.
* finalizing nss/nspr SONAME change -> we want to use upstream SONAME and not debian one anymore. Goal is that ubuntu mozilla binaries can be used in non-ubuntu distros (fedora, suse).

network-manager / modemmanager:
* merging NM 0.7 final to development packaging branch
** ABI/API breakage will prevent a SRU -> painful backports
* untangling and getting initial review on modemmanger patches for mbm modems; splitting up in clean hunks.
* creating gitorious account to better share modemmanger code.
* modemmanager PPA: modemmanager and mbm enabled kernel package

sponsoring:
* still in overload mode: next week i can start do sponsoring again.

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====

* sick with flu
* UDS/Travel preparations
* MIR for ttf-sazanami
* discussion with mpt about fonts

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

Short week due to Thanksgiving holiday (Thurs / Fri)

OEM Work:
* Consultation/research for ARM graphics
* HDMI research

Distro Work:
* Merge -intel driver.  Uploaded to Jaunty. Created backports for Intrepid and Hardy.
* Create 3 quirks for -ati AGPMode issues (#141551, #296617)
* Wrote launchpad bug guidelines for xorg packages
* Historical drivers - Focused on completed backend implementation
* Catchup on email
* Sponsorship:  xterm (#301451), lintian (#273997), rootskel (#303879), tsclient (#190688)

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====

* Short 1 day week (4 days off)
* Preparing openoffice.org 1:3.0.0-6ubuntu1 for intrepid/jaunty
* OOo bug triage

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Currently open intrepid-updates targeted bugs:
* 285879 (jockey: gnome-appearance-properties keeps proposing fglrx on ati cards): in -proposed queue
* 295530 (jockey: ImportError when enabling b43 driver): in -proposed queue
* 289845 (jockey: WL and B44 Not Properly Configured): in -proposed queue

Merges: all done

Non-chores work done:
* Mostly implemented postgresql stemming support for landscape team (#301770)
* UDS and DX sprint preparations
* travelled to San Francisco for sprint/FossCamp/UDS
* Created UDS presentations about LP bug mail and Apport hooks
* Played with launchpadlib to find out what's missing for apport, filed some bugs about it
* Updated wiki documentation about SRUs
* New upstream versions of hal, hal-info, pm-utils

Sponsoring:
* monodoc, opencryptoki, samba

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* upgraded to jaunty
* started working on GNOME 2.25
* sponsoring: epiphany-browser

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
