{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Weekly Summary ==

* system-config-printer: Added printer driver auto-download to the D-Bus service, so that the auto download also happens when the printer setup tool of GNOME Control Center is used (tkamppeter).
* GNOME Control Center: Reported 7 bugs in the printer setup tool to both Ubuntu and upstream, discovered while testing the driver auto download (tkamppeter).
* Landed new LightDM and Unity Greeter with better memory usage and nexus7 support (mterry)
* Dropped pulseaudio-module-gconf from default image, reducing another long-running daemon (mterry)
* Landed new Deja Dup 25.5 release, with better support for tmpfs /tmp folders (mterry)
* Working on finishing the service to run the Dee.SharedModel for friends, now that we've made the friends dispatcher exit after all threads finish we are seeing a leak.  (kenvandine)
* webapps/webcreds manual package updates, looking forward to getting everything autolanding (kenvandine)

== Agenda ==

* ''Insert things to discuss at meeting here..''

=== Product strategy integration ===

* Wrote the documentation for the daily release process (available through blog posts: http://blog.didrocks.fr/post/Unity%3A-release-early%2C-release-often%E2%80%A6-release-daily%21.
* Also set it up in a more formal tone on the ubuntu wiki: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/DailyRelease

==== Unity ====

* Finally landed a Unity daily release after a week of no releases, due to various test failures

==== Indicators & Themes ====

==== Webapps/Webcredentials ====
* We now have hourly automated testing of the individual webapps (userscripts), horray!
** The webapps team will split them into separate repositories then we can setup autolanding.

==== Open input framework ====

=== X.org ===

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
</pre>
