{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alberto Milone (tseliot)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (ccheney)
* Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson)
* Didier Roche (didrocks)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)
* Travis Hartwell (Nafai)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)
* Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

==== Discussion ====

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Partner Update ===
===== OLS =====
* Post RC uploads of both ubuntuone-client and desktopcouch fixing some critical bugs
* Music store had some downloader problems (server side) which should be fixed now.

=== Kubuntu Update ===

=== Release Status ===

http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-desktop-team.html

=== Other Business ===

=== Activity reports ===
==== Alberto Milone (tseliot) ====
Done:
** LP: #553200 nvidia-96 Mouse and keyboard stop working after selecting user
** LP: #567425 package fglrx (not installed) failed to install/upgrade: dpkg-divert: rename involves overwriting
** [SRU] LP: #565407 package fglrx (not installed) failed to install/upgrade: inst_path_default or inst_path_override does not exist in /etc/ati when ATI Drivers are previously installed

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====
* Make arsenal script to search Xorg.0.log files on bugs in a given package for a specified string
* Re-setup tytherleigh for doing multi-touch testing
* Fix 565981 - memory leak caused by clutter crash fix patch
* Upload a new xorg-server post-RC to fix bug 562418
* Provide -intel 2.8.0 downgrade package in x-retro
* Provide -ati 6.12.192 downgrade package in x-retro
* Debug unlocked hsync bug on nouveau on local hardware
* Write ReleaseNotes for 8xx issues
* Triage -ati bugs daily, send a few upstream, etc.
* Review bugs with nominations proposed for lucid
* Preparatory reading for Launchpad rotation

==== Chris Cheney (ccheney) ====
* Upload openoffice.org-hyphenation 0.5
** Fixes bug LP #568514 - Removed duplicate file causing install problem.
* Upload openoffice.org-dictionaries 1:3.2.0~rc2-3ubuntu3
** Fixes bug LP: #568760 - Missing symlinks for dictionary policy backwards compatibility
* Clean up epiphany-browser hardy backport and uploaded current work to ppa.
** Work with Chris Coulson and Alexander Sack to try to resolve remaining issues.
* Work on OOo optimization blueprint to start mapping library interdependencies.
* Did 2 lucid upgrades on Apr 26, seemed to not upgrade users profile correctly, need to investigate.

==== Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF) ====

* Testing for reversion of GLX 1.4 backport packages to prevent GEMLeak
* Identify upstream patch to fix X crash with clutter apps in bug #550218 without re-introducing the leak from LP #565981.  This needs an additional fix for Savage cards and for software rendering; I think I know where to look for these.
* Create testing packages for what looks like an upstream fix for the long-standing intermittent assertion crashes in xcb on LP #419501 and its many duplicates.  These changes are quite large, and would need backporting to our older libx11-xcb, so may not be SRUable, but at least it can be fixed for Maverick
* Reverted the failed DRI-disablement patch for 8xx cards.
* Wrote much of the mmiotrace howto page.
* Bug triage
* Helped Keybuk and slangsek debug a plymouth issue in LP 570289 which broke my boot.

==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====

* UNE:
** bug triaging
* GNOME:
** glabels update to fix crash on adding any item
** upload some first SRU: poppler (having selection in right order), empathy
* Quickly:
** Fix bugs to be in a good shape for lucid
** (release Quickly 0.4.1 and 0.4.2 <- silly me ;))
** No Quickly gsoc :/ But the two students will contribute to Quickly on their free time :)
* Misc:
** sponsor: xchat-indicator
** Some ubuntu one debugging

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

Done:
* RC testing and release
* Final testing and bug triage

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
* Bug fix for desktopcouch, restart desktopcouch when called via the API not just on import
* Post RC uploads for ubuntuone-client fixing critical bugs
* blueprints
* lucid ISO testing
* gwibber testing

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Assigned blueprints: all done

Done:
* Bug fixing:  apport, gnome-keyring, libatasmart (karmic SRU), mono, pkg-create-dbgsym, python-distutils-extra, texlive-extra, xfonts-mathml
* Release management and engineering, and some related archive administration
* Lots of bug triage
* Discussed X.org GEM leak bug, set up call for testing, testing
* TB meeting

Sponsoring:
* xserver-xorg-video-intel

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* lucid iso testing
* lot of desktop bug reading and triaging
* uploaded lpi change to not list the report a bug entry in lucid
* weekly desktop team meeting organization
* reviewed marverick blueprints with rick
* telepathy-glib build fix
* backported openoffice dictionnaries fixes from debian
* backported some gtk-murrine git fixes for a crasher and rendering issue
* started looking to lucid sru updates, uploaded librsvg sru

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====
* system-config-printer: SRU for Lucid to make system-config-printer look for locally installed drivers before trying to find a driver on the internet (LP: #564633).
* ghostscript: Investigations on recent upstream fixes for PDF interpreter problems which make Ghostscript error out or even segfault on certain PDF files when printing with a CUPS Raster driver (Gutenprint, SpliX, ...), still waiting for another fix before preparing an SRU.
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports.

==== Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson) ====
* General
** Investigated gnome-appearance-properties threading and locking issues, which are responsible for a common long-standing crasher. I know how I think this should be fixed, but trying to get a response from upstream so I know I'm taking the correct approach
** Updated my stable desktop to Lucid at the weekend, which subsequently broke. Spent some time yesterday investigating that, but it turned out to be a local issue in the end, and it's all working now
** Fixed a g-s-d issue where the mediakeys plugin wasn't linking libnotify, causing some unresolved symbols
** Sponsoring: seamonkey, libjdic-java, firefox, conkeror

* Mozilla
** Getting a feel for the work required for the FF3.6 roll-out in Hardy, I expect this is going to take up most of my time in the next couple of weeks
** Fix 2 FF3.6 build failures on Hardy, in preparation for backporting
** Started work on the Hardy backport of Epiphany, based on the work ccheney has done so far
** Briefly investigated an issue with the localised offline home pages not working in FF. Looks trivial to fix in a SRU
** Review of big Seamonkey update for Lucid, fixed a couple of issues there
** Thunderbird upgrade testing to make sure 2 late changes last week didn't introduce any new upgrade issues. All successful, and uploaded now

==== Travis Hartwell (Nafai) ====
* Finished LP #558841, bratsche with fix in gtk+ for this
 
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
