{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:desktop-q-gwibber
* '''Created''': 2012-04-27
* '''Contributors''': LaunchpadHome:ken-vandine
* '''Packages affected''': gwibber

=== Summary ===

Discussion of plans for improvements to the Gwibber service in 12.10

=== Discussion Topics ===

* gwibber-service refactoring
** Testability
** Stop caching in the DB completely and rely on the DeeResourceManager for cached models?
** DB schema changes to leverage the advantages of a relational DB instead of just storing json strings?
* Service Plugin changes
** Make plugins standalone processes?
** Provide superclass for all plugins to inherit from, useful for either current model or split processes?
** use libpeas for plugins?
** Split the plugins into separate sources and have individual maintainers for each?
* python3
** Barry already ported mx.DateTime and looks like there shouldn't be any blockers to porting 

=== Notes from UDS ===

<pre>

* gwibber-service refactoring
** Testability
** Stop caching in the DB completely and rely on the DeeResourceManager for cached models
* Service Plugin changes
** use libpeas for plugins
** Drop some plugins
*** digg 
*** friendfeed 
*** pingfm 
*** qaiku 
* python3
** Barry already ported mx.DateTime and looks like there shouldn't be any blockers to porting 
* Use twitter Streaming API
</pre>

=== Comments ===

----
CategorySpec
