{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)  
* Tony Espy

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)

=== Apologies ===
* Chris Cheney (calc) - conference
* Martin Pitt (pitti) - holiday
=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting

==== Announcements ====

==== Status Updates ====
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports

==== Discussion ====
* Sprint planning

==== Any other business ====

=== Actions from this meeting ===
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to add burndown chart to meeting template
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to check into getting some different wireless access points for testing NM to Dublin
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to create list of design team inputs needed for sprint
* ACTION: everyone who can, do some sponsoring extra sponsoring this week

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===
* ACTION: asac to set up wiki page to track bluetooth devices for desktop team
** RESULT: will work on as a team in Dublin
* ACTION: Riddell to report on current state of Blue Tooth in Kubuntu Karmic
** RESULT: Upstream Blue Tooth support is not active
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to update on gdm greeter skinning resources at next meeting 
** RESULT: will discuss in design/DXE meeting 2009-07-29

=== Partner Update ===

UbuntuOne:

<nowiki>[[UbuntuOne-DesktopIntegration-Status|Status]]</nowiki>

* desktop couchdb
** Uploaded to ubuntuone beta ppa, REVU today or tomorrow
* client records api
** Uploaded to ubuntuone beta ppa, REVU today or tomorrow
* evolution using couch for storage
** evolution-couchdb is in REVU and couchdb-glib is in universe
* file syncing
** in main and on CD (DONE)
* generic contact picker UI
** no longer in scope for karmic
* screen sharing
** might punt for karmic
* firefox bookmarks syncing
** to be reviewed by asac   

* MIR
** couchdb
** erlang

DX:
* FUSA replacement work (SUS) 
   - Basic funcationality done
   - Design team is working on it now
   - should be ready to integrate during the Dublin sprint

=== Kubuntu Update ===
* Kopete protocol fix for Yahoo in jaunty-proposed unapproved
* Qt 4.5.2 includes security fixes for QtWebkit

=== Release Status ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Id'''
| '''Title'''
| '''Assigned To'''
| '''Status'''
| '''Importance'''
| '''Package'''
| '''Release'''
| '''Milestone'''
|-
| 401165
| build dependency on GCC-4.3 [armel]
| asac
| In Progress
| High
| thunderbird (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| karmic-alpha-5
|-
| 392593
| [karmic regression] cannot connect to wireless network
| jr
| Confirmed
| High
| plasma-widget-network-manager (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| 
|-
| 403581
| restart required notification and button not shown in ffox 3.5
| asac
| Triaged
| High
| ubufox (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| ubuntu-9.10-beta
|-
| 396448
| inconsistent automounting on startup
| pitti
| Triaged
| High
| devicekit-disks (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| 
|-
| 135548
| Action on critical battery isn't triggered
| pitti
| Triaged
| Medium
| gnome-power-manager (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| 
|-
| 386699
| Mistakes external USB flash disk for system-internal disk
| pitti
| Triaged
| Medium
| gvfs (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| 
|-
| 388898
| Move Empathy Dependencies to Main and Update Desktop Seed
| ken-vandine
| New
| Undecided
| gupnp-igd (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| 
|-
| 388898
| Move Empathy Dependencies to Main and Update Desktop Seed
| ken-vandine
| Incomplete
| Undecided
| telepathy-butterfly (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| 
|-
| 395299
| gdm 2.26 has no graphical configuration tool
| robert-ancell
| Triaged
| Wishlist
| gdm (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| 
|}

=== Sprint Planning ===
* pitti would like to see fewer scheduled meetings this sprint (compared to last), but rather focus on task list
* rickspencer3 will try to have zero meetings schedule, but can't promise other teams won't impose
* Add agenda items here: https://wiki.canonical.com/UbuntuPlatform/Sprints/Karmic/Desktop
* One item is to get below the trend line for the burndown chart: http://piware.de/tmp/desktopteam-burndown-karmic.png
* asac points out that we should bring some wireless access points to the sprint so that we can test out different protocols and such

=== Other Business ===
* asac likes seeing the burndown chart on the meeting wiki page, rickspencer3 to add to template
* Some MIRs (iBus, OLS)  are "stuck", asac to spend some time working on them this week
* mat_t asks about design deliverables needed for the sprint
* seb128 points that we are falling behind in sponsoring due to Daniel being on holiday

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

Mozilla:
* start work on nspr/nss upstream version upgrade as a security/stability effort for hardy/intrepid
* mozilla experiment communication/blog post
* debug BadWindow bug that prevents firefox 3.5 startup on some X setups; developed band-aid, committed to trunk packaging branch and forwarded upstream - LP: #401055)
* mozilla-devscripts: work with bdrung to add more automagic to xpi.mk; extension packages now automatically detect the target applications, creates the links accordingly and even provides a ${xpi:Depends} feature
* get xulrunner 1.9.1 promoted to main
* port classpath and a few other packages to xulrunner 1.9.1

NetworkManager/Connman/Bluetooth:
* ping blueman upstream about more info.
* uploading obexd required for gnome-bluetooth
* add missing license headers in upstream code for modemmanager; check all files with git log to
   get proper copyright; next: commit upstream
* file and fix a few cosmetic connman packaging bugs (fixed: LP: #400576, #402998, 402999)

Chromium:
* work on v8 javascript engine packaging; developed patch for v8 that uses GCC pragma visibility to hide all internal symbols; send upstream
* add javascript_engine build parameter for system-v8; test packages 

Misc:
* fix a leak in notify-osd (probably more to come)
* sponsoring a few packages (adblock-plus, mozgest, fische)
* integration call

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====

* langpack-o-matic: a couple of trial runs in order to see if the introduced changes work, fixing bugs in the changes
* built first round of language-packs
* language-selector: reviewed the gtkbuilder branch
* reviewed Chinese fonts for the OEM team
* Rosetta: cleaning import queue

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====
* Sponsored:  -synaptics (#402863)
* Developed a CGI tool for upstreaming bugs
* Expired bunches of -fglrx, -nvidia, and -intel bugs
* Caught up on triaging of -intel bugs
* Upstreamed scores of -intel bugs; all upstreamable -intel bugs are
   now upstream (still awaiting comment from reporter on a few)

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====
done:
* Alpha 3 testing, fixing and release
* KDE 4.3 RC 3 packaging coordination, testing and release
* Discuss Qt Phonon's headers location with upstream and resolve fix upstream in next Qt release
* Package new Arora, add flash install prompt, fix Oxygen widget style to give KDE dialogues in Arora
* Stop k3b moaning about missing MP3
* Investigate KDE Bluetooth, dead upstream, have ordered a bluetooth device so I can check if it works at all
* write MIR for eina

blocked:
* Fix Kopete for Yahoo protocol change in kdenetwork, needs approval from jaunty-proposed Unapproved
* MIR for Eina

todo:
* Kubuntu translations love day tomorrow

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
====== Last week: ======
* Desktop CouchDB refactoring
* Desktop CouchDB packaging (uploaded to u1 beta ppa, REVU real soon)
* Bindwood with desktopcouch experimenting
* couchdb fix for permissions on /etc/couchdb
* alpha3 testing
 

====== This week: ======
* MIRS for couchdb-glib, evolution-glib, and json-glib
* empathy indicator patch review
* Assisting U1 team with new packages in REVU
* empathy-human-theme package

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====
==== Accessibility ====
* Further work on the gnome-speech replacement specification. Stumped on how best to implement some functionality, and upstream are not very responsive, so will have to nut this one out myself.
* Filed bugs for accessibility related issues to do with the chat window and any theme other than the classic theme, as well as the online status drop down combo box. One more bug was found late today relating to accounts and a combo box in that dialog, so nee dot file a bug for it ASAP. Haven't yet hooked these up with bugs in launchpad yet, as most of them are already fixed, thanks to a very responsive upstream.
* Updated gnome-orca, mousetweaks, and gok to 2.27.5 in karmic.
* Updated gnome-mag to 0.15.7 in karmic.

==== Audio ====
* Audio bug triaging, bugs in question are against pulseaudio, alsa userspace, and the kernel for hardware enablement.
* Got a response from Lennart about rtkit and Kee's requests, need to read through it again and attempt to make the changes that Kees wants to see before rtkit can get into main.
* Started work on the alsa-plugins package to provide a separate a52 plugin package in the archive, so that if users want surround sound support via digital output for PulseAudio, then doing so is only a download away.
* Set up pavucontrol git master, and pulseaudio git master to test out PulseAudio's digital audio output profile functionality when combined with the alsa AC3/a2 plugin, for 5.1 surround sound, and hit upon a bug, which has been determined to be ALSA related, and filed upstream.
* Continued testing bluetooth audio functionality with pulseaudio. Received a bug report re bluetooth audio and pulse, but have yet to attempt to reproduce the bug.
* Updated gnome-media to 2.27.5 in karmic.

==== Misc ====
* Sponsored uploads for yelp, gnome-system-tools, abcde (universe, was a merge I did last), totem-pl-parser, and libraw1394.

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Just a 3-day week due to holidays. (Well, by the hours it was almost a full one..)

Karmic spec drafting: all approved

Karmic feature work:
* desktop-karmic-automagic-python-build-system: 
** More bug fixes, integrated some changes from Didier
* desktop-karmic-symptom-based-bug-reporting: no progress this week
* security-karmic-apport-abort: no progress this week
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Halsectomy|hal deprecation]]</nowiki>:
** Tim Waugh and Till working on hal-cups-utils replacement with full steam
** no progress from me this week
* gnome-panel speedup: no progress this week

Other work done:
* Spent the majority of the three days on release management/engineering of Alpha-3.
* Investigated critical regression in ecryptfs, breaking login, sudo, and everything else in PAM.
* Bug fixes: apport, gdm, postgresql-common, user-setup, ubiquity
* Tested blueman vs. gnome-bluetooth, reported back on ML
* Updated devicekit-power; not uploaded yet, needs newer g-p-m (will do next week)
* Discussed OEM langpacks with Adam
* Updated ConsoleKit to new version; upstream accepted all our patches, package is back to a sane state.
* gnome-power-manager patch review with upstream; committed our upstream-suitable patches, discussed the rest with upstream; we are back to a sane state now (5 small patches or so)

Sponsoring:
* couchdb-glib, evolution-couchdb, cdbs, gdm

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* Package update/merges: pycairo, totem, totem-pl-parser, gcalctool, gnome-games, gedit, file-roller, vino, gnome-system-tools, yelp, tomboy
* MIR for gmime (required for totem-pl-parser)
* Work on PolicyKit integration into GDM

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====
* new GNOME versions: gtk pango gdm gtk gtkhtml evolution-data-server
evolution evolution-exchange gnome-keyring

* updated notify-osd to new version in karmic

* updated gnome-panel profile and gnome-applet build to not have a
duplicated mixer applet in karmic

* tested alpha3 cds

* looked at retracer issues, discussed those with pitti and applied
suggested workaround to downgrade gdb to get those running again

* looked at profiling nautilus start speed, added start marks to the
code to trace those and set up tools to mesure time spent, next speed is
to start tackling issues

* desktop-karmic-gnome-3 spec:
 - listed gnome-vfs rdepends on the alpha3 image
 - listed libglade rdepends on the alpha3 image, opened bugs for things
which are not tracked upstream already
 - sent patches to switch usb-creator (in karmic now) and
language-selector to gktbuilder

* desktop bugs triage

* sponsoring: ubuntuone-client ubuntuone-storage-protocol json-glib
ifscheme mono-tools nis gnome-settings-daemon totem pycairo sabayon
translate-toolkit ubuntuone-client ucommon diggler pessulus alsaplayer
libgda4 mountmanager gtkmm2.4 (and commented on lot of other bugs, the
sponsoring list really need cleaning)
==== Tony Espy (awe) ====

** Upgraded both of my macbooks to karmic
** Spent most of Thursday afternoon trying to recover my
     new macbook after the upgrade.  It died and wouldn't boot.
     Somehow it miraculously started working again Friday morning.
** Reported a problem with a jockey crash trying to install the
     Broadcom Wi-Fi driver on my macbook.
** Installed blueman.
** Desktop IRC meeting
** Did some minor connman and network-mamager ( jaunty
    backport ) testing.
** MOTU: created sync bugs for: console-common, obexpushd, scmxx
** Read the Gnome Human Interface Guidelines.
** Started working on network-manager applet dialog simplification.

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

** Completed switchover of Plug'n'Print from HAL to udev. Finished testing and fixed all remaining problems of the upstream software. The resulting udev rules and callouts are part of the system-config-printer upstream project and in the system-config-printer-udev package now (source package system-config-printer). This package has a Replaces/Conflicts: hal-cups-utils and system-config-printer now recommends system-config-printer-udev instead of hal-cups-utils.
** Uploaded new system-config-printer package. This package is the current GIT snapshot (Release 1.1.10 + some more stuff) incorporating all recent upstream development and also the new udev rules and callouts.
** Fixed several bugs in the new system-config-printer and submitted 8 patches upstream (and applied them also to the Ubuntu package).
** Patched hp-plugin (from HPLIP) to make the download of the proprietary plugin working correctly.
** The new system-config-printer works great now with my 13 HP printers.
** Answered and triaged printing-related bugs.

== IRC Log ==
[17:32] <rickspencer3> asac: is the bt wiki set up?<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> (if not, we can do it next week at the sprint)<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> no worries<<BR>>
[17:33] <asac> rickspencer3: you appropriately added it to "actions from this meeting"<<BR>>
[17:33] <Riddell> bt wiki?<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> hehe<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> oops<<BR>>
[17:33] <asac> rickspencer3: already added it to sprint agenda<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> Riddell: Bluetooth Wiki<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> okay, Riddell - quick word on Bluetooth in Kubuntu?<<BR>>
[17:33] <Riddell> upstream is dead<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> :(<<BR>>
[17:34] <Riddell> I've ordered hardware to test it myself and see what works<<BR>>
[17:34] <Riddell> but I'm not terribly hopeful<<BR>>
[17:34] <tkamppeter> hi<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> hi tkamppeter<<BR>>
[17:34] <asac> rickspencer3: applet upstream is dead?<<BR>>
[17:34] <asac> oops<<BR>>
[17:34] <asac> Riddell: ^^<<BR>>
[17:34] <Riddell> asac: yes<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> hmmm<<BR>>
[17:34] <asac> Riddell: whats the name of the kde bluetooth thing?<<BR>>
[17:34] <Riddell> asac: kdebluetooth<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> Riddell, we should discuss Bluetooth and Network connection in Kubuntu ... both seem somewhat at risk for Karmic Kubuntu<<BR>>
[17:35] <asac> yes<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> (but not now)<<BR>>
[17:35] <Riddell> actually I'm hopeful on the network connection<<BR>>
[17:35] <asac> lets add that to sprint agenda<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> good to hear<<BR>>
[17:35] <Riddell> I've packages which work pretty well in my PPA<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> ACTION: RIddell to add Bluetooth/Network for Kubuntu to sprint agenda<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> ok, I had an action regarding GDM greeter resources<<BR>>
[17:36] <rickspencer3> the design team is engaged, but no developer resources yet ... I have a meeting tomorrow where I can discuss with sabdfl and davidbarth<<BR>>
[17:36]  * asac wonders if IS could bring test access points so we can check various wifi options<<BR>>
[17:36] <rickspencer3> ACTION: rickspencer3 to ask about test access points for trying various wifi options<<BR>>
[17:36] <rickspencer3> elmo I presume<<BR>>
[17:37] <asac> rickspencer3: at best even an AP with enterprise WPA support<<BR>>
[17:37] <asac> maybe awe can bring one from lexington<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> asac: ack<<BR>>
[17:37] <asac> awe: ?<<BR>>
[17:37] <awe> we don't have any...<<BR>>
[17:37] <asac> rickspencer3: ok. in case you need info what exactly to ask for ping me<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> hmmm<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> asac: I certainly will .. or perhaps some from IS will<<BR>>
[17:37] <asac> thx<<BR>>
[17:38] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:38] <rickspencer3> moving on ...<<BR>>
[17:38] <awe> rickspencer3, we have access points i could bring; just don't wpa-enterprise is in the cards<<BR>>
[17:38] <rickspencer3> kenvandine: partner update?<<BR>>
[17:38] <kenvandine> sure<<BR>>
[17:38] <awe> s/just don't/just don't think/<<BR>>
[17:38] <kenvandine> desktopcouch is uploaded to the u1 beta ppa<<BR>>
[17:39] <kenvandine> it needs a fix to couchdb to be usable... i hope that gets sponsored soon<<BR>>
[17:39] <kenvandine> asac is looking at the bindwood ff extension, which syncs bookmarks<<BR>>
[17:39] <asac> (riddell: which ppa is the networkmanager thing in?)<<BR>>
[17:40] <kenvandine> still waiting for a couple MIRs (couchdb and erlang)<<BR>>
[17:40] <kenvandine> i assume when pitti returns<<BR>>
[17:40] <Riddell> asac: ~jr but amd64 only due to buildd breakage<<BR>>
[17:40] <kenvandine> u1 is progressing nicely<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> asac: you're on the MIR team, right?<<BR>>
[17:40] <asac> rickspencer3: yes.<<BR>>
[17:40] <kenvandine> asac, ok, i chat with you after the meeting<<BR>>
[17:40] <asac> Riddell: udev?<<BR>>
[17:41] <asac> kenvandine: yes. we can check it<<BR>>
[17:41] <rickspencer3> perhaps tomorrow you could help unstick the couch MIRs if needed?<<BR>>
[17:41] <kenvandine> for DX, indicator-sus is sort of done<<BR>>
[17:41] <Riddell> asac: yes<<BR>>
[17:41] <asac> erlang is quite a huge thing. i have to check with security thing if they want to take a look<<BR>>
[17:41] <kenvandine> needs some work still and the design team is working on it now, but should be ready to finish at the sprint<<BR>>
[17:41] <asac> s/security thing/security team/<<BR>>
[17:42] <rickspencer3> kenvandine: great<<BR>>
[17:42] <kenvandine> i think that is it for the partner update<<BR>>
[17:42] <rickspencer3> thanks<<BR>>
[17:42] <rickspencer3> Riddell: Kubuntu?<<BR>>
[17:42] <Riddell>  - Kopete protocol fix for Yahoo in jaunty-proposed unapproved, who can approve if Pitti is away?<<BR>>
[17:42] <Riddell>  - Qt 4.5.2 includes security fixes for QtWebkit, unclear if or how those should go into -security<<BR>>
[17:43] <Riddell> that's all, other stuff I had we already talked about<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> in terms of approving while pitti is away:<<BR>>
[17:44]  * asac never figured which team is responsible for -propose approval ... its alwasy been just pitti<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> 1. I am afraid today is drawing to a close, so will most likely wait until tomorrow<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> 2. pitti is back tomorrow<<BR>>
[17:44] <asac> ;)<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> okay<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> moving on ...<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> Release targeted bugs ..<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> check the wiki, we don't have too many yet<<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> and don't have any milestoned for alpha 4<<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> next is the sprint<<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> essentially:<<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> 1. I will try to minimize meetings as much as possible<<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> 2. Add goals here: https://wiki.canonical.com/UbuntuPlatform/Sprints/Karmic/Desktop<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> 3. One thing that I want to accomplish there is postponing work items so that we can get under the trend line<<BR>>
[17:46] <tkamppeter> rickspencer3: How can I see what will happen on the sprint, I cannot read these pages.<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> that's the agenda<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> any other business?<<BR>>
[17:46] <asac> rickspencer3: you stopped publising the burnd down chart ... maybe we can add that to the meeting wiki page again=<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> tkamppeter: hmmm ... okay, let's you and I work that out offline<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> asac: sure<<BR>>
[17:46]  * asac doesnt remember where to check the trendline<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> the burndown chart is always available here:<<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> asac, the url is on the wiki page for the meeting<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> http://piware.de/tmp/desktopteam-burndown-karmic.png<<BR>>
[17:47] <asac> seb128: is it?<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> but I will be glad to embed it<<BR>>
[17:47] <asac> oh its in sprint section<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> (it is, but don't worry, I'll just add it there)<<BR>>
[17:47] <asac> yeah. but last weeks it wsant there ,)<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> I'll add it to the template in the release section<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> ACTION: rickspencer3 to add burndown chart to meeting template<<BR>>
[17:48] <asac> rickspencer3: can you give me the bzr branch with all code used for that again too? i wanted to do that for the ffox 35 spec and then i didnt find all pieces<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> asac: sure<<BR>>
[17:48] <asac> i think i found your chart python thing, but not the parser<<BR>>
[17:48] <asac> great<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> oh, the parser is pitti's<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> any other business?<<BR>>
[17:49] <awe> rickspencer3, were we going to make a decision on bluetooth today, or do we defer to the sprint?<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> awe: well ...<<BR>>
[17:49] <asac> awe: that was discussed at the beginning. moved to sprint<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> I think we were going to give input regarding it, but I don't think we as a team accomplished enough for that<<BR>>
[17:49] <awe> ok<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> so yeah, let's do this at the sprint<<BR>>
[17:50] <awe> np<<BR>>
[17:50]  * rickspencer3 needs to get to fry's and buy some BT stuff<<BR>>
[17:50] <rickspencer3> awe: does this cause a schedule problem that we should be aware of?<<BR>>
[17:50] <awe> no, i just did a bunch of testing and was wondering if it was on the agenda for today.  no rush<<BR>>
[17:50] <rickspencer3> awe: great!<<BR>>
[17:50] <rickspencer3> thanks<<BR>>
[17:50]  * asac hugs awe <<BR>>
[17:51] <mat_t_> rickspencer3: do you guys need anything from the design team before Dublin?<<BR>>
[17:51]  * awe grins<<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> mat_t_: hmmm<<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> ACTION: rickspencer3 to create list of design team inputs needed for sprint<<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> mat_t_: thanks for bringing that up ... good thinking<<BR>>
[17:51] <mat_t_> np<<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> I think I'll need to ponder and idscus<<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> wow .. discuss, even<<BR>>
[17:52] <mat_t_> :)<<BR>>
[17:52]  * rickspencer3 is panting from "running" the meeting so fast<<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> any other business?<<BR>>
[17:52]  * seb128 ponders replying "yes"<<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> ;-)<<BR>>
[17:53] <rickspencer3> seb128: go ahead, we have 7 mins<<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> no, just jocking<<BR>>
[17:53] <rickspencer3> hehe<<BR>>
[17:53] <asac> jockeying? ;)<<BR>>
[17:53] <rickspencer3> :)<<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> doh! ;-)<<BR>>
[17:53] <rickspencer3> let's not start teasing about typos, we'll never get work done here!<<BR>>
[17:54] <rickspencer3> ArneGoetje: did you not have a question about iBus?<<BR>>
[17:54] <ArneGoetje> rickspencer3: well, MIR review is still outstanding<<BR>>
[17:55] <rickspencer3> ArneGoetje: okay, perhaps tomorrow ping pitti, asac, or someone on MIR team to see if they can move it along<<BR>>
[17:55] <rickspencer3> or is something specific blocking it?<<BR>>
[17:55] <ArneGoetje> rickspencer3: yep<<BR>>
[17:55] <asac> i have a bunch of ibus MIRs on my plate. yes.<<BR>>
[17:56]  * asac considers to do half a day MIR tomorrow<<BR>>
[17:56] <rickspencer3> asac has a very big plate to fit so much on it ;)<<BR>>
[17:56] <rickspencer3> okay, if there's no other business ...<<BR>>
[17:57]  * rickspencer3 taps gavel<<BR>>
[17:57] <rickspencer3> thanks all<<BR>>
[17:57] <bryce> thanks!<<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> speaking of mir working would be nice if people could do some sponsoring work too<<BR>>
[17:57] <asac> thanks!<<BR>>
[17:57] <ArneGoetje> thanks<<BR>>
[17:57] <rickspencer3> I can't wait to get together next week!<<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> thanks rickspencer3<<BR>>
[17:57]  * rickspencer3 cracks the sponsoring whip<<BR>>
[17:57] <rickspencer3> seb128: I'll look at the sponsoring report and pick some victims :)<<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> the list is exploding while dholbach is on holidays<<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> let's be nice and avoid him to have a stroke when he comes back ;-)<<BR>>
[17:57] <rickspencer3> oh, so no sponsoring report then, either<<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> rickspencer3, well http://people.canonical.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/index.html<<BR>>
[17:58] <rickspencer3> ACTION: everyone who can, do some sponsoring extra sponsoring this week<<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> thanks ;-)<<BR>>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
