{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Test plan for component''': browsers

=== Description ===

This is a common test plan shared across all of Ubuntu's browser packages.  For the browser-specific test plans, see

* <nowiki>[[DesktopTeam-TestPlans-firefox|firefox]]</nowiki> (TBD)
* <nowiki>[[Process-Merges-TestPlans-chromium|chromium]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[DesktopTeam-TestPlans-epiphany|epiphany]]</nowiki> (TBD)
* netsurf (TBD)
* dillo (TBD)

'''Note:''' Please note that not all of the tests may be applicable to all browsers, depending on the feature set and scope of each browser.  For instance, both firefox and chromium should be able to handle most of the following, but others like netsurf or dillo may not.

=== Initial setup ===

* Install the snap or deb package depending on your distro version and whichever browser you'd like to test (for example, starting with impish, firefox is only available as a snap, whereas on focal and earlier versions it was primarily a deb).

=== Automated tests ===

* Ensure that the <nowiki>[[https://autopkgtest.ubuntu.com|autopkgtests]]</nowiki> for your package of choice pass on the amd64, i386, arm64, and armhf architectures.

=== Manual tests ===

What follows is a series of manual tests for browser packages, to be used as a starting point for testing/validating browser packages. Please note that the list is not comprehensive/exhaustive, and is meant to be a starting point and guideline to your manual testing.

==== about page(s) ====

* Open the browser's about page, and verify the correctness of version number, user agent string, profile directory, and the status of GPU support.

 . Note that the name and/or location of this page may differ across browsers.  For instance, on firefox it can be accessed by browsing to `about:support`, and on chromium these information are available via `about:version` and `about:gpu`.

==== Custom URL scheme handling ====

* Verify that clicking mailto:foobar@nospam.org opens your default email client and starts composing a message.

* Browse to https://snapcraft.io/0ad, click on the green 'Install' button, then click the 'View in Desktop store' button and verify that it opens the software store on the details page for 0 A.D.

==== Default browser ====

* From the system Settings application, open the Default Applications panel (`gnome-control-center default-apps`), and verify that the right browser is indicated as the default browser. On Ubuntu the default is currently firefox, and if you are testing another browser package it would be good to try setting it as the default browser and test that it remains the default after upgrading its package.

* If supported by the browser (e.g. both firefox and chromium have this), use its preferences system to set it as the default browser, then open the system Settings application's Default Applications panel (if you previously had it open, change to another panel and then back to Default Applications, to trigger a reload of its displayed settings values) and verify that this browser is now the default browser.  Per the above point, it would be good to also check that the browser remains the default after upgrading it.

* From the system Settings application, change the default browser to another browser (you will need more than one browser install to test this), then in the browser you're testing, verify that it correctly detects no longer being the default browser and its button to make itself the default browser is visible and active.

* From the system Settings application, change the default browser to the browser you're testing, then in the browser verify that it correctly detects being the default browser and optionally that its button to make itself the default browser is now hidden or disabled.

Note: in firefox these can be done via `about:preferences#general` and in chromium via `about:settings/defaultBrowser`.

==== Search engine referrals ====

* Verify that when doing a web search from the address bar and/or search bar of the browser, the referral code is correctly set as a URL parameter.  For Google, this would be `client=ubuntu`, and for other search engines it may be something like `t=canonical`.

==== Downloads ====

* Download a tarball (e.g. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+archive/primary/+sourcefiles/grace/1:5.1.25-13/grace_5.1.25.orig.tar.gz|grace_5.1.25.orig.tar.gz]]</nowiki>).  If applicable, open the browser's downloads view, verify that the file is fully downloaded, that you can open the parent folder containing it (this should open nautilus or your default file manager), and that you can open the downloaded file from the browser (e.g. for a tarball it should open in an archive manager like `file-roller`).

* Download a <nowiki>[[https://interoperability.blob.core.windows.net/files/MS-DOC/%5bMS-DOC%5d-221115.docx|sample DOC(X) file]]</nowiki>, verify that the file is fully downloaded, that you can open its parent folder, and that you can open the downloaded file from the browser (in this case it should open in LibreOffice Writer).

* If the browser supports rendering and displaying PDF files directly in the browser itself (like firefox and chromium do), open a <nowiki>[[https://helpx.adobe.com/pdf/acrobat_reference.pdf|sample PDF file]]</nowiki>, which should open and render in the browser.
** Verify that you can scroll through the pages.
** Verify that you can zoom in an out.
** Verify that you can save (download) the file to disk.

==== HTML5 ====

* Browse to https://html5test.com, verify that the browser was correctly detected, and that the score is as expected (this will vary from browser to browser).

==== Geolocation ====

* Browse to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Geolocation_API/Using_the_Geolocation_API#result, and verify that you get prompted to allow/deny geolocation access.

* Allow access, and verify that your approximate location is found.

==== WebRTC ====

* Browse to https://mozilla.github.io/webrtc-landing/gum_test.html, and verify that camera, microphone, and screen capture are working as expected.

 <!> Make sure to test both sharing the entire screen, and sharing specific windows, under Wayland; there have been breakages in the past.

==== WebGL ====

* Browse to https://webglsamples.org/aquarium/aquarium.html, and verify that on real hardware you get a good FPS (60) with the default number of sprites (500 fishes).

==== Safe browsing warnings ====

* Browse to https://testsafebrowsing.appspot.com, try clicking on some of the links, and verify that you get appropriate dissuasive warnings.

==== Video playback ====

* Browse to https://www.youtube.com and watch any video.
** Verify that you can pause and resume the video.
** Verify that you can enter and exit full-screen.
** Verify that while the video is playing, the screensaver or screen blanking is inhibited.

* Watch any 360° video on youtube (for instance https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wczdECcwRw0) and verify that you can pan with the mouse to move around in the scene while it's playing back.
----
CategoryDesktopTestPlans
