{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Actions from previous meeting ==

== Actions from this meeting ==

== Weekly Summary ==

* Thanks to Matthias Klose, LibreOffice landed in Natty now.
* Some more updates to the GNOME3 PPA

=== Partner Update ===
* DX
** New APIs for libunity are due to land this week
** menu parsing is getting moved out of appmenu-gtk and libappindicator and into dbusmenu-gtk
*** should help in triaging and isolating bugs

* UbuntuOne
** syncdaemon performance enhancements due to land in natty next week
** unity integration work is beginning, should make it before FF
** shotwell integration work is beginning, not at risk for FF

=== Unity ===

* New unity landed this week
** a bunch of bug fixes and the dash has its first release (really early prototype though)!
** a lot of accessibility improvments as well.
** we got an intermediate upload to fix an annoying "invisible unclickable window" bug.
** the places have been rebuilt to drop some packages from the archives, the big come back is for this week release.
** still some stacking issues (menu disappearing, windows not clickable) in compiz. Apparently, there is a fix proposed, so fortunately, this will be fixed this week.
** also, some specific issue with nvidia card (black screen) still there, as well as launchers weird behavior in some cases.
** libunity is now a new source to make the foundation API more unrelated to the view.
* Next week, on your almost natty alpha2 computer:
** full release upload planned on Thursday with working places (\o/), miscellaneous improvements and still bug fixes.
** another "final" upload on Monday evening/Tuesday morning (european time) with crusty fixes and small incremental changes for getting ready for alpha2.
** a compiz upload which should speed the startup time and fixes some annoying bugs (no ABI break planned).
* Misc:
** we know we have a lot of false positives of "your computer can't run unity" because the detection tools take more than 3s to answer on a cold cache (and the timeout was 0.5s, then 1s). For now, I'll upload a gnome-session package with a timeout of 5s for the release. The detection tool loads 15 MiB of libraries which can explain that. Some work on that planned for alpha3.
** support of multiple fallbacks added to gnome-session. So, if you install unity-2d, the fallback for the unity session is unity-2d instead of gnome-classic without a warning message in that case.

=== Software Center ===
* Startup Performance
** Some nice improvements this week reducing startup time an additional 1.2s+ on the Dell Mini 10 reference:
** http://people.canonical.com/~mvo/software-center/mini10-startup/startup-times.png
* Ratings and Reviews
** Server-side:
** New release expected this week, includes many improvements and bugfixes
** Client-side:
** Development and testing continues in branch lp:~mvo/software-center/reviews
** Plan is to land feature in trunk this week for final testing and then release for alpha 2

=== Kubuntu ===

=== X.org ===

* Intel GPU Hook now captures dmesg and logs at point of fault (thanks Pitti!)  This makes X lockup bugs easier to diagnose!
* Wayland - fixed shlibs for libxkbcommon, split out shlibs for wayland package components

==== New X Stack in Natty ====

Target to get in by Friday Jan 28, 2011.  This gives us a few days for tidying up any critical issues before alpha-2 is finalized.

* (DONE) mesa 7.10 uploaded
* (DONE) libdrm 2.4.23 uploaded - includes a libdrm-nouveau1a transition which is a little messy but will prevent people getting segfaults / partial-upgrades.
* Various bits needing updated before we can do xserver's update:
** (DONE) x11proto-randr - required to build server.  Using xorg-edgers snapshot
** (DONE) x11proto-xext - required to build server.  Using xorg-edgers snapshot
** (DONE) wacom upstream release - Upload wacom package from http://cooperteam.net/Packages/ 
** (DONE) siliconmotion - Needs http://sarvatt.com/downloads/patches/siliconmotion-ABI.patch
** synaptics - TBD
** (DONE) Announcement to ubuntu-x@ and ubuntu-devel@ of upcoming breakage
** Timo has a script to automate the X component rebuilds we may try putting to use
* xserver 1.10 will probably be uploaded towards the end of the week
** All driver packages will need rebuilds after this
* -intel update:  TBD (ready in git)
* -radeon update: TBD (will probably just snag latest xorg-edgers snapshot, and refresh its patches)
** Need to put out a call-for-testing for switching to r600g by default
* -synaptics:
** Has some potentially problematic acceleration changes.
** We may try to revert these changes until there is a way to configure them.

=== Tools and Processes ===

* Graphs and workqueue reports now available for all desktop teams:
** <nowiki>[[http://www.bryceharrington.org/Arsenal/Reports/ubuntu-audio/workqueue-natty.html|Audio         ]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.bryceharrington.org/Arsenal/Reports/compiz/workqueue-natty.html|Compiz              ]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.bryceharrington.org/Arsenal/Reports/desktop-bugs/workqueue-natty.html|Desktop       ]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.bryceharrington.org/Arsenal/Reports/mozilla-bugs/workqueue-natty.html|Mozilla       ]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.bryceharrington.org/Arsenal/Reports/openoffice-pkgs/workqueue-natty.html|Openoffice ]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.bryceharrington.org/Arsenal/Reports/ubuntu-x-swat/workqueue-natty.html|X            ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.bryceharrington.org/cgi-bin/send_upstream.cgi|send_upstream.cgi]]</nowiki> fixed - freedesktop made some apache change that broke POST I guess.

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - other version:''' ----
17:34:15 pitti	apparently no actions from previous meeting
17:34:54 pitti	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2011-01-25 for the current reports about Unity etc.
17:35:09 pitti	kenvandine: do you have a parnter update?
17:35:12 kenvandine	yup
17:35:18 kenvandine	i should put that on the wiki too :)
17:35:19 pitti	partner, too
17:35:19 kenvandine	anyway
17:35:30 kenvandine	of U1
17:35:33 kenvandine	for U1
17:35:35 kenvandine	syncdaemon performance improvements, should land end of next week
17:35:55 kenvandine	unity integration has begun, should land in time for FF assuming all goes well with the libunity api they need
17:36:11 kenvandine	shotwell integration work will start next week, minimal work required, also should land in time for FF
17:36:27 pitti	nice
17:36:32 kenvandine	DX:
17:36:55 pitti	like, publishing photos to the cloud?
17:36:55 kenvandine	libunity landing this week, hopefully enough to get the U1 team comfortable with the API
17:37:03 kenvandine	pitti, basic
17:37:13 kenvandine	making sure photos can be synced easily
17:37:33 kenvandine	like i think things like revision info and metadata about photos
17:37:53 tkamppeter	hi
17:38:05 kenvandine	the other big thing from DX this week is work on moving menu parsing out of appmenu-gtk and libappindicator and into dbusmenu-gtk
17:38:18 kenvandine	which should help with bug triaging and hopefully fixing
17:38:27 kenvandine	that is all i have, questions? comments?
17:38:29 seb128	kenvandine, libunity landed last week no?
17:38:34 didrocks	kenvandine: (libunity already landed btw)
17:38:39 seb128	kenvandine, well at least didrocks uploaded and I reviewed it
17:38:42 kenvandine	yeah... but not with the new PAPIs
17:38:46 kenvandine	APIs
17:38:52 seb128	ok
17:38:55 kenvandine	i think the beginning of the new APIs are landing this week
17:38:57 seb128	so new update you mean
17:39:06 kenvandine	yeah, not new package :)
17:39:18 seb128	kenvandine, is it worth trying to fix appmenu issues until the parsing update lands?
17:39:27 seb128	like lpi menu items not working
17:39:37 kenvandine	don't think so
17:39:39 seb128	ok
17:40:16 chrisccoulson	if there are appmenu issues to debug btw, i could take a look at them whilst this stuff is all fresh in memory :)
17:40:28 chrisccoulson	i think a few people mentioned at the rally there were some long standing bugs
17:40:45 seb128	there is indeed, feel free to pick on the bug list
17:40:52 kenvandine	there are, i think tedg hopes to get that code in one place so it is easier to triage and fix
17:40:56 chrisccoulson	cool, i'll take a look
17:40:59 seb128	not sure how much that will be useful with the refactoring though
17:41:16 seb128	so maybe check with ted to get the updated code before starting on those
17:41:24 chrisccoulson	sure, no problem
17:42:31 kenvandine	oh, one more thing
17:42:32 pitti	kenvandine: so you'll add to the wiki as well? thanks
17:42:43 kenvandine	libappindicator gtk3 port is up for review now
17:42:49 kenvandine	so should land this week
17:42:50 pitti	\o/
17:42:53 pitti	happy to test
17:42:56 seb128	great
17:42:56 kenvandine	:)
17:43:06 seb128	kenvandine, up to upstream review, i.e ted? or packaging one?
17:43:09 kenvandine	pitti, will do
17:43:10 seb128	I can help to review
17:43:11 kenvandine	upstream
17:43:14 seb128	ok
17:43:29 pitti	didrocks: do you want to paste/say something extra/discuss unity updates?
17:43:46 didrocks	well, people can read on the wiki I guess
17:43:53 didrocks	but I have a BREAKING news!
17:43:59 seb128	we need to read now? how boring!
17:43:59 didrocks	(which is more a fix in fact) :)
17:44:08 didrocks	ok, copy/paste then, just for seb128 ;)
17:44:19 didrocks	New unity landed this week
17:44:22 didrocks	* a bunch of bug fixes and the dash has its first release (really early prototype though)!
17:44:29 didrocks	a lot of accessibility improvments as well.
17:44:30 didrocks	we got an intermediate upload to fix an annoying "invisible unclickable window" bug.
17:44:32 didrocks	the places have been rebuilt to drop some packages from the archives, the big come back is for this week release.
17:44:34 didrocks	still some stacking issues (menu disappearing, windows not clickable) in compiz. Apparently, there is a fix proposed, so fortunately, this will be fixed this week.
17:44:36 didrocks	also, some specific issue with nvidia card (black screen) still there, as well as launchers weird behavior in some cases.
17:44:38 didrocks	libunity is now a new source to make the foundation API more unrelated to the view.
17:44:40 didrocks	-> Next week, on your almost natty alpha2 computer:
17:44:50 didrocks	full release upload planned on Thursday with working places (\o/), miscellaneous improvements and still bug fixes.
17:44:51 pitti	didrocks: do we need to discuss the detection? right now it seems to be painfully expensive
17:44:52 didrocks	another "final" upload on Monday evening/Tuesday morning (european time) with crusty fixes and small incremental changes for getting ready for alpha2.
17:44:54 didrocks	a compiz upload which should speed the startup time and fixes some annoying bugs (no ABI break planned).
17:45:01 didrocks	-> misc:
17:45:04 didrocks	we know we have a lot of false positives of "your computer can't run unity" because the detection tools take more than 3s to answer on a cold cache (and the timeout was 0.5s, then 1s). For now, I'll upload a gnome-session package with a timeout of 5s for the release. The detection tool loads 15 MiB of libraries which can explain that. Some work on that planned for alpha3.
17:45:05 didrocks	support of multiple fallbacks added to gnome-session. So, if you install unity-2d, the fallback for the unity session is unity-2d instead of gnome-classic without a warning message in that case.
17:45:16 seb128	didrocks, sorry I was just joking since IRC or wiki we need to read anyway but thanks ;-)
17:45:29 seb128	lot of nice things coming this week
17:45:34 didrocks	first the news ;) the stacking issue (some menu disappearing in the background or window taht you can't click) is fixed!
17:45:41 chrisccoulson	nice!
17:45:43 didrocks	just a few minutes ago :)
17:45:43 mterry	yay
17:45:45  *	chrisccoulson hugs didrocks
17:45:45 tremolux	\o/
17:45:55 didrocks	chrisccoulson: hugs smspillaz rather :)
17:46:01 didrocks	he put a lot of effort in it
17:46:05 didrocks	congrats to him!
17:46:08  *	chrisccoulson hugs smspillaz
17:46:12 kenvandine	yay smspillaz!
17:46:12 didrocks	wasn't trivial ;)
17:46:19 tremolux	nice smspillaz!
17:46:35 didrocks	pitti: re: detection
17:46:46 pitti	smspillaz: rock!
17:46:50 didrocks	pitti: one of the issue is that we are linking against 15Mb (the full nux stack)
17:46:52 pitti	didrocks: what does it currently do?
17:47:08 didrocks	just for basically checking opengl capability + lspci
17:47:19 pitti	it's not enough to check the graphics driver and available X.org modules?
17:47:36 didrocks	apparently not, they want to ensure the full nux is woking
17:47:37 didrocks	working*
17:47:43 didrocks	and make some tests
17:47:48 didrocks	again, the tests are not expensive
17:47:55 didrocks	initializing nux is
17:47:55 smspillaz	pitti: :)
17:48:03 pitti	didrocks: so in sum they are
17:48:17 didrocks	yeah :)
17:48:28 didrocks	so, I've talked about it with jay
17:48:35 didrocks	we'll figure out for alpha3
17:48:41 pitti	ok, thanks
17:48:49 didrocks	if it's still expensive, the plan is to run it in gdm
17:48:59 didrocks	but even 3s is a lot…
17:49:13 pitti	such a thing should require .1 s..
17:49:13 didrocks	and to cache it (I can patch gnome-session for picking it pretty easily)
17:49:25 didrocks	well, the gnome one is taking .3s
17:49:28 didrocks	(on cold cache)
17:49:39 pitti	ok, let's discuss off-meeting
17:49:52 didrocks	right, in a nutshell, we have a workaround for alpha2
17:50:08 pitti	looking forward to places
17:50:24 didrocks	yeah :)
17:50:26 pitti	tremolux: do you have something extra to say/discuss wrt. s-c?
17:50:44 pitti	nice work on startup speed! Is http://people.canonical.com/~mvo/software-center/mini10-startup/startup-times.png created automagically now?
17:50:44 tremolux	nope, unless anybody has questions ?
17:51:03 pitti	< 3 s is great
17:51:06 tremolux	pitti: we still run it by hand  :)
17:51:17 tremolux	pitti: but yes, thanks!  it feels really fast now
17:51:44 tremolux	pitti: also, thanks for your cold-cache script, I tried it and it seems to do the trick
17:51:50 mterry	tremolux, I thought ratings and reviews was supposed to drop last week?
17:51:55 pitti	tremolux: nice
17:52:16 mterry	tremolux, but it's next week?
17:52:21 tremolux	mterry: yes, mvo was at a sprint all week so we held off
17:52:41 tremolux	mterry: in other words, I mis-promised  ;)
17:53:20 tremolux	mterry: but we will have it for alpha 2
17:53:41 mterry	np, just curious
17:54:04 tremolux	sure, np
17:54:31 pitti	Riddell: anything to announce/discuss in Kubuntu land?
17:54:39 Riddell	hi
17:54:46 pitti	Riddell: still trouble with gstreamer/gvfs and the like?
17:54:55 Riddell	 * 4.6.0 being tested now, due for upload tomorrow morning
17:54:55 Riddell	 * Digikam tested now, due for upload tomorrow morning
17:54:55 Riddell	 * KDevelop being packaged, due for upload tomorrow morning
17:54:55 Riddell	 * 17 milestoned bugs for alpha 2, they won't all make it but we can try, http://goo.gl/yGhJd
17:54:58 Riddell	 * slow but steady progress being made on todo items https://wiki.kubuntu.org/Kubuntu/Todo
17:55:07 pitti	wohoo, release
17:55:16 Riddell	slomo said he'd remove the depends on gvfs, and I blacklisted it for now anyway
17:55:21 Riddell	s/depends/recommends/
17:55:40 pitti	I got libproxy to build after fixing the uninstallability, so tomorrow's CDs should be a bit smaller
17:56:00 Riddell	we removed geoio-database which should save a wee bit too
17:56:08 Riddell	blacklisted rather
17:56:12 pitti	Riddell: cool; as already said, feel free to upload that right away; we can sync the next time anyway then
17:57:34 pitti	thanks
17:57:38 pitti	any other business?
17:58:32 pitti	so, thanks everyone!

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - your version:''' ----

---- /!\ '''End of edit conflict''' ----
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

{{{
}}}
