{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Weekly Summary ==
 
* Rebuilt all packages in the archive which had broken md5sums due to previous pkgbinarymangler versions. (pitti)
* Lots of Apport bug fixes. In particular, the random GUI crashes that started with the new UI design should be all gone now. (pitti)
* empathy 3.3.90.2, farstream, telepathy-farstream and telepathy-gabble is in the ~ubuntu-desktop PPA now, upstream has added back empathy-av for us which doesn't require clutter.  I want to start landing these packages in precise tomorrow. (kenvandine)
* Requesting FFe (Bug:948092) for gwibber, adds supports for using the twitter entities API.  It will be required sometime in the future, so I would rather switch to it now instead of doing it as an SRU later.  It also significantly improves the quality of the data we get, since we no longer have to do regex matching to find hashtags, mentions, and links. (kenvandine)
* Filed an FFE to update qt-at-spi to latest git master as it has some important bug fixes, plus some new functionality which does improve QT a11y, particularly for unity-2d. (TheMuso)
* Switched to unity-2d to do testing with the latest qt-at-spi. Quicklists now work, but the HUD doesn't, likely a little work required on the unity-2d side, as the results are recognised as buttons, since the widget set is similar to the dash, bug filed. (TheMuso)
* Discovered that metacity accessibility is currently broken. *sigh* Time to track that down. (TheMuso)
* Continued debugging/bisectino of GTK3 to fix a bug with ubiquity's advanced partitioner, TreeView widgets, and accessibility. (TheMuso)

== Agenda ==

* ''Insert things to discuss at meeting here..''

=== Partner update ===

=== Unity ===

* We are still in freeze for delivering unity 5.6. Got quite a lot of release blocker revealed by dogfooding and the crowdsourced manual tests. We are blocking on a last one right now, which is "holding alt doesn't show the appmenu": https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/943194/. Some work was done on compiz side, but it seems that the issue is a little bit deeper (affects now only xul, gtk2 and qt applications, gtk3 are working fine). As unity-2d is running fine with those though, it doesn't seem to be a service issue. Still under investigation. All the other discovered blockers are now fixed (see them at the bottom of https://docs.google.com/a/canonical.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AuMtju1x8UoEdDNCT1U5MlVodjIwNGJPdnU5YVltVmc#gid=1)
* Compiz release based on 0.9.7.0 + some cherry-picks is also ready in the unity-team/ppa and will be released at the same time than unity 5.6. Will finally bring the "alt + other key, please please don't reveal the hud" fix and the last week 51% performance fix as well.
* Unity-2d 5.6 released on Monday. Will just need a rebuild because of ABI break once unity 5.6 will be released. This one contains the HUD and some bug fixes: https://launchpad.net/unity-2d/5.0/5.6
** There is a new known issue in beta1, where hidemode for unity 2d is set on the live to 2 (intellihide) instead of 0 (always shown). The dconf schema has 0 by default. If we gsettings reset… we get 0. So something is setting it to 2 on the live. Will need to investigate it.
* Helped on new quickly unity-lens template based on singlet work with Michael Hall. Waiting NEWing: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/942782. Creating a python lens is just now a story of quickly create unity-lens foo \o/

=== Software Center ===

=== Kubuntu ===

=== X.org ===

* Triaged X.org crash bugs (bryce)
* Bugs #931967 / #933322 (Corruption on login) narrowed to a regression in unity-greeter 0.2.1
* libXrandrUtils - bunch more refactoring and test writing for modes, outputs, and crtcs (bryce)
* Troubleshooting of xcb_io.c assertion bugs.  These basically are all due to bad threading in clients.  (bryce)

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
</pre>
