{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Weekly Summary ==
* Completed development on new libusb-based USB CUPS backend, submitted it upstream to CUPS, uploaded new CUPS package to Quantal. This CUPS package also contains a backword compatibility IPP backend taken from CUPS 1.4.x (tkamppeter).
* Improved Plug'n'Print UDEV facility of system-config-printer to make it more straight, only getting triggered by the low-level USB device of the printer and not again by the usblp kernel module (tkamppeter).
* First printer driver packages using new libjbig are available now: foo2zjs, splix, c2esp (tkamppeter). 
* Got some quickly/python-distutils-extra fixes and support for the arb team during the app developer week (mterry, didrocks)
* Updated gnome-settings-daemon and gnome-control-center in bzr. Known issues remain and are briefly outlined in debian/changelog; please test and help fix them! (laney)
* Completed work in progress on the UI design for Additional Drivers in software-properties, should now get handed-off (see bug 1021733)  (cyphermox)
* Fixed chromium-browser (18.x) FTBFS in quantal (kenvandine)
* Worked on updating chromium-browser to latest in the stable channel, 20.x, currently built in a PPA but should have it ready for quantal soon (kenvandine)
* WOrked more with help from Alehandro from GNOME upstrea to get a branch ready for merging into Unity, so that Unity uses libatk-bridge. The branch should be proposed for merge by now, or in the next day or so. (TheMuso)

== Agenda ==

* ''Insert things to discuss at meeting here..''

=== Partner update ===
* Pile of indicator updates coming this week, finally!
** indicator-sound
** indicator-power
** indicator-session
** libappindicator
** libindicate
** libindicator
** indicator-datetime
** dbus-test-runner
** dbusmenu
** indicator-appmenu
** indicator-application

=== Unity ===

* Finally got an unity release out (6.0), with unity-lens-music, all unity-lens-* with path renamed, nux, unity, bamf, dee.
** Some fixes for dee validated to need a SRU for python3 support.
** Used that release to clean a lot of renaming, package transitionning and so on.
** Not a lot of new features apart from some cleaning
* Unity/Nux/Compiz SRU is under way and should be handled by PS before end of week.
* Gsetting in compiz is progressing, tests are getting written and merged. The compiz release should follow soonish after this.

=== X.org ===
* Proposed dmabufmgr (mlankhorst)
* Working prototype of system compositor + intel driver in ppa:raof/system-compositor-scratchpad
** Known problems include: rendering to the root window and some input support for Unity

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
</pre>
