{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Actions from previous meeting ==

== Actions from this meeting ==

== Weekly Summary ==
* computer-janitor PyGI port was merged and uploaded to Natty. (Martin Pitt)
* Reviewed and cleaned up <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~canonical-desktop-team/+assignedbugs|canonical-desktop-team assigned bug list]]</nowiki> (Martin Pitt)
* Apport retracers were generating bad retraces in cases where gdb 6.8 is too old to read newer DWARF opcodes (debug symbols); fixed to properly recognize failure and thus leave the core dump on the reports, for retracing locally (which usually works fine). (Martin Pitt)
* Updated to system-config-printer 1.3.1 and worked out prioritization of printer drivers with Tim Waugh (upstream maintainer). Now the correct drivers for all my HP printers get selected (TillKamppeter)
* Released Foomatic 4.0.7 upstream and updated the packages foomatic-filters, foomatic-db-engine, and foomatic-db (TillKamppeter).
* foo2zjs: Agreed with Debian maintainer to accept the changes of the Ubuntu package. Debian also updated from upstream, ready to merge back into Ubuntu (TillKamppeter).
* splix: Applied all user-contributed patches and reports of new working printer models upstream and packaged the result for Ubuntu (TillKamppeter).
* gutenprint: No 5.2.7 before FF (TillKamppeter).
* Agreement with Debian to submit printing-related packages to Debian first (upload to be sponsored by a Debian Developer/Maintainer) and later get Debian Maintainer, let Ubuntu auto-sync to have identical printing stacks in Debian and Ubuntu (TillKamppeter).
* GNOME 2.91.90 starting to get its way to the GNOME3 PPA
* libreoffice (mostly BjoernMichaelsen):
** libreoffice-3.3.1~rc1-2ubuntu1~ppa1 published in the libreoffice ppa
** humanity icons contributed to upstream for simpler integration
** humanity icons reenabled in our build
** libreoffice-3.3.1~rc2-1ubuntu1~ppa1 on it way (still building), including humanity icons and some ubuntu branding
** rc2 will be likely the 3.3.1 final, and libreoffice-3.3.1~rc2-1ubuntu1~ppa1 is the blueprint for the release in natty
** requested to packages for main inclusion: nlpsolver, which is a essential part of Libreoffice and just got included in debian unstable, and ttf-sil-gentium-basic
 

=== Partner update ===
==== UbuntuOne ====
* launcher integration is still blocked by bug <nowiki>[[ https:--bugs.launchpad.net-libunity-+bug-709240|709240 ]]</nowiki>

==== DX ====
* lo-menubar
    - libreoffice menubar extension
    - i'll get it uploaded today and file an MIR

=== Unity ===

New unity release this week:
* We have been able to see a lot of enhancements in the places speedup (with unfortunatly some crashes in some cases)
* There has been a first showoff of static quicklist with gnome-screenshot and inkscape. A proposal has been made on the xdg list so that OnlyShowIn=unity is accepted. This block the future call for community contribution on patching .desktop file where needed to add static Quicklist.
* More A11Y work (API, RodrigoMoya)
* Unity panel is now themeable (for radiance and ambiance)! Waiting on some design acknowledgement for the launcher though.
* Some navigation and bug fixes
* A new behavior on the bfb (the ubuntu logo) has landed with proximity fading. We got some feedback and we changed the animation for next release. Crossing fingers that the "lock" state will be more obvious for most of people :)
* keyboard shortcut (phase 1) landed on the panel, like F10
For the full love lecture: https://launchpad.net/unity/3.0/3.4.4

Incoming: new compiz release ahead with an ABI bump. Upload targeted tomorrow, be ready for new startup experience (faster, normally) :)

Still a I-dont-want-to-die invisible window bug. Need a reproducible testcase though.
=== Software Center ===

=== Kubuntu ===

=== X.org ===
* Wayland has been uploaded to universe, and is in the NEW queue.  Once it's released, usage is simply 'apt-get install wayland; wstart'.
* Updated to libxkbcommon package from Debian
* Fixes and improvements to xorg apport hooks

=== Tools and Processes ===

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
(03:00:42) seb128: hey jasoncwarner
(03:00:52) jasoncwarner: hey seb128! morning!
(03:00:53) hggdh left the room (quit: Quit: WeeChat 0.3.5-dev).
(03:01:36) pitti: Sweetshark, bryceh, chrisccoulson, didrocks, Riddell, kenvandine, cyphermox, mterry, rodrigo_: meeting
(03:01:40) cyphermox: o/
(03:01:44) mterry: heyo!
(03:01:44) rodrigo_: \o
(03:01:46) ***Sweetshark reporting in.
(03:01:48) jasoncwarner: morning everyone. 
(03:01:48) pitti: tremolux and tkamppeter seem to be offline
(03:01:49) ***kenvandine waves
(03:01:50) jasoncwarner: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2011-02-22
(03:01:54) rodrigo_: hey jasoncwarner
(03:02:14) chrisccoulson: hi!
(03:02:17) didrocks: hey
(03:02:42) jasoncwarner: pitti: no problem.
(03:03:38) jasoncwarner: good morning everyone...hope everyone is doing well! Should be a good week, I suppose..almost to feature freeze!
(03:03:52) hggdh [~hggdh@ubuntu/member/hggdh] entered the room.
(03:03:57) jasoncwarner: [TOPIC] Partner Update
(03:04:00) kenvandine: yup
(03:04:13) kenvandine: UbuntuOne:
(03:04:31) kenvandine: they will be needing a FFE for the unity launcher integration
(03:04:43) kenvandine: it is still blocked on bug 709240
(03:04:44) ubot2: Launchpad bug 709240 in vala "libunity support gobject-introspected languages" [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/709240
(03:04:51) bdmurray left the room (quit: Changing host).
(03:04:52) bdmurray [~bdmurray@ubuntu/member/brian-murray] entered the room.
(03:05:07) dbarth [~dbarth@81-65-157-127.rev.numericable.fr] entered the room.
(03:05:11) kenvandine: but that api is so simple, it shouldn't be much work or risky
(03:05:22) kenvandine: for DX
(03:05:33) kenvandine: we'll finally be getting libreoffice appmenu support
(03:05:42) kenvandine: lo-menubar is working, i'll get the package uploaded today
(03:05:45) kenvandine: and start an mir
(03:06:16) seb128: oh, they will maybe beat chrisccoulson and firefox it seems ;-)
(03:06:17) kenvandine: tedg has some feature work landing this week too, but we missed our meeting yesterday... i don't have a good list of that atm
(03:06:47) Sweetshark: http://aruiz.synaptia.net/siliconisland/2011/02/introducing-libreoffice-integration-with-unitys-application-menubar.html and http://blog.documentfoundation.org/2011/02/21/a-warm-welcome-to-canonical/ in case anyone missed it ...
(03:06:51) kenvandine: i'll get it on the wiki page though
(03:07:04) kenvandine: that is all i have
(03:07:05) kenvandine: questions?
(03:07:09) chrisccoulson: seb128 - oh, we can't have that ;)
(03:07:11) xapantu [~xapantu@gue77-1-88-176-212-67.fbx.proxad.net] entered the room.
(03:07:16) kenvandine: chrisccoulson, race!
(03:07:31) chrisccoulson: i'm basically blocked on mozilla now, my extension is pretty much finished!
(03:07:33) seb128: ok, I bet on kenvandine, let's see!
(03:07:37) chrisccoulson: lol
(03:07:43) kenvandine: hehe
(03:07:44) kenvandine: :-D
chris| chrisccoulson 
(03:08:43) jasoncwarner: Awesome, thanks Ken. chrisccoulson, still waiting on mozilla?
(03:09:00) chrisccoulson: jasoncwarner, yeah. i'm actually just chasing it up right now
(03:09:43) jasoncwarner: :) thanks!
(03:09:48) jasoncwarner: Ok, [TOPIC] UNITY 
(03:10:16) didrocks: hey o/
(03:10:28) didrocks: as usual, most of what's important is on the wiki
(03:10:29) ***kenvandine prays for dash and places
(03:10:39) didrocks: kenvandine: it's there already :)
(03:10:51) didrocks: still a crash though, will be fixed for next release
(03:10:58) didrocks: so, feature-wise, we are almost on top of it
(03:11:06) didrocks: just alt + F2 remaining and will need a FFe
(03:11:21) didrocks: and another one for resizing windows, will come soon
(03:11:42) didrocks: troubles ahead: new compiz tomorrow with ABI break, don't do partial upgrades!
(03:11:55) didrocks: all the rest is on the wiki :)
(03:12:25) didrocks: (we got also some new tool to deal with unity bug, will blog about at the end of the week)
(03:13:51) jasoncwarner: thanks, didrocks...
(03:14:39) jasoncwarner: skipping software center...[TOPIC] KUBUNTU
(03:15:28) jasoncwarner: Riddell: you around? 
(03:15:54) Riddell: hi
(03:16:01) Riddell:  * owncloud packaged and in
(03:16:01) Riddell:  * samba sharing in
(03:16:01) Riddell:  * language selector updates working, will be merged & uploaded shortly
(03:16:01) Riddell:  * kdebindings still broken on ARM, no resolution from mobile team or upstream, getting worrying
(03:16:04) Riddell:  * 14 milestoned bugs for alpha 3 http://goo.gl/yGhJd
(03:16:07) Riddell:  * Todo list features pleasingly green ready for feature freeze https://wiki.kubuntu.org/Kubuntu/Todo
(03:17:22) jasoncwarner: thanks Riddell...any idea what is holding up the kdebindings?
(03:17:41) Riddell: well something to do with qreal!=double which is a typical ARM issue we have
(03:17:54) Riddell: but this one is especially difficult and I can't work it out and neither can ncommander
(03:18:39) jasoncwarner: hmm...is there hope of a fix in time for FF or is this something that is not going to make it? 
(03:18:49) Riddell: I can't see it happening in time for FF
(03:18:57) Riddell: it's not a feature of course, it's a bug
(03:19:32) jasoncwarner: Riddell: ok, thanks ...
(03:19:56) jasoncwarner: [TOPIC] Tools and Processes
Pici pitti 
(03:21:22) jasoncwarner: pitti: anything you want to talk about here? 
(03:21:33) pitti: not from my side
(03:21:47) pitti: I walked through our remaining specs/WIs yesterday
(03:21:49) pitti: and cleaned up a bit
(03:21:55) YBinnenweg [~ybinnenwe@82-171-110-86.ip.telfort.nl] entered the room.
(03:22:09) pitti: there are still a few bits which are feature development, but not too many any more
(03:22:12) pitti: http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-desktop-team.html looks quite ok
(03:22:15) seb128: not sure what the tools and processes section is about? is that a call for random topics?
(03:22:21) YBinnenweg: Hi guys
(03:22:27) pitti: http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-desktop-team-natty-alpha-3.html looks more concerning, though :)
(03:23:02) YBinnenweg: I have problems with installing ubuntu 10.10 on my desktop
(03:23:19) seb128: YBinnenweg, hi, try #ubuntu
(03:23:29) YBinnenweg: Okay :)
(03:24:15) jasoncwarner: thanks, pitti...looks like there are some WIs we need to look at before A3. Anything on that list blocked ?
(03:24:47) pitti: it looks like basically all the quickly ones are?
(03:24:52) pitti: blocking on LP implementation, I figure
(03:25:04) pitti: mterry has 5 of them, didrocks 1
(03:25:19) mterry: Yeah, I think we just postpone those
(03:25:26) pitti: I guess we can move that to beta-1 for now and live with a FF (should be trivial for quickly)
(03:25:33) pitti: and if it still doesn't land, move to octopus?
(03:25:44) mterry: True, we can try to FFe them when done
(03:25:46) pitti: do you happen to know how soon that will land?
(03:25:49) didrocks: right
(03:25:56) mterry: I think LP team is targetting A3
(03:26:12) scott-work left the room (quit: Quit: Page closed).
(03:26:44) pitti: then there's certainly a lot of non-desktop team WIs there
(03:26:57) jasoncwarner: mterry: thanks...seems we'll have to wait and see (while simulataneiously putting a tad bit of pressure on the LP folks ;) )
(03:27:49) jasoncwarner: Ok...anything else? AOB ?
(03:28:09) seb128: not a topic but worth mentionning that the retracers are quite broken at the moment
(03:28:16) kenvandine: :(
(03:28:20) seb128: so don't rely on those much
(03:28:29) pitti: mterry, didrocks: ok, I updated https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/appdevs-desktop-n-quickly accordingly; there's still enough a3 fodder left
(03:28:58) seb128: the annoying bits is that they auto invalid and let private bugs which fail retracing
(03:29:11) seb128: which seems to concerning libdbusmenu stacktraces
(03:29:40) pitti: I have it very high on my list to debug this (in fact, working on it right now)
(03:30:02) kamstrup [~kamstrup@188.114.151.81] entered the room.
(03:30:15) tkamppeter [~till@p5DDB9E41.dip.t-dialin.net] entered the room.
(03:30:59) ivanka left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 240 seconds).
(03:32:22) jasoncwarner: Ok...thanks for the reminder seb128. Anything else or should we get back to getting those WIs completed and finishing off stuff for FF? :)
(03:32:53) chrisccoulson: which day is FF?
(03:33:06) pitti: Thursday
(03:33:20) chrisccoulson: pitti - thanks. will i need a FFe to land my menu bar extension?
(03:33:33) chrisccoulson: based on conversations i've just had, it might be friday ;)
(03:33:35) pitti: chrisccoulson: yes, but that should be fine
(03:33:38) chrisccoulson: thanks
(03:35:07) jasoncwarner: alright..if no one has anything else, [END MEETING]. Come back for eastern edition to get latest on X.org/Mesa stuff if interested ;) 
(03:35:20) kenvandine: :)
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
(08:30:11) jasoncwarner: Easter edition desktopers awake? RAOF TheMuso robert_ancell ? 
(08:30:35) jasoncwarner: and, of course, bryceh, .... joining us from the US :) 
(08:30:37) jasoncwarner: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2011-02-22
(08:30:46) RAOF: So far east he's west :)
(08:31:46) jasoncwarner: Well, why don't we get started... RAOF and bryceh, care to update on [TOPIC] X.org ? 
(08:32:12) dashua left the room (quit: Ping timeout: 240 seconds).
(08:32:16) RAOF: It's been a fun week in X.org
(08:32:24) bryceh: heya
(08:32:40) bryceh: Wayland is now uploaded to universe :-)
(08:32:43) TheMuso: Hey folks.
(08:32:51) jasoncwarner: bryceh: woohoo!
(08:32:53) TheMuso: Sweet!.
(08:32:55) bryceh: just has to get past archive admins
(08:33:10) RAOF: We've landed a fix for nouveau which makes unity work on all supported (hah!) cards, and switched to r600g by default which means that the radeon crashes in alt-tab should be gone.
(08:33:12) bryceh: then just apt-get install wayland ; wstart
(08:33:36) pitti: RAOF: rockin'!
(08:34:01) TheMuso: ...and if its nouveau supported hardware, it will toast your laptop... :)
(08:34:19) bryceh: aside from all that, past week has been lots of work on bugs and apport hooks
(08:34:19) TheMuso: Not really, but make it rather warm to the touch, so be warned. :)
(08:34:33) RAOF: Xserver 1.10RC2 has been released, and is almost ready in git.  This upload will also fold in the Xi 2.1 multitouch work, so have fun, all of you with MT hardware :)
(08:34:40) robert_ancell [~bob@ppp121-44-179-101.lns20.syd7.internode.on.net] entered the room.
(08:35:04) Nafallo_ is now known as Nafallo
(08:35:37) grunthus_ left the room (quit: Remote host closed the connection).
(08:35:50) RAOF: Because of some dependency handling changes this will require a rebuild of all the drivers to pick up the new Depends field info, but there isn't an ABI change, so old drivers won't cause the X server to crash :)
(08:35:56) jasoncwarner: RAOF: just read the one about nouveau...awesome...will be upgrading later today then!
(08:36:49) jasoncwarner: very cool...can't wait for those changes. Anything else from X? 
(08:37:26) bryceh: if you want a run down on individual bugs we're working on we can do that, but it's probably TMI
(08:37:33) bryceh: oh, one worth noting
(08:37:33) jasoncwarner: nah
(08:37:39) jasoncwarner: k?
(08:37:50) bryceh: there seems to be an out-of-memory issue when running on the livecd
(08:38:09) bryceh: eventually this causes X to crash, so it gets reported as an X bug, but not sure where the leak actually is in the system
(08:39:10) bryceh: it's not at the top of our list to work on, but seems pretty important
(08:39:11) jasoncwarner: hmm..ok...keep us posted then....
(08:39:28) jasoncwarner: how long after using it as a live cd does it crash? 
(08:39:34) bryceh: it would be nice if anyone is doing regular livecd testing if they could help narrow down what process is leaking all the memory
(08:39:35) jasoncwarner: like...you know...10 hours or 5 minutes
(08:39:52) jasoncwarner: well, I guess it probably depends on hardware...nm...
(08:39:57) bryceh: it varies but seems to be from 1 minute to less than an hour
(08:40:15) jasoncwarner: yeah, that would be pretty important then...
(08:40:21) bryceh: what we don't know yet is what steps are needed to reproduce, so that alone would be useful to know
(08:40:32) TheMuso: Hrm that could explain a weird crash I had yesterday when testing the installer mode of the live CD with accessibility.
(08:40:34) jasoncwarner: bryceh: I'll see if I can get some testing on it...but we should talk to QA as well since they do quite a bit of livecd testing
(08:40:45) TheMuso: What is weird is that was on a machine with 2GB RAM.
(08:40:48) bryceh: ok cool
(08:41:10) jasoncwarner: thanks, bryceh
(08:41:27) jasoncwarner: Ok, anything else for eastern edition worth noting? 
(08:41:40) jasoncwarner: [TOPIC] AOB as it is officially known... :)
(08:41:52) RAOF: :)
(08:42:05) TheMuso: Was checking the travel related sites from the Aust government this morning, it appears Aussies do not need a VISA for Hungery.
(08:42:17) TheMuso: Just thought I'd mention it, in case others hadn't checked.
(08:42:25) ***RAOF hadn't yet, thanks!
(08:42:27) TheMuso: gah typo
(08:43:06) jasoncwarner: and americans living here?  ;)
(08:43:20) TheMuso: heh I don't know where you stand WRT that.
(08:43:41) jasoncwarner: :)
(08:43:41) TheMuso: I guess you are still under the regulations of the US.
(08:43:49) jasoncwarner: anyway...if there is nothing else...
(08:43:56) jasoncwarner: please fill in your details on the wiki
(08:43:57) jasoncwarner: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2011-02-22
(08:44:06) TheMuso: Oh, and since there are a few of us aussies going, we shoudl try and coordinate things such that we are on the same flight, at least if people want to.
(08:44:21) popey left the room (quit: Changing host).
(08:44:22) popey [~alan@ubuntu/member/popey] entered the room.
(08:44:39) jasoncwarner: and don't forget your WIs...getting close to FF and we A3 WIs are a bit sketchy...
(08:44:50) jasoncwarner: please give them a look today and clear 'em out as you can. 
(08:44:53) RAOF: Yeah, that'd be a good idea.  What way are people going?  Syd→Heathrow→Budapest, or via Frankfurt?
(08:45:15) pitti: good night everyone
(08:45:21) bryceh: night
(08:45:41) RAOF: night pitti
(08:46:00) jasoncwarner: night pitti
(08:46:15) jasoncwarner: yeah, would be intersted in route as well...haven't figured out which way I'm going yet...
(08:46:21) jasoncwarner: [END MEETING] btw
</pre>
