{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (ccheney)
* Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson)
* Didier Roche (didrocks)
* Gary Lasker (tremolux)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)
* Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business
** OneConf Testing: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OneConf/Testing

==== Discussion ====

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

* ACTION: chrisccoulson to investigate any chromium changes appropriate for the distro
* ACTION: kenvandine to clarify with Dx what is in scope for A2 (DONE)
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to poke squinky about kubuntu.org
** RESULT: poked

=== Partner Update ===
===== OLS =====
* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-MaverickWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki> start today

===== DX =====
* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-MaverickWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>
* Blueprints are assigned with workitems
=== Kubuntu Update ===

=== Release Status ===

http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-maverick-alpha-1.html
http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-maverick-alpha-2.html

=== Other Business ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

==== Chris Cheney (ccheney) ====
* Ubuntu Server Sprint (May 24 - May 28)
* National Holiday (May 31)

==== Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson) ====

==== Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF) ====

* X merges:
** Reviewed xserver merge
** Sync bug filed for evdev
** intel, nouveau driver updates in pkg-xorg git
** Xserver 1.8.1 + drivers is now almost ready for the archive, waiting on xorg & pkg-config being fixed.
* Mesa:
** Enabled and packaged the EGL, GL|ES v1 and v2, and OpenVG libraries.
** Uploaded sufficiently useful WIP packages to mesa-egl PPA for DX & ARM team use.
** Added nouveau & radeon gallium driver package, WIP.
* Poked around with the DisplayLink USB video hardware I picked up at UDS.  It's a bit of a mess.

==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====

* continuing merge from debian: evince, gtk-doc, file-roller, metacity, gnome-system-tools
* packaging bamf and write a MIR
* maximus: prepare it for alpha1 as netbook-launcher will still be default interface for it
* write a MIR for dh-autoreconf
* help dx team in packaging/recipe bits. Also rewrote WI for unity integration on dx blueprints
* remerge evolution-data-server and evolution. This fix the crash we can get on some html emails.
* OneConf:
** finish CLI and add dbus support.
** Wrote a wiki page for testing as backend should be ok now: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OneConf/Testing
* UNE bug triaging
* Quickly IRC support/bug triaging/merge request review. Will try to deliver a 0.4.3 this week or at the beginning of next one gathering some bug fixes
* sponsor evince, indicator-applet

==== Gary Lasker (tremolux) ====
* Software Center
** Finished up 3 alpha-2 work items for desktop-maverick-software-center-front-end (navigation history enhancements)
** Fixed LP: #584969 - List view forgets selected row
** Fixed a bug that caused searches to be broken
** Fixed LP: #586623 - error when updating software sources
** Reviewed, tested, and merged the following branches:
** lp:~mmcg069/software-center/cellrenderer-buttons2
*** Testing revealed some small regressions, merge pending these fixes
** lp:~osomon/software-center/memory_leak (two revs, fixes LP: #577540)
** lp:~osomon/software-center/fix_appstore_update
** Some decisions were made regarding implementation of desktop-maverick-opportunistic-apps-stable-release
** Will use a PPA after all
** Mumbled with mvo to discuss further implementation details based on above decision
* tzdata bug LP: #540295 issue resolved after communication with upstream (thanks to pitti for needed clarification!)
* Provided some help to OEM regarding issues for previous project there
* 360 Review, completed due items; wrote self-review, manager review and sent peer requests
* Prepared UDS expense report
* US Holiday Monday
* This week:
** Finish up preparing tzdata SRU, LP: #582529
** Fix LP: #578650 in software-center
** Continue work items from desktop-maverick-software-center-front-end
** Work on desktop-maverick-opportunistic-apps-stable-release
** Continued Software Center bug fixes, merge reviews as needed

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====
done:
* KDE 4.5 beta packaging
* KOffice 2.2 packaging
* Amarok 4.3.1 packaging
* KDE 4.4.4 packaging
* merges
todo:
* alpha 1

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
* created mono bindings for libindicate
* merged libindicate python bindings into the libindicate sources (was separate package)
* Weekly releases
* uploaded experimental snapshot of murrine to a ppa for design testing
* worked on the ubuntuone public API spec

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====
==== Accessibility ====
* Started getting apckaging ready for opentts. No official release tarball yet, but that is due in a day or so.
* Attended accessibility team revival/post UDS meeting, to work out plans of action for this cycle.
* Merged gnome-mag, gnome-speech, and gok.
* More work on at-spi2 packaging, still need to upload them somewhere for testing purposes.

==== Audio ====
* Audio bug triaging, bugs in question were against the alsa userspace packages, pulseaudio, and the kernel.
* Merged jack-audio-connection-kit, which is now jack2 for maverick.
* Check to see whether other audio related packages in main need merge attemtion.

==== Misc ====
* Sponsored uploads for Robert Ancell, gconf, glib, brasero, more that I can't think of right now.
* Booked flights to Prague, still need to update the wiki.

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* shotwell updated to 0.5.90
* dconf put into universe
* updated packages: gnome-games, gedit, brasero, and a whole bunch of others I can't remember

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* desktop maverick merges: directfb cairo libbonoboui libgnome nautilus-sendto gnome-bluetooth pango xdg-user-dirs gnome-applets gnome-utils vala gtk-engines pyxdg vino gnome-system-monitor glib gst-plugins-good
* synced some packages as well
* discussed d-conf packaging and did some tweaking to it
* reviewed desktop team blueprint, approved those for maverick and added some comments
* backport totem webm support to maverick
* lucid desktop sru: gnome-keyring brasero gnome-panel
* updated gvfs
* triaged desktop bugs and looked for some to fix in lucid

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* HPLIP: Updated to 3.10.5, made the hpcups driver again the default (instead of HPIJS) as now the problem of Ghostscript crashing when generating CUPS Raster data is solved, so Maverick users should test hpcups.
* foomatic-db, foomatic-db-engine, foomatic-filters: Started collaboration with the new Debian maintainer for these packages to have synced packages, like with HPLIP and CUPS.
* Made bug "cups not starting at boot" (LP: #554172) moving. Now users have posted useful debug logs and slangasek is working on solving the problem.
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports.

== IRC Logs ==
17:29] <rickspencer3> ArneGoetje, bryceh, chrisccoulson, ccheney, didrocks, kenvandine, Riddell, seb128, pitti - Team meeting time in 1 minute?<<BR>>
[17:29] <didrocks> hey o/<<BR>>
[17:30] <rickspencer3> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2010-06-01<<BR>>
[17:30] <seb128> hey<<BR>>
[17:30] <rickspencer3> should be quick today, I guess<<BR>>
[17:30] <rickspencer3> not a lot on the agenda<<BR>>
[17:30] <ccheney> hi :)<<BR>>
[17:30] <Riddell> afternoon<<BR>>
[17:30] <ogra> you should put a sign into #ubuntu-meeting for the community :)<<BR>>
[17:30] <ogra> someone is waiting for the desktop team meeting there it seems<<BR>>
[17:31] <rickspencer3> ooops<<BR>>
[17:31] <rickspencer3> ogra, can you send them here please?<<BR>>
[17:31] <rickspencer3> shall we start?<<BR>>
[17:31] <ogra> Riddell already did<<BR>>
[17:31] <rickspencer3> thanks ogra<<BR>>
[17:31] <rickspencer3> and Riddell<<BR>>
[17:31] <rickspencer3> Outstanding actions from last meeting<<BR>>
[17:31] <tremolux> heya everyone<<BR>>
[17:31] <rickspencer3> ACTION: chrisccoulson to investigate any chromium changes appropriate for the distro<<BR>>
[17:31] <chrisccoulson> hello everyone<<BR>>
[17:31] <rickspencer3> hi tremolux<<BR>>
[17:32]  * rickspencer3 adds tremolux to list of pingees<<BR>>
[17:32]  * kenvandine waves<<BR>>
[17:32] <tremolux> rickspencer3: :D<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> chrisccoulson, I assume that you've been way to busy for this<<BR>>
[17:32] <chrisccoulson> well, i've not had much chance to look at anything other than firefox over the last week ;)<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> good<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> I would have been worried if you had been able to make time for this :)<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> I would have expected some kind of "Back to the Future" scenario :)<<BR>>
[17:32] <chrisccoulson> lol<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> ACTION: kenvandine to clarify with Dx what is in scope for A2 (DONE)<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> ACTION: rickspencer3 to poke squinky about kubuntu.org<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> I poked him, he said eow, last week<<BR>>
[17:33] <kenvandine> dx blueprints seem to be in order<<BR>>
[17:33] <Riddell> rickspencer3: I guess another poke is due<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> Riddell, has it been done?<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> *sigh*<<BR>>
[17:33] <Riddell> not seen anything done<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> ACTION: rickspencer3 to repoke previously poked squinky<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> wrt kubuntu.org branding<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> moving on<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, partner update?<<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> sure<<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> DX team blueprints are accepted and assigned<<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> WIs all seem to be there<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> (thus the "done" from last week's action item)<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> and we did the first round of weekly releases<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> OLS still has some work on their blueprints<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> nice<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> urk<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> their's aren't accepted for a series<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> he is working on getting that done today<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, I can accept if needed, just PM links<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> so none of them show up in the burn downs<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> sure<<BR>>
[17:36] <rickspencer3> Riddell, Kubuntu update<<BR>>
[17:36] <rickspencer3> ?<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> whilest he is copy and pasting: didrocks, tremolux, I think similar weekly updates on UNE and software center would be nice<<BR>>
[17:37] <Riddell>  * new versions of KDE 4.5, 4.4, Amarok, KOffice all in<<BR>>
[17:37] <Riddell>  * merges all done in main<<BR>>
[17:37] <Riddell>  * alpha 1 now has candidate CDs but not working especially well<<BR>>
[17:37] <didrocks> rickspencer3: I was just thinking about that, will do for next week :)<<BR>>
[17:37] <tremolux> rickspencer3: sure<<BR>>
[17:38] <rickspencer3> Riddell, thanks ... need any help w alpha 1 CDs?<<BR>>
[17:38] <Riddell> rickspencer3: don't think so, we'll sort them out<<BR>>
[17:38] <rickspencer3> thanks Riddell<<BR>>
[17:39] <rickspencer3> seb128, chrisccoulson ... would it be worthwhile to say a quick word on mozilla updates for stable releases?<<BR>>
[17:39] <rickspencer3> does it seem on track, etc...<<BR>>
[17:39] <rickspencer3> ?<<BR>>
[17:39] <chrisccoulson> yeah, can do, although i haven't prepared ;)<<BR>>
[17:39] <rickspencer3> (make sure everyone is in the loop)<<BR>>
[17:39] <chrisccoulson> so, seb128 sent a call for testing out today<<BR>>
[17:39] <seb128> (seems chrisccoulson is on it)<<BR>>
[17:40] <seb128> ara sent the call for testing<<BR>>
[17:40] <seb128> I did send the announce email<<BR>>
[17:40] <chrisccoulson> ah, yes ;)<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> is the mozilla release date public knowledge, etc...?<<BR>>
[17:40] <chrisccoulson> for hardy, we have firefox and all the extensions up-to-date in the PPA, and i'm currently going through the other xulrunner rdepends<<BR>>
[17:40] <chrisccoulson> firefox for jaunty is done<<BR>>
[17:40] <chrisccoulson> and we're famous: http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=ODMwNw<<BR>>
[17:41] <asac> we are famous?<<BR>>
[17:41] <chrisccoulson> the 3.6.4 release is scheduled for monday<<BR>>
[17:41] <chrisccoulson> asac - well, not entirely ;)<<BR>>
[17:41] <chrisccoulson> but word has spread quickly<<BR>>
[17:41] <rickspencer3> how come when chrisccoulson says this stuff, it's work, but when phoronix republishes it, it's news<<BR>>
[17:41] <rickspencer3> ?<<BR>>
[17:42] <asac> heh<<BR>>
[17:42] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:42] <rickspencer3> thanks for the update chrisccoulson<<BR>>
[17:42] <rickspencer3> and wow! thanks for all the hard work<<BR>>
[17:42] <asac> (oh its meeting ... /me stops)<<BR>>
[17:42] <chrisccoulson> heh, you're welcome ;)<<BR>>
[17:42] <chrisccoulson> micahg has put in a lot of effort too<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> I think that "thanks" comes from everyone, the team, community, etc...<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> thanks to micahg as well then :)<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> and asac, and ara, and seb128 ;)<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> ok, moving on?<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> seb128, release status?<<BR>>
[17:43] <seb128> hey<<BR>>
[17:43] <seb128> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-maverick-alpha-1.html<<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128> is the chart for alpha1<<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128> we are a bit behind on this one but alpha1 was rather a target of opportunity for early start<<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128> we are moving things to alpha2 now<<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128> which brings us to http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-maverick-alpha-2.html<<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> the trend line is not really adjusted there (will be fixed when pitti reset it for us)<<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> but we can see we are lagging a bit behind<<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> we just had 2 long weekends though with holidays in europe and the uk,us<<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> and people have been busy doing merges or firefox updates<<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> so I guess we will catch up quickly<<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> don't forget to set your items to done regularly<<BR>>
[17:46] <seb128> so we can track progress<<BR>>
[17:46] <seb128> that's it<<BR>>
[17:46] <tremolux> rickspencer3: btw, if you like I can paste a quickly-written software-center summary<<BR>>
[17:46] <seb128> rickspencer3, thanks<<BR>>
[17:46] <kenvandine> seb128, my last a1 one will be done in a few minutes :)<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> tremolux, that would be nice<<BR>>
[17:46] <tremolux> Progress on desktop-maverick-software-center-front-end (3 work items done)<<BR>>
[17:46] <tremolux> Bunch of bug fixes this week, and branch reviews/merged completed that fix memory leak issues, UI tweaks<<BR>>
[17:46] <tremolux> For desktop-maverick-opportunistic-apps-stable-release, we have a decision about a repo - will use a PPA<<BR>>
[17:46] <tremolux> and mvo and I have been planning the implementation based on that<<BR>>
[17:46] <tremolux> also, mvo has begun implementing LP login code, has a branch and will test with LP staging server<<BR>>
[17:47] <tremolux> I think that covers the main stuff<<BR>>
[17:47] <tremolux> is that what you are looking for?<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> tremolux, yeah<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> I am particularly interested in ensuring that we are in synch with launchpad team<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> so a check in on their progress each week would be helpful<<BR>>
[17:48] <tremolux> rickspencer3: yep, understood<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> and good news about deciding on the repo, Let the Games Begin!<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> ok, so I am a bit concerned about our burndown charts, but seb128 covered that well<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> any other business?<<BR>>
[17:49] <didrocks> yeah o/<<BR>>
[17:49] <didrocks> once you tested that firefox isn't broken for you :-) I would like to get some testing on oneconf (and not stay in a WFM state)<<BR>>
[17:49] <didrocks> I've made a wiki page for that: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OneConf/Testing<<BR>>
[17:49] <didrocks> This contain mostly all the backend (both direct action and dbus activated) and would be nice to test with your setup and report bugs about invalid applications/codec listed or missing<<BR>>
[17:50] <didrocks> Bonus point if you test the "diff" feature in using it in more than one host as this is the interesting part :-)<<BR>>
[17:50] <didrocks> Otherwise I'm pretty confident on the current state and then, oneconf is just waiting on the plugin interface to be implemented in software-center<<BR>>
[17:50] <rickspencer3> sounds good<<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> ACTION: Everyone test mozilla and oneconf<<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> any other other business?<<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> didrocks, one small note, could you try using the DesktopTeam namespace maybe, will make easier to find it ;-)<<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> rickspencer3, no<<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> just a reminder that we should merge on debian<<BR>>
[17:51] <didrocks> seb128: sure, updating so right now (the trunk)<<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> so please take some time doing your merges if you didn't yet ;-)<<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> didrocks, thanks<<BR>>
=== micahg1 is now known as micahg<<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> ACTION: Everyone get caught up on Debian merges<<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> ok, I guess that's a wrap?<<BR>>
[17:53]  * rickspencer3 taps gavel
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
