{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Actions from previous meeting ==

== Actions from this meeting ==

== Weekly Summary ==

* New pygobject 2.90 is in oneiric, and all known breakage fixed. Please report problems. (pitti)
* Started packaging GNOME 3.1.90/3.1.91. (rodrigo, ricotz, jbicha, pitti, didrocks)
* LibreOffice (bjoern-michaelsen)
** survived http://wiki.documentfoundation.org/Hackfest2011
** working on a patch-only (decoupling from debian packaging) 3.3.4 SRU for Natty
** working on 3.4.3 update for Oneiric

=== Partner update ===

=== Unity ===

* Unity
** New Unity last week, fixed a bunch of bugs and speedup improvment. Full list at https://launchpad.net/unity/4.0/4.12.0
** Full CJK support across many components (unity, apt-xapian, software-center and zeitgeist-fts)
** This week will see a new Unity release, focused on startup time speedup. Other misc; fixes to alt + tab and dash coming.
** New compiz under testing in the unity-team ppa. Fix some stacking issues and other misc. bugs. Still some work needed for getting all the stacking issues out.
** Worked on integrating back in gnome-control-center and GNOME compiz. Work done, you can enjoy Ctrl + Alt + T by default again! :)

* Unity-2d:
** New unity-2d release this week. Full list of bug fixes at https://launchpad.net/unity-2d/+milestone/4.4
** Worked on some startup flickering, 3 are quite annoying:
*** nautilus shows its appmenu bar before unity-2d is showing (and it's showing as well under GNOME session). Wait for dx team (bumped the priority) so that they update their appmenu patch for Gtk3 (https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity-2d/+bug/839611)
*** nautilus shows a left bar (5px) for few seconds on the left. After debugging, tt's the desktop icon background (but it already have the full screen size), is it a remaining panel part? Chriscoulson will look at it. (https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity-2d/+bug/839610)
*** metacity shows some green/blue/all color boxes in https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity-2d/+bug/820553. Seems because 
** Qt 4.7.4 available in the ubuntu-desktop ppa. It breaks unity-2d right now, some fixes already in, but more work needed. Kubuntu testing under way.

=== Software Center ===
* Software Center version 4.1.21 released, includes:
** OneConf reimplemented and working again for GTK3  \o/, many thanks didrocks!
** Awaiting ISD deployment of server-side support to enable full OneConf syncing
** Enabled CJK (Chinese-Japanese-Korean) in Xapian to fully support searching in those languages
** Many, many bugfixes
* Currently fixing many more bugs, fixes to be included in next release coming this week

=== Kubuntu ===

=== X.org ===

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
17:31:43	pitti	Sweetshark, seb128: welcome back!
17:31:43	Sweetshark	o/
17:31:51	seb128	thanks ;-)
17:31:51	pitti	Sweetshark: so you didn't get "hack"ed into pieces?
17:32:29	Sweetshark	pitti: no, just a good shakeup on the flight back through the thunderstorm.
17:32:50	pitti	ken is on holidays, so no partner update today
17:33:04	Sweetshark	pitti: otherwise, it was really quite a success.
17:33:30	pitti	Sweetshark: nice! looking forward to your trip report
17:33:52	pitti	didrocks: as usual, very nice unity update on the wiki, merci! anythign to discuss?
17:34:02	didrocks	I guess it covers everything :)
17:35:36	ogra_	didrocks, are you caring for bug 839557 ?
17:35:37	ubot2`	Launchpad bug 839557 in qt4-x11 "FFe: Qt 4.7.4" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/839557
17:35:41	mterry	hi
17:35:54	 *	ogra_ just left a note there, would be good to get vlc buildable again on arm
17:35:57	didrocks	ogra_: yeah, it's in the ubuntu-desktop ppa, see the team meeting report we are just doing :)
17:36:10	ogra_	didrocks, awesome !
17:36:16	didrocks	ogra_: and see the recent discussion with doko on #ubuntu-devel :)
17:36:18	ogra_	doko, ^^^
17:36:43	pitti	tremolux: anythign which we ought to discuss about s-c?
17:36:44	ogra_	oh, i missed that :)
17:36:48	pitti	tremolux: I actually have a question there
17:36:55	tremolux	pitti: hello! sure, fire away
17:36:57	 *	ogra_ was doing the vlc stuff as a side thing only 
17:37:12	pitti	tremolux: what's the kind of feedback in terms of bugs/IRC rants/etc you got from beta-1?
17:37:25	pitti	tremolux: I didn't notice an outburst of people complaining that it doesn't work, or anythign like that
17:37:56	tremolux	pitti: right, that's my impression also, at least if they are complaining a lot, I don't know where  ;)
17:38:10	tremolux	we do have crashes and lots of rough edges that people complain about in bug reports
17:38:40	pitti	tremolux: and now that oneconf is in, I guess there is not a lot of reason to switch back; WDYT?
17:38:41	tremolux	but we are fixing those as quickly as we can
17:39:02	pedro_	there were a few crashes in s-c  but i must say that they were fixed really quickly :-)
17:39:07	tremolux	pitti: well, I did not know there was an option to switch back!
17:39:12	pedro_	bug patterns were written for most of them
17:39:13	rodrigo_	:)
17:39:27	pitti	tremolux: well, it would have been the obvious contingency plan in case -gtk 3 fell apart, or oneconf broke, etc.
17:39:34	tremolux	pitti: yep  :)
17:39:37	 *	pitti hugs pedro_
17:39:53	pitti	tremolux: do you plan to keep -gtk2 as a fallback, or do you want to remove it from the package completely?
17:39:54	tremolux	pitti: but yes, it seems things are really not in bad shape
17:40:03	tremolux	pitti: so far, we will keep it I think
17:40:31	tremolux	pitti: but yeah, there will be no use maintaining that at all so it should go as soon as we can
17:40:37	pitti	ok, thanks
17:40:46	tremolux	pedro_: yes, thanks for the bugpatterns!!  :)
17:41:07	pitti	another general plea: please update your remaining WIs (or postpone them as appropriate)
17:41:18	pitti	otherwise I'll need to steal your time individually to talk about them
17:41:21	pedro_	tremolux, you're welcome :-)
17:41:28	pitti	we just need to ensure that we don't keep lose ends
17:41:41	pitti	AOB?
17:41:59	pedro_	o/
17:42:14	pitti	pedro_: please go ahead
17:42:14	seb128	that was an efficient meeting ;-)
17:42:20	didrocks	was so quick! :)
17:42:24	pedro_	we still have a few bugs assigned to the team which are targeted to Oneiric : http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-desktop/oneiric.html
17:42:26	pitti	well, nothing do discuss so far :)
17:42:38	 *	Sweetshark looks around: "Where is my meeting?"
17:42:38	pitti	(in fact, at some point we should re-discuss the purpose and structure of the meeting; perhaps at UDS)
17:42:39	rodrigo_	pedro_, "a few" is too optimistic :)
17:42:39	pedro_	would be nice if you guys can review the list and start assigning those to individuals
17:42:45	pedro_	so they can be worked ;-)
17:42:54	pedro_	or assign everything to rodrigo_
17:42:56	pedro_	oops
17:42:59	 *	rodrigo_ leaves
17:43:11	seb128	yeah, I vote for assigning to rodrigo_
17:43:15	tremolux	haha
17:43:16	seb128	they are mostly g-c-c bugs anyway
17:43:23	rodrigo_	pedro_, hmm, that's a different report from the other one you had
17:43:23	seb128	;-)
17:43:30	rodrigo_	http://people.canonical.com/~pedro/desktop/canonical-desktop-team-assigned-bug-tasks.html
17:43:33	pedro_	but that's more or less , please review and lets keep the fixing  ball rolling
17:43:37	pitti	pedro_: you mean the ones assigned to the team? right, I'll have a pass over those
17:43:37	rodrigo_	so, should we follow the other one?
17:43:45	rodrigo_	I was looking at http://people.canonical.com/~pedro/desktop/canonical-desktop-team-assigned-bug-tasks.html all the time
17:43:49	pedro_	pitti, yeah
17:44:11	pedro_	rodrigo_, that's for 'all' the bugs in launchpad, the other is just listing the reports with an Oneiric task
17:44:17	rodrigo_	ah
17:44:18	didrocks	pedro_: come on! we will get bugs assigned because of you! Hope you are happy :-)
17:44:26	pitti	pedro_: and the "none" ones, too
17:44:46	pedro_	didrocks, oh that's the idea, make me happier ;-)
17:44:55	rodrigo_	the ones for g-c-c and g-s-d can be assigned to me, yes
17:44:58	rodrigo_	the others not :)
17:45:09	pedro_	pitti, indeed
17:45:18	pedro_	pitti, that's all from here
17:45:32	pitti	pedro_: thanks; I'll garden the list this week
17:45:37	pitti	AOB?
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
09:04:44 > TheMuso: STARTMEETING.
09:04:51 > TheMuso: bryceh: So whats happening in X land?
09:05:34 < bryceh!~bryce@static-50-53-79-63.bvtn.or.frontiernet.net: there is an xserver 1.10.4 in our git tree, ready to burst on the scene at any time
09:06:01 < bryceh!~bryce@static-50-53-79-63.bvtn.or.frontiernet.net: it's almost entirely just modest bug fixes, so unlikely to cause much of a stir
09:06:41 > TheMuso: Ok sounds good.
09:06:50 < bryceh!~bryce@static-50-53-79-63.bvtn.or.frontiernet.net: I rolled out a new xdiagnose 1.2, which includes some improvements for failsafe-x
09:07:08 < bryceh!~bryce@static-50-53-79-63.bvtn.or.frontiernet.net: still haven't confirmed a successful test with lightdm yet though
09:07:41 > TheMuso: Ok.
09:08:59 > TheMuso: Anything else to add, or should we move on?
09:09:52 < bryceh!~bryce@static-50-53-79-63.bvtn.or.frontiernet.net: nothing much else; been mostly tending to random bug reports and working on a couple private projects
09:10:15 > TheMuso: Ok sounds great, looks like X will be solid for oneiric.
09:10:26 > TheMuso: robert_ancell: How does lightdm progress this week?
09:10:40 < robert_ancell!~bob@ppp121-44-173-156.lns20.syd7.internode.on.net: need to make a release...
09:11:08 < robert_ancell!~bob@ppp121-44-173-156.lns20.syd7.internode.on.net: There's hooks in the next release, which hopefully bryceh can use to help diagnose what is using all the CPU in the login screen
09:11:39 < robert_ancell!~bob@ppp121-44-173-156.lns20.syd7.internode.on.net: Also, lightdm now quits if the display fails to start, so failsafe-x can work with it
09:11:58 < robert_ancell!~bob@ppp121-44-173-156.lns20.syd7.internode.on.net: there's some minor UI changes in unity-greeter, which will require a ffe
09:12:03 < bryceh!~bryce@static-50-53-79-63.bvtn.or.frontiernet.net: robert_ancell, and thanks for the tips on hooking up xtrace; going to experiment with that for helping us find what desktop apps are driving the X cpu loads so much during boot
09:12:08 -!- nekohayo!~jeff@206-248-171-113.dsl.teksavvy.com has quit []
09:12:57 > TheMuso: Sweet.
09:13:07 < robert_ancell!~bob@ppp121-44-173-156.lns20.syd7.internode.on.net: the work for that came from  Guido Berhoerster from open suse / xfce so thanks to him!
09:13:33 > TheMuso: Ok sounds good.
09:14:28 > TheMuso: So, pulseaudio 0.99.3 landed on Monday, which was a bugfix release. David Henningsen has also been working on some jack detection support stuff, which will make pulseaudio know more about the volume controls to use depending on what is plugged in where.
09:14:35 > TheMuso: I'll be uploading the last bits of that after the meeting.
09:15:01 -!- ronoc!~ronoc@client-80-4-253-239.cht-bng-011.adsl.virginmedia.net has quit [Ping timeout: 245 seconds]
09:15:14 > TheMuso: A11y wise, a bit of a nag has been hit, due to some GTK and GIR issues, see bug 769256.
09:15:16 < ubot2`!~ubot2@unaffiliated/jpds/bot/ubot2: Launchpad bug 769256 in gtk+3.0 "Gdk enumerations do not contain GType info in GIR" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/769256
09:15:17 > TheMuso: snag
09:15:37 > TheMuso: I hope to see if I can nut out a work-around with either seb or pitti this afternoon.
09:15:46 > TheMuso: at least till an upstrea fix is available.
09:15:51 > TheMuso: *upstream
09:16:17 > TheMuso: Unity-2d is now set as the default session for people who install using the screen reader or braille accessibility profiles.
09:16:36 > TheMuso: And once the new lightdm lands, we will have accessible login again.
09:17:05 > TheMuso: Thats about it from me.
09:17:09 > TheMuso: Any other business?
09:17:30 < bryceh!~bryce@static-50-53-79-63.bvtn.or.frontiernet.net: yeah, I'm curious how we're doing with the bootspeed work?
09:17:41 < bryceh!~bryce@static-50-53-79-63.bvtn.or.frontiernet.net: did some issues get sorted out?
09:18:03 > TheMuso: I know there has been some back and forth about it, but I'm not sure where that ended up.
09:19:11 < bryceh!~bryce@static-50-53-79-63.bvtn.or.frontiernet.net: mm, ok, thanks.
09:19:21 > TheMuso: bryceh: Were you CCed in the recent discussion?
09:20:34 < bryceh!~bryce@static-50-53-79-63.bvtn.or.frontiernet.net: yeah, but haven't seen any further discussion today
09:20:55 > TheMuso: Right, nore have I.
09:21:11 > TheMuso: Ok if there is nothing else...
09:22:12 > TheMuso: ENDMEETING.
09:22:14 > TheMuso: thanks folks.
</pre>
