{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Weekly Summary ==

* Software Updater's UI got a revamp (mterry)
* Fixed autologin's presentation in System Settings; hide for ecryptfs users and show as ON if it is on (mterry)
* Unity Greeter finally has a 13.04 logo (mterry)
* Workrave finally works in Unity (mterry)
* Reducing memory usage of friends-service by creating a light weight service in vala that hosts the Dee.SharedModel.  This provides a significant memory reduction, on the order of 11x (kenvandine)
* Finished up dual builds for qt4/qt5 for UOA (kenvandine)
* Still working on pulseaudio 3.0 issues particularly related to ARM and the
 pandaboard. (TheMuso)
* More PulseAudio Nexus testing. (TheMuso)

== Agenda ==

* ''Insert things to discuss at meeting here..''

=== Product strategy integration ===

==== Unity ====

* Didrocks is on holiday
* Mike is trying to help with test failures holding back the unity stack from daily releases

==== Indicators & Themes ====

==== Webapps/Webcredentials ====

==== Open input framework ====

=== X.org ===
* Proprietary driver SRU verifications.  There are now a tangle of various driver updates blocked on awaiting verification.  Trying to do verification ourselves to get things moving forward again.  (tseliot/sarvatt/bryce)
* xdiagnose updates and SRUs (bryce)
* Private project development/testing (raof/bryce)
* Investigating feasibility of NVIDIA delivering the 1.14 ABI update for -tegra, vs. us staying on 1.13 for raring (bryce)
* Completed LTS stack transition to -updates (mlankhorst)

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
}}}

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

{{{
</pre>
