{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Karmic Boot Experience as of 2009-08-03 ==
This is the current experience. This is not the target experience, but represents the state between the Jaunty and Karmic boot experiences.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''UI'''
| '''Transition'''
|-
| BIOS
| Blinking Cursor on black screen
|-
| GRUB 2.0
| Blinking Cursor on black screen, perceptible mode switch/flicker
|-
| Usplash throbber
| Real Black, Mouse cursor spins
|-
| GDM: <<BR>>Fades in desktop Background <<BR>>Paints Frame<<BR>>Fills in Users<<BR>>User Interacts
| GDM Vanishes, leaves black blocks
|-
| Desktop: <<BR>>Spinning Cursor<<BR>>Panel paints<<BR>>flips to wallpaper
| 
|}

== Target Karmic Boot Experience ==
There are three target experiences in scope for Karmic:
# A typical boot, that includes the user logging in
# Automatic login
# Karmic boot with an exception (encrypted directory or time out)

The following related experiences are not in scope for Karmic:
# Boot with OS switching
# Enhanced user switching experience
# Enhanced suspend/resume experience - already improved by recent kernel improvements
# Enhanced hibernate/resume experience; reason: requires further kernel cleanups + issue with switching resolution between the boot and the resumed kernel 
# Shutdown experience - will keep on using usplash
# Restart experience when switching OSs; reason: depends on the shutdown experience being improved

=== Work Item Priorities ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Priority'''
| '''Definition'''
|-
| P0
| Essential
|-
| P1
| Very Important - will do
|-
| P2
| Important  - Will do
|-
| P3
| Desirable - Want to do
|}

=== Work Item Summary ===
The following work items that remain in Karmic have been identified:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Priority'''
| '''Work Item'''
| '''Team'''
| '''Difficulty'''
| '''Description '''
|-
| P0
| Clean up grub
| Foundations
| Easy
| Done
|-
| P1
| Disable blinking cursor in grub
| Foundations
| Easy
| Done
|-
| P0
| Disable grub menu
| Foundations
| Easy
| Done
|-
| P0
| Design XSplash
| Design
| Easy
| Note: need to send example assets to Cody
|-
| P0
| Xsplash boot throbber
| DX
| Medium
| 
|-
| P1
| Xorg patch for leaving the frame buffer in place
| Desktop
| Medium
| 
|-
| P1
| Disable mouse cursor on x start
| Desktop
| Easy
| 
|-
| P1
| Recommend xinit hook for xsplash
| Desktop
| Easy
| 
|-
| P2
| GDM Done Painting Signal
| DX
| Hard
| send a dbus-signal when gdm is done loading, ie widgets mapped on screen
|-
| P1
| Desktop Done Painting Signal
| Desktop
| Medium
| send a dbus-signal when gnome-session has finished loading the user desktop
|-
| P3
| GDM Perf
| Desktop
| Hard
| 
|-
| P0
| Designing GDM skinning
| Design
| 
| Done
|-
| P1
| Skinning GDM
| DX
| Medium
| 
|-
| P3
| GDM UI Layout
| DX
| Medium
| 
|-
| P0
| Xsplash desktop curtain (autologin case)
| DX
| Medium
| 
|-
| P2
| Xsplash gdm greeter curtain - throbber while logging, especially for login
| DX
| Medium
| 
|-
| P3
| Compiz perf
| Desktop
| Medium
| 
|-
| P0
| Usplash Design
| Design
| Easy
| 
|-
| P0
| Implement New Usplash Theme
| Design
| Medium
| 
|}

=== Typical Boot ===
This assume the user is booting into Ubuntu, and will log in with GDM.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''UI'''
| '''Transition'''
| Work Items ((Team) priority/difficulty)
|-
| BIOS
| Flip to Black<<BR>>Mode switch
| Cleanup Grub(Foundations)P0/Easy <<BR>> Disable blinking cursor in grub(Foundations)P1/Easy <<BR>> Disable grub menu(Foundations)P0/Easy
|-
| XSplash (Fade in)
| Fades into Login Screen
| Design XSplash (Design)P0/Easy <<BR>>  Write Xsplash(DXE)P0/Medium <<BR>> Write OS Switcher(DXE)P3/Hard <<BR>> Write OS Switcher library(DXE)P3/Hard<<BR>> Disable mouse cursor on x start(Desktop)P1/Easy
|-
| GDM: Fades in <<BR>> User interacts
| Fades to Xsplash progress indicator
| GDM Curtain (Desktop)P2/Hard <<BR>> GDM Perf (Desktop)P2/Hard <<BR>> GDM Skinning (Design)P1/Medum <<BR>> GDM UI Layout (DXE)P3/Medium <<BR>> GDM Fade Out (Desktop)P2/Hard <<BR>> XSplash Curtain (DXE) P2/Medium
|-
| Xsplash progress
| 
| Xsplash Curtain (DXE)P2/Medium
|-
| Desktop (Fades in)
| 
| Compiz Curtain (Desktop)P1/Hard
|}

=== Karmic Boot with Auto Login ===
This scenario is the same as the typical Karmic boot with Login, but lacks the GDM row. No new work items result from this, though there is a dependency on xsplash to transition directly to logon progress.

=== Karmic Boot with Exceptions ===
This occurs when:
# The user has an encrypted root file system
# The user has an encrypted non-Root File System
# An fsck is required
# Something causes a timeout, such as a very slow USB device is attached

In these cases usplash is used to provide user feedback instead of X. This is because while X is loaded, it more or less owns the hardware, and this handles the situation where X cannot load or cannot load quickly. This starts after the BIOS:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''UI'''
| '''Transition'''
| '''Work Items'''
|}
|| usplash: <<BR>>Fades in with appropriate UI <<BR>>User interacts if necessary || Fade to XSplash || Usplash Design (Design) P0/Easy <<BR>>Impliment New Usplash Theme(Design) P1/Medium <<BR>> leave the frame buffer in place (Desktop)P1/Medium
