{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Riddell:Enhance timezone map for Kubuntu installer:being worked on by shtylman
* Riddell:Update partitioning labels to match GTK front end in KDE installer:blocked
* Riddell:Use Kwallet password strength bar for password on user setup page-blocked On advanced setup replace GRUB line edit with a pre-seeded combo box:blocked
* Riddell:Enable auto-login on user setup page in Kubuntu installer:not started
* Riddell:Update OEM help page for Kubuntu:not started
* Riddell:Update language page to show all languages at once in Kubuntu:not started
* Riddell:Package kpackagekit:done
* Riddell:Package policykit-kde:done
* Riddell:Add KPackageKit update notifier and remove update-notifier-kde:done
* Riddell:Add ability to filter out non-applications to KPackagekit:rgreening
* Riddell:Package KDE 4.2 for Jaunty:done
* Riddell:Test Akonadi for functionality and upgrades.:done
* Riddell:Change Konqueror to use kdewebkit by default if Qt 4.5 is out for Jaunty:blocked on upstream
* Riddell:Collect feedback for problem areas when upgrading in Kubuntu:started
* Riddell:Modify kconfig update scripts to address identified problem areas.:not started
* Riddell:Drop Konversation:done
* Riddell:Include Kolorpaint if space and agreed to at council meeting.:blocked
* Riddell:Move Skanlite to main.:done
* Riddell:Remove kioslaves from archive:done
* Riddell:Replace guidance-power-manager with Powerdevil in Kubuntu:done
* Riddell:Remove power profiles for primary powerdevil UI in Kubuntu:not started
* Riddell:Fix the image on the logout menu to ensure it matches its background in Kubuntu:done
* Riddell:Convert system-config-printer-kde to a KControl module:done
* asac:Adobe Flash in partner repository with apturl:started
* asac:work with NM upstream to re-enable one at a time interface connection as default:postponed
* asac:Communicate with Mozilla upstream that they should start responding:done
* asac:Confirm Pidgin behavior on NM changes:done
* asac:Confirm that evolution's reconnection to IMAP connections are working in Jaunty:done
* asac:Confirm that LifeArea reconnects by default upon new connection:done
* asac:Confirm that Ekiga handles changes to network states properly. Ifvnot, log bugs:done
* asac:Modify Update Manager so that it does not automatically download new indexes when connected to a 3G network:started
* asac:Change font rendering default to "Subpixel Smoothing" by default:started
* bryce:Assist video driver upstreams and vendors with implementing KMS support.:done
* bryce:Support the Dx team by consulting and helping with low level packages.:blocked
* bryce:Create backend xorg.conf parser/writer:done
* bryce:Implement xorg.conf Validator:done
* bryce:Implement xorg.conf Options Data Store (man pages):done
* bryce:Implement xorg.conf gui - GTK:done
* bryce:Implement xorg.conf gui - Qt:postponed
* bryce:Implement xorg.conf backup/restore functionality:started
* bryce:Create X Historical Package Pages:started
* bryce:Create X Smoke Tests:started
* bryce:Verify EXA acceptance criteria met by Alpha-5:done
* bryce:Search help.ubuntu.com/wiki.ubuntu.com for ctrl-alt-backspace:done
* calc:Convert OOo 3.0.0/3.0.1 depencies in universe to use Java components to build with default-java:done
* calc:Include OOo 3.0.x on Jaunty Alpha's, including MIRs:done
* calc:Port Fedora's gtkprint dialog patch and confirm that it works on OOo in KDE.:postponed
* calc:Get GIO to work, currently falling back to GVFS.:postponed
* calc:Get KDE4 to work, currently falling back to KDE3.:postponed
* calc:Get 3.1.0 split build into a PPA for English.:started
* calc:Define, with Sun, the strategy for separating language support into it's own self-contained module.:done
* pitti:Document packaging best practices:done
* pitti:Review OLS Team Packaging:postponed
* pitti:Assist Dx with (or simply do) packaging and integration:done
* pitti:Review Dx Team Packages:done
* pitti:Advice Dx Team Regarding Gnome settings demon:done
* pitti:Advice Dx Team Regarding Gnome power manager:done
* pitti:Advice Dx Team Regarding Compiz Plugin:started
* pitti:Advice Dx Team Regarding playing sounds to provide volume control feedback:done
* pitti:Advice Dx Team Regarding where to store assets such as icon:not started
* pitti:Advice Dx Team Regarding “Do not disturb systems”:not started
* pitti:Determine what can be supported by Soyuz/Rosetta in Jaunty in terms of Help blobs:done
* pitti:Refactor packages and build system to support moving help files to language packs:postponed
* pitti:Support for attaching apport data to an existing bug:done
* pitti:X server crash or failure to start up apport support:done
* pitti:Rewrite apport crash-digger to be cron-based and more robust:done
* pitti:Set up automatic dup db backups in DC retracers:done
* pitti:Create "vanilla" session in gdm:done
* seb128:Package latest GDM:done
* seb128:Create settings Migration for new GDM:done
* seb128:Move OLS Google Protocol Buffer into main:done
* seb128:Assist OLS in getting Enhanced libglib2.0-0 Upstream:postponed
* seb128:Integrate other OLS components as completed:done
* ArneGoetje:Language-selector GUI redesign:done
