{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:network-account-profiles-management
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

When users have put several accounts into the network account profiles system, we must provide a way for them to manage those accounts.  This includes deleting or disabling them, or changing the password in one centeralized place.

=== Release Note ===

Network account profiles can be managed using the "About Me" dialog in System->Settings.

=== Rationale ===

* No one application would have all the profiles, it becomes important to provide a centralized place
* Many user may change their passwords outside the NAP world, we need a way to update that information
* There should be a way to visualize the accounts that are configured and what the've been used for

=== Use Cases ===

* A user changes their Yahoo! account using the Yahoo! web interface, they want to update all their desktop applications.
* A user would like to add a second Yahoo! account, but the application assumes you'd only want one.
* A user would like to delete an account profile from all applications at once.

=== Design ===

* TODO

=== Implementation ===

=== Migration ===

* N/A

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Comments ===

----
CategorySpec
