{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alberto Milone (tseliot)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (ccheney)
* Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson)
* Didier Roche (didrocks)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)  

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)
* Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meetingu
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Stable update bugs?
* Blueprint list
* New team member next week
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

==== Discussion ====
=== Partner Update ===
* u1music store is in public beta
* OLS has 3 FFE pending:
** [Freeze Exception] ubuntuone-client: Syncdaemon needs to auto-start/connect in Lucid: [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/534707
** [Freeze Exception] ubuntuone-client: Impossible to infer status of file syncing jobs: [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/526084
** Status text field should be disabled if no broadcast accounts have been set up: [Medium,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/520932
** Should have a desktopcouch release that fixes a bunch of the crasher bugs in time for beta-2 

=== Kubuntu Update ===
* new logo decided http://people.canonical.com/~jriddell/kubuntu-new-logo.png needs Design Team to tidy up
* KDE 4.4.2 packaged and uploaded to lucid, compiling away now
* KOffice 2.1.2 packaged and uploaded
* http://tinyurl.com/yjybcx9 milestoned bugs down to 16
* two high priority bugs need some more investigation but will probably be after beta 2, akonadi being broken on upgrades and hal not mounting disks

=== Stable Update Bugs ===
seb128 led discussion on how to choose SRU bugs for 10.04.1. Decision was:
* After Final Freeze (April 15th) we will review list of targeted bugs
* Bugs that are targeted, but no appropriate for SRU will be closed at this time
* Bugs for an SRU will stay targeted and milestoned for an SRU

=== Release Status ===
* Work items are going to plan, and high risk ones are complete: http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-desktop-team-ubuntu-10.04-beta-2.html
* RC bugs have been reviewed, and appear on track: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/ReleaseStatus
* Two worrying bugs on xorg/kernel
** Launchpad bug 507148 in linux "[lucid] desktop runs out of video memory on ATI Radeon Mobility 7500" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/507148
** Launchpad bug 491210 in linux "[i865G] Monitor Resolution limited to 800x600" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/491210
* Many crashes being reported at "../../src/xcb_io.c:385: _XAllocID: Assertion `ret != inval_id' failed." These bugs to be duped.
* Total xorg related bug reports are down: http://www2.bryceharrington.org:8080/X/Graphs/totals.svg
* Massive xorg triaging is paying off, untriaged bug reports are down despite incoming rates: http://www2.bryceharrington.org:8080/X/Reports/ubuntu-x-swat/totals-lucid-workqueue.svg

=== Blueprint List ===
* Time to start thinking about blueprints
* rickspencer3 put a starter list here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/10.10/BlueprintList
* Feel free to add to this list

=== New Team Member Next Week ===
* Hi Nafai

=== Activity reports ===
==== Alberto Milone (tseliot) ====

Done:
* LP: #548751 nvidia-common: call "dpkg-trigger gmenucache || true" after switching to other drivers
* LP: #533970 nvidia-common reintroduce config file for kernel hooks
* Simplify X-Kit's logic to detect if the driver is in use (required by Jockey)
* Add support for new InputDevice section to XKIT
* LP: #545992 Can't install fglrx-kernel-source, conflict with fglrx
* LP: #540177 in kdebase-workspace "KDM needs plymouth transition patch
* LP: #547066 Jockey doesn't show enabled nvidia drivers as such
* LP: #496225 Jockey cannot install fglrx driver

In progress:
* LP: #539196 nvidia-settings X display configuration window doesn't work on nvidia-173 and nvidia-96

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

* X Stabilization
** Identify bug fixes besides Xv in 2.10 git tree
** Backport the Xv patches from 2.10 to intel 2.9.1 (upload pending)
** Fix crash when all glyphs of a given depth are freed
** Write up and report status on X stabilization work
** Update X.org stabilization plan at X/Projects 
** Look for lp bugs with drmCheckModesettingSupported fails
** Switch off apport freeze hook for -intel as per decision last meeting
* Upstreaming
** Upstream #538377 - HDMI turns off intermittently
** Upstream #541501 - external screen display shows shivering
** Upstream #542660 - -ati fails to boot on iMac (core i5)
** Upstream #545096 - intermitent screen corruption
** Upstream #544525 - dual monitor not working on rv380
* Packaging work
** Assist getting xserver 1.7.6 merged
** Merge xkeyboard-config 1.8
** Cherrypick post-1.8 patches from xkeyboard-config git tree
** Merge Arne's xkeyboard-config patches
** fakesync xf86-input-evtouch
* Other Bug Work
** Fix security vulnerability with XAA and compositing (LP: #551193)
** Help ccheney troubleshoot openoffice/inkscape bug
** Investigate if  the Repeat execbuffer patch is included
* Arsenal
** rename fix-titles.py to process-title-fixing.py
** Make milestone report include gravity and time since last comment
** Move arsenal_lib.py to top level and replace instances in contrib and scripts with symlinks
** Sketch out thoughts on refactoring process-new-bugs.py to make it easier to use beyond X.org
** Move bug.has_tag()-based skipping into arsenal_lib.py
** Fix cron on blackwold to actually generate the versions_current.html page - is cron actually running?
** Identify if tagging an incomplete bug makes it an incomplete w/ response bug
** Implement routine for identifying if launchpad is simply down temporarily when 500/502/504 errors throw exceptions
* UDS Planning
** Capture thinking about what we want to do for the -intel freeze hook in Lucid+1 into blueprint wiki
** Plan out UDS X sessions for RAOF
* Debugging with KMS
** Investigate how to handle quirking with KMS
** Identify if there are any mechanisms to make kernel test quirks manually
** Review drm_edid.c code in the kernel to learn how quirking works
* Review and improve https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/NewCodeReviews
* Review and improve https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReviewersTeam/GettingInvolved
* Off Friday (went to Seattle for the weekend)

==== Chris Cheney (ccheney) ====
* Uploaded openoffice.org 1:3.2.0-4ubuntu2
** Fixed 3 remaining RC bugs, whee!
* Uploaded openclipart 0.18+dfsg-9ubuntu1 
** Fixed bug allowing installation with OOo 3.2.0
* Working with mvo on OOo karmic-lucid upgrade bug
* Working on epiphany-browser gtkentry backport
 
==== Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF) ====

* X
** Picked out two bugfixes from upstream nouveau and forwarded them to kernel team list.  Still need to be sent to stable kernel list.
** An upstream comment on <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/540632 | bug #540632]]</nowiki> pointed to a kernel commit fixing a class of EDID bugs.  Verified with reporter that the commit fixed their problem, and forwarded bug & commit to kernel team.
** Investigated helping to automate mmiotrace gathering for users now that mmiotrace is enabled in the main kernel images.  I've got a simple set of scripts which I'll be testing on bug reporters this week
** Fixed VESA driver to fail to load when a kernel modesetting driver is providing a framebuffer.  Patch is upstream, and looks like it'll be acceptable.
** Found new bugs where vga16fb being loaded appears to blame.  Discussed with Chase Douglas in #ubuntu-kernel, who came up with a patch to prevent vga16fb from loading when a kms driver is already loaded.  I'm monitoring further bugs - I think there are still some vga16fb-caused bugs lurking, particularly with multiple gpus.
* gnome-keyring-sharp
** This broke with gnome-keyring-daemon 2.30 removing the socket interface.  Reimplemented the socket calls using libgnome-keyring instead.
** This seems to have fixed everything but f-spot.  F-Spot might be bundling a broken copy of gnome-keyring-sharp.

==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====

** Finished the work on "disable startup sound in gdmsetup". Now possible to change gconf keys in gdm
** Test and finish clutter 1.2 transition and enabling introspection in various components: gtk, clutter, clutter-gtk, atk, pango
** Don't show "as another user" in metacity (design required) 
** gnome-control-center: themes now provides a prefered button layout option. This enable to avoid breaking all themes with our default and handle custom user settings as well.
** UNE related:
*** bug triaging
*** merge some contributor patches. Will release new version in the week
*** ping about pushing the new logo back
*** discuss with dx team which agree to fix 2 bugs which will take forever for me to fix "if they have time"
** GNOME updates: nautilus-action, alcarte, zenity, gnome-applets, gtk-doc, anjuta, devhelp, vinagre, gucharmap, empathy, gnome-control-center, gnome-themes, gtk2-engines, gnome-menus, gnome-session, gedit-plugins, deskbar-applets, gnome-settings-daemon, gnome-screensaver  
** New quickly release, got FFe an triaging Quickly related bugs!
** Provide some guidance to GSoC students and write the GSoC applications

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
* Porting work for gwibber to use the keyring, until I hit the keyring CPU load bug 530605
* Uploaded fix for desktopcouch that improves gwibber startup time considerably
* Released Gwibber 2.29.93 with a ton of bug fixes and i18n love
* DX Releases

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Assigned blueprints:
 - UbuntuSpec:desktop-lucid-powermanagement-tweaks: One WI left for disabling an unused fingerprint reader; will try to get to that this week
 - All others implemented

Done:
* Bug fixing: cups, libatasmart, gdm, gnome-settings-daemon, gnome-control-center, gnome-keyring, gnome-menus, gnome-power-manager, gvfs, jockey, langack-locales, media-player-info, nut, python-distutils-extra, sudo, udev, upower, usbmuxd
* New versions: gnome-disk-utility, gnome-power-manager, gvfs
* Desktop seed cleanup, removed a few unmaintained packages (nautilus-cd-burner, ekiga, deskbar-applet)
* Set up mumble, working great
* Tested CD drive locking with cdrkit/growisofs
* Tested u1 music store
* Tried in vain to unbreak apport testsuite for staging.lp.net
* tzdata update for stables
* Some Apport retracer maintenance
* TB meeting

Sponsoring:
* language-selector, bluez

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

==== Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson) ====
* General:
** Fixed the gnome-terminal profile upgrade issue (LP: #532511)
** Fixed a bug in gnome-power-manager where it dimmed the screen from an inactive session
** Fixed a gnome-settings-daemon bug where the volume change event sounds weren't working, due to our notify-osd patch (LP: #538761)
** Fixed a gnome-desktop bug causing g-s-d to print GLib-Critical messages in the console at startup (LP: #384439)
** Helped with the gnome-settings-daemon 2.30 update to get the notify-osd patch working again
** Fixed some packages with unmet dependencies since I remove python-gnome2-extras earlier this cycle 
** Sponsoring: conkeror, gnome-chemistry-tools, galeon, bindwood

* xulrunner-1.9.2 transition:
** DONE: conkeror, gnome-chemistry-tools, galeon (thanks to Micah Gersten)
** There are a couple that ftbfs due to needing updated xulrunner with working .pc file (gtk-vnc, gnome-chemistry-tools)
** packagekit is waiting on updated xulrunner 1.9.2.2 (due today)

* General Mozilla:
** NSPR 4.8.4 update
** Worked on NSS 3.12.6 update. This caused a bit of grief as it broke Evolution, so I had to spend some time investigating that. It's fixed now and will be uploaded today (which will open the gates for xulrunner 1.9.2.2 and FF 3.6.2)
** Got the cairo LCD filter patch working in FF 3.6.2 (thanks to mdeslaur for helping too) (LP: #512615)
** Started 3.0/3.5/1.9/1.9.1 security updates

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

Weekly tasks:
* desktop updates: gtkmm glib gtk ido indicator-me telepathy-butterfly gtksourceview pygtksourceview rhythmbox libgnomekbd glib nautilus glibmm gtkmm pango nautilus-sendto totem-pl-parser totem gnome-bluetooth gedit gnome-media file-roller evince eog cheese brasero libwnck tomboy libgweather gnome-panel librsvg libbonoboui libbonobo gconf libsoup
* changed gnome-menus cache update code to not translate icon names
* discussed string changes in lucid and revert those in some sources
* did a gtk-murrine snapshot to lucid on artwork team request
* some other round of rhythmbox git fixes backport
* did a rhythmbox git snapshot since it's easier to backport most commits
* updated glib to ship python debug macros too
* updated shared-mime-info translations from rosetta to lucid
* backported a potential fixes for gnome-keyring issue but it's not working
* restored nautilus change not commit to vcs and dropped with the update
* looked to lot of bugs, tracked some issues, got debug informations

Sponsoring:
* shared-mime-info enchant gtk2-engines-murrine gnome-panel indicator-sound libindicator indicator-application ubuntu-mono indicator-application gwibber
 
==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* system-config-printer: Fixed several bugs: Do not auto-create a new queue if a printer is only detected by the "usb" CUPS backend and there is already a queue set up with the "hp" backend or vice versa, do also not auto-create new queues if there exists already a queue whose URI references to the detected printer only by the /dev/usb/lp? device file (non-standard CUPS backends), do not let the firewall warning dialog pop up (LP: #534526), applied upstream patches to fix several tracebacks in the new asynchronous requests for device and driver info (LP: #520466), silince logged error message due to the PrinterDriverInstaller not present (LP: #530218), added dependency on avahi-utils (LP: #545737), when generating HPLIP URIs for network printers, generate the newer ones based on DNS-SD host names, to keep printers working when IPs change (LP: #545737), let discovered network printer connections via the "dnssd" CUPS backend be shown before connections via "socket", "lpd", or "ipp" as they are proof against chaning IPs, added a missing "import gobject" to one of the Python files. Still waiting for new Ubuntu logo for the printer test pages (LP: #542975).
* python-cups: Updated to get in a crash bug fix (LP: #545755).
* foomatic-db: Fixed database entries which got broken on the switchover of the server to MySQL, especially affecting the "hl1250" driver (PCL-5e driver for Brother printers, LP: #541690).
* hplip: Made simple-scan the deafult scanning frontend (LP: #539015), applied a patch to eliminate a segfault when closing the tray applet (LP: #546816), tried out a patch for Application Indicator support, but it does not work yet (LP: #497877).
* foo2zjs: Let automatic upload of the firmware file into the printer by UDEV be delayed for 3 seconds, so that it does not interfere with other UDEV actions like automatic queue setup or re-enabling a disabled queue (LP: #543177).
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports.

== IRC Logs ==
[17:32] <tkamppeter> hi<<BR>>
[17:32] <pitti> right<<BR>>
[17:32] <chrisccoulson> i think so ;)<<BR>>
[17:32]  * kenvandine waves<<BR>>
[17:32] <didrocks> hey<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2010-03-30<<BR>>
[17:32] <ArneGoetje> o/<<BR>>
[17:32] <Riddell> afternoon<<BR>>
[17:32] <kenvandine> i might need to duck out at some point<<BR>>
[17:32]  * tseliot waves<<BR>>
[17:32] <seb128> hey<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, ack<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> shall we start with kenvandine and partner update?<<BR>>
[17:33] <kenvandine> ok<<BR>>
[17:33] <kenvandine> OLS has a couple FFE still in the pipe, i think they are expected to land today if approved<<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> i haven't looked at the status today, they are on the wiki<<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> and there was a request for a UIF exception of u1 client, not sure if that will happen or not<<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> music store beta is going well, and there will be libu1 and rb plugin bug fix releases today'ish<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> DX seems pretty on track, nothing major coming<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> i think that is it<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, I've seen a few UI tweaks the last few days from Dx<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> is that about done, or are there more changes to expect?<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> i think that was it<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> which was mostly just reverting the strings back, i think<<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> and there is the screensaver thing which we patched<<BR>>
[17:35] <seb128> the indicator-message strings change too<<BR>>
[17:36] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, little pips next to status in Me Menu for instance<<BR>>
[17:36] <seb128> to say "configuring..." now<<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> seb128, yeah, that isn't changing again though right?<<BR>>
[17:36] <seb128> before starting the application for the first ime<<BR>>
[17:36] <seb128> no, but it's new from this week<<BR>>
[17:36]  * kenvandine still thinks that work flow is a little confusing <<BR>>
[17:36] <seb128> or previous week now rather<<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> if you had been running it already<<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> but i guess a short hump to get over<<BR>>
[17:36] <seb128> right, I was a bit surprised to see that landing now<<BR>>
[17:36] <seb128> especially that the logic is wrong<<BR>>
[17:37] <seb128> anyway not a meeting subject<<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> ok, moving on<<BR>>
[17:37]  * kenvandine hands mic back<<BR>>
[17:37]  * rickspencer3 hands mic to Riddel<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> Riddell, Kubuntu update?<<BR>>
[17:37] <Riddell>  * new logo decided http://people.canonical.com/~jriddell/kubuntu-new-logo.png needs Design Team to tidy up<<BR>>
[17:37] <Riddell>  * KDE 4.4.2 packaged and uploaded to lucid, compiling away now<<BR>>
[17:37] <Riddell>  * KOffice 2.1.2 packaged and uploaded<<BR>>
[17:37] <Riddell>  * http://tinyurl.com/yjybcx9 milestoned bugs down to 16<<BR>>
[17:38] <rickspencer3> yeah!<<BR>>
[17:38] <rickspencer3> Riddell, can I just say that you are doing an awesome job with Kubuntu and Kubuntu team!<<BR>>
[17:38] <rickspencer3> thanks much<<BR>>
[17:38] <Riddell> two high priority bugs, akonadi being broken on upgrades and hal not mounting disks<<BR>>
[17:38] <Riddell> both need some more investigation but will probably be after beta 2<<BR>>
[17:39] <Riddell> why thank you rickspencer3<<BR>>
[17:39] <pitti> I followed up to the hal one, but I don't understand the problem yet<<BR>>
[17:39] <pitti> I had one suspicion, but that wasn't it<<BR>>
[17:39] <chrisccoulson> kubuntu still uses hal for mounting?<<BR>>
[17:39] <Riddell> yes<<BR>>
[17:39] <pitti> hal doesn't require any privileges for mounting internal drives these days<<BR>>
[17:40] <pitti> but at least in karmic kde actually used a fancy kdesu wrapper, AFAIR<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> moving on?<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> oops, sorry, didn't mean to interupt<<BR>>
[17:40] <Riddell> rickspencer3: yes we'll discuss later<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:41] <rickspencer3> seb128 brought up the next topic, related to bugs for 10.04 stable updates<<BR>>
[17:41] <rickspencer3> seb128, did I get that right?<<BR>>
[17:41] <seb128> yes<<BR>>
[17:41] <seb128> we have a list of rc bugs for lucid now<<BR>>
[17:41] <seb128> but I'm wondering if we want to start building a list of bugs we want to fix in lucid updates if not in lucid<<BR>>
[17:41] <seb128> and how we build this list<<BR>>
[17:41] <pitti> wouldn't that be the same list, by and large?<<BR>>
[17:41] <seb128> and how much we want to have on it<<BR>>
[17:42] <pitti> i. e. every bug which is targetted to lucid becomes an SRU target after release<<BR>>
[17:42] <seb128> pitti, well discussion from yesterday hint that rickspencer3 want the > High list driven to 0 quickly<<BR>>
[17:42] <pitti> well, "potential" target<<BR>>
[17:42] <seb128> so where do we put the "lucid update" bugs<<BR>>
[17:42] <pitti> I agree, because those are release blockers<<BR>>
[17:42] <seb128> I think we have too many mediums<<BR>>
[17:42] <seb128> they don't all quality for it<<BR>>
[17:42] <seb128> qualify<<BR>>
[17:42] <chrisccoulson> i thought release blockers were "high" and milestoned too?<<BR>>
[17:43] <pitti> seb128: then we can wontfix them for lucid post-release<<BR>>
[17:43] <chrisccoulson> can we not change the milestone for ones we want to SRU to "lucid-updates"?<<BR>>
[17:43] <pitti> seb128: for the "potential" side, I think we should go over the list around release time and wontfix the ones which aren't appropriate for SRU<<BR>>
[17:43] <seb128> chrisccoulson, I'm fine with that, I just want to agree on a common way to mark those<<BR>>
[17:43] <pitti> chrisccoulson: YES WE CAN!<<BR>>
[17:43] <pitti> *cough* :)<<BR>>
[17:43] <seb128> I don't like the wontfixing<<BR>>
[17:43] <pitti> indeed, I think that's an appropriate milestone<<BR>>
[17:43] <chrisccoulson> that's ok then :)<<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128> users tend to take that a slap in the face<<BR>>
[17:44] <pitti> but bugs which aren't SRU targets are better "wontfix"ed after release<<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128> and get angry and start arguing<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> seb128, well, you only won't fix the bug task<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> not the whole bug<<BR>>
[17:44] <pitti> we won't "wontfix" the bug, just the lucid target<<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128> rickspencer3, we don't have lucid+1 in launchpad now<<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128> so wontfixing == closing<<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> we can't open a lucid+1 task<<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> can we milestone it "later" for now?<<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> pitti, well that's equivalent<<BR>>
[17:45] <pitti> seb128: wontfix after release -> not close<<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> pitti, what task stay open?<<BR>>
[17:45] <ArneGoetje> how about changing the milestone to 'later'?<<BR>>
[17:45] <chrisccoulson> seb128 - i think if you "won't fix" all of the targetted tasks, then launchpad automatically creates an untargetted task (which you can keep open)<<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> pitti, right, "after release"<<BR>>
[17:45] <pitti> seb128: well, it works before the release as well (LP will create a "floating" task)<<BR>>
[17:46] <seb128> oh ok, I didn't try that recently<<BR>>
[17:46] <seb128> it used to not work<<BR>>
[17:46] <pitti> but I was saying that we should do it around release time, becuase before that we can still potentially fix them<<BR>>
[17:46] <pitti> seb128: it works fine<<BR>>
[17:46] <seb128> good<<BR>>
[17:46] <seb128> so seems people agree on not changing anything<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> seb128, so what do you think of pitti's proposal that we do this after final freeze?<<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> and revisit our target of opportunity list after lucid hard freeze<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> rather try to fix the ones we can between now and then?<<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> and close or milestone to .1?<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> I'm not too worries about specifically how we adjust the bug task properties, so much as:<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> 1. when do we start building the list<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> 2. what is the logic for what goes into such a list<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3>  <<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> seb128, thoughts about those questions?<<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> well, seems 1. is "we already have it"<<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> it's our "100 bugs"<<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> or whatever we call those target or opportunity list<<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> ie all the team assigned with lucid tasks < high<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> interesting<<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> well that's what I got from this discussion<<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> pitti, ^ right?<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> so basically, if it's targeted to Lucid, we are committed to fixing it in *some* version of 10.04<<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> so just keep adding things there<<BR>>
[17:49] <pitti> seb128: correct<<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> and triage the list at lucid time<<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> close the things we will not change in lucid<<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> and milestone the ones we want to sru for .1<<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> rickspencer3, well, we will revisit the list at lucid hard freeze time<<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> and wontfix those we drop<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> makes sense to me<<BR>>
[17:49] <pitti> sounds like a plan to me<<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> works for everybody?<<BR>>
[17:50] <seb128> ok good<<BR>>
[17:50] <seb128> rickspencer3, I think we have an agreement there<<BR>>
[17:50] <rickspencer3> kewl<<BR>>
[17:50] <rickspencer3> thanks seb128<<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> ok, so next topic is blueprints for 10.10<<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> I'm not setting any deadline yet, but I know some folks are starting to think about this<<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> so I started an informal list here:<<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/10.10/BlueprintList<<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> I put on topics that have come out of conversations I've already had with folks, some community, but mostly other Canonical teams<<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> If you want to, you can feel free to use this as a scratch pad too<<BR>>
[17:53] <rickspencer3> but also, thought you might want to see what I am thinking about as well<<BR>>
[17:53] <rickspencer3> I know that bryceh already has a tight list of blueprints and sessions that he wants to do with RAOF for xorg<<BR>>
[17:53] <rickspencer3> so that's that topic, unless there are questions<<BR>>
[17:54]  * didrocks will add his note from his thought too :)<<BR>>
[17:54] <rickspencer3> k<<BR>>
[17:55] <rickspencer3> so next is release status<<BR>>
[17:55]  * rickspencer3 hands mic to pitti<<BR>>
[17:55] <pitti> so, first a look at http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-desktop-team-ubuntu-10.04-beta-2.html<<BR>>
[17:55] <pitti> seems we are well within the plan<<BR>>
[17:55] <pitti> and the remaining bits don't look scary any more<<BR>>
[17:55] <pitti> good job!<<BR>>
[17:55] <kenvandine> :)<<BR>>
[17:55] <pitti> which extends to the RC bug list<<BR>>
[17:55] <pitti> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/ReleaseStatus<<BR>>
[17:56] <pitti> (RC bug list updated yesterday)<<BR>>
[17:56] <pitti> I already caught up with chrisccoulson about his bugs, and they seem on track<<BR>>
[17:56] <pitti> the ones that worry me now are bug 507148 and bug 491210 from the X.org/kernel side<<BR>>
[17:56] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 507148 in linux "[lucid] desktop runs out of video memory on ATI Radeon Mobility 7500" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/507148<<BR>>
[17:56] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 491210 in linux "[i865G] Monitor Resolution limited to 800x600" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/491210<<BR>>
[17:56] <pitti> they are both in kernel land for now, but bryceh, do you happen to know whether there's hope for them?<<BR>>
[17:57] <pitti> chrisccoulson: do you know if bug 447431 is still relevant?<<BR>>
[17:57] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 447431 in gnome-desktop "gnome-settings-daemon dies with BadMatch" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/447431<<BR>>
[17:57] <pitti> other than those three, I'm fairly impressed with our progress, good work team!<<BR>>
[17:57] <chrisccoulson> pitti - yes, i'm going to get back to that bug this week<<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> we get a lot of crashes "../../src/xcb_io.c:385: _XAllocID: Assertion `ret != inval_id' failed."<<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> in random softwares<<BR>>
[17:58] <chrisccoulson> yeah, i just saw one like that reported against firefox<<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> does anybody known if that's an issue in the xorg stack?<<BR>>
[17:58] <pitti> is there a bug for it which should be on the RC radar?<<BR>>
[17:59] <seb128> that's what I'm asking there<<BR>>
[17:59] <seb128> I get a crash every day at least on GNOME components with the "../../src/xcb_io.c:385: _XAllocID: Assertion `ret != inval_id' failed." error in the title<<BR>>
[17:59] <seb128> but it's never in the same softwares<<BR>>
[17:59] <tseliot> tjaalton: does it ring a bell? ^^<<BR>>
[17:59] <chrisccoulson> pitti / seb128 - bug 507062<<BR>>
[17:59] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 507062 in libxcb "synaptic assert failure: synaptic: ../../src/xcb_io.c:385: _XAllocID: Assertion `ret != inval_id' failed." [Medium,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/507062<<BR>>
[17:59] <chrisccoulson> but that was already closed as fixed<<BR>>
[18:00] <seb128> how do we deal with all the duplicates?<<BR>>
[18:00] <seb128> reopen that one and duplicate everything?<<BR>>
[18:00] <pitti> sounds sensible<<BR>>
[18:00] <seb128> ok, will do that<<BR>>
[18:01] <pitti> seb128: can you please target it to lucid, too?<<BR>>
[18:01] <seb128> will do<<BR>>
[18:01] <pitti> thanks<<BR>>
[18:01] <pitti> did anyone else notice something bug related which we shoudl track?<<BR>>
[18:01] <rickspencer3> pitti, I've noticed a decrease in the total # of RC bugs<<BR>>
[18:01] <pitti> or has concerns about this WIs/assigned bugs?<<BR>>
[18:01] <rickspencer3> and that most people with an RC bug have but 1 bug<<BR>>
[18:01] <rickspencer3> this seems promising to me<<BR>>
[18:01] <pitti> rickspencer3: don't worry, we won't run out of work anytime soon :)<<BR>>
[18:01] <rickspencer3> am I seeing the world thorugh rose colored glasses<<BR>>
[18:01] <rickspencer3> ?<<BR>>
[18:01] <rickspencer3> lol<<BR>>
[18:02] <pitti> but yes, getting the RC list down is great<<BR>>
[18:02] <didrocks> rickspencer3: aubergine one :)<<BR>>
[18:02] <seb128> urg<<BR>>
[18:02] <rickspencer3> ok, beta 2 will be bring a crush of RC bugs<<BR>>
[18:02]  * rickspencer3 kicks didrocks<<BR>>
[18:02] <didrocks> *ouch*<<BR>>
[18:02] <rickspencer3> (nice one didrocks)<<BR>>
[18:02] <rickspencer3> pitti, that was it for me<<BR>>
[18:02] <seb128> https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.searchtext=_XAllocID<<BR>>
[18:03] <pitti> </release status sermon> (still interested in feedback about the two X.org driver failures, though)<<BR>>
[18:03] <seb128> I'm too lazy to dup those 67 crashes I think<<BR>>
[18:03] <seb128> does anybody has a script for that?<<BR>>
[18:03] <chrisccoulson> yeah, that would create a lot of bug spam ;)<<BR>>
[18:03] <rickspencer3> seb128, you can use bughugger for that!<<BR>>
[18:03] <pitti> seb128: lp-set-dup<<BR>>
[18:03] <pitti> seb128: but we should also have a bug pattern for that, I'll write one<<BR>>
[18:03] <seb128> thank<<BR>>
[18:03] <rickspencer3> that sounds great<<BR>>
[18:04] <rickspencer3> pitti, shall we adjourn the meeting?<<BR>>
[18:04] <pitti> seb128: use ctrl+mouse selection to get the list of numbers, and call lp-set-dup on it with the master bug being first<<BR>>
[18:04] <pitti> rickspencer3: WFM

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
