{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====

* Alberto Milone (tseliot)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (ccheney)
* Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson)
* Didier Roche (didrocks)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)
* Travis Hartwell (Nafai)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)
* Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF)

=== Apologies ===

* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3)

 
=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Review blueprints list
* Any other business

==== Discussion ====

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Partner Update ===
===== OLS =====
* Last minute uploads that will be accepted for lucid after RC:
** pyinotify - including a critical patch 
** ubuntuone-client - fixes a nasty bug that would delete local files on interrupted download
** desktopcouch - properly restart desktopcouch when it is needed, it doesn't handle suspend/hibernate well

===== DX =====
* bug list is under control, current <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ayatana/+milestone/ubuntu-10.04|status here]]</nowiki>
** There are 3 that aren't fix released, 

=== Kubuntu Update ===

=== Release Status ===

http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-desktop-team-ubuntu-10.04.html

=== Other Business ===

=== Activity reports ===
==== Alberto Milone (tseliot) ====

Done:
* LP: #562226 'Hardware Drivers' showing all drivers as active
* LP: #553954 plymouth has a non translatable string coming up on screen
* LP: #440233 fglrx fails at startup because of missing amdpcsdb.default + removal leaves bad settings in Xorg.conf
* LP: #559587 package fglrx (not installed) failed to install/upgrade: trying to overwrite '/etc/ati/signature', which is also in package xorg-driver-fglrx 2:8.721-0ubuntu8
* LP: #432814 Touchpad: Action for middle and right click is reversed since jaunty
* LP: #553200 nvidia-96 Mouse and keyboard stop working after selecting user (Uploaded. Will be approved after the RC)

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====
* built new language-packs for Lucid
* bug fixing in language-selector
* font package updates for the Live CD
* trying configuration settings for fontconfig to better select CJK fonts

==== Bryce Harrington ====

X Bug Work
* Assign or decline through all of the X bugs nominated to Lucid
* Consider redhat patch - lvds modesetting on -intel and -ati.  Opted to not worry about it for now, since it only affects UMS situations anyway.
* Make general purpose script to migrate bugs from one package to another
* Run script to move all wacom-tools bugs to xf86-input-wacom and ask users re-test Lucid
* Solve all high priority triaged xkeyboard-config bugs tagged 'lucid'
* Triage all -ati bugs tagged 'lucid'
* Update xkeyboard-config POT and set up packaging to regenerate it automatically
* Work towards resolving all -ati bugs tagged 'lucid'
* Follow up on bunch more bugs.  Bugs bugs bugs.

Update Documentation
* Document situation and workarounds for i8xx freezes in ReleaseNotes
* Heavily update/rewrite X/Reporting with slant towards making good 'defect reports'
* Document use of drm.debug=0x04 to get more debugging information in dmesg
* Document xorg.conf.d configuration
* Sketch up collected thoughts for rootless-x blueprint
* Update driver requirements wiki page
* Write a ubuntu-x bug report faq

Multitouch
* Hook up dorset with new ATI card
* Update firmware and then reinstall Ubuntu on MT hardware

Other
* Test getting graphics to show up on Persia's displaylink device
* Document development work needed to support USB video 
* Brainstorm objectives for next review period
 
==== Chris Cheney (ccheney) ====
* Uploaded openoffice.org 1:3.2.0-7ubuntu1 for hardy, karmic, lucid
** Fix RC bugs: 555716, 555276, 556348, 555977
* Uploaded openoffice.org-l10n 1:3.2.0-7ubuntu1 for hardy, karmic, lucid
* OOo still has an upgrade problem due to an apt bug(?) but mvo determined the only real way to fix it is through update-manager.

==== Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF) ====

X bug work:
* i845, i855
** Try to reduce crashes for i855 and i845 users by disabling DRI (Bug #541492 and Bug #541511).  Feedback suggests that it hasn't helped enough and has introduced regressions for others.
** There's a big, scary upstream patch for i855 which is starting to be merged into drm-intel-next.  This should get backported to stable, and we'll try to SRU it.
** Discussed solutions with Bryce and slangasek.  We'll revert the DRI disablement after RC, and document workarounds.
* Apart from i8xx, -intel is going well
* Noaccel quirks for nouveau worked.  Nouveau also looks good
Documentation:
* Write a draft mmiotrace howto
* Update X/Freezes with some details about common nouveau freezes
Mono
* Discovered that libappindicator0-cil wasn't installing correctly.  Filed bug 564351, added a patch.  Eventually got duped to bug #564506, which has a bigger patch fixing this and making the package CLI-policy compliant.
Packed up flat & moved to Hobart.

==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====

* UNE related:
** netbook launcher new release to fix (LP: #554807)
** bug triaging
** No more widespread annoying bug known for lucid release 
** iso testing
* GNOME:
** update nautilus-action
** integrated patches in gnome-system-tools (LP: #551936), xkeyboard-config (LP: #221112)
** fix guest-user-session depending on your current session (will switch on an UNE gues session if you are on UNE or gnome one otherwise)  (LP: #562908) (gdm/gdm-guest-user-session)
** propose empathy 2.30.0.2 as an SRU
** revert gthumb to 2.10.x
** add a patch by merging several commit from git to poppler for selection (bug waiting since 2006)! Will be updated after RC. (LP: #33288)
** sponsor ubuntu-wallpapers, pitivi patch, cheese apport hook
** reviewing other patch in metacity, but won't make them in lucid
* Misc:
** release and update Quickly 0.4, blog about it too
** some patches in trunk for 0.4.1
** work on pyjunior to leverage pygtk knowledge and cleaning the project
** register latest blueprint not registered already after last week feedbacks: (https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-maverick-oneconf)
(an awesome community member take from my initial notes on  to setup a first draft (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OneConf). I just polished it)
** some time reserved to gsoc mentee for duplicate handling

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

done:
* CD and upgrade testing
* Update kdepim to include missing kstatusnotifieritem patch, later removed due to issues with gnome
* Update kdebase-workspace with kstatusnotifieritem patch for krandrtray and improved brightness feedback
* Security update for KDM in intrepid, jaunty and karmic
* Fix colibri so it doesn't conflict
* Fix password loading in plasma-widget-googlecalendar
* Patch kdesdk not to need packages in universe
* Update libmsn and kdenetwork for new version

todo:
* RC testing and release

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
* uploaded pyinotify, desktopcouch, and ubuntuone-client
* blueprints are registered!
* chased down the gwibber breakage after suspend/resume and proposed the fix for desktopcouch
* i18n fixes for gwibber
* released gwibber 2.30

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Assigned blueprints: all done

Done:
* Bug fixing: gvfs, langpack-locales, pm-utils, rhythmbox, udev
* New upstream version: gvfs
* Release management and engineering, and some related archive administration
* Lots of bug triage
* Caught up on MIR reviews, there were tons of last-minute stragglers
* Booked train tickets for SomeHands/UDS

Sponsoring:
* gnome-doc-utils, language-selector

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* desktop updates: enchant libproxy totem-pl-parser(git) totem(git) gedit (git)
* lot of bugs reading and triaging
* looked to french dictionnary issue and fixed openoffice.org-dictionnaries
* did some desktop update syncs before lucid 
* sorted issue with a schroedinger update
* backported notify-osd fix for double bubbles rendering issue
* looked at vinagre ssh crash, discussed it with upstream and backported git change
* cleaned gnome-applets outdated manpages and a conffile on upgrade
* backported gtkhtml git translation fix and fixed build with current gtk
* backported a papyon upstream change to fix a crasher
* updated libgnome-keyring change to use the upstream git version
* backported libgnomekbd schemas change to fix warning on installation
* looking to some retracing issue, figured that the lucid glib didn't have a ddeb, opened a bug
* backported rhythmbox change to fix magnatune widgets not being displayed
* debugged gnome-session crasher on unr with a11y on, was due to a missing at-spi depends 
* updated xdg-user-dirs yelp shared-mime info with rosetta translations
* updated gir-repository to not built the gtk binary which is built by gtk now
* uploaded some fixes which got bounced as things that should be sru-ed now, started on doing lucid sru uploads
* looked to the team blueprints and the weekly meeting organization

sponsoring: 
* humanity-icon-theme evolution-data-server ubuntu-mono notify-osd-icons ubuntu-artwork indicator-application sane-backends light-themes ubuntu-mono indicator-application libdbusmenu light-themes libdbusmenu indicator-messages

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====
* OpenPrinting Summit in San Francisco

==== Travis Hartwell (Nafai) ====
* Continued work on gnome-bluetooth / app indicator bug

 Thanks didrocks for the guidance and help!
 
==== Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson) ====
* General:
** updated bindwood
** Turned off the Nautilus bar in gnome-user-share (LP: #532101)
** Thinking about Maverick blueprints

* Mozilla:
** Firefox update to fix a NSS issue (LP: #559881)
** Got FF 3.6.4 in to security PPA for testing
** Fixed a FF packaging issue to make OOPP support work in 3.6.4 (LP: #513887)
** Had a bit of a panic with Thunderbird
** Spent a couple of days debugging a GJS test-suite failure. The failure is a memory report error in GJS due to objects still being alive on exit (not being cleaned up by the GC). Managed to narrow the issue right down and have a small amount of JS code as a test case for reproducing the issue now. Spoke to an upstream GJS developer, and they recommended just disabling the memory report in GJS for now, which I did (debugging GC issues in spidermonkey is quite challenging)
** Fixed a thunderbird bug which seems to be a regression from Karmic (LP: #543060)

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
