{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Actions from previous meeting ==

== Actions from this meeting ==

== Weekly Summary ==

* Qin images are now not oversized any more. (pitti)
* Landed final oneiric langpacks. This uncovered a bug with mallard help file installation, which was hacked around and subsequently fixed in langpack-o-matic. (pitti)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpadlibrarian.net/82192057/libreoffice_3.4.3-3ubuntu2%7Enatty1_source.changes|Libreoffice 3.4.3 release for natty on PPA]]</nowiki> (bjoern-michaelsen)
* <nowiki>[[https://elections.documentfoundation.org/2011/candidates.html|confirmed candidacy for TDF Board of Directors]]</nowiki> (bjoern-michaelsen)
* preparing for <nowiki>[[http://conference.libreoffice.org/|Libreoffice conference]]</nowiki>:
** <nowiki>[[http://conference.libreoffice.org/programme/|talk "gbuild -- finishing the beast"]]</nowiki> (bjoern-michaelsen)
** <nowiki>[[http://conference.libreoffice.org/programme/|talk "Crowdsourcing LibreOffice code reviews"]]</nowiki> (bjoern-michaelsen)
** <nowiki>[[http://conference.libreoffice.org/programme/|session "Meet the Engineering Steering Commitee"]]</nowiki> (bjoern-michaelsen)
** at least attendance of Cedrics GSoC talk (have been a mentor) (bjoern-michaelsen)
** One lighting talk about Libreoffice infrastructure (bjoern-michaelsen)
* Fixed ldtp from being completely broken in oneiric (mterry)
* Fixed a lot of memory leaks in the unity panel (mterry)
* Reuploaded Glade 3 compatible with gtk2 parallelly installable with the gtk3 version. Quickly now points on the gtk2 version for pygtk usage (didrocks).
* Started to write a design/(dx, platform) integration and task workfow script. Will talk about it more next week (didrocks).

=== Partner update ===
==== DX ====
* Ted just got back from summit, he will get me a list of SRU bugs later today and I'll post them here.

==== UbuntuOne ====
* ubuntuone-client-gnome SRU from the nautilus-open-terminal <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/865115 | crasher]]</nowiki> with lots of dupes coming today

=== Unity ===

* Lot of bug fixes and multiple backporting uploads (unity-lens-applications, unity-lens-files, compiz, unity)
* ccsm works again without crashing :)
* New compiz and compiz-plugins-main with a lot of bug fixes in -proposed. Please do test them! Already pinged the french forum and some bug confirmations already gathered!
* New unity today or tomorrow in -proposed for https://launchpad.net/unity/+milestone/4.24.0 (remove all Sam's bug as it's part of the compiz upload)
* Nothing in unity-2d apart from a crasher, already warned dx, working on it. Nothing worrying otherwise.

=== Software Center ===
* Released versions 5.0.1 through 5.0.1.4 containing targeted bug fixes
* 5.0.1.5 uploaded to oneiric-proposed
* 5.0.2 in progress

=== Kubuntu ===

=== X.org ===

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
17:31:11	pitti	so first, congrats everyone for oneiric
17:31:20	seb128	kenvandine, not sure it's a wow, he keeps complaining about bugs this week :p
17:31:24	pitti	so it became a reasonably usable and stable release after all :)
17:31:26	kenvandine	haha
17:31:27	seb128	yesterday banshee, today libreoffice
17:31:28	seb128	;-)
17:31:38	seb128	pitti, \o/
17:31:44	seb128	works pretty fine for me as well
17:31:48	seb128	install and runtime ;-)
17:31:52	mterry	hi
17:31:57	pitti	still needs to pass the WAF test
17:32:02	pitti	(here at least)
17:32:20	njpatel	seb128, I only recognise the French mafia, they are the ones that rule my life
17:32:28	seb128	njpatel, ;-)
17:32:31	pitti	kenvandine: anything to discuss for partner this week?
17:32:32	kenvandine	njpatel, and don't you forget it
17:32:39	chrisccoulson	hi
17:32:43	 *	pitti hopes kenvandine doesn't have a list of "ten things utterly broken in oneiric"
17:32:54	kenvandine	pitti, it's on the wiki, tedg just got back from a week sprinting then summit over the weekend
17:32:57	njpatel	chrisccoulson, your multi monitor bug is fixed courtesy of Trevinho
17:33:04	pitti	ah, reloading FTW
17:33:08	chrisccoulson	njpatel, excellent, thanks
17:33:08	kenvandine	he will get me a list of planned SRUs later today and i'll link them on the wiki
17:33:16	pitti	nice
17:33:20	kenvandine	and i have dobey's u1 fix i am about to sponsor
17:33:24	kenvandine	that is all i have right now
17:33:25	pitti	didrocks: thanks for the unity update
17:33:32	pitti	new SRU looking good, lots of +1 already
17:33:41	didrocks	yeah, I leverage the french forum :-)
17:33:56	didrocks	so that njpatel knows more that he is really ruled by the french mafia :)
17:34:03	didrocks	will do the same tomorrow with unity
17:34:22	pitti	14 left on http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-oneiric/canonical-desktop-team.html, but I was monitoring that, nothign serious there
17:34:26	pitti	will just postpone to P
17:34:39	njpatel	nooo
17:34:58	pitti	so we got 389 work items done,
17:35:03	njpatel	I don't mess with the French forum. As gord says, there are a lot of of you.
17:35:18	pitti	I'll do some stats over the past cycles to have an estimate what we can go for in precise
17:35:45	pitti	so, nothing from me this week except for "go out and test images and SRUs" :)
17:35:58	pitti	does anyone have something we should discuss?
17:36:19	Sweetshark	pitti: no more updates, not even security ones for OpenOffice.org available, even if Apache OOo would come around one day it would be completely different.
17:36:59	Sweetshark	pitti: so maybe consider backporting Libreoffice to lucid, maverick?
17:37:15	pitti	yuck
17:37:20	Sweetshark	heh
17:37:26	pitti	Sweetshark: you don't think that the odd security update can be backported?
17:37:42	pitti	there haven't been terribly many USNs for OO.o/LibO so far
17:38:43	Sweetshark	pitti: Im not sure, but LO has gone through some major code cleanups since OOo times.
17:38:43	pitti	if the affected part of LibO didn't change fundamentally, then the patches ought to be backportable; and if it did, it might not even apply
17:39:08	pitti	Sweetshark: do we have any currently outstanding CVEs which we could look at?
17:40:17	mdeslaur	uhm, security isn't a valid reason to get LO into old releases
17:40:36	Sweetshark	pitti: http://blog.documentfoundation.org/2011/10/05/the-document-foundation-publishes-details-of-libreoffice-3-4-3-security-fixes/ CVE-2011-2713 would likely apply also to OOo
17:40:37	ubot2	Sweetshark: ** RESERVED ** This candidate has been reserved by an organization or individual that will use it when announcing a new security problem.  When the candidate has been publicized, the details for this candidate will be provided. (http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2011-2713)
17:40:52	pitti	chrisccoulson: for "Review update plan for extensions with security team", has this been discussed?
17:41:23	chrisccoulson	pitti - no, but there isn't much to discuss anymore. i've got that all pretty much figured out
17:41:34	pitti	chrisccoulson: ah, good; setting to "done" then
17:41:38	chrisccoulson	thanks
17:41:57	pitti	Sweetshark: is that such a huge patch?
17:42:29	pitti	Sweetshark: this sounds like the kind of issue which is usually an one-liner with an additional boundary check
17:43:00	Sweetshark	pitti: no, IIRC those patches are rather small.
17:43:27	Sweetshark	pitti: however, WMF exploits might not even work on linux anyway.
17:43:53	pitti	Sweetshark: due to our fortified toolchain?
17:44:47	Sweetshark	pitti: But I am bringing the topic more in a general sense -- maybe needs a more careful discussion on UDS.
17:45:20	pitti	Sweetshark: can do; my gut feeling is that we should just apply the security patches and otherwise leave it alone; we could consider a PPA for people who really want it, of course
17:46:10	Sweetshark	pitti: well, or because we dont do anything with the WMFs anyway, while on windows the exploit might wreck havoc with windows services ...
17:46:39	pitti	@all: any other topics we need to discuss? otherwise let's adjourn
17:47:16	pitti	Sweetshark: perhaps; but in principle such attacks work under linux, too, just with different code, of course, and the fortified toolchain makes stuff a lot harder in many cases
17:49:12	pitti	ok, so thanks everyone!
17:49:17	pitti	let's release that 
17:49:25	pitti	let's release that sleepy big cat
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

{{{
}}}
