{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:desktop-o-quickly
* '''Created''': 2011-04-21
* '''Contributors''': LaunchpadHome:mterry
* '''Packages affected''': quickly
* '''Prior art''': <nowiki>[[DesktopTeam-Specs-Natty-Quickly|11.04 spec]]</nowiki>

=== Summary ===

Quickly is a tool for creating applications based on templates.  There's always more work we can do to make it better and keep pace with the platform.

=== Rationale ===

Ubuntu is focused on opportunistic developer to create quick and fun apps for its platform.

=== User stories ===

Jono don't want to bother about manually pushing an SSH/GPG key to Launchpad, creating a PPA, or signing the CoC.

Brian wants ''quickly edit'' to use all the needed options for developing, but doesn't want to clutter his gedit environment when only writing a note.

Chris doesn't want to use Quickly on the command line.

Elaine wants to use Quickly to develop for Fedora.

Jill wants to use Quickly to develop a library that can be used by more than just Python apps.

=== Implementation ===

==== Backlog ====
* Tighter Launchpad integration
** Push GPG key
** Push SSH key
** Sign CoC
** Create PPA
* Dynamic gedit plugin activation

==== Tread Water ====
* Port to PyGI (Python Gobject Introspection)
* Port to GTK+ 3
* Add optional libunity support (ala current optional indicator support)

==== New Work ====
* Integrate with at least one IDE
** Keep it simple first iteration, just to find changes we'd need to make to have this be easy
* Add a Fedora/RPM template
** Make it easier to write such templates (could stand to refactor template code a bit)
* Add a Vala library template

=== Discussion Topics ===

* Who would be interested in Fedora template?
** Need to find stakeholder
* Which IDE?
** Anjuta
** Eclipse
* Migration to PyGI and GTK+ 3 is not automatic
** 'upgrade' warning?

=== Notes from UDS ===

<pre>
Backlog

    Tighter Launchpad integration 

    Push GPG key 

    Push SSH key 

    Sign CoC 

    Create PPA 

    Dynamic gedit plugin activation 

Tread Water

    Port to PyGI (Python Gobject Introspection) 

    Port to GTK+ 3 

    Port to Python 3 (can delay a cycle)

    Add optional libunity support (ala current optional indicator support) 

New Work

    Integrate with at least one IDE 

    Keep it simple first iteration, just to find changes we'd need to make to have this be easy 

    Add a Fedora/RPM template 

    Make it easier to write such templates (could stand to refactor template code a bit) 

    Add a Vala library template 

    Add a Unity Lens template

    Add a Qt Quick template

Discussion Topics

    Who would be interested in Fedora template? 

    Need to find stakeholder 

    Which IDE? 

    Anjuta 

    Eclipse 

    Qt Creator

    Others?

    Geany (http://www.geany.org/) +1

    Migration to PyGI and GTK+ 3 is not automatic 

    'upgrade' warning? 

    py2to3 is not "safe"

Maybe a quick talk in documentation or program output to user about bzr for when the user needs more than "quickly save"
Provide topic based help
Maybe have submitubuntu warn about postinst or other debian/ modifications
[mterry] Confirm nautilus plugin works
[didrocks] Stamp version from which your project was created (or rather, which feature set/gtk2/gtk3)
[xdatap1] Qt Quick template
[xdatap1] Documentation review
[xdatap1] Translation string review
[xdatap1] Show us presentation slides from Italian Loco
[didrocks] Hide "quickly upgrade" command
[lallenlowe, 3v1n0] Look into and work on Vala templates
[mterry] Create milestone in LP then use "quickly release" to see what breaks

</pre>

=== Action Items ===
...

=== Comments ===

Leave any comments here please!

- I'd love a Lens template so people can really start making a bunch of these. It was on the radar for 11.04 but never made it. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jorge]]</nowiki> 
----
CategorySpec
