{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (calc)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)
* Tony Espy (awe)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Check your bugs for things which should be SRUed
* Think about your personal lucid goals/wishlist until next week
* Make sure workarounds are documented in release notes as appropriate

=== Check your bugs for things which should be SRUed ===

=== Think about your personal lucid goals/wishlist until next week ===

=== Make sure workarounds are documented in release notes as appropriate ===

==== Any other business ====

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

* shepherding a couple of bindwood updates/fixes
* worked on various prism fixes required for karmic together micah gersten
* got firefox-3.0 and xulrunner-1.9 out of the archive; updated the final rdepends
* bug triage
* modemmanager debugging with samsung modems
* evaluation and fix and package updates for gwibber threading, facebook timeout and timestamp issues with kenvandine
* discuss PPA archive reorganzation of mozillateam; individual ppas for applications and pinning
   for explicit opt-in for specific versions seems to be the way forward
* free time: unblock fta and make a bzr patch that allows to commit with a specific date
* update DebuggingModemmanager wiki page while triaging bugs.
* make test patch for some sierra modems crashing on CFUN=1 and get feedback from user and upstream
* cut karmic stable update branches for most mozilla and network-manager products

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====
* Wednesday - Friday: sick with flu
* cleaning up my Karmic specs
* iso testing
* catching up with email

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====
* Work on various launchpadlib scripts
* Upgrade several systems to karmic; troubleshoot problems
* Investigate why a bunch of spurrious bug reports were filed against X.  Turned out to be a buggy checkbox test generating dozens of bug reports.  I don't think it's a good idea for test suites to be filing bugs directly
* Update arsenal scripts to handle checkbox-bug bugs
* Reinstall two laptops; troubleshoot problems
* Work on catching up on email/maillist/bug backlog
* Fix problem starting X on system with dual cards when neither is set as primary.  (LP: #459512)
* Re-test bulletproof-x.  Appears the new gdm 2 no longer allows it to do its thing when X is broken, and instead blinks continuously.

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====
* Uploaded openoffice.org 1:3.1.1-5ubuntu1 to karmic.
* Upgraded laptop and upstream test VMs to karmic
* Booked OOoCon 2009 trip.
* Lots of OOo bug triage.

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
* More empathy debugging
** never reproduced <nowiki>[[Bug:408530]]</nowiki> but appear to have fixed it (at least made it happen less frequently)
* desktopcouch testing/review
* bindwood testing/review
* gwibber timestamp related fixes

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Done:
* Bug fixing: apport, blkid, devicekit-disks
* Archive administration for release preparation
* Release management for RC/final
* Built/tested final karmic langpacks
* Discussed cause of PC speaker beeps and prepared a workaround
* tzdata update for stables
* free-time project: worked on a DeviceKit-disks test suite

Sponsoring:
* couchdb, deskbar-applet, desktopcouch, gnome-desktop-sharp2, gnome-session, gnome-utils, language-selector, nvidia-graphics-drivers-{96,173,180}, system-tools-backends, telepathy-butterfly, texinfo

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* Investigate DVD playback issues
* Fix deskbar tracker integration
* Package updates/merges: brasero, gnome-utils
* Started work on Lucid specifications
* Support introspection for clutter-gtk, clutter-gst
* Bug triaging

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* Karmic images testing
* Load of desktop bugs triage

==== Tony Espy (awe) ====
* NM bug triage
* Tried to reproduce re-connect bug #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager-applet/+bug/458290|458290]]</nowiki>. Installed 9.04 and updated to compare behavior.  Couldn't reproduce.
* Tested manual IP config bug #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/456362|456362]]</nowiki>; couldn't reproduce.
* Continued work on bug # <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/452571|452571]]</nowiki> - [Broadcom wl]: After Resume, NM tries to connect to previous, non-available Wi-Fi network
* Did another Kubuntu install to test agateau's WEP ASCII key fix
* Did an alternate DVD install to test evand's PPA/PAE fixnstall using evand's PPA.
* Ran a couple of UNR installs; discussed ''Incomplete Language Support'' problem with Loic.  Reported bug #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/457648|457648]]</nowiki> - Incomplete Language Support after Install.
* Booked UDS Travel arrangements.
* Many discussions with folks re: Lennart's Ubuntu PulseAudio rant

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====
* Not much this time, as we are after Final Freeze and there are no severe show stoppers to fix for the printing stack. Would like to have LP: #419143 (evince does not print on many PostScript printers in both PDF and PS output mode) fixed in Karmic, but did not get any upstream fix. Is a candidate for an SRU now.
* Fixed bug in CUPS cpdftocps filter that prevents from printing one-sided onm PostScript printers when duplex is set by default (http://bugs.linux-foundation.org/show_bug.cgi?id=397). Discussed on IRC, decided to let it get into Karmic as SRU.
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
