{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Single Signon Authentication notes ==

we use OAuth

IMAP supports OAuth via SASL and we need to provide a external application
to the service provider to verify against LP with that token

The clients needs to be modified to use that token for authentication too
(via SASL?).

One token per desktop/machine or per service?
-> one token per desktop requires us to store the token in gnome-keyring
-> one token per service means that we could store the token in the 
   native configuration system of the app but it requires more maintainance
   (e.g. 20 apps)

=== how much of this works now ===

* launchpad.net is using OAuth for some LP apps
* LP will split authentication out into a seperate DB so that the DB
   stays up on maintaince updates and users can be in that DB without
   having a LP account
* firefox doesnt support async authentication/credential negotiation so
   integrating gnome-keyring requires serious upstream work and UI design in
   case this should be done outside the firefox core code base (e.g. extension)
   => whatever you plan to do, entangle with asac and mozillateam :)
** same goes for thunderbird
** same is true for xulrunner based epiphany.
* firefox could use cookies, but general SASL support is available; currently
   supports Authenticate: Negotiate (aka kerberos and SPNEGO) which probably
   could be extended if coordinated with upstream.
* whatever is changed for the default firefox user-experience requires upstream
   approval.

* it makes sense to start developing now. the LP side will be developed 
   in parallel

There needs to be further research in how other system handle this (e.g.
windows live). Automatically being logged into all webservices on login
is hard - we need to check if that is a requirement. It is easier to only
log in autoamtically if the app requires it for some reason (e.g. preview
private gallery on the web etc).

For the apps having the token is not enough, there needs to be additional
foo to protect e.g. against replay attacks. OAuth provides such a mechanism.
The desktop apps will need to do that (adding the required http header).

=== available code/libs ===
* there is going to be a python oauth LP library
* http://oauth.net/code/

=== what needs to be changed ===
* General
** Custom headers for HTTP libraries for OAuth Headers
** OAuth negotiation
** GNOME Keyring in and out with global token
* Per Application (standard protocol)
** Modify protocol to do OAuth
** Ensure that authentication doesn't store things like the token anywhere but GNOME Keyring
* Per Application (special protocol)
** Write it from scratch
** Ensure that it talks to the GNOME Keyring
** Might need modification of HTTP library to handle custom headers for OAuth
* For the web
** Doesn't define way for the desktop to communicate with the web
** Would definitely be a nice to have, but might not be a requirement (vs. other services)
** For Desktop to Web we can gen. custom URLs to go to the service
