{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson)
* Didier Roche (didrocks)
* Gary Lasker (tremolux)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Mathieu Trudel-Lapierre (cyphermox)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF)

=== Apologies ===

* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

==== Discussion ====

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

* test migration tool for unity

=== Partner Update ===
===== UbuntuOne =====
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuOne-MaverickWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>
* desktopcouch replication
   - Bug:422178 - currently testing patches from CouchOne, if it fixes the problem it will be uploaded Wednesday 
* u1ms
   - gwibber integration works again
   - url handling for u1ms:// urls is halfway fixed, the gconf keys are now set but the plugin doesn't take you to the song page in the store
* ubuntuone-client 
   - Bug:640392 - Fixed to show proper emblems on folders in nautilus (rather than showing "updating" emblem across synced folders)
   - Bug:617656 - Causes nautilus to hang when u1 is asking for a lot of folders. Still trying to track down the root cause after many hours of debugging and troubleshooting.

===== DX =====
* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-MaverickWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-MaverickReleaseStatus#Freeze%20Exceptions%20Requests| Freeze Exception Requests]]</nowiki>
* libindicator ABI change to fix Bug:637692 (shotwell import dialog won't close)
   - This will require a rebuild of the whole indicator-* stack and a few other things
   - Still pending some testing and an exception

=== Kubuntu Update ===

=== X Update ===

=== Release Status ===

http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-ubuntu-10.10-beta.html

=== UNE update ===

* Lot of bugs fixed (more than 40!) in one week. A lot of goodness thanks to the crazy unity team. Still a lot of fixes in the pipeline. Hurring for a wednesday's evening upload for final fixes.
* We got an issue this week due to a mesa upload breaking all clutter-based app (and so unity).

=== USC update ===

* Buy Something
** new $1 package, ricks-wallpapers, has been added to the store for testing purposes
** plan is to remove the team limitations for test purchases and open the store for general testing, current target mid-week
** hosting for screenshots will be populated using a PPA and sync
** RT for tracking #41184
** testing, testing
  
* New Apps on a Stable Release
** extras.ubuntu.com has been added to the default sources.list with merge of lp:~mvo/apt-setup/extras-ubuntu-repo
** extras.ubuntu.com key added to ubuntu-extras-keyring
** RT for tracking #40099
** all of the pieces are in place now for new apps
   
* Miscellaneous
** continued testing and bugfixing
** new packages added to the Featured list per discussion on ubuntu-desktop

=== Other Business ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

==== Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson) ====

==== Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF) ====

==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====

* Short week, not there for two days (Wednesday/Thursday)
* UNE:
** New double unity release (Tuesday and Friday):
*** unity-place-applications, unity-place-files, unity-asset-pool, bamf, clutk, libzeitgeist
*** readd mutter patch dropped thinking it was causing a crasher but not.
** Wrote a pach for unity to fix logout when 3D acceleration isn't available
** bug triaging (a lot, lot) and prioritization/coordination with dx team
* GNOME update:
** evince, folks, brasero, gnome-games, zenity, gnome-settings-daemon, empathy, gnome-menus, alacarte, metacity, gnome-control-center, gnome-power-manager, cheese, libgnomekbd, vala, libgee, eog
** vala: rollback new gir update
** merged and fix evolution-mapi not running on maverick with help from jelmer (multiple sync attempts for tevent, ldb, samba4, openchange)
** evolution: remove the ubuntu signature, backport a crasher fix, and make a patch to ignore -c component saving which view was open
* Misc:
** Quickly tests and new release (0.6!)
** sponsor quickly-widgets
** forced to reinstall because of / corruption… so let's turn it into an install test :)

==== Gary Lasker (tremolux) ====
* Fix regression in appname and summary display for the case where the appname is not defined in the xapian doc
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/636004|LP: #636004:]]</nowiki> Consolidate code to generate appname and summary in the UI to a single method and wire applist, appdetails and navbar
* Show a more accurate number for hidden tech items in the installed view of "Provided by Ubuntu"
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/637422|LP: #637422:]]</nowiki> Create an alternate spinner widget using an animated gif for use when gtk.Spinner is not available
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/631132|LP: #631132:]]</nowiki> Fix crash in _on_transaction_finished
* Enable show/hide technical items in the "Installed Software" view itself
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/624913|LP: #624913:]]</nowiki> Fix crash in on_menu_edit_activate
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/611108|LP: #611108:]]</nowiki> Fix visual flash when navigating back to a subcat applist from a details view
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/625030|LP: #625030:]]</nowiki> Fix intermittent crash in on_cursor_changed
* Review, test and merge lp:~ilidrissi.amine/software-center/no-crash-when-searching
* Review and test lp:~ilidrissi.amine/software-center/fixing-random-bugs, tweak for merging
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/643566|LP: #643566:]]</nowiki> Fix bug when displaying previous purchases
* Lots of Software Center testing, both on desktop and on a netbook with Unity
* Continued software center bug triage
* Weekly Software Center call

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

done:
* back after a week's holiday
* e-mail backlog
* reviewing MIRs and component mismatches
* fixing kdesdk for no poxml package
* smoke testing live CD images
* packaging and testing new kpackagekit and patches to packagekit
* fixing kubuntu dependencies in ubuntu-restricted-addons 
* New snapshot of plasma-mobile
todo:
* beastie hunting

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
* Wrangled a ton of DX uploads
* rhythmbox-ubuntuone-music-store
   - Fixed url-handler
   - Fixed the recently broken gwibber integration
* ubuntu-netbook-default-settings
   - Added work around for the mesa/clutter breakage, and reverted after clutter was fixed
   - Added a temporary work around giving users a way to get into nautilus and enable/disable UbuntuOne sharing
   - Reverted above work around, Unity now provides a launch in nautilus button in places
* Gwibber
   - Fixed loading when a service exists in accounts but not provided by the backend
   - Created maintenance branches/series for gwibber/2.32 and libgwibber-0.0, opening trunk up for future features

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

* SRU review and processing                            
* apport bug fixing and improvements                   
* apport retracer maintenance                          
* bug triage                                           
* cups bug fixing                                      
* debugged broken external monitor after dist-upgrade  
* gdm-guest-session bug fixing                         
* gksu bug fixing                                      
* jockey bug fixing                                    
* jockey: speed up printer driver search (#574396)     
* make python-distutils-extra work for Python 3        
* media-player-info bug fixing                         
* python-distutils-extra: build Python3 package        
* release management and engineering                   
* sponsored powertop (#627975)                         
* udev bug fixing                                      
* updated poppler to new upstream bug fix release      
* upstartify cups, to fix interaction with samba       

==== Mathieu Trudel-Lapierre (cyphermox) ====

* bug triage (particularly NetworkManager and friends)
* nm-applet: fix Networking and Wireless disabled on startup (#637930)
* debugging ibus/nautilus breakage

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* system-config-printer: Take into account the CMD: fields (command set, page description languages) of the device ID of the printer even if make and model is already matched by PPDs. This allows a correct selection of the PPD even if for the printer and optional PostScript modules is available. Suppress duplicate listings of the same PPD file in the make/model/driver selection.
* foomatic-db, gutenprint, hplip: Modified the PPD file compressor to not create duplicate PPD URIs as system-config-printer cannot cope with that.
* hplip: Fixed long-standing bug of HPLIP using the color-cartridge-only mode as default for their cheap inkjet printers (LIDIL printer language). I waited too long now for HP to fix this problem (LP: #235399).
* foomatic-db: Updated the PPD files from Ricoh and OEM so that their device ID entries contain the CMD: field (command set, page description languages). This way the correct PPD file (PCL-XL or PostScript) can be chosen on the absence or presence of a PostScript add-on module.
* ghostscript: Updated versioned dependency on gsfonts. In Ghostscript the use of defoma got dropped and now we need also an appropriate gsfonts package.
* gsfonts: Fixed typo in postrm maintainer script.
* Jockey: More discussion with pitti and others about automatic download of signed Epson drivers from OpenPrinting. Agreed on not including the auto-download as a concept to explicitly handle the key signatures of third-party packages, especially from OpenPrinting. This needs time and so postponed it to Natty. In the Maverick cycle we had no staff for that.
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports.

=== Logs ===

<pre>
[17:30] <didrocks> chrisccoulson, tremolux, Riddell, kenvandine, cyphermox: hey
[17:31] <chrisccoulson> hey!
[17:31] <didrocks> am I forgetting someone? :)
[17:31] <tkamppeter> hi
[17:31] <didrocks> hey tkamppeter ;)
[17:31] <tremolux> hey!
[17:31] <didrocks> short list this week :-)
[17:31] <didrocks> let's keep it short then
[17:31] <didrocks> (and chrisccoulson, did you bought a car? :p)
[17:31] <chrisccoulson> ;)
[17:31] <chrisccoulson> i might have
[17:32] <didrocks> hehe, but you prefered the meeting to buy one, great! ;)
[17:32] <didrocks> so, action from previous meeting
[17:32] <Riddell> hi
[17:32] <didrocks> I had a call for testing the migration tools with custom launcher on unity
[17:32] <didrocks> did someone tried it?
[17:32] <didrocks> try*
[17:33]  * didrocks ears desperatly only the wind :)
[17:33] <kenvandine> hehe
[17:33] <didrocks> well, I've retried it (forced due to a / FS corruption)
[17:33] <didrocks> and it worked :)
[17:34] <didrocks> it seems that I got some bug report with special caracter in the desktop name
[17:34] <didrocks> so, people may have try it
[17:34] <chrisccoulson> i've not had a chance to try it, but i can try it if there's still some value in that
[17:34] <didrocks> there is a pending fix :)
[17:34] <didrocks> chrisccoulson: yeah, it would be great!
[17:34] <didrocks> instruction are from last week meeting
[17:34] <didrocks> ok, let's move on so
[17:35] <didrocks> kenvandine, parteners update?
[17:35] <kenvandine> sure
[17:35] <kenvandine> U1 guys are testing a fix for couchdb that CouchOne thinks will fix replication
[17:35] <kenvandine> bug 422178
[17:35] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 422178 in couchdb (Ubuntu Maverick) (and 2 other projects) "CouchDB needs to properly enable SSL support (affects: 2) (heat: 18)" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/422178
[17:36] <kenvandine> a bunch of fixes for u1ms plugin in rb, gwibber integration and url handler stuff
[17:36] <kenvandine> but not completely fixed yet, it isn't opening rb to the store page as it should
[17:36] <kenvandine> ubuntuone-client  - bug 640392
[17:36] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 640392 in ubuntuone-client (Ubuntu) (and 1 other project) "syncdaemon_metadata_get_is_synced always returns FALSE for post-generations folders (affects: 1) (heat: 10)" [Medium,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/640392
[17:36] <kenvandine> Fixed to show proper emblems on folders in nautilus (rather than showing "updating" emblem across synced folders) -
[17:37] <kenvandine> and bug 617656  Causes nautilus to hang when u1 is asking for a lot of folders. Still trying to track down the root cause after many hours of debugging and troubleshooting.
[17:37] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 617656 in ubuntuone-client (Ubuntu Maverick) (and 2 other projects) "nautilus hangs while asking for folders (affects: 3) (heat: 18)" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/617656
[17:37] <kenvandine> will go in this week
[17:37] <didrocks> before thursday then?
[17:37] <kenvandine> by tomorrow, if they aren't in already, i think i saw a changelog for that
[17:38] <didrocks> great :)
[17:38] <kenvandine> that's it for U1
[17:38] <didrocks> so, desktopcouch should now replicate everything? We shouldn't have any known issue during it?
[17:38] <aquarius> didrocks, not yet.
[17:38] <kenvandine> aquarius, there are other bugs?
[17:38] <didrocks> ok, that's a separate issue?
[17:38] <kenvandine> i thought this fixed it for maverick...
[17:38] <aquarius> didrocks, we're working with the couchio and erlang teams right now for an SSL fix.
[17:38]  * aquarius does the long-suffering look.
[17:38] <kenvandine> sigh...
[17:39]  * didrocks hugs aquarius
[17:39] <kenvandine> so this only fixes part of it... dang
[17:39] <kenvandine> poor aquarius
[17:39] <chrisccoulson> kenvandine, so, nautilus is hanging rather than crashing, right?
[17:39] <kenvandine> i'll buy you another beer in orlando :)
[17:39] <aquarius> kenvandine, heh
[17:39] <kenvandine> chrisccoulson, yes
[17:39] <didrocks> nice, way better :)
[17:39] <chrisccoulson> kenvandine, well, bug 635614 might be a good place to start
[17:39] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 635614 in ubuntuone-client (Ubuntu) "Should use async dbus calls when talking to syncdaemon, and stop blocking nautilus UI (affects: 1) (heat: 426)" [Undecided,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/635614
[17:39] <aquarius> kenvandine, do you know how far rodrigo got with investigating why the music store isn't opening to the correct page with a link? I'm available to help now but he's gone :(
[17:40] <kenvandine> ok, i'll make sure they are looking at that
[17:40] <chrisccoulson> doing long synchronous dbus calls from the main thread is baaaaaadddd....
[17:40] <kenvandine> aquarius, nope
[17:40] <chrisccoulson> those calls hang the whole UI
[17:40] <kenvandine> ugh
[17:40] <aquarius> kenvandine, ok, I'll chase him later
[17:40] <kenvandine> ok, i'll point them at it
[17:40] <didrocks> kenvandine: can you show them this bug and suggest moving to that?
[17:40] <kenvandine> yes
[17:40] <kenvandine> anything else on U1?
[17:40] <didrocks> thanks :)
[17:40] <didrocks> not for me, you can go on
[17:41] <kenvandine> ok
[17:41] <kenvandine> DX
[17:41] <kenvandine> for DX, the biggest thing is ABI change in libindicator
[17:41] <kenvandine> bug 637692 (shotwell import dialog won't close)
[17:41] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 637692 in unity (and 5 other projects) "Action for top-level dropdown menu item not activated (affects: 3) (heat: 155)" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/637692
[17:41] <didrocks> (API change in fact)
[17:41] <kenvandine> didrocks, oh it is?
[17:41] <kenvandine> ugh!
[17:41] <kenvandine> grrrr
[17:41] <didrocks> kenvandine: yeah, we discussed again this morning
[17:41] <kenvandine> missed that...
[17:41] <didrocks> kenvandine: but it's the ABI issue which is annoying
[17:41] <didrocks> (well, my morning :))
[17:41] <kenvandine> hehe
[17:41] <kenvandine> ok
[17:42] <didrocks> it's basically changing a structure and adding an optional call
[17:42] <kenvandine> so this will require a bunch of rebuilds
[17:42] <kenvandine> anything more than rebuilds?
[17:42] <didrocks> just on indicator-appmenu, adding the call
[17:42] <didrocks> but rebuild for others
[17:42] <kenvandine> ok
[17:42] <kenvandine> whew
[17:43] <didrocks> so, that's the scary part
[17:43] <kenvandine> i am testing those builds now
[17:43] <kenvandine> well trying too... had to free some space on this SSD :)
[17:43] <didrocks> great, I'll coordinate with the release team for getting that approved
[17:43] <kenvandine> also got one more thing for design
[17:44] <kenvandine> hit me after i updated the wiki
[17:44] <kenvandine> they are requesting a couple UIF exceptions
[17:44] <kenvandine> for usability reasons
[17:44] <kenvandine> very minor... and shouldn't affect screenshots or anything
[17:44] <didrocks> on what component?
[17:44] <kenvandine> light-themes and compiz
[17:44] <didrocks> shouldn't affect screenshots?
[17:45] <kenvandine> compiz is tweaking shadows in the default settings
[17:45] <kenvandine> moving them down 4 pixels
[17:45] <kenvandine> not noticable
[17:45] <didrocks> yeah
[17:45] <didrocks> and the other one? on light-theme N
[17:45] <didrocks> ?
[17:45] <kenvandine> one more change for compiz
[17:46] <kenvandine> the inactive window decorations are no longer transparent
[17:46] <kenvandine> for the theme
[17:46] <didrocks> hum, this is some kind of visible :/
[17:46] <didrocks> design should learn the freezeâ€¦
[17:46] <didrocks> something to work on at UDS
[17:46] <Riddell> speaking of which, any word on the font?
[17:46] <kenvandine> yeah...
[17:47] <chrisccoulson> i was just thinking the same ;)
[17:47] <kenvandine> didrocks, let me grab the link for the theme email , easier
[17:47] <didrocks> kenvandine: can you follow that and ask them to do the UI freeze paperwork?
[17:47] <kenvandine> Riddell, nothing confirmed yet
[17:47] <kenvandine> didrocks, already doing that now... :)
[17:47] <didrocks> kenvandine: great, thanks :) (and yeah, if I can have the email, that will be good, thanks)
[17:47] <kenvandine> last week they said they wouldn't push for the exception, but changed their mind... seems they are worried from a usability stand point
[17:48] <didrocks> ok
[17:48] <didrocks> any other question for kenvandine?
[17:49] <kenvandine> i'll update the wiki with the details
[17:50] <didrocks> ok, moving on
[17:50] <didrocks> thanks kenvandine
[17:50] <didrocks> Riddell: kubuntu update? (not sure as you were on vacation IIRC last week)
[17:50] <Riddell> I was but since I'm never far away from Kubuntu I can do an update anyway
[17:50] <Riddell>  * Qt 4.7.0 just got released, we'll probably upload it although it's just a version number bump compared to what we currently have
[17:50] <Riddell>  * shiny new KPackagekit with applications view in the archive
[17:50] <Riddell>  * component mismatches is tidied up for Kubuntu bits
[17:50] <Riddell>  * possible samba sharing patches to be added yet, since this is broken anyway it can't get much worse
[17:50] <Riddell>  * 18 tagged beasties http://tinyurl.com/33p7vu3 mostly I expect them to be fixable or ignorable so I'm generally happy with where we are
[17:52] <Riddell> oh and thanks to persia for fixing koffice on ARM
[17:52] <didrocks> welcome back Riddell, btw :)
[17:52] <didrocks> great!
[17:52] <didrocks> so even "High" priority bugs aren't so high? the list is reasonable?
[17:53] <Riddell> they're high but I'm comfortable we have time to fix them
[17:53] <Riddell> I'll start panicing in about a week's time :)
[17:54] <didrocks> heh, right, let's postpone panic :)
[17:54] <didrocks> any question for Riddell?
[17:54] <Neko> http://launchpadlibrarian.net/55758568/screenshot.png
[17:54] <Neko> anyone know where the size of the Applications button up top is defined?
[17:55] <didrocks> Neko: we are in a meeting now
[17:55] <didrocks> ok, seems not, let's move on next topic
[17:55] <Neko> I'm patient :D
[17:55] <didrocks> thanks Riddell
[17:55] <didrocks> so, here is the most important piece of ubuntu: UNE :-)
[17:55] <didrocks> (sorry, kidding, that was my only chance to do that joke!)
[17:55] <tremolux> haha
[17:56] <didrocks> Lot of bugs fixed (more than 40!) in one week. A lot of goodness thanks to the crazy unity team. Still a lot of fixes in the pipeline. Hurring for a wednesday's evening upload for final fixes.
[17:56] <didrocks> the dx team is really rocking
[17:56] <didrocks> unity is in a way better state regarding crashes
[17:56] <didrocks> and a lot of goodness will come soon
[17:56] <didrocks> kudos to them :)
[17:56] <didrocks> We also got an issue this week due to a mesa upload breaking all clutter-based app (and so unity).
[17:56] <devildante> yeah, from what I've heard, unity is exciting :)
[17:57] <didrocks> fortunately, the fix made his way fast enough
[17:57] <didrocks> that's it for unity, any question?
[17:57] <devildante> btw, hi all :)
[17:57] <tremolux> hey devildante!
[17:57] <didrocks> hey devildante ;)
[17:57] <devildante> hi :)
[17:57] <didrocks> ok, next topic, tremolux, USC update?
[17:58] <tremolux> hi didrocks, yep
[17:58] <tremolux> Buy Something: new $1 test package uploaded, continued testing, target to open up for general testing this week
[17:58] <tremolux> New Apps: extras.ubuntu.com key added to default sources.list and to keyring, all pieces now in place for new-apps
[17:58] <tremolux> Misc:  of course, lots of testing, targeted bugfixing
[17:58] <devildante> great!
[17:58] <tremolux> so, things a moving along  :)
[17:58] <didrocks> about extras.ubuntu.com
[17:58] <tremolux> yes?
[17:58] <didrocks> I got an issue with it yesterday
[17:59] <didrocks> I tried to apt-get source <whatever<
[17:59] <tremolux> keyring issue?
[17:59] <didrocks> as the repo wasn't there, it didn't want to source it
[17:59] <didrocks> well, I have to get a deeper look, but not sure it was only a keyring issue
[17:59] <didrocks> (fresh forced install from Sunday)
[18:00] <tremolux> ok, you may not yet have the package that sets it up yet
[18:00] <tremolux> not sure
[18:00] <tremolux> maybe we can talk after
[18:00] <didrocks> ok, something to try then :)
=== al-maisan is now known as almaisan-away
[18:00] <didrocks> sure
[18:01] <didrocks> (yes, no key from what I see)
[18:01] <tremolux> so you don't have the extras.ubuntu.com repo at all?
[18:01] <tremolux> or, you have it but not the key>?
[18:01] <didrocks> do you need testing on the buy something?
[18:01] <didrocks> let's talk about extras after the meeting
[18:01] <tremolux> sure!  would appreciate that
[18:01] <tremolux> but, it will cost you $1 to test  ;)
[18:02] <didrocks> for rick's wallpaper, I can live with that :)
[18:02] <tremolux> maybe give it a few hours as I *think* we are working out issues still with the new $1 package
[18:02] <didrocks> ok ;)
[18:02] <tremolux> thanks didrocks
[18:02] <didrocks> nice to see it finally coming! awesome work ;)
[18:02] <didrocks> any question on USC?
[18:02] <tremolux> thanks (on behalf of the team)!  :)
[18:03]  * devildante wonders when it will be part of the USC team
[18:03] <didrocks> ok, moving on, thanks tremolux
[18:03] <devildante> not that it is a demand :p
[18:03] <didrocks> devildante: discuss that with them after the meeting :)
[18:03] <didrocks> so, no pedro this week
[18:04] <devildante> okay :)
[18:04] <didrocks> which means, no new bugs \o/
[18:04] <tremolux> devildante: heh, well, you are part of the team for sure, on LP is just a formality
[18:04] <didrocks> more seriously, I'm tracking bugs assigned to our team
[18:04] <didrocks> I assigned some already, nothing to be concerned about
[18:04] <devildante> tremolux, thanks :)
[18:04] <didrocks> so, no wasting time on that now
[18:05] <didrocks> ok, so release status: http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-ubuntu-10.10.html
[18:05] <didrocks> wellâ€¦ no activity which is normal as we should really focus on bugs
[18:05] <devildante> I still don't understand these graphs :p
[18:05] <didrocks> please please, update your WI, postpone them, close them
[18:06] <didrocks> seems to be the case, apart from RAOF (I will speak to him)
[18:06] <didrocks> and pitti!
[18:06] <pitti> oops :)
[18:06] <fagan> win 7
[18:06] <fagan> whoops sorry
[18:06]  * pitti defers his
[18:06] <didrocks> pitti: no worry, we are still under the trendline :)
[18:07] <didrocks> ok, that's it for that part, any question?
[18:07] <didrocks> hum, there is no mozilla update in the template, chrisccoulson, something to share?
[18:07] <chrisccoulson> didrocks - i've not filled in my bit yet
[18:08] <chrisccoulson> but maverick is looking pretty good for mozilla
[18:08] <didrocks> chrisccoulson: yeah, I'm switching back to using firefox nowdays :)
[18:08] <didrocks> seems like you triaged a lot of bugs
[18:08] <chrisccoulson> didrocks, you're the second person who's said that to me ;)
[18:08] <devildante> a silly question, is firefox 4.0 in 10.10?
[18:08] <didrocks> chrisccoulson: good work!
[18:09] <chrisccoulson> yeah, i spent some time looking at a bug report on friday, which looked like it might be a regression in lucid
[18:09] <didrocks> devildante: will be updated when out as the new mozilla update policy
[18:09] <devildante> didrocks, great, thanks :)
[18:09] <chrisccoulson> and i spent nearly my entire day to then discover it wasn't, and the reporter flamed me when i closed the report :(
[18:09] <didrocks> chrisccoulson: urgh, that happensâ€¦ :/
[18:09] <didrocks> any other question on firefox?
[18:10] <chrisccoulson> i've spent some time this week preparing things for natty
[18:10] <chrisccoulson> one of those is to get the mozilla test-suite running on our builds in firerox 4.0
[18:10] <chrisccoulson> which i've done now :)
[18:10] <didrocks> chrisccoulson: nice!
[18:10] <didrocks> chrisccoulson: is there a ppa? :)
[18:10] <chrisccoulson> didrocks - yeah, there's the ubuntu-mozilla-daily PPA atm
[18:11] <chrisccoulson> but there will be another one soon for the FF4.0 beta's, which won't be daily builds
[18:11] <didrocks> ok, natty will be cool, but maverick is our first top priority! Fixing bugs and update/install test should be our current focus :)
[18:11] <devildante> yes!
[18:11] <chrisccoulson> yeah, i'm doing that too ;)
[18:12] <didrocks> so, back on bug fixing/updating/crazy ABI migration handling! Let's keep maverick rocking and good work everyone! :)
</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
