{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:desktop-lucid-empathy-indicator
* '''Created''': 2009-11-13
* '''Contributors''': KenVanDine
* '''Packages affected''': empathy

=== Summary ===

There are several ways you may be contacted in Empathy.  Currently all events show up in the indicator, we should look at ways to improve the workflow for handling these inbound events.  Current inbound events include login notifications, new instant messages, buddy authorization requests, and video/audio calls.

=== Release Note ===

=== Rationale ===

Not all events are equal when it comes to real-time communications.  An instant message is real-time, in a very loose sense.  It is not uncommon to respond to IMs after a delay, and the two-way communications can include many delays.  

However if a friend attempts an audio/video chat, there is no room for a delayed response.  If you don't answer the call, your friend will just hang up.  We should consider a stronger sense of real-time for a notification of these types of events.  

It could also be very interesting to provide a way to leave a message when there is no answer.
 
=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== UI Changes ====

==== Code Changes ====

==== Migration ====

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
