{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Actions from previous meeting ==

== Actions from this meeting ==

== Weekly Summary ==
* LibreOffice (bjoern-michaelsen):
** LibreOffice 3.4.1-4ubuntu1 ready for sponsoring
** LibreOffice-l10n 3.4.1-4ubuntu1 blocked by need for translate-toolkit-1.9
** LibreOffice 3.3.3 for natty sru-ed

* Created a new team for tracking all the desktop packages we maintain, its different from desktop-bugs team because its also including firefox,libreoffice,gwibber,etc. If the package you're maintaining as part of your work on the desktop team is not there please let me know so i can include it. This list is important to maintain up to date so every other team can look at it and see which set of packages we're really taking care of, team is at: 
*** https://bugs.launchpad.net/~desktop-packages/+packagebugs

* FeatureFreeze happened, and lots of MIRs got processed.  If you have an outstanding MIR that needs attention, poke mterry on IRC.

* MIRs for new printer driver packages c2esp, rastertosag-gdi, and ptouch-driver passed. Packages seeded onto CDs (TillKamppeter).

* Everything on the Color Management Blueprint succeeded, except the colord MIR, waiting for security decision by Kees Cook. Did some packaging changes to achieve this. Meetings with pitti and Richard Hughes on Desktop Summit for working on the Color Management (TillKamppeter).

* Worked with upstream developers of Ghostscript to get CUPS Raster output device correctly working with color management and the RGBW color space needed by the HPLIP driver (TillKamppeter).

* Worked with Didier Raboud (OdyX) on centralizing the repeated postinst code of the printer drivers to update the PPD files of already existing print queues into CUPS. CUPS package updated on Debian's BZR repository and updated rastertosag-gdi as test package (TillKamppeter).

=== Partner update ===
==== UbuntuOne ====
* U1 music store not working with rhythmbox https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rhythmbox-ubuntuone-music-store/+bug/825291
* ubuntuone-installer - the new shim, hasn't landed in oneiric yet, but we might see a FFE for it soon. https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/817133
* Desktopcouch not working on Oneiric https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/desktopcouch/+bug/780972

==== DX ====
* 

=== Unity ===

=== Software Center ===

=== Kubuntu ===

=== X.org ===

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
17:32:14	pitti	no team reports yet, so let's do that via IRC again
17:32:21	pitti	kenvandine: want to start with partner update?
17:32:24	tkamppeter	pitti, colord still not passed through security check ...
17:32:37	mterry	hi
17:32:41	pitti	tkamppeter: failed, or just didn't get to it yet?
17:33:23	chrisccoulson	hi!
17:33:24	pitti	oh, and there it appears on the wiki page :)
17:33:44	tkamppeter	pitti, kees had some questions and upstream Richard Hughes has answered, but nothing new from kees or mterry then.
17:33:46	pitti	kenvandine: btw, do you know about the "Bug:12345" wiki syntax?
17:34:10	 *	kenvandine waves
17:34:15	kenvandine	meeting?
17:34:32	mterry	I'm waiting on kees to respond re: security
17:35:28	seb128	kenvandine, you are late!
17:36:05	seb128	pitti, mterry: gnome-settings-daemon is depwaiting for 3 uploads, maybe we should pre-promote or ping kees to get that sorted?
17:36:44	pitti	pinging is better, I think; otherwise we'd have to rollback a feature, which might be harder
17:37:15	pitti	kenvandine: I responded to the ubuntone-installer FFE bug; but I have to admit this is still very vague to me
17:37:33	pitti	kenvandine: is there a current plan how to handle U1 packages from now on?
17:37:58	pitti	seb128: kees was on a conference last week according to his trip report, so perhaps he'll respond this week?
17:38:18	seb128	pitti, right
17:39:11	 *	kenvandine waves... is this thing on?
17:39:25	rodrigo_	kenvandine, we can read you :)
17:39:25	pitti	kenvandine: I see you
17:39:58	seb128	hey kenvandine
17:41:45	pitti	is anyone else reading me?
17:41:50	seb128	pitti, yes
17:41:50	rodrigo_	pitti, I am
17:41:54	pitti	or is it just ken who fell off the planet?
17:41:58	seb128	seems only ken is having issues
17:42:02	seb128	it's only ken
17:42:02	kenvandine	woot
17:42:05	kenvandine	i changed servers :)
17:42:06	desrt	pitti: you're coming through a bit choppy.  repeat?
17:42:06	pitti	kenvandine: wb
17:42:08	seb128	hey kenvandine
17:42:28	pitti	desrt: *bzzzt* plasma leak *bzzzrlcrackle*
17:42:49	desrt	:)
17:42:52	 *	desrt runs
17:42:55	pitti	kenvandine: I responded to the ubuntone-installer FFE bug; but I have to admit this is still very vague to me
17:43:00	pitti	kenvandine: is there a current plan how to handle U1 packages from now on?
17:43:17	kenvandine	pitti, i think they think there is a plan
17:43:26	kenvandine	but it all still seems vague to me too
17:43:44	kenvandine	pitti, sorry i don't have more info :/
17:44:01	kenvandine	josh is going to try to get something more concrete
17:44:09	kenvandine	but i hear that every week :/
17:46:31	pitti	wrt. rhythmbox, I thought gtk 3 porting was out of scope for oneiric?
17:46:41	kenvandine	it is
17:46:52	kenvandine	so they need to have the plugin for rb removed
17:47:18	kenvandine	but i haven't heard a definative answer that they didn't want to support rb
17:47:24	pitti	i. e. rhythmbox-ubuntuone-music-store needs to become an empty transitional package
17:47:52	kenvandine	yeah
17:49:04	pitti	as for unity, didrocks is on vacation
17:49:12	pitti	seb128: shall we just skip this, or do you have something to discuss there?
17:49:42	seb128	I can do a short summary
17:49:59	seb128	new unity with all features for this cycle landed on the ff line
17:50:01	seb128	lot of bugs
17:50:30	pitti	is the bright transparent pink dash background a bug or a feature?
17:50:33	 *	pitti is afraid "feature"
17:51:26	pitti	let's hope it'll stabilize in the next two weeks then
17:51:27	rodrigo_	:)
17:51:37	pedro_	are they planning to fix the window switcher (alt+tab) or its going to stay the same way its right now?
17:52:12	seb128	doh
17:52:15	seb128	sorry got sidetracked
17:52:19	seb128	pitti, so yeah
17:52:20	seb128	lot of bugs
17:52:27	seb128	they plan a bug fix version on thursday
17:52:35	seb128	they are on bug fix mode from now on
17:52:40	seb128	weekly tarballs again
17:52:49	seb128	compiz is still not sorted
17:53:00	seb128	they have a new candidate version out that needs testing and approval
17:53:09	seb128	other option is to roll back to the natty compiz
17:53:31	seb128	pitti, there is a bug about picking wrong colors
17:53:50	seb128	but the blur is wanted
17:53:58	seb128	they will likely tweak it I guess
17:54:00	pitti	thanks for the summary
17:54:08	seb128	pedro_, alt-tab should have bug fixes and improvements
17:54:09	seb128	yw
17:54:15	pitti	no tremolux
17:54:21	pitti	but s-c seems to be in good shape
17:54:23	pedro_	seb128, good to know, thanks :-)
17:54:53	pitti	anything we should discuss at this point?
17:55:06	pitti	new gnome 3.1.5 will bring some disruptions, FYI
17:55:16	seb128	right
17:55:23	seb128	I guess we decided to not go for clutter on the CD
17:55:31	pitti	yay
17:55:38	seb128	though kenvandine said he would check with empathy upstream how much not having the new call ui is an issue
17:55:46	pitti	so we'll keep totem/cheese at their current versions or patch it back out?
17:55:56	seb128	cheese is in universe
17:56:07	pitti	ah, empathy then
17:56:12	seb128	the empathy guys made it possible to not use libcheese for us
17:56:20	kenvandine	those guys rock
17:56:21	seb128	and ev is using gstreamer directly now
17:56:33	seb128	totem> yeah, I will keep the new version in a ppa
17:56:43	seb128	having video playing relying on clutter is risky
17:56:51	seb128	we said we would discuss putting back pitivi on the CD btw
17:57:02	seb128	and gnome-contacts is coming with GNOME 3.2, rodrigo is packaging it
17:57:09	seb128	(i.e an adressbook for GNOME)
17:57:19	desrt	cheese demoted? :(
17:57:23	seb128	we missed the ff but not sure if we should aim to an exception for it
17:57:24	desrt	cd space, i guess?
17:57:41	pitti	desrt: no, tons of new depends we don't want
17:57:49	seb128	desrt, CD space, depends on clutter-gst, clutter-gesture, mx, and camorabin which is in one of the universe gst set
17:58:03	desrt	fair enough
17:58:06	pitti	seb128: there's a rather strong case for addressbook, as we just dropped evo from CD
17:58:09	rodrigo_	seb128, it's not going on the cd, but universe, so does it need a FFE?
17:58:20	seb128	rodrigo_, still yes
17:58:21	pitti	FF affects the entire universe, yes
17:58:26	rodrigo_	ok
17:58:29	seb128	but why not aiming for the CD?
17:58:34	seb128	it's small and useful
17:58:37	rodrigo_	yeah
17:58:43	 *	kenvandine would like that
17:58:55	rodrigo_	I stopped the submission ebcause the 0.1.1 version is a bit broken
17:59:08	rodrigo_	but the package is ready since Friday, so we can upload that for noe
17:59:27	rodrigo_	I think a new version is coming soon, so we can also wait
17:59:36	seb128	rodrigo_, there is a 0.1.2 now
17:59:36	pitti	please submit an FFE bug
17:59:41	pitti	I'll approve it
17:59:46	seb128	rodrigo_, it's out this earlier today or yesterday
17:59:54	rodrigo_	seb128, oh, I checked this morning and it wasn't
17:59:57	rodrigo_	ok
17:59:57	seb128	rodrigo_, if you get kenvandine to sponsor it for you I can NEW review it
18:00:15	kenvandine	rodrigo_, just send it my way when it is ready :)
18:00:16	rodrigo_	seb128, kenvandine: it's in lp:~ubuntu-desktop/gnome-contacts/ubuntu
18:00:26	rodrigo_	I'll update to 0.1.2 and ping kenvandine
18:00:30	kenvandine	thx
18:01:28	seb128	pitti, I think that's all from desktop side
18:01:33	pitti	cheers
18:01:40	seb128	out of the fact that we have tons of bugs and we are behind or other things
18:01:52	seb128	or->on
18:02:04	seb128	like screensaver look
18:02:15	seb128	just to pick one
18:03:06	pitti	or the ubuntu lightdm theme
18:03:12	pitti	or not being able to login :)
18:03:34	pitti	ok, so let's stop having a meeting then and get cracking again :)
18:03:38	seb128	yeah, lightdm, mterry has been helping a bit on it and robert_ancell is back
18:03:49	pitti	thanks everyone!
18:03:55	seb128	thanks pitti
18:04:01	pedro_	thanks!
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

{{{
}}}
