{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Weekly Summary ==

* Started work on a patch to NM to update dnsmasq via DBus rather than respawning it on every DNS server changes (cyphermox)
* Polished some of the session-migration work (didrocks)
* Worked on the jockey killer (software-center properties integration of devices installation) (didrocks)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/1:3.6.0~rc2-0ubuntu3|LibreOffice 3.6.0~rc2]]</nowiki> released to quantal -- one month earlier than our first release a year ago on oneiric (bjoern-michaelsen)
* Ported BrlTTY python bindings to cython (practically no work required other than autotools changes). THis gives us a launchpad to ship python 3 bindings for BrlTTY, whichi Orca can use. (TheMuso)
* Tracked down some bugs related to netboot d-i installation on pandaboards, however not all bugs have been ironed out yet. All of this is a result of me trying to set up quantal on a pandaboard using an external USB drive.

== Agenda ==

* ''Insert things to discuss at meeting here..''

=== Partner update ===

=== Unity ===

* Unity/Compiz/Compiz-plugins-main SRU tested and uploaded in precise. Will like be the 12.04.1 version
* Work with PS on the compiz gsettings migration. Got a migration script ready to migrate most important values from gconf to gsettings.
* Work on gnome-control-center to support the new values now in gsettings in both display and background panels.
* Start a discussion of what's still needed to do and blocking the gsettings compiz upload:
** Unity will need some porting for the theme to not depend on metacity theme anymore.
** There is a blocker on unity-2d which dep on previous metacity, but we do need to update metacity in order to update gnome-control-center and gnome-settings-daemon. But how doing all of that without regressions during the dev release? Unity-2d won't be able to be supported anymore into the distro and removal would be needed (long and complex solutions are discussed).

=== X.org ===
* SRU of mesa 8.0.3 for precise was accepted for MRE by tech board (bryce)
* Investigated Xserver crash handling; pushed a lightdm change to add “-core” to the server command line, which in my testing reliably generates apport reports on crashes. We can improve these reports with a bit of post-processing in the apport hook, but this is already an improvement (raof)

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
</pre>
