{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Below are the test cases that should be run when gnome-shell is updated to new major releases in the development version of Ubuntu. These should also be run for all gnome-shell Stable Release Updates.

=== Test Case 1 ===

# sudo apt install gnome-session gnome-shell-extensions
# Install the update.
# Log out.
# Select your name on the login screen.
# Click the gear button to choose a session to log in to.
# Finish logging in.
# Verify that things continue to work well for all these sessions:
** GNOME
** GNOME Classic
** Ubuntu
** Ubuntu on Xorg

=== Test Case 2 ===

Because a GNOME Shell update years ago broke some GNOME Shell extensions, it's also requested that we do a basic test of all the extensions included in the Ubuntu repositories.

<nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/removal-of-gnome-shell-extension-from-universe-and-stop-auto-syncs/18437/9|This discourse post lists the currently available extensions]]</nowiki>. <code>apt-file -l search /usr/share/gnome-shell/extensions</code> will list all the packages providing extensions in a given release.

# Install all the extensions.
# Log out and then log back in.
# Enable all the extensions. This is a way to do it:
  {{{
apt install gnome-shell-extension-manager
extension-manager
  }}}
# Verify that they can all be enabled without showing an error.
# Verify that the basic functionality of each extension works as expected.

=== Test Case 3 (Optional) ===

This test case is optional, if you don't have easy access to a captive portal

# Install the update
# Log out and then log back in
# Connect to a <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Captive_portal|"captive portal"]]</nowiki>
# You should see a popup window showing the webpage to get full access to the network by logging in or accepting the user agreement.

=== What Could Go Wrong ===

GNOME Shell is the heart of the Ubuntu desktop experience.

A severe enough bug could mean that people are unable to use their desktop version of Ubuntu.

Smaller bugs could interrupt people's workflows.

While GNOME Shell '''used''' to be under the GNOME MRE, this is no longer the case. See:
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates/GNOME

Although Shell is no longer under an MRE, this test plan is still a good smoke test in addition to tests for the specific bug fixes in any GNOME Shell SRU uploads.

=== Other Info ===

gnome-shell provides the GNOME version number for the Settings app About page, as of Ubuntu 22.10 (in earlier Ubuntu releases, this was provided by gnome-desktop/gnome-desktop3)

Test plan approved by RAOF on behalf of the SRU team on 2023-06-30

----
CategoryDesktopTestPlans
