{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Weekly Summary ==

* Fix several bugs which caused lucid->precise or oneiric->precise upgrades to fail. Had to revert Bug:901638 until soprano-daemon gets fixed. (pitti)
* Improved <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/testing/precise_probs.html|uninstallability report]]</nowiki> to give proper reasons why packages are uninstallable. (pitti)
* Fixed remaining long-standing uninstallability in main. (pitti)
* poppler ABI transition/porting now fully done in main and universe. (pitti)
* Dbusmenu accessible desc work finally done, with patches to our GTK2 and GTK3 packages. Still need to get a         solution worked out and committed upstream, as the work done here benefits everybody/all distros so far as menu items/network manager is concerned. (TheMuso)
* Started improving accessibility functionality of the Unity greeter, adding keyboard shortcuts for screen reader, high contrast, and accessing the indicator menu bar. (TheMuso)

== Agenda ==

* ''Insert things to discuss at meeting here..''

=== Partner update ===
==== Ubuntu One ====
* Music store is going to focus on the music lens and web, it should land in mid January.  This will replace the rhythmbox and bansheee plugins.  

==== DX Systems ====
* <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/ayatana/+activereviews|Many branches]]</nowiki> that need review, I have asked them to plan a review day to get the list under control and get some bug fixes out. 

=== Unity ===

=== Software Center ===

=== Kubuntu ===

=== X.org ===
* Began conversion of failsafe-x from bash/zenity to python.  Before and after:  http://www.bryceharrington.org/files/new-failsafe-x.png
* Fixed bug in -intel driver causing a mis-drawn welcome screen due to an error in UXA clipping logic.  (LP: #901959)
* Discovered that nouveau can't drive the DisplayPort output of this Lenovo T420s; upstream support is not yet implemented.  Traced the nvidia driver enabling the DP output; attached to <nowiki>[[https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=43731"|upstream bug]]</nowiki>

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
</pre>
