{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson)
* Didier Roche (didrocks)
* Gary Lasker (tremolux)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Mathieu Trudel-Lapierre (cyphermox)
* Michael Terry (mterry)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)
* Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

==== Discussion ====

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Partner Update ===
* Natty planning and a few SRUs

=== Kubuntu Update ===

=== X Update ===

=== UNE update ===

* not a lot to say as of today. UNE 10.10 kindly released.
* Of course, we now got, some bugs and try to catch up with them.
* Planning on what to discuss at UDS is now in order.

=== USC update ===

* Not too much to report, 10.10 was released with Software Center at version 3.04  \o/
* It has been relatively quiet on the new bugs front recently, by all indications the release seems good quality
* We are now moving on Ratings and Reviews which is shaping up to be the first major feature targeted for Natty
* We have begun merging some very cool Zeitgeist integration features from Seif Lotfy
* ISD deployed their latest set of improvements and fixes for buy-something, nice stuff, all in place for release day
** https://launchpad.net/software-center-agent/+milestone/10.10
** The Fluendo DVD player is again available for purchase in the store
* Planning for Natty cycle in progress

=== Weekly bugs summary ===

=== Release Status ===

http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team.html

=== Other Business ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

==== Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson) ====
* General:
** Thunderbird 3.1.5 and 3.0.9 updates
** Got a first PGO build of Firefox working (amd64 only - the i386 build hangs, which I'm still investigating)
** Ported the Firefox extension I wrote at the sprint to Firefox 4.0 and added some extra features
** Other Natty preparations
* Bugs:
** Investigated <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/655707|LP: #655707]]</nowiki> - firefox-bin crashes with SIGFPE in _hb_sanitize_array. Turned out to be a pango bug, fixed upstream already. Prepared a SRU for maverick
** Investigated <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/629258|LP: #629258]]</nowiki> - Battery life estimation never comes around. I know what's going on, but not sure how to proceed next
** Fixed <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/625793|LP: #625793]]</nowiki> - Regression: Multiple Keyboard Layouts unusable: continuously changes layout + 100% CPU usage
** Fixed <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/658777|LP: #658777]]</nowiki> - Invalid reads in keyboard plugin

==== Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF) ====

==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====

* UNE:
** fix ubuntu-netbook-default-settings for an upgrade issue
** fix gdm-guest-session to handle normally with UNE (changed in the way gconf is launched from lucid)
** add the guest session to netbook-meta. Pending approval. Not sure we want it for this release
** triage a lot a lot of unity bugs
** plan and discuss with dx what should be addressed in a SRU
** propose testing time for fixes and support to the dx team.
** unity: SRU for handling upgrade for people not having the metapackage ubuntu-netbook installed
** a lot of ISO testing and reporting bugs on installation (try also to fix some bug on non i18n keyboard and testing from cjwatson's proposal)
* GNOME:
** Brasero: handle an update issue from lucid
** ubuntu-desktop ISO testing as well
** work on deprecation for ido, sound-menu and evolution-indicator. Made some gtk patch as well and pending upstream.
* Misc:
** Quickly: review patches, made some fixes and release 0.6.1
** prepare and handle the opendevweek session on quickly
** sponsoring : libgpod, utouch-grail, cairo-dock and cairo-dock-plug-ins
** some oneconf and USC hack to get it up to speed!
** prepare blueprints for UDS:
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/appselection-desktop-n-bringing-desktop-and-netbook-image-closer
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/appselection-desktop-n-oneconf
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/appselection-desktop-n-coherent-behavior-for-apps-in-messagingmenu

==== Gary Lasker (tremolux) ====

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

* Final CD testing
* Release and announcements
* open week talk
* SRUs for kdelibs, choqok, qoauth, bluedevil

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
* Gwibber
** More work on facebook allocation problems
*** made a big attempt to get in touch with someone from facebook
*** Ported query types with hopes it will be useful in getting under the allocation
** Message parsing cleanup
*** more handling of response codes from facebook
*** type checking and logging better
** Debugging libproxy bug <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libproxy/+bug/651761|651761]]</nowiki> which is causing a crash in gwibber-service
** Cancel scheduled operations when network goes offline, and resume them properly when online
** statusnet oauth work
* libgwibber
** build without deprecated APIs

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

* Helped out with CD testing, release engineering and release management
* PostgreSQL security update                          
* SRU review and processing                           
* Technical Board meeting                             
* UDS planning                                        
* bug triage                                          
* fix language-selector translations (#654548)        
* fix oem-priority upowerd crash (#648414)            
* gconfify and disable gnome-settings-daemon xrandr default configuration (#640807)
* media-player-info bug fixing     
* packaged new udev version     
* sponsored gtk-vnc (#634571)     
* sponsored tzdata updates     
* udev bug fixing     

==== Mathieu Trudel-Lapierre (cyphermox) ====

* Glade to GtkBuilder migration:
** synaptic (#403547) (still in progress)
* vte debugging/fixing (in proposed) (#621927)
* laptop certification testing (hw cert team asked for help)
* UDS planning:
** https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/appdevs-desktop-n-nm-indicator
** https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/appselection-n-network-stack

==== Michael Terry (mterry) ====

* GNOME 3.0 prep work:
** Glade->GtkBuilder: apturl, system-config-printer
** Gtk Deprecations: update-notifier, notify-osd, indicator-messages, indicator-appmenu
** Gtk3 porting: dbusmenu, libindicator, application-indicator
** GSettings porting: indicator-me

* Quickly
** More vala-dep-scanner work (first release ! https://launchpad.net/vala-dep-scanner)
** Added test framework and many tests (not all merged yet).  Fixed several undiscovered bugs in the process.

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* Back from holiday
* Caught up on email
* SRU two bugs in Maverick simple-scan

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* Prepared first Blueprint for the UDS: <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-desktop-n-improve-photo-printing/|Photo printing is not user-friendly and often broken]]</nowiki>
* Discussed fix and SRU of LP: #485383 (Zebra driver not found) with pitti
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
