{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (ccheney)
* Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson)
* Didier Roche (didrocks)
* Gary Lasker (tremolux)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)
* Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Actions from this meeting ===
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to try to unblock MIRs and SRUs
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to find ETA for new apps archive

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===
* Testing Firefox update in Hardy
* OneConf Testing: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OneConf/Testing

=== Partner Update ===
===== OLS =====
* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-MaverickWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki> start tomorrow
* Weekly server-side rollouts every Tuesday
* Weekly desktop releases every Wednesday

===== DX =====
* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-MaverickWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>

=== Kubuntu Update ===

=== Software Center Update ===

* UI Enhancements
** Hide non-applications feature is complete and will be rolled out with this week's release

* Buy Something
** Full end-to-end integration targeted for A3 and will be a major effort at the distro sprint in July
** Required Launchpad work targeted for next regular Launchpad upload window on June 30th
** The ability to write code against a mock billing API is going live this week
** Billing system and LP communication stubs is defined and planned for June 30th release
** Software center is now able to log into Launchpad using launchpadlib in a non-blocking manner

* New Apps on a Stable Release
** New apps process is designed, detailed definition is in-process
** Community process for contributing new apps needs detailed definition
** Back end support is in place in Software Center to begin testing with the new archive once it is available
** Detailed UI design and specification for discovery/presentation of new apps is needed and is in-process

=== UNE Update ===

* unity 0.2 is in maverick \o/
* still some stability improvment still on the go and new features to implementation
* waiting for MIRs to be accepted to change the ubuntu-netbook-default-settings packages and seed
* list of MIR needed love:
** dee: https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/591159
** indicator-datetime: https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/591161
** bamf (asac on it): https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/586340
** mutter: https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/591162
** unity-asset-pool: https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/591177
** libunity-misc: https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/591158
** unity: https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/591253

=== Release Status ===

http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-maverick-alpha-2.html
{{http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-maverick-alpha-2.svg}}

=== Other Business ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====
* 2 day sprint with mvo to get language-selector-development going
* chat with Michael Forrest (design) about language-selector UI design
* vacation last week
* preparing and upload new language-packs with updated Firefox translations for the Firefox 3.6.4 transition for Hardy, Jaunty and Karmic. All available in the language-pack PPA.
* arranging travel for the desktop sprint

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

==== Chris Cheney (ccheney) ====

==== Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson) ====

* Firefox 3.6.4 rollout - Hardy
** Sponsored ports to xulrunner 1.9.2 - edbrowse, miro, prism, gnome-python-extras
** Ported to xulrunner 1.9.2 - liferea, chmsee, penguintv
** Fixed - yelp, totem
** Lots of testing
** Uploaded language packs
** Spent some time investigating how font configuration works in Firefox to understand why it ignores GNOME font settings - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/379761|LP: #379761]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/559149|LP: #559149]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/588311|LP: #588311]]</nowiki>. I understand what is going on now, and just need to think of a way forward for Hardy
 
* Firefox 3.6.4 rollout - Karmic
** Started on the firefox/xulrunner packaging for Karmic

* Mozilla general
** Re-enabled startup notification on Firefox builds (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/469752|LP: #469752]]</nowiki>)

==== Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF) ====

* Hit, and fixed, a ufraw installability bug.  The packaging is in pretty weird shape if anyone wants a lazy afternoon to invest in something.
* xserver SRU uploaded - thanks Bryce!
* xserver 1.8 transition - drivers & server merged or sync'd with the help of Sarvatt and mvo.
* Upstreamed some xserver patches we've had hanging around for ages.  More should be upstreamable.

==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====

* short week (Friday as a swap day)
* alpha1:
** test desktop and une alpha1
* UNE:
** bug triaging
** cleaning UNE packages and pushed dee, indicator-datetime, unity-asset-pool, libunity-misc and unity to maverick
** new release of bamf, clutk, dee, indicator-datetime, unity-asset-pool, libunity-misc, unity
** mutter: add patches needed for unity
** ubuntu-netbook-default-settings: fix call to register default gconf value (fix the interface not showing for alpha1)
** wrote corresponding MIR
* GNOME:
** evolution-data-server SRU to fix bug https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/bugs/229187
** evince: fix an issue with people not doing dist-upgrade: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/bugs/589194

==== Gary Lasker (tremolux) ====
* Software Center
** Reviewed branches lp:~j-johan-edwards/software-center/hide_nonapp_pkgs and lp:~mvo/software-center/hide_nonapps_pkgs_xapian
** Integrated and finished the "hide non-applications" feature based on above, used mvo's Xapian-based approach
** Much nicer user experience, much improves the "Provided by Ubuntu" view
** Branch to mvo for review
** Feature will roll out with this week's release
** Reviewed mvo's channel code refactoring in trunk
** Reviewed and tested lp:~mvo/software-center/launchpad-login/
** Bug fix:  UnboundLocal error when /var/log/apt/history.log is empty
** Weekly Software Center call
** Meeting today with Ricardo Kirkner to learn/discuss Payment API
* tzdata, LP: #578650
** Prepared 2020j updates for lucid, karmic, jaunty, hardy and dapper
** Tested in -proposed, fix released for all but dapper (last pending proper testing)
* Misc
** Made travel arrangements for Prague

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====
* testing, fixing and releasing alpha 1
* start organising Kubuntu Tutorials Day
* Testing and fixing upgrade from KDE SC 4.4 to 4.5
* discussing kubuntu.org update

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
* Completed porting gwibber python API to libgwibber
* Started on gtk widgets for libgwibber
* Finished mono bindings for libindicate
* Ported libindicate python bindings from indicate-python sources to libindicate
* Weekly DX releases
* Created mono bindings for libgwibber

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====
==== Accessibility ====
* Uploaded gnome-orca and mousetweaks 2.31.3 to maverick.
* OpenTTS is now packaged, still got a few copyright issues to sort, but technically, its done. Still need to test the packages.
* Updated at-spi2 packages, still need to upload them to a PPA.

==== Audio ====
* Audio bug triaging, bugs in question were against the alsa userspace packages, pulseaudio, and the kernel.
* Merged in Debian's latest alsa-driver changes for maverick.
* Reviewed a patch from the pulseaudio mailing list regarding the alsa a52 plugin and pulse. Its still not working, but is looking good already. There may be a way to privde users with S/PDIF multi-channel audio output support soonish, and offer it as another installable package in maverick.

==== Misc ====
* Sponsored uploads for Robert Ancell
==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* Many package merges
* Fix metacity with CSD
* Split gnome-utils package
* Got pygi packaged in Debian/Ubuntu

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* new rhythmbox git snapshot to maverick
* updated gtk and rebased on debian
* reviewed and tested cody's fix for the indicator-application update issue
* rebased pygobject on the current debian version
* reviewed and newed pygi to maverick
* rebased gnome-media on debian
* reviewed indicator-application update and fixed a gir issue
* updated maverick gobject-introspection
* lucid sru updates: gnome-panel rhythmbox papyon

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====
* ghostscript: Debian considered too much of the upstream source files as non-free. Instead of removing the whole Resource/CMap/ directory from the source tarball, only 61 of the 242 files in the directory were actually non-free (there are many files from Adobe where Adobe moved to a free software license and some files from Artifex which were always free). Discussed this with the upstream developers of Ghostscript and removed only the 61 really non-free files and with this fixed the Ghostscript part of LP: #321932.
* foomatic-filters: Finished upstream fix of foomatic-rip not stopping with an error if certain issues occur. This made many jobs considered to be printed but they did not get actually printed. This should fix LP: #570522. The patch applied to the new Maverick package contains all Linux-related fixes of Foomatic 4.0.5 and can therefore be considered a test release for the new upstream version.
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports.
== IRC Logs ==
[17:31]  * rickspencer3 taps gavel<<BR>>
[17:31] <Riddell> hola<<BR>>
[17:31] <rickspencer3> first, actions from last week<<BR>>
[17:31] <tremolux> heya desktop team!<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> which I bungled and put in actions from this week<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> Testing Firefox update in Hardy<<BR>>
[17:32] <chrisccoulson> i've got some feedback from that now<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> uh ...<<BR>>
[17:32] <chrisccoulson> and i'm just working on the remaining issues<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> yeah, quite a bit of that I think<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> could someone paste in a link to the tracking wiki when they get a sec?<<BR>>
[17:32] <chrisccoulson> the main issue is that the fonts don't look very good, but i've got to the bottom of that now<<BR>>
[17:32] <chrisccoulson> (i just need to think of a way forward)<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> chrisccoulson, sweet<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> urk<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> can we hold up the roll out until that is resolved?<<BR>>
[17:33] <chrisccoulson> yeah, we can<<BR>>
[17:33] <chrisccoulson> and there had been no 3.6.4 release yet anyway<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:33] <chrisccoulson> the other issues are some plugins not working<<BR>>
[17:34] <chrisccoulson> but that's due to the install location changing, which is simple to fix<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> chrisccoulson, can you paste in a bug # for the record when you get a moment?<<BR>>
[17:34] <chrisccoulson> yeah, can do<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> a bug # for that as well would be nice<<BR>>
[17:34] <chrisccoulson> and jdstrand tested epiphany last week and found some regressions<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> as well<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> how serious are those regressions?<<BR>>
[17:35] <chrisccoulson> one of them is pretty bad<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> urk<<BR>>
[17:35] <chrisccoulson> i'm just trying to find the bug #<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> ok, just paste those bug #s in when ready<<BR>>
[17:35] <seb128> rickspencer3, http://mozilla.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/test/4173<<BR>>
[17:35] <chrisccoulson> rickspencer3, bug 589877<<BR>>
[17:35] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 589877 in epiphany-browser (Ubuntu) (and 1 other project) "epiphany (webkit) doesn't clearly warn about invalid SSL certificates (affects: 2) (heat: 266)" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/589877<<BR>>
[17:35] <seb128> the tracker<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> thanks seb128<<BR>>
[17:36] <chrisccoulson> other than that, there aren't any real major issues<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> that epihpany bug does not seem like a regression to me<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> oh well, we can discuss later, we can move on<<BR>>
[17:37] <chrisccoulson> it's a regression from the gecko version in hardy i think<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> that other action item was OneConf Testing: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OneConf/Testing<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> tbh, I am assuming that only didrocks got to this<<BR>>
[17:38] <rickspencer3> due to all the work with mozilla<<BR>>
[17:38] <tremolux> this I'm keen on testing and learning, and I've started but only today<<BR>>
[17:38] <didrocks> well, not a lot of feedback, just tremolux had a try with a bug I can fix quicklly :)<<BR>>
[17:38] <seb128> I didn't have time for it<<BR>>
[17:38] <seb128> sorry didrocks<<BR>>
[17:38]  * kenvandine hasn't had time...<<BR>>
[17:38] <didrocks> no pb :) in any case desktopcouch don't start in maverick yet<<BR>>
[17:38] <chrisccoulson> me neither, but i promise i'll return the favour for all the mozilla testing when i have some spare time :)<<BR>>
[17:38] <rickspencer3> lets carry that one over for another week?<<BR>>
[17:38] <didrocks> sure<<BR>>
[17:38] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, partner update?<<BR>>
[17:39] <kenvandine> ok<<BR>>
[17:39] <rodrigo_> didrocks, oh, I was trying to hunt a bug for evo-couchdb not working, thanks for pointing that, it might be desktopcouch indeed<<BR>>
[17:39] <tkamppeter> hi<<BR>>
[17:39] <didrocks> rodrigo_: just keep me posted if I can help there<<BR>>
[17:39] <rodrigo_> didrocks, sure, will do :)<<BR>>
[17:39] <kenvandine> DX team weekly releases as usual, should be working on getting indicator-network and connman into maverick soon<<BR>>
[17:40] <kenvandine> OLS has changed their weekly release schedule, desktop stuff will land on wednesdays<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> so the server side release is today?<<BR>>
[17:40] <kenvandine> so they can get server changes deployed on tuesdays, they decided it was too much to try to land them both on the same day<<BR>>
[17:40] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, yeah<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> and?<<BR>>
[17:40] <kenvandine> rodrigo_, got anything to add?<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> how is it going today?<<BR>>
[17:41] <rodrigo_> kenvandine, was going to say that same thing, so no :)<<BR>>
[17:41] <kenvandine> rodrigo_, is their a tracking page for server deployment?<<BR>>
[17:41] <rickspencer3> I was just about to ask ;)<<BR>>
[17:41] <rodrigo_> kenvandine, hmm, we are using kanban, which is just for the team<<BR>>
[17:41] <kenvandine> oh... right<<BR>>
[17:41] <rodrigo_> I'll ask and see if we can get something<<BR>>
[17:41] <rodrigo_> public<<BR>>
[17:41] <kenvandine> i have access to that<<BR>>
[17:42] <rodrigo_> kenvandine, ah, cool<<BR>>
[17:42] <kenvandine> rodrigo_, lets get it on the same wiki page<<BR>>
[17:42] <kenvandine> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOne/MaverickWeeklyReleases<<BR>>
[17:42] <kenvandine> that's all i have for partner update<<BR>>
[17:42] <kenvandine> oh... one more thing<<BR>>
[17:42] <rickspencer3> iPhone with a clear screen?<<BR>>
[17:42] <kenvandine> OLS blueprints are still not "accepted" so not showing up on the burndowns<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> oops<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> that can be fixed<<BR>>
[17:43] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, i have a list of blueprints... if you can accept them<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, sure, PM them<<BR>>
[17:43] <kenvandine> it looks like chipaca doesn't have access to that<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> I'll do it asap<<BR>>
[17:43] <kenvandine> will do<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> didrocks, are you going to cover ConnMan/Network indicator in your UNE section?<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> I assume that this roles out in UNE only for maverick, right?<<BR>>
[17:44] <didrocks> rickspencer3: not really, but I can have a word about it<<BR>>
[17:44] <didrocks> basically the network indicator is in kenvandine's hands<<BR>>
[17:44] <kenvandine> yup<<BR>>
[17:44] <didrocks> it won't be default for UNE before alpha3<<BR>>
[17:44] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, you've got mail :)<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> but will end up in UNE, not the desktop, right?<<BR>>
[17:44] <kenvandine> yes<<BR>>
[17:44] <didrocks> right<<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> just making sure :)<<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> thanks kenvandine, didrocks<<BR>>
[17:45]  * didrocks sees rickspencer3 being scared :)<<BR>>
[17:45] <statik> I wanted to tell someone about the work I've been doing on merging Erlang from debian, was going to try and get it in before Alpha2 but I'm not sure if this is the right meeting to mention it in.<<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> Riddell, Kubuntu update?<<BR>>
[17:45] <kenvandine> i will try to get indicator-network ready for upload to maverick this week though<<BR>>
[17:45] <kenvandine> so we have time<<BR>>
[17:45] <Riddell>  * alpha 1 out and working reasonably<<BR>>
[17:45] <Riddell>  * ninjas are cracking on with KDE SC 4.5 beta 2<<BR>>
[17:45] <Riddell>  * a load of MIRs being applied for, neeed for koffice, kdevelop and KDE SC<<BR>>
[17:45] <Riddell>  * kubuntu.org might get some progress, sysadmins are setting up a server for our guy to set up the site on<<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> statik, we have a "any other business section" that comes in a bit<<BR>>
[17:45] <statik> cool<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> Riddell, are your MIRs blocked at all?<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> do you need someone to ack those or anything?<<BR>>
[17:46] <Riddell> rickspencer3: well I only just applied for them so not yet<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> thanks Riddell<<BR>>
[17:47] <Riddell> but sometimes it takes a few weeks and I'd rather give warning now than get grumpy then<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> Riddell, that's what I was getting at<<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> we have a manpower issue for mir and sru I think<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> maybe someone could take of that for you quickly this time<<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> between pitti being on rotation, asac being rather busy, etc<<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> cjwatson sprinting this week and busy as well<<BR>>
[17:48] <bryceh> we've got an x.org sru that would be really nice to get attention on<<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> speaking of MIR we have quite some for unity as well<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> sounds like we need more people in a position to accept MIRs?<<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> rickspencer3, we do yes<<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> and SRUs<<BR>>
[17:48] <Riddell> yes<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> ACTION: rickspencer3 to beg and plead for attention with stack of Unity and Kubuntu MIRs<<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> but those are not easy to find<<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> rickspencer3, thanks ;-)<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> ACTION: rickspencer3 to beg and plead for attention with stack of xorg-xserver SRUs<<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> it's not a stack for xorg<<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> but we have a stack of other SRUs<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> seb128, ack<<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+queue?queue_state=1<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> I'll see if I can negotiate something to clear the pipeline<<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> rickspencer3, thanks<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> tremolux, software-center update? (looks familiar)<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> :)<<BR>>
[17:49] <tremolux> rickspencer3: you bet  :)<<BR>>
[17:50] <tremolux> rickspencer3: I just summarized yours a bit since it hits the major points<<BR>>
[17:50] <rickspencer3> tremolux, can you hit the 3 or 4 high points here for folks?<<BR>>
[17:50] <tremolux> we just had a quick session with Ricardo Kirkner about the payment API<<BR>>
[17:50] <tremolux> sure<<BR>>
[17:51] <tremolux> we are moving well on buy something with all teams moving ahead<<BR>>
[17:51] <tremolux> and will be doing some prototyping with the payment API this week<<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> nice<<BR>>
[17:52] <tremolux> the new apps on stable release is in good shape on the back end, support is pretty much there<<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> tremolux, can we put an app in there to start testing it out?<<BR>>
[17:52] <tremolux> and we just need to make the new apps fun and discoverable using a UI currently being spec'd by mpt<<BR>>
[17:53] <rickspencer3> maybe just a window with a button or something?<<BR>>
[17:53] <tremolux> rickspencer3: we just need the archive set up<<BR>>
[17:53] <rickspencer3> oh<<BR>>
[17:53] <rickspencer3> "just"<<BR>>
[17:54] <rickspencer3> :)<<BR>>
[17:54] <tremolux> :)<<BR>>
[17:54] <rickspencer3> is there an eta for that?<<BR>>
[17:54] <tremolux> yeah, I'm not sure of the eta<<BR>>
[17:54] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:54] <tremolux> but we can make a test PPA<<BR>>
[17:54] <tremolux> not blocked by it<<BR>>
[17:55] <rickspencer3> ACTION: rickspencer3 to find ETA for new apps archive<<BR>>
[17:55] <rickspencer3> thanks tremolux<<BR>>
[17:55] <rickspencer3> moving on ...<<BR>>
[17:55] <tremolux> welcome<<BR>>
[17:55] <rickspencer3> didrocks, UNE update?<<BR>>
[17:55] <didrocks> so, unity 0.2 is pushed in maverick :)<<BR>>
[17:55] <rickspencer3> didrocks, what do we do if we want to run it on our netbooks?<<BR>>
[17:55] <rickspencer3> $sudo apt-get install unity?<<BR>>
[17:56] <didrocks> rickspencer3: well, right now, the situation is kind of ackward for that, you will need my help :)<<BR>>
[17:56] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:56] <didrocks> rickspencer3: I don't want to update ubuntu-netbook-default-settings and seeds until all components are in main<<BR>>
[17:56] <rickspencer3> fair enough<<BR>>
[17:56] <didrocks> all MIR are done, there are bunches of them<<BR>>
[17:56] <rickspencer3> so we are blocked on MIRs there<<BR>>
[17:56] <didrocks> (they are all listed in the desktopteam meeting page)<<BR>>
[17:56] <didrocks> right<<BR>>
[17:56] <rickspencer3> noted<<BR>>
[17:56] <rickspencer3> anything to add didrocks?<<BR>>
[17:56] <didrocks> then main -> new settings -> new seed<<BR>>
[17:56] <rickspencer3> btw, Unity! Yeah!<<BR>>
[17:57] <rickspencer3> can't wait to run it<<BR>>
[17:57] <didrocks> no, I'll speak about cadence and release next week :)<<BR>>
[17:57] <kenvandine> :)<<BR>>
[17:57] <rickspencer3> thanks didrocks<<BR>>
[17:57] <rickspencer3> moving on ..<<BR>>
[17:57] <didrocks> you're welcome<<BR>>
[17:57] <rickspencer3> seb128, release status?<<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> hey everybody<<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> so maverick alpha1 is out now<<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> which means we have an updated trend line following alpha2 now<<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-maverick-alpha-2.html<<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> as you can see we are slightly behind<<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> and not really making progresses recently<<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> so please update your work items regularly<<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> and let me or rick know if you are behind for some reason or need help<<BR>>
[17:59] <seb128> ie we know chrisccoulson is busy full time on firefox updates for example<<BR>>
[17:59] <rickspencer3> seb128, can we briefly discuss things we might want to move to A3?<<BR>>
[17:59] <rickspencer3> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-maverick-user-accounts-dialog<<BR>>
[17:59] <rickspencer3> ?<<BR>>
[17:59] <seb128> rickspencer3, yes<<BR>>
[17:59] <rickspencer3> maybe give chrisccoulson some breathing room there<<BR>>
[17:59] <rickspencer3> ?<<BR>>
[17:59] <seb128> I'm fine moving this one, though I think it can be done once firefox is out of the way<<BR>>
[18:00] <rickspencer3> didrocks, https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-maverick-quickly?<<BR>>
[18:00] <chrisccoulson> yeah, once i've  got the firefox updates done, i should make relatively quick progress with that<<BR>>
[18:00] <didrocks> rickspencer3: well, we have to speak about that with gedit plugin system which changes and will break every existing plugins<<BR>>
[18:00] <didrocks> rickspencer3: so, it will make some room there. Not sure if we can have it for maverick because of that<<BR>>
[18:00] <rickspencer3> didrocks, so move it to A3 and focus on Unity/UNE for rest of A2?<<BR>>
[18:01] <didrocks> rickspencer3: sure<<BR>>
[18:01] <rickspencer3> well ... Unity > quickly<<BR>>
[18:01] <didrocks> I still can do the pushing gpg key and other stuff<<BR>>
[18:01] <rickspencer3> didrocks, sounds good<<BR>>
[18:02] <rickspencer3> let's talk alter about what to postpone<<BR>>
[18:02] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, Empathy work, move it to A3?<<BR>>
[18:02] <kenvandine> yeah<<BR>>
[18:02] <rickspencer3> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-maverick-empathy-indicator<<BR>>
[18:02] <seb128> hum<<BR>>
[18:02] <seb128> I would rather have that done early that late<<BR>>
[18:02] <rickspencer3> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-maverick-gwibber-test-suite also should go to A3<<BR>>
[18:02] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, that already is<<BR>>
[18:03] <kenvandine> there is just one WI for A2... which i can move<<BR>>
[18:03] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, ok, there was one targeted for A2<<BR>>
[18:03] <seb128> rickspencer3, there is only one item from this one which is to select the tool<<BR>>
[18:03] <seb128> which seems fair enough<<BR>>
[18:03] <kenvandine> seb128, yeah... that won't consume much time<<BR>>
[18:03] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, can you please select the tool and then set that one to DONE?<<BR>>
[18:03] <kenvandine> hehe... i will soon... maybe today<<BR>>
[18:03] <rickspencer3> seb128, so you'd rather see kenvandine move https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-maverick-social-api to A3<<BR>>
[18:03] <kenvandine> seb128, the empathy work is kind of blocked...<<BR>>
[18:04] <rickspencer3> and do Empathy blueprint?<<BR>>
[18:04] <seb128> kenvandine, on what?<<BR>>
[18:04] <kenvandine> there are some upstream bugs for telepathy-glib vapi generation<<BR>>
[18:04] <kenvandine> which is actively being worked on<<BR>>
[18:04] <seb128> rickspencer3, do we really on those social api for maverick?<<BR>>
[18:04] <seb128> ie will they be used?<<BR>>
[18:04] <rickspencer3> seb128, yes<<BR>>
[18:05] <seb128> ok<<BR>>
[18:05] <seb128> so let's move empathy after that or to a3<<BR>>
[18:05] <kenvandine> yeah<<BR>>
[18:05] <seb128> I don't think we need to defer that much now though<<BR>>
[18:05] <rickspencer3> I wonder if Empathy > SFTS APIs prioritize wise though<<BR>>
[18:05] <seb128> we still have some weeks and we are on the trend line if you don't count foreing tasks<<BR>>
[18:05] <rickspencer3> but if kenvandine is blocked on empathy, it doesn't matter anyway<<BR>>
[18:06] <rickspencer3> seb128, bit if you eleminate foreign tasks, you have to lower the starting point for the trend line as well<<BR>>
[18:06] <seb128> if we rely on those api for others changes I would say api > empathy<<BR>>
[18:06] <rickspencer3> it's a moot point if kenvandine is blocked on empathy, anyway<<BR>>
[18:06] <seb128> right<<BR>>
[18:06] <kenvandine> i have the basic service written for empathy, it just doesn't do anything interesting yet :)<<BR>>
[18:06] <rickspencer3> ok, so sounds like:<<BR>>
[18:06] <rickspencer3> 1. we can get under the trendline by moving some work to A3<<BR>>
[18:07] <seb128> I will check work items with team members during the week and bring us back on the line for next week<<BR>>
[18:07] <rickspencer3> 2. once again, our eyes were bigger than our stomachs<<BR>>
[18:07] <seb128> I guess we will see a drop tomorrow with didrocks work<<BR>>
[18:07] <rickspencer3> seb128, yeah<<BR>>
[18:07] <seb128> ie he got a stack of unity one checked today<<BR>>
[18:07] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[18:08] <didrocks> (thanks to seb128 again for all the NEW reviews :))<<BR>>
[18:08] <seb128> rickspencer3, I don't think we are that far on estimation, but we didn't take things like the firefox security update in account for counting<<BR>>
[18:08] <rickspencer3> seb128, any more on release status, I kind of grabbed the mic there<<BR>>
[18:08] <seb128> no<<BR>>
[18:08] <rickspencer3> yeah, firefox was lots of extra work<<BR>>
[18:08] <rickspencer3> we should point out ...<<BR>>
[18:08] <rickspencer3> that chrisccoulson is quite the hero!<<BR>>
[18:08] <rickspencer3> we would be screwed without his tireless efforts these last week<<BR>>
[18:08] <chrisccoulson> i will be glad when it's finished so i can start on maverick :)<<BR>>
[18:08] <seb128> chrisccoulson rocks!!!<<BR>>
[18:08] <chrisccoulson> and then we will be preparing for firefox 4 ;)<<BR>>
[18:08] <tremolux> yeah chrisccoulson  \o/<<BR>>
[18:09]  * asac hugs chrisccoulson <<BR>>
[18:09]  * chrisccoulson hugs asac<<BR>>
[18:09] <rickspencer3> chrisccoulson, I'm working hard looking for another person, so hang in there<<BR>>
[18:09] <chrisccoulson> thanks :)<<BR>>
[18:09] <rickspencer3> and don't forget to take swap days when you get the chance!<<BR>>
[18:09] <rickspencer3> also, thanks to ara for organizing the testing, but I guess she's not here<<BR>>
[18:10] <rickspencer3> ok, moving on<<BR>>
[18:10] <rickspencer3> any other business?<<BR>>
[18:10]  * statik raises his hand<<BR>>
[18:10] <rickspencer3> statik, go ahea<<BR>>
[18:10] <rickspencer3> d<<BR>>
[18:10] <statik> I have been working on merging erlang from debian. it's not a committed item, but i would like to get this updated before alpha2<<BR>>
[18:11] <statik> i have run into a situation where it now has a new build-dep on fop, to build all the documentation<<BR>>
[18:11] <statik> so the choice i am facing is to diverge further from debian, or write up a handful of MIRs for fop and the 4/5 java libs it depends on that are still in universe<<BR>>
[18:11] <statik> fop, which depends on libsaxon-java, libxmlgraphics-commons-java, java-wrappers,libbatik-java (all still in universe)<<BR>>
[18:11] <statik> so, since MIRs would cause work for you guys, i was looking for some guidance<<BR>>
[18:12] <seb128> statik, seems rather an after meeting discussions<<BR>>
[18:12] <seb128> ie we can discuss it there<<BR>>
[18:12] <statik> seb128, ok cool. thanks!<<BR>>
[18:12] <seb128> but no need to hold everybody for that I think<<BR>>
[18:12] <statik> right<<BR>>
[18:12] <seb128> rickspencer3, ^ what do you think?<<BR>>
[18:12] <rickspencer3> after meeting discussion<<BR>>
[18:12] <rickspencer3> but, let's make sure to help him out!<<BR>>
[18:12] <rickspencer3> any other other business?<<BR>>
[18:12] <seb128> I'm staying there after meeting to discuss that<<BR>>
[18:13] <seb128> not from me<<BR>>
[18:13] <rickspencer3> thanks seb128<<BR>>
[18:13] <rickspencer3> alright, then<<BR>>
[18:13] <rickspencer3> meeting adjourned ?<<BR>>
[18:13]  * rickspencer3 taps gavel

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
