{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:desktop-maverick-gwibber-test-suite
* '''Created''': 2010-05-03
* '''Contributors''': KenVanDine
* '''Packages affected''': gwibber

=== Summary ===

Gwibber lacks a unit testing framework, which is a significant exposure to regressions.  It is important that we begin to build that so we can grow a library of unit tests to help prevent regressions in future versions.

=== Release Note ===

This change won't be visible to the end user, but is a critical part of the software development cycle.

=== Rationale ===

Unit testing is necessary to spot regressions in future versions.

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

* Create the framework for setup, tear down, and execution of tests.
* Write tests for methods used heavily, should probably start with the more internal classes which have wide spread impact.
* Consider code coverage analysis

==== Code Changes ====

Gwibber will need to be modified to help facilitate injecting tests.

==== Migration ====

None

=== Unresolved issues ===

No unit testing framework chosen yet, there are a few prominent choices for python.  This spec does not include testing for libgwibber, but rather the gwibber infrastructure consumed by libgwibber.  We will still need to address libgwibber.

----
CategorySpec
