{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====

* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson)
* Didier Roche (didrocks)
* Gary Lasker (tremolux)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)
* Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF)

=== Apologies ===

* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair (holidays)

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

==== Discussion ====

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Partner Update ===
===== OLS =====
* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-MaverickWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>
* UbuntuOne "generations" work has landed for the client, this is the peformance improvements for file sync.  There are still a few items to finish on the server side, but that will be done very soon.
* single signon client is ready, but blocked on server deployment by ISD.  ubuntuone-preferences and the music store plugin are ready to use it if it lands.  If the sso client doesn't make it, they gracefully fall back to the web login.

===== DX =====
* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-MaverickWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>

=== Kubuntu Update ===

=== Release Status ===

http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-maverick-alpha-3.html

=== UNE update ===

* Fresh unity from Monday, ready for rocking A3:
** add support for places in the launcher
** improved power and CPU management (more to come!)
** browseable unity-place-files
** lot of bug fixes
* UNE got shotwell by default!
* evolution and banshee got dedicated desktop file for UNE session
* banshee still want on the udev backend to be merged into trunk

=== Software Center Update ===

* Buy Something
** We reached our goal of demoing an end-to-end purchase of a software item at Prague rally (using a local instance of software-center-agent)
** Great progress with both client and server side (software-center-agent)
** We have an instance of software-center-agent running on EC2
** In progress:
** Continue refining the user experience (both client side and in webkit views from the server)
** Integrate LP metadata support
** Add "deauthorize my computer"
** Improved auth token handling
** Improved handling of error cases
** Bug fixing
   
* New Apps on a Stable Release
** Near feature-complete with only LP metadata support for display of package icons remaining to be finished
** We now index apps based on when they are first detected ("cataloged"), including apps appearing in the app-review-board PPA (later, in extras.ubuntu.com)
** New apps are displayed in the "What's New" carousel and in list view displayed by order cataloged (with newest first) 
** Custom metadata for new apps are indexed using an apt-xapian-index plugin
** We have test packages in the app-review-board PPA that have custom metadata fields and icon upload support
** In progress:
** Finish integrating LP metadata support for icons in Software Center
  
* UI Enhancements
** Application reselect updated for new design and working for all cases; while navigating and when refreshing/installing/removing, etc.
** Completed feature to detect packages for which an associated repository has been disabled (or never existed) and display using a new "Other" item in the left nav pane
   
* Miscellaneous
** We had a meeting at Prague rally to nail down a plan for long-term server-side metadata capabilities; meanwhile we will finish development using the current LP metadata facility
** Continuing to fill out our unit test suite

=== Other Business ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====

* Platform ralley
* Worked with Jeroen Vermeulen (jtv) to spec out changes needed to improve Mozilla translation import and export into/from Launchpad (https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-maverick-native-xpi-lp-export)
* Reviewed KDE templates with Jonathan Riddell in Launchpad for Maverick
* language-pack updates for Lucid and Maverick
* Language-selector:
** use d-bus backend for cache ops to check language support coverage
** add apport hooks
** use logging to log debug messages and append them to bug reports via apport hooks
** use '/usr/share/i18n/SUPPORTED' from the locales package in order to determine available locales; obsoletes data/langcode2locale
** use macros to determine locale and pkgcode

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

==== Chris Cheney (ccheney) ====

==== Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson) ====

* Mozilla
** Wrote a Firefox extension for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/604635|LP: #604635]]</nowiki>
** Getting the Mozilla crash reporter working in Firefox
** Wrote and tested a bot to automatically push our crash symbols to the Mozilla server, so I don't have to spend time doing this every day
** Helped investigate an armel build failure with the Linaro guys
* Work items:
** desktop-maverick-mozilla-team-discussion:
** Done "Clean up transitional packages from Hardy -> Lucid and Karmic -> Lucid upgrades"
** Done "Add Provides: Iceweasel to firefox package control file"
** Postponed "Add a xulrunner-nox package w/out GTK deps for servers using couchdb" - this is basically the same as another work item that was already postponed in another blueprint
* General:
** Interviewing
** Fixed <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/601009|LP: #601009]]</nowiki>

==== Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF) ====

==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====

* distro rally, GUADEC
* UNE:
** New unity release: clutk, bamf, unity-asset-pool, unity, unity-place-files, unity-place-applications
** patched vala and experimental clutter/mutter (in desktop ppa for now)
** backport to lucid UNE ppa
** update latest libzeigeist
** add shotwell to UNE default
** Unity debugging and bug triaging
* GNOME
** Evolution: Fix FTBFS with latest gtk, add desktop files for evolution express
** sponsor: lernid, liferea
** evince: fix bug #607530 (upgrade issue)
** gdm: add XDG_CONFIG_DIRS on session
** adds banshee desktop files for the netbook interface
* Misc:
** finished and upload a first new version of OneConf. Package ready to be tested with last Software Center and update notifier
** lot of discussion with launchpad team for Quickly
** some cleanup and contribution to software center
** ask dh-autoreconf sync
** banshee : add apport hook and work with jcastro/upstream about
** quickly: merge and review a lot of external contributions

==== Gary Lasker (tremolux) ====

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

* done:
** KDE SC 4.5.0 packaging
** updating to new packagekit snapshot
** Kubuntu meeting
** turn on message indicator for kopete and quassel and konversation
** package cagibi, new uPNP daemon from upstream, give feedback to upstream on problems
** update packages for soprano, pyqt, sip, eigen
** sync kdevelop packaging with debian
** libmpc transition for xine
** review system-config-printer-kde packaging as relevant for us and Debian
** Remove indi binary package from indi source
** update list of upstream .desktop translations needed in main and make sure all KDE apps in main generate their templates
** launch new kubuntu.org website.  finally.

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
* desktop-maverick-social-api 
** Ported the poster related widgets to libgwibber
** Added signals needed for the poster as well as for indicator-me
** Added methods for querying more info out of gwibber, needed for indicator-me and the poster widget
** Added pango overlay for character count
* gwibber
** finished off sqlite merge from Ryan
** added indicator support and interest checking to handle status icon display vs. messaging menu
* desktop-maverick-empathy-indicator
** Fixed build issues/remove previous workarounds for the vala update
* usual weekly uploads, etc

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

* SRU review and processing                            
* apport retracer maintenance                          
* archive administration                               
* bug triage                                           
* coordinated apt rebuilds with mvo                    
* debugged unwanted suspend on undocking (LP #595985)  
* gnome-power-manager bug fixing                       
* merged libwmf, to get desktop installable again      
* prepared and conducted interview for desktop engineer
* python-distutils-extra bug fixing                    
* release management and engineering                   
* some package changes to reduce CD space, by eliminating huge upstream changelogs
* udev bug fixing

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* Platform Rally and GUADEC
* Update GTK+ to 2.21.5
* Update Compiz to 0.8.6
* Misc. Maverick updates
* Working on Rhythmbox podcast search patch

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* distro sprint, GUADEC
* backported a gnome-keyring fix for non ascii keyring names
* lucid sru for the gnome-keyring change
* updated pidgin
* backported an indicator-sound crash fix
* cleaned launchpad-integration .la files to fix build issues
* cleaned an obsolete compiz build-depends
* sponsored Cody's update to fix gtk warnings due to the proxy changes

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* splix: Got upstream commit rights for the project. Applied patches which were submitted to SourceForge after the 2.0.0 release, added support for new printer models according to user reports, fixed spec compliance of the PPD files, packaged resulting state for Ubuntu.
* ghostscript: Fixed memory handling of the CUPS Raster output device. Unnecessarily tight default values could make more complex PS or PDF input files with high resolution, transparency, ... erroring out when rendering on systems with low memory. Applied also several patches from upstream bug reports to the upstream repository, especially also one which made Ghostscript using up all virtual memory of the system and so crashing the system when displaying certain files on the screen and segfault when using DeviceN color models. These fixes will go into Ubuntu either with Ghostscript 9.00 if it gets finished before FF or as patches on the current Ghostscript 8.71.
* foo2zjs: Updated to current snapshot.
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports.

== IRC Log ==
[17:29] <seb128> sorry u1-ers but it's meeting time for the desktop team now so you will have to be quiet or move to another channel ;-) <<BR>>
[17:30] <seb128> chrisccoulson, didrocks, tremolux, Riddell, kenvandine, pitti, hey <<BR>>
[17:30] <nessita> seb128: no problem, thanks for the patience! <<BR>>
[17:30] <Riddell> hi <<BR>>
[17:30] <seb128> (did I forget anybody?) <<BR>>
[17:30]  * tremolux waves <<BR>>
[17:30] <seb128> rickspencer is on holidays this week <<BR>>
[17:30] <seb128> so I'm leading the meeting <<BR>>
[17:30] <ArneGoetje> Hi all... I'm still around. <<BR>>
[17:30] <seb128> hey ArneGoetje <<BR>>
[17:30] <seb128> ok, nice ;-) <<BR>>
[17:30]  * kenvandine waves <<BR>>
[17:31] <seb128> ok, so let's get started <<BR>>
[17:31] <didrocks> hey <<BR>>
[17:31] <seb128> not outstanding action it seems <<BR>>
[17:31] <gicmo> hey mvo! <<BR>>
[17:31]  * gicmo hugs mvo back <<BR>>
[17:31] <gicmo> hey rodrigo_ <<BR>>
[17:31] <seb128> kenvandine, partner update? <<BR>>
[17:32] <kenvandine> sure <<BR>>
[17:32] <gicmo> rodrigo_, what was your lame excuse for not coming to GUADEC again? <<BR>>
[17:32] <gicmo> ;-) <<BR>>
[17:32] <rodrigo_> gicmo, how you're doing? <<BR>>
[17:32] <kenvandine> UbuntuOne "generations" work has landed for the client, this is the peformance improvements for file sync.  There are still a few items to finish on the server side, but that will be done very soon. <<BR>>
[17:32] <rodrigo_> gicmo, didn't want to see you :) <<BR>>
[17:32] <gicmo> rodrigo_, ahh, valid reason I guess! <<BR>>
[17:32] <gicmo> ;-) <<BR>>
[17:32] <kenvandine> single signon client is about ready, but blocked on server deployment by ISD.  ubuntuone-preferences and the music store plugin are ready to use it if it lands.  If the sso client doesn't make it, they gracefully fall back to the web login. <<BR>>
[17:32] <rodrigo_> gicmo, no, seriously, I had a travel the week before for the platform spring <<BR>>
[17:32] <rodrigo_> sprint <<BR>>
[17:32] <gicmo> ah! <<BR>>
[17:32] <gicmo> i see <<BR>>
[17:32] <seb128> rodrigo_, gicmo: sorry but we are having a meeting there <<BR>>
[17:32] <rodrigo_> gicmo, so didn't feel like being 2 weeks away <<BR>>
[17:32] <rodrigo_> oh sorry <<BR>>
[17:32] <seb128> rodrigo_, gicmo: can you move to query? <<BR>>
[17:33] <gicmo> sure, sorry seb <<BR>>
[17:33] <seb128> thanks <<BR>>
[17:33] <kenvandine> so U1 is looking ok for a3... sso didn't make it for a3 but that is pretty low risk i think if we get it soon <<BR>>
[17:33] <seb128> ok <<BR>>
[17:33] <seb128> I hope they will work on improving the changes they did this cycle <<BR>>
[17:33] <kenvandine> DX has been keeping a great schedule of getting stuff out, things are in pretty good shape <<BR>>
[17:33] <Chipaca> and471: do you have a screenshot? I'm talking with johnlea :) <<BR>>
[17:34] <seb128> especially the nautilus and rhythmbox ones <<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> seb128, well the generations stuff should be a big improvement for file sync <<BR>>
[17:34] <seb128> we got bugs about nautilus being quite slow due to u1 <<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> yeah <<BR>>
[17:34] <seb128> and the rb u1 icon in the bar is weird <<BR>>
[17:34] <seb128> the dialog with no "close" but just "tweet" as well <<BR>>
[17:34] <mvo> and471, Chipaca: I'm off for dinner, but if there is anything I can help with the merge, please let me know I will read scrollback <<BR>>
[17:34] <kenvandine> is there a bug on that? <<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> that could be ported to use libgwibber :) <<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> and the icon should probably look different <<BR>>
[17:35] <seb128> dunno, I will open one later if not <<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> or be represented differently <<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> please assign the ubuntu bug to me <<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> so i see it <<BR>>
[17:35] <seb128> kenvandine, dx do you know where we stand concerning the connman indicator? <<BR>>
[17:35] <kenvandine> right now it is confusing imho <<BR>>
[17:35] <seb128> kenvandine, ok <<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> i think the plan is to go with connman in une still, right? <<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> didrocks, ^^ <<BR>>
[17:36] <seb128> I doubt it <<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> i asked kvalo about that in prague <<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> he thought we still would... but i know OEMs don'e want it <<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> yet <<BR>>
[17:36] <didrocks> kenvandine: no, we talked about it together in Prague, it will be very late for the change <<BR>>
[17:36] <seb128> ok, I will follow up with you guys and dx about that later <<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> ok <<BR>>
[17:36] <seb128> thanks kenvandine <<BR>>
[17:36] <kenvandine> that is all i have <<BR>>
[17:37] <seb128> does anybody has other questions for kenvandine? <<BR>>
[17:37] <didrocks> no question for me <<BR>>
[17:37] <seb128> ok <<BR>>
[17:37] <seb128> let's move on <<BR>>
[17:38] <seb128> Riddell, hey <<BR>>
[17:38] <seb128> Riddell, kubuntu update? <<BR>>
[17:38] <Riddell> afternoon <<BR>>
[17:38] <chrisccoulson> b'ah, i don't get notified in the indicator anymore when someone highlights me in xchat <<BR>>
[17:38] <Riddell>  - 4.5.0 is in the archive and compiled, although some changes from upstream are still possible and kde-l10n needs to be uploaded again <<BR>>
[17:38] <Riddell>  - CDs for alpha 3 due to be spinned after this publisher run <<BR>>
[17:38] <Riddell>  - message indicator on for chat but not e-mail clients following kubuntu meeting decision <<BR>>
[17:38] <Riddell>  - yay our new website finally went live <<BR>>
[17:38] <Riddell>  - reverted back to dragon video player, kaffeine has issues <<BR>>
[17:38] <Riddell>  - ubuntuone-kde file syncing progressing well, mostly blocked on 'upstream' merging patches to support kwallet <<BR>>
[17:39] <Riddell> in unrelated news, libmpcdec3 did a transition to libmpcdec6 and gstreamer needs to update, who does that? <<BR>>
[17:39] <seb128> did debian did the same transition? <<BR>>
[17:40] <Riddell> yes <<BR>>
[17:41] <seb128> I guess any motu who wants to rebuild it or resync on debian <<BR>>
[17:41] <seb128> since it's in universe <<BR>>
[17:41] <Riddell> ok <<BR>>
[17:41] <seb128> feel free to do an upload if you want <<BR>>
[17:42] <kenvandine> Riddell, upstreaming being OLS right? <<BR>>
[17:42] <Riddell> kenvandine: yes <<BR>>
[17:42] <kenvandine> Riddell, feel free to point me at those patches and i will get on them about it :) <<BR>>
[17:43] <Riddell> kenvandine: https://code.launchpad.net/~apachelogger/ubuntuone-client/kwallet-support/+merge/311 <<BR>>
[17:43] <micahg> Riddell: bug 611024 is for the libmpcdec transition, seems gstreamer was forgotten <<BR>>
[17:43] <ubot2> Launchpad bug 611024 in xmms2 (Ubuntu) (and 13 other projects) "Rebuild for libmpcdec3 â†’ libmpcdec6 transition (affects: 2) (heat: 16)" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/611024 <<BR>>
[17:43] <Riddell> no https://code.launchpad.net/~apachelogger/ubuntuone-client/kwallet-support/+merge/31138 <<BR>>
[17:43] <Riddell> https://code.launchpad.net/~apachelogger/desktopcouch/kwallet-support/+merge/31135 <<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128> Riddell, thanks <<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128> anybody having questions or comments about the kubuntu update? <<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> seems not, moving on <<BR>>
[17:45] <seb128> didrocks, UNE update? <<BR>>
[17:45] <didrocks> sure <<BR>>
[17:45] <didrocks> Fresh unity from Monday, ready for rocking A3: <<BR>>
[17:45] <didrocks> * add support for places in the launcher <<BR>>
[17:45] <didrocks> improved power and CPU management (more to come!) <<BR>>
[17:45] <didrocks> browseable unity-place-files <<BR>>
[17:45] <didrocks> lot of bug fixes <<BR>>
[17:45] <didrocks> UNE got shotwell by default for A3! <<BR>>
[17:46] <didrocks> evolution and banshee got dedicated desktop file for UNE session but not showing up in the session (bug in unity-place-applications) <<BR>>
[17:46] <didrocks> banshee still wait on the udev backend to be merged into trunk <<BR>>
[17:46] <didrocks> that's it, A3 is looking good in a nutshell :) <<BR>>
[17:46] <seb128> didrocks, do you still have any mir pending approval? <<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> didrocks, if you do please ping asac about those <<BR>>
[17:47] <didrocks> (special kudos to pitti for the image size) <<BR>>
=== fta_ is now known as fta <<BR>>
[17:47] <didrocks> seb128: there will be two: banshee once the udev backend is there, and another one for zg-extension with the new zg <<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> ok <<BR>>
[17:47] <didrocks> but for now, I'm not blocked <<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> alright <<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> didrocks, nice job! <<BR>>
[17:47] <chrisccoulson> and mir for chromium too? <<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> chrisccoulson, let's come back in that after the status updates <<BR>>
[17:48] <chrisccoulson> ok, carry on ;) <<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> didrocks, thanks <<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> didrocks, I don't think will still need you, feel free to run for your dinner <<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> ok, moving on <<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> tremolux, hey <<BR>>
[17:49] <tremolux> seb128: hi! <<BR>>
[17:49] <tremolux> of, s-c update: <<BR>>
[17:49] <didrocks> seb128: thanks a lot, still some free minutes there :) <<BR>>
[17:49] <tremolux> Buy Something: Good progress client and server, end-to-end integration demoed in Prague with test server; now refining UI, improve error handling, integrate metadata support <<BR>>
[17:49] <tremolux> New Apps: New apps displayed in carousel and in list ordered by date they appeared (newest first), custom metadata and LP icon support near-complete <<BR>>
[17:49] <tremolux> UI Enhancements: Added support to detect and display packages for which there is not an associated repository (or it has been disabled) <<BR>>
[17:49] <tremolux> General: We nailed down a plan at Prague rally for long-term server-side metadata capabilities (meanwhile we are using current LP facility) <<BR>>
[17:49] <tremolux> (detailed report on wiki, thanks!) <<BR>>
[17:49] <tremolux> (woah, large) <<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> tremolux, thanks <<BR>>
[17:51] <tremolux> seb128: sure thing  :) <<BR>>
[17:51] <tremolux> I think we are in good shape for a3 <<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> impressive work going on s-c this cycle, kudos to you, mvo, didrocks and other contributors ;-) <<BR>>
[17:52] <tremolux> thanks a lot seb128  :) <<BR>>
[17:52] <seb128> anybody having any s-c related question? <<BR>>
[17:52] <seb128> didrocks landed oneconf to maverick this week on a similar note if people want to test it <<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> ok, moving on <<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> the freeze for alpha3 started today <<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> you are welcome to help testing iso if you can <<BR>>
[17:54] <seb128> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-maverick-alpha-3.html <<BR>>
[17:54] <seb128> that's our workitems line for this cycle <<BR>>
[17:54] <seb128> not really great but it got a bit unregular due to holidays, confs, travelling, etc <<BR>>
[17:55] <seb128> we postponed and dropped some specs but nothing which was important <<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> chrisccoulson, kenvandine, tremolux: you still have one work item, if you don't get it done by thursday please don't forget to move it to beta <<BR>>
[17:56] <kenvandine> will do <<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> other remaining items are mostly raof <<BR>>
[17:56] <tremolux> will do <<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> now is about time to get your list of work items for next iteration on shape as well <<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> ideally we would have those defined before alpha3 <<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> so please try to spend some time on that this week <<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> don't take over what you can do <<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> and let's try to take holidays and conferences into account this cycle <<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> so if you are away during august please adjust your workitems count to reflect that <<BR>>
=== fta_ is now known as fta <<BR>>
[17:59] <seb128> ok <<BR>>
[17:59] <seb128> that said, going back to chrisccoulson's question <<BR>>
[17:59] <seb128> chrisccoulson, chromium? ;-) <<BR>>
[18:00] <seb128> chrisccoulson, how is your workload atm? settling down a bit after the firefox security updates? <<BR>>
[18:00] <chrisccoulson> yeah, i've had time to do other maintenance activities, write a firefox extension and write a bot for uploading symbols to mozilla <<BR>>
[18:00] <seb128> nice <<BR>>
[18:00] <chrisccoulson> it's been a nice change :) <<BR>>
[18:01] <seb128> how is the firefox bug to upstream thing going? <<BR>>
[18:01] <chrisccoulson> yeah, we're mostly there. i'm currently blocked on being able to push the crash symbols from the datacenter, but i'm talking to IS about that now <<BR>>
[18:02] <seb128> ok <<BR>>
[18:02] <chrisccoulson> so i'll probably be uploading symbols manually in the meantime, which is not good for my bandwidth ;) <<BR>>
[18:02] <seb128> chrisccoulson, do you think you will have some time for chromium to check with the security team and fta what implication moving to main would have? <<BR>>
[18:03] <chrisccoulson> yeah, sure. we need fta to still be able to upload it really <<BR>>
[18:03] <seb128> chrisccoulson, we also need to figure what to do for translations, I guess for now it would just not have langpacks or translations stripping <<BR>>
[18:03] <seb128> chrisccoulson, do we have rdepends that will need to be promoted as well if we promote chromium? <<BR>>
[18:03] <chrisccoulson> i'm not sure yet, i'll look at that though <<BR>>
[18:04] <seb128> ok <<BR>>
[18:04] <seb128> can you take an action item to check that for next meeting? <<BR>>
[18:04] <chrisccoulson> yeah, can do <<BR>>
[18:04] <chrisccoulson> also, <<BR>>
[18:04] <seb128> [ACTION] chrisccoulson to check chromium rdepends and to figure what implication promoting it would have for security and contributors <<BR>>
[18:04] <chrisccoulson> people are still having issues with buildd capacity (particularly with PPA's), and that's going to get a whole lot worse with chromium in main <<BR>>
[18:05] <Chipaca> and471: mvo: nessita: rodrigo_: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TheGreatUbuntuSingleSignOnClientsMergeOf2010 (WIP) <<BR>>
[18:05] <chrisccoulson> i'm not sure how we're going to handle that ;) <<BR>>
[18:05] <seb128> chrisccoulson, we got an ack for extra buildds <<BR>>
[18:05] <seb128> so the situations should be better rsn <<BR>>
[18:05] <seb128> I'm not sure when rsn is though ;-) <<BR>>
[18:05] <chrisccoulson> seb128 - cool, thanks <<BR>>
[18:05] <chrisccoulson> fta^^^ <<BR>>
[18:06] <seb128> ok <<BR>>
[18:06] <seb128> any other topic? questions? comment? <<BR>>
[18:06] <fta> chrisccoulson, yeah, i won't hold my breath on that though <<BR>>
[18:08] <seb128> ok, seems note <<BR>>
[18:08] <seb128> thanks everybody, and don't forget to get your beta work items in shape this week <<BR>>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
