{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:desktop-karmic-content-library
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

This should provide an overview of the issue/functionality/change proposed here. Focus here on what will actually be DONE, summarising that so that other people don't have to read the whole spec. See also CategorySpec for examples.

=== Release Note ===

This section should include a paragraph describing the end-user impact of this change.  It is meant to be included in the release notes of the first release in which it is implemented.  (Not all of these will actually be included in the release notes, at the release manager's discretion; but writing them is a useful exercise.)

It is mandatory.

=== Rationale ===

This should cover the _why_: why is this change being proposed, what justifies it, where we see this justified.

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

=== Gobby notes from discussion ===

https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-karmic-content-library

Discussion about a common place to store metadata about their media. Blueprint
links to several existing related projects.

Zeitgeist: logs downloaded files, watches Recently Used and file starts and
keeps a record of each. So "importing files into your library" becomes "play
those files" (which may be a problem for 25000 mp3s).
Works for several kinds of applications now. Can be extended. Queries over 
dbus. Does not store all kinds of metadata, but stores at least a URI and
mime type. Does not distinguish between "deleted" (file has been removed) and
"offline" (file is not there because it was on a removeable disc that has been
removed).

Would be good to define what we want a metadata library to do.

Lars: need a tool to manage photography workflow. F-Spot is not that tool;
for a start, it requires you to store all your photos in one place, which is
a problem if you have more photos on a removeable hard drive.

DoctorMO: requirements for content library are simple. Classing, and standard
API for every kind of object. Our solution needs to consider migration
strategy. We still have to access legacy databases. Has some kind of
solution: not a datastore, its pipes, interfaces over dbus(???). Designed
to cope with local, online, hardware data. Idea is to collect information in
logical form to be delivered to the interface. Every object provides standard
API. This allows creating world's best database. Name: Central Services.

Miyana(sp?) is another database. Operates a bit like zeitgeist.

Mojito project in Moblin. Purely for online content.

Features:
should be performant even with thousands/millions of files
distributed (can take the database away on a second machine without the files, 
 and import new data into that "copy" database)
thumbnails of images stored in the database

Searching is important, based on all metadata and full content search
too. Tracker is an existing solution, except it has problems, but those
seem fixable eventually.

----
CategorySpec
