{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.
== No Team Meeting today due to holidays etc... ==

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

* friday was swapday for dublin and knetworkmanager overnight hack session.
* prepare network-manager, network-manager-applet and modemmanager trunk branches for daily builds using fta's build bot; get fta to add them to his bot; verify that it works and address initial issues
* thunderbird security updates prepared and uploaded to -security PPA.
* firefox 3.6 was branched upstream; 3.7 builds now available in mozilla daily
* knetworkmanager - debugging issues with NM 0.8 and fix them upstream; try to help #kubuntu-devel to get them into alpha4
* brain dumped how to do knetworkmanager development on ubuntu to wiki https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DevelopingKNetworkManager
* network-manager team administration: rejected applicants that never contributed code 
* discuss firefox 3.5 by default spec verification with micagh

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

==== Tony Espy (awe) ====
* travel from Dublin Platform Sprint trip.
* worked on debugging NM 0.8 Kubuntu problem.  Spent some time trying to figure out how to debug NM problems via DBUS.
* minor cleanup of NM 0.8 bzr branch, deleted deprecated DBUS startup scripts.
* NM 0.8 bug work: helped bug reporters gather correct information for 3G bug support regressions, also worked on a regression in the ifupdown plugin: lp: 413622 - NM ignores mapped interfaces in /etc/network/interfaces

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====
* Several uploads of CUPS, as pitti is on vacation: Pitti's and my fixes of the Sprint week (especially setting a bigger RIP cache as default so that large-format high-resolution photo printing works), trigger udev event for cold-plugged USB printers, rebuild for new Poppler, updated pdftoopvp filter for new Poppler, suppressed CUPS' own log rotation, as the system already rotates the log files.
* Uploaded Gutenprint 5.2.4.
* Checked drivers for Feature Freeze: SpliX, foo2zjs, and HPLIP are up-to-date.
* Adapted the cpdftocps to the changes in CUPS 1.3.11 and proposed it as a fix for LP: #412709. No amswer of the original poster yet.
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
