{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:deviantart-theme-competition
* '''Packages affected''': ubuntu-wallpapers

=== Summary ===

Ubuntu 8.10's theme revamp should engage with the large community of creative-commons artists at DeviantArt. An idea is to run a competition on DeviantArt to design new wallpapers for Ubuntu 8.10, to be released in October 2008. The competition would be similar to Inkscape's theme competitions at http://inkscapers.deviantart.com/journal/16001755/ or FreeSpire's at http://news.deviantart.com/article/21252/. The competition would hopefully be promoted on the front page of DeviantArt, via various Ubuntu related sites, and social news media.

=== Rationale ===

Nowadays with more and more people wanting to join in and help out Ubuntu, artists included. They just need a prompt or a clear way in. Examples of this are Ubuntu Brainstorm, where before there was the Idea Pool which few people contributed to, now there is a clear and easy way to contribute ideas. This means that there has been a massive increase in the amount of idea's contributed. The wallpaper competition would do the same thing, it would make it easier for artists to contribute to Ubuntu in a clear and easy way.

=== Implementation ===

The competition rules will be as follows:

* Wallpapers must be beautiful
* Original artworks, submitted by their authors.
* Use Ubuntu's existing palette
* Creative Commons licensed
* Include your name or company name in the file name
* Work well as a wallpaper. This means:
*** Good contrast against the white text use for desktop icons
*** Not too busy to distract from the desktop's contents
* Be suitable for children and different cultures
* Vector images should be submitted as an SVG, in both widescreen and standard resolution aspects.
* Raster images must be submitted in both widescreen and standard aspects, and openable in Gimp - this means Photoshop files are OK, but may not use layer    effects.

The winner will be decided by Mark Shuttleworth

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Suggestions:

Discussions:
