{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''':
* '''Created''': 2009-07-28
* '''Contributors''': Desktop Team, DX Team, Design Team
* '''Packages affected''': 
* '''Related specs''': 
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FoundationsTeam/Specs/KarmicUpdatesOnShutdown
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopExperienceTeam/KarmicBootExperienceDesignSpec

=== Summary ===

This specification covers design and implementation details of the Shutdown and Restart Experience in Ubuntu Karmic. Proposed solutions will affect the structure, look&feel and functional aspects of the Usplash exit screen.

=== Release Note ===

=== Rationale ===

The new shutdown and restart experience will provide the user with a visually pleasing and smooth transition from the desktop session/gdm into the power-off state.

=== User stories ===

* John wants to shut down his machine after the day's work. 

* Ali wants to restart her computer after she noticed some problems with the system performance.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

If the session will exit, the screen should linearly take 1 second to fade to black and be turned off.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

CategorySpec
