{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (ccheney)
* Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson)
* Didier Roche (didrocks)
* Gary Lasker (tremolux)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)
* Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF)

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Guadec
* Sprint
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===
* OneConf testing (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OneConf/Testing) 

=== Guadec ===
https://wiki.canonical.com/Marketing/Events/2010/GUADEC

=== Sprint ===
* Going to come up fast
* Book your travel
* July 19th - 23rd

=== Partner Update ===
===== OLS =====
* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-MaverickWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>
 
===== DX =====
* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-MaverickWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>
* indicator-network is in universe now, if you want to, you can follow <nowiki>[[ConnMan|these instructions]]</nowiki>
* appmenu-gtk and indicator-appmenu are not in une by default yet, pending bug fixes.
* indicator-sound with player widget landed in maverick

=== Kubuntu Update ===

=== UNE Update ===

* Normal release this week, as well in maverick than in lucid UNE ppa, mostly bugfixes
* Coming soon (next release), places with file (and zeitgeist) and applications places. Also workspaces switch handling!
* No bug report in transitionning from lucid (UNE) -> maverick, and lucid (unity ppa) -> maverick: some people tried, good news!
* So, maybe some uploads next Thursday at the beginning of the freeze for alpha2 (depending on when the freeze will begin) to get UNE in shape for alpha3 (MIR for new components + NEWing)

=== Software Center Update ===

* New Apps on a Stable Release
** Blueprint and work items updated to reflect current implementation details
** Application Review Board team and associated PPA have been created:  https://launchpad.net/~app-review-board
** Work items targeted for alpha 2 are complete
** A prototype UI (based on mpt's spec) to showcase apps in the app-review-board PPA was implemented
** Next step:  LP metadata integration for app-review-board PPA

* Buy Something
** We decided to create a new web application called the Software Center Agent
** Will act as the primary contact point for Software Center
** Will serve as broker between the Payments service and Launchpad
** Will be django-based and will provide a lazr.restful API for use by Software Center
** Michael Nelson to work on this, effort is under way this week
** Plan is to deliver an early stub implementation (target next week) with test content for use in Software Center client development
** Payments service scheduled to go live in staging beginning part of this week
** LP team has implemented the needed metadata framework and remains on-track for June 30th upload window
** Target remains full end-to-end integration at Prague sprint

* UI Enhancements
** Display of installed packages for PPA/channels feature is complete
** Single-pane department screen feature in-progress (this is the last remaining new feature targeted for Alpha 2)

=== Release Status ===

http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-maverick-alpha-2.html

=== Other Business ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

==== Chris Cheney (ccheney) ====
* Paternity Leave (Jun 8 - Jun 17)
* Server team work

==== Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson) ====

==== Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF) ====

* X:
** Talked with Chris Wilson of intel DDX upstream about forward-porting the old DDX for i8xx cards to avoid the horrible problems people have in Lucid (& Karmic).  Hacked on his “legacy” branch, still quite a lot of work to do, and he's in a better position to do it.
** Looked at hw enablement for SiS 671/771 cards - there's fairly long-standing bug with a link to a forked SiS DDX which supports these cards.  The fork is ''big'', and I don't want to support two SiS drivers.  Merging the fork back into the freedesktop.org driver would be the right thing, but take time.
** Update xserver to new RC.
** Prodded bug #595182 - upstream's patch works & seems reasonable, committed to pkg-xorg git, soon to be uploaded.
** Rootless X: checked all the files X wants to write to in use.  It's more than just /sys/stuff/backlight, but not much more.
** Long discussion with asac going over what a good ARM driver would look like on the DDX/mesa/kernel front.  Hopefully this will help asac be useful to vendors, and we'll get some good open-source ARM graphics drivers :).

==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====

* UNE:
** new unity release: baf, clutk, dee, unity-asset-pool, unity
** backport to UNE lucid ppa, with upgraded mutter
** support to dx team for packaging and bumping needed
** prepare new version of zeitgeist
** package libzeitgeist, unity-places-file and zeitgeist extension for next unity release
** work on banshee:
*** got switcher between netbook and normal ui
*** show only one ui at a time
*** some misc. design fix
*** needs help for one change
*** connect upstream to investigate a hal free branch. (blocking for UNE right now)
** got a working evolution express branch
* Quickly:
** tried to contact LP guys to get support in creating gpg/ssh key, no answer for now
* GNOME:
** update evolution, evolution-data-server, gkhtml and evolution-exchange to 2.30.2
** updated vala for trunk hellness and vala building vala :-)
** sponsor sane-backends, indicator-network, indicator-application, evolution-indicator
** add indicator support to gtk-recordmydesktop
** fixes in dh-autoreconf
** lucid SRU:
*** empathy: new release
*** f-spot: backport a git fix when trying to send by email
*** evolution-data-server: revert previous SRU making issue with people having ". " in name
*** light-theme: kwwii tweak for SoundMenu SRU breaking background slider color

==== Gary Lasker (tremolux) ====
* Software Center
** Reviewed, tested, and merged lp:~mmcg069/software-center/catview2-take3; further refinements to category screen
** Implemented channel views for the installed section feature
** Updated blueprint and work items for New Apps on a Stable Release to reflect current implementation details
** LP: #594817 - disable hide non-apps for the Featured Applications category
** LP: #596443 - fix intermittent error when searching
** Mumbled with flacoste about new Software Center Agent web service
** Released Software Center version 2.1.3 (thanks seb128 for sponsoring!)
** Email thread with mpt, Matthew McGowan and mvo to discuss category screen design and plan
** Created Launchpad team and PPA for the Application Review Board
** Started work on single-pane department screen UI enhancement
** Software Center bug triage
** Weekly Software Center call
* Other
** tzdata bug triage

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
* Added introspection to libgwibber and dropped python bindings in favor of pygi
* Nearly finished porting the Poster gtk widget from python to libgwibber, just need to finish the AccountTargetBar
* Created packages for libgwibber, will get them reviewed and uploaded this week
* built gtk-docs for libgwibber, but having some issues with docstrings and vala
* Added libproxy support to gwibber-service, fixing a long standing bug.
* Weekly DX releases
* mono policy tweaks for libappindicator0.1-cil, fixing apps that depend on libappindicator0.0-cil

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====
===== Accessibility =====
* Further work with vinux developers to improve their build process. This means taking a lot of shell code, and converting it into package related configuration at this point, which will take a while.
* Spent time trying to figure out how to easily allow users to enable at-spi2 for testing, and siable it easily again when they don't want to use it, probably a small gui app that adjusts the gconf key is the best approach that I have thought of so far.

===== Audio =====
* Audio bug triaging, bugs in question were against the alsa userspace packages, pulseaudio, and the kernel.
* Submitted a patch upstrea for a user's hda hardware that was known to work with a particular module option.
* Spent significant time attempting to debug the build failures of the alsa daily builds. It looks like upstream managed to break it somehow, and haven't fixed it. If they documented their alsa-driver tarball construction method better, I may have been able to better debug/bisect git repositories to find the problem.

===== Misc =====
* More upload sponsoring for Robert Ancell and Chris Hals Rogers.
==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

* alpha 2 work items completed this week
* SRU review and processing
* Technical Board meeting
* apport bug fixing and improvements
* archive administration
* bug triage
* desktop team meeting
* investigated btrfs support in udisks
* langpack-locales bug fixing
* sponsored libusb
* udisks bug fixing

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====
* Package python-pymt
* Maverick updates: rdesktop, pygtk, gtk-vnc, goocanvas, pygoocanvas, compiz, sane-backends, compizconfig-backend-gconf, compiz-fusion-plugins-main, empathy, dconf, gnome-utils, gdm
* Make Rhythmbox always show main window on startup
* Fix Rhythmbox podcast downloading (+SRU)

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* desktop updates: pango poppler glib gedit vinagre gnome-desktop gconf pygobject gnome-session libwnck
* backported a glib git change to fix the armel build
* updated glib packaging to install gdb macros
* reviewed and cleaned ayatana changes to rhythmbox for the new sound indicator and uploaded to maverick
* reviewed gtk change to fix appmenu issues
* dropped csd gtk change from maverick for now
* cleaned empathy packaging and sponsor new version
* backported appmenu-gtk fix to maverick
* new rhythmbox snapshot
* cleaned rhythmbox sources
* desktop bugs triage
* investigated some issues in lucid due to recent updates
* SRU to lucid: 
** backported gdm fixed from git
** backported gtk fix for indicator refresh issues and fixed a lack of replaces
** GNOME 2.30.2 updates: gedit gtksourceview vinagre gnome-keyring gnome-desktop
** sponsored an evolution-data-server git fix for a libgnome-keyring crasher
** backported telepathy-sofiasip fix from git
** sponsored farsight fix backported by a contributor and an another fix from debian

* sponsoring: ubuntu-sso-client software-center appmenu-gtk indicator-appmenu indicator-sound indicator-applet humanity-icon-theme language-selector tomboy gnome-settings-daemon

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====
* Ghostscript: First tests of the upcoming 9.00, the first Ghostscript with ICC-based color management. Still somewhat buggy.
* Worked with GSoC student on tool to compress PostScript PPDs installed in the distro.
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports. 

== IRC Logs ==
[17:30]  * rickspencer3 taps gavel<<BR>>
[17:30] <rickspencer3> hi ccheney<<BR>>
[17:30] <rickspencer3> so, i only have 30 mintues<<BR>>
[17:31] <rickspencer3> I know you are all devastated by this news<<BR>>
[17:31] <kenvandine> :)<<BR>>
[17:31] <rickspencer3> but if we run over, seb128 said he can finish up with release stuff<<BR>>
[17:31] <seb128> yes ;-)<<BR>>
[17:31] <rickspencer3> first is outstanding actions:<<BR>>
[17:31] <rickspencer3> OneConf testing (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OneConf/Testing) <<BR>>
[17:32] <didrocks> so, who tested? :-)<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> did anyone help out with this didrocks?<<BR>>
[17:32] <didrocks> I asked the french community and got some feedbacks (6 people)<<BR>>
[17:32] <didrocks> they have the list of apps and diff they expected<<BR>>
[17:32] <didrocks> I'm still sure there are apps that shows that shouldn't and on the opposite too<<BR>>
[17:32] <didrocks> but we'll figure out for A3<<BR>>
[17:33] <didrocks> mpt is working on design now and mvo will work soon on USC plugin system<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> very cool<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> didrocks, is this in A2?<<BR>>
[17:34] <didrocks> rickspencer3: the USC task was for A2, but I just postponed it to A3 as I'm blocking on design and USC<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:34] <didrocks> things should be on track now, people got some time to work on what's blocking me :)<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> good job didrocks<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> awesome contribution<<BR>>
[17:35] <didrocks> thanks :)<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> moving on ...<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> Guadec<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> https://wiki.canonical.com/Marketing/Events/2010/GUADEC <<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> jono has kindly stepped in to coordinate us<<BR>>
[17:36] <rickspencer3> so, I'll be there the whole time<<BR>>
[17:36] <rickspencer3> but I haven't added myself to the wiki yet<<BR>>
[17:36] <rickspencer3> anyone else going<<BR>>
[17:36] <rickspencer3> ?<<BR>>
[17:36] <didrocks> me o/ I was wondering if going the whole time was needed too or not, but after discussing with seb128, it seems most of people are going Monday and Tuesday too<<BR>>
[17:36]  * rickspencer3 taps fingers<<BR>>
[17:37] <seb128> I'm going<<BR>>
[17:37] <seb128> will do that today<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> didrocks,  I think you should go on Monday and Tuesday if you want to hang out<<BR>>
[17:37] <chrisccoulson> i wasn't sure whether i should go or not<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> but if you have other stuff that you want to do, in personal life, etc...<<BR>>
[17:37] <pedro_> I'm going as well, i'll be there for almost the whole conference, i'm leaving on Friday noon<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> showing up Wednesday would be great as well<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> chrisccoulson, I think you should absolutely go if you want to<<BR>>
[17:37] <pedro_> there's a couple of interesting BoFs on Monday/Tuesday<<BR>>
[17:38] <rickspencer3> ok, so everyone get on the Guaedec wiki today<<BR>>
[17:39] <rickspencer3> if you are like chrisccoulson, and are *thinking* about going, feel free to ping me or seb128 to discuss<<BR>>
[17:39] <rickspencer3> next item is the sprint<<BR>>
[17:39] <rickspencer3> please book travel if you haven't already<<BR>>
[17:39] <kenvandine> done :)<<BR>>
[17:39] <rickspencer3> and start thinking about good goals for the sprint<<BR>>
[17:39] <rickspencer3> also, add yourself to the sprint wiki<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> the sprint is July 19th - 23rd<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> this will be here before we know it!<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, partner update?<<BR>>
[17:40] <kenvandine> sure<<BR>>
[17:41] <kenvandine> U1 has slowly been trickling out weekly releases...<<BR>>
[17:41] <kenvandine> this week will include the update rb plugin for the music store, with gwibber and url sharing<<BR>>
[17:42] <kenvandine> for DX<<BR>>
[17:42] <kenvandine> indicator-network is in universe, please test if you can<<BR>>
[17:42] <kenvandine> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ConnMan <<BR>>
[17:42] <kenvandine> for instructions... you don't need the ppa on maverick<<BR>>
[17:42] <kenvandine> indicator-sound has landed with the player controls<<BR>>
[17:42] <kenvandine> lots of good stuff to test :)<<BR>>
[17:43] <kenvandine> appmenu hasn't been added to une by default yet<<BR>>
[17:43] <kenvandine> pending bug fixes<<BR>>
[17:43] <kenvandine> i am hoping it gets added soon<<BR>>
[17:43] <kenvandine> that is all i have<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> no app menue in A2?<<BR>>
[17:43] <didrocks> (not sure it will do it for alpha2, will be discussed next release)<<BR>>
[17:43] <seb128> rickspencer3, I'm inclined to say no right now<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128> rickspencer3, we can discuss that later on if you want<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> seb128, it's your call<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> if you say it's not ready, it's not ready<<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128> ok, so not decided<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> thanks kenvandine<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> no Riddell<<BR>>
[17:44] <Riddell> no me?<<BR>>
[17:44] <seb128> but it they don't start fixing their issue rsn it will not be in alpha2...<<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> hi Riddell<<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> :)<<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> I didn't see your update on the wiki<<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> go ahead Riddell<<BR>>
[17:45] <Riddell> never got a reminder e-mail :)<<BR>>
[17:45] <Riddell> (possibly the fault of my e-mail)<<BR>>
[17:45] <Riddell>  - new kubuntu council voted in, me, ScottK, neversfelde<<BR>>
[17:45] <Riddell>  - I've promoted a metric tonne of packages to main, still waiting on MIRs but asac said just to do it now<<BR>>
[17:45] <Riddell>  - packagekit got updated to 0.6<<BR>>
[17:45] <Riddell>  - plasma-mobile is in the archive, a new variant should be along soon, "tech preview"<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> Riddell, fault of the emailer<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> ^suitably ambiguous<<BR>>
[17:46] <Riddell> also debian import freeze this week, I did a run of new-source and I got the sync script fixed so I'm going over the backlog of syncs<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> thanks Riddell<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> didrocks, anything to add for UNE update?<<BR>>
[17:47] <didrocks> yeah<<BR>>
[17:47] <didrocks>  * Normal release this week, as well in maverick than in lucid UNE ppa, mostly bugfixes<<BR>>
[17:47] <didrocks>  * Coming soon (next release), places with file (and zeitgeist) and applications places. Also workspaces switch handling!<<BR>>
[17:47] <didrocks>  * No bug report in transitionning from lucid (UNE) -> maverick, and lucid (unity ppa) -> maverick: some people tried, good news!<<BR>>
[17:47] <didrocks>  * So, maybe some uploads next Thursday at the beginning of the freeze for alpha2 (depending on when the freeze will begin) to get UNE in shape for alpha3 (MIR for new components + NEWing)<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> No bug report in transitionning from lucid (UNE) -> maverick<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> wow, that's quite surprising<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> nice job<<BR>>
[17:49] <didrocks> well, it's been well tested ;)<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> wow, software-center status seems really detailed!<<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> didrocks, worked nicely there, great work!<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> tremolux, I know there's been lots of good progress there<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> any highlights to call out?<<BR>>
[17:49] <didrocks> seb128: thanks ;) we'll se if A2 users will have the same experience :)<<BR>>
[17:49] <tremolux> sure!<<BR>>
[17:49] <tremolux> New Apps:  We have an Application Review Board LP team and PPA set up now (https://launchpad.net/~app-review-board) <<BR>>
[17:49] <tremolux> and we've implemented a first-cut display of New Apps in the app-review-board PPA in software-center trunk<<BR>>
[17:49] <tremolux> Buy Something: Big news is that we are adding a Software Center Agent web service that will be the primary contact point for Software Center<<BR>>
[17:49] <tremolux> This new service will act as broker between the Payments API and Launchpad and represents a great improvement to our overall design<<BR>>
[17:49] <tremolux> UI Enhancements: good progress - PPA/channel support for installed items view implemented, single-pane dept screen in-progress<<BR>>
[17:51] <tremolux> (that's my summary)<<BR>>
[17:52] <seb128> rickspencer3, still there?<<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> so, maybe not everyone is aware that there is a change of plan here<<BR>>
[17:52] <seb128> ;-)<<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> :)<<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> this is on the server side<<BR>>
[17:52] <tremolux> yes<<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> it's really a better approach, at least I think it is<<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> but it rather resets the schedule for some items<<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> Riddell, while you are at syncs can you add #590446 to the list?<<BR>>
[17:53] <rickspencer3> however, we maintain the goal of making "buy something" work end to end during the distro sprint<<BR>>
[17:53] <rickspencer3> seb128, I'm going to go into lurk mode now<<BR>>
[17:53] <tremolux> yes, that's still the target<<BR>>
[17:53] <rickspencer3> just ping me if you have any questions during release status or other business<<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> ok<<BR>>
[17:54] <seb128> so we are approching alpha2 now<<BR>>
[17:54] <seb128> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-maverick-alpha-2.html <<BR>>
[17:54] <seb128> we are on track but we need to keep working as we do currently<<BR>>
[17:54] <seb128> the features should land by thursday this week<<BR>>
[17:55]  * ccheney sees his server items show up on desktop too, heh :)<<BR>>
[17:55] <seb128> then we have a bit less that a week for documentation, bug fixing, cleaning, etc<<BR>>
[17:55] <seb128> ccheney, right, that's because you are a member of the team<<BR>>
[17:55] <ccheney> ok<<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> while we wrap alpha2 we need start building the alpha3 list<<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> current status for alpha3 is http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-maverick-alpha-3.html <<BR>>
[17:56] <pitti> that has a very odd shape right now :)<<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> the trend line and chart will be resetted after alpha2 is released so don't worry about it<<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> pitti, ^ ;-)<<BR>>
[17:56] <pitti> it'll auto-reset after a2<<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> right<<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> so we need to make sure this list is on shape for next week<<BR>>
[17:57] <pitti> 95 WIs seems ambitious<<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> so please review your items and clean things to have something you can deliver for alpha3<<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> what pitti said<<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> if we count the alpha2 items we did over 80 work items over that iteration<<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> knowing that chrisccoulson was busy with firefox and didn't do much work items tasks<<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> so I think 80 is around what we should have<<BR>>
[17:58] <pitti> hm, in lucid alpha-3 we got 100 done, so perhaps it's fine<<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> if you have specs not on this list and should be let me know<<BR>>
[17:58] <tremolux> seb128: one issue for software-center is that, with the new Agent web service approach, the work items need to be revisited and updated<<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> pitti, we had you in the team by then ;-)<<BR>>
[17:59]  * seb128 hugs pitti<<BR>>
[17:59] <pitti> (but that included stuff moved over to later milestones, too<<BR>>
[17:59] <pitti> seb128: heh *hug*<<BR>>
[17:59] <seb128> tremolux, that's fine, but can you try to do that by alpha2?<<BR>>
[17:59] <tremolux> seb128: yes<<BR>>
[17:59] <seb128> pitti, right, counting the DONE items for alpha2 we are around 80 items<<BR>>
[17:59] <seb128> tremolux, thanks<<BR>>
[18:00] <seb128> ok<<BR>>
[18:00] <seb128> that's about it, summary<<BR>>
[18:00] <tremolux> seb128: things are still somewhat in flux (the API specifically), but we should be able to make a good cut<<BR>>
[18:00] <seb128> - let's get alpÄ¥a2 rocking<<BR>>
[18:00] <seb128> - get your alpha3 items in order for next week (ie before alpha2)<<BR>>
[18:00] <seb128> - let me know if some specs are not tracked and should or if you think we should do changes<<BR>>
[18:00] <seb128>  <<BR>>
[18:01] <seb128> tremolux, ok, we can still adjust later, we just want a rough idea for now<<BR>>
[18:01] <seb128> I think we need chromium to show up on this alpha3 list somehow<<BR>>
[18:01] <seb128> connmann as well<<BR>>
[18:01] <seb128> so we will still tweak over the week<<BR>>
[18:01] <pitti> uh, yes<<BR>>
[18:01] <seb128> chrisccoulson, sorry that will likely be some extra tasks for you...<<BR>>
[18:01] <pitti> if we are really going with connman, then rather sooner than later<<BR>>
[18:02] <chrisccoulson> heh :)<<BR>>
[18:02] <seb128> pitti, we are blocked on dx for now<<BR>>
[18:02] <pitti> for it will cause a hell of a lot of regressiosn<<BR>>
[18:02] <seb128> pitti, their indicator is not ready to be shipped yet<<BR>>
[18:02] <pitti> seb128: can't we use the upstream applet for now?<<BR>>
[18:02] <didrocks> pitti: we discussed at UDS and first agreed on A2 for that reason, but what seb128 said<<BR>>
[18:02] <seb128> but it's on their a3 roadmap<<BR>>
[18:02] <pitti> so that we can already test the dbus backend?<<BR>>
[18:02] <seb128> pitti, there is no upstream applet I think<<BR>>
[18:02] <pitti> how does meego and frieds use it then?<<BR>>
[18:03] <pitti> "friends"<<BR>>
[18:03] <didrocks> it's their own ui<<BR>>
[18:03] <didrocks> integration in meego "desktop interface"<<BR>>
[18:03] <didrocks> for other like maemo, I don't know<<BR>>
[18:03] <seb128> pitti, the indicator should be in a shipable state in the next weeks, it will be less work to get that ready than to adapt what others are doing around connmann<<BR>>
[18:03] <kenvandine> it works pretty well now...<<BR>>
[18:04] <seb128> pitti, ie the indicator is in universe now<<BR>>
[18:04] <kenvandine> but lacks a way to tweak it<<BR>>
[18:04] <kenvandine> so if you have problems, it is hard to save yourself<<BR>>
[18:04] <pitti> I'm mostly concerned about the lack of pppoe, vpn, and testing with 3G<<BR>>
[18:04] <seb128> pitti, so we can start doing opt-in testing<<BR>>
[18:04] <seb128> ie people who want to test can install it<<BR>>
[18:04] <pitti> I see<<BR>>
[18:04] <seb128> pitti, right, we are a bit late on schedule and know it<<BR>>
[18:05] <seb128> we will do a call for testing soon<<BR>>
[18:05] <seb128> and it will be in UNE before alpha3<<BR>>
[18:05] <pitti> alpha-3 sounds fine<<BR>>
[18:05] <pitti> I'd just hate to see it slip to beta<<BR>>
[18:05] <seb128> it will not<<BR>>
[18:05] <pitti> since we'll have a hard time pulling it out again after beta<<BR>>
[18:05] <seb128> if it miss alpha3 we will likely go to fallback plan to keep n-m<<BR>>
[18:05] <pitti> sounds like a plan<<BR>>
[18:05] <seb128> but we will not miss alpha3 I think<<BR>>
[18:05]  * pitti STFU and let seb128 continue his great work<<BR>>
[18:05] <seb128> or some people will get in trouble ;-)<<BR>>
[18:06] <seb128> pitti, thanks for your comment, much appreciate<<BR>>
[18:06] <seb128> always good to have feedback ;-)<<BR>>
[18:06] <seb128> and so everybody is updated on the topic<<BR>>
[18:06] <seb128> ok<<BR>>
[18:06] <seb128> other comments, questions?<<BR>>
[18:07] <seb128> seems not<<BR>>
[18:07] <seb128> rickspencer3, still around? wanting to add something or should we wrap now?<<BR>>
[18:07] <rickspencer3> no thanks<<BR>>
[18:07] <seb128> thanks<<BR>>
[18:07] <rickspencer3> I'll read backscroll

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
