{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Actions from previous meeting ==

== Actions from this meeting ==

== Weekly Summary ==

* Prepared langpack-o-matic to not install Firefox translations into langpacks any more, so that Firefox can ship its own. (pitti)
* Move all our pygi applications to GTK3. (pitti)
* First Oneiric daily CD builds were 30 MB oversized; started addressing this by seed cleanup and dropping aptdaemon's lintian recommends (will be replaced with install on demand when user activates third-party repo). (pitti)
* NetworkManager 0.9 started landing in Oneiric. Some apps may need minor porting to the new API. (cyphermox)
* Evolution 3.0.0/3.0.2 uploaded. (cyphermox)
* atspi2 stack in main now (MIR reviewed)
* telepathy-indicator rewritten in C, should have an initial upload to Oneiric today. (kenvandine)
* appmenu-gtk3 uploaded for oneiric, no depends added yet and it is a new binary, we should wait until after A1 to transition from the gtk2 build. (kenvandine)

=== Partner update ===

=== Unity ===

* Released an sru on Unity/Nux/unity-place-files/unity-place-applications. Full list at https://launchpad.net/unity/+milestone/3.8.14 (some were already fixed), + https://launchpad.net/unity/+milestone/3.8.16 (fix released one).
* the "sru version" is already in oneiric
* still waiting on a compiz update, fixing particularly the "1 px systray for some Qt apps like skype" (see list on https://launchpad.net/unity/+milestone/3.8.16)

* unity-2d is now seeded by default on the CD

=== Software Center ===
* Released Software Center 4.1.4, includes:
** Nice enhancements to the search suggestions feature, thanks to Robert Roth
** Misc bug fixes
* Released Software Center 4.0.2 SRU for Natty, includes important bug fixes
* Continued backend refactor work
* Coming soon: ability to edit/delete your own review, thanks to Aaron Peachey

=== Kubuntu ===

=== X.org ===

* Mesa update
** llvm mir awaits tests that it doesn't regress openjdk
** Next upload will be multiarched (thanks, slangasek!)
** Will pull in ~6MiB worth of libllvm onto the CD, post A1

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
17:31:36	pitti	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2011-05-31
17:31:39	pitti	what a hectic day..
17:31:42	tremolux	howdy everyone
17:31:54	didrocks	hey
17:32:17	seb128	hi
17:32:17	pitti	so, let's start with the regular stuff
17:32:34	pitti	kenvandine: anything noteworthy wrt. partners/indicators/etc?
17:32:40	pitti	how's the GTK 3 port coming along?
17:33:08	chrisccoulson	hi!
17:33:12	kenvandine	nothing for partner report, we need to work on getting our meetings rescheduled and getting back to a normal rhythm
17:33:18	 *	rodrigo_ waves
17:33:26	kenvandine	mterry has been rocking the gtk3 ports of the indicators
17:33:35	mterry	yay
17:33:42	kenvandine	i am about to upload appmenu-gtk with gtk3 support
17:33:43	 *	pitti yays to mterry
17:33:51	mterry	(I'm stuck on an issue with that -- pitti I'll ping you after this meeting maybe)
17:33:52	pitti	oh, btw
17:34:01	pitti	please avoid new transitions until Thursday
17:34:02	kenvandine	i'll also have an upload of telepathy-indicator today
17:34:09	pitti	i. e. breaking the desktop/CDs
17:34:14	pitti	Alpha-1 is on Thursday
17:34:32	pitti	we'll pretty much pick any daily that works, but as we haven't had one in three days, we need to get one again first
17:34:46	kenvandine	should i hold off appmenu-gtk3 then?
17:34:54	pitti	and the indicator transition will be fairly large, right?
17:34:59	kenvandine	actually it'll land in NEW anyway
17:35:14	kenvandine	pitti, yeah... but that won't happen before thursday
17:35:16	pitti	kenvandine: maybe stash it in bzr for now, and perhaps in the ubuntu-desktop PPA for people to try?
17:35:30	pitti	kenvandine: if it just adds a new binary, it's no problem
17:35:42	kenvandine	new binary, that won't hurt
17:35:48	pitti	right
17:35:50	kenvandine	all the indicators are still waiting for DX to review
17:36:46	kenvandine	that is all i have right now
17:36:50	pitti	thanks!
17:37:15	pitti	kenvandine: would you mind adding a summary to the wiki, for posterity?
17:37:23	pitti	(and people interested in the weekly progress)
17:37:43	pitti	didrocks: thanks for the unity report on the wiki; anything we need to discuss?
17:38:00	kenvandine	sure
17:38:06	didrocks	well, just to hilight if people on natty can confirm the bugs for unity in -proposed
17:38:27	didrocks	if you are on oneiric, you should already have the latest fixes goodness :)
17:38:55	didrocks	and unity-2d is there by default but seems to have issue on kvm as you discussed previously
17:39:09	didrocks	that's it for the unity side :)
17:39:18	Kaleo	pitti: I'm blocked by meetings but did you try other Qt apps?
17:39:38	pitti	Kaleo: no
17:41:03	pitti	tremolux: anythign to discuss for software-center?
17:41:40	tremolux	I think the wiki has it, oh, I should add that we released the 4.0.2 SRU for Natty also
17:42:19	tremolux	and, we have gotten word that there will be some additional UI changes coming in from UX
17:42:35	pitti	ok, thanks
17:42:49	tremolux	we only know general scope currently, details to come  ;)
17:42:52	tremolux	thanks
17:42:53	pitti	no Kubuntu representative, so let's skip that part
17:43:45	pitti	I'd like to go over http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/canonical-desktop-team-oneiric-alpha-1.html quickly to see what's left
17:44:26	fta	mterry, gasp, even encrypted, all the filenames are visible on the destination without entering the key, so it's possible to guess the content :P
17:44:27	pitti	desktop-o-default-email-client obviously wins here
17:44:48	mterry	fta, hold up, meeting going on
17:45:00	fta	oops
17:45:21	pitti	chrisccoulson: nothing there seems to be a real blocker right now, so sohuld we move it to a2 wholesale, or did some of the things already happen? (like "meet with"...)
17:46:15	chrisccoulson	pitti - not yet. i'm a bit concerned that i'm currently spending a lot of my time on non-WI stuff, which is eating a lot of my time atm
17:46:27	chrisccoulson	(eg, firefox 5 for lucid, maverick and natty)
17:47:04	pitti	ok, let's just move them over for now
17:47:39	pitti	https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-dx-o-bugs-triage-and-workflow is rather undrafted and unapproved, and not strictly our team, so let's ignore that one
17:48:07	pitti	kenvandine: gwibber changes can easily move, I think? I guess alpha-1 was more or less for your personal planning, not a strict deadline?
17:48:09	didrocks	well, just to keep you in touch, I'll finish my wi on it
17:48:15	didrocks	(this evening)
17:48:24	kenvandine	pitti, yeah
17:48:46	kenvandine	pitti, but i will likely have them finished by thursday
17:49:31	pitti	kenvandine: ah, great
17:49:35	pitti	kenvandine: so, want to keep them?
17:50:02	pitti	the remaining ones seem to be a lot of "determine...", "figure out...", "talk to..." stuff, so not really bound by a1 image building etc.
17:50:15	pitti	so let's see how much more we can squeeze out, and I'll move the rest wholesale on Thursday
17:50:34	pitti	anything we shoudl discuss here? blockers? transitions? testing?
17:50:48	kenvandine	pitti, i'll keep them and move what i don't get
17:52:50	pitti	AOB?
17:52:54	cyphermox	o/     ~ubuntu-desktop membership ;)
17:53:08	pitti	oh, still waiting for +1es?
17:53:16	cyphermox	not sure, there are two
17:53:54	cyphermox	ah, yes, missing one
17:53:57	Sweetshark	I could use some more too ...
17:53:59	pitti	anyone else sponsored stuff for cyphermox?
17:56:20	seb128	some but not a lot
17:56:36	pitti	Sweetshark: for PPU?
17:56:43	cyphermox	ok, let's just wait then
17:56:44	pitti	Sweetshark: isn't one +1 enough there?
17:57:01	seb128	cyphermox, some of the recent errors you did on versioning on not updating build-depends make me unsure about the +1 to behonest
17:57:12	cyphermox	seb128: understandable
17:57:27	seb128	but I'm happy if other who did enough sponsoring give their +1
17:57:34	Sweetshark	pitti: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BjoernMichaelsen/DeveloperApplication AFAIK I need 3 sponsors. But IIRC only you sponsored my stuff anyway.
17:57:55	pitti	Sweetshark: maybe you should apply anyway, and point that out
17:58:01	pitti	Sweetshark: doko didn't sponsor stuff for you?
17:58:08	Sweetshark	pitti: nope
18:00:46	pitti	ok, I think we should adjourn the meeting
18:00:48	pitti	thanks everyone!
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
</pre>
