{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Created''': 29/10/05http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/desktopguide/C/index.html by RobertStoffers
* '''Contributors''': RobertStoffers
* '''Packages affected''': ubuntu-docs
* '''Target Presentation Formats''': xml, html, pdf
* '''License''': GFDL and CC-BY-SA (for details, see DocteamLicense)
* '''Technologies and Techniques''': Written in DocBook xml, and stored in the docteam's Subversion repository.
* '''Release Target''': DapperDrake
* '''How to Contribute''': The best way to contribute is to send an email to the ubuntu-doc mailing list (ubuntu-doc@lists.ubuntu.com)
* '''Primary Contacts''': '''RobertStoffers''' (rob^) via IRC channel #ubuntu-doc at irc.freenode.net and ubuntu-doc@lists.ubuntu.com

=== Summary ===

Released with BreezyBadger was the Ubuntu 5.10 Starter Guide, otherwise known as the <nowiki>[[FAQGuide]]</nowiki>. For the DapperDrake release we have decided to split the Starter Guide into Desktop and Server variants. Work has already started on both documents, but this Spec is where we can plan the route we will take.

=== Rationale ===

Ubuntuguide.org first highlighted the fact such a guide needs to exist, and the Starter Guide has been quite popular in BreezyBadger. This split version, the Desktop Starter Guide, aims to just concentrate on the desktop using GUI utilities where possible.

=== Use cases ===

See the following examples:

* Ubuntuguide.org
* Yelp - Ubuntu 5.10 Starter Guide
* help.ubuntu.com
* For IRC/Forum/Mailing list users to point new user to when they ask questions

=== Scope ===

The Ubuntu desktop installation

=== Design ===

* We are looking at ditching the question and answer format for a more book type layout. Discussions to take place at the next <nowiki>[[DocteamMeetingAgenda|Docteam meeting]]</nowiki>.
* Please discuss any changes to the below with RobertStoffers via IRC/Docteam mailing list before changing this page, or you can add suggestions at the bottom of the page.
* Please check out the preview at: http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/desktopguide/C/index.html

=== Suggestions ===

* Add suggestions here

Duffman25:
This suggestions comes from the idea of adding cli documentation, started here:https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocteamPlansDapper.
* I think users should be aware of cli commands to use as an alternative to the gui. ubuntuguide is famous for bringing short commands to deal with ubuntu. If you don't think a proper command line guide is usefull (which as I said in the other thread it would be handy & usefull) you could add some quick info about cli commands, clearly separated from the general guidace so newbies not willing to learn the cli won't be scared, maybe as an apendix or a separate chapter at the end of the guide with some guidance on using the cli:http://www.oreilly.com/catalog/debian/chapter/book/ch13_01.html. Again, my 0.02€
