{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Alexander Sack (asac)
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Chris Cheney (calc)
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)  

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)

=== Apologies ===
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Tony Espy (awe)

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting

==== Announcements ====

==== Status Updates ====
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports

==== Discussion ====
* What should be updated here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/FindRightPackage

==== Any other business ====
* asac: Please test the new NM with a 3G modem if you have one

=== Actions from this meeting ===
All actions are to update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/FindRightPackage:
* ACTION: TheMuso to check on how to call the audio symptom script and update the wiki accordingly
* ACTION: robert_ancell to check on Graphic Environment section
* ACTION: pitti to add section about storage devices

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===
* ACTION: rickspencer3 to disuss piddin/empathy with seb128 and pitti and make call for Karmic
** RESULT: we are sticking with the POR:
** Empathy will be installed in new installs, pidgin won't be
** Empathy will be installed on upgrade installs, pidgin won't be removed
** Empathy will offer to import pidgin settings on first run
* ACTION: all to review release targeted bugs and fix the milestoned ones
** RESULT: Release bugs decreased
* ACTION: pitti to try to repro x freeze and log bug
** RESULT: patches for a potential fix are available
** https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=22336
** Mesa and kernel update available for testing

=== Partner Update ===
UbuntuOne:
* desktopcouch
** bug fix release with oauth enabled/required planned today
* couchdb
** New snapshot uploaded today, fixes issues that prevented enabling oauth
* couchdb-glib 
** the latest release has oauth enabled
* bindwood
** bug fix release with oauth enabled is planned for this week
* ubuntuone-client
** There will likely be a UI freeze exception requested to deal with the preferences dialog usability issue

DX:
* <nowiki>[[DesktopExperienceTeam-KarmicWeeklyReleases|Weekly releases]]</nowiki>

=== Kubuntu Update ===
 - KubuntuKarmicXsplash implemented
* mostly set for alpha 6 but need to upload new python-qt4 to fix bug 428200
* Launchpad bug 428200 in ubiquity "Installer crashed in set timezone" [Undecided,Invalid] https://launchpad.net/bugs/428200
* jockey-kde doesn't seem to work until jockey-gtk is installed, need to investigate more
* kmail has been patched for a mail deletion bug, going through testing
* netbook taking shape quite nicely but won't have everything we want due to upstream change of plans and will have to be considered a tech preview for marketing

=== Release Status ===
{{http://piware.de/workitems/desktop/karmic/burndown.png}}

The team discussed the following release targeted bugs, as well as bugs that are being tracked as part of the release status here:
http://piware.de/workitems/desktop/karmic/report.html

The summary of the discussion was to stay mindful of "must fix" bugs, versus "want to fix" bugs.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Id'''
| '''Title'''
| '''Assigned To'''
| '''Status'''
| '''Importance'''
| '''Package'''
| '''Release'''
| '''Milestone'''
| '''Team'''
| '''Date Confirmed'''
| '''Tags'''
|-
| 401823
| (firefox:24993): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead - overeager XID caching
| asac
| Triaged
| High
| firefox-3.5 (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| 
| 
| 2009-07-29 12:37:13.696516+00:00
| apport-collected
|-
| 417009
| all openoffice apps die in 'com::sun::star::ucb::InteractiveAugmentedIOException' on armel in karmic
| ccheney
| Confirmed
| High
| openoffice.org (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| karmic-alpha-6
| 
| 2009-08-28 14:57:20.855069+00:00
| apport-bug armel
|-
| 412601
| [MIR] indicator-session
| ken-vandine
| Incomplete
| High
| indicator-session (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| ubuntu-9.10
| 
| None
| 
|-
| 425793
| No AppArmor restrictions in Karmic
| pitti
| In Progress
| High
| gdm-guest-session (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| ubuntu-9.10-beta
| 
| 2009-09-07 16:17:49.848292+00:00
| regression-potential
|-
| 223212
| Non-free files distributed without license/copyright info
| pitti
| In Progress
| High
| jockey (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| ubuntu-9.10-beta
| 
| 2009-09-14 15:15:34.377157+00:00
| 
|-
| 135548
| Action on critical battery isn't triggered
| pitti
| Triaged
| Medium
| gnome-power-manager (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| 
| 
| 2009-07-23 17:50:59.744334+00:00
| data-loss qa-hardy-desktop qa-jaunty-desktop
|-
| 400485
| Empathy sounds not in default ubuntu theme
| seb128
| Confirmed
| Low
| ubuntu-sounds (Ubuntu Karmic)
| karmic
| 
| 
| 2009-07-17 15:39:17.308185+00:00
| 
|}

=== Selected Open Work Items ===
The team reviewed the following subset of open work items to determine which can be set to DONE, POSTPONED, or deleted altogether. Results are captured in the blueprints, linked from here:
* http://piware.de/workitems/desktop/karmic/report.html

==== Wine Integration ====
* write icoutils MIR and get it to main: TODO
* package wine-support: TODO
* code ciopfs integration: TODO
* package executable-handler: TODO

==== Compiz ====
* Update Compiz triaging instructions https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingCompiz:

==== Language Selector ====
* modify packages with separate translation packages to place a trigger in update-notifier: TODO
* write release notes and test plan: TODO

==== Evo Couch ====
* get package into main and default installation: TODO

==== gnome-speech-replacement ====
* Promote speech-dispatcher and libdotconf to main: TODO
* Debug speech-dispatcher's pulseaudio output support: TODO

==== bluetooth ====
* Write QA testplan for main use-cases: TODO
* Send out call for testing based on the QA testplan after Feature Freeze (forums, mailing list, blog): TODO
* MIR blueman/gnome-bluetooth: TODO
* update spec "implementation" section to reflect what was actually implemented: TODO

==== Messaging ====
* triage the empathy and telepathy bugs: TODO
* look at feedback from users at feature freeze and decide what to use for karmic: TODO

==== input ====
* change seeds for karmic alpha3: DONE
* send announcement to mailing lists: TODO
* draft release notes and test plan: TODO

==== network ui ====
* [asac] Broadband wizard - verify that first connect experience matches spec: TODO
* [asac] Broadband wizard - draft QA testplan: TODO
* [espy] Passphrase - implement wep password dialog changes based on spec and duxteam input: TODO
* [espy] Passphrase - implement applet menu changes based on spec and duxteam input: TODO
* [espy] Passphrase - draft QA team testplan: TODO
* [espy] Passphrase - upstream password dialog changes: TODO

=== https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/FindRightPackage ===
* QA team is working to drive more users to using ubuntu-bugs
* Do we have the right things documented here?
* ACTION: TheMuso to check on how to call the audio symptom script and update the wiki accordingly
* ACTION: robert_ancell to check on Graphic Environment section
* ACTION: pitti to add section about storage devices

=== Activity reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

Mozilla & Browser & Co:
* firefox-3.5,3.0 and xulrunner-1.9.1/1.9 security updates prepared, tested, released
* started Karmic <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-Karmic-ExtensionReview]]</nowiki> with mozillateam 
* work on webfav packaging to fix launchpad translation support
* sponsored all-in-one-sidebar and reviewed a bunch of extensions; sponsored a few ubuntu extensions to debian
* firefox 3.5/xulrunner-1.9.1 SRU fixing critical jaunty (universe) bugs:
## geolocation (LP: #398205)
## safe-browsing (LP: #404827)
* evaluate upstream code to understand issues related to localized bookmarks in firefox 3.5
* evaluate code for localized searchplugins, discussed options and submitted patch upstream (bmo: #515232)
* discuss with downstreams on how to best customize searchplugins and bookmarks - drafted initial wiki page <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam-Firefox-CustomBookmarks]]</nowiki>; next: do the same for searchplugins
* drop hard-to-maintain nss/nspr patches that recently regressed (LP: #422829)
** fix regressions caused by this (LP: #427638, #423610)
* help on gnome-web-photo startup issues
* gnome-web-photo MIR research: discuss ways to get rid of relying on internal libxul.so symbols with mozilla upstream
* get micahg involved in fixing mozillateam daily build failures (yay!); teaching him bzr, quilt, etc.
* estimate work required to implement a firefox newtab experience

Networking:
* work on modemmanager bugs surrounding mbm and generic modem support; evaluated and fixed various bugs upstream (LP: #414604, #416418, #424603 etc.)
** fixed modems with data-ports exporting a modem PLUS an ethernet device and committed upstream
* address Loic's MIR comments for modemmanager
* reviewed espy and cyphermox contributions to network-manager and the vpn packages; merged to bzr and sponsored vpn parts
* quick check on chromium-browser license status; conclusion: needs some tool-innovation to properly present license relationship and so on. Current estimate: 1-2 month to get in the archive.
* introduce motu student cyphermox and assign/review/sponsor first tasks
* provide input on gtk/gio 32-bit modules issues in ia32-libs package (LP: #369498)
* discuss roadmap to karmic network-manager UI improvements. Tony contributed first patches which will be used to get this going.

Bluetooth:
* address Loic's MIR comments for bluetooth-gnome
* investigate licensing issues for bluetooth-gnome upstream and documented results in debian/copyright
* gnome-bluetooth bug triage and prepare new upstream release; fixed gtype regressions for alpha-6; turned out gnome-bluetooth is still not -Bsymbolic-function ready (LP: #429523)

Misc:
* post-holiday mail processing

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====

* langpack-o-matic:
** build new language packs for Karmic, Jaunty and Hardy
** fixed zh transition metapackages
* language-selector:
** Fix crash in gnome-language-selector (LP: #427716)
** Fall back to 'en_US' locale if none has been defined or has been set to 'C'. (LP: #386029) (LP: #346363) (LP: #347240)
** Fix crash when ~/.xinput/ is not present (LP: #219218)
** Add manpage for gnome-language-selector (Thanks to Alex Lourie) (LP: #426642)
** Fix typo in LanguageSelector/FontConfig.py (LP: #219398)
** data/languagelist: add fallback codes for all English variations we have as locales (LP: #47280) (LP: #72952)
** Update translations from Launchpad
** Remove fontconfig/29-language-selector-zh (LP: #406132)
** Remove option to install obsolete language-support-extra-* packages
** Replace option to install additional translations (language-support-translations-*) with code to automatically install additional translation packages on a per need basis.
** Added code to install mozvoikko and oo.o-voikko based on already installed mozilla and oo.o packages for finnish users who have "Writing Aids" enabled in language-selector (LP: #409764)
** Added combobox to choose the input method engine via im-switch
** Patch potfiles.in (Thanks to Gabor Kelemen) (LP: #420224)
* Rosetta import queue cleaning
* Misc:
** sick leave last Monday and Tuesday

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====
* Help work on OOo bugs for arm
* Preparing new OOo upload for later this week
* Lots of OOo bug triage

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====
done:
* holiday mon to wed
* implement KubuntuKarmicXsplash, still one fix needed
* Make changes to kubuntu netbook to work with new upstream plans and
our installer
* get translations working in USB creator
* phone call with Aaron Seigo re message indicator and netbook plans
* update knetwork manager
* package Qt 4.6 for testers
* patch kmail in karmic and *-updates for mail deletion bug

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
====== Done: ======
* Prepared weekly releases for most of the DX packages
* indicat* debugging
* enabled gupnp-igd in farsight2 and libnice
* MIRs for gupnp-igd and libnice
* voice calls now work in empathy!
* Update gwibber to use the new (unreleased) python-indicate API (libindicate v3)

====== Planned: ======
* Prepare DX package uploads
* desktopcouch oauth testing
* update python-indicate examples
* gwibber indicator support
* debug video calls in empathy
==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====
==== Accessibility ====
* Cleaned up speech-dispatcher's pulseaudio server check code even more, with thanks to help from Eitan Isaksen. Also cleaned up the auto-spawn code and refacotred a bit so that it was an optional extra, and integrated it properly into the speech-dispatcher source tree.
* Created a new speech-dispatcher snapshot tarball of my git tree, which upstrea are currently considering the tree to use for testing by others, so while unofficial, my git tree is currently the best point to base work from.
* Tested speech-dispatcher/orca on the live CD. Appart from needing to run ldconfig for alsa bits to be found, orca and speech-dispatcher both load for the blindness accessibility profile, which is what we want.
* Uploaded a new Ubuntu revision of at-spi, to add a recently included desktop file that is needed to load at-spi-registryd on GNOME login.

==== Audio ====
* Audio bug triaging, bugs in question are against pulseaudio, alsa userspace, and the kernel for hardware enablement.
* Uploaded pulseaudio v0.9.17 which is bugfixes.
* Uploaded a new paprefs to not enable install buttons by default, until this can be made to work with apt.

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Karmic feature work:
* desktop-karmic-automagic-python-build-system: 
** beta available
** just the upstream discussion is missing (which isn't bound by release cycle)
* desktop-karmic-symptom-based-bug-reporting: implemented
* security-karmic-apport-abort: implemented
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Halsectomy|hal deprecation]]</nowiki>:
** this is as far as we can get in karmic, we won't change further things after FF
** I'm happy about how far we got
* gnome-panel speedup: pretty much "postponed", didn't have time for that

Other work done:
* Caught up on SRUs
* Bug fixing: apport, devicekit-power, langpack-o-matic, python-distutils-extra, usplash, rhythmbox
* Apport retracer maintenance, fixed current crash issues
* Reproduced X freeze after suspend, sent to FD#23923
* glib: Store assertion message in core dump, for Apport love
* Implemented fade in/out in usplash
* Packaged new versions: couchdb-glib, evolution-couchdb, media-player-info, cups, devicekit-power
* Reviewed, fixed, uploaded linux-firmware-nonfree
* Talked to Ken about DX release management
* Tested Scott's new upstartified boot PPA
* tzdata update for stables
* Lots of bug triage
* Reviewed feature freeze exception requests

Sponsoring:
* Checked, not uploaded: metacity, nvidia-common
* corosync, openais, gnome-games, brasero, checkbox, farsight2, gdm, gnome-screensaver, gobby, ibus, libindicator, libnice sync, metacity, mime-support, ncurses, python-oauth, tomboy, transmission, xscreensaver, yelp

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* Package update/merges: metacity, yelp, tomboy, gtkmm, rhythmbox, gnome-vfs, gnome-python-desktop, gnome-bluetooth
* Empathy indicator patch
* Work on GDM user server patch

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* GNOME 2.27.92 updates: eog totem gnome-menus libwnck gnome-desktop glibmm2.4 alacarte gnome-panel empathy gnome-applets gnome-session libgweather poppler seahorse 
* fixed gnome-panel workspace switcher spin buttons not working correctly
* backported a gnome-settings-daemon change fixing left handed devices configuration
* rebased our gtk version on the current debian one
* backported a telepathy-salut change fixing a crasher with the newer missing control version
* dropped a wnck change to workspace names creating bugs and inconsistency
* updated gnome-panel to display the software store entry correctly, cleaned extra vertical bar next to the fusa applet too
* applied neil's patch to evolution to update the preferences dialog for the new message indicator options
* undone those changes since they break the account setup wizard
* fixed notify-osd bzr issue which leaded to reverting upstream changes in the package update
* updated pidgin to install a launcher in the message indicator
* looked at why the indicator messages launcher are not translated, opened a bug with a patch fixing the issue
* desktop bug triage
* tested the ubuntu boot ppa updates and did bootcharts
* sponsoring: indicator-session pessulus libdbusmenu libindicate indicator-messages evolution-indicator notify-osd xsplash evolution-indicator empathy indicator-session empathy gnome-vfs abiword gnome-session

==== Tony Espy (awe) ====

Networking:
* created applet menu patches to repleace progress bars with signal strength/security icons, and replace radio buttons with connected icon.  Sent patches to Alexander, and Dan Williams for review.

Misc:
* gave an OEM talk about the Bzr Everywhere intitiative
* prepared for OEM HW Summit
* vacation day - Tues

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* CUPS: Updated and fixed automatic update of PPDs of existing queues, talked with pitti about LP: #429880 and LP: #429872, made pitti aware of the fix of Red Hat's fix of their Avahi support patch for the dnssd backend (Red Hat bug 520858), tested fixes of bugs in the usb and dnssd backends.
* Answered and triaged printing-related bug reports.

== IRC Log ==
[17:30] <rickspencer3> start with outstanding actions from last week<<BR>>
[17:31] <rickspencer3> these are on the wiki, but wanted to mention a couple<<BR>>
[17:31] <rickspencer3> ACTION: rickspencer3 to disuss piddin/empathy with seb128 and pitti and make call for Karmic<<BR>>
[17:31] <pitti> done, I think<<BR>>
[17:31] <rickspencer3> after much deliberation, we are not changing the Plan of Record<<BR>>
[17:31] <seb128> did we discuss after meeting again?<<BR>>
[17:31] <rickspencer3> # Empathy will be installed in new installs, pidgin won't be<<BR>>
[17:31] <rickspencer3> # Empathy will be installed on upgrade installs, pidgin won't be removed<<BR>>
[17:31] <rickspencer3> # Empathy will offer to import pidgin settings on first run<<BR>>
[17:31] <asac> hi<<BR>>
[17:31] <seb128> +1<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> pitti, seb128 - yes, I'm just publically announcing the deciscion, and marking the end of discussion on the matter<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> (until the next UDS ;) )<<BR>>
[17:32] <kenvandine> :)<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> also ..<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> ACTION: pitti to try to repro x freeze and log bug<<BR>>
[17:32] <pitti> A day of firm decisions!<<BR>>
[17:32] <pitti> or is it?<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> pitti, shall we open it for discussion again?<<BR>>
[17:32] <pitti> rickspencer3: done, freedesktop bug 23923<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> j/k<<BR>>
[17:32] <ubottu> Freedesktop bug 23923 in Driver/intel "[945GM] X freezes some hours after suspend-to-RAM" [Major,New] http://bugzilla.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=23923<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> sweet<<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> tseliot, did you see ^<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> is it in the intel blocker list?<<BR>>
[17:33] <pitti> upstream assigned it to someone, but no response yet<<BR>>
[17:33] <tseliot> rickspencer3: I'm about to upload a fix for mesa about it<<BR>>
[17:33] <pitti> tseliot: ooh!<<BR>>
[17:33] <pitti> so it's that one?<<BR>>
[17:33] <tseliot> well, it should fix that and some other bugs<<BR>>
[17:33] <pitti> I do get the occasional screen corruption as well<<BR>>
[17:33] <tseliot> a kernel patch should be required too though<<BR>>
[17:33] <pitti> but ctrl-l usually fixes it<<BR>>
[17:33] <tseliot> pitti: it seems to fix that problem too<<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> with x we are always one patch away from perfection ;)<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> see<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> :)<<BR>>
[17:34] <tseliot> hehe<<BR>>
[17:34] <pitti> so, I'll try andy's test kernel<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> tseliot, thank you for rocking the X stack<<BR>>
[17:34] <pitti> and close the upstream bug if it fixes it<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> tseliot, what should folks do if they want to test the fix?<<BR>>
[17:34] <tseliot> apw: was great too<<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> yes, apw is made of awesome :)<<BR>>
[17:35] <pitti> bug 429241 has a link to test kernels<<BR>>
[17:35] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 429241 in xserver-xorg-video-intel "[GM45E] i915 graphics corruption and hang" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/429241<<BR>>
[17:35] <tseliot> rickspencer3: if the chroot of my PPA wasn't broken you could try it: https://launchpad.net/~albertomilone/+archive/x-testing<<BR>>
[17:35] <bittin> hi<<BR>>
[17:35] <rickspencer3> tseliot, we need apw's kernel, and a new mesa, right?<<BR>>
[17:35] <tseliot> and the kernel can be found here: http://people.canonical.com/~apw/lp429241-karmic/ (thank apw about this)<<BR>>
[17:36] <tseliot> mesa is being uploaded by superm1 as we speak (slangasek agreed)<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> thanks tseliot<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> moving on ...<<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, partner update?<<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> sure<<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> DX team is getting into a groove of weekly releases<<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> every thursday<<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopExperienceTeam/KarmicWeeklyReleases<<BR>>
[17:37] <kenvandine> for a list of plans<<BR>>
[17:38] <kenvandine> projects with no code changes (and none planned) won't have releases<<BR>>
[17:38] <bittin> nice =)<<BR>>
[17:38] <kenvandine> and u1 is about to unleash the cool pairing stuff for desktopcouch<<BR>>
[17:38] <pitti> Thursday doesn't align well with our freezes, though (just FTR)<<BR>>
[17:38] <kenvandine> couchdb was uploaded this morning with some oauth fixes<<BR>>
[17:38] <kenvandine> pitti, ok... noted<<BR>>
[17:39] <pitti> kenvandine: not a biggie, just saying<<BR>>
[17:39] <asac> monday or friday sounds better<<BR>>
[17:39] <kenvandine> so with the oauth features, we can enable that stuff in the related packages<<BR>>
[17:39] <asac> though i see why those days were not picked<<BR>>
[17:39] <kenvandine> desktopcouch, couchdb-glib (done) and bindwood<<BR>>
[17:39] <seb128> not friday, not "break everything and run away for some days" uploads ;-)<<BR>>
[17:39] <kenvandine> so hopefully this week we will be able to play with the cool stuff<<BR>>
[17:39] <kenvandine> seb128, exactly :)<<BR>>
[17:39] <kenvandine> but mondays and tuesdays are rough :)<<BR>>
[17:40] <kenvandine> maybe wed...<<BR>>
[17:40] <kenvandine> anyway<<BR>>
[17:40]  * kenvandine is done<<BR>>
[17:40] <pitti> kenvandine: should be fine; they release Thu, you package it, we sponsor/upload on Fri<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> lets take the "release day" discussion to UDS<<BR>>
[17:40] <seb128> right<<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> but for now, this is a huge success that there is a drum beat for their releases<<BR>>
[17:41] <rickspencer3> thanks for making that work kenvandine, and seb128 too!<<BR>>
[17:41] <kenvandine> :)<<BR>>
[17:41] <seb128> you're welcome ;-)<<BR>>
[17:41] <pitti> kenvandine: did you hear about an update about how to disable the system couchdb instance/init script?<<BR>>
[17:41] <pitti> kenvandine: nevermind, let's discuss after meeting<<BR>>
[17:41] <kenvandine> pitti, i know statik is working on it... i will follow up<<BR>>
[17:42] <rickspencer3> we should discuss in the "bugs" section<<BR>>
[17:42] <rickspencer3> moving on then, Riddell?<<BR>>
[17:42] <rickspencer3> Kubuntu update<<BR>>
[17:42] <Riddell> hi<<BR>>
[17:42] <Riddell>  - KubuntuKarmicXsplash implemented<<BR>>
[17:42] <Riddell>  - mostly set for alpha 6 but need to upload new python-qt4 to fix bug 428200<<BR>>
[17:42] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 428200 in ubiquity "Installer crashed in set timezone" [Undecided,Invalid] https://launchpad.net/bugs/428200<<BR>>
[17:42] <Riddell>  - jockey-kde doesn't seem to work until jockey-gtk is installed, need to investigate more<<BR>>
[17:43] <Riddell>  - kmail has been patched for a mail deletion bug, going through testing<<BR>>
[17:43] <Riddell>  - netbook taking shape quite nicely but won't have everything we want due to upstream change of plans and will have to be considered a tech preview for marketing<<BR>>
[17:43] <Riddell> that's me<<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> thanks Riddell<<BR>>
[17:44]  * rickspencer3 waits for agenda to reload in browser<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> next is release status<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> two parts, bugs and work items<<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> shall we discuss release targeted bugs first?<<BR>>
[17:45] <pitti> sure<<BR>>
[17:45]  * kenvandine thinks so<<BR>>
[17:45]  * bittin thinks so to<<BR>>
[17:45] <pitti> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/ReleaseStatus has some of them, too<<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> k, I have a list of release targeted bugs assigned to our team on the wiki<<BR>>
[17:45] <pitti> that has a summary of the ones on the release team radar<<BR>>
[17:46] <pitti> please speak up if one of it is imprecise/outdated<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> pitti's list is better, actually, because of what he just said ;)<<BR>>
[17:46] <pitti> rickspencer3: you have more, let's go through the missing one<<BR>>
[17:46]  * seb128 has quite a list of desktop bugs on his list too<<BR>>
[17:46] <pitti> s<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> I believe that ccheney is holding back on the OOo bug<<BR>>
[17:46] <pitti> rickspencer3: I'll add the ones from your list to ReleaseStatus<<BR>>
[17:46]  * kenvandine is glad to see 388898 as really fixed :)<<BR>>
[17:46] <seb128> not sure if we should aim at having a list of all bugs we want to get fixed for karmic<<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> because it would have kept ARM from building at all<<BR>>
[17:46] <pitti> rickspencer3: I fixed 425793 two hours ago<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> sweet<<BR>>
[17:47] <pitti> 223212> linux-firmware-nonfree is in the archive now, jockey stuff on my list (no blockers expected)<<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> seb128, are you saying that you don't think we should, or you think we should?<<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> rickspencer3, I'm not sure how much you want to be flooded with individual todos<<BR>>
[17:47] <ccheney> i plan on doing an upload ~ sunday/monday that should have that fix along with kubuntu fixes<<BR>>
[17:47] <seb128> I mean I've quite a list of GNOME bugs to look at for karmic<<BR>>
[17:48] <pitti> seb128: well, I'm using https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/ReleaseStatus for tracking blockers, etc., and use it for coordination<<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> I'm sure asac have a list for nm and firefox too, etc<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> seb128, right<<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> pitti, well my list would be at least 30 bugs<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> I think there is a list of bugs that the release team is driving us to fix<<BR>>
[17:48] <seb128> ie what I aim to fix in the next month<<BR>>
[17:48] <asac> nm bugs are fixed while we get them in. nothing really blocking<<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> and everyone has a list of bugs that they will apply best effort on<<BR>>
[17:48] <asac> firefox has a few hard ones. but nothing really critical<<BR>>
[17:48] <pitti> right, that should be the "have to fix" list, not the "want to fix"<<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> well, "indicator-session is not translated"<<BR>>
[17:49] <pitti> but indeed I don't think we can discuss the bug list a lot here<<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> or compiz set transparency on panels<<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> those sort of bugs<<BR>>
[17:49] <pitti> except if someone says he can't work on something and we need to reassign<<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> so, what I understood of the Ubuntu process, was that the "have to fix" list was determined by a combination of being targeted, and having a high or critical importance<<BR>>
[17:49] <bittin> do something needs to be translated to Swedish?<<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> do you want to track those?<<BR>>
[17:50] <pitti> seb128: I want to, and do, but I don't think we need to talk about all of them in the meeting<<BR>>
[17:50] <rickspencer3> seb128, I track all of our bugs<<BR>>
[17:50] <rickspencer3> but for this meeting, want to focus on the "have to do" list<<BR>>
[17:50] <seb128> ok<<BR>>
[17:50] <rickspencer3> seb128, are there bugs that you are worried about that we should discuss after the meeting?<<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> no, that was rather a general wondering<<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> hopefully this pause isn't seb128 waiting for Launchpad to load up a huge list<<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> not really a meeting topic<<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> :)<<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> let's discuss that off topic later<<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> ok, so did everyone look at pitti's list, and the list of targeted bugs on the wiki?<<BR>>
[17:52] <kenvandine> yup<<BR>>
[17:52] <seb128> I've my GNOME list on track and I'm fine with it, I'm just not sure how much that should be shared<<BR>>
[17:52] <seb128> yes<<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> are there any red flags, in terms of work that can't/won't get done without some intervention<<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> otherwise, I will assume that a bug assigned to you is on track to be fixed on time<<BR>>
[17:52] <seb128> I'm not sure what to do with the empathy sounds issue<<BR>>
[17:52] <pitti> bug 135548 is a bitch<<BR>>
[17:52] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 135548 in gnome-power "Action on critical battery isn't triggered" [Unknown,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/135548<<BR>>
[17:52] <asac> pitti: that one is fix released?<<BR>>
[17:53] <pitti> and bug 401823 seems very fluffy, keeps being ping-ponged between upstreams<<BR>>
[17:53] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 401823 in xlibs "(firefox:24993): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead - overeager XID caching" [Unknown,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/401823<<BR>>
[17:53] <asac> oh that was upstream task<<BR>>
[17:53] <pitti> asac: no, ubottu is lying<<BR>>
[17:53] <asac> current statue of XID bug is "do not hide this too early" ... but most likely will get demoted<<BR>>
[17:54] <asac> and maybe warning output patched out of gtk for the release version<<BR>>
[17:54] <rickspencer3> pitti, I'm at a loss<<BR>>
[17:54] <pitti> asac: it didn't really sound like a kitten killer to me<<BR>>
[17:54] <rickspencer3> pitti, is this a data loss bug, or do users' computers go to sleep?<<BR>>
[17:55] <rickspencer3> d'oh, it's set to medium<<BR>>
[17:55] <rickspencer3> never mind, not even a "have to do"<<BR>>
[17:55] <pitti> rickspencer3: problem is that it doesn't go to sleep, just runs on and on until the battery browns out<<BR>>
[17:55] <pitti> anyway, I don't think we can do anything further here about the bug list<<BR>>
[17:55] <pitti> I propose we review the blueprint list<<BR>>
[17:55] <rickspencer3> ok, moving on to work items<<BR>>
[17:56] <rickspencer3> pitti, do want to drive this part?<<BR>>
[17:56] <pitti> sure<<BR>>
[17:56] <rickspencer3> I copied open items to the wiki (except for firefox blueprint)<<BR>>
[17:56] <kenvandine> which blueprint is the evo couch work item from?<<BR>>
[17:56] <pitti> I do this in conjunction with https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/karmic/+specs?searchtext=desktop-karmic- sorted by delivery<<BR>>
[17:56] <kenvandine> that is DONE<<BR>>
[17:56] <pitti> I think we can safely DEFER the wine integration one now<<BR>>
[17:56] <pitti> any objection?<<BR>>
[17:57] <pitti> un-karmic-ed<<BR>>
[17:57] <rickspencer3> pitti, noe<<BR>>
[17:57] <pitti> desktop-karmic-input-methods<<BR>>
[17:58] <pitti> ArneGoetje: do we have the upgrade fix now for the scim->ibus switch?<<BR>>
[17:58] <ArneGoetje> pitti: I think so... for me it worked<<BR>>
[17:58] <pitti> the rest looks uncritical for alpha/beta, but please do the annonucement/test plan, shouldn't take much time<<BR>>
[17:58] <pitti> ArneGoetje: nice<<BR>>
[17:58] <ArneGoetje> pitti: will do<<BR>>
[17:59] <pitti>    desktop-karmic-network-ui<<BR>>
[17:59] <pitti> asac: there's mostly QA/testing, but will the WEP dialog still land? or shall we defer?<<BR>>
[18:00] <awe> pitti: the wep dialog changes were done by upstream<<BR>>
[18:00] <pitti> kenvandine: "look at feedback from users at feature freeze and decide what to use for karmic" -> that's DONE, isn't it? can you please update the WI?<<BR>>
[18:00] <kenvandine> sure<<BR>>
[18:00] <asac> pitti: the applet changes will land in a few days upstream. we are working on it with high prio<<BR>>
[18:00] <pitti> kenvandine: and "triage the empathy and telepathy bugs" sounds like a perpetual task, I think we should just drop that work item<<BR>>
[18:00] <pitti> asac: rocking<<BR>>
[18:00] <asac> not many. just a few nice things<<BR>>
[18:01] <pitti> ArneGoetje: language-selector changes are as good as they will be for karmic?<<BR>>
[18:01] <ArneGoetje> pitti: yes, still need some minor tweaks<<BR>>
[18:01] <kenvandine> pitti, done<<BR>>
[18:01] <pitti> ArneGoetje: the spec is at "Slow progress"; if the locale category split was deferred, I guess it should be a little further than that<<BR>>
[18:02] <pitti> kenvandine: "get package into main and default installation" for evo couch sounds done?<<BR>>
[18:02] <ArneGoetje> pitti: what status do you suggest?<<BR>>
[18:02] <kenvandine> pitti, i marked it as done<<BR>>
[18:02] <pitti> ArneGoetje: if the changes are by and large in, "beta avail"<<BR>>
[18:02] <ArneGoetje> pitti: ok, sounds good<<BR>>
[18:02] <pitti> ArneGoetje: if there's still substantial stuff missing, keep it<<BR>>
[18:02] <pitti> rickspencer3: can you please ask TheMuso about "gnome-speech-replacement" in the eastern edition?<<BR>>
[18:03] <pitti> I think that covers it<<BR>>
[18:03] <rickspencer3> pitti, yes<<BR>>
[18:03] <rickspencer3> ok, we just got a lesson in whip cracking, I think<<BR>>
[18:03] <pitti> anyone has some blocking problems with their specs?<<BR>>
[18:03] <seb1281> re<<BR>>
[18:03] <pitti> lots of them are in "beta avail" which is good, but there might be remaining WIs which cause problems?<<BR>>
[18:04] <seb1281> sorry some upgrade restarted my xorg session<<BR>>
[18:04] <pitti> seb1281: mine as well; something in the upstartification :-(<<BR>>
[18:04] <seb1281> and the system froze after login<<BR>>
[18:04] <pitti> seb1281: apt-get -f install, there's probably a million unconfigured packages left<<BR>>
[18:04] <seb1281> ie my laptop is rebooting, doing IRC from my netbook now<<BR>>
[18:04] <seb1281> thanks<<BR>>
[18:04] <rickspencer3> it's only going to get worse<<BR>>
[18:05]  * pitti hands mike back to rickspencer3<<BR>>
[18:05] <rickspencer3> thanks pitti<<BR>>
[18:05] <pitti> thanks all for the heads-up<<BR>>
[18:05] <rickspencer3> last item on the agenda ..<<BR>>
[18:05] <rickspencer3> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/FindRightPackage<<BR>>
[18:05] <pitti> oh, and @all: please update your WI states<<BR>>
[18:05] <pitti> http://piware.de/workitems/desktop/karmic/report.html has the completion percentages<<BR>>
[18:06] <tseliot> what does WI stand for?<<BR>>
[18:06] <rickspencer3> the QA team and the community are putting together a plan to significantly change the mix of bugs reports with versus without ubuntu-bugs<<BR>>
[18:06] <rickspencer3> tseliot, Work Item<<BR>>
[18:06] <rickspencer3> tseliot, I don't think you have any :)<<BR>>
[18:06] <rickspencer3> ok, so, ubuntu-bugs ...<<BR>>
[18:06] <tseliot> rickspencer3: ah, ok, thanks<<BR>>
[18:07] <rickspencer3> their concern atm is that have a complete page telling users how to use ubuntu-bugs<<BR>>
[18:07] <rickspencer3> so looking at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/FindRightPackage<<BR>>
[18:07] <rickspencer3> do we have the right packages documented in the right way?<<BR>>
[18:07] <pitti> argh, this should drop all the "-p"<<BR>>
[18:08] <asac> was there a reason to not keep the "-p" support with a warning for a while?<<BR>>
[18:08] <asac> i ran into that today too :)<<BR>>
[18:08] <pitti> rickspencer3: I add a stanza about storage devices, that has a very useful symptom script now<<BR>>
[18:08] <pitti> asac: well, we did..<<BR>>
[18:08] <asac> well. ubufox ran into it to be exact<<BR>>
[18:08] <asac> hmm<<BR>>
[18:08] <asac> ok<<BR>>
[18:08] <asac> pitti: one or two cycles?<<BR>>
[18:09] <pitti> asac: one, I think<<BR>>
[18:09] <asac> ok if it already warned us in jaunty its fine i think<<BR>>
[18:09] <rickspencer3> ACTION: rickspencer3 to remove "-p" from https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/FindRightPackage<<BR>>
[18:09]  * asac should use it more frequently<<BR>>
[18:09] <pitti> rickspencer3: too late, already done<<BR>>
[18:09]  * pitti â™¥ editmoin<<BR>>
[18:10] <rickspencer3> ACTION: pitti to add section to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/FindRightPackage about storage devices<<BR>>
[18:10] <rickspencer3> anything else?<<BR>>
[18:10] <rickspencer3> seb1281, anything gnome related?<<BR>>
[18:11] <seb1281> not really<<BR>>
[18:12] <rickspencer3> ok<<BR>>
[18:12] <rickspencer3> any other business?<<BR>>
[18:12] <seb1281> no<<BR>>
[18:12] <asac> anyone having 3g modem or phone might want to give current NM/modemmanager package a try<<BR>>
[18:12] <asac> and report bugs ... especially if there are regressions<<BR>>
[18:13] <pitti> asac: will do<<BR>>
[18:13] <rickspencer3> asac, I have a 3g modem for verizon, what do you want me to do?<<BR>>
[18:13] <rickspencer3> just dist-upgrade and try to connect?<<BR>>
[18:13] <awe> asac: me too<<BR>>
[18:14] <asac> rickspencer3: just try to use them<<BR>>
[18:14] <asac> yes<<BR>>
[18:14] <rickspencer3> will do<<BR>>
[18:14] <asac> great<<BR>>
[18:14] <asac> the more different modems we get tested now the more will work ;)<<BR>>
[18:14] <rickspencer3> asac, ok<<BR>>
[18:14] <rickspencer3> mine seems pretty popular in this area<<BR>>
[18:14] <rickspencer3> any other business?<<BR>>
[18:15] <rickspencer3> ok then<<BR>>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
