{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===

* Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) - chair
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Michael Vogt (mvo)
* Mirco Müller (MacSlow)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Ted Gould (tedg)

* Pedro Villavicencio Garrido (pedro_)

=== Apologies ===

* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) - aKademy
* Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) - on leave
* Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt) - laptop broken

=== Agenda ===

* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Automatic installation reports (mvo)
* Empathy (pitti)
* GDM
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsoring Overview update]]</nowiki>
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

* Riddell to follow up on MIR bug for libzip to remind pitti.
   ''Not done?''

=== Actions from this meeting ===

* mvo to talk to QA about the possibility of a "package-failures" component and triaging it.
* seb128 to discuss MIR, seed changes and CD size implications with doko.

=== Automatic installation reports ===

mvo asked how useful are the apt filed installation failed reports?

Should we not file them against the failed package (e.g. gedit) but against a central virtual component (like install-failurs) because most likely the problem is not with gedit, but with e.g. scrollkeeper that is run in the gedit postinst? This way triaggers can pinpoint the problem and assign to the right packages.  I got some complaints that the apt bugreports clutter the buglists too much.

=== Empathy ===

pitti asked for an opportunity to talk about the review of Empathy and noted his own personal opinions on the matter, he didn't have any particular argument for or against it so far, which is the general feeling from the mailing list as well.

Upstream have been very responsive to all complaints and bugs found.

Since upgrades will be unaffected, consensus was to try Empathy by default for the next alpha, and judge the response.

=== GDM ===

A lot of activity on the GDM front upstream, unfortunately most of it was of the bloody and brutal kind.

seb128 had the best summation of the argument between Fedora and GNOME.
<pre>
<Fedora> it's fine this way
<GNOME> no it's not
<Fedora> yes it is
</pre>

Other distributions such as Mandriva are equally appalled at the state of the project.

=== Activity reports ===

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

done:
* Fix kdebase-runtime for network-manager 0.7, and fix oxygen cursors
* Switch to phonon-backend-xine, works with compositing and means using same media engine as amarok
* recommend kwin on compiz-wrapper
* test and upload knetworkmanager 0.7
* At akademy since weekend, best quote "I've noticed the network breaking for users of every distro except Kubuntu"

No milestoned bugs

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

On leave.

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Assigned Intrepid specs:
* intrepid-device-permissions: BLOCKED on pam-config-framework
* gdm-guest-account: More or less implemented now, spec has release note and test case sections now; just needs some bug fixing now
* jockey-printer-driver-support: most bits are in, just needs some details added now; no progress this week

Currently open milestoned bugs: None ATM

Other non-chores work done:
* spent two days with fixing FTBFSes and uninstallability, and generally shaping up the archive for consistency
* spent the rest of the time debugging/fixing release critical bugs for alpha-4 and general release management
* cleaned up rookery:~ubuntu-archive's 40 GB home directory to 7 GB

==== Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt) ====

Laptop broken.

==== Michael Vogt (mvo) ====

Upgrades:
* work on the sandbox-upgrader and update version in the PPA

compiz:
* new snapshot (took a bit to fight the build system to build without the kde3 parts) split compiz-wrapper out for kwin4 (thanks riddell!)

PackageMaintainednessPresentation:
* working on the UI with mpt

system-wide-preferences:
* Work on systemwide preferences 
* upload system-services (the backend) and a patched gnome-control-center to my PPA 

apt:
* discuss how to improve apport bug filtering on the client already to not sent useless bugreports to LP and improved the client side filtering (thanks to seb128 for bringing this up)

alpha-4:
* updated command-not-found-data and app-install-data-ubuntu
* work on the ddtp translations, include partly translated package records too and upload new version

misc:
* mentoring/review/sponsoring/bug triage
* kick MoM (was choking on incomplete source packages downloads)
* kick popcon (seems to be restored now)
* tested NM 0.7 with gprs mobile and spend a bit of time exploring that, bluetooth does not work with NM, but usb does (if the fdi file is correct) and then NM rocks

==== Mirco Müller (MacSlow) ====

login-experience/gdm-face-browser:
* IRC-discussion with gdm's upstream about needed boiler-plate parts for the graphical-greeter, turned out that also a GdmUserManager is needed

* after failed attempt to write a simple custom user-manager, the one from gdm's simple-greeter was taken and adapted to be usable with the graphical-greeter

* trying to make it (user-manager) list users on the system have not succeeded yet, the way the graphical-greeter is exectued on startup of gdm isn't clear yet, still have to clarify that with upstream

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* lot of desktop bug triage

* some GNOME updates

* reorganised my mail configuration to use the canonical imap server rather than having my own one

* hardy sru updates
** glib bug #242618
** libsoup bug #251822
** nautilus-sendto bug #210917

* cleaned all the apport bugs which were in the non-retracable list (ubuntu version < hardy don't have retracing environment) by untagging and triaging those and marking them public when appropriate

==== Ted Gould (tedg) ====

* Looked into getting the new GDM running on my computer.  It doesn't seem quite ready for prime-time.  Reverted to old GDM.
* Continued to work on status in FUSA applet.
* I'm now an Ubuntu Member

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
