{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Weekly Summary ==

* system-config-printer: Printer driver auto-download working correctly from both GNOME's own printer setup tool and the system-config-printer GUI (tkamppeter).
* Updates for Feature Freeze: HPLIP 3.13.3, foo2zjs 20130306, foomatic-db 20130308, cups-filters 1.0.30, QPDF 4.0.1. Planned is also Ghostscript 9.07, waiting for update of LCMS, see LP: #1126427, also CUPS 1.6.2 to fix LP: #1069671 (tkamppeter).
* UDS session about printing: Mobile with reduced, driverless (support for IPP Everywhere/CUPS Raster, PDF, PS, PCL) printing stack, Poppler as only renderer, no GS, if possible daemons on-demand, print dialog in Touch SDK (<nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/client-1303-printing-stack-with-mobile-in-mind|Blueprint]]</nowiki>, tkamppeter).
* Good progress on a LightDM-capable phablet greeter, merge request filed (mterry)
* Extended qml-friends plugin to make it easier for the core apps developers to use Friends. (kenvandine)
* Daily releases for friends and libfriends (kenvandine, robru)
* Gwibber/Friends
   - We really want to replace gwibber on the desktop with Friends, requires a few features to land to get the new Gwibber client fully functional (this week) then we'll request a FFe (kenvandine)
* libreoffice 4.0.1 in raring (Sweetshark, bdrung)
* Pushed through some ALSA SRUs for multi-arch enablement. (TheMuso)
* Further testing of Qt5 accessibility, and attempting to fix more bugs. (TheMuso)

== Agenda ==

* ''Insert things to discuss at meeting here..''

=== Product strategy integration ===

* cupstream2distro grew its testsuite extensively.
* Start of integrating support of destination ppa for supporting features branches set. More on that next week.

==== Unity ====

* No news is good news, we're puttering along fine.
* We'll need to land the 100 scopes/smart scopes project in the 2 next coming week. Working on a ppa for that with daily release on it.

==== Indicators & Themes ====

==== Webapps/Webcredentials ====
* signon-ui for Qt5 that doesn't break the desktop  
   - mardy is working on webkit1 bindings for Qt5 
   - I have a backported patch for qt5 that adds xembed support, I'll land that after I get some testing done

==== Open input framework ====

=== X.org ===

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
}}}

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

{{{
</pre>
