{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Actions from previous meeting ==

== Actions from this meeting ==

== Weekly Summary ==

* Create first version of `ubuntu-defaults-builder`, see UbuntuSpec:desktop-o-cd-localization (pitti)
* First oneiric language packs uploaded. (pitti)
* CD space situation got worse, now that LLVM hit the images due to the new gallium drivers. However, Colin is working on removing .pyc files from the squashfs and rebuild them on installation, which should reduce the desktop images by 12 MB again. With that, and 703 MB images we are only 1 MB oversized.
* GTK+ 3 versions of parts of the Unity stack are starting to surface.
* OneConf client is now complete, with mock sync system. Now, work needs to be done on the server side. Also, USC redesign will ask more work to be done once released.

=== Partner update ===

=== Unity ===

* An unity SRU headed natty and is in -proposed, testing welcome! (already in oneiric, of course)

* A new unity (4.0), with gtk+3 compatibility and other library rewrite/architecture reshape will be released in the coming hours, will certainly reached oneiric just afterwards

* Working with the awesome Qt guys at the Qt contributor summit, we have now a Qt version with accessiblity available (for both QtWidgets and QML!) in the ubuntu-desktop ppa. Please, do not hesitate to test it:
** add the ppa, upgrade (Qt should be downloaded): https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-desktop/+archive/ppa
** relaunch your Qt apps, should work for now
** install qt-at-spi from the same ppa, see that apps should still work
** export QT_ACCESSIBILITY=1 and launch your apps, they should be available through Orca and Accerciser (QML application can be introspected only in Accerciser until the application implement accessiblity)
** Please note that it's still a little bit crashy when accessibility is enabled, do not hesitate to report any crash with accessibility enabled. 

=== Software Center ===
* Released Software Center version 4.1.6, includes:
** UI enhancements, many bug fixes
** Further backend refactor work
* Version 5.0 redesign work by Canonical UX team continues
** First round of user testing of new mockups and wireframes complete and analysis done, new round starts today
** Target to deliver the new design to the dev team during the week of the Rally (July 27)
* Released new Software Center SRUs for Maverick and Natty, currently in verification
* In progress:
** Excellent progress on GTK3/PyGI port by Matt McGowan!  \o/
** Deauthorization feature for purchased items
** Update software-center to use piston client for software-center-agent interaction

=== Kubuntu ===

=== X.org ===

* Failsafe-X and the X apport hooks have been migrated to the xdiagnose package.  They're no longer provided by xorg or xserver-xorg-video-intel.
*** Still need to verify xdiagnose gets installed by default in all cases, and that the failsafe-x and apport hooks fire up when appropriate.
* Initial blueprint/lep draft written for a 'Friendly Git Bisection' concept
* Updated and procured test hardware
* xorg 7.6+7 merged, migrates code to xdiagnose and drops a bunch of old, obsolete drivers from being installed on the CD
* mesa 7.10.3 merged, just a minor point rev from 7.10.2
* nvidia 275.09.07 merged, adds support for new cards and fixes a bunch of bugs

=== IRC log Western edition ===

<pre>
17:30:50	pitti	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2011-06-21
17:30:52	chrisccoulson	hi!
17:31:19	seb128	hey
17:32:00	pitti	FYI, the burndown charts still have the wrong alpha-2 milestone end; they shoudl fix themselves over midnight UTC
17:32:13	pitti	so let's dive right in with kenvandine
17:32:23	kenvandine	ok
17:32:24	pitti	kenvandine: still fighting wiki-wars? :0
17:32:26	pitti	:)
17:32:41	kenvandine	sort of...
17:32:42	kenvandine	:)
17:32:46	kenvandine	was in a meeting
17:32:51	kenvandine	starting with U1
17:33:08	kenvandine	they are going to make sure the sso fix breaking U1 in oneiric gets uploaded today
17:33:23	kenvandine	and the ppa/release stuff we talked about last week...
17:33:45	kenvandine	they will have something written up this week and make sure everyone is happy with it
17:34:00	rodrigo_	kenvandine, do you have any update about desktopcouch brokenness in oneiric being fixed?
17:34:04	kenvandine	i guess chipaca mentioned it in the release meeting last week, not sure what he had to say
17:34:12	kenvandine	rodrigo_, i don't... didn't know it was broken
17:34:25	kenvandine	rodrigo_, poing me to the bug and i'll make sure they are looking at it
17:34:33	kenvandine	s/poing/point
17:34:37	rodrigo_	kenvandine, I knew on Friday, will check with rye later, not sure if there was a bug
17:34:43	kenvandine	ok
17:35:07	kenvandine	that is all i have for U1, and nothing really new for DX... besides a do over with tedg
17:35:09	pitti	kenvandine: I followed up about the PPA issue, but no answer from U1 team yet
17:35:19	kenvandine	he upgraded to oneiric and is doing releases now
17:35:35	pitti	tedg: thanks for running oneiric!
17:35:36	kenvandine	pitti, they have committed to having something documented for everyone to review this week
17:36:02	tedg	pitti, Heh
17:36:02	kenvandine	i got the first release from him just before the meeting, going through the whole stack
17:36:13	kenvandine	oh, and the theme is uploaded now
17:36:27	mterry	anything we need to do to use it?
17:36:28	kenvandine	light-themes now includes Ambiance and Radiance gtk3 themes
17:36:38	kenvandine	you need gtk3-engines-unico
17:36:41	pitti	didrocks was kind enough to MIR it, so it's in today's images (I rebuilt them after they failed this morning)
17:36:42	kenvandine	which is pending a MIR
17:36:46	kenvandine	woot
17:36:56	pitti	but it isn't set as the default theme yet
17:36:58	mterry	kenvandine, but I mean to turn it on
17:37:00	mterry	ah
17:37:02	pitti	that still seems to be adwaita
17:37:03	didrocks	kenvandine: I had some comments on it, please make sure to read it and follow up with Cimi
17:37:09	kenvandine	will do
17:37:10	pitti	or is that because I have gnome-themes-standard installed?
17:37:20	kenvandine	no idea... perhaps
17:37:33	pitti	will purge and re-test
17:37:36	kenvandine	thx
17:37:42	kenvandine	i'll test on a live iso too
17:37:50	kenvandine	pitti, so do the isos have it now?
17:37:56	seb128	mterry, turn it on in dconf-editor ;-)
17:38:04	pitti	kenvandine: http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/20110621/ should have them
17:38:08	kenvandine	awesome
17:38:09	kenvandine	thx
17:38:13	pitti	ah, I used gnome-tweak-tool to enable Radiance
17:38:15	kenvandine	that is all i have
17:38:17	pitti	that worked
17:38:50	mterry	seb128, I looked, the key I thought it would be (/desktop/gnome/interface/gtk-theme) already said Ambiance
17:39:00	pitti	kenvandine: thanks; mind to add that to the wiki, too?
17:39:02	tkamppeter	hi
17:39:05	kenvandine	pitti, i will
17:39:27	seb128	mterry, you want org.gnome.desktop.interface gtk-theme
17:39:33	seb128	mterry, i.e dconf, not gconf
17:40:01	seb128	kenvandine is supposed to update ubuntu-artwork to move the gconf-default to a gsettings-override but he didn't do it yet ;-)
17:40:03	pitti	kenvandine: thank you!
17:40:09	mterry	seb128, sure, that's what I'm looking at.  But dconf has paths too, and the path for the org.gnome.desktop schema is /desktop/gnome
17:40:15	kenvandine	seb128, indeed :)
17:40:22	pitti	didrocks already sent the report to the wiki; great job on Qt a11y!
17:40:28	didrocks	thanks :)
17:40:29	pitti	looking forward to see GTK3 unity, too
17:40:32	didrocks	testers needed!
17:40:33	pitti	didrocks: anything to discuss?
17:40:37	mterry	whatever, can deal with this after meeting
17:40:42	didrocks	nothing in addition to what I wrote :)
17:40:43	seb128	right
17:41:27	pitti	didrocks: apt-get dist-upgrade should be everyone's morning/evening gymnastics
17:41:45	didrocks	pitti: it's in the ppa right now
17:41:48	didrocks	not oneiric
17:41:55	didrocks	just waiting to ensure that we have no regression
17:42:04	didrocks	the backport is approximatly 100 commits
17:42:09	didrocks	so quite intrusive :)
17:42:25	didrocks	I'll let it staging for 2/3 days before pushing in oneiric
17:42:28	pitti	didrocks: will upstream backport that as well, or just to 4.8, and we keep the backport ourselves?
17:42:39	pitti	didrocks: 4.8 is not possible/adequate for oneiric?
17:43:10	didrocks	pitti: upstream helped us to backport 4.8 to 4.7, but there is no official support. However, they told me they wanted to help us as far as they can
17:43:29	didrocks	pitti: it's more horrible than that, it's a 4.8 branch with some 5.0 features that we stripped together
17:44:03	didrocks	pitti: 4.8 has still an unkown release date, and talking with them at the summit about our feature freeze calendar, they confirmed that it's safer to plan on 4.7
17:44:10	didrocks	(4.7.4 should be out soon)
17:44:10	pitti	ack
17:44:36	pitti	I'm just a little worried because they wouldn't include the a11y patches in their QA for point releases
17:45:04	pitti	that sounds like a non-negligible source of problems/regressions?
17:45:35	didrocks	pitti: no, that's the downside, however, right now, the accessibility code is only activated under certain condition (env var, but soon, the dbus activation), so we should be safe for integrating regression on non accessibility side
17:45:46	pitti	didrocks: in general, does Qt come with a comprehensive test  suite, or does upstream have a separate secret/manual procedure for this?
17:45:50	didrocks	but yeah, with accessibility enabled, we can have some problems/regressions, hence this early test
17:46:07	didrocks	pitti: they have a very extensive test suite. However, they don't ship it in the tarball
17:46:19	pitti	ah, but in git? i. e. we have access to it?
17:46:23	didrocks	I need to rediscuss about that with them, I found nobody to explain why
17:46:26	didrocks	yeah
17:46:29	didrocks	in git
17:46:33	pitti	well, that's good enough
17:46:36	pitti	thanks!
17:46:40	didrocks	yw :)
17:47:00	pitti	wiki vs. tremolux still 1:0?
17:47:16	tremolux	pitti: haha, yes
17:47:25	tremolux	I can summarize and post it after tho, sound good?
17:47:27	pitti	tremolux: any news from the UX s-c design review?
17:47:37	pitti	tremolux: go ahead
17:47:44	tremolux	k
17:47:47	tremolux	 * Software Center 4.1.6 released, UI enhancements and bug fixes
17:47:47	tremolux	 * New Natty and Maverick SRUs currently in verification
17:47:47	tremolux	 * Software Center 5.0 redesign by UX team continues, more user testing this week and delivery of final design to come next week at rally
17:47:47	tremolux	 * And finally...great progress on GTK3 port by Matthew McGowan  \o/
17:48:01	pitti	wohoo!
17:48:10	rodrigo_	:)
17:48:13	tremolux	pitti: knew you'd like that  :D
17:48:37	tremolux	about the user testing, yes, they have completed the first round and a second round begins today (or has begun I expect)
17:48:37	pitti	tremolux: I'm curious, how does "progress" look like?
17:48:54	pitti	given that you probably can't even start the program until it's like 80% ported?
17:48:59	tremolux	like, it works! but not totally pretty as a lot of the custom code has been removed for now
17:49:18	tremolux	until we get the new design it doesn't make sense to go much farther I think
17:49:22	pitti	ah, so you just dropped all gtk2-ish imports, and disable parts of it
17:49:45	pitti	TBH I hadn't expected it to go that well
17:49:54	tremolux	it's Matt McGowan's work, he rocks
17:49:59	pitti	haven't heard a single OMGGTKBUG cry about this yet
17:50:32	didrocks	(just a note that I talk to mpt to ensure they consider OneConf in the redesign, so it would be more work, but won't block the inclusion by default)
17:51:11	tremolux	didrocks: ah, excellent!
17:51:42	pitti	thanks tremolux; great progress!
17:51:52	tremolux	thx pitti
17:52:04	pitti	also, thanks everyone for doing some WI cleanup
17:52:09	pitti	http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-oneiric/canonical-desktop-team-oneiric-alpha-2.html already looks better today
17:52:36	chrisccoulson	i need to do some WI cleaning soon ;)
17:52:52	pitti	desktop-o-default-email-client still wins by far in terms of WI
17:53:24	pitti	chrisccoulson: I guess there's quite a lot of upstream/m_conley work involved there? or is all of that on your plate?
17:53:33	chrisccoulson	i guess i'm going to be very busy at the rally next week
17:53:45	pitti	desktop-o-software-center-ui seems blocked on the UX feedback
17:53:58	pitti	I asked jasoncwarner_ to cover desktop-o-accessibility-ubiquity in the Eastern edition
17:54:22	pitti	https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-o-quickly
17:54:42	pitti	mterry, didrocks: this is still blocked on the new LP features (sinzui's 4 WIs for alpha-2); do you happen to know the status of this?
17:54:48	chrisccoulson	pitti - i guess for the default-email one that there might be a bit of shifting around. i'm busy on the messaging menu work atm, as mike already has a lot on his plate
17:54:53	mterry	pitti, no.  I assume it's still not done
17:55:03	chrisccoulson	but those are a3 milestoned, and i'd really like to land them before a2
17:55:11	didrocks	pitti: didn't have the time to track it done, it's been blocked for 3 cycles now
17:55:14	pitti	mterry: so I'll just re-target these to a3, beta1, etc. until it's done, and postpone the spec accordingly?
17:55:25	mterry	pitti, sure, on it
17:55:32	mterry	pitti, oh, you're on it I mean
17:55:33	pitti	mterry: (no action necessary right now)
17:55:51	pitti	chrisccoulson: yeah, I think at beta-1 is too late, it's after FF
17:56:24	pitti	didrocks, mterry: well, there are still a bunch of non-blocked WIs, but I guess these are just a manpower issue
17:56:32	mterry	yes
17:56:35	pitti	but it's low priority, so deliberately a target of opportunity
17:56:36	didrocks	right
17:56:46	pitti	so no harm there when we have to postpone, except your pride :/
17:57:05	 *	mterry has carefully cultivated a lack of pride for such instances
17:57:29	pitti	kenvandine: how is the new gwibber coming along?
17:57:35	kenvandine	very nicely!
17:57:46	kenvandine	almost ready to upload
17:58:22	pitti	yay
17:58:37	pitti	kenvandine: any blockers due to new gtk/python etc?
17:58:44	kenvandine	nope
17:58:50	kenvandine	it's vala :)
17:58:53	pitti	the current GTK 3.1.6 performance problem is quite a sucker
17:59:04	kenvandine	yeah, not affecting gwibber
17:59:08	pitti	lucky you :)
17:59:10	pitti	ok, great
17:59:41	seb128	pitti, where do you notice it?
17:59:45	pitti	Sweetshark: are we still blocked on LibO 3.4.0/3.4.1 to actually release?
17:59:47	kenvandine	empathy
17:59:53	kenvandine	is the only place i have seen it
17:59:54	seb128	oh, I'm using pidgin ;-)
18:00:01	seb128	would explain
18:00:03	pitti	seb128: empathy is unusable, but I've also seen long Evolution hangs
18:00:17	mterry	i've seen problems in control center too (at least on deja-dup)
18:00:20	kenvandine	oh... maybe that is why evo has been sucking this week
18:00:28	pitti	kenvandine: try downgrading to 3.1.4 and compare
18:00:30	seb128	mterry, right, I ran into it there
18:00:37	kenvandine	pitti, i did for empathy
18:00:43	pitti	Company knows about it, and said it's being worked on
18:00:51	pitti	but no fix yet in upstream trunk
18:01:03	kenvandine	yeah, i am following the bug
18:01:06	Sweetshark	pitti: 3.4.0 still has some packaging issues: ~5 patches need rebasing, and most importantly we need an update for the service registration foo
18:01:18	pitti	so in general, if anyone sees long GNOMEish program hangs in oneiric, it's probably that
18:01:31	Sweetshark	pitti: http://wiki.services.openoffice.org/wiki/Passive_Component_Registration
18:01:42	pitti	Sweetshark: oh, we modified that? or do you mean "we" as in Debian as well?
18:01:55	rodrigo_	no hangs here, but some slowness seen in the last few days, indeed
18:02:02	Sweetshark	pitti: we as in debian aswell
18:02:06	pitti	ah
18:02:20	pitti	Sweetshark: ok, it's not an alpha-2 blocker I think, we can easily move it to a3
18:02:57	pitti	if it gets later than that (after FF), then we need to reconsider staying at 3.3, but let's do that discussion if/when we need it
18:03:21	pitti	does anyone have any other topic? blockers? discussions? announcements?
18:03:59	Sweetshark	pitti: I digged through the source today and got the theory straight, _rene_ might give the implementation a try tonight. hopefully theory will match up with relality.
18:04:07	micahg	Firefox 5 should be going out to natty today
18:04:14	Sweetshark	s/relality/reality/
18:04:18	pitti	Sweetshark: high hopes :)
18:04:33	seb128	small note, http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/oneiric-desktop has gconf and gtk2 rdepends on the CD lists
18:04:37	pitti	micahg: ah, right; thanks for the additional l10 testing
18:04:44	seb128	if anyone is interested in those
18:04:51	seb128	I've started adding bug references as well
18:05:11	tremolux	I wanted to thank pedro_ for his awesome work on the desktop bug summary page, super-helpful for us for s-c bugs!
18:05:13	pitti	seb128: oh, I thought libgnome2-0 and friends are gone with dropping tomboy
18:05:15	seb128	I will tag the bugs as well
18:05:17	seb128	https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=gnome3-gtk3
18:05:22	seb128	https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=gnome3-gsettings
18:05:38	seb128	pitti, they are, gconf and gtk2 not yet though
18:05:46	seb128	pitti, which is the ones I mentioned today ;-)
18:05:58	pitti	yeah
18:06:18	seb128	I cleaned the libgnomevfs list
18:06:25	seb128	it's basically kept it by libreoffice and firefox
18:06:33	seb128	their -gnome still use gnome-vfs and gio
18:06:50	pitti	hm; nobody really tests gnomevfs any more
18:06:59	chrisccoulson	yeah, i'll need to distro-patch gnomevfs out of firefox
18:07:03	pedro_	tremolux, you're welcome! :-)
18:07:07	Sweetshark	pitti: btw that might also make postinst hooks superflous that patch around the services.rdb after install, which is icky and errorprone. Instead we will just have multiple service.rdbs.
18:07:13	 *	tremolux hugs pedro_
18:07:23	chrisccoulson	seb128, could you report a bug and assign it to me, so it doesn't fall off my radar?
18:07:23	 *	pedro_ hugs tremolux back
18:07:28	chrisccoulson	or just keep pinging me on IRC ;)
18:07:30	pitti	Sweetshark: and those are then just static XML files, instead of "real" databases?
18:07:39	Sweetshark	pitti: right
18:07:47	pitti	nice
18:08:17	seb128	chrisccoulson, ok
18:08:23	seb128	chrisccoulson, ping
18:08:24	seb128	chrisccoulson, ping
18:08:26	seb128	chrisccoulson, ping
18:08:31	chrisccoulson	lol
18:08:34	seb128	chrisccoulson, let me know when I can stop :p
18:08:44	chrisccoulson	seb128, careful, i might do that back to you and then change my IRC name
18:08:50	chrisccoulson	so you get a stuck indicator ;)
18:09:02	seb128	that bug should get a CVE or something ;-)
18:09:06	chrisccoulson	lol
18:09:12	chrisccoulson	yeah, it's basically a DoS
18:09:16	pitti	aaanyway
18:09:22	pitti	sounds like the meeting is over :)
18:09:24	chrisccoulson	don't tell mdeslaur
18:09:31	pitti	thanks everyone! looking forward to seeing all of you next week
18:09:39	micahg	chrisccoulson: I hit that bug the other day :-/
18:09:40	rodrigo_	yeah!
18:09:48	pitti	at the beer drinking rally (this is Dublin after all..)
18:09:50	tremolux	thanks everybody!
18:09:52	chrisccoulson	micahg, yeah, it's a total PITA ;)
18:09:58	pedro_	thanks!
18:10:08	chrisccoulson	pitti - i'm looking forward to some guinness!
18:10:29	fta	pitti, just saw "chromium-browser-l10n-LANG" mentioned above, what's about it? is it needed?
18:10:44	pitti	fta: it's just chromium-browser-l10n, sorry
18:10:58	pitti	fta: latest language-selector will now auto-install it if you have chromium installed
18:11:08	fta	oh, good
18:11:29	seb128	pitti, thanks
18:11:38	fta	pitti, thanks
</pre>

=== IRC log Eastern edition ===

<pre>
</pre>
