{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

== Meeting Minutes ==
=== Present ===
==== Main Meeting ====
* Rick Spencer (rickspencer3) - chair
* Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje)
* Bryce Harrington (bryce)
* Chris Cheney (ccheney)
* Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson)
* Didier Roche (didrocks)
* Gary Lasker (tremolux)
* Ken VanDine (kenvandine)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter)

==== Eastern Edition ====
* Luke Yelavich (TheMuso)
* Robert Ancell (robert_ancell)
* Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF)

=== Apologies ===
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) - Akademy

=== Agenda ===
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Partner Update
* Kubuntu Update
* Reviews
* Release Bugs/Release Status
* Review activity reports
* Any other business

==== Discussion ====

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Partner Update ===

=== Kubuntu Update ===

=== Software Center Update ===

* Alpha 3 plan and work items identified, see blueprints for details
* Buy Something
** Michael Nelson continues to make good progress on the software-center-agent
** Agent design and implementation details here: https://wiki.canonical.com/Ubuntu/SoftwareCenter/10.10/Roadmap/SoftwareCenterAgent
** mvo and tremolux currently using the software-center-agent stub server for buy-something cient development
** lp:~mvo/software-center/lazr merged to trunk, provides ubuntu-sso login object for use with s-c's login dialog
** mvo filling in more functionality in lp:~mvo/software-center/buy-something
** mvo's branch is to the point of being able to buy something from mvo's private PPA!  still "a bit rough" but working
** Billing system moving forward as well
** Some work needed for Soyuz metadata capability to get things working for buy-something, new-apps
* New Apps on a Stable Release
** Further UI design input from mpt, clarification of difference between "What's New" and new apps in extras.ubuntu.com
** Continue development using app-review-board PPA, Soyuz metadata integration still todo
* UI Enhancements
** Kiwinote making nice progress on apt-url integration in branch lp:~kiwinote/software-center/deb-files
** Matthew McGowan is working on a new gtk-based details view in branch lp:~mmcg069/software-center/appdetailsview-gtk
** tremolux working on nav history and applist reselect reimplementations for current design

=== Reviews ===
* We should be able to do them next week
* Think about goals for next year as well

=== Release Status ===

http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-maverick-alpha-1.html

=== Other Business ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Arne Goetje (ArneGoetje) ====

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

==== Chris Cheney (ccheney) ====

==== Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson) ====

==== Chris Halse Rogers (RAOF) ====

* Escalated bugs:
** Initial work for packaging SiS 671/771 xserver-xorg-video-sis fork.
** Investigation of Q965 resolution change bug (LP# 586325) - discovered that it is related to hardware cursor support, fix in progress.
* X bug triage.
* Sponsored hamster-applet upload for Martin Pool.

==== Didier Roche (didrocks) ====

==== Gary Lasker (tremolux) ====
* Identified alpha 3 work items for:
** desktop-maverick-opportunistic-apps-stable-release
** desktop-maverick-software-center-front-end
** (with mvo) foundations-maverick-buy-something
* Installed software-center-agent stub server and running it locally for development
* LP: #599644 - Contacted community designer who created a new icon for single-pane dept view "All" button, wired it in
* Email, Mumble with mpt, mvo re: further design for What's New feature and new apps in extras.ubuntu.com
* Mumble with mvo on buy-something continued detail design, alpha 3 plan
* Work on app reselect updates needed for new design
* Software Center bug triage

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

==== Ken VanDine (kenvandine) ====
* Vacation last week

==== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ====
===== Accessibility =====
* Further work with Vinux developers to make their derivative somewhat more clean in implementation, packaging settings, cleaning up scripts, and discussing changes.
* Uploaded gnome-orca 2.30.2 to lucid-proposed as an SRU in lucid, with many bugfixes and translation updates.

===== Audio =====
* Audio bug triaging, bugs in question were against the alsa userspace packages, pulseaudio, and the kernel.
* Set up virtual machines to do kubuntu and xubuntu maverick audio testing. VMs set up, but not played with yet.
* Started working out a plan of action to deal with the changed jack packages in Debian, which I would like to get into Ubuntu. Will send a post to ubuntu-audio-dev about my plan when ready.
* Dealt with merge/sync bugs relating to jack packages.

===== Misc =====
* More sponsored uploads, yelp, sane-backends, more that don't come to mind at the moment.

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

* reviewed Jos' work item tracker enhancements
* Maverick Alpha-2 release engineering, management, testing
* SRU review and processing
* Technical Board meeting
* bug fixes and improvements in apport, dpkg, libnotify, cups, udisks
* ddeb archive maintenance
* prepared/conducted job interview for Tech Architect

==== Robert Ancell (robert_ancell) ====

* Maverick updates: gcalctool, gnome-games, empathy, shotwell, yelpj
* SANE Backends Lucid SRU
* Worked on getting appearance applet to show correct button order - turns out to be quite complicated
* Update versions page with packages that are tracking stable GNOME releases

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* iso testing for alpha2
* desktop updates: gconf eog pidgin
* backported appmenu-gtk and indicator-appmenu fixes to get it to work properly for alpha2
* updated gconf, made it build and install gsettings utilities, added a gir binary the build
* cleaned gnome-icon-theme installed icons to get some CD space back
* cleaned some evolution packaging cruft and fixed notifier installation
* synced and merged gstreamer updates from debian
* changing libwnck to build a gir binary
* updated cairo to the new 1.9 serie, backported some fixes for new issues
* backported a gimp fix for the new cairo
* backported a gvfs fix for an hundredpapercut issue
* worked on the gdm update but it has issues so uploaded some backported changes rather for now
* lucid sru updates: gnome-panel nautilus

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

== IRC Logs ==

[17:31]  * rickspencer3 taps gavel <<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Meeting/2010-07-06 <<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> first is open actions from last week <<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> but there weren't any <<BR>>
[17:32]  * pitti chuckles <<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> so, easy! <<BR>>
[17:32] <pitti> the real fun is tomorrow! <<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> pitti, for you maybe, I'm in NL <<BR>>
[17:32] <rickspencer3> next is partner update <<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> kenvandine, ? <<BR>>
[17:33] <kenvandine> rickspencer3, i haven't figured that out yet... :) first day back <<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> okay <<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> well <<BR>>
[17:33]  * kenvandine enjoyed drinks at the beach... does that count? <<BR>>
[17:33] <rickspencer3> this is turning out to go fast <<BR>>
[17:33] <seb128> it will be faster when you notice there is no didrocks either <<BR>>
[17:33] <seb128> ;-) <<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> I think Riddell is at Akadamy <<BR>>
[17:34] <seb128> indeed <<BR>>
[17:34] <chrisccoulson> i don't know if you want a mozilla update? i've not prepared anything to say but i could probably say a few words <<BR>>
[17:34] <rickspencer3> chrisccoulson, yes please <<BR>>
[17:35] <seb128> chrisccoulson, would be nice <<BR>>
[17:35] <chrisccoulson> ok. so, we published FF3.6.6 to hardy and lucid last week (just after last weeks meeting) <<BR>>
[17:35] <seb128> \o/ <<BR>>
[17:35] <chrisccoulson> it's gone reasonably well so far, there was 1 issue that appeared during the evening (the new FF version conflicting with firefox-2 installs) <<BR>>
[17:36] <chrisccoulson> but that's fixed now <<BR>>
[17:36] <chrisccoulson> and we had some users complaining that their java plugin disappeared, which is also now fixed <<BR>>
[17:36] <chrisccoulson> and we're getting a lot of crash reports caused by the flash plugin on both lucid and hardy <<BR>>
[17:36] <chrisccoulson> which sucks :-/ <<BR>>
[17:37] <chrisccoulson> i could do with a way of contacting somebody at adobe <<BR>>
[17:37] <rickspencer3> chrisccoulson, have you asked asac about that? <<BR>>
[17:37] <chrisccoulson> rickspencer3, about contacting somebody at adobe? <<BR>>
[17:37] <chrisccoulson> or about the crashes? <<BR>>
[17:38] <rickspencer3> chrisccoulson, the adobe thing <<BR>>
[17:38] <chrisccoulson> rickspencer3, not yet. i was given another name yesterday, but i've not had a chance to speak to him yet <<BR>>
[17:39] <chrisccoulson> but, apart from that, i'm going to be in a position to finally start on maverick work this week :) <<BR>>
[17:39] <rickspencer3> chrisccoulson, I would strongly recommend asking asac <<BR>>
[17:39] <chrisccoulson> rickspencer3, ok, i can do that <<BR>>
[17:39] <rickspencer3> for a suggestion of who to talk to <<BR>>
[17:39] <rickspencer3> chrisccoulson, congrats on starting maverick <<BR>>
[17:39] <rickspencer3> ! <<BR>>
[17:40] <rickspencer3> chrisccoulson, I assume it goes without saying that you did an awesome job with mozilla and we all owe you a huge debt of gratitude? <<BR>>
[17:40] <chrisccoulson> FF3.6.7 is already in the PPA ready for testing too <<BR>>
[17:40] <chrisccoulson> heh, thanks :) <<BR>>
[17:40] <seb128> indeed great work chrisccoulson <<BR>>
[17:40] <chrisccoulson> and thanks to everyone who's helped out with testing too :) <<BR>>
[17:40]  * tremolux high-5's chrisccoulson <<BR>>
[17:41]  * chrisccoulson high-5's tremolux :) <<BR>>
[17:41] <rickspencer3> :) <<BR>>
[17:41] <rickspencer3> ok <<BR>>
[17:41] <rickspencer3> chrisccoulson, else on mozilla? <<BR>>
=== fta is now known as fta_ <<BR>>
[17:42] <chrisccoulson> i think i'm done. the only other thing is that karmic and jaunty are still blocked on openjdk, but that should be resolved soon <<BR>>
[17:42] <rickspencer3> chrisccoulson, that's just a simple matter of work, right? <<BR>>
[17:42] <rickspencer3> no unsolved technical issues, correct? <<BR>>
[17:42] <chrisccoulson> rickspencer3, yeah, we still need to run the TCK, which i don't think i'm doing <<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> right <<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> chrisccoulson, who is, do you know? <<BR>>
[17:43] <chrisccoulson> but jdstrand had to copy a package to main in jaunty today to get the backported version to build <<BR>>
[17:43] <chrisccoulson> i'm not sure who's doing the work, i'll have to check my emails again <<BR>>
[17:43] <rickspencer3> chrisccoulson, never mind, I can find out <<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> you should rather take a rest! <<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> hehe <<BR>>
[17:44] <chrisccoulson> rickspencer3, thanks <<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> ok, moving on ... <<BR>>
[17:44] <rickspencer3> tremolux, software-center? <<BR>>
[17:44] <tremolux> sure, pastebomb incoming: <<BR>>
[17:44] <tremolux> Buy Something:  Software Center Agent implementation progressing well, stub server in use for development <<BR>>
[17:44] <tremolux> mvo was able to "buy something" from his private PPA after resolving aptdaemon issue, branch at lp:~mvo/software-center/buy-something <<BR>>
[17:44] <tremolux> New Apps:  Further UI design input from mpt and discussion, development using app-review-board PPA continues (new-apps needs love this week) <<BR>>
[17:44] <tremolux> UI Enhancements:  Great progress by Kiwinote in apturl integration features, Matthew McGowan working on new gtk-based details view <<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> mvo was able to "buy something" from his private PPA after resolving aptdaemon issue, branch at lp:~mvo/software-center/buy-something <<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> !!!! <<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> seriously? <<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> wow <<BR>>
[17:45] <tremolux> yeah! <<BR>>
[17:45] <tremolux> he said it is "rough", but it worked <<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> New Apps:  Further UI design input from mpt and discussion <<BR>>
[17:45] <rickspencer3> has anyone come up with a name yet? <<BR>>
[17:46] <tremolux> no, I will get something asap tho <<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> tremolux, maybe a contest or something? <<BR>>
[17:46] <tremolux> hah, maybe! <<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> ACTION: rickspencer3 to propose a naming contest for new apps <<BR>>
[17:46] <rickspencer3> ACTION: rickspencer3 to find out who is doing the TDK testing, and make sure they do it <<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> tremolux, thanks for the update <<BR>>
[17:47] <tremolux> sure! <<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> sounds like software-center is coming along quite nicely for maverick <<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> moving on ... <<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> no didrocks, so no UNE update <<BR>>
[17:47] <rickspencer3> so, two quick things from me <<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> I bet some of you are wondering about performance reviews <<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> well ... I'm just waiting to hear about the raise and bonus numbers <<BR>>
[17:48] <rickspencer3> so I'm thinking next week <<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> we'll discuss goal setting at that time as well <<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> ups <<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> sorry about that <<BR>>
[17:49] <seb128> (note, don't test bugs during a meeting that might crash things) <<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> welcome back seb128 <<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> lol <<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> never a bad time to test! <<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> okay <<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> next is the spring <<BR>>
[17:49] <rickspencer3> sprint, even <<BR>>
[17:50] <rickspencer3> ah, I see my update to the wiki got blown away <<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> so, we need to update the wiki with our goals for the sprint <<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> as Tech Lead, this will be seb128's sacred task <<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> for some reason, this is on the internal wiki: <<BR>>
[17:51] <seb128> ;-) <<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> https://wiki.canonical.com/UbuntuPlatform/Sprints/Maverick/Desktop <<BR>>
[17:51] <rickspencer3> (sorry seb128) <<BR>>
[17:52] <seb128> the page seems pretty empty <<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> seb128, I think making the agenda has gotten a lot easier since we started tracking work items <<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> but there may be non work item things to add, as well <<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> like if you want someone to teach you something <<BR>>
[17:52] <rickspencer3> add it to the agenda <<BR>>
[17:53] <rickspencer3> seb128, so can you own filling in the agenda for us?? <<BR>>
[17:53] <loneowais> lamalex: hey, i shifted that app to messaging menu <<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> ok <<BR>>
[17:53] <lamalex> loneowais: sweet <<BR>>
[17:53] <loneowais> lamalex: the one we talked about yesterday <<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> loneowais, hey, there is a meeting running atm <<BR>>
[17:53] <loneowais> oh <<BR>>
[17:53] <loneowais> sorry <<BR>>
[17:53] <loneowais> carry on <<BR>>
[17:53] <rickspencer3> loneowais, lamalex np, almost done <<BR>>
[17:53] <seb128> lamalex, loneowais: could you wait end of the meeting or use #ayatana? <<BR>>
[17:53] <kenvandine> :) <<BR>>
[17:53] <loneowais> i'm in no hurry <<BR>>
[17:53] <loneowais> i can wait <<BR>>
[17:54] <rickspencer3> :) <<BR>>
[17:54] <rickspencer3> moving on <<BR>>
[17:54] <rickspencer3> seb128, release status? anything there to discuss? <<BR>>
[17:54] <seb128> #ayatana could be nice since that's where people writing indicators hang <<BR>>
[17:54] <seb128> ok <<BR>>
[17:54] <seb128> not really <<BR>>
[17:54] <seb128> congrats on alpha2 everybody <<BR>>
[17:54] <seb128> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-maverick-alpha-2.html <<BR>>
[17:54] <seb128> we have been mostly on track during this iteration and alpha2 is working nicely <<BR>>
[17:55] <seb128> now we track http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-desktop-team-maverick-alpha-3.html <<BR>>
[17:55] <seb128> and seems we are already behind a bit <<BR>>
[17:55] <seb128> (but there was a 3 days weekend and some people on holidays) <<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> so let's rock on those <<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> and don't forget to update your workitems regularly <<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> that was about it, thanks <<BR>>
[17:56] <rickspencer3> seb128, when should we start looking at bugs? <<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> rickspencer3, "depends" I would say ;-) <<BR>>
[17:56] <seb128> it's still a bit early to focus on bugs now <<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> but we turned apport on again in maverick <<BR>>
[17:57] <rickspencer3> thanks seb128 <<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> and it might be time to try to spot some of the importants issues in components you watch <<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> and talk to upstream etc about those <<BR>>
[17:57] <rickspencer3> any other business? <<BR>>
[17:57] <seb128> quite some specs are still work in progress though and there is no real point spending lot of time on bugs for things changing still <<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> rickspencer3, thanks <<BR>>
[17:58] <rickspencer3> thanks seb128, understood <<BR>>
[17:58] <rickspencer3> any other business? <<BR>>
[17:58] <seb128> not from me <<BR>>
[17:59] <rickspencer3> ok <<BR>>
[17:59] <rickspencer3> shall we call it a wrap? <<BR>>
[17:59]  * rickspencer3 taps gavel <<BR>>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
