{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see DesktopTeam/Meeting.

=== Present ===

* Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) - chair
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell)
* Martin Pitt (pitti)
* Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt)
* Michael Vogt (mvo)
* Mirco Müller (MacSlow)
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128)
* Ted Gould (tedg)

* Pedro Villavicencio Garrido (pedro_)
* Celeste Lyn Paul (seele)

=== Apologies ===

* Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) - funeral

=== Agenda ===

* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Sending activity reports
* Next week's team meeting
* GUADEC
* Mirco, Ted and me
* IM Future
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsoring Overview update]]</nowiki>
* Review activity reports
* Monthly Report
* Any other business

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

* MacSlow to update clutter to appropriate version, not worrying about parallel install
    Wasn't able to be completed, should be confirmed with Mark or handed off to someone else.
* seele to follow up with Jono about usability testing swag
    Still no reply from Jono.
* MacSlow to merge goffice, seb128 to help him understand what's going on
    Done.

=== Actions from this meeting ===

* EVERYONE to cease sending activity reports to `distro-team` and only to line manager
* EVERYONE to cc pitti next week

=== Sending activity reports ===

Activity reports should in future be only sent to one's line manager, and ''not'' to the `distro-team` mailing list.  The reports will continue to be incorporated into the team meeting reports, and mailed to the `distro-team` and `ubuntu-desktop` mailing lists.

If you have particular agenda items you feel are worth discussion beforehand, use the `ubuntu-desktop` and `ubuntu-devel` mailing lists as they're intended, and send a mail to them to begin a discussion.

=== Next week's team meeting ===

pitti will lead next week's meeting, while many of the team are at GUADEC.  All should cc their activity reports to him.

=== GUADEC ===

Reminder to everyone to check their roomie, etc. and make sure they know where they are going and who they're sharing with.

Agenda:
* bzr: the Bazaar folks are sending a veritable army to persuade GNOME to use it over git
* hiring: we're looking for folks for the Desktop Team Manager, Ubuntu GNOME Maintainer, Ubuntu Online Desktop (x3), Ubuntu Desktop Experience (x2-3) -- keep an eye out! (and remember that you get a referral bonus)

=== Mirco, Ted and me ===

A brief talk about the coming changes, and clarifying that Mirco and Ted will be full time seconded to the experience team until a manager is hired, at which point they will transfer to it.

=== IM Future ===

tedg asked for opinions about which of Pidgin or Telepathy appears to be the most likely to be the default on future Ubuntu desktops.  Consensus was that Pidgin is today, and for the near future, and the Telepathy has a way to go yet but has more promise perhaps overall.

=== Activity reports ===

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

done:
* fixing seeds and making packages installable for intrepid alpha 1
* intrepid alpha 1 CD testing
* hardy.1 CD testing, all ready to go
* archive administration (most of a day)

blocked:
* 1 main inclusion report still needing review
* Kubuntu website

next week:
* investigate getting knetworkmanager 0.7 working
* on holiday July 7 to 11

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

* NewHuman metacity changes: button outline and gradient changes, different vertical top gradients to better show an area to grab, fixed focused/unfocused title text position bug.

* NewHuman gtkrc changes: link and activated link bug fixed (thanks Neil!)...it only fixes a few apps but that is better than nothing, colour choosing fixes, murrine-nautilus-location fix (ugly blue bar in trash window), removed all highlight_ratio entries for specific widgets, now it only uses global highlights, also increased highlight slightly, although I think that making the menu selection highlight less hard glossy (different murrine gloss style) might be better, tweaking colors (lighter input bg colors since all text editors use that as the document bg), adding nautilus 
bg color. (Thanks to Conn O'Griofa for the help)

* Human-Murrine and Human-Clearlooks gtkrc changes: both had colour problems with GtkProgressBar widgets embedded in other widgets - for example, in Deluge. Also if you changed the selected fg colour, Metacity's colour would change unexpectedly. Those issues are now fixed. Removed some highlight_ratio entries for some widgets, increased global highlight slightly.

* LOTS of discussion about the dark theme. Ars Technica takes a decent light on it and gets the point whereas the forum doesn't (someone said I should be shot :p) I did not expect this amount of response and apprently did not 
realize how many people install and/or look at screenshots of our alpha's (more of the later I guess). Gosh, Ubuntu is popular ;-)

* Looking into fonts (and licensing thereof). The Liberation fonts are simply the best freely available document fonts - we need to use these as default in OOo and similar apps. The droid family is a pretty good screen-optimized 
condensed font, in some ways better than it's MS older brother. From what I can find online it is released under the apache license but there are no available downloads other than a direct copy from the Android image which includes no license. If anyone has any information on the droid fonts or knows someone at google to figure out the licensing let me know.

* ibex wallpaper work on the side, nothing amazing yet

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Only a 2-workday-week due to me being on holidays from Friday to Tuesday.

Intrepid specs I am drafting:
* intrepid-device-permissions, consolidate-spell-checkers, jockey-printer-driver-support: approved
* kernel-abi-package-handling: some difficulties to implement it properly in apt in a way that it works with aptitude; currently being discussed with Debian
* gdm-guest-account: still drafting, no progress on that due to vacation and 8.04.1 release; no email response from upstream yet, will try again in IRC

Currently open milestoned bugs:
 - 8.04.1: None
 - Intrepid: #224697 (Disable hibernation if swap is on file), #232428 (guile 1.6 -> 1.8 transition): will do later, specs go first

Merges:
* all done until last Thursday; libmtp popped up over the weekend, trivial merge, will do soon (pretty pointless, though, Debian just accepted half of our patch, no new things for us)

Other:
* Extensive 8.04.1 CD testing
* Evaluated system-configy-users as a possible candidate to replace gnome-system-tools, sent detailled report to u-desktop@.

==== Matthew Paul Thomas (mpt) ====

'''Launchpad 2.0'''

==== Michael Vogt (mvo) ====

UpdateManager:
* added hardy->intrepid desktop and server upgrades to the auto upgrade tester
* trying to reproduce doc-base upgrade failure
* look at porting the auto-upgrader to libvirt (postponed for now, too much changes)
* add vm snapshot/restore functionatliy to the upgrader to make some operations faster
* add auto-install-tester script to the upgrader based on the loadvm/savevm stuff - while this is good stuff in theory in practise it is unfortunately not very reliable and after loadvm stuff tends to segfault (or freeze) in the VM on both hardy and intrepid (reported as   LP #244467) once this is resolved it should make building the base images for upgrade testing much easier
* fixes in the changelog parsing code and fallback functionality when no changelog is available yet
* tested/enabled hardy->intrepid upgrades with update-manager/do-release-upgrade for intrepid alpha-1
* fixes in the way apport is called
* improve logging

intrepid-desktop-systemprefs:
* worked on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IntrepidSystemPreferences
* split language-selector default language and fontconfig-voodoo functionatliy out into a dbus backend that is then protected by policykit for the SystemPreferences spec and the no-more-gksu spec. not perfect yet but available in the lp:~mvo/language-selector/dbus branch (policykit has some funny limitations like "action id"s can only be lowercase ?!? - took me a bit to figure that out)

compiz:
* new git snpashot 
* improved the update-git script
* made some dependencies stricter

misc:
* Mail/bug triage
* help/mentor MacSlow with the goffice and gnumeric merge
* review/merged lools gdebi branch (thanks!)
* started https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IntrepidIbex/Alpha1 wiki
* fix locking bug in the conflictschecker 
* fix update-notifier outstanding updates calculation (#239673) and upload SRU
* command-not-found-data updated for interpid
* update app-install-data-ubuntu and review the new desktop entries (took a bit because we got so much new stuff), dropped some reduandent/useless ones and uploaded new version to intrepid
* fix lzma extraction in the app-install-data extractor

==== Mirco Müller (MacSlow) ====

'''Seconded to experience team'''

login-experience/gdm-face-browser:
* current upstream gdm (20080702) fails to compile due to missing structure definition of pam_xauth_data in libpam, which is neither part of hardy or intrepid, still trying to find a solution for this

merges:
* goffice and gnumeric, issues with static libraries caused some headache

* dealt most of the week with pbuilder and PPA to get goffice and gnumeric compiled and tested

misc:
* remaining travel preparations for GUADEC'08 and distro-sprint
﻿
* switched to pure desktop-upstream as of this week

todo:
* update spec for login-experience/gdm-face-browser to reflect design changes

* update spec for sparkle-plugin to reflect altered work-focus

* continue with sparkle implementation (as time permits)

* assigned bugs: 130441, 141432, 147966, 151395 (milestoned), 152844, 164670, 200146, 206809, 144472, 152271﻿ (milestoned)

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* GNOME 2.22.3 updates for hardy

* some other srus updates too

* lot of bug triage

* archive admin tasks

* some intrepid updates

* tried to get compiz working on intrepid but it's still too slow to be used where an hardy installation on the same machine works correctly

==== Ted Gould (tedg) ====

'''Seconded to experience team'''

* Upgraded my laptop to Intrepid.  Will file bugs.
* July 4th is a holiday, something about freedom from oppressive tea prices in Boston.
* Evaluated FUSA for usage as the user/prescence applet.  Looks like a good choice to build on.
* Packaging: gpm, gss, xss
* Desktop experience call

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryDesktopTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
Back to '''<nowiki>[[DesktopTeam]]</nowiki>'''.
