{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Single Sign-on Requirements Session notes ==

This session is about the requirements and what we want to achieve.

=== Motivation ===
* people use their computers in a more integrated way with online apps than before (google calendar, flickr, facebook, gmail, launchpad etc)

=== Idea ===
* on login, be logged into your web apps automatically

=== Use cases ===
* scott logs in to his desktop and is automatically logged in to launchpad
* Yahoo Messenger and Flickr using the same account
* Google Docs and Gmail using the same account
* making login stuff available to multiple applications
* local applications: apport, hwtest, online-backup
* in a corporate or educational network your credentials are stored and your access rights are managed from a central server (that is the server world definition of SSO) 

Example of a similar experience is the flickr export in f-spot.

=== Requirements ===
* the client side SSO should be able to get credentials from a local storage or from over the network (corporate LDAP server, for example)
* avoid requiring a Web browser for login, if possible
** disorienting - requires handling and closing the browser window
** not as accessible
* provide means to protect against spoofing in cases where the authentication page URL changes dynamically
* handle the "forgot password" and "have no account" cases
* we need to support the "username/password" and OAuth case

Additional applications that are not web services but we still want to support:
* imap/pop3
* jabber
* nxclient
* smbfs
** smbfs is deprecated in favor of cifs. It is <nowiki>[[http://www.mail-archive.com/linux-kernel@vger.kernel.org/msg260960.html|going to be removed]]</nowiki> from the kernel
* java applets (?)

It should be possible to store the credentials on LP so that they can be 
retrieved when the users logs into a new computer. Encrypted with the 
users password on LP. In addition storing it on LP should be optional and we
should provide a mechanism to provide other means of transport (like exporting
it to a usb stick and importing it on the new machine). What about passwordless
accounts? 

=== OAuth ===

* A possible protocol to use is OAuth that gives out authentication tokens that are less valueable than user passwords. The tokens are then stored in the gnome-keyring (and/or kwallet)
* whenn launchpad.net gives out OAuth tokens, other sites need then to verify against 
  launchpad.net that the token is valid
* supports some access control to limit what the token can do

=== OpenID ===
* purely for web browsers

=== misc ===
* add account manager application
* do not optimize for the multiple ubuntu.net account but focus on the 
  one-default account

User stories
* Jamie starts up her new Ubuntu installation, and starts Evolution. The Evolution Setup Assistant appears and asks her for her e-mail address, but she doesn't have one.
* Ladislav uses an Ubuntu.net account on his home computer. He has now installed Ubuntu on his laptop, and wants to use the same Ubuntu.net account.
* Alice has a new install and fires up pidgin. It comes up with a first-start
   page that offers to create a new ubuntu.net account, use a existing ubuntu.net 
   account or use a existing other account
