{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Single Sign On User Experience Session Notes ==

<pre>
* what does the single sign-on account represent?
- 1 account per role
or 
- 1 account per person

what is the purpose exactly?

login, ubuntu.net,  all the account = wallet
or 
login, different sort of account = identify providers, ubuntu being one

the list of services is not really defined yet but it should not be intrusive,
rather integrated in the normal desktop applications
- how much of this work has already been done with the Gnome Online Desktop stuff?

when login-in all the identified provider are unlocked and you can use the services available
-> agreement!

you install ubuntu from the cd, when is the account created?
 - optional thing to click while it's installing, or ask a question to user?
- using the program wizard? in this case what dialog should the keyring service for example?

example, pidgin:
- use my ubuntu.net account
- create an ubuntu.net account
- don't use ubuntu.net

offer to create accounts only for services defined well enough

the "use existant account" should list the different accounts available and select by default the identify you are using

don't offer to create a second account for the same provider, ie ubuntu.net should not be listed if the user already has an account there

on a new installation, the user runs evolution and choose to use an ubuntu.net account, 
then starts pidgin, should the wizard be display or should the account previously selected
be used there?

identify manager application?

the keyring service will not be for this cycle
</pre>
