{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Adam Conrad (infinity) ===

Done
* debian-maintainer-field: Maintainer field mangling is in the archive and active on the buildds, and working as advertised.
* live-cd-stacked-filesystems: Just recieved word that elmo has given me the kernel support I need on the buildds, so will roll this out in production after I've slept today.
* larger-livefs: Still needs creation of a seed for live-dvd, but when live-cd-stacked-filesystems is rolled out, this one basically takes care of itself.
* A fair amount of buildd wrangling this week, unsnaring the usual "new GNOME breakage", dealing with chroots not updating properly, etc.
* General weekly tasks (archive maintenance, tracking soyuz bugs and misfeatures, etc)
To do
* New upstream releases of PHP, MySQL, and Samba, all done in Debian, just need to get UVFs and quickly merge/sync them.
* Create live-dvd seed.
* Make sure live-cd-stacked-filesystems/larger-livefs actually work in production.
* Attack bug lists and FTBFS lists.

=== Ben Collins (BenC) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Colin Watson (Kamion) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===

Done:
*** GNOME 2.16
*** Bugs
*** Artwork uploads and work on Art-Builder
Todo:
*** more Bug Triage
*** more Art-Builder
*** REVU DAY tomorrow!
*** get new gnome-pilot in, get missing telepathy packages in before UniverseFreeze
*** start on apt-get.org import

=== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Frank Schoep (fschoep) ===

Done:
* theme-teams: collect final versions of artwork
* community artwork: package best available artwork, mad props to Daniel Holbach on this one as well
* community artwork: contact sabdfl on progress and direction
* sound-themes: package best available sounds
* gtk-theme: minor tweaks
* ubuntu-art-polish-human-icons: finalized iconprio stuff, props to Daniel again for updating the website, contacted sabdfl along the way
* ubuntu-art-complete-highcon-icons: introduced Henrik to Étienne Bersace, looks like this is going to go well
Ongoing:
* art-polish-human-gtk-theme: decide on color tweaks based on artwork direction
* community-artwork: polish and rework parts to sabdfl's liking, fix outstanding bugs
* sound-themes: tweaking and polishing of sounds
* ubuntu-art-polish-human-icons: contact Dave to start work after sabdfl approves the scheduled list of work
Blocked:
* theme-teams: there seems to be no Art Council in place, who will approve theme team work for inclusion?
* usplash-artwork: running to stand still - has the target stopped moving yet?

=== Henrik Omma (heno) ===

* onboard: This is packaged and ready. We're just waiting for it to make it's way through the NEW queue and main inclusion process. Once that happens I'd like to seed it to the CD and remove gok.
* live-cd-access: lot's of little loose ends here, but on the whole looking good. We have made a few usability improvements to Orca so it will fit more smoothly on the default desktop (not get in the way for those who need it). Chris Jones (onboard SoC student) has prepared patches for both Orca and he gnome access config panel to help with this. 
* sudo-admin-atspi: Looks like we ae not ready to apply the at-spi+sudo patches from upstream since they still need some love. Unless others have strong feelings otherwise I would mark this Deferred. We can manage some decent work-arounds both on an installed system and though running Orca as sudo alongside ubiquity on the Live CD. So the live-cd-access spec can still be implemented.
* speakup-inclusion: The kernel work done here earlier here is proving useful since it saves people from compiling their own (and we have had questions about that). The user space scripts and GUI-based config will be deferred though.

=== Ian Jackson (iwj) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ===

done:
* specs all implemented, except adept ones which are deferred
* KDE oem-config testing, Colin has merged (thanks to abattoir)
* kubuntu-hwdb: fixes, usability improvements and adding kwwii's artwork
* langpacks-desktopfile-kde: working well, reuploaded everything to pick up .desktop file edits
* kubuntu-system-settings-usability: updated packages (thanks to sime for implementing), same for kubuntu-power-management (thanks to Lure and sebas for much work there)
* kubuntu-accessibility: required casper changes in
* KDE 4 pre-release packaged and in NEW
blocked: ruby on ppc
todo:
* REVU day
* koffice 1.6 beta
* merge KDE ubiquity with Colin's changes to GTK frontend
* look at moving ubuntu-docs from svn to bzr
* knot 3

=== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Martin Pitt (pitti) ===

Done:
* started to catch up with security updates after the two weeks break: PHP, bind, kernel (just coordination), mailman, libxfont/X.org, imagemagick, openssl, MySQL 
* apport: implemented bug pattern matching backend and GUI (so that apport-gtk directs you to an already existing bug rather than asking you to file a new one)
* SoC reviews and reports
* merged cupsys and updated to 1.2.3; not yet uploaded since I have to fix a regression
Todo:
* more security updates (arrgh)
* catch up on my overflowing bugs inbox
* finish cups 1.2.3 and upload
* fix high-profile langpack-o-matic bug and prepare new packages (BLOCKED: *-updates embargo; mdz?)
* ensure that php and mysql get new upstream versions (infinity or I)
* finish gnutls12->13 transition
* start bug fixing
spec status:
* apt-get-debug-symbols (Deployment): distro side is ready, needs buildd infrastructure work to get .ddebs to people.u.c (to be implemented next week with infinity)
* automated-problem-reports (Implemented): does not yet catch all corner cases, this requires an updated kernel implementation which will (most likely) be deferred to Edgy+1; but basic functionality is working apart from some bugs
* gcc-ssp (Implemented): Distro side changes are implemented for a long time; still need to check current build coverage, and perhaps do no-change uploads to important packages
* auto-unmount-notifications (Implemented): works a bit too good (also for readonly devices), but I consider that a bug

=== Matthias Klose (doko) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Michael Vogt (mvo) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Oliver Grawert (ogra) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Rodrigo Novo (rodarvus) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) ===

Done:
* On Leave
* Upstart into main and ubuntu-minimal
* Transition requires a double dist-upgrade run, or use of the update tool (can't be helped due to dpkg/apt "features")

To do:
* Start on some bug fixes
* Finish off upstart article for Linux.com

BootMessageLogging: 
* I think we were on crack when we wrote this spec, it turned into something of a christmas tree
* Assuming it's ok to simplify it to just "boot messages are logged to a file, and not displayed if 'quiet' on the kernel command-line" then it can be marked as implemented with my next upstart upload and we can focus on the other things later
* Given the above, checkroot, checkfs and cryptdisks need special treatment -- but they'll need that for the new usplash too anyway
* Otherwise I'm deferring it and leaving messages on the console (new usplash hides them on tty8 anyway)

DashAsBinSh:
* Implemented early in the cycle
* Opted not to change /bin/sh from a diverted symlink as the code that's there works with lots of different shells and actually works, no matter how unaesthetic
* A few, but no major, shell issues have been reported and dealt with.  I'm not aware of any outstanding ones.

ReplacementInit:
* Really happy with how well this has gone, has been installed by default for a few days and still only getting trivial bugs
* Deferred changes to initscripts to edgy+1 due to problems with LVM, etc. uncovered during testing; would rather attack these on a fresh release than break edgy at this point
* Have an active community for upstart already
* Already speccing out edgy+1 things that will probably be implemented "upstream" as we go anyway
* General query ... given that development will be continuing (e.g. changes to events and job states coming rsn) should I maintain this in edgy post-FF or only upload bug fixes and instead have a separate archive?

Teardown:
* Implemented early in the cycle
* A few things have crept back in, will treat those as bugs

AutomakeTransition:
* deferred until edgy+1
* Debian will probably do most of this for us
* automake 1.9 is the highest priority alternative in edgy

LibAtaForAtaDisks
* Not strictly my spec, but I helped with it
* The kernel-side was deferred in favour of waiting for upstream to shake out the bugs now the patches are landing in 2.6.19
* The UUID stuff went in though, we have working mount-by-uuid, swap-by-uuid and resume-by-uuid
* Unless you use any filesystem fabbione cares about, of course, but he can fix those problems :p

=== Sebastian Bacher (seb128) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Simon Law (sfllaw) ===

Done:
* Bug triage
* Looked into interns at Cégep John Abbott
* Various meetings
To do:
* Bug triage
* Prepare for UbuntuHugDay
* Work with seb128 and dholbach to get a desktop triaging team in place
* Get in touch with LaptopTestingTeam for installer testing

=== Tollef Fog Heen (Mithrandir) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

----
CategoryTemplate
