{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Developer Membership Board meeting 2011-09-12 19:00 UTC ==

Chair: Stéphane Graber
Present:  Jono Bacon, Michael Biena (DMB), Jonathan Carter, Benjamin Drung (DMB), Micah Gersten (DMB), Scott Kitterman, Cody Somerville (DMB)

=== Administrative matter: Review of re-staffing poll results ===

Micah Gersten is the winner of the poll. Result forwarded to the TB.

=== Administrative matter: Review of the Ubuntu Developer Survey results ===

http://ubuntuone.com/0L7YnAHC0MRC2cHgLlq4n5

It's been discussed that one of the major problems is the lack of documentation, Jono will ask Daniel to work on improving the layout of the existing documentation and Cody will work on documenting how to endorse someone.

We'll continue discussing the report at our next meeting.

=== Administrative matter: Package sets ===

We've been discussing our current package sets documentation and how to improve it as well as the way of handling changes.

As a first step, stgraber will put online the list of all package sets and their content for all supported series.

Additional documentation will likely have to be done on the wiki to document the reason for each of them, the associated team and the reason and criteria for the package list.

=== Next meeting ===

The next meeting is scheduled for 2011-09-26 14:00 UTC (Chair: micahg)
