{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For archives of previous meetings, please see DevelTeamMeetings.

=== Apologies ===

* Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) - on holiday
* Tollef Fog Heen (tfheen) - on holiday
* Ian Jackson (iwj) - out sick

=== Agenda ===

 1. Roll call
** Apologies
 1. Review agenda
** Review activity reports
** Propose additional items
** Accept agenda
** (ogra) Edubuntu is RC blocked on bug #100021 (or on removing NM from the Edubuntu seeds) at the moment.
** (pitti) Confirm decision about apport in final release.
 1. Actions from previous meeting
* tfheen to make sure QA/bug triage information includes information about when to milestone.
* bdmurray to summarize network-manager/ifupdown issues on ubuntu-devel for further discussion
* bdmurray to merge Bugs/Teams and Bugs/FindRightPackage, solicit feedback from developers
# Release readiness update
# Other business

=== Activity Reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

* firefox/thunderbird updates
* bug triage
* teaching community on mozilla packaging
* working on next-generation mozilla packages

==== Ben Collins (BenC) ====

General:
* Kernel team meeting canceled this week (mainly due to my illness)

Kernel:
* nvidia 9631 integration work
* Uploaded -14 kernel, targetted for feisty kernel freeze. Pending lrm upload before it becomes the default.

==== Brian Murray (bdmurray) ====

Bug triaging:
* Assigned packages to multiple bugs that had none i.e. were just filed against Ubuntu
* Reading through bug mailing list and triaging bugs
* tagging of bugs to retrace
* hug day participation

Bug helper:
* Bug hunting via bughelper

Other:
* lp_stockreplies.js greasemonkey script work
* Update of Bugs/FindRightPackage wiki page
* SRU verification

==== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ====

MOTU:
* motu-uvf
* motu mentoring
* motu review
* motu discussions

Bughelper:
* bughelper patch review
* bughelper LP-UI fix
* bughelper fixes

Bugs:
* bug triage
* bughelper-on-a-server: http://daniel.holba.ch/bugs

GNOME:
* ekiga fix, glom update

Artwork:
* human-icon-theme fix, human-icon-theme update, icon-naming-utils fix, tangerine-icon-theme updates, feisty-gdm-themes update
* artwork discussions
* added Tango stock icons: http://jimmac.musichall.cz/weblog.php/Artwork/Marathon.php

Misc:
* status update meeting
* syncropated fix, bluez-gnome fix, bluez-utils fix, libsexy update, example-content update, ubuntu-docs upload,
* upgraded server to feisty

==== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ====

Done:
* IPv6 cleanup
* fixed network manager to not interfere with ipv6
* redhat-cluster bug fixing
* multipath-tools bug fixing (prepared dapper SRU), feisty blocked on dm-* not showing up on the test machine, edgy will come as last (low priority compared to dapper/feisty).

To do:
* Easter vacation starting now. Cya Tuesday.

==== Henrik Omma (heno) ====

* Accessibility testing, bug triage and follow up
* General Ubuntu bug triage
* More work on ISO tracking system -- looks ready for use IMO
** see: http://www.stgraber.org/ubuntu/isotesting

BLOCKED: #27435 -- Request for Canonical hosting of the ISO tracker

==== Ian Jackson (iwj) ====

This week I have been working on:
* automated-testing: Now running most nights, last wrinkles out of it today I hope (I got a 50% random failure rate last night due to a race in xm destroy).
* Bug 75681 (raid/lvm races). Thanks to Scott for his uploads after my evident incompetence :-/.

Other stuff this week:
* I have a bad cold; I was very thickheaded yesterday and have a bad headache today.  I can't remember everything I did last week and I've achieved little of use today.
* This coming Friday and Monday are public holidays in the UK.

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

Done:
* package and fix new guidance release
* fix language-selector breakage when scim not installed
* fixes to adept dist-upgrader feature
* test qt fglrx bug patch
* various ubiquity fixes
* add partitioner bar in ubiquity

ill on thursday 29th

To do:
* RC, sort out KDE 4 licence problems

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

* Bug hunting (h-i-t, gdm, etc.)
* Installer graphics
* Design ideas for Kubuntu website
* Community artwork discussion

==== Kyle McMartin (kylem) ====

Security:
* more fixes pointed out by kees

General:
* update HPA patches
* random intel mac related libata fixes
* bugs

Admin:
* trying to figure out travel details

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Spec status:
* UbuntuSpec:increase-hwdb-participation: livefs.sh has been fixed, spec is implemented now.

Other things which might be interesting for others:
* Spent a lot of time reviewing SoC applications, separating the wheat from the chaff. This needs more people, though, for a better rating.

==== Matthias Klose (doko) ====

spec status:
* UbuntuSpec:feistyplusone-toolchain-roadmap
** Currently (intentionally) blocked on test rebuilds (buildd infrastructure).

activity:
* OOo bug triage
* OOo updates and bug fixes
* OOo icon merges
* bug triage for dist-upgrade related bug reports
* edgy-updates (mysql-dfsg-5.0, eclipse)
* SoC administration

==== Michael Vogt (mvo) ====

Bugs:
* triage, fixing, uploading fixes
* writing bughelper clues

ISV:
* review/testing of db2 packages and prepare dapper-commercial upload

Upgrades:
* work on a main+universe upgrade test (~18.000 pkgs)
* manual upgrade testing (test upgrades+the upgrader)
* fix apache2/php5 upgrade issue in dist-upgrader
* rewrite fstab to point to cdroms to /dev/cdrom
* ensure that the kde ugprader works for CD upgrades as well
* add admin group if its missing and add SUDO_USER to it
* fix in the sources.list rewriting logic for people with unofficial mirrors
* fix autoinstalled information so that direct dependencies of "metapackages" are not marked as auto-installed
* fix issue where the GUI hangs

Misc:
* started looking into the SoC applications

==== Oliver Grawert (ogra) ====

Last week:
* lots of ltsp fixes
* edubuntu-docs proofreading and uploads
* edubuntu-artwork fixes
* lots and lots of work on thin client chroot cleanup for speedups (for bug 97456)
* closed one of my two RC bugs

Next week:
* prepare and test final CD
* work on 81227 (could need help from a hal person here)
* fix last glitches

==== Phillip Lougher (pkl) ====

General:
* Mostly bug triaging.

Kernel:
* Investigated a number of bugs.  Nothing notable.
* Some testing of SetPageErr fix to Squashfs (written in own time).

Clustering:
* Continuing to take over clustering support from Fabbione.

Misc:
* Initial thoughts on kernel topics for UDS.

Meetings:
* Kernel meeting cancelled this week.

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* load of bug triage
* some GNOME updates
* archive admin work
* desktop bugs fixing

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

Done:
* Regression test user survey of HPLIP 1.7.3 (bug 98520).
* Put HPLIP 1.7.3 into Feisty, this closed near 20 bugs reported on Launchpad.
* Updated CUPS package to not install directories in /opt and /usr/local (bug 94353) and to clean backend mess of previous versions (bug 92042).
* New foomatic-db package, fixing bug 92625 and needed by HPLIP 1.7.3 is approved and uploaded now.
* All bug assigned to me on https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+milestone/ubuntu-7.04 are "Fix Released" now.
* Answered bug reports

==== Tim Gardner (rtg) ====

General:
* Bug triage
* Embedded Systems Conference

Kernel:
* More lkml and wireless-dev lurking.
* Misc kernel updates; sky2, MAC keyboard

==== Tollef Fog Heen (tfheen) ====

~+'''NO REPORT RECEIVED.'''+~

=== Actions ===

