{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For archives of previous meetings, please see DevelTeamMeetings.

=== Adam Conrad (infinity) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Ben Collins (BenC) ===

* driver-device-manager: Drafting: will have this finished and approved by Nov 30th. Actually started on writing this already.
* retire-optimized-kernels: Retroactive spec, need to draft it.
* linux-kernel-crash-dump: Retargetted to feisty. Few small bits still to implement.
* libata-for-all-ata-disks: Retargetted to feisty. Have switched a few drivers to pata in 2.6.19. Ran into some issues with initramfs-tools now including them in the initrd, but fixed as of yesterday. Still some issues to figure out with regard to generic/ide-generic and ata_generic/pata_legacy migration.

=== Colin Watson (cjwatson) ===

Specifications:
* feisty-ubiquity: Approved. I should do some of this, but some would make good bite-size tasks for new developers. Should I be the assignee anyway?
* increase-hwdb-participation: Approved. None of this is actually going to happen in the installer, so I'd appreciate somebody else volunteering as the assignee here.
* intel-mac-support: Did not get discussion at UDS or allhands. I know roughly what needs to be done, so I intend to draft it anyway and we can at least make the situation a lot better than it is now.
* setup-console-under-usplash: Approved; working my way through the merge pile before uploading; unfortunately we have to merge xkeyboard-config first.
* simplify-oem-installation: Still in requirements gathering. There are some fairly obvious things we can do listed at the bottom of the brain-dump, but I don't know how far we can take this without better commercial input.
* ubiquity-advanced-partitioner: No more work done since just before UDS, but it's still just as approved as it was before.
* ubiquity-automation: Approved. We went for a fairly conservative set of options which should be a quick win.
* ubiquity-driver-updates: Drafting. We loosely agreed the business side at allhands, so I just need to put the pieces together and get it approved now.
* ubiquity-more-user-config: Discussion. We still need to talk to Launchpad developers about account creation; I didn't manage this at allhands ...
* ubiquity-oem: Not really started. Doesn't need significant discussion, but Maria indicated at allhands that this wasn't a priority for the Canonical OEM team, so I'll only complete it if I have time.
* ubiquity-release-notes: Approved. Should be easy.
* ubiquity-slideshow: Approved. Installer side should be straightforward, but it also needs artwork. Who should be the assignee?

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ===

Done
* clean up a couple of specs.
* merges.
* extra bug fixing in mdadm to have bootable feisty.
* SRU for lvm2 (dapper and edgy).
* debugging pata_via init race.
* update some other packages (ocfs2-tools, openais, redhat-cluster-suite).
* wrote metacode for MAU support in the kernel.
* recovering from jetlag (on going).

To do
* start working specs implementations.
* get last specs approved.
* change meeting report layout to match specs status.

=== Frank Schoep (fschoep) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Henrik Omma (heno) ===

* access-gdm - Should be simple enough with upstream doing work on it. Our default GDM theme is not a11y-capable yet though -- need to look into that.
* braille-support - Pending Review. cjwatson and Keybuk should have another look at it.
* color-filters - Spec still needs completing. Libs vare available for testing from upstream but no config GUI has been made AFAIK.
* common-at-conf -- spec needs to be tightened and recent upstream work needs taking into account.
* multilingual-speech - Should be split up into a Fiesty and a Fiesty+1 spec, with the former adding more language files to our repos (universe and multiverse) and the later would include UI and Just Works stuff.
* orca-laptop-support - Approved. good progress -- laptop layout now available for testing from upstream.
* atspi-testing-by-default -- I'd like feedback from the team on this. It is already implemented in test builds of Gnome; does that mean we get it automatically? Are there any major objections to this? ... it will slow systems down a bit.

=== Ian Jackson (iwj) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ===

done: 
* all of KDE main merged and updated, send patches upstream, packaging koffice 1.6.1, and security fun with 
todo: 
* merge rest of Kubuntu packages and others with my name on them
* on holiday next week
specs: 
1 being reviewed:
* kubuntu-ubiquity-migration-assistant
bunch needing approval: 
* (community) kubuntu-multimedia-simplification, kubuntu-samba-integration, kubuntu-feisty-laptop, kubuntu-feisty-networking 
* (artwork) kubuntu-feisty-artwork*
* (mine) kubuntu-feisty-adept-changes, kubuntu-ubiquity-migration-assistant
approved specs:
* kubuntu-feisty-kde4-plan, would be a good task for an abitious MOTU
* kubuntu-update-manager, most important one, still trying to contact upstream with questions about embedded konsole
* kubuntu-feisty-language-selector, approved and qt 4 port already done by josef
* kubuntu-feisty-ubiquity, sebas volunteered to help with qt 4 port

=== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Kyle McMartin (kylem) ===

done:
* ubuntu-dapper-updates.git up to date with patches from community
* ubuntu-edgy-updates.git up to date with backports/patches from dapper-updates
* both trees built on i386/generic
* pushed to kernel.org

todo:
* receive more marching orders
* figure out why git on rookery hates me

=== Martin Pitt (pitti) ===

Done:
* vacation until yesterday
* caught up with email backlog, security review, and kernel security issues
Todo:
* find a spare month to catch up with my fat bugs inbox, which I didn't dare to open in the last two weeks
* start implementing cleanup-audio-jumble and zero-configuration-networking, since these are most urgent and block other specs
My feisty goals:
* zero-configuration-networking: approved, did not start any implementation yet; played around with the stuff locally, avahi-autoipd works nicely, current libnss-mdns does not work at all for me, needs more work; approx. 2 days work
* cleanup-audio-jumble: pending approval; didn't have an assignee yet, I signed up for this one; did some initial tests, looks good; required code changes will take about a day, changing the system to use pulse consistently another day
* gnome-mount: approved, and used by default in feisty; still needed: security overhaul of hal backend, and de-gnome-ification of password dialog to make it appropriate for XFCE; approx. 3 days work
* mount-all-local-filesystems: approved, not started yet; shoulnd't take more than one or two days to get it working
* apport-improvements: not discussed at UDS; did some talks to kylem and BenC for getting the kernel side right, and talked to lifeless about python crash interception and general code structure cleanup; a lot of work to implement all improvements, but not scheduled for feisty, so low-prio
* crash-reporting: not discussed at UDS, got an ad-hoc session on allhands; client/apport side isn't too complicated, but writing the server side is a considerable amount of work; needs more discussion with stub and LP team
* bug-reporting-tool: pending approval, current assignee is sfllaw, but since most of this spec deals with apport changes, I'll probably end up doing the client side (I estimate 1-2 days); I have no idea how much work the Malone side is (cloakroom and linking submitted stuff to bug)
* malone-cve-tracking: only got a private ad-hoc session with keescook; not a high-prio thing, but eventually we want to use Malone for tracking security bugs (much better for teamwork than current ubuntu-cve); requires some Malone email interface fixes, BjornT said they were easy.
* printerdrake: this needs lots of UI redesign and work, and packaging; I'm afraid I won't have enough time for this for feisty, although I can certainly help with initial packaging, so that people have something to play with

=== Matthias Klose (doko) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Michael Vogt (mvo) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Oliver Grawert (ogra) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Rodrigo Novo (rodarvus) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Simon Law (sfllaw) ===

Done:
* Specs:
** bug-workflow: Done with input from mpt and bjorn and sabdfl
** scalable-installation-testing: Worked with pitti.  Need to spec out UI bits, but that's something I can do this weekend.
* Verification
** xorg: Done
** vino: Doing it now
* Interviewed intern candidates.
To do:
* More verification, since -proposed has stuff waiting.
* Review interviewees and pick [0-2].
* Bug triage

=== Tollef Fog Heen (tfheen) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

----
CategoryTemplate
