{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== 2014-01-27 ===

* Chair: Stefano Rivera
* Present: Micah Gersten
* Apologies and avance votes received from: Barry Warsaw, Iain Lane, and Stéphane Graber
* Log: http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-01-27-19.09.html

==== Review Previous Action Items ====

* micahg to restructure PPU teams: Teams are restructured, but docs cleanup remains.

==== Tim Lunn for Ubuntu Gnome Packageset ====

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TimLunn/PPUApplication
* Approved with 5 votes for, 0 votes against and 0 abstentions.

==== Tim Lunn for MOTU ====

* Deferred with 2 votes for, 0 votes against and 3 abstentions.
* We welcome Tim to re-apply for MOTU in a few months, after contributing more widely to the archive. We believe the Ubuntu Gnome packageset and desktop-extra packageset should provide the upload rights currently required.

==== Tim Lunn for desktop-extra packageset ====

* Approved with 4 votes for, 0 votes against, and 0 abstentions.

==== e-Mail application status ====

* William Grant: Has a sufficient number of votes, awaiting votes from Scott, and Benjamin.
** This has been finalized since the meeting occurred.
* Daniel Pocock: Awaiting votes from Benjamin, Barry, Micah, Scott, Stéphane, and Stefano.
** This has been finalized since the meeting occurred.
* Jackson Doak: We need to call for votes.

==== Any other business ====

* Chair for the next meeting will be ScottK.
* Restaffing: Initiate an election immediately.
