{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Adam Conrad (infinity) ===

Done
* Assisted with the Knot-3 release (ongoing), including archive admin tasks and chasing up a mess of related soyuz issues.
* General liasing with Team Soyuz regarding bugs affecting distro recently/currently.
* General buildd mangling and processing.
* Bootstrapped fpc for MOTU.
* Finished stacked-livefs, but didn't roll it out in production for fear of hiseously breaking the knot-3 release with the (inevitable) bugs.  Will roll it out for dailies after knot-3 is out.
* Other random faff, like a php5 upstream bump, some bug triaging, etc.
To do
* Roll out stacked-livefs
* Get ddeb exports working with pitti
* Lots of bug triaging and fixing

=== Ben Collins (BenC) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Chuck Short (zul) ===

Done
* Fix xen issues.
* Kernel security updates.
* xen nvidia module

To Do
** Bug triaging
** More xen issues if any

=== Colin Watson (Kamion) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===

Done:
*** HUG DAY
*** Bug Triage
*** Started Telepathy Team

TODO:
*** more Bug Triage
*** another REVU DAY (next week)
*** start apt-get.org reviewing
*** more work on art-builder
*** more Telepathy

=== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Frank Schoep (fschoep) ===

Done:
* usplash-artwork: contact Seveas to get a basic design in
* ubuntu-art-polish-human-icons: get approval from sabdfl
Ongoing:
* art-polish-human-gtk-theme: decide on color tweaks based on artwork direction
* community-artwork: polish and rework parts to sabdfl's liking, fix outstanding bugs
* sound-themes: tweaking and polishing of sounds
* ubuntu-art-polish-human-icons: contact Dave today
* theme-teams: (try to) package their work

=== Henrik Omma (heno) ===

Done:

* Assistive technology desktop integration for Edgy -- patches prepared with Chris Jones for gnome-at-preferences and Orca -- BLOCKED - these need review and inclusion by a core dev
* onBoard: Ready for inclusion in main and the CD -- BLOCKED -- needs review and inclusion by a core dev
* ubiquity: Working with upstream and Chris on making an Orca script for Ubiquity to make it more suitable for screen reader use
* Meetings with ACE and ComputerAid charities to talk about a11y collaborations.
* Completed the OpenCD v4.0

To Do:

* Holiday / Move to Oslo

=== Ian Jackson (iwj) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Martin Pitt (pitti) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Matthias Klose (doko) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Michael Vogt (mvo) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Oliver Grawert (ogra) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Rodrigo Novo (rodarvus) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Sebastian Bacher (seb128) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Simon Law (sfllaw) ===

Done:
* Absurd amounts of e-mail
* Bug triage
* Hug day
* E-mailed about interns
To do:
* Bug triage

=== Tollef Fog Heen (Mithrandir) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

----
CategoryTemplate
