{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Developer Membership Board meeting, 2012-11-01 ===

Chair: Stéphane Graber

Present: Benjamin Drung, Stefano Rivera, Barry Warsaw, Iain Lane, Micah Gersten

==== Review of previous action items ====

* micahg to document the zentyal packageset => Carried over
* stgraber to delete the netbook/unr/mobile packagesets => Done
* micahg to ask docs people if they want to apply for a packageset => Carried over

==== PerPackageUploader Applications ====
===== PerPackageUploader Application: Maarten Lankhorst =====

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaartenLankhorst/DeveloperApplication

The application was discussed and voted on: For: 6 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

A new Xorg packageset was created: http://people.canonical.com/~stgraber/package_sets/raring/xorg
And Maarten was added to it as an uploader, welcome!

==== CoreDeveloper Applications ====
===== CoreDeveloper Application: Andy Whitcroft =====

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AndyWhitcroft/CoreDevApplication

The application was discussed and voted on: For: 6 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

Andy Whitcroft was added to the Ubuntu Core Development team, welcome!

==== AOB ====

Next chair: Barry Warsaw (?)

=== Developer Membership Board meeting, 2012-11-19 ===

Chair: Stefano Rivera

Present: Benjamin Drung, Barry Warsaw, Iain Lane, Stéphane Graber

==== Review of previous action items ====

* micahg to document the zentyal packageset => Carried over
* micahg to ask docs people if they want to apply for a packageset => Carried over

==== Core Developer Applications ====
===== Core Developer Application: Wookey =====

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Wookey/DeveloperApplication

The application was discussed and voted on: For: 0 Against: 0 Abstained: 4

Wookey's application wasn't accepted. We invite him to re-apply in a couple of months, when he's had some more experience with Ubuntu's stable release processes.

==== Per-Package Uploader Applications ====
===== Per-Package Uploader Application: Dmitry Shachnev =====

Dmitry applied for upload rights to retext and unity-mail
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DmitryShachnev/PPUApplication

The application was discussed and voted on: For: 5 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

Dmitry Shachnev was given PPU upload rights to retext and unity-mail and added to the Ubuntu Developers team. Welcome!

==== AOB ====

Next chair: still Barry Warsaw
