{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== 2014-02-24 ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: DMB, 24 Feb at 19:01 &mdash; 20:00 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2014/02/24/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt]]</nowiki> (bot was dead, so no mootbot)

=== Meeting summary ===
* Chair: Scott Kitterman
* Present: Scott Kitterman, Micah Gersten, Stéphane Graber, Stefano Rivera (with Barry Warsaw and Iain Lane voting via email)

==== Review of previous action items ====
The discussion about "Review of previous action items" started at 19:06.

* '''Add upload rights for pocock''' (19:08): waiting for reply from pocock on package list
** ''ACTION:'' stgraber to add upload rights for pocock
* '''Call for votes on Noskcaj (micahg)''': Not done, rolled into PPU application, action completed during meeting.

==== Per Package Uploader Applications -- Jackson Doak ====
The discussion about "Per Package Uploader Applications -- Jackson Doak" started at 19:08.  Both his PPU application and his pending MOTU application were discussed and voted on.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Noskcaj#MOTU 
** ''Vote:'' Should noskcaj join ~motu? (Deadlock)
** Jackson did not join ~motu with +2/-2

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Noskcaj#Xubuntu_PackageSet 
** ''Vote:'' Should noskcaj have PPU upload rights for the Xubuntu packageset? (Deadlock)
** Jackson did not receive the requested upload rights with +2/-2

==== Per Package Uploader Application - GunnarHj ====
The discussion about "Per Package Uploader Application - GunnarHj" started at 19:35.

** ''Vote:'' Should GunnarHj get upload rights to ubuntu-docs ? (Carried)
** GunnarHj did receive the requested upload rights with +6/-0 

==== Per Package Uploader Application - sergiusens ====
The discussion about "Per Package Uploader Application - sergiusens" started at 19:41.

** ''Vote:'' Should sergiusens get upload rights to lxc-android-config, android, goget-ubuntu-touch, phablet-tools, autopilot, golang-gocheck, golang-pb, golang-go-flags, session-manager-touch, platform-api, android-tools, ofono, maliit-framework, and ubuntu-keyboard ? (Carried)
** sergiusens did receive the requested upload rights with +6/-0

==== AOB ====

** No discussion due to lack of time.

=== 2014-02-10 ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: DMB, 10 Feb at 15:06 &mdash; 16:15 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-02-10-15.06.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===
* Chair: Iain Lane
* Present: Barry Warsaw, Benjamin Drung, Micah Gersten, Stéphane Graber, Stefano Rivera

==== Review of previous action items ====
The discussion about "Review of previous action items" started at 15:06.

* '''micahg to update documentation on PPU team restructuring.''': No reply, carried.
* '''Add upload rights for pocock and hyperair''' (15:07): hyperair done, pocock requires clarification on packages involved
** ''ACTION:'' stgraber to add upload rights for pocock and hyperair

==== MOTU Application - Artur Rona ====
The discussion about "MOTU Application - Artur Rona" started at 15:09.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArturRona/MOTUApplicationNEW 
** ''Vote:'' Should ari-tczew join ~motu? (Carried)
** Artur joined ~motu with +5/-0

==== Per Package Uploader Application - zequence ====
The discussion about "Per Package Uploader Application - zequence" started at 15:36.

** ''Vote:'' Should zequence get upload rights to the packges listed in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/zequence/DeveloperApplication ? (Deadlock)
** Kaj didn't receive the requested upload rights: Votes for:1 Votes against:1 Abstentions:3 

==== AOB ====

** ''ACTION:'' micahg_mobile to start a vote on Noskcaj on devel-permissions
