{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For archives of previous meetings, please see DevelTeamMeetings.

=== Apologies ===

* Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) - national holiday
* Michael Vogt (mvo) - national holiday
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128) - holiday
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) - national holiday

=== Agenda ===

 1. Roll call
** Apologies
** Introduce new starters (if any)
 1. Review agenda
** Review activity reports
** Propose additional items
** Accept agenda
** Where is the right place to carry kernel /proc/sys settings? (kees)
** procps (easy to change, but causes /etc/sysctl.conf merge warnings)
** kernel (cleaner integration, but requires carrying a patch)
** Where do Ubuntu's non-stock ulimits come from? (kees)
** These are all unlimited and should not be:
*** pending signals (2048)
*** max locked memory (32)
*** POSIX message queues (819200?)
*** max user processes (2048)
# Release readiness update
# Other business

=== New Starters ===

* Kees Cook (keescook) - joining Server Team from IS
* Henrik Nilsen Omma (heno) - new QA role

=== Activity Reports ===

==== Adilson Oliveira (adilson) ====

* MOTU Q&A
* Continuing the process of bringing in the hildon components. This week the main component, hildon-desktop, finally compiled. Now working on the support files like themes and locales.
* Organizing issues to be taken care at DAM-4 next week.
* Drafting Ubuntu Embedded Application Framework.

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

* firefox security updates 1.5.0.12 and 2.0.0.4 finished, QAed and uploaded
* thunderbird security update 1.5.0.12 (2.0.0.4 is not yet released)
* discussing "vendor" driven security support for upstream abandoned firefox 1.8.0 branch (with redhat) - more on this soon.
* initial coding (and upstream discussion) for easy/automatic codec install feature in gnash
* evaluating nspluginwrapper for 32-bit plugins on firefox amd64; next: draft a spec
* discussing web-service implementation for firefox-addon service with proposed community volunteer(s)
* LinuxTag
* MOTU mentoring

==== Ben Collins (BenC) ====

* Fixup l-u-m upload to fix ftbfs on sparc
* Performance review call
* Kernel security/update conf call
* Work on kernel security/update process doc

==== Brian Murray (bdmurray) ====

Bug triaging:
* assigned packages to some bugs that had none i.e. were just filed against Ubuntu
* closing old bugs marked needs info and without a response
* reading through bug mailing list and triaging bugs

Bug helper:
* Bug hunting via bughelper
* created multiple clue files

Other:
* phone call with cjwatson
* phone call with heno
* QA team application review

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

Packaging
* Package merges/syncs:  beforelight (take 2)
* Reviewed Timo's xorg package for upload
* Began looking into updating fglrx (and nvidia) in restricted-drivers

Testing / Bugs
* Bug triage
** Closed many xorg NEEDS INFO bugs > 3 mo w/ no answer
** Fixed some bugs, passed some upstream, etc.
* Began conceptualizing acceptance testing approach for xorg
* Testing/troubleshooting on Dell 1505n laptop; posted status to warthogs; updated it a few times from reader comments
* Reviewed NVidia's troubleshooting FAQ and addressed LP bugs on those issues

Specs
* xorg 7.3 status (ACCEPTED):
** http://people.ubuntu.com/~bryce/Xorg/versions_current.html
** xorg merged by Timo
** got review comments from colin
** waiting for new Debian bits to emerge from EXPERIMENTAL
* bulletproof-x status (ACCEPTED):
** got review comments from quinn & colin
** implemented preliminary failsafeXServer script + INSTALL file (And it actually works!)
** tested in VESA mode on T30.
* displayconfig-gtk status (REVIEW)
** Testing bzr-head against different systems (ati, radeon, intel)
** Sending patches for minor fixes here and there
** Assisting in bug triaging/reporting
* compiz-by-default status (REVIEW)
** Testing, adding to spec

Misc
* Began creating a high-level development summary page for X: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/X

==== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ====

GNOME
* gnome-orca upload
* worked on DesktopTeam wiki
* sponsored a lot of packages for new contributors, YAY
* vte fix, gtksourceviewmm and nemiver updates, updated gnome-specimen, fixed gdm color bug, fixed gnome-sesion to work with gnome-power-manager again

MOTU
* motu mentoring
* motu documentation
* MOTU Q&A session
* motu discussions
* reviewing motu packages/patches
* sponsored a lot of packages for new contributors, YAY

Bug Tools
* bughelper upload

Misc
* status update meeting
* derivative team discussions

Bug Triage

Artwork
* artwork discussions
* hacked on art builder

==== Evan Dandrea (evand) ====

* Prepared installers for Tribe 1 by testing images and fixing bugs in Ubiquity.
* Started work on a contributing to Ubiquity document.
* Answered questions from mythbuntu developers.
* Did preliminary work for OSX and Vista support in migration-assistant.
* Started work on ubiquity-automation.  Slow progress.
* Completed another merge.

==== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ====

* catch up after being sick
* multipath-tools SRU finally in -proposed
* fixed silo-installer outstanding bugs
* tested pre-Tribe1 cd on sparc
* more preparation work to move ubuntulog to the datacenter
* gfs1 and gfs2 updates and testing
* looking into a d-i for feisty-proposed/-updates to catch the last kernel but waiting for a new one to skip regressions introduced by -16-.
* system-config-cluster update to something that works.

==== Henrik Omma (heno) ====

* Bug triage
* worked with forum ambassadors to extend the testing section of the forum to a more general QA section wit sub-sections for ISO testing, -proposed testing and bug triage
* GSoC mentoring, with weekly meeting
* start of ISO testing cycle with tribe 1
* Coordinating various ISO tracker tweaks with stgraber
* Interviews and various conf calls

==== Ian Jackson (iwj) ====

Done:
* Discussed with Scott, and wrote a new disk full testing spec. (FullFilesystemSanityGutsy).  Scott yet to approve but I've already started on trying to find where in libc to hack it.  (Ideally I want to hack libc so I can catch in one place every syscall that returns ENOSPC.)
* Various ongoing discussionlets about winmodem support, particulary in the context of Dell.  The situation really needs improvement.
* Got mvo to introduce me to Carlos Garnacho so we could get him to fix the default dialling type (apropos of winmodem support, but should be fixed generally).  I also fixed the seeds to put sl-modem-daemon on the CD.
* Updated the consistent-login-screen spec to prefer the VC switching approach at least at first.  This is as unpopular as I expected and I predict that the end result will be a decision to turn off fast user switching.
* Merged dpkg from svn to get the latest lpia changes.
* Various other loose ends I've forgotten.

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

done:
* release management discussion
* Packaging Qt 4.3.0
* Packaging KOffice 1.6.3
* Finishing merges
* main inclusion reports for strigi
* SoC student mentoring
* Fixing XDG menu problems in KControl
* Testing tribe 1 CDs and making fixes
* Mentoring Hobbsee to edit seeds and meta package
* updating KDE 4 build in preparation for kde-system-settings spec

todo:
* release tribe 1
* kde-system-settings spec

==== Kees Cook (keescook) ====

Progress:
* Security Updates
** built/tested/published gimp update (USN-467-1)
** published firefox update (USN-468-1)
** published thunderbird update (USN-469-1)
** reviewed/tested/published clamav update
* Vulnerability Mitigation
** /proc/$pid/maps protection enabled
** built initial VMs for ASLR testing
** hunted down ulimit defaults
** reviewed/sponsored AppArmor uploads
* Investigations
** "star" deadlock
** hash validation in apt
* Bug Triage
** cleared security bug reports of needless private/security flags
** added dups, subs, and priv/sec flag handling to python-launchpad-bugs

Outstanding Issues:
* AppArmor patches are needed in Gutsy kernel to continue testing work
* VMWare WS6 licenses needed before 30 day license expires

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

* UME mockups (IM, Keyboard, single-top-bar layout as specified by Intel)
* Created example theme
* Created documentation on using the AutomaticArtworkBuilder

* next week: mountain view

==== Kyle McMartin (kylem) ====

Kernel:
* dapper kernel cve tracking

Misc:
* booking flights
* filing expenses
* preparing for mobile sprint

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Spec status:
* all written up and pending approval
* apport-better-retracing: got points 1 to 4 implemented now, last item is in progress

Merges: all done except for dhcdbd, will do after Tribe-1

Other stuff done that week:
* Release management/engineering and related bug fixes for Tribe-1
* New langpacks for stable-proposed and gutsy

==== Mathias Gug (mathiaz) ====

* AppArmor integration
** Improve management scripts.
** Package new updates.
** Debug profiles.
** Send patches to upstream, accepted.
** Update guide on wiki: UsingAppArmor.
** Profiles are shipped in complain mode by default.
** Get in touch with Grant Defayette that is interested in developing a GUI to manage apparmor profiles.

* Spent Tuesday at Montreal support office.
** Meet the support team.

* Ubuntu MOTU:
** Install and play with pbuilder and schroot.

* Ubuntu:
** Attend distro meeting, server meeting.

* Ubuntu Server:
** Wiki gardening for UbuntuServer, LP spec registration.
** Work on specs for system administration framework evaluation:
** sysadmin-framework-eval
** sysadmin-framework-eval-criteria

==== Matthias Klose (doko) ====

Activity:
* prepared and uploaded gutsy OOo, and related packages
* glibc debian merge
* new tcl/tk subminor upstream versions

==== Michael Vogt (mvo) ====

Misc:
* mail catchup from vacation
* fixes in AutomaticCodecInstallation gstreamer caps intersection code, fixed some bugs that were discovered after the release, fixed missing gst-inspection in gst-fluendo-mpegdemux
* fixes in the desktop data extraction for desktop files with multiple sections
* hacking on displayconfig-gtk (xrandr1.2 support started, ui discussion with sebastian and coordination with upstream of the backend)
* updated/uploaded compiz to the latest git version for the compcomm (formerly known as beryl) project and some fighting with it (keeps crashing/hanging my system, might be HW related)
* looked a bit into compcomm, but Amaranth is currently packaging it (it looks straightforward)
* started with debian-deity mailing list catchup and merged some apt patches (more to come) and added lpia support into apt (required a bit of fiddling)

Specs:
* work on libapt package failure apport integration (good progress)

Bugs:
* gnome-app-install bug triage
* debugged crash in auto-upgrader tester with Spads
* debugging strangeness in g-s-t with iwj and asked upstream (garnacho) for help in the end who fixed the issue :)

SoC:
* reviewed/sponsored brasero upload build with libburn

==== Phillip Lougher (pkl) ====

* CVE analysis and tracking
* Several attempts at another Feisty-security kernel upload
* Conference call to discuss security/update kernel processes

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

On holiday.

==== SÃ¸ren Hansen (shawarma) ====

* Samba bug triaging
* (redhat-)system-config-samba packaging (pending upload)
* eBox evaluation, tweaking, and packaging.
* MOTU mentoring
* Go through the server seeds looking for candidates for special server team care. (Doing a tiny bit of seed janitorial work in the process)

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

Done:
* Repackaged CUPS Driver Development Kit (cupsddk, www.cups.org), as it contained GPLed PostScript files without source
* New ghostscript to sync up with upstream and to fix bug #118785 (/usr/bin/gsc conflicts with gambc package).
* Answered bug reports.

==== Tim Gardner (rtg) ====

General:
* Madwifi CVE in l-r-m for Feisty/Edgy/Dapper

Kernel:
* Dapper CVE

==== Tollef Fog Heen (tfheen) ====

~+'''NO REPORT RECEIVED.'''+~

=== Actions ===

