{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For archives of previous meetings, please see DevelTeamMeetings.

=== Apologies ===

* Ian Jackson (iwj) - off sick
* Matt Zimmerman (mdz) - strategic planning
* Michael Vogt (mvo) - GUADEC
* Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) - GUADEC
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128) - GUADEC
* Tollef Fog Heen (tfheen) - GUADEC

=== Agenda ===

 1. Roll call
** Apologies
 1. Review agenda
** Review activity reports
** Propose additional items
** Accept agenda
# Actions from previous meeting
# Release readiness update
# Other business

=== Activity Reports ===

==== Adilson Oliveira (adilson) ====

* Prepared documentation for UME applications
* Tested candidates for UME applications
* Documented moblin-image-builder
* Updated UME documentation
* Merged Intel code into Launchpad
* Fixed packages from Moblin repository.
* Created UME image creation procedure.
* Fixed hildon/python related packages.

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

* Distro Sprint in London mostly working on network-manager; at the end starting firefox dapper backporting ...

* upstream released firefox security update in a quick roll-out, because of a zero-day windows-only exploit; in consequence, we - linux distributors - had to hurry; so i worked almost exclusively on backporting patches to 1.8.0 branch, preparing packages for all supported distributions, doing QA and coordinating with other linux distributors.

==== Amit Kucheria (amitk) ====

* Finished gutsy kernel rebase and release with ABI bump
* Finished UME kernel config and addition of UME flavour to gutsy
* Started draft spec for UME power management
* Provided feedback to Intel on UME thermal optimisation spec
* Bug triaging
* Gutsy kernel update patching

==== Ben Collins (BenC) ====

* Walked amitk through gutsy cycle
* Finished and published kernel-sru-policy wiki from sprint
* coordinating various kernel team related items
* distro sprint

==== Brian Murray (bdmurray) ====

Bug triaging:
* triaging of gutsy bugs without a package
* tagged lots of bugs as kernel-oops

ISO testing:
* Ubuntu AMD64 Desktop CD
* submitted a couple of bugs

Other:
* approved 1 Ubuntu QA team application
** William Lima aka xxxxx1
* sru verification of bug 114184
* submitted RT for ubuntu-qa mailing list
* started revamp of bugsquad wiki pages
** created BugSquad/ManagingStatus
** created BugSquad/Header
** created BugSquad/KnowledgeBase

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

Following pitti's lead, this also covers time both before and after the sprint (and a bit in between).

Packaging
* Uploaded xorg-server, xserver-xorg-video-nv 2.1.2, xserver-xorg-video-amd, xserver-xorg-input-evdev, xauth 1.0.2, xrandr 1.2.1
* Packaged (not yet uploaded): xwininfo, xfontsel, xload, xsetpointer, xrdb, xserver-xorg-video-psb (new driver), mdetect (merged vmmouse_detect code), libxfont, libxcomposite 0.4.0, x11proto-composite 0.4.0
* xorg merge with debian

Bug Triage / Testing
* Tested Xorg on Dell 1505n after reinstall from factory image, driver upgrades, sleep, ext. monitor, etc.
* Triaged 100 old xorg bugs; closed out-of-date NEEDSINFO bugs
* Laptop/Projector testing at sprint

Specs
* Bulletproof-X:
** Implemented blacklist logic for EDID/PCI ID data
** Integrated failsafe files into x11-common installation and gdm package (not yet uploaded)
** Reviewed bpx with displayconfig-gdk with mvo
* Simple X Configuration
** Tested latest displayconfig-gtk
** Studied xresprobe + related toolset
** Studied Ubuntu and Debian dexconf's
** Studied xserver-xorg.postinst.in code
** Identified tasks for further research/fixing: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/MonitorDetection

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====

* Sprint
* OOo 2.2.1-5ubuntu3 uploaded
* Working on OOo 2.3 upload for gutsy, but it's still failing to build
* Bug triaging

==== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ====

Misc
* fixing rarian packaging
* prepared talk for ubuntulive
* distro team meeting

Desktop
* fixed gnome-control-center
* sponsored compiz and gnome-session uploads
* reviewed and sponsored Desktop packages

Community
* triaged sponsoring bugs
* motu discussions, motu mentoring
* mentoring, reviewing packages
* improved UbuntuDevelopment/CodeReviews

Bug Tools
* python-launchpad-bugs release
* bug log hacking

Distro Sprint
* wrote "bzr unpack" (https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2007-July/023948.html)
* worked 'uploader' into MoM together with Scott
* MOTU brainstorming
* Packaging Training
* finished patch for greasemonkey epiphany-extension and got it accepted upstream
* good discussions about using bzr, sponsoring process, packaging documentation
* other things I forgot

==== Evan Dandrea (evand) ====

* Bug fixing and triaging.
* UbuntuSpec:ubuntu-without-restricted:
** work to get the daily CD images installing a usable system.
* UbuntuSpec:ubiquity-automation:
** fixes and polish for noninteractive mode.
** work towards proper page skipping.
* MOTU Packaging.
** gok, gcalctool, hippo-canvas, evolution-exchange, gnome-bluetooth, etc.

==== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ====

Done:
* tons of meetings at distro sprint
* put almost all my packages in final state to handover to others
* sponsoring review/uploads
* lots of sparc test installs and general testing before handover
* fixed lvm2 for sparc LDOM

==== Ian Jackson (iwj) ====

Off sick.

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

Done:
* tribe 3 testing and fixes
* finished KDE 4 alpha 2 packaging
* NEW queue processing
* security patch to kdebase in gutsy
* started kiosktool spec
* strigi-integration spec, testing and discussing with upstream
* dolphin spec, finishing off Tonio's work
* Packaging and testing new artwork along with Tonio

To do:
* kiosktool spec

==== Kees Cook (keescook) ====

Progress:
* Server Team Sprint!
* Distro Team Sprint!
* Security Updates
** built/tested/published imagemagick update (USN-481-1)
** published openoffice update (USN-482-1)
** published libnet-dns-perl update (USN-483-1)
** built/tested/published curl update (USN-484-1)
** built/tested/published php5 update (USN-485-1)
** built/tested/published dovecot update (USN-487-1)
** built/tested/published mod_perl update (USN-488-1)
** published edgy kernel update (USN-486-1)
** published dapper kernel update (USN-489-1)
** reviewed/sponsored clamav update (CVE-2007-3725)
** built/published ulogd update (CVE-2007-0460)
* Vulnerability Mitigation
** added ipv6 "rt" module to iptables in -proposed
** AppArmor kernel module coordination
* MOTU
** main-sponsoring of sysklogd bug fixes
* Mentoring
** ldap-auth-client with dendrobates
** mdetect with bryce

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

* Further work on Ubuntu mobile UI. Specifically, making mockups for all apps based on the current design. Creating final icons for "status bar" perhaps also to be used in Gutsy.

* worked on an idea I had for a desktop wallpaper for Gutsy shortly
* worked on Kubuntu website a bit - still a major work in progress
* worked on Kubuntu artwork for Gutsy - got a lot done in a short time :-)

==== Kyle McMartin (kylem) ====

security:
* linux-source-2.6.15 28.56
* linux-source-2.6.15 28.57

gutsy:
* lum: update e1000-ich9 to latest release
* lum: update iwlwifi to latest release

support:
* mptsas build
* megaraid fix

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Two halves of a weekly report (with the distro sprint in between) this
time.

Spec status:
* UbuntuSpec:crash-reporting: Implemented and rolled out, did some adjustments during the sprint.
* UbuntuSpec:apport-crash-duplicates, UbuntuSpec:apport-better-retracing: some bug fixes
* UbuntuSpec:apport-for-upstreams: no change since last week
* UbuntuSpec:debian-maintainer-field: no change (remaining universe rebuilds will be done after feature freeze to minimize churn)
* UbuntuSpec:restricted-manager-improvements: no change since last week.

Other notable stuff done:
* Tribe-3 release engineering and co-management with Hobbsee, lots of firefighting and bug fixing
* SoC mentoring and mid-term evaluations; both of my students failed unfortunately

==== Mathias Gug (mathiaz) ====

* Developer:
** AppArmor integration:
** AppArmor into main: various discussion with martin. It was decided to put infrastructure packages into main and the profiles package into universe after the release of tribe-3.
** Investigate using bzr to control all of the source tree (not only debian/). Asked for import of upstream svn repository.

* Tester :
** test pre - tribe-3 server images.
** Update test cases for install methods.

* Triager : dovecot, mysql.

* Community :
** discuss/prepare/send the Ubuntu Server Team announcement.
** review and approve ubuntu-server applications.
** update wiki pages: Membership policy, Contact.
** update personal wiki page and apply for ubuntu member.

* Meeting:
** ubuntu-server team meeting: prepare agenda, write meeting notes.
** Gutsy sprint in London end of last week.

==== Matthias Klose (doko) ====

~+'''NO REPORT RECEIVED.'''+~

==== Michael Vogt (mvo) ====

GUADEC.

==== Phillip Lougher (pkl) ====

* Reading up and experimenting with debian-packaging for WriteSupportForNTFS
* Reading up on Lupin and InstallerForWindows
* CVE triaging and patching
* Bug triaging

==== Rick Clark (dendrobates) ====

* sprint and travel
* worked on getting ldap-auth-client meta package accepted
* Building community
* ldap-auth-config development.

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

GUADEC.

==== SÃ¸ren Hansen (shawarma) ====

* Bug triaging
** MySQL
** Apache2
** PHP5
* Prepare more eBox packages for upload to universe (pending approval)
** ebox-network
** ebox-ntp
** ebox-firewall
* Packaged Storm
* Merges
** Samba
** vim
** pbuilder
** squid

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

Done:
* Ported many bug fixes of ESP Ghostscript into GPL Ghostscript to avoid regressions by the switch to GPL Ghostscript.
* New snapshot of the merged GPL Ghostscript for Tribe 3
* Investigated packaging of new HPLIP 2.7.6, discussing simplifications with Debian maintainer Henrique Moraes Holschuh.
* Improved CUPS page accounting feature of Foomatic so that it can be activated by default (bug 126139).
* Answered bug reports.

==== Tim Gardner (rtg) ====

General:
* A couple of hours experimenting with Dell E1501 Gutsy boot problems

Kernel:
* Gutsy l-r-m madwifi 0.9.3.1 update
* Edgy security update, ABI bump
* Edgy l-r-m ABI bump
* Edgy linux-meta ABI bump
* iwlwifi Gutsy testing

==== Tollef Fog Heen (tfheen) ====

GUADEC.

=== Actions ===

