{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For archives of previous meetings, please see DevelTeamMeetings.

=== Adam Conrad (infinity) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Ben Collins (BenC) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Colin Watson (cjwatson) ===

Done
* setup-console-under-usplash: No progress; needs somebody local to bug 73955 who's willing and able to dig into it.
* intel-mac-support: Fixed up mouseemu a good deal; could people on powerpc try this out? I'll set it up soon so that it doesn't even start on non-Mac x86 machines, and then it should be ready to install by default.
* ubiquity-advanced-partitioner: Have mostly been staring at Gentoo UI code trying to figure out how to integrate it. I hope to have a first cut testable by Christmas.
* sparc64-installer: Have been helping Fabio out with various fixes related to network-console.
* misc: Some interest in installer team so far, though nobody yet diving into code; Henrik has been getting up to speed on the ubiquity bug list. Switched d-i to running the -generic kernel. Worked on various items from my "later"-milestoned bugs, including getting the seeds switched away from using my directory on people.ubuntu.com.

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===

Done: 
* code-review: announced trial period, got feedback
* automatic-art-builder: mailed Mark, mailed artist who was interested in it, no feedback
* lots of bug triage
* started hacking on Henrik's bughelper

Todo:
* 2.17.4
* more bug triage
* hacking on Henrik's bughelper
* bug day
* hacking on the art builder and push the artwork people some more. :-)
* (revu day?)

=== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ===

feisty-toolchain: no changes since last week.

sparc64-installer: got network-console in main and tested. Pending fix for main-menu that's under review. os-prober now recognize Solaris/SPARC installations and it can parse silo.conf to detect other Linux installations on the system. sparc-utils now ships eeprom util to change values in OBP. Missing to integrate the os-prober and sparc-utils changes into silo/silo-installer to create silo.conf stanza's.

integrity-check: created wget-udeb to provide an alternative to busybox wget that doesn't support ssl/https.

spart64-niagara-ssl-accelerator: no changes since last week.

ubuntu-feisty-ha-cluster: no changes since last week.

Done
* lvm2 testing with Ian. /me loves crack... Ian a bit less ;)
* completed first mdadm SRU. Started investigating mdadm/evms issue reported in #67299.

NOTE: for who doesn't read my emails: I will be in another TZ all of next week without a phone and in vacation after that. Cya all next year!

=== Frank Schoep (fschoep) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Henrik Omma (heno) ===

Done:
* access-gdm: Upstream are still keen to go the AT-SPI route. That now seems doable with GDM. Not sure about FaceBrowser.
* multilingual-speech: More work on eSpeak voices, but I've not had time to do a larger community push yet.
* bug-triage: started helping with ubiquity bugs and reading uiquity code. Wrote a simple script (which dholbach later cleaned up :) ) to assist in some basic triaging tasks. It only does some basic dupe searching ATM, but might grow into something useful. See: http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~dholbach/bughelper/bughelper.dev 
* launchpad: read up on some launchpad/distro discussions from the past and attended a weekly launchpad meeting. If there are issues you want raised with the LP team you can channel them through me.
* Other: started monitoring a few forum sections, esp Feisty-development with the aim of lifting out useful info, such as important bugs not reported in Malone.

To do:
* bug-triage: more ubiquity triage. Update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingUbiquity with known Edgy bugs. Look at doing the same with other packages (which in turn serves as input for the bughelper script). Pointers to existing such pages welcome.
* launchpad: Work with matthewrevell on ideas for distro-lp cross linking, including Fix-it Fridays.
* multilingual-speech: Help community people get started on new eSpeak voices

=== Ian Jackson (iwj) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Kyle McMartin (kylem) ===

Done:
** Backported ipw3945 1.1.3 to feisty/edgy/dapper
** Fix build of ipw3945 on dapper kernels
** Fixed a large portion of ubuntu/ for INIT_WORK changes
** Update sky2/tg3 for dapper-updates
** Backport forcedeth for dapper-updates/edgy-updates
** Update net_driver compat header for dapper
** d80211 INIT_WORK cleanups for ubuntu-2.6.git (with mjg59)
Todo:
** Merge the -proposed trees with Ben's and upload
** CVE-2006-4572 fix for dapper-security/breezy-security

=== Martin Pitt (pitti) ===

Done:
* merges for main: practically done, (enigmail: we have to permanently fork due to Debian's icedove madness, linux-wlan-ng: Debian has a SVN snapshot instead of stable release, have to evaluate)
* zero-configuration-networking: implemented the last unimportant, but hairy bits, now fully complete; announced to -devel, suggested for next UWN. Enjoy!
* mount-all-local-filesystems: implemented, announced to -devel. Enjoy!
* gnome-mount: discussed de-gnomeification with Xubuntu guys; will eventually happen upstream and not urgent for Xubuntu, thus I set this to Blocked and will just let it sit; fully implemented for Ubuntu's purposes (except that mounting encrypted devices doesn't work, but that's udev-device-mapper)
* uploaded g-s-t/s-t-backends/couple of applets SRU to -proposed after cjwatson's review (bug 59946); waiting for button push by an archive admin
* fixed avahi regression from last security update
* dapper/edgy langpacks made it to -updates
* put a considerable dent into my bugs mbox, now < 1000 \o/
* ~/.xsession-errors handling: posted options to -devel, waiting for more feedback
Todo:
* do my share of universe merges 
* more bug triage
* but: tomorrow is my last official workday for this year, then: holiday! I'll probably do some bits next week (hacking on apport, yummy), but I have some christmas preparations to do, so don't expect too much

=== Matthias Klose (doko) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Michael Vogt (mvo) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Oliver Grawert (ogra) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Rodrigo Novo (rodarvus) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) ===

Done
* finished off upstart specs necessary for feisty
* borrowed binary-driver-education from mvo; will be integrating with BenC's device manager
* started work on upstart
To do
* upstart development for replacement initscripts
* get udev into shape as it's blocking a couple of other specs now
* holiday (mostly as an excuse to only work 8 hours a day <g>)

=== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Simon Law (sfllaw) ===

Done:
* Bug triage
* Documentation
* SRUs: openoffice.org
* Interviewed another intern
* Accepted three interns for me.  One for Jeff.
To do:
* SRUs: vino, udev, initramfs-tools
* Bug triage
* Hug day
* Accepting people into Ubuntu QA
* Paperwork for interns
Blocked:
* SRUs: synaptic (cjwatson & mvo?)

=== Tollef Fog Heen (tfheen) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ===

Done
* Answered to bug reports
* Fixed regression in HPLIP (missing SANE driver after last upstream update, re-fixes bug 65908, doko, take care of not breaking this with the next upstream update of HPLIP)
* Made a suggestion for handling the case that the GUI of HPLIP needs Python/Qt which is not on the desktop CD, but no answer so far (bug 67892)
* Submitted new package SpliX (driver for cheapo laser printers from Samsung, more reliable than old "gdi" driver (pitti tried it out), introduces support for color lasers), fixes bug 44407, bug 63802, and bug 59829 (package not in Debian)
* Prepared better support for Brother's bw lasers in foomatic-db upstream. See announcement on www.linuxprinting.org front page and http://forums.openprinting.org/read.php?24,106 This gives access to HQ1200 (2400x600 dpi), Duplex, tray selection Economode, and password-protected printing to all Brother lasers (should even make the PostScript and PCL models working better).

----
CategoryTemplate
