{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Adam Conrad (infinity) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Ben Collins (BenC) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Chuck Short (zul) ===

Done
* xen-3.0, xen-source-2.6.16, amd64 kernels built, kernel-security patches
To do
* more kernel-security patches, more xen, bug triaging, kernel-security

=== Colin Watson (Kamion) ===

Done:
* revive-tasksel: Done except for a pending Soyuz patch to make the archive side work (sent to Celso and waiting for deployment). I tested the whole thing today and it seems to be working OK.
* ubiquity: Continued with the big pile of bug-fixing and produced an initial dapper-updates upload.
* ubiquity-advanced-partitioner: Some more prodding at the custom disk bar widgets; not getting very far here, so I'm switching to writing the partman debconffilter glue and am making much better progress there. If anyone would like to volunteer to help write custom GTK (and Qt?) widgets to my specifications, that would be great. Doing them in Python where possible is fine.
* libata-for-all-ata-disks: Did most of the required installer changes in conjunction with Scott et al. Some bootloader installer changes may still be needed.
To do:
* ubiquity: Didn't get to #47742 last week, so try again this week.
* ubiquity-advanced-partitioner: Finish initial attempt at the partman glue. I'd like to have an initial crude presentation without the disk bar widgets by the end of next week if I can manage it.
* dapper-point-release-process: Do the first Dapper point release. Most of the pieces are in place now; if you know of something that needs to go in, please tell me as soon as possible! (If I can squeeze in some required SPARC fixes, I will.)

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===

Done
* GNOME 2.15.90
* uploaded most galago bits to the archive, need to try beagle with them
* bug triage
* ubuntu-artwork split
To do
* more bug triage
* do changes to icon page

=== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Frank Schoep (fschoep) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Henrik Omma (heno) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Ian Jackson (iwj) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ===

done: kubuntu-printer-sharing, KDE 3.5.4 (no problems, will be requesting UVF exception)
blocked: kdepim needing some more main inclusion reviews
next week: langpacks-desktopfiles-kde

=== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Martin Pitt (pitti) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Matthias Klose (doko) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Michael Vogt (mvo) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Oliver Grawert (ogra) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Rodrigo Novo (rodarvus) ===

Done This week:
** Finished X.Org libs update to 7.1 (actually, to the latest version available, most of them, past 7.1), Mesa 6.5, xorg-server 1.1.1 (with new ABI)
** Updated X.Org input drivers to latest version available (+ accomodate xorg-server ABI bump)
** Started X.Org video drivers to latest version available (+ accomodate xorg-server ABI bump)
** Started implementation of fully-automatic-swap-server
** Work on i810 bugs on LaunchPad (escalated support requests)
** Miscelaneous Edubuntu work
Next week:
** Finish update of X.Org video drivers (another 6-8 hours of work)
** Finish implementation of fully-automatic-swap-server
** Finish catching up with X bugs (primarily based on result from libs + drivers upgrades) (postponed from last week)
Soon (no timeframe):
** Officially start Ubuntu OLPC effort
** Investigate other Linux distros (Fedora, OpenSuSE, etc) for nice X.Org patches which are not included in Ubuntu)
Outsanding issues:
** xorg-server (on sparc) and xserver-xorg-input-evie (all archs) FTBFS due to missing includes - check possible update of l-k-h with BenC and fabbione
Apologies:
** For publishing xorg-server before I had all X.Org {input|video} drivers ready to be uploaded - I was unaware of the ABI upgrade (rationale: I tested upgrade locally on two different machines, but as they use binary drivers, they were unnafected by this bug)

=== Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Sebastian Bacher (seb128) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Simon Law (sfllaw) ===

Done
* OttawaLinuxSymposium 2006
* Gave a talk at the UniversityOfWaterloo
To do
* Write up Waterloo experience
* Test plans for new features
* Bug triaging

=== Tollef Fog Heen (Mithrandir) ===

* sane-installer-keyboard: a fair amount of progress.  Tested the latest version of console-setup from Debian and apart from some minor faff, it appears to work.  Will hand over to Colin before going on vacation.
* live-cd-stacked-filesystems: casper side implemented, server side discussed with Adam.
* other specs: no progress
* misc: gotten in touch with the Debian people about casper again, relationship working better now.
* next week: vacation.  I'll be away until the distro sprint for wedding preparations, wedding and honeymoon.  Colin or Adam (I think) will handle knot-2 and I'll be back for knot-3.

----
CategoryTemplate
