{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Developer Membership Board meeting, 2010-07-22 15:00 UTC ====

Chair: Emmet Hikory
Present: Michael Bienia, Colin Watson, Richard Johnson, Stéphane Graber
Absent: Cody Somerville, Soren Hansen

Action Review:
* Cody to write an e-mail to the list concerning the layout/format of the DMB meeting - membership first [PENDING]

===== Network Manager package set =====

Network Manager package set to be defined to include: network-manager, network-manager-applet, network-manager-pptp, network-manager-openvpn, network-manager-vpnv, network-manager-openconnect, modemmanager, wpasupplicant with membership in the associated developer group to be administered by the DMB.

Approved: 4 in favour

ACTION: cjwatson to create network-manager packageset and associated development group in launchpad

===== Network Manager developer application for Mathieu Trudel-Lapierre(cyphermox) =====

Application: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Mtrudel/PPUApplication

Approved: 4 in favour

===== Contributing Developer application for David Sugar (dyfet) =====

Declared moot, as David is already an Ubuntu Member.

===== MOTU Application for Lorenzo De Liso (BlackZ) =====

Application: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LorenzoDeLiso/MOTUApplication

Approved: 4 in favour

===== MOTU Application for Elliot Murphy (statik) =====

Application: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ElliotMurphy/3rdDeveloperApplication

Approved: 4 in favour

===== Sugar package set =====

Application: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/devel-permissions/2010-July/000088.html

Approved: 5 in favour

ACTION: lfarone to transfer ownership of ~ubuntu-sugar-uploaders to the DMB
ACTION: cjwatson to create sugar packageset and grant upload
permission to ~ubuntu-sugar-uploaders

==== Developer Membership Board meeting, 2010-07-06 15:00 UTC ====

* Chair: Colin Watson
* Present: Cody Somerville, Emmet Hikory, Michael Bienia, Soren Hansen
* Apologies: Stéphane Graber
* Absent: Richard Johnson

* Action review:
** persia to publish the minutes for the DMB meeting 2010-05-25
** Done towards end of meeting
** cjwatson to create ubuntu-kernel-uploaders team owned by the DMB that will provide upload permissions to Ubuntu kernel packages
** Done
** cjwatson to create a zope packageset incorporating the Zope, Zope Community, and Python Packaging sections, and a schooltool packageset for the SchoolTool section
** Done insofar as currently possible due to availability of packages in the archive; sent mail
** Cody to write an e-mail to the list concerning the layout/format of the DMB meeting - membership first
** Not done; will do that today or tomorrow

* <nowiki>[[RobertAncell-CoreDevApplication|Robert Ancell (core developer)]]</nowiki>
** Approved: 4 for, 0 against, 1 abstained.
* <nowiki>[[micahg-MozillaUploaderApp|Micah Gersten (Mozilla package set)]]</nowiki>
** Approved: 5 for, 0 against, 0 abstained.
* <nowiki>[[ChaseDouglas-DeveloperApplication-Firmware|Chase Douglas (PPU)]]</nowiki>
** Chase applied for upload access to linux-firmware, linux-firmware-nonfree, and trace-cmd.
** Approved: 4 for, 0 against, 0 abstained.
* <nowiki>[[Mtrudel-PPUApplication|Mathieu Trudel-Lapierre (PPU)]]</nowiki>
** Mathieu applied for upload access to network-manager, network-manager-applet, network-manager-pptp, network-manager-openvpn, network-manager-vpnc, network-manager-openconnect, and modemmanager.
** Given that other commitments had left us inquorate by this point in the meeting anyway, we deferred Mathieu's application until next week in order for him to gather endorsements.
* <nowiki>[[GerfriedFuchs|Gerfried Fuchs (MOTU)]]</nowiki>
** Vote partially completed during the meeting, pending completion by e-mail.
