{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== 2013-12-16 ===

* Chair: stgraber
* Present: Barry Warsaw, Benjamin Drung, Iain Lane and Stefano Rivera
* Log: http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-12-16-15.17.html

==== Review Previous Action Items ====

* The December 30th meeting will be canceled, next meeting to be on the 13th of January.
* Rest of the actions were carried to next meeting.

==== Dmitry Shachnev for PPU of: python-markdown, python-keyring, python-secretstorage, python-docutils, python-qt4, sip4, sphinx and the QT5 packageset ====

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DmitryShachnev/PPUApplication
* Approved with 4 votes for, 0 vote against and 0 abstention.

==== Graham Inggs for MOTU ====

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GrahamInggs/MOTUApplication
* Approved with 5 votes for, 0 vote against and 0 abstention.

==== Any other business ====
* Chair for the next meeting will be ScottK.
* December 30th meeting skipped due to end of year holidays.
