{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: DMB meeting, 29 August at 15:03 &mdash; 16:17 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-08-29-15.03.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review of previous action items ====
The discussion about "Review of previous action items" started at 15:03.

** Carried-over infinity's tasks

==== Package Set/Per Package Uploader Applications ====
The discussion about "Package Set/Per Package Uploader Applications" started at 15:11.

* '''Daniel Watkins / ubuntu-cloud packageset''' (15:11)
* [DONE] '''ACTION: cyphermox to add Odd_Bloke to ubuntu-dev''' (15:28)
* [DONE] '''ACTION: cyphermox to add Odd_Bloke to ubuntu-cloud packageset'''(15:29)
* [DONE] '''ACTION: cyphermox to announce the result of Odd_Bloke's application''' (15:29)

* '''adding libdumbnet and zerofree to the ubuntu-cloud packageset''' (15:30)
* '''ACTION: sil2100 to add libdumbnet and zerofree to ubuntu-cloud packageset''' (15:46)

==== Ubuntu Core Developer Applications ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Core Developer Applications" started at 15:47.

* '''Nish Aravamudan''' (15:47)
* '''Vote: Nish Aravamudan for Ubuntu Core Developer''' (Carried) (16:13)
* [DONE] '''ACTION: cyphermox to add nacc to ubuntu-coredev and announce result of application''' (16:15)

==== AOB ====
The discussion about "AOB" started at 16:15.

=== Vote results ===

* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-08-29-15.03.log.html#l-64|Daniel Watkins for PPU rights for ubuntu-cloud]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 4/0/0)
** Voters sil2100, rbasak, cyphermox, bdmurray
* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-08-29-15.03.log.html#l-189|Nish Aravamudan for Core-Dev]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 4/0/0)
** Voters sil2100, rbasak, cyphermox, bdmurray

=== Done items ===

* cyphermox to update Mate packages per Iain Laney's suggestions.
* rbasak to add otto to ~ubuntu-dev
* rbasak to announce otto's successful application

=== People present (lines said) ===

* bdmurray (39)
* rbasak (38)
* sil2100 (38)
* cyphermox (32)
* meetingology (26)
* Odd_Bloke (23)
* nacc (13)
