{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== 2014-03-24 ===

** Chair: Benjamin Drung
** Present: Benjamin Drung, Scott Kitterman (partially), Micah Gersten, St√©phane Graber
** Logs: http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-03-24-19.27.html

==== Review of previous action items ====
The discussion about "Review of previous action items" started at 19:27.

** stgraber to add the new DMB members, update the IRC bot, wiki, mailing-list subscriptions, IRC ACLs, ... 
** This was all done, except updating the DMB-ping. Robert Wall was updating the DMB-ping when we discussed this action item.

==== Xubuntu packageset/MOTU application from Jackson Doak ====
The discussion about "Xubuntu packageset/MOTU application from Jackson Doak" started at 19:32.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Noskcaj#MOTU 
** ''Vote:'' Should Jackson Doak become MOTU?
** Motion denied (For/Against/Abstained 1/3/0)
** ''Vote:'' Should Jackson Doak get upload rights to the Xubuntu packageset?
** Motion denied (For/Against/Abstained 1/1/2)
** ''Vote:'' Should Jackson Doak get upload rights for catfish, gthumb, parole, and mugshot?
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 4/0/0)
** Scott voted +1 after the meeting had finished.

==== Any other business ====
The discussion about "Any other business" started at 20:50.

** Next chair will be Brian Murray.

=== 2014-04-07 ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: DMB, 7 Apr at 15:00 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-04-07-15.03.moin.txt]]</nowiki>
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-04-07-15.26.moin.txt]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===
* Chair: Brian Murray
* Present: Scott Kitterman, Iain Lane, Dimitri Ledkov, Stephane Graber

==== Review of previous action items ====
All items have been done at this time.

==== Per Package Uploader Application: Benjamin Kerensa ====
Benjamin did not make it to the meeting.

==== Ubuntu Core dev application: Adam Stokes ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Core dev application: Adam Stokes" started at 15:26.

** ''Vote:'' Adam Stokes for Ubuntu Coredev (Carried with 4/0/1)
