{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Keeping the project transparent ==
The Ubuntu Contributor team has grown a lot since `warty` and it's almost impossible to keep on top of everything that's happening. Therefore it's important that if you plan big changes (in terms of its impact on other packages and contributors and users), that you let the appropriate people know to avoid surprises, breakage, doubled efforts or anything else we don't want. :-)

=== Things that are worth an announcement ===
* '''Events:''' if you plan an event that affects contributors, you want to let them know well in advance about it.
* '''Processes and Procedures:''' if they change, make it known well before-hand to avoid surprises. (For development-related processes, `ubuntu-devel-announce` is the best place.)
* Announce '''changes in core teams''', like the release team, archive admins, MIR team, etc. so people know who to talk to. If you're going to lead a team, introduce yourselves and your ideas. A quick introduction and some reasoning for the change will give more insight into the reason of the change and how the team works.
* Elections / Nominations. Make sure everybody knows.
* If you merge '''big changes''' (be it from Upstream or from Debian) that affect a lot of other packages.
* Huge '''UI related changes''' might be important to the Docs team, users and other depending packages.
* UDS and Meeting '''outcomes'''. Even if it's a quick summary, it'll help to keep everybody updated.
* '''Big package transitions''', their impact and suggested fixes. (Make sure the changes are well documented and well explained. Update UbuntuPackagingChanges)
* New Release announce!

=== How ===
* Be elaborate, explain in detail.
* Check dates and times twice.
* Be sure to document big changes appropriately in UbuntuPackagingChanges.
* Explain the impact for users and developers.
* Every developer can be expected to read the `ubuntu-devel-announce@` list. If your announcement is important enough, send it there.
* If you are unsure which list to send your mail to, have a look at the list below.
* A good way to reach interested parties that are not part of the core set of developers, you might want to consider blogs, microblogs and other media. <nowiki>[[CommunityTeam-KnowledgeBase]]</nowiki> has some information on building buzz around intiativies and efforts.

=== Tips about email syntax ===
* Use a revealing `Subject:` line to make the announcement easily findable.
* Wrap the lines at 72 chars. It really makes a difference for people reading it.
* The first paragraph should be a good summary of the content of the email.
* When including URLs, include them indented and on their own line.
* If there is actually a set of steps or things to do, outline it as a set of bullet points. 

=== Where ===
* If you want to reach developers, ubuntu-devel-announce@lists.ubuntu.com is a must read and a good way.
* ubuntu-news-team@lists.ubuntu.com gets you coverage on UbuntuWeeklyNews and http://fridge.ubuntu.com
* ... social networking sites, digg.com, etc. is available too.
/!\ These are not intended for <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs#Reporting_non-crash_hardware_and_desktop_application_bugs|reporting bugs]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/support|user support]]</nowiki>.

== List of Mailing lists ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Type of communication'''
| '''Category'''
| '''From'''
| '''To'''
| '''Where'''
| '''Notes'''
|-
| Announcements
| Development
| Developers
| Developers and technical users
| ubuntu-devel-announce@lists.ubuntu.com
| Moderated for all, low traffic
|-
| Discussion
| Development
| Developers
| Developers and technical users
| ubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com
| Moderated for non-developers
|-
| Announcements
| Development
| Developers
| Developers and technical users
| ubuntu-devel-announce via. <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-News]]</nowiki>
| For items that don't warrant a mail to ubuntu-devel-announce on their own
|-
| Discussion
| Development
| Developers and technical users
| Developers and technical users
| ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com
| Moderated for non-subscribers
|-
| Discussion
| Development (universe)
| Developers and technical users
| MOTU and hopefuls
| ubuntu-motu@lists.ubuntu.com
| 
|-
| Announcements
| Project-wide
| Project leaders
| Community, users, press
| ubuntu-announce@lists.ubuntu.com
| Moderated for all, very low traffic
|-
| Automated notifications
| Changes to the development release
| Launchpad
| Developers and technical users
| *-changes@lists.ubuntu.com
| 
|-
| Discussion
| Security
| Developers (esp. security team)
| Developers (esp. security team)
| security-review@lists.ubuntu.com
| ->ubuntu-devel?
|-
| Discussion
| Development (Kubuntu)
| Developers
| Developers
| kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com
| 
|-
| Discussion
| Development (Edubuntu)
| Developers and users
| Developers and users
| edubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com
| 
|-
| Discussion
| Development (Xubuntu)
| Developers?
| Developers?
| xubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com
| 
|-
| Discussion
| Development (kernel)
| Developers (esp. kernel team)
| Developers (kernel team)
| kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com
| 
|-
| Automated notifications
| Bug activity (ALL)
| Launchpad
| Developers and QA
| ubuntu-bugs@lists.ubuntu.com
| Very high traffic
|-
| Announcements
| Security
| Security team
| All users
| ubuntu-security-announce@lists.ubuntu.com
| Moderated for all
|-
| News
| Project-wide
| Marketing Team
| Community
| ubuntu-news@lists.ubuntu.com
| 
|-
| Automated notifications?
| ?
| ?
| ?
| universe-bugs@lists.ubuntu.com
| Used for bugs that are related to the `motu` team.
|-
| Discussion
| Development?
| ?
| Developers (desktop team)
| ubuntu-desktop@lists.ubuntu.com
| 
|-
| Automated notifications
| Bug activity (desktop)
| Launchpad
| Developers (desktop team)
| desktop-bugs@lists.ubuntu.com
| High traffic
|}

----
CategoryUbuntuDevelopment
