{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Developer Membership Board meeting, 2011-04-25 ====

Chair: Iain Lane

Present: Cody Somerville, Benjamin Drung, Mackenzie Morgan, Stéphane Graber, Michael Bienia

===== Review of previous action items =====

* Laney to update delegated teams to allow members to renew their memberships themselves: Done barring any accidental omissions

===== Developer applications for Christopher James Halse Rogers, Sylvestre Ledru =====

These applications are being processed on the devel-permissions mailing list[0][1]

[0] https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/devel-permissions/2011-April/000189.html

[1] https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/devel-permissions/2011-April/000190.html

===== MOTU application: Mathieu Trudel-Lapierre =====

Application: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Mtrudel/MOTUApplication

This application was processed on the devel-permissions mailing list[2] and was voted on[3].

The result of the vote is: 4 for, 0 against. 0 abstained.

Mathieu becomes a member of motu. The application is approved.

[2] https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/devel-permissions/2011-April/000191.html

[3] https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/devel-permissions/2011-April/000202.html

===== PerPackageUploader application: Jelmer Vernooij =====

Application: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JelmerVernooij/PerPackageUploaderApplication

The packages concerned are bzr, bzr-svn, bzr-git, bzr-grep, bzr-hg, bzr-gtk, qbzr, bzr-cvsimport, bzr-dbus, bzr-email, bzr-explorer, bzr-fastimport, bzr-loom, bzr-pqm, bzr-rewrite, bzr-search, bzr-stats, bzr-upload, bzr-xmloutput, bzrtools, trac-bzr, wikkid, dulwich, subvertpy, meliae, tevent, talloc, ldb, samba4, heimdal, openchange, samba.

The application was considered in two parts: bzr and samba.

The first vote was to grant jelmer PPU access to bzr, bzr-svn, bzr-git, bzr-grep, bzr-hg, bzr-gtk, qbzr, bzr-cvsimport, bzr-dbus, bzr-email, bzr-explorer, bzr-fastimport, bzr-loom, bzr-pqm, bzr-rewrite, bzr-search, bzr-stats, bzr-upload, bzr-xmloutput, bzrtools, trac-bzr, wikkid, dulwich, subvertpy, meliae. The result of the vote was: 4 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Jelmer gets access to these packages.

The second vote was to grant jelmer PPU access to tdb tevent talloc ldb, samba4, heimdal, openchange, samba. The result of the vote was: 4 for. 0 against. 0 abstained. Jelmer gets access to these packages.

===== Extension of the Zope packageset =====

Gediminas Paulauskas requested[4] 5 additional packages to be added to the Zope package set.

The DMB briefly discussed moving to an informal approval mechanism for this set, but it was decided that the set isn't well defined enough to allow for this. Cody noted that there is a Zope section of the Ubuntu archive that could potentially be used. It was decided to revisit this issue if adding new Zope packages becomes too time-consuming.

The packages to be added are: z3c.ptcompat, zope.applicationcontrol, zope.fixers, zope.logi, zope.pluggableauth. The result of the vote was: 5 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. The packages are added to the set.

[4] https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/devel-permissions/2011-March/000168.html

===== Core Developer Application: Michael Terry =====

Application: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/mterry/CoreDev

The application was discussed and voted on: 4 for, 0 against. 1 abstained.

===== Next meeting =====

The next meeting will be on 2011-05-09 14:00UTC.

Note that this meeting will be at UDS in addition to on IRC. We have requested a room for the meeting.

===== Chair for next meeting =====

TBD
