{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Adam Conrad (infinity) ===

Done
* Discussions with pitti about .ddeb support on the buildds
* Work on new LRM (which will be a 2-part upload, after discussion with BenC, he'll do half, and I'll get the other half in shortly after him)
* Work on keeping the buildds limping along, with several measured and mass give-backs, and some by-hand bootstrapping of snags
* Violently mangle the livecd generation scripts and wrapper to allow building dapper livefses for Colin
* Start work and testing of the stacked filesystem infrastructure, almost complete, but rollout blocked on getting kernel support on the buildds
To do
* Finish stacked filesystem work, and bug elmo again about kernel support
* Sort out the changes required for debian-maintainer-field, and roll out to the buildds
* Continue to mangle buildds and build failures, as per usual
* Watch for fallout from impending LRM changes
* Work on .ddeb support, as specced with pitti last week

=== Ben Collins (BenC) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Colin Watson (Kamion) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Frank Schoep (fschoep) ===

Ongoing:
* ubuntu-art-login-manager, ubuntu-art-login-splash, ubuntu-art-usplash, ubuntu-art-wallpaper: cull proposals, choose direction
* art-polish-human-gtk-theme: identify areas for improvement, now with community backing (till 10th of August)
* ubuntu-art-complete-highcontrast-icons, : find and document icons which need work
* ubuntu-art-cd-dvd-artwork: communication with Jane / Kenneth on improving media package artwork
* starting up / assisting sound engineering
To-do:
* finish submission of GTK theme tweaks, start coding good ideas
* approve artwork production directions, then kick off production phase for community artwork
* update the Human icon priority list with the contents of the PDF to-do list

=== Henrik Omma (heno) ===

Done:
* Attended the OATS project launch in London. Blog entry here: http://blog.omma.net/?p=7
* Further work on SOK (now called onBoard). A basic scanning feature and better layout customisation implemented. 
* Testing Orca/gnome-speech on Edgy. There are some problems with various applications still.

To do:
* Write a script for performing some AT setup tasks. Could possibly be a GUI as well. I can do the Glade work but I'll need help with the python (or whatever) back-end.
* livecd-access - no change - are there any gfxboot/LiveCD people who are not on holiday?

=== Ian Jackson (iwj) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ===

* done:
** kubuntu-laptop-buttons: working fully for me, further testing needed (thanks to Lure)
** kubuntu-power-management: new HAL frontend written, working fully for me, further testing needed (thanks to sebas)
** kubuntu-system-settings-usability: new layout implemented, some tweaks needed (thanks to Sime)
** also dapper point release testing
** soc: working with abattoir on kubuntu oem-installer
* blocked:
** ruby1.8
** backports
* todo:
** kubuntu-accessibility (get kdeaccessibilty into main)
** kubuntu-hwdb

=== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ===

* worked on window deco graphics (buttons and colors)
* worked more on the wallpaper ideas used in knot2 (matching the colours used in the window deco, etc.), and creating variants of those.
* hacking HTML/CSS and making images for the KDE app start pages still, trying to find some community help on this
* finishing up BZR-NG GUI icons (summer of code project)

=== Martin Pitt (pitti) ===

Done:
* auto-unmount-notifications: First implementation uploaded, announced, waiting for test results
* automated-problem-reports: 
** discussed update-notifier fixes with mvo, everything should be fixed in the very latest uplaod
** discussed KDE frontend with Riddell (not for edgy, KDE's crash handler is deemed good enough)
** discussed required kernel changes with BenC, next kernel will bring full backtrace and core dump love
** polished UI, core dump shrinking, fixed some bugs, adapted to new (future) kernel behaviour
** started writing a tool to produce symbolic stacktraces from a crash report and ddebs
* pkg-create-dbgsym: discussion with infinity about cowboying .ddebs to a public inofficial place; we agreed to the process and structure, needs implementation on buildds and on rookery now
* dapper point release CD testing
* security update: libwmf (quiet week, *happy*)
* thoughts about new sponsoring process, wrote tool, created teams, announced to u-devel for testing; seems to work pretty well
* misc: various bug fixes (pmount, hal, langpacks), locales updates
To Do:
* automated-problem-reports: new kernel should be uploaded RSN; test with new kernel, make final adoptions to apport, coordinate required bug-buddy/gnome changes with seb128, stick into ubuntu-desktop, announce for testing
* security updates
* catch up with bug triage

=== Matthias Klose (doko) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Michael Vogt (mvo) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Oliver Grawert (ogra) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Rodrigo Novo (rodarvus) ===

Done:
* X.Org triaging, bug fixing
* Much Edubuntu administrativia (worth a few days of work)
* miscelaneous X.Org package upgrades
* Reinstalled Edgy on Laptop and Desktop at home
Todo:
* libdrm,mesa update for new i810 driver (pending approval by mdz)
* more X.org bug triaging, bug fixing
* More Edubuntu Administrativia
* Start OLPC Edubuntu effort (first Thailand Beta due Jan 1th 2007)
Issues:
* Due to OLPC, I won't be able to dedicate so much time to X.Org - help is *really* appreciated
* After talk with ogra and RichEd, we agreed ogra will take over my LTSP specs, so I can concentrate on OLPC (thanks ogra!)

=== Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Sebastian Bacher (seb128) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Simon Law (sfllaw) ===

Done
* UbuntuMotuSchool session
* Bug triage
* Testing various specs
To do
* Aggressive bug triage
* Organizing next week's UbuntuBugDay
* Poke SoC student some more

=== Tollef Fog Heen (Mithrandir) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

----
CategoryTemplate
