{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/devel-list
* '''Packages affected''': none

=== Summary ===

This specification describes how we wish to attempt to improve the signal to noise ratio on the ubuntu-devel list by restricting unmoderated posting to developers and the creation of a new (unmoderated) list for non-developers.

=== Rationale ===

The ubuntu-devel list has become noisy, with too many "suggestions" and "feature requests" from non-developers.  The drop in signal to noise makes it hard for developers to both keep up with the list and use it for actual development work.  

=== Use cases ===

* Joe is a busy developer who needs to keep current on actual developments in Ubuntu but can not deal with the current traffic on ubuntu-devel which contains a lot of suggestions, (misplaced) bug reports and wishlist discussions by non-developers.

=== Scope ===

The scope of this specification is limited to ubuntu-devel and it's replacement.  Signal to noise degradation is however a recurring issue and the ideas in this specification (or similar ones) may need to be applied to other Ubuntu lists.

=== Design ===

The ability to post to ubuntu-devel should be restricted to members of the ubuntu-dev and ubuntu-core-dev teams.  Post from other people will be moderated.  The list archiving policy will not change - ubuntu-devel will still be publicly archived.

The initial moderator will be Jono Bacon, but he will be working to recruit a team of moderators so that the work can be distributed (over people and timezones).

A new list, that can take on the current 'noise' traffic from ubuntu-devel,  will be created that is unmoderated and has open subscription and archiving policies.  It will be called 'ubuntu-devel-discuss'.  The subscriber list will not be copied, people will individually choose whether or not to subscribe to the new list.

=== Implementation ===

* Once a day a script will be run which will pull out of launchpad the email addresses of members of ubuntu-dev and ubuntu-core-dev.
* These email addresses will then be synced automatically with the moderate-whitelist for ubuntu-devel on lists.ubuntu.com.  The sync should be non-destructive so that a manual list of additional addresses to whitelist can be maintained in paralell (e.g. for upstream developers we work closely with).

* A new ubuntu-devel-discuss list will be created
* The change of moderation policy of ubuntu-devel and the existence of ubuntu-devel-discuss will be  announced on ubuntu-devel-announce
* The new moderation policy will then be applied to ubuntu-devel

=== Unresolved issues ===

Pulling the email addresses out of launchpad can be done by webscraping, but ideally there would be an XML-RPC interface with which to obtain this information.  James Troup will investigate the possibility of the latter with the Launchpad team.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Several possible names for the new list were discussed, including:

* ubuntu-devel-unmoderated
* ubuntu-project
* ubuntu-devel-open
* ubuntu-devel-community
* ubuntu-devel-freeforall
* ubuntu-devel-ideas
* ubuntu-devel-discuss
* ubuntu-thundercats

While many people preferred ubuntu-thundercats, consensus finally settled on ubuntu-devel-discuss as the best name.

The possibility of leaving ubuntu-devel as unmoderated list and creating a new moderated list in its place was also discussed, as that is a practice that has been followed by several other groups (e.g. KDE and Perl hackers), but several people expressed a desire that actual development should continue to be discussed on 'ubuntu-devel' -- both so that the name remains relevant, and that outsiders or people coming to the project for the first time don't get the wrong impression by reading an ubuntu-devel list which largely doesn't discuss actual development.

----
CategorySpec
