{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== 2012-08-27 ==

Meeting started by Laney at 14:01:21 UTC.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Review of action items
** micahg to document the zentyal packageset  (Laney, 14:03:19). This is still outstanding.
** micahg to ping beuno regarding CC discussion on whether upload rights should confer membership  (Laney, 14:03:35). Scott Ritchie started this discussion with the DMB in private. All DMB members are to respond and we are to make a decision outselves.
** stgraber to clean up coredev/motu duplicate package set rights  (Laney, 14:05:51). Done.
** remove scott from ubuntu-core-dev until he signs the CoC  (Laney, 14:06:49). For clarity, this refers to Scott James Remnant. Done, with a note that if he decides to sign the CoC then he will be readmitted.
** Laney (tumbleweed) to contact the uploaders of unused packagesets  (Laney, 14:07:15). Sugar done, schooltool carried. There was a short discussion about other packagesets; see the below action items.

''ACTION:'' laney to delete network-manager packageset  (Laney, 14:09:08)

''ACTION:'' laney to contact menesis about schooltool packageset  (Laney, 14:09:17)

''ACTION:'' laney to contact TB to see if netbook/unr/mobile packagesets are still needed  (Laney, 14:09:29). Done: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/technical-board/2012-August/001363.html

* Per-Package Uploader application: Keng-Yu Lin.
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Keng-YuLin/PPU   (Laney, 14:10:41). 
''ACTION:'' stgraber to add ppu for lexical to fwts  (Laney, 14:55:48)

This application was discussed and voted on. The outcome was:

* Grant Keng-Yu Lin PPU to fwts
   For: 5 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

Members voting for: Laney tumbleweed barry bdrung micahg. Keng-Yu Lin's PPU application for fwts is approved.

* Next chair
''ACTION:'' next chair cody-somerville (tumbleweed)  (Laney, 14:58:00)

The meeting ended at 14:58:03 UTC.

=== Action items ===

* laney to delete network-manager packageset
* laney to contact menesis about schooltool packageset
* laney to contact TB to see if netbook/unr/mobile packagesets are still needed
* stgraber to add ppu for lexical to fwts
* next chair cody-somerville (tumbleweed)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Laney (70)
* kengyu (24)
* meetingology (19)
* micahg (17)
* tumbleweed (13)
* bdrung (9)
* barry (6)
* ScottK (3)
* stgraber (0)
* cody-somerville (0)

=== Full Log ===

 14:01:21 <Laney> #startmeeting

 14:01:21 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Aug 27 14:01:21 2012 UTC.  The chair is Laney. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 14:01:21 <meetingology> 

 14:01:21 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 14:01:34 <Laney> who's here?

 14:01:38 <micahg> o/

 14:01:46 <tumbleweed> o/

 14:01:47 * bdrung is here, but ill.

 14:01:51 <barry> o/

 14:02:23 <Laney> is the agenda current?

 14:02:38 * Laney is looking at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-08-13-19.09.html and seeing things not on there

 14:03:04 <micahg> Laney: it is now :)

 14:03:10 <Laney> heh

 14:03:11 <Laney> #topic Review of action items

 14:03:19 <Laney> #subtopic micahg to document the zentyal packageset

 14:03:21 <Laney> pending?

 14:03:24 <micahg> yeah

 14:03:35 <Laney> #subtopic micahg to ping beuno regarding CC discussion on whether upload rights should confer membership

 14:03:47 <Laney> done - yokozar started it

 14:04:12 <Laney> we got some +1s - should be able to finish with this before the next meeting?

 14:04:21 <tumbleweed> sounds likely

 14:04:28 <Laney> ok

 14:04:39 <micahg> yeah, if everyone could please respond (DMB members, myself included)

 14:04:47 <Laney> will someone get the CC to decide?

 14:04:49 <Laney> I'll +1

 14:05:16 <micahg> well, the idea was we (DMB) decide and the CC only acts if we're deadlocked

 14:05:30 <Laney> oh, so we can just go ahead

 14:05:31 <micahg> AIUI at least :)

 14:05:31 <barry> doesn't sound like we're deadlocked

 14:05:33 <Laney> sounds good

 14:05:51 <Laney> #subtopic stgraber to clean up coredev/motu duplicate package set rights

 14:06:02 <micahg> I think this was done as well

 14:06:17 <Laney> I also believe that to be the case

 14:06:27 <Laney> #subtopic stgraber to clean up coredev/motu duplicate package set rights

 14:06:34 <Laney> that's scott remnant fyi

 14:06:38 <Laney> oops

 14:06:49 <Laney> #subtopic remove scott from ubuntu-core-dev until he signs the CoC

 14:06:56 <Laney> & also done

 14:07:15 <Laney> #subtopic Laney (tumbleweed) to contact the uploaders of unused packagesets

 14:07:24 <Laney> I just pinged Luke about sugar

 14:07:32 <Laney> http://people.canonical.com/~stgraber/package_sets/quantal/ which other ones are a concern?

 14:07:50 <tumbleweed> is unr used?

 14:07:52 <ScottK> Which Scott?

 14:07:55 <Laney> I propose to contact the TB as owners to get rid of unr/netbook(/mobile?)

 14:08:00 <tumbleweed> ScottK: not you :)

 14:08:03 <ScottK> OK.

 14:08:03 <Laney> 27/08 15:06:34 <Laney> that's scott remnant fyi

 14:08:07 <micahg> ScottK: keybuk

 14:08:25 <ScottK> tumbleweed provided the critical part of the answer to my question.

 14:08:43 <Laney> cyphermox just said in #-desktop that networkmanager is unused

 14:09:03 <micahg> Laney: schooltool and mobile

 14:09:08 <Laney> #action laney to delete network-manager packageset

 14:09:08 * meetingology laney to delete network-manager packageset

 14:09:17 <Laney> #action laney to contact menesis about schooltool packageset

 14:09:17 * meetingology laney to contact menesis about schooltool packageset

 14:09:29 <Laney> #action laney to contact TB to see if netbook/unr/mobile packagesets are still needed

 14:09:29 * meetingology laney to contact TB to see if netbook/unr/mobile packagesets are still needed

 14:09:33 <Laney> ok?

 14:09:39 <micahg> sounds good

 14:10:33 <Laney> #topic Per-Package Uploader application: Keng-Yu Lin

 14:10:41 <Laney> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Keng-YuLin/PPU

 14:10:53 <Laney> kengyu: Hey, that's you ;-)

 14:11:03 <kengyu> hello all. /wave

 14:11:10 <Laney> kengyu: Can you introduce yourself and your application please?

 14:11:50 <kengyu> I am a Canonical employee; I work in the Hardware Enablement team, we are responsible for the Ubuntu preloads for OEMs.

 14:12:20 <kengyu> I am from Taipei, Taiwan, and am also a Ubuntu user for long time. :-)

 14:12:44 <kengyu> I am applying the PPU for fwts...

 14:13:20 <Laney> Can you quickly explain for the laymen here what fwts is about?

 14:13:55 <kengyu> because it is part of HWE team's project, and we offer the software for a various uses (certification, OEM, UEFI plugfest, etc).

 14:14:50 <kengyu> it's suite of tests focusing on BIOS (or firmware in others words) and UEFI hardware (we are still working on this).

 14:15:25 <bdrung> kengyu: what does fwts stand for?

 14:15:51 <kengyu> "FirmWare Test Suite"

 14:16:45 <kengyu> the current tests fwts has in documented in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/Reference/fwts

 14:18:05 <micahg> kengyu: I noticed in https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fwts/0.24.21 you switched from dh-autoreconf to autoreconf, could you please explain why that was done?

 14:19:27 <kengyu> it's just because that Lucid does not have dh-autoreconf and Lucid was the LTS at that time, so I decided to keep the latest code working on Lucid.

 14:22:41 <micahg> kengyu: were you aware that dh-autoreconf did more than just the configure step?

 14:24:15 <micahg> kengyu: also, since I assume you weren't uploading to the archive, dh-autoreconf was available in lucid-backports

 14:27:56 <kengyu> micahg, I think dh-autoreconf does not cleaning work. But my original intention was not to "revert" the use of dh-autoreconf and use hand-made 'autoreconf' commands in debian/rules...

 14:29:15 <kengyu> I added the dh-autoreconf support in a previous patch. But had another one to use autoreconf because of Lucid support.

 14:29:24 <micahg> kengyu: right, which would be fine, but there are two parts and I only saw the configure part in that changelog

 14:29:45 <micahg> s/changelog/diff/

 14:30:30 <kengyu> micahg, it's good to know that it is in Lucid-backports. at the time I just noticed the build failure in the PPA.

 14:31:42 <micahg> kengyu: right, the more important part though is only implementing a partial manual rule in its place

 14:33:20 <kengyu> micahg, Yes, thanks for this. This will be something I will work on. :-)

 14:33:28 <Laney> thanks

 14:33:33 <Laney> does anybody have any other questions?

 14:33:51 <tumbleweed> sure

 14:33:56 <tumbleweed> kengyu: http://kernel.ubuntu.com/git?p=hwe/fwts.git;a=commitdiff;h=ca9a4ac791265e0e4e945c2472aee6650b078d7d

 14:34:09 <tumbleweed> does that mean it's ging to get upstream releases soon?

 14:34:15 <tumbleweed> *going

 14:36:05 <kengyu> tumbleweed, it's the plan. at least releasing as a tarball eases the pain for packaging for other distros (we've seen bug reported from gentoo too).

 14:36:17 <tumbleweed> yeah

 14:36:24 <tumbleweed> can we expect to see it in Debian, too, then?

 14:37:29 <kengyu> I have that as my plan. But it takes some more time before issuing the ITP. the ACPICA code (is in fwts) from Intel has some legal/copyright issue.

 14:37:58 <kengyu> there will be some more discussion I expect.

 14:38:05 * tumbleweed looks forward to that at some point

 14:39:34 <Laney> kengyu: Quick question about the Ubuntu release cycle

 14:39:49 <Laney> kengyu: Do you know what Feature Freeze is and how it would impact any uploads of fwts you might perform?

 14:40:32 <kengyu> Laney, yes, after that freeze any upload will require the FFE.

 14:41:34 <Laney> kengyu: Where can you find out whethere we are in feature (or any other) freeze?

 14:41:53 <Laney> also, it's not quite 'any' upload â€” only ones which contain new features (i.e. aren't purely bug fix)

 14:42:31 <kengyu> from wiki.ubuntu.com there is a schedule table.

 14:42:58 <kengyu> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuantalQuetzal/ReleaseSchedule

 14:43:42 <Laney> kengyu: thanks, that's it from me

 14:43:45 <Laney> bdrung: go

 14:44:35 <bdrung> kengyu: fwts will fail to build twice in the row once you switch to the "3.0 (quilt)" source format

 14:45:42 <kengyu> bdrung, really! I did not notice that.

 14:46:02 <bdrung> kengyu: the source package content changes after one build: http://paste.debian.net/185847/

 14:46:26 <Laney> that's what micahg was getting at with the autoreconf questions

 14:46:44 <bdrung> kengyu: there might be no difference if you use the same autotools version

 14:47:39 <kengyu> brendand, ok, I will look at this. there should be more cleaning.

 14:47:57 <Laney> it's what dh_autoreconf_clean would do for you if you used that

 14:48:12 <bdrung> kengyu: do you check the lintian report including experimental before the upload? lintian found some typos in the source.

 14:50:19 <kengyu> bdrung, no, I did check the lintian error/warning. But I just check the ones from pbuilder-dist...

 14:50:57 <bdrung> kengyu: lintian has experimental and pedentic tags that are useful to check, too

 14:51:32 <Laney> running out of time, let's move on

 14:51:34 <Laney> barry: got anything to ask?

 14:51:42 <kengyu> bdrung, this is nice to know. I will check it next time. :-)

 14:51:47 <barry> Laney: no, my questions have already been asked by others

 14:51:51 <Laney> thanks

 14:51:52 <Laney> anyone else?

 14:52:20 <bdrung> nothing important

 14:52:33 <Laney> education can continue elsewhere afterwards

 14:52:54 <Laney> #vote Grant Keng-Yu Lin PPU to fwts

 14:52:54 <meetingology> Please vote on: Grant Keng-Yu Lin PPU to fwts

 14:52:54 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 14:53:08 <Laney> #voters bdrung Laney barry micahg tumbleweed stgraber cody-somerville

 14:53:08 <meetingology> Current voters: Laney barry bdrung cody-somerville micahg stgraber tumbleweed

 14:53:31 <tumbleweed> +1

 14:53:31 <meetingology> +1 received from tumbleweed

 14:53:38 <barry> +1

 14:53:38 <meetingology> +1 received from barry

 14:53:46 <bdrung> +1

 14:53:46 <meetingology> +1 received from bdrung

 14:53:58 <Laney> +1 good endorsements, good review process upstream

 14:53:58 <meetingology> +1 good endorsements, good review process upstream received from Laney

 14:54:34 * Laney peers at micahg

 14:54:40 <micahg> +1, would love to see this in Debian soon

 14:54:40 <meetingology> +1, would love to see this in Debian soon received from micahg

 14:55:09 <Laney> #endvote

 14:55:09 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Grant Keng-Yu Lin PPU to fwts

 14:55:09 <meetingology> Votes for:5 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 14:55:09 <meetingology> Motion carried

 14:55:16 <Laney> congratulations!

 14:55:41 <kengyu> thanks. :-)

 14:55:48 <Laney> #action stgraber to add ppu for lexical to fwts

 14:55:48 * meetingology stgraber to add ppu for lexical to fwts

 14:55:54 <Laney> #topic AOB

 14:56:47 <Laney> silence is good

 14:56:52 <Laney> #topic next chair

 14:57:01 <Laney> who is it?

 14:57:03 <Laney> I lost track

 14:57:08 <barry> cody-somerville :)

 14:57:44 <Laney> or?

 14:57:46 <tumbleweed> probably me, in practice

 14:57:51 <Laney> ok

 14:57:52 <barry> i think so

 14:58:00 <Laney> #action next chair cody-somerville (tumbleweed)

 14:58:00 * meetingology next chair cody-somerville (tumbleweed)

 14:58:02 <Laney> cheers

 14:58:03 <Laney> #endmeeting
