{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For archives of previous meetings, please see DevelTeamMeetings.

=== Adam Conrad (infinity) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Ben Collins (BenC) ===

Done
* ubuntu-6.10 targetted kernel bugs
* edgy+1 kernel started. Building and running.
To do
* Triage bugs, and try to fix any easy, high-profile bugs that remain.

=== Colin Watson (Kamion) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===

Done (since last meeting)
* gnome 2.16.1
* [celebrated germany's union]
* bug triage
* telepathy packaging
* artwork packaging ({blubuntu,peace,tropic}-look)
* motu-uvf
* motu reviews
* apt-get.org reviews
To do
* BUG TRIAGE, BUG FIXING
* look into Debian fixes
* a11y team meeting
* more motu-uvf
* more apt-get.org reviews (didn't manage as much over the WE as I'd liked)

=== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Frank Schoep (fschoep) ===

Done:
* community-artwork: conference call with jmak and sabdfl, follow-up tomorrow, wrote down final directions
* firefox-themes-ubuntu: fix bugs, Ian uploaded new package
* art-mailing-list: fix ML moderation, we now have an active team for it again
* theme-teams: did my best to package their work, Daniel is doing the final touches
* some bugfixing
Ongoing:
* usplash-artwork: work with Seveas and msikma to get a new design in
* sound-themes: got in touch with cbx33, working on shorter sounds
* community-artwork: creating final designs to sabdfl's liking
* ubuntu-art-polish-human-icons: iterate with Dave on polishing icons, integrating some community crafted icons

=== Henrik Omma (heno) ===

a11y for Edgy:
* onBoard promoted to main but needs seeding to desktop and GOK should be un-seeded. This will save several MB
* Bugs: GOK crasher (58600) AT-SPI crasher (62446) 
* Live CD: Will test latest Casper settings, Need ubquity orca-as-root hack
* usability: gnome-at-prefs patch pending to eliminate a11y menu entries in Applications menu (59553)
* WinFOSS: just some cosmetic cleanups and latest versions of apps (esp. Firefox now in RC)

=== Ian Jackson (iwj) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ===

* done: beta release, went very well.  KDE conference, lots of Kubuntu love.
** bug fixing
** KDE 3.5.5 packaging, Qt 4.2 packaging
* unblocked: ruby, thanks BenC
* todo: finish KDE 3.5.5, Qt 4.2.  KOffice 1.6 also out this week.  UVF exception requests to come

=== Kees Cook (keescook) ===

Done
* new hire checklist, system access, etc
* Beta testing
* build environment creation
* security reviews: keeping "unchecked" CVE list short
* security updates created and released: gdb/all, ffmpeg/dapper,breezy,hoary, xine-lib/dapper,breezy,hoary, kino/hoary
* security updates built: bind9, python2.[34]
* security investigated for: libmusicbrainz, libksba
* bug triage
* minor apport debugging/improvement, patches incorporated by pitti
To do
* security updates pending with pitti: bind9
* security updates with build trouble: python2.[34]
* security updates for: libmusicbrainz, libksba, awstats
* stricter build environment (sbuild+schroot+lvm snapshots)

=== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...
=== Martin Pitt (pitti) ===

Done:
* security updates: firefox 1.0->1.5 for breezy (ugh, thanks to all involved), openssl, mono, checked/published lots of updates from Kees
* fixed langpack-o-matic infrastructure to work with new SRU policy (upload staging in *-proposed), uploaded new langpacks to dapper-proposed, discussion about publishing/review is ongoing
* fixed langpack-o-matic to only generate new versions if something actually changed
* taught apport how to run really *fast*
* improved apport-retrace script to make use of new ddeb archive, so that you now get symbolic stack traces to the extent possible (depending on ddeb availability); will announce it on u-devel
* Beta CD testing
* bug fixing sprint
Todo:
* finish discussion and SRU policy about langpack updates to get updates working again
* another bug fixing sprint, catch up with bug triage
* some more pending security updates, clean up the backlog of low-profile issues with Kees
* care for mysql merge if infinity's workload is too high

=== Matthias Klose (doko) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Michael Vogt (mvo) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Oliver Grawert (ogra) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Rodrigo Novo (rodarvus) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Simon Law (sfllaw) ===

Done:
* Set up lab environment to test fixes for *-proposed
* Verified bug 59228 was fixed
* Bug triage
* Hug day
* Pinged cégéps about interns
* Installer testing with cr3
To do:
* Hug day
* Bug triage

=== Tollef Fog Heen (Mithrandir) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

----
CategoryTemplate
