{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For archives of previous meetings, please see DevelTeamMeetings.

=== Apologies ===

* Ben Collins (BenC) - conflicting appointment
* Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) - at aKademy
* Michael Vogt (mvo) - on leave
* Henrik (heno) - traveling

=== Agenda ===

 1. Roll call
** Apologies
 1. Review agenda
** Review activity reports
** Propose additional items
** Accept agenda
** Code review team (dholbach, cjwatson)
# Release readiness update
# Other business

=== Activity Reports ===

==== Adilson Oliveira (adilson) ====

Packaging:
* hildon-control-panel
* hildon-control-panel locales
* Maemo's matchbox-window-manager
* Upstream matchbox-window-manager

Docs/specs:
* UME TODO
* HildonDesktopManualProcedure
* UME Specs review

Administrivia:
* Review resumes for UME team.
* UME and distro meetings

Bug hunting:
* Test new matchbox-window-manager
* Test new hildon-control-panel
* Help asac with hildon-desktop env
* Review UME chroot procedure
* Help testing Tribe 2 instalation

Research:
* Investigate some embedded form of gdm

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

firefox-addon-support spec:
* sponsoring totem, vlc, gxine, mplayerplug-in updates that add plugin meta data to setup plugin package db
* more plugin packages will be updated soon (e.g. flash, java and others)
* discussing with mvo apt python api

nspluginwrapper spec
* uploaded flashplugin-nonfree that brings non-free flash to amd64
** package currently not build - waiting for debian p-a-s exception list fix.

firefox
* new firefox gutsy package that drops all not-essential ubuntu pref tweaks/patches; those went into ubufox extension; thus, firefox recommends ubufox now
* initial upload of ubufox extension package that is meant to ship all not-essential ubuntu firefox tweaks; for now i moved almost all property tweaks from firefox to that extension

firefox trunk/granparadiso
* investigating stability issues in granparadiso alpha6 build; frequent crashes happen somewhere related to cairo/thebes. libcairo was updated, thebes received changes as well, so I am still unsure who to blame.
* fixing and submitting 'make install breakage on firefox trunk'; fixes are here:
** https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=386866
** https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=386904

MOTU/Community
* motu application discussion with student
* reviewing/sponsoring a few fixes/merges
* xulrunner: implementing real fixes to fix pyxpcom build failure for on python2.5; uploading new xulrunner package that replaces bogus patches with potential security issues by these new ones:
** https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=386610

Mobile Browser
* discussing mobile browser with bspencer
* bootstrapping mobile browser build infrastructure and publishing to git/bzr branches in my people.ubuntu.com account
* playing around with git/bzr; discussion about repo and feature branches with #bzr team
* setting up bzr and git repos in my
* attending mobile meeting

==== Amit Kucheria (amitk) ====

* Rebase Gutsy to Linus' tree and prepared release (ongoing)
* Bug triaging
* Wiki Documentation fixes
* Updates to LUM
* Review of Power Management Policy document from Intel

==== Ben Collins (BenC) ====

* Status call with Kyle, Tim, Amit and Phillip
* Work on kernel team documentation
* Bug maint
* Worked with Amit to start gutsy kernel cycle.
* Holiday on Wed.

==== Brian Murray (bdmurray) ====

Bug triaging:
* triaging of gutsy bugs
* gutsy apport bug work
* sent out Hug Day announcement
* setup Hug Day list of bugs
* added stock reply for bugs without a package

Other:
* approved 5 Ubuntu QA team applications
** manchicken
** rainct
** mario-danic
** jbeerwart
** jteale
* resolved celestia bug 91308
* wiki updates of
** QA team application process
** BugSquad/Tags
** Bugs/FindRightPackage
** Bugs/Responses
* started using editmoin
* Holiday 20070704
* Vacation 20070702

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

Packaging
* xserver-xorg-input-evdev - incorporated patch for touchscreen calibration (UME)
* xorg-server - incorporate patch for clipping behavior (UME)
* xserver-xorg-video-nv 2.1.1 - new upstream
* xrandr 1.2.1

Bug Triage / Testing
* Assisted EtienneG with customer Xorg issue with i810 X lockup due to DRI-related bugs.  Surveyed past reported i810 X lockups: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/IntelDriverBugs
* XSwatTest:
** Compare installed vs. loaded driver versions
** Added dexconf script validation, xorg.conf generation
** Added xrandr version validation
* Tested -intel driver on dell 1505n Feisty and Gutsy
* Updated XorgRecentChanges with changelog and triage advice for -intel 2.0.0 and mesa 7.0.0

Misc
* Reviewed/tested vmmouse detection tool
* Spec review & comments for UME
* More research into monitor mis-detection issues (bug 3731)

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====

* OpenOffice.org security
** filed 2 RT bugs about broken buildd issues (amd64, ppc)
** uploaded openoffice.org-amd64 for dapper amd64
* Talked to Rene about joining Debian pkg-openoffice team
* OpenOffice.org 2.3 gutsy status - waiting for m219 for first upload per Rene
* July 4 - US Holiday

Note:
* Found bug in gutsy tribe-2 installer - partman hangs
* Found bug in gutsy wpa(?) can not connect to anything even open AP

also got access to the debian bzr repo, don't have commit access yet, still need to discuss with rene if i can get that

==== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ====

Misc
* merged kiwi, ubuntu-docs upload and fix
* status update meeting
* wiki cleanup

MOTU
* motu mentoring
* reviewing packages
* MOTU meeting
* wrote MOTU activity announce

Bug Triage

Desktop
* reviewing packages
* improved epiphany greasemonkey patch
* desktop team organisation
* desktop team meeting
* desktop team wiki organisation
* updated glibmm, updated gtkmm

Community
* call with jono about development community
* mentoring discussions
* setting up ubuntu-code-reviewers team

Bug Tools
* bughelper SoC discussions, py-lpbugs patch review
* worked on buglog reports

Artwork
* human-icon-theme merge fix
* merged tangerine-icon-theme

==== Evan Dandrea (evand) ====

* Merged the Mythbuntu changes to Ubiquity into trunk.
* ubuntu-without-restricted:
** Investigated areas where preseeding apt-setup/restricted would conflict with the .disk contents, discussed with Colin.
** Tested restricted-free installs.  They worked fine except for installing restricted-manager, which pitti fixed by pushing it into restricted.
* Reviewed the MOTU and cdbs documentation.  Started re-packaging ushare for universe.
* Ubiquity bug triaging.

==== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ====

* LDOM integration in userland. As of wed night we should have all bits and pieces in place. We need to wait a few more days to get some minor kernel bug fixes before we can pull it in the kernel support.
* Hacked LDOM 1.0 (Solaris 10) init script to cope with their broken vds implementation while waiting for the real fix. This workaround will allow us to work with linux guests without too much manual hackery.
* Prepared ubuntu-gutsy-ldom.git tree on kernel.org with ubuntu changes. (configs and d-i bits)
* Done a bunch of merges and specifically lvm2 was important to get the bug fix from upstream to work with quorum disk devices. The latter still need proper testing (clvmd).
* Had friday off.

==== Ian Jackson (iwj) ====

automated-testing-deployment:
  I have made a working Xen setup again, using etch and a kernel from backports.  With this I was able to test and debug the new privilege separation and related features for autopkgtest, and I've passed this over to the sysadmins for deployment.

winmodems:
  Acquired a USB modem for testing, to try to find out what was commonly available.  Unfortunately it seems to be a Conexant-based device - ie supported only via the payware drivers from Linuxant. This one of only two USB dialup modems sold by my usual online suppliers, and the one which seems most common.

  I tested the sl-modem-daemon detection and configuration in gutsy daily, using the HP laptop provided via Matthew Garrett some months ago.  I've written a wiki page aimed at naive users, which unfortunately paints a rather difficult picture:
    https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SupportedDialupModems
  I think this ought to replace the rather complex and out-of-date
    https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto

Spec review, planning and scheduling, including some incidental research.

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

~+'''NO REPORT RECEIVED (at aKademy).'''+~

==== Kees Cook (keescook) ====

Progress:
* Security Updates
** published l-r-m update (USN-479-1)
** built/test gimp update (USN-480-1)
** reviewed/built/sponsored kvirc (CVE-2007-2951)
* Investigations
** iptables IPv6 "rt" module
* MOTU
** re-established bug stat plots
* Server Sprint
** AppArmor kernel module updates, bzr init
** reviewed/sponsored php-imap, php-mcrypt, heimdal
** various discussions, travel, etc

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

* 2 days conference leave (Glasgow, good timing)
* UME Mockups - getting better and better
* further community prodding

==== Kyle McMartin (kylem) ====

* dapper cves
* dapper megaraid bugfix
* xserver-xorg-intel 2.1.0 packaging
* discover-data updates
* mesa patches backport from HEAD to 7.0-branch
* mesa patches backported from gutsy to feisty-proposed
* 915resolution updates for new chipsets
* port g33/q33/q35 to -i810 for feisty-proposed

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Spec status:
* apport-crash-duplicates, apport-better-retracing: lots of bug fixes
* apport-for-upstreams: no change since last week
* debian-maintainer-field: no change (remaining universe rebuilds will be done after feature freeze to minimize churn)
* crash-reporting: all basic building blocks are together now, currently discussing the handling of the "black hole" email addresses on launchpad@.
* restricted-manager-improvements: no change since last week.

Other stuff done that week that might be of interest:
* changed langpack-o-matic to work with a PPA, removed a lot of old code cruft from it, and set up some tools on drescher for syncing them; once the PPA buildd settled down (sorry for DoSing it with the initial bootstrap) and packages have been tested, I'll switch the gutsy updates to automatic daily uploading.
* Set up http://people.ubuntu.com/~ubuntu-archive/NBS/ (updated twice a day) to help devs who help us with transitions (most notably StevenK :-) )

==== Mathias Gug (mathiaz) ====

AppArmor integration:
* improve administration tools :
** parselog: log parsing and processing.
** aa-enable, aa-disable: enable/disable profiles.
* debug kernel oops for ubuntu17 release.
* look into upstream log parsing library (libaaparselog).
* packaging: add samba profiles. Released ubuntu18.
* profiling: update mysqld, samba profiles.
* draft a wider test plan on AppArmoronGutsy page.

Ubuntu MOTU:
* package audit - new upstream version. Uploaded.

Ubuntu Server:
* Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday: Server sprint in London.
* triage bugs related to ubuntu-server (apache2, apparmor, samba).
* update Ubuntu Server Team wiki pages:
** add Membership and Governance policies.

==== Matthias Klose (doko) ====

* glibc-2.6 merge with debian, testing on all supported architectures, plus powerpc.
* rebootstrap Ada for gutsy.
* prepare a last binutils update for gutsy (looks like the 2.18 release is delayed).
* another round of package merges and syncs, update some packages in main to new upstream versions, where debian is behind.
* work together with debian maintainers on the icedtea/opnjdk packages.
* my last OOo upload (hopefully ;-) ...
* OOo mentoring
* investigate OOo build failures for -security uploads; Chris doesn't have access to developer machines yet.
* update gcc-snapshot

==== Phillip Lougher (pkl) ====

Kernel:

* Integrating Xen 3.1 into custom flavour in gusty kernel
* Fixed some Xen code compile errors, and updated custom flavour
* Studied gutsy kernel build system

* Feisty CVE analysis

Support:

* Further work looking into back-port of driver to dapper LTS

Misc:

* Moved over to Canonical IMAP mail account, and setup email filtering.

==== Rick Clark (dendrobates) ====

London Server Sprint:
* added ppolicy support to OpenLDAP.
* Configured vmware-server for Matt, discovered a vmware pam bug in the process.
* Continued my packaging training.
* Server planning sessions.

Bug Triage:
* fixed bug in heimdal-kdc and uploaded package

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

Bug triage work

Desktop:
* bug fixing
* sponsored updated
* IRC meeting
* wiki updates
* updates and new, rhythmbox glib pango libbonobo libbonoboui evolution-jescs gtksourceview pygtksourceview gedit gtk+2.0 pygtk

archive admin

==== SÃ¸ren Hansen (shawarma) ====

* EBox packaging (ftw!)
* Server sprint discussions and things
* Bug triaging

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

* Made some thoughts about Ubuntu printer driver package auto-generated from distro-independent driver packages from OpenPrinting and discussed them with Martin Pitt on IRC. Main problem is that distro-independent driver packages install into /opt and a Ubuntu package must be made in a way that it does not install anything in /opt.
* Investigated Linux support by Xerox, see bugs
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cupsys/+bug/102389
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cupsys/+bug/110242
  Contacted Xerox about the problems, no answer yet. Tested Xerox driver packages: Closed source, do not work with Ubuntu, not redistributable. Only thing which we could do: Make printer setup tools clearly tell when they did not find a driver or PPD.
* Investigated fixed upstream bugs of ESP Ghostscript to make sure that the merged Ghostscript (which we will ship) gets all fixes and does not cause regression bugs in the distro.
* Answered bug reports.

==== Tim Gardner (rtg) ====

General:
* July 4 holiday

Kernel:
* Edgy l-r-m build problems on PPC
* Edgy CVE's

==== Tollef Fog Heen (tfheen) ====

* Source NEW
* More Hildon packaging, cleanups

=== Actions ===

