{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For archives of previous meetings, please see DevelTeamMeetings.

=== Agenda ===

 1. Roll call
** Apologies
** Introduce new starters (if any)
 1. Review agenda
** Review activity reports
** Propose additional items
** Accept agenda
# (pitti) "Report a bug" menu item -> disable for release?
# (pitti) apport crash interception -> disable for release? (this would not immediately affect Python crashes for ubiquity etc., they can be switched on and off separately)
# (bdmurray) What is the best / most effective way to communicate bugs I think might be important? e-mailing the distro team?
# (bdmurray) bug 63365 and 76901
# (bdmurray) network-manager and /etc/network/interfaces when upgrading from edgy to feisty for example bug 96521
# (cjwatson) Bug day on Friday: distro team participation
# (tkamppeter) Yes, I am searching volunteers for HPLIP 1.7.3 testing

 1. Actions from previous meeting
** bdmurray to merge <nowiki>[[Bugs/Teams]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[Bugs/FindRightPackage]]</nowiki>, solicit feedback from developers
** Mithrandir to mail out list of beta blockers and assignees to ubuntu-devel
# Release readiness update
# Other business

=== Activity Reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

Security/stability updates:
* latest firefox security updates rolled
* work on test plan for security/stability updates.

Firefox patch approval:
* we have approval
* waiting for mconnor to blog

Firefox/thunderbird package maintenance:
* updated firefox to latest
* firefox-libthai package/component landed.
* removal of unapproved firefox patches
* Help Menu for Feisty Firefox: Report a Bug ... added; "Translate ..." and "Get Help Online" disabled (until launchpad supports firefox).
* add restart-on-update-notification to thunderbird (not yet uploaded)
* add "Report a Bug ..." menu entry to thunderbird (not yet uploaded)

Upstream (debian) relationship
* talk and work with debian maintainer on packaging standalone source packages for libnspr4 and libnss3; test builds of firefox with system installed nspr look promising.

==== Ben Collins (BenC) ====

General:
* Kernel team meeting
* Discussed issues with 9755/9631 nvidia driver. Resolved a solution with pitti, mvo and _ion. Work on this solution is in progress.

Kernel:
* Upload for post-beta release, included over 30 bug fixes.
* Work on drivers/ata/ sync with Jeff Garzik's upstream (stable) tree to resolve current issues in our tree.

==== Brian Murray (bdmurray) ====

Bug triaging:
* Assigned packages to multiple bugs that had none i.e. were just filed against Ubuntu
* Reading through bug mailing list and triaging bugs
* apport retracing of bugs
* hug day participation

Bug helper:
* Bug hunting via bughelper

Other:
* Day off Monday March 26th
* QA team call
* pre-beta iso testing
* SRU verification
* ubuntu qa membership review

==== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ====

Bugs:
* initial triage of myriads of crasher bugs (was down to 0 apport bugs)
* crash retracing
* QA call
* bug triage

GNOME:
* glom update, workrave fix
* looked into gnome-cups-manager bug

MOTU:
* motu-uvf
* filed UNMETDEPS bugs for universe
* motu meeting
* motu mentoring

Bughelper:
* SoC
* bughelper patch review

Artwork:
* artwork updates,
* human-icon-theme fix

Misc:
* cd testing
* looked into glassfish packages again, uploaded glassfish,
* merged pilot-link, clamtk update, ubuntu-docs fix

==== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ====

Done:
* more redhat cluster suite cleanup and testing.
* had a big argument with my local raid.
* beta release testing.
* sponsored usual bzr* stack.

==== Henrik Omma (heno) ====

Accessibility:
* Summer of code discussions with prospective students
* Wrote paper abstract for a conference I'll be attending: www.t4p.no

Distro:
* WinFOSS artwork refresh, bugfix and upload
* General ubuntu bug triage

ISO testing:
* Coordinated testing Thursday and Friday
* Worked on a new web app for tracking tests with a community volunteer
** This should replace the malone bugs and the wiki results page
** Had originally planned this for Feisty+1, but it is coming together well. If it can be shown to work before Herd 6 we should consider switching

==== Ian Jackson (iwj) ====

Done:
* Bug 75681 (raid/lvm races).  I have a new udev which can produce debug output and am carrying out various furthrer experiments to try to reproduce the problem.
  The new udev technically has a new feature (a new command line option to suppress some of its use of syslog) so I will apply for a freeze exception.
  Aurelien Naldi has provided me with a debug log from a failed boot and I'm trying to understand what happened in his case.
* automated-testing:
  I made timeouts work but since then my testbed machine has been busy with my attempts to reproduce 75681.

  Will any friendly kernel hacker pretty please volunteer to investigate my `second guest crashes my dom0' bug (#90161) ?

Other stuff this week:
* Some beta image testing.
* Administrivia of various kinds.  (Eg, chasing Eurostar who forgot to post us our tickets!)

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

Done:
* beta testing and release
* upgrader tool fixes
* add kmplayer .pot to language packs
* revert to qt 3.3.7 due to CKJ breakage in 3.3.8
* meeting with UDS KDE and Kubuntu people
* software-properties fixes
Blocked:
* new queue
Todo:
* move dist upgrader updates from -proposed to edgy-updates
* ubiquity partitioner widget

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

Done
* Testing and generic bug hunting/fixing
* finished second wallpaper alternative
* finished session splash (fixed problems with non-transparent corners for other display managers).
* fixed problems with gdm themes

==== Kyle McMartin (kylem) ====

General:
* clean up some of my pm trace hacking from a few weeks ago for upstream submission
* some random (& forgotten now) X.org work
* puzzled about why HPA is buggered on Intel Mac

Security:
* added a few more cve fixes to the perpetually pending dapper & edgy uploads

Bugs:
* triage my assigned bugs for feisty, tried to prioritize/schedule what I can fix in the next little while

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Specs:
* increase-hwdb-participation: Week 6 of being blocked for removing the "rm /var/lib/update-notifier/user.d/*" bits from the live system build scripts; pinged RT/elmo/infinity again (RT#27156)
* restricted-manager: dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg created too much breakage after all; switched to kdeguidance's xorgconf.py backend, which now edits xorg.conf directly and now works quite smoothly; fixed two tons of other bugs

==== Matthias Klose (doko) ====

Spec status:
* UbuntuSpec:feistyplusone-toolchain-roadmap
** Currently (intentionally) blocked on test rebuilds (buildd infrastructure).

Activity:
* outstanding OOo security updates for breezy, dapper.
* OOo bug triage
* prepare OOo 2.2 rc4 / final 2.2 packages
* prepared python2.5, python-setuptools packages
* feistyplusone-toolchain updates, bug submissions for powerpc, sparc
* glibc package updated from 2.5 branch, merged with Debian.
* support for the landscape team
* SoC administration

End of this week / next week:
* OOo 2.2 final, more bug fixing
* bug triage for milestoned reports
* UbuntuSpec:feistyplusone-toolchain-roadmap as time permits

==== Michael Vogt (mvo) ====

Specs:
* EasyCodecInstallation:
** after some complains in bugreports the codec search first shows a dialog before starting the search
** checked what needs to be done for gstreams caps support and prepared a branch at http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~mvo/gnome-app-install/gst-caps-support (required to fix #90737)
Bugs:
* lots of triage and fixing
* the upgrade bugs roll in and require reassigning or fixing in
* the release-upgrader (quite a few important ones got fixed last week)
Upgrade testing:
* manual + automatic testing
* preparing universe upgrade test, but tricky because many packages in universe do not install in edgy (postinst failure, file overwrite problems etc)
Misc:
* CD testing
* Google SoC
* sru-verification
* ISV work with EtienneG
* ...

==== Oliver Grawert (ogra) ====

~+'''NO REPORT RECEIVED.'''+~

==== Phillip Lougher (pkl) ====

General:
* Mostly bug triaging.

Kernel:
* Fixed edgy->feisty NFS mounting regression.
* Bug #95554: kubuntu feisty beta installer crashed.  Looked at Unionfs issue.  No progress.
* Dialogue with Colin regarding Squashfs and SetPageErr.  Spent sometime checking current status, and refreshing my memory regarding issues with adding to Squashfs.

Clustering:
* Continuing to take over clustering support from Fabbione. Background reading.

Meetings:
* Kernel meeting.

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* load of bug triage
* beta CD testing
* worked on cleaning the list of bugs that need retracing
* archive admin work
* desktop bugs fixing

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

DONE
* Packaged HPLIP 1.7.3, and current upstream snapshots of the Foomatic packages
* UVF ER for hplip 1.7.3 (Fixes bug 82546, bug 83936, bug 85805, bug 87695, bug 92237, bug 94013, bug 94015, bug 94823, bug 95489, bug 67892, bug 86893, bug 88290, not approved yet)
* UVF ER for foomatic-db-hpijs (Needed for HPLIP 1.7.3, fixes bug 92237, approved and uploaded)
* UVF ER for foomatic-db (Needed for HPLIP 1.7.3, fixes bug 92625, not approved yet)
* UVF ER for foomatic-filters (Fixes bug 78781, bug 96709, bug 42234, approved and uploaded)
* Sorted gnome-cups-manager crashers, induced investigation on bug 91218 by Daniel Holbach
* Answered bug reports

==== Tim Gardner (rtg) ====

General:
* Bug triage

Kernel:
* Lurked on wireless-dev and lkml in preparation for porting wireless driver(s) to IEEE80211 framework.
* Researched sl-modem and PPPoE in preparation for UDS

==== Tollef Fog Heen (tfheen) ====

Done
* Release management: getting beta out the door.
* Archive management (archive admin day on Monday, as usual)
* Updating of various process-related docs, including a minor adjustment to the freeze exception process

=== Actions ===

* pitti to summarize apport discussion on ubuntu-devel ML and continue
* pitti to disable system apport menu entry
* tfheen to make sure QA/bug triage information includes information about when to milestone.
* bdmurray to summarize network-manager/ifupdown issues on ubuntu-devel for further discussion

----
CategoryTemplate
