{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For archives of previous meetings, please see DevelTeamMeetings.

=== Adam Conrad (infinity) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Ben Collins (BenC) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Colin Watson (cjwatson) ===

Already specified; implementation progress:
* setup-console-under-usplash: This is more or less done already; just waiting to be able to upload.
* ubiquity-advanced-partitioner: I've spent a few days on the new partitioner this week, and the basic functionality is shaping up, though it's still very slow. Disk bar code in Gentoo installer looks potentially usable.

Assignee/drafter:
* increase-hwdb-participation: This is about unhiding hwdb-client a bit by presenting it in ubiquity, and possibly including data about installation success/failure for future data mining.
* intel-mac-support: Installation on Intel Macs is still kind of a disaster area. Fix it; this includes HFS+ hybrid CD support (being done in libburn), refit/gptsync integration, and a grab-bag of other breakages.
* simplify-oem-installation: There are some general things we can possibly do regardless, but for the most part this is blocked on requirements gathering and may not be on the agenda.
* ubiquity-automation: Not sure this'll be on the agenda, but it's about improving preseeding support in Ubiquity, possibly just by skipping entirely-preseeded steps, or possibly by writing a noninteractive frontend.
* ubiquity-driver-updates: Make Ubiquity install third-party drivers. The really hard part here is delivering the drivers, considering that the CD drive is probably locked, but I'd also like input from kernel folks on strategies for upgrading third-party drivers along with kernel security updates.
* ubiquity-release-notes: Offer to display release notes in Ubiquity. Easy enough, but does require putting release notes in a predictable, machine-readable place on the network.
* ubiquity-slideshow: Provide something more to look at while Ubiquity is copying files around. This needs to be flavour-specific; doc/artwork input would be good.

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===

* Specs:
** `art-builder-improvements`:  There were some issues that hindered the deployment and adoption in the last phase of the Edgy cycle, together with the Art people we'll figure out what needs to be done to get it up and running and make our lives easier.
** `feisty-telepathy`:  Together with the Telepathy people Scott and I will find out what we can do to make us benefit from Telepathy goodness in Feisty.
** `motu`, `code-review`:  we're going to try to improve the current processes and make MOTUs and MOTU hopefuls happier.
** `auto-dist-upgrade-testing`:  The Release Upgrader tool will still be Michael's baby, but I had some ideas for the automated release-upgrade tests I'd like to contribute.
** `<artwork>` :  not sure what's going to happen there.
* interested in: `bug-reporting-tool`, `new-developers`, `apport-improvements`, `simplify-ubuntu-docs-build-process`, `use-the-spoon`

* Done: 
** BUG TRIAGE (we get loads of bugs since the release, especially crashes we didn't see without apport before.) apport-retrace is a great tool - thanks pitti for that, but as always: the desktop bugs crew could do with some help :-/
 

=== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Frank Schoep (fschoep) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Henrik Omma (heno) ===

There will be some Sun, IBM and Google assistive technology (AT) people at UDS-MTV. I'll just list here the main specs that are interesting in that context:

These specs require talks between AT people and Gnome people:
* access-gdm
* common-at-conf
These are about the screen reader(s):
* multilingual-speech
* orca-laptop-support
* orca-pulseaudio
These specs require talks between AT people and xorg and/or AT-SPI people:
* mouse-tweaks
* onboard-switching
* onboard-desktop-control
 
I'm also interested in the following (some of these may have a11y implications so I want to follow them and give input):
* accelerated-x
* beryl-by-default
* slick-boot
* consolidate-spell-checkers
* ubiquity-automation
* feisty-ubiquity
* xulrunner-gecko

=== Ian Jackson (iwj) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Kees Cook (keescook) ===

Done
* security updates: libksba, xinit, binutils, pike7.6, clamav, screen, libpam-ldap, ruby1.8, mutt, wv
* security reviews: newz2000's moin form parser, libx11, qt, nvidia, apport, flashplugin-nonfree, thttpd
* finished most remaining universe rebuilds for openssl0.9.8
* RC/final release CD and DVD testing: mostly PPC
* bug triage/fixing: 39275, 65831, 65948, 65616, 65855, 65763, 66690, 65616, 66976, 34723
* SRU: vino (65795)
* investigating crash reports: mono, firefox
To do
* security updates: l-r-m (nvidia)
* SRU: mutt (65821)
* plan memory protection roadmap with pitti (spec: memory-protection)
* attend UDS

=== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Martin Pitt (pitti) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Matthias Klose (doko) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Michael Vogt (mvo) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Oliver Grawert (ogra) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Rodrigo Novo (rodarvus) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Simon Law (sfllaw) ===

Done
* <nowiki>[[Testing/Current]]</nowiki>
* Bug triage
To do
* Bug triage
* StableReleaseUpdates verification for bug 65795, bug 67547, bug 67860, bug 67917, bug 68430, bug 68505.
* At UbuntuDeveloperSummitMountainView, I'm going to be attending testing and QA related discussions: bug-reporting-tool, auto-dist-upgrading-testing, scalable-installation-testing, crash-reporting, security-update-qa, etc.
Blocked
* Edgy-proposed has not accepted updates for those bugs.

=== Tollef Fog Heen (Mithrandir) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

----
CategoryTemplate
