{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Adam Conrad (infinity) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Ben Collins (BenC) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Colin Watson (Kamion) ===

Done:
* dapper-point-release-process: SPARC fixes done; David Miller is testing them. Still trying to get the images down to size. Unapproved queue holding steady. Should be ready to start widespread testing today or so.
* ubiquity-advanced-partitioner: First cut at backend component done; it can build a correct-looking cache of what partman thinks of the partition layout, and it should be able to create, edit, and delete partitions. Seems to validate general approach.
* migration-assistant: Reviewed various chunks of work from my Google Summer of Code student, and uploaded the first packages to universe.
* ubiquity: Rewrote localechooser's encoding handling to clear up bugs like #47742 (carried over from previous weeks).
Blocked:
* revive-tasksel: Still waiting for Soyuz deployment before final sign-off.
To do:
* ubiquity-advanced-partitioner: Next step is to glue a plain partition list display and a few buttons onto the front of this. Will need to handle resizing in the backend soon as well.
* dapper-point-release-process: Do all the rest of it ...

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===

Done
* GNOME 2.14.3 (dapper-udpates)
* Bug Triage
* Hug Day
* galago uploads done, gossip begun to use it, beagle somewhat unhappy with it (will look at it some more)
To do
* more Bug Triage
* GNOME 2.15.91 (next week)
* more MOTU love (get a REVU day done, more easier-motuing

=== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Frank Schoep (fschoep) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Henrik Omma (heno) ===

Done
* catch up on mail, mailing lists and <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=145|support forum]]</nowiki>.
* Community: Held Ubuntu Access BOF at LUG Radio Live. Working with AT consultants WRT the <nowiki>[[http://www.oatsoft.org/|OATS project]]</nowiki>.
* Magnification - work on compiz-mag is still mostly stagnant. Will focus on gnome-mag for edgy, where upstream is now making performance improvements with COMPOSITE.
* Desktop speech synthesis - Orca, our chosen screen reader, has also been accepted by Gnome as the default. Waiting for result of main inclusion request to proceed with seed change.
* sok: steady progress, packages available. Reads keyboard layout from xkb and uses the current layout (optional).

To do
* On Tuesday I'm attending the launch meeting of the OATS (Open Source Assistive Technology Software) project in London. 
* sok: setup bzr hosting for on LP and get help on adding it to universe. Continue to work with Chris on outstanding features like config panel and 'scanning'.
* Desktop speech synthesis - Some testers are reporting problems with AT-SPI in Gnome 2.15/Edgy. Needs investigation.
* livecd-access - no change - I need feedback on the proposed gfxboot changes. (sound and image files <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Accessibility/Specs/LiveCdAccess|here]]</nowiki>).

=== Ian Jackson (iwj) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ===

done: KDE 3.5.4, HAL changes for 3.5.4, langpacks-desktopfiles-kde, trying out pyqt 4 (preparation for kubuntu-hwdb-client)

next week: catch up with some community contributions on kubuntu-laptop-buttons, kubuntu-power-management, kubuntu-system-settings-usability.  mvo's pyKDE konsole patch

=== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Martin Pitt (pitti) ===

Done:
* security updates: thunderbird/enigmail, gnupg, tiff
* automated-problem-reports:
** discussed UI frontend with mpt, who gave me a complete redesign which is really pleasing now (thank you!)
** implemented new UI design, uploaded
** backend is BLOCKED: needs changed kernel implementation of crash dump helper calling
* pkg-create-dbgsym: deployed on the buildds and active during package builds; fixed a few bugs which caused FTBFS (.ddebs are thrown away ATM, though)
* interviewed security engineer applicants; very good candidates amongst them, yay!
* for the record, the mysterious apt-ftparchive failure on the daily langpacks several times is fixed now
* built and tested fresh re-based dapper langpacks
* misc: new g-v-m, better cdbs-edit-patch,
To Do:
* automated-problem-reports: some UI polish, discuss update-notifier fixes with mvo, discuss KDE frontend with Riddell
* pkg-create-dbgsym: discussion with infinity about cowboying .ddebs to a public inofficial place
* security updates

=== Matthias Klose (doko) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Michael Vogt (mvo) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Oliver Grawert (ogra) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Rodrigo Novo (rodarvus) ===

Done:
* Finished update of X.Org video drivers
* Mucho work on X bugs (mainly xorg-server & drivers + escalated support bugs)
* Large Edubuntu/OLPC Administrativia
* Investigated X.Org patches from Fedora (turned out to be not so many, but at least half a dozen apper to be quite valuable)
ToDo:
* More bugs
* Finish implementation of fully-automatic-swap-server

=== Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Sebastian Bacher (seb128) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Simon Law (sfllaw) ===

Done
* Test plan for QuietenGrub
* Talked with BenC about kernel crash dumps and kprobes
* Hug day
* Bug triaging
* Talked to nags about LDTP.  Got cr3 involved in this
To do
* More test plans
* Bug triaging
* Talk with Kamion
* Help zul get involved with test plans
* Teach MOTUs how to bug triage with a course on Friday
=== Tollef Fog Heen (Mithrandir) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

----
CategoryTemplate
