{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== 2013-06-03 ===

* Chair: Laney

* Present: barry, bdrung, micahg, stgraber, tumbleweed

* Log: http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-06-03-15.01.log.html

==== Review of previous action items ====
The discussion about "Review of previous action items" started at 15:04.

* '''bdrung to write up a short summary of sweetshark's recent sponsorship''': Done
* '''barry to conduct sweetshark ppu vote on ubuntu-dmb list''': Done. We established that this hasn't been communicated yet. ''ACTION:'' barry to send outcome of sweetshark ppu vote
* '''all: review separation of ppu from membership''': Laney has posted a public version of a previously DMB-internal proposal at http://pad.ubuntu.com/dmb-ppu-membership-proposal - all DMB members and interested parties are encouraged to read/amend/comment before 2013-06-17. There are outstanding questions to be resolved, and tasks to be signed up for. ''ACTION:'' everyone read and amend http://pad.ubuntu.com/dmb-ppu-membership-proposal, and sign up for the implementation tasks.

==== Adjusting dynamic PPU to make being a DD and an Ubuntu Developer of any kind the prerequisite, instead of PPU. ====
The discussion about "Adjusting dynamic PPU to make being a DD and an Ubuntu Developer of any kind the prerequisite, instead of PPU." started at 15:08.

** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/devel-permissions/2013-May/000483.html 

For this experimental procedure, we currently require DDs to be PPU already. This is an anomaly; we should just require applicants to be Ubuntu developers. Everyone present agreed without a formal vote.

** ''ACTION:'' laney to update DD-PPU process to say that any ubuntu-dev is eligible

==== MOTU Application - Matt Fischer ====
The discussion about "MOTU Application - Matt Fischer" started at 15:14.

** ''Vote:'' should mfisch join ~motu? (Carried)
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 6/0/0)

==== MOTU application - Dmitry Shachnev ====
The discussion about "MOTU application - Dmitry Shachnev" started at 15:50.

** ''Vote:'' should mitya57 join ~motu? (Carried)
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 6/0/0)
** ''ACTION:'' laney to add mfisch and mitya57 to motu

==== AOB ====

We received an enquiry from Daniel Pocock about getting upload rights. Laney was looking around for someone to reply. bdrung, being a sporting chap, volunteered.

** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/devel-permissions/2013-June/000491.html
** ''ACTION:'' bdrung to reply to Daniel Pocock on devel-permissions

=== 2013-06-17 ===

* Chair: tumbleweed

* Present: barry, bdrung, micahg, Laney, stgraber

* Log: http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-06-17-19.02.log.html

==== Review of previous action items ====

* '''barry to send outcome of sweetshark ppu vote''': Done
* '''everyone read and amend http://pad.ubuntu.com/dmb-ppu-membership-proposal, and sign up for the implementation tasks''' - much discussion, but there are remaining issues around membership requirements for packagesets. To be continued on the mailing list.
* '''Laney to update DD-PPU process to say that any ubuntu-dev is eligible''': Carried.

==== Contributing Developer Application: Louis Bouchard ====

* '''Vote:''' should louis-bouchard join ~universe-contributors (Carried)
* Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 6/0/0)
* '''ACTION:''' tumbleweed to add louis-bouchard to universe-contributors

==== AOB ====

* None
