{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Developer Membership Board meeting 2011-07-18 19:00 UTC ==

Chair: Cody A.W. Somerville

Present: Michael Bienia, Stéphane Graber, Mackenzie Morgan, Benjamin Drung, Emmet Hikory

=== Administrative Matters ===

==== Temporary resolution: Endorse Emmet's voting summary in the interim pending TB feedback ====

Agree that our current voting procedure is as described by Emmet via e-mail (ref: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/technical-board/2011-July/000956.html).

Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 1 abstained. Total: 5

AGREED:  Current DMB voting procedure is as described at https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/technical-board/2011-July/000956.html

=== Ubuntu Contributing Developer Applications ===

==== Juan Negron ====

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JuanNegron/UbuntuContributingDeveloper

Final result is 0 for, 2 against. 4 abstained. Total: -2

Application deferred; remedial advice provided by the board to the candidate.

ACTION: Board to review how applicants who've mostly contributed to upstream projects that are highly symbiotic with Ubuntu (e.g. Ensemble and Orchestra) are considered. The current consensus is that although this contributions can be used to satisfy certain tests applied by the board to determine level of skill, it is not clear if it is appropriate to use it to satisfy the test of sustained and significant *development* contribution to Ubuntu (especially versus the less specific test of sustained and significant contribution to Ubuntu applied by the Regional Membership Boards). In previous applications to the DMB and Regional Membership Boards, significant contributions to upstream projects exclusively but not to Ubuntu specifically have not been deemed satisfactory. Some members of the board suspect that this applicant would have been more successful if Juan had applied for PPU for the ensemble related packages he works on or for Ubuntu membership from his applicable Regional Membership Board.

=== PerPackageUploader Applications ===

==== Gerfried Fuchs ====

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GerfriedFuchs/DeveloperApplication

Applicant requests per-package upload permissions for the following packages:
* beep
* irssi
* logcheck

Iain Lane provided vote on application via e-mail.

Final result is 7 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 7

Application accepted; ACTION to grant applicant approved upload permissions.

=== MOTU Applications ===

==== Andrea Veri (Renewal) ====

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AndreaVeri

Applicant requests renewal of their MOTU membership one year after its expiry.

Final result is 6 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 6

Application accepted; ACTION to grant applicant approved membership.
