{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For archives of previous meetings, please see DevelTeamMeetings.

=== Apologies ===

* Matt Zimmerman (mdz) - Holiday
* Phillip Lougher (pkl) - Holiday
* Kyle McMartin (kylem) - Holiday
* Sebastien Bacher (seb128) - "Music Feast"
* Colin Watson (cjwatson) - Debconf
* Ian Jackson (iwj) - Debconf
* Tollef Fog Heen (tfheen) - Debconf

=== Agenda ===

 1. Roll call
** Apologies
** Introduce new starters (if any)
 1. Review agenda
** Review activity reports
** Propose additional items
** Accept agenda
# C++ guru needed for bug 121461 (blocking inkscape merge) -- keescook
# PAM is very old (blocking at least AppArmor PAM module) -- keescook
# Release readiness update -- pitti
# Other business
** Schedule developers for the next few Bug Days: UbuntuBugDay/Schedule

=== Activity Reports ===

==== Adilson Oliveira (adilson) ====

* Attend to the mobile tracks at DAM 4
* Work with Intel and Nokia people on the Hildon enviromment.
* Testing and debugging project builder for UME.
* Solving problems with -dev packages for Hildon.
* Updating work envirommnt to Gutsy.

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

Spec Status:
* free-flash: first gnash test build rolled-out and announced;
   improved easy-codec install patch + upstream accepted/committed it
   to upstream development HEAD.
* firefox-addon-support: patches that will introduce Xb-fields to
   all netscape plugins are in preparation; initial script that fills
   plugin database from those fields coded.
* nspluginwrapper: spec updated; package uploaded with patch that
   allows to wrap plugins during postinst; prepared
   flashplugin-nonfree for amd64 that implements this spec and obeys
   free-flash requirement to provide alternative -> prepared
   flashplugin-commom package that links flashplugin-alternative to
   applications that provide nsplugin host (firefox, mozilla,
   seamonkey, et al).
* network-manager: no news this week.

Mozilla Work:
* bug triage: lots of firefox and thunderbird bugs triaged;
   e.g. clean-up bugs with wrong state/tag combination; discussion
   about new states with mozillateam.
* firefox package improvements: fixes for milestoned bugs + some
   minor improvements
* trying to get debian and ubuntu packages more in sync for
   thunderbird/icedove
* thunderbird 2.0.0.4 final uploaded
* NEW firefox-granparadiso sources uploaded (currently firefox 3.0
   alpha5)

Motu work:
* mentoring on packaging; involve community in firefox/mozilla
   related packaging.

==== Amit Kucheria (amitk) ====

* Administrative issues
* Setup Ubuntu kernel build environment
* Experimenting with 'force HPET" patches to fix pre-ICH6 chipsets to improve tickless behaviour

==== Ben Collins (BenC) ====

* Team check-up calls: Amit, Phillip
* Worked with Amit (new starter). Setup some initial tasks.
* General kernel work
** rebase to upstream
** Bug work

==== Brian Murray (bdmurray) ====

Bug triaging:
* triaging of gutsy bugs
* started tagging gutsy bugs as tribe1 if they are tribe1 specific
* wrote my diary entry about bughelper last comment searching
  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Diaries/bdmurray
* e-mailed bugsquad about my diary
* cleaning up bugs assigned to me

Bug helper:
* bughelper query for old and needs info and no package

Other:
* sru verification of 61299
* phone call with heno
* approved one QA team application

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

Bug Triage / Testing
* Followed up on all NEEDS_INFO bugs that have been responded to
* xorg-server:  testing version with previously dropped patch
     restored for hobbsee to test
* Triaged lots of fglrx bugs
* Tribe1:
** On an amd64 system, tested Desktop, Alternative, and Server ISO
       images for both x86 and amd64.  (Mostly successful, failed to
       install with Desktop-AMD64)
** Reported bug 120123 in partitioner

Packaging
* linux-restricted-modules-2.6.22 - new fglrx 8.36.7
     - Tested on ATI X600 and ATI X1400
* xserver-xorg-input-keyboard 1.2.0
* xserver-xorg-input-mouse 1.2.1
* Sync request for xorg-docs

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====

OpenOffice
* Triaged 200+ bugs
* Closed 20+ bugs
* Reduced bug count by 50+ bugs

==== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ====

Desktop:
* reviewed and sponsored lots and lots packages
* libgdamm update, gnome-python-extras update, libxml++ update,
        glom update, glibmm update, gnome-orca update, gnome-vfs-obexftp
        update, gimmie update, libglademm update
* DesktopTeam organisation
* mentoring
* desktop team interview, interviewed desktop team members

MOTU
* MOTU organisation
* REVU DAY
* motu mentoring
* reviewed and sponsored packages
* mentoring reception
* MOTU Recipes fixes and review

Community
* derivatives team mailing, announced derivatives mailing list
* ubuntu-berlin organisation

Bug Tools
* worked on buglog cgi
* worked on buglog

Misc
* status update meeting
* telepathy-mission-control update
* PPA documentation

==== Evan Dandrea (evand) ====

ubiquity-automation:
* noninteractive install works from boot.
* GTK UI progress, but needs more work.

ubuntu-without-restricted:
* started, but slow progress.

Community:
* Brought an interested contributor up to date on ubiquity work.
* Reviewed Ubiquity usability study.

==== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ====

Done:

* redhat cluster debugging. Found one security bug. gutsy is pending upload (waiting for new kernel headers). Upstream confirmed the bug and waiting for them to check old branches and releases before backporting the fix.
* gfs1 kernel updates
* gnbd kernel updates
* keep up with merges
* Got new sparc64 toys. Setting them up and testing. Kernel debugging on one of them for repeated crashing.

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

done:

kde4-system-settings: upstream accepted it as a replacement for
KContol with surprisingly little debate, been fixing it up to get it
ready to go into trunk

* final merges (debtags, libept, human-icon-theme)
* libxapian main inclusion report
* discuss how to get kdm to respect system locale
* learning the archive admin process
* SoC project mentoring
* fix packages for libtdb.la going missing, gcc 4.3 compile errors and
  new apt
* packaging Amarok 1.4.8

blocked: main inclusion security reviews for strigi and libxapian

todo: finish kde4-system-settings, KDE packaging meeting at debconf

==== Kees Cook (keescook) ====

Progress:
* Security Updates
** reviewed l-r-m updates with rtg
** embargoed issues from vendor-sec
* Vulnerability Mitigation
** packaged most remaining libs in AppArmor
* Audits
** xapian-core
** poppler merged CVEs with seb128
* Testing
** gnash updates
** PPA
* MoTU
** added tools to ubuntu-dev-tools
** poking at xmms a bit more
* Mentoring
** dendrobates
** calc  

Agenda Items:
* C++ guru needed for bug 121461 (blocking inkscape merge)
* PAM is very old (blocking at least AppArmor PAM module)

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

* meeting in Mt View (ended Friday, got home Sunday)
* UME UI work (next mockup series coming soon)
* enabling/encouraging/helping community member create their own themes

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Spec status:
* apport-crash-duplicates: works for Python crashes now; still needs
   some bug fixes
* apport-better-retracing: no change since last week
* apport-for-upstreams: no change since last week
* debian-maintainer-field: no change (remaining universe rebuilds
   will be done after feature freeze to minimize churn)
* crash-reporting: tested new Malone features to file private bugs
   and subscribe people; when this gets rolled out this week, I'm
   unblocked again on this
* restricted-manager-improvements: bcm43xx handler works (still some
   warts, though), xorgconfig.py code unduplication done

Other stuff done that week:
* released language packs to stable-updates

Release status:
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.milestone:Alist=469
   still has 21 open tribe-2 bugs; please everyone try to fix their
   assigned bugs ASAP
* particularly: when will we get a new kernel upload, together with a
   linux-backports-modules?

==== Mathias Gug (mathiaz) ====

* AppArmor 
** work on MainInclusionReport  to get apparmor into main.
** setup and use PPA to publish apparmor packages built for feisty.
** release new version of apparmor packages: ubuntu10, 13.
** add profile for mysqld .
** started to profile samba.
** work on administration tools.

* Ubuntu MOTU: work on merges: fetchmail 

* Ubuntu Server:
** fix/close/work on bug in LP: 
** mysq-server, apache2, dovecot, squid, sitecopy, php5.
** update wiki pages for the ServerTeam. Read about other team policy
    and procedures.

* Canonical: setup VOIP account with ekiga.

==== Matthias Klose (doko) ====

activity:

* finish bootstrap of toolchain for the cell archtecture, packages now available in the gutsy archive; for feisty, see
    deb http://people.ubuntu.com/~doko/ubuntu feisty-proposed/

* visit Debconf; report will follow with the next report.

==== Michael Vogt (mvo) ====

Misc:
- finished my merges (apt,python-apt,synaptic,...)
- implemented XS-VCS-* warning in apt-get source
- libapt pkg failure apport integration in the archive now
- a bit of hacking on displayconfig-gtk
- gnome-app-install, app-install-data-ubuntu, gdebi, update-manager, 
- SoC 
- travel arragements 

compiz:
- added/use global config that depends on runing session
  and setup sensible default for gnome
- packaged compizconfig-settings-manager
- changed compiz metapackages to match CompositeByDefault spec
- metacity integration issused solved 
- updated the packages to latest git

Bugs:
- usual triage/fixing
- added unittesting for update-manager and playing with
  dogtail to add automatic UI testing

==== Rick Clark (dendrobates) ====

* First day June 14th.
* Met with mentor, Kees. 
* Brief call with Jono.
* Installed Gutsy and Feisty development environments in vmware.
* Built working openldap environment in gutsy.
* Worked on learning pbuild, merging, bazaar, general Debian packaging.
* Admin stuff

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* Desktop:
- GNOME 2.19.4 and some other desktop updated
- sponsored uploads for the new GNOME version
- bug triage
- uploaded xdg-user-dirs(-gtk), got it promoted, mailed lists about it
- blogged about desktop team

* Archive admin

* Organization for GUADEC

==== SÃ¸ren Hansen (shawarma) ====

Done:
* Merge tsclient
* Fix iptables ftbfs
* Have most eBox dependencies uploaded
* Have system-config-samba uploaded (phew)
* ebox integration/clean up work
* Discover how wicked cool user-mode-linux is for testing ebox

==== Tim Gardner (rtg) ====

* Vacation
* Fixing graphics and sound bugs 

=== Actions ===

----
CategoryTemplate
