{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting summary ===

* Review of previous action items
** Laney to start thread on ubuntu-devel about renaming UCD  (Laney, 19:08:08)
** To let run for a bit longer. Summarise at the next meeting.
** jono to ask Daniel to update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopers to be easier to read  (Laney, 19:11:36)
** At http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/JzyYyxw0Qb â€” needs review & committing to wiki
** cody-somerville to write some documentation on how to endorse someone  (Laney, 19:12:25)
** In progress, review next time
** stgraber to publish packageset generation script so the rest of the DMB can help maintain it  (Laney, 19:19:56)
** Don't know
''ACTION:'' Laney to poke stgraber about publishing package set script  (Laney, 19:22:09)
** James Page  (Laney, 19:22:15)
** Finished, position statement on similar applications (re: MOTU) to be sent out after all members have reviewed it.
''ACTION:'' cody-somerville to follow up on position statement  (Laney, 19:26:24)

* Administrative Matters
** Continue discussion about our package set management workflows  (Laney, 19:29:00)
*** A proposal was put forward by Laney and broadly agreed by members present.
''ACTION:'' Laney to write down proposal for streamlining packageset changes and mail DMB and TB  (Laney, 19:41:45)
''ACTION:'' micahg to ping packageset owners to write down criteria for package membership  (Laney, 19:46:50)

* next chair
** It was decided to follow an alphabetical rotation, skipping micahg as he chaired last week. Next chair: stgraber.

Meeting ended at 19:51:21 UTC.

=== Action items ===

* Laney to poke stgraber about publishing package set script
* cody-somerville to follow up on position statement
* Laney to write down proposal for streamlining packageset changes and mail DMB and TB
* micahg to ping packageset owners to write down criteria for package membership

=== Action items, by person ===

* cody-somerville
* * cody-somerville to follow up on position statement
* Laney
* * Laney to poke stgraber about publishing package set script
* * Laney to write down proposal for streamlining packageset changes and mail DMB and TB
* micahg
* * micahg to ping packageset owners to write down criteria for package membership

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Laney (83)
* micahg (13)
* cody-somerville (13)
* bdrung (8)
* geser (7)
* meetingology (7)
* ScottK (2)
* ajmitch (1)
