{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For archives of previous meetings, please see DevelTeamMeetings.

=== Apologies ===

* Matthias Klose (doko) - on holiday

=== Agenda ===

 1. Roll call
** Apologies
 1. Review agenda
** Review activity reports
** Propose additional items
** Accept agenda
** (mvo) should we move the command-not-found package to main? or let it mature for one cycle in universe?
** (pitti) More interested people for doing source NEW?
** (heno) I'd like to confirm that people generally agree with the 'just in time' ISO testing plan. The aim is to reduce the number of tests each distro person does, though we have to be ready to help out when there are gaps (as always). I'll also do my best to get some baseline test coverage from the community.
** (bdmurray - sneaking in) initial bug classification - i.e. with audio bugs crimsun said to use alsa-driver if you weren't positive of the package.  What about printing bugs? What about X bugs? and others.
** (mdz) Review of beta blocker status
** Including certification bugs
 1. Actions from previous meeting
** None.
# Release readiness update
# Other business

=== Activity Reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

Topic: Last hour preparations for feisty firefox

* bug screening and fixing of last minute issues for firefox
* finalized patchwork for feisty firefox -> updated patches are http://people.ubuntu.com/~asac/moz-screen.2/
* reviewed and integrated new thai support code for firefox; thai support will be shipped in a separate binary package firefox-libthai.
* some coordination on general package updates/additions for thai support
* preparations for feisty CD install tests on my production machine.

==== Ben Collins (BenC) ====

General:
* HR Stuff (kernel dev screenings)
* wiki updates for KernelTeam*

Kernel:
* Merged mac80211 (new name for d80211). Used compatibility tarball from intel wireless site.
* Threw in a lot of mac80211 compatible wireless drivers (removed older versions that mostly had built-in d80211 stacks).
* Lots of updates and patches pulled in, 2.6.20.3 merge, and preparing -11 upload for beta.
* General bug maint.

==== Brian Murray (bdmurray) ====

Bug triaging:
* Assigned packages to multiple bugs that had none i.e. were just filed against Ubuntu
* Reading through bug mailing list and triaging bugs
* pre-beta iso testing and bug submission
* apport retracing of bugs

Bug helper:
* Clue file creation

Other:
* Accepted quite a few number of people into the bugsquad
* QA team call
* Review and changes of bugsquad wiki pages

==== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ====

GNOME:
* GNOME 2.18.0
* gthumb fix, gimmie update, glom update, fixed labyrinth, fixed pyorbit, workrave update
* bug triage

MOTU:
* motu council discussions
* lots of motu-uvf
* marked universe bugs as packaging and bitesize
* universe hug day
* reviewed packages (netbeans & glassfish again)
* motu mails, motu discussions

Bughelper:
* teach bughelper to deal with LP timeouts
* bughelper update
* bughelper patch review

Artwork:
* human-theme fix, updated artwork, tangerine update
* help with artwork packaging

Misc:
* status update meeting, qa call
* ubuntu-docs update, python-sexy fix, example-content update, set XS-Vcs-Bzr in a couple of packages, telepathy related updates

TODO:
* HUG DAY
* BUG TRIAGE

==== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ====

Done:
* general catch up after holidays (emails/foo/bar/you know the drill).
* oracle cluster and OCFS2 testing/updates:
** cluster mounts rock really hard.
** local mount (2.6.20 feature) is a bit unstable but upstream is working for us to get it fixed asap. Might not make Beta, but we want the fix for final.
* fixed a couple of kernel bugs in the process
* started urgently working on mount by UUID on sparc since adding controllers to my machines make them unbootable. Should be done in a day or two.  This is now a big issue rather than a feature and needs to be addressed.
* tested PCI-E qlogic controller on sparc. update kernel firmware:
** generally works fine but it shows instability during a FC port up/down. Problem to be reported upstream. Performance wise works like a charm.
* tested dm-multipath/multipath-tools together with the above cluster tests:
** failover is still a bit slow but it's a matter of cluster heartbeat configuration/fine-tuning (normal operation for cluster install).
** load balanced IO did show incredible performance/results. (our kernel ROCKS!)
* bzr sponsored upload/given a bit of training on packaging to Montreal.

Todo:
* test a more complex OCFS2 setup with more than 2 machines in the cluster.
* install and test PCI-X controllers.
* test qlogic controllers on dapper (very low priority. mostlikely after beta).
* complete sparc mount by UUID (need to talk to Scott about it).
* test redhat-cluster-suite.

==== Henrik Omma (heno) ====

Winfoss
* Updated some icons and generally tweaked content (making use of my time off-line on Tuesday)

ISO testing
* Coordinated a pre-beta test round. Not as streamlined as it could have been but quite educational. Planning a leaner process for Beta.
* Launched an appeal for a tightly focused volunteer effort that will fit in as a reliable component of the overall testing. We are using #ubuntu-iso to coordinate the volunteer testing, to reduce traffic in -devel.
* Spoke with Marc, Chris and Mike in Montreal about their test setup

Forum relations:
* Overlaps nicely with ISO testing this week. The testing section is reasonably active, so I'm expecting to get a fair number of reliable testers from there. The Forum Council has voted to set up an official testing team (I'm team leader :) ).

ACTION ITEMS: I've only poked a bit at test documentation. More work needed (Colin will describe some test cases next)

==== Ian Jackson (iwj) ====

Specs:
* winmodem-support:
 After being led down the garden path by a bizarrely-wired phone cable I've managed to get the laptop supplied by mjg59 to talk to the phone line.  I have still to test ppp properly but AFAICT there seems little barrier to putting the needed software in restricted ?

* automated-testing:
 It's chomping through installing packages and looking for tests.  As I write it has got stuck on edubuntu-desktop and I need to sort out the automatic unwedger.

  I put more memory in my testbed machine but dom0 still crashes when I start the second guest.

* LVM mdadm wild goose chase.
 This is still ongoing.  I now (after quite a bit of wrestling!) have a root-on-raid setup with raid1 where one of the physical devices is  a usb stick and the other is ide.  It works just fine :-/.

* Some other bugs and discussions eg opensp gs-esp investigation.

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

Done:
* mostly looking at issues in dist-upgrader, testing various setups for it and conjoling people to test
* kaffeine fix for i810 users
* investigate qt 3.3.8 problems for chinese
* artwork update in kubuntu-default-settings (thanks Ken)
* package qt 4.2.3
* pre beta CD testing
* cut down seed for oversized ppc
* fix build failure in kdegames
* new kde-systemsettings snapshot
* patch for qt 4 file dialogue bug
* KDE 4: fix problems with packages rejected from NEW, back in NEW.  new decibel and strigi packages

Blocked:
* KDE 4 packages in new (nothing urgent)

Todo:
* testing dist-upgrade tool
* beta testing release

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

Done:
* Finished up the Kubuntu work (Usplash, KDM and Ksplash are in). Fixed a few problems I created when editing the usplash .c conf file
* Community stuff; new tangerine theme, fix for UbuntuLooks theme, GDM HumanList theme, etc.
* Finalizing GDM, Session Splash and Wallpaper. Bringing the colors, etc, back together to create a well-rounded, complete look.
* Made pics for the new website (for the Kubuntu page)
* Made a detailed list of artwork included, technical and branding issues

Todo 
* WOOHOOO! I'm done! (just kidding)
* probably more work tweaking different pieces for final approval

==== Kyle McMartin (kylem) ====

* edgy/dapper security uploads (twice)
* general bug work
* dapper backports
* testing
* libata-hpa tracking
* patchdump into ubuntu-2.6

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Specs:
* debian-maintainer-field: checked on all arches, all binary/main done except of xserver-xorg-input-evdev (FTBFS, see LP#91699, in progress)
* increase-hwdb-participation: *Still* blocked for removing the "rm /var/lib/update-notifier/user.d/*" from the live system build scripts (that's four weeks now!) (RT#27156)
* restricted-manager: Lots of hardware detection and X.org configuration fixes; it actually seems to work now for all the people that gave me feedback. desktop-effects integration is also done and uploaded. TODO: promote to main and put onto the CDs (will do that ASAP). More testing and bug reports greatly appreciated, though!

Other work that might be interesting for others:
* Lots of progress and improvements on the automatic crash retracing front; apport-retrace can now automatically attach retraced stacktraces to bug reports and works much more robust now. Also had a meeting about making this fully automatic and we found a good solution (SMOP now).
* Feisty finally has language packs!

==== Michael Vogt (mvo) ====

Specs:
* AutomaticUpgradeTesting
** Install-most-of-feisty-main run, got some errors and fixed/reported them and added it to the automatic tester
** "install-most-of-universe" run, got loads of errors and reported them 
** added dapper->feisty upgrade test for main
** some manual upgrade testing

Bugs:
* Lots and lots of triage/retracing and fixing
* sru-verification
* sru-uploads for update-manager and popularity-contest

Done:
* various improvements to the release upgrader
* fixes in pbuilder-satifydepends-gdebi, should work nicely now
* improved apt to deal better with automatic dependency handling for metapackages 
* trying to kick off some community interesst in displayconfig-gtk

==== Oliver Grawert (ogra) ====

Done
* lots and lots of ltsp fixes ...
* thin-client-manager fixes 
* edubuntu documentation review
* usual gnome updates for 2.18

Todo:
* beta
* bugfixes

==== Phillip Lougher (pkl) ====

* Bug triaging
* Fixed some drivers
* Kernel meeting

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

Desktop:
* GNOME 2.18.0
* lot of bugs triage
* fixed a bunch of bugs milestoned for feisty (and some others also)
 
Archive admin work

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

Done:
* Made CUPS searching for file type detection and filter rules in /usr/share/cups/mime, so that such rules are not forced to be conffiles by the Debian Package Manager (bug 36532)
* Fixed problems of the debconf facility of the cupsys package for activating and de-activating backends (bug 91382, bug 92042)
* Fixed bug in foomatic-filters which led to crappy printouts (bug 87597)
* Fixed conflict of foo2zjs with mscompress (bug 92216)
* Fixed printer driver packages foo2zjs and m2300w so that they do not have the PPDs in separate packages, to assure that the PPDs are installed when the driver is installed (bug 88224)
* Added latest upstream bug fixes to cupsys package.
* Answered bug reports

==== Tim Gardner (rtg) ====

General:
* Learning kernel development tools and methods

Kernel:
* Pursued various suspend to RAM problems. No visible progress, but it consumes 99% of my time.

==== Tollef Fog Heen (tfheen) ====

Done
* More release management: mainly beta freeze preparations, handing over more of the testing responsibilities to Henrik.
* Archive management, as usual.
* I talked with Adam last night and he promised he'd send me his mailbox of test results, but I haven't received it yet.  Escalating this now.

=== Actions ===

* mvo to seed command-not-found and update the database in it
* tfheen to mirror NEW queue to chinstrap
* pitti and other archive admins, iwj to codify guidelines for acceptance of new packages
* bdmurray to merge Bugs/Teams and Bugs/FindRightPackage, solicit feedback from developers
* Mithrandir to mail out list of beta blockers and assignees to ubuntu-devel

----
CategoryTemplate
