{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For archives of previous meetings, please see DevelTeamMeetings.

=== Agenda ===

 1. Roll call
** Apologies
** Introduce new starters (if any)
 1. Review agenda
** Review activity reports
** Propose additional items
** Accept agenda
# (fabbione) Improving hw certification test coverage
# (pitti) https://launchpad.net/bugs/67925 (which translations/input support do we want to ship on CDs): it basically boils down to 'ship Chinese with complete input support vs. don't ship Chinese at all, and two dozen of other translations'. Does anyone know a good and objective data source about Ubuntu popularity that can help us decide?
# (asac) do we allow teams to maintain their individual tag/state/bug policies for a subset of packages? If we do so (hopefully yes), how can we properly document and communicate this so arbitrary QA/bug team members still can contribute to bug triage for those packages.
# (Riddell) I plan to upload patches to dist-upgrade tool unless anyone objects
# (bdmurray) https://launchpad.net/bugs/63175 - fsck not updating date checked possibly related to Feisty (https://launchpad.net/bugs/78801) fsck issue
# (mvo) use of XS-Vcs-* in debian/control https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-discuss/2007-March/000414.html
# (Riddell) do we want hwdb ask-email ?
# Actions from previous meeting
** iwj to write up summary of experiences debugging udev
# Release readiness update
# Other business

=== Activity Reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

Progress:
* update feisty firefox to 2.0.0.2 as well as fix regressions introduced in previous upload
* firefox security release 2.0.0.2/1.5.0.10
* discussed patch submission process with mconnor -> will meet mconnor for initial screening on irc (probably evening Mar 1). Submission will commence as soon as feedback is integrated in our patchset. Will escalate if mconnor does not coorporate.
* developed <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~asac/embed_restyle_fix.patch|firefox patch]]</nowiki> for probably most submitted crash (e.g. gtk restyle crashes on null pointer deref after removing GtkPlugins, e.g. by closing tabs etc). Made preview build available in <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam/PreviewArchives|preview archive]]</nowiki>.
  References of what might/should be fixed now:
## LP#71182, LP#72018, LP#88368, LP#74576
## https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=359870
## http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=353503 (Epiphany)
## https://bugzilla.redhat.com/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=210151
## ... probably a lot of epiphany crashes in LP (did not look up).
* bug-triage as well as mentoring mozilla team
* setup <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam/PreviewArchives|preview archive]]</nowiki> to allow mozilla-team members (and others) to test prepatch versions of firefox package.

Next:
* patch approval
* update feisty package by results from patch approval process
* update thai patch before submitting for approval; get updated thai fonts into archive
* (if released) run thunderbird update for feisty, as well as security updates.
* try to fix and submit more firefox top-crasher patches upstream

==== Ben Collins (BenC) ====

Specs:
* UbuntuSpec:linux-kernel-crash-dump: Worked on getting some integration so apport could handle crash dumps.

General:
* kernel bug triage
* kernel team meeting
* writing kernel bug triage wiki page (draft local still)
* Some resume reviews
* Prepared kernel for herd5
* Merge patches from community

==== Brian Murray (bdmurray) ====

Bug triaging:
* Assigned packages to multiple bugs that had none i.e. were just filed against Ubuntu
* Hardware certification bug research and triaging
* Ubuntu QA meeting
* Meet with overzealous bug triager with Carlos's assistance
* Discussed bug tagging as part of triaging
* Some SRU work with mvo

Bug helper:
* Testing using changelogs in package info files

Other:
* Bug stats for monthly report
* Update manager math change
* Updated my desktop system to Feisty via update-manager
* Wrestled with mdadm on my system
* Started reviewing ubuntu-server documentation guide

==== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ====

Accessibility:
* invited Karlsruhe a11y people to a11y meeting
* at-poke/gnome-orca fix, at-poke update
* accessibility meeting
* packaged accerciser

GNOME:
* GNOME 2.17.92
* Desktop Bug Triage (need to do more)

MOTU:
* package reviews (netbeans, glassfish too)
* announced motu council meeting
* motu-uvf
* motu mentoring
* writing MOTU documentation
* updating process documentation
* worked on code-review changes: wrote https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Processes/REVU - packaged tasks and accerciser as examples for the process: https://code.launchpad.net/~revu/+branches - wrote a script (http://daniel.holba.ch/bzr/revu-tool) to build source packages from branches
* asked MC to test the process
* BLOCKED: motu-council@lists.ubuntu.com not there yet. RT 26295

Artwork
* feisty-gdm-themes updated.
* packaged ubuntustudio-icon-theme
* transitioned ubuntu-artwork packages to use python-distutils-extra, changed maintainer field to ubuntu-art@lists.ubuntu.com

Bughelper:
* lots of discussions, small changes, patch reviews, wrote report

Misc:
* review ubuntu-docs changes, gossip-telepathy update, worked on gnash cvs packaging and triaged gnash bugs, pilot-link fix
* prepared bits for my Zabgreb talk
* phone call with Michael
* status update meeting

==== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ====

Done:
* back from holidays
* catch up on emails
* hw certification catch up (reports/emails/bugs)
* got qlogic controllers for FC-HBA cluster testing (1 PCI-E and 2 PCI-X) but had no time to install them yet.
* forced to swap ADSL router that of course breaks badly. Will have to do another scheduled change to workaround the crap that it is.

==== Henrik Omma (heno) ====

WinFOSS:
* Built the Edubuntu version (still needs some work): {{http://people.ubuntu.com/~henrik/images/edubuntu-winfoss-wip.png}}

QA:
* Phone meeting on QA, led by Colin
* Follow-up phone meeting afterwards with Marc Tardif and the interns to discuss how the hardware testing work might overlap with ISO-release testing
* ISO testing pages: awaiting feedback from Tollef and Colin

Accessibility:
* Following up some bugs
* Held a team meeting about Feisty and bugs -- mixed reports on braille displays 'just working'
* Some slightly unusual community work: http://lists.lugod.org/pipermail/vox-outreach/2007-February/001320.html

==== Ian Jackson (iwj) ====

Specs:
* automated-testing: autopkgtest 0.7.1 is in the archive and apparently working. I've discussed with Martin how he can run it at home and have sent an RFC regarding deployment to the sysadmins via RT.

Done:
* Research, and discussions with other UK staff, re trains to Spain. Colin and Jonathan will be going by train with me.
* Did some MIR reviews (mainly Java, urgh).
* I've had a woozy head today and seem to have been very stupid.
* I tried to think about my current dpkg triggers `issue' (see debian-dpkg for details) but I had to give up.
* I was on leave on Friday (the 23rd).

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

Done:
* KDE 4 packaging, about half way there
* e-mail triage, down from several thousand unread to 60
* Herd 5 CD testing, no i386 CDs though
* testing and fixes to dist-upgrade tool SRU, 84717
* repackage kuickshow for universe due to demand

Blocked:
* soyuz not processing dist-upgrader package, mvo is poking soyuz people

Todo:
* finish KDE 4 packages, make sure hwdb-kde matches hwdb gnome

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

Done:
* Finished logo for GDM
* Created session splash screen - found out it uses a 24bit pic but cannot show more than 8bit transparency - still working on this
* worked more on the kubuntu usplash/kdm/ksplash logo, almost done

Todo:
* received a request from doko for OO splash screens. will do this by the middle of next week
* wrap up any outstanding issues with GDM and the finish the session splash
* test and tweak everything done so far, wrap up the loose ends, etc.
* look into using the new cursor set from jimmac

==== Kyle McMartin (kylem) ====

libata-hpa:
* Polishing off Host Protected Area support, ready for testing in feisty.
* Sending libata HPA support to linux-ide for feedback.

pmtrace:
* Hacking TRACE_RESUME to be more useful
* Adding TRACE_RESUME support to modules

security:
* dapper and edgy kernels security updates + builds + tests
* Noticed ia64/edgy-security was missing

general:
* Triaged my bugs
* module-init-tools upload (blacklist rtl818x)
* udev upload (firmware-helper)
* Played with bughelper/bazaar to help my workflow
* Began "dapper love" list
* Other stuff I'm probably forgetting...

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Specs:
* debian-maintainer-field: rebuilds continuing, 72 source packages left ATM; I do ~ 10 per day to keep the buildd/mirror churn low
* increase-hwdb-participation: Blocked for infinity removing the "rm /var/lib/update-notifier/user.d/*" bits from the live system build scripts; I notified him last week; after that happened, I can actually test behaviour on the live system and (if necessary) fix notifications that we do not want to get (IOW, all but the hwdb-client one)
* compiz goo: package is in main and on the live system now; Scott just sent me his 'Restricted Manager' tarball, will package/integrate this next week

==== Matthias Klose (doko) ====

Specs:
* UbuntuSpec:feisty-toolchain-roadmap
** Prepared list of packages which need a rebuild. Upload planned over the weekend.
** gcj-4.1 ecj-generics backport: packages now available for all release architectures (plus powerpc): <pre>
deb http://people.ubuntu.com/~doko/ubuntu/ feisty/$(ARCH)/
deb http://people.ubuntu.com/~doko/ubuntu/ feisty/all/
</pre> The gcj-4.1 backport has a problem with building OOo; not yet understood.
* UbuntuSpec:feistyplusone-toolchain-roadmap - Currently (intentionally) blocked on test rebuilds (buildd infrastructure).

Other issues:
* OOo build failure on faure with SMP kernel. same problem again as in edgy. Works with a non-SMP kernel (current kernel version)

Activity:

* bug triage, focused on python related packages
* gcj-4.1 tests with OOo.
* prepared mx4j and dependencies for inclusion in main (maybe needed for java-gcj-compat)
* travel to/from fosdem, working on next Saturday.
* broken hd on my laptop (no data loss), fixed with a new HD (the third one broken this year).

==== Michael Vogt (mvo) ====

Specs:
* autoupgrade-testing: deployed in the data-center, fixed various bugs with Nick (thanks!). Script added to generate a overview
  over the results.  Available at http://people.ubuntu.com/~mvo/automatic-upgrade-testing/
* easy-codec-install: updated g-a-i to follow changed calling conventions from gstreamer

Bugs:
* lots of triage+fixing for apt, synaptic, update-manager, gdebi, gksu/libgksu, brltty, g-a-i, ... (sometimes creating new havoc, e.g. #88104 w. 98 duplicates) 
* created SRU-verification team with Brian, cleaned up the StableReleaseUpdates wiki-page with Martin and started processing sru-verification bugs

Upgrade testing:
* manual tested apt-get dist-upgrade, update-manager -d on i386/amd64 for herd5 
* reviewed the auto-test results either fixed upgrade problems myself or filed bugs

Misc:
* bughelper hacking, added --importance, --status switch to the bugnumber script
* code-cleanup and fixing in apt-sync, its much nicer now and it can do apt-get dist-upgrades now w. working checksums
* FOSDEM (on the weekend) + giving a talk about incremental updates with apt

==== Oliver Grawert (ogra) ====

Done:
* ltsp bugfixing
* preparing a moodle1.7 package
* get the serveraddon CD in shape
* edulinux meeting (feb 21-25 in italy)
 {{http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogra/oli-ancona-0207.jpg}} :)
* herd 5 preparation

Todo:
* herd5 release
* final Thin client manager work
* moodle1.7 work
* some edulinux related tasks
* more ltsp work

==== Phillip Lougher (pkl) ====

* Bug triaging
* Banged my head against Unionfs 2.0 bug fix backport to Unionfs 1.2
* Kernel meeting
* Half day holiday Friday
* FOSDEM over weekend

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

Desktop packages work:
* packaged GNOME 2.17.92
* merge compiz package with Debian, applied some patches from launchpad
* started desktop bugs fixing for feisty

Desktop bugs triage:
* replied to most of the bugs from the week, backlog around 100 mails
* mailed about desktop packages cleanup days
* cleanup rounds for control-center, gedit, gnome-media
* blogged about desktop package cleanup

Archive admin work

Xorg 7.2:
* reviewed updates, fixed some bugs and uploaded some xorg 7.2 packages
* most of the new xorg is uploaded now
* read new bugs to note problems with the new version, there is not too many of them for the moment

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

Done:
* Worked on downloadable driver packages: Set up infrastructure for easy driver package selection on the OpenPrinting database
* Discussed re-activation of SNMP network printer auto-detection backend of CUPS, this makes setup of network printers very easy, especially for unexperienced users. Supported by nearly all printer setup tools (CUPS web interface, gnome-cups-manager, ...).
* Answered bug reports

To do:
* Continue on distribution-independent printer driver package stuff
* Package CUPS with SNMP backend activated
* Package Gutenprint from current CVS snapshot or next release (UVF exception) as it fixes most borderless issues on Epson inkjets (bug 82186). Saves also some CD space due to on-the-fly-PPD generation for the native CUPS driver.

==== Tim Gardner (rtg) ====

* Triaged a bunch of suspend/resume reports (which is really time consuming). Responded to most of them with instructions regarding PM_TRACE (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelSuspendDebugging), the results of which were inconclusive.
* Wrote an analysis of Suspend to RAM which I sent to BenC.
* Continued to drill in on resume. PM_TRACE is insufficient for detecting which driver is misbehaving, so I beefed up support in the kernel such that a regular human might be able to follow some simple instructions and determine the misbehaving driver.
* I initiated a correspondence with the S2R maintainers Pavel Machek and Nigel Cunningham. Hopefully they will provide some direction in my continuing pursuit of S2R.

==== Tollef Fog Heen (tfheen) ====

Done:
* Archive admin.
* Release management, UVF exceptions.
* Herd 5 preparations.
* Gone through the list of not-finished specs, trying to find out which ones will make it and which won't.  Will talk to individual assignees to discuss each spec.
* Still working on getting a usable report from the iso testing pages. I think I have a design for how it should work, so it should be a fairly SMOP.  Or at least I believe so.

Partially blocked on:
* RT 26672 from Jan 29th (role account for ubuntu-archive on rookery)
* RT 26923 from Feb 19th (ubuntu-release@lists.u.c mailing list)

=== Actions ===

* pitti to update langpack size script to include input support packages
* pitti to send output to mdz and tfheen, mdz to pass to bizdev for ranking
* cjwatson/bdmurray to add instructions on interfacing with bugsquad/qa to UbuntuDevelopment
* cjwatson/bdmurray to find somebody to fix 63175
* pitti to fix up dpkg-dev to only error hard if $DEBEMAIL contains ubuntu
* jonathan do implement ask-email in hwdb-client
* tfheen to get rebuild test results and publish them somewhere.

----
CategoryTemplate
