{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Developer Membership Board meeting, 2012-09-10 ===

Chair: Cody A.W. Somerville

Present: Barry Warsaw, Micah Gersten, Stéphane Graber, Stefano Rivera

==== Review of previous action items ====

===== micahg to document the zentyal packageset =====

Impossible as the API doesn't allow it - micahg will file bug. Tumbleweed may look to fix it.

===== laney to delete network-manager packageset =====

Action carried.

===== laney to delete network-manager packageset =====

Action carried.

===== laney to contact TB to see if netbook/unr/mobile packagesets are still needed =====

TB was contacted regarding continued need for netbook/unr/mobile packagesets.

===== stgraber to add ppu for lexical to fwts =====

Action completed.

==== Ubuntu Core Developer Applications ====
===== Ubuntu Core Developer Application: Ricardo Salveti =====

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RicardoSalveti/CoreDevApplication

Ubuntu Core Developer Application: Ricardo Salveti

For: 5 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

Application successful. Ricardo Salveti welcomed as Ubuntu Core Developer.

==== AOB ====

Next chair: Stefano Rivera (tumbleweed)

=== Developer Membership Board Meeting, 2012-09-24 ===

Chair: Stefano Rivera

Present: Stefano Rivera, Iain Lane, Micah Gersten, Benjamin Drung, Stéphane Graber

==== Review of previous action items ====

===== micahg to document the zentyal packageset =====

Blocked on https://code.launchpad.net/~stefanor/launchpad/edit-packagesets/+merge/124555

Action carried.

===== laney to delete network-manager packageset =====

Likewise, action carried.

===== laney to contact menesis about schooltool packageset =====

Action carried.

We also need to follow up on the netbook/unr/mobile packagesets.

==== Upcoming meetings ====

We decided to have a meeting at UDS. Hopefully, there'll be some candidates present.
Because 8 October is a public holiday in the US, we'll skip it, and have a meeting on the 15th, which is, conveniently, two weeks before UDS.

After which we'll return to the regular schedule (probably skipping a week in the process).

==== Other Business ====

Micah proposes creating a docs packageset, he'll ask the potential uploaders.

==== Next chair ====

Stéphane Graber
