{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Developer Membership Board Meeting, 2010-04-13 ====
Chair: Emmet Hikory<<BR>>
Present: Cody Somerville, Søren Hansen, Richard Johnson, Michael Bienia, Colin Watson<<BR>>
Apologies:  Stéphane Graber<<BR>>

===== Action Review =====
* persia contacts Angel Abad about his application: contact attempted
no feedback received
* complete the application of Jonathan Thomas : Confirmed as
core-dev, 4 in favour, 3 deferring
* complete the application of Matt Trudel: Deferred as MOTU, 2 in
favour, 4 deferring, 1 against

===== Administrative Matters =====
====== Appropriate body to handle requests for new development teams ======
* Interested parties should engage in the active thread on the mailing list
* https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/technical-board/2010-April/000184.html

====== Interpretation of votes ======
The DMB determined to use the following guidelines to accept or defer
candidates by a vote of 5 in favour, 1 abstaining, 1 absent:

# Any applicant must surpass a threshold of +4 to be confirmed
# Any positive vote adds 1 to the vote count per individual voter
# Any negate vote subtracts 1 from the vote count per individual voter
# Any zero vote does not affect the vote count

====== Ensuring transparency of applications take to email ======
If an application is taken to email, the tallied votes will be posted
to the devel-permissions@lists.ubuntu.com mailing list

====== Application Process and public notification times ======
* Agreed that applications should continue to have a one week public
notice peiod before being heard in a meeting
* ACTION: persia to make documentation on application notice clearer

===== PerPackageUploader: Krzysztof Klimonda =====
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KrzysztofKlimonda/TransmissionPPUApplication
* Krzysztof has been maintaining transmission for a long time now,
and was approved unanimously to be able to upload directly.  Welcome!

===== Select a Chair for the next meeting =====
* Cody Somerville will chair the 27th April meeting

==== Developer Membership Board Meeting, 2010-04-27 ====
Chair: Cody Somerville<<BR>>
Present: Søren Hansen, Richard Johnson, Michael Bienia, Colin Watson, Stéphane Graber<<BR>>
Apologies: <<BR>>

===== Action Review =====
* persia contacts <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AngelAbad|Angel Abad]]</nowiki> about his application:  Dropping action for Persia to contact Angel, he will hope to catch him another time time though.
* persia to make documentation on application notice clearer: Persia will work on DMB Application Process page further if people think it's still unclear. Without feedback, he'll leave it alone.
* geser to follow up with Sylvestre Ledru and arrange for the application to be added to the meeting agenda: Done.

===== Administrative Matters =====
====== Accept responsibility for UbuntuDevelopers/TeamDelegation ======
* Accept responsibility for <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopers-TeamDelegation]]</nowiki>
* LINK: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopers/TeamDelegation
* LINK: http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2010/04/20/%23ubuntu-meeting.html#t15:26
* ACTION: Persia to update UbuntuDevelopers/TeamDelegation to reflect DMB's responsibilities in process.

====== Finalise application for Leann Ogasawara ======
* cjwatson already granted PPU permissions to Leann but forgot to add Leann to ubuntu-dev team. This is now corrected.
* ACTION: cjwatson to create ubuntu-kernel-uploaders team owned by the DMB that will provide upload permissions to Ubuntu kernel packages.

====== Schedule of next meeting (held at UDS?) ======
* ACTION: cjwatson to schedule session at UDS for DMB meeting

===== PerPackageUploader: Alessio Igor Bogani =====
* Bogani applied for per package upload permissions for linux-rt and rt-tests.
* LINK: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlessioIgorBogani/linux-rtPPUApplication
* Bogani's application was denied.
* ACTION: Persia to follow up with TheMuso re: Bogani's application.

===== PerPackageUploader: Ara Pulido =====
* Pulido applied for per package upload permissions for ldtp, mago and ubuntu-qa-tools.
* LINK: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AraPulido/PerPackageUploadApplication
* Pulido's application was approved.

===== PerPackageUploader: Rodrigo Moya =====
* Moya applied for per package upload permissions for couchdb-glib, evolution-couchdb, libubuntuone, rhythmbox-ubuntuone-music-store, tomboy, and ubuntuone-client.
* LINK: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RodrigoMoya/PerPackageUploadApplication
* The DMB split this application into three separate applications: 
** couchdb-glib, and evolution-couchdb
** libubuntuone, rhythmbox-ubuntuone-music-store, and ubuntuone-client
** tomboy
* Moya's application for couchdb-glib, and evolution-couchdb was approved.
* Moya's application for libubuntuone, rhythmbox-ubuntuone-music-store, and ubuntuone-client deferred pending e-mail vote by Hansen and Graber. Application requires two votes to reach approval threshold.
* Moya's application for tomboy deferred pending e-mail vote by Hansen and Graber. Application requires one vote to reach approval threshold.

===== UbuntuCoreDeveloper: Brandon Holtsclaw =====
* Holtsclaw applied for renewal of his Ubuntu Core Developer membership.
* LINK: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/BrandonHoltsclaw
* Holtsclaw's application was accepted.

===== Select a Chair for the next meeting =====
* Michael Bienia will chair the 11th May meeting.
