{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Developer Membership Board meeting, 2010-09-27 ====

Chair: Cody A.W. Somerville

Present: Colin Watson, Emmet Hikory, Stéphane Graber, Soren Hansen, Michael Bienia

===== Administrative Matter: Review Marco Rodrigues participation in Ubuntu Development =====

Request: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarcoRodrigues/ParticipationApplication

Marco Rodrigues requests permission to participate in Ubuntu Developer. He is currently not permitted to do so per a binding request from the former MOTU Council. [1]

Application was discussed by the board in absentia.

The board requested and received additional information from Scott Kitterman regarding his comment on this application.

Cody Somerville motioned to postpone consideration. Colin Watson seconded the motion with the stipulation that a call for feedback from developers be made regarding this application. The vote was called and the motion was carried unanimously.

Cody Somerville accepted an action to send an e-mail calling for feedback from developers on this application.

Postponed: 5 for, 0 against, 0 abstained. Total: 5

ACTION: Cody Somerville to send an e-mail calling for feedback from developers on this application.

[1] https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-motu/2008-January/003067.html

===== PerPackageUploader Application: Barry Warsaw for gtimelog =====

Request: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BarryWarsaw/MyApplication

Barry Warsaw requested upload permission to the gtimelog (universe) package.

Approved: 4 for, 0 against, 1 abstained. Total: 4

===== Ubuntu Core Developer Application: Raphaël Pinson =====

Request: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/devel-permissions/2010-August/000098.html

Raphaël Pinson, a former Ubuntu core-developer, requested to be reinstated as a core developer.

Approved: 4 for, 0 against, 1 abstained. Total: 4

===== Select a chair for the next meeting =====

ACTION: Michael Bienia to chair the next Developer Membership Board meeting.
