{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

===== Developer Membership Board Meeting, 2010-05-11 =====
Chair:     Richard Johnson<<BR>>
Present:   Cody Sommerville, Soren Hansen, Richard Johnson, Michael Bienia, Colin Watson, Emmet Hikory<<BR>>
Apologies: Stéphane Graber

====== Action Review ======
* Completed:
** persia to update UbuntuDevelopers/TeamDelegation to reflect DMB's responsibilities in process.
** cjwatson to schedule session at UDS for DMB meeting
** persia to follow up with ?TheMuso re: abogani's application.
** strgraber, soren: Vote on Rogrigo's application for PPU permissions for libubuntuone, rhythmbox-ubuntuone-music-store, ubuntuone-client, and tomboy
* Carried Over to next meeting:
** cjwatson to create ubuntu-kernel-uploaders team owned by the DMB that will provide upload permissions to Ubuntu kernel packages.

====== Administrative Matters ======
* Consider changing order of application process
** Cody to send email to the list to review

====== Applications ======
======= Sylvestre Ledru PPU Application =======
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SylvestreLedru/MyApplication
* Sylvestre is a Debian Developer working on the Debian Science project and wanted to maintain his packages in Ubuntu as well. He was approved unanimously to be able to upload directly. Welcome!

======= Luke Faraone MOTU Application =======
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LukeFaraone/MOTUApp
* Luke is a Debian Maintainer and has enjoyed handling sponsorship as well as syncing RC bugs from Debian. One abstained from voting, while 4 others voted in favor. Welcome!

======= Christian Mangold MOTU Application =======
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ChristianMangold/MOTUDeveloperApplication
* Christian is a Kubuntu Ninja who has touched many KDE apps in Universe, which haven't been addressed at this time with the reorg process, so he was poked in prodded on IRC to become a MOTU. He was approved unanimously to become a MOTU. Welcome!

======= Scott Moser PPU Application =======
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScottMoser/DeveloperApplicationPPU
* Scott is a member of the Ubuntu Server team and when his head is not in the cloud he is fixing and packaging server apps as well as producing EC2/UEC images. He was approved unanimously to be able to upload directly. Welcome!

======= Rodney Dawes PPU Application =======
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RodneyDawes/DeveloperApplication
* Rodney is a member of the Online Services team at Canonical working on Ubuntu One. He was approved unanimously to be able to upload directly. Welcome!

======= Chad Miller PPU Application =======
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ChadMiller/DeveloperApplication
* Chad has been bothering Ken with regards to desktopcouch. Unfortunately Chad didn't have anyone leave a comment or testimony on his application, and because of that 2 voted in favor, 1 not in favor, and 2 abstained, therefor denying his application at this time. It was recommended for him to get those testimonies and come back as soon as possible.

======= Jamie Bennett Contributing Developer Application =======
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JamieBennett/UniverseContributorApplication
* Jamie works on the Ubuntu Mobile Team for Canonical and has started the process of becoming a full-fledged developer in the community by taking the first step. He was approved with 4 votes in favor and 1 vote abstaining. Welcome!

====== Select a Chair for the next meeting ======
* Emmet Hikory will chair the 25th May meeting
