{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For archives of previous meetings, please see DevelTeamMeetings.

=== Ben Collins (BenC) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Colin Watson (cjwatson) ===

Done
* intel-mac-support: Will pick up hardware from Matthew Garrett soon.
* ubiquity-advanced-partitioner: I hope to get an extremely raw version that you can invoke with 'ubiquity --new-partitioner' merged and into the archive tomorrow.
* misc: Figuring out how to manage you lot. :-) Lots of time on the phone. I know I haven't talked to all my direct reports yet; I'll get round everyone in the new year. I've also been doing a lot of merges and chasing people about merges.

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===

Done
* GNOME 2.17.4
* Merges
* Bug Triage
* HUG DAY
To do
* more Bug Triage
* REVUing
* Christmas!

=== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Frank Schoep (fschoep) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Henrik Omma (heno) ===

Done:
* access-gdm: Work with upstream seems to be comming together now. The latest Orca now works from GDM (and oBoard has for some time)
* bug-triage: more on ubiquity. More tweaking of bug helper. I've been promised some XML bug data by the LP folks. I've written a super-simple guide for filing bugs with useful logs for Ubiquity here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingUbiquity/AttachingLogs Let me know if I should make similar pages for <your favorite large package>.
* launchpad-bridge: Please put your favourite little LP bugs here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DevelTeamLPWishList
* iso-testing: making plans for getting wider involvement in ISO testing
To do:
* Holiday break (but I'll probably add some bug triage to pass the time more quickly :) )

=== Ian Jackson (iwj) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Kyle McMartin (kylem) ===

Done:
* File liberror-perl MIR (git-core uninstallable in feisty)
* Reading about SRU
* Clean up of various tree lint from last few weeks
* Had setup a few test installs for -proposed kernels over weekend, unfortunately sata disk died ~Monday. Recovered data and replaced drive Wednesday, drive will be RMA'd so I have more room for some test installs.

Todo:
* Add MODULE_FIRMWARE annotations to ubuntu/ drivers.

=== Martin Pitt (pitti) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Matthias Klose (doko) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Michael Vogt (mvo) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Oliver Grawert (ogra) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Rodrigo Novo (rodarvus) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ===

Done
* GNOME 2.17.4 
* Debian merges
* continue catching up with bugs, backlog around 350 now
To do
* clean up mails backlog before holidays
* upload some packages from REVU
* keep bug triaging and fixing

=== Simon Law (sfllaw) ===

Done:
* Wiki documentation
* Bug triaging
* Hug day (signed up tons of people)
* Contracts sent to interns
* SRUs: vino, openoffice.org, gnome-control-center
To do:
* Bug triage
* SRU: gnome-nettool, synaptic
* Holiday

=== Tollef Fog Heen (tfheen) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ===

Done
* Updated foomatic-db to state of Dec 19: More options for Brother printers (http://forums.freestandards.org/read.php?24,106), marked "drv_z42" obsolete (bug 59324), Samsung ML-1610 does not support PostScript, many device IDs contributed by Red Hat
* Updated gutenprint for Debian merge and to add support for Lexmark X73 and Compaq IJ1200 (bug 59324)
* Updated hplip for Debian merge
* Updated foo2zjs to delete old Debian rules when updating, Edgy update of foo2zjs got approved (bug 65618)
* Submitted Splix (driver for Samsung bw and color laser printers) for introduction into Ubuntu (bug 59829, bug 44407, bug 63802)
* Answered to bug reports

----
CategoryTemplate
