{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For archives of previous meetings, please see DevelTeamMeetings.

=== Apologies ===

* Matthias Klose (doko) - medical appointment
* Michael Vogt (mvo) - on leave
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) - at Linux``Tag

=== Agenda ===

 1. Roll call
** Apologies
** Introduce new starters (if any)
 1. Review agenda
** Review activity reports
** Propose additional items
** Accept agenda
** (Keybuk) Gutsy Sprint
** (tfheen) Release management, Tribe 1 is coming up, but who is doing release management for this release?
** (doko, tfheen) possible GCC 4.1 -> GCC 4.2 transition
# Release readiness update
# Other business

=== New Starters ===

* Evan Dandrea (evand) - installer
* Søren Hansen (shawarma) - serrver

=== Activity Reports ===

==== Adilson Oliveira (adilson) ====

* Continuing work on bringing in Hildon/Maemo components.
* Preparing and updatating UME TODO list.
* Conference calls with Intel and Nokia.

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

* updating firefox trunk bzr repo to build against latest CVS
* firefox security update preparations
** cleaning up and reorganizing local git repo in order to make rebase against updated upstream versions more convenient
** rebase and merging of firefox 2.0.0.4 security/stability update; tricky merge was the gnome mime handling patch for bugzilla bug 273524 which was overlayed by upstream landing of mime-mailcap handling fix for bug 373955; proposed updated patch now forwarded to debian maintainer for discussion.
* acquire basic understanding on network-manager and dbus code (-paths)
* motu student mentoring and sponsoring
* processing firefox bugs in Needs Info/mt-confirm state
* discuss refinement and options to improve automisation of mozilla bug workflow
* looking at minimo and a bit mozilla gfx/gtk and xul code reading for (future) mobile discussion.

==== Ben Collins (BenC) ====

General:
* Kernel Team meeting
* Discussion of LTS kernel update issues

Kernel:
* Merged more patches from feisty to gutsy.
* Upload of 2.6.22-rc3 based kernel (2.6.22-6.12)
* Bug work, filing upstream bugs and following up with upstream devs

==== Brian Murray (bdmurray) ====

Bug triaging:
* assigned packages to some bugs that had none i.e. were just filed against Ubuntu
* looking at openoffice.org bugs
* tagging openoffice.org bugs based on application
* reading through bug mailing list and triaging bugs
* Hug Day participation

Bug helper:
* Bug hunting via bughelper
* created multiple clue files

Other:
* sru verification of 113508
* improved per package bug stats script
* created wiki page with list of activities for Hug Day on May 30th
* ubuntu membership

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

Packaging
* Package merges/syncs:  appres, beforelight, bitmap, xorg-sgml-doctools, xorg-docs
* Made xorg packaging checklist

Testing / Bugs
* Bug triage
* Assisted cr3 & jbailey with Feisty xrandr rotation issue
* Updated test hardware
* Further testing of displayconfig-gtk on various hardware
* Gathered pcitable info for glatzor
* Filled in upstreams for some xorg pkgs in LP

Specs
* Updated specs
* Enhancements to xorg 7.3 package version matrix
  http://people.ubuntu.com/~bryce/Xorg/versions_current.html

Misc
* Memorial Day holiday (Monday)
* Expense report for UDS

==== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ====

MOTU
* blogged about needing more mentors
* motu mentoring
* MOTU Documentation
* marked bugs as packaging/bitesize/mentoring
* MOTU meeting
* reviews
* announced MOTU Q&A sessions
* announced universe hug day
* started MOTU/Recipes

Bugs:
* bug triage
* HUG DAY

Bug Tools
* bughelper patch review
* worked on buglog

Community
* CC meeting
* derivative team planning

Misc
* Status Update meeting
* glade merge
* empathy update

==== Evan Dandrea (evand) ====

* Started Tuesday, May 29th.
* Finished drafting ubiquity-oem, migration-assistant, and
* migration-assistant-kubuntu.
* Familiarized myself with some of the d-i merges.
* Tested d-i daily builds.
* Tried my hand at merging aMule.

==== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ====

Off Sick

==== Henrik Omma (heno) ====

* WinFOSS upload for Gutsy
* Screening interview
* GSoC mentoring, incl. weekly skype meeting
* Attended Orca community meeting
* Specs - drafting complete, need review
* ISO test tracker: looking good for the first tribe release:
  https://isotesting.stgraber.org/

==== Ian Jackson (iwj) ====

Done:
* Last week I was on holiday to move house (this is mostly done but my house fileserver died) and Monday was a public holiday in England.
* This week so far I've:
** double-checked my specs;
** done the dpkg merge (which was a bit of a PITA really but should hopefully be easier next time as I expect Debian to take many of our patches now that etch is out);
** caught up on email.

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

Done:
* KDE 3.5.7 packaging
* e-mail backlog catchup
* merges

Todo:
* qt 4.3 packaging
* finish merges
* KOffice 1.6.3
* kde-system-settings spec

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

Done:
* Monday was Pentacost holiday in DE-land, so only 4 days
* UME mockups: Software keyboard, IM client, more work on media player
* UME fakes, icons for marketing presentation
* Kubuntu banner finished; Kubuntu advert almost finished
* Edubuntu web design 1st round finished
* Started creating "example-theme" and documentation for community artists

==== Kyle McMartin (kylem) ====

General:
* updated mesa to 6.5.3
* fallout from mesa 6.5.3 update, needed to update xserver
* testing intel i965gm with updated mesa

Misc:
* sorting receipts to file expenses from us tour
* calling shipping company about wayward sun t2000 box
* finally found and received

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Done:
* Merges: all done except for laptop-mode-tools, will do tomorrow
* Other stuff done that week:
** huge effort on NEW, got binary NEW down to 0 and source new down to < 20 on Friday; continuing efforts
** various bug fixes to get packages building and the archive more consistent

Specs:
* bzr-best-practices: needs some more details, will finish tomorrow
* apport-better-retracing: implemented complete library installation with Contents.gz (point 1), fixed ddeb-retriever to cope with multiple Ubuntu releases and fetch ddebs from pockets
* rest are pending-approval and not yet started

==== Mathias Gug (mathiaz) ====

Apparmor integration:
* work on command line administration tools : improve apparmor_status script (in cooperation with upstream).
* look into logging/auditing/reporting infrastructure for apparmor.
* edit specs: AppArmorGutsy is the short term plan for gutsy.
  SecurityAdminTool is for long term. 
* update AppArmor user guide (UsingAppArmor on w.u.c)
* debug profiles.
* package updated profiles : sent to kees, who approved and uploaded it to universe.

MOTU:
* started to do some packaging for apparmor.

Ubuntu server team :
* work on specs: UbuntuEasyBusinessServer.

==== Matthias Klose (doko) ====

* package syncs and merges (all uploaded except OOo)
* toolchain update to include the C++ visibility backports
* go on with the OOo packages
* start g77/gfortran package transitions (refblas, lapack)
* go back to python-subversion failures (feisty, python2.4)

* Fri 25, sick leave
* Mon 28, bank holiday

==== Michael Vogt (mvo) ====

On Leave

==== Phillip Lougher (pkl) ====

Kernel:
* Bug triage
* Followed post-feisty kernel upload feedback
* Started new kernel release, and integrated the current outstanding patches
* kernel team meeting

Mobile:
* Some work on ububtu-mobile, mainly Unionfs 2.0 status, and ODF (On disk format) investigation
* Learning about and playing with Bazaar
* Looking through current LiveCD build script
* ubuntu-mobile conference call

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

(monday was an holiday, I was on vac tuesday)

* desktop bugs triage
* extra specs writing
* desktop merges with Debian and updates
* looked at some GTK changes for Ubuntu Mobile
* some bugs fixing
* archive admin work

==== Søren Hansen (shawarma) ====

Started on May 28th. `\o/`

Administrativia
* Subscribe to mailing lists, add myself to the wiki, define working hours, etc.

Bugs
* Went through the server seeds identifying packages we should handle.
* Apache bug squashing (nothing uploaded as I want to go over my changes with the maintainers first and also crunch a larger chunk of the bugs)
 
UbuntuEasyBusinessServerSpec
* Split up into "File/Print server" and "everything else" (new spec: UbuntuEasyFilePrintServer)
* Set up virtual environment for testing existing solutions (vmware hates my Gutsy installation)
* Initial testing of eBox. It's shiny, it's functional, and upstream seems eager. :) I need to figure out how much work it's going to be to get it to do what we want it to. I also need to take a closer look at Conga.

Misc
* Mentoring a new MOTU padawan working on a PHP/MySQL application.
* Trying to be helpful on mailing lists and IRC.

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

Done:
* Packaged CUPS Driver Development Kit (cupsddk, www.cups.org), will get uploaded into Universe today and tomorrow. Not (yet) available at Debian.
* Adapted dependencies of HPIJS package (source: HPLIP) to the new grand unified Ghostscript (package: ghostscript).
* Answered bug reports.

==== Tim Gardner (rtg) ====

General:
* Continued work on frequency broker as time allows.
* 3 days holiday.

Kernel:
* Feisty Atheros security update.
* Researched Edgy/Dapper security update for Atheros.

==== Tollef Fog Heen (tfheen) ====

Done:
 - Mobile packaging, including getting more components into the archive.
 - Conference calls with Nokia and Intel
 - More mentoring of Adilson

=== Actions ===

----
CategoryTemplate
