{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== 2013-03-25 ===
* Present: bdrung, micahg, ScottK, stgraber, tumbleweed

* Log: http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-03-25-19.01.log.html

* Review of previous action items
** Micah to send summary of PPU decoupling discuss to the DMB list
*** DONE
''ACTION:'' Micah to send summary of PPU decoupling discuss to the DMB list ''ACTION:'' Micah to urgently send feedback on Bjorn's PPU application 

* PerPackageUploader Applications - Paul Gevers
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Elbrus/PerPackageUploaderApplication
** Was granted upload rights to:
     winff, daisy-player, ebook-speaker and cacti.

* MOTU Applications - Vibhav Pant
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VibhavPant/MOTUApplication
** Although Vibhav has demonstrated a lot of good work and technical knowledge, the board feels that Vibhav is a bit overenthusiastic and that he sometimes should stop and ask other developers before acting. As a result, we do not believe he's currently fit for MOTU and invite him to come back a bit later.

* Chair for next meeting: Barry

==== Votes ====
* PPU for Paul Gevers (winff, daisy-player, ebook-speaker and cacti)
   For: 5 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

* Vibhav Pant for MOTU
   For: 1 Against: 1 Abstained: 3

==== Action items ====
* Micah to urgently send feedback on Bjorn's PPU application

=== 2013-03-11 ===

* Review of previous action items
** Micah to send summary of PPU decoupling discuss to the DMB list 
''ACTION:'' Micah to send summary of PPU decoupling discuss to the DMB list 
''ACTION:'' Micah to urgently send feedback on Bjorn's PPU application 

* Ubuntu Contributing Developer Applications
** Tim Lunn (darkxst) https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TimLunn/DeveloperApplication  

* Chair for next meeting: St√©phane

* AOB
** A brief discussion about potential DST confusion, which concluded that the times should remain as they are in UTC.

=== Votes ===
* Should Tim Lunn (darkxst) become an Ubuntu Contributing Developer?
   For: 6 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

=== Action items ===

* Micah to send summary of PPU decoupling discuss to the DMB list
* Micah to urgently send feedback on Bjorn's PPU application
