{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Developer Membership Board meeting, 2009-12-08

** Alberto Milone -> core-dev
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlbertoMilone/CoreDeveloperApplication
** not present, wanted to ask a few questions, so continued by email

** Daniel Chen: ubuntu-core-dev reactivation
** approved (+1: pitti, Keybuk, kees, cjwatson, mdz)

** Adrian Perez: azureus, eclipse, swt-gtk
** azureus, eclipse in universe, already approved by MC
** http://packages.qa.debian.org/s/swt-gtk.html
** swt-gtk approved (+1: cjwatson, pitti, kees, mdz)

** future roles of the DMB vs. motu-council
** keep motu-council for non-developer-membership functions
** nominate all members of TB and MC for 7 member election of DMB
** [ACTION] mdz to drive election for DMB, based on existing members of TB and MC

** Next meeting: 2009-12-22, 1500UTC.  Chair: pitti

* Developer Membership Board meeting, 2009-12-22
 
** Attendees:
** DMB: Martin Pitt (chair), Matt Zimmerman, Scott James Remnant
** Guests: Alberto Milone, Scott Kitterman, Emmet Hikory
  
** Review of previous action items:
** mdz to drive election for DMB, based on existing members of TB and MC: ongoing, still waiting for one nominee to confirm/decline

** Alberto Milone -> core-dev
** Approved (+3 for, 0 against. 0 abstained)

** Updating https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopers to reflect DMB changes (Emmet):
** should applicants for core-dev be applying directly to the DMB, rather than first through the MC? → Yes
** should core-dev applicants be encouraged to previously be Ubuntu Developers (in some way), or is that on a per-applicant basis? → Should not generally be required; depending on applicant's interests, (s)he can apply directly for core-dev, with a higher barrier for entry
** Does the DMB also expect to take applicants for Contributing Developer? → Yes, since this was previously a function of the MC, which is being merged with DMB
*** '''ACTION:''' Emmet to ask CC to make DMB an admin of ~universe-contributors, as part of the DMB/MC merge
** Would it make sense to list MOTU (and MC) as a delegated team by DMB? It was historically delegated by TB, but in its former function for approving developers; for consistent documentation, MOTU should now be regarded as a DMB delegate, similar to ubuntu-desktop, kubuntu-dev, etc.
** OK.  Last question: Is the term "Ubuntu Specialist Developer" acceptable as an umbrella category to describe members of "Ubuntu Desktop Developers", "Mythbuntu Developers", "Kubuntu Developers", and  "MOTU"? → The discussion did not bring up a good term for this; decision was to go with "Ubuntu Developer (from delegated team)" for now and change to a better name later on

* DMB election
** Waiting for one nominated candidate to confirm/decline; decision should be made by Thursday, Dec 24
** 3 weeks voting period, plus some slack for Christmas holidays
** Voting period: 24 Dec to 18 Jan

* Next meeting: 2010-01-05, 1500UTC. Chair: mdz
