{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Developer Membership Board meeting 2010-11-08 19:00 UTC'''

* Chair: St√©phane Graber
* Present: Benjamin Drung, Cody Somerville, Colin Watson, Emmet Hikory, Michael Bienia
* Absent: Soren Hansen

* Action review:
* Administrative Matters
** Review Marco Rodrigues participation in Ubuntu Development
     [ACTION] persia to ask the CC for assistance regarding Marco's request for unban

* PerPackageUploader Applications
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MontyTaylor/PerPackageUploaderApplication|Monty Taylor (mtaylor)]]</nowiki>
     Adding upload rights to haildb<<BR>>
     Approved: 6 for, 0 against. 0 abstained.

* MOTU Applications
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/micahg/MOTUApplication|Micah Gersten (micahg)]]</nowiki>
     Approved: 6 for, 0 against, 0 abstained.

* Next meeting
** Date: November 22nd 2010, 12:00 UTC
** Chair: Emmet Hikory

<nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2010/10/11/%23ubuntu-meeting.html|Meeting Log]]</nowiki>
