{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: DMB 2015-09-28, 28 Sep at 15:04 &mdash; 16:37 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2015/ubuntu-meeting.2015-09-28-15.04.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review of previous action items ====
The discussion about "Review of previous action items" started at 15:04.

* '''bdmurray to setup a pad for the dmb to collaborate on response for noskcaj''' (15:04)
** Done in a <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~developer-membership-board/+junk/team-stuff|bzr branch]]</nowiki> instead. Others need to contribute.
* '''Laney to start an onboarding page for new dmb members''' (15:11)
** ''ACTION:'' laney stop slacking and write onboarding page
* '''michag to confirm if mozc packageset change happened''' (15:12)
* '''michag to follow up with Unit193 about their application and a meeting date''' (15:13)
** This is done

==== PPU application: ShuiLu Pi for ubuntukylin-default-settings ====
The discussion about "PPU application: ShuiLu Pi for ubuntukylin-default-settings" started at 15:16.

** ''Vote:'' grant ShuiLu Pi upload rights for ubuntukylin-default-settings (Carried)

==== AOB ====
The discussion about "AOB" started at 16:35.

** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/devel-permissions/2015-August/000815.html 

=== Vote results ===

* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2015/ubuntu-meeting.2015-09-28-15.04.log.html#118 grant ShuiLu Pi upload rights for ubuntukylin-default-settings]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 4/0/0)
** Voters bdmurray, xnox, stgraber, Laney

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Laney (61)
* pishuilu (38)
* bdmurray (15)
* meetingology (15)
* xnox (8)
* ubottu (5)
* stgraber (4)
* cyphermox (2)
