{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For archives of previous meetings, please see DevelTeamMeetings.

=== Apologies ===

* Adilson Oliveira (adilson) - at a conference
* Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) - at a conference
* Kyle McMartin (kylem) - at a conference
* Matt Zimmerman (mdz) - at a conference
* Matthias Klose (doko) - medical appointment
* Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) - at a conference
* Tim Gardner (rtg) - on holiday
* Tollef Fog Heen (Mithrandir) - on holiday

=== Agenda ===

 1. Roll call
** Apologies
** Introduce new starters (if any)
 1. Review agenda
** Review activity reports
** Propose additional items
** Accept agenda
** (keescook) VMWare WS6 license needed
 1. Release readiness update
** 24 open bugs milestoned as tribe-2; will start poking about them next week
** 4 unassigned milestone bugs: #119467, #119321, #120107, #108870; anyone fancy taking them?
** anastacia is quite full (nothing too serious, though), will start cleaning up tomorrow (archive juggling and MIR processing)
** gutsy_probs is pretty well; however, at some time we should provide linux-backports-modules for 2.6.22; kernel team?
 1. Other business

=== New Starters ===

* Amit Kucheria (amitk) - kernel team
* Chris Cheney (calc) - OpenOffice.org maintainer
* Rick Clark (dendrobates) - server technical lead

=== Activity Reports ===

==== Adilson Oliveira (adilson) ====

Done:
* Fixed problem with hildon-theme-tools
* hildon-theme-layout-4 and hildon-themes-plankton pushed
* Work at google with Intel and Nokia on the procedures to have a hildon enviromment working on Gutsy.

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

This week i spent most of my time to work on the free-flash spec implementation; in addition, i mentored my MOTU student and sponsored a few packages. On the mozilla end, I set up a bzr branch to package firefox-granparadiso and started to implement the extension part of the firefox-distro-addon-support spec.

Some Details:

Free Flash
* implement initial version of easy-codec install patch
   http://people.ubuntu.com/~asac/gnash_missing_codec_v0001-filtered.patch
* fix build system for gnash: now klash, konqueror plugin can all be build in one build run, without adding depends on qt/kde to gnash and mozilla-plugin packages.
* testing AGG and opengl renderer; though AGG appears to have benefits over opengl, it currently doesn't work with klash/konqueror plugin, so we stick with opengl for the first upload; AGG patch for klash/konqueror is available on trunk, but needs backport/verification. (-> TODO)
* discussed the benefits (for distributors of binary packages) of a pluggable renderer architecture with upstream
* discussed and coordinated package update for gnash 0.8.0 release with debian maintainer; joined alioth team; packaged plain gnash 0.8.0 and uploaded to debian.
* branched ubuntu gutsy package, included easy-codec patch and tweaked depends/recommends/suggests.
* take care that gnash CVS HEAD was properly synched to launchpad.

Mozilla
* setup grandparadiso (firefox 3 preview) bzr branch
* started to implement ubuntu-distro extension for firefox
* firefox bug discussion and triage

MOTU
* mentoring of MOTU student
* reviewing/sponsoring uploads
* brief introduction of MOTU student on firefox-trunk/-granparadiso source package

==== Ben Collins (BenC) ====

* Writing process doc for upload policy on post-release kernels
* Discussion with Henrik about distro-qa
* Test of cert KVM with cr3
* Worked with Amit (new starter)
* Kernel Team meeting
* Call with Colin (kernel team status)
* Status call with Amit
* Bug work
* Writing process doc for devel cycle kernel
* Writing roadmap for devel cycle kernel

==== Brian Murray (bdmurray) ====

Bug triaging:
* setup tasks for Hug Day on 13 June
* sent out announcements for Hug Day
* participated in Hug Day
* triaging of gutsy bugs

Bug helper:
* old bug hunting via bughelper

Other:
* sru verification of 106756
* phone call with heno
* approved two QA team applications

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

Bug Triage / Testing
* Focusing on newly reported bugs
* Tribe1: posted test results & bugs for desktop and alternate CD's
* Participated in Hug Day.  Trianged a bunch of xorg and gnome-power-manager bugs

Packaging
* Packaged upstream releases (need sponsoring for upload): editres, fonttosfnt, luit, sessreg, smproxy, xclock, xconsole, xpyinfo, xf86dga

Specs
 Xorg 7.3
** Evaluated debian-x team's packaging plans
** Packaged 9 more xorg apps

 BulletProof-X
** Good progress at preliminary implementation: http://people.ubuntu.com/~bryce/BulletProofX/

 displayconfig-gtk
** Introduced tseliot (working on a xrandr gui) to glatzor (displayconfig-gtk), to talk about possibly combining efforts - or at least ideas!

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====

* First Day - Jun 11
* Completed NewStaffTasks
* Applied to become Ubuntu Member
* Setup build environment for openoffice
* Bug Day - did bug triage

==== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ====

Bug Tools
* python-launchpad-bugs patch reviews
* python-launchpad-bugs uploads

Artwork
* fixed art-builder

Misc
* iso testing
* netbeans review
* status update meeting
* bluez-utils update, penguintv update
* SoC discussions

MOTU
* motu wiki cleanup spec: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/WikiCleanUp
* motu wiki discussions
* motu mentoring, reviewing packages
* wrote check-symbols motu recipe: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Recipes/CheckingLibrarySymbols

Desktop
* libgdamm update, libgda3 main inclusion report
* python-gnome-extras update, at-spi update, gail update, gnome-vfs-obexftp update

Bugs
* HUG DAY
* tagged loads of bugs as 'packaging', 'upgrade', 'bitesize' and 'needs-packaging'

==== Evan Dandrea (evand) ====

ubiquity-automation:
* Brief call with Marc Tardif to establish goals.
* Good progress.
* Still needs network preseed testing, some component and frontend fixes, and polish.
Fixed a tribe-1 bug, released a new version of Ubiquity.

==== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ====

Done:
* Tribe1 testing
* sparc bug fixing/testing
* Done some more merges for MIA/VAC developers
* Fixed hard clvmd init scripts
* Got rid of libccs-dev from lvm and cluster-suite (some work is still in progress for the latter)
* Fixed multipath-tools in gutsy/feisty (SRU approved)
* checked a few FTBFS on sparc

==== Ian Jackson (iwj) ====

Done:
* Fighting the glibc build system to get my disk space checker to work.  It's crazy!  (glibc, that is)  Even worse than I remembered! I think I've more or less won but I need a compiler expert now (!)
* Fighting to get testbed installs to work again with the new cpu/motherboard (Intel 965; the problem is the Marvell IDE controller).  The Xen setup is still broken until we get a suitable kernel which Chuck tells me will be around RSN.
* Finalising the last few specs, checking and booking travel to London.  At least these things actually worked.

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

Done:
* tribe 1 out
* kde4-system-settings: almost finished, some tidying to do then propose
* upstream adopts it
* dolphin main inclusion report
* SoC student mentoring (good progress on gdebi-kde)

Blocked:
* main inclusion reports being processed would be useful
* archive admin powers request still in rt

Todo:
* packaging Amarok 1.6.8
* kubuntu-kiosktool: some people have offered to help with, try and work
* out if they're genuine
* kubuntu-gutsy-adept: make a start on it

Also:
* kubuntu-gutsy-guidance, qt 4 port started of power manager by a new contributor

==== Kees Cook (keescook) ====

Progress:
* Security Updates
** published feisty kernel update (USN-470-1)
** built/tested/published libexif update (USN-471-1)
** built/tested/published file update (USN-439-2)
** built/tested/published libpng update (USN-472-1)
** built/tested/published libgd2 update (USN-473-1)
** built/tested/published xscreensaver update (USN-474-1)
** reviewed/tested/sponsored clamav update (#119386)
** reviewed/sponsored mplayer update (#118855)
* Vulnerability Mitigation
** documented VM address layouts for ASLR
* Investigations
** apt SHA* usage
* Bug Triage
** documented UUID usage
** participated in Hug Day
* Merges
** pptpd
** libgd2

Issues:
* VMWare WS6 license needed

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

Done
* mobile UI work
* mobile sprint at google
* linux desktop architects meeting (wednesday)
* art community communication

==== Kyle McMartin (kylem) ====

Misc:
* mobile sprint at google
* linux desktop architects meeting (wednesday)

Admin:
* filing expenses
* booking sprint flights

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Spec status:
* apport-better-retracing: implemented everything apport related; only the wine handling is still open, but no reply from wine team leader yet
* apport-crash-duplicates: by and large this is implemented, rolled out, and works now; just needs two minor things
* apport-for-upstreams: factorization and abstraction of CrashDatabase implemented and in gutsy; data format specification written, and being discussed with Gnome guys
* debian-maintainer-field: remaining universe rebuilds will be done after feature freeze to minimize churn
* crash-reporting: BLOCKed on https://launchpad.net/bugs/116367
* restricted-manager-improvements: not started
* bzr-best-practices  informational approved spec, nothing to be done here any more (except for following it :) )

Merges: all done (zope3 traded with doko, laptop-mode-tools traded with mjg59)

Other stuff done that week:
* Tribe-1 release (last Thursday)
* Lots of SoC mentoring
* Bug triage (my own ones and stuff for hug day)

==== Mathias Gug (mathiaz) ====

Done:
* AppArmor integration
** Started integration with logcheck for reporting.
** Started the process to get apparmor into main:
** got help from martin.
** write MIR.
** Look into publishing packages for feisty :
** configured/study PPA with help from cprov.
** published the latest version of apparmor packages for feisty via PPA.
** Update AppArmor documentation:
** moved UsingAppArmor from w.u.c to help.ubuntu.com/community/AppArmor as suggested on ubuntu-devel.
** Waiting for:
** next kernel upload for gutsy should come with AppArmor.
** review/feedback on AppArmor MIR.

* Ubuntu MOTU:
** work on apt-proxy merge. Sent result to last uploader.  Waiting for his review.
** talk with dholbach about the process to become a MOTU.

* Ubuntu Server:
* work on mysql-server package:
** fix/close bug in LP
* revamp and reorganise ServerTeam wiki pages to follow SampleTeam from BuildingCommunity
* talk with dholbach about improving/managing the server team.

* Ubuntu:
** install build and development environments using VMWare servers. Got Feisty and Gutsy servers up and running.
** meeting with jono about the Ubuntu community: Got some suggestions for improving the Server Team.

* Canonical: making arrangements for London sprints in July

==== Matthias Klose (doko) ====

Activity:
* spufs mount fix for ps3
* ongoing merges and syncs
* introducing Chris into OOo building and packaging
* glibc debian merge

==== Michael Vogt (mvo) ====

Compiz:
* uploaded git snapshots of compcomm-plugins-main, libcompizconfig, libcompizconfig-backend-gconf from opencompositing.org
* updated compiz to latest git snapshot
* created compiz packagers team in LP
* put packaging into shared bzr repository
* bughunting
* upstream discussion on integration issues
* prepared migration to ccp backend

Misc:
* hacked on update-manager and started implementing SystemCleanup spec
* merged a bunch of apt patches
* SoC work
* rebuild opera for edgy-commercial

==== Phillip Lougher (pkl) ====

* Feisty kernel security update
** Got 3rd attempt at Feisty kernel security update approved
** Feisty security kernel 2.6.20-16.29 built and uploaded
** Monitoring of bug reports for regressions

* New Feisty kernel release 2.6.20-16.30 started
** Added CVE-2007-2875
** Added CVE-2007-2876
** Added Sparc patch (Un-break SBUS interrupts in feisty)
** Built Sparc kernel images for BenC
** Analysis/Testing of CVE-2007-2875 exploit

* Ubuntu Mobile and Embedded
** Wrote up current status of Unionfs 2.0 and Unionfs2.0+ODF (On Disk Format) investigation for Tollef.
** Wrote up status of UME Kernel flavour and UMD kernel status for Kyle
** One hour IRC discussion with BenC regarding UME kernel flavour
** Updated UME Kernel specification

* Kernel and Mobile work
** Built Unionfs 2.0 and Unionfs2.0+ODF patches
** Unstructured testing of Unionfs 2.0 and Unionfs2.0+ODF.  It looks like Unionfs2.0 will be  a good replacement for Unionfs 1.4 in Gutsy.  For our uses it doesn't appear to have any regressions, and it is stated to be significantly more stable.  Next requirement is to build a liveCD with Unionfs2.0 to test for any unexpected regressions.

* Misc
** Holiday Friday (8th June)

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* Catching up on what happened during my holidays
* Discussed with mvo about compiz changes, looked at his packages waiting in new, worked on compizconfig-bindings

* Archive admin:
** binary and source NEW, syncs

* Bug day

* Desktop
** GNOME 2.19.3: updated gtkhtml, evolution-data-server, evolution, evolution-exchange, pango, gnome-control-center
** updated GTK+ to the new 2.11 unstable series
** fixed some bugs

==== SÃ¸ren Hansen (shawarma) ====

Done:
* Tribe 1 testing
* Long discussion about root password policy for MySQL.
* EBox packaging (including packaging a stack of supporting perl modules)
* sysklogd SRU for Dapper
* Samba and Apache bug triaging

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

Done:
* Completed the Ghostscript merger upstream. The merged Ghostscript is now in the trunk (head development) of the SVN repository at ghostscript.com. Packaged ghostscript from this repository now. Contains also some upstream bug fixes (8.60.dfsg.4-0ubuntu1).
* Answered bug reports.

==== Tim Gardner (rtg) ====

On leave.

==== Tollef Fog Heen (tfheen) ====

On leave.

=== Actions ===

