{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For archives of previous meetings, please see DevelTeamMeetings.

=== Apologies ===

* Daniel Holbach (dholbach) - on Leave
* Henrik Nilsen Omma (heno) - on Leave
* Søren Hansen (shwarma) - on Leave
* Jono Bacon (jono) - meeting conflict

=== Agenda ===

 1. Roll call
** Apologies
** Introduce new starters (if any)
 1. Review agenda
** Review activity reports
** Propose additional items
** Accept agenda
# (pitti) progress discussion for https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+milestone/ubuntu-6.06.2
# (pitti) While I am on honeymoon, some of my roles need to be taken by some other distro team members:
** final release management of dapper.2 (final CD testing, announcements, etc.)
** release management of Tribes 5 & 6
** Handholding the apport retracers; I filed RT#28728 to make this possible, and I will write some documentation about it; seb128 offered to help out here already
** SRU bug handling and archive processing
** (maybe) language pack building; this should not take any manual intervention actually, so it's not that crucial.
# Release readiness update
# Other business
# Reviewers meeting (non-reviewers are excused)

=== New Starters ===

* Jono Bacon (jono) - community (reporting change)

=== Activity Reports ===

==== Adilson Oliveira (adilson) ====

i * Testing applications inside UME (PIM GPE and Pimlico).
* Update UME docs (FAQ, Apps list, etc).
* Fix UME daily builds
* Porting applications for UME
* Make arrangements for IDF

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

===== Firefox =====
* trunk: getting trunk/granparadiso alpha7 binaries in (almost)
 releasable state ... upload pending; -dev package is still a problem
 though.
* community work in mozillateam: taking care of new contributors
 and motu students.
* some 1.8.0 security work

===== Mobile =====
* setting up independent application module tree 'mozilla/midbrowser/'
** migrate current features and introduce new branding
* update git branch that tracks firefox to latest stable (2.0.0.6);
 rebase/update midbrowser branches accordingly.
* upload new midbrowser release to gutsy.

===== Network Manager =====
* prepare/uploade network-manager.
* help: if you experience new or old problems, let me know!

===== Spec - firefox distro addons support =====
* server-side python cgi for plugin finder service is now in a
 usable state; left: mostly polishing and deployment procedure
 improvements.
* Extension data for app-install-data is finally In-Progress.
* (Initial) Development of improved plugin-finder wizard that will
 ship in ubufox; the default plugin finder wizard is too constraint to
 to deliver a good user-experience for our apt: cases.

===== Spec - free-flash =====
* uploaded new gnash cvs snapshot that introduces new package
 layout for gutsy.

==== Amit Kucheria (amitk) ====

* WIP: Integration of 2D DRM drivers into LUM for LPIA
* WIP: code review and conf. calls with Intel for Thermal optimizations
* Fix released: Bug 129226

==== Arne Goetje ====

* Newbie stuff: reading docs and doing all the online paperwork

* reinstalling my laptop and stationary machine to prepare them for Ubuntu development

* Trying out Tribe3 and look for font and input method improvements

* Collecting information about current Unicode coverage and which fonts are involved

* Comparing fonts to see what we can modify to save space on the Live CD

* Work on the CJK-Unifonts project: beautify the Latin based characters in AR PL ShanHeiSun Uni.

* reading bug reports for SCIM and try to figure out how to solve #34282

==== Ben Collins (BenC) ====

* Debugged lapic timer issue on AMD mobile
* Tested Alsa upstream for some newer hda-intel chipsets. Initially integrated newer driver into lum, but will be reverting in favor of a better solution.
* Kernel Team meeting
* Work on 6.06.2 driver backports
* Bug triaging

==== Brian Murray (bdmurray) ====

Bug triaging:
* triaging of gutsy bugs without a package
* triaging of linux-source-2.6.22 bugs
* Hug Day preparation work
* held Hug Day
* catching up on e-mail after vacation
* Tribe 4 daily iso testing

Other:
* working with pedro
* vacation on 8/2 and 8/3 for DefCon

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

Misc:
** Vacation days Aug 3 & 6.  (Proposed to my girlfriend!)
** Arranged to visit Intel campus tomorrow

Specs:
** Easy X Config (aka displayconfig-gtk)
    - Submitted main inclusion request
** Bulletproof-X
    - Implemented dynamic failsafe xorg.conf generator based on dexconf
** Xorg 7.3:
    - Uploads of bunch of remaining xorg packages
    - http://people.ubuntu.com/~bryce/Xorg/versions_current.html

Packaging:
** xserver-xorg-video-psb driver for UME
** Re-did integration of vmmouse_detect into mdetect

Bugs/Testing:
** Triaging of -ati bugs

==== Chris Cheney (calc) ====

** Finished merging OOo 2.3 with Debian
** Uploaded openoffice.org 2.3.0~src680m224-1ubuntu1
** Uploaded openoffice.org-l10n 2.3.0~src680m224-1ubuntu1
** Bug triage

==== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ====

On holiday

==== Evan Dandrea (evand) ====

* worked on getting lpia live CDs building.
* in the process of cleaning up the migration-assistant question mess.

Misc:

* Applied for MOTU \o/

==== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ====

* On Leave

==== Ian Jackson (iwj) ====

* dpkg-triggers:
  Working on the implementation of this.  Considerably more than
  halfway now but need a few more days.

* Some CD testing this evening, of the 20070808 prerelease and
  of 20070808.1.

* consistent-login-screen (fast user switching sanity):
  Merged gdm after upload clash and fixed a bug with VT handling.

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

Done:
* qt and koffice security updates
* packaging new pyqt3, pyqt4 and pykde
* had a first shot at building qt3 for lpia over the weekend, lots of deps needed
* investigating GPL 2 only code in KDE, pass onto e.v. board who should contact them, GPL 3 libraries are going to be a hassle in gutsy+1
* review and discuss restricted-manager-kde with SoC student, included in tribe thanks to pitti
* packaging new cmake and libopenbabel
* package qt 4.3.1 (twice, first time I had to get trolltech to remake the tar)
* investigate packaging kdepim enterprise, some issues before usable
* test tribe CDs
* kubuntu-adept-gutsy: fix --dist-upgrade feature

Blocked:
* kiosktool, kdesudo and obexftp main inclusion reports

Todo:
* finnish kubuntu-adept-gutsy

==== Kees Cook (keescook) ====

Progress:
* DefCon
** Won CTF again :)
* Security Updates
** reviewed and uploaded gnash update (CVE-2007-2500)
** poppler update (USN-496-2)
* Investigations
** nss_files seg fault (stack exhaustion with giant hosts file)
* Testing
** Gutsy upgrade fighting

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

* Various designs for Ubuntu desktop wallpaper created. Considered posting these on the wiki but due to the lack of interest in the "call for wallpapers" decided not to.

* KDM dialog pic updated with logo more in line with usplash - much the same as the Ubuntu usplash and GDM have similar logos

* Finally received gobuntu logo, work started on usplash. Limited time spent here - just getting the boot process online with current ubuntu/kubuntu/edubuntu designs.

* Mobile Stuff: Started a test attempt to simply edit the Nokia theme template SVG (huge! and not what we want in several ways). Probably start again once I figure out a decent plan of attack. Intel promised to work on tweaking the themeing and getting back to being able to use a tool to cut up the SVG (for some technical reason the system does not work as-is).

==== Kyle McMartin (kylem) ====

* checked out new e1000e driver for ich9
* iwlwifi 1.0.0 + hot fix patches
* more xserver-xorg-video-intel fixes
* merge stable-2.6.22.y branch for gutsy
* merge bits and pieces of alsa 2.6.23-rc2

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Spec status:
* apport-better-retracing: no reply from wine team; will implement the fallback solution of ignoring wine crashes in apport at all next week
* apport-for-upstreams: set to 'blocked' now; we did everything from our side in the spec, waiting for upstream to give more feedback on the data format and move towards it; I'll keep some IRC contact with them
* debian-maintainer-field: no change (remaining universe rebuilds will be done after feature freeze to minimize churn)
* restricted-manager-improvements: got notification about "you can enable nonfree drivers for better performance" check/notification implemented, will upload after Tribe release; will attempt to complete this spec before my wedding

Other notable stuff done:
* Tribe 4 release management *ugh*
* Lots of cups cleanups, dropped our complicated derooting patches, replaced with an AppArmor profile. Less secure, but much easier to maintain and fixes a lot of regressions from the derooting patches.
* Lots of sponsoring for Till and Bryce

==== Mathias Gug (mathiaz) ====

* Developer :
** AppArmor:
*** looked into integration with apport.
*** update package to latest upstream version.

* Packager :
** sru for apache2.

* Tester :
** test pre-tribe-4 isos.

* Triager :
** triage bug: apache2, apparmor, samba.

==== Matthias Klose (doko) ====

activity

- lpia bootstrap: pure lpia chroots are available for basic development.
  reviewed all dependencies and build-dependencies for the mobile and
  mobil-dev seeds, fixed packages. the 150 fixed and reviewed packages
  are currently building and should be in the archive soonish (other
  people did review gnome, kde, firefox, postgresql stuff).

- hopefully final glibc-2.6.1 merge from debian.

- gcc-4.2/gcj-4.2 updates to integrate patches to ease the iced-tea
  bootstrap, updated the java packages for the libgcj soversion bump.

- openjdk b17 now builds on amd64, now taking over the packaging from
  sun-javaX to be used with iced-tea.

- syncs and merges

- OOo upload

lpia status

- bootstrap should be done once current build failures are fixed.

- to get the gnome live-cd to build out of the lpia archive we need
  some more packages be reviewed (kernel and image, boot related stuff).
  help needed.

==== Michael Vogt (mvo) ====

compiz:
- updated 0.5.2
- hunted a compiz --replace segfault with upstream for ages, upstream
  released a fix (race in dlopen() usage) and I uploaded it for the
  tribe
- new compizconfig-settings-manager (+ fix in the build system send to
  upstream)
- looked into latest compiz-git, but it needs xlib-xcb and we do not
  have that :/

update-manager:
- new version uploaded that fixes some issues in the pre-requists
  code
- fix bug when i-m-s hit prevents new releases from being seen
  (happens only when it is run as root)

apt:
- merged/uploaded sha256 and dpkg terminal log support
- imporoved libapt apport integration so that it automatically
  adds the dpkg terminal log
- merged/improved apt pre-upload testsuit to avoid regression as much
  as possible
- updated/uploaded apt rdepends
- merged aptitude
- increase the default mmap size
- fix logging if no /dev/pts is available
- fix filehandle leak in apt_inst
- fix https method download bug
- fix local repo hash bug in sha256 code

Bugs:
- bug triage
- some sru verifications

misc:
- updated desktop data for gnome-app-install/adept_installer
- ddtp package translation upload + updated the upload scripts
- gdebi bugfix, upload
- looked at MoM and worked around a issue with security.d.o
- notification-daemon fix
- merged g-a-i changes, added unitttests for the codec/mime search
  code
  
==== Oliver Grawert ====

last week:
prepare tribe 4
more ltsp ldm2 merges
some work on LinuxBIOS etherboot support for LTSP

next week:
work on ltsp-manager
fix thin-client-manager for new ldm
more ldm fixes
going through ltsp bugs on lp
look at moodle packaging changes

==== Pedro Villavicencio Garrido ====

* go through the new starter tasks
* triaging of desktop-bugs
* triaging of bugs without a package
* add a draft on Bugs/ForwardingGNOMEBugs
* participated in UbuntuBugDay

==== Phillip Lougher (pkl) ====

** WriteSupportForNTFS

     - updated fuse and ntfs-3g packages, moving binaries and libs from /usr -> /
     - updated mount to list ntfs-3g options
     - updated initscripts
     - updated WriteSupportForNTFS blueprint
     - added Gutsy kernel patch to make fuse module available to d-i (from Colin Watson)

** Kernel

     - Added VMI lazy mode race fix from VMware

** CVEs
     - General CVE triaging, and kernel-sec svn updating
     - Added CVE-2007-3105 to Feisty kernel
     - Added CVE-2007-3513 to Feisty kernel

** Misc

     - Thursday sick.

==== Rick Clark (dendrobates) ====

Package work:
* Review of ebox
* combined ldap-auth-client and ldap-auth config in to one source package.
* Started MIR's for the the ldap-auth project
* tribe 4 iso testing
* review of auth-client-config
* debconf tutorial

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

i* Lot of bug triage

* Desktop bug fixing

* Archive admin work

* Some desktop updates and sponsoring

* Worked on the desktop changes for the new tribe

==== Søren Hansen (soren) ====

On holiday

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

Done:
* Bug fixes and improvements on system-config-printer:
*** If an auto-detected device (USB, network) is supported by HPLIP
      only the HPLIP URIs are shown, to assure that the user gets it
      correctly set up to get access to the complete functionality
*** For auto-detected network MF devices from HP also an entry
      for setting up the fax queue is shown
*** Make and model info of auto-detected network printers is used to
      direct the user to the correct PPD/driver
*** For manually entered printers make and model are determined via
      SNMP. It is also checked whether the printer is supported by HPLIP
*** No "HP Fax" entry any more when no Fax-capable HP printer is
      connected.
*** When selecting an auto-detected non-HPLIP network printer the
      fields of the form on the right are correctly prefilled now.
*** Improved sorting of the device list entries.
* Updated SpliX printer driver package
* Got upstream SVN write access on system-config-printer from Tim Waugh
* Answered bug reports.

TODO:
* More polishing, fixes, improvements on system-config-printer
* Update HPLIP package

==== Tim Gardner (rtg) ====

===== GENERAL =====

* Bug triage
* General Gutsy install and test on Dell HW

===== KERNEL =====

* E1501 boot bug on Turion.
* ipw3945 kill switch bug.

==== Tollef Fog Heen (tfheen) ====

Done:
* Vacation

* Catch-up on emails, etc

* Fixing up image-creator to generate a .manifest beside the image, which should make it easier for people to see what versions of packages are in a particular image.

=== Actions ===

----
CategoryTemplate
