{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== 2013-04-08 ===

* Present: barry, bdrung, laney, tumbleweed

* Log: http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-04-08-14.01.html

* Review of previous action items
** Micah to urgently send feedback on Bjorn's PPU application.  
   After further discussion, and in consultation with bdrung who has been sponsoring Bjorn closely, we have decided not to wait on this any longer.  Therefore:

'''ACTION:''' bdrung to send short summary to the dmb list, sweetshark, and dholbach providing his feedback on recent sponsorships

'''ACTION:''' barry to initiate new vote on sweetshark's ppu application on the dmb mailing list (no meeting necesssary)

'''ACTION:''' barry to inform sweetshark and dholbach of these actions

* Package Sets: There were no objections to Gediminas' request to add to the zope and schooltool package sets

'''ACTION:''' tumbleweed to push the buttons on the package set additions: ''DONE''

* There were no new membership requests this week.

* No results from the doodle poll on changing the early meeting time were available yet.

* No further updates on decoupling PPU from membership, though this will be put on the agenda for next time.

* bdrung to be next chair.

=== 2013-04-22 ===

* Present: bdrung, micahg, ScottK, tumbleweed

* Log: http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-04-22-19.00.log.html

* Review of previous action items
** barry to email sweetshark and dholbach to provide status: DONE
** tumbleweed to add to zope and schooltool package sets as per menesis request: DONE
** all other action items are still pending

* PerPackageUploader Application: Gunnar Hjalmarsson
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GunnarHj/PerPackageUploaderApplication
** Was granted upload rights to: language-selector and accountsservice.

* PerPackageUploader Application: Sebastian Heinlein
** He was absent. We discussed whether we should carry his application to the next meeting or speedup the process by voting without asking questions or moving the application to email. We agreed on asking Sebastian if he is fine with attending the next meeting.

* Any other business
** We discussed the time change for the early meeting and whether the schedule should follow the summer time (DST) to stay constant in the local timezones. The proposal is to move to 15:00 / 19:00 UTC in the Summer (from the last Sunday in March till October) and to 16:00 / 20:00 UTC in Winter (from the last Sunday in October til March).
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to call for votes for the new meeting times
** ''ACTION:'' bdrung to change the meeting time for the next meeting from 14:00 UTC to 15:00 UTC

* Decoupling PPU rights from Ubuntu membership

** ''ACTION:'' ScottK to call for votes on the decoupling PPU rights from Ubuntu membership proposal

==== Votes ====

* Should Gunnar Hjalmarsson get upload rights for language-selector and accountsservice?
   For: 4 (+3 via email) Against: 0 Abstained: 0

==== Action items ====

* micahg to call for votes for the new meeting times
* bdrung to change the meeting time for the next meeting from 14:00 UTC to 15:00 UTC
* ScottK to call for votes on the decoupling PPU rights from Ubuntu membership proposal
