{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''Developer Membership Board meeting June 8th, 2010 15:00 UTC'''

The meeting didn't happen due to lack of quorum.

'''Developer Membership Board meeting June 22nd, 2010 15:00 UTC'''

* Chair: Michael Bienia
* Present: Colin Watson, Richard Johnson, Emmet Hikory, Soren Hansen
* Absent: Stéphane Graber, Cody Somerville

* Action review:
** '''[ACTION]''' Colin Watson to create ubuntu-kernel-uploaders team owned by the DMB that will provide upload permissions to Ubuntu kernel packages (Still pending)
** '''[ACTION]''' Cody Somerville to write an e-mail to the list concerning the layout/format of the DMB meeting - membership first (Still pending)
** '''[ACTION]''' Colin Watson to create Mozilla Package Set (Done).
     '''[VOTE]''' Add Alexander Sack (asac), Chris Coulson (chrisccoulson) and Fabien Tassin (fta) as uploaders to the Mozilla Package set (Result: 5 for, 0 against, 0 abstained.)
* Administrative Matters:
   "Meeting Structure" and "Voting Procedures" are still pending a discussion on the DMB list.

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StefanoRivera/MOTUApplication|MOTU application: Stefano Rivera]]</nowiki>
   Approved: 5 for, 0 against, 0 abstained.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BarryWarsaw/MyApplication|PPU application: Barry Warsaw]]</nowiki>
   Barry Warsaw got upload rights for computer-janitor, python-lazr.restful, python-lazr.restfulclient, python-argparse, python-virtualenv, python-flufl.enum, python-flufl.i18n: 4 for, 0 against, 1 abstained.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LorenzoDeLiso/UniverseContributorApplication|Universe contributor application: Lorenzo De Liso]]</nowiki>
   Approved: 4 for, 0 against, 0 abstained.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GediminasPaulauskas/MyApplication|PPU application: Gediminas Paulauskas]]</nowiki>
   Gediminas Paulauskas got upload rights for the packages listed at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GediminasPaulauskas/Packages (rev #5) from the sections "Zope", "Zope Community", "School''''''Tool" and "Python Packaging": 4 for, 0 against, 0 abstained.

   '''[ACTION]''' Colin Watson to create a zope packageset incorporating the Zope, Zope Community, and Python Packaging sections, and a schooltool packageset for the School''''''Tool section.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MontyTaylor/PerPackageUploaderApplication|PPU application: Monty Taylor]]</nowiki>
   Monty Taylor got upload rights for drizzle, gearmand, libdrizzle, libinnodb, libmemcached, python-drizzle and pandora-build: 5 for, 0 against, 0 abstained.
