{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Introduction ===

Ubuntu Developer Summits are twice-annual events where developers from Ubuntu and other projects gather to plan the next Ubuntu release.  They usually last one week, and are open to the public, but attendees are expected to participate in highly technical discussions and writing sessions.

Small groups of developers participate in short (45-60 minute) BOF sessions where a single project is discussed, and then document the outcome of the discussion in the form of a written specification. These specifications are used as the basis for planning the subsequent work of developing a new release of Ubuntu, as described in FeatureSpecifications and TimeBasedReleases.

=== List of Summits ===

* 2012-10 - <nowiki>[[UDS-R]]</nowiki> (Ringtail) - Copenhagen, Denmark
* 2012-05 - <nowiki>[[UDS-Q]]</nowiki> (Quantal) - Oakland, CA, US
* 2011-10 - <nowiki>[[UDS-P]]</nowiki> (Precise) - Orlando, FL, US
* 2011-05 - <nowiki>[[UDS-O]]</nowiki> (Ocelot) - Budapest, Hungary
* 2010-10 - <nowiki>[[UDS-N]]</nowiki> (Natty) - Orlando, FL, US
* 2010-05 - <nowiki>[[UDS-M]]</nowiki> (Maverick) - Brussels Belgium
* 2009-11 - <nowiki>[[UDS-L]]</nowiki> (Lucid) - Dallas, TX, US
* 2009-05 - <nowiki>[[UDSKarmic]]</nowiki> - Barcelona, ES
* 2008-12 - <nowiki>[[UDSJaunty]]</nowiki> - Mountain View, CA, US
* 2008-05 - <nowiki>[[UDS-Intrepid]]</nowiki> - Prague, Czech Republic
* 2007-10 - <nowiki>[[UDS-Boston]]</nowiki> - Boston MA, US
* 2007-04 - <nowiki>[[UDS-Sevilla]]</nowiki> - Sevilla Spain
* 2006-11 - <nowiki>[[UbuntuDeveloperSummitMountainView]]</nowiki> - Mountain View, CA, US
* 2006-06 - <nowiki>[[UbuntuDeveloperSummitParis]]</nowiki> - Paris, France
* 2005-11 - <nowiki>[[UbuntuBelowZero]]</nowiki> - Montreal, Canada
* 2005-04 - <nowiki>[[UbuntuDownUnder]]</nowiki> - Sydney, Australia
* 2004-12 - <nowiki>[[MataroConference]]</nowiki> - Mataró, Catalonia, Spain
* 2004-08 - Oxford, UK (some invited attendees)
* 2004-05 - Porto Alegre, Brazil (semi-public, co-hosted with <nowiki>[[http://debconf4.debconf.org/|Debconf 4]]</nowiki>)
* 2004-04 - London, UK (non-public, first Canonical meeting)

See also EventsGlobal for a list including other events.

=== Preparing the Agenda ===

We manage the agenda for the developer summit in Blueprint, the launchpad feature specification tracker. You can check out the <nowiki>[[http://help.launchpad.net/BlueprintDocumentation|BlueprintDocumentation]]</nowiki> for more information on how you can use Blueprint to keep track of feature development and roadmaps. But the long and the short of it is that you need to register any topic in Blueprint as a spec for your product or for Ubuntu.

* Check out the list of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+specs|Ubuntu Specs]]</nowiki>
* Or the list of specs for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bzr/+specs|Bazaar]]</nowiki>

Then for each spec, you need to nominate it to the meeting agenda.

Now each meeting has a group of people (or a single person) who controls the agenda, and that person can accept or decline the topic for the meeting. The upshot is that you end up with a well-defined list of topics for this particular meeting.

=== Registering Attendance ===

Attendees should register their attendance at the sprint. Essentially they say when they will be there and available for meetings.  This information is used for scheduling purposes.

=== Subscribing to topics ===

Attendees can look over the list of topics and subscribe to the ones they think are interesting. This tells us who to try and schedule to attend BOF sessions on those topics. We try to make sure that everybody gets to contribute to the topics in which they have an interest.

=== At the Summit ===

==== Generating the timetable ====

Each day we generate a timetable for the day's discussions, based on progress which was made the previous day and attempting to cover as many of the most important topics as possible.  We try to ensure that there is time to write up the conclusions of a particular discussion session so that the ideas covered are written up in a way that everyone can follow and reach agreement on what was said. The idea is to go home with hard plans in writing on each of these topics, so that the community can have a strong sense of what is actually being planned.

==== BOF sessions ====

See <nowiki>[[BOFHowto]]</nowiki>.
