{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For archives of previous meetings, please see DevelTeamMeetings.

=== Ben Collins (BenC) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Colin Watson (cjwatson) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===

Done
* GNOME 2.17.5
* catching up with loads of mails
* bug triage
* artwork packaging coaching - first user!
* work on the art-builder
* worked on bughelper (holiday hacking)
To do
* finish prio 1 goals for art-builder and help write some documentation
* more bug triage
* work on bughelper and finish the new file format (and write documentation on how to use it)

=== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Frank Schoep (fschoep) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Henrik Omma (heno) ===

* multi-lingual-speech -- good progress on the gnome-speech eSpeak driver
* gdm-accessibility -- Upstream testers report Orca sworking with GDM 
* a11y-other -- gnome-mag should be rebuilt with composite
* a11y-future -- started working with a group at TU Karlsruhe that has just received govt. funding to improve a11y in Ubuntu
* forum-based ISO testing - 40-odd people have 'signed up' to test, though only 2 ISO test has come in so far. The fast turnover of testing may be a problem. Post-release testing has it's value too at this early release, so I'll encourage that to help build a team. See: http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=201 
* forum-other -- I attended to first Forum Council meeting and continue to work with the Forum Ambassadors team. 
* launchpad-contact - If you haven't done so already, please add you favourite small LP bugs to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DevelTeamLPWishList -- I've also inited matthewrevell along today for Q&A

=== Ian Jackson (iwj) ===

Done: gnome-app-install-codecs - this is now pretty much implemented but it needs to be properly deployed and integration tested.  mvo is reviewing my changes.  Thanks also to Tim Mueller and seb for their work on easy-codec-installation (the upper of the two layers in this linked pair of specs).
To do: automated-testing-deployment - just picked this up today again.  Thanks to mvo for helpful contributions regarding integration with apt.
Blocked: winmodem-support - Decision needs to be made (by Tech board?) about nonfree drivers.  (Please let us not go down the binary driver rathole on this one!)
Unchanged since before Christmas: consistent-login-screen.

=== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Kyle McMartin (kylem) ===

Done:
** Merged backports into the -proposed kernels
** linux-source-2.6.17 (2.6.17.1-50.50) uploaded to edgy-proposed
** linux-source-2.6.15 (2.6.15-50.60) uploaded to dapper-proposed
** sky2 patches for {edgy,dapper}-security
** scsi-scan patch for dapper-security

In Progress:
** MODULE_FIRMWARE annotations for drivers in ubuntu/

Todo:
** Merge dapper-security into dapper-proposed kernels and re-upload

=== Martin Pitt (pitti) ===

Done:
* bug-reporting-tool: version with manual apport file upload is in feisty; version with Launchpad cloakroom upload is ready in apport-cloakroom branch, waiting for Malone to actually get along with those blobs (Bjorn asserted that this will work by the sprint)
* increase-hwdb-participation: some initial discussion with cjwatson and ogra, need more discussion with cjwatson; <rant>This is a very poor spec without any implementation bits *at all*; how did this make it to approved?</rant>
* lots of apport refactorization and UI redesign: now it's much more robust code, ui workflow is covered by regression tests, and easily portable to other UIs (Qt/CLI/etc.)
* SRU bug 59946 (gnome-system-tools): uploaded fix for regression in g-s-t to -proposed; waiting for cjwatson to accept upload
* SRU bug 72125 (tzdata): edgy is in -proposed; dapper upload done, needs to be accepted
* took a look at printerdrake for making a test Ubuntu package; unfortunately the Mandrake lib is unbuildable on Ubuntu, so for redesigning the UI we need to use Mdk live CDs
* lots of apport and hal bug fixing
* got through my some-2000 bug emails, and went through all hal bugs, triaged them, and fixed the low-hanging fruit
* herd-2 testing on amd64 and powerpc
To Do:
* update langpacks for stables (this was postponed due to some Rosetta bugs, but they are fixed now); I need -proposed guru love for that again
* finish g-s-t and tzdata SRUs, do similar SRU for python-tz
* fix broken PtP cameras in edgy-proposed
* do pending security uploads while Kees is on LCA
* do my share of universe merges
* apport: abstract and refactor ubuntu specific bits (dpkg, malone) into separate classes, call for a discussion with Gnome, KDE, and some other distros about more widespread adoption
* holiday from next Wednesday to Friday, will be on the sprint on time, though

=== Matthias Klose (doko) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Michael Vogt (mvo) ===

Did:
 - upgrade testing (automatic, update-manager -d, apt-get)
 - dapper-commercial/edgy-commercial opera reivew/upload
 - realplay testing for edgy-commercial, needs a full testsuit run before it can enter edgy-commercial
 - use auto-installed information in g-a-i when applications are removed
 - some initial process space separation for the dist-ugprader
 - command-not-found fixes and uploaded new version. feels good, do we want to get it into main and enable it by default?
 - fixes to the automatic-dist-upgrade testing system, more runs, but still no deployment in the data-center
 - CommonCustomizations features added/bugs fixed (mostly in g-a-i) and trying to contact the automatix2 guys
 - some hacking on the apt mirror download method
 - synaptic hacking for the AlwaysEnableUniverseMultiverse spec

Will do:
 - finish synaptic/g-a-i modifications for AlwaysEnableUniverseMultiverse
 - get realplayer into edgy-commerical
 - resolve the last open issues for CommonCustomizations 
 - more work on dist-upgrader-fixes 

=== Oliver Grawert (ogra) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Rodrigo Novo (rodarvus) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) ===

Done:
* phone calls with team members
* management training/intro in London
* upstart development for replacement-initscripts

To do:
* LCA next week

=== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ===

Done
* GNOME 2.17.5
* started bugs and mails catching up
* gstreamer updates for easy-codec-installation
To do
* keep catching up with bugs and mails
* work on tab-consistency
* work on easy-codec-insallation
* review compiz patches and update to the new version

=== Simon Law (sfllaw) ===

Done
* Holiday (Happy New Year everybody!)
* Flu
* SRU: tzdata
* Bug triage
* Contracts for interns
To do
* Bug triage
* SRUs
* Get ready for interns on the 15th (computers, desks, etc.)
* Write more wiki documentation
* Hug day next week
Bug stats
* Open (20871) +139 over last week
* Critical (20) -1 over last week
* Unconfirmed (10631) +92 over last week
* Unassigned (15810) +185 over last week
* All bugs ever reported (70500) +606 over last week

=== Tollef Fog Heen (tfheen) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ===

Done
* Answered to bug reports
* Helped Martin Pitt to port Printerdrake to Ubuntu by uploading a complete set of screen shots for all dialogs (http://www.freestandards.org/~till/tmp/printerdrake/screenshots/) and documentation (http://www.freestandards.org/~till/tmp/printerdrake/03DIS-2007EN.pdf, http://www.freestandards.org/~till/tmp/printerdrake/03SPP-2007EN.pdf) and giving him some explanations. I recommend using a Mandriva 2007 live CD.
* Started to package free printer drivers which are not yet in Ubuntu (epsonepl, pxljr, capt, ...)
* foo2zjs update
To do
* Continue packaging printer drivers
* Continue helping Martin on the printerdrake port

----
CategoryTemplate
