{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

TODO:

1. Combine with https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/New and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/Uploading
2. Add to DMB's knowledgebase and process for handling successful applications

So you're a new uploader! Congratulations, and thanks again for your service to Ubuntu so far. Here are some things you may now need to know:

* Please consider joining ~ubuntu-sponsors and the <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/community/contribute/ubuntu-development/ubuntu-patch-pilots|patch pilot programme]]</nowiki> to help others.

* You'll need a GPG key registered in Launchpad before it will accept your uploads.

* To upload, build the source package and run "dput ubuntu <changes>" on the changes file that gets generated in the parent directory. The changes and dsc files must be signed with your GPG key. dpkg-buildpackage will do this by default, or if you use "-us -uc" to skip signing, you can use the "debsign" tool on the changes file to sign both it and the dsc file to which it refers.

* If you upload to PPAs, you may find that you accidentally upload something intended to a PPA to Ubuntu itself by habit. For safety, you could add the following to your ~/.dput.cf so that dput has no default target. Then you will be forced to be explicit about your intended destination:

<pre>
[DEFAULT]
default_host_main = UNKNOWN
</pre>

* To sponsor an upload, prepare it as normal (usually keep the sponsoree's name in debian/changelog if already supplied) but sign it yourself. You can do this with "dpkg-buildpackage -us -uc ..." and then use "debsign -k $YOUR_KEY_ID <changes file>".

* Make sure you use Ubuntu to build changes files for uploads so that the X-Launchpad-Bugs-Fixed metadata field is filled in correctly. Otherwise bugs won't auto-close and the SRU process won't be able to handle your SRU uploads (likely leading to upload rejections from the SRU team). If you're using Debian, you can instead achieve this by setting DEB_VENDOR=ubuntu in your environment before building the source package.
