{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by Laney at 14:12:42 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2011/ubuntu-meeting.2011-12-19-14.12.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Review of previous action items
** micahg to ping all packageset teams to get a description we can use for future changes  (Laney, 14:13:19)
*** done, to review at next meeting

* Package set application: desktop-extra
''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/devel-permissions/2011-December/000315.html   (Laney, 14:18:06)
** Approved, see votes below.
''ACTION:'' stgraber to create desktop-extra set  (Laney, 14:27:09)

* Ubuntu Core Developer reapplication for Daniel T Chen
** No vote deemed necessary. Daniel was duly reactivated. Members wondered why they had not received email about the expiration — Laney to raise with Launchpad. 

* AOB
** tumbleweed raised the medium-term elections that the DMB needs to hold, agreed to discuss at the next meeting.
** bdrung raised the fact that we have many different term expirations, some quite close to others. It would be nice to adjust as appropriate so that restaffing is easier.
''ACTION:'' bdrung to talk to the TB about harmonising DMB members' expiration dates for easier restaffing  (Laney, 14:47:58)

* chair for next meeting
** still cody-somerville, with micahg as fallback.

Meeting ended at 14:48:51 UTC

=== Votes ===

* Create desktop-extra packageset with description "Every package that is NOT in ubuntu-desktop, desktop-core or core, but needed for a vanilla GNOME. Vanilla GNOME is defined by upstream in gnome-suites-core, gnome-suites-core-deps, and gnome-apps: http://git.gnome.org/browse/jhbuild/tree/modulesets" and initial packages "abiword accerciser alacarte anjuta caribou cheese clutter ekiga epiphany-browser fonts-cantarell f-spot gdm ghex gjs gnome-backgrounds gnome-color-manager gnome-contacts gnome-devel-docs gnome-documents gnome-icon-theme-extras gnome-packagekit gnome-scan gnome-shell gnome-sushi gnome-tweak-tool gnome-video-effects gnote gnumeric goffice gthumb gtksourceviewmm gupnp-av gupnp-dlna gupnp-vala java-gnome libchamplain monkey-bubble mutter mx nemiver opal packagekit ptlib rygel seed sound-juicer tomboy tracker" and initial member ~ubuntu-desktop
   For: 5 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

=== Action items ===

* stgraber to create desktop-extra set
* bdrung to talk to the TB about harmonising DMB members' expiration dates for easier restaffing

=== Action items, by person ===

* bdrung
* * bdrung to talk to the TB about harmonising DMB members' expiration dates for easier restaffing
* stgraber
* * stgraber to create desktop-extra set

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Laney (70)
* tumbleweed (22)
* micahg (21)
* bdrung (19)
* meetingology (15)
* stgraber (10)
