{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For archives of previous meetings, please see DevelTeamMeetings.

=== Adam Conrad (infinity) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Ben Collins (BenC) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Colin Watson (cjwatson) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===

Done:
* GNOME 2.17.3 (most of it)
* merges
* trying to catch up with bugs
* art-builder-improvements: deployed and announced art-builder (half way through high-prio items)
* feisty-telepathy: no efforts from the team on landell and teletpathy-wildy yet, seems I have to do it myself
* some motu mentoring
To do:
* trying harder to catch up with bugs
* more merges
* fix some issues with the art builder
* motu documentation clean up, organisation
 

=== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Frank Schoep (fschoep) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Henrik Omma (heno) ===

Done:
* access-gdm: Worked with artist on new High Contrast GDM theme. Discussions with GDM maintainer and MacSlow about accessible login.
* common-at-conf: mock-ups of new config interface. Discussions with Gnome AT community. {{http://people.ubuntu.com/~henrik/images/flexi-at-conf-2.png}}
* multilingual-speech: Decided on how to support eSpeak in Orca (write a gnome-speech driver for eSpeak). Planing a community initiative to create more/improve local language voices for eSpeak. Worked on the Norwegian voice files to learn the ropes and define the process.

To do:
* access-gdm: Work out details on how to make GDM/Facebrowser accessible _without_ using AT-SPI.
* color-filters: Investigate UI requirements for controlling colour filters in gnome-mag.
* multilingual-speech: Complete design of the voice creation process and launch the localisation project.
* General a11y testing: It seems bug 74249 has just been resolved, alowing testing with AT-SPI to proceed

=== Ian Jackson (iwj) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ===

done:
* holiday
* Herd testing
* SRUs, universe merges, language pack testing, other odd bits
* kubuntu-feisty-language-selector: Qt 4 port done, usability changes half way
todo:
* finnish kubuntu-feisty-language-selector, start kubuntu-feisty-ubiquity qt4 port
specs:
* kubuntu-ubiquity-migration-assistant and kubuntu-feisty-adept-changes needing approval, cjwatson and mvo pinged
other:
* no idea what's happening with artists, sabdfl not replying

=== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Kyle McMartin (kylem) ===

Done
* received core-dev status.
* dapper-security kernel: backed out netfilter abi breaking change.
* wrote new patch for above, sent upstream for verification.
* sky2 backport to dapper-updates, edgy-updates.
* tg3 backport to dapper-updates, edgy-updates.
* fix tso support in tg3 backport.
* dapper-security, edgy-security uploaded by ben.

To do
* forcedeth backport to dapper-updates, edgy-updates.
* figure out why my uploads were discarded.

=== Martin Pitt (pitti) ===

Done:
* merges for main: almost all done, remaining ones are hairy (apache2: infinity asked me not to merge 2.2 yet, enigmail: we have to permanently fork due to Debian's icedove madness, linux-wlan-ng: Debian has a SVN snapshot instead of stable release, have to evaluate); merge of ia32-libs has been traded with doko in exchange for php5 and gettext
* merges for universe still outstanding, but I only have a few and they look easy (mostly stuff from library transitions)
* zero-configuration-networking: added the 'ipv4ll' ifupdown method, added support for this to gnome-system-tools & friends, taught network-manager to play along with avahi-autoipd; 95% finished, have fun! the only outstanding bits are: ubuntu-meta update to bring avahi-autoipd to ubuntu-desktop, and introducing the desktop notification about a disabled avahi due to an unicast .local domain <- I'd like to discuss how that should look like with some interested people, anyone?
* gnome-mount: added proper policy check to hal mount backend (prerequisite of starting with mount-all-local-filesystems), discussed security improvements with sjoerd; came to the conclusion that we can't do better than trusting the main hal daemon for information, so there's nothing we can improve further; remaining TODOs: discuss degnomeification with Xubuntu guys, wait for udev-device-mapper to get implemented to get mounting of encrypted devices right
* no work on other specs, just quickly discussed Malone cloakroom with Bjorn; it's not there yet, thus bug-reporting-tool is blocked for now
* prepared g-s-t/s-t-backends/couple of applets SRU for edgy's gnome-system-tools authentication problem, awaiting approval from mdz
* new dapper/edgy langpacks to -proposed, asked for testing feedback on -translators@; looks good so far
* misc: lots of IRC talks on fresher's day (OpenWeek was great, btw!), CD testing for herd-1
* I looked at increase-hwdb-participation; doesn't look too complicated, I'm just swamped with specs; the notification part is a bit tricky due to the system wide state, also we need to put it into some gnome package to get the i18n infrastructure for free; in fact this problem is very similar to the avahi disabling notification (mvo: I! want! event-notifier! now, now, now! ;-) ); since this isn't a prerequisite of other specs and relatively easy, is it ok to defer this a little towards end of January?
Todo:
* finish remaining bits of zero-configuration-networking implementation
* finish mount-all-local-filesystems
* next Tuesday: dapper/edgy langpacks to -updates if all goes well
* change dapper's and edgy's ~/.xsession-errors rotation handling to new plan of mdz (I'd like to discuss this again interactively, I don't really like that solution)
* dive into bug triage

=== Matthias Klose (doko) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Michael Vogt (mvo) ===

Done
* work on the AutomaticUpgradeTesting
* LSB meeting/packaging sumit Berlin (Mo-We):
  gave two presentations 
* apt work:
  - fix crash in pkgSrcRecords::Binaries
  - fix bug in pdiff method
To do
 - look at the AdeptFeistyChanges spec
 - merges
 - work on CommonCustomizations
 - catchup on the BUGS 

=== Oliver Grawert (ogra) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Rodrigo Novo (rodarvus) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) ===

Done:
 - couple of days holiday
 - started work on upstart changes needed for feisty
 - some landscape trialling

Todo:
 - pretty much everything else ;)
 - holiday from 18th thru 2nd (yay using up leave allowance)

Specs:
 - udev-device-mapper, udev-evms, udev-mdadm: not started yet, will be much easier to test once some of the upstart bits are in place
 - slick-boot: Colin's done the console changes, need to test those and make any adjustments necessary
 - replacement-initscripts: needs upstart changes. which have begun
 - new-pci-ids: having discussions with Ben about fixing the world to make this possible
 - accelerated-x: hijacked as discussed with mdz
 - automake-transition: implemented

=== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ===

Done:
* GNOME 2.17.3
* merged GNOME packages with Debian while updating them
* bug triage, bug triage, bug triage
* contacted tracker upstream about package for Ubuntu, somebody is working on it for Debian and has a first set of packages available, waiting on 0.5.3 to fix some copyright issues before uploading
* tested desktop CD candidate for herd1
* caught up with mails backlog
To do:
* bug triage, bug triage, bug triage
* get tracker uploaded
* keep doing merges with Debian
Note:
* The one week freeze has been annoying to work with, especially because "apt-get source" gives outdated packages during a freeze (somebody might have already done work on the same package and you doesn't get that version), could we freeze binaries instead of sources or make sources available from somewhere during a freeze?

=== Simon Law (sfllaw) ===

Done
* Decided on two interns, doing the paperwork for that
* Interviewed another intern
* More SRU approvals: Kopete
* Bug triage
* E-mail testers who volunteered to help with Herd 1.
To do
* SRU: mdadm (bug 74346)
* Get computers for interns
* Get interns to sign paperwork
* Bug triage
* Wiki documentation for Ubuntu QA
* UbuntuHugDay to get people signed into Ubuntu QA.
Blockers:
* synaptic is not ready for -proposed (bug 65553, bug 67146)

=== Tollef Fog Heen (tfheen) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

----
CategoryTemplate
