{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== 2013-07-01 ===

* Chair: stgraber

* Present: stgraber, Laney, rbasak, bdrung, barry, tumbleweed, Daviey

* Log: http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-07-01-15.00.log.html

==== Review of previous action items ====

* Laney: everyone read and amend http://pad.ubuntu.com/dmb-ppu-membership-proposal, and sign up for the implementation tasks => to be discussed at the end of the meeting
* tumbleweed: add louis-bouchard to universe-contributors => done

==== Robie Basak application for MOTU and server PPU ====

  Application: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RobieBasak/ServerDeveloperApplication

** ''Vote:'' should rbasak join ~motu? (Carried)
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 5/0/0)

** ''Vote:'' should rbasak join ~ubuntu-server-dev? (Carried)
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 5/0/0)

==== PPU membership proposal ====

The PPU proposal at http://pad.ubuntu.com/dmb-ppu-membership-proposal was discussed some more, coming to the conclusion that we need to pick one of the two options, Laney will setup a CIVS vote for this.

==== AOB ====

=== 2013-07-15 ===

=== 2013-07-29 ===

* Chair: ScottK

* Present: ScottK, barry, bdrung, tumbleweed, stgraber, Laney

* Log: http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-07-29-15.06.html

==== Review of previous action items ====

* Discussed status of the discussion with the tech board on the modified PPU rights <nowiki>[[http://permalink.gmane.org/gmane.linux.ubuntu.devel.technical-board/1158 | proposal]]</nowiki>:
* Discussed the status of revoting on sweetshark's PPU application (due 31 July)

==== Developer Applications ====

* None this time

==== AOB ====
