{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For archives of previous meetings, please see DevelTeamMeetings.

=== Apologies ===

* Fabio Massimo Di Nitto (fabbione) - off sick
* Ian Jackson (iwj) - on leave

=== Agenda ===

 1. Roll call
** Apologies
** Introduce new starters
 1. Review agenda
** Review activity reports
** Propose additional items
** Accept agenda
# Actions from previous meeting
# Release readiness update
# Merge status
# Other business

=== New Starters ===

* Adilson Oliveira (adilson) - Ubuntu Mobile
* Mathias Gug (mathiaz) - Ubuntu Server

=== Activity Reports ===

==== Adilson Oliveira (adilson) ====

* Working on hildon components. Done: libhildon-thumbnail, hildon-thumbnail-libid3, hildon-theme-tools, hildon-themes, hildon-themes-plankton. Right now hildon-desktop and its dependencies.
* Added hildon-theme-catcher, hildon-home-webshortcut, hildon-control-panel, clipboard-manager, maemo-launch, hildon-initscripts, osso-af-startup, posix-locales and gaspacho-hildon into launchpad.

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

Firefox
* started dapper backport of ffox 2.0. The idea is to shake out eventual glitches before we actually need to do the 2.0 transition.
 Patches used so far are in
  http://people.ubuntu.com/~asac/dapper-ffox2-transition/
 Community driven (untested) builds for i386 packages currently land in
  http://gnomefreak.youmortals.com/mozilla-testing/dists/dapper/main/binary-i386/

Firefox Addon Support
* bringing spec to review state
* looking into extension manager code to get a general idea about changes needed in case we want an "alternate install dialog" to pop up when user installs .xpi from the web and we have an Ubuntu equivalent for it.

Free Flash:
* bringing spec to review state
* discussion with swfdec maintainer about easy-codec installation.

MOTU work
* reviewing and sponsoring gnome-btdownload, bitstormlite; merging xulrunner
* bzr, packaging and licensing mentoring for torrent team
* upstream discussion with libtorrent rasterbar developer about library name clash (and sonames/ABI-compatibility of libs); unfortunately author appears to not care. Next: try to find a common name of library filename with other distributors.

Other Mozilla Work:
* more work on lightning and sunbird against system libs. State: Still trying to find a decent solution to build sunbird-bin runner binary without rebuilding parts of the (firefox) toolkit from within sunbird sources. Using libxul-dev from xulrunner (instead of thunderbird-dev) appears to be an option.

Misc:
* buglog thoughts and discussion.

==== Ben Collins (BenC) ====

General:
* Moved git trees to new kernel.ubuntu.com machine (thanks James and crew!)
* Configured setup of gitweb for k.u.c

Kernel:
* Continued following linux-2.6.git upstream, and made several uploads
* Worked on libwfb nvidia-glx-new fix, tested by Dell and others.
* Processed some Ubuntu patches to be pushed upstream.

==== Brian Murray (bdmurray) ====

Bug triaging:
* assigned packages to some bugs that had none i.e. were just filed against Ubuntu
* cleanup of kdeinit and kdelibs bugs
* started looking at openoffice.org bugs
* tagging openoffice.org bugs based on application
* setup Debian sid chroot for upstream ooo.org testing
* reading through bug mailing list and triaging bugs
* really finished (?) tagging of bugs to retrace in mailing list

Bug helper:
* Bug hunting via bughelper
* created multiple clue files

Other:
* published Ubuntu QA application questionnaire on wiki
* approved two new QA members via application process

==== Bryce Harrington (bryce) ====

Xorg Bug Triage:
* Resolved bugs marked fixed in xserver 1.3
* Reviewed/triaged all keyboard bugs in xorg
* Added xorg.conf and Xorg.0.log to apport

Xorg Packaging:
* Merged & uploaded xserver-xorg-input-evdev
* Investigated merge issues with xserver-xorg-video-mga, -via, -suncg6.  Communicated issue upstream to Debian.
* Investigated merge issue with xserver-xorg-video-nv
* Investigated merge issue with xutils-dev - Sent patch to Debian.
* Merged & uploaded xrandr-1.2 from xorg.freedesktop.org

Xorg Testing:
* Set up devbox2 (dell em64t, wireless kbd/mouse, w/s LCD, NVS 285)
* Acquired devbox3 (thinkpad)

Xorg Specs
* Started coding bulletproof-x failsafeXServer script
* Started experimentation with displayconfig-gtk on devbox2
* Created script to display xorg, debian, ubuntu versions of all Xorg packages

Misc:
* Verified xserver and mesa versions for gutsy, for Intel
* New hire paperwork
* Requested SRU for Inkscape 0.45.1 in Feisty

==== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ====

MOTU:
* improved new motu mentoring proposal, more mentoring process discussions
* lots of work getting the New MOTU Mentoring Process rolling: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Mentoring - please consider joining as mentor!
* motu mentoring

Community:
* ubuntu-core-dev process
* TB meeting

Bug Triage

Misc:
* abiword merge, gparted merge, planner merge, pan merge, galago-daemon sync, telepathy-stream-engine sync, djvulibre sync, gnokii sync, libgnomedb merge, took care of telepathy packages, sofia-sip fix, sofiasip sync
* packaged libgdamm3.0, looked into replacing gda1.2 with gda3.0, libgda update
* Mentoring
* TB meeting

GNOME:
* system-tools-backends merge, vino merge, gnome-system-tools merge, gnome-python merge, gnome-python-desktop merge

Bug Tools:
* bughelper patch review, python-launchpad-bugs upload, new bughelper release
* looked into buglog, work on buglog cgi

==== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ====

Done:
* had a long weekend (thur/frid off)
* done debugging on openais, redhat cluster
* started implementing new IRC log system so that it can move away from adsl to the datacenter.
* sick wed - thurs.

==== Henrik Omma (heno) ====

Specs:

* Color filters - Approved - Guillaume Seguin is investigating the different kinds of colour blindness and is experimenting with filters (SoC)
* compiz-mag - Review - Kristian Lyngst√∏l has enhanced the compiz zoom plugin to provide focus-tracking, ported from Beryl (SoC)
* Mouse tweaks - Review - Gerd Kohlberger has implemented a dwell-clicking demo.
* Buglog - Review
* Installer for Windows - Review - The Wubi installer is making steady progress and are receptive to making the changes we need.
* ISO test tracker - Review - DB moved to Postgres.
* Speech recognition - Review - Informational. A Gnome SoC student is working on a part of this. We've decided not to make it a Gutsy goal.

SoC:

* We have started holding weekly team meetings via skype. We held the first today (May 23) which seemed to work well. All three have made a good start.
* All these projects eventually come up against performance issues because the input capturing they require is expensive. Less frequent polling results in choppy behavior.

==== Ian Jackson (iwj) ====

On Leave

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

Done:
* specs review, all kubuntu ones now ready to be approved
* KDE 3.5.7 packaging
* discussing mozilla and kde with asac

Todo:
* finish KDE 3.5.7 packaging
* finish KDE 4 alpha 1 packaging
* KOffice 1.6.3 packaging
* e-mail backlog from UDS/holiday
* hopefully I'll get to do some merges

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

Done
* Made lots of mockups for UME user inteface.
* Started work on icons for UME in collaboration with Intel (NDA?)
* Made pics for Edubuntu website and "Ubuntu Education" logo/site design
* Made banner for Kubuntu at Akademy.
* Discussed advert for Akademy sponsorship with Gerry and started work on final design (will be finished tomorrow probably)

==== Kyle McMartin (kylem) ====

Support:
* still tracking megaraid regression

Misc:
* made intel gfx drivers co-exist
* install -intel by default
* updated discover-data to light up -intel on new hw
* converting all my git checkouts to the new repo

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Only a 4-day week due to public holiday last Thursday.

Done
* finished all my merges except for laptop-mode-tools; the others in main.html have been traded with other people
* lots of apport work
* created gutsy chroots for apport retracers (ugh, painful due to various issues, but finally works now)

Specs:
I now wrote all of them, and all are pendingapproval except for:
* dm-crypt: awaiting review from cjwatson
* bzr-best-practices: awaiting review from whoever is interested
* smart-bugreporting-tool: added UDS notes to wiki page, but we need way more discussion about this (there was only one statically scheduled session in Sevilla)

==== Mathias Gug (mathiaz) ====

New starter

==== Matthias Klose (doko) ====

Activity:
* package syncs and merges
* prepare OOo for feisty-proposed
* started OOo merge

==== Michael Vogt (mvo) ====

Done:
* Merges
* work on the upgrade tester (now tries to re-run and log failed maintainer scripts with sh -x or perl -d magic)
* discussion with Mark (cr3) about automatic installations and then about hwdb (hw certification has some sort of hwdb-client as well)
* started to look into xranr 1.2 support for displayconfig-gtk
* valgrind session with update-notifier, apt
* work on g-a-i, displayconfig-gtk
Specs:
* Updated my specs, all review state now:
** upgrade-pre-requisites
** apport-synaptic-integration
** system-cleanup
** apt-firefox-archive-handler
** maintainer-script-failures
** lts-upgrades
Bugs:
* bug triage
* sru verifications

==== Phillip Lougher (pkl) ====

Kernel patches:
* Feisty kernel security updates
* Sparc64 Feisty kernel updates
* Ps/2 mouse not working on SiS chipsets patches
* Feisty kernel, linux-meta, and linux-restricted-modules packaging

Misc:
* Correspondence with Erez Zadok (Unionfs leader), regarding Unionfs 1.x and 2.0

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

(Thursday was a national holiday and I was on vac Friday)

* Loads of bug triage, took my desktop bugs backlog from 400 after UDS to 10
* Desktop merges with Debian
* Desktop bugs fixing
* Archive admin work
* Catching up with mails

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

Done:
* Completed Ubuntu package (ghostscript 8.60.dfsd.2-0ubuntu1) of the merged GPL Ghostscript (branch "gs-esp-gpl-merger" from Ghostscript SVN). Agreed on package name and some features of the package with Debian maintainer Masayuki Hatta. Closes: LP#16206, LP#33255, LP#42446, LP#47432, LP#47458, LP#49704, LP#70545, LP#75894, LP#82813, LP#83769, LP#86741, LP#103595, LP#105752, LP#106759, LP#108159, LP#109304, LP#112094, LP#116027.
* Moved all still open bugs from gs-esp, gs-afpl, gs-gpl, and gs-common to ghostscript.
* Asked reporters of the bugs to test the new Ghostscript.
* Answered bug reports.

To do:
* Adjust dependencies of HPLIP package to new ghostscript package.
* Ubuntu package of cups-ddk

==== Tim Gardner (rtg) ====

General:
* Started working with some of the wireless folks on a frequency broker.
* Worked with Luis Rodriguez on the Atheros open source HAL project.

Kernel:
* More Edgy security updates
* Misc kernel patches.

==== Tollef Fog Heen (tfheen) ====

Done
* Ubuntu mobile packaging, bits are being prepared in bzr and trickling into the archive.
* Mentoring Adilson.
* Archive administration.

=== Actions ===

----
CategoryTemplate
