{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Developer Membership Board meeting, 2013-02-11 ==

Chair: Benjamin Drung

Members Present: Barry Warsaw, Benjamin Drung, Iain Lane, Micah Gersten, Stefano Rivera, Stéphane Graber

=== Review of previous action items ===

* Iain published the Dynamic PPU Procedure on DeveloperMembershipBoard/ApplicationProcess and UbuntuDevelopers.

* We voted on confirming the concluded re-staffing election
** Link: http://www.cs.cornell.edu/w8/~andru/cgi-perl/civs/results.pl?id=E_5b1837b9f3008750
** For: 6 Against: 0 Abstained: 0
** Action: Micah to announce the poll results

* Stéphane added Aron to a new input-methods packageset.

* We voted on delegating managing kernel upload rights to the kernel PPU team
** Link: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/Dev/UploadRights
** For: 6 Against: 0 Abstained: 0
** Action: Iain to do the paperwork for the kernel PPU team delegation

=== Chris J. Arges' application for Ubuntu Contributing Developer ===

Link: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/christopherarges/CoreDevApplication

Note: Chris changed his Core Dev application to an Ubuntu Contributing Developer application before the meeting.

The application was discussed and voted on: For: 6 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

Chris J. Arges was added to the Ubuntu Contributing Developer team, welcome! We are looking forward to his Core Dev application.

== Developer Membership Board meeting, 2013-02-25 ==

Chair: Micah Gersten

Members Present: Barry Warsaw, Benjamin Drung,  Micah Gersten, Scott Kitterman, Stefano Rivera, Stéphane Graber

Apologies: Iain Lane

=== Review of previous action items ===

* Micah to announce DMB poll results: Done
* Iain to do the paperwork for the kernel PPU team delegation: Done

=== MOTU Applications ===

==== Allison Randal ====
Link: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AllisonRandal/MOTU

The application was discussed and voted on: For: 6 Against: 0 Abstained: 1

==== Logan Rosen ====
Link: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoganRosen/MOTUApplication

The application was discussed and voted on: For: 6 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

=== Decouple PPU from Ubuntu membership (what needs to be done?) ===
The issue was discussed at great length.

* Micah to send summary of proposal to DMB list
