{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For archives of previous meetings, please see DevelTeamMeetings.

=== Apologies ===

* Daniel Holbach (dholbach) - out for the evening, on holiday tomorrow
* Simon Law (sfllaw) - off sick?

=== New Starters ===

* Tim Gardner (rtg)

=== Agenda ===

 1. Roll call
** Apologies
** Introduce new starters (if any)
 1. Review agenda
** Review activity reports
** Propose additional items
** Accept agenda
 1. UbuntuSpec:debian-maintainer-field (Martin Pitt):
** Do we want to use XSBC-Original-Maintainer (which works, modulo the small bug fix that is already prepared), or teach dpkg about a proper 'Original-Maintainer:' field?
** Can we find a sane method that dch can use to tell apart main from universe packages? If so, we could add an automatic change of [Original-]Maintainer:.
** For main packages, should we rather use ubuntu-devel-discuss@ instead of ubuntu-devel@? If so, we need to change and sign off the spec.
** Do we need to get all packages fixed in Feisty? IOW, do we need mass-uploads or can we just slowly migrate the fields over time?
** handling of addresses where source/binary are in different pockets; CORE address for packages in universe.
** Promotion/demotion invalidates the address.
# apport retracing (Martin Pitt): I didn't find time to continue working on the fakechroot solution that would provide a semi-automatic retracing service on the DC porter machines; however, a fair chunk of the work has already been done, I'd estimate some 15 work hours to finish it. How badly do we want it, with which priority shall I work on this?
# ISO release testing (Henrik Omma): I think we should decide before Beta whether we are going to actually use the Malone-based tracker. Are people comfortable with it or is the wiki better after all? Simon, Tollef: are you two leading beta release/testing together or do I have a key part in this (beyond the community-based contribution)?
# UbuntuSpec:increase-hwdb-participation (Sebastien Bacher): do we need a menu item for hwdb participation? that's something that is likely to be launched once only and will clutter the menu then
# Maintenance "costs" of python debug packages (Matthias Klose)
# Document bug escalation to release team (Tollef Fog Heen): Started, but I want to agree with Simon about it before writing it down on the wiki.
# Actions from previous meeting
** iwj and asac to talk about firefox packaging changes
** discuss adept-notifier integration of apport (pitti/Riddell)
** iwj to write up summary of experiences debugging udev
** tfheen to document bug escalation to release management
# Release readiness update
# Other business

=== Activity Reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

Done:
* initial firefox package from mozilla sources finalized.
* enigmail update for feisty
* community work
To do:
* prepare and test new upstream release for firefox and thunderbird
* ... probably support security upgrades as well
* make thunderbird use lastest upstream tarball
* ongoing tasks: working on bug 83118; communicate status updates - as soon as available - to community; document patches and prepare upstream submission; bug processing; community work

==== Ben Collins (BenC) ====

Specs:
* UbuntuSpec:driver-backports: Package uploaded. Still needs a test case.
* UbuntuSpec:linux-kernel-crash-dump: Still needs work. Should be done and uploaded by weekend.
* UbuntuSpec:ubiquity-driver-updates: Casper portion done. Ubiquity work in Colin's hands now. Involved debugging some problems in usplash, but those are fixed now in bzr.

Kernel:
* Some bug triaging
* Kernel team meeting.
* Various tidbits

==== Brian Murray (bdmurray) ====

Action Items:
* Awaiting debugging udev information

Bug triaging:
* Assigned packages to multiple bugs that had none i.e. were just filed against Ubuntu
* Updated bug count on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/AdoptPackage
* Modified https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs in the hopes that we will get better bug reports
* Experimented with using google to find bugs
* Solicited Debugging Printing information page
* Learned how to triage keyboard bugs thanks to Colin
* Helped out with Hugs Day

Bug helper:
* Started using --heuristic option to triage bugs w/o a package
* Found bughelper bug that discovered limitation of ~600 bugs per bugnumber run

Bug statistics:
* Modified bug statistic gathering - added some url queries thanks to new bugnumbers feature

Other:
* Packaged a new version of gnumeric for Feisty - resolving <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/61263|bug 61263]]</nowiki>
* Subscribed to Ubuntu desktop bugs mailing list

==== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ====

Bughelper:
* bughelper main inclusion report, python-launchpad-bugs enhancements, bughelper discussions with pitti, tested new apport-retrace
* fixed a couple of bughelper bugs, bughelper discussions, bughelper patch reviews
* wrote bughelper announce
* fixed last remaining 0.1 bughelper bug, wrote call for help with bughelper documentation
* chased down bughelper problem with traversing through big lists of bugs, bughelper discussions
* worked on making bughelper work properly with packages without sourcepackage
* added --upstream and --heuristic options to bughelper

GNOME 2.17.91 + Bug Triage

MOTU + Mentoring
* Package Reviews
* Help with Artwork Packaging (Oransoda -> Oransun, started on ubuntustudio packaging)
* couple of uploads and discussions with Ken
* MOTU meeting

Misc:
* Hardware Mangling: my AMD64 broke in the process of replacing a hard disk, I couldn't get it back to booting and bought a new one, set it up with feisty - I'm happy now
* Packaging: tapioca-qt update, looked into decibel update (investigated build problems with decibel upstream), penguintv update, gimmie repackaged, gnome-orca fix, glom update
* Status Update meeting
* Worked on Python Debug packaging with Matthias

==== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ====

* Worked from Montr√©al on internal projects.

==== Henrik Omma (heno) ====

This week:

* Spoke with Steve and Barry about Ubuntu and Launchpad
  - I gave the impression that Malone is probably the most important tool for us and that we were able you get our views on that across well at the sprint; they do plan to hire more people to work on Malone. Tell me if there are other key points I should put across.
  - Again, if there are small but annoying LP bugs we care about we should let them know (for FixItFridays)
  - Talked about performance; they are planning to move common web elements from HTTPS to HTTP in the longer term, which will allow caching (I asked because I find that I have to configure Firefox explicitly to allow caching of SSL items to get decent load times)
  - Barry will start working on XML output from Launchpad

* Life in the forums
  - People are doing some tests and reporting results in the forums, and filing bugs in Launchpad when asked. They are not really using the tracker bugs set up for Herd 3. Some people rsync and test daily images regularly
  - Posters seem generally pleased with the way the Feisty release is developing

* Fixed and followed up various a11y bugs

* Did some Ubiquity bug triage

* Wrote documentation for bughelper to prepare for the 0.1 release

==== Ian Jackson (iwj) ====

Specs:
* UbuntuSpec:automated-testing:
  I'm well stuck into debugging the new autopkgtest functionality. Current most recent milestone is that it successfully ran debian/rules binary on the package under test but then got confused about the resulting .debs.  My python code had a rather higher bug density than would be ideal but at least they're usually trivial. Oh for a static checker of some kind.  Thanks to mvo with assistance regarding gdebi.
* UbuntuSpec:udev-device-mapper, UbuntuSpec:udev-lvm, UbuntuSpec:udev-mdadm, UbuntuSpec:udev-evms
  I had to tidy up a few loose ends (err, that is to say bugs and misbehaviours).  There are still some mdadm users with odd symptoms. If you are affected please get in touch.
* dpkg triggers: in pre-feisty+1-spec discussion
  Discussion is ongoing.  The Debian TeX maintainers have pointed out some difficulties in applying my original design to solve their problem, and some further thought is needed.

Deferred:
* UbuntuSpec:winmodem-support: put aside in favour of automated-testing
* UbuntuSpec:consistent-login-screen: insufficient priority; very probably !feisty
* UbuntuSpec:package-dependency-field-breaks: nothing more needed for feisty.
* UbuntuSpec:suggest-packages-for-filetypes: completed earlier (thanks everyone)

Done:
* Chasing after udev libx86 usplash bug
* Expenses and other administrivia which I'd put off until after FF
* Discussion of MainInclusionTemplate etc.
* Away (leave) on 2007-02-09.

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

Done:
* Testing apport-qt, seems to work well so I put it in the seeds.  Now it needs adept-notifier to watch for crash reports.
* Backporting patches for the dist-upgrade tool.  Following reservations last week I had another go at backporting the embedded konsole into pykde and it works well so now it's just patches to four packages not complete backports.
* Packaging KOffice 1.6.2, works well, will be asking for UVFe.
* Testing candidate for Herd 4 and resizing CDs to fit in.
* Started the advanced partitioner in KDE Ubiquity
Todo:
* Tidy up dist-upgrade tool backports following review from pitti.
* Finish advanced partitioner in KDE Ubiquity (on par with GTK frontend)
* Add apport watch to adept-notifier
* E-mail catchup

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

Done:
* Finished the Usplash/Grub look for Herd4 (need to put the Grub pic in the right place yet).
* Spent quite a bit of time with the ubuntu-art community people in chat and emails working on various issues (apport icons, updater-notifier icons, usplash and desktop wallpaper).
* Tweaked the Wallpaper, included it in Herd4
* Worked on a few other wallpaper ideas
* Created a GDM proposal, put logo from Usplash on that, worked on the logo to make it look good on a light background.
* Created an Usplash look for Edubuntu
* Tweaked the Kubuntu logo from Edgy
Todo:
* Kubuntu artwork - putting tweaked logo in different places
* Finish making the new 3D logo fit on a lighter BG for GDM and Gnome Desktop Splash.
* Bang my head against the GDM XML wall - seriously ugly xml, lots of it useless. I'd like to replace the square box around the login text-entry box 
with a rounded box.
* GDM Gnome Splash: adapt parts/ideas from the wallpaper, use new logo, etc.
Issues:
* Need to determine which resolutions would be best to include in the Usplash - the file is SVG so it is only a matter of exporting to the right sizes. Probably a good idea to support two wide-screen apect ratios.

==== Kyle McMartin (kylem) ====

* Bug work for the majority of time
* dapper-security merge with -proposed and prepare for upload
* Tracking mpt sas RAID discovery failure on dapper
* rtl8180 oops debugging (hw on the way)
* Reviewing dscape merge from mjg59 (dadwifi, iwlwifi)
* Investigating Host Protected Area support for libata
* Flagging patches from linux-kernel for inclusion & new drivers
* Closing some bugs I forgot to close after uploads
* Use PCI Direct access by default, instead of tetchy MMCONFIG
* Attempting to debug wbsd card reader on amd64 (need HW likely)

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

Spec status:
* UbuntuSpec:debian-maintainer-field: (recently assigned to me) 
** prepared new dpkg with the check for correct Maintainer: field handling and a necessary bug fix; will upload after Herd-4 freeze
** wrote a script to do a possible mass-upload transition; needs a little tweak for fixing debian/control.in as well, but works otherwise
** setting to BLOCKED: needs discussion, needs archive unfreeze
* all other specs are implemented

Non-spec things that might be interesting for others:
* apport-retrace now takes a bug number and works for new-style bug reports. Enjoy!
* Got apport-qt working and in the archive; Riddell and I discussed adept-notifier integration, he thinks the update-notifier code is reasonably easy to port.

==== Matthias Klose (doko) ====

Specs:
* UbuntuSpec:openoffice-spellchecking - Packages are in the archive, status set to "Implemented"
* UbuntuSpec:feisty-toolchain - Mostly implemented; rebuild of all remaining packages depending on packages changed for the ldbl128 change is still outstanding (A large percentage of packages will be rebuilt for the maintainer changes anyway; do the rest after that).
* gcc-4.1.2 final release packaged. Packages ready for upload after the Herd freeze (gcc-4.1, gcj-4.1, gnat-4.1).
* gcj-4.1 ecj-generics backport: No progress on the OOo failure on installation yet. Current status is set to "Beta Available"
* UbuntuSpec:feisty-python-roadmap - Mostly implemented; outstanding issues:
** build debug extensions for extensions found in main; still planning for feisty; should be safe, because code is only added, not modified or removed.
** Status: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PyDbgBuilds, about 25 packages rebuilt; need another 15 to have debug support for the gtk/gnome applications.
** Installation destinations: retarget for feisty+1
* UbuntuSpec:feistyplusone-toolchain-roadmap - Currently (intentionally) blocked on test rebuilds (buildd infrastructure).
Done:
* gcc-4.1 final packages, updating patches.
* fix the pythonX.Y-dbg packages, build debug extensions for about 25 extension packages.
* Get rid of libjaxp1.2-java, libgnuinet-java, libgnucrypto-java from main
* Update gcj generics backport: <pre>
deb http://people.ubuntu.com/~doko/ubuntu/ feisty/$(ARCH)/
deb http://people.ubuntu.com/~doko/ubuntu/ feisty/all/
</pre>
* OOo update.
* some bug processing

==== Michael Vogt (mvo) ====

Specs:
* AutomaticUpgradeTesting:
** run on my home machine to test edgy->feisty, reported or fixed the problems I founs
** ran a autotest for dapper->feisty (because its easy to do with the auto-upgrade-tester) 
** still blocked on deployment in the data center
* DynamicMirrorDecisions:
** waiting for the server side getting implemented
* DistUpgraderImprovements:
** requested backport for feisty apt feature DPkg::StopOnError (#85207) to edgy
** use dpkg-distaddfile in the update-manager build to get the thing build in a more standard way
* ServerUpgradeTool:
** backport for the commandline tool available in http://people.ubuntu.com/~mvo/backports/update-manager/edgy/ 
** needs testing and then a SRU (just adds a package, no existing code is touched)

Misc:
* lots of bug-triage and bugfixes (I'm still not ahead of my buglist :/)
* app-install-data updated/reviewed/popcon added
** improved the changelog parser in update-manager so that bug and cve entries are clickable
* work on the apt translated description rosetta import/export (problems because of uri changes in rosetta)
* fix ucf to not freeze upgrades 
* merged vte and ported keep_fd patch, debugged why it failed and fixed problem that changed semantics in vte_terminal_fork_command()

==== Oliver Grawert (ogra) ====

Done:
* get packages ready for feature freeze 
* bug hunt in gnome-screensaver and gnome-power-manager (and hal)
* enable ltsp webkiosk plugin (as a consolation for the deferred fat client spec)
* various upstream package updates (dia, gpm, gss)
* various thin-client-manager bughunting sessions and vnc tests
* herd4 preparation

Todo:
* more ltsp and powermanager bugfixing
* ltsp-manager bugfixing
* get the serveraddon CD in shape
* some artwork related work on ldm (svg based themes)
* preparation for edulinux meeting (feb 21-25 in italy)

==== Phillip Lougher (pkl) ====

* Mainly bug triaging.  Fixed a couple of driver bugs.
* Getting used to how working is done at Ubuntu.
* Kernel team meeting.

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

* Desktop bugs triage work:
  - managed to reply to most of the new bugs and keep the bugs mail backlog around 40 unread mails for the week
  - reassigned some of the bugs without a package to the correct place
  - closed a bunch of bugs fixed with the GNOME updates from the week
  - did some cleanup

* Desktop packaging:
  - packaged GNOME 2.17.91
  - fixed a bunch of bugs for herd4

* Meeting item:
  - do we need a menu item for hwdb participation? that's something that is likely to be launched once only and will cluter the menu then

==== Simon Law (sfllaw) ====

~+'''NO REPORT RECEIVED.'''+~

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

Done:
* Discussion with cjwatson and pitti about distribution-independent printer driver packages and how to generate a Ubuntu package from them
* Updated foomatic-db-hpijs and foomatic-db packages to get PPDs for all printers supported by HPLIP 1.7.1
* Updated foomatic-db package to rename sub packages from linuxprinting.org-* to openprinting-*, corresponding to the new site name
* Updated hplip package to include HP's official 1.7.1-1 patch and to make setting up fax queues with gnome-cups-manager and CUPS web interface working
* Answered bug reports.

To do:
* Continue on distribution-independent printer driver package stuff

==== Tollef Fog Heen (tfheen) ====

Specs:
* UbuntuSpec:changelog-closes-bugs: Really fixed this.
* UbuntuSpec:network-roaming: No further progress, herd 3 is taking up much time.
Misc:
* archive admin, herd 3 preparations.

=== Actions ===

* iwj to write up summary of experiences debugging udev
* heno, tfheen, pitti etc. to discuss and prepare status overview page for ISO tests
* mvo/pitti to review options for hwdb notifications
* upload firefox (pitti, asac)
* iwj to write up summary of experiences debugging udev
* cjwatson, tfheen to move powerpc out of standard cdimage set

----
CategoryTemplate
