{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For archives of previous meetings, please see DevelTeamMeetings.

=== Apologies ===

* Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) - on holiday
* Oliver Grawert (ogra) - travelling
* Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) - off sick

=== Agenda ===

 1. Roll call
** Apologies
** Introduce new starters (if any)
 1. Review agenda
** Review activity reports
** Propose additional items
** Accept agenda
** (pitti) compiz in main or universe, and integration into live system
** (pitti) packaging of beryl, get it into universe
<pre>
<sabdfl> yes for drivers, activation through the GUI
<sabdfl> no for compiz/beryl, but definitely into universe, activation through the GUI
<sabdfl> want both compiz and beryl
<sabdfl> i'm happy for them BOTH to be in universe, two commands to activate
<pitti> what about installing desktop-effects alone and integrate package installation into its GUI?
<sabdfl> right, maybe
</pre>
** (mvo) More people in the SRU verification-needed -> verification-done team? (the step after a fix was uploaded to -proposed, but before it can go to -updates).
** (bdmurray) How to deal with beryl bugs
** (bdmurray) Bug 83726 and similars - power saving mode in Live CD
 1. Actions from previous meeting
** iwj to write up summary of experiences debugging udev
 1. Release readiness update
** progress on ISO testing status overview page
 1. Other business

=== Activity Reports ===

==== Alexander Sack (asac) ====

Progress:
* my first firefox feisty update landed
* prepared firefox/thunderbird security updates; waiting for 2.0.0.2
* prepared thunderbird package with official branding; waiting for 1.5.0.10
* enigmail security upgrades prepared (will hopefully be sponsored Thu)
* mozilla team meeting ... among other things, it was discussed to setup a regular question hour, where team members can get introduction on packaging things from me.
* bugs, bugs, bugs

==== Ben Collins (BenC) ====

Specs:
* UbuntuSpec:linux-kernel-crash-dump: Final testing of userspace this week. Upload this weekend.

Kernel:
* Lots of bug triaging
* Lots of kernel source work (bug fixing)
* Held first public Ubuntu Kernel Team meeting

==== Brian Murray (bdmurray) ====

Bug triaging:
* Assigned packages to multiple bugs that had none i.e. were just filed against Ubuntu
* Updated bug reporting section of update-manager Release Announcement
* Hardware certification meeting
* Hardware certification bug research and triaging
* Review and modification of wiki updates of Bug Squad pages

Bug helper:
* Started using --count feature of bugnumbers to find bugs with lots of comments
* Merged --count feature of bugnumbers and fixed issue with it

Other:
* Subscribed to Ubuntu bugs mailing list
* Worked with over zealous bug triager

==== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ====

Misc:
* pilot-link sync, bluez-libs update, bluez-utils update, looked into dbus-python build problem, bluez-{libs,utils} fixes, telepathy-python update
* Free day on Friday
* Got Ill again! YAY!

GNOME:
* gnome-mag fix, looked into gucharmap update, prepared regexxer update, gthumb update, glom update, dbus-python update
* looked into gnome-menus build problem

Bug Triage:
* stopped trying to catch up with desktop-bugs@lists.ubuntu.com
* work down the list on http://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/BugState instead
* wrote bits of bugsquad documentation

MOTU:
* MOTU Council preparation and bootstrapping
* MOTU Council documentation
* motu-uvf exceptions
* did a couple of reviews (glassfish and netbeans among them)
* MOTU Mentoring

Artwork:
* worked some more on ubuntustudio-artwork packaging
* artwork discussions with the ubuntustudio folks
* artwork packaging

Bughelper:
* bughelper patch review
* bughelper upload

==== Henrik Omma (heno) ====

ISO test tracking
* Further planning of how ISO test tracking should be done for the major Feisty releases (beta+)
* Prepared mock-up static web pages for tracking test status
* Started on a simple script to generate the tracking page from the test schedule and the launchpad data. It mostly does the right thing, but needs some love.

WinFOSS updates
* Worked on updating Ubuntu and Kubuntu
* Kubuntu WinFOSS was reduced from 69 to 47 MB by removing Kexi, KDE-PIM and speedcrunch; Ubuntu stays roughly the same size at 45 MB
* Oli: Does Edubuntu need a set this time? If so, what are the space constraints?
* I haven't updated any artwork yet. Should coordinate the time lines with kwwii on this

==== Ian Jackson (iwj) ====

This week I have been working on:
* automated-testing: The new autopkgtest functionality is basically working and I'm currently fixing a few bugs exposed by Martin Pitt's patches to add tests to dovecot (an example package for which security testing would be relevant).  This should be reasonably stable by the time of the meeting.  I now need to talk to Martin about the best way to expose the new facility for security and SRU tests.

I haven't touched any other specs this week and haven't done very much besides the above and general email catch-up.

I will be away on leave on Friday (the 23rd).

Less-notable activities:
* Did some work on vim update-alternatives bug (LP#84906).
* Discussions about UbuntuSpec:debian-maintainer-field spec.
* Probably some other random IRC discussions.

==== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ====

Done:
* libkexiv review
* koffice 1.6.2 packaging
* implement changes to adept-notifier for Apport support in Kubuntu
* fix bug in knetworkmanager where static config option would sometimes not appear
* tidy up dist-upgrade tool patches for edgy

Specs:
* UbuntuSpec:kubuntu-feisty-ubiquity: implement advanced partitioner for KDE frontend (still partition bar to be done)
* UbuntuSpec:kubuntu-feisty-kde4-plan: KDE 4 snapshot made a surprise appearance, have started packaging it per the spec.  it's universe only and clearly marked as testing so it shouldn't be an issue for any freeze

Blocked:
* waiting on further approval for dist-upgrade patches to upload to edgy-proposed and start wider testing (bug 84717)

==== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ====

This Week:
* Finished the basic gdm work - perfecting logo and bg combination next
* made very basic ideas on gnome splash
* furthered work on kubuntu logo
* various community based initiatives

Next week:
* Finish Kubuntu work
* Finish Edubuntu LDM work
* Finish GDM and hopefully gnome splash

==== Kyle McMartin (kylem) ====

* Work on supporting Host Protected Area with libata
* Testing said code... and fixing disk after truncating it to 0 sectors
* Preparing kernel upload for dapper-proposed

==== Martin Pitt (pitti) ====

In this week I mostly worked on non-spec churn (security updates, MIR,
archive admin, SRU, bug fixing), so not too much interesting stuff
this time.

Spec status:
* UbuntuSpec:debian-maintainer-field: dpkg changes are in the archive; we need to rebuild ~ 100 source packages to get correct Maintainer: fields for all feisty/main debs. The ones that won't sort out itself soon (like the large bunch of X.org drivers) will be done by me in small chunks by the beta release (I already started with this, but currently being blocked by archive.u.c. not being reachable from the DC machines).
* UbuntuSpec:increase-hwdb-participation: implemented new approach that we agreed to last week (thanks to mvo for fixing a few update-notifier features for this to work). Works fine now in installed system, but I'm still debugging why it doesn't appear on the live system. Should be fixed in the next week.

Non-spec things that might be interesting for others:
* checked php4 reverse dependencies, only 13 left; asked ubuntu-motu@ for support/interest to fix, will remove php4 by feisty beta.

==== Matthias Klose (doko) ====

spec status:
* UbuntuSpec:feisty-toolchain-roadmap - Implemented, testing gcj backport.
** No change: rebuild of all remaining packages depending on packages changed for the ldbl128 change is still outstanding (A large percentage of packages will be rebuilt for the maintainer changes anyway; do the rest after that).
** maintainer-change uploads are started. Do the outstanding rebuilds next week.
** gcc-4.1.2 final release uploaded.
** gcj-4.1 ecj-generics backport: packages now available for all release architectures (plus powerpc): <pre>
deb http://people.ubuntu.com/~doko/ubuntu/ feisty/$(ARCH)/
deb http://people.ubuntu.com/~doko/ubuntu/ feisty/all/
</pre>
** Eclipse builds, OOo rebuilds are running, all other main java builds. welcome 5.0 compatibility.
* UbuntuSpec:feisty-python-roadmap - setting the spec to Implemented:
** build debug extensions for extensions found in main: Done (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PyDbgBuilds). There are some packages not rebuilt, which are applications or not used. Identified two problems with the dbg builds in python2.4 and pyorbit.
** Installation destinations: retarget for feisty+1
* UbuntuSpec:feistyplusone-toolchain-roadmap - Currently (intentionally) blocked on test rebuilds (buildd infrastructure). Can reproduce the OOo build failure on amd64. No progress on the OOo failure on installation yet.
* other issues:
** OOo build failure on faure with SMP kernel. same problem again as in edgy. BLOCKER. rt ticket & BenC mailed.
** Identified the OOo build failure on amd64 (compiler error). Investigating.

activity:
* some python dbg packages built and uploaded
* gcc-4.1 updates, gcj generics backport
* bug triage for python related packages in main
* other bug fixes, UVF exceptions and uploads

==== Michael Vogt (mvo) ====

Specs:
* UbuntuSpec:automatic-upgrade-testing: its moving! Nick setup a initial version (thanks!). The first results should be available at meeting time. It will run out of cron and the logs+summary will be available as a website. Now that its going forward I plan to add more tests next week (prepared something this week already)
* UbuntuSpec:update-manager-improvements: DPkg::StopOnErrors patch SRU ready for edgy-proposed, will do the upload before the meeting
* UbuntuSpec:increased-hwdb-participation: discussion with pitti, added some feature to the upgrade hooks to make them better suited for the task

Bug triage:
* doing a massive catchup with my bug list
* lots of fixes in gdebi, update-manager, update-notifier, synaptic, apt, gnome-app-install, software-properties

Misc:
* fixed resource leak in g-a-i, massive speedup for codec/mime invocation mode
* debugged/fixed nasty synaptic segfault
* will go to FOSDEM over the weekend to talk about incremental package updates (pdiff, zsync, apt-sync)

==== Oliver Grawert (ogra) ====

~+'''NO REPORT RECEIVED.'''+~ (will send later)

==== Phillip Lougher (pkl) ====

Kernel:
* A lot of bug triaging
* Some kernel source submits (bug fixes)
* public Kernel Team meeting

==== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ====

Desktop work and triage:
* keep fighting with the flood of bugs, managed to keep the backlog under 100
* a bunch of desktop package updates
* fixed some bugs, backported patches from upstream
* wrote a call for desktop bugs cleanup mail and started working on cleaning the packages bugs lists for feisty

Archive admin:
* regular binary NEW processing for the new python dbg packages uploaded by doko
* syncs, binary NEW and source NEW cleaning
* looked at packages with a new bug fix revision to Debian and synced a bunch of them

xorg 7.2:
* did some of the syncs, looked at updates and tested them before upload

==== Simon Law (sfllaw) ====

~+'''NO REPORT RECEIVED.'''+~

==== Till Kamppeter (tkamppeter) ====

Done:
* Reported bugs encountered when attaching an external monitor to a laptop: bug 86258, bug 86262, bug 86266 => adding/changing a monitor on a Feisty box is far from user-friendly.
* Reported paper size handling bug in evince: bug 86749
* Fixed foomatic-rip bug upstream (package will come soon): bug 85569
* Reported several HPLIP and CUPS bugs upstream, fixes announced an partially tested by the original bug reporters: bug 57050, bug 85339, bug 85805
* Worked on downloadable driver packages: Support from the OpenPrinting database
* Answered bug reports

Todo:
* Continue on distribution-independent printer driver package stuff

==== Tim Gardner (rtg) ====

* Worked on learning how to build the various kernel flavors, the Ubuntu/Debian way as well as vanilla kernels. Struggled (not entirely successfully) to overcome the git learning curve.
* Pursued a suspend problem on my Dell XPS that began sometime after Ubuntu-2.6.17-10.34 and before v2.6.18. I believe it is probably related to many other Launchpad bugs about suspend.
* Assigned all suspend related Launchpad problems to me.
* Downloaded ACPI spec. I'm going to become an expert...
* Bugged BenC about a thousand times.

==== Tollef Fog Heen (tfheen) ====

* Archive administration
* Bits of herd 4 release cleanup, including some long-standing other cdimage cleanups.
* Release management, UVF exceptions

=== Actions ===

* iwj to write up summary of experiences debugging udev
* mvo and pitti to discuss new SRU process, update wiki
* Tollef to update FreezeExceptionProcess, particularly to send requests to the release team
