{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''DMB Meeting, March 16th, 2010'''

* Chair: Michael Bienia
* Present: Colin Watson, Emmet Hikory, Stéphane Graber, Richard Johnson
* Absent: Cody Somerville, Soren Hansen
* Action review:
** '''[ACTION]''' Richard Johnson, Soren Hansen and Colin Watson send the missing votes
* MOTU Application: Angel Abad
** Angel Abad's application is incomplete and there seems to be some misunderstandings about the process
** '''[ACTION]''' Emmet Hikory contacts Angel Abad about his application
* Ubuntu Core Developer Application: Benjamin Drung
** After helping clearing the Ubuntu universe sponsoring queue, Benjamin plans to also help with the Ubuntu main sponsoring queue.
** Approved: 5 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Welcome!
* Chair for the next meeting: Richard Johnson (fallback: Stéphane Graber)

'''DMB Meeting, March 20th, 2010'''

* Chair: Richard Johnson
* Present: Colin Watson, Stéphane Graber, Cody Somerville, Soren Hansen
* Absent: Emmet Hikory
* Action Review:
** '''[ACTION]''' Emmet Hikory to follow up on contacting Angel Abad about application
** '''[ACTION]''' Remove DMB from Core Dev team, make it the owner and not a member. This way, becoming a DMB member doesn't automatically make you a Core Dev (Completed)
** '''[ACTION]''' Set contact address for ~ubuntu-dev to ubuntu-reviews mailing list on lists.ubuntu.com. James Westby filed a question on LP to ask a LOSA to disentangle the already registered contact address. https://answers.edge.launchpad.net/launchpad/+question/106006
* Per Package Upload (Linux Kernel): Leann Ogasawara
** Leann recently transitioned from Kernel QA/Triage to a full Kernel developer position. Leann has been busy processing CVEs in regards to the kernel.
** Approved: 5 for, 1 abstained. Welcome!
* Ubuntu Core Developer Application: Jonathan Thomas
** Jonathan is a Kubuntu developer and upstream KDE developer who has been doing an amazing job with his daily work on Kubuntu. Jonathan decided to apply for Core Developer due to some Kubuntu packages not being in the package set.
** Waiting for approval: Votes as of 2010-03-30 @ 18:00 UTC are: 3 for, 3 abstained. Awaiting vote via email from Emmet Hikory
* Char for the next meeting to be determined via mailing list
* Log: http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-meeting.20100330_1006.html
