{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Personal details ==
* Name: Devid Antonio Filoni
* Country: Italy
* Born in: 1991

=== Contacts ===
* E-mail address: d.filoni@ubuntu.com
* IRC: devfil or dfiloni on network irc.freenode.net
* Launchpad profile:  https://launchpad.net/~d.filoni

== Ubuntu activities ==
I joined Ubuntu on December 2006 with Ubuntu 6.10 "''The Edgy Eft''".<<BR>>
After some months I created an <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~d.filoni|account]]</nowiki> on Launchpad to help on translations. I also created an <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/DevidAntonioFiloni|account]]</nowiki> in <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/|ubuntu-it wiki]]</nowiki>, then I joined <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/NewsletterItaliana/Crediti|Ubuntu Italian Newsletter team]]</nowiki> and Full Circle Magazine Italian Translators team. After a long time of works, I decided to leave FCM team.
<<BR>>Later I started to work on patches, create new packages, etc... On February 2008 I joined <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-it-dev|Ubuntu Italian Developers team]]</nowiki>.<<BR>>
Now I continue to translate on Rosetta or translate <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoTraduzione/ToDo|other pages]]</nowiki> for the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-it.org/|Ubuntu Italian Community]]</nowiki>, to write for the Ubuntu Italian Newsletter (if I have time) and my packaging activities.<<BR>>
I will continue to help Ubuntu 'cause it offers me a great OS, friends, knowledge, etc.. I'm thankful to Ubuntu for all this.
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~d.filoni/+packages|Ubuntu packages]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~d.filoni/|Related bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/~d.filoni/|Translated packages]]</nowiki>

=== Ubuntu Italian Community ===
* Member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-it-dev|Ubuntu Italian Developers]]</nowiki>
* Member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-it-l10n|Traduttori Italiani del software di Ubuntu]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuItalianTranslators|Ubuntu Italian Translators]]</nowiki>)
* Member of Newsletter Italiana di Ubuntu (Ubuntu Italian Newsletter)
=== Cheers for Ubuntu Membership ===

* I would like to sponsor Devid for his membership, he is a very hard worker and a good MOTU contributor. I'm on charge of Ubuntu Italian Promoters and <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-it/+spec/newsletter-it|Italian Newsletter]]</nowiki> is a project of the team. Devid does a great job as writer for the Newsletter. His work on the Italian Community is invaluable. -- PalmaSalvatore 
* Recently, Devid started his journey in MOTU Land, he pushed excellent contributions into the archives (including some high-difficult packages such as wxwidgets2.8, which required three MOTUs to be sure everything was OK, and it was!). He is very active in early Intrepid development cycle, and his patches have been top-notch. He really deserves to be Ubuntu Member -- LucaFalavigna

* I would like to sponsor Devid for his membership, he is a very hard worker and a good MOTU contributor. He's involved in Ubuntu Italian Translator Team too and he's doing a good job. His work on the Italian community is very very good! -- NaldiniPaolo 
* I would like to sponsor Devid for all the works he's been doing and he does for the community, Italian and international. He's active in the Italian newsletter, the Italian version of the UWN, and is a good translator too. -- Milo 
* I want to sponsor Devid for all the works he has done for the Italian Wiki, he's contributing to the Italian LoCoTeam growth everyday. -- AlessioTreglia 
* I would like to sponsor Devid for all the work he does for the Italian Newsletter. His work in the Italian Community is simply great! -- DanielSchwitzgebel <<DateTime>>

== Debian activities ==
* <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=d.filoni@ubuntu.com|Debian packages]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=d.filoni@techemail.com|Other Debian packages]]</nowiki>
==== Packaging activity ====
* Maintainer of <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/msn-pecan|msn-pecan]]</nowiki> package
* Maintainer of <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/ircp-tray|ircp-tray]]</nowiki> package
* I'm also the Debian maintainer of many other packages...
