{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== About Me ==

Hiya.  My name is John O'Hara and I live in Southern NJ.  I've been into computers and game systems for as long as I can remember and do repairs in my local area for several clients.  I am currently migrating all my home systems, including my sons laptop, to Ubuntu linux.  I'm a member of the New Jersey LoCo team at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewJerseyTeam/Team and hope to be more active in the community in spreading the word about linux.

{*} AIM : Hadakakorosu or Lordbalance

{*} ICQ : 246521380 or 147486282

== I am usually in the following IRC channels on irc.freenode.net ==

{*} #Ubuntu

{*} #ubuntu-us-pa

{*} #ubuntu-us-nj

{*} #Hardware

{*} #Networking

{*} #Windows

{*} #Wrongplanet

== Current projects I am working on... ==

* Making a helical coil antenna such as http://www.wireless.org.au/~jhecker/helix/ or http://helix.remco.tk/
* Dealing with a spare 80GB SATA drive, Athlon XP 2800+, Socket A motherboard, 1 128MB and 1 256MB DDR DIMM, and a SATA PCI RAID 3 card with 64MB cache (any takers?)

== My hobbies ==

* Bass Playing
* Guitar Hero III on the Wii
* Sci-Fi
* My Family, of course ;)

== Current Systems ==

* P4 3.2Ghz PC running Windows 7 Ultimate
* ASUS Eee PC 1005HAB-BLU001X-FR Blue Intel Atom N270(1.60GHz) 10.1" 1GB DDR2 Memory 160GB HDD Netbook - Ubuntu Netbook 10.10
* AMD 7750 Black Edition 2.7Ghz Dual core with 8GB DDR2, 640GB WD Caviar Green HD, and Radeon 5770 1GB - Windows 7 Ultimate and Ubuntu 10.10
* Toshiba c655d-s5057 2.1Ghz AMD Athlon II Dual Core with 4GB DDR3, 250GB HD, and Radeon 4250 - Ubuntu 10.10 and Windows 7 Ultimate
* Celeron M 1.6Ghz Laptop running Ubuntu 9.10 and Windows 7 Ultimate
