{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About Me ===

Dariusz Gadomski

I started being interested in Linux in early 2000s. The first distro I used was !RedHat 7.2. I pretty quickly realized I want to connect my professional career with Linux and free software.

Very enthusiastically I started exploring the options by trying Slackware, PLD, Fedora & Gentoo. In the past I have been working with several different Linux-based technologies (desktop, Meego, Android). The experience over the years resulted in joining Canonical as a member of the Sustaining Engineering team in 2014.

It is a great adventure so far allowing me to explore a wide variety of components from a troubleshooting point of view.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| dgadomski on freenode, canonical
|-
| Email
| dariusz.gadomski@canonical.com
|-
| Website
| https://launchpad.net/~dgadomski
|}

=== Applications ===

* <nowiki>[[dgadomski-UbuntuSRUDeveloperApplication|SRU Developer]]</nowiki>

=== Contributions ===

* <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Dariusz+Gadomski&sponsoree_search=name | My Uploads (sponsoree)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~dgadomski/+uploaded-packages | Launchpad Uploaded packages]]</nowiki>

=== Testimonials ===

'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".
