{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''I, Dariusz Gadomski, apply for SRU developer rights.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Dariusz Gadomski
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~dgadomski
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/dgadomski
|}

I am applying because:

''Remove any reasons that don't apply, add any extra reasons and edit as
needed. These examples are the common cases, but are not a hard requirement for applications.''

* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.

== Who I am ==
I started being interested in Linux in early 2000s. The first distro I used was !RedHat 7.2. I pretty quickly realized I want to connect my professional career with Linux and free software. Very enthusiastically I started exploring the options by trying Slackware, PLD, Fedora & Gentoo.

In the past I have been working with several different Linux-based technologies (desktop, Meego, Android). My experience over the years resulted in joining Canonical as a member of the Sustaining Engineering team in 2014.

It is a great adventure so far allowing me to explore a wide variety of components from a troubleshooting point of view.

== My Ubuntu story ==
My first contact with Ubuntu was 5.04. After an unfortunate HDD failure killing my fine-tuned Gentoo deployment, a friend of mine from the university handed me a CD in a pretty case with an intriguing name on it: Ubuntu. I was delighted with most things I needed working out of the box, with the amount of information I could find on forums and with how well the distro looked without any adjustments (compared to many competitors at the time). I remained loyal to Ubuntu, as it has never failed me.

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

* <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Dariusz+Gadomski&sponsoree_search=name | My Uploads (sponsoree)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~dgadomski/+uploaded-packages | Launchpad Uploaded packages]]</nowiki>

<<BR>>

* [systemd] pam_group.so is not evaluated by gnome-terminal (investigation & fixing upstream) https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1762391 
* [cups] !PreserveJobHistory and !PreserveJobLog do not respect numeric input as outlined in the docs (investigation and fixing) https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1747765
* [cups] Extremely high memory consumption under heavy workload (investigation) https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1831021
* [gdm] GDM blocks SIGUSR1 used in PAM scripts (investigation) https://launchpad.net/bugs/1782152
* [pcp] [MIR] pcp package https://launchpad.net/bugs/1700827 (upstreamed autopkgtests, investigated MIR possibility, discussed with upstream, MIR was cancelled after security reviews)
* [cups] ACCESS_DENIED with symlinks within a root ("/") share (investigation) https://launchpad.net/bugs/1702529
* [gdm] Fails to start with "Couldn't open libGL.so.1" (missing dependency?)  (investigation and upstream cooperation) https://launchpad.net/bugs/1550983
* [policykit-1] !PolkitAgentSession incorrectly handles multiline output (as observed with pam_vas) (investigation and fixing upstream) https://launchpad.net/bugs/1510824
* [gnome-desktop3] Incorrect information about display shown in gnome/unity-control-center (investigation and fixing) https://launchpad.net/bugs/1755490
* [network-manager] vlan created on bond fails auto activation on updating parent network bond (backporting) https://launchpad.net/bugs/1790098

=== Areas of work ===
Originally I have been mainly focusing on desktop bugs, especially those important to Canonical’s Ubuntu Advantage customers, but over the years I have been gradually extending my field of work to other areas including server/userspace and even cloud (e.g. Ceph).

=== Things I could do better ===
I could definitely get more involved in local Ubuntu and Linux communities. There are many events in my area that I could advocate more for Ubuntu at.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
Keep improving Ubuntu and participate in making Ubuntu out of the box experience as good as possible.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
I am sensitive to the paper-cut type of issues. With a such enormous codebase it's very hard to make sure all the wrinkles are ironed out. I try to step in whenever I notice one of those: outdated manpages, a deprecated command-line option still listed as such, missing UI widget that would save a user from opening the terminal to get their job done, etc. I believe paying attention to small things like that significantly affects the perception of the quality the whole product.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

I've been working with Dariusz for the last 2 years, in the Sustaining Engineering group. I can say his broad area of experience and attention to details are really impressive - I never faced somebody with so deep knowledge in Desktop aspects like printers, window managers and so on. Not only that, but he's always helpful in all areas by learning new things and be willing to help. As a person, difficult to find somebody with so many good puns and a unique contagious sharp humor. One can count on him for any Ubuntu-related work - I'm glad to see this application and I'm sure he'll do a great job as SRU developer (and even coredev in future). -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:gpiccoli]]</nowiki> 
----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''
=== slashd ===
==== General feedback ====
The packages I've sponsored and other updates I've seen from Dariusz were always high quality. 
Dariusz has a great attention to detail and he his always willing to ask question when in doubt. 

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I've been working with Dariusz for the past 6 years now, both in the same team, the "Sustaining Engineering Group" at Canonical.
Over the years, I have sponsored packages such as "samba", "cups", "sysstat" and "gdm3" to only name those ones. 
Dariusz has been actively involved in the SRU world since 2014 and there is no doubt in my mind that he will be a great asset to the SRU Developer team. 
 
==== Areas of Improvement ====
As a next step for Dariusz, I would like to see more involvement in development release aspect (merge, sync, ...)

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:slashd]]</nowiki> 
=== ddstreet ===
==== General feedback ====
I have worked with dgadomski since I joined Canonical in 2015, and have worked with him on several bugfixes as well as sponsoring several of his uploads.  In all cases he's very knowledgeable and I believe more than capable of delivering quality bugfixes to all SRU releases.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I've sponsored <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=dan+streetman&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=dariusz+gadomski&sponsoree_search=name|these packages]]</nowiki>, as well as discussing many others with him that were sponsored by others.  All the uploads that I sponsored had the final debdiffs prepared with no code quality issues at all.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
As slashd said, I would also suggest that once Dariusz joins the sru-developers team, he could start working on steps specific to development releases so he can apply for coredev.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ddstreet]]</nowiki> 
=== till-kamppeter ===
==== General feedback ====
I am working at Canonical in the Desktop Team and I am responsible for the printing-related packages, I am also the leader of the OpenPrinting project, so taking care of printing upstream. It seems that Dariusz is observing the Launchpad bugs and checking for bugs which are SRU candidates and providing appropriate SRUs, backporting fixes of the current Ubuntu package or upstream code. His debdiffs simply appeared, I did not need to do anything but reviewing and sponsoring them, saving my time for the upstream development.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I have sponsored <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=till+kamppeter&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=dariusz+gadomski&sponsoree_search=name|these packages]]</nowiki> for him, in every case he provided a complete (all Ubuntu releases supported at that time) set of debdiffs for the SRU and each debdiff was working nicely. One had a little mistake, but as soon as I tolf him he provided a fixed one.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
For me it looks like that he fits into the Core Developer role as well.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:till-kamppeter]]</nowiki> 
=== Christian Ehrhardt ===
==== General feedback ====
I have sponsored only a few packages, so my backing here might be helpful but not authoritative.
The few times I have worked with him were good. The patches looked fine, were well prepared and tested.
I had too few encounters to provide very useful info for the 'Specific Experiences of working together' and 'Areas of Improvement' section.
Overall I think I can't fully endorse (lacking enough sampling points), but from the few occasions I had can clearly say that I didn't spot anything that would make me suggest not-to promote him to be a SRU Developer.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:paelzer]]</nowiki> 
----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
