{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I'm Diddier Hilarion a system and computing engineering student, I'm interested in telecommunications, and embedded OS.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Email
| diddierhilarion <AT> gmail <DOT> com
|-
| Launchpad account
| https://launchpad.net/~didtux
|}

=== Contributions ===
* I have collaborated in some cases organizing the Ubuntu-co Stand in FLOSS events.
* In 2013 I co-organized Flisol Universidad Nacional which had the intervention of Ubuntu-co Team.
* In recent years, I have installed Debian-like distributions in serveral FLOSS events.
* I usually provide technical support in Debian and Ubuntu mailing lists.

=== Future Goals ===
* Create a distro from scratch or debian based, just for fun.
* Get a better understanding of the LSB and its application in Debian-like distributions.
=== Ubuntu-co Goals ===
* Be part of the Ubuntu-co gamers team.
* Be part of the Ubuntu-co support team.

=== Testimonials ===

== En español ==

=== Presentación ===

Soy Diddier Hilarion estudiante de ingeniería de sistemas y computación, estoy interesado en las telecomunicaciones y los sistemas operativos embebidos.

=== Información de contacto ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Correo electrónico
| diddierhilarion <AT> gmail <DOT> com
|-
| Cuenta de launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~didtux
|}
=== Contribuciones ===
* He colaborado en algunas ocasiones en la organización del Stand de Ubuntu-co en varios eventos de software libre.
* En el 2013 fuí coorganizador del Flisol en la Universidad Nacional del que fue participe Ubuntu-co.
* En los últimos años he sido instalador de distribuciones basadas en Debian en varios festivales de instalación de software libre.
* Usualmente doy soporte en listas de correo de Debian y Ubuntu.

=== Objetivos ===
* Crear una distribución desde cero o basada en Debian GNU/Linux, sólo por diversión.

=== Objetivos en Ubuntu-co ===
* Ser parte del equipo de jugadores de Ubuntu-co.
* Ser parte del proyecto de soporte de Ubuntu-co.

=== Testimonios ===

He really help with the community, currently he makes contributions in diferent events like Sofware Freedom Day, FLISOL, and more, He provides excelent support and He does recovery installations to Linux users. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Jhosman | Jhosman]]</nowiki>

I have participated with Diddier at various FLOSS events, lectures, workshops and hacklabs, He is a collaborative person and He exposes their views on certain issues of free software, I have also worked with him on free networks and his knowledge have been very constructive.
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ofp.prieto | Oscar Prieto]]</nowiki>
