{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Didier Raboud, aka OdyX ==
=== Me ===
Hi !

First of all, If you want to hear from me in my allday life, visit my weblog (mainly in french, sorry) : http://didier.raboud.com/

I was born in 1986 in Switzerland where I spent a large part of my life. I'm living in the French speaking part, near Lausanne, Vevey, in a little town named Corseaux. I'm now studying ''Electrical and Electronical Engineering'' at the <nowiki>[[http://www.epfl.ch|EPFL]]</nowiki>.

I'm now spending a year in Madrid learning Spanish and trying to make that year a success.

== Linux Experience ==
I first began to use Linux '''as a complete beginner''' (I felt I was ''advanced Windows user'') thanks to a custom distribution based on Fedora Core 2 (then 3 and 4), made by a team in my school : <nowiki>[[http://poseidon.epfl.ch|Poseidon]]</nowiki>. for our ''lowcost'' laptops. Conversion was long and hard, but I've finally saved my soul. After destroying my system at least 4 times (loosing 3D acceleration, RPM-crap, and so on), I began to look around. I finally installed the new born Breezy on a partition for a moment. After one month, I deleted all my Windows stuff, formatted my Hard Drive and Installed Kubuntu Breezy alone for it to. Since then, I increased my Linux skills up to installing Kubuntu Dapper in begin of March.

I plan to improve my little C++ and packaging skills so as to be able to become MOTU and maybe more.

== (K)Ubuntu contributions ==
First of all, I use KDE! I'm no sectarist, but I use it per choice and because I like the way it works. So I'd like to contribute for Kubuntu (with a K).

I'm trying to involve in Kubuntu-devel community, I wrote some ''minutes'' for the meetings :
* <nowiki>[[Kubuntu/Meetings/2006-05-22]]</nowiki>

=== French-speaking community ===
I'm pretty lot on <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu-fr.org|the forums]]</nowiki> of the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-fr.org|French-speaking community : Ubuntu-fr]]</nowiki> (where ''fr'' means ''francophone'' and not ''from France''!) and I contribute from time to time on its <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu-fr.org/|wiki]]</nowiki>.
=== Kubuntu-fr ===
I'm know involved seriously in creating the Kubuntu-fr website and community (closely connected tu Ubuntu-fr's though). See the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-fr.org/projets/kubuntu_fr|project's page]]</nowiki>. We hope we will have it done for Dapper !
=== Bug Tracking for Kubuntu Dapper ===
I reported <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/odyx/+reportedbugs|some bugs]]</nowiki> on Launchpad. Happily, Dapper '''is''' good, so not so much work !

I spent relatively a lot of time on those bugs :
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/kdebase/+bug/39312|39312]]</nowiki>
=== Translations on Rosetta ===
I translate mainly for French as there would be NO sense to make a different version for swiss-french, the differences are so little (like ''no insecable space into «»'') : <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/odyx/+translations|my translations]]</nowiki>. Particularily :
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/dapper/+source/ubuntu-docs/+pots/packagingguide/fr/|packagingguide]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/dapper/+source/kubuntu-docs/+pots/aboutkubuntu/fr/|aboutkubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/dapper/+source/ept/+pots/libept/fr/|libept]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/dapper/+source/kde-guidance/+pots/guidance/fr/|kde-guidance]]</nowiki>

=== IRC ===
Actually, you can find me very often in #ubuntu-fr, #kubuntu-fr, #kubuntu, #kubuntu-devel. I try to help as much as I can, in my possibilities.

== Else ==
=== Interests ===
* Scouting (since my 12 and still going on)
* Vocal art (been in various choirs since my 8)
* Coding
** BASIC on TI-92+ (very funny)
** C++ at school (I have to practise)
** PHP (idem)
* Cryptography, security
** Author of a "maturity work" about RSA (coded RSA in BASIC though)
* FLOSS philosophy
* Languages
** I'm swiss-french speaking
** german (not fluent, but can speak pretty well)
** swiss-german (understood, have to practise)
** english (not fluent, but can speak pretty well)
** spanish (almost fluent)
* Audio encoding
** I began to read the Vorbis specs, but it stays a little complicated for me yet...

=== Hardware ===
I own a Dell Latitude D800 named ''DoxoR'' which is made of:

* Nvidia Geforce FX5200 3D Card
* ipw2200 Wifi Card
* IR and Bluetooth cards
