{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Important things: ==
* python-mkdebian doesn't update debian/control

(see that's a TODO line in your script). If you don't have the time, I can try to push some time to handle it as I really need it for quickly 1.0

  '''pitti:''' fixed in trunk

-> '''didrocks:''' still some stuff to fix. Merged proposed (http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~quickly/quickly/trunk/revision/182)

* in quickly project, using python-mkdebian, depends like python-launchpadlib are not taken into account (which is directly in quickly/ package not in data).
The import line instruction is:
<code>from launchpadlib.launchpad import Launchpad, EDGE_SERVICE_ROOT, STAGING_SERVICE_ROOT</code>

 '''pitti:''' works for me, not reproducible

-> '''didrocks:''' tried with rev 172 of https://code.edge.launchpad.net/~quickly/quickly/trunk. Doesn't work (launchpadlib dep is no more in bin/quickly but in quickly/launchpadaccess.py)

== Medium priority: ==

* debian/control is still generated with python-distutils-extra (>= 2.3). Bump the revision is needed '''pitti:''' fixed in trunk

-> '''didrocks:''' hum, now, It should be 2.7 and not 2.6 :)

== Low priority: ==

* Importing other module in a package from within the module output some ERROR:
<pre>
ERROR: Python module tools not found
ERROR: Python module configurationhandler not found
ERROR: Python module quicklyconfig not found
ERROR: Python module tools not found
ERROR: Python module bzrbinding not found
ERROR: Python module configurationhandler not found
</pre>
ok, importing module in same path without "from" instruction is bad (this is no more the case in quickly package)

* Try to use distutils on a test python package in test/ directory. This directory is not installed in the resulting ubuntu package. I think the corresponding traces are there:
<pre>
Searching packages which provide required Python modules:
   gtk ... [dpkg -S found more than one package: bzr-gtk, apturl, software-properties-gtk, language-selector, python-apt, python-gtk2; ignoring] [not found]
   test ... [dpkg -S found more than one package: python-axiom, python-openssl, python-epsilon, python-nevow, python2.6, python2.5, python-coherence, python-twisted-names, python-twisted-core, python-twisted-web, python-louie, python-twisted-conch, python-foolscap; ignoring] [not found]
</pre>

== Not related to distutils-extra.auto, but nice to have ==

./setup.py clean does not clean everything:
<pre>
  MANIFEST
  dist/   # wontfix, use ./setup.py sdist -d ..
</pre>
are still there (dist/ is more annoying than MANIFEST, IMHO).

-> '''didrocks''': even ./setup.py clean -a does not provide any good help
