{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== Dev Focus Group Academy ====
====== Main Idea ======
* Help new users who want to get involved in the programming area.

====== How it is going to work ======
* Users who have a medium or high knowledge of programming language, will give "classes" to new users who have the spirit of learning.
* The teacher or instructor its going to provide links, examples, exercises, etc to the new users this way they are going to get knowledge and practice by their selfs.
* The teacher or instructor its going to give 1 or 2 classes the week. (30 or 60 minutes). In this classes he will explain, answer questions,etc.
* All teachers and new users should join the #ubuntu-beginners-dev channerl on IRC. This way they will help each other if they have troubles
* The classes should be given on #ubuntu-classroom
* Each course should be around 1 or 2 months
* At the end of the course. The teacher should work with the new users for developing a small project. It can be a small game, a small program, something related to the course, and get benefit future users.

====== The benefits of this academy ======
* Help new users to learn a new programming language
* When there is a group with a better knowledge, the dev focus group can work on developing application (Small or Big Projects) that can benefit Ubuntu
* Fix existing trivial bugs on Launchpad.
* Others (Still Thinking)
