{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''NOTE''': This page is part of the Ubuntu Specification process.  Please check the status and details in Launchpad before editing.  If the spec is Approved then you should contact the Assignee, or another knowledgeable person, before making changes.

* '''Launchpad entry''': <nowiki>[[https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/dijjer-iso-downloads|dijjer-iso-downloads]]</nowiki>
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===
Using Dijjer to help host Ubuntu CD iso downloads could dramatically reduce bandwidth expenses.

=== Rationale ===
Dijjer is far easier to use than Bittorrent and is a superior technology for this sort of distribution.

Dijjer has the following advantages:

* Downloads happen in your browser.
* Works for Windows, Mac, and Linux.
* The Dijjer source code is free, open source, and available to everyone.
* Gets through firewalls using <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NAT_Traversal|NAT traversal]]</nowiki>, so can be used by non-technical users - unlike Bittorrent.
* Bittorrent is forbidden by many ISPs and organisations. Dijjer is not.

More information is available here: http://dijjer.org/wiki/FrequentlyAskedQuestions

I used Dijjer to download the Kororaa live CD and it worked perfectly.

=== Use cases ===
1. Non technical Windows user trys to download ISO from Ubuntu.com

2. Downloads dijjer client

3. Clicks Ubuntu ISO download link

4. Shares his upload bandwidth in a peer-to-peer connection with other other dijjer downloaders.

=== Scope ===
Reducing bandwidth costs in distributing Ubuntu online.

=== Design ===
N/A

=== Implementation ===
Trivial. Simply change the download links for Ubuntu ISOs.

normal link: http://mysite.com/ubuntuedgy.iso

dijjer link: http://dijjer.org/get/http://mysite.com/ubuntuedgy.iso

==== Code ====
N/A

==== Data preservation and migration ====
N/A

=== Unresolved issues ===
None

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
