{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:20%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Dimitri John Ledkov, hereby state my intention to apply for additional Ubuntu Kernel Uploader.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Legal Name'''
| Dimitri John Ledkov
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~xnox]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| DimitriLedkov
|}

== Who I am ==

I have been a Canonical Kernel team employee since April 2020. I am already an Ubuntu Core Developer, and have been using those rights to upload Kernels. However to simplify ACL management I would like to apply for explicit Ubuntu Kernel Uploader.

=== Areas of work ===

I contribute to upstream linux kernel (for example adding SHA3 support to kernel crypto API https://lore.kernel.org/linux-crypto/20231022182208.188714-1-dimitri.ledkov@canonical.com/ )

I contribute to ensure Ubuntu Kernels are in best shape for release (for example https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/kernel-team/2023-October/146015.html )

I prepare and upload kernels from time to time. (for example https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-riscv/6.5.0-9.9.1 )

I mentor junior kernel developers who have recently gained Ubuntu Kernel Commit & Upload rights. (for example https://launchpad.net/~diewald )

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryCoreDevApplication]]</nowiki>
