{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

HI I'm Diogo Figueira and I'm a passionated about Ubuntu since 2007 when my father decided to quit windows and use only Ubuntu on hies PC's, when i saw Ubuntu for the first time, it was like love at the first sight,
i knew my life would have something to do with Ubuntu to have a meaning so i did.

Everywhere i go, i go with my laptop or my phone that has Ubuntu on it, everyday i wake up and power-on my laptop it's with Ubuntu that I'm using it, and when i hear some windows fan boys talking about there problems with privacy and other things, i tell them, "Switch to Ubuntu it's the best OS there is and most of the things you use on your old OS Ubuntu has for free and some times it's even the best there is" and some times people do leave there windows OS system to join Ubuntu.
  

Because I'm fascinated and my life has always have something to do with Ubuntu i begone working in late 2013 on my first Ubuntu Touch OS application, and the best of it i really had to do it because it was the first time in Portugal that a student would present an Ubuntu Touch Application as part of the 12th grade final school project and i did it but with the help of some of the people that during the development i met and now call friends.

By now i have 3 web-apps in the Ubuntu Touch store being one of them for a church, the other for my friends of "Bica Studios" who have a great game called "SmashTime" and the last one i made for a journal called abola.pt witch is a sports journal that i read every day.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| DF
|-
| Telegram
| @DF0001
|-
| Email
| diogof2014@yahoo.com && benfica.goed3@gmail.com
|}

=== Contributions ===
1st Ubuntu Touch App made in Portugal (final of 2013 until early 2014) as part of my final school work entitled EcoLover (witch is an energy to Euros calculator), in witch you tell the app what device it is, how much hours it's working and the number of watts it consumes. After that you get the amount of money you need to pay for that consumption 
2 speaks in a public Portuguese university called ISCTE witch has an student chapter of ACM, on witch the first one was all about the Ubuntu Phone on December the 3rd 2014, because in November of 2014 the Portuguese community of Ubuntu had an open day on the same university and no one had a phone flashed with Ubuntu except me because I had my nexus 4 flashed with Ubuntu so on that day everybody was like "it's the first time I see Ubuntu on the Phone" and so an already community member called Tiago Carrondo asked me to take one of the tables and speak about my experience with Ubuntu on the phone. Well it was a great success and after that i got invited by the ISCTE ACM members to hold a speak about the Ubuntu Phone and it's development.

The second speak happened on 11th of November 2015 but this one was about "Development in QT" on witch the objective was to show who was present that people who like pro program in C++ can easily adapt to QT framework and making everything they want just by using QT, i used the Ubuntu SDK to show off how QT works, what’s the relationship between QT C++ and QML, by showing off my EcoLover App i had build a year earlier.
 
I Think from what other members of the community told me that everybody could at least feel and see by there eyes that using QT has an greater advantage for developers (from what others told me about the speak was that developers using QT can make the same App for Ubuntu, Android or what other OS there are for phones only by modifying in 90% of the cases the import of the specific components for each platform) then using eclipse or other IDE's or languages because "write once deploy everywhere".

Talking about the Nexus 4, at the time i was developing my EcoLover application i had an intern-ship at ITEN Solutions (Witch is Microsoft Portugal number 1 partner) and let me say that the first day when i got there they presented me how the enterprise works and my boss at the time looked at me and said "we here don't work with the thing you have on your polo (my Ubuntu White Polo I bought from the official Canonical store), but I personally like it", and so me and him got closer and being a fan e knowing how to work with Ubuntu/Linux got me in a good position of work within the enterprise, and from the money i earned i bought the Nexus 4 (witch i knew beforehand had Ubuntu working on it) and the same day i bought it was the day Android ended for me and begone Ubuntu Touch, the next day i went to work and showed off my Ubuntu touch phone and most of the people where like "WOW nice!!", and they wanted it to for them, but still others where like "this guy bought the phone who has the most pure form of android on it just to install Ubuntu" but i didn't care, because i was happy with my Ubuntu Touch device.

That time was also the time i had a pen with Ubuntu on it so that everywhere i was and i needed to use a computer i had my Ubuntu pen just to fix things some-times but mostly to enjoy working on Ubuntu.

Write your contributions here.
Write your goals.

=== Future Goals ===
By now I'm a local member of the Portuguese community of Ubuntu with aspirations to become internationally recognized Ubuntu Community member.

My goals in the community are: 

* Helping the members of the community program for Ubuntu Touch.

* Creating applications for the Ubuntu store with the newly formed developers of the Community.

* Getting more people involved in the Portuguese Community to help spread Ubuntu in Portugal.

* Have more speaks in Portugal about developing in QT and how developers can by only using QT develop for different platforms.

* Who knows going to schools with other community members to show the power of Ubuntu and show them how they can easily pick up QML and JavaScript to make funny applications 

My International Goals for the world wide Ubuntu based Communities are:

* Help members of other communities to begin there own program of having developers helping the community in witch they belong to spread the word about QT and having them making applications in the name of the community

My Personnel goals in the community are:

* Preparing myself to be a good teacher in QT (Ubuntu SDK) and if necessary a good Leader.

* Study and create more applications for the Ubuntu Store while helping others.

* Be more active then I was before in the community.

* Best of all having fun while working on maybe the biggest community there exists between people that want to make a change in this world, while helping others and getting helped to by others so that together we can see this more as a second family then just a group of people who like Ubuntu. 
=== Testimonials ===

While I haven't had the lucky (yet) to meet Diogo in person, I've seen his passion and his talent in contributing to Ubuntu world, mainly in the Phone project. His enthusiasm is remarkable and I think he totally deserves the membership @-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:rpadovani]]</nowiki> @ 
