{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About me ===

<nowiki>[[http://d5e.org/ubuntu|Deutsch/German description]]</nowiki>

My person in short, born 1968, married, one dog, one horse.

'''Current location''':
* village '''Grüt''',
* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gossau%2C_Z%C3%BCrich|Muncipality Gossau]]</nowiki>,
* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hinwil_%28district%29|District Hinwil]]</nowiki>,
* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canton_of_Z%C3%BCrich|Canton Zürich]]</nowiki>,
* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Switzerland|Switzerland]]</nowiki>,
* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Europe|Europe]]</nowiki>,
* (yes, I thought about adding Earth, Solar System, Orion arm, Milky Way, Galaxy, ...)

'''Occupation''':
 I work as a Senior Unix System Engineer for Bank Vontobel AG in Switzerland.

 Basis of my work is the <nowiki>[[https://www.usenix.org/lisa/system-administrators-code-ethics|System Administrators' Code of Ethics]]</nowiki>.

=== Contact ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#EEEEEE"> '''Media'''
| '''Adress'''
|-
| '''Launchpad'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~dirk.deimeke]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Email'''
| 
|-
| '''IRC'''
| _Lux and ddeimeke at freenode.net
|-
| '''Website'''
| <nowiki>[[https://d5e.org/]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Blog''' (German content)
| <nowiki>[[https://dirk.deimeke.net/]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Contributions to Ubuntu ===

==== Short summary ====

Worked in different roles in the German Ubuntu Community, currently being passive.

==== Europe ====

* Server administrator and deputy team lead of <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-eu.org/|ubuntu-eu.org]]</nowiki> (hosting France, Iran, Russia, Norway, Portugal, Germany official Ubuntu communities), October 2006 to March 2008

==== Germany ====

* Member of <nowiki>[[http://verein.ubuntu-de.org/|Ubuntu Deutschland e. V.]]</nowiki> (association, which supports German Ubuntu activities), December 2005 to December 2011
* Member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-de-locoteam|German LoCo-team]]</nowiki>, December 2005 to October 2011
* Initiator of <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/Regionale_Ansprechpartner|Regional Contact List]]</nowiki>, August 2006
* Author of often copied <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/Verwaltung/Ikhaya-Team/Brief_an_einen_Windowsnutzer|Brief an einen Windowsnutzer]]</nowiki> (German) "Letter to a Windows User", August 2006
* Member Ikhaya-team of <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuusers.de/|ubuntuusers.de]]</nowiki> (official German community), June 2006 to March 2007
* Project leader of <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuusers.de/|ubuntuusers.de]]</nowiki>, March 2007 to December 2007
* Participation at <nowiki>[[http://2007.ubucon.de/|ubucon]]</nowiki> (German speaking Ubuntu conference) and hosting Swiss guest, October 2007
* Member <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/ubuntuusers/Moderatoren-Team|Moderators]]</nowiki>-team of <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuusers.de/|ubuntuusers.de]]</nowiki>, October 2008 to June 2009
* Member <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/ubuntuusers/Supporter-Team|Supporter]]</nowiki>-team of <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuusers.de/|ubuntuusers.de]]</nowiki>, from October 2008 to November 2009
* Workshop "Shell programming for beginners" at <nowiki>[[http://2008.ubucon.de/|ubucon 2]]</nowiki> (October 2008)
* Organisation team for <nowiki>[[http://2009.ubucon.de/|ubucon 3]]</nowiki> (January 2009 to October 2009)
* Built up and maintaining "The Portal" http://www.ubuntu-de.org/ (One portal for all activities in Germany and German speaking Ubuntu universe)
* Lecture / discussion "Practical administration" at ubucon 3 (October 2009)
* Workshop "Advanced shell programming" at ubucon 3 (October 2009)
* Discussion "Question time: Server" at ubucon 3 (October 2009)
* Lecture "Podcasting with and about Linux" at ubucon 3 (October 2009)
* President of <nowiki>[[http://verein.ubuntu-de.org/|ubuntu Deutschland e. V.]]</nowiki> (association, which supports German Ubuntu activities), October 2009 to October 2011
* Organisation team for <nowiki>[[http://2010.ubucon.de/|ubucon 4]]</nowiki> (January 2010 to October 2010)
* Contact for <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GermanTeam|German LoCo Team]]</nowiki> (April 2010 to October 2011)
* Lecture "Installation, configuration and operation of wikis" at ubucon 4 (October 2010)
* Lecture "Bare Metal Restore" at ubucon 4 (October 2010)
* Discussion "Question time: Server" at ubucon 4 (October 2010)
* Lecture / discussion "Practical administration" at ubucon 4 (October 2010)
* Workshop "Taskwarrior - task management on the commandline" at ubucon 5 (October 2011)
* Supporting a handful of people with their Ubuntu problems

==== Switzerland ====

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam#head-f6257eb7413e99f20e94799e055bda4b6888c462|Regional contact]]</nowiki>
* Supporting a handful of people with their Ubuntu problems
* Local contact for those looking for help
* Starting <nowiki>[[http://deimhart.net|DeimHart]]</nowiki> in 2009, a German language podcast with Ubuntu content
* Supporting Ubuntu booth on <nowiki>[[http://www.openexpo.ch/openexpo-2009-winterthur/|OpenExpo Winterthur]]</nowiki> (Semptember 2009)
* Planing and realising <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/Anwendertreffen/ReleasePartyCH|Lucid ReleaseParty in Winterthur]]</nowiki> (May 2010)
* Planing and realising Ubuntu booth at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam/2010-FrOSCamp|FrOSCamp]]</nowiki> (September 2010)

=== Vision ===

I am using Linux for quite a while now. Ubuntu came to my attention primary because of the slogan "linux for human beings" and the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/ubuntustory/philosophy|philosophy]]</nowiki> behind.

In my opinion every human being should have free access to knowledge. Ubuntu is on the path to accomplish this and I want to play a little role in this venture.

Maybe, if we all do a little for this world we can change it.

Plans for my future contributions to Ubuntu:
* Support of German LoCo-Team
* User-Support, real-life and via e-mail
