{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

** '''Firstname :''' Benjamin
** '''Age :''' 24 ans
** '''Country :''' FRANCE
** '''Job :''' Computer Science Student / System and Network Administrator
** '''Start using Ubuntu:''' Hoary (2005)

** '''Launchpad :''' https://launchpad.net/~benj.saiz

I use Ubuntu Professionaly and Personaly.
And i dont hesitate to often talk about Ubuntu.

==== My Computers ====

** '''Laptop :''' Jaunty
** '''Desktop :''' Jaunty
** '''Server :''' Hardy
** '''A work :''' Intrepid

=== Contributions ===

I'm an active member on the french community.<<BR>>
Particulary on the french community IRC channel #ubuntu-fr.

Also participating on the french community wiki.<<BR>>
I have wrote 2 documentation for nvidia sli detection problem and nvidia.run auto compilation on kernel upgrade.<<BR>>
correcting/completing numbers of other documentations and participating to the documentation mailling list.

=== Future ===

Continue to help users on IRC, and provide helps on ubuntu-fr community.

=== Testimonials ===

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CoevoetNicolas|Nicolas Coevoet]]</nowiki> : Disaster spent lot of hours/weeks/months on support/help in french ubuntu community, a helper as we always need.

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Davromaniak|Cyril Lavier]]</nowiki> : Disaster doesn't actually deserve his nickname, he's more a sunshine than a disaster. He's a good helper, good member which really helps the french ubuntu community on many points.

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/McPeter|Pierre Pavard]]</nowiki> : Disaster is a good helper on IRC, he wrote good wiki pages (automatic NVidia compilation when kernel change and other documentation).
I support his membership. Good job Benjamin.
