{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Lightweight default browser for ARM ==
https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-lucid-arm-lightweightbrowser

Why does firefox perform poorly on ARM and what should we do about it?
* small cache on arm processors
* memory usage
* availability of plugins
* usability (some plugins do not match certain environments such as touchscreens)

Can firefox be optimized for Ubuntu and/or ARM enough to compensate for performance issues?

* Firefox replacements must support (in order of priority):
** quick on ARM
** UNR/touchscreen/small screen/scrolling
** Good/Fast support for JavaScript
** support for Flash
** good extension support (unless it causes more problems)
** Java

=== Considerations ===
* memory usage and performance, what happens when opening lots of instances, lots of tabs, etc
* Reponsive upstream

=== Issues ===
* which webkit, google vs ubuntu libwebkit?
 
=== Review ===
* midori frustrating to use at times
* epiphany limited but works, functional
** uses webkit
** "works" but limited by comparison to firefox
* Konquerer - khtml, huge kde dependencies
* Chromium 
** different user experience from firefox
** is fast & gtk based
** uses considerably less memory
** Theming issues
   
=== Notes ===
* can we improve/optimize firefox/xulrunner?  Is there significent improvement gains even possible?
** opinion not significient opportunity

=== ACTIONS ===
* Determine the status of Java applets [and JIT?] on ARM Cortex-A8
* Chromium on Arm performance
* Chromium build issues on armv7
* Mobile team to initially package Chromium
* investigate with desktop team and security team who will own it, and how to handle updates
* upload to archive (Michael Casadevall)
* investigate test suite on arm
* benchmarking over multiple browsers over all supported platforms
 
