{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== bzr Stories Questions ==

Questions that any proposed design for source packages in bzr should answer (derived from the <nowiki>[[DistributedDevelopment-BzrStories|key stories]]</nowiki>):

** how does a developer branch or checkout the source package?
** what does the working copy look like?  Are the patches to upstream added by the source package applied to it?
** how does a developer see what patches are in the source package?
** how does a developer create a new patch...
*** ...that is independent to other patches?
*** ...that is dependent on another patch in this source package?
** how does a developer modify an existing patch?
** how are conflicts between patches handled?
** how does a developer drop a patch?
** how are changes in another (possibly divergent) version of this package merged, such a...
*** ...a change of upstream version?
*** ...a change to a patch?
**** ...when that patch has been modified in our version?
*** ...an addition of a patch?
*** ...a dropping of a patch?
**** ...when that patch has been modified in our version?
*** ...any combination of the above?
** how does a developer compare the differences between two different versions of a source package?
** how do devs publish...
*** changes to individual patches...
**** ...for use by Ubuntu?
**** ...for use by upstream?
*** ...a change that affects both the metadata in the debian/ dir ''and'' a change to a patch?
*** (and do all these cases matter?)
** how can individual patches be extracted as a plain bzr branch and/or diff (for
  interacting with non-packaging devs like upstreams)?
** how can the revision history of the package (include of the patches in the
  package) be viewed?
