{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This page is meant to help people who are debugging package import failures.

=== Marked but not imported ===

Example: <code>AssertionError: package 0.5.10-0ubuntu1.3 ubuntu lucid is marked but not imported</code>

This is a sanity check on a branch that we are trying to import. "marked" means that in the past we saw a tag in the packaging branch. (So either the importer itself had imported the revision, or when it went to import the revision it saw the revision was already in the branch.)

The error is stating that at this point, the branch no longer contains this tag, which means something has been modified which we don't understand.

In the <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/704079|existing case]]</nowiki>, the packaging branch (<code>lp:ubuntu/lucid-proposed/cloud-init</code>) had a revision which should have been imported, but the tag in the Branch pointed to a non-existent revision. In theory this failure would eventually be caught by the mismatched testament sha check.

=== ConnectionReset ===

There are a fair number of transient errors that have not been marked as such. Double check but failing with ConnectionReset is likely to be something that can be just retried. This can be done with <pre>
 ./requeue_package.py --auto $PACKAGE_NAME
</pre>

The --auto means that failures like this should be automatically retried in the future (up to 10 times).
