{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[DistributedDevelopment]]</nowiki> steering meeting held in <code>#ubuntu-meeting</code> on 2011-07-27 at 1200 UTC.

Chair: barry

== Apologies ==

== Agenda ==

* Attendance/apologies
* Action items
** jelmer to study the feasibility of merge helper (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bzr-builddeb/+bug/608675|bug 608675]]</nowiki>) as an intermediate step for quilt support
** jelmer to look into <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/udd/+bug/609187|bug 609187]]</nowiki> (warn when package import is out of date) '''(done)'''
** jelmer to post summary of user visible changes with lp rollout '''(done)'''
** jelmer to post feature summary about inline diffs '''(done)'''
** riddell to update udd docs to use <code>bzr tag</code> instead of <code>bzr mark-uploaded</code> '''(done)'''
* Package importer progress
* Bugs of interest:
** See http://people.canonical.com/~mbp/kanban/canonical-bazaar-kanban.html
* Any other business?

== Summary ==

* solution to <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/udd/+bug/609187|bug 609187]]</nowiki> looks awesome.  will be sru'd back to lucid
* multi tarball support is almost done for package importer
* '''next meeting is sept 7th at 1100 utc'''

== New Actions ==

* barry to coordinate w/riddell about updating the ubuntu packaging guide for new bug 609187 feature

== Log ==

<pre>
<barry> #startmeeting  [08:00]
<MootBot> Meeting started at 07:00. The chair is barry.
<MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK],
          [VOTE]
<barry> hi folks.  i think we may have had a time snafu, but is anybody around
        for the udd stakeholders meeting today?
<james_w> hi
<barry> hi james_w, i know poolie was around a bit ago  [08:02]
<poolie> oh hi
<poolie> i'm here
<barry> hi.  any word from jam, vila, jelmer, riddell?  [08:03]
<barry> btw, while we're waiting did anybody see the article on git linked
        from /. today?  once again bzr gets shorted.  /me resolves to write
        his "why bzr rocks" article  [08:04]
<barry> [TOPIC] agenda  [08:05]
<MootBot> New Topic:  agenda
<barry> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DistributedDevelopment/20110727
<MootBot> LINK received:
          https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DistributedDevelopment/20110727
<jelmer> hi
<barry> hi jelmer 
<barry> i guess we should just jump in then...  [08:06]
<barry> [TOPIC] action items
<MootBot> New Topic:  action items
<barry>    * jelmer to study the feasibility of merge helper
        (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bzr-builddeb/+bug/608675|bug 608675]]</nowiki>)
        as an intermediate step for quilt support
<barry> 
<ubottu> Ubuntu bug 608675 in bzr-builddeb "merge-package should have support
         for manipulating quilt v3 patch stacks" [High,In progress]
<jelmer> jam and i are goibg to pair on that when he gets back from holiday
                                                                        [08:07]
<barry> awesome
<barry>    * jelmer to look into
        <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/udd/+bug/609187|bug 609187]]</nowiki> (warn when
        package import is out of date)
<barry> 
<ubottu> Ubuntu bug 609187 in Ubuntu Distributed Development "users are not
         warned when branching ubuntu:foo (or lp:ubuntu/foo) and the package
         import of foo is out of date" [High,Fix released]
<barry> i think the new bzr.dev feature addresses this, right?  oh, and it's
        awesome  [08:08]
<poolie> yes, john fixed it, and it is great
<poolie> it also starts a new much faster lp api client
<poolie> currently covering one api point i think :)
<barry> :)  yes, it's really great.  any thoughts on back porting this feature
        to released bzr?  [08:09]
<poolie> yes, that should be pretty easy
<poolie> i think it was done based off an old branch
<poolie> i had some concern about whether it would be seen as in the spirit of
         srus
<poolie> it probably is ok though
<poolie> certainly a welcome feature
<poolie> shall we put it in everything back to lucid?
<barry> i can understand the hesitation to sru a new feature, but this one
        really is a significant help to udd packagers, so i'd vote for "yes"
                                                                        [08:10]
<jelmer> me too
<jelmer> though how many packagers are on lucid?  [08:11]
<barry> jelmer: that's a good point, probably not many.  but i'd say
        definitely sru to natty
<poolie> i guess they may well be running it within a chroot or on a vm
<barry> at least
<poolie> or on a canonical dc machine ofr that matter
<poolie> i'll add a note on the bug  [08:12]
<barry> thanks.  we should also update the new packaging guide, because it
        will really simplify things.  is Riddell up for that?  if not, i can
        do it (once it lands in natty and oneiric at least)  [08:13]
<poolie> yes, he's been doing a lot of work on it
<poolie> i don't know if he's here right now
<poolie> we should mention it
<barry> he's been doing *fantastic* work on the guide (i've reviewed a bunch
        of his branches).  i'll take an action to coordinate with him  [08:14]
<barry> [ACTION] barry to coordinate w/Riddell about updating the guide for
        bug 609187 feature
<MootBot> ACTION received:  barry to coordinate w/Riddell about updating the
          guide for bug 609187 feature
<ubottu> Launchpad bug 609187 in Ubuntu Distributed Development "users are not
         warned when branching ubuntu:foo (or lp:ubuntu/foo) and the package
         import of foo is out of date" [High,Fix released]
         https://launchpad.net/bugs/609187
<barry>    * jelmer to post summary of user visible changes with lp rollout
<barry> 
<barry>    * jelmer to post feature summary about inline diffs  [08:15]
<barry> 
<barry> jelmer: do you remember these?
<jelmer> I dont remember these
<poolie> he's only intermittently connected
<poolie> i think really we can put this on mrevell who does blog.l.n  [08:16]
<poolie> but, perhaps we want to share it with ubuntu-devel or something?
<jelmer> I was only a bit involved with them
<barry> poolie: do you think we need to do anything special or will the normal
        lp feature rollout announcement machinery take care of it? ;)  [08:17]
<poolie> i don't think we should do anything special
<barry> cool.
<poolie> i think the announcements will get at least onto planet ubuntu
<jelmer> yeah, they do
<barry>    * riddell to update udd docs to use bzr tag instead of bzr
        mark-uploaded
<barry> 
<barry> i think that's done  [08:18]
<barry> [TOPIC] package importer progress
<MootBot> New Topic:  package importer progress
<poolie> ok
<poolie> so, some progress there
<poolie> we deployed a new bzr which fixed some things but had some bad
         fallout  [08:19]
<poolie> so we're now back on 2.3.4
<poolie> ithink it's at about 430 failures
<barry> didn't vila fix a bunch of failures, or is that part of what got
        rolled back?  [08:20]
<jelmer> multi tarball suppprt is almost done
<poolie> we have fixed several classes of failure
<poolie> that's great, thanks
<barry> jelmer: nice.  do you have any example packages that use multiple
        tarballs?  [08:21]
<poolie> yes, search for 'multiple' on
         http://package-import.ubuntu.com/status/
<jelmer> some, but I can always use more  [08:22]
<barry> perl :)
<barry> so, is the bad fallout from the rollout fixed?  do you expect to see a
        bzr update on lp again soon?  [08:23]
<poolie> ah, ok
<poolie> so we did two rollouts, to the udd importer and to launchpad, both of
         which had some bumps  [08:24]
<poolie> i think we will do them again soon, probably within this fortnight
<jelmer> I have a mp that is awaiting review that fixes lp
<barry> cool  [08:25]
<jelmer> we had a postmortem about the lp one (thanks poolie!)
<barry> anything else on the importer?  [08:26]
<barry> [TOPIC] bugs of interest  [08:27]
<MootBot> New Topic:  bugs of interest
<barry> [LINK]
        http://people.canonical.com/~mbp/kanban/canonical-bazaar-kanban.html
<MootBot> LINK received:
          http://people.canonical.com/~mbp/kanban/canonical-bazaar-kanban.html
<jelmer> not from me
<poolie> oh, one new thing, which is bit.ly/ubuntu-vcs-job
<poolie> looking for someone great to join in working on this
<poolie> please think of someone who might be interested, and point them to
         that, or circulate that url
<barry> yep, i've been socially mediating it :)
<poolie> thanks
* barry is always impressed at the progress evident in the kanban
<Riddell> hi, sorry I'm late  [08:29]
<barry> it's great to see more released/needs release than
        queued/inprogress/needs review :)
<barry> hi Riddell no worries.  you might want to read the scollback
<barry> poolie, jelmer anything in particular you want to point out about the
        kanban?  [08:30]
<poolie> i got a few personal bugs sorted out which was nice
<poolie> jelmer are the colo branch url things tolerably unblocked?
<poolie> oh, lp is making some codehost deployment changes that should put it
         behind an haproxy  [08:31]
<poolie> which should make it more stable, especially during upgrades
<poolie> and also, safely let us test jam's faster-connection-startup patch
<poolie> which when it works should take something like 1s off the start of a
         connection
<barry> nice
<poolie> i think we're about done  [08:32]
<barry> [TOPIC] aob
<MootBot> New Topic:  aob
<barry> poolie: just one from me.  can you double check the gcal meeting time?
        i'm good for meeting in 2 weeks at 1200 utc, but if people will be
        disappearing for vacation, we can skip 2 weeks from now  [08:33]
<Riddell> I need to set a better meeting reminder, this meeting happens just
          as I go for lunch :(
<poolie> i think bzr people are tending to be away now, rather  [08:34]
<jelmer> poolie: yes, colocated is unblocked
<barry> poolie: why don't we just cancel the august meetings and come back in
        september (i.e. sept 7th)?  or is that too much of a gap?  [08:35]
<poolie> i think that's ok  [08:36]
<poolie> ok
<poolie> i cannot persuade gcal to change the time
<poolie> :/
<barry> cool, resolved then. :)  
<barry> grrr.  ;)
<poolie> so that's the 7th of september then?
<barry> poolie: yep.  i'm also happy to do it at 1100utc come september
                                                                        [08:37]
<poolie> could you be so kind as to send minutes with this right at the top?
<barry> poolie: will do
<poolie> ok  [08:38]
<poolie> it's late here; i might go
<barry> unless there's anything else, i think we're done...
<barry> #endmeeting
</pre>
