{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is a small project started by BarryBoyce.

The hopes of this is to allow an easy implementation to allow multiple computers to handle the applications for a single X server.  Example:

"Fenix is running an X server.  Node1, Node2, and Node3 have thier display variable set to Fenix via a startup script.  When Fenix clicks on Firefox on his desktop it actually runs a small program that determines which node to run firefox on.  After figuring out that Node1 has the least applications running on it, firefox is started.  Its display is sent to Fenix as if firefox was started local.  Later we open Openoffice and can switch to firefox while it loads without a pause since both are handled remotely on different computers.  All transparent to the user."

The main emphasis here is on using outdated computers more efficiently.  I have several computers in possession right now but almost no intention on using them all as desktops.  With a way of making most apps run on separate computers I can utilize the memory and processing power of all of them.

=== Discern ===

Discern is my name for an application to determine which computer will run our apps.  The first implementation will be a simple program that keeps count of the number of apps on each node.  The less number of apps running on a computer the more likely it will get a new app.

All X apps will be replaced with a symlink to Discern or shell script calling Discern (undecided here).  Either way Discern will run the program based on this.

=== SSH? ===

I don't know whether it would be a better idea to run a constant ssh connection to each computer or leave a Discernd (Discern Daemon) to interpret commands from Discern.  Discernd might be an overkill because it wouldn't really matter what apps are running on the dead node.

=== Future problems ===

Having Discern only decide which computer is to run an app based on app count is not the best solution but will work for an intermediate goal.  It would more efficient to keep a ram count to keep a computer from thrashing the hard drive.  CPU usage would also be a useful thing to monitor on down the road.

Another limitation is KDE.  I am not a KDE guru and don't know about the interconnections of KDE applications.  I know that dcopserver does the bulk of the application information passing.  Hopefully dcopserver can either not be a problem or node traffic can be routed to a local dcopserver.  We'll tackle that when we get to it.

=== Progress ===

None so far.  Don't expect much for awhile.  Comments welcome.

=== Comments ===

Place comments here please.
