{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== December 20th 2012 ==
 A. Last meeting: <nowiki>[[DistrictofColumbiaTeam-MeetingNotes-20121117|November 17th 2012]]</nowiki>
=== Agendum ===
==== Action Item Review ====
# Sujit to organize installfest
## E-mail sent by bcurtiswx, asked to start an e-mail thread about it.
# Nathan Weber create/organize advertising flyers.
## E-mail sent by bcurtiswx, asked to lead and start e-mail thread.
# Make a District of Columbia team Google plus page
## KJCole: https://plus.google.com/112777385899049850892/posts
# Make a District of Columbia team Twitter account
## BCurtisWX: https://twitter.com/UbuntuDCLoCo
# Make a District of Columbia team Facebook page
## BCurtisWX: https://www.facebook.com/groups/314677838640890/
# Who is NOT going to show up [ e-mail ]?
## E-mail sent
# [ Monthly Meal ] Where around DC could we gather (other than Taste of India)
==== Mission Statement | Self Image ====
==== Ubuntu Developer Summit - Washington, DC, USA ====
==== How to use out new social accounts ====
# Discussion was brought up about where to have the main data source, and there were quite a few ideas. We want something that is easy for everyone and the least confusing for newcomers to parse. The ideas are:
## Using mailman interface to link to for news
## Using Drupal for highlights and linking to mailman due to confusion of mailman interface
## Finding (or designing) a good mailman GUI (Blog style) that is easy for newcomers to use/read.
=== Minutes ===
