{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu ==

=== Organisation ===

The packages in Ubuntu are split in to two groups, each of which
is then again two groups. These groups are "main", "restricted",
"universe" and "multiverse". The second and the last are the non-free
parts of the distribution. The first two are the core of the distribution,
and the last two are everything else. It is the first two that have
support provided by Canonical, and the last two are community supported.

The developers that look after main "~ubuntu-core-dev" are a smaller group
than the group that look after Universe "~ubuntu-dev", or MOTUs (Masters of the
Universe), and to have upload rights to main you should have had upload rights
to universe for a while previously.

=== Releases ===

Ubuntu at any time has a number of previous releases, and one development
release.

Each release has a codename, and the codenames progress through the alphabet,
so the development release is the last name alphabetically, and the most
recent release is the one previous to that. Currently (March 2008) "Hardy Heron",
or "hardy" is the development release, and "Gutsy Gibbon", or "gutsy", is the latest
released version.

Each release has a version number as well, this is of the form "year - 2000"."month
of release", so gutsy was 7.10, as it was released October 2007.

The development release is the one where all the development is done. It is
where new versions of packages and bug fixes go. Changes are only made to
released versions for security fixes and critical problems. The latter
is known as an SRU.

=== Debian ===

Ubuntu is a derivative of <nowiki>[[Distributions/Debian|Debian]]</nowiki>, and so the
information that you are looking for maybe somewhere in the
<nowiki>[[Distributions/Debian|Debian]]</nowiki> infrastructure instead. If you are not
sure whether a problem is Ubuntu specific or not then an Ubuntu
contributor will normally be willing to help you work that out. A
Debian contributor may be less willing to do that work if the suspicion
is that it is Ubuntu-specific.

=== Package information ===

The first place you would normally go for package information would be

  http://packages.ubuntu.com/

you can then search for the package that you are interested in.

If you already know the package name then you can go
directly to

  http://packages.ubuntu.com/packagename

e.g.

  http://packages.ubuntu.com/hotwire

There you can see what version of the package is in each release,
including the development release, and any updates to previous
releases (security or otherwise).

Clicking on the distribution name that you are interested in brings
you to a page with more information about that version of the package,
e.g.

  http://packages.ubuntu.com/hardy/hotwire

There you can see lots of information about the package, including
the description, the packages that it depends upon, a link to download
the .deb, and a link to the list of files shipped in the .deb.

The sidebar on the right has more links to other sources of information
about the package.

In the first section there are links to the bug reports on launchpad
(see below), the Ubuntu changelog, and the copyright file. There are also
direct links to the source package in the archive.

In the next section there are links to the maintainers. Often, if
the source package is unmodified in Ubuntu, these will be the Debian
maintainers, and so you should be sure that you are emailing the right person,
see below for more information on how to contact the developers.

=== Bug reports ===

Ubuntu uses launchpad for it's bug tracking. The bug reports for a package
are available at

  https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sourcepackagename

e.g.

  https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hotwire

Note that this uses the source package name, not a binary package name. If
you aren't sure then the bug reports link from the package page explained
above will always take you to the right place.

There is currently no link to the <nowiki>[[Distributions/Debian|Debian]]</nowiki> bug tracking system for the package,
however individual bugs can be linked, and so you may see this.

=== Finding Ubuntu changes ===

There are many packages that Ubuntu make a change to. If you are interested
in the changes made to the upstream project then your best bet is the
source package. In 99% of cases the .diff.gz component of the source package
will tell you what you want to know.

You can find a link to the source package on the package page that
is described above. The links are also available by clicking on a
version on the overview page for the source package in launchpad.

  https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sourcepackagename

e.g.

  https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hotwire

If you click on the link in the package page at packages.ubuntu.com
the diff should be shown in your browser.

Some packages use a "patch system", which keeps diffs separate,
but means that they show up as "diffs of diffs" in the ".diff.gz".
If that is the case then you can find the separated changes by
navigating beneath

  http://patches.ubuntu.com/by-release/extracted/

If you are more interested in the changes with respect to Debian
this information is available at

  http://patches.ubuntu.com/

you can click the first letter of the source package name, and then
look for the source package name. If it is not listed then their
is not change with respect to Debian.

If there is a change then you can see the diff of that change. When
Ubuntu has a newer upstream version than Debian (shown by -0ubuntu<n>
in the version number) this diff can be large, and the Ubuntu specific
changes difficult to separate from the upstream changes. 

If the Ubuntu package uses a patch system there will be an "extracted"
directory containing all the patches from the patch system. The diff
itself can tell you which are modified or added, and then the individual
diff can be downloaded if required.

=== Getting the Ubuntu source ===

If what you want is the Ubuntu code that is compiled then what you need is the
source package. For those who have dget and dpkg-source available this is easy,
for others, not so easy I'm afraid.

The source package usually comes in 3 parts. The .dsc describes the source package,
and points to the other parts with their md5sum and size for verification. The
other two parts are the ".orig.tar.gz" which is the upstream code (sometimes
repacked to remove non-free stuff, or to split or combine packages), and the
".diff.gz" which is a compressed patch with the Debian/Ubuntu specific changes.

If you have dget available then go to the package page described above and
grab the link to the ".dsc" and pass it to "dget -x".

If not then you should grab the ".orig.tar.gz" and ".diff.gz" using whatever
download method you like.

Then extract the ".orig.tar.gz" with "tar xzf" and then "cd" in to the created
directory. Then you can add the ".diff.gz" by "cat"ting it in to "patch -p1".

If anyone finds or writes a tool to do this without dget and dpkg-source then please
add a link here, as it would be very useful to other distributions.

=== Contacting the Developers ===

As noted above Ubuntu takes a lot of source packages from <nowiki>[[Distributions/Debian|Debian]]</nowiki>
unmodified, so in those cases it may be that your query is better
directed there. However that is not always the case, as even if a source
package is taken unmodified then Ubuntu changes elsewhere may cause the
bug that you are wondering about. In those cases an Ubuntu contributor
would normally be willing to help you anyway.

The default maintenance strategy in Ubuntu is for a package to be maintained
by anyone. This means that often contacting the last name in the changelog
may not be the best idea, as often that person won't know the package, but
just made some small change to it. For this reason it is usually better
to contact the mailing lists, and then be pointed in the right direction
if your package is one of the exceptions.

For packages in main/restricted the mailing list to contact with queries
is

   ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com

and for universe/multiverse

   ubuntu-motu@lists.ubuntu.com

If you email one of the lists and explain your issue then you should
hopefully receive a prompt response.

IRC is also heavily used, so if you would prefer to go that route
then the channels are on irc.freenode.net

### ubuntu-devel

and

### ubuntu-motu

==== Duplicate? ====
Isn't this page a duplicate of UbuntuForDebianDevelopers ? -- AzraelNightwalker 