{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

http://package-import.ubuntu.com contains branches for (almost) all
Ubuntu branches. They are read only mirrors of what is in the archive,
and are kept up to date with any uploads to the archives.

You can grab the branches and use them to view the history of the
package, or work on an update. However, as they are read-only you
are unable to push your branch back. The Launchpad developers are
working on a proper way to host source package branches, and when
that is ready we will migrate there, and you will be able to push
branches to launchpad.

There is also "loggerhead" a Bazaar web viewer running so that you
can look at the branch without downloading it if you need.

'''There is <nowiki>[[DistributedDevelopment-Documentation|documentation]]</nowiki> on
how to retrieve these branches and how to use them to do some common
things.'''

The branches are arranged similar to the "pool" on Ubuntu mirrors, grouped
by the first letter of the source package name, with packages starting with
"lib" being handled specially. For each source package there is then a
branch for each Ubuntu release that that package was in. Here are a couple
of examples of branches.

** http://package-import.ubuntu.com/s/seccure/jaunty
** http://package-import.ubuntu.com/libt/libtool/hardy

You can use these URLs with bzr to get a copy of the branch, or click on them
to view it in loggerhead. Note that loggerhead currently inserts a "/loggerhead/"
in to the URL when viewing it, so you will need to remove this to grab the branch
with bzr if you take the URL from your URL bar. I am trying to find a way to
remove this.

(Note that you should only need to look in the -upstream branches if they
have some particular interest to you, they are not really required to be
there as the other branches contain all the revisions anyway)

----
CategoryDistributedDevelopment
