{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[DistributedDevelopment]]</nowiki> steering meeting held in <code>#ubuntu-meeting</code> on 2011-04-20 at 1100 UTC.  '''Note the time change.'''

Chair: barry

== Apologies ==

== Agenda ==

* Attendance/apologies
* Action items
** jam to propose/report plan for quilt imports
** poolie to talk to LOSAs about getting new bzrs rolled out to jubany '''(done)'''
** barry to send email about meeting times given dst dance '''(done)'''
* Package importer progress
* Bugs of interest:
** See http://people.canonical.com/~mbp/kanban/canonical-bazaar-kanban.html
* Any other business?

== Summary ==

* bzr upgraded to 2.3.1 on jubany
* an LP service issue caused some spikes in import failures
* impressive number of bugs fixed
** faster working trees from jam
** many git and hg fixes from jelmer
** bzr-builddeb fixes
** watch file support <code>\o/</code>
* build from branch into ppa as a intermediate milestone

== New Actions ==

* poolie to send link to plenary proposal.  all to help finish that

== Log ==

<pre>
<barry> #startmeeting
<MootBot> Meeting started at 06:04. The chair is barry.
<MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK],
          [VOTE]
<barry> hello and welcome to this week's udd steering committee meeting
<barry> [TOPIC] agenda
<MootBot> New Topic:  agenda
<barry> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DistributedDevelopment/20110420
<MootBot> LINK received:
          https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DistributedDevelopment/20110420
<barry> not a whole lot on the agenda, but let's dive right in
<barry> [TOPIC] action items  [07:05]
<MootBot> New Topic:  action items
<barry>    * jam to propose/report plan for quilt imports
<barry> i know jam wanted to keep this on the agenda, so let's come back to it
        if he joins us later
<poolie> gosh, what a good idea
<poolie> yep
<barry>    * poolie to talk to LOSAs about getting new bzrs rolled out to
        jubany  [07:06]
<poolie> next?
<poolie> ah, yes, i did
<barry> poolie: eta?
<poolie> i think it's unblocked and waiting in their queue
<poolie> let me find it
<poolie> already done!
<barry> wow, fantastic!
<poolie> thanks to spm and maxb  [07:07]
<poolie> hm it's still on hardy
<barry> poolie: what are the big wins with the upgrade?
<poolie> so that took us to 2.3.1 apparently
<james_w> the main thing was that it fixed a bug that was causing a lot of
          import failures IIRC
<james_w> I don't know what we upgraded from though
<poolie> which is the latest on the 2.3 series  [07:08]
<poolie> it was 2.3.0~beta5-0~1.ISPATCHED.8.04
<barry> [LINK] http://package-import.ubuntu.com/status/
<MootBot> LINK received:  http://package-import.ubuntu.com/status/
<poolie> so, a fair bit of stuff including some of jam's memory usage
         improvements
<barry> cool, thanks  [07:09]
<barry>    * barry to send email about meeting times given dst dance
        '''(done)'''
<barry> 
<barry> and here we are :)
<barry> [TOPIC]  * Package importer progress
<MootBot> New Topic:   * Package importer progress
<barry> see link above
<poolie> the specific thing it fixes is
         https://bugs.launchpad.net/udd/+bug/726584  [07:10]
<ubottu> Ubuntu bug 726584 in Bazaar "flash-kernel import fails apparently
         mismatching maverick and natty branches" [Critical,Fix released]
<poolie> hm, not a lot of changes this last week i think
<poolie> aside from that one
<barry> import failures appear to have a little spike right at the end  [07:11]
<poolie> there was a big canonical network hardware outage which caused some
         failures last week
<james_w> an LP service issue seems to have spiked in failures
<poolie> i see a lot of connectionreset type errors
<poolie> that would be good to look in to
<poolie> also for better re-scheduling
<james_w> likely just needs a ./requeue_package.py --auto kiwi  [07:12]
<poolie> shall i just run that now?
<james_w> you could remove the --auto and add --priority to see if that one
          succeeds, and then run that command on another to retry the rest
<barry> anything else of interest in package importer status?
<poolie> no
<barry> [TOPIC] bugs of interest
<MootBot> New Topic:  bugs of interest
<barry> [LINK]
        http://people.canonical.com/~mbp/kanban/canonical-bazaar-kanban.html
                                                                        [07:15]
<MootBot> LINK received:
          http://people.canonical.com/~mbp/kanban/canonical-bazaar-kanban.html
<poolie> so, a fair number of bugs fixed
<barry> as always, an impressive amount of work!
<poolie> faster working trees from john
<poolie> many git and hg fixes from jelmer
<poolie> oh and bzr-builddeb
* ** ivanka (~ivanka@91.189.88.12) has quit: Ping timeout: 276 seconds  [07:16]
<barry> jelmer: do you think now would be a good time to re-try the import of
        python's hg?
<poolie> do you two want to mention any in particular?
<poolie> oh, not really a bug, but we did get the 2.2 SRU into maverick
<poolie> we still need to push through 2.1 into lucid
<poolie> 2.0 is essentially eol now that karmic is
<jelmer> barry: unfortunately I haven't had time to land it on launchpad yet
         as I was planning  [07:17]
<jelmer> barry: It should happen this week instead.
<james_w> it's great to have watch file support, thanks for that jelmer!
<barry> jelmer: cool, no worries.  thanks
<jelmer> barry: I'll try to remember to ping you when I do
<barry> james_w: seconded.  i've already used it twice and it ROCKS
<barry> jelmer: thanks
<jelmer> thanks, that's great to hear
<barry> anything else on bugs of interest?  [07:18]
<poolie> 'warn when out of date' is still high on my list
<poolie> lp is shortly going to deploy a change that should make things more
         stable when branches are renamed  [07:19]
<poolie> james mentioned um
<barry> really great to hear!
<poolie> https://bugs.launchpad.net/udd/+bug/766757
<ubottu> Ubuntu bug 766757 in Ubuntu Distributed Development "creating mps for
         collisions isn't helpful" [High,Confirmed]
<poolie> to me, which is not the whole story in itself
<poolie> but a string we can pull on to make the package importer better
                                                                        [07:20]
<poolie> i was really happy to see michaelh1 summarize some performance issues
         and then jam fixed many of them
<poolie> hm, what else
<poolie> any nominations for bugs we ought to do next?  [07:21]
<barry> just the out-of-date warning one from me
<jelmer> poolie: +1, it's really exciting to see those performance fixes from
         John
<barry> [TOPIC]  * Any other business?  [07:22]
<MootBot> New Topic:   * Any other business?
<poolie> let's see
<poolie> UDS  [07:23]
<poolie> do we know sessions are booked?
<poolie> and, if we're going to do a short plenary, we should prepare one
<poolie> i don't know if they have been chosen yet
<jelmer> the session appear to be booked  [07:24]
<barry> agreed about the plenary.  they're really short this year.  i think
        15m max.  can we do something reasonable in 15m?
<poolie> i think so but it will have to be well chosen
<poolie> obviously not a tutorial
<jelmer> confirmed we have 3 sessions booked
<poolie> yet not waffle
<barry> why don't we add an action item for all of us to think about a plenary
        session, and we can brainstorm next meeting (which will be the week
        before uds)?  [07:25]
<poolie> k
<poolie> let's do more than just think :)
<james_w> I think plenaries have to be proposed before then :-(
<poolie> let's send some outlines
<barry> poolie: +1  [07:26]
<poolie> i have proposed one, i just do not have slides yet
<barry> poolie: can you send a link to your proposal and we can use that to
        start off with?  we can help w/slides too
<poolie> sure
<barry> [ACTION] poolie to send link to plenary proposal.  all to help finish
        that  [07:28]
<MootBot> ACTION received:  poolie to send link to plenary proposal.  all to
          help finish that
<barry> (hopefully that captures it ;)
<barry> any thing else for today?
<poolie> gosh  [07:29]
<poolie> we got a lot of good feedback
<poolie> i still have a few flagged to reply to
<poolie> i don't know good answers to all of them off hand
<poolie> for instance the thread on ubuntu-desktop about switching to
         merge-mode versioning, which is good, but raises questions
<poolie> jelmer: anything else from you?  [07:30]
<jelmer> no, though I should probably have a look at that ubuntu-desktop
         thread
<poolie> i would appreciate that
<jelmer> ok  [07:31]
<poolie> oh, of course, there was one more
<poolie> bfbia; can you talk about that jelmer?  [07:32]
<jelmer> ah, good point
<jelmer> We've talked about build from branch into primary earlier. There are
         some things that still need to be ironed out for that, in particular
         the security requirements.  [07:33]
<jelmer> There is another milestone that would be useful to aim for, and for
         which all the requirements seem to be clear - building from branch
         into a PPA  [07:34]
<jelmer> The changes to e.g. bzr-builder, the buildds and the API we have to
         make for this are the same as for bfbip.  [07:35]
<poolie> i think it would be a good step towards it  [07:36]
<james_w> that's not already there?
<poolie> it's essentially recipes with a null recipe
<poolie> is that a fair way to describe it?
<james_w> ok
<jelmer> poolie: yeah, I think so
<jelmer> james_w: also, e.g creating. .orig.tar.gz is not supported at the
         moment  [07:37]
<james_w> right
<james_w> so building a "distribution-acceptable package" in to a PPA
<jelmer> james_w: yeah, basically  [07:38]
<poolie> that's a good metric for it
<poolie> so then to go from that to 'into primary archive' is mostly
<jelmer> and with the same constraints we set for bfbip - an API call to
         request them and without requiring a recipe
<poolie> getting approval it's an ok thing to allow
<poolie> possibly more security checks-
<poolie> ... teaching lp to put the source into there, which apparently is a
         small change  [07:39]
<barry> sounds good, thanks for the update.  anything else for today?
<poolie> i think that's it
<poolie> it's late here
<jelmer> nothing else from me
<barry> #endmeeting  [07:42]
</pre>
