{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== ReApproval Application for Ubuntu-US-DC ==

=== Key Details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#E0FFFF>'''Date'''
| (''September 17th, 2013'')
|-
| <#E0FFFF>'''Team Contact'''
| Kevin Cole <dc.loco@gmail.com>
|-
| <#E0FFFF>'''Membership'''
| 115 (Mailing List) 123 (Launchpad) as of 2012.04.23
|-
| <#E0FFFF>'''Mailing List'''
| https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-us-dc
|-
| <#E0FFFF>'''IRC'''
| #ubuntu-us-dc on Freenode
|-
| <#E0FFFF>'''Launchpad'''
| https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-districtofcolumbia
|}

=== Roadmap ===
 
 
* Teach/Demo at '''DISCO'''vering '''TECH'''nology Fair (Disco Tech) III - Date to be determined
 
** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-dc/2012-April/003047.html|Discussion]]</nowiki>
* Hold regular (monthly?) IRC meetings to better plan and coordinate the work of the Lo''''''Co team.
* Collaborate with <nowiki>[[http://www.upliftdc.org/|Uplift, Inc.]]</nowiki>?
----
(Old roadmap items to be reviewed / renewed)
* Develop high school computer science curriculum materials using Python on Ubuntu.
* Contribute to <nowiki>[[http://schooltool.org/|SchoolTool]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://cando.schooltool.org/|CanDo]]</nowiki> development.
* Expand the use of Ubuntu in the computer science programs in Arlington Public Schools. 
* Develop <nowiki>[[http://dc.ubuntu-us.org/projects/gasp.php|GASP]]</nowiki> (Graphics API for Students of Python) for use on the <nowiki>[[http://www.laptop.org/|XO]]</nowiki> laptop (OLPC).
* Continue collaborating with the OLPC / SugarLabs DC team.
* Pursue leads with local government (particularly the <nowiki>[[http://dclibrarylabs.org/|DC Public Library System]]</nowiki>) and <nowiki>[[http://opensourceforamerica.org/|Open Source for America]]</nowiki> lobby.

=== Experience ===
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jbicha|Jeremy Bicha]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bcurtiswx|Brian Curtis]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~maco.m|Mackenzie Morgan]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~crimsun|Daniel Chen]]</nowiki> maintain and contribute to several packages.
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jbicha/+related-software|Jeremy Bicha's Related Software page on Launchpad]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bcurtiswx/+related-software|Brian Curtis' Related Software page on Launchpad]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~crimsun/+related-software|Daniel Chen's Related Software page on Launchpad]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~maco.m/+related-software|Mackenzie Morgan's Related Software page on Launchpad]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~maco.m|Mackenzie Morgan]]</nowiki> is a regular contributor to <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/users/1158/maco|Ask Ubuntu]]</nowiki> and blogs at <nowiki>[[http://ubuntulinuxtipstricks.blogspot.com/|Ubuntu Linux Tips & Tricks]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bcurtiswx|Brian Curtis]]</nowiki> Promotes Ubuntu at George Mason University and is often referred to for Ubuntu/Linux help. He hands out Ubuntu CD's and has gotten a majority of grad students to switch to Ubuntu.
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~marcoceppi|Marco Ceppi]]</nowiki> elected by the <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/election/1|Ask Ubuntu]]</nowiki> Community as a Moderator
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~marcoceppi|Marco Ceppi]]</nowiki> became the first community member to become an official <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~charmers|Juju Charmer]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~marcoceppi|Marco Ceppi]]</nowiki> (along with others) helped migrate <nowiki>[[http://omgubuntu.co.uk|OMG! Ubuntu!]]</nowiki> to use <nowiki>[[http://juju.ubuntu.com|Juju]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~rikgoldman|Rik Goldman]]</nowiki> contributed a Comp''''''TIA Linux+ curriculum to <nowiki>[[http://www.byteback.org/training/programs/|Byte Back]]</nowiki> (a computer training facility for low-income adults).
==== 2013 ====

* Add Here

==== 2012 ====
* Table at <nowiki>[[http://www.hearstes.org/e-cycle|Hearst Community E-cycling Day]]</nowiki> - May 5, 2012
* Table at <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/|Software Freedom Day (SFD) 2012]]</nowiki> at the <nowiki>[[http://tpff.org/|Takoma Park Folk Festival (TPFF)]]</nowiki> - September 9, 2012
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kjcole|Kevin Cole]]</nowiki> demonstrated Ubuntu and other FOSS at '''DISCO'''vering '''TECH'''nology Fair (Disco Tech II), February 25, 2012
** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-dc/2012-February/002885.html|Discussion]]</nowiki>
* Release party / Install''''''Fest at '''Taste of India''' (Washington, DC)
** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-dc/2012-April/003018.html|Discussion]]</nowiki>

==== 2011 ====
* Sanjay Jain, Frank Winstead, and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kjcole|Kevin Cole]]</nowiki> tabled at the <nowiki>[[www.hearstes.org-e-cycle|Hearst Community E-cycle]]</nowiki> (electronics recycling) event, April 2, 2011
** <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/dcloco/sets/72157629519452118/|Flickr Photos]]</nowiki>
* Several team members (Chuck Glenn, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~maco.m|Mackenzie Morgan]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~barry|Barry Warsaw]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ncweber00|N.C. Weber]]</nowiki>, Jerry, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~matthew-langbehn|Matthew Langbehn]]</nowiki>, Katie, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jelkner|Jeff Elkner]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kjcole|Kevin Cole]]</nowiki>) tabled again for a ''be-earlied'' <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/|Software Freedom Day (SFD)]]</nowiki> at the <nowiki>[[http://tpff.org/|Takoma Park Folk Festival (TPFF)]]</nowiki>, September 11, 2011
** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-dc/2011-September/thread.html|Discussion]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/maco_nix/sets/72157627549087377/with/6148967836/|Flickr Photos]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.tpff.org/2012/04/20/community-tables-application-form-now-online/|TPFF Poster Children]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kjcole|Kevin Cole]]</nowiki> demonstrated Ubuntu and other FOSS at '''DISCO'''vering '''TECH'''nology Fair (Disco Tech I), November 5, 2011
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bcurtiswx|Brian Curtis]]</nowiki> Attended UDS-O as a community member and focused on continuing his assistance with the Desktop Team.
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~marcoceppi|Marco Ceppi]]</nowiki> Attended UDS-O as a community member to represent <nowiki>[[Ask Ubuntu]]</nowiki>

==== 2010 ====
* Several team members (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~maco.m|Mackenzie Morgan]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jbicha|Jeremy Bicha]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bcurtiswx|Brian Curtis]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jelkner|Jeff Elkner]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kjcole|Kevin Cole]]</nowiki>) tabled again for a ''be-earlied'' <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/|Software Freedom Day (SFD)]]</nowiki> at the <nowiki>[[http://tpff.org/|Takoma Park Folk Festival (TPFF)]]</nowiki>, September 12, 2010
** <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/maco_nix/sets/72157624947224622/with/4986768544/|Flickr Photos]]</nowiki>
* Worked the <nowiki>[[http://cyberigor.com/fose/index.php|Open Source booth]]</nowiki> at ''<nowiki>[[http://www.fose.com/|Federal Office Systems Expo (FOSE)]]</nowiki>'' 2010
* Weekly bug jams at <nowiki>[[http://toidc.com/|Taste of India]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/crimsun/sets/72157623317037372/|Flickr photos]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/maco_nix/4351866690/in/pool-ubuntu-us-dc|(Flickr photo including photographer of previous photos)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~marcoceppi|Marco Ceppi]]</nowiki> Selected as Pro-tempore Moderator on <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/users/41/marco-ceppi|Ask Ubuntu]]</nowiki>

==== 2009 ====
* Continued Cleveland Park Library computer clinic
* ''<nowiki>[[http://dc.ubuntu-us.org/events/2009/|TPFF 2009]]</nowiki>'' - tabled at the Takoma Park Folk Festival (TPFF), September 2009, Takoma Park, MD --> <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/maco_nix/sets/72157622363341038/|photos]]</nowiki>
* Worked the <nowiki>[[http://cyberigor.com/fose/index.php?n=Main.FOSE2009Archive|Open Source booth]]</nowiki> at ''<nowiki>[[http://www.fose.com/|Federal Office Systems Expo (FOSE)]]</nowiki>'' 2009
* Jaunty release party at Taste of India
** <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/maco_nix/sets/72157617191211209/|Flickr photos]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/crimsun/sets/72157617278683868/|More Flickr photos]]</nowiki>
* Karmic installfest at GWU --> <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/crimsun/sets/72157622786639676/|photos]]</nowiki>

==== 2008 ====
* Cleveland Park Library computer clinic (three Saturdays per month)
* Became a regular host and organizer for the One Laptop Per Child (OLPC) Learning Club DC
* ''<nowiki>[[http://dc.ubuntu-us.org/events/2008/|TPFF 2008]]</nowiki>'' - tabled at the Takoma Park Folk Festival (TPFF), September 2008, Takoma Park, MD --> <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/maco_nix/sets/72157617284154844/|photos]]</nowiki>
* ''Federal Office Systems Expo (FOSE)'' 2008
* Hardy installfest
* Intrepid installfest

==== 2007 ====
* ''<nowiki>[[http://www.cyberigor.com/fose/|FOSE 2007 ]]</nowiki>'' - distributed CD's at the largest U.S. federal government technology convention, March 2005, Washington DC
* Feisty installfest
* Gutsy installfest
* ''<nowiki>[[http://dc.ubuntu-us.org/events/2007/|TPFF 2007]]</nowiki>'' - tabled at the Takoma Park Folk Festival (TPFF), September 2007, Takoma Park, MD
* ''Federal Office Systems Expo (FOSE)'' 2007

==== 2006 ====
* Many InstallFests
* ''<nowiki>[[http://dc.ubuntu-us.org/events/2006/|FOSE 2006]]</nowiki>'' - distributed CD's at the largest U.S. federal government technology convention, March 2006, Washington DC
* ''<nowiki>[[http://dc.ubuntu-us.org/events/2006/|NECC 2006]]</nowiki>'' - demonstrated Ubuntu and distributed CD's at the National Educational Computing Conference (NECC), July 2006, San Diego
* ''<nowiki>[[http://dc.ubuntu-us.org/events/2006/|TPFF 2006]]</nowiki>'' - tabled at the Takoma Park Folk Festival (TPFF), September 2006, Takoma Park, MD
* ''<nowiki>[[http://dc.ubuntu-us.org/events/2006/|SFD 2006]]</nowiki>'' - tabled at Mount Rainer Library for Software Freedom Day, September 2006, Mt. Rainier, MD
* ''<nowiki>[[http://dc.ubuntu-us.org/sites/|Support]]</nowiki>'' - set up and provide on-going support for several Edubuntu labs
==== 2005 ====
* ''<nowiki>[[http://dc.ubuntu-us.org/events/2005/sfd2005.php|SFD 2005]]</nowiki>'' - tabled at Mount Rainer Library for Software Freedom Day, September 2005, Mt. Rainier, MD
* ''<nowiki>[[http://www.cyberigor.com/fose/|FOSE 2005 ]]</nowiki>'' - distributed CD's at the largest U.S. federal government technology convention, March 2005, Washington DC
