{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[DistributedDevelopment]]</nowiki> steering meeting to be held in <code>#ubuntu-meeting</code> on 2011-03-02 at 2100 UTC.

Chair: barry

== Apologies ==

== Agenda ==

* Attendance/apologies
* Action items
** poolie to advertise udd projects to non-staff contributors
** poolie to integrate jml's feedback into lep
** poolie to meet with allison re lep '''(done)'''
** poolie to meet with robbiew re lep
** jam to propose/report plan for quilt imports
** poolie forward/link to https://wiki.linaro.org/Platform/DevPlatform/ComponentReleasesWithBzr '''(done)'''
* LEP <nowiki>[[https://dev.launchpad.net/LEP/BuildFromBranchIntoPrimary]]</nowiki>
* Package importer progress
* Bugs of interest:
** See http://people.canonical.com/~mbp/kanban/canonical-bazaar-kanban.html
* Any other business?

== Summary ==

* vila and jam have been fixing a lot of things in the package importer
* via has done good work cleaning up and making it more robust
* LEP work is being scheduled after finishing disclosure management
* http://people.canonical.com/~mbp/kanban/canonical-bazaar-kanban.html
* package importer has been brought in-house (new hardware, sysadmin maintained)

== New Actions ==

* poolie talk to stakeholders about bfbip scheduling
* poolie to prepare udd sessions for uds-o

== Log ==

<pre>
<barry> #startmeeting  [16:01]
<MootBot> Meeting started at 15:01. The chair is barry.
<MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK],
          [VOTE]
<barry> hi everyone and welcome to this week's ubuntu distributed development
        steering committee meeting.  all are welcome to join in
<barry> [TOPIC] agenda
<MootBot> New Topic:  agenda
<barry> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DistributedDevelopment/20110302
<barry> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DistributedDevelopment/20110302
<MootBot> LINK received:
          https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DistributedDevelopment/20110302
<barry> we're going to wait a few minutes until poolie arrives  [16:02]
<barry> who else is here today?
<jelmer> me!
<jelmer> Hi Barry  [16:03]
<barry> hi jelmer.  great to have you here
<jelmer> barry: did you see poolie's email?  [16:04]
<jelmer> g'morning Ian
<barry> jelmer: yep, he said he'd be 15m late.  we can wait
                                                                        [16:05]
<barry> okay, hopefully poolie will be along soon.  i guess we should get
        started though  [16:16]
<barry> [TOPIC] action items
<MootBot> New Topic:  action items
<barry> most of these are poolie's but please chime in if you know the status
        of them
<barry>    * poolie to advertise udd projects to non-staff contributors
<barry> i believe this is done
<barry>    * poolie to integrate jml's feedback into lep  [16:17]
<barry> anybody know anything about this one?
<jelmer> I don't think I've seen anything about the first item
<barry> oh, maybe i'm just thinking about the internal email
<barry>    * poolie to meet with allison re lep
<barry>    * poolie to meet with robbiew re lep
<barry> know anything about these?  [16:19]
<jelmer> I think the second item happened, or at least something about it
         happened.
<barry> i don't know what these leps are about.  do you know?
<jelmer> ah
<jelmer> it's https://dev.launchpad.net/LEP/BuildFromBranchIntoPrimary  [16:20]
<barry> ah, cool.  yep, i've been following that one
<jelmer> the LEP mentions Allison read it
<barry> cool, thanks  [16:21]
<barry>    * jam to propose/report plan for quilt imports
<barry> jam doesn't appear to be around
<barry> he's in a different timezone now :)
<jelmer> yeah, I guess something went wrong there :)
* barry is particularly interested in this one
<jelmer> james_w: ping
<james_w> hi
<jelmer> barry: I've been working on getting daily builds of GNOME packages
         based on the upstream imports and the ubuntu-desktop packaging
         branches
<james_w> sorry I am late
<jelmer> barry: I'm slowly starting to realise what an awesome feature
         properly working looms would be  [16:23]
<barry> :)
<barry> jelmer: do you think looms<->quilts makes sense?  [16:24]
<jelmer> barry: Yes; I think we should fix looms where it doesn't make sense
<barry> very cool  [16:25]
<barry>    * poolie forward/link to
        https://wiki.linaro.org/Platform/DevPlatform/ComponentReleasesWithBzr
<barry> 
<barry> i guess w/o poolie we should move on  [16:26]
<barry> [TOPIC] Package importer progress
<MootBot> New Topic:  Package importer progress
<barry> james_w and/or jelmer ?
<jelmer> Vincent and John fixed a lot of things in the importer
<james_w> vila has done some good work cleaning up the code and making it more
          robust  [16:27]
<james_w> there were also some bugs fixed that were causing import failures
<slangasek> poolie did forward that link to ubuntu-devel, so maybe that's
            done?
<james_w> there's a bzr bug that spiv has a branch for that is affecting quite
          a few imports
<barry> slangasek: i do seem to remember it as well
<james_w> in fact it occurs when there is a collision detected
<james_w> and we had our first (known) real live one of those yesterday
                                                                        [16:28]
* ** poolie (~mbp@2001:44b8:61::1b5) has joined channel #ubuntu-meeting
<barry> james_w: what kind of collision do you mean?
<poolie> hi all
<james_w> so the crash indicates it would have done the right thing, but it
          was a shame not to see it work out :-)
<jelmer> 'morning poolie
<james_w> someone pushed to the branch at the same time someone else uploaded
<james_w> so the archive and the branch disagreed
<james_w> hi poolie
<barry> hi poolie   [16:29]
<barry> gotcha
<slangasek> james_w: is this a collision that only occurs when the upload and
            push both happen within a certain rescan interval?  Because we've
            certainly had collisions of the more general kind before
<barry> poolie: we ran through the action items already, but since most of
        them are assigned to you, can you catch us up in a few minutes?
                                                                        [16:30]
<james_w> slangasek, you mean two people uploading, or collisions involving
          UDD?  [16:31]
<james_w> perhaps collision isn't the best name for this situation
<slangasek> james_w: one person committing to the UDD branch, followed by
            someone ignoring the branch and uploading
<poolie> sure
<james_w> slangasek, right, that's the same situation
<slangasek> james_w: ok, so yesterday is definitely not the first time this
            has happened, but maybe there's a new bug in bzr that's entangled
            here :)  [16:32]
<james_w> slangasek, ok, it was the first confirmed one that I could remember
          :-)
<slangasek> oh, sorry
<slangasek> didn't know you wanted me to yell when it happens :-)
<barry> james_w: any summary on how we're doing for package imports?  # or %
        fewer failures now?  how many still failing?  [16:33]
<james_w> slangasek, nope, it's supposed to be taken care of
          automatically. This time it was just that people weren't sure what
          would happen, and so asked me to take a look
<james_w> there are numbers and graphs on
          http://package-import.ubuntu.com/status/  [16:34]
<james_w> you can see that there has been a downward trend since the start of
          the year
<slangasek> a number of the current import failures are cases where I know
            there's been divergence between UDD and archive, followed by a
            manual fix-up on the branch  [16:35]
<barry> that's really fantastic
<slangasek> how can we reconcile those so they're not shown as failures?
<slangasek> (see, this has been going on for quite a while, and I thought I
            was doing good by updating the branches by hand ;)  [16:36]
<james_w> slangasek, do you have an example?
<slangasek> james_w: sure, one sec
<slangasek> james_w: qemu-linaro
<slangasek> also, armel-cross-toolchain-base cdbs gcc-4.5-armel-cross plymouth
<james_w> ok, that needs an importer admin to check and tell the importer that
          the situation is fine, and it should carry on  [16:37]
<slangasek> how best do I raise this (outside of the present meeting, that
            is?)
<slangasek> I think the one time I tried to raise it on #is, I had bad timing
            due to the importer being offline right after squeeze release :)
<james_w> a bug on udd would be appropriate I think  [16:38]
<slangasek> ok
<james_w> the procedure is documented on the wiki if you ask an admin and they
          don't know how to do it
<poolie> just what issue is "this"?  [16:39]
<james_w> that someone messed with the branches, and the importer currently
          keeps an audit log and complains when that happens  [16:40]
<poolie> ok
<barry> if now's a good time, poolie can you catch us up on the action items?
                                                                        [16:42]
<poolie> sure
<poolie> so, we had a big thread about udd, with some feedback about the lep
<poolie> i still need to fold that in
<poolie> i spoke to allison about it; not yet to robbie
<poolie> i was going to update it and then talk to him  [16:43]
<poolie> i did forward a link to poolie forward/link to
         https://wiki.linaro.org/Platform/DevPlatform/ComponentReleasesWithBzr
         in to the packaging doc thread
<barry> did you advertise the udd projects to non-staff?  [16:44]
<poolie> not as such, only through discussion on the u-d list
<poolie> what would be a good way to do that?
<barry> other than also on the bzr mlists?  i don't know  [16:45]
<poolie> perhaps we should can that
<barry> cool.  i can leave that one un-done
<poolie> i think on the whole it's better to just be open about what we're
         doing and have easy tasks for people to begin on if they want
<barry> yep  [16:46]
<barry> poolie: do you know anything about jam's progress/plan for quilt
        imports?
<poolie> also, i spoke to flacoste and jml about scheduling work on the lep
<poolie> which is the main thing we have to do next  [16:47]
<poolie> it's not a very large amount of work, but it's not trivial
<poolie> s/on the lep/on building source packages directly from  branches
         without recipes
<poolie> at the moment it looks like it is second in the queue for new tasks
         to start
<poolie> after finishing disclosure management (aka privacy, acls, etc)
                                                                        [16:48]
<barry> makes sense
<poolie> that one is highly desired by canonical oem teams, and still
         half-done
<poolie> [action] poolie talk to stakeholders about bfbip scheduling  [16:49]
<barry> [action] poolie talk to stakeholders about bfbip scheduling
<MootBot> ACTION received:  poolie talk to stakeholders about bfbip scheduling
<poolie> we could possibly try it ourselves inside the bzr team, but i think
         on the whole it's better to wait for an lp squad
<poolie> if they don't take it at that time, perhaps we will  [16:50]
<poolie> regarding jam and looms: he's moving house so a bit distracted
<poolie> i have seen some work by jelmer and others on looms recently
<barry> poolie: thanks.  any other news on action items?  [16:51]
<poolie> the plan on quilts is basically to turn the into looms
<poolie> i think that's the full list?  [16:52]
* poolie looks in old minutes
<poolie> our kanban is now at
         <http://people.canonical.com/~mbp/kanban/canonical-bazaar-kanban.html>
         and should be updated every 30m  [16:53]
<poolie> were there other actions for me?
<poolie> otherwise perahps we should look at hot bugs
<barry> poolie: yes, let's look at bugs  [16:54]
<barry> [TOPIC] hot bugs
<MootBot> New Topic:  hot bugs
<poolie> http://people.canonical.com/~mbp/kanban/canonical-bazaar-kanban.html
<MootBot> LINK received:
          http://people.canonical.com/~mbp/kanban/canonical-bazaar-kanban.html
<barry> poolie: the floor is yours
<poolie> just looking over that board  [16:55]
<poolie> one change in the last week is that vila landed a new controller
         infrastructure into the package importer, which is supposed to make
         it more reliable
<poolie> it closed some bugs, anyhow
<poolie> as of approximately today, we're moving the package importer to its
         new hardware, and making it sysadmin-maintained  [16:56]
<poolie> jelmer is working on foreign branch bugs, and on infrastructure to
         allow testing them
<barry> nice!  [16:58]
<poolie> are there any bugs people would like attention to?
<barry> i don't remember the bug number, but the one about warning when
        branching a package that has import failures.  [16:59]
<poolie> barry, <https://bugs.launchpad.net/udd/+bug/609187>, it's on the
         short list  [17:00]
<poolie> thanks for the vote
<ubottu> Ubuntu bug 609187 in Ubuntu Distributed Development "bzr branch
         lp:ubuntu/foo should warn when foo is out of date" [High,Triaged]
<barry> yep, thanks!
<barry> anyone have anything else for bugs of interest?  [17:01]
<poolie> ok, next item?
<barry> [TOPIC]  * Any other business?
<barry> 
<MootBot> New Topic:   * Any other business?
<barry> going once...  [17:02]
<poolie> for next time: we should schedule some uds sessions
<barry> oh, i should mention: i did an intro to udd class on monday during
        ubuntu developer week.  it was very well received.  but 1h is not
        enough time to cover everything ;)  [17:03]
<poolie> oh, great!
<poolie> thanks for that
<james_w> yeah, thanks
<slangasek> I have a request I wanted to raise but I'm currently suffering
            contention, so I'll just file a bug against udd for now
<barry> np
<poolie> k
<poolie> actually, can you give me an item to prepare for uds?  [17:04]
<poolie> i think just something like a tutorial session and a planning session
<poolie> jelmer and i will be there
<barry> [action] poolie to prepare udd sessions for uds
<MootBot> ACTION received:  poolie to prepare udd sessions for uds
<barry> [action] poolie to prepare udd sessions for uds-o
<MootBot> ACTION received:  poolie to prepare udd sessions for uds-o
<barry> excellent.  i'll be there too
<barry> i guess the only other thing i have today is to remind folks that we
        won't have another meeting until 2011-03-23 because of pycon  [17:05]
<poolie> oh, ok
<barry> well, unless you want to chair it?  [17:06]
<barry> (on the 16th)
<poolie> i think the 23rd is fine
<poolie> shall we then continue every 2nd week from then?
<barry> yep
<barry> poolie: i think you are the keeper of the google calendar.  can you
        update that?
<jelmer> can I be added to the google calendar?  [17:07]
<poolie> done and done  [17:08]
<barry> poolie: awesome, thanks
<barry> if there's nothing else for today...
<barry> 5
<barry> 4
<barry> 3
<barry> 2  [17:09]
<barry> 1
<barry> #endmeeting
</pre>
