{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== August 22nd, 2013 ==
 A. Last meeting: <nowiki>[[DistrictofColumbiaTeam-MeetingNotes-20121220|December 20th 2012]]</nowiki>
=== Agendum ===
1. Takoma Park Folk Festival
** Kevin has rented a table once again for us to promote Ubuntu at the TPFF
** Kevin will be bringing:
   A. a small batch of Raring Ringtail
** some left over LTS CD's.
** Old handouts.
** Banners and the tablecloth.
** We will need to bring:
   A. GOOD paperweights or methods of securing materials to tables in case of wind would be nice. We've tried string in the past.
** POWER!
** Chairs.
** Who will need rides?
** Who can provide rides?
* Reapproval
* Marcoceppi Time
* Open Discussion
=== Minutes ===
==== Meeting information ====
* #ubuntu-us-dc Meeting, 22 Aug at 23:06 &mdash; 23:51 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-dc/2013/ubuntu-us-dc.2013-08-22-23.06.log.html]]</nowiki>

==== Meeting summary ====

===== Takoma Park Folk Festival =====
The discussion about "Takoma Park Folk Festival" started at 23:09.

* '''The table space is bought (rented) and paid for, once again.''' (23:11)
** ''ACTION:'' bcurtiswx to start e-mail thread for TPFF
* '''A small box of Raring and a reasonable amount of leftover LTS will be there.''' (23:12)
** ''ACTION:'' Check with Chuck about shelter, power, and WiFi hot spot.
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DistrictOfColumbiaTeam/MeetingNotes/20130822 
** ''ACTION:'' kjcole will TRY to remember to look for and print newer handouts.
** ''ACTION:'' Cameras!

===== reapproval =====
The discussion about "reapproval" started at 23:21.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DistrictOfColumbiaTeam/ReApprovalApplication2013 
** ''ACTION:'' bcurtiswx to send out approval application updates email
** ''ACTION:'' kjcole to sit back and let bcurtiswx do all the work. ;-)

===== LoCo main usage items =====
The discussion about "LoCo main usage items" started at 23:26.

** ''ACTION:'' kjcole to create wiki page with all events that Ubuntu-us-dc normally participates in w/dates/links etc...
** ''IDEA:'' I think we should try doing events at MLK's new Digital Commons, and then trek to food afterwards on a semi-regular basis.  (kjcole, 23:38)
** ''LINK:'' https://maps.google.com/maps?daddr=901+G+St+NW,+Washington,+DC+20001&gl=us&panel=1&fb=1&dirflg=d&geocode=0,38.898661,-77.024603&cid=0,0,13562564641347802842&hq=mlk+library&hnear=0x89b7c6de5af6e45b:0xc2524522d4885d2a,Washington,+DC&t=m&z=16 

===== open discussion =====
The discussion about "open discussion" started at 23:42.

** ''IDEA:'' I've been toying with the idea of trying to reach out to local politicos.  In fact, I gave wannabe mayor Tommy Wells an Ubuntu CD at the grand opening of the Digital Commons.  (kjcole, 23:45)
** ''ACTION:'' kjcole to start e-mail discussion about MLK possibilites and what we can participate in
** ''IDEA:'' As much as I like giving Merge business (which I've actually been a bit remiss about), if we have someone who isn't shy, we might try to get something going ONCE in a while at Busboys and Poets.  (kjcole, 23:50)

==== Vote results ====

==== Action items ====

* bcurtiswx to start e-mail thread for TPFF
* Check with Chuck about shelter, power, and WiFi hot spot.
* kjcole will TRY to remember to look for and print newer handouts.
* Cameras!
* bcurtiswx to send out approval application updates email
* kjcole to sit back and let bcurtiswx do all the work. ;-)
* kjcole to create wiki page with all events that Ubuntu-us-dc normally participates in w/dates/links etc...
* kjcole to start e-mail discussion about MLK possibilites and what we can participate in

==== Action items, by person ====

* bcurtiswx
** bcurtiswx to start e-mail thread for TPFF
** bcurtiswx to send out approval application updates email
** kjcole to sit back and let bcurtiswx do all the work. ;-)
* kjcole
** kjcole will TRY to remember to look for and print newer handouts.
** kjcole to sit back and let bcurtiswx do all the work. ;-)
** kjcole to create wiki page with all events that Ubuntu-us-dc normally participates in w/dates/links etc...
** kjcole to start e-mail discussion about MLK possibilites and what we can participate in
* **UNASSIGNED**
** Check with Chuck about shelter, power, and WiFi hot spot.
** Cameras!

==== People present (lines said) ====

* bcurtiswx (102)
* kjcole (42)
* meetingology (11)
* ncweber (11)

==== Full Log ====

 23:06 <bcurtiswx> #startmeeting

 23:06 <meetingology> Meeting started Thu Aug 22 23:06:56 2013 UTC.  The chair is bcurtiswx. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 23:06 <meetingology> 

 23:06 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 23:07 <bcurtiswx> OK, Roll Call

 23:07 * bcurtiswx is here

 23:07 * bcurtiswx crashes..

 23:08 <bcurtiswx> lol

 23:08 <bcurtiswx> kjcole, see i broke dc.ubuntu-us.org

 23:08 * kjcole is here

 23:08 <kjcole> bcurtiswx Uh-oh.

 23:08 <bcurtiswx> i sent a ticket in to get it fixed, apparently one theme causes it to autoroute to ubuntu.com

 23:08 * bcurtiswx shrugs

 23:09 <bcurtiswx> #topic Takoma Park Folk Festival

 23:09 <kjcole> bcurtiswx Can it be undone from our end? Should I try?

 23:10 <bcurtiswx> kjcole, no it's out of our control unfortunately

 23:10 <bcurtiswx> there's no back route to a themeless one, i tried looking

 23:10 <bcurtiswx> So the TPFF is Sunday Sept 8th, 2013 9-5 IIRC

 23:11 <kjcole> Correct.

 23:11 <kjcole> #progress The table space is bought (rented) and paid for, once again.

 23:12 <bcurtiswx> #action bcurtiswx to start e-mail thread for TPFF

 23:12 * meetingology bcurtiswx to start e-mail thread for TPFF

 23:12 <bcurtiswx> this way we can see who is interested and who can provide transportation.

 23:12 <kjcole> #progress A small box of Raring and a reasonable amount of leftover LTS will be there.

 23:13 <bcurtiswx> I'll get a live USB stick to use on my macbook air with Ubuntu 13.04 and i'll bring my Ubuntu-touch Nexus 7

 23:13 <kjcole> #action Check with Chuck about shelter, power, and WiFi hot spot.

 23:13 * meetingology Check with Chuck about shelter, power, and WiFi hot spot.

 23:13 <bcurtiswx> not sure how well that will go as the device itself is slowly breaking internally

 23:14 <bcurtiswx> the nexus7

 23:14 <kjcole> I converted Jeff Elkner's Nexus to Ubuntu Touch as well.  If he's coming, he should bring it.

 23:14 <bcurtiswx> if we can get a consistent power source, i have unlimited Verizon and can toggle a local wifi if needed

 23:14 <bcurtiswx> it'll need to be plugged in, otherwise my battery will go quick

 23:15 <bcurtiswx> my wifi hotspot on my phone..

 23:15 <kjcole> If I can get a small-ish monitor that doesn't suck too much juice, I could set up the Raspberry Pi.

 23:15 <bcurtiswx> this is all of course, hoping for a decent weather event

 23:16 <kjcole> There is that.

 23:16 <bcurtiswx> when i go, *knocks on wood* it's rained..

 23:16 <bcurtiswx> I imagine if we have some of the ubuntu touch devices we may be a popular booth (with all the touch publicity)

 23:17 <kjcole> Sadly, the "sapphire screen" has, for the moment morphed into the "blue screen of death".

 23:17 <bcurtiswx> wow,

 23:18 <kjcole> Liked that, did you? ;-) I'm thinking of licensing the phrase under CC-BY-SA. ;-)

 23:18 <bcurtiswx> So I'll take care of that TPFF e-mail thread. Anything thats not on the wiki that i need to bring up?

 23:18 <bcurtiswx> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DistrictOfColumbiaTeam/MeetingNotes/20130822

 23:20 <kjcole> Nothing pressing, as far as I know except an explicit mention of WiFi.

 23:20 <kjcole> (Which you've offered to cover, providing there's power.)

 23:21 <kjcole> #action kjcole will TRY to remember to look for and print newer handouts.

 23:21 * meetingology kjcole will TRY to remember to look for and print newer handouts.

 23:21 <bcurtiswx> I'm not sure how my transport will be, but if i have to take WMATA i'll be there shortly after 10:00

 23:21 <bcurtiswx> OK, so

 23:21 <kjcole> #action Cameras!

 23:21 * meetingology Cameras!

 23:21 <bcurtiswx> #topic reapproval

 23:22 <bcurtiswx> So i've gone through and updated the reapproval application and will need to send an e-mail out for updated to it.. then next month i'll attend (hopefully with others as well) the aproval meeting and get that taken care of

 23:23 <bcurtiswx> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DistrictOfColumbiaTeam/ReApprovalApplication2013

 23:23 <kjcole> Depending on the meeting time, I can probably put in an appearance.  After TPFF we'll have another round of pictures as supporting evidence...

 23:23 <bcurtiswx> great

 23:24 <bcurtiswx> #action bcurtiswx to send out approval application updates email

 23:24 * meetingology bcurtiswx to send out approval application updates email

 23:24 <bcurtiswx> At least 2013 should have one item on it (TPFF)

 23:24 <kjcole> #action kjcole to sit back and let bcurtiswx do all the work. ;-)

 23:24 * meetingology kjcole to sit back and let bcurtiswx do all the work. ;-)

 23:25 <bcurtiswx> you're more than welcome to take an action item, ;)

 23:25 <bcurtiswx> hi ncweber welcome

 23:25 <kjcole> ncweber, glad you could join us.

 23:25 <bcurtiswx> This next item was supposed to be marcoceppi time

 23:25 <bcurtiswx> but i will go ahead and talk about an item thats not on the agenda

 23:26 <bcurtiswx> #topic LoCo main usage items

 23:26 <ncweber> Hello. Sorry I'm late.

 23:26 <bcurtiswx> So i was going through and finding out all the resources we have at our disposal

 23:26 <bcurtiswx> there's quite a bit

 23:26 <bcurtiswx> Wiki, Drupal, Forums, IRC, Mailing list

 23:27 <bcurtiswx> Forums are, well.. Nobody uses them (not even in any of the other LoCo's)

 23:27 <bcurtiswx> IRC is great for meetings, so thats the meeting resource

 23:27 <kjcole> Particularly since being badly hacked.

 23:27 <kjcole> (Forums, I mean.)

 23:27 <bcurtiswx> Mailing list will be the main point of communication

 23:28 <ncweber> That works well for me..

 23:28 <bcurtiswx> Wiki will store information for everything (I think they allow attachments of files and such, but i'm not entirely sure)

 23:28 <bcurtiswx> that will be our resource for information we need to keep for long times

 23:28 <kjcole> Lest we forget Evil Empire 2.0: Google+ Community / Hangouts / Circles / whatever.

 23:28 <bcurtiswx> (i.e. TPFF info, DISCO TECH stuff, etc...)

 23:29 <bcurtiswx> I'm getting there, lol

 23:29 <bcurtiswx> The drupal site should act as the main hub

 23:29 <bcurtiswx> quick reference for anyone who needs it and doesn't want to go digging

 23:29 <bcurtiswx> I saw on another drupal site (ohio linux team) that they have a mailing list feed aggregator

 23:29 <bcurtiswx> i'm totally doing that once canonical fixes our site

 23:30 <ncweber> Cool

 23:30 <kjcole> bcurtiswx nice.

 23:31 <bcurtiswx> So in my limited free time, i want to get things spiffied up and better organized so others can take charge if needed anytime in the future when the regulars aren't here

 23:31 <kjcole> Provided we're getting serious, then a calendar, probably front and center on the Drupal site, would be good.

 23:31 <bcurtiswx> ON the wiki i added at the bottom a link to all our subpages

 23:31 <bcurtiswx> I imagine there's some type of drupal calendar plugin

 23:32 <bcurtiswx> maybe i'll stick an IFrame of googles stuff <shrugs>

 23:32 * bcurtiswx shivers from IFrames

 23:32 <kjcole> People need to be able to quickly check what's coming up (and, if they're really good, subscribe to said calendar to get automatic alerts).

 23:32 <bcurtiswx> yeah, i want to make it easy on everyone..... else.. lol.. so in return they come to meetings or even better, come to events

 23:33 <bcurtiswx> i don't plan on it being easy early on here for me (or Kevin) as we update things.. The goal is that once everything comes together, things before easier and easier on anyone in charge

 23:33 <kjcole> bcurtiswx before someone broke it ;-) Drupal had, built in, the concept of "events". As I recall, there wasn't a particularly intelligent calendar, but I believe I did embed a Google calendar into the site.

 23:33 <bcurtiswx> :(

 23:34 <bcurtiswx> i blame the fact that a theme was available to us that did that

 23:34 <bcurtiswx> i don't blame me

 23:34 <bcurtiswx> We have a twitter/facebook/google+ account that I and/or Kevin will keep updated

 23:34 <bcurtiswx> You all should have seen my posts earlier this week announcing the meeting

 23:35 <bcurtiswx> on all three

 23:35 <ncweber> I'd like to help out if I can.

 23:35 <bcurtiswx> ncweber, we'll keep that in mind. thanks

 23:35 <kjcole> ncweber Artwork's always welcome, and whatever else you feel comfy with.

 23:36 <bcurtiswx> OK, any other events coming up for the LoCo other than TPFF

 23:36 <kjcole> I've been so overwhelmed for so long, but if I ever get back to sanity, some newcomer tutorials might be in the offing.

 23:37 <bcurtiswx> #action kjcole to create wiki page with all events that Ubuntu-us-dc normally participates in w/dates/links etc...

 23:37 * meetingology kjcole to create wiki page with all events that Ubuntu-us-dc normally participates in w/dates/links etc...

 23:37 <kjcole> bcurtiswx Mayhaps plan on a release party for Sausy?

 23:37 <bcurtiswx> A late october at TOI may be perfect

 23:38 <kjcole> Also, we should try to join some of the global events.

 23:38 <bcurtiswx> absolutely

 23:38 <bcurtiswx> that should link up with the loco.ubuntu.com

 23:38 <bcurtiswx> so we just have to find it and add ours to it (borg collective style)

 23:38 <kjcole> #idea I think we should try doing events at MLK's new Digital Commons, and then trek to food afterwards on a semi-regular basis.

 23:39 <bcurtiswx> where is MLK library?

 23:39 <kjcole> This would give us greater exposure, and they have a 3D printer now.

 23:39 <bcurtiswx> orly?

 23:39 <ncweber> 9th & G Streets, NW

 23:39 <bcurtiswx> a 3-d orange ubuntu logo would be a nice office addition

 23:39 <kjcole> #link https://maps.google.com/maps?daddr=901+G+St+NW,+Washington,+DC+20001&gl=us&panel=1&fb=1&dirflg=d&geocode=0,38.898661,-77.024603&cid=0,0,13562564641347802842&hq=mlk+library&hnear=0x89b7c6de5af6e45b:0xc2524522d4885d2a,Washington,+DC&t=m&z=16

 23:40 <bcurtiswx> oh, block away from gallery place

 23:40 <bcurtiswx> easy metro access

 23:40 <kjcole> At least a handful of employees there are excited about the Pi, though at the moment it's clearly a Windows / Mac shop.

 23:40 <ncweber> Across from a convenient Metro Station. Gallery Place-Chinatown

 23:41 <bcurtiswx> ;)

 23:41 <bcurtiswx> we'll take it over, easily

 23:41 <bcurtiswx> i converted an entire grad department to Ubuntu

 23:41 <ncweber> Wow. Impressive

 23:41 <bcurtiswx> yeah, i locked them in a small room until they agreed in writing,

 23:41 <bcurtiswx> ...

 23:41 <bcurtiswx> j/k

 23:42 <bcurtiswx> #topic open discussion

 23:42 <bcurtiswx> Anything anyone has to bring up?

 23:42 <ncweber> writing in their own blood?

 23:42 <kjcole> bcurtiswx The western exit of Gallery Place comes is line of sight to MLK. Diagonally from it.

 23:42 <bcurtiswx> I was down there once for a Capitals hockey game

 23:42 <bcurtiswx> im sure it will still be unfamiliar anyways.. lol

 23:43 <ncweber> I actually work across the street from there.

 23:43 <bcurtiswx> i'm always happy when WMATA is closeby

 23:43 <bcurtiswx> sidebar here, my wife got interviewed b y washington post about one of her really bad metro experiences

 23:44 <kjcole> Continuing a bit on the library, the Digital Commons is relatively new, (http://www.dclibrary.org/digitalcommons).

 23:44 <kjcole> bcurtiswx Let me know if that story makes an appearance somewhere (or already has).

 23:45 <bcurtiswx> nice digital commons!

 23:45 <ncweber> Since I haven't been to MLK since high school back in the 80s so I'm sure everything will be new to me.

 23:45 <kjcole> #idea I've been toying with the idea of trying to reach out to local politicos.  In fact, I gave wannabe mayor Tommy Wells an Ubuntu CD at the grand opening of the Digital Commons.

 23:46 <ncweber> Hey, if Munich can do it...

 23:46 <kjcole> Mike Lee of the OLPC Learning Club has talked about putting in a Dream Lab application at the Digital Commons for an "Unleash Kids" initiative.

 23:46 <bcurtiswx> kjcole, http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/dr-gridlock/wp/2013/07/11/metro-commuters-tell-of-nightmarish-delays-wednesday-night/

 23:47 <bcurtiswx> the whole "you don't have to pay for an OS" should still resonate well with people

 23:48 <bcurtiswx> and the fact you can try it without having to install it is a HUGE bonus

 23:48 <kjcole> bcurtiswx, Now that I see it, it never occured to me to pay attention to the names of the interviewees when I was reading it the first time.

 23:48 <bcurtiswx> so you've seen the article already 'eh?

 23:48 <kjcole> Yeah.

 23:48 <bcurtiswx> i was in baltimore for an orioles game while all this was happening

 23:49 <bcurtiswx> i imagine she loathed me a lot then..

 23:49 <bcurtiswx> #action kjcole to start e-mail discussion about MLK possibilites and what we can participate in

 23:49 * meetingology kjcole to start e-mail discussion about MLK possibilites and what we can participate in

 23:50 <bcurtiswx> OK, anything else before I officially end this meeting ?

 23:50 <kjcole> #idea As much as I like giving Merge business (which I've actually been a bit remiss about), if we have someone who isn't shy, we might try to get something going ONCE in a while at Busboys and Poets.

 23:50 <bcurtiswx> we can go wherever

 23:51 <bcurtiswx> OK, #endmeeting

 23:51 <bcurtiswx> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
