{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting 11 17 2012 ==
=== Agendum ===
''' Chair: Brian Curtis '''
# Action Item Review:
## kjcole to add these events to LoCo calendar.
## marcoceppi to send summary of DCWEEK to bcurtiswx.
## kjcole to send summary of broadband summit to bcurtisx.
## Sujit to work on organizing an installfest for Quantal Quetzal.
## kjcole to talk with maco about flickr group maintainence.
# Installfest Organizational Team (Sujit).
# Flyer Design and Distribution Team (Nathan Webber).
# LoCo Idea Review Team (IDEA).
# What is our self image (DISCUSSION)?
# Upcoming Events/ Discussion on Prep.
# Chair for next meeting.
=== Minutes ===
''' Chair: Brian Curtis '''
==== Action Item Review ====
1. All items are taken care of except Sujit's Installfest. To discuss in person over e-mail
==== New Items ====
# Installfest Organizational Team will be formed through e-mail and lead by Sujit.
# LoCo Advertising 
## Flyer Design: Nathan Weber has shown interest in this. Will discuss with him to see if he is still interested in designing this.
## Dan Chen has brought up the idea to create a Facebook/Twitter/Google+ account for the group and start posting FOSS/Linux style topics for the community.
## '''ACTION ITEM''' Make a District of Columbia team Google plus page
## '''ACTION ITEM''' Make a District of Columbia team Twitter account
## '''ACTION ITEM''' Make a District of Columbia team Facebook page
## Kevin discussed using these mediums as outlets to a single source of information about the LoCo and the Linux FOSS community.
## Discussion was brought up about where to have the main data source, and there were quite a few ideas. We want something that is easy for everyone and the least confusing for newcomers to parse. The ideas are:
## Using mailman interface to link to for news
## Using Drupal for highlights and linking to mailman due to confusion of mailman interface
## Finding (or designing) a good mailman GUI (Blog style) that is easy for newcomers to use/read.
# Idea Processing
## As we grow this will be a more important topic of discussion, for now the LoCo is limited and resources should go elsewhere
# Self Image (mission statement):
## To discuss next meeting
# UDS Washington D.C.
## Talk to Florida LoCo, who have been leaders in getting Orlando UDS meetings there. Get a better idea on what needs to be done, and the process that needs to happen to get things moving.
## Resources: Interpreters/Space from Gallaudet
## Location: DC Convention Center? | Gallaudet?
## Where to start: Talk to Canonical (Jono?)/ Florida LoCo / DEBCONF guys (planet debian)
# Chair Next Meeting (Dec 20th, 2012)
## BCurtisWX/KJCole 
## ''' Action Item ''': Who is NOT going to show up?
## Monthly Meal: No meeting, but an informal gathering around the DC area for interested parties to meet and greet and talk FOSS/Linux/Ubuntu. Keep it close to a metro outlet
## ''' Action Item ''': Where around DC could we gather (other than Taste of India)
 
