{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[DistributedDevelopment]]</nowiki> steering meeting to be held in <code>#ubuntu-meeting</code> on 2010-12-15 at 2100 UTC.

== Agenda ==

* Action items
** ajmitch to come up with questions/topics for next meeting (re: REVU)
** poolie to send bzr rotation pitch to platform mailing list
** barry & poolie to add work items to <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-foundations-n-distributed-development-review-and-planning|UDD blueprint]]</nowiki> '''(done)'''
* Work items for <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-foundations-n-distributed-development-review-and-planning|natty blueprint]]</nowiki>
* Bugs of interest:
** http://pad.lv/674353 - graph packages built through UDD 
** http://pad.lv/556132 - don't drop SSH connection after sending 1GB; requested by kiko
** http://pad.lv/375013 - support committing direct to stacked branches
** bzr branches are too expensive to use for casual sponsoring, compared with downloading packages from my local mirror (slangasek)
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/295274|(watch file support)]]</nowiki> - james_w and barry to sprint on that at uds-n
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/653307|Import fails with missing referenced chk root keys]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bzr/+bug/603395|bzr commit in a heavyweight checkout does not propagate new tags]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/653832|Import fails with "trying to import version ... again"]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/499684|Interface to dpkg-buildpackage inconsistent and not well documented]]</nowiki>
** http://pad.lv/608450 and others - ways to update debian/control and versions from a recipe
* AOB

== Summary ==

* ajmitch has some <nowiki>[[http://paste.ubuntu.com/544185/|initial thoughts]]</nowiki> about UDD and REVU
* several fixes for bugs of interest are committed or in progress
* next meeting 2010-01-12

<pre>
<ScottK> ajmitch: For me one of the killer features of REVU that things like
         PPAs lack is the ability to hold multiple versions of upstream
         tarballs with identical names, but different contents and diff them.
</pre>

== New Actions ==

== Log ==

<pre>
<barry> #startmeeting
<MootBot> Meeting started at 15:02. The chair is barry.
<MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK],
          [VOTE]
<poolie> hi all
<barry> hi folks and welcome to this week's udd stakeholder's meeting  [16:03]
<barry> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DistributedDevelopment/20101215
<barry> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DistributedDevelopment/20101215
<MootBot> LINK received:
          https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DistributedDevelopment/20101215
<barry> who's here today?
<jelmer-n900> me
* slangasek waves
<barry> james_w: ?
<barry> thumper: ?  [16:05]
<james_w> hey!
<barry> ajmitch: ?
<thumper> I'm kinda here
<barry> thumper: how early in the morning is it for you? ;)
<thumper> barry: 10am
<barry> oh that's not too bad
<barry> let's start...  [16:06]
<barry> [TOPIC] action items
<MootBot> New Topic:  action items
<barry>   * ajmitch to come up with questions/topics for next meeting (re:
        REVU)
<barry> 
<barry> i don't know if ajmitch is around, so let's leave that one for now
<barry>   * poolie to send bzr rotation pitch to platform mailing list
<barry> 
<poolie> sorry, not done  [16:07]
<poolie> keep it
<barry> cool
<barry>   * barry & poolie to add work items to
        <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-foundations-n-distributed-development-review-and-planning|UDD
        blueprint]]</nowiki>
<barry> 
* ajmitch is kind of here
<barry> i did add some work items from our last meeting, but could use
        poolie's review of it
<barry> ajmitch: hi.  are you ready to talk about REVU, or should we push that
        back to next time?
<poolie> i think they're plausible
<poolie> there are a tonne of others, but i think they're good for ~april
                                                                        [16:09]
<ajmitch> I have some initial notes/comments about it
<barry> poolie: cool.  feel free to adjust, decompose, reassign, etc. as you
        will.  the screenscrapers will keep up
<barry> ajmitch: i'll put it on the agenda for later 
<ajmitch> really rough list that I came up with to start a discussion at
          http://paste.ubuntu.com/544185/
<barry> ajmitch: cool. let's blow through the bugs and then talk about it
                                                                        [16:10]
<ajmitch> ok
<barry> [TOPIC] bugs of interest
<MootBot> New Topic:  bugs of interest
<barry> are there any updates on the bugs at the agenda url above?  i know i
        have not had time to work on any of them :(
<poolie> some  [16:11]
<poolie> a fix for direct commits to stacked branches is underway
<poolie> we did some network performance fixes
<jelmer-n900> i fixed a bzr builder bug, not sure if it was on the list
<poolie> exarkun should fix the conch breakage on huge pulls by january
                                                                        [16:12]
<jelmer-n900> and without browser atm
<poolie> oh, spiv i think fixed the tags thing
<poolie> good for you
<poolie> so, a decent bit of progress
<barry> yep, really fantastic
<poolie> perhaps we should re-fill that list when we next meet (i assume in
         january)
<barry> poolie: +1, and +1  [16:13]
<barry> i've done a ton of branches in the last two weeks and have noticed two
        things that kind of hit me often.  i'll describe them and perhaps you
        can tell me if bugs need to be filed  [16:14]
<barry> the first is that merge-upstream on maverick doesn't know about natty.
        i always have to fire up my natty vm, do the merge-upstream, push the
        branch to lp, and then go back to mav (my main dev box), pull the
        branch and proceed from there
<poolie> ouch  [16:15]
<poolie> i think you should file a bug; james can close it if it's already
         fixed
<poolie> it sounds like at minimum a ui or doc gap
<barry> poolie: will do, thanks
* ** jelmer____ (~jelmer@aurelia.vernstok.nl) has joined channel
### ubuntu-meeting  [16:16]
<barry> the other thing i notice, and i'm not sure it's a bug, is that it's
        problematic to get the changelog entry right.  dch -i doesn't cut it
        for a few reasons:
<jelmer____> barry: Wasn't there somebody looking at doing a SRU to cope with
             that?
<barry> jelmer____: i dunno, but poolie or james_w might  [16:17]
<jelmer____> bug 668764
<ubottu> Launchpad bug 668764 in bzr-builddeb (Ubuntu Maverick) "Add Natty to
         the list of known distros" [Medium,Fix committed]
         https://launchpad.net/bugs/668764
<james_w> yeah
<poolie> ah, that's always bugged me too  [16:18]
<jelmer____> apparently Pitti uploaded to maverick-proposed
<barry> ah, cool
<barry> thanks  [16:19]
<barry> so, dch:  [16:20]
<barry> * series always defaults to maverick instead of natty
<barry> * 1build1 -> 1ubuntu1
<james_w> I think there's a package that we can now use to answer these sorts
          of questions
<james_w> (which is the current target, what's available)
<barry> * formatting of LP: #XYZ is finicky
<barry> james_w: sorry, was that in response to my second issue?
<james_w> both really
<james_w> bzr-builddeb could use it so that I don't have to remember to add
          the new codename
<james_w> dch could use it so that it can know where to target by default
<james_w> (the maverick/natty issue)
<barry> gotcha  [16:22]
<barry> i did file bug 690230 on the XbuildY issue  [16:23]
<ubottu> Launchpad bug 690230 in devscripts (Ubuntu) "dch -i should change
         XbuildY to NubuntuM" [Wishlist,Triaged]
         https://launchpad.net/bugs/690230
* ** jelmer-n900 (~yaaic@a83-163-237-10.adsl.xs4all.nl) has quit: Quit: Yaaic -
    Yet another Android IRC client - http://www.yaaic.org
<barry> james_w: do you think there are reasonable bugs i can file lurking in
        the second issue?
<james_w> barry, yes  [16:24]
<james_w> I think there is some disagreement on the maverick/natty one, but
          hey
<james_w> I'm not sure how to make the fomatting easier, but no reason we
          can't try
<barry> okay.  i'll try to formulate a couple of bug reports.  btw, should i
        be filing them on udd or bzr-builddeb?  [16:25]
<james_w> that sort of thing can go against udd  [16:26]
<barry> james_w: cool, thanks
<james_w> devscripts is where dch lives, so that would be better, but maybe
          add a "udd" task?
<barry> that's it for me, anybody else have feedback on bugs?
<barry> [TOPIC] REVU  [16:27]
<barry> ajmitch: you have the floor
<MootBot> New Topic:  REVU
<ajmitch> 10:09 < ajmitch> really rough list that I came up with to start a
          discussion at http://paste.ubuntu.com/544185/
* ajmitch hasn't had much time to actually write up anything here
<ajmitch> but I was just wanting to hear peoples ideas of reviews of new
          packages  [16:29]
<ScottK> ajmitch: For me one of the killer features of REVU that things like
         PPAs lack is the ability to hold multiple versions of upstream
         tarballs with identical names, but different contents and diff them.
                                                                        [16:30]
<ajmitch> right, I'm not sure how that can be done by comparing different
          revisions of an upstream branch & how we'd use that properly  [16:31]
<ScottK> The problem we run into is poorly constructed tarballs that have to
         be redone.  This is not rare.
<ajmitch> currently each upload to REVU is stored in a separate directory &
          diffs are generated between them
<ajmitch> Not rare, and is often done for legal reasons  [16:32]
<jelmer____> ajmitch: is the directory kept once the package is accepted, or
             is it destroyed (perhaps also for legal reasons?)?
<ajmitch> jelmer____: currently kept until someone removes it through the UI
<poolie> ... are we stuck?  [16:36]
<barry> ajmitch: maybe we can talk more about REVU at the next meeting?  i
        haven't used it enough to have any relevant comments
<ajmitch> barry: perhaps, if people want to
<barry> ajmitch: okay, thank you though for that list.  i'll add it to the
        summary
<barry> [TOPIC] next meeting  [16:37]
<MootBot> New Topic:  next meeting
<barry> so, probably in january
<barry> if we do the 5th, then the meeting after will be at the platform
        rally, which might be a good thing
<barry> any objections to meeting next on 5-jan-2011?
<poolie> right, and the bzr team (including jelmer) will be there
<barry> that'll be fantastic
<poolie> hm
<poolie> how many working days are there between now and the 5th?
<poolie> some
<poolie> and some people may hack over the holidays of course
<barry> 7 i think?
<barry> people do tend to disappear early, but yeah, holiday hacking is a
        great tradition :)  [16:39]
<poolie> barry, the platform sprint is the week of the 5th
<poolie> sorry, of the 10th
<poolie> ie the week after the 5th
<barry> d'oh!  you're right.  so, postpone next meeting until the 12th?
<poolie> wfm  [16:40]
<barry> me2
<barry> any objections?
<poolie> let's keep the same time of day
<barry> yep
<poolie> which would be 15:00 US/Central?
<barry> yes, but we'll be in US/Eastern, so it's 1600
<barry> oops, no  [16:41]
<barry> right 1500 US/Central
<barry> i forgot where dallas was :)
<barry> okay, then next meeting on the 12th, same time 
<barry> [TOPIC] AOB
<MootBot> New Topic:  AOB
<barry> anybody have anything not on the agenda?  [16:42]
<poolie> US/Somewhere-southish
<barry> US/HopefullyWarm
<poolie> not from me
<barry> 5  [16:43]
<barry> 4
<barry> 3
<james_w> nope
<barry> 2
<barry> 1
<jelmer____> see y'all in Dallas :-)
<barry> #endmeeting
</pre>
