{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/xdeltas
* '''Created''':  by MichaelVogt
* '''Contributors''': MichaelVogt
* '''Packages affected''': update-manager

=== Summary ===

For the Breezy/Dapper upgrade we had (for the first time) a upgrade tool that can do dist-upgrades easily and (mostly) automatically. There is still room for improvement.

=== Rationale ===

The new dist-upgrade tool for breezy->dapper upgrades can be improved further.

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

The following additional features should be considered:
* use a already downloaded CD to get packages for the upgrade
* qt frontend
* i18n for the upgrade notes
* a "UpgradeIfInstall" section for packages like nvidia-glx so that the tool refuses to continue if it can't upgrade those packages
* a mechanism to resolve conflicts if two meta-packages conflict (e.g. ubuntu-desktop/xubuntu-desktop because of the {xubuntu,gnome}-system-tools package)
* SMART support 

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

There should be a way to upgrade to a full new version of Ubuntu - not just upgrading existing packages.
For example, I had to explicitely install upstart. People sometime uninstall something that will uninstall
a meta-package (for example ubuntu-desktop or ubuntu-minimal)... Dist-upgrading should reinstall the ubuntu
metapackages, including artwork.

In short, everything should be done so that the user can experience the "real" new version after the dist-upgrade, as if he installed it from scratch.

----
CategorySpec
