{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== A Strawman design: Nested Branch References ==

This is proposal is a strawman, intended to provoke discussion and explore the problem space.

It seems to give pretty good answers to most of the questions at <nowiki>[[DistributedDevelopment-BzrStoriesQuestions]]</nowiki>

 ''— Andrew Bennetts''

=== Assumption: Nested treeless branches ===

First, assume bzr has a new variation of the "nested trees" feature, the ability to version a
treeless branch, called a ''nested treeless branch'', e.g. record in an
inventory that some/path is a treeless branch of revid REVID.  When building
a working tree on disk this is as if `bzr branch --no-tree -r REVID . some/path` was executed.

Because they are inventory entries, we can track renames of these things, and
`bzr merge` will work with them fairly naturally, e.g. if one side adds or
removes one, or if the revid is updated, etc.  `bzr merge` when both sides
have made divergent changes to their nested branch references may get hairy
and recursive; presumably in that case a `bzr merge` of the two divergent
versions of the nested branch needs to be resolved and committed...

(The main difficulty I see is deciding the repo for the nested branches -- if I
checkout a branch with one of these in it, how will bzr know where to find the
revision named in the nested branch reference?  The simplest solution is to
fetch all the revisions into the containing branch's repo.  A nicer solution
may be to make the containing branch stacked on the repo of the nested
branch...  this implies that a branch may need to be able to be stacked on
''multiple'' branches/repos.)

=== Proposal for source packages: version branch references instead of diffs ===

** debian/bzr-patches/, a directory of ''nested treeless branches'', one per
  "patch".
** each bzr-patch is a branch that can be merged into the root of the package
  (i.e. upstream).  Each defines a change to be applied to the upstream branch 
  via `bzr merge` before building binary packages.  The changes are to be 
  applied in lexicographic order, e.g. `15-fix-crash` would be applied before 
  `33-fix-typo`.
** debian/ dir is in its own branch
*** debian dir is a nested tree, versioning the contents of the bzr-patches
    directory.
*** thus a name -> revid mapping is versioned in the debian dir
*** i.e. if a new branch is created at debian/bzr-patches/15-fix-bug-123456,
    then that change can be `bzr add` and `bzr ci` as usual, and this fact
    recorded in the debian/ dir.
** bzr-patches branches probably stored as standalone stacked branches, using
  upstream as the basis (i.e. stacked-on=../..)
** this model is pretty easy to explain: it's very similar to versioning a
  debian directory of plain old diffs
** need an operation to export as source package that uses plain old diffs
  (for compatibility).
** lacks overall versioning of upstream version + debian directory
** debian/upstream is a nested tree reference to the upstream revid this
  package was built from.  Thus the packaging branch contains enough
  information to construct the bzr-less source package (this process could 
  be automated by bzr-builddeb):
**** bzr checkout revid in debian/upstream to src-package-tmp  (bzr may need
      help finding the repo that has that revid, though!)
**** bzr checkout the packaging branch to src-package-tmp/debian
**** build debian/patches from debian/bzr-patches (by converting each
      branch to a diff, e.g. <code>cd src-package-tmp/debian; bzr diff --old .. --new bzr-patches/15-fix-bug-123456 > patches/15-fix-bug-123456.diff</code>)
** can use `bzr switch debian/upstream`, 
  `bzr switch debian/bzr-patches/15-fix-bug-123456` etc to change "thread".

This is in some ways an alternative to a loom: instead of tracking the multiple tips in a new structure, they are tracked as part of a tree.
