{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting Notes February 6th 2010 ==
=== Agendum ===
* 1800-1805 roll call (crimsun)
** someone to take minutes for and blog this mtg?
* 1805-1820 recap/report on actions from previous week's mtg (crimsun)
** DistrictOfColumbia LoCo team wiki page updated
** previous week's bugjam/LoCo team mtg pics posted on Flickr
** need someone to take action to follow up with fridge admins regarding LoCo team times being shown on fridge cal
** status of importing identi.ca streams to LoCo team subpage?
** status of spreadubuntu signups?
* 1820-1835 contributing novel content to spreadubuntu (crimsun)
** generate buzz for 10.04, possibly modifying existing 9.10 graphic?
* 1835-1845 documenting ubuntu efforts (crimsun)
** blogging, denting synopses of bug triaging, coding, packaging,mentoring
* 1845-1855 late entries, wrap-up (crimsun)
** deciding chair for next week's mtg
=== Minutes ===
* In attendance:
** crimsun
** kjcole
** Magilum
** bcurtiswx

* [START] crimsun opens meeting at 18:00 sharp
* [DONE] kjcole finished redirect of DCTeam to DistrictOfColumbiaTeam wiki page
* [DONE] crimsun posted last week's bugjam/LoCo team photos to http://www.flickr.com/photos/crimsun/sets/72157623317037372/
* [ACTION] crimsun to follow up with fridge admins regarding LoCo activities on Ubuntu fridge Google calendar]
* [ACTION] crimsun to investigate merging Lucid source packages using Ground Control
* [ACTION] bcurtiswx to follow up about using GC to fix bugs
* [ACTION] bcurtiswx to chair next meeting
* [ACTION] Magilum to nominate packages for loco adoption
* [END] crimsun closes meeting at 18:48
