{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Start:''' 2006-07-13 07:00<<BR>>
'''End:''' 2006-07-13 08:30<<BR>>
'''Timezone:''' Etc/GMT<<BR>>
'''Location:''' IRC channel #ubuntu-meeting 

=== Adam Conrad (infinity) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Ben Collins (BenC) ===

Done
* cfq-by-default: DONE.
* libata-for-all-ata-disks: BLOCKED. Still need to do boot loader stuff.
* linux-kernel-crash-dump: IN PROGRESS. Cleaning up the userspace tools and scripts.
* merges: kernel-wedge and kernel-package finally merged from Debian today.

To do
* Finish linux-kernel-crash-dump.
* Start on boot loader changes for UUID conversion (libata-for-all-ata-disks)
* Start pushing bug reports from linux-source-2.6.15 to linux-source-2.6.17. Get some testing on whether 2.6.17 fixes any of these.

=== Colin Watson (Kamion) ===

* done: Basically nothing but merges; continued helping out with X on and off. Fixed <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/48350|installer security bug #48350]]</nowiki>. Some more oem-config reorganisation (nearly there, just need to make it work in the new world order now).
* merge-status: All done except for installation-guide, due to lack of time. I'd like to request an exception to do this immediately after UVF; it's just documentation and there's nothing it can break.
* next-week: Get the first round of CD images going and fix installer bugs until it's ready for knot-1; all the pieces are there now so it'll just be iterative debugging. If possible, make ubiquity work in edgy. Start work on ubiquity-advanced-partitioner and/or revive-tasksel.

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===

Done
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/easier-motuing|easier-motuing]]</nowiki>: started off, announced to motu list, started mentor page, wiki categorization - I'd be happy for people to join in on <nowiki>[[MOTU/Mentors]]</nowiki> and more importantly <nowiki>[[MOTU/School/Requests]]</nowiki>.
* nearly everything of GNOME 2.15.4 and merges
* `ubuntu-artwork` update.
* bug triage
To do
* more bug triage, 
* GNOME updates for dapper-updates,
* HUG DAY next week
* get cracking on Galago and Telepathy.

=== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ===

Done
* merges, merges and merges.
* merge-status: miss only redhat cluster suite that has huge infrastructural changes from the version in dapper. I might need a couple of more days before i can upload something sane.
To do
* complete the redhat-cluster update as top priority. Go on with specs.

=== Henrik Omma (heno) ===

Done
* sudo-admin-atspi: I've proposed a config panel change to seb and daniel. I can make the needed Glade changes if they agree.
* sok: alpha14 is looking good with a new default layout
* compiz-mag: My SoC student is ill so this is on hold for this week
* xubuntu-accessibility: XFCE have implemented sticky keys and friends in 4.4 so I want to add my vote to placing 4.4 in Edgy even if it's only an RC

To do
* edgy-content: start collecting and organising content
* Other: 2 week holiday from Monday

=== Ian Jackson (iwj) ===

* firefox merge: Done finally
* firefox theme change: Done and no doubt everyone has noticed
* automated-testing-deployment: Still BLOCKED on xen-edgy
* xen-edgy: Chuck Short expects to upload a kernel this weekend; the userland tools are apparently still broken
* package-dependency-field-breaks: Started on the actual implementation.  Well, actually, just reading the existing code to know exactly how to edit it: 4 bugs found and reported to Debian so far ...
* suggest-packages-for-filetypes: no further progress this week

=== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ===

done: 
 merges: all main Kubuntu merges done.  universe pleasingly close too
 kubuntu-launchpad-integration: implemented
next week: knot 1, kubuntu-easy-zeroconf
specs: mornfall not bountying for adept specs, I plan to break out the commercial repository support and dist-upgrade tool to new specs

=== Martin Pitt (pitti) ===

Done
* vast amount of merges and sync reviews; only remaining thing with my name is mesa, but our new X swat team will care for this. I have some updated merged, but I already did those which bring in new upstream versions.
* cups and dovecot fixes for dapper
* security updates
* automated-problem-reports: initial work, now collects all information except stack frame image and list of package dependencies; I'm currently fighting with some weird behaviour (forever-hanging gdb) when then agent is called by the kernel helper, this might need some discussion with BenC
* grinded a good way into my bug mail, but did not get through yet
To do
* remaining merges which do not bring in new upstream versions
* fix automated-problem-reports to be more robust, release initial package to universe
* get OO.o security update for breezy with doko
* grab Adam for PHP security stuff; this has been dragged far too long
* catch up on bug mail

=== Matthias Klose (doko) ===

Done
* toolchain-roadmap / gcc-ssp: investigate powerpc problems, rebootstrap a working gnat-4.1, needs a manual build on the buildd. rework the ssp-default patch (only turn on ssp for C, C++, ObjC, ObjC++).
* python-roadmap: conversions for packages in main to the updated python policy.
* syncs/merges: outstanding python syncs/merges, java syncs needed for eclipse & azureus, various random syncs/merges
* openoffice.org: dapper security update
* SoC nagging.
To do
* specs: packaging-hints is next
* openoffice.org: breezy security update, openoffice.org 2.0.3 dapper/edgy builds

=== Michael Vogt (mvo) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Oliver Grawert (ogra) ===

* last-week: g-p-m merge and update, common buildsystem some progress but not finished, voip meeting with scott balneaves about packaging basics, edubuntu-seeds ready for the first milestone CD
* next-week: buildscripts for ltsp-daily-image-tarballs, common buildsystem finishing, knot 1 CD
* specs: 
## student-control-panel-completion: (drafting)
## ltsp-daily-image-tarballs: (started)
## ltsp-convergence: (common buildsystem switch still in progress)
## ltsp-netboot-enhancement: (mknbi in main, bug fix needed)
## thinclient-local-devices (started)

=== Rodrigo Novo (rodarvus) ===

Done this week
* continued X merging (only apps still missing, current status available at http://people.ubuntu.com/~fabbione/x-pkgs)
* weekly Edubuntu meeting, met Richard Weideman (new Education Programme Manager, started 2006-07-14)

Plans for next week
* merge X apps
* catchup with email (seriously left behind this week)
* catchup with X bugs (+ get hold of basic X bug status/triaging with fabbione)
* learn all procedures to master future Edubuntu Knot cds (with ogra)
* hopefully help Richard catchup with Edubuntu
* start working on specs

=== Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) ===

Done
* merges, merges and more merges
* much driving of Soyuz by hand ... come back infinity, all is forgiven!
* some minor MoM tweaks

To do
* begin spec work
** find out AutomakeTransition status from Debian maintainer
** write base-files migration code for LibAtaForAtaDisks
** draw up detailed ReplacementInit project plan and begin
* examine recent `udev` upstream changes and decide whether UVF execption warranted for them

=== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ===

Done
* merges from Debian, GNOME 2.15.4
To do
* bugs catching up

=== Simon Law (sfllaw) ===

Done
* Specs: edgy-testing, drinking-from-the-firehose
* Help dholbach a bit with UbuntuHugDay
* Get sick
To do
* Thank people for merging WvDial and WvStreams
* Get better
* Convince BugSquad to start with edgy-testing

=== Tollef Fog Heen (Mithrandir) ===

* misc: Merges, merges, merges.  X is, hopefully, in shape now, lacking apps and mesa (but mesa is being worked on and apps is trivial).  Also poked a bit at the uninstallable list so we can end up with a knot not too much delayed.
* Specs: no progress due to abovementioned work.
* Next week: Get knot-1 out, start working on specs, get X completely in shape.

----
CategoryTemplate
