{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Adam Conrad (infinity) ===

Done
* was/am still sick, but worked most of the weekend and pretty-much full time over the last week anyway, out of guilt and/or fear
* livefs changes (and debugging) to allow for sort files to be fed automagically to the build process
* much buildd wrangling, including rescuing some toolchain buggery (repeatedly) in the chroot tarballs, many mass-give-backs, and hand-mangling of the ia64 queues until it finally managed to catch up
* general archive mangling, both in soyuz and katie, rescuing some broken security uploads, processing some NEW stuff, etc, etc
To do
* livefs build speedups will get attacked next week, the turnaround time of livefs builds during the knot-1 prep was painful (sorry, Tollef)
* work on the buildd side of livefs-stacked-filesystems with Tollef, test, debug, and give that a seal of approval
* start attacking the (massive) edgy out-of-date list, separating anastacia breakage from real build failures, informing people of the former, and tackling the latter

=== Ben Collins (BenC) ===

Done
* linux-kernel-crash-dump: IN PROGRESS. Finished kernel side. Works on i386. AMD64 seems broken, and haven't tested powerpc64 yet. Patches for kexec-tools and grub done. Need to work on some additions to initramfs-tools so we get a nice friendly interface to save dumps.
* linux-kernel-headers: Now being built out of linux-source.

To do
* libata-for-all-ata-disks: STALLED. Should have time this week for UUID and boot loader changes.
* kernel bugs: Should be able to do some bug maint while on "vacation" next week.

=== Chuck Short (zul) ===

Done
* Kernel Security Updates
* Initial xen kernel image
* Initial xen userspace
* Xen userspace fixes

To do
** kernel-package xen modifications
** xen-kernel testing
** xen userspace testing
** Release xen
** kernel security updates
** push patches to BenC

=== Colin Watson (Kamion) ===

Done
* Fixed enough installer bugs to make Edgy installable and knot-1 releaseable, including a couple of seriously bizarre locale bugs. Made ubiquity work in Edgy.
* Fixed a number of ubiquity's top crash bugs and a gparted crash bug. Started preparing a ubiquity upload for dapper-updates too, so we'll have something for the point release.
* ubiquity-advanced-partitioner: Read various articles on writing custom GTK widgets. Started experimental work.
To do
* ubiquity: Rewrite localechooser's encoding handling to clear up bugs like #47742.
* ubiquity-advanced-partitioner: Get GTK disk bar widget working. Lay out main partitioner page and create/edit dialogs using this.
* revive-tasksel: Sort out the archive side (seeds -> Task: fields in Packages file).

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===

Done
* BUG TRIAGE
* worked on getting Galago and Telepathy packages in
* started on artwork split, artwork example packages
To do
* BUG TRIAGE
* do artwork split and set up processes for artwork inclusion
* GNOME 2.15.90
Looking for
* people doing a <nowiki>[[MOTU/School]]</nowiki> session

=== Fabio Di Nitto (fabbione) ===

Done
* ubuntu-edgy-cluster: lot of work on the redhat-cluster-suite. It's temporary blocked on new headers (waiting for new kernel after knot-1), small bug in libvolumeid0 (bug #53494). GFS and GFS2 tests are NOK (bug filed upstream). Pushed 9 patches to redhat for userland (all accepted) left 2 minor ones and a RFC for GFS/GFS2 kernel modules (delta reduced to 4 one liners to adapt the suite to our FS layout). OCFS2 minor bug fix and tests (all good here).

To do
* become father... no it didn't happen yet. My wife is slow but there are no upgrades available. Hopefully get fixes for GFS/GFS2 before paternity leave. Start working on ubuntu-edgy-cluster new features and bug fixing (system-config-cluster needs some love with the new suite or package conga that's the new natural upgrade). Possibly start looking into sparc64-port.

Notes:
* next monday i will be away about two hours to go with my wife to the hospital, if she will not deliver before that date.

=== Frank Schoep (fschoep) ===
Done:
* ubuntu-art-login-manager, ubuntu-art-login-splash, ubuntu-art-usplash, ubuntu-art-wallpaper: gather initial proposals
* theme-teams: finish applications, kick-off artwork production
* wide-theme-selector: written specification
Ongoing:
* ubuntu-art-cd-dvd-artwork: decide on community / AiC involvement
* art-polish-human-gtk-theme: identify areas for improvement
* ubuntu-art-complete-highcontrast-icons, art-polish-human-icons: find and document icons which need work
* theme-teams: continue support, answering questions (GNOME / GTK theming
* artwork-packaging, dapper-backport: work out details
This week:
* community artwork passes Checkpoint One today, gather results, summarize and focus efforts
* finish icon-sets list of needs by the 23rd of July
* write up technical limitations / possibilities for artwork targets based on existing documentations
* wide-theme-selector: determine feasibility

=== Henrik Omma (heno) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Ian Jackson (iwj) ===

* package-dependency-field-breaks: implementation in dpkg complete, debugging it.
* xen-edgy: Chuck Short has been working on this; see his report.
* automated-testing-deployment: BLOCKED on xen-edgy.
* suggest-packages-for-filetypes: not started.
* heat: oppressive (that might be what did for my firewall machine).

=== Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) ===

Done
* Knot 1
* kubuntu-easy-zeroconf
To do
* gpgsm in main, kubuntu-printer-sharing, langpacks-desktopfiles-kde

=== Martin Pitt (pitti) ===

Done
* security updates: php (finally), OO.o, kernel, libtunepimp, zope; these took the majority of time this week, so my other stuff got stalled
* some remaining merges
* automated-problem-reports: 
** collect all information but stack frame now (this requires some more thought and work)
** create library for handling problem reports, add test suite
** initial packaging
** tried in vain to make the current kernel crashdump helper work in a sensible way; proposed an alternative to BenC; BLOCKED: answer, discussion, and implementation
* apt-get-debug-symbols: fixed breakage with some packages, uploaded new version

To Do
* some more pending security updates (arrgh)
* catch up on bug mail (goal from last week, ENOTIME)
* automated-problem-reports: finish packaging, discuss kernel interaction with BenC
* fix the mysterious apt-ftparchive failure on the daily langpacks (did a stab on it, but no success so far, and ENOTIME)
* find some time to look at hal CVS HEAD and it PolicyKit (mdz, you'll still get your mail, I didn't forget about it; but I have to actually look into the stuff)

=== Matthias Klose (doko) ===

Done
* toolchain-roadmap / gcc-ssp: reworked the ssp patch, fix the multiarch include paths for powerpc, ia64, hppa, split out gnat-4.1 from gcc-4.1 (to drop it from main and make it independent from the ssp default), started some ix86 backport work frm the trunk.
* python-roadmap: more conversions for packages in main to the updated python policy, sync requests from unstable; no complete status yet (should be done after binaries not built anymore are removed from the archive)
* python2.5: updated to 2.5b2, needs promotion to main now, python-defaults depends on it.
* openoffice.org: breezy security update, 2.0.3 packages for dapper, building 2.0.3 l10n packages for dapper; status 2.0.3 for edgy: fails in the final registration step; investigating.
* 
To do
* openoffice.org: testing and uploading 2.0.3 to dapper-proposed, investigate edgy build failure
* specs: packaging-hints is next, delayed by somewhat unexpected toolchain work.
* toolchain-roadmap: glibc build failure (actually not done by myself), but needs work now.

=== Michael Vogt (mvo) ===

Done
* ...
To do
* ...

=== Oliver Grawert (ogra) ===

* last-week: buildscripts for ltsp-daily-image-tarballs first test runs started (see people.ubuntu.com/~ogra/ltsp-tarballs/), common buildsystem stil some outstanding issues, knot 1 CD done (took most of the time), several ltsp fixes
* next-week: finishing the scripting work on ltsp-daily-image-tarballs and the common buildsystem switch, starting  ltsp-netboot-enhancement (including better progress reporting in the ltsp udeb), finishing moving houses
* specs: 
## student-control-panel-completion: (drafting)
## ltsp-daily-image-tarballs: (in progress)
## ltsp-convergence: (common buildsystem switch still in progress)
## ltsp-netboot-enhancement: (mknbi in main, bug fix needed)
## thinclient-local-devices (started)

=== Rodrigo Novo (rodarvus) ===

This week
* Received OLPC hardware prototype, got it up and running with Fedora
* Update X to 7.1 (plus updates where existing/possible) is underway (uploads were started today)
* Current status and plan is available at http://people.ubuntu.com/~rodarvus/packages/xorg/status.txt
* Repo is available at http://people.ubuntu.com/~rodarvus/packages/xorg/
* (really ugly) Hack to automagically check updates to packages in Debian and Ubuntu, to easy the task of comparing changes in the future (do we have some "official" tool to achieve this?)
* Started catching up with X bugs on LaunchPad
* miscelanea: Travel arrangements for the Sprint, Edubuntu administrativia, etc
Next week
* Implement fully-automatic-swap-server
* Finish update of X libs + Mesa
* Update X drivers to latest version + (possibly) check for patches from other distros (Fedora, SuSE, Gentoo?, etc)
* Finish catching up with X bugs (primarily based on result from libs + drivers upgrades)

=== Scott James Remnant (Keybuk) ===

Done
* Holiday
* ReplacementInit: much research into things, especially what `sysvinit` does where appropriate.  Begun development.
* Diff mailing stuff.
To do
* ReplacementInit: More development.
* LibAtaForAtaDisks: Migration for `base-files`.

=== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ===

Done
* bugs and mails catching up
To do
* keep bugs catching up
* GNOME 2.15.90 

=== Simon Law (sfllaw) ===

Done
* Bug triaging
* Setting up test plan infrastructure
To do
* Ottawa Linux Symposium 2006

=== Tollef Fog Heen (Mithrandir) ===

Done
* Released Knot-1
To do
* Casper hacking, get live-cd-stacked-filesystems done, get livecd-sessions going
* Hopefully get SaneInstallerKeyboard started and partially done.

=== Kenneth Wimer (kwwii) ===

Done
* Helped with the bazarr website logo and page design a bit
* Finished layout of mockups for the kde interface for bzr
* Helped start a comparison page (ala Human vs Tango) for Oxygen vs Crystal
* General work on color, texture and logo usage for edgy (https://wiki.kubuntu.org/Artwork/Incoming/Kubuntu-Edgy-Ideas).
* Wiki-fied marketing material (some finished, some not)
To do
* Adding artwork and finding icons for qt bzr ui
* Start to think about the finer aspects and put things together into a distinct look
* Finishing up some of the marketing stuff from dapper and putting it on the DIYMarketing page
* Adding the new kubuntu colors to the logos available online (and fixing a small problem in the vector file at the same time)

----
CategoryTemplate
