{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[DistributedDevelopment]]</nowiki> steering meeting held in <code>#ubuntu-meeting</code> on 2011-04-06 at 2100 UTC.

Chair: barry

== Apologies ==

== Agenda ==

* Attendance/apologies
* DST resync
* Action items
** poolie to meet with robbiew re lep '''(canceled)'''
** jam to propose/report plan for quilt imports
** poolie talk to stakeholders about bfbip scheduling '''(done)'''
** poolie to prepare udd sessions for uds-o '''(done)'''
** jelmer and barry to prepare udd sessions for uds-o '''(done)'''
** poolie to talk to LOSAs about getting new bzrs rolled out to jubany
** barry to check with dholbach about publishing of upg with udd docs, and update the udd wiki pages '''(done)'''
* Package importer progress
* Bugs of interest:
** See http://people.canonical.com/~mbp/kanban/canonical-bazaar-kanban.html
* Any other business?

== Summary ==

* trend in package import failures is generally downward (yay!)
* bzr team doing a <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~mbp/kanban/canonical-bazaar-kanban.html|fantastic job at closing bugs]]</nowiki>
* riddell will be doing a rotation to bzr starting at uds

== New Actions ==

* barry to send email about meeting times given dst dance

== Log ==

<pre>
<barry> #startmeeting
<MootBot> Meeting started at 17:00. The chair is barry.
<MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK],
          [VOTE]
<barry> hello everyone and welcome to this week's udd steering meeting  [18:01]
<barry> who's here today?
<jelmer> hi barry
* slangasek waves
<barry> hi jelmer, slangasek   [18:02]
* ** poolie (~mbp@canonical/launchpad/poolie) has joined channel
### ubuntu-meeting
<ScottK> ~
<barry> hi ScottK, hi poolie 
<jelmer> hi poolie
<jelmer> hi Scott
<poolie> hello all
<barry> [TOPIC] agenda
<MootBot> New Topic:  agenda
<barry> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DistributedDevelopment/20110406
<MootBot> LINK received:
          https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DistributedDevelopment/20110406
<barry> [TOPIC]  * DST resync  [18:03]
<barry> 
<MootBot> New Topic:   * DST resync
<barry> i know the usa went through dst and i think euro too.  the meetings
        are two hours later for jelmer and i.  not a problem for me, but it's
        late for jelmer.  still i think it's 8am for poolie so this may be the
        best we can do  [18:04]
<barry> i just wanted to make sure this time still works for everyone
<poolie> we could try the other way around in my evenings
<jelmer> this works for me, although I know jam goes to bed earlier and it
         would be nice if he could attend
* poolie look
<poolie>
         http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2011&month=4&day=7&hour=11&min=0&sec=0&p1=240&p2=16&p3=263
                                                                        [18:05]
<MootBot> LINK received:
          http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2011&month=4&day=7&hour=11&min=0&sec=0&p1=240&p2=16&p3=263
<barry> jelmer: indeed, it would
<poolie> my 9pm is 7am for barry, i think
<poolie> and 1pm for .nl
<poolie> barry, is james_w west of you? and scottk, where are you?  [18:06]
<barry> i could do that.  i get up at 6am to get my son to school anyway and
        he leaves for the bus at 6:55.  i might only be a minute or so late if
        the bus is late
<ScottK> It's 6PM here
<ScottK> (now)
<ScottK> Whatever sucks for barry sucks for me too.
<barry> james_w is north of me, so same timezone i think  [18:07]
<barry> ScottK too :)
<barry> ScottK: could you do 7am?
<ScottK> I could.  I would be unlikely to.
<poolie> for that matter i could certainly go an hour earlier
<poolie> which would be 11pm in nl and fr  [18:08]
<ScottK> I have a kid that leaves for school at 6:40, but I usually crash
         again after she's gone.
<poolie> and 5pm us/eastern
<barry> i'd love to have jam join us
<poolie> ok, let's send mail
<barry> ScottK: i totally get that :)  plus, summer is only 6 weeks away
<poolie> jam does often get back on after his son is asleep
<ScottK> 5PM is way better than 7AM for me.
<barry> poolie: sounds good.  i will do that
<barry> [ACTION] barry to send email about meeting time to mailing list
<MootBot> ACTION received:  barry to send email about meeting time to mailing
          list
<barry> [TOPIC] action items  [18:09]
<MootBot> New Topic:  action items
<barry>    * poolie to meet with robbiew re lep
<barry> 
<poolie> cancelled, because the lep has been pushed back a bit, until it can
         be scheduled
<barry> poolie: okay, i'll take this off the list  [18:10]
<barry>    * jam to propose/report plan for quilt imports '''(done?)'''
<barry> 
<barry> i traded some email w/jam about this, he'd like to keep it on the list
<barry> we'll do that at least until he chimes in in person
<barry>    * poolie talk to stakeholders about bfbip scheduling   [18:11]
<barry> 
<poolie> done, and we decided it's not going to push in front of other things
<poolie> so, the bzr team will continue with package imports, speed, and bugs
<barry> poolie: thanks.  i'll take this off the list.
<poolie> and then we'll reconsider that lep when the lp team has some capacity
         free or when package branches are done  [18:12]
<poolie> thanks
<barry> +1
<barry> i might have messed up the agenda, so i'll just paste the next two
        together
<barry>    * poolie to prepare udd sessions for uds-o
<barry>    * jelmer and barry to prepare udd sessions for uds-o
<barry> 
<barry> jelmer and i did talk about it, and jelmer was going to submit the
        blueprints.  don't remember if there were separate sessions poolie was
        going to submit  [18:13]
<poolie> i delegated to jelmer
<poolie> is it all ok
<jelmer> I created the blueprints for the sessions
<barry> jelmer: you rock!
* ** bazhang (~bazhang@unaffiliated/bazhang) has quit: Quit: Leaving
<barry>    * poolie to talk to LOSAs about getting new bzrs rolled out faster
<barry> 
* ** rsajdok (~rsajdok@46.112.24.66) has quit: Ping timeout: 260 seconds
                                                                        [18:14]
<jelmer> barry: this is specifically about rolling out to Launchpad / buildds
         ?
<poolie> hm, i did talk, but i think i need to also talk to charlies to make
         sure it happens
<poolie> to jubany
<poolie> let's update the item to clarify it's jubany, and then keep it
                                                                        [18:15]
<barry> poolie: you got it
<poolie> jelmer, separately probably we should propose bzr updates into
         launchpad
* ** ray24 (~ray24@adsl-70-231-225-126.dsl.snfc21.sbcglobal.net) has joined
    channel #ubuntu-meeting
<poolie> or have a way of deciding when to kick that off
<barry> is there an action item there?
<jelmer> poolie: Yeah, I was thinking the same thing
<ray24> Hey guys what's up
<jelmer> poolie: I'll need to propose updates for bzr-hg, bzr-git and bzr-svn
         running on lp anyway so perhaps I should have a look at getting the
         new bzr deployed at the same time.  [18:16]
<poolie> o/ ray24, meeting about
         https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DistributedDevelopment/20110406
<barry> ray24: hi.  we're having a meeting on ubuntu distributed development
<poolie> that would be good
<poolie> maybe a bug saying "we should upgrade so we get fixes for x, y,z"
         would help track it
<poolie> does not need to be an exhaustive list
<poolie> you could send a very brief rfc about that to lp-dev
<barry> jelmer: will the bzr-hg update allow me to mirror cpython's hg repo on
        lp?
<jelmer> barry: it will fix a lot of the existing hg imports, not sure about
         the cpython one  [18:18]
<barry> cool.  we'll find out!  [18:19]
* ** j_ack (~Rudi@p57A432AD.dip.t-dialin.net) has quit: Quit: Verlassend
<barry> i have to admit, hg drives me nuts :)
<barry> 
<barry>    * barry to check with dholbach about publishing of upg with udd
        docs, and update the udd wiki pages
<barry> i talked with daniel, and he's still waiting for isd to provide a web
        hostname.  i'm going to move this off the action items and will
        provide status update when it's available  [18:20]
<jelmer> what's upg?
<barry> ubuntu packaging guide
<barry> moving all the docs into restructured text
<barry> as soon as that's published, i'm going to take an axe to the udd wiki
        pages and point them there  [18:21]
<barry> a few weeks ago, they merged my branch which basically took all the
        current udd wiki pages and worked them into the guide
<poolie> wow, that's great
<poolie> someone was asking about the two doc sets just this week  [18:22]
<barry> i think it'll really help developers.  udd will be the preferred path
        in the guide
<barry> that's it for action items, unless anybody has any other comments
                                                                        [18:23]
<barry> [TOPIC] package importer progress
<MootBot> New Topic:  package importer progress
<barry> [LINK] http://package-import.ubuntu.com/status/
<MootBot> LINK received:  http://package-import.ubuntu.com/status/
<poolie> exactly
<poolie> having a bad day today in particular, apparently
<barry> wow. 9905 outstanding jobs?!
<slangasek> hmm, another spike in import failures too  [18:24]
<barry> any idea what's going on there?
<poolie> maybe an lp outage?
<barry> could be i guess.  the failure rate has been pretty steady latel
                                                                        [18:25]
<barry> poolie, jelmer any status on the import failures?  [18:26]
<poolie> just checking with lp ops
<poolie> they had an upgrade yesterday  [18:27]
<poolie> i'll look in to it later
<poolie> aside from that, the trend has been generally downwards
<barry> poolie: thanks.  and yep, it's great to see
* ** charlie-tca (~cjk@ubuntu/member/charlie-tca) has quit: Quit: Time to
    leave, I guess ...  [18:28]
<barry> [TOPIC]  * Bugs of interest:
<MootBot> New Topic:   * Bugs of interest:
<barry> [LINK]
        http://people.canonical.com/~mbp/kanban/canonical-bazaar-kanban.html
<MootBot> LINK received:
          http://people.canonical.com/~mbp/kanban/canonical-bazaar-kanban.html
<poolie> things have been moving at a pretty good rate  [18:29]
<barry> indeed!  almost 200 bugs in needs release or released
<poolie> yes
<barry> really really fantastic
<poolie> and our inprogress queue is now more reasonable
<poolie> the team are really in flow, istm  [18:30]
<barry> man, you guys really rock
<barry> poolie, jelmer any bugs in particular you want to mention?
<poolie> oh  [18:32]
<poolie> you might have seen on linaro-dev, john has done some good work on
         performance on large trees
<poolie> lp connection time should also be getting faster in several aspects
<barry> i missed that, but yay!  [18:33]
<poolie> loggerhead too should be getting better soon
<poolie> jelmer, how about you?
<jelmer> Andrew S-B got the new bzr-builddeb synced to natty, which fixes a
         lot of bugs and requires less configuration etc. in general
<poolie> are you planning to do a new release of bzr-* to move those bugs to
         released?
<jelmer> please try it out, and report bugs if you find any :)
<jelmer> poolie: Yeah, that's on my todo list; I have one more bzr-svn and one
         more bzr-hg bug I'd like to fix before doing so  [18:34]
<barry> jelmer: anything in particular i should look for with bzr bd?
<jelmer> barry: merge-upstream in particular should now be easier to use,
         e.g. it can use debian/watch to find and download the upstream
         tarball  [18:36]
<barry> \o/
<slangasek> jelmer: was the bzr bd orig.tar.bz2 issue that hit us in samba
            fixed?
<jelmer> slangasek: It's in review  [18:37]
<slangasek> ok
<slangasek> will that cause importer problems if deployed?  [18:38]
<slangasek> (i.e., if the current bd is deployed without this fix)
* ** robbiew (~robbiew@99-156-85-10.lightspeed.austtx.sbcglobal.net) has quit:
    Read error: Connection reset by peer
<jelmer> slangasek: it shouldn't, it's in a code path not exercised by the
         importer AFAIK  [18:39]
<jelmer> we should probably double check or wait before deploying a new
         bzr-builddeb on the importer though
<barry> [TOPIC]  * Any other business?  [18:40]
<MootBot> New Topic:   * Any other business?
<barry> anything else for today?
<poolie> oh, one  [18:41]
<poolie> riddell will be doing a rotation to bzr starting at uds
<jelmer> \o/
<barry> nice!
<poolie> i think that will be fun to work with him and he'll bring some good
         platform experience and perspective
<poolie> it's agreed and wending through the hr formalities now
* ** awolfson (~awolfson@nat/canonical/x-knwshbqtmorcdmgo) has quit: Ping
    timeout: 240 seconds  [18:42]
<Riddell> I look forward to working with you all
<Riddell> I hope I can live up to the challenge
<poolie> oh, hi  [18:43]
<poolie> :)
<barry> great!  i think we'll end on that positive note
<barry> #endmeeting
</pre>
