{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting Notes February 27 2010 ==

=== Agendum ===
* 4:00-6:00 Ubuntu Hours Bug Jam in `#ubuntu-us-dc` on freenode
* 6:00-6:05 Roll Call
* 6:05-6:40 Discussions: (ten minutes max)
** 6:05-6:15 [ACTION] Magilum to discuss Ubuntu SSO (02/20)
** 6:15-6:25 Local Community Activity Discussion
** 6:25-6:35 LoCo Structure discussion [bcurtiswx]
** 6:35-6:40 Free-for-all
* 6:40-7:00 Report Backs: (five minutes max)
** [ACTION] lfaraone to get meetbot in here (02/20)
** [ACTION] crimsun to install GC and begin testing merging & bug workflow for Global Jam (02/20)
** [ACTION] Magilum to look into officially adopting GIMP for the LoCo (02/20)
** [ACTION] bcurtiswx to create Wiki page for LoCo structure (02/20)
 
=== Minutes ===
Attendees: Magilum, bcurtiswx_, lfaraone, crimsun

Apologies: kjcole

[ACTION] Magilum to discuss DistrictOfColumbia LoCo intent pending imminent Ubuntu SSO policy (02/27)

[DONE] crimsun to install GC and begin workflow construction (02/06)

[DONE] Magilum to look into officially adopting GIMP for the LoCo (02/20)

[DONE] bcurtiswx to create Wiki page for LoCo structure (02/20)
* Consensus reached on members carrying forth with ad hoc roles; no need to formalize with additional bureaucracy

[ACTION] crimsun to blog about GC uses (02/27)

[ACTION] lfaraone to follow up with meetbot owners (02/27)

[ACTION] crimsun to chair 03/06 meeting (02/27)
