{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[DistributedDevelopment]]</nowiki> steering meeting to be held in <code>#ubuntu-meeting</code> on 2011-02-09 at 2100 UTC.

== Agenda ==

* Action items
** poolie to send bzr rotation pitch to platform mailing list
** poolie to update hot bugs for next meeting
** poolie to file bug about MOTD information for out-of-date packages
** jam to review spiv's branch for bug 603395
** barry to file bug on debcommit/bzr commit
** jam to follow up on pristine-tar stuff :)
* LEP <nowiki>[[https://dev.launchpad.net/LEP/BuildFromBranchIntoPrimary]]</nowiki>
* Package importer progress
* Bugs of interest:
** See https://devpad.canonical.com/~mbp/kanban/bzr-kanban.html
** bzr branches are too expensive to use for casual sponsoring, compared with downloading packages from my local mirror (slangasek)
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/295274|watch file support]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/653307|Import fails with missing referenced chk root keys]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bzr/+bug/603395|bzr commit in a heavyweight checkout does not propagate new tags]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/499684|Interface to dpkg-buildpackage inconsistent and not well documented]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/udd/+bug/609187|bzr branch lp:ubuntu/foo should warn when foo is out of date]]</nowiki>
* AOB

== Summary ==

* The package importer is progressing well.  It was a bit disrupted by the wheezy release but we're fixing things from that and it should happy again soon.
* mbp sent out a Canonical-internal invitation to do an engineering rotation to work on UDD.
* Canonical's Bazaar team is tracking their short-list of work on https://bugs.launchpad.net/~canonical-bazaar/+assignedbugs and we'll use the kanban at https://devpad.canonical.com/~mbp/kanban/bzr-kanban.html (sorry private atm) to monitor it 
* Working on https://dev.launchpad.net/LEP/BuildFromBranchIntoPrimary 

== New Actions ==

* poolie to advertise udd projects to non-staff contributors
* poolie to integrate jml's feedback into lep
* poolie to meet with allison re lep
* poolie to meet with robbiew re lep
* jam to propose/report plan for quilt imports
* poolie forward/link to https://wiki.linaro.org/Platform/DevPlatform/ComponentReleasesWithBzr

== Log ==

<pre>
Feb 10 07:57:29 -->	You are now talking on #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 10 07:57:29 ---	Topic for #ubuntu-meeting is Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs
Feb 10 07:57:29 ---	Topic for #ubuntu-meeting set by cody-somerville!~cody-some@ubuntu/member/somerville32 at Tue Jan  4 06:23:23 2011
Feb 10 07:57:30 -ChanServ-	[#ubuntu-meeting] Welcome to #ubuntu-meeting. This channel is logged. Use of this channel implies acceptance of terms at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/TermsOfService
Feb 10 07:59:14 <--	plars has quit (Quit: plars)
Feb 10 08:01:05 <poolie>	hi
Feb 10 08:01:17 <poolie>	Ubuntu DistributedDevelopment meeting starting now; all welcome
Feb 10 08:01:48 <poolie>	#startmeeting
Feb 10 08:01:49 <MootBot>	Meeting started at 15:01. The chair is poolie.
Feb 10 08:01:49 <MootBot>	Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
Feb 10 08:01:54 *	slangasek waves
Feb 10 08:02:05 <jelmer>	me
Feb 10 08:02:14 <jelmer>	hi slangasek
Feb 10 08:02:20 <poolie>	[topic] attendees
Feb 10 08:02:21 <MootBot>	New Topic:  attendees
Feb 10 08:02:25 <poolie>	hi jelmer, slangasek
Feb 10 08:02:32 <poolie>	barry sent apologies
Feb 10 08:03:00 <wendar>	listening in
Feb 10 08:03:10 <poolie>	james_w, hi?
Feb 10 08:03:15 <james_w>	hi
Feb 10 08:03:23 <--	brianchidester_ has quit (Quit: Ex-Chat)
Feb 10 08:03:30 <james_w>	sorry I'm late :-)
Feb 10 08:03:35 -->	jam (~jameinel@adsl-75-51-62-134.dsl.chcgil.sbcglobal.net) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 10 08:03:35 <poolie>	np :)
Feb 10 08:03:50 <poolie>	agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DistributedDevelopment/20110209#preview
Feb 10 08:03:50 <jam>	hi
Feb 10 08:03:53 <poolie>	[topic] action items
Feb 10 08:03:55 <MootBot>	New Topic:  action items
Feb 10 08:04:03 <poolie>	* poolie to send bzr rotation pitch to platform mailing list
Feb 10 08:04:11 <poolie>	done! 
Feb 10 08:04:15 <jam>	I do believe I saw that \o/
Feb 10 08:04:19 <poolie>	actually i sent it to canonical-tech
Feb 10 08:04:21 <poolie>	want to try it? 
Feb 10 08:04:29 <poolie>	i got one response already, which is good 
Feb 10 08:04:38 <poolie>	perhaps i should forward it to ubuntu-platform?
Feb 10 08:04:39 <james_w>	cool
Feb 10 08:04:47 <jam>	poolie: "want to try it"? try what?
Feb 10 08:04:49 <james_w>	I would
Feb 10 08:04:55 <poolie>	working on bzr :)
Feb 10 08:04:55 <james_w>	jam, try a rotation to the bzr team?
Feb 10 08:04:56 <poolie>	ok
Feb 10 08:04:58 <jam>	ah
Feb 10 08:05:12 <jam>	sure, I'll rotate to bzr for 6 months
Feb 10 08:05:14 <--	ian_brasil has quit (Quit: ian_brasil)
Feb 10 08:05:21 <poolie>	i wonder if we can send a similar invitation to non-canonical-staff?
Feb 10 08:05:30 <poolie>	just as a thing they might be interested to work on
Feb 10 08:05:37 <poolie>	perhaps a post that gets to the planet is best
Feb 10 08:05:50 <james_w>	yeah, I think that would be best
Feb 10 08:05:55 <poolie>	[action] poolie to forward to ubuntu-platform
Feb 10 08:05:56 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  poolie to forward to ubuntu-platform
Feb 10 08:06:07 <poolie>	[action] poolie to advertise udd projects to non-staff contributors
Feb 10 08:06:09 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  poolie to advertise udd projects to non-staff contributors
Feb 10 08:06:11 <james_w>	posting with things to do and ways to get started can help
Feb 10 08:06:16 <poolie>	right
Feb 10 08:06:20 <poolie>	* poolie to update hot bugs for next meeting
Feb 10 08:06:23 <poolie>	done
Feb 10 08:06:53 <poolie>	we're now using assignment to <https://bugs.launchpad.net/~canonical-bazaar/+assignedbugs> to track our short list
Feb 10 08:06:55 <jam>	poolie: is that just ~canonical-bazaar, or is there a different list of 'hot' bugs?
Feb 10 08:07:04 <poolie>	i think just that's enough
Feb 10 08:07:13 <poolie>	and that also shows up in https://devpad.canonical.com/~mbp/kanban/bzr-kanban.html
Feb 10 08:07:18 -->	brianchidester (~brianchid@nat/canonical/x-jufetrtfyhdxnwvy) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 10 08:07:23 <poolie>	which i propose we use to review them in a bit
Feb 10 08:07:41 <poolie>	to review which particular bugs are listed, and whether anything else should be
Feb 10 08:07:55 <poolie>	any comments on this?
Feb 10 08:08:33 <jelmer>	poolie: So we use that to track our hot bugs list, then reassign to a specific person when we actually start hacking?
Feb 10 08:08:48 <poolie>	correct
Feb 10 08:08:56 <poolie>	the kanban shows bugs assigned to the team or its members
Feb 10 08:09:03 <poolie>	it would be nice to show this in lp itself too
Feb 10 08:09:12 <poolie>	(i wonder if there's a bug for that)
Feb 10 08:09:45 <poolie>	ok, moving on
Feb 10 08:09:47 <james_w>	poolie, is that assigned list *the* queue to work from?
Feb 10 08:09:55 <poolie>	yes, it is 
Feb 10 08:10:01 <james_w>	ok
Feb 10 08:10:19 <james_w>	so we should prioritise and put the most important in that list, and drop things that aren't that important?
Feb 10 08:10:20 <poolie>	people can also take reactive/opportunistic/itch-scratching bugs of course, but they should be taking a lot of work from there
Feb 10 08:10:21 <james_w>	over time I mean
Feb 10 08:10:37 <poolie>	with the caveat that bugs they've specifically individually taken from that page won't show up
Feb 10 08:10:45 <poolie>	as i mentioned above
Feb 10 08:10:47 <poolie>	correct, we should 
Feb 10 08:10:59 <poolie>	i hope during the bug review phase of this meeting we'll do some of that
Feb 10 08:11:13 <james_w>	ok
Feb 10 08:11:15 <james_w>	thanks
Feb 10 08:11:16 <poolie>	every fortnight
Feb 10 08:11:20 <poolie>	* poolie to file bug about MOTD information for out-of-date packages
Feb 10 08:11:21 <poolie>	done
Feb 10 08:12:03 <poolie>	but not assigned?
Feb 10 08:12:24 <jelmer>	there was also a very old bug by spiv, perhaps that should be marked as a dupe?
Feb 10 08:12:36 -->	plars (~plars@75-27-136-242.lightspeed.austtx.sbcglobal.net) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 10 08:12:36 <--	plars has quit (Changing host)
Feb 10 08:12:37 -->	plars (~plars@ubuntu/member/plars) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 10 08:12:44 <jelmer>	bug 121201
Feb 10 08:12:45 <ubottu>	Launchpad bug 121201 in Bazaar "Allow servers to give clients a MOTD" [Wishlist,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/121201
Feb 10 08:13:05 <--	dharman has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
Feb 10 08:13:29 <poolie>	it seems like we could use that to implement this
Feb 10 08:14:25 -->	Sp4rKy_ (~Sp4rKy@rennes1.dunnewind.net) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 10 08:14:28 <--	Sp4rKy_ has quit (Client Quit)
Feb 10 08:14:34 <poolie>	ok
Feb 10 08:14:35 <poolie>	https://bugs.launchpad.net/udd/+bug/609187
Feb 10 08:14:38 <ubottu>	Ubuntu bug 609187 in Ubuntu Distributed Development "bzr branch lp:ubuntu/foo should warn when foo is out of date" [High,Triaged]
Feb 10 08:14:45 <poolie>	and it actually is assigned
Feb 10 08:14:47 <poolie>	and barry filed it
Feb 10 08:15:22 <jelmer>	ah, ok
Feb 10 08:16:35 <--	vmlintu has quit (Ping timeout: 255 seconds)
Feb 10 08:16:37 <jam>	poolie: next?
Feb 10 08:16:47 <poolie>	* jam to review spiv's branch for bug 603395
Feb 10 08:16:49 <ubottu>	Launchpad bug 603395 in Bazaar "bzr commit in a heavyweight checkout does not propagate new tags" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/603395
Feb 10 08:16:58 <jam>	I didn't get to it, but poolie did, so still done
Feb 10 08:17:02 <poolie>	i know spiv did some of them
Feb 10 08:17:06 <poolie>	but the bug's still open?
Feb 10 08:17:45 <poolie>	anyhow, spiv seems to be progressing on it 
Feb 10 08:17:47 <poolie>	* barry to file bug on debcommit/bzr commit
Feb 10 08:17:53 <poolie>	i think he did
Feb 10 08:17:57 <jam>	poolie: the line-item was about the review, not closing the bug....
Feb 10 08:18:08 <poolie>	right, it doesn't require review now anyhow
Feb 10 08:18:14 <poolie>	spiv fixed a bunch of related bugs
Feb 10 08:18:17 <poolie>	* barry to file bug on debcommit/bzr commit
Feb 10 08:18:18 -->	exalt (~exalt@dhcp-077-250-063-213.chello.nl) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 10 08:18:20 <poolie>	blah
Feb 10 08:18:25 <poolie>	* jam to follow up on pristine-tar stuff 
Feb 10 08:18:38 <jam>	poolie: I know barry talked about debcommit, I didn't see a bug on it
Feb 10 08:18:52 <jam>	poolie: pristine-tar was updated, many packages fixed, a small handful still failing
Feb 10 08:18:57 <jam>	so done for that level
Feb 10 08:19:03 <jam>	it is no longer the #1 failure in the importer
Feb 10 08:19:30 <poolie>	anything more to do?
Feb 10 08:19:59 <jam>	poolie: we've done what that item was meant to be. I think investigating future failing imports is just regular stuff
Feb 10 08:20:01 <poolie>	ok 
Feb 10 08:20:08 <poolie>	[topic] LEP https://dev.launchpad.net/LEP/BuildFromBranchIntoPrimary
Feb 10 08:20:09 <MootBot>	New Topic:  LEP https://dev.launchpad.net/LEP/BuildFromBranchIntoPrimary
Feb 10 08:20:23 <poolie>	we have a lep proposing our major feature here
Feb 10 08:20:32 <poolie>	i have some questions from jml to fill it out a bit more
Feb 10 08:20:45 <poolie>	[action] poolie to integrate jml's feedback into lep
Feb 10 08:20:47 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  poolie to integrate jml's feedback into lep
Feb 10 08:20:52 <poolie>	[action] poolie to meet with allison re lep
Feb 10 08:20:53 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  poolie to meet with allison re lep
Feb 10 08:21:00 <poolie>	[action] poolie to meet with robbiew re lep
Feb 10 08:21:02 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  poolie to meet with robbiew re lep
Feb 10 08:21:19 <robbiew>	huh?
Feb 10 08:21:19 <poolie>	we need to get it triaged for launchpad if we want a feature squad to work on it 
Feb 10 08:21:25 <poolie>	:) hi
Feb 10 08:21:41 <poolie>	i have an action to show you https://dev.launchpad.net/LEP/BuildFromBranchIntoPrimary and see what you say :)
Feb 10 08:21:50 <robbiew>	ah..cool
Feb 10 08:21:56 <robbiew>	sorry to interrupt ;)
Feb 10 08:22:01 *	robbiew goes back into his cave
Feb 10 08:22:06 <--	cariboo907 has quit (Read error: Connection reset by peer)
Feb 10 08:22:45 <poolie>	np, consider yourself shown
Feb 10 08:23:05 <poolie>	can we set a time separately to look at it, or could you just mail me feedback?
Feb 10 08:23:20 <poolie>	("i don't understand what you're talking about" is ok feedback if that's the case)
Feb 10 08:24:15 <poolie>	ok
Feb 10 08:24:22 <poolie>	[topic] Package importer progress
Feb 10 08:24:23 <MootBot>	New Topic:  Package importer progress
Feb 10 08:24:49 <poolie>	the big thing here is that we went through the wheezy release, which caused a bunch of disruption
Feb 10 08:24:53 <poolie>	including bug 715000
Feb 10 08:24:55 <ubottu>	Launchpad bug 715000 in Bazaar 2.3 "Stacking is not fully transitive" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/715000
Feb 10 08:25:01 <poolie>	the fix for which should be deployed today
Feb 10 08:25:07 <poolie>	i think after that we can restart the importer
Feb 10 08:25:20 <poolie>	in fact, probably we could restart it now, but it might give the importer indigestion
Feb 10 08:25:40 <james_w>	is that being rolled out to jubany as well?
Feb 10 08:25:55 <poolie>	the fixed bzr?
Feb 10 08:26:14 <jam>	james_w: aiui jubany doesn't care
Feb 10 08:26:17 <jam>	lp does
Feb 10 08:26:18 <poolie>	it probably should be, but i haven't specifically seen it fail there
Feb 10 08:26:33 <jam>	package_import.py doesn't trigger that code path that was having problems with double stacking
Feb 10 08:26:34 <james_w>	yeah, the fixed bzr
Feb 10 08:26:38 <poolie>	i think it only affects log on a doubly-stacked branch
Feb 10 08:26:47 <james_w>	ok, if you've verified then I'm happy
Feb 10 08:26:57 <poolie>	i think we should just wait for it to be in 2.3.1 or 2.4b1 and then roll that out
Feb 10 08:27:01 <james_w>	it /does/ do some interrogation of branches over hpss though
Feb 10 08:27:07 <poolie>	ok
Feb 10 08:27:12 <jam>	james_w: it affects rev_id => dotted_revno code, but I don't think you hit that in importing.
Feb 10 08:27:20 -->	noy (~Noy@wesnoth/developer/noy) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 10 08:27:26 <poolie>	are we ok to just fix it if it fails?
Feb 10 08:27:28 <james_w>	see get_unimported_revisions or roundabout
Feb 10 08:27:44 <james_w>	if that's how you want to do it then I'm fine with that
Feb 10 08:27:48 <jam>	poolie: I agree, I think if we see package imports failing, it just becomes a high priority to roll out the code on jubany
Feb 10 08:28:04 <poolie>	i'll add a task
Feb 10 08:28:36 <poolie>	i think the wheezy addition has caused a bump in the number of failures
Feb 10 08:28:43 <poolie>	at any rate the graph has gone up
Feb 10 08:28:51 <poolie>	hopefully once this is all done it will be back down
Feb 10 08:29:02 <poolie>	i am pleased by the increasing amount of work on the importer
Feb 10 08:29:11 <jam>	poolie: is there another bug to restack deb branches to sid?
Feb 10 08:29:25 <jam>	which is also a workaround for this ug
Feb 10 08:29:26 <jam>	bug
Feb 10 08:29:30 <jam>	since you don't end up with double-stacking
Feb 10 08:29:36 <poolie>	also under that heading, i made a plan with charlies and mthaddon that we'll move it to pepo and (if possible) give up login access on the 1st of March
Feb 10 08:29:45 -->	chilicuil (~chilicuil@unaffiliated/chilicuil) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 10 08:29:47 <poolie>	i think there is
Feb 10 08:30:01 <slangasek>	wrt the importer... where is that code published?  I don't see any links to the code from http://package-import.ubuntu.com/status/ or https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DistributedDevelopment
Feb 10 08:30:12 <jam>	slangasek: lp:udd
Feb 10 08:30:13 <poolie>	good question
Feb 10 08:30:15 <slangasek>	ah
Feb 10 08:30:31 <slangasek>	if this could be linked more prominently, perhaps it would help with getting extra-canonical folks involved
Feb 10 08:30:39 <poolie>	excellent point
Feb 10 08:30:56 <poolie>	i'll file abug
Feb 10 08:30:58 <jam>	slangasek: tbh, I doubt it, but I'm happy for it to be more prominently linked
Feb 10 08:31:26 <slangasek>	jam: maybe it is wishful thinking... there've been a few importer bugs that I would've been keen to at least look at, if I'd been able to find the code more readily :)
Feb 10 08:31:35 <poolie>	it's true
Feb 10 08:31:52 <jam>	most of the import code itself is in bzr-builddeb, but sure
Feb 10 08:32:09 <poolie>	we can say that too
Feb 10 08:32:23 <poolie>	bug 716123, marked easy
Feb 10 08:32:27 <ubottu>	Launchpad bug 716123 in Ubuntu Distributed Development "web page should tell where to get the source" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/716123
Feb 10 08:32:53 <poolie>	any other comments on the package importer?
Feb 10 08:33:16 <--	lifeless has quit (Quit: leaving)
Feb 10 08:33:54 <jam>	poolie: I'm poking around trying to get feedback for how people want imports to look, especially wrt quilt imports
Feb 10 08:34:04 <poolie>	true
Feb 10 08:34:08 <poolie>	thanks for doing that
Feb 10 08:34:16 <poolie>	it's looking like they really should be imported to looms
Feb 10 08:34:21 <jelmer>	yeah, I think quilt imports will be important
Feb 10 08:34:33 <jam>	yeah, but that still leaves us with "and what does that actually mean" :)
Feb 10 08:34:42 <jam>	also, that wouldn't strictly block a switchover
Feb 10 08:34:47 <jam>	so i'm not 100% sure what the importance is
Feb 10 08:35:06 <jam>	The discussion has been very useful for me to start understanding what is actually going on, though.
Feb 10 08:35:14 <james_w>	(http://paste.ubuntu.com/565180/ is what the importer does over hpss, so I think it should be fine)
Feb 10 08:35:46 <jam>	james_w: it isn't strictly an hpss thing, any double-stacked branch will fail during log, etc (even purely locally)
Feb 10 08:35:50 <jelmer>	jam: Yeah :)
Feb 10 08:35:54 <poolie>	shall we add an action for next time for you to summarize where we got to?
Feb 10 08:36:01 <jam>	poolie: sure
Feb 10 08:36:05 <james_w>	jam, right, but we talk over hpss to LP, which has some double stacked branches
Feb 10 08:36:05 -->	jjohansen (~jj@pool-74-107-151-238.ptldor.fios.verizon.net) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 10 08:36:05 <jam>	sounds like a good action item
Feb 10 08:36:20 <poolie>	[topic] jam to propose/report plan for quilt imports
Feb 10 08:36:21 <MootBot>	New Topic:  jam to propose/report plan for quilt imports
Feb 10 08:36:27 <poolie>	incidentally, i'm going to be on leave 2 weeks from today
Feb 10 08:36:30 <poolie>	just for a long weekend
Feb 10 08:36:38 <james_w>	everything else is done locally with no stacking, apart from fetch, which we know is fine
Feb 10 08:36:58 <slangasek>	s/topic/action/?
Feb 10 08:36:59 <poolie>	moving on
Feb 10 08:37:07 <poolie>	you're right
Feb 10 08:37:11 <poolie>	[action] jam to propose/report plan for quilt imports
Feb 10 08:37:12 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  jam to propose/report plan for quilt imports
Feb 10 08:37:19 <poolie>	[topic] hot bug review
Feb 10 08:37:20 <MootBot>	New Topic:  hot bug review
Feb 10 08:37:26 <poolie>	should that be 'revue'? :)
Feb 10 08:37:32 <poolie>	[url] https://devpad.canonical.com/~mbp/kanban/bzr-kanban.html
Feb 10 08:37:48 <poolie>	that's a bit large to read the whole thing
Feb 10 08:37:57 <slangasek>	[link] https://devpad.canonical.com/~mbp/kanban/bzr-kanban.html
Feb 10 08:37:57 <MootBot>	LINK received:  https://devpad.canonical.com/~mbp/kanban/bzr-kanban.html
Feb 10 08:38:06 <poolie>	but i think it may be a good way to track whether we're working on the right htings
Feb 10 08:38:23 <james_w>	poolie, I'll start referring to you all as the bzr troupe
Feb 10 08:38:25 <poolie>	so let's focus on things near the top (critical/high) and in the middle (in progress etc)
Feb 10 08:38:57 <jam>	poolie: when did we start getting big red ! ?
Feb 10 08:39:03 <jam>	and what does that actually mean?
Feb 10 08:39:04 <poolie>	today, apparently
Feb 10 08:39:08 <poolie>	jamu must have added it 
Feb 10 08:39:16 <poolie>	"in review for more than 3 days"
Feb 10 08:39:17 <jelmer>	jam: it looks like the time the bug has been in progress
Feb 10 08:39:25 <poolie>	or in progress for more than 7 days
Feb 10 08:39:43 <poolie>	i kind of envy landscape if it's a big (!) for something to take more than 7 days
Feb 10 08:39:52 <poolie>	but perhaps we can get there too if we reduce our wip
Feb 10 08:39:57 <slangasek>	what's the process for moving from needs testing -> verified? I was all ready to jump on testing bug #706990, I see someone has already followed up to the bug to say it's fixed
Feb 10 08:40:00 <ubottu>	Launchpad bug 706990 in Bazaar Git Plugin "git-import fails on remote repository with AttributeError: 'RemoteGitRepository' object has no attribute '_git'" [Critical,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/706990
Feb 10 08:40:17 <poolie>	slangasek, there's a key at the bottom
Feb 10 08:40:29 <slangasek>	aha
Feb 10 08:40:43 <poolie>	this has been good to work on with jkakar btw
Feb 10 08:41:05 <poolie>	bug 702024 should be good for making lp rollouts less disruptive
Feb 10 08:41:08 <ubottu>	Launchpad bug 702024 in Launchpad itself "Restarting codehosting SSH server drops existing connections" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/702024
Feb 10 08:41:30 <poolie>	so, what should we do here?
Feb 10 08:41:41 -->	cariboo907 (~jimk@unaffiliated/cariboo907) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 10 08:41:46 <poolie>	are there particular bugs that ought to be on here but aren't?
Feb 10 08:41:57 <poolie>	should we go back to having the meeting review ~10 top bugs?
Feb 10 08:42:12 <poolie>	perhaps we should look at the critical bugs?
Feb 10 08:42:23 <jam>	slangasek: some projects (not bzr) use Fix Committed vs Fix Released, which changes only once there is a full release, not sure that you can release packages, but you could poke the upstreams
Feb 10 08:42:25 <poolie>	i think we have a few too many bugs altogether in-process at the moment
Feb 10 08:42:45 <poolie>	but i think if we pay attention it will go down
Feb 10 08:43:30 <slangasek>	jam: oh, well, I can at least set the tag on the bugs if things prove ok in my own testing :)
Feb 10 08:43:53 <poolie>	of the bugs mentioned in the previous meeting, all of them are assigned or done, except bug 499684 is assigned to barry
Feb 10 08:43:55 <ubottu>	Launchpad bug 499684 in bzr-builddeb "Interface to dpkg-buildpackage inconsistent and not well documented" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/499684
Feb 10 08:44:02 <poolie>	s//assigned to canonical-bazaar
Feb 10 08:44:38 <--	joaopinto has quit (Ping timeout: 276 seconds)
Feb 10 08:45:31 <poolie>	ok, moving on
Feb 10 08:45:36 <poolie>	[topic] any other business?
Feb 10 08:45:37 <MootBot>	New Topic:  any other business?
Feb 10 08:45:52 <jam>	poolie: there is a ton of bugs in there on projects that aren't bzr, and thus don't conform to our bug triage standards
Feb 10 08:45:59 <jam>	I'm not sure how kanban should interpret that
Feb 10 08:46:47 <slangasek>	poolie: I can share some happy news if you like
Feb 10 08:46:53 <jam>	note that *everything* in Verified is assigned to jelmer
Feb 10 08:47:06 <poolie>	yes, i think he started doing things that way after i set this up
Feb 10 08:47:10 <poolie>	perhaps to see how it works
Feb 10 08:47:16 <poolie>	i think we can fudge it
Feb 10 08:47:19 <poolie>	slangasek, please do
Feb 10 08:47:29 <slangasek>	I wrote up https://wiki.linaro.org/Platform/DevPlatform/ComponentReleasesWithBzr last week with some recipes for using UDD branches within Linaro, and am seeing some good uptake by the team
Feb 10 08:47:47 <slangasek>	the bad news is that I think I've found every single bug in bzr-git :-)
Feb 10 08:47:48 <jelmer>	yeah, I'd be happy to see Verified gone.. I was just seeing how things worked
Feb 10 08:48:18 <slangasek>	so there are now some official UDD branches in Launchpad with some very rich git history attached
Feb 10 08:49:03 <poolie>	slangasek, wow, that's great, thanks very much
Feb 10 08:49:20 <poolie>	let's make sure those bugs get escalated and addressed
Feb 10 08:49:34 <poolie>	jelmer, i wonder if it would be good for you to pair on fixing those bugs with say vila
Feb 10 08:49:41 <poolie>	to spread the love around
Feb 10 08:49:52 <poolie>	mm, i don't know -what- time zone you're in though :)
Feb 10 08:49:53 <jelmer>	poolie: the bzr-git bugs? I'd be happy to
Feb 10 08:50:00 <poolie>	maybe you overlap more with jam?
Feb 10 08:50:10 <jam>	poolie: in a month it will be the same :)
Feb 10 08:50:51 <jelmer>	slangasek: are these all related to pushing into git, or fetching as well?
Feb 10 08:50:59 <slangasek>	jelmer: fetching
Feb 10 08:51:47 <slangasek>	jelmer: 706990 is certainly one I ran into; I've also been dancing on the bleeding edge with qemu-linaro, which has submodule references upstream
Feb 10 08:51:48 <poolie>	slangasek, so if they're blocking your work on this, please make sure they're at least High
Feb 10 08:51:56 <jelmer>	slangasek: perhaps we should bump the importance of some bugs
Feb 10 08:51:57 <poolie>	and assigned to someone
Feb 10 08:52:13 <poolie>	(or if you can't actually triage/assign, just comment asking for it)
Feb 10 08:52:16 <slangasek>	nothing blocking currently as I've routed around the damage in the recipes - but I'm happy to highlight the bugs for your consideration
Feb 10 08:52:27 <poolie>	please do
Feb 10 08:53:07 <poolie>	that page is really nice
Feb 10 08:53:11 <slangasek>	who should I feed the list to? (I can't bump bug priorities myself)
Feb 10 08:53:33 <poolie>	you can mail it to ubuntu-distributed-devel or you can comment on the bugs
Feb 10 08:53:41 <slangasek>	ok
Feb 10 08:53:41 <poolie>	whichever is easier
Feb 10 08:54:16 <poolie>	you could forward a link to that page too
Feb 10 08:54:25 <slangasek>	will do
Feb 10 08:54:27 <poolie>	any other feedback from people who've used it?
Feb 10 08:54:58 <--	jhunt has quit (Quit: leaving)
Feb 10 08:55:32 <poolie>	[action] poolie forward/link to https://wiki.linaro.org/Platform/DevPlatform/ComponentReleasesWithBzr
Feb 10 08:55:33 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  poolie forward/link to https://wiki.linaro.org/Platform/DevPlatform/ComponentReleasesWithBzr
Feb 10 08:55:54 <slangasek>	I asked John Rigby to file a bug on bzr-git for his experience of "bzr branch ran for a really long time and then crashed", dunno if he's gotten around to it yet :)
Feb 10 08:56:05 <slangasek>	otherwise the feedback has been positive
Feb 10 08:56:08 <poolie>	good
Feb 10 08:56:23 <poolie>	please do get people to file bugs, especially if they can get a traceback and/or -Dhpss trace
Feb 10 08:56:32 <poolie>	we don't fix them all right away but we are fixing a lot of them
Feb 10 08:56:41 <slangasek>	ack
Feb 10 08:56:47 <poolie>	ok, i think that's it
Feb 10 08:57:03 <poolie>	happy hacking, everyone
Feb 10 08:57:16 <poolie>	i'll be on leave from the 23rd and back on the 2nd
Feb 10 08:57:31 <poolie>	#ends
Feb 10 08:57:47 <poolie>	#endmeeting
Feb 10 08:57:49 <MootBot>	Meeting finished at 15:57.
Feb 10 08:57:53 <slangasek>	thanks, all :)
Feb 10 09:00:43 <james_w>	thanks
</pre>
