{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Here, we document the standard changes we have to make across the distribution to set up the right technical and aesthetic defaults, and all the places where branding may be required.

=== Base ===

'''base-files'''

* /etc/issue{,.net} [Done]
* /etc/lsb-release [Done]
* /etc/os-release [Done]

=== Desktop ===

'''apache'''

* 'no site here' page
** in DistributionBranding package
* server string (so Netcraft picks us up)
** check with upstream
** parameterise string in source code

'''bug-buddy'''

* Report bugs to the right place
** larger scale change, "just works" magic for each distro at runtime

'''evolution'''

* Modify the default company contact item [Done, patched out by Debian]
* Worth patching in a different welcome mail? [Done, patched out by Debian]

'''gdm'''

* Default theme
** parameterised in the config file
** theme itself is in DistributionArtwork package

# Disable the gdm face configuration menu item [Done, differently]
# Login Screen setup should go in DP -> ST. [Done]

'''gnome-control-center'''

1. List of apps + command lines in 'Preferred Applications' lists.

'''gnome-cups-manager'''

* Print test page gives a Ximian Desktop test page
** Neutralise the branding, upstream will almost certainly accept that

'''gnome-desktop'''

* --with-gnome-distributor configure option [Done]
** parameterised source change

'''gnome-media'''

1. Disable gstreamer-properties menu [Done, differently]

'''gnome-panel'''

# Menu layout: remove Debian menu?  [Done, removed in GNOME]
# Panel profiles: default layout, default applets + configuration. [Done, basically]

'''gnome-session'''

* splash screen image
** currently patching the schema, but don't want to
** include gconf defaults file in DistributionBranding

# Install a default session file: $(datadir)/gnome/default.session
# Additional icons in the splash screen? Good for status on default configuration

'''gnome-system-tools'''

* detect running system
** currently patching out detection, don't need logo or anything

1. Put the menu items into "Desktop Preferences > System Tools". [Done]

'''libgnome'''

* Theme defaults: GTK+, Icon, Cursor, Background [Done]
** currently changing schema
** include gconf defaults file in DistributionBranding

'''libgstreamer-gconf0.8-0'''

1. Set gstreamer defaults to OSS and so on [Done]

'''nautilus'''

# Potential changes for the Places list.
# Remove Start Here if upstream don't, but perhaps include Ubuntu-specific icons? [Done]

'''metacity'''

* Default theme [Done]
** include gconf defaults file in DistributionBranding

'''mozilla''' and '''epiphany'''

* home page itself
** DistributionBranding
* distribution branding-related configuration changes
** home page url
** bookmarks + toolbar
* application branding
** about dialog
** menu item

# themes
# extensions

'''openoffice.org'''

* splash branding
** currently neutralised

'''ubuntu-artwork''' or '''distribution-artwork'''

* GDM themes
* Splash image
* Desktop backgrounds
* GNOME themes (metatheme)
** GTK+ themes
** Metacity themes
** Icon themes

'''xscreensaver'''

# pick and choose the screensavers we want to ship [Done]
# default configuration [Done]
** xml file for each hack if we want to be really anal retentive
** patch the app-defaults file for other settings
1. 'unlock' dialog is fugly and could use some love.

=== Boot ===

* usplash images
** everything in DistributionArtwork
** initial images copied by mkinitrd
* kernel logo
** remove kernel logo image entirely

=== Installer (d-i) ===

'''bootloaders'''

* isolinux splash image
** has to be done in debian-installer - build depend on DistributionArtwork?
* i386/amd64 syslinux instruction pages talk about Debian and refer to Debian for help
* powerpc yaboot boot message [Done]
* distribution described as "Debian GNU/Linux"

'''main-menu'''

* "Debian installer main menu" [Done]

'''cdrom-checker''', '''cdrom-detect'''

* "official Debian CD-ROM" etc.; will need to cope if our CDs are laid out differently
* talks about stable, testing, unstable

'''choose-mirror'''

* use our archive [Done]
* offers stable, testing, unstable in certain modes

'''partman'''

* various mentions of Debian in help screens [Done]

'''debootstrap'''

* install everything in Base [Done]

'''base-installer'''

* "Installing the Debian base system" [Done]

'''apt-setup'''

* use our archive [Done]

'''bootloader installers''' ('''grub-installer''', '''lilo-installer''', '''yaboot-installer''', ...), '''finish-install'''

* "The system is now ready to boot the new Debian GNU/Linux system" etc. [Done]

Be careful that "Debian" is not always translated as just "Debian"; for instance, Czech and Slovak seem to say "Debianu" in certain cases. We would need to bear this in mind if we were to go around changing lots of translated strings.

Anything that refers to Debian development teams for help should refer to us instead (for example, debian-boot will get very annoyed if they have to support images they didn't produce).

===== Notes on branding translations =====

In cases where "Debian" is translated to something else (e.g. declension based on case, or transliteration into a different alphabet), we have left the translation fuzzy unless we know better.

* Amharic: A Rosetta translator says that "የደቢያን" ("Debian") translates to "የዑቡንቱ" ("Ubuntu"). (ColinWatson verified this on <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amharic|Wikipedia]]</nowiki>.)
* Asturian: See Catalan.
* Bosnian: "Ubuntu" as a name or term is clearly foreign to the Bosnian language and all occurrences of Debian (whatever the grammar case may be) can safely be replaced by just "Ubuntu".
* Bulgarian: See Macedonian.
* Catalan: JordiMallach says that "de Debian" (possessive) should become "d'Ubuntu".
* Croatian: A Rosetta translator says that "Debianova", "Debianove", and "Debianovu" should become simply "Ubuntu". (I don't know if this is the case for all declensions; it appears not to be. Help?)
* Czech: A Rosetta translator says that "Debianu" should become "Ubuntu".
* Esperanto: There are a couple of possible conventions, but consensus among Rosetta translators appears to be that "Debian<ending>" should become "Ubuntu-<ending>". For example, "Debiana" should become "Ubuntu-a".
* Estonian: A Rosetta translator says that "Debiani" and "Debian'i" should become simply "Ubuntu".
* Finnish: LarsWirzenius says that "Debianin" (possessive) should become "Ubuntun".
* French: See Catalan.
* Hebrew: SivanGreen says that "דביאן" ("Debian") translates to "אובונטו" ("Ubuntu"), while "הדביאן" ("the Debian") translates to "האובונטו" ("the Ubuntu"). Beware right-to-left-ness.
* Hungarian: GaborBurjan says that "a Debian" should become "az Ubuntu".
* Korean: Research, backed up by Rosetta translators including SinjoPark, indicates that "데비안" ("Debian") translates to "우분투" ("Ubuntu"). ColinWatson's researches further indicate that "데비안이" ("Debiani", subject) translates to "우분투가" ("Ubuntuga", subject), "데비안을" ("Debianeul", object) translates to "우분투를" ("Ubuntureul", object), and "데비안은" ("Debianeun", topic) translates to "우분투는" ("Ubuntuneun", topic). Other suffixes, e.g. "에서" ("eseo", at/in) and "의" ("yi", of) appear to be the same for consonant/vowel endings. Corrections welcome.
* Lithuanian: SteveAlexander says that the correct translation is "Ubuntu" regardless of case.
* Macedonian: A Rosetta translator says that "Дебиан" ("Debian") translates to "Убунту" ("Ubuntu").
* Polish: PiotrSzotkowski says that "we don't decline Ubuntu, as we don't have (m?)any Polish nouns that end with 'u'", so the correct translation is "Ubuntu" regardless of case.
* Slovak: See Czech.
* Slovenian: A Rosetta translator says that "Debianov<ending>" should become "Ubuntov<ending>". For example, "Debianovega" should become "Ubuntovega".

Help needed on at least: Arabic, Bengali, Bulgarian, Dzongkha, Farsi, Gujarati, Hindi, Croatian, Khmer, Malayalam, Marathi, Nepali, Punjabi, Serbian, Tamil, Thai
