{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~diwic|David Henningsson]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''E-Mail''':
| launchpad ID + at + ubuntu.com
|-
| '''IRC''':
| diwic on <nowiki>[[http://freenode.net/|freenode]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Homepage''':
| <nowiki>[[http://www.diwic.se]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu Swedish Forum''':
| <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-se.org/phpBB3/memberlist.php?mode=viewprofile&u=7480|diwic]]</nowiki>
|}

== Introduction ==

Hello, I'm a software developer from southern part of Sweden. Born in 1980, and I've been programming since I was nine. I've been running Ubuntu since Gutsy, and giving back to Ubuntu has been a desire of mine since then. My special interest is in music/audio software. I also enjoy playing the piano.

== Community Involvement ==

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~diwic|Launchpad]]</nowiki>, mostly audio related bugs and questions. Member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~universe-contributors|Ubuntu Universe contributors]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-audio-dev|Ubuntu Audio Developers]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[http://fluidsynth.resonance.org|FluidSynth]]</nowiki>, part of developer team upstream, and package maintainer in <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/f/fluidsynth.html|Debian]]</nowiki>. Member of <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/DebianMultimedia|Debian Multimedia Maintainers]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/a/audacity.html|Audacity]]</nowiki>, co-maintainer in Debian
* <nowiki>[[http://alsamodular.sf.net|QARecord]]</nowiki>, part of developer team upstream, and some packaging as well

Also see <nowiki>[[Diwic-DeveloperApplication|my developer application]]</nowiki> for some more information about my involvement (as of 2009-10-25).

Some bugs I'm proud of having fixed/helped with, mainly because they affect a lot of people: <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/459606|459606]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/426492|426492]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/178895|178895]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/485488|485488]]</nowiki>.

== Future Hopes ==

Being able to spend more time on making free and useful software, thus making the world a better place!
