{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



{| class="wikitable"
|-
| {{https://launchpad.net/@@/person}} Name
| Daniel Kessel
|-
| {{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} IRC
| dkessel
|-
| {{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} Email
| d.kessel - at - mailbox.org
|-
| {{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} Launchpad page
| https://launchpad.net/~dkessel
|}

=== About Me ===

Hi, I am Daniel.

I am a software developer and open source enthusiast born in 1982. I advocate for the use of open source software wherever I can. I use Ubuntu since 2006.

=== Code / Package Contributions ===

In short, I have contributed to:
* Autopilot tests (automated UI tests using the autopilot framework)
* autokpgtest tests (automated package tests conforming to DEP-8)
* Ubuntu QA Tracker Website (mostly fixes of the reporting features)
* Other bugfixes

Detailed list of contributions:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Date of work'''
| '''Package'''
| '''Bug ID'''
| '''Description '''
|-
| 2012-12-13
| atk1.0
| -
| autopkgtest as part of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Hackfest/20121213|2012 autokpgtest Hackfest]]</nowiki>
|-
| 2012-12-13
| poppler
| -
| autopkgtest as part of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Hackfest/20121213|2012 autokpgtest Hackfest]]</nowiki>
|-
| 2013-01-13
| mysql-5.5
| -
| autopkgtest
|-
| 2013-07-09
| ubuntu-filemanager-app
| 1188736
| Autopilot test case for opening a context menu on a directory
|-
| 2013-07-17
| music-app
| 1202323
| Autopilot test case for loading a user's library
|-
| 2013-09-28
| testdrive
| 1235834
| Fix --version option to properly display the version of the application
|-
| 2015-06-01
| ubuntu-qa-website
| 1126449
| Reporting fixes: Restrict default date range to a sane default, and fixed generated SQL
|-
| 2015-07-04
| testdrive
| 1328800
| Add support for Ubuntu-Desktop-Next and Ubuntu MATE
|}

Automated Report on sponsored uploads for contributions I have made: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Daniel+Kessel&sponsoree_search=name|Sponsorship Report]]</nowiki>
==== Other Bugfixes ====

There have been some contributions to the Ubuntu QA Website, and probably some other fixes that I did not keep a reference to.

==== Manual testing ====

Apart from the automatic tests, I do manual testing and report bugs whenever I find them.

==== Translation ====

I have also contributed to translations (from English to German) for some of the Ubuntu packages. In 2015, I was part of the Team which made it possible to release the Xubuntu Desktop Guide in German for the first time, just in time for the Xubuntu Release 15.04. <nowiki>[[http://docs.xubuntu.org/1504/de/index.html|The results can be viewed here]]</nowiki>.

=== Future Goals ===

I plan on continuing my work primarily for Ubuntu QA.

I might write and publish some helpful tools if there is anything we need to improve Ubuntu QA.

=== Comments ===
'''Note:''' This section is for people who aren't Ubuntu members to cheer or comments that aren't testimonials from existing members.

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' This section is for existing Ubuntu members to leave testimonials.  People who aren't Ubuntu members can leave a comment above in favor of the application.

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here. 

==== Balloons ====

Daniel has been a wonderful contributor to a variety of efforts within ubuntu QA. He's maintained his involvement for awhile branching out into various areas of automated testing, test writing and reporting. I look forward to seeing more good things from him moving forward :-)

==== Martin Pitt ====

I have reviewed and sponsored several compile/link/run autopkgtests from Daniel, which are a nice contribution. Thanks!
