{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


===== Contact =====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name:'''
| David L. Conner
|-
| '''Timezone:'''
| Eastern (UTC-4/UTC-5)
|-
| '''Launchpad:'''
| <nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-~dlbike76 | dlbike76 ]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC:'''
| dlbike76 on freenode dot net
|-
| '''Email:'''
| dlbike76 at gmail dot com
|-
| '''Current Distro:'''
| Maverick
|}

===== Availability =====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 02:00 - 04:00 (UTC)
| Weekdays
|-
| 21:30 - 23:00 (UTC)
| Weekdays (occasionally)
|}

==== About Me ====

I have over 10 years experience in the Information Technology field, and have a background in Computer Science.  I was first introduced to GNU/Linux and the ''Free Software'' movement during college.  I have continued to use GNU/Linux, and my interest in the FOSS movement has continued to grow throughout my career in the IT field.

===== GNU/Linux Usage History =====

* Red Hat Linux
* Suse Linux (for a college class)
* Ubuntu 6.04
* Ubuntu 8.04 LTS
* Ubuntu 9.04
* Ubuntu 10.04 LTS

I first began using Redhat Linux in a dual boot Linux / Microsoft Windows configuration, and I continued to use that configuration throughout college.  After college I used a dedicated Red Hat Linux machine as well as a Linux Guest under VMWare on a Microsoft Windows host.  I later switched from VMWare to !VirtualBox OSE, and at that time I switched to Ubuntu 6.04.

I continued to use the Ubuntu VM on !VirtualBox OSE until late 2009 when I decided to try an Ubuntu LiveCD on my Toshiba Laptop.  All of my hardware worked correctly and I started using Ubuntu as my host OS.

I am now running Lucid as my primary OS, and have been testing Maverick using LiveCD's and !VirtualBox OSE.
 
==== Goals ====

===== Short-term Goals =====

* Become familiar with the bug triaging process
* Actively participate in Debugging and Patch development
* Continue testing Ubuntu development releases

===== Future Plans =====

* Become a member of Ubuntu Bug Control
* Learn about packaging and become a MOTU
 
