{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Dmitry Shachnev, apply for MOTU upload rights.'''

----

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Dmitry Shachnev
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mitya57]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| DmitryShachnev
|}

== Who I am ==
I’m author of <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/retext|ReText]]</nowiki> editor, and some smaller projects and libraries.

In real life, I’m 19-year-old student at Mathematics department of Moscow State University.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I’ve been using Ubuntu since version 7.10 (Gutsy Gibbon), started contributing to Ubuntu/Debian in summer 2011 (retext changelog dates back to Mon, 13 Jun 2011).

I have choosen Ubuntu because of it’s good hardware support and nice default interface (GNOME). Actually, I am still using GNOME (both GNOME Shell and GNOME Panel).

=== My involvement ===
My areas of involvement:

1. Python modules (Docutils, Sphinx, Markdown, Nose, PyXdg, Gdata, SecretStorage, Markups);
2. python*-defaults packages;
3. My own apps (ReText, Unity-Mail);
4. MathJax;
5. Qt;
6. Ubuntu packaging guide;
7. Random bits of GNOME;
8. Random syncs and merges from Debian.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
Launchpad provides lists of:

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mitya57/+maintained-packages|Packages maintained by me]]</nowiki>;
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mitya57/+uploaded-packages|Packages uploaded by me]]</nowiki>;
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mitya57/+synchronised-packages|Packages synchronized by me]]</nowiki>.

There is also a list of <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsoree=Dmitry+Shachnev&sponsoree_search=name|packages sponsored for me]]</nowiki>.

Things I’m proud of:

* I was in <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntuwire.org/~stefanor/ubuntu-activity/#top-uploaders|top-50 uploaders]]</nowiki> in Raring cycle.
* During last two cycles I’ve done a lot of work for the Ubuntu Packaging Guide (theming, internationalization, packaging, content, russian translation). See the results <nowiki>[[http://developer.ubuntu.com/packaging/|here]]</nowiki>.
* According to the <nowiki>[[http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/five-a-day/|5-a-day project statistics]]</nowiki>, I have been doing my “5-a-day” bug squashing for 32 days in a row (but that was long time ago).
* I’m <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=mitya57%40gmail.com|primary maintainer]]</nowiki> of seven packages in Debian and one more in Ubuntu.
* I’m also doing most of the Ubuntu-specific maintenance work for Sphinx and Docutils.

=== Areas of work ===
Apart from packaging, I am also:

* translating packages (as a part of my UbuntuRussianTranslators team membership);
* triaging bugs;
* contributing upstream (i.e. I’ve become upstream contributor to Qt this cycle);
* reviewing sponsorship queue items;
* helping others in the IRC.

=== Things I could do better ===
I take very little care of documentation. Some of my packages are not documented at all (such as PyMarkups and Unity Mail).

== Plans for the future ==
I want to become a core developer this cycle. I also plan to become a Debian Developer.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
I think our level of collaboration with GNOME (and some other upstream projects), is not good enough. There are people who upload packages with patches not forwarded upstream (or even to Debian). There is no communication between the design teams, and development of new features (like control center panels or apps) is not coordinated, so we sometimes end up doing duplicate (and incompatible) work — the Indicators/AppMenu and online accounts stories are good examples.

Another thing I dislike are the new vUDS-es. Though I have never participated in a “real” UDS, I think that relying on a trird-party proprietary service, that needs one to have a profile in a social network, is a no-no for an open source project.

== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Andrew Starr-Bochicchio ===
==== General feedback ====
I fully support Dmitry's application. I've worked with Dmitry in both Ubuntu and Debian, reviewing and sponsoring uploads. I have confidence in his understanding of Debian packaging. I've also worked closely with him on the Ubuntu Packaging Guide where he has been running down some of our sphinx related problems. I'm impressed by his efforts to work with sphinx maintainers upstream and in Debian. I've reviewed and granted Dmitry Debian Maintainer upload permissions for mathjax, mathjax-docs, pymarkups, python-gdata, python-secretstorage, and retext.

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
Dmitry is a hero - his help with the packaging guide and sphinx in general was incredible, his efforts in Ubuntu and Debian are just fantastic. I trust him 100% with upload rights. No complaints whatsoever.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=*daniel*holbach*&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=*Dmitry*Shachnev*&sponsoree_search=name

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>
----
CategoryMOTUApplication
