{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Dmitry Shachnev, apply for Ubuntu Core Developer upload rights.'''

----

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Dmitry Shachnev
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mitya57]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| DmitryShachnev
|}

== Who I am ==
I am Moscow-based Debian, Ubuntu and Free Software activist, born in 1993. Author of some Python modules and apps, contributor to many other open source projects. Last-year student of Moscow State University, department of Mechanics and Mathematics (chair of Computational Mathematics).

== My Ubuntu story ==
I began using Ubuntu in 2007, and contributing to Ubuntu in 2011. For the first time, I have been maintaining only a couple of packages (for which I was upstream), but since then my involvement grew much larger.

=== My involvement ===
My main areas of involvement are Python modules and Qt (both 4 and 5).

Maintaining packages is not the only thing I do. I also sponsor others' work, translate Ubuntu (I am one of ubuntu-l10n-ru coordinators), document Ubuntu (I have been contributing to Ubuntu Packaging Guide a lot), and spread the word about Ubuntu :)

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
According to the Ultimate Debian database:

* I have done 454 uploads to Ubuntu of 197 different source packages.
* I have sponsored 234 uploads for other contributors.
* 160 uploads were sponsored for me, of which 73 were done after I became a MOTU.

I am also a Debian Developer, and I am listed as maintainer or uploader for 36 source packages. See <nowiki>[[https://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=mitya57|my DDPO page]]</nowiki>.

=== Areas of work ===
I have been working on a large set of Ubuntu packages in the past. Currently, I work on:

* Python text processing stack (sphinx, python-docutils, python-markdown, pymarkups, retext);
* Qt 4 stack (qt4-x11, qtwebkit);
* Qt 5 stack (qt*-opensource-src, lots of packages there);
* PyQt stack (sip, python-qt4, pyqt5);
* Python keyring stack (python-keyring, python-secretstorage);
* GNOME Flashback stack (gnome-panel, gnome-applets, metacity);
* MathJax stack (mathjax, mathjax-docs);
* Indicators stack (indicator-*, appmenu-*).

=== Things I could do better ===
I should really do more SRUs. So far I only do SRU uploads for high-importance bugs (like crashes), but I think stable releases should get a bit more love from me. But I am (slowly) working on it :)

== Plans for the future ==
=== Plans for Vivid cycle ===

* I want to replace our qtwebkit-source packaging with better qtwebkit packaging from Debian (and update it to the latest upstream version).
* I hope I will be able to help with updating GNOME to 3.14.
* I plan to add a ubuntu-gnome-flashback metapackage and build unofficial ISOs with that pre-installed. I have got multiple requests to do so.
* I also want to get KaTeX packaged as a potential replacement for MathJax. It will improve math experience within Sphinx or ReText a lot.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''Let's try something different this time''

Currently many people who used to work on the Unity/GNOME desktops are working on Touch stuff, so the desktop really lacks manpower (like: GNOME is two cycles behind, Software Center not updated, etc). This is something I am already helping with and will continue to work on in the future.

== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
Dmitry has done fantastic work over the last years. He's dedicated, he always follows up with Upstream and Debian. I couldn't be happier with this work. Big +1 for core-dev.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* Lots of work in lp:ubuntu-packaging-guide and coordinating upstream fixes in lp:sphinx (and other bits) for it.
* Maintenance of lp:sphinx.
* Lots of help with http://packaging.ubuntu.com
* Many more things I don't recall off the top of my hat. :)

=== Martin Pitt ===
==== General feedback ====
Dmitry has been around for quite a while and shown consistent involvement, motivation, and good skills. I sponsored a lot of syncs and some 20 packages for him (see below for examples). I don't remember significant problems with those. He's equally active in Debian and takes care to work as much as possible on the Debian side. I welcome him to become a core-dev and thank him for his great work!

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

* <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitya57/metacity/3.12.0/+merge/226573|metacity merge]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/language-selector/+bug/991002|xkeyboard-config merge]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-coverage/3.7.1+dfsg.1-1ubuntu1|python-coverage merge]]</nowiki>
* See <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=Martin+Pitt&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Dmitry+Shachnev&sponsoree_search=name|UDD sponsoring tracking]]</nowiki> for more

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pitti]]</nowiki> 
=== JonathanRiddell ===
==== General feedback ====
A useful presence on #kubuntu-devel and doing great stuff with Qt packaging

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I merged qt4-x11 with Debian but it failed to compile on arm64.  Dmitry jumped in with a fix.  Alas this also broke on armhf.  But Dmitry jumped in with a second fix.  Wherever there is danger, he'll be there.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Shouldn't override xnox's first name
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>
----
CategoryCoreDevApplication
