{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I'm Dmitry Shachnev (mitya57), and this is my wiki page.
Currently I'm student at Moscow University, department of Mathematics and Mechanics.

I use Ubuntu since version 7.10 (gutsy).

I'm author of such apps as <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/retext|ReText]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/unity-mail|Unity Mail]]</nowiki>.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~mitya57
|-
| IRC
| mitya57
|-
| Email / Jabber
| mitya57 at [1], where [1] is ubuntu.com or gmail.com
|-
| Google+
| http://gplus.to/mitya57
|}

=== Contributions ===

Here are my areas of interest:

* Bugs triaging (I'm member of UbuntuBugControl) and fixing;
* Translating (I'm member of UbuntuRussianTranslators team);
* Maintaining of my packages (currently <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-gdata|python-gdata]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-markdown|python-markdown]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/retext|retext]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity-mail|unity-mail]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mathjax|mathjax]]</nowiki>);
* Helping out with other Python-related packages;
* Helping with the PackagingGuide (I've written the "<nowiki>[[http://developer.ubuntu.com/packaging/html/python-packaging.html|Python packaging]]</nowiki>" section, for example);
* I'm member of <nowiki>[[Debian-PythonModulesTeam|Debian Python Modules]]</nowiki> and Applications teams.

=== Some statistics ===

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mitya57/+related-software|list of packages maintained/uploaded by me]]</nowiki>;
* <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mitya57/+branches?field.lifecycle=ALL|list of my bzr branches]]</nowiki>;
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsoree=Dmitry+Shachnev&sponsoree_search=name|list of uploads sponsored for me]]</nowiki>;
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=Dmitry+Shachnev&sponsor_search=name|list of uploads sponsored by me]]</nowiki>;
* <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=mitya57%40gmail.com|myself at qa.debian.org]]</nowiki>.

=== Future Goals ===

* Continue my work in directions mentioned above.

=== Other ===

* Here is <nowiki>[[http://mandriver.users.sourceforge.net/classic-gnome-guide.html|my guide for Gnome Classic session users]]</nowiki>;
* <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs-appdevweek1109-UnityMailWebMailNotification|Log of my Ubuntu Oneiric AppDeveloperWeek IRC session]]</nowiki>;
* Here is <nowiki>[[DmitryShachnev-PPUApplication|my PPU application]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[DmitryShachnev-MOTUApplication|my MOTU application]]</nowiki>.

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here.
----
CategoryHomepage
