{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}
'''I, Dmitry Shachnev, apply for upload rights for these packages''':
* `python-markdown`
* `python-keyring`
* `python-secretstorage`
* `python-docutils`
* `python-qt4`
* `sip4`
* `sphinx`
* the <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/packagesets/trusty/qt5|qt5]]</nowiki> packageset

----

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Dmitry Shachnev
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mitya57]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| DmitryShachnev
|}

Disclaimer: contents of this application have been mostly copied from my <nowiki>[[DmitryShachnev-MOTUApplication|MOTU Application]]</nowiki>.

== Who I am ==
I’m author of <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/retext|ReText]]</nowiki> editor, and some smaller projects and libraries.
In real life, I’m 19-year-old student at Mathematics department of Moscow State University.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I’ve been using Ubuntu since version 7.10 (Gutsy Gibbon), started contributing to Ubuntu/Debian in summer 2011 (retext changelog dates back to Mon, 13 Jun 2011).

I have chosen Ubuntu because of its good hardware support and nice default interface.

Now I am maintaining lots of packages in both Debian and Ubuntu, and am active member some Debian packaging teams.

=== My involvement ===
My areas of involvement:

 1. Python modules (Docutils, Sphinx, Markdown, Nose, PyXdg, Gdata, SecretStorage, Markups);
 2. python*-defaults packages;
 3. My own apps (ReText, Unity-Mail);
 4. MathJax;
 5. Qt (I am member of Debian Qt/KDE team, co-maintaining Qt 5 packages there);
 6. Ubuntu packaging guide;
 7. Random bits of GNOME;
 8. Random syncs and merges from Debian.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
For the Python packages in question (except sip4 and python-qt4), I am the primary maintainer. Any recent upload is done by myself.

For the Qt packages in question, I am co-maintaining them. Here is an incomplete list of my uploads:

* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qttranslations-opensource-src/5.0.2-1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qtsensors-opensource-src/5.1.1+dfsg-2ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qtbase-opensource-src/5.0.2+dfsg1-7ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qtserialport-opensource-src/5.1.1-1ubuntu3
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qttools-opensource-src/5.0.2-7ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qtmultimedia-opensource-src/5.0.2-4ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qtgraphicaleffects-opensource-src/5.0.2-2ubuntu1

=== Areas of work ===
Apart from packaging, I am also:

* translating packages (as a part of my UbuntuRussianTranslators team membership);
* triaging bugs;
* contributing upstream (i.e. I’ve become upstream contributor to Qt this cycle);
* sponsoring packages for others;
* helping others in the IRC.

=== Things I could do better ===
I take very little care of documentation. Some of my packages are not documented at all (such as PyMarkups and Unity Mail).

== Plans for the future ==
I want to become a core developer at some point in the future. I am also <nowiki>[[https://nm.debian.org/public/process/dmitry|in the process]]</nowiki> of becoming a Debian Developer.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
I think our level of collaboration with GNOME (and some other upstream projects), is not good enough. There are people who upload packages with patches not forwarded upstream (or even to Debian). There is no communication between the design teams, and development of new features (like control center panels or apps) is not coordinated, so we sometimes end up doing duplicate (and incompatible) work — the Indicators/AppMenu and online accounts stories are good examples.

Another thing I dislike are the new vUDS-es. Though I have never participated in a “real” UDS, I think that relying on a trird-party proprietary service, that needs one to have a profile in a social network, is a no-no for an open source project.

== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== xnox ===
==== General feedback ====
Good technical and packaging skills, good work in Debian and Ubuntu and cross-distro collaboration.

Although there is a clear area of interest for Dmitry, I would find it more appropriate for him to become a CoreDev. He is cautious and respects / observers all current Ubuntu and Debian practices. He is also in progress becoming a DD, from being an uploading DM.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
A few things in Debian and Ubuntu, mostly around python-* and *qt* packages and dependencies.

=== Timo Jyrinki ===
==== General feedback ====
Good work on careful packaging of complex packages, and preserving changes when syncing. I've been happy that there is shared interest in the Qt 5 work, since there is always a lot to do and it's also beneficial there's more communication and syncing up with Debian than what I could do alone.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Qt 5 packaging. I don't remember having had any issues, just a couple of positive surprises like the proper enabling of docs building.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

=== Sebastien Bacher ===

I've done some sponsoring for Dmitry, he's doing good work and I would recommend him for PPU upload rights

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication
