{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Who am I ===

My name is Dmitry Afanasjev (Дмитрий Афанасьев). I live in Saint-Petersburg, Russia. I'm 19 years old student of <nowiki>[[http://www.pgups.ru/|Saint-Petersburg State Transport University]]</nowiki>. My speciality is software and programming. And of course I'm Linux enthusiast.

I'm really interested in Open Source Software. My favorite linux distributions are <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/|Debian GNU/Linux]]</nowiki> (my first Linux) and <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu GNU/Linux]]</nowiki> (my current Linux). I've been a Linux user for 1+ year.

I fond of programming and my favorite languages are C++ and Java. I'm rather good in C++, but I'm just beginner in Java. I guess Java became my favorite language.

=== What have I done for Ubuntu ===

Nothing more then just using Ubuntu and distribute it among friends yet.

=== What do I want to do for Ubuntu ===

* Help to organize and increase Russian Ubuntu Community;
* help beginners with their problems;
* build packages;
* translate programms into Russian;
* maybe some coding.

=== Contacts ===

Email: 
Jabber ID: afanasjev@jabber.ru

ICQ: 203699907

----
CategoryHomepage
