{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:45%; background:#fff9f7; border: 1px solid #ffd164; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em; -moz-border-radius: 1em;"> '''Location:'''
| Moscow, Russia
|-
| '''Homepage:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://rootshell.be/~dmitri]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Blog:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://advogato.org/person/dmitri/diary.html|Diary for dmitri]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''LJ:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://users.livejournal.com/daa_/]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Launchpad:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/people/alenitchev]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''E-Mail:'''
| alenitchev@openoffice.org
|-
| '''E-Mail:'''
| dmitri@gnu.org
|-
| '''GPG:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0x23770A2F6A2E8C46347EB3524717A37ECD0C89F6|CD0C89F6]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Jabber:'''
| alenitchev@gmail.com
|}

=== About ===
My name is Dmitri Alenitchev. I'm 19 years old and live in Moscow region, Russia. At present moment i work in small software company, "Digital Worlds J.S.C." at System Administrator position. In my work i use Free and Open Source software.

Since 2000 year i use GNU/Linux as my primary OS. Also, i use FreeBSD and OpenBSD. My contribution to Open Source project was started from packaging and documentation works for Russian RPM-based Linux distribution -- <nowiki>[[http://www.altlinux.org/|ALTLinux]]</nowiki>. I make some works for another RPM distribution -- <nowiki>[[http://fedora.redhat.com/|Fedora Core Linux]]</nowiki>. My first translations to Russian language i make for Fedora Core. Since summer, 2005 I'm official <nowiki>[[http://www.gnu.org/people/webmeisters.html|GNU Webmaster]]</nowiki>. Also, i make some works for various GNU projects. 

Since 2005 year i become maintainer of `manpages-ru' package in <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/testing/doc/manpages-ru|Debian]]</nowiki>, included in <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/edgy/doc/manpages-ru|Ubuntu]]</nowiki>. In this year i start making works for <nowiki>[[http://openoffice.org/|OpenOffice.org]]</nowiki> (documentation, translation and QA).

Recent diary entries in blog: http://advogato.org/person/dmitri/rss.xml

=== My current Ubuntu activities ===
* BugSquad
* UbuntuRussianTranslators
* <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/people/alenitchev/+packages|Maintained packages]]</nowiki>

==== Patches ====
* <nowiki>[[http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.linux.ubuntu.doc/6118/focus=6118|Patch for packaging guide]]</nowiki>

==== Reported Bugs ====
* <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/50992|#50992]]</nowiki>

==== Fixed Bugs ====
* <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/51161|#51161]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/firefox/+bug/52209|#52209]]</nowiki>

==== Rejected Bugs ====
* <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/51132|#51132]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/51090|#51090]]</nowiki>

==== Specifications ====
* <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/music-while-installing|Play music while installing]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/ftpd-config-gui|FTPD GUI Configuration Tool]]</nowiki>

==== Wiki ====
* EmacsHowto - The powerful editor for programmers in Unix environment.
* GoogleCalendarWithEvolution - How to add your Google Calendar in Evolution.
* <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam/AcerTravelMate2303LC|Acer TravelMate 2303LC]]</nowiki>

=== My Ubuntu interests ===
My interests in Ubuntu is participating in works for better hardware
support, packaging, translation in Russian language, documentation,
QA. I think about 3-5 hours work for Ubuntu every day.

=== Other Projects ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.openoffice.org|OpenOffice.org]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.gnu.org|GNU Project]]</nowiki>

----
Related pages:
<<FullSearch>>
----
CategoryHomepage
