{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Dave Meikle <dmk> ===

'''About Me'''

I am a Software Engineer who enjoys both using and developing on Linux, and has done for many years.

I can code in C/C++, Java, C#, Python, Ruby and PHP.

As well as the above, I have a keen interest in Web Technologies (Web Services, SOAs, AJAX, etc) and Design Patterns. I am also trying to learn deeper into the Linux Kernel (with the help of Robert Love and google).

'''Ubuntu Stuff'''

I am currently testing Edgy on my Fujitsu-Siemens Amilo A7640 as part of the LaptopTestingTeam drive. You can find the page at the following link LaptopTestingTeam/FujitsuAmiloA7640.

I have been performing answering queries and performing translations using Rosetta on Launchpad, as well as reporting or commenting on bugs in Launchpad.

I also like to help out on IRC when I can.

'''Gnome Stuff'''

I like to hack on Gnome, and as well as my own personal programs I have been submitting patches to projects some of which include Rythmbox, Bluefish, Blam, D-Bus and gnome-btdownload.

'''Other Stuff'''

I am also a keen Java developer and contribute patches to Jakarta projects.

'''Packages'''

I have backported various packages to Breezy. These can be found here - <nowiki>[[http://www.davemeikle.co.uk/~david/breezy-backports/]]</nowiki>

They are all signed with this public key - <nowiki>[[http://www.davemeikle.co.uk/~david/dave_meikle.asc]]</nowiki>

'''Contact Me'''
Email: 
PGP Key: F54E3B15

Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/dmk-uk]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryHomepage
