{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">
|-
| '''Name:'''
| Bryan Cuneo
|-
| '''Age:'''
| 17
|-
| '''Email:'''
| <nowiki>[[mailto:bryan.cuneo@gmail.com|bryan.cuneo@gmail.com]]</nowiki>
|-
| 
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1268161|dniMretsaM]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Launchpad:'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~dnimretsam|dnimretsam]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC:'''
| '''dniMretsaM''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| 
|-
| '''GPG Key:'''
| 3072R/027999DD
|-
| 
|-
| '''Linux user:'''
| #555707
|-
| '''Ubuntu user:'''
| #35115
|}

== About Me ==
Hey everyone.  This is Bryan Cuneo, although you probably know my as dniMretsaM. I live in Ohio (United States). I'm an avid GNU/Linux user and a free software proponent. When I'm not messing around on a computer, I'll probably be reading, solving Rubik's Cubes, playing video games, or just having fun with friends. Although not old enough to vote, I consider my political party alignment to be libertarian.  Freedom and civil liberties are very important to me, and I attempt to keep myself pretty up-to-date on related issues.

I have always liked computers.  Back when I was 7 and 8, 2002-'03, I had a Windows 95 box in my basement. When I discovered GNU/Linux, it encouraged me to learn more about them and the software that ran on them.  I feel as though I have learned a lot over the past year and a half of using GNU/Linux, but I know there is always more.  Last year, my junior year of high school, I started learning Python 3.  Since I'm homeschooled, I even got school credit for it.  I'm currently learning to write GUI's using PyQt4.  I find programming quite enjoyable, thus I have decided to attend college for a degree in software engineering, though I'm not sure where yet.  Programming seems to be the perfect way to give back to the FL/OSS community, since I don't have the money to donate to projects/organizations.

== Ubuntu & Me ==
I first stumbled across Ubuntu in early 2011 when I was looking to replace a slow Windows XP install on an old desktop computer.  I installed the latest version, 10.10, and have never looked back.  When Release Day rolls around, you can always find me doing a fresh install.  When 11.10 was released, I made the switch to Kubuntu because the computer I was running wasn't able to run Unity 3D.  I found that Unity 2D wasn't customizable enough for me and decided to try out KDE.  KDE has become my favourite desktop environment, and I now prefer Qt over GTK+.

== My Machines ==
=== System76 Pangolin Performance ===
This is main system.  It was given to me for my 17th birthday, and it's going to be my dev machine in college.  It currently runs Kubuntu 12.10 and Gentoo.
* Processor: 3rd gen. Intel Core i7-3630QM
* RAM: 8GB dual channel DDR3 SDRAM
* Hard drive: 750GB 7200RPM SATA II
* Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 4000
* Wireless: Intel Centrnio 1030

=== Dell Dimension 2400 ===
My first Ubuntu machine.  It has now been delagated to my home server. It currently functions as an ownCloud box, a torrent seed box, and it also runs Quassel-core.  It's running Ubuntu 12.04, and I plan to keep it that way for a while.
* Processor: Intel Celeron Northwood
* RAM: 512MB SDRAM
* Hard drive: 40GB IDE
* Graphics: Intel 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE

== My Community Involvement ==
=== General ===
Helping triage bugs as part of the <nowiki>[[https://techbase.kde.org/Contribute/Bugsquad/BugDays/Dolphin2012|Dolphin Bug Weeks 2012]]</nowiki>.
=== Ubuntu-Specific ===
==== Forums ====
Most of my involvment in the GNU/Linux ecosystem is through the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki>.  I spend a lot of my time there attempting to help with unanswered questions.  The rest of my time is spent browsing through the various subforums looking for oppertunities to give assistance.

==== IRC ====
I also hang out in various IRC channels on Freenode.  You can usually find me in one or more of the following:
* <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=kubuntu|#kubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu|#ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntuforums|#ubuntuforums]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-beginners|#ubuntu-beginners]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-us-oh|#ubuntu-us-oh]]</nowiki>

==== Crazy! Er... LoCo ====
I am technically a member of the <nowiki>[[http://ohio.ubuntu-us.org/|Ohio Ubuntu Local Community]]</nowiki>.  However, since I do not have a car and am unable to attend the meetups, I am a lot less active than I would like to be.

== Other Distros ==
I would have to say that my favorite non-*buntu distro is Gentoo.  I picked it up in early September and have really enjoyed the experience. 

For old computers, I really like CrunchBang.  It's probably the best Openbox disstro around. For REALLY old computers, I prefer SliTaz.

If I want to run an OS on a flash drive, it's usually Puppy or Tails (when I'm feeling paranoid).

== My Software Preferences ==
As a general rule, I like KDE/Qt apps better than GNOME/GTK+ programs (i.e. I prefer KDE Partition Manager to GParted). On a more specific level, here are some of my favorite apps in certain categories (and no, not all are KDE):
* File manager: Dolphin, Midnight Commander (yeah, I said "Midnight Commander")
* IRC client: Quassel, ERC
* Music player: Amarok
* Office suite: Calligra, LibreOffice
* PIM: Kontact
* Shell: ZSH
* Terminal emulator: Yakuake, GNOME Terminator
* Text editor: Emacs (CLI)
* Torrent client: KTorrent, qBittorrent
* VCS: Git
* Video player: VLC
* Web browser: Firefox
* Window manager: KWin, XMonad (could you get any more different?)

== The Future ==
=== GNU/Linux ===
As time goes on, I hope to be more and more active in free software and Ubuntu communities.  As I mentioned in the About Me section, I'm going to college to be a software engineer.  One of my dreams is to make a living writing free software, perhaps by working for the FSF/GNU Project or Canonical.  In the nearer future, I plan on joining a LUG at the college where I attend, or even create one if necessary.  No matter where my career takes me, I will always do my best to contribute to GNU/Linux as much as possible.

=== Other Parts Of My Life ===
College and my future career are pretty big focuses in my life right now.  Due to that fact, I don't have many other plans.  I hope to one day make my home in San Diego.  Something... different that I would like to do for a while is live in a van.  I find the idea of minimalism intriguing and would like to at least give it a try.
