{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



My name is Pavel Blokhin aka doctor (Павел Блохин in Russian). I'm 30 years old computer enthusiast. I live in Moscow, Russia. I am doctor-urologist. My native language is Russian and I know English too.

I am very interested in Open Source and most interested in <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org/|GNOME]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.xfce.org/|XFCE]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.maemo.org/|Maemo]]</nowiki> projects. My favorite linux distributions are <nowiki>[[http://archlinux.org/|ArchLinux]]</nowiki> and Ubuntu of course. I have been a Linux user for 7+ years.

=== My current Ubuntu activities ===

* I'm operator of Russian Community's irc channel ''#ubuntu-ru'' on <nowiki>[[http://freenode.net/|freenode network]]</nowiki>
* I'm supermoderator of Russian Community's <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu.ru|forum]]</nowiki> 

=== My Ubuntu interests ===

* Create & support Russian Wiki
* Advocating Ubuntu among Russian-speaking community and organizing this community.
 
=== Contacts ===

E-mail: psblokhin <at> gmail.com

IRC: ''[doctor]'' on <nowiki>[[http://freenode.net/|freenode network]]</nowiki> (I'm usually present at least on #easylinux and #ubuntu-ru channels)

Jabber ID: [doctor]@jabber.ru

----
CategoryHomepage
