{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== What can the DocumentationTeam do after Hoary? ===

Now that Hoary release approaches and the QuickGuide is in good shape, it's time to think about what to do next.

The current projects of the DocumentationTeam are found in DocteamProjects.  The future projects of the DocumentationTeam will be:

* Bring the [FAQGuide] up-to-date for Hoary, together with Chua Wen-Kiat
* Hack on upstream documentation (such as <code>/usr/share/doc/<package>/*</code>, manpages, the Gnome User's Guide)
* Organise some better coordination between the DocTeam, TranslationTeam and LoCoTeamList? (--MatthewEast)
* ''(add your ideas here, or add comments to the previous items)''

From SeanWheller Thu Mar 3 13:58:40 +0000 2005
From: Sean Wheller
Date: Thu, 03 Mar 2005 13:58:40 +0000
Subject: Musing on Grumpy
Message-ID: <20050303135840+0000@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

Going forward I see the following tasks resulting from the current project list:

* Quick Guide – Keep the Quick Guide aligned with Grumpy.

* Users Guide – Develop the first Official Ubuntu User Guide.

* FAQ Guide – Update to Grumpy, I can't see any point in updating to Hoary and then updating to Grumpy.

* Administrators Guide – Develop the first Ubuntu Administrators Guide.

* Release Notes – Update to Grumpy

Blue-sky wish list:

* Obviate the need for Yelp. Use standard Web browsers.

* Create UbuntuBar for Firefox using XUL. Ubuntu Bar is a toolbar that has links to  Ubuntu Resources and Ubuntu Documents both on the Web and localhost.

* Create UbuntuNavigator using XUL.  UbuntuNavigator is a browser based application that provides a tree view of the documentation set and navigation thereof. It can be served from disk or as a web application. UbuntuNavigator should provide for compatibility across desktops enabling linking between documents and document systems.

* Create UbuntuDocNote using XUL.  UbuntuDocNote enables users to add notes inline to the Ubuntu Documentation. Notes can be distributed to other users or to the Docteam.

* Customize CSS for better layout of the Documentation Real-estate space. Add associated topics and tasks to topics.

* Documentation for KickstartCompatibility (MattZimmerman)

* Warty->Hoary upgrade How-To (MattZimmerman)

From SeanWheller Thu Mar 3 14:31:05 +0000 2005
From: Sean Wheller
Date: Thu, 03 Mar 2005 14:31:05 +0000
Subject: More musings on Grumpy
Message-ID: <20050303143105+0000@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

Looking at kubuntu I think we should consider profiling our documents to output versions for each desktop.
----
CategoryDocteam
