{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Documentation Team News, First issue - January 2006 ==

In this issue:

=== Ubuntu 5.10 Update ===

We've recently prepared an update for the ubuntu-docs package in Breezy. This features:

* An improved default start page for Firefox and Epiphany browsers
* Updated translations of the Gnome documentation

The update should hit your Breezy desktop soon!

=== Documents for Ubuntu 6.06 ===

We're releasing two main documents in Ubuntu 6.06:

* the Desktop Starter Guide (preview is at http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/desktopguide/C/) and
* the Server Starter Guide (preview is at http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/).

They are both in early stages of development.  Testing, feedback, questions and above all '''contributions''' are always welcome to the ubuntu-doc mailing list.

==== Dapper Flight 2 Release Notes ====

Matt Galvin has recently produced a great guide to what's new in Dapper. For more information, see the page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DapperFlight2.

=== Kubuntu Documentation ===

Kubuntu 6.06 will have three documents in the works:

* the Desktop Guide;
* the Quick Guide; and
* the Release Notes.

Work is currently being done by JonathanJesse and JeromeGotangco but we invite Kubuntu users to dive in and join the team!  With the help of JonathanRiddell, we will be able to include documents that are tagged as WIP (Work in Progress) in the coming milestone releases of Kubuntu.

=== Wiki Documentation ===

==== New Hotness ====

The documentation on the wiki is beginning to take shape. As always, the starting page for wiki documentation is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDocumentation, which contains a (nearly complete) index of documents. Here are some highlights:

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MultimediaApplications - a guided tour through many of the cool music & video applications in Ubuntu.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BasicCommands - confused by the command line? Lessen your confusion here.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ApacheMySQLPHP - need a webserver? This page will get you started!
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MailServer - a series of guides to set up a mail server.
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StrongPasswords - a guide to creating secure passwords in Ubuntu.

==== Wiki License ====
 
The licence policy for the Ubuntu wiki has been under discussion recently. The licence for the wiki has been unclear until now, and the need was felt to establish a proper formal licence to clarify for users and authors alike the terms on which material can be copied.  The final decision was that the wiki material will be in the Public Domain, i.e. totally free to be used, modified and copied. The details of the policy change, the reasons, and the means by which it will be implemented can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WikiLicensing.

==== Cleanup of old pages ====

Corey Burger recently had a rush of blood and has done a massive cleanup operation on old and outdated wiki pages. Many useless pages have been deleted and many outdated developer specifications have been moved.

==== Work to be Done ====

Much work still remains to be done: lots of the documentation on the wiki is disorganised and needs a lot of love.  We need help, so please join the Documentation Team mailing list, and visit the wiki team pages https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WikiTeam and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WikiToDo for some inspiration! Some pages which need expansion are:

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Wine - learn how to run your Windows programs easier
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Games - having fun with Ubuntu has never been easier
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MultiseatX - the new X.org 7.0/6.9 now contains multiseat
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScanningHowTo - your scanners and Ubuntu, a short guide

=== How to Contribute ===

The Documentation Team still has a lot of work to do, and needs your help!  Documentation is a great way to contribute to the Ubuntu community, even if you don't know how to write programs or build packages!  As always, you can find daily builds of the documentation (and details of how to contribute) on http://doc.ubuntu.com.  Another great starting place to learn quickly how to get involved is our wiki pages, especially https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocteamGettingStarted. You can also contact us on irc (#ubuntu-doc) or the mailing list (http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-doc).

You can also contribute to the Kubuntu documentation by checking the same website and the same mailing list.

=== Useful Links ===

* http://help.ubuntu.com - All the stable documentation released with Ubuntu systems
* http://doc.ubuntu.com - Documentation team website with builds of latest work in progress
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam - Front page of our corner of the wiki.
