{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== DocumentationTeamMeeting20050417 ==

==== Summary ====

DocumentationTeamMeetingSummary4 -- will be available by Monday 18th April, 1200UTC

==== Abstract ====

The purpose of this meeting is to jump start documentation development very early in the Breezy development cycle. Discussion will focus on changes needed from the Hoary release cycle.

==== Agenda ====

* Better communication between DocumentationTeam and Development Team
* Integration of DocumentationTeam needs into release freeze dates. MattZimmerman has asked for: 1) a list of items that we should be aware of which affect documentation (artwork?  translations?  desktop behaviour?), and 2) a conservative estimate of the time it would take to adjust for a change in one of those areas
* Discussion of DocTeamWebPortal

==== Place ====

On IRC, channel #ubuntu-meeting on the freenode network (irc.freenode.net).

==== Date and Time ====

'''The date and time of the meeting is Sunday 17th April, 1200 UTC.'''
----
CategoryDocteam
