{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== About The Repository ===

The documentation sources for the project reside in <nowiki>[[http:bazaar.canonical.com|Bazaar]]</nowiki>, a revision management system created by Canonical, the company behind Ubuntu. The repository is the hub of the core document development effort. Revision control helps us to work on the same files simultaneously without “clobbering” each others work. Any author wanting to contribute to the documentation effort can checkout their own ''branch'' or ''working copy'' of the documentation sources and make changes to this copy.

If you have never worked with a version control system, don't be nervous - you cannot break anything in the repository, only your local, working copy. This is because you will be working as an anonymous user and therefore do not have the permissions to change anything in the repository. Only people with ''commit access'' can make changes to the repository. People are given access once they have consistently provided contributions and demonstrated commitment.

=== Key Bzr Branches ===

A complete list of the key Doc Team Bazaar branches is available on <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-core-doc|Launchpad]]</nowiki>.

The key branches which will be of most interest are:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="border:1px solid"> '''Name of Branch'''
| '''Description'''
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-core-doc/ubuntu-docs|ubuntu-docs]]</nowiki>
| Ubuntu desktop help
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-core-doc/xubuntu-docs|xubuntu-docs]]</nowiki>
| Xubuntu desktop help
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-core-doc/serverguide|serverguide]]</nowiki>
| Ubuntu Server Guide
|}

Generally you should use the development version for each branch.

For details on setting up and contributing, please refer to either the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam/SystemDocumentation/UbuntuDesktopGuide|Ubuntu Desktop Guide Single Page]]</nowiki> or the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam/SystemDocumentation/UbuntuServerGuide|Ubuntu ServerGuide Single Page]]</nowiki> as appropriate. (xubuntu ?)

=== Getting the docs ===

To make changes to documentation held in a Bazaar branch, you first need to download a copy onto your computer.

The first step is to identify the particular Bazaar branch which you want to download. The Doc Team works with several different branches. A list is at the top of this page. Choose your branch, and follow these instructions.

# On a GUI based system, open a Terminal by pressing '''Applications''' -> '''Accessories''' -> '''Terminal'''. Of course, a server based system only has terminals.
# Type <code>mkdir ubuntu_bzr</code> and press enter. This will create a new directory called ''ubuntu_bzr'' in your Home directory. Of course, you can create a directory with a different name and in a different location.
# Type <code>cd ubuntu_bzr</code> to change to the new directory.
# Type <code>bzr lp:name_of_branch</code> into the Terminal. This will download the whole of the branch, which you will then be able to modify using a text editor.
** You can get the name of the branch which you want from the <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/ubuntu-doc-project|list on Launchpad]]</nowiki>. The current development branches for each flavor of Ubuntu appear with a star by their name in that list.
** Current development examples:
  . <code>$ bzr branch lp:ubuntu-docs</code>
  . <code>$ bzr branch lp:serverguide</code>
  . <code>$ bzr branch lp:xubuntu-docs</code>
** Previous release examples:
  . <code>$ bzr branch lp:ubuntu-docs/precise</code>
  . <code>$ bzr branch lp:serverguide/precise</code>
  . <code>$ bzr branch lp:xubuntu-docs/precise</code>
** This process may take quite a while, as it downloads the whole of the revision history in the branch. See ''Advanced'' below for ways to speed up this process.

=== Updating a check-out ===

You will probably want to keep up-to-date with changes made to the documentation. To download the latest updates to a branch:

# Open a Terminal.
# Change to the directory which contains your original checkout (e.g. ubuntu_bzr/name_of_branch, as above).
# Type <code>bzr update</code> and any updates will be downloaded.

=== Next steps ===

Once you have downloaded a branch, the next step is to view and edit the documents contained within it. Read on to the '''<nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam-SystemDocumentation-Editing|Editing]]</nowiki>''' page.

Some tips for people who have been granted permissions to upload directly to the system documentation branches (by becoming members of the ubuntu-core-doc team) can be found at the <nowiki>[[Members]]</nowiki> page. If you are just getting started with Ubuntu documentation, you don't need to read that page yet.

----
CategoryDocteam
