{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Where to start contributing ==
Bugs in the Ubuntu Documentation package are registered in Launchpad and there is a special tag used to identify any bugs that members believe are suitable for new users to fix. This is the "bitesize" tag.

=== What do we mean by bitesize ===

Bitesize bugs fit the following criteria:
* Can be completed using only the information in the <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/%7Edougierichardson/ubuntu-docs/ubuntu-doc-playbook/download/ddrichardson%40btinternet.com-20090425134251-9jx8kkmfh5o7yvdg/bugsplaybook.pdf-20090425134249-q16u449n0d15wtn8-2/BugsPlaybook.pdf |Playbook]]</nowiki>.
* Are relatively short.
* Do not require a great deal of research or expertise in a field.
* Preferably where the text to be changed is supplied.

=== Why ===

These are bugs that allow new contributors to practice the introductory material in the <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/%7Edougierichardson/ubuntu-docs/ubuntu-doc-playbook/download/ddrichardson%40btinternet.com-20090425134251-9jx8kkmfh5o7yvdg/bugsplaybook.pdf-20090425134249-q16u449n0d15wtn8-2/BugsPlaybook.pdf |Playbook]]</nowiki> and gain confidence in both our tool chain and working with bug control in Launchpad.

=== Who sets the tag ===

Anyone can set the tag providing it meets the above criteria and any new contributor is welcome to add the tag to any task that they feel they would have liked to have seen when starting out.

=== How do I find them ===

By using <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-docs/+bugs?field.tag=bitesize | this search]]</nowiki>.

=== How do I take them on ===

Once you have a bug you are interested in, providing its not assigned to anyone then assign it to yourself. Follow the steps in the <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/%7Edougierichardson/ubuntu-docs/ubuntu-doc-playbook/download/ddrichardson%40btinternet.com-20090425134251-9jx8kkmfh5o7yvdg/bugsplaybook.pdf-20090425134249-q16u449n0d15wtn8-2/BugsPlaybook.pdf |Playbook]]</nowiki> and ask us if you need assistance.
