{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Ubuntu Documentation Team ==

Welcome to the Ubuntu Documentation Team home page, the starting point for those interested in improving Ubuntu documentation.

The Documentation Team takes care of <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam-SystemDocumentation|official documentation]]</nowiki> for both the Desktop and Server editions of Ubuntu. It also contributes to the <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam-Wiki|Community Help Wiki]]</nowiki>, with responsibility for each of these documentation sets devolving upon the sub-team which shares its name. Besides contributing text to the official documentation and the wiki via the '''Contributors team''', each has its own administrative personnel: the '''Committers team''' for official docs and the '''Wiki Administrators team''' for the help wiki. See <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam/Organization|Documentation Team organization]]</nowiki> for more information on this hierarchy structure.

All of the work produced by the Ubuntu Documentation team is released under the terms of the '''<nowiki>[[https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/|Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License]]</nowiki>''' (CC BY-SA 3.0).

Feel free to get in touch with the team directly using the 'Contact us' link above with any questions or feedback you may have.

<<BR>>

----
CategoryDocteam
CategoryUbuntuTeams
