{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



This page provides an example tech-review article. Note that the article has been converted into wiki format, so this isn't exactly the same as reviewing the system documentation directly from a bzr checkout.

== Example Article ==

Below is an example article from the system documentation, which needs to be reviewed:

=== What's a codec? ===

A multimedia codec is a small piece of software which allows you to watch videos or listen to music of a specific format. There are many diffferent multimedia formats and so you may need to install several codecs. Ubuntu includes many codecs by default, such as ogg/vorbis, ogg/theora anf FLAC.

Many applications in Ubuntu use the GStreamer open source multimedia framework. The codec plugins for GStreamer are organised in different packages depending on the licensing that applies to the various codecs. You can see which codecs are contained in which plugin on the GStreamer Website.

Other applications, such as Mplayer and Xine, do not use the Gstreamer framework. Due to patent and copyright restrictions, codecs for these programs are not included in Ubuntu by default. For more information on these read the <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.com/community/Restrictedformats|Restricted Formats]]</nowiki> wiki page.

To install extra codecs, press Applications ▸ Add/Remove..., type “codec” in the Search box and select which codecs you want to install. Press Apply to install the selected codecs.

== Example Review Notes ==

Below is an example of some review notes for the above article, of the kind that you would send to the mailing list after performing the review:

Article: Music, video and photos -> What's a codec?

* Title "What's a codec?" => "What is a codec?" - apostrophes may make translation more difficult
* Typo "many diffferent multimedia formats" => "many different multimedia formats"
* "codecs by default, such as ogg/vorbis, ogg/theora anf FLAC" - no need to list these formats, since it adds little to the article. Also, "and" is mis-spelled as "anf"
* "GStreamer open source multimedia framework" - unnecessary to specify "open source"
* "Restricted Formats" link is broken, should point to "https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats"
* "Press Apply to install" => "Press '''Apply Changes''' to install" (button label has changed, and button wasn't marked with <guibutton> tag)
