{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

One desired goal to achive for maybe the HoaryHedgehog release, is a fixed version of the already shipped man pages. Man pages are basically eh *nix's user best friend in being the most accessible, preliminary source of information for running, developing, and hacking the system.

=== Work flow for fixing the man pages ===

Basically, every package includes it's man pages sources within it's source package, if you want to work on a package's man page(s) first make sure you have the right sources.list entry for hoary and  get the source deb:

<pre>
    pooh@tigershark ~ $ apt-get source <pkg_name>
</pre>

This would download the source .deb, unpack it and install the sources under the current directory. You may want to create a <username>/devel directory, and do this under it , just to keep things organized.

Let's use the hello package for example:

<pre>
pooh@tigershark ~/devel $ apt-get source hello
Reading Package Lists... Done
Building Dependency Tree... Done
Need to get 405kB of source archives.
Get:1 http://archive.ubuntu.com hoary/universe hello 2.1.1-4 (dsc) [562B]
Get:2 http://archive.ubuntu.com hoary/universe hello 2.1.1-4 (tar) [389kB]
Get:3 http://archive.ubuntu.com hoary/universe hello 2.1.1-4 (diff) [15.4kB]
Fetched 3B in 0s (7B/s)
dpkg-source: extracting hello in hello-2.1.1
</pre>

Let's get inside the package's source directory and see what's there:

<pre>
pooh@tigershark ~/devel $ cd hello-2.1.1/
pooh@tigershark ~/devel/hello-2.1.1 $ ls
ABOUT-NLS    config.guess  contrib  install-sh   missing        tests
aclocal.m4   config.h.in   COPYING  intl         mkinstalldirs  THANKS
AUTHORS      config.rpath  debian   m4           NEWS           TODO
BUGS         config.sub    depcomp  Makefile.am  po
ChangeLog    configure     doc      Makefile.in  README
ChangeLog.O  configure.ac  INSTALL  man          src
</pre>

The hello package is a sample package to explain certain packaging system aspects and workings, see <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/doc/FAQ/ch-pkg_basics.en.html|this]]</nowiki> to learn more about it, it's quite in interesting read.

So now what's next? On the main tree listing, we can see a '''man''' directory. This directory stores the text files in the roff format , which is the file format for most man pages.

Let's enter that dir and see what we have there:

<pre>
pooh@tigershark ~/devel/hello-2.1.1 $ cd man/
pooh@tigershark ~/devel/hello-2.1.1/man $ ls
ChangeLog  hello.1  help2man  Makefile.am  Makefile.in
</pre>

The interesting file for us is basically the '''hello.1'''. This is the man page in it's source format - the roff format for manpages, I will not get into explaining the roff format for now, one can identify where to do changes according to the already available text.

Note: Not all packages adhere to the /man convention, some might have it under /data, /, /debian under the main tree of the source package. In that case, just browse around the source tree (the midnight commander is a very good util for that purpose) and fine files which look something like that:

<pre>
** .nro
** .{N} N= a number corrosponding to the man section this page is used for.
  ... something like that.
</pre>

I can see the problem here with a no standard way to find where are the man page sources that one would need to work on in order to get them installed. However , this is the best that I could find from googling and recieving the very kind help of seb128, thanks Sebastien!

Please feel free to add / comment / change if you find anything to be an error, a misconception or else.

CategoryDocteam
