{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Do you have what it takes to write awesome documentation? Do you want to learn some useful skills? What are you waiting for? Join the Documentation Team!

The existing members of the Doc Team will be there to help you get started and answer any questions you have. Don't worry if you don't know how to use Doc''''''Book, BZR, IRC or any of the other tools that we use - we'll help you learn.

=== How can I contribute to the documentation? ===

It's easy! Just follow the instructions below to contribute to the system documentation:

# Sign up for the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-doc|ubuntu-doc mailing list]]</nowiki>
# Choose a task from our <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam-SystemDocumentation-Tasks | task list]]</nowiki> and follow the instructions there.

There is also plenty of work to be done on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community|community help wiki]]</nowiki> - check out the <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam-Wiki-Tasks|Wiki Tasks page]]</nowiki>.

A list of tasks is also available on <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-docs/+bugs?field.tag=documentors|Launchpad]]</nowiki>.

=== Resources ===

You may find the following resources helpful:

* <nowiki>[[http://www.docbook.org/tdg/en/html/docbook.html|The DocBook Guide]]</nowiki> - Definitive guide on DocBook
* <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam-Repository|Repository]]</nowiki> - Guide on using our BZR repository
* <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam-Contribute|Contribute]]</nowiki> - Guide on contributing to the system documentation
