{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


This page contains some tips for people who are granted permissions to upload directly to the system documentation branches (by becoming members of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-core-doc|ubuntu-core-doc]]</nowiki> team).

<nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam-SystemDocumentation-Repository-Members-Desktopguide|A desktop guide specific version of this page.]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam/SystemDocumentation/Repository/Members-Serverguide|A serverguide specific version of this page.]]</nowiki>

=== Applying a patch ===

To apply a patch submitted by a contributor:

1. Save the patch file in a suitable location, like <code>ubuntu-doc/patches/</code> for example.
2. Change to the relevant branch on your computer:<pre>
cd ubuntu-doc/ubuntu-hardy </pre>
3. Apply the patch file<pre>
patch -p0 < patches/patch.diff </pre>

That's it! However, depending on how the patch was created, you made need to cd into the directory where the actual file to be patched resides. Simply cd into that directory, (e.g. <code>ubuntu-hardy/ubuntu/internet/C</code>) before applying the patch.

Bzr bundles (Merge Proposals) are even easier to apply using the command<pre>
$ bzr merge address/to/bundle  (i.e. bzr merge lp:~jdoe/serverguide/some_revision)</pre>

=== Publishing changes ===

Members of the ubuntu-core-doc team can publish their changes directly to the branches. This is the procedure:
0. First, update your branch to the current version by running<pre>
bzr pull lp:~ubuntu-core-doc/ubuntu-docs/name_of_branch</pre>
  '''Note''': please do not use <code>bzr merge</code> for updating your branch.
0. Then make your changes and commit them with<pre>
bzr commit -m "Description of changes"</pre>
  '''Note''': it is helpful if the description of the changes uses a short description that can later be used in the changelog for the package. If a bug is fixed, please include the bug number in the description in this format: <code>LP: #bugnumber</code>. You can also associate the branch with the bug in Launchpad by including this in your commit command: <code>--fixes lp:bugnumber</code>
0. Then push your commit to the common branch by running<pre>
bzr push lp:~ubuntu-core-doc/ubuntu-docs/name_of_branch</pre>

We recommend that members use the concept of ''Bound Branches'' so that the <code>bzr commit</code> command sends your changes directly to the appropriate branch on Launchpad. That will avoid the need for step 3 above. You can bind a branch by running<pre>
bzr bind lp:~ubuntu-core-doc/ubuntu-doc/name_of_branch</pre>

For more information about using bound branches, see <nowiki>[[http://bazaar-vcs.org/BzrUsingBoundBranches|the bzr website]]</nowiki>.
