{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Extra tags ===

DocBook has more tags than Moin and it would be helpful if we could represent these datapoints somehow in moin markup. One idea is to use modified smileys like: {*} text {o} which renders as small graphics, but also has a unique XML markup.

=== Metadata ===

Some DocBook tags have associated metadata in the form of attributes like:
<pre>
<sect1 id="about-ubuntu" status="complete">
</pre>

We should investigate how we can embed this metadata in a moin document. One option might look like this

<pre>
== Level 1 Heading ==
{meta} id="about-ubuntu" status="complete" {/meta}
</pre>

Which in moin might render like this:
== Level 1 Heading ==
{*} id="about-ubuntu" status="complete" {o}

--------
Another option might be to simply place a table at the bottom of the pages giving some metadata:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''DocBook tag'''
| '''Value'''
|-
| full_title
| How to do Foo with Bar on a Breezy system
|-
| id
| foo-bar-sound
|-
| release
| breezy
|-
| status
| incomplete
|-
| category
| Hardware
|-
| sub_cateegory
| Sound
|-
| author_list
| Jane Doe
|-
| 
| Arthur Dent
|-
| 
| Jules Verne
|}

--------
=== To extend that idea: ===

First, put the table behind Moin comments because we don't want to clutter the page with stuff the reader shouldn't be reading.

Store the following data: the moin markup, the text that is marked up, and the original DocBook markup. We can use Moin table markup (double bar - ||) as field delimiters, but any delimiter will do.

Lets see how this looks:

<pre>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| styleguide.xml
| filename
|-
| make pdf
| command
|}
</pre>

Whenever the parser finds the string "styleguide.xml" within the<code> {{{ </code>set, it looks up the appropriate docbook element in the table. In this case, it would be <code>filename</code>.

This technique will give the parser the ability to distinguish between a filename like <code>filename.xml</code> and a command like <code>make pdf</code>.

From time to time, the parser will encounter markup that is not contained in the table. For example, someone may change the wiki page by hand, and not make any needed additions to the table. In this case, where the parser can't find the markup in the table or can't make a determination in some other way, it should simply output an <emphasis></emphasis> tagset.

Another option may be storing the xml itself. See HelpOnXmlPages.
--------
