{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



This document is the style guide for the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam|Documentation Team]]</nowiki>. The Ubuntu Documentation Style Guide is built with the participation of the members of the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam|Documentation Team]]</nowiki>, and represents the current accepted practice for documents produced and maintained by the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam|Documentation Team]]</nowiki>. The guide is still missing a couple of items (marked TODO).

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; background:#F1F1ED;margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:2.0em;">
|}

=== Acknowledgments ===

This document is in the Public Domain.

This document is a collaborative effort of the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam|Documentation Team]]</nowiki>. The primary contributors are:

* Jeff Schering
* Jerome Gotangco
* David Ottina

=== Overview of the Style Guide ===

A style guide is a reference used by writers and editors. It is an outline of the policies and standards that writers and editors are expected to follow.

The Ubuntu <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam|Documentation Team]]</nowiki> needs its own style guide because Ubuntu is unique. Ubuntu is Linux + GNU + Debian + (GNOME, KDE, and XFCE) + the Ubuntu philosophy. No style guide covers the entire spectrum of Ubuntu components.

This style guide attempts to achieve the following:

* Help writers communicate clearly.
* Create a consistent style across all documents.
* Create a consistent use of terminology across all documents.
* Highlight common problems in the use of the English language and to provide solutions.
* Help documentation authors write for an international audience, including how to write for translation.
* Help writers and editors select the appropriate DocBook markup.

This style guide contains three main types of information:

# Material that is unique to Ubuntu documentation.
# Material that may be helpful to writers, but is not covered in other guides.
# Material that is covered in other guides, but is either summarized or repeated here for convenience.

=== Style Guide Applicability and Precedence ===

The Ubuntu style guide is applicable to all documents produced by or for the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam|Documentation Team]]</nowiki>. It covers all documents in the Documentation Team's <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam-Repository|repository]]</nowiki>. The <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam|Documentation Team]]</nowiki> also takes care of the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community|documentation wiki]]</nowiki>, to which the style guide also applies.

If you encounter a topic or situation that is not covered by this style guide, refer to the <nowiki>[[http://library.gnome.org/devel/gdp-style-guide/|GNOME Documentation Style Guide]]</nowiki>. If your document deals exclusively with KDE, refer to the <nowiki>[[http://i18n.kde.org/docs/styleguide/index.html|KDE Style Guide]]</nowiki>.

If none of the above guides offer a solution to your problem, you will have to make your own decision. See the section <nowiki>[[ReferenceMaterials|Reference Materials]]</nowiki> for links to other style guides and documentation handbooks.
----
CategoryDocteam
