{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/document-templates-generator
* '''Created''':  by <nowiki>[[joelbryan| Joel Bryan Juliano]]</nowiki>
* '''Contributors''': <nowiki>[[joelbryan| Joel Bryan Juliano]]</nowiki>
* '''Packages affected''': $HOME/Templates, OpenOffice.org, GIMP, Gedit

=== Summary ===

The software aims to provide translated documents under $HOME/Templates, based on localecode and software installed.

=== Rationale ===

GNOME have the functionality to create new documents based on templates. The feature is available via right-click action and "Create Document". However, the functionality is not well used because the Templates directory with the documents inside it, does not exist by default.

=== Use cases ===

* Grandpa just used Ubuntu, and would like to create a document with the same thing he does in Windows. He use <right-click> and select "Create Documents > OpenOffice.org Spreadsheet".

=== Scope ===

The application will query the localecode the user currently use and based on it, a set of predefined translation for that particular localecode will be used for the Template document names.

The document viewer must exists in order for the Template documents to be created.

=== Design ===

The names will be based on the localecode. If the localecode isn't included yet, a fallback value is used.

Also, application will be checked if it exist. If no application for a particular document is installed, the Templates document will not be created.

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

<nowiki>[[attachment:templates-generator-0.1.tar.gz]]</nowiki>

This is the first release, fully functional, just run ./templates-generator and it will create the Templates documents based on your locale and application installed.

==== Data preservation and migration ====

If the Templates directory already exists, the files will not be overwritten.

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
