{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== How to Contact Us ==

We have three main ways that you can contact us.

=== Internet Relay Chat (IRC) ===

The docteam IRC channel is <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.libera.chat-ubuntu-doc|#ubuntu-doc]]</nowiki> on the irc.libera.chat server. Can also be accessed without a dedicated IRC client <nowiki>[[https://kiwiirc.com/nextclient/irc.libera.chat/#ubuntu-doc|here]]</nowiki>. If you need to ask a quick question or rapidly discuss an issue, this is the place to do it.

The channel is logged and updated once per hour to <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/|irclogs.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>.

=== Mailing List ===

The Ubuntu documentation team mailing list is at ubuntu-doc@lists.ubuntu.com. You need to be subscribed to the mailing list to be able to send messages directly to the list. Unfortunately, due to spam, posts from non-members will be rejected automatically.

To subscribe visit <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-doc]]</nowiki>. The list archive is at <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc/]]</nowiki>.

The list can also be read with a browser or newsreader at <nowiki>[[http://news.gmane.org/gmane.linux.ubuntu.doc/|Gmane]]</nowiki>.

== Drivers ==

The drivers help the subteam move along by keeping to do lists to have goals met, communicating with members of that sub-team via mailing-list and IRC channel, and to report to the main team in team meetings.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Team'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Timezone'''
|-
| '''Desktop'''
| 
| 
|-
| '''Server'''
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:petermatulis]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| '''Ubuntu Manual'''
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KevinGodby|godbyk]]</nowiki>
| 
|}

----
CategoryDocteam
