{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== DocumentationTeamMeeting20050312 ==

==== Summary ====

After the meeting, the summary of the meeting will be linked from here.

==== Abstract ====

Now that we're doing reviews and finishing touches, it's time to start
thinking about what to do next.

We are having an IRC meeting to see
where we are and where we want to go.

==== Agenda ====

* Releasing Hoary
* Clarification of recent events (people leaving etc)
* Post Hoary
** Getting the domain ubuntuguide.org
** Wiki improvements
** Renaming of internal icons
** Work on Task-based docs
** Making life easier for translators 
 

==== Place ====

On IRC, channel #ubuntu-meeting on the freenode network (irc.freenode.net).

==== Date and Time ====

The meeting will be <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?day=12&month=3&year=2005&hour=22&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|saturday, 12 march 2005, from 22:00 to 23:00 UTC.]]</nowiki>

For UTC conversions see <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/custom.html?sort=2|this helpful website]]</nowiki>.

==== Past meetings ====

* DocumentationTeamMeeting20041104
----
CategoryDocteam
