{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Tools for Ubuntu Documentation Work Flow ===

To be able to contribute to Ubuntu Documentation some tools will be required. So we will start by installing the following:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install bzr xsltproc libxml2-utils yelp-tools yelp-xsl make
</pre>

The command will install the following software (and possibly many additional dependent packages):
* bzr – distributed version control. Bazaar, a new way of working with packages for Ubuntu that will make it easy for many developers to collaborate and work on the same code while keeping it trivial to merge each other’s work.
* xsltproc - XSLT command line processor. 
* libxml2-utils - XML utilities.
* yelp-tools - Yelp documentation tools.
* yelp-xsl - XSL stylesheets for the yelp help browser.
* make - a utility for Directing compilation.

Xubuntu and the Serverguide use Docbook, and therefore require additional packages:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install docbook docbook-xsl
</pre>

* docbook - standard SGML representation system for technical documents
* docbook-xsl - stylesheets for processing !DocBook XML to various output formats

Additionally only the serverguide project requires another couple of packages:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install fop gnome-doc-utils
</pre>

* fop - XML formatter driven by XSL Formatting Objects
* gnome-doc-utils - collection of documentation utilities for the GNOME project

==== Create your SSH key ====
SSH stands for Secure Shell, and it is a protocol that allows you to exchange data in a secure way over a network. It is common to use SSH to access and open a shell on another computer, and to use it to securely transfer files. For our purposes, we will mainly be using SSH to securely upload source packages to Launchpad.

''' No previous SSH key '''
To generate an SSH key, enter:
<pre>
ssh-keygen -t rsa
</pre>
Accept the default file name <code>id_rsa</code>. For security purposes, it is highly recommended that you use a pass-phrase.

''' SSH key generated previously '''
If you already have an <code>id_rsa</code> SSH key that you use for some other purpose but accessing Launchpad, there are two options:

1. Don't generate another key, but copy the public key from the already existing <code>id_rsa.pub</code> when asked to upload your key to Launchpad.

2. <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/YourAccount/CreatingAnSSHKeyPair#Using_a_custom_SSH_key_for_Launchpad|Generate a custom SSH key for Launchpad]]</nowiki>. 

=== Get set up to work with Launchpad ===
Launchpad is a system used to keep track of many aspects of open-source development. Launchpad's features include code hosting, bug tracking, translation, feature blueprints and a community-based answer tracker. This section will outline how to get setup with Launchpad to allow you to contribute the Ubuntu.

To find out more about Launchpad <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Launchpad | click here]]</nowiki>

==== Get a Launchpad account ====

The following steps will guide you through creating a Launchpad account:
* Visit the <nowiki>[[https://login.launchpad.net/A1LarD1idFAdqiFS/+decide | Login/Register Page]]</nowiki> 

* Enter you email and select "I am a returning user and my password is:"

* Enter your details as requested, agree to the "Terms of Service" and click "Create Account:
        
* Confirm your account by clicking on the link given in a confirmation email set to the email you provided

It is encouraged for you to use your real name here so that your Ubuntu developer colleagues will be able to get to know you better.
You are now ready to contribute to Ubuntu through Launchpad!
==== Upload your SSH key to Launchpad ====
Open https://launchpad.net/~/+editsshkeys in a web browser, also open ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub in a text editor. This is the public part of your SSH key, so it is safe to share it with Launchpad. Copy the contents of the file and paste them into the text box on the web page that says “Add an SSH key”. Now click “Import Public Key”.
For more information on this process, visit the <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/YourAccount/CreatingAnSSHKeyPair|creating an SSH keypair]]</nowiki> page on Launchpad.

=== Configure Bazaar ===
Bazaar is the tool we use to store code changes in a logical way, to exchange proposed changes and merge them, even if development is done concurrently. It is used for the new Ubuntu Distributed Development method of working with Ubuntu packages.
To tell Bazaar who you are, simply run:
<pre>
bzr whoami "Bob Dobbs <subgenius@example.com>"
bzr launchpad-login subgenius
</pre>
whoami will tell Bazaar which name and email address it should use for your commit messages. With launchpad-login you set your Launchpad ID. This way code that you publish in Launchpad will be associated with you.
Note: If you can not remember the ID, go to https://launchpad.net/~ and see where it redirects you. The part after the “~” in the URL is your Launchpad ID.)

=== Bazaar Explorer ===
Even if the rest of this page describes terminal commands for working with Bazaar branches, there are GUI applications available that appeal to some contributors. One such application that you may want to try is <nowiki>[[http://doc.bazaar.canonical.com/explorer/en/|Bazaar Explorer]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
sudo apt-get install bzr-explorer
</pre>

=== Additional information ===

See the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.bazaar.canonical.com/Documentation|Bazaar Documentation website]]</nowiki> for comprehensive documentation. There is also a useful <nowiki>[[http://doc.bazaar.canonical.com/bzr.dev/en/mini-tutorial/index.html|quick-start guide]]</nowiki>.
