{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== System Documentation ==

The main purpose of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam | Documentation Team]]</nowiki> is to maintain the official documentation for Desktop and Server.  Desktop ships with this documentation but the Server does not.  Both are available on <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>.

In order to help you will need to use Doc team tools and processes but you can make meaningful contributions without learning all of them at once.

=== How can I help? ===

Here are some common tasks:

* '''Proof-reading''' - Look for spelling/grammar mistakes and broken links.
* '''Submit a bug''' - <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs | Send in a bug report]]</nowiki> when you find mistakes.
* '''Fix a bug''' - Propose new wording to fix an existing bug.
* '''Create new material''' - Add to an existing topic or write on a new topic.

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam/Contact | Contact us]]</nowiki> for any questions you may have.  We're a friendly bunch.

=== Getting Started ===

We have quickstart guides for each platform:

* '''<nowiki>[[UbuntuDesktopGuide | Ubuntu Desktop Guide]]</nowiki>'''
* '''<nowiki>[[UbuntuServerGuide | Ubuntu Server Guide]]</nowiki>'''

The following subpages provide details on specific tasks:

* '''<nowiki>[[Repository | Repository]]</nowiki>''' - Working with Bazaar branches and repositories.
* '''<nowiki>[[BuildingDocumentation | Building]]</nowiki>''' - Building the documentation from the sources.
* '''<nowiki>[[Editing | Editing]]</nowiki>''' - Editing the source documents.
* '''<nowiki>[[Checking | Checking]]</nowiki>''' - Verifying your work.
* '''<nowiki>[[Submitting | Submitting]]</nowiki>''' - Sending in your contribution.

Finally, read the following pages for even more information:

* '''<nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam-Translation | Translation]]</nowiki>''' - How translations work.
* '''<nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam-TechReview | TechnicalReview]]</nowiki>''' - About technical reviewing and proof-reading.
