{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablebgcolor="#f1f1ed" tablewidth="30%" tablestyle="margin: 0pt 0pt 1em 1em; float: right;"style="padding: 0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

This page offers guidance for documentation committers working with the desktop guide project.  It is a supplement to <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam-SystemDocumentation-Repository-Members|the main Members page]]</nowiki>.

This page is not intended for desktop guide contributors, who should be using the <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam-SystemDocumentation-UbuntuDesktopGuide|desktop guide contributors focus page]]</nowiki> instead.

=== Preparations for new cycle ===

Soon after FinalRelease of an Ubuntu version, it's time to make some preparations for the next cycle.

* Set up translations for the new development version project, and enable synchronization with the translations for the corresponding package version.
* New version number in these files:
** configure.in
** html/Makefile
** html/ubuntu.xsl

=== Releasing the ubuntu-docs package ===

==== Before DocumentationStringFreeze ====

There are some key steps that should be taken before DocumentationStringFreeze.

===== Update certain files =====

* ubuntu-help/C/whats-new.page

* ubuntu-help/C/figures/ubuntu-mascot-creature.jpg (However, often the file is not available until after DocumentationStringFreeze).

* debian/changelog

* ubuntu-help/ubuntu-help.pot
## Run autogen.sh.
## (Re)move the old ubuntu-help.pot.
## Run the command 'make ubuntu-help.pot' from the ubuntu-help folder.

===== Upload to the archive =====

* Build a source package from lp:ubuntu-docs and upload to the main archive.<pre>
~$ mkdir upload-dir
~$ cd upload-dir
~/upload-dir$ bzr branch lp:ubuntu-docs
~/upload-dir$ cd ubuntu-docs
~/upload-dir/ubuntu-docs$ bzr bd -S
~/upload-dir/ubuntu-docs$ cd ..
~/upload-dir$ dput *.changes</pre>If you don't have upload rights for ubuntu-docs, this step has to be carried out by a sponsor, i.e. a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-core-dev|core developer]]</nowiki> or a member of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-desktop|desktop team]]</nowiki>. Due to the coordination with the translators, ubuntu-docs uploads are time critical, so adding a bug to the <nowiki>[[http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sponsoring/|sponsorship queue]]</nowiki> does not apply. Instead pinging someone on IRC is the way to go.

The new ubuntu-help.pot will be reflected in PO files that are exported from Rosetta.<<BR>>
lp:ubuntu/ubuntu-docs is updated automatically.

==== After NonLanguagePackTranslationDeadline ====

NonLanguagePackTranslationDeadline happens one week before FinalFreeze, so at this point we are in a hurry.

* Export the PO files from Rosetta and commit them to lp:ubuntu-docs.<<BR>>Notes:
1. Download __the project's__ tarball, e.g. from https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu-docs/trusty/+export for trusty.
2. Use the update-translations.sh script to extract the files.

* Update the changelog.

* Upload to the archive.

* Generate the HTML pages and upload to <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com|help.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki> (see <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam-SystemDocumentation-BuildingDocumentation|BuildingDocumentation]]</nowiki>).
