{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/dolphinaura/|dolphinaura]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''carlee/dolphinaura''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=717412|carlee]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|}
== About Me ==
I began my interest in computers after taking a computer science course in Grade 7. A that time, I owned a rather lowly laptop that ran really slowly. By the time I reached university, I did not have really a lot of finances to buy a new computer, so I just bought what I could afford. At this time, my PC was still running slowly. After reading a magazine about Linux, and the fact that it was free to download, use, and modify, I tried it out. Since then, I have been using ubuntu

== Contributions ==
I have been using ubuntu since 2008, and have been a fairly active and helpful user in the Ubuntu Forums. I mainly do most of my contributions there, but I also participate in Launchpad Bugs and Brainstorm. I also occasionally report bugs when they are encountered on the forums, and keep tabs on bugs that could potentially affect newcommers to linux.

I have also assisted in the development (and developed) several applications by giving ideas. I also created the Adobe Tools to ease the installation of different versions of the Adobe Flash Player and Adobe AIR for users.

== Future ==
I am planning to continue assisting users on the forums, and am planning to work on packaging some applications that still do not exist in the repository, and putting them into a PPA.

== Testimonials ==
'''Thank you in advance for adding your testimonial!!!'''
