{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== DongCalmada ==

'''Dong Calmada''', complete name: Dong B. Calmada
* Address: Marikina City, Philippines
* Work: Help Desk/Technical Support Staff at University of the Philippines Manila; FOSS consultant
* Ubuntuphile Since January 2005

=== Accomplishments for Ubuntu Linux ===

* Joining this LoCo wiki site
* Using Ubuntu Linux since January 2005
* Installing Ubuntu Linux in one field office computer

=== My Linux Background ===

I only got involved personally with Linux in 1999, using Red Hat 5.2
in my 386 machine. I enjoyed using it for learning a bit of C and the
basics of vim. At the same time though, I had to use Windows since it
was the dominant OS in my work at that time. Until I finally gave up
Windows in 2003 in favor of Linux (Red Hat 9 flavor)--a brave GNU
world, indeed.

The beauty of Linux, of FOSS, is that you can try out as many
flavors/distros as you like. I tried a bit of Slackware, Debian and
Suse. But I used Red Hat, Fedora, and Mandrake for the longer time.

I served as Database Administrator at a non-profit research
outfit that is now using PostgreSQL? as database backend and PHP-based
fronted applications for data entry and retrieval operations. Now, I am
serving as National Coordinator (Chief Operations Officer in corporate
parlance) of a peasant-based NGO. I have "used" my role to influence
the ICTs of my organization, which also makes me the de facto CIO. We
are now in the process of fully migrating to open source. We started
with completely FOSSifying our server (documents, printer, internet
connection, and yes, mp3s). Then one by one, our staff are trying out
Linux. 

At the same time, I am newly-elected Vice-President for
External Affairs of the Philippine Linux Users Group (PLUG), which has
been in FOSS advocacy since 1994. As a person in that role, I am in
charge of leading PLUG's policy advocacy work at the levels of
government, schools, corporate world, civil society organizations, and
local communities.

I have also been involved in a newly organized independent
technical group whose mandate is conducting free FOSS orientation and
training activities designed for the non-profit sector. The specific
module I have taken on is OS migration.

=== Links ===

* http://plug.linux.org.ph
* http://peace.net.ph
* http://foss.peace.net.ph
* http://wiki.asiasource.tacticaltech.org/&nbsp;

----
CategoryHomepage
