{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Here I Am! ==
* nix use is something that has been comfortable for me since back in the days of Xenix (c. 1985/6) and then on the NCR Tower.  I have had a box running Linux at home since 1999, using RH, then Mandrake, then Fedora.

My Ubuntu use is very new, since Dec '06 on a test box.  I converted my "daily driver" from FC5 to Edgy in February.  Besides running Kubuntu, I have my own instance of TWiki.  

Migration from Fedora Core to Ubuntu was a bit tricky with a few things but overall much easier than I anticipated.

My initial impressions: I really like apt-get and the repository scheme.  Documentation is first-rate. I have noticed that the documentation that folks here provide tends to be with a "voice" rather than the more dry technical reading of typical non-Unbuntu docs. The community seems friendly and especially helpful.

== Issue Upgrading Kubuntu Edgy to Kubuntu Feisty beta using upgrader tool ==

Using the upgrader tool fails on fetching file 67 of 69 with this:

{{{ 
Failed to fetch http://packages.freecontrib.org/plf/dists/edgy-plf/Release.gpg Could not connect to packages.freecontrib.org:80 (88.191.33.6), connection timed out
Failed to fetch http://packages.freecontrib.org/plf/dists/edgy-plf/free/i18n/Translation-en_US.bz2 Could not connect to packages.freecontrib.org:80 (88.191.33.6), connection timed out
Failed to fetch http://packages.freecontrib.org/plf/dists/edgy-plf/non-free/i18n/Translation-en_US.bz2 Could not connect to packages.freecontrib.org:80 (88.191.33.6), connection timed out
}}}

netstat reports: <br>
<code> tcp        0      1 192.168.1.124:2888      88.191.33.6:80          SYN_SENT   </code>

Have I missed a step? Is the server overtaxed and out of capacity?

--Don   25 March 2007
