{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I'm an intermediate developer with a few small contributes to my name. I write mostly in java, though I can also use c# but am not that familliar with gtk# though this is a future goal. My goal in using ubuntu is to completely wean myself from any proprietary software. As I'm currently using a mac for my desktop this will probably be more difficult than a windows switch.

I guess I'd like to generate a list of things that either stop me from switching, or projects that I find interesting. This is not meant as a todo list for developers or anything as arroagant as that but more of a list of blockers and things I'd like to see for my own personal benefit or for the purpose of indicating stuff I'd like to work on.

 '''Switch blockers'''
 
* Griffin RadioShark Drivers
* A more Usable Gimp
* Liferea general stability and usability improvements
* dvdauthor progress (Development has stalled)
* httpmail backend for evolution

 '''Projects That I'd like to see or see better integrated'''
 '''These products should be tightly integrated similar to the create projects initiative'''
 
 '''LinLife'''
* QDVDAuthor <nowiki>[[http://qdvdauthor.sourceforge.net/]]</nowiki>
* DVDStyler <nowiki>[[http://dvdstyler.sourceforge.net/]]</nowiki>
* Polidori <nowiki>[[http://polidori.sourceforge.net/]]</nowiki>
* Kino <nowiki>[[http://www.kinodv.org/]]</nowiki>
* Diva <nowiki>[[http://diva.mdk.org.pl/]]</nowiki>
* BEAST <nowiki>[[http://beast.gtk.org/]]</nowiki>

 '''Pro Suite'''
* Rosegarden <nowiki>[[http://www.rosegardenmusic.com/]]</nowiki>
* Cinelerra <nowiki>[[http://heroinewarrior.com/cinelerra.php3]]</nowiki>
* Blender <nowiki>[[http://www.blender.org/cms/Home.2.0.html]]</nowiki>
* K-3d <nowiki>[[http://k3d.sourceforge.net/]]</nowiki>
* JahShaka <nowiki>[[http://www.jahshaka.org/]]</nowiki>

 '''Other software I'd like to see'''
* Some sort of home design software similar to commercial windows offerings
* Roadster
* Archive.org/gutenberg browser --I'm very interested in working on this if anyone needs help I'd be glad to pitch in
