{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 1.1em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;">'''Name'''
| Dooitze de Jong
|-
| '''Living in:'''
| <nowiki>[[Kollumerzwaag in the Netherlands]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Launchpad account'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~dooitze-de-jong|dooitze-de-jong]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''email address'''
| 
|-
| '''OpenPGP key'''
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0x2BDC35F57173BCCE|7173BCCE]]</nowiki>
|}
=== About Me ===
Hello,
My name is my nickname, Dooitze de Jong, I use Ubuntu since December 2008. The first version on my computer without VirtualBox was Ubuntu 9.04. 

=== My contributions ===
I joined the community at 2009-04-02, because a had trouble with Ubuntu 9.04 in VirtualBox. Immediately I begun to help people to solve their problems. I have always liked to help people with Ubuntu. In June I found an Ubuntu Loco team in the province Friesland in The Netherlands, so we can people help if those speak Western Frisian.

At this moment Sense Hofstede and I are working to approve [[the Ubuntu-Fry team|https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-fry] as an Official Loco Team. I am translating Ubuntu in Frisian and now in Dutch too. I always reported bug if they were not reported.

=== List of Activities ===
* Helper on the Ubuntu ReleaseParty in Ede(Netherlands) on 29th of May 2010
* Founder of the Ubuntu Fry LoCo team
* Webmaster of <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-fy.org|Ubuntu Fryslân LoCo team website]]</nowiki>
* Translating Ubuntu in Frisian since January 2010
* Translating Ubuntu and the Release Notes in Dutch since June 2010
* Ubuntu NL loco team member
* Help people in my region by solve their problems and in the community

=== Future Plans ===

My future plan is too learn C programming languages and the PHP languages, so I can get more knowledge about programming languages and after I gonna try to develop Application's and I hope Ubuntu. To make Ubuntu better in the code.

=== My Computer History ===
My first computer was a computer with Windows 98, my second computer, (you don't believe it) was a 486 Computer with Windows 95. After those two computers I begun to look into computers with for the computer mostly a dead end. My first "good" PC was an AMD Sempron 192MB of memory with Windows XP. This one broke too after 1 year! My next computer was an Compaq Computer, I am still using that computer. 

=== My first Linux distributions ===
My first Linux distribution was OpenSUSE on that P3 computer, because my parrents didn't allow that install linux on my maincomputer because my wireless device was not compatible with linux, it doesn't run very well on my P3 so I put Debian on it. I could live with that but the troubles came when I put a wireless adapter in the computer, Debian didn't recognize my adapter. Later I heard from my uncle about Ubuntu, I was really amazed about Ubuntu. The first version I request with ship it was 8.10. It didn't recognize my adapter although not. I started to test 9.04 on my maincomputer and it did recognize my Wireless Adapter, so I ask my parrents if I could put Ubuntu 9.04 on my computer. The awnser was yes. From then I test every release on my computer and look for bugs.

That was my story

 
