{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About Me ==
I am Douglas Flores Nicaragua official member of the Ubuntu Nicaragua Local Team. I'm Electronic Engineer, my current job is university teacher(Universidad Nacional Antonoma de Nicaragua- UNAN), my professional profile is web design, administration of Linux servers and fascinates me the IP telephony.

I joined the group in December 2007 and since my incorporation has been a pleasure to share experiences in the group. We are a group that supports society and encourage the use of free software in our country.

== Contributions ==
* Part of the Ubuntu Nicaragua Team Community Council
* Assistance in the organization of events FLOSS, for ex FLISOL2008 <nowiki>[[http://flisol.info/FLISOL2008/Nicaragua/Managua]]</nowiki>, Linux Tour <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtour.org/]]</nowiki>
* Giving conferences about Telephony IP in II Congress University of the National Council of Universities (CNU) in December 2007
* Courses taught on ubuntu in the city of Esteli(May 2008).
* Eventually suport in #ubuntu-ni IRC channel and mailing list.

== Contact Information ==
* Email douglasfloresnic at gmail dot com 
* Blog http://douglasfloresnic.blogspot.com
* Launchpad https://launchpad.net/~douglasfloresnic
* IRC douglas at freenode.net 
* douglasfloresnic at GoogleTalk
* Photos http://picasaweb.google.com/douglasfloresnic
