{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''Servers may be currently down or very slow due to the big load created by Intrepid Ibex (Ubuntu 8.10) downloads.'''

You should download using Bit``Torrent, to both get better download speed and lightening the load on the servers.

=== Checksum ===

No matter what method you use to download, you should <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.com/community/VerifyIsoHowto|check the integrity]]</nowiki> of the CD image you get (Windows users can read <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxquestions.org/linux/answers/LQ_ISO/Checking_the_md5sum_in_Windows|these instructions]]</nowiki>).

An official list of Ubuntu checksums can be found <nowiki>[[http://releases.ubuntu.com/8.10/MD5SUMS|here]]</nowiki> and a backup list is available <nowiki>[[http://goukihq.org/md5/|here]]</nowiki>.

=== BitTorrent ===

Bit``Torrent links for the most downloaded variants of Ubuntu can be found at:
* http://bobbo.me.uk/mirror/ubuntu/
* http://hobbsee.com/tmp/torrents/
* http://elkbuntu.net/torrents/
* http://popey.com/~alan/torrents/

Torrents for other variants are at http://nl.releases.ubuntu.com/8.10/

If you're already on Ubuntu, you have a <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BitTorrent|BitTorrent client]]</nowiki> installed, so just download the ''.torrent'' files and click on them.

See <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_BitTorrent_Clients|this]]</nowiki> for a list of clients also for other operating systems.

=== MetaLink ===

At http://hr.releases.ubuntu.com/8.10/ you will find files that end with a ''.metalink'' extension.

These will let you download Ubuntu from several mirrors concurrently, and are recommended if you cannot use torrents.

Download the ''.metalink'' file you need, then use <nowiki>[[InstallingSoftware|any method]]</nowiki> to install the "aria2" package.
Then type:
<pre>
aria2c <filename>
</pre>
in a terminal to download Ubuntu.

You can find more information on Metalink, and clients for other operating systems, at the <nowiki>[[http://www.metalinker.org/samples/ubuntu/|Metalinker site]]</nowiki>.

=== HTTP ===

Avoid using HTTP downloads if you use the above methods.

There is a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Mirrors|list of mirrors to download Ubuntu from using HTTP]]</nowiki> - for instance, you could use http://fr.releases.ubuntu.com/8.10/

=== DVD ===

The DVD images are available as torrents, but they can be downloaded via HTTP if absolutely necessary from several mirrors, for example http://ftp.acc.umu.se/mirror/cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/8.10/release/
