{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:dpkg-triggers
* '''Packages affected''': dpkg, many

=== Summary ===

A dpkg trigger is a facility that allows events caused by one package
but of interest to another package to be recorded and aggregated, and
processed later by the interested package.  This feature simplifies
various registration and system-update tasks and reduces duplication
of processing.

=== Detailed design with worked deployment examples ===

The dpkg triggers feature was extensively discussed on debian-dpkg, and the final version of the specification can be found here:
 http://lists.debian.org/debian-dpkg/2007/04/msg00076.html

==== UI Changes ====

The implementation and use of triggers is not intended to affect the user interface.  There are some new error states involved but these will typically occur in the same kind of situations as existing package failures (eg, maintainer script failures).

=== Release Note ===

 A feature ("triggers") was implemented in dpkg to allow packages to cut down on duplicated processing during installations and upgrades, and some packages updated to use the new facility.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

Check that initramfs generation happens exactly once during the execution of

sudo dpkg -i udev.deb initramfs-tools.deb

== Documentation ==
* http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/karmic/en/man5/deb-triggers.5.html
* http://www.seanius.net/blog/2009/09/dpkg-triggers-howto/

----
CategorySpec
