{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

Well my name is Dan Chapman, I live in the UK with my partner and two children. I have been using Ubuntu since 10.04 and haven't looked back. I am currently studying with the Open University, and when not playing Dad/Student spend the rest of my time working on Dekko email client and helping in the Ubuntu QA community with package testing and automated tests for the ubuntu-autopilot-tests project. 

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| DanChapman
|-
| GTalk
| danchapman1819@gmail.com
|-
| G+
| https://plus.google.com/114760723716576457396
|-
| Email
| dpniel@ubuntu.com
|-
| Website
| http://blog.dpniel.com
|-
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dpniel ]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Contributions ===

* Extensive work on the Dekko email client for Ubuntu devices.

* Ubuntu Autopilot tests project. I contributed autopilot testcases for many of the ubuntu default applications, and have become one of the top contributers to the project. https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-autopilot-tests.

* I have also got involved in writing autopilot tests for Ubiquity, and created the initial proof of concept tests that got merged into lp:ubiquity and were being run on jenkins https://jenkins.qa.ubuntu.com/view/Saucy/view/AutoPkgTest/job/autopilot_ubiquity-saucy/. These tests are an expanding work in progress and can be seen in by branch here, https://code.launchpad.net/~dpniel/ubiquity/autopilot

 The tests are now running here https://jenkins.qa.ubuntu.com/job/autopilot_ubiquity-devel/

* I am an active member in the ubuntu-app-devel, ubuntu-touch & ubuntu-quality irc channels and help out others when I can

* I have been contributing to porting testdrive to Gtk3 and give it a much needed update see https://code.launchpad.net/~dpniel/testdrive/porting. I havn't been able to give as much time as I would like so far, but plan to get more done during the T cycle.

* I attended vUDS 13.08 and got involved with the community QA discussions and have taken on work items
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-1308-quality-flavors
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-1308-quality-testreview

* I have developed some autopilot emulators to make writing tests for Gtk applications easier, I currently have a merge proposal pending which can be seen here https://code.launchpad.net/~dpniel/autopilot/autopilot_gtk/+merge/192916

=== Testimonials ===

I have no hesitation whatsoever in strongly supporting his application for Ubuntu membership, it will be a sad day when people who work so tirelessly as Dan does, towards our shared goals, is not seen as a suitable candidate for membership.

I consider Dan a wonderful example of the power of a community contributor. He's gone from student to master, a self starter and not afraid of tackling problems. He's been helpful to new contributors and is a regular on IRC. A stand-up guy and heartily recommended for membership.

=== Future Goals ===

With career aspirations of becoming a SOftware Engineer in the FOSS ecosystem, I want to help make Ubuntu become a world leader in quality open source projects. In return this will give me valuable experience towards reaching my career goal. The Ubuntu family is an amazing group of people and a real honor to have the opportunity to work and learn alongside everyone who is involved.
