{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* I've been using ubuntu since Hoary, Linux since ~1996 (kernel 2.0 had just been released) and have been involved in #ubuntu helping users since then. 

* Launchpad http://launchpad.net/~dzportwood

* Wiki page(s) <nowiki>[[networkapt]]</nowiki>

* Small blog mainly just some rants and general Linux info http://macd.shacknet.nu/~david/rollup

* You can find me in #ubuntu and #ubuntu+1 on Freenode answering questions (Registered: 2 years 6 weeks 3 days (12h 45m 5s) ago)

* I often find myself recommending Ubuntu to new Linux users, and I have a very active #linux channel on irc.afternet.org with many pro-ponets towards Ubuntu, so I support users there also.

* I just started using PPA on launchpad, so that should be fun to give people access to some of the packages I've been rolling.
 -mainly a complete RubyOnRails stack including the configurations necc. for apache2.2/mysql or pgsql (still working on debconf                   there)/mongrel/ruby/gems I should probably write and maintain a spec. for this as well.
      
      -also should handle all configurations of mod_proxy_balancer if the user choose to run more than 1 mongrel isntance

      -this should also keep and maintain a apt gem repository there are about a hundred or so gems though, so this is no miniscule task, and would also mean a small re-tool of rubygems

 -packaging subclipse (SVN plugin for eclipse) LP bug#104990 it keeps getting assigned and unassigned so I figured I'd just do it.
