{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== About me ==
My name is Dimitrios Kiousis, a.k.a. dqdev (dev stands for development). 

My first (serious) linux experience dates back to 2005, when I installed Ubuntu Hoary Hedgehog (Version 5.04). 
Since then, I have been using various linux distributions both professionally and personally.  

For more information about me you can refer to my <nowiki>[[http://www.dqdev.net|personal website]]</nowiki>. 
To contact me, mail me at: <<BR>>
[dk AT dqdev DOT net]

== Server-administration Tutorial ==

The following notes provide a documentation on how to install/configure/administer an Ubuntu-based server (Apache, PHP, MySQL).

<pre>
01. Download and install the latest Ubuntu server edition.
----------------------------------------------------------

02. For amateurs a GUI (I prefer GNOME) is a can't-live-without tool. This is how to install it:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
sudo aptitude install x-window-system-core gnome

03. In order to get php and cgi to work with the Apache server, the following have to additionally be installed:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
sudo apt-get install libapache2-mod-php4 php4-cli php4-common php4-cgi

04. The next step is to configure the host directory. The file to edit is:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
sudo vi /etc/apache2/sites-available/default 
and then change the lines:
DocumentRoot /var/www/
<Directory /var/www/>

After any changes here, the Apache-server MUST be restarted:
sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart

05. Confirm that everything works, by storing the following file:
---------------------------------------------------------
<html>
<body>
Hello world! 
<?php
phpinfo();
?>
</body>
</html>

as test.php into the WWW-directory. Then open the address http://<IP-address>/test.php with an internet browser.

06. To start or stop the MySQL server:
--------------------------------------
sudo /etc/init.d/mysql start
sudo /etc/init.d/mysql stop

07. Install MYSQL for the Apache server:
----------------------------------------
sudo apt-get install libapache2-mod-auth-mysql
sudo apt-get install php5-mysql
sudo apt-get install phpmyadmin

08. In order to get PHP to work with MySQL:
-------------------------------------------
gksudo gedit /etc/php<version>/apache2/php.ini
Uncomment the ";extension=mysql.so"
sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart

09. How to connect to the database as root:
-------------------------------------------
mysql -u root -p

10. Hot to create new users/groups from the command line:
---------------------------------------------------------
As root (sudo -s -H),
mkdir NEWgroup
groupadd NEWgroup
chgrp NEWgroup /home/NEWgroup/
useradd -c NEWuser -d /home/NEWgroup/NEWdir/ -g NEWgroup -G users -m NEWuser
passwd NEWuser
</pre>

<nowiki>[[http://www.pantz.org/database/mysql/mysqlcommands.shtml|A list of important MySQL commands]]</nowiki>

== Bug-fixing Tutorials ==

The following notes are two tutorials about Ubuntu bug-fixes. They are quite analytical (but unfortunately very specific to the problems in hand). 

They exhibit solution steps, providing thus directions to amateurs for future, possibly similar bugs.

List of Tutorials:

<nowiki>[[#tutorial_01|Tutorial 01: Bug #80474: ketm doesn't have a desktop-file]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
<nowiki>[[#tutorial_02|Tutorial 02: Bug #53036: Graveman isn't placed in the same menu as other burning applications]]</nowiki>

=== Tutorial #1 ===

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ketm/+bug/80474|Bug #80474: ketm doesn't have a desktop-file]]</nowiki>

Short description: The game <KETM> does not add an item in the gnome menu bar after its installation. This operation is performed by a ketm.desktop file, which is apparently missing. The icon.xpm for the menu bar has to be added as well. 

<pre>
01. Get the source code of KETM:
apt-get source ketm

02. Create and store the ketm.desktop and the icon.xpm:
vim ketm-0.0.6/debian/ketm.desktop
Examples of .desktop files can be found under /usr/share/applications/
gimp ketm-0.0.6/debian/icon.xpm

03. Edit the debian/rules (to include the .desktop file)
Under the INSTALL section, add the lines:
cp ketm.desktop $(CURDIR)/debian/ketm/usr/share/applications/
cp debian/icon.xpm $(CURDIR)/debian/ketm/usr/share/games/ketm/icon.xpm

04. Edit the debian/ketm.dirs files  (to add the paths):
At the end of the file add:
usr/share/applications
usr/share/games
usr/share/games/ketm

05. Edit the debian/changelog and the debian/control (if Maintainer changed) files:
dch -i (-i to add increment to the version)
Comment your changes, give email and distribution. For example:
ketm (0.0.6-19ubuntu1) gutsy; urgency=low
* Add item in menu bar
* Add .desktop and icon.xpm file
* Edit rules and ketm.dirs files
-- Dimitrios E. Kiousis <dk AT dqdev DOT net>

06. Build the source package:
dpkg-source -b ketm-0.0.6
---> source package is built 'ketm_0.0.6-19ubuntu1.dsc'

07. Create a debdiff file with the differencies of the 2 versions:
debdiff <path_to_old>/ketm_0.0.6-19.dsc <path_to_new>/ketm_0.0.6-19ubuntu1.dsc > ~/Desktop/debdiff
</pre>

'''''Before you upload the fix (debdiff) to launchpad, check if it works. This is how:'''''

<pre>
a. Follow the instructions found in [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/HowToFix Bugs/HowToFix wiki] (to build and re-install the package for checking!):
cd ketm-0.0.6
sudo apt-get build-dep ketm (watch out for dependencies)
debuild -us -uc
---> debian package is built: '../ketm_0.0.6-19ubuntu1_amd64.deb'

b. Install the package and see if the bug is fixed
sudo dpkg -i ketm_0.0.6-19ubuntu1_amd64.deb
</pre>

YOU 'RE DONE! 

=== Tutorial #2 ===

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/graveman/+bug/53036|Bug #53036: graveman isn't placed in the same menu as other burning applications]]</nowiki>

Short description: The burning software <GRAVEMAN> adds an item in the gnome menu bar under Accessories. Even though this is acceptable, for reasons of consistency (to other burners, e.g., K3B) the link should be placed under Sound & Video. This requires the modification of the .desktop file. 

The actions that have to be taken are similar to the ones in <nowiki>[[#tutorial_01|Tutorial 01]]</nowiki>, and therefore not mentioned in detail.

The most important is the modification of the .desktopfile, hence:

<pre>
vim graveman-0.3.12-5/desktop/graveman.desktop
Change line: 
Categories=Application;Utility; ---> Categories=Application;AudioVideo;
</pre>

Then do not forget to modify the changelog and control files, to build the source and to install-control the new package (all described in <nowiki>[[#tutorial_01|Tutorial 01]]</nowiki>)

YOU 'RE DONE! 
