{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== DRAFT Release Announcement: Ubuntu 5.04 "The Hoary Hedgehog Release" ==

This is the '''draft''' of the announcement that will be sent when Hoary Hedgehog is released. Please feel free to edit it until one week before release, after that, please send suggestions for changes to the release team rather than editing the document.

=== Coordination ===

* The Hoary announcement will be sent by Matt Zimmerman to ubuntu-announce, lwn, distrowatch, slashdot, and other global media
* Benjamin Mako Hill will send the announcement to community forums
* Jeff Waugh will send the announcement to GNOME-related forums
* We will if possible do a simultaneous Kubuntu announcement, from Jonathan Riddell and Chris Halls in ubuntu-announce, lwn, distrowatch, slashdot and KDE-related forums

==== DRAFT Announcing: Ubuntu 5.04 "The Hoary Hedgehog Release" ====
<pre>
The Array (*) is pleased to announce the second release of Ubuntu!

If you've heard all about Ubuntu and just want to get the Install CD
or test the Live CD, you can download it here immediately:

  http://www.ubuntulinux.org/download/

If you want a shrinkwrapped CD we will gladly ship it to you at no
cost.  To receive a complimentary copy of the Hoary Hedgehog CD -- or
a handful to give to your friends, your school or LUG, place your
request at:

  http://shipit.ubuntulinux.org/

Ubuntu is a Linux distribution for the desktop or the server that
includes all of Debian as well as most of the packages of apt-get.org,
with a fast and easy install, regular releases (every six months), a
tight selection of excellent packages installed by default and a
commitment to security updates with 18 months of security and
technical support for every release.

Although Ubuntu includes more packages than any other Linux
distribution, only a single CD is required for installation.
Everything else can be selected and installed on demand from the
network. Only the core "main" set of packages receives a guaranteed
level of security review and updates.

Ubuntu gives you a distribution that is:

** absolutely committed to free software, every application on the CD
    is free software

** 100% free of charge, and the Ubuntu team is committed to keeping
    it that way

** complete with security updates for the distribution at no charge
    for at least 18 months after every release

** easily upgradable to the latest desktop and kernel and
    infrastructure every six months

** able to run on machines with x86, AMD64 and PowerPC processors,
    with additional ports to IA64, SPARC and HPPA under way in the
    community

Hoary Hedgehog (5.04) Features

* Simple and fast Installation

   Ubuntu comes on one single CD, with thousands of extra packages
   available online. The install is optimised for speed and
   simplicity. Ubuntu has excellent support for laptops (both x86
   based and Powerbook / iBook PPC based), and can also be setup in a
   minimalist server configuration. It's a text based installer for
   maximum compatibility and speed, we think it's the fastest Linux
   install around.

* Live CD's for Intel x86, AMD64 and PPC

   Ubuntu is the first distribution to offer Live CDs for all three
   architectures simultaneously. The new Live CD is easy to modify and
   update for custom Live CDs with your personal selection of
   packages.
				   
* GNOME 2.10.1

   Ubuntu always includes the very latest stable GNOME and KDE. In
   Hoary we have GNOME 2.10.1, which features better performance and
   significant theme polish. You might also be interested in Kubuntu
   (**), the new community driven KDE-based Ubuntu, that is being
   released today.

* Firefox 1.0.2

   Ubuntu provides the Wall Street Journal's favourite open source
   browser, tightly integrated into the GNOME desktop environment.

* First class productivity software

   Evolution 2.2.1.1 and OpenOffice.org 1.1.3 are just two.

* X.org 6.8.2

   X autodetection and laptop screen detection have had considerable
   updates based on community participation. The binary drivers from
   ATI and Nvidia are available and can be installed easily, though
   the system will use open source drivers by default.

Hoary can be installed in a minimalist mode designed for servers, or
in full desktop mode. It works well on laptops and desktops. Ubuntu
aims for security by design - there are no network services open to
the net after a default installation, and we have greatly reduced the
number of tools that run with system privileges to enhance security
further.

For more information, you can turn to any of the following resources:

  Ubuntu Website: http://www.ubuntulinux.org

    The website contains some basic background on Ubuntu, an overview
    of the project, information on how to get it, and some
    documentation for the software.

  Ubuntu Wiki: http://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/

    The wiki is a shared web space used by the Ubuntu community to
    develop new ideas for Ubuntu. Anybody is welcome to edit and add
    to the wiki.

  Ubuntu Mailing Lists: 

    Ubuntu mailing lists are the heart of our community. In addition
    to the announcement list, and lists for users and developers of
    Ubuntu, there are now Ubuntu mailing lists for the Dutch, German,
    French, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Polish, Russian and Israeli
    communities as well as lists devoted to Ubuntu security, news,
    translation, and the inevitable lighthearted chitchat. To get more
    information or to subscribe, visit:

      http://lists.ubuntu.com

  Ubuntu Forums

    The forums provide a web interface to the Ubuntu mailing lists
    that many people find easier in addition to the providing a large
    number of unique web-only forums. The Ubuntu Forums won an Ars
    Technica award for the best free software community in 2004.

      http://www.ubuntuforums.org/

  Ubuntu IRC Channel: #ubuntu and on irc.freenode.net

    The Ubuntu IRC channel is your best place to start for help and
    discussion about Ubuntu and the Warty Warthog release. We aim to
    keep the signal-to-noise ratio as high as possible on that
    channel, and on all community forums.

Thanks to the team of professional and volunteer maintainers who have
worked so hard to bring The Hoary Hedgehog Release to fruition, and to
members of the Ubuntu community, who have provided bug reports, 
documentation and translations.

"Ubuntu" is an ancient African word for "humanity towards others", and
we think it's a perfect name for an open source community project. In
that spirit we invite you to join, to contribute and to share Ubuntu
with your own community. Our next release, the Breezy Badger, is due
in six months time. You can help to shape it by joining the team
and contributing your own expertise. See you at #ubuntu on
irc.freenode.net!

 (*) Array (n) A collection of Hedgehogs. Continuing in the fine tradition 
         of collective nouns established with the 4.10 Warty Warthog 
         release,  we have called the community testing team for Hoary 
         Hedgehog "The Array".

 (**) Kubuntu is being released simultaneously with Ubuntu for the Hoary
         release. It includes the complete KDE 3.4 desktop and login 
         manager, as well as the whole of Ubuntu and all the k-bling you 
         would expect from the KDE Community. See the Kubuntu home page
         at http://www.kubuntu.org/ for details.
</pre>

CategoryArchive
