{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Notes ===

We should keep this short and to the point and geared toward people that already know what Ubuntu is (although the audience will bigger). Also, no fluffy PR, this is for elmo and friends.

* Test the Links before it's sent!
* link to mirrors, not just to ubuntu.com

=== Draft ===

<pre>
                                                                
The Ubuntu team is proud to announce Ubuntu 5.10 Server, the first
release of Ubuntu designed especially for server environments.
Like the standard desktop Ubuntu, it occupies a single CD.  However, 
it is distinguished by the following features:

* Includes server-oriented kernels with out-of-the-box
   automatic support for multiprocessor systems
* Includes a wide variety of popular server applications
   such as apache, mysql, postgresql, php, zope, openldap,
   bind, samba, all on the single CD, ready for installation
* A slim default installation, occupying just 400 megabytes:
   add only the software you need, for a clean, maintainable
   configuration.
* Provides no desktop environment (GNOME, KDE, etc.) by default
* Safe and text-oriented boot mode for better clarity and
   infinite justice on boot.
* Secure by design, with no network ports active after install
   and automatic, free security updates activated

As always, it's supported with regular releases, a commitment to
security updates for 18 months after each release and professional
technical support from many companies around the world.

For more information about the new features shared with Ubuntu 5.10,
see the Ubuntu 5.10 announcement at

http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2005-October/000038.html

To Get Ubuntu 5.10 Server
-------------------------

Download Ubuntu 5.10 here (choose the mirror closest to you):

  Europe:
    http://se.releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-server/5.10/

  United Kingdom:
    http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/ubuntu-server/5.10/

  Rest of the World:
    http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/ubuntu-server/5.10/

Please download using Bittorrent if possible.

Feedback and Helping
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of 
ways you can participate at

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help ensure
that our next release is the best release of Ubuntu ever.  Please 
report bugs through Launchpad:

  http://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bugs

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but 
aren't sure, first try asking on the #ubuntu IRC channel on Freenode, 
on the Ubuntu Users mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Ubuntu on our website, IRC channel and wiki.
If you're new to Ubuntu, please visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's 
very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

</pre>

CategoryArchive
