{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Notes ===

Like the Preview, we should keep this short and to the point and
geared toward people that already know what Ubuntu is (although the
audience will bigger). We shoudl also emphasize testing and Kubuntu.

* Test the Links before it's sent!

* Will mirrors have the RC? If so, use download URL instead of r.u.c so people use mirrors?

<pre>
The Ubuntu Team is proud to announce the release candidate of their
second release:

  Ubuntu 5.04 RC - codenamed "Hoary Hedgehog" (*)

This release candidate is a polished version of what you will see in
Hoary when it makes its full release next week. It's very important
that as many people test this release and report any bugs or problems
right away!  The release candidate includes both Install and
Live CDs for Intel/x86, PowerPC and AMD64, which can be found
here:

  http://releases.ubuntu.com/hoary/

There are tons of new additions in Ubuntu 5.04. A long partial list is
available in the announcement for the preview version of Hoary sent a
few weeks ago, you can read it here:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2005-March/000019.html

The final version of Ubuntu 5.04 is expected to be released within
about one week. Because this is so soon, it's absolutely important
that problems are reported (finish sentence with location)

  >>>>???<<<< whatever you think is most appropriate matt

Perhaps the exciting new information is the simultaneous release of
the Kubuntu release candidates. Kubuntu is a community driven flavour
of Ubuntu designed to work with KDE rather than GNOME. You can find
more information and link to information on those CDs at the Kubuntu
homepage here:

  http://www.kubuntu.org

At release time, we will be mailing shrinkwrapped CDs free of charge
to anyone who signs up for one. To receive a complimentary copy of the
Hoary Hedgehog CD -- or a handful to give to your friends, your school
or LUG, place your request at the URL below. If you requested CDs
before, you'll need to log in and update your order:

  http://shipit.ubuntu.com/

You can find out more about Ubuntu and about this release candidate on
our website, IRC channel and wiki. If you're new to Ubuntu, please
visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

The community behind Ubuntu has continued to grow since our last
release. There are many ways to track Ubuntu development and to
participate in mailing lists, forums, and in focused teams. Teams
include new Local Community Teams that help coordinate Ubuntu advocacy
and support for users in communities around the world. Visit our
community page for more information:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to
Ubuntu's very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

 (*) Hoary, adj., So old as to inspire veneration; ancient. In case you
     were wondering.

</pre>

CategoryArchive
