{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Notes ===

We should keep this short and to the point and geared toward people that already know what Ubuntu is (although the audience will bigger).

* I think it might be nice to put in a link to the ''draft'' release notes at http://people.ubuntulinux.org/~mako/docteam/release-notes/release-notes.html

* MarkShuttleworth -- I think this preview announcement should be aimed at the technical audience and include a much longer list of technical enhancements since Hoary. Go into the bling and the plumbing.

* Test the Links before it's sent!

* also there is the DraftHoaryRCAnnouncement

=== Draft ===

<pre>

The Ubuntu Team is proud to announce the preview of their second 
release: Ubuntu 5.04 Preview - codenamed "Hoary Hedgehog" (*). The
preview release includes both install CDs and bootable Live CDs for
three architectures.

There are CD images of the preview release in both Install
and Live CD format for Intel/x86, PowerPC and AMD64 here:

  http://releases.ubuntu.com/hoary/

Ubuntu is a Linux distribution for the desktop or the server that
includes all of Debian as well as most of the packages of apt-get.org,
and more, with a fast and easy install, regular releases (every six 
months), a tight selection of excellent packages installed by default,
a commitment to security updates for 18 months after release and
professional technical support from many companies for every release.

To see it all, you'll need to try the CD, but the highlights
include:

* GNOME 2.10 -- Very fresh... Released yesterday!!
* X.org 6.8.2
* Kickstart compatibility for automatic installations
* Several new desktop package-management tools to make it even 
   easier to stay up to date
* An ultra-fast boot process, with optimized init process and
   special optimizations for the hotplug system
* Improved hardware support on a range of platforms -- laptops in
   particular gain improved suspend/hibernation support and processor 
   frequency scaling
* Unified and improved hardware detection between the install and
   live CDs, which gives us live CDs on powerpc and amd64 too
* A range of improvements related to internationalization,
   translations, and different keyboard layouts, including a
   new smart keyboard selector that guesses your keyboard based
   on keypresses
* A load of new Ubuntu-specific documentation, thanks to the
   hard work of our community documentation team
* Instant messaging, desktop publishing, office productivity,
   with vorbis playback and Python 2.4 ready out of the box
* Enhancements to the hardware abstraction layer to provide you with
   BIOS, CPU, memory and LSB data (infrastructure for the upcoming
   hardware database)
* Enhanced proactive security due to privilege minimization of many 
   processes which previously ran as root. This work reduces the impact
   of many potential security vulnerabilities.
* The very best of the 100% FREE / LIBRE application software world.
* Much, much more!

You can find out more about Ubuntu and about this preview release on 
our website, IRC channel and wiki. If you're new to Ubuntu, please
visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

The final version of Ubuntu 5.04 is expected to be released in early
April. At that time, we will be mailing shrinkwrapped CDs free of charge
to anyone who signs up for one. To receive a complimentary copy of the
Hoary Hedgehog CD -- or a handful to give to your friends, your school
or LUG, place your request at the URL below. If you requested CDs
before, you'll need to log in and update your order:

  http://shipit.ubuntu.com/

The community behind Ubuntu has continued to grow since our last
release. There are many ways to track Ubuntu development and to
participate in mailing lists, forums, and in focused teams. Teams
include new Local Community Teams that help coordinate Ubuntu advocacy
and support for users in communities around the world. Visit our
community page for more information:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's 
very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

This list is archived at http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/
and receives on average less than 5 messages per month.

 (*) Hoary, adj., So old as to inspire veneration; ancient. In case you
     were wondering.

</pre>

CategoryArchive
