{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Notes ===

We should keep this short and to the point and geared toward people that already know what Ubuntu is (although the audience will bigger).

* I think it might be nice to put in a link to the ''draft'' release notes at http://people.ubuntulinux.org/~mako/docteam/release-notes/release-notes.html

* Test the Links before it's sent!

* link to mirrors, not just to ubuntu.com

=== Draft ===

<pre>
                                                                 XXX
The Ubuntu Team is proud to announce the Preview Release of 
Ubuntu 5.10 - codenamed "Breezy Badger". The Preview Release 
includes both Install CDs and bootable Live CDs for three 
architectures.

Ubuntu is a Linux distribution for your desktop or server, with a 
fast and easy install, regular releases, a tight selection of 
excellent packages installed by default, every other package you can
imagine available from the network, a commitment to security updates 
for 18 months after each release and professional technical support 
from many companies around the world.

To Get Ubuntu 5.10 Preview
--------------------------

Download Ubuntu 5.10 Preview here (choose the mirror closest to you):

  United States:
    http://us.releases.ubuntu.com/releases/5.10/

  Europe:
    http://se.releases.ubuntu.com/5.10/

  United Kingdom:
    http://releases.ubuntu.com/5.10/

  Rest of the World:
    http://releases.ubuntu.com/5.10/

Please download using Bittorrent if possible.

The final version of Ubuntu 5.10 is expected to be released in 
October. At that time, we will mail pressed CDs free of charge. To 
receive a complimentary copy of the Official Breezy Badger CD -- or
a handful of them to give to your friends, your school or LUG -- 
place your request at the URL below. Remember that these CDs won't 
ship until after the final release in October.

  http://shipit.ubuntu.com/

About Ubuntu 5.10 Preview
-------------------------

To see it all, you'll need to try the CD, but the highlights 
include:

 On the Desktop

** GNOME 2.12 -- Very fresh... Released yesterday!!
** OpenOffice.org 2.0 beta 2
** X.org 6.8.2 with wider hardware support
** An enhanced tool for easily installing new applications 
    (see "Add/Remove Programs" in the System Administration menu)
** A new tool which makes it easy to install support for 
    multiple languages (Language Selector)
** Editable GNOME menus
** Applications are now linked into the Launchpad infrastructure 
    (new entries on the Help menus for translation and support)
** Support for writing audio CDs (Serpentine)
** Graphical boot process with progress bar (USplash)

 On the Server

** PHP5
** Support for automatic storage allocation into LVM volumes
** Built-in thin client functionality produced in cooperation
    with the LTSP project (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ThinClientHowto)
** Simple NFS root setup with automatic hardware detection 
    through initramfs-tools
** Support for up to 4 gigabytes of RAM by default on 32-bit 
    architectures
** Kernel support for cluster filesystems (OCFS2 and GFS)

 Hardware Support Improvements

** Linux 2.6.12.5 with many updated drivers from third parties
** Further enhancements to laptop support (hot keys, 
    and working suspend/resume on more models)
** HP all-in-one printer/scanner devices are supported out of 
    the box
** Bluetooth input devices (such as keyboards and mice) are 
    supported out of the box
** Multiple audio devices are handled more gracefully (and one 
    can easily select the default device)
** 64-bit PowerPC kernel available

 Installation

** A new OEM mode to simplify the process of preinstalling 
    Ubuntu on computers for resale or redistribution
** Automatically makes existing hard drive partitions available 
    to the desktop
** Simple "dual boot" configuration with automatic resizing of 
    an existing installed OS
** The second stage of the installation now has a progress bar

 "Under the hood"

** GCC 4.0.1
** glibc 2.3.5
** New early userspace infrastructure based on initramfs-tools
** More modular X.org packaging

As always, Ubuntu includes the very best of the 100% FREE / LIBRE 
application software world, and each new release incorporates 
countless new features and bugfixes from the global development 
community.

Feedback and Helping
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of 
ways you can participate at

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help turn 
this Preview into the best release of Ubuntu ever.  Please report 
bugs through Bugzilla:

  http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but 
aren't sure, first try asking on the #ubuntu IRC channel on FreeNode, 
on the Ubuntu Users mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Ubuntu and about this preview release on 
our website, IRC channel and wiki. If you're new to Ubuntu, please
visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's 
very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

</pre>

CategoryArchive
