{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| {{https://launchpad.net/~ctmahlangu}}
|-
| '''GPG Key'''
| See Launchpad Page
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''DraZoro''' on '''irc.freenode.net'''
|-
| '''Skype''':
| '''DraZoro'''
|-
| '''Email''':
| See Launchpad Page
|-
| '''Linux User'''
| <nowiki>[[http://counter.li.org|#533971]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu User'''
| {{http://ubuntucounter.geekosophical.net/img/ubuntu-user2.php?user=33607}}
|}

=== About Me ===
I'm Clement Mahlangu also known by the nick of DraZoro. I live in South Africa right in Gauteng province then deep within Pretoria. I am busy doing my BSc (Computer Science) in UNISA, I have just started the course last year July (2010).

My love for computers started long time time ago though I only owned my first computer in the year 2005. I come from commercial field as I was doing Accounting Science but again it was a nightmare for me. Then I discovered linux around 2007 since that time I was just a linux user, until I gained interest to start contributing my first distro to use was Fedora 8.

I spend my spare time playing computer games even though that time is fading. I assist learners around my area with mathematics as teaching is my favourite hobby. I also take photographs on occassions. 
   

=== Team Memberships ===
{*} South African Ubuntu Team {#ubuntu-za } 
 

=== Future Plans & Projects ===
Getting my degree in Computer Science is my top priority in my career. Along this journey I will love to gain more practical experience. I have a top interest when it comes to bug tracking, testing and documentation for Ubuntu. 

=== Contributions to the Ubuntu Community ===
I have started to volunteer on UWN (Ubuntu Weekly News), my first contribution was on Issue 225.  

== Testimonials ==
