{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hey All!
== About Me ==
I'm mid-30s, married with children and a mortgage in Connecticut.
== Work ==
I work for a small(~ish) financial company in Hartford as a Developer (of sorts) and as #2 of a 2-man IT department (not including our boss).
We are primarily a Microsoft shop (ASP.NET, SQL Server, Exhcnage, Office, Crystal Reports, etc.) although the two of us are looking to run a coup and change things around some (he's a BSD-guy).
== Linux Experience ==
I started sometime around 2002, and if my memory serves me it 

'twas the night before Thanksgiving and all through the house, not a creature was stirring except the fool installing RedHat Linux 8.0!'

Since then I've upgraded to <nowiki>[[http://www.redhat.com|RedHat]]</nowiki> 9.0 before changing gears completely and going with <nowiki>[[http://www.gentoo.org|Gentoo]]</nowiki>.  Within the past year I found and began running <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu]]</nowiki>.  I did try going back to RedHat by trying out <nowiki>[[http://www.centos.org|CentOS]]</nowiki> but have since returned to Ubuntu which I will probably stick with (for now).

While I started with Ubuntu, I have looked into <nowiki>[[http://www.kubuntu.org|Kubuntu]]</nowiki> but so far have been bitten twice by the partitioning and installation process so unfortunately I'm going to skip this version for a while.  

Currently I am running <nowiki>[[http://www.edubuntu.org|Edubuntu]]</nowiki> on a computer which I originally set up for the kids. I have been pleasantly surprised to find that it doesn't skimp on anything from Ubuntu.

== Involvement ==

I am part of the <nowiki>[[ConnecticutTeam|Connecticut Ubuntu Loco Team]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.dacs.org|Danbury Area Computer Society (DACS)]]</nowiki>, fencing at <nowiki>[[http://www.candlewoodfencing.com|Candlewood Fencing Center]]</nowiki>.

== What else? ==
I split my time between family, Fencing (Epee), tabletop role-playing games (since about 1978) and computers.

= Other Links = 
