{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[DrewKwashnak|<< Back]]</nowiki>

== My Post-Ubuntu-Installed Script ==

Once I have installed Ubuntu there are a number of actions consistently run on the system which has been pooled together into a script for ease of running.

I am putting it out here so anybody can use it, modify it as they may want and generally think about means of easing routine actions to make life easier.

<pre> note
The script code is in process. I have it stored in my ownCloud account which is not accessible from where I am currently. </pre>

=== Consolidated Code ===

This code belongs in a single shell script to be called and should run completely through (as sudo) without any interaction necessary.

<pre> sh numbers=disable

sudo apt update
sudo apt install pithos gimp kpat chromium-browser docker

</pre>

The idea here is to put together all of the coding into one shell script.  I have called this script on my system ''ubuntu_post_install.sh''.  Once created I make the script executable <pre> sh numbers=disable
chmod +x ubuntu_post_install.sh </pre>
Then to run it I have to run it with sudo <pre> sh numbers=disable
sudo ./ubuntu_post_install.sh </pre>

=== Install Piece-by-piece ===

In case want to do part of it and not other, or to step through it to ensure it works, below is code snippit separated by the product(s) it is installing and the additional effort required.

==== Base installations ====

This includes just the applications that are in the default repositories without having to add PPAs, repositories or authentication keys.

==== Flash player ====

==== ownCloud client ====

==== Insync (Google Drive) client ====

==== Full Java ====

==== Full Chrome ====
