{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Just to get the ball rolling:

Anybody have any ideas on how we can compile plugins (storage engines or
otherwise) without having to:

a) have the MySQL source tree available
b) put the source of the plugin in the source tree

Apache does this pretty well via axps. Of course, this means also making
and exporting a set of headers for the plugin interface...

I ask, because I'm looking at the Debian packaging, and one of the
things I'd like to do is start off with packages using the current mysql
scheme.

 drizzle-server
 drizzle-client
 libdrizzle16
 libdrizzle-dev

Then, I'd like to split out the engines into packages, like:

 drizzle-plugin-innodb
 drizzle-plugin-archive

etc. (with a standard set of "recommended" and thus auto-installed
unless you say otherwise) plugins that are sensible.

Of course, the next step is then:

 drizzle-plugin-sphinx
 drizzle-plugin-pbxt
 drizzle-plugin-aws

right? Whole idea of plugins? But then we get to the problem of needing
the source for both drizzle-plugin-pbxt and drizzle-server at the same
time, which would be a pain for the debian and ubuntu autobuilders. It
means I'd either have a single source package for drizzle that also
included the tarballs for pbxt and sphinx, or pbxt and sphinx source
packages would each also have a copy OR, I'd have to make a

 drizzle-source

package, like the kernel-source, and have the plugins build-depend on
that. but that seems _really_ ugly.

Incidentally, if we do get this worked out, then we can delete the
innobase dir altogether and just use the straight innodb drops from
Heikki...
