{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name
| Dave Kokandy
|-
| Location
| <nowiki>[[http://www.ashland-ohio.com/|Ashland, Ohio]]</nowiki>
|-
| IRC
| drkokandy on Freenode
|-
| Email/Google Hangouts
| drkokandy@gmail.com
|-
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~drkokandy|drkokandy]]</nowiki>
|-
| Website
| <nowiki>[[http://about.me/drkokandy|about.me/drkokandy]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About Me ===

I have been a happy Ubuntu user since 2011, when I used an Ubuntu 11.04 Natty Narwhal CD to replace my brother's virus-infected Windows Vista laptop to prevent it from becoming e-waste. It ran even better when I tried using Lubuntu (it doesn't have a lot of resources). I have enjoyed using, learning about, and tinkering with Ubuntu and Lubuntu ever since.

Ubuntu and Lubuntu are my preferred GNU/Linux distributions. I use Ubuntu for general-purpose computing and as a home server. I use Lubuntu on that (aforementioned) old laptop, which also doubles as a streaming video player to an old CRT TV.

=== Involvement ===
 {*} Helping <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lubuntu-qa|Lubuntu QA]]</nowiki> team with bug management and testing

 {*} Member of <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam|Ubuntu Ohio LoCo]]</nowiki> since 2012

 {*} Member of the <nowiki>[[http://www.meetup.com/Akron-Linux-Users-Group/|Akron Linux Users Group]]</nowiki> - I attend when I can, but I live an hour away, so I don't always make it.

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Get%20Involved/WhoWeAre#Lubuntu_Users|Lubuntu User]]</nowiki>

=== Contributions ===

==== Ask Ubuntu ====

I have started responding to questions on <nowiki>[[http://www.askubuntu.com|Ask Ubuntu]]</nowiki> if I know the answer after hearing Jorge Castro present on "How to Make the Most of Ask Ubuntu" at the Ohio Linux Fest in September 2013. <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/users/103537/drkokandy|See my profile/answers here]]</nowiki>.

==== Lubuntu QA ====

In January 2015, I joined the Lubuntu QA team, and I've been told that what is most needed right now is bug triage, so I will be trying my hand at that. Please let me know if I am doing things in a sub-optimal way and I will make corrections.

I've also been helping a little with <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Testing|Lubuntu Testing]]</nowiki> - specifically, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/ISO|ISO Testing]]</nowiki>.

I've reported or triaged <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~drkokandy|these bugs]]</nowiki> while working with the Lubuntu QA team.

=== Future Goals ===

 {*} Earn UbuntuBugControl Status so that I can be of more help to Lubuntu QA by marking importance of bugs and marking them as triaged.

 {*} Test milestone ISO releases of Lubuntu for the upcoming 15.04 release.

=== Comments ===
'''Note:''' This section is for people who aren't Ubuntu members to cheer or comments that aren't testimonials from existing members.

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' This section is for existing Ubuntu members to leave testimonials.  People who aren't Ubuntu members can leave a comment above in favor of the application.

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here. I appreciate it!
