{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

===== Contact Information =====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Location:
| USA
|-
| GPG Key:
| 9CE885E1
|-
| Ubuntu Forums:
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=223945|drs305]]</nowiki>
|-
| Launchpad:
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~drstalk|drs305]]</nowiki>
|-
| IRC:
| ds305 on irc.freenode.net
|}

I have long since retired from the forums, work, and other things, but not from life. However, I rarely visit the forums although I am still an avid Ubuntu user. My wikis are most assuredly outdated or have been surpassed by better information since my postings. I leave my original entry below and wish all of you "Happy Ubuntu-ing" ...

I have been using Ubuntu since DapperDrake in 2007. I previously experimented with a different flavor of linux but was so impressed by the Ubuntu forums that I switched over and have remained a devoted fan ever since. 

=== Contributions to the Ubuntu Community ===

==== Support ====

Ubuntu Forums - <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=223945|drs305]]</nowiki> 

 I have been a frequent poster on the Ubuntu Forums, with my primary focus on helping others on the Absolute Beginners and General forums. I was made a moderator in April 2010. In the spring of 2012, I entered semi-retirement in my real-life job and soon thereafter did the same with my participation on the Ubuntu forums. I am no longer a moderator but update my previous entries on the Ubuntu Forums and contributions to the Ubuntu Community wiki from time to time.

 Documentation. I come from a non-IT background and develop forum guides and pages on the Ubuntu Forums and Ubuntu Wiki as I identify issues primarily affecting new users. When Grub 2 was introduced the lack of documentation was a motivating force for my creating many threads on how to work with the new bootloader. Eventually some of my work was adopted as the 'official' documentation on the Ubuntu community pages. My speciality appears to be writing Grub guides which leave users shaking their heads...

Forum Tutorials :

* '''<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=813945#post6639349|HowTo: Set Gnome Calendar First Day of Week]]</nowiki>'''

* '''<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=872197|GUI Fstab Editing with PySDM]]</nowiki>'''

* '''<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1119945&highlight=sessions|HowTo: Set Sessions Startup Order]]</nowiki>'''

* '''<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=818177|HowTo: Grub Menu Kernel Display Options/StartUp-Manager]]</nowiki>''': A how-to on limiting the number of kernels displayed in the Grub 2 menu. Originally a command-line guide, it was expanded to include GUI apps as they became available.

* '''<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=898573|How To: Disk Full? - Check Your Trash ]]</nowiki>''': Addresses problems users have when trash accumulates in their or root's trash bins.

* '''<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6161267|Solving .dmrc and $HOME Permission Errors]]</nowiki>'''

* '''<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1122670|HowTo: Recover Lost Disk Space]]</nowiki>''': An outgrowth of the 'Trash Full' post, this includes command-line and GUI methods to troubleshoot and solve partitions reaching their size limits.

* '''<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1219270|Expanding an Ubuntu System Partition]]</nowiki>''': A guide explaining how to shrink another OS and expand the Ubuntu partition. Initially created to address a bug in Jaunty which created an unusable 2.5GB / partition during a clean installation.

* '''<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275|Grub 2 Basics]]</nowiki>''': The bane of my existence.

* '''<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1287602|Grub 2 Title Tweaks]]</nowiki>''': Provides script modifications to effect changes to the Grub 2 displays such as menu order and hiding entries. GUI apps have now been developed which can accomplish the tasks without the need for these arcane methods.

* '''<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1302743|Grub 2 - 5 Common Tasks]]</nowiki>'''

* '''<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1599293| Grub 2 - Password Protection]]</nowiki>'''

* '''<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1369019|Grub 2 - Rescue Prompt Booting]]</nowiki>'''

* '''<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1549847|Grub 2 - ISO Booting]]</nowiki>''' 

* '''<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099|Purge and Reinstall Grub 2]]</nowiki>''': A normally-successful guide to restoring Grub 2 when all other methods to use Grub 2 fail.

* '''<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10720316|Grub 1.99 Submenus]]</nowiki>''': Explains how the Grub 1.99 submenu feature works and guidance on how to set a default kernel located in a submenu. 

* '''<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1739412|Grub 2 Drop-In Backgrounds]]</nowiki>''': Guidance on a new Grub 1.99 background capability, expanded to include instructions on font and background color selections.

help.ubuntu.com Creations:

 {*} <nowiki>[[dmrcErrors| dmrcErrors]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[RecoverLostDiskSpace| RecoverLostDiskSpace]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[StartUpManager| StartUpManager]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2| Grub2]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCDBootOptions|LiveCDBootOptions]]</nowiki>

Community / Wiki Major Edits:

 While a member of the Beginners Team Focus Group and thereafter I have helped provide major improvements/additions to the graphics, expansion, and general clean up of the following pages: 

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/gedit|gedit]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[Grub2|Grub2]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[Metacity|Metacity]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Pidgin|Pidgin]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RealPlayerInstallationMethods|RealPlayerInstallationMethods]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Repositories/Ubuntu|Repositories/Ubuntu]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XChatHowto|XChatHowto]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CreateBootPartitionAfterInstall|CreateBootPartitionAfterInstall]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[BootOptions|BootOptions]]</nowiki>

==== Ubuntu Forums Beginners Team / Ubuntu Beginners Team ====
 {*} UFBT/Beginners Team 
  I joined the Ubuntu Forum Beginners Team in the fall of 2008, which evolved into the Beginners Team. I was active in the Team's Wiki Focus Group for approximately one year.

 
