{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Conference Appearances ==

My Conference Appearances are also listed <nowiki>[[ConferenceAppearances|here]]</nowiki>.

I've been speaking at conferences, promoting open source software and Ubuntu.

'''2009'''
 {*} July 15, 2009 Albuquerque, NM - <nowiki>[[http://www.ignite-nm.com/|Ignite New Mexico]]</nowiki> - Ignite is a speaking event, designed to be a night of fast pace fun presentations.  Each presenter gets 20 slides which will automatically advance every 15 seconds. I'll be helping run the event as well as have a table setup for disk distribution and information.

 {*} April 29, 2009 Santa Fe, NM - <nowiki>[[http://ignitesantafe.com/|Ignite Santa Fe]]</nowiki> - Ignite is a speaking event, designed to be a night of fast pace fun presentations.  Each presenter gets 20 slides which will automatically advance every 15 seconds.  We are current planning our first Ignite Santa Fe! My Talk will be about what it takes to get a non-profit of the ground ground and how to use it to support your cause. In my case promoting open source software.

 {*} April 16, 2009 Las Cruces, NM - <nowiki>[[http://www.nmspacemuseum.org/content.php?id=161|Southwest Regional Technology Symposium]]</nowiki> - My talk will be about Growing New Mexico's Open Source Communities: Demand for open source software is at it's greatest than it has been since Linux, Open Office, and a slew of other applications appeared over a decade ago. A slowing economy and the emergence of low cost "Net" book computers have fueled this demand. This talk will be about the state of Open Source software, the communities that exist, and the amount of support one can expect when moving from priority software to Open Source. Got to apply for some disk as I will be setting up a booth as well.

 {*} January 17, 2009 Albuquerque, NM <nowiki>[[http://nm-mix.ning.com|New Mexico Media Industry Mix]]</nowiki> A conference for New Mexico Media includes filmmakers, game developers, animators, educators, designers, musicians, technology developers - and more. Talking about Linux and the community that makes it strong. What a great conference Had no idea what to expect, but now I do. The future for new media is alive and well in New Mexico. I talked about two subjects on two different panels. How to build virtual communities and the Future of Open Source in New Mexico, as a bonus I handed out over 50 Ubuntu CDs.  

'''2008'''

 {*} March 9-12, 2008 Dallas, TX - <nowiki>[[http://www.thinkhdi.com/hdi2008/default.aspx|HDI Conference & Expo]]</nowiki> - <nowiki>[[http://www.thinkhdi.com/hdi2008/session.aspx?SessionID=1082|Know It's Broke Before Your Customers Do practical use of Open Source]]</nowiki> I plan on handing out over 100 Ubuntu disk as well as <nowiki>[[http://www.nagios.org|Nagios]]</nowiki> disks with a quick start guide for nagios optimized for Ubuntu. The HDI presentation went very well, lots of questions and I hope good answers I was very successful in distributing Ubuntu disk, nagios guides and promoting Open Source Software in general. Can't wait till next year.  <<BR>>
 {*} April 17, 2008 Las Cruces, NM -  <nowiki>[[http://www.htcnm.com/news.php|Southern New Mexico Technology Symposium]]</nowiki> - What Open Source Software Can Do. Confirmed to speak. Again talking Open Source and handing out Ubuntu. Well I did not make it to this talk, see why <nowiki>[[http://dthomasdigital.wordpress.com/2008/04/17/murphys-law/|here]]</nowiki>. Good news is the <nowiki>[[http://nmglug.org/|NMGLUG]]</nowiki> can use all my disk and handouts I'll be sending it up to them on 4/18/08<<BR>>
 {*} June 21-22, 2008  Portland, OR- <nowiki>[[http://en.oreilly.com/ubuntu2008/public/content/home|Ubuntu Live]]</nowiki> - Know It's Broke Before Your Customers Do practical use of Open Source. Got great news today 3/21/08 I've been accepted to present at Ubuntu Live. Hope to see you there. Ouch! Ubuntu Live 2008 canceled! I can't Attend OSCON as I have other commitments later on in the week, always next year. <<BR>>
 {*} September 13-14, 2008 Albuquerque, NM <nowiki>[[http://www.barcamp.org/BarCampAlbuquerque|Albuquerque BarCamp3]]</nowiki> More Open Source talk. Lots of CD's to hand out too. Event was great, talk went perfect was able to hand out allot of CD's and information. Adam Thomas also a New Mexico LoCo Member gave a talk and help with CD distribution as well.<<BR>>
 {*} October 29-31 2008 Albuquerque, NM - State of New Mexico Judicial Conference  - Moving Forward The Court a new technology <<BR>>

'''2007'''

 {*} October 18-19 2007 Albuquerque, NM - State of New Mexico Judicial Conference - New Technology in the Courts<<BR>>
