{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position:  98% 0.5ex; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; padding: 0.5em;">'''DuckDuckGo Search Engine'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

 .DuckDuckGo is a software-as-a-service (SaaS) hosted around the world that provides you with anonymous unlogged web searches with ssl by default. Results are formed from numerous sources and the majority of the software-as-a-service (SaaS) that comprises DuckDuckGo is opensource.
 .Default Search Engine found in OS distributions respun by the LXLE Development Team.
 .Devoid of the vast majority of spy mechanisms found in other search engines.
 .Extremely Tight privacy policies.

== Contact Information ==
 .<nowiki>[[https://duckduckgo.com/|DuckDuckGo Website.]]</nowiki>
 .<nowiki>[[https://duck.co/my/login|Create a secure XMPP (jabber) account with the DuckDuckGo Community.]]</nowiki>
 .<nowiki>[[https://duck.co/|Community Home page.]]</nowiki>

== uDuck Meta Search Engine ==
 .<nowiki>[[uduck|uDuck]]</nowiki> and its toggling counterpart, uGoogle, is another respin from the LXLE Linux Team. This  meta search tool is focused on all flavours of Ubuntu distros, for fast and secure surfing in the DuckDuckGo environment.
----
<nowiki>[[lxle|LXLE Home]]</nowiki>
