{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I'm from Beijing, China, and I have been worked as a consultant of PacificoSoftware in UK.
In this year, I created and released two softwares on Ubuntu.
One is "Ubuntu Dock", Another one is "Sticky Notes".
They are all written by C & Gtk3.
They are not for sale, so very cheap and published the source, too.
I customized the metacity to works as Compiz on Precise. Also fixed some bugs of Precise.
For example, I fixed an memory leak error for System Settings/Sound module of Precise.
I like to develop software and fix any bugs.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| dupingping
|-
| Email
| dupingping86@hotmail.com
|-
| Website
| <nowiki>[[http://korsoftware.com|korsoftware]]</nowiki>
|-
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~dupingping86|dupingping86]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Contributions ===

* <nowiki>[[https://apps.ubuntu.com/cat/applications/ubuntu-dock/|Ubuntu Dock]]</nowiki> 2015.
* <nowiki>[[https://apps.ubuntu.com/cat/applications/stickynotes/|Sticky Notes]]</nowiki> 2015.
* Good questions & answers on <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/users/240952/xiaodongjie|AskUbuntu]]</nowiki> 2014-2015
* Metacity window manager's effects named as wave and scale, but not committed yet 2015.
* Patch to fix memory leak problem of the Sound module of System Settings on Precise, but not committed yet 2015.
* Python script to full copy remote ubuntu repository.

=== Future Goals ===

I hope to contribute for Ubuntu, Open source and Linux to make Ubuntu to the first Desktop & Tablet OS in the world. I also hope to more deeply enter the Ubuntu community.

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".

I've interacted with Pingping from time to time on askubuntu.com since summer of 2015 and tried the Ubuntu Dock that she developed. The dock she developed has polished look and is minimalistic, so it's apparent she's a very decent as developer. She has progressed on askubuntu site quite decently during 2014, as evident from her answer there. 

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:xieerqi56]]</nowiki> 