{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I am a 18-year-old student from Worcester, in the UK. I am currently at university in Oxford studying Maths. I first started using Ubuntu around Gutsy, and have since then enjoyed being part of the Ubuntu UK community.

Unfortunately, due a pretty heavy academic workload, I can't do a lot of Ubuntu-related stuff in term time. I'll probably be around in the holidays though, and I am still generally on IRC, so feel free to ping me. Just don't expect me to have the time to do whatever you want me too.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~jshholland
|-
| IRC
| dutchie
|-
| Jabber
| jshholland@jabber.org
|-
| Email
| jrh@joshh.co.uk
|-
| Website
| http://www.joshh.co.uk/
|}

=== Contributions ===

* Have been offering help and support in the #ubuntu-uk IRC channel for over a year
* Helped out in the early stages of the ubuntu-manual project (<nowiki>[[ubuntu-manual]]</nowiki>)
*** Added i18n framework using po4a
*** Created, runs and maintains manualbot, which idles in the #ubuntu-manual channel
*** Host and administer http://planet.ubuntu-manual.org/
*** Wrote and host http://bugs.ubuntu-manual.org/, our custom bug reporter using the Launchpad API
* Various small bug triaging tasks
*** Forwarded bugs #80233 and #441444 upstream
* Have done a small amount of en_GB translation on Launchpad

=== Future Goals ===

* Attend more social events
* See the ubuntu-manual project through as a core contributor

=== Testimonials ===

Josh is an awesome dude and a great help to the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-manual|Ubuntu Manual Project.]]</nowiki> He's very knowledgeable for a 17 year old and can pretty much handle anything I throw at him - from python to setting up a Planet to handling translations with Launchpad and LaTeX. He's always around, very committed to the team and to Ubuntu and I know that he will bring a great deal of useful advice to any project that he is involved with. He also shows some good leadership aspects when he took control of a meeting in my absence and seems to be a fairly well rounded person in real life. I enjoy working with him!

''By <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/humphreybc|Benjamin Humphrey]]</nowiki>'' 

<nowiki>[[CategoryUKTeamProfile]]</nowiki>
