{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The November team report of the Ubuntu Nederland community.

=== Translation Team ===
The translation team has recently completed the GUI translations of the most important parts of Quantal Quetzal. The translation of the documentation (Ubuntu help, Ubuntu Desktop manual) is already at 97%. The Precise version of the beginners manual, Getting Started With Ubuntu, is practically finished. This beginners guide has been included in the Ubuntu Software Centre.

=== Promotion Team ===
The Promotion Team has been present at T-Dose in Eindhoven (27, 28 October) and at the HCC! Club Days in Den Bosch. The Club Days were very busy and the 100 Ubuntu DVDs were quickly gone. The two Ubuntu introduction lectures had a good turnout. At both T-Dose and HCC! Club Days the team sold Ubuntu NL t-shirts.

=== Mwanzo Team ===
Two workshops have been planned: UFW and VMWare. A poll on the forum showed that most of the people are interested in workshops about the server workplace. There are plans for such a workshop.
Mwanzobot IRC bot is growing and doing well.

=== Management Team ===
Regular maintenance, the ban and spam filters have been updated and cleaned.

=== Web Team ===
The website has been updated to 12.10. Unfortunately, the Dutch ISO images have had to be taken offline due to a bug found in them.
Small maintenance.

=== Foundation Support Ubuntu NL ===
The foundation has sent flyers and DVDs to support the release party in Gouda. The organiser will also receive a t-shirt once his size is known. The release party is using the foundation's www.ubuntuparty.nl party promotion platform.

The t-shirts sold to provide income to the foundation are doing well. Currently sweaters and books are investigated.

----
'''Source: <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-nl.org/community/Meetings/Meeting20121110/VoortgangTeams]]</nowiki>'''

CategoryTeamReport
