{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Translation Team ===
In the weekend of 31 March to 1 April, the trnaslation team has helt a translation sprint. With great enthusiasm, a few members of the translation team has worked hard with the result that a great part of the GUI of Precise Pangolin is done. During the sprint, the members stayed in touch via #ubuntu-nl-mwanzo to help each other.
The large document "ubuntu-docs" (GNOME Desktop Guide) is currently finished for 85%.

=== Artwork Team ===
* Has designed several <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu-nl.org/artwork/t-shirt-ontwerp/|Ubuntu Nederland]]</nowiki> t-shirts for sale during events.
* A few designs were made for a <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu-nl.org/artwork/poster-linux-themadag-2012/|release party poster]]</nowiki>.
* A <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu-nl.org/artwork/algemene-ubuntu-flyers/|common Ubuntu flyer]]</nowiki> has been finished.

=== Promotion Team ===
The organisation of participation in the nationl Linux event, the 'Linux Thema Dag', with HCC unfortunately had to be stopped due to a lack of sponsors.
Organisation of the LTS release party continues.

'''Source: <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-nl.org/community/Meetings/Meeting20120410/VoortgangTeams]]</nowiki>'''
----
CategoryTeamReport
