{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

Darryl Weaver, I have worked for Canonical as a Solution Architect and Sales Engineer.  I have been working on Ubuntu since 2008.  Initially using Ubuntu Server to provide web hosting infrastructure including using OpenVZ kernel patches for containers.  Since 2011, I have been working mostly on Openstack.  I joined Canonical in 2012 and was working mainly on Canonical products such as MAAS and Juju and Openstack deployments.  I left Canonical in 2015 and went on to do Openstack Training and Consultancy on deployments.  I am still active in the Ubuntu community and maintain contact with many former colleagues at Canonical.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| dweaver
|-
| GTalk
| darryl@ubuntu.com
|-
| Email
| darryl@ubuntu.com
|-
| Website
| www.stackevolution.com
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~dweaver
|}

=== Contributions ===

I have worked on contributions to MAAS and Juju and Ubuntu Server packages, mainly bug reporting and fixing and writing documentation.  

I present at events and give talks on Ubuntu and Openstack.  

I maintain a few Juju charms, such as the drupal charm and a dynamic dns client in the charm store.  

I have worked on building demo Juju bundles for the Orange Box and helped develop the orange-box and orange-box-examples packages to demo Juju and MAAS and various workloads including Openstack, Hadoop and Cloud Foundry.

I publish blog articles such as technical articles and training articles.

I am continuing to work on Openstack and Ubuntu Training, including helping develop the Canonical Training courses for Ubuntu Openstack.

=== Future Goals ===

To continue to promote Ubuntu and Openstack and tools such as MAAS and Juju.

To continue to develop training courses for beginner to advanced operations for Openstack, some offered free of charge to the community.

=== Testimonials ===

'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".
