{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Personal Information ===
'''Name:''' Fredrik "DXter" Jonsson

'''Nationality:''' Swedish

'''Languages spoken:'''
* Fluent: Swedish and English

'''Occupation:'''

IT-consultant at <nowiki>[[http://www.asci.se|ASCI Sweden AB]]</nowiki>

'''Ongoing plans (for now and for the future):'''
* Promote and implement Ubuntu Linux in both small business, enterprise and governmental installation.
* Promote and do automated installations of Ubuntu using deployment mechanisms.
* Promote and use central management solutions in Ubuntu installations.
* Promote and do Ubuntu integrations into Windows environments and Active Directory.
* To give lectures and train people in the points above :) .

'''Self-remarks:'''

I am a Windows guy that became a Ubuntu guy. Have a very strong love for the Ubuntu platform and community as well as technical solutions regarding Ubuntu deployment and central management in both small business as well as enterprise environments.

=== Online activity ===
'''Interviewed by Free Software Foundation Europe for FSCONS 2008 about Ubuntu Deployment:''' http://fscons.org/interview-with-fredrik-jonsson-on-ubuntu-deployment/

'''Chats, forums, blogs...'''

=== IRL activity ===
'''Spoke at OSCON 2008 about Ubuntu Deployment:''' http://en.oreilly.com/oscon2008/public/schedule/speaker/6770

'''Beta tested Landscape since day one for Canonical (and got interviewed for the release):''' http://www.ubuntu.com/news/landscape

=== Launchpad ===
'''ID Link:''' http://launchpad.net/~dxter

'''Mostly active in:'''
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu|Ubuntu]]</nowiki>, focusing on deployment and central management
* Ubuntu release testing (alpha/beta/release candidate)

'''Active Team Participation:'''
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server|The Ubuntu Server Team]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-testing|The Ubuntu Testing Team]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-training|The Ubuntu Training Team]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-marketing|The Ubuntu Marketing Team]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryHomepage
