{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== The usual who what when and where ===
* I've been using ubuntu since Hoary, Linux since ~1996 (kernel 2.0 had just been released) and have been involved in #ubuntu helping users since Hoary. 

* You can find me in #ubuntu and #ubuntu+1 on Freenode answering questions (Registered: 2 years 6 weeks 3 days (12h 45m 5s) ago)

* Small blog mainly just some rants and general Linux info http://macd.shacknet.nu/~david/rollup

* Launchpad https://launchpad.net/~dzportwood 
      -has additional contact info, team memberships, and PPA repo.

* Ubuntu Wiki page(s) <nowiki>[[networkapt]]</nowiki>

* I often find myself recommending Ubuntu to new Linux users, and I have a very active #linux channel on irc.afternet.org with many pro-ponets towards Ubuntu, so I support users there also.

* I just started using PPA on launchpad, it will be great to give people access to some of the packages I've been rolling.
 -mainly a complete RubyOnRails stack including the configurations necc. for apache2.2/mysql or pgsql (still working on debconf                   there)/mongrel/ruby/gems spec @ https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/rubyonrails

      -also should handle all configurations of mod_proxy_balancer if the user choose to run more than 1 mongrel instance

      -this should also keep and maintain a apt gem repository there are about a hundred or so gems though, so this is no miniscule task, and would also mean a small re-tool of rubygems

 -packaging subclipse (SVN plugin for eclipse) LP bug #104990 it keeps getting assigned and unassigned so I figured I'd just do it.

* In general I support Ubuntu by advocating its use to new and existing Linux users alike, supporting those users having problems using, administering, or installing Ubuntu, and by contributing software packages I feel are lacking in representation within the Ubuntu distribution.  I would also like to see the Louisiana LoCo team grow in size, with just a handful of people currently, there is plenty of room for more, and I actively encourage peers to join and contribute in some way applicable.

* I'm also in the Top 20 contributors on Launchpad Answers for the past few months https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+topcontributors

=== Testimonials ===

=== Some useful links for great Ubuntu support resources ===
Wifi Support <nowiki>[[WifiDocs]]</nowiki>

Dual Boot Information <nowiki>[[WindowsDualBootHowTo]]</nowiki>

The Ubuntu forums http://ubuntuforums.org

The Ubuntu community support website https://help.ubuntu.com/community/

Freenode IRC irc.freenode.net #ubuntu

Afternet IRC irc.afternet.org #linux
