{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About XMMS ==

''XMMS'' is lightweight music player similar to Winamp (in fact, it used to be called "X11Amp"!) and it can even use Winamp skins.

'''NOTE:''' You may want to check out <nowiki>[[Audacious]]</nowiki>  or <nowiki>[[BeepMediaPlayer]]</nowiki>  which is a fork of ''XMMS'' using GTK2 - meaning that its menus and dialogs integrate with your system's themes better than ''XMMS's''.

=== Installing ===

You can install ''XMMS'' using any package management program. 
You need to use <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~mapopa/+archive?field.name_filter=xmms&field.status_filter=published |this repository ]]</nowiki> for Intrepid 
Seems that xmms was removed from official repository from hardy version.

=== Getting WMA-support ===

In order to get WMA-support you need to install xmms-wma.
* For Feisty 7.04 you can find xmms-wma in the Universe Repository.
* For previous versions of Ubuntu you need to download xmms-wma from <nowiki>[[http://easylinux.info/uploads/xmms-wma_1.0.4-2_i386.deb|xmms-wma]]</nowiki>.
 
=== Associate With Media Files ===

To associate ''XMMS'' with any file type you need to right click on that file type you want to associate with ''XMMS'' and select properties. Then select Open With and select the radio button next to ''XMMS''. If it is not there then use Add and select it.

Alternatively you can edit the system's file association configuration files with these commands:
<pre>
sudo cp /usr/share/applications/defaults.list /usr/share/applications/defaults.list_backup

sudo cp /usr/share/applications/defaults.list /tmp/defaults.list_tmp

sudo sed -e 's/audio\/mpeg=.*/audio\/mpeg=XMMS.desktop/g' /tmp/defaults.list_tmp > /tmp/defaults.mp3

sudo sed -e 's/audio\/x-mpegurl=.*/audio\/x-mpegurl=XMMS.desktop/g' /tmp/defaults.mp3 > /tmp/defaults.m3u

sudo sed -e 's/audio\/x-wav=.*/audio\/x-wav=XMMS.desktop/g' /tmp/defaults.m3u > /tmp/defaults.list

sudo mv /tmp/defaults.list /usr/share/applications/defaults.list

sudo rm -f /tmp/defaults.*
</pre>

To open ''XMMS'' go to  '''Applications -> Sound and Video -> XMMS'''

----
CategoryAudio
