{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Description ==
Xpra is a tool which allows you to run X programs — usually on a remote
host  — and then direct their display to your local machine, disconnect
from these programs, and reconnect from the same  or  another  machine,
all without losing any state.  It differs from standard X forwarding in
that it allows disconnection and reconnection  without  disrupting  the
forwarded  application;  it differs from VNC and similar remote display
technologies in that xpra is rootless: i.e., applications forwarded  by
xpra  appear  on  your desktop as normal windows managed by your window
manager, rather than being all "trapped in a box together".  Xpra  also
uses  a  custom  protocol  that  is self-tuning and relatively latency-
insensitive, and thus is usable over network connections that  are  too
slow or unreliable for standard X forwarding.

== Installation ==

To install the '''xpra''' package, simply use your favorite package manager. Note that this package only exists in Ubuntu 9.10 or later.

<code>sudo apt-get install xpra</code>

== Usage Examples ==

<code>xpra start :7</code>
     Start an xpra server using display number :7.

<code>DISPLAY=:7 firefox</code>
     Start  firefox  running  inside  the  xpra server.  No window will
     appear.

<code>xpra list</code>
     Show a list of xpra servers you have running on the current host.

<code>xpra attach :7</code>
     Attach to the xpra server that is using local display  number  :7.
     Any apps running on that server will appear on your screen.

<code>xpra attach ssh:frodo:7</code>
     Use  ssh  to  attach to the xpra server that is running on machine
     frodo and using display :7.  Any apps running on that server  will
     appear on your local screen.

<code>xpra start :7 && DISPLAY=:7 screen</code>
     Start  an  xpra  server  and  a  screen(1) session.  If any of the
     applications inside screen attempt to use X, they will be directed
     to the xpra server.

<code>xpra stop :7</code>
     Stop the xpra server on display number :7.

== See Also ==

* https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Screen - GNU Screen
== External Links ==

* http://winswitch.org/ - WinSwitch, a GUI for Xpra

* http://partiwm.org/wiki/xpra - Official Website.
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xpra - Wikipedia Article.
----
CategorySoftware
