{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== XSane Image Scanner ==

XSane is an application that allows you to control a scanner and acquire images from it.

With XSane, you can easily photocopy documents and save, fax or e-mail your scanned images. It can even save your scans as multi-page documents, instead of separate, one-page files.

XSane can also be used from within <nowiki>[[TheGIMP|The GIMP]]</nowiki>; just click

File > Acquire > XSane

to scan directly into an image.

Menu: Applications > Graphics > XSane Image Scanner

== Screenshot ==

== Installation ==

* Part of the default Ubuntu installation

== Hints and Tips ==

=== Copy to PDF from XSane ===
When scanning text to send it via E-Mail or so, it comes in handy to have XSane '''convert the scan to PDF automatically''' with its copy mode.

For this to work you first have to install '''Cups-PDF''' as described here: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PDFPrinting

After you have Cups-PDF working, go to the XSane configuration with '''Alt+s''' or via preferences->setup (hope the words are right, as I use German as Desktop language - so I got these from the XSane documentation). Here you can choose the '''copy'''-tab and setup a new copy-printer. Choose a good name like "PDF-printer" and then comes the tricky part: change the command from lpr to '''lpr -P yourprinternameforcups-pdf''' where you exchange yourprinternameforcups-pdf for the name you actually gave to the Cups-PDF printer during its setup. Then choose the resolutions you want to use for lineart, greyscale and color and save the configuration.

One important issue: In Ubuntu 7.04 (Feisty Fawn), together with its cups-pdf 2.4.2-1, I got '''empty PDFs when "Create zlib compressed postscript image for printing" was activated as print option.''' Disabling this option got everything working.

== Other applications you may wish to look at ==

=== pdfjam ===
This metapackage contains pdfjoin, a program to make one new PDF out of several other ones.

== Further Reading ==

* <nowiki>[[http://www.xsane.org/|XSane]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryGraphicsApplications CategoryHardware
