{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

k3lt01 is a corruption of keltoi which is an ancient Greek word meaning barbarian. I chose this name because my heritage is basically Celtic as my family come from the Celtic lands of the British Isles. I use the k instead of the c because the original and more correct word starts with a k. Being a school teacher and an amateur linguist I get kind of picky when it comes to correct usage.

I am a jack of all trades and a master of none. While I am a school teacher I am also a motor mechanic and love hands on work just as much as I love academia. I believe no one can know everything about their chosen profession as there is always something new coming along.

My interests include things like cars, fishing, camping, my Dog and Horse, reading, cultures, languages, history, computers, four wheel driving.

Why do I use Ubuntu? well quite frankly I slowly (only took something like 15 years or so) got sick and tired of fixing Windows. I had already tried Red Hat 8, it wouldn't work, a few years before. Having already heard of Linux I found Ubuntu and immediately fell in love with it and have been using it ever since Feisty 7.04. I have updated to each new version within days of each new release.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~k3lt01
|-
| IRC
| k3lt01
|-
| Email
| you email
|-
| Website
| your website url
|}

=== Contributions ===

I have been a member of the Ubuntu forums community since October 7 2007. I have enjoyed learning new information and passing on the things I have slowly learned over the time I have participated. I have taken an active part in a number of threads particularly BobSongs How To: Make Your Own Ubuntu Repository DVDs. Through Bobs patience and dedication I have learned various aspects of script writing and have then used this knowledge to help others.

Late last year (2009) after installing Karmic Koala (9.10) on my various systems I decided to also install the upcoming Lucid Lynx on a separate partition to my laptop. Since the Lucid Tool Chain first become available I have been testing Lucid and posting in the Lucid section of the Ubuntu forums about various things I have found with it. I have also been submitting bug reports so that I can make a difference not only within the forums but also in the development of a stable system.

==== Local Community Initiatives ====

I have recently (May 2010) begun to refurbish pre-loved PCs and install Ubuntu (or whatever variant is required, e.g. Edubuntu for school age kids) to give away to good homes. My idea is to setup a Computer Bank for my local area so that people who are less fortunate than I am can access a world class OS on a decent PC without having to shell out money they just don't have. I am specifically interested in helping school students from disadvantaged backgrounds obtain the same quality, if not better, PC programs than they would get if they had to pay alot of money for.

* June 27 2010, 3 desktops with Edubuntu given to the Coledale Community Centre to use now and to pass on to the Coledale Youth Space when it opens.

==== My Pages ====

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/Old/AcerExtensa2300| Ubuntu Wiki Acer Extensa 2300 page]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1478700| HowTo: Create background slideshow]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1534840| HowTo: Create your own Screensaver using native Ubuntu tools.]]</nowiki>

==== My Files ====

Well not mine but ones I have modified to extend their usability.
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9532875&postcount=365|debpartial for DVD-DL and Blu-Ray Disks]]</nowiki>

=== I would like to thank ===

I have particularly enjoyed learning how to use various terminal commands to do simple tasks and have appreciated the help of people like my friends Bodhi.zazen (who introduced me to the man pages), BobSongs (who introduced me to the wonderful world of repositories). Also not forgetting others such as Luvr (who has given me another view of repositories) and countless others who have shared their knowledge with me.

=== I believe ===

I believe in the saying "Pay it forward". When people help you you should pay the favour forward and help others to. If everyone helped 1 person each day then before we know it the whole world could be a happier place.

=== Future Goals ===

I would like to expand my participation within the Ubuntu community helping others to migrate to Ubuntu in the way that best suits them. While continuing to take part in the activities I currently take part in I intend to join a few of the Ubuntu teams and help in any way that I can make a positive contribution to Ubuntu's continued success. I am very interested in teams such as Beginners, Brainstorm, Edubuntu, Laptop, Marketing, and Translations. I know I cannot help in them all but these are the teams that interest me at this time.

On a more personal note I hope oneday to learn how to make applications for Ubuntu within my fields of personal and professional interest. I see a great future for Ubuntu within the Automotive sector as well as in academia (Anthropology in particular). I regularly read, when the site is updated, <nowiki>[[http://linux.lsdev.sil.org/|SIL-LSDev Linux Development]]</nowiki> and personally use <nowiki>[[http://packages.sil.org/|SIL's Ubuntu repository]]</nowiki> for various programs that I used to use in Windows. I also intend to help them, where I can, test and develop their software.

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here.
