{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== About Me ===
My name is Kai. I am a computer science student from Germany. I have been using Ubuntu since 2007 and started contributing a few years ago. My aim is to improve the platform for end-users.

This means, I want to improve and create new apps. I think that will make Ubuntu more attractive for a broad audience.
In particular I think we need a messaging app that supports more than SMS (so people can e.g. connect to XMPP/Facebook), a powerful app for social media (friends is on a good way to become this app) and a proper e-mail client. 
During my times as students employee I have learned to properly use Qt and QML and think I can help to develop and improve those apps.

Additionally, I want to make Ubuntu more popular at my university. Ubuntu is broadly used on the server side, but many professors still rely on Windows. I want to change that.

=== Contact Information ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| launchpad.net/~kai-mast
|-
| XMPP
| kmast@jabber.wiai.de
|-
| Email
| mail@kai-mast.de
|-
| Website
| http://kai-mast.de
|}

=== Contributions ===
Besides regulary helping to fix bugs by reporting problems, I also contribute actively to the Ubuntu ecosystem by:
* Developing some small apps for Ubuntu Touch, e.g. swish -- an app that retrives scores from sports leagues. I have no wiki page yet but a preview for it is on this <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/+kaimast/posts/76uCFQc4gKF|post on Google+]]</nowiki>.  
* Working on friends/friends-app. For example I have fixed serveral bugs with Twitter and work on a better integration of media into the timeline.

=== Future Goals ===
In the future I would like to focus on two things
* Making the friends-app convergent by adding a multi-column view 
* Adding <nowiki>[[Unity8-JabberIntegration|XMPP support]]</nowiki> to the messaging app
* Adding support for <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/friends-app/+bug/1192704|App.Net]]</nowiki>
* Hopefully getting ipfw/dummynet into the repos (See this <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1210171|bugreport]]</nowiki>).

=== Comments ===
'''Note:''' This section is for people who aren't Ubuntu members to cheer or comments that aren't testimonials from existing members.

* Kai has made several excellent contributions to <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/friends|Friends]]</nowiki> and is on track to contribute several more. He responds well to feedback and is a great team player. -robru

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' This section is for existing Ubuntu members to leave testimonials.  People who aren't Ubuntu members can leave a comment above in favor of the application.

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here. 
