{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== About Me ===
* Full name: Ahmad Aizuddin Aizat bin Tajul Arif
* Location: Nilai, Negeri Sembilan
* IRC: ak47suk1 @ irc.freenode.org
* Twitter: <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/ak47suk1|ak47suk1]]</nowiki>
* Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kaibathelegacy|kaibathelegacy]]</nowiki>
* Blog: 
** <nowiki>[[http://kaibathelegacy.blogspot.com|Kaibathelegacy Blog]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://mysabily.blogspot.com|Sabily Untuk Malaysia (in Bahasa Melayu/Malay)]]</nowiki>

=== FLOSS: My Lifetime Journey ===
It's better I introduce myself first. Just call me Din (pronounced as ''Dean''). I graduated from Islamic Science University of Malaysia with Bachelor of Computer Science (Information Security and Assurance) degree.

Currently working as an IT Officer (and Software Developer + Ubuntu Server Admin + bleh + blah at once :D ).

==== OSS End-User ====
My first step of the FLOSS journey begin with using Gaim (now known as Pidgin) as IM. Then I'm trying Firefox, OpenOffice, Xchat just to name a few during secondary school.

==== Distro Hopper ====
Knoppix is my first Linux distro. Heard of Ubuntu at that time (my matriculation days) but I don't have time to even get free Ubuntu CD from ShipIt. Start to explore several Linux distro like Fedora, OpenSUSE, PCLinuxOS just to name a few. Then I use Ubuntu Muslim Edition (now known as Sabily) as main OS of my laptop. Using it for a year. I moved to Ubuntu HardyHeron for 6 months. Then, I moved back to Sabily until KarmicKoala released. Now,I currently using PrecisePangolin now.

==== Current Project ====
* Work
** Currently maintain 4 Ubuntu LucidLynx Servers and 4 Ubuntu PrecisePangolin Servers as part of my job. I'm using Ubuntu server to deploy Moodle Learning Management System, development environment for custom Moodle plugins, BigBlueButton for virtual classroom and video conference experiment and setup a private repository using apt-mirror.
** Moodle customization.
** Integration between Joomla, Joomdle, Moodle and internal payment gateway for Life Long Learning Payment and Registration System.

* Hobby
** OpenVPN server - Proxy Avoidance. Extra layer of security for unsecured wireless connection.
** Transmission-daemon server for torrent downloader, my main entertainment source. :P
** Using mainline kernel  for PrecisePangolin on my notebook, ASUS A42JY.
==== Community ====
* Now I'm a member of Ubuntu-my Malaysia Official LoCo Team (not an official member tho).
* Ubuntu Malay Translator Project member (ms-translator).
* I'm also a Core member of Komuniti Sabily Malaysia(Kosama) a.k.a Malaysian Sabily Community.
* Lead <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-my/1359/detail/|Oneiric Ocelot Release Party Masak Lomak Cili Api Remix , Nilai]]</nowiki>.
==== Future ====
Resolutions here:
* Be an official member of Malaysia LoCo Team.
* Contribute more to the community
* Involve more in meetups, meetings, gatherings, BoFs. 
