{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Kaizen Denki is Japanese for "improvement" (Kaizen) "electric" (Denki) and is an itty bitty company that sponsors the Enveria project (https://launchpad.net/enveria).

Enveria is a Rapid Application Development (RAD) environment for helping design and program GUI software for desktop (Linux/Win32/MacOS) and mobile devices (primarily, but not exclusively, Nokia internet tablets).

Enveria is written entirely in C and makes extensive use of GTK and SQLite. Similarly, C code is produced for applications that are designed using Enveria, and again are supported by GTK and SQLite. However, developers are able to make use of any libraries/APIs that are assessable using C -- such as MySQL or Postgres database APIs.

While the focus of Enveria to date has been primarily on desktop software, our near term goals are to move towards supporting development of applications for small/mobile devices such as Nokia's internet tablets, anything using Ubuntu's Mobile Internet Device (MID) Edition, or other related OS/devices that utilize the same core technologies of the Enveria project (mainly GTK/glib), which could also include Ubuntu on an Asus eeePC or other UMPC.

Why mobile/small devices? Because we are interested in computing for the next billion, who are (or will be) served primarily by small/mobile devices, such as cell phones, UMPCs and other small/mobile devices; and at the same time very interested in cool gadgets such as internet tablets and internet-enabled, 3g smart phones.

Our other near term goal is to make Enveria more user friendly. In order to accomplish this we are taking a good hard look at the interface (which is practical but still lacking some nice to have features); some possible support for scripting at the design level (but still output to C); and translations into dozens of languages, such as Mandarin, Japanese, Korean, Vietnamese, Russian, Ukrainian, Spanish, Portuguese, Farsi, Arabic, and many more.

We have over 2200 downloads to date -- still very (very, very) modest, but growing. Improvements to the user-friendliness of Enveria, additional support for mobile/small device development, and translations into languages other than English should help us catapult past the 10,000 mark in 2008/2009.
