{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''I, Kamal Mostafa, apply for core-dev (Ubuntu Core Developer).'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Kamal Mostafa
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~kamalmostafa
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KamalMostafa
|}

== Who I am ==

* I am a member of the Canonical kernel team, primarily focused on stable kernel maintenance.
* I am a <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=kamal@whence.com|Debian Developer]]</nowiki>.

== My Ubuntu story ==

=== My involvement ===

I have been involved with Ubuntu and Debian development since 2009.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

* http://kernel.ubuntu.com/git?p=ubuntu/linux.git;a=shortlog;h=refs/heads/linux-3.19.y
* http://kernel.ubuntu.com/git?p=ubuntu/linux.git;a=shortlog;h=refs/heads/linux-3.13.y
* http://kernel.ubuntu.com/git?p=ubuntu/linux.git;a=shortlog;h=refs/heads/linux-3.8.y
* https://launchpad.net/~canonical-kernel-team/+archive/ppa/+packages
* http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=kamal@whence.com
* https://github.com/kamalmostafa
* http://www.whence.com/minimodem

=== Areas of work ===

I have (and regularly exercise) <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KamalMostafa/KernelPPUApplication|Ubuntu Kernel uploader]]</nowiki> rights.
I have worked on Ubuntu and mainline kernels for over five years.

As a founding member of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-hams|Ubuntu Hams]]</nowiki> team, the maintainer of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-hams-updates/+archive/ubuntu/ppa|Ubuntu Hams Updates PPA]]</nowiki>, and an active member of the Debian Hams group, I have had extensive involvement with the packaging and deployment of all of our amateur radio related software for over five years.

=== Ubuntu archive experience ===

I've prepared, reviewed, sponsored, and uploaded hundreds of package updates and multiple new packages to Debian ''' frequently for the express purpose of fixing bugs and delivering new software into the Ubuntu archives.'''  For all of the packages that I maintain at Debian, I ...

* build test on multiple '''Ubuntu''' versions before uploading to Debian
* tweak packages so that they'll work optimally across the widest range of Ubuntu versions
* close Ubuntu bugs via (LP: #nnnnnnn) in my changelogs
* supply Ubuntu PPA's for stable releases (for almost all of them)
* require the same for packages that I review and sponsor in Debian

Hence, while Launchpad may not indicate a large number of packages uploaded to Ubuntu, it can be taken into account that virtually every one of my Debian uploads is specifically designed to be directly sync'ed to the Ubuntu archives as well.

=== Things I could do better ===

Play the banjo.  I really need to practice more.

== Plans for the future / Reason for application ==

'''I have recently started serving as an #ubuntu-devel "Patch Pilot", and could be more effective in that role as a core-dev with archive upload rights.'''

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

Kamal is a long time trusted member of the Canonical kernel team.

In his application Kamal has neglected to mention that he is frequently consulted
on packaging issues. For example, stress-ng and fwts has benefited from his packaging experience.

I strongly endorse Kamal's application for core-dev.

Tim Gardner
June 16, 2015

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1
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=VlQ2
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----

<nowiki>[[CategoryCoreDevApplication]]</nowiki>
