{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


-----

'''''This application was accepted in April 2014.'''''

-----

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Kamal Mostafa, apply for the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel-uploaders|Ubuntu Kernel Uploaders]]</nowiki> team membership, to get upload rights for the linux-* packages.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Kamal Mostafa
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~kamalmostafa
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KamalMostafa
|}

== Who I am ==

* I am a member of Canonical's Ubuntu Kernel Team
* I am a Debian Developer
* I am the maintainer of the extended-stable 3.8.y.z Linux kernel.

== My Ubuntu story ==

=== My involvement ===

I have been involved with Ubuntu and Debian development since 2009.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

* http://kernel.ubuntu.com/git?p=ubuntu/linux.git;a=shortlog;h=refs/heads/linux-3.8.y
* https://launchpad.net/~canonical-kernel-team/+archive/ppa/+packages
* http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=kamal@whence.com
* https://github.com/kamalmostafa

==== Summary ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #dd4814; text-align: center; color: white;"> '''Sponsor'''
| '''# Packages'''
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kamalmostafa|Kamal Mostafa]]</nowiki>
| hundreds
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~brad-figg|Brad Figg]]</nowiki>
| dozens
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #dd4814; text-align: center; color: white;"> '''Total packages'''
| '''lots'''
|}

== Plans for the future ==

* Maintain and upload Ubuntu kernels.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

Knows his <insert colourful expression>. If I would be a sponsor of Kamal, I would have full trust in him. But I rather do ask him for packaging advice. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:smb]]</nowiki> 
----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

==== Tim Gardner ====

Kamal is a skilled and respected member of the kernel team. As a Debian developer he has uploaded hundreds of packages. He is currently a stable kernel maintainer for Canonical. As such, I have the utmost confidence in granting Kamal upload rights.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1

==== Brad Figg ====

I have personally, reiviewd and signed several packages prepared by Kamal. I feel that Kamals' work is outstanding and I'm very comfortable with Kamal having per-package upload rights for the kernel and related packages.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1
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=S3Ai
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

==== Leann Ogasawara ====
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1

Not only is Kamal an upstream stable kernel maintainer and Debian
developer, he's also our team's resident packaging wizard.  We
continually seek his guidance, feedback, and insight for any packaging
and kernel related questions.  It's laughable that he doesn't have
upload rights for our Ubuntu kernels already.  He most certainly has the
proficiency and knowledge to upload our Ubuntu kernels.  I fully trust
Kamal will be responsible, judicious, and take extreme care and caution
when uploading our Ubuntu kernels.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1
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=NbgI
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
