{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Karianne Fog Heen ==

* From Norway (lives in Oslo)
* Homepage: <nowiki>[[http://www.simira.net]]</nowiki>
* Simira@ IRCnet, freenode, EFnet

=== Karianne and Ubuntu ===

* Selling Ubuntu <nowiki>[[t-shirt]]</nowiki>s
* Ubuntu Norway contactperson 2005-2009
* LaptopTestingTeam (HPNC8230)
* BugSquad (laptop bugs)
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.no|www.ubuntu.no]]</nowiki> 
* NorwegianTeam

==== Messages ====

Hi, I saw you made a review of the <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam/HPNC8230|HP NC 8230]]</nowiki> for the DapperDrake version. I got one of this laptop (bought in France) and I tested the DapperBeta CD. I can't boot with it. I don't know if I have to modify the <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam/HPNC8230|HP NC 8230]]</nowiki> page, contact you or report a bug, so I started here. What do you think ?
-- EricVeirasGalisson 
I have no problems with it, and I know others that haven't. Make sure it's not a bad cd or something wrong with your CD-ROM. If not, please report a bug on it.

Ok, you're right, it was a CDROM problem. I know it since some days but have a problem logging to the wiki, and got some holidays, so I couldn't change my message. You can delete it now... :)<<BR>>
If I test things untested on the hp NC8230, I will leave comments on the <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam/HPNC8230|hp NC8230 page]]</nowiki> directly, don't you think?
<<BR>>-- EricVeirasGalisson 
----
CategoryHomepage
