{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
* '''Add your feedback like this w/o the bold, and then use the @``SIG@ at the end of your line, look at the first post for reference'''
* '''All serious issues should be still <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+filebug|submitted as bug]]</nowiki>!'''

== Feedback ==
* Add feedback here

* Everything seems to work fine, did the install in English, so I don't know if the localization are now right. But one problem: Google released some days ago more than 1 million eBooks in PDF and EPUB format, but Okular can't handle EPUB in Kubuntu :(
* Did Arora not make it?
* Okular should be able to read EPUB format but you have to install ebook-tools
* Sadly no, Okular has to be compiled with libepub0. Also ebook-tools doens't exist in the repo. The bug: https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/424095 (edit: ebook-tools as package not, but libepub0 exists).
* It would be nice if Kubuntu installer would have similar informative Installer Slideshow like the one Ubuntu has (see the link: <nowiki>[[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=NzUwOQ|Ubuntu Installer Slideshow]]</nowiki>). This would introduce new users to some KDE 4 applications, just like in Ubuntu's case with Gnome apps. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mirza-dervisevic]]</nowiki>  * After upgrading Kubuntu 9.04 to 9.10, system kept freezing right away after a boot. After investigating, I determined there was no hardware problem but was Intel's 82865G/PE/P PCI to AGP Controller not being supported properly. I am sure of it because when I boot in savemode system worked fine and when I used nVidia NV6 [Vanta/Vanta LT] VGA compatible controller, everything worked great.
* It seems like it really is shaping up nicely.  My biggest complaint/concern is that GRUB 2 does not recognize my other OS and I've spent alot of time trying to figure out how to create a new entry.  Timewise we're talking a 5 minute fix versus the 5 hours I've tried so that is disappointing. It's even more frustrating since I didn't have the problem in Alpha 4.  But the overall Linux experience is very nice and is equal to anything that Redmond has.  I expect by the next version it will surpass it.  UPDATE:  While I was trying to look for a cause to file a bug report, not 2 hours after I wrote this there was an update that fixed the problem.  Now that's service! :-)
* What happened to the big plans of the awesome boot for both Ubuntu and Kubuntu. See this https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Incoming/Karmic/
* How about using Oxygen-Molecule for GTK apps instead of QtCurve? It seems to integrate better and is very very highly rated on KDE-Look: http://www.kde-look.org/content/show.php/Oxygen-Molecule+KDE+%26+GTK%2B+unified+theme?content=103741
* Nit-picking, but could the PackageKit plasmoid have a minimum height? Buttons look strange over the icon: https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KarmicKoala/Alpha5/Kubuntu?action=AttachFile&amp;do=get&amp;target=kpackagekit2.png
Other than that it's looking great!
* Kubuntu Netbook alpha 5 - Font size in GTK apps seems to be twice as big as KDE apps and no way of changing the size. Newly installed apps don't appear until netbook is rebooted.
