{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:foo
* '''Created''': Tom Halchuk
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

A mechanism is needed by the user to provide developers feedback for the user experience regarding all aspects of the user experience. Such as installation, peripherals, UI, application issues, wishlist items, bugs, etc

The application(s) should include bug/wishlist reporting, detailed how to's, peripheral setup help, hardware/driver lookup and other basic user information.

The mechanism would be an application or applications a user would initiate by clicking.

1)  
The application then performs a hardware/driver inventory and stores to a file.
An LP account would be created for the user (optional) or for the OEM
Popup asks user to discribe the issue and possible resolution they would like to see

2)
The application would direct them to a forum specifically for the issue they are having. 

3)
Peripheral setup (printers, scanners, bluetooth, etc) links or help pages

4)
User has an idea that would make the an application easier to use , perform better or just be more in line with the way the application is used.

 

=== Release Note ===

This section should include a paragraph describing the end-user impact of this change.  It is meant to be included in the release notes of the first release in which it is implemented.  (Not all of these will actually be included in the release notes, at the release manager's discretion; but writing them is a useful exercise.)

It is mandatory.

=== Rationale ===

The application(s) would create a larger word of mouth buzz about Ubuntu and open source.  The application(s) would provide developers with a direct connection to the user's experience.  

=== User stories ===
Bob has a new peripheral and tries to install it.  Is not sure how to install the device.  The terminology is foriegn to him.  He gives up.

Suzy has a suggestion to make installation or upgrades to an application easier.  She wants to let ubuntu know.  Doesn't know how to or who to send the idea to in Ubuntu.

Chris has found a bug in the build.  He wants to report it.  

Debbie cannot get her camera to work.  She wants to report the issue and get help

Joe wants to know what hardware/drivers he has loaded

The classroom members have just loaded Ubuntu.  They want to customize their devices. Such as themes, networks, etc. 
 

=== Assumptions ===

App comes prefloaded  and does not effect overall system performance

User information is kept private

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
