{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
The Ubuntu team is pleased to announce the beta release of Ubuntu 9.10
Desktop and Server editions, and the Ubuntu Netbook Remix.  Codenamed
"Karmic Koala", 9.10 continues Ubuntu's proud tradition of integrating the
latest and greatest open source technologies into a high-quality,
easy-to-use Linux distribution.

Ubuntu 9.10 Desktop Edition improves on the work of 9.04 to get you going
faster, with improved startup times and a streamlined boot experience.

Ubuntu 9.10 Server Edition integrates Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud setup in the
installer and provides improvements to system security with AppArmor,
including an AppArmor profile for libvirtd to further isolate virtual
machines from the host system.

The Ubuntu 9.10 family of variants, Kubuntu, Xubuntu, Edubuntu, Ubuntu
Studio, and Mythbuntu, also reach beta status today.

Desktop features
----------------

GNOME 2.28 featuring Empathy:  with this latest beta release, Ubuntu now
uses the Empathy instant messaging service by default, introducing the
Telepathy framework.

Ubuntu Software Center:  the first step in a replacement for Add/Remove
Software has landed for testing and feedback.

New boot experience:  multiple changes to look, feel and speed of
the boot experience have been included in the Ubuntu 9.10 beta.

Please see http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/karmic/beta for details.

Server features
---------------

Cloud computing:  Ubuntu 9.10 builds on the tantalizing cloud support in
Ubuntu 9.04, with support for Eucalyptus configuration at install time and
publishing of standard VM images for UEC.

AppArmor:  Ubuntu 9.10 continues to raise the bar for server security, with
AppArmor profiles enabled by default for ntpd and libvirt providing another
layer of protection from attacks on the network or via guest virtual
machines.

Ubuntu Netbook Remix features
-----------------------------
Ubuntu Netbook Remix is optimised to run on Intel atom based netbooks. It
includes a new consumer-friendly interface that allows users to quickly and
easily get on-line and use their favourite applications. This interface is
optimised for a retail sales environment.

It includes the same faster boot times and improved boot experience as
Ubuntu desktop.

Kubuntu features
----------------

Kubuntu 9.10, built on KDE 4.3, brings users a complete, full-featured KDE4
desktop with many new applications and innovations.

This is the first release for a new Kubuntu variant, Kubuntu Netbook Edition. 
Built on a Kubuntu base, it brings users an exciting first look at KDE's 
netbook-oriented desktop environment.

Please see https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KarmicKoala/Beta/Kubuntu for all the
details.

Xubuntu features
----------------

Xubuntu 9.10 comes with the light-weight Xfce 4.6 desktop environment
to provide a desktop designed for productivity while conserving system
resources.

Xubuntu 9.10 is proud to offer an improved multimedia experience with
the Exaile media player, a more integrated power management solution
with the Xfce4 power manager, and more convenience built right in with
improved multimedia volume key support and more consistent desktop
notifications.

Please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/KarmicKoala/Beta for the
full list and details about all the great enhancements Xubuntu 9.10 
has to offer.

Edubuntu features
-----------------

Edubuntu 9.10 transitions from an add-on educational CD that depended on
an existing Ubuntu installation to a full Ubuntu derivative delivered on
as a DVD image. This allows prospective users and decision makers to try
the educational offerings prior to installation and the flexibility to 
make Edubuntu a first class educational operating system.

Mythbuntu features
------------------

Mythbuntu 9.10 introduces MythTV 0.22.  The entire stack has been ported
to QT4 and now allows for very neat UI effects.  Also 0.22 adds support
for VDPAU hardware acceleration, and HD-PVR hardware support.

Please see http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/Release_Notes_-_0.22 for more details
about things introduced in 0.22.

See http://mythbuntu.org/9.10/beta for information about the Mythbuntu
beta release.

Other
-----

* On the Desktop: GNOME 2.28, KDE 4.3, XFCE 4.6.1, OpenOffice.org 3.1.1,
  X.Org server 1.6.3

* On the Server: Apache 2.2, PostgreSQL 8.4, PHP 5.2.10, LTSP 5.1

* "Under the hood": GCC 4.4.1, glibc 2.10, Linux 2.6.31.1, Python 2.6.2

The full release notes can be found at
http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/karmic/beta

About Ubuntu
------------

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops, laptops, and
servers, with a fast and easy installation and regular releases.  A
tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications is included, and an
incredible variety of add-on software is just a few clicks away.

Professional technical support is available from Canonical Limited and
hundreds of other companies around the world.  For more information about
support, visit http://www.ubuntu.com/support

To Get Ubuntu 9.10 Beta
-----------------------

To upgrade to Ubuntu 9.10 Beta from Ubuntu 9.04,
follow these instructions:

https://help.ubuntu.com/community/KarmicUpgrades

'''FIXME:''' populate this with current mirror list at the time of the announcement

Or, download Ubuntu 9.10 Beta here (choose the mirror closest to you):

  Africa:

*** http://bw.releases.ubuntu.com/9.10 (Botswana)
*** http://ls.releases.ubuntu.com/9.10 (Lesotho)
*** http://mz.releases.ubuntu.com/9.10 (Mozambique)
*** http://sz.releases.ubuntu.com/9.10 (Swaziland)
*** http://ubuntu.mirror.ac.za/ubuntu-release/9.10 (South Africa)
*** http://zw.releases.ubuntu.com/9.10 (Zimbabwe)

  Asia:

*** ftp://ftp.corbina.net/pub/Linux/ubuntu-cd/9.10 (Russian Federation)
*** http://ftp.cse.yzu.edu.tw/pub/Linux/Ubuntu/ubuntu-cd/9.10 (Taiwan)
*** http://ftp.daum.net/ubuntu-releases/9.10 (Korea, Republic of)
*** http://ftp.linux.org.tr/ubuntu-releases/9.10 (Turkey)
*** http://ftp.tcc.edu.tw/iso/Ubuntu/9.10 (Taiwan)
*** http://ftp.twaren.net/Linux/Ubuntu/ubuntu-cd/9.10 (Taiwan)

  Europe:

*** http://de.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-releases/9.10 (Germany)
*** http://ubuntu.ipacct.com/releases/9.10 (Bulgaria)
*** http://se.releases.ubuntu.com/9.10 (Sweden)
*** http://nl.releases.ubuntu.com/releases/9.10 (Netherlands)
*** http://es.releases.ubuntu.com/9.10 (Spain)
*** http://ftp-stud.hs-esslingen.de/pub/Mirrors/releases.ubuntu.com/9.10 (Germany)

  North America:

*** http://mirror.anl.gov/pub/ubuntu-iso/CDs/9.10 (United States)
*** http://less.cogeco.net/ubuntu-releases/9.10 (Canada)
*** http://linux.nssl.noaa.gov/releases/9.10 (United States)
*** http://mirror.csclub.uwaterloo.ca/ubuntu-releases/9.10 (Canada)
*** http://mirrors.ccs.neu.edu/releases.ubuntu.com/9.10 (United States)
*** http://mirrors.gigenet.com/ubuntu/9.10 (United States)

  Oceania/Australia:

*** http://ftp.citylink.co.nz/ubuntu-releases/9.10 (New Zealand)
*** http://ubuntu-releases.optus.net/9.10 (Australia)
*** http://mirror.internode.on.net/pub/ubuntu/releases/9.10 (Australia)
*** http://mirror.pacific.net.au/linux/ubuntu-releases/9.10 (Australia)
*** http://planetmirror.com/pub/ubuntu/releases/9.10 (Australia)

  South America:

*** http://ubuntu.c3sl.ufpr.br/releases/9.10 (Brazil)
*** http://espelhos.edugraf.ufsc.br/ubuntu-releases/9.10 (Brazil)
*** http://ftp.ucr.ac.cr/ubuntu-cd/9.10 (Costa Rica)

  Rest of the world:

    http://releases.ubuntu.com/9.10 (Great Britain)

Please download using Bittorrent if possible.

The final version of Ubuntu 9.10 is expected to be released in October 2009.

Feedback and Participation
--------------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways you
can participate at

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help turn this
Beta into the best release of Ubuntu ever.  Please note that, where
possible, we prefer that bugs be reported using the tools provided, rather
than by visiting Launchpad directly.  Instructions can be found at

  https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but are not
sure, first try asking on the #ubuntu IRC channel on FreeNode, on the Ubuntu
Users mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Ubuntu and about this preview release on our
website, IRC channel and wiki. If you are new to Ubuntu, please visit:  

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's
very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

</pre>
