{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-doc/+spec/karmic-serverguide|karmic-serverguide]]</nowiki>
* '''Created''': 04-09-2009
* '''Contributors''': Ubuntu Doc Team
* '''Packages affected''': ubuntu-serverguide

=== Summary ===

Gather and confirm ideas on additions and updates for the Server Guide during the Ubuntu 9.10 release cycle. 

=== Release Note ===

* New IRC section.
* New Jabber section.
* New Nagios section.
* New Munin section.
* New OpenVPN section.

=== Rationale ===

A significant amount of problems with any computer system can be solved with good documentation. To that end having relevant and up to date documentation for the Ubuntu Server Edition is a worthwhile venture.

=== Use Cases ===

Documentation shipped with Ubuntu Server Edition in the ubuntu-serverguide package. Also, the content is available on the help.ubuntu.com web site. 

=== Assumptions ===

Server admins are reading the Server Guide. 

=== Design ===

Currently the Ubuntu Server Guide is drafted in DocBook XML files. There are also corresponding pages in the Community Wiki related to topics in the guide. 

=== Implementation ===

Confirm or add to the proposed list of ideas gathered on the ServerTeam/IdeaPool page. Then document the confirmed subjects in DocBook format. Also, updating any relevant pages in the community wiki. 

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

** Server Monitoring
** Nagios '''Done'''
** Munin '''Needs Review'''

* Chat Server
** jabberd2 '''Needs Review'''
** IRC server '''Needs Review'''

* Clustering
** Redhat Cluster Suite
** Apache service cluster

* Credential caching for LDAP and Kerberos client authentication.
 
* OpenVPN '''Needs Review'''
** Server perspective.
  
* Document encrypted swap.
** Tool to set up.
  
* Power management
** wakeonlan
** pmsuspend
** pmhibertnate

* Dynamic DNS updates via DHCP.

* Bug Fixes

* Updates to custom developed apps.
** ufw
** vmbuilder

* Section updates.

* Mail Section
** Better document the dovecot-postfix package.
** Replace SMTPAUTH information. '''Needs Review'''
** Merge Dovecot section with Postfix.
 
* Improve Eucalyptus and OpenNebula sections.
** Add section euca2tools for Eucalyptus and EC2.

* Upgrading from an EOL release.

* Virtualization.
** Instructions for virtio disks.
** http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=859982

----
CategorySpec
