{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

Aquestes notes de la versió documenten problemes coneguts i qüestions a tenir en compte amb l'Ubuntu 9.10 i les seves variants.

== Requeriments del sistema ==

Els requeriments mínims de memòria de l'Ubuntu 9.10 són 256 MB (tingueu en compte que pot ser que part de la memòria del sistema no estigui disponible degut al fet que la targeta gràfica la utilitzi).

Si només disposeu de la quantitat de memòria requerida mínima, el procés d'instal·lació trigarà més del què és normal, però es completarà correctament i el sistema funcionarà adequadament un cop hagi finalitzat la instal·lació.

Els sistemes amb poca memòria poden utilitzar el CD per a la instal·lació de l'escriptori amb l'opció d'arrencada «Instal·la l'Ubuntu». D'aquesta manera només s'executarà l'instal·lador en comptes de carregar l'escriptori complet. També és possible que puguin utilitzar el CD d'instal·lació alternativa.

== Notes de la versió de l'Ubuntu 9.10 per a l'arquitectura ARM ==

Les notes de la versió per a desenvolupadors portada a l'armel de l'Ubuntu 9.10 s'inclouen en una pàgina separada a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/KarmicReleaseNotes]]</nowiki> (en anglès), on hi trobareu informació de possibles problemes que impactin la instal·lació en sistemes ARM.

== Instal·lació ==

=== Els paquets recomanats s'instal·len ara per defecte ===

En acordança amb el manual de les directives de Debian (el qual especifica que el camp «Recommends» d'un paquet hauria de mostrar una llista de paquets que haurien d'estar instal·lats juntament amb aquell a totes les instal·lacions habituals), el sistema de gestió de paquets instal·la ara de manera predeterminada els paquets llistats en el camp Recommends:, tal com es fa amb aquells marcats com a Depends:. Si voleu evitar aquest comportament per a paquets individuals, utilitzeu l'ordre `apt-get --no-install-recommends`, i si voleu evitar-ho permanentment, establiu l'opció `APT::Install-Recommends "false";` al fitxer `/etc/apt/apt.conf`. Tingueu en compte però que això pot resultar en la manca de funcions en alguns programes.

Nota: aquest canvi ja es dugué a terme a l'Ubuntu 8.10.

=== Pot ser que l'opció d'hibernar no estigui disponible si es duu a terme el partiment automàtic ===

En alguns casos, la recepta de partiment predeterminada de l'instal·lador crearà una partició d'intercanvi de mida més petita que la memòria física del sistema. Això ocasionarà que no es pugui hibernar, atès que la imatge del sistema no cabrà a la partició d'intercanvi. Si voleu utilitzar la hibernació al vostre sistema, hauríeu d'assegurar-vos que la mida de la partició d'intercanvi és com a mínim tan gran com la de la memòria RAM física. (Bug:345126)

=== Cal actualitzar manualment la llista de paquets abans d'instal·lar controladors ===

L'eina «controladors de maquinari» (el Jockey) requereix tenir llistes de paquets actualitzades abans de poder detectar i notificar els paquets de controladors necessaris. Immediatament després de'una instal·lació nova però, aquestes llistes no estan disponibles. Abans d'executar el Jockey per primera vegada, haureu d'actualitzar les llistes de paquets des del menú <code>Sistema->Administració->Gestor d'actualitzacions</code> (a l'Ubuntu) o executar l'aplicació «KPackageKit» (al Kubuntu). (Bug:462704)

=== No es mostren altres opcions de SO en el menú d'arrencada en instal·lar l'Ubuntu 9.10 RC ===

Després d'una instal·lació de la versió candidata (RC) de l'Ubuntu 9.10 no es mostren correctament els altres sistemes operatius instal·lats al menú d'arrencada. Per a corregir-ho, haureu d'executar l'ordre <code>sudo update-grub</code> en el terminal després d'iniciar el sistema Ubuntu. Aquest problema segurament no és present en instal·lacions de la versió final de l'Ubuntu 9.10. (Bug:456776)

=== Automatic boot from a degraded RAID array not configured upon installation ===

The installer option to support "boot from a degraded array" does not properly configure the installed system.  To correct this after installation, run <code>dpkg-reconfigure mdadm</code> after installation and select the option again. (Bug:462258)

=== OEM "prepare for shipping" icon not shown in Kubuntu Netbook Edition ===

When using the OEM installation option on Kubuntu Netbook Edition, no "prepare for shipping" icon is placed on the desktop.  Users who are doing OEM installations with Kubuntu Netbook Edition can access this feature under by choosing <code>System->Prepare for shipping ...</code> from the main bar. (Bug:386099)

=== UNR install confirmation dialog may be hidden ===

In some cases, the confirmation dialog at the end of a successful Ubuntu Netbook Remix installation will be hidden.  To reach the popup window prompting for reboot, you may click on it in the list of windows in the top panel or press Alt-Tab until you switch to it. (Bug:462178)

=== Wubi using persistent storage on a USB disk ===

Users who wish to run Wubi from a USB disk that has persistent storage enabled will need to run it with the <code>--force-wubi</code> option from the Windows command line. (Bug:461566)

=== No installer shortcut in Ubuntu Moblin Remix developer preview ===

The installer is not available as a shortcut on the welcome screen in the Ubuntu Moblin Remix developer preview.  To start the installation from a live session, open "Install Ubuntu" under Applications > Settings. (Bug:439656)

=== Instal·lacions amb una partició /boot separada ===

If there is a previously existing Ubuntu (or other Linux) installation and the
new one gets installed side by side (with e. g. using the "auto-resize"
option), the previous installation will not start from the boot menu. This is
due to wrong settings in the generated `/boot/grub/grub.cfg`.  A fix for this
issue will be provided in a post-release update immediately after the Ubuntu
9.10 release. (Bug:462961)

== Actualització ==

Els usuaris i usuàries de l'Ubuntu 9.04 podran dur a terme l'actualització a la versió 9.04 de manera convenient a través d'un procés automatitzat. Els usuaris de versions més antigues de l'Ubuntu hauran d'actualitzar-les a la 9.04 abans i seguidament a la 9.10. Podreu trobar instruccions completes per a l'actualització a http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading (en anglès).

Els usuaris i usuàries del Kubuntu podran realitzar l'actualització directament des de la versió 8.04 a la 9.04, tot i que és recomanable que els qui ho facin llegeixin les <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IntrepidReleaseNotes/ca|notes de llançament de l'Ubuntu 8.10]]</nowiki> i les <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JauntyJackalope/ReleaseNotes/ca|notes de llançament de l'Ubuntu 9.04]]</nowiki>, ja que tot allò a tenir en compte per aquella versió també és vàlid.

=== Ja no es permet establir el domini de regulació sense fil a través d'una opció de mòdul ===

L'Ubuntu 9.10 habilita l'infraestructura de regulació sense fil CRDA per a controlar quins canals de xarxa sense fil es poden utilitzar i són visibles en una ubicació determinada. En cas que anteriorment haguéssiu hagut d'utilitzar l'opció de mòdul similar a la de sota en el fitxer /etc/modprobe.d/options pper a poder accedir a determinats canals de la vostra ubicació, pot ser que us trobeu que la xarxa sense fil no funcioni:

    options cfg80211 ieee80211_regdom=EU

Hauríeu de suprimir aquesta opció de mòdul del nucli en actualitzar a l'Ubuntu 9.10, i en el seu lloc utilitzar l'ordre <code>iw reg</code>.

(Aquest canvi s'efectuà a l'Ubuntu 9.04.)

=== Cal activar manualment l'actualització des de la versió Beta ===

A bug in the apt package included in the Ubuntu 9.10 Beta prevents automatic notification of available package updates.  Users who have installed or upgraded to Ubuntu 9.10 prior to the Release Candidate should ensure that updates are being made available by running <code>update-manager</code> manually, clicking <code>Check</code>, and installing the presented updates. (Bug:449535)

=== X server crashes when using a wacom tablet ===

The wacom driver in Ubuntu 9.10 supports automatic configuration, but it conflicts with manual device entries for wacom tablets in <code>/etc/X11/xorg.conf</code>, causing the X server to crash either on startup or shutdown. Please comment out or remove the entries from <code>xorg.conf</code> to get rid of the crashes. (Bug:358643)

=== Manca la miniaplicació d'aturada en l'Ubuntu Netbook Remix després d'una actualització ===

After upgrading Ubuntu Netbook Remix, the shutdown applet may be absent from the top panel.  As a workaround, move the current applets to make some available space on the panel, then right-click in the freed space to add the "Indicator Applet Session" applet manually.  See Bug:461115 for detailed instructions.

=== Pot ser que el Kubuntu deixi instal·lat un paquet de gestió d'energia no necessari ===

Pot ser que l'actualització del Kubuntu deixi instal·lat al sistema els paquets «kde-guidance-powermanager» o «guidance-power-manager», tot i que ja no són necessaris. Si és el cas, els podeu suprimir.

=== Inhabilitació predeterminada de la combinació de tecles Ctrl-Alt-Retrocés a l'Xorg; configuració per l'XKB ===

Des de l'Ubuntu 9.04 la combinació de tecles Ctrl-Alt-Retrocés, utilitzada anteriormant per a reiniciar l'X, està inhabilitada per defecte. Això permet eliminar el problema de prémer la combinació per error.

  In addition, the Ctrl-Alt-Backspace option is now configured as an X keymap (XKB) option, replacing the X server "DontZap" option and allowing per-user configuration of this setting.

As a result, enabling or disabling the Ctrl+Alt+Backspace shortcut can now be done easily from the desktop.

==== Com habilitar la combinació Ctrl-Alt-Retrocés a l'Ubuntu ====

* Select "System"->"Preferences"->"Keyboard"
* Select the "Layouts" tab and click on the "Layout Options" button.
* Select "Key sequence to kill the X server" and enable "Control + Alt + Backspace".

==== Com habilitar la combinació Ctrl-Alt-Retrocés al Kubuntu ====

* Click on the Application launcher and select "System Settings"
* Click on "Regional & Language".
* Select "Keyboard Layout".
* Click on "Enable keyboard layouts" (in the Layout tab).
* Select the "Advanced" tab. Then select "Key sequence to kill the X server" and enable "Control + Alt + Backspace".

Per a obtenir-ne més informació, vegeu: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/DontZap (en anglès)

=== Canvi en la notificació d'actualitzacions disponibles ===

L'Ubuntu 9.10 executa el gestor d'actualitzacions <code>update-manager</code> per a encarregar-se de les actualitzacions de paquets directament en lloc de mostrar una icona al quadre del GNOME. Tot i això, encara es notificarà als usuaris sobre actualitzacions de seguretat a diari, però les actualitzacions que no siguin relacionades amb la seguretat es notificaran només un cop a la setmana.

Aquells que vulguin continuar rebent notificacions sobre actualitzacions tal com abans, podran recuperar el funcionament anterior utilitzant l'ordre següent:

<pre>
gconftool -s --type bool /apps/update-notifier/auto_launch false
</pre>

(Aquest canvi es dugué a terme a l'Ubuntu 9.04.)

=== Actualització de la MySQL ===

In Ubuntu 9.10 MySQL 5.1 has been promoted as the default MySQL server. MySQL 5.0 is still available from the universe repository though. Performing an upgrade via update-manager will correctly handle the transition from MySQL 5.0 to MySQL 5.1. However using a dist-upgrade will not: mysql-server-5.0 will be upgraded instead of being replaced by mysql-server-5.1. If MySQL 5.0 needs to be kept the '''mysql-server''' and '''mysql-client''' packages should be removed before the upgrade is started. 

==== MySQL Cluster setup ====

If MySQL has been setup to use the MySQL Cluster engine (NDB engine) upgrade to MySQL 5.1 will '''not''' work since the mysql-dfsg-5.1 packages don't support MySQL Cluster. Instead '''mysql-server''' and '''mysql-client''' should be removed before upgrade and mysql-server-5.0 should be kept. update-manager will automatically take care of this situation. Note that MySQL 5.0 is in universe and thus won't have have the same maintenance coverage as MySQL 5.1 (which is in main).

=== Ja no s'utilitza el directori /etc/event.d ===

The version of <code>upstart</code> included in Ubuntu 9.10 no longer uses the configuration files in the <code>/etc/event.d</code> directory, looking to <code>/etc/init</code> instead.  No automatic migration of changes to <code>/etc/event.d</code> is possible.  If you have modified any settings in this directory, you will need to reapply them to <code>/etc/init</code> in the new configuration format by hand. (Bug:402759)

=== Actualització del Syslog ===

The `sysklogd` package has been replaced with `rsyslog`.  Configurations in `/etc/syslog.conf` will be automatically converted to `/etc/rsyslog.d/50-default`.  If you modified the log rotation settings in `/etc/cron.daily/sysklogd` or `/etc/cron.weekly/sysklogd`, you will need to change the new configurations in `/etc/logrotate.d/rsyslog`.  Also note that the prior rotation configurations used `.0` as the first rotated file extension, and now via logrotate it will be `.1`.

=== Eucalyptus 1.5 snapshots not preserved on upgrade to 1.6 ===

If a system running Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud on Ubuntu 9.04 is upgraded to Ubuntu 9.10, any existing snapshots will be unavailable after upgrade. Users affected by this issue may wish to defer their upgrade until a complete migration guide from Ubuntu 9.04 to Ubuntu 9.10 is made available at <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEC]]</nowiki> at a later time. (Bug:4298781)

== Altres problemes coneguts ==

=== El canvi a ext4 requereix l'actualització manual del GRUB ===

Si heu triat d'actualitzar en viu els sistemes de fitxers `/` o `/boot` dels formats ext2 o ext3 a l'ext4 (tal com es documenta al <nowiki>[[http://ext4.wiki.kernel.org/index.php/Ext4_Howto#Converting_an_ext3_filesystem_to_ext4|wiki de l'ext4]]</nowiki>), també ''haureu'' d'utilitzar l'ordre `grub-install` després de l'actualització a l'Ubuntu 9.10 per a tornar a instal·lar el carregador d'arrencada. Si no ho feu, la versió del GRUB instal·lada al sector d'arrencada no podrà llegir el nucli del sistema de fitxers ext4 i el vostre sistema no podrà arrencar.

=== Possible corruption of large files with ext4 filesystem ===

There have been some reports of data corruption with fresh (not upgraded) ext4 file systems using the Ubuntu 9.10 kernel when writing to large files (over 512MB). The issue is under investigation, and if confirmed will be resolved in a post-release update. Users who routinely manipulate large files may want to consider using ext3 file systems until this issue is resolved. (Bug:453579)

=== Ubuntu One client requires post-install upgrade ===

A serious bug in the Ubuntu One client software included in Ubuntu 9.10 that could potentially result in loss of data has led to disabling file syncing access for this client version on the Ubuntu One servers as a precaution.  Users who see a "Capabilities Mismatch" error when trying to use Ubuntu One should install the post-release upgrade of the client that will be made available immediately after release, fixing the original bug and restoring file syncing access to the Ubuntu One servers.   Files are still available via the web interface at <nowiki>[[http://one.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>.

Contact syncing and tomboy syncing services are not affected by this issue.

=== Les tasques de l'Upstart no es poden executar en un entorn chroot ===

Upstart jobs cannot be started in a chroot because upstart acts as a service supervisor, and processes within the chroot are unable to communicate with the upstart running outside of the chroot (Bug:430224).  This will cause some packages that have been converted to use upstart jobs instead of init scripts to fail to upgrade within a chroot.  Users are advised to configure their chroots with /sbin/initctl pointing to /bin/true, with the following commands run within the chroot:

<pre>
dpkg-divert --local --rename --add /sbin/initctl
ln -s /bin/true /sbin/initctl
</pre>

=== Login screen presented before optional filesystems are mounted ===

With the new <code>upstart</code>-based boot process in Ubuntu 9.10, the X server will be started, and the login screen launched, as soon as the core filesystems are available.  This means that optional filesystems, mounted at locations not required for the system to boot, may not be mounted yet at login time, and may even fail to mount in the case of a filesystem check error.

Users who prefer the previous behavior of waiting for all filesystems to be mounted before launching the login screen can add the <code>bootwait</code> option to these filesystems in <code>/etc/fstab</code>. (Bug:439604)

=== Avahi will not start if a .local domain is present ===

The <code>avahi-daemon</code> package, which implements the mDNS "zeroconf" standard, includes a check to avoid running when a conflicting <code>.local</code> DNS domain is present.  It is reported that some ISPs advertise such a <code>.local</code> domain on their networks, which will leave Ubuntu 9.10 hosts unable to see names advertised on the local network (Bug:327362).

To force the use of mDNS on a network configured this way, users can run the commands:

<pre>
sudo sed -i -e'/AVAHI_DAEMON_DETECT_LOCAL/s/1/0/' /etc/default/avahi-daemon
sudo service avahi-daemon start
</pre>

=== Disabling Ralink rt2860 wifi on EeePC with Fn+F2 hotkey causes a kernel crash ===

Using the Fn+F2 hotkey to disable the wireless antenna on an EeePC that uses a Ralink rt2860 chip (EeePC 900 and 1000 series) results in a kernel panic that will hang the system.  A fix for this issue is expected to be provided in a post-release update immediately after the Ubuntu 9.10 release. (Bug:404626)

=== bison webcam in MSI Wind netbook causes USB errors if not disabled ===

An error in the <code>uvcvideo</code> driver used for the bison webcam in certain MSI Wind and related netbooks causes USB support to fail, resulting in an inability to use USB devices or suspend/resume the netbook.  As a workaround, users can disable the camera before boot using the Fn+F6 hotkey. (Bug:435352)

=== No Xv support for Intel 82852/855GM video chips with KMS ===

When using the default kernel-mode-setting (KMS) option in Ubuntu 9.10, users with Intel 82852/855GM cards will find that they are unable to use the Xv extension for playing videos.  This may show up as high CPU usage or stuttering during video playback, or a failure to play videos at all with some applications.  As a workaround, users can add the option <code>nomodeset</code> to the kernel boot options in the grub config (for GRUB 2: edit `/etc/default/grub` and add `nomodeset` to `GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX`, then run `sudo update-grub`; for GRUB 1: edit `/boot/grub/menu.lst` and add `nomodeset` to the line beginning with `# kopt=`, then run `sudo update-grub`), to disable the use of KMS. (Bug:395932)

=== Brightness flickering on MSI Wind netbooks with KMS ===

A bug in the kernel-mode-setting (KMS) brightness handling on certain MSI Wind netbooks, including the U90, U100, and U120, results in a bad flickering effect whenever the brightness is changed on the desktop, as the brightness is repeatedly raised and then lowered.  Users affected by this issue can use the same workaround as described in the previous note to disable KMS. (Bug:415023)

=== Kubuntu GUI package manager does not warn about installing from unsigned package repositories ===

The <code>kpackagekit</code> package manager used in Kubuntu 9.10 does not notify users if the packages they are installing come from repositories that are not secured with PGP.  Users who have unsigned package repositories in their <code>/etc/apt/sources.list</code> configuration and wish to be informed of any packages installed from these sources should use the <code>apt-get</code> commandline tool as a workaround. (Bug:256245)

=== Amarok will not offer to download additional codecs when running Kubuntu from the live CD ===

When started from the live session, Amarok will not offer to download additional media codecs when needed, so, for example, it will be unable to play MP3 files. This will work normally after the system is installed to the hard disk. (Bug:362538)

=== Evince PDF viewer does not work for nonstandard home directories ===

Evince, the GNOME document viewer, now ships with an enforcing AppArmor profile. This greatly increases security by protecting users against flaws in the historically problematic PDF and image libraries. Users who use a non-standard location for their home directory will need to adjust the home tunable in /etc/apparmor.d/tunables/home. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingApparmor#Adjusting%20Tunables for details.

=== UEC may refuse to serve the first requests received after startup ===

On startup a UEC system may not process requests correctly, for instance returning "403 Forbidden" errors in response to some client requests. This is caused by a database deadlock condition which is automatically cleared after some retries.  To workaround this issue you can restart eucalyptus on the cluster controller by running "sudo restart eucalyptus" after boot. (Bug:444352)

=== UEC Node Controller installation failure in an existing UEC ===

Extending an existing Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud may fail during node controller installation started using the "Install Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud" option on the server CD. The node installation reports that the preseed file cannot be downloaded from the Cluster Controller, because the wrong IP address is used to connect to the Cluster Controller.

As a workaround for this issue, users can install a standard Ubuntu 9.10 server and then install the <code>eucalyptus-nc</code> package after reboot. Additionally, the system's primary ethernet interface will need to be configured as a bridge and the public ssh key of the Cloud Controller's eucalyptus user will need to be manually copied into the <code>authorized_keys</code> file of the Node Controller's eucalyptus user. More detailed instructions can be found in Step 3 of the UEC Package Install tutorial at <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEC/PackageInstall]]</nowiki>. (Bug:458904)

=== Confirmation emails for new UEC users not sent ===

When a new user is created in the UEC admin interface, an email is sent to the user to confirm the registration.  A bug in the smtp configuration of UEC prevents the Cloud Controller from accepting and forwarding the confirmation email to the end user.  As a workaround, edit the postfix configuration file <code>/etc/postfix/main.cf</code> on the Cloud Controller to comment out the <code>mynetworks</code> option and add a <code>mynetworks_style</code> option set to <code>host</code> instead:

<pre>
## mynetworks = 127.0.0.0/8 [::ffff:127.0.0.0]/104 [::1]/128
  mynetworks_style = host
</pre>

Then reload postfix with <code>sudo service postfix reload</code>. (Bug:459101)

=== UEC user-data not usable by guest instances ===

When user data is passed to an instance started with <code>euca-run-instances</code> (using either the <code>-d</code>, <code>--user-data</code> option or the <code>-f</code>, <code>--user-data-file</code> option), the data returned at <code>http://169.254.169.254/latest/user-data</code> will be base64-encoded.  <code>ec2-init</code> is unable make use of this user data because it must be decoded before use.  A fix for this issue is expected to be provided in a post-release update immediately after the Ubuntu 9.10 release. (Bug:461156)

=== Ubuntu 8.04 LTS crashes as a KVM guest when using virtio networking ===

Ubuntu 8.04 LTS using virtio networking as a KVM guest may crash when running on an Ubuntu 9.10 host.  As a workaround, such guests should use either e1000 or rtl839 as the networking model. A fix for the bug is currently in progress and will be included in an update to the qemu-kvm package in Karmic. (Bug:458521)

=== Windows 7 domain member fails to authenticate to Ubuntu 9.10 Samba domain controller ===

After upgrading a Samba domain controller to Ubuntu 9.10, Windows 7 domain members will not be able to authenticate to it even if their registry settings were modified as outlined in <nowiki>[[http://wiki.samba.org/index.php/Windows7]]</nowiki> prior to joining the Samba domain.  A fix for this issue will be provided in a post-release update immediately after the Ubuntu 9.10 release. (Bug:462626)

=== Samba nmbd daemon not started during boot ===

On an Ubuntu 9.10 system with Samba installed, the <code>nmbd</code> daemon may fail to start on boot.  To workaround this problem, restart the samba service once the system has finished booting by running <code>sudo service samba restart</code>. A fix for this issue will be provided in a post-release update. (Bug:462169)

=== Sparc not supported by Ubuntu 9.10 ===

The upstart init system in Ubuntu 9.10 fails to work on the sparc architecture due to an undiagnosed SIGBUS error.  Users of Ubuntu on sparc are advised to remain on Ubuntu 9.04 instead of upgrading to 9.10.  Assistance in resolving this architecture-specific bug for Ubuntu 10.04 is welcome. (Bug:436758)

=== Window corruption with older ATI graphics cards ===
 
With older ATI graphics cards with 32MB of video ram or fewer some
corruption of direct rendered windows, for example OSD notifier windows.  This may be worked round by disabling 'RenderAccel' in the Xorg configuration.  (Bug:426582)

To do this first create an Xorg configuration file with the command below:
<pre>
sudo Xorg -configure
</pre>

Adding the 'RenderAccel' option as below:
<pre>
Section "Device"
        ...
        Driver "radeon"
        Option "RenderAccel" "off"
EndSection
</pre>
