{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''This is a draft.''' The release is not out.  Whoever told you that is pulling your leg.
<pre>
The Ubuntu team is pleased to announce Ubuntu 9.10 Desktop and Server
editions, Ubuntu 9.10 Server for Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud (UEC) and Amazon's
EC2, and Ubuntu Netbook Remix, continuing Ubuntu's tradition of integrating
the latest and greatest open source technologies into a high-quality,
easy-to-use Linux distribution.

Read more about the features of Ubuntu 9.10 in the following press releases:

  Desktop edition    http://www.ubuntu.com/news/ubuntu-910
  Server edition     http://www.ubuntu.com/news/ubuntu-910-server-edition

Ubuntu 9.10 will be supported for 18 months on both desktops and servers.
Users requiring a longer support lifetime on the server may choose to
continue using Ubuntu 8.04 LTS, with security support until 2013, rather
than upgrading to 9.10.

Thanks to the efforts of the global translation community, Ubuntu is
available in 25 languages.  For a list of supported languages and detailed
translation statistics for these and other languages, see:

  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Translations/ReleaseLanguages/9.10

Ubuntu 9.10 includes the first official release of Ubuntu Server images for
UEC and for Amazon's EC2, giving you everything you need for rapid
deployment of Ubuntu instances in a cloud computing environment. UEC images,
and information on running Ubuntu 9.10 on EC2, are available at:

  http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/releases/9.10/release

Ubuntu 9.10 is also the basis for new 9.10 releases of Kubuntu, Xubuntu,
Edubuntu, UbuntuStudio, and Mythbuntu:

        Kubuntu      http://kubuntu.org/news/9.10-release
        Xubuntu      http://xubuntu.org/news/9.10-release
       Edubuntu      http://edubuntu.org/news/9.10-release
      Mythbuntu      http://mythbuntu.org/9.10/release
  Ubuntu Studio      https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/9.10release_notes

To Get Ubuntu 9.10
------------------

To download Ubuntu 9.10, or obtain CDs, visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu

Users of Ubuntu 9.04 will be offered an automatic upgrade to 9.10 via
Update Manager.  For further information about upgrading, see:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading

As always, upgrades to the latest version of Ubuntu are entirely free of
charge.

We recommend that all users read the release notes, which document
caveats and workarounds for known issues.  They are available at:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/910

Find out what's new in this release with a graphical overview:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/910overview

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but
aren't sure, try asking on the #ubuntu IRC channel, on the Ubuntu Users
mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

## ubuntu on irc.freenode.net
  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/

Ubuntu 9.10 for ARM architectures
---------------------------------

Ubuntu 9.10 is available for the ARM architecture.  Users should only
download these images if they have access to ARM chipsets or devices, as
they will not run on Intel-based machines.

Install instructions and images can be found here:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/products/whatisubuntu/arm

Helping Shape Ubuntu
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways
you can participate at:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

About Ubuntu
------------

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops, laptops,
netbooks and servers, with a fast and easy install and regular releases.  A
tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications is included, and an
incredible variety of add-on software is just a few clicks away.

Professional services, including support, are available from Canonical
Limited and hundreds of other companies around the world.  For more
information about support, visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/support

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Ubuntu and about this release on our website:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's
very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

</pre>
