{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Michael Kaulbach. Currently in Toronto, Canada. Introduced to Ubuntu with Hoary Hedgehog at a trade show in Toronto. Predominantly a Kubuntu user, however I also use classic Ubuntu as well as Xubuntu.

Member of <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-ca.org/|Ubuntu Canada]]</nowiki>

My <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mystic-scientist|Launchpad Page]]</nowiki>

Active volunteer and board member of <nowiki>[[http://www.torfree.net/|Toronto FreeNet]]</nowiki>.

Currently CTO of <nowiki>[[http://iluvmedia.com/|iLuvMedia]]</nowiki> primarily now working on a successor to our goggles-free 3D product the <nowiki>[[http://www.commander3d.com/|Commander3D]]</nowiki>.

Avid fisherman and life-long Toronto Maple Leafs fan.
== On IRC ==

Assisting users and moderating as necessary in #ubuntu,#ubuntu-offtopic ,#kubuntu, #kubuntu-offtopic, and various other channels in the *buntu namespaces on the Freenode IRC network.

Occasional ubottu factoid adding/editing/updating.

It is often my habit to use coffee in IRC actions to foster a sense of community.. handing a mug of coffee to someone, preparing a new pot, having a sip of coffee myself, and so on. Requested the ubottu !coffee factoid for #ubuntu-offtopic channel.

== Other Activities ==

Beta testing and bug reporting

I've held Toronto release-parties for <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LucidReleaseParties/ConfirmedParties|Lucid Lynx]]</nowiki> onwards. A ritual now of free coffee and decorate-your-own cupcakes which I bake. The release parties are always held on the day-of a new release at my local <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/venues/Canada/363/detail/ | Alio Lounge]]</nowiki> from 8PM onwards if you want to attend the next one!

Worked on adapting a Conexant Winmodem driver to function under 32bit editions of Xubuntu ( <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7340604&postcount=49|thread link here]]</nowiki> ), to help provide basic free internet connectivity to residents of Toronto, Canada in my work with <nowiki>[[http://www.torfree.net/|Toronto FreeNet]]</nowiki>.

Familiarized children and adults with Ubuntu ( and other flavours ) by dual-booting the computers in a community computer lab at <nowiki>[[http://www.artheart.ca/|ArtHeart Community Art Centre]]</nowiki>, also distributed official Ubuntu CDs from the ShipIt program to these users, and the larger community.

== Plans ==

To continue holding release-parties in Toronto and build awareness.

Continued work with Toronto FreeNet to provide affordable internet access and promote a wider use of open source software and awareness of Linux.

Ongoing assistance to users on IRC and elsewhere.

And of course, to keep the coffee flowing...

== Feedback ==

"I am delighted to log into #ubuntu-ca every morning to join genii-around already sipping his coffee.  Michael is our front-line event organizer for Ubuntu Toronto and does an excellent job coordinating with the rest of Ubuntu Canada.  I look forward to many more events in the future." -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dscassel]]</nowiki> 
As long as I've been on Ubuntu and Kubuntu IRC channels, genii has been a welcoming, calming presence. I look forward to seeing him a Kubuntu Member and becoming even more active in our shared channels. Working with him in testing has also been productive. I'm very happy to see him step up and apply for membership. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:valorie-zimmerman]]</nowiki> 