{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== KBFX: Usability ==
''KBFX is an alternative to the classical K-Menu button and it's menu. It improves the user experience by enabling the user to set a bigger (and thus more visible) start button and by finally replacing the Win95-like K-Menu.''

There are a lot of discussions about the usability of the K-Menu alternatives. KBFX is one of them and a usability review/study/improvement is important for its success.

=== Log out button position ===
The Log out task is the last one that the user does before he terminates his computer session. So it should be at the 'end' of the menu which is the right/down corner (according to the left to right written languages' system that most people are familiar with). The Windows XP menu does the same. So we should switch the positions of the logout and the lock button.

=== Keyboard Interaction ===
The user must be able to navigate around the menu using only his keyboard.

=== Mouses without wheel ===
The menu must be usable to users that use mouses without wheel. This is something that the current KBFX menu implements in a very bad/unusable way.

=== Input Text Widget Icon ===
Change/Improve the icon that is next to the input text widget. I really can't even imagine what is the metaphor of the current one.

 ---- 
''More comments will be added soon''

YanisKekatos
Thu Jul 13 04:21:16 EEST 2006
