{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''KCTeam Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

=== Update 25-July-2007 ===

It has been decided the LoCo for the greater Kansas City area is to be merged in with the MissouriTeam LoCo.  A good amount of members have already shown interest in a greater regional support.  If the interest is still present for a city LoCo, it will later be created as an extension of the MissouriTeam and KansasTeam LoCo.

=== Introduction ===

The LoCo for the greater Kansas City area has been dormant.  The originator of the LoCo, ''Joe Otero'', has taken a position which pulls him from the area.  We wish him the best in his new endeavors.  This brings us to a point of restructuring.  The decision has been made to merge the KCTeam with the MissouriTeam for now.

==== Changes Complete LoCoTeamRegions Guidelines ====

The LoCo is not in compliance with the LoCoTeamRegions.  The changes recently made were to make corrections to align with the standard unification.

* IRC channel has been unregistered.  For now, you can still receive local support through #ubuntu-missouri and #ubuntu-kansas.
* The Wiki page for UbuntuMissouri has been updated with the correct contact inforamtion.
* Email list ubuntu-us-mo and ubuntu-us-ks are both active and functioning.

=== Resources ===

==== Connect To The Community ====

The original points of communication still remain.  How ever a proposition has been made to bring the LoCo group communication back to the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org|UbuntuForums]]</nowiki>.  The LoCo group could then be linked to the group mailing list server on <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>

* Group: The Google groups are still active.  The official point of communication is through the mailing lists or the UbuntuForums
* Email: ubuntu-us-mo and ubuntu-us-ks are now active
* IRC Channel: #ubuntu-kc is defunct.  Regional channels include #ubuntu-missouri, #ubuntu-kansas, and #ubuntu-midwest on irc.freenode.net

Please remember to register the nick you use on Freenode

* To change your nickname type in /nick <nickname>
* To register your nick type in /msg nickserv register <password>

=== Online Meetings ===

Meetings for the MissouriTeam/Meetings are published and times have been set.  Coordinating with KansasTeam for information on the meeting schedules.

=== Goals ===

* Educating people about GNU/Linux
* Supplying Ubuntu where needed/wanted
* Supporting Ubuntu in our community

=== User Submissions ===

''Place Holder''

=== Documentation ===
''Place Holder''

=== Contact ===
''Place Holder''

=== External Resource ===
==== Missouri Region LUGs ====
* <nowiki>[[http://www.kclug.org/|Kansas City Linux User Group]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://bslug.solve.net/|Blue Springs Linux Users Group]]</nowiki>

==== Helpful Sites ====
* <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Documentation]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://howtoforge.com/|HowtoForge]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuguide.org/|Ubuntu Guide]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://psychocats.net/ubuntu/|Psychocats Ubuntu Guides]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxforums.org/forum/ubuntu-help/|Ubuntu on linuxforums.org]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryHomepage
