{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hi. My name is Kemas Yunus Antonius. You can call me either by nickname Anton or Kemas. I’m Indonesian, born 27 years ago, married, and have been living in many places in the world.

I have an Economics background. I do and manage Web and Linux development, build and maintain personal and corporate websites, have been involved in many web projects, personally or in team, and develop a generic Linux distribution (http://slampp.abangadek.com/). Besides that, I also involve in Oil and Gas Exploration and Production as a MWD/LWD Field Engineer and Technologist.

I do consulting work for the following fields:

*** Project Management
*** Web Development, Design and Services
*** Linux Development and Implementation
*** Measurement While Drilling (MWD)
*** Logging While Drilling (LWD)
*** Content Management System
*** Learning Management System
*** E-Commerce
*** Knowledge Management
*** Community Development
*** Technical Support

Open source is my passion. I try to use open source applications as far as possible to get the job done.

At the moment, I am affiliated with Conceptuous (http:/conceptuous.com), a Web development firm specializing in Python/Django based development. Conceptuous is an Australian-managed team of geographically distributed designers, developers, and managers within the Asia/Pacific region.

Conceptuous actively collaborates with clients in 10 countries.

----
CategoryHomepage
