{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Introduction ===
My name is Kenneth Alexander Endfinger. <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuone.com/7FwLhREJJ5pVJ7XmflkMk0|A picture of me!]]</nowiki>
I am hoping to contribute more than I am able to now. My strengths are in the debian package manager and bash scripting. I am also a creative thinker. 
   <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/kendfinger|Kenneth Endfinger on Twitter]]</nowiki>
   <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kendfinger/|Kenneth Endfinger on Launchpad]]</nowiki>
   <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/kendfinger|Kenneth Endfinger on Facebook]]</nowiki>
=== About Me ===
I am a very cool, interesting, and fun person. I am 13 years old. I have been with Ubuntu since 2009. I have worked very hard into contributing to Ubuntu. I am pretty good at DVCS control. I am willing to give my entire life to Linux. I am a good thinker. I am really GREAT at making up awesome ideas. I have some cool ideas, including, Ubuntu powered Universal remotes, a keyboard with a Ubuntu logo on the UBUNTU KEY (Windows key), and a whole line of Ubuntu colored servers. Who said that servers can't look great too. Please let me do this. I am so excited to hear about this. 
=== Contributions ===
I test all Ubuntu release images. I have lots of coding skills, so I have created multiple utilities, which will help out the entire Ubuntu team. I am also working on daily builds on almost every package that is actively developed. I am also developing a Mime-Type database with a Shell script built search and bind effect. It will search the file for magic file numbers using libmagic, and then will output that to a file. Then, I will use a python build api on Google App engine to add it to a database. This will also have a daemon that will find all files and put the mime types into the database. More on this after I am done with this application.

Also, I currently maintain a few PPA's. I use recipe builds to build Ubuntu Tweak, noVNC, and Git every time their branch gets pushed to. I work on Launchpad a lot. I have had lots of experience on Bazaar and other DVCS systems.

=== Future Goals ===
Become a Ubuntu Member and find lots of bugs! 
I plan to work at Google when I am older.
I want to help out with Ubuntu for the rest of my life!

=== Testimonials ===
WORK IN PROGRESS
----
CategoryUbuntuDevelopment CategoryUbuntuDevelopment
