{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Ken Minardo ===

I've been on kubuntu since breezy (11/24/05)...my hard drive crashed on my T20 IBM Thinkpad, after that, I didn't have a windows disk, nor the money to spend on one, so went ahead and took the dive into linux.

While I'm not the greatest at software programming, I do know HTML, Javascript, CSS, some PHP and am studying Python.

=== Currently ===

At this point in time, I am writing what I can for the DocumentationTeam/KubuntuDesktopGuide

I maintain the "Atlantik" package for klik. More information avalible here: <nowiki>[[http://atlantik.klik.atekon.de/]]</nowiki>

I try my best to help people in the IRC Channel #Kubuntu (on chat.freenode.net). I can usually be found there and #kubuntu-offtopic.
I go by the name "Snake"

=== History ===
11/24/05 -- Kubuntu Breezy Badger installed. First thoughts: What have I gotten myself into :)

02/07/06 -- Recruited into DocumentationTeam/KubuntuDesktopGuide

02/19/06 -- Picked up maintainership of Atlantik -- Klik

==== Total People I've Converted to (K)Ubuntu ====
'''''6!'''''
=== Contact me ===
Email: 
AIM: Snakedal337

MSN: Yadude2200@hotmail.com

I'm always available, and will always do what I can, where I can.

----
CategoryHomepage
