{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

IN RENOVATION.
-------

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| https://launchpad.net/~kenny4me93
|-
| '''GPG Key'''
| 9EA4E72F
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| Link to your forum account.
|-
| '''IRC''':
| List your registered nicks you use on IRC and on what networks
|-
| '''Email''':
| finishtheproject at gmail d0t com
|}

=== About Me ===
My name is Kenny Truong and I have been using Ubuntu on my Thinkpad and first started with 7.04. I am a big advocate for Ubuntu and have a passion of making Ubuntu better. I love to twinker and customize Ubuntu to the fullest extent or until I cannot think of anything else. In my spare time, I help repair computers without payment and teach people why Ubuntu can be a better option. When I am bored at home, I try many different Linux ISO and I also hand out countless of them to people who would also like to try them.

=== Future Plans & Projects ===
As of right now (2011), I am majoring in Computer Science in UC Irvine. I am in the process of learning different computer languages which I hope I can help make Ubuntu better. I also plan to showcase what Ubuntu can do and spread the word in campus which should get people interested. 

==== Current Project & Goals ====
 {*} Some people like to list short term goals.

=== Contributions to the Ubuntu Community ===
Note: Often people like to list their major contributions, so people know the good work they've done. When you apply for membership to restricted teams, the senior members usually like knowing what you've done before. In this example, several subsections exist. The more work you do, the longer this section will become.

==== Wiki ====
I've edited and made contributions to following pages...
 {*} Link to Wiki page, people can see page history you don't need to point out exactly what edits you made.

== Testimonials ==

----
CategoryHomepage
