{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Topics ===

* Website Development
** Hosting location - Canonical vs Local Server
** Modules- Calendar, Forum, Blog, Wiki, etc
** Content - Articles, How-to's, FAQ
** Access - Public, members, etc
* Charity Project update
=== Log ===

<pre>
20:02 <     etank> lets get this party started
20:03 <    bkingx> Go !!
20:03 <  montgoej> I'll be back in about 10 minutes or so
20:03 <    bkingx> ok, montgoej
20:03 <     etank> topics for the evening are at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/Meetings/2007May03
20:03 <     etank> basically Website ideas and Charity Project talk
20:03 <  pat40503> i missed most of my first party last week.Just started using ubuntu and had to use mIRC on windoze near tv and PC kept rebooting
20:04 <    bkingx> Well, glad yo made it back for this one!
20:04 <     etank> We have been doing some work on the website
20:04 <     etank> but we want to know what the team wants to see done with it
20:05 <     etank> it is a drupal install now so we can use any of the drupal modules
20:05 <     etank> it is still somewhat rough but see it here http://ubuntu-kentucky.org/
20:05 <     etank> the header image will change randomly on each refresh
20:06 <     etank> the artist that took the photos has given us permission to use the images (thanks bkingx)
20:06              >>> srwalter!n=srwalter@74-140-218-2.dhcp.insightbb.com
20:06 <  srwalter> lo guys
20:06 <     etank> sup srwalter 
20:06 <    bkingx> hey srwalter !
20:07 <     etank> to clarify, bkingx is not the photographer but he got the permission for us
20:07 <    bkingx> Yeah, the photographer is Jeff Rogers.  Just happen to find him on the Net, a local Lexingontian, and he donated the pics for us to use.
20:07 <     etank> the artists site is http://www.jeffrogers.com/kentuckywide/index.php
20:07 <    bkingx> Class act!!
20:07 <     etank> if you click on the image it will take you to his site
20:08 <     etank> srwalter: we are talking about http://ubuntu-kentucky.org/
20:08 <     etank> right now the site you are looking at is hosted by us on bkingx's server
20:08 <     etank> we also have kentucky.ubuntu-us.org and ky.ubuntu-us.org that canonical hosts
20:09 <     etank> we are trying to see if they will point the dns record to our server so that we can host it ourselves
20:10 <    bkingx> Right...we feel hosting it ourselves would be better in the long run.
20:10 <    bkingx> Gives us freedom to do what we want without space limitations.
20:10 <   jkeyes0> is it possible to use javascript to rotate the images at the top?
20:10 <     etank> hit the refresh jkeyes0 
20:11 <     etank> the code should be working 
20:11 <   jkeyes0> right, that's working. I thought you'd mentioned something earlier about wanting it to change while the page is up, nevermind. I"m still sick. :P
20:11 <  srwalter> who's hosting it?  I understand that the LoCo is, but what company?
20:11 <     etank> a box at bkingx's house
20:12 <    bkingx> srwalter: I am.....at my house
20:12 <    bkingx> box = big honkin server
20:12 <  srwalter> cool.  just abusing your cable modem (like I am?)
20:12 <     etank> ok so the questions about the site are:
20:12 <     etank> Hosting location - Canonical vs Local Server
20:12 <     etank> Modules- Calendar, Forum, Blog, Wiki, etc
20:12 <     etank> Content - Articles, How-to's, FAQ
20:13 <     etank> Access - Public, members, etc
20:13 <    bkingx> yup!!
20:13 <   zenwhen> hey all
20:13 <     etank> so do we want to host it or let canonical do it?
20:13 <     etank> sup zenwhen 
20:13 <    bkingx> My vote is us.
20:14 <  venomous> ~/say +1
20:14              >>> queenofthe1ring!n=erin@74-140-218-2.dhcp.insightbb.com
20:14 <    bkingx> Hey queenofthe1ring ~~
20:14 <    bkingx> !!
20:14 <     etank> anyone else with a vote on that?
20:15 < queenofth> hi bkingx!
20:15 <     etank> or if not a vote maybe a concern or question?
20:15 <    bkingx> My big concern is if Canonical will let us.
20:15 <     etank> it is my understanding that they are letting the Ohio team
20:16 <     etank> they are using Dreamhost as their hosting service
20:16              >>> tom8658!n=tom@74-140-169-73.dhcp.insightbb.com
20:16 <    bkingx> Awesome...then that should set the precedence fo us to do it too.
20:16 <   zenwhen> dreamhost is terrible
20:16 <   jkeyes0> ambivalence here. my only concern is if something happens to bkingx's server and/or internet connection.
20:17 <    bkingx> very possible, jkeyes0
20:17 <   zenwhen> I say let them host it if they will host it
20:17 <     etank> true there jkeyes0 
20:17 <    bkingx> We only get 500MB on their server.
20:17 <     etank> they are already hosting the kentucky.ubuntu-us.org and ky.ubuntu-us.org urls for us
20:17 <   jkeyes0> at the same time though, servers/connections can fail on the canonical side just as easily... but then, it's not on the shoulders of one person.
20:17 <     etank> 500Mb is a lot for a website though
20:17 <    bkingx> Yeah...true
20:18 <   zenwhen> bkingx: if we need more space, surely it will be something we can host offsite and link to
20:18 <    bkingx> Agree.
20:18 <     etank> im thinking that canonical will have a bigger pipe too
20:18 <   zenwhen> yes
20:18 <     etank> faster than what we can offer on a home server
20:18 <   zenwhen> That is another concern.
20:18 <     etank> but if we want to get a webfaction account or something like that then it is different
20:19 <     etank> con for canonical hosting: We only get one shell account
20:19 <    bkingx> !webfaction
20:19 <    ubotwo> Sorry, I know nothing about that - try http://help.ubuntu.com/community/
20:19 <    bkingx> Ouch!!
20:19 <     etank> bkingx: http://www.webfaction.com/
20:20 <     etank> so with only one shell account we will have to share
20:20 <     etank> and i already asked if we could have a second one and they said no
20:20 <  srwalter> that's not necessarily hard
20:20 <  srwalter> one person can keep the password
20:20 <   zenwhen> I say we either get a host or let them host us
20:20 <  srwalter> and everyone else can use SSH keys to log in
20:20 <   zenwhen> I dont trust insight that much
20:21              >>> becca!n=becca@CPE-76-177-32-206.natcky.res.rr.com
20:21 <     etank> anyone for letting them host it and then _if_ we need to move it we ask at that time?
20:21 <   zenwhen> +1
20:21 <     etank> that is what Ohio did and they were ok with it
20:21 <   jkeyes0> +1 here too.
20:21 <    bkingx> Who needs access via ssh?
20:21 <  srwalter> +1
20:21              etank +1
20:22 <     etank> venomous: your thoughts
20:22 <     etank> klb: what do you think?
20:22 <  venomous> re-thinking my earlier vote.  i'm now in agreement for canonical hosting...we take it if necessary
20:23 <     etank> bkingx: are you ok with that?
20:23              bkingx agrees.....still wants to know who needs ssh access
20:23 <  srwalter> http://maps.google.com/maps/ms?ie=UTF8&lr=lang_en&hl=en&msa=0&msid=103763259662194171141.000001119b4bc596127f8&ll=43.580391,-117.070312&spn=107.682492,239.0625&z=2&om=1
20:24 <     etank> well at this point i have the ssh account info
20:24 <   zenwhen> I dont need it
20:24 <    bkingx> Just the site developers, right?
20:24 <     etank> bkingx: yes
20:24 <    bkingx> Cool....I'm good with that then
20:24 <     etank> but as srwalter said we can allow others to hit it with keys if needed
20:25 <    bkingx> OK...you'll have to show me how to do that later
20:25              bkingx +1
20:25 <  srwalter> ssh keys rock.  go cryptography!
20:25 <     etank> w00t!
20:25 <  srwalter> (also, that map proves that PHP sucks... it's Canadian)
20:26 <     etank> ok then with taken care of, what do we want to see on the site?
20:26 <     etank> i.e. Calendar, Blog, Articles, How-to's, FAQ, planet
20:26 <  srwalter> do etank and bkingx have their blogs on planet ubuntu now?
20:27              etank does
20:27 <     etank> do we want to have an install of planet on our site for just team member blogs?
20:27 <     etank> a team calendar?
20:27              >>> seth!n=seth@207-246-87-141.dsl.blueone.net
20:27 <   zenwhen> member blogs, event calendar, online support system
20:27 <  montgoej> back
20:27              bkingx is not smart enough....yet
20:27 <     etank> allow members to have a blog hosted on the site?
20:28 <   zenwhen> hey etank
20:28 <    bkingx> +1 for all zenwhen , yes to etank
20:28 <   zenwhen> how did you get your plant ubuntu blog
20:28 <     etank> !hi | seth
20:28 <   zenwhen> planet*
20:28 <    ubotwo> seth: Hi! Welcome to #ubuntu-kentucky!
20:28 <      seth> yo yo
20:29 <  srwalter> hey seth
20:29 <     etank> zenwhen: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PlanetUbuntu
20:29 <  srwalter> I think the planet idea is an interesting one, but I'm not exactly an avid blogger
20:30 <     etank> srwalter: me either really
20:30 < queenofth> would it be restricted to computer related blogs?
20:30 <  srwalter> I got my 15 minutes of fame for those pictures you posted, tho
20:30 <    bkingx> But there are a few.
20:30              >>> Zuph!n=Brad@74-138-203-144.dhcp.insightbb.com
20:30 <      Zuph> Sorry I am late!
20:31 <    bkingx> I wouldn't think so, queenofthe1ring
20:31 <    bkingx> Hey Zuph
20:31 <    bkingx> Koji is very interested in doing stuff about Ubuntu Gaming.
20:31 <     etank> queenofthe1ring: if we have a planet of our own then the people that are syndicated can choose what goes to the planet
20:31 <   jkeyes0> need snacks. brb.
20:32 <  srwalter> etank, what is your blog's URL?
20:32 <     etank> queenofthe1ring: only the things that i tag as "ubuntu" on my blog go to planet.ubuntu.com
20:32 <     etank> srwalter: http://roninx341.wordpress.com
20:32 < queenofth> ok, cool
20:33 <     etank> but if we give the ability to have a blog on the kentucky site then maybe it should be ubuntu / linux / computer related
20:33 <     etank> but im not really sure
20:33 <    bkingx> And maybe Kentucky?
20:33 <    bkingx> Since we are a Kentucky team?
20:33 <      Zuph> etank: You mean I couldn't talk about my failed attempts at hitting on girls?
20:34 <     etank> Zuph: no thats fine, we all need a laugh :)
20:34 <   zenwhen> lol
20:34 <      Zuph> I can make my attempts to hit on them more linux related
20:34 <   zenwhen> hey baby, I compiled my own kernel
20:34 <   zenwhen> ;)
20:34 <     etank> no hex jokes please
20:34 <   zenwhen> asl?
20:35 <      Zuph> "Hey baby, why don't you come back to my place and let me add your repository to my sources.list"
20:35 <  venomous> Zuph: that may be why your attempts are failing!
20:35 < queenofth> well, i thought it would be more useful to restrict it to just computer related blogs
20:35 <      seth> oh noes, is 'insmod' doing to be banned shortly?
20:35 <    bkingx> OK...back on subject.....
20:36 <     etank> queenofthe1ring: i agree
20:36 <    bkingx> I def say calendar, blogs, online support system
20:36              >>> rrittenhouse!n=tad@unaffiliated/rrittenhouse
20:37 <     etank> bkingx: blogs like bkingx.ky.ubuntu-us.org or a planet syndication ?
20:37 <     etank> or maybe that would be ky.ubuntu-us.org/~bkingx
20:37 <     etank> im not sure there
20:38 <  srwalter> I like ~user style, but I'm old-school UNIXy like that
20:38 <    bkingx> Whichever works best....just think we could use it.
20:38 <    bkingx> Would add a personal touch to our presence
20:39              <   seth!n=seth@207-246-87-141.dsl.blueone.net ["ttfn!  gotta be a dad now..."]
20:40 <    bkingx> So those are possible then, etank ?
20:40 <     etank> im checking now
20:41 <     etank> this is how a blog entry would look then http://ky.ubuntu-us.org/
20:42 <   zenwhen> cool stuff
20:42 <    bkingx> Can it be on it's own page?
20:42 <    bkingx> or aggregated on the side like news?
20:42 <  srwalter> sorry guys; gotta run early tonight
20:43 <    bkingx> later srwalter !
20:43 <     etank> later srwalter 
20:43 <     etank> bkingx: im not sure about that
20:43 <   tom8658> later
20:43 <     etank> we can play with it some to see
20:44 <    bkingx> Yeah...good project for tomorrow
20:44              <   srwalter!n=srwalter@74-140-218-2.dhcp.insightbb.com ["[BX] Tickle-Me Elmo uses BitchX. *giggle* *giggle* *giggle*"]
20:44 <    bkingx> Is there anything else we would like to see?
20:45 <    bkingx> A fundamental question, do we want to mimic the Ubuntu and other LoCo sites, or go off on our own tangent?
20:45 < queenofth> i guess i'm going to go for now as well.  later guys
20:45 <    bkingx> Later queenofthe1ring
20:45 <     etank> later queenofthe1ring 
20:45 <   zenwhen> it might be cool to see some video tutorials and such
20:45              <   queenofthe1ring!n=erin@74-140-218-2.dhcp.insightbb.com ["Ex-Chat"]
20:45 <     etank> that will really eat into the 500MB
20:46 <     etank> but we could put them on video.google.com
20:46 <    bkingx> Or link to the screencasts?
20:46 <   jkeyes0> ascii video? :P
20:46 <     etank> or youtube and link to them
20:46 <    bkingx> Ah....there you go!!
20:46 <   jkeyes0> it's possible to embed youtube vids, right?
20:46 <    bkingx> My instinct is to stick with the Ubuntu Theme for now.
20:47 <     etank> jkeyes0: that is something else to play with to see
20:47 <     etank> i know that you can in a wordpress blog
20:47 <     etank> im not sure about drupal though
20:48 <     etank> ok that covers the website stuff pretty well and gives us some stuff to work on
20:48 <     etank> we have a Charity Project update
20:48 <   jkeyes0> etank: http://support.bryght.com/node/545
20:48              etank pokes Zuph 
20:49 <      Zuph> WHAT
20:49 <      Zuph> Oh
20:49 <     etank> tell your good news
20:49 <      Zuph> Charity project
20:49 <      Zuph> We have 60 computers and maybe as many monitors!
20:49 <   jkeyes0> wewt!
20:49 <      Zuph> There is some bad news to go along with this, though
20:49 <     etank> jkeyes0: thanks for the link
20:50 <      Zuph> Bad News 1:  We need to pick these up next week between 0830 and 1600
20:50 <      Zuph> Bad News 2:  I can't keep ALL of them at my place.
20:50 <      Zuph> So, anyone with a truck or van available to take a half-day sometime next week and help me pick these up?
20:50 <  montgoej> I have monitors, but I don't have room for any more
20:51 <    bkingx> I'll take 20 machines.
20:51 <    bkingx> and monitors
20:51 <     etank> we are doing some remodeling so i dont have room right now
20:52 <      Zuph> bkingx: Sold!
20:52 <    bkingx> venomous: your garage? :
20:52 <      Zuph> Still need help to move them, though.
20:52 <      Zuph> I  have every day next week free.
20:53 <      Zuph> Don't all volunteer at once.
20:53 <    bkingx> I can help
20:53 <     etank> sucks that it has to be during the day
20:53 <  venomous> garage is actually being used for what a garage is supposed to be used for now...
20:53 <    bkingx> Can't be mon, or thurs
20:53 <  venomous> room for a few, but not many..
20:53 <     etank> venomous: what, a pool table?
20:53 <    bkingx> gr...or tues
20:53 <      Zuph> venomous: Beer fridges?
20:53 <    bkingx> Wed or Fri for me
20:53 <  venomous> funny!!
20:53 <  venomous> like Zuph's idea!
20:54 <  venomous> actually have a presentable vehicle in the garage now..
20:54 <     etank> so bkingx are you saying that you can help on those days
20:54 <      Zuph> Wednesday works best for me.
20:54 <    bkingx> yeah...I can do it wed or fri
20:54 <      Zuph> Anyone available to come to Louisville wednesday?
20:54 <    bkingx> OK...wed sounds good for me
20:55 <   zenwhen> I could help pick stuff up but cannot miss work for it
20:55 <     etank> klb: you are in the area, could you help?
20:55 <      Zuph> zenwhen: If you can get off at noon, You won't have to miss work :)
20:55 <      Zuph> Unfortunately, we have to move this stuff during their business hours.
20:55 <   zenwhen> they can only  be picked up between 8:30 and 14:00?
20:55 <      Zuph> 16:00
20:56 <   zenwhen> Not going to be able to happen unfortunately :(
20:56 <   zenwhen> i missed too much work moving
20:57 <      Zuph> Shame.
20:57 <     etank> how many do you think you can fit in your car and van guys
20:57 <    bkingx> etank: can you leave a bit early wed?
20:57 <     etank> that may be a number of trips to get all 60
20:57 <    bkingx> I'll even give you a ride.
20:57 <      Zuph> I can borrow a van or maybe truck that can fit 30 computers.
20:57 <     etank> bkingx: i can't
20:57 <   zenwhen> what days can this be done next week?
20:58 <     etank> i dont want to waste the day off when i could have an interview soon
20:58 <    bkingx> Actually, mon would work for me too.
20:58 <    bkingx> zenwhen: Zuph says any day
20:58 <      Zuph> Yeah.  It can be done over multiple days
20:59 <      Zuph> Obviously I'd prefer to get it done in one, but what ev.
20:59 <     etank> Zuph: should we mention the 500 machines?
20:59 <    bkingx> I can take the seats out of the van and do about 30 as well
20:59 <     etank> well that would make it one trip
20:59 <      Zuph> Nope, two or three
21:00 <      Zuph> Monitors
21:00 <     etank> Zuph: can you house some of them?
21:00 <      Zuph> Yes
21:00 <  montgoej> see ya, gotta run
21:00 <    bkingx> 3 rows of 10?  some wood on top to support monitors?  yeah, I can do 30, I would say.
21:00              <   montgoej!n=montgoej@adsl-074-171-214-246.sip.bgk.bellsouth.net ["Ex-Chat"]
21:00 <      Zuph> I can house like 40.
21:00 <     etank> well if bkingx can fit some in his van and bring them back then we can find a place for them 
21:00 <      Zuph> Maybe more
21:01 <    bkingx> I think we have storage for all 60, just need some backs to help.
21:01 <     etank> and then we can split the effort some on doing installs and stuff
21:01 <      Zuph> bkingx: Okay, so you want to meet up at my place at like noon, and we can grab a quick bite and head out?
21:01 <     etank> bkingx: do you mean we as in at your house or we as in team members
21:01 <    bkingx> We as in Zuph and my house
21:02 <    bkingx> Zuph: what is the loading like?
21:02 <      Zuph> bkingx: what do you mean?
21:02 <    bkingx> Will we have to  climb stairs, elevators?
21:02 <     etank> if it were not for the time constraints i would be able to help
21:02 <      Zuph> Negative.
21:02 <      Zuph> We can probably borrow a hand cart to load them as well
21:02 <    bkingx> All right by a loading dock or door?
21:03 <     etank> Zuph: monitors are not a def right
21:03 <     etank> so the loading and storage may be that much easier
21:03 <      Zuph> Monitors are not definite, and I'm not sure if it's by a loading dock or door.
21:03 <    bkingx> OK...we'll just have to play it by ear.
21:04 <    bkingx> If we can get 30 in your van, 30 in mine, we'll have it in one trip.
21:04 <    bkingx> I just wish we could get more members to help move them.
21:04 <    bkingx> Anyone?????
21:04              klb wonders what etank's "area" is
21:04 <      Zuph> Louisville
21:05 <       klb> ooh
21:05 <       klb> I misreadddddddddddddddddddddd his statement
21:05 <     etank> klb: bkingx and Zuph are going to be moving some machines for the Charity project in Louisville
21:05 <  venomous> i would, but i'm can't get off work
21:05 <       klb> and, I have  stuck key
21:05 <       klb> when?
21:05 <   jkeyes0> Sorry, been afk. I would come help out, but i've taken too many days off work lately. I can probably store 5 of them (comps and monitors) here in Frankfort, but it's a bit out of the way
21:05 <      Zuph> Noon wednesday.
21:05 <     etank> let me guess, it's the "d" right klb 
21:05 <       klb> and I'd be moving what.. from where to where?
21:05 < Ubuntu-Ky> I guess where is p9?
21:05 <       klb> forget where
21:05 < Ubuntu-Ky> Ok klb
21:05 <       klb> lock where
21:06 < Ubuntu-Ky> Ok klb, where locked
21:06 <      Zuph> 60 computers from Oldham County to my house.
21:06 <    bkingx> Well, 60 from Oldham co and 30 to your house.
21:06 <      Zuph> Yeah.
21:06 <       klb> and what's my incentive?
21:07 <      Zuph> Helping the team.
21:07 <    bkingx> I could pick up etank on the way back and he can help me unload here!!  :)
21:07 <       klb> hmm
21:07 <      Zuph> Doing a good deed for your fellow man.
21:07 <   zenwhen> helping the free software movment
21:07 <       klb> I would say tentatively yes...
21:07 <   zenwhen> also women will like you more
21:07 <     etank> bkingx: i can help you with the unload as long as it is after work hours
21:07 <   zenwhen> and your breath will smell better
21:07 <    bkingx> Right
21:08 <       klb> I have an S-10, a minivan, and a pathfinder at my disposal
21:08 <       klb> (keep in mind, I can only operate 1 at a time)
21:08 <    bkingx> If Zuph  and klb can help load, we can throw 30 in Zuph's house, and I'll bring 30 back here
21:08 <   zenwhen> whats the speed on these things?
21:09 <       klb> well, I've had the S-10 to 95, and the Minivan 110+
21:09 <     etank> zenwhen: ~500mhz
21:09 <   zenwhen> cool
21:09 <    bkingx> Actually I can get the wife to help unload, just would like some help to load up fro Oldham Co.
21:09 <      Zuph> Yeah
21:09 <    bkingx> klb: LMAO!!!
21:09 <  venomous> gotta punch out.  been a long day, and pretty beat.
21:09              <   venomous!i=ven0m0us@gateway/tor/x-37d9ff348f2093e5 ["leaving"]
21:10 <      Zuph> Okay.  I think between the three of us and a bottle of advil we can get this thing knocked out.
21:10 <      Zuph> More help would be nice, but I don't think we're going to get it at this meeting.
21:10 <    bkingx> Zuph: agreed
21:10 <    bkingx> klb: what day is best for you?
21:11 <       klb> bkingx, Wednesday, it would appear :)
21:11 <    bkingx> ;)
21:12 <    bkingx> OK..wed it is.
21:12 <    bkingx> I may be able to recruit another back too.
21:12 <     etank> anything else for tonight meeting wise?
21:13 <       klb> hm, I just tried to add you Zuph.. then you disappeared
21:13 <      Zuph> zuh
21:14 <     etank> to recap:
21:14 <     etank> We are going to let canonical host the site for now until a time (if needed) that we will handle the hosting
21:14 <     etank> and klb, Zuph and bkingx are going to get some PCs for the Charity Project on Wednesday of next week.
21:15 <     etank> anyone for closing the meeting now?
21:15              etank +1
21:15              bkingx +1
21:15              jkeyes0 +1
</pre>
