{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== When ===

We meet on the first and third Tuesday of each month at 9:00PM EST in #bglug on freenode.net '''(use port 8001 when connecting)'''.

=== Next Meeting ===

New location for meeting logs is <nowiki>[[http://bglug.net/irc/irc-meetings/|here]]</nowiki>.

==== Topics ====

Please feel free to add to this list of topics as you see fit.

=== Previous Meetings ===

==== 2007 ====

* <nowiki>[[/2007Nov8]]</nowiki> - We are going to start discussing the next Install Fest.
* <nowiki>[[/2007Oct4]]</nowiki> - Nothing but LUG baby
* <nowiki>[[/2007Sep27]]</nowiki> - Release Party / BBQ, Next Install Fest,                                                                                                                                                        LUG meeting reminder, LoCo Team news
* <nowiki>[[/2007Aug30]]</nowiki> -  O'Reilly UG, LUG Style meeting date, Ohio Linux Fest
* <nowiki>[[/2007Aug23]]</nowiki> - Case Badges, Cup of Ubuntu, More IRL
* <nowiki>[[/2007Aug16]]</nowiki> - Weekly meetings, Stickers, Charity Machines
* <nowiki>[[/2007Aug02]]</nowiki> - Getting things going again, Cup of Ubuntu, CDs for all.
* <nowiki>[[/2007July19]]</nowiki> - Oops. Forgot about the meeting :/
* <nowiki>[[/2007July05]]</nowiki> - Blogging, Online Party, Install Fest planning
* <nowiki>[[/2007June21]]</nowiki> - 
* <nowiki>[[/2007June07]]</nowiki> - IRL Meetings, Install Fest, Helping fellow LoCo Teams, Ohio Ubucon.
* <nowiki>[[/2007May31]]</nowiki> - '''Meeting Canceled this week.'''
* <nowiki>[[/2007May17]]</nowiki> - Web site woes, Ubuntu US Team meeting coming up.
* <nowiki>[[/2007May17]]</nowiki> - Sub-Teams, Advocacy ideas
* <nowiki>[[/2007May10]]</nowiki> - Web site additions, Charity Project machines, We have Feisty CDs
* <nowiki>[[/2007May03]]</nowiki> - Website Development, Charity Project update
* <nowiki>[[/2007April26]]</nowiki> - Projects to work on, Website ideas, Where do we stand on the Charity Project, When do we want to do another Install Fest
* <nowiki>[[/2007April19]]</nowiki> - We are an Official Team now \o/., Install Fest (Final plans)
* <nowiki>[[/2007April12]]</nowiki> - All about the Install Fest, What still needs to be done and who is going to do it?
* <nowiki>[[/2007April05]]</nowiki> - Install Fest discussion, Dry Run report, Date and time of Live Event, Custom Artwork.
* <nowiki>[[/2007Mar29]]</nowiki> - Team projects (User Support, Welcome Packets, Custom CD), Install Fest cont.
* <nowiki>[[/2007Mar22]]</nowiki> - IRL Meetings, Wiki updates, Install Fest cont., News from sabdfl :)
* <nowiki>[[/2007Mar15]]</nowiki> - Firm up install fest and release party plans.
* <nowiki>[[/2007Mar08]]</nowiki> - Are we ready to go for approval?, We have a web site now!!! How do we want to use it???, Goals for sub-teams.
* <nowiki>[[/2007Mar01]]</nowiki> - Domain name registration update, Charity project update, UKLUG contact, Meet and greet, release & key signing party, upcoming events, Discuss suggestion of moving meetings to bi-weekly.
* <nowiki>[[/2007Feb22]]</nowiki> - Resource names, Customized CDs, Web site update
* <nowiki>[[/2007Feb15]]</nowiki> - Web site news, Planning an install fest / Feisty release party, CD distribution, Update on Charity project.
* <nowiki>[[/2007Feb08]]</nowiki> - Charity Project, Distributing CDs, Finding new members
* <nowiki>[[/2007Feb01]]</nowiki> - Becoming an Approved LoCo, Team Projects, Creation of Sub-Teams

=== Calendar ===

 <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam/Calendar|Team Calendar]]</nowiki>

=== Sub Pages ===

