{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Topics ===
* Becoming and Approved Team
** Process involved
** Benefits
* Team Projects
** Install Fest / Fiesty Release party
** PC Recycling Project
** Attending local Linux conferences
* Creation / need for Sub-Teams

=== Log ===
{{{
20:01 <     etank> Ok
20:01 <     etank> so to recap what we are going to talk about:
20:01 <     etank> 1) Becoming an approved LoCo Team.
20:01 <     etank> 2) Team projects
20:01 <     etank> 3) Possible creation of sub-teams
20:02 <  venomous> i'm here....didn't get home 'til 7 so had to grab a bite..
20:02 <     etank> I assume that we all want the team to become approved :)
20:02 <    bkingx> Yup
20:02 <     etank> In case you haven't seen what would be required here is the link
20:02 <     etank> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoGettingApproved
20:02 <      Zuph> Not disagreeing, but what are the benefits of aproval?
20:03 <     etank> one of the benefits is
20:03 <     etank> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoGettingCds
20:03 <      Zuph> That's a big benefit
20:03 <     etank> we can ask to receive a package of around 500 CDs that we can use to distribute
20:04 <     etank> We can only get those one time but there are more than enough 
20:04 <     etank> I think that we are pretty good on some of the things we need to do to get approved
20:05 <     etank> we are using the resources. (irc, wiki, mailing list, etc)
20:05 <     etank> we have members. 
20:05 <     etank> now we need to decide what kinds of projects that we want to be involved in
20:06 <   zenwhen> recommend me a router
20:06 <     etank> and we need to be able to document at least 3 activities that we have done
20:06 <     etank> or will do
20:06 <  venomous> zenwhen: i recommend you're a router!!
20:06 <     etank> NetGear
20:06 <    bkingx> I say the STLP with montgoej  would be a good one.
20:06 <     etank> Linksys
20:06 <     etank> bkingx: yea that is a good one
20:06 <    bkingx> Linksys WRT54G with dd-wrt firmware
20:06 <  montgoej> that will be a while, from the way my teachers been talking
20:07 <  montgoej> at least this summer
20:07 <  montgoej> possibly late
20:07 <  montgoej> *later
20:07 <     etank> thats ok
20:07 <    bkingx> But something to work toward.
20:07 <    bkingx> And as a group, we may find resources to help him in the project.
20:07 <  montgoej> yeah
20:07 <     etank> some of the ideas i have or have seen that other teams are doing are:
20:07 <     etank> Install fests
20:07 <   zenwhen> bkingx: thats what i have
20:07 <     etank> Fiesty release party
20:08 <   zenwhen> and it is dropping connections
20:08 <     etank> Attend local Linux conferences
20:08 <     etank> there is one that happens in Ohio every September
20:08 <  montgoej> anyone here ever been to Ohio LinuxFest
20:08 <    |{evin> nope
20:08 <     etank> i haven't
20:08 <  montgoej> I went last year
20:09 <  montgoej> it was really awesome
20:09 <     etank> Vorian from the Ohio team mentioned it
20:09 <     etank> it would be cool to go as a team
20:09 <      Zuph> I agree
20:09 <    bkingx> I agree as well
20:09 <    bkingx> What city is it in?
20:09 <      Zuph> Get Ubuntu-KY T-shirts printed up :)
20:09 <     etank> Zuph: and I have been discussing the idea of getting discarded PCs from companies that are upgrading to new systems
20:10 <    bkingx> AH....logo time!
20:10 <     etank> then rebuilding them with Ubuntu and giving them to people that can not afford to buy one
20:10 <      Zuph> etank: excellent.  I have some contacts in the school system that I can get in touch with as well
20:10 <  montgoej> sounds very nice
20:11 <     etank> My current job has some that I may be able to get as well
20:11 <    bkingx> LMAO!!
20:11 <      Zuph> Yes.  I think this is the sort of project that could not only get the Ubuntu-KY team some publicity, but might be able to expand beyond that as well.
20:11 <     etank> bkingx: and venomous have been there and done that
20:11 <      Zuph> Just 10 machines would get us a great start.
20:11 <    bkingx> Right!
20:11 <     etank> It could be something that other teams may want to do as well
20:11 <  venomous> etank: be nice to those less-than-mentally-proficient!!
20:12 <     etank> why 
20:12 <     etank> the aren't in here are they
20:12 <      Zuph> We could take a version of Edubuntu and strip it down for a slow machine
20:12 <    bkingx> I think he is speaking about himself and me, etank
20:12 <      Zuph> Here's an idea also:  Wikipedia publishes a static snapshot of all their content periodically.  We could include this on these machines as well.
20:12 <     etank> that would be good for homes or organizations with small children for sure
20:13 <     etank> bkingx: hey you guys were smart enough to get out
20:13 <    bkingx> Heck yeah, Zuph
20:13 <      Zuph> I can only imagine having Wikipedia as a resource when I was in elementary or middle school.
20:13 <      Zuph> especially in a disadvantaged area.
20:13 <     etank> that is a good idea because if they can not afford a PC they probably cant get internet
20:14 <      Zuph> So, if anyone has any leads on machines around ~500mhz, snap 'em up.
20:14 <    bkingx> And I definately have contacts with those underpriviledged folks where I work.
20:14 <      Zuph> Tell 'em it's for a charity.
20:15 <     etank> The ones where I work are around ~800mhz
20:15 <  montgoej> I'll keep a lookout for stuff that we're gonna throw away in STLP
20:15 <  montgoej> maybe I can get some parts or something if nothing else
20:15 <     etank> venomous: you are good at getting stuff :)
20:15 <      Zuph> I could easily host some folks at my place to work on these machines, clean 'em up, get 'em working, and install some Linux on them.  I'm in louisville, though, which might be an issue for some.
20:15 <    bkingx> venomous, you can prob ask some folks over there.
20:15 <     etank> we would need to set up a web site at some point to advertise it
20:16 <  venomous> whatchutalkin' 'bout willis??
20:16 <      Zuph> You know, even if we have to buy the first 10 machines from a school auction, I don't see a problem coming up with the $100-200 needed as a group.
20:16 <      Zuph> etank: what a coincidence, I just bought a webserver that I'm going to get colocated for free.
20:16 <     etank> and need to come up with some way to screen people to make sure that we are giving to those that are in need
20:16 <  montgoej> we throw alotta old blue computers away cause they use SCSI and the cases are a pain to get off
20:17 <     etank> montgoej: where is the trash can
20:17 <    bkingx> We have a server ready to host a web site, too.
20:17 <  montgoej> not sure...we just set them in front of the STLP room and the janitor throws them away
20:17 <      Zuph> I think as soon as we get some machines to work on, we should get them up and running, and then worry about setting up a website, finding people to give them to, etc.
20:17 <    bkingx> But if anyone can find some 256 PC100 RAM. it would really help!
20:17 <     etank> bkingx: did you get the one that you were talking about a few days ago
20:17 <    bkingx> Not yet...still working on that one.
20:18 <      Zuph> There are always going to be people in need.  We should focus on delivering the product at first.
20:18 <    bkingx> But we have that G4, which is what i was jsut talkiing about
20:18 <     etank> Zuph: yea i was thinking of a web site as something in the future
20:18 <    bkingx> True, Zuph
20:18 <  venomous> the g4 ubuntu-ppc is up and running...i'm trying to get port forwarding up for testing, but i can't even get to my external ip..
20:18 <     etank> venomous: go to ipchicken.com
20:18 <    bkingx> WTG venomous!!!!
20:19 <     etank> it will tell you what the external ip is
20:19 <    bkingx> ipchicken...I love that!!!
20:19 <     etank> should be 74.x.x.x
20:19 <  venomous> yeah...already been there
20:19 <      Zuph> So Here's what I'm thinking as a roadmap for this project:  We follow our various leads and get as many machines as possible, then we have some meetings in real life to get these machines set up as best we can, THEN we go out and try and get our name out there, get more machines, deliver our machines, and start marketing, etc.
20:19 <  venomous> ain't workin'...
20:19 <    bkingx> I with ya, Zuph!
20:19 <     etank> churches are a good place to get the word out about this
20:20 <  venomous> once we become somewhat more official (ie legitimate)...i may be able to petition for some old boxes.
20:20 <    bkingx> I'll snoop around and see what i can come up with.  Most of our stuff is old Mac's
20:20 <     etank> my wife works for a local church and she gets calls all of the time
20:20 <      Zuph> Churches could be both a source of people in high enough places to give us computers, and people needy enough to need them.
20:20 <    bkingx> Absolutely!
20:20 <      Zuph> Not going to church, I don't have that networking outlet.  It's still a good one, though.
20:20 <     etank> that and the churches already have a screening process that they go through
20:21 <    |{evin> I have some contacts at the schools here in Spencer county
20:21 <    bkingx> Good...let's pull that info together and post what we can do on the forum.
20:22 <      Zuph> I think we can co-opt that kind of a screening process from a church, but to keep the idea portable and as open as possible, we should try and avoid allying ourselves with any one organization.
20:22 <     etank> one of the things that Zuph and i talked about before is getting in contact with companies and if they donate PCs list them as a donator. Free publicity
20:22 <      Zuph> Yep.  We take their computers, they get their logo in the splash screen or something
20:22 <     etank> Zuph: i agree
20:22 <  montgoej> I agree
20:23 <     etank> and they get a tax write off
20:23 <      Zuph> Honestly, I'd like to be able to publish anything generated by this project under GPL, so other people can take it and make it their own.
20:23 <     etank> win win
20:23 <  montgoej> yep
20:23 <     etank> Zuph: i whole heartedly agree.
20:24 <     etank> that makes one project.
20:24 <    bkingx> Maybe we can include a certifacte of donation, or something like that.
20:24 <      Zuph> Yeah.
20:25 <    bkingx> OK...next project?
20:25 <  montgoej> this would easily get media attention too=more attention for Ubuntu and Linux in general
20:25 <     etank> is anyone interested in doing a Fiesty Release party
20:25 <     etank> montgoej: very true
20:25 <  montgoej> I'd definitely be interested in a release party
20:26 <     etank> I don't think it comes out until April so there would be lots of time for planning
20:26 <     etank> we could turn it into an install fest of sorts
20:26 <  montgoej> yeah
20:26 <     etank> invite people that are interested in Ubuntu / Linux and help them install it on one of their machines
20:27 <     etank> so is it a go for a release party then?
20:27 <     etank> show of hands?
20:28              etank + 1
20:28 <  venomous> hand
20:28              Zuph raises his hand, tentatively.
20:28              montgoej raises hand
20:28 <    bkingx> hand
20:28 <      Zuph> My schedule's kind of volitile, so I'm not in for sure now.
20:28 <     etank> next logical question. Where can we hold this at?
20:28              |{evin is with Zuph 
20:29 <      Zuph> Lexington is obviously Central to Kentucky, geographically
20:29 <     etank> this or any real world meetings that is
20:29 <      Zuph> I'm not sure if Louisville would get more people, though
20:29 <      Zuph> People as in general public
20:29 <     etank> true
20:29 <      Zuph> I mean, Louisville Metro is 2x as big as Lexington Metro
20:29 <    bkingx> I'd say Lex, but where?
20:30 <     etank> thats the question
20:30 <    bkingx> Garage party?
20:30 <    bkingx> Maybe we can get a training room at Comp or something.
20:30 <     etank> CompUSA?
20:31 <    bkingx> yep
20:31 <  venomous> bkingx: little less than professional.  recommend if this is going to be open to a public less than familiar with anything but windows, we stage it in a respectable place..
20:31 <    |{evin> CrapUSA?
20:31 <     etank> better that worst buy
20:31 <      Zuph> We're going to have to go some place that will host us for free or cheap
20:31 <      Zuph> So a community center will probably be our best bet
20:32 <     etank> somewhere with wireless
20:32 <  venomous> public library??
20:32 <  montgoej> I've heard of people getting libraries to let them do install fests
20:32 <     etank> that would work
20:32 <  montgoej> sounds cool if they'll do it
20:32 <    bkingx> Good!
20:32 <     etank> but we would have to be quiet
20:32 <  venomous> we can provide wireless if they can provide the connection...
20:32 <     etank> bkingx: that means you :)
20:32 <    bkingx> No beans??
20:32 <      Zuph> Public libraries might work
20:32 <    bkingx> Bummer!!
20:32 <      Zuph> Louisville has a pretty nice library network
20:33 <     etank> Zuph: would you be interested in checking on availability?
20:34 <      Zuph> etank: Unfortunately, I'm not technically a resident of Jefferson country right now, so I have no pull there
20:34 <  montgoej> I just thought of something that would be good for an install fest...set up a few computers with the Live CD running so people can play around with Ubuntu while it's being installed on their machines
20:35 <  montgoej> people are gonna wanna see it and be able to play with it before they install it.i
20:35 <      Zuph> That's true
20:35 <     etank> well we have time to plan it still.
20:36 <  montgoej> yep
20:36 <      Zuph> We can set up a virtualized workstation that we can easily recover if they hose the machine.
20:36 <    bkingx> But good start!
20:36 <  montgoej> sounds cool
20:36 <    bkingx> OK then...next project?
20:37 <     etank> if it didnt take a long time we could set up an imaging station so that we back up their pc and if they dont like Ubuntu we could resore their old stuff.
20:37 <    |{evin> ghost4linux and an FTP serve
20:37 <    |{evin> r
20:37 <     etank> ok. next is attending a linux conference
20:37 <     etank> |{evin: thats the idea
20:37 <     etank> here is the link to the one in Ohio.
20:37 <     etank> http://www.ohiolinux.org/
20:38 <    bkingx> And this is in Sept?
20:38 <     etank> yep
20:38 <     etank> September 29, 2007 in Columbus
20:38 <    bkingx> I'll raise my hand, but I'll say it's a little far out to commit.
20:38 <     etank> All Conference Pass for $65.00
20:39 <     etank> i need that long to save up the money
20:39 <     etank> thats no lie either :(
20:39 <    bkingx> Tha should be doable.
20:39 <      Zuph> Presuming I'm in town, I'll attend
20:39 <      Zuph> I can drive a few people up from Louisville, as well.
20:39 <    bkingx> I might be able to swing some lodging for free!
20:39 <  montgoej> any chance I could get a ride?  I can meet up with someone in lexington
20:40 <    bkingx> We have a campus just outside columbus.
20:40 <     etank> zenwhen: would those three things count for team approval?
20:40 <  montgoej> I had to leave early so my dad could get home and get to sleep last year
20:40 <     etank> montgoej: im sure you could ride with one of us
20:40 <  montgoej> cool
20:41 <     etank> montgoej: we need you to fill out apermission slip first though ;)
20:41 <  montgoej> lol, ok
20:41 <    bkingx> Yeah...I'm sure we can carpool a few.
20:41 <      Zuph> If it's only one day, we shouldn't need lodging, right?
20:41 <    bkingx> I have a van, and etank has one too.
20:41 <     etank> venomous: can we take Frank?
20:41 <     etank> i dont see why lodging would be needed
20:42 <    bkingx> Only 1 day event?
20:42 <  venomous> sure, if you buy the gas!!
20:43 <     etank> bkingx: im not sure how long it is
20:44 <  montgoej> started at about 8 or 9 and it ended at around 8 or 9 last year
20:44 <    bkingx> Well, we can discuss details as we get closer.
20:44 <  montgoej> yeah
20:45 <      Zuph> That's still a long way away
20:45 <     etank> ok. so that covers 1) Becoming an approved team, and 2) Team projects
20:45 <     etank> lastly
20:45 <     etank> I have been following the way that the Ohio team is organized
20:45 <     etank> and it seems to be a very logical setup
20:45 <     etank> they have started sub-teams
20:46 <     etank> they have a team for Wiki, New Members, Web, etc.
20:46 <     etank> does this sound like something that you would be interested in us doing?
20:47 <    bkingx> I think it is worth looking into.
20:47 <     etank> that way if you are good at web dev then you can be a part of the web team
20:47 <    |{evin> do we have enough people yet to break apart into smaller teams?
20:47 <      Zuph> It seems fairly logical for a bigger group.  It might be something we want to keep in mind as we grow, but with only 14 members, it seems like we're over compartmentalizing.
20:47 <     etank> im looking to the future for this one
20:47 <     etank> one sub-team that we could start is the wiki team though
20:48 <      Zuph> I think this kind of organizational structure is something good to have a framework for now, but until we grow at least another 100%, it's going to just add confusion.
20:48 <     etank> it would be good to have a wiki page for the PC donation project once it gets rolling
20:48 <      Zuph> At this point, it should just be assigning one person to take charge of something like wiki, or web dev, and then flesh out teams as we grow.
20:49 <    bkingx> That sounds appropriate.
20:49 <      Zuph> I also think it would be appropriate to assign team leads to our various projects, to compartmentalize them a little.
20:50 <     etank> Zuph: thats the plan for sure
20:50 <    bkingx> Maybe we should make think about what areas we are needing right now, and then see where our current members would fit in?
20:50 <      Zuph> Of course, that might mean etank has to take on team lead of several projects at once until he can find someone else :-p
20:50 <    bkingx> Or ALL of them!!!  LOL
20:50 <     etank> im fine with that
20:50 <     etank> not that
20:50 <    bkingx> LMAO
20:51 <      Zuph> haha
20:51 <     etank> ok
20:51 <     etank> the teams that I can see a need for now are Wiki and Web dev
20:52 <    bkingx> yep
20:52 <    bkingx> Well, I am fairly decent at graphic stuff.
20:52 <     etank> is anyone interested in being on one of those two teams
20:53 <    bkingx> Not an expert mind, you, but I can find my away around some stuff, if it will fit into one of those teams.
20:53 <     etank> bkingx: we will get to that in a sec
20:53 <     etank> i got that link stored and ready to go
20:53 <    bkingx> Right...I meant for Wiki or Web.
20:53 <     etank> graphic skills will fit in with web for sure.
20:54 <  montgoej> I have to go offline in about 5 minutes, is there any chance anyone's logging this that can send me the logs or anything?
20:54 <    bkingx> OK...I'll help out with both Wiki and Web
20:54 <     etank> Im loggint it
20:54 <    |{evin> I log everything :)
20:54 <  montgoej> ok, cool
20:54 <  montgoej> :)
20:54 <     etank> I plan to post the logs on the wiki
20:54 <      Zuph> How do you setup xchat to log everything by default?
20:54 <      Zuph> (Offtopic)
20:54 <     etank> im not sure
20:54 <     etank> i use irssi
20:55 <     etank> |{evin: no laughing
20:55 <    |{evin> Preferences->Logging
20:55 <    |{evin> Settings->Preferences->Logging
20:55 <     etank> does anyone have any PHP, Perl, Python etc skillz?
20:56 <    bkingx> Frontpage?
20:56 <     etank> I have done some PHP and Python (django) web dev before
20:56 <     etank> bkingx: that DOES NOT count.
20:56 <    bkingx> LMAO!!
20:56 <     etank> montgoej: before you go 
20:56 <     etank> guys take a look at these images that bkingx did
20:56 <  montgoej> huh?
20:57 <     etank> http://www.flickr.com/photos/61192014@N00/
20:57 <    bkingx> OK...looks like you are doing the web one etank.
20:57 <     etank> dnag
20:57 <     etank> dang
20:57 <    bkingx> I'll help you design layout and flow, but you have to do the programming.
20:57 <      Zuph> I'm liking racer
20:57 <     etank> we were thinking of doing those as a custom usplash
20:57 <  montgoej> I'm really liking all of them
20:57 <     etank> or a background on the desktop
20:58 <     etank> i like the head with the glowing eye
20:58 <  montgoej> that last one with the glowing eyes is really cool
20:58 <     etank> that is my current desktop image
20:58 <    bkingx> ALso as a Team logo and marketing material
20:58              >>> zenwhen-lt!n=troy@ubuntu/member/zenwhen
20:58 <      Zuph> Mostly because that looks like the same horse as we used in my work's logo :) http://krcfl.org/
20:58 <  montgoej> well I gotta go, bye guys
20:58              <   montgoej!n=Stash@adsl-80-23-65.bgk.bellsouth.net ["Leaving"]
20:58 <     etank> we did submit a logo to the trademark people with Canonical
20:59 <     etank> bkingx: did they say that it was ok to use what you did?
20:59 <     etank> the team logo would be the text part of the last image on the flickr page
20:59 <     etank> zenwhen-lt: hows it going
21:00 <    bkingx> The consensus was that as long as we don't change the logo, and noted somewhere that Ubuntu logo belongs to Canonical, we can do whatever we want.
21:00 <     etank> k
21:01 <    bkingx> The Ubuntu logo and name are registered trademarks of Canonical. We're
21:01 <    bkingx> happy to grant permission for you to use the logo under the following
21:01 <    bkingx> conditions:
21:01 <    bkingx>  (a) You observe the logo usage rules described on our website at:
21:01 <    bkingx>      http://www.ubuntulinux.org/ubuntu/TrademarkPolicy ;
21:01 <    bkingx> (b) Somewhere on the product you recognise that Ubuntu is a trademark
21:01 <    bkingx>      of Canonical Limited.
21:01 <    bkingx> The logo usage rules basically boil down to "use the logo as is -
21:01 <    bkingx> don't change it" and I don't expect they should cause you any
21:01 <    bkingx> trouble.
21:01 <     etank> Zuph: once it is going would you be interested in keeping a wiki page for the PC recycling project
21:02 <      Zuph> Sure.  I've never worked with wiki before, but I'm sure it can't be too hard.
21:02 <     etank> it really isnt
21:03 <    bkingx> OK...I say we vote as Headflare being our official usplash.
21:03 <  venomous> hand
21:03 <    bkingx> And then use the head itself as our Team Logo.
21:03 <      Zuph> :(
21:03 <      Zuph> Nay
21:03 <     etank> Zuph: which would you like
21:03 <      Zuph> Voted racer or head2
21:03 <     etank> or is there something else that you would rather see
21:03 <      Zuph> They look more professional.
21:03 <      Zuph> I think
21:04 <      Zuph> Something about the lens flare just detracts from it, in my opinion.
21:04 <     etank> the racer kind of looks like he is pooping the ubuntu logo out though
21:04 <     etank> no offence bkingx 
21:04 <    bkingx> LMAO...none taken!
21:05 <      Zuph> Maybe racer with Ubuntu logo at the top and the horse under it?
21:05 <     etank> the flare looks good as a desktop image though
21:05 <      Zuph> I don't know.  I just have a personal vendetta against lens flare
21:05 <     etank> we need to remember that there is a bar that show boot progress too
21:05 <     etank> we need to make room for that
21:06 <      Zuph> No offense, but most lens flare looks like an 11 year old fired up photoshop and went to town
21:06 <    bkingx> Long term goal, was to build a custom distro that we can distribute.
21:06              <   zenwhen!n=troy@ubuntu/member/zenwhen [Read error: 110 (Connection timed out)]
21:06 <     etank> i would call it a customized ubuntu cd
21:06 <    bkingx> Exactly!
21:06 <     etank> not a new distro
21:07 <     etank> just something that says KY Team
21:07 <    bkingx> With preloaded packages recommended by us, the LoCo team
21:07 <     etank> hence horses
21:07 <    bkingx> Here's where this came from:
21:07 <      Zuph> I'm all about somehting that looks clean, uncluttered and professional, and I just think the lens flare takes away from that.
21:07 <     etank> thats cool
21:08              <   zenwhen-lt!n=troy@ubuntu/member/zenwhen [Read error: 60 (Operation timed out)]
21:08 <    bkingx> As a new user, I had no idea what to do once I got the image loaded.  So I constantly had to ask, what do I load for this, why can't I do that, how can I get that thing.
21:08              >>> zenwhen!n=troy@ubuntu/member/zenwhen
21:09 <    bkingx> So I thought new Ubuntu users would have the same thoughts.  But if we could customize an Ubuntu load with some of these things, it might be a good tool to have it preloaded for new users.
21:09 <    bkingx> Then it grew into custom splash screens, and desktop images.
21:09 <     etank> or we could create a list of recommended packages 
21:10 <    bkingx> But as far as the Team Logo, we have a generic horsehead now, and we need to decide if we want to use one of those other images or not.
21:10 <     etank> I think that the most that we should change the Ubuntu CD is in adding images and maybe the usplash
21:10 <      Zuph> The most valuable thing I think we can possibly do is collect useful, easy to read documentation in one place.  The best way to do that is probably through install-fests and experiencing these problems that people are having.
21:11 <     etank> Zuph: i second that
21:11 <    bkingx> That is good too.
21:11 <    bkingx> BTW Zuph, I personally liked the racer too.
21:12 <     etank> we could type up a doc with screen shots that shows the users how to do common tasks. ie getting online, typing a doc, setting up a printer, etc
21:12 <    bkingx> But I made some alternatives just to look at.
21:12 <    |{evin> actually, you might not need to write from scratch
21:12 <    bkingx> Heck yeah!!
21:12 <     etank> copying is GOOD
21:12 <  venomous> i think printing and wireless connectivity issues will be most users primary concerns.
21:12 <    |{evin> just collect links to howtos on ubuntuforums, or howtoforge.. etc
21:13 <     etank> thats the idea
21:13 <    bkingx> I agree, venomous
21:13 <    bkingx> Get me to the Internet and let me check my email.
21:13 <    bkingx> That is the most important thing to most people/
21:13 <     etank> wireless would be more difficult to cover than some of the other issues though
21:13 <      Zuph> venomous: and to that point, we'll have to decide how in to the open source philosophy we're going to be, as there are a lot of wireless and printer drivers that just aren't released under GPL or "Free as in freedom, not free as in beer" licenses
21:14 <     etank> but we would need to work with what the user has
21:14 <    |{evin> nvidia... ndiswrapper :/
21:14 <     etank> if they dont have a printer or wireless currently we can recommend something that is open and does work easily "Out of the box"
21:15 <  venomous> agreed.  just trying to picture myself as "joe user" at home...might have wireless at home  (how do i connect with this at home?)...doesn't really care what application he's using as a word processor...just needs to print what he's written (how do i print this document??)..
21:15 <    bkingx> Right....how do I get to AOL?
21:15 <    bkingx> I want to check the weather.
21:15 <     etank> NOOOOOOOOOOOOO
21:15 <     etank> AOHell
21:16 <    bkingx> LOL....but it's the truth!
21:16 <  venomous> don't want 'em using ao-hell
21:16 <    |{evin> bkingx, my response.. "why would you want to?"
21:16 <    bkingx> My reply....."because I already use it.:
21:16 <    bkingx> Or...I don't want to change my email address.
21:16 <    |{evin> "There need to, let me show you this thing called 'google'"
21:16 <     etank> bkingx: so you are saying thats what the user would say
21:17 <     etank> gotcha
21:17 <  venomous> installed firefox on a bank president's pc today.  had to revert back to ie7 only because she wanted her home page as msn and to use the windows explorer toolbar!!!
21:17 <    bkingx> Right!!!!!
21:17 <    bkingx> HEll no would I ever do it!
21:18              >>> zenwhen-lt!n=troy@ubuntu/member/zenwhen
21:18 <    bkingx> But the fact is, grandma smith running Win98 and AOL dialup heard from QVC that DSL is faster to get her kid's email.
21:18 <     etank> It would be nice to be able to package a doc like this in a binder of some sort to give out to people
21:18 <     etank> and include a cd in the back
21:18 <    bkingx> Now you're thinking!!
21:19 <    bkingx> Hand it out with a copy of the Live CD.
21:19 <     etank> suer
21:19 <     etank> but ... that costs money to do
21:19 <     etank> the cds would be free once we are approved
21:20 <      Zuph> etank: I have laser printers and such I would donate to the cause
21:20 <      Zuph> paper and toner are reasonably cheap
21:20 <     etank> cool
21:20 <    bkingx> Well, I got 30 coming, you got 30, etc.
21:20 <     etank> true
21:20 <      Zuph> I have a laserjet III that you can HAVE if you're willing to cart it of
21:20 <      Zuph> and a laserjet IIID that I know how to fix for low cost.
21:20 <      Zuph> *off
21:21 <     etank> bkingx and I have gone to the shipit site to request 30 Dapper CDs for the purpose of handing out
21:21 <  venomous> Zuph: what kinda cost...my printer has taken a dump on me.
21:21 <      Zuph> It's like a $35 part on ebay.  I think.
21:22 <      Zuph> I haven't taken it apart to make sure, but the last one I had throw that error code had that problem
21:22 <      Zuph> The III works fine, though
21:22 <    bkingx> That 1100, venomous ?
21:22 <      Zuph> It's just old, slow and makes the room it is in smell like ozone.
21:23 <  venomous> yeah..the one with the worn roller.  if you try to put more than 2 pages (trust me...i've tried!!) in the feed...it jams..
21:23 <  venomous> Zuph: i'll take you up on that offer for the III
21:23 <    bkingx> I told ya...call HP and they will do a one-time kit to make it work.  I did it to my 1100 and it still works great!
21:23              >>> Vorian!n=steve@ubuntu/member/Vorian
21:23 <    bkingx> Oh..and it is free.
21:23 <     etank> does anyone know how to bind the docs
21:23 <      Zuph> Okay,  You can haul the thing off from Louisville.
21:23 <     etank> so it looks a little more professional
21:23 <  venomous> i'm all about free..
21:23 <    bkingx> OHOHOHO...I have a binder I can use!
21:24 <     etank> I dont mean 3 ring
21:24 <      Zuph> Keeping in mind that it weighs about 100lbs.
21:24              atoponce pokes his head in
21:24 <     etank> i mean with the glue and all
21:24 <     etank> hi atoponce 
21:24 <  venomous> etank: you've got a binder at work!  i used it to package the wireless docs
21:24 <  atoponce> etank: hello. :)
21:24 <     etank> venomous: really
21:24 <  venomous> use the ring binder
21:24 <    bkingx> Right...it uses those plastic tabby things.
21:25 <  venomous> yep...the plastic ring binders....
21:25              <   zenwhen!n=troy@ubuntu/member/zenwhen [Connection timed out]
21:26 <    bkingx> That makes a nice little package
21:26 <     etank> ill look into it
21:26 <    bkingx> I'm sure they would never miss it if it fell out the back door!!  LOL
21:26 <  venomous> ask hamid...he should know where it is
21:26 <     etank> k
21:27 <    bkingx> Or Wes
21:27 <    bkingx> ANd there was a box of those ringlets there when I left too.
21:27 <  venomous> bkingx: still there when i left...
21:28 <    bkingx> Yup...never used when they got it!
21:28 <    bkingx> Another brilliant purchase!
21:28 <    bkingx> Just like the badgemaker and camera I am SURE is not being used.
21:28 <  venomous> i used it!!  much to future dismay...
21:28 <     etank> so we are good on the Install fest / Fiesty release party, PC recycling, and attending the Ohio Linux conference?
21:28 <    bkingx> Yeah...that all soudns like a plan.
21:29 <  venomous> venomous: votes go on install fest and pc recycling, but abstains, at this point, from a vote on conference
21:29 <     etank> ok
21:30 <     etank> so is everyone good to do a meeting like this each thursday?
21:30 <    bkingx> I'm in for all three, but will have to wait until the conference is closer to commit.
21:30 <     etank> around the same time?
21:30 <  venomous> hand
21:31              etank hand
21:31              >>> troy__!n=troy@74-131-18-81.dhcp.insightbb.com
21:31 <     etank> hey troy__ 
21:31 <    bkingx> hand
21:31 <     etank> anyone else
21:32 <    bkingx> Come on peeps, say your piece.
21:32              Vorian votes you guys come to the Ohio Linux fest.
21:32 <     etank> Vorian: I think that I am going to try to come no matter what
21:32 <    Vorian> cool
21:33 <    Vorian> We are going to have a booth
21:33 <     etank> Vorian: if no one else comes can I be an honorary Ohio Team Member? :)
21:33 <    bkingx> I'll most likely be there, etank
21:33 <    Vorian> sure, just sign up on launchpad. :)
21:33 <     etank> lol
21:34 <     etank> so when would you guys like to have a "Real World Meeting"?
21:34 <     etank> my vote would be for it to be on a Thursday.
21:34 <    bkingx> Thursday seems to work for me.
21:34 <     etank> but which thursday
21:34 <    bkingx> Next?
21:35 <     etank> we can say the third thursday of the month or something like that
21:35 <     etank> and where do we want to meet?
21:35 <     etank> zenwhen-lt mentioned a coffee shop around here somewhere
21:35 <     etank> with wifi
21:35 <  venomous> i'm expecting to be in ohio for a hardware/esx install up through, and including, the 15th..
21:35 <    bkingx> Third Street, wasn't it?
21:36 <     etank> i dont recall
21:36 <    bkingx> Or maybe Joesph Beth's?
21:36 <  venomous> with b\t, all starbucks are open to hosting an "open" wireless meeting!!
21:37 <    bkingx> Oh...OK
21:37 <     etank> funny
21:37 <    |{evin> mmm, starbucks
21:37 <     etank> anyone else have a recommendation
21:37 <      Zuph> I would prefer not thursday for real life meetings
21:37 <    bkingx> Cici's Pizza?
21:37 <      Zuph> Just because that's kind of a rough drive from Louisville on a weekday.
21:38 <     etank> what day works better for you
21:38 <    bkingx> They have a big ol table and food!
21:38 <     etank> weekend
21:38 <     etank> Im no good on Mon, Tue, Wed, or Sun
21:38 <      Zuph> Yeah, Saturday or Sunday
21:38 <     etank> Sat afternoon would be ok
21:38 <  venomous> bkingx: given you're still married...it's of no detriment to you to display your "l33t g33kn355"!!  we singles have something to consider in that regard though!!
21:39 <    bkingx> LOL...
21:39              <   zenwhen-lt!n=troy@ubuntu/member/zenwhen [Connection timed out]
21:40 <     etank> Ok if there is noo more real business then i say we end the meeting}}}
