{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Topics ===

* Resource names.
* Customized CDs.
* Web site update.

=== Log ===

<pre>
20:07 <     etank> is everyone ready to get started?
20:08 <  montgoej> I'll be leaving at around 9 again
20:08 <     etank> thats cool
20:08 <  montgoej> thanks.  just giving you a heads-up
20:08 <     etank> as a reminder the topics for the meeting tonight are: Resource names, Customized CDs, Web site update
20:09              <   X626!n=X626@dialup-4.252.96.63.Dial1.Cincinnati1.Level3.net [Read error: 60 (Operation timed out)]
20:09              >>> X626!n=X626@dialup-4.224.225.61.Dial1.Cincinnati1.Level3.net
20:09 <     etank> for those that dont know Aaron Toponce of the Utah team blogged earlier about standardizing team names for the LoCos
20:09 <     etank> our name currently does not meet that standard
20:10 <     etank> here is the link http://www.pthree.org/2007/02/18/us-loco-teams-success/
20:10 <     etank> the idea would be that we would be ubuntu-kentucky instead of ubuntu-ky
20:10 <     etank> that would mean a change to the IRC room, launchpad, forum and mailing list
20:11 <     etank> I have already created the IRC room
20:12 <  montgoej> I noticed that, I just dropped in for a few seconds the other day to see whether it was registered or not
20:12 <     etank> I dont think that it would be that hard to get the changes to the forum and mailing list
20:12              >>> jkeyes0!n=jkeyes0@host-067-131-062-080.dhcp.fewpb.net
20:12 <     etank> any questions or thoughts so far???
20:13 <    bkingx> not yet
20:13 <      X626> Not really
20:14 <  montgoej> none so far
20:14 <     etank> is this something that we want to do as a team?
20:14 <    bkingx> oh yeah!!
20:15 <  venomous> *hand
20:15              montgoej voices approval
20:15 <  evilgold> fo sho
20:15 <      X626> I kinda like that it uses the whole state name (don't no why).  So, yes for me.
20:16 <     etank> anyone else?
20:16 <   jkeyes0> I'm sorry, I've been in and out. did I miss something?
20:17 <     etank> our current team name does not meet the naming convention used by other teams
20:17 <     etank> we are discussing changing the name to be ubuntu-kentucky
20:18 <   jkeyes0> right, gotcha. that works for me. +1
20:18 <     etank> and doing that for all of the resources that we use
20:18 <   jkeyes0> so whatever happened with the guy who registered the ubuntu-kentucky launchpad site?
20:18 <     etank> that would be fumbalah 
20:18 <     etank> and he is here with us tonight
20:18 <   jkeyes0> even nicer. welcome, fumbalah!
20:18 <     etank> he has been trying to make the owner of that team
20:19 <     etank> worst case is that we would all have to join that team
20:19 <     etank> best case we can change our name and no one has to make anychanges
20:19 <   jkeyes0> is it possible to delete that team and rename ubuntu-ky?
20:20 <     etank> that is part of the plan
20:20 <   jkeyes0> sounds like a plan. I like the idea of ubuntu-kentucky a little better than ubuntu-ky as well
20:21              montgoej also likes idea
20:21 <     etank> im in the launchpad channel now to asking their advice
20:21 <    bkingx> alright...I've been watching while eating.
20:22 <    bkingx> I think nthis will really stabilize our presence in the community
20:22 <     etank> launchpad says that owners can not delete the teams
20:22 <    bkingx> And if we ever hear back from the web site folks, we can register the matching domain name.
20:23 <     etank> we may have to create a ticket with the launchpad team to have an admin do it
20:23 <     etank> fumbalah: are you ok with us doing that?
20:26 <     etank> ok. on to the next topic
20:26 <     etank> we have talked before about making customized CDs
20:27 <     etank> does anyone have any expierence with that?
20:27 <    bkingx> You do! LOL
20:27 <  montgoej> I've played with UCK a bit...that's about it
20:27 <     etank> i have used ( a little ) http://reconstructor.aperantis.com/
20:27 <     etank> it seems to be pretty nice
20:28              >>> zuph!n=bradluys@74-130-215-240.dhcp.insightbb.com
20:28 <     etank> what kinds of things do we want to do with the CD?
20:28 <     etank> hi zuph 
20:28 <      zuph> Hello
20:28 <      zuph> House hunting didn't go well :(
20:29 <     etank> sorry to hear it
20:29 <     etank> im thinking that we add a custom usplash and change the background
20:29 <     etank> any other ideas
20:29 <      zuph> custom startup sound?
20:30 <    bkingx> Good one
20:30 <   jkeyes0> can we add additional packages to the default install?
20:30 <     etank> yup
20:30 <    bkingx> Usplash and background?
20:30 <     etank> i said that
20:30 <     etank> pay attention bkingx 
20:30 <     etank> :)
20:30 <    bkingx> LOL...eating a fortune cookie!
20:31 <  evilgold> we should include beryl
20:31 <    bkingx> What is beryl, btw?
20:31 <     etank> do a google search
20:31 <    bkingx> I keep hearing it.
20:31 <  evilgold> lol
20:31 <  evilgold> you dont know?
20:32 <     etank> go to video.google.com and look there
20:32 <     etank> it will blow your socks off
20:32 <  evilgold> for reals
20:32 <    bkingx> Man...someone got hit with the smarta$$ stick tonight!
20:32              >>> Zuph_!n=bradluys@74-130-215-240.dhcp.insightbb.com
20:32 <    bkingx> ;)
20:32 <      X626> I don't know, either, but I'm already looking up information on it.
20:32              <   zuph!n=bradluys@74-130-215-240.dhcp.insightbb.com [Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer)]
20:32              ~   Zuph_ is now Zuph
20:33 <      Zuph> (hate wireless)
20:33 <   jkeyes0> I tried to install it the other night, but it's not working for me (ATi mobility card, ugh)
20:34 <  evilgold> Ati should just not release linux drivers, they do more harm then good
20:34 <     etank> im not sure beryl should go on the custom CD
20:34 <  evilgold> radeon is the best option right now
20:34 <     etank> not everyone can use it
20:34              >>> comfurtn!n=kyle@mrtc-570208.mis.net
20:34 <    bkingx> I agree etank,
20:34 <  evilgold> I think it should be optional
20:34 <  evilgold> like what sabayon does
20:35 <     etank> it is in the repos
20:35 <    bkingx> Might cause more problems.
20:35 <      X626> I know I can't use it.  Nothing that deals with graphics works well on my system (my video card doesn't have a Linux driver...)
20:35 <  comfurtn> hey guys... what are we talking about/
20:35 <      X626> I meant accelerated graphics
20:35 <  evilgold> x626 what card do you have?
20:35              >>> rrittenhouse!n=tad@unaffiliated/rrittenhouse
20:36 <   jkeyes0> welcome rrittenhouse
20:36 <    bkingx> How about local wiki?
20:36 <     etank> so we can do a custom usplash, sounds, and background
20:36 <    bkingx> Yakuake?
20:37 <     etank> those probably wouldn't be that hard
20:37 <   jkeyes0> what's yakuake?
20:37 <     etank> do a sudo aptitude install yakuake
20:37 <     etank> then hit F12
20:37 <    bkingx> It's a quick virtual konsole.
20:37 <     etank> a konsole terminal screen drops out of the top of the screen
20:37 <   jkeyes0> wow, kdelibs.
20:37 <     etank> kind of handy i think
20:38 <     etank> the more we put on it the bigger the image gets
20:38 <     etank> there is a limit to this thing
20:40 <  evilgold> i dont think we want kdelibs on there unless we're going to use kde, too big
20:40 <     etank> i agree
20:41 <     etank> any other ideas
20:42 <  evilgold> how about VLC
20:42 <     etank> does anyone use evoulution?
20:42 <   jkeyes0> vlc would be great.
20:42 <  evilgold> i do
20:43 <    bkingx> I do too
20:43 <     etank> i was thinking that we could take out evolution and load thunderbird by default
20:44 <  evilgold> I think evolution is a bit more powerful
20:45 <  evilgold> plus it works well with gnome
20:45 <  evilgold> thunderbird is more lightweight like sylpheed
20:45 <   jkeyes0> would it be worth including winbind and samba?
20:47 <  evilgold> how about including wine?
20:47 <     etank> that again takes more space
20:47 <  montgoej> and wine only works good if you have the right programs to help get stuff working
20:48 <     etank> the good thing is that reconstructor shows you how big the image is as you are working on it
20:48 <  evilgold> montgoej, what do you mean?
20:48 <  evilgold> well what are some things we can remove?
20:48 <  evilgold> how about removing the gimp?
20:49 <  evilgold> maybe somthing more basic in its place
20:49 <  montgoej> IMHO, wine only really works good if you've got programs like wine doors, else you have a lot of configuring to do to get stuff to run
20:49 <  evilgold> ohh
20:50 <     etank> i tried reconstructor with a feisty and a dapper machine
20:50 <     etank> i had issues with feisty
20:51 <   jkeyes0> that's another question. what version of the cd are we customizing? dapper or edgy?
20:52 <  evilgold> i'd say edgy
20:52 <     etank> i like the idea of using edgy
20:52              montgoej likes edgy
20:53 <      X626> I haven't used it, so I have no idea...I'm still using Dapper.
20:53 <   jkeyes0> comparing the two, I'm loving edgy over dapper. didn't know if anyone had a preference for the LTS or not
20:53 <     etank> there had been some suggestion about creating a deb to install the usplash, background, etc too
20:53 <     etank> anyone have any experience with doing that?
20:54 <    bkingx> I can manipulate some graphics, but making the deb is nothing I have experience with.
20:54 <  montgoej> with ubuntu CE the little script does a good job of it, we could just edit that, I've seen the code and it's not too complicated
20:55 <     etank> i dont that that it would be that hard
20:55 <     etank> montgoej: good thinking
20:56 <  montgoej> it's basically written so that all fuctions are defined, then run each function one after another, very simple, and it's not hard to follow the code
20:57 <  montgoej> well, I'm gonna be going, I'll read the logs tomorrow
20:57              <   montgoej!n=jordan@adsl-80-24-241.bgk.bellsouth.net [Remote closed the connection]
20:58 <     etank> well that gives us some stuff to think about and play with
20:58 <     etank> the last topic is the web site update
20:59 <     etank> I have put in a request for the usage of kentucky.ubuntu-us.org with the ubuntu webmasters
20:59 <     etank> haven't heard anything back yet
20:59 <     etank> for those of you that have not seen what we have so far here it is http://64.191.174.220/
21:00 <     etank> i also sent a message to the trademark people about using the name ubuntu-kentucky.org
21:00 <     etank> still nada on that too
21:00 <     etank> what are your thoughts on how to proceed from here?
21:02 <   jkeyes0> now that we're developing more of an online presence, it might be good if most of our members (if not all) include at least the link to the Kentucky LoCo team forum in their forum signature.
21:03 <    bkingx> I would hate to jeapordize the approval process, but I think we should go ahead with the ubuntu-kentucky.ogr domain.
21:03 <    bkingx> Or maybe not...I am on the fence about doing it now or later.
21:04 <   jkeyes0> I'd say later is better. not a whole lot of chance of someone else picking it up
21:05 <     etank> yeah it is pretty specific
21:06 <     etank> and ubuntu may even host it for us or at least pay the reg fees
21:06 <    bkingx> then I guess all we can do at this point is wait.
21:06 <     etank> sucks but i think you are right
21:06 <    bkingx> But we can continue development of the site while we wait.
21:07              <   X626!n=X626@dialup-4.224.225.61.Dial1.Cincinnati1.Level3.net [Read error: 60 (Operation timed out)]
21:08              >>> X626!n=X626@dialup-4.224.189.137.Dial1.Cincinnati1.Level3.net
21:09 <     etank> ok. well thats all i've got for tonight.
21:09 <     etank> bkingx:  did you have something?
21:09 <    bkingx> Nope...I'm pretty much out of ideas for tonight
21:09 <    bkingx> You covered it pretty well!
21:09 <   jkeyes0> good meeting
21:10 <    bkingx> Zuph, any word on the PC's ?
21:10 <     etank> you sent something about the mission statement to the mailing list
21:10 <     etank> im still working on getting the ones from where i work
21:10 <      Zuph> bkingx: Get 'em in april.  Anyone with a truck could be handy.
21:11 <    bkingx> Oh yeah!  I think as we are working toward projects, having a defined mission statement would be a good idea.
21:13 <     etank> do you have one in mind?
21:13 <     etank> I kinda like "Our aim is to provide community support for users of Ubuntu Linux, it's various distributions, and promote it's use by both individuals and organizations alike."
21:13 <    bkingx> That is a pretty good one,.
21:13 <     etank> simple, to the point.
21:14 <    bkingx> Any one else have an opinion?
21:14 <   jkeyes0> would it be worth specifying location? (support for users in the ky/in/tn area)?
21:15 <      Zuph> Yes, but it's mean.
21:15 <  evilgold> i think we should just ad the word "local" to that
21:16 <   jkeyes0> that would work, evil. and of course the "local" is implied by the LoCo name.
21:17 <    bkingx> I like adding local.
21:17 <    bkingx> It follows our local philosophy.
21:18 <  evilgold> "Our aim is to provide community support to local users of ubuntu linux...yadda yadda"
21:19 <  evilgold> or maybe somthing like "kentucky based local users"
21:19 <      Zuph> Mission statements are for people that spend too little time doing actual missions and too much time trying to make themselves look important.
21:19 <  evilgold> lol
21:19 <    bkingx> Or:  "Our aim is to provide local community support to lusers of ubuntu linux...yadda yadda
21:19 <  evilgold> good point
21:20 <      Zuph> anyone that finds us knows what we do through the forums, the wiki or us telling them.  Condensing that into a small catchphrase only serves as a monument to our own self-importance.
21:20 <    bkingx> I think it just focuses our efforts when doing these community projects.
21:20 <    bkingx> I disagree...it is more of a guidline.
21:20 <    bkingx> To make sure we are doing what we said we would do...for the community.
21:20 <      Zuph> Guidelines are not missions statements.  Guidelines are technical and detailed.
21:21 <      Zuph> As long as we don't go out murdering 5 year olds and leaving small stuffed penguins on the bodies, I think we can say we're doing the community a benefit.
21:21 <   jkeyes0> crap, Zuph. there goes my idea...
21:22 <      Zuph> jkeyes0: sorry to burst your bubble.  Back to the drawing board, eh?
21:22 <      Zuph> The trick is to come up with these nifty projects then do them.  That doesn't require a mission statement.
21:22 <   jkeyes0> yeah, I'm working on penguin grenades next
21:23 <    bkingx> Well, I'm good with what we have then.
21:23 <      Zuph> etank and I came up with the charity idea because we both saw a need and a method of fulfilling that need.
21:24 <      Zuph> Mission statments aren't going to come up with new ideas.  We're all here to further the Linux community.  Anything we do involving linux accomplishes that goal.
21:25 <      Zuph> Here is my suggestion for a mission statement, then I stop being an ass:  Use Linux and when people ask you about it don't be a self-important arrogant nerd.
21:25 <    bkingx> I guess we'll have to agree to disagree here.
21:25 <    bkingx> Not a big deal though.
21:25 <    bkingx> We can continue with our projects as we have planned.
21:25 <      Zuph> and continue to plan more projects.
21:26 <    bkingx> Exactly!
21:26 <      Zuph> I think we should contact UK and UofL SLUGs to see if they want in on some install-fest goodness.
21:27 <      Zuph> Me and the UofL SLUG might still have some bad blood, though, so I'll have to duck out of that one.
21:27 <     etank> does anyone already have an in with any of those
21:27 <   jkeyes0> Zuph: Sounds good. Might even be able to pick up some new blood that way
21:27 <    bkingx> That's a good idea too.  Especially if we can utilize contacts to get space.
21:27 <      Zuph> As long as you don't talk to Olex at UofL, you'll probably be good.
21:29 <    bkingx> Cool...well, does anyone have anything else?
21:29 <     etank> not me :)
21:30 <     etank> so quick recap
21:30 <  venomous> sorry guys....had something come up last minute.  i'll read the log.
21:30 <     etank> we want to change the resource names, we are going to play with creating a custom CD, we are waiting on the domain name, and no mission statement as of now.
21:31 <     etank> does that sum everything up?
21:31 <   jkeyes0> sounds about right
21:31 <    bkingx> Yup!
21:32 <      X626> Seems like it to me.
21:32 <     etank> well the ubuntu-kentucky channel is up and running so feel free to chat in there
21:32 <     etank> i think that until all of the name changes are made we leave both rooms open
21:33 <     etank> then we can make the transition
21:33 <    bkingx> Sounds good!
21:33 <    bkingx> Already!  Everyone have a good night then!
21:34 <    bkingx> Talk at ya later!!
21:34              <   bkingx!n=bkingx@mail.hsgworld.com ["Leaving"]
21:34 <     etank> well that ends the meeting then
</pre>
