{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">
|}

=== Purpose ===

We are working on developing a "Welcome to Ubuntu" packet to give to new users. Useful for Install Fests and those we just happen across.

As a new user, what information can we give them to make their experience better with Ubuntu? What hints/tricks can we give them? What step-by-step instructions can we provide for the technical user all the way down to "I love my abacus"?

We will be providing these things in addition to the ShipIt CD as a resource to give to event participants and those we happen to come across to make the transition to Ubuntu a pleasant one.

=== Contents ===

List all items to include in the packet here.

* Ubuntu CD
* Stickers
* A CD with <nowiki>[[ScreencastTeam|Screencasts]]</nowiki>
* Latest <nowiki>[[http://www.fullcirclemagazine.org/|FullCircle Magazine]]</nowiki>
* Basic documentation
** Welcome Letter
** Helpful Documents
** Quick and Dirty Install
** The One Page Ubuntu Manual
** Linux Equivalent Apps  
** How to use IRC and the #ubuntu-kentucky channel
** Recommended References

=== Assembly ===

Assemble contents in a two pocket folder per instructions below:
* In the left inside pocket, include the <nowiki>[[http://www.fullcirclemagazine.org/|FullCircle Magazine]]</nowiki>, place the Ubuntu CD, the Screencast CD, and stickers(held in place by a paperclip).
* In the right pocket, insert the documentation in the order above.
* Place a Label on the front cover with your Team Logo and name.
