{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Topics ===

 {*} Release Party / BBQ                                                                                                                                                   

 {*} Next Install Fest                                                                                                                                                      

 {*} LUG meeting reminder                                                                                                                                                   

 {*} LoCo Team news

=== Log ===

<pre>
20:13 <     etank> well lets get this thing going
20:13 <     etank> Release Party / BBQ
20:13 <     etank> klb has said that he will host it for us
20:13 <     etank> he is looking at Oct 6th and 13th
20:14 <     etank> the only bad thing about that is that Gutsy wont be out by then
20:14 <   Yoooder> beta-party? :-D
20:14 <     etank> it is supposed to release on the 18th
20:14 <     etank> the 6th is a bad day for me
20:15 <   Yoooder> I'm out of state the 13th
20:15 <     etank> should we see about doing it another day
20:15 <     etank> the 6th is the date of the LUG Style meeting 
20:15 <    bkingx> Yeah, maybe the following weekend?
20:16 <     etank> so the 19th or so then
20:16 <     etank> i dont think those days are good for klb
20:16 <     etank> we can push it to Nov if we need to maybe
20:17              bkingx nods
20:17 <     etank> next topic
20:17 <    bkingx> I wish klb was here to talk about it.
20:17 <     etank> Next Install Fest
20:17              >>> srwalter!n=srwalter@CPE-76-177-36-23.natcky.res.rr.com
20:17 <     etank> \o/ srwalter \o/
20:17 <    bkingx> Hey Steve!
20:17 <  srwalter> howdy
20:17 <  srwalter> what'd I miss?
20:18 <     etank> we just got started
20:18 <     etank> we were discussing the BBQ / Release parth
20:18 <     etank> 8party
20:18 <  srwalter> mmm, bbq
20:18 <     etank> yummm
20:18 <    bkingx> Love me some ribs!
20:19 <     etank> we are going to see if klb can do it in November
20:19 <  srwalter> hope it doesn't get too cold to grill
20:19 <     etank> now we are going to discuss the next install fest
20:19 <     etank> i think that the last one went pretty well
20:20 <     etank> i would really like to see us do another one and try to do some more planning with it
20:20 <  srwalter> what more would you like to do?
20:20 <     etank> we ran out of time with the last one
20:20 <     etank> and try to get the word out a little better than we did the last time
20:20 <  srwalter> true
20:21 <  srwalter> I'm not sure if my having a full-time job will help or hurt things
20:21 <  srwalter> oh, I'm running Gutsy now
20:21 <     etank> good huh
20:21 <     etank> oh yeah
20:21 <     etank> i placed the order for out Gutsy CDs a few days ago
20:21 <    bkingx> Awesome!
20:22 <     etank> 300 coming our way :)
20:22 <    bkingx> etank: you ever get tired of hearing SameTime Bells?
20:22 <     etank> we need to figure out when we want to do the install fest
20:23 <     etank> bkingx: hardly anyone ever contacts me on it
20:23 <    bkingx> Geez...it's CONSTANT!
20:23              srwalter just uses gaim
20:23 <    bkingx> Sorry, keep going.
20:23 <  srwalter> sametime is for windows users ;)
20:23 <    bkingx> srwalter: we use Sametime at work.
20:23 <    bkingx> IBM
20:23 <    bkingx> You should to, don't you?
20:24 <     etank> i guess that we can discuss the install fest date at the IRL LUG meeting
20:24 <     etank> speaking of the LUG meeting 
20:24 <  srwalter> gaim supports sametime
20:24 <     etank> we are meeting on Oct 6th at 6:00PM
20:24 <    bkingx> yeah, but can't access IBM's internal from home.
20:24 <    bkingx> But I love GAIM.
20:25 <    bkingx> And Pidgin
20:25 <     etank> srwalter: do LUGs normally have food at the meetings
20:25 <     etank> im wondering if we should order some pizzas or something
20:26 <  srwalter> I think that's pretty standard
20:26 <  srwalter> it certainly helps with the people showing up
20:26 <     etank> cool
20:26 <     etank> i may see if i can get some stuff from O'Reilly for prizes
20:26 <    bkingx> Nice!
20:26 <  srwalter> cool cool
20:26 <     etank> to encourage people to actually participate
20:26              >>> queenofthe1ring!n=erin@CPE-76-177-36-23.natcky.res.rr.com
20:27 <     etank> srwalter: would you be willing to do the cli gpg stuff at the meeting
20:28 <    bkingx> Hi queenofthe1ring
20:28 <     etank> then we can do some gui tools too
20:28 < queenofth> hi bkingx :-)
20:29 <     etank> last thing then is
20:29 <     etank> LoCo Team news
20:29              >>> bkingx_!n=bkingx@74-131-218-251.dhcp.insightbb.com
20:30 <   bkingx_> well that sucked!
20:30 <     etank> i dont know if you have been hearing all the stuff going on in the US Team project and also in ubuntu-locoteams
20:30 <     etank> but there has been a lot of discussion for creating a not for profit org
20:30 <     etank> a blanket for all of the locos
20:31 <     etank> if you are interested in this discussion then make sure to be at the meeting in #ubuntu-us
20:31 <  srwalter> etank:  sure thing about GPG
20:31 <     etank> srwalter: cool
20:32 <   Yoooder> etank: when is the meeting?
20:32 <     etank> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/MeetingAgenda
20:32 <     etank> Oct 5th
20:32 <     etank> i mean 4th
20:33 <     etank> the 4th at 9:00
20:34 <     etank> we will cut our meeting a little short that night to allow for those that want to attend it 
20:35 <     etank> this has been a very heated topic of late
20:35 <     etank> it is a pretty important on i think
20:36 <     etank> any questions about that?
20:36 <     etank> last thing then
20:37 <     etank> is anyone willing to do work on the team web site
20:37 <   Yoooder> what type of work needs done?
20:37 <     etank> now that it is back online i have really lost time on it
20:37 <   Yoooder> I'm rusty with webdesign, but could offer what remaining skills I have
20:37 <     etank> it is a drupal site
20:38 <     etank> really it is just getting things back in order
20:38 <      X626> I can help with something... (nothing graphical related, though)
20:38 <     etank> i will have to find the log in information to the server
20:38 <   Yoooder> I have some photoshopping / gimping skills.  maybe between x626 and myself we can get something
20:38 <     etank> that would be great
20:39 <     etank> i am really considering hosting the site somewhere else
20:39 <   Yoooder> nothing spectacular, but hopefully enough to suffice
20:39 <     etank> any help that you could provide  would be great.
20:40 <     etank> thats all i gots for tonight
</pre>
