{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

We are going to be having a Release Party for Gutsy on November 3^rd^ at Lexmark Park. The plan is to meet there at 3:00PM EST for food, games, and CDs. If you know anyone that is interested them bring them along. This event will be open to everyone so invite all your friends.

Map to the location http://tinyurl.com/355ztd

==== Food ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Item to bring'''
| '''Member name'''
|-
| Bread and condiments
| EricLake
|-
| Cheesecake
| srwalter, queenofthe1ring
|}

==== What to bring ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Item to bring'''
| '''Member name'''
|-
| Gutsy CDs
| EricLake
|-
| Case Badges
| BradZuphLuyster
|-
| Camera
| BradZuphLuyster
|}

==== Comments ====
(Propose a date for the event here or just add any ideas that you may have.)

November 3rd or November 10th are the two obvious dates.  It also seems like a good idea for the team members that are definitely showing up (Myself, Etank, BkingX, etc.) to bring the "critical food items," and everyone else to fill in with soda and sides.
- BradZuphLuyster

I propose that this be a family event. If you have a wife / husband / significant other then bring them. If you have kids bring them along too. If you are of the age that you need a parent to bring you then they are welcome as well. We can also try to have some outdoor games there as well if it is not too cold. - EricLake
