{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Topics ===

 {*} We are getting 400 Case Badges

 {*} Next Cup of Ubuntu

 {*} More IRL

 {*} Website stuff

Please feel free to add to this list of topics as you see fit.

=== Log ===

<pre>
20:02 <      Zuph> etank: Hooray!
20:02 <     etank> sorry all
20:03 <   jkeyes0> yay!
20:03 <     etank> lots of peoples in here tonight :)
20:03 <     etank> give me one sec to settle a little
20:03 <      X626> I almost forgot about the meeting...
20:04 <     etank> TOPICS: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/Meetings/2007Aug23
20:04 <     etank> if you have anything to add to the topic list then let me know
20:04 <     etank> first on the nights agenda is Case Badges
20:05 <     etank> thanks to Zuph's org skillz we have 400 on order
20:05 <      Zuph> Hooray!
20:05 <     etank> the idea is to use them at Install Fests and such
20:05 <   jkeyes0> woo!
20:05 <     etank> but not on any of the Charity PCs
20:06              >>> pat40503!n=patchad@74-131-211-12.dhcp.insightbb.com
20:06 <     etank> we still have a shortage of $28 or so too i think
20:06 <     etank> the money has to be turned in by Aug 31st
20:06 <     etank> i think that one of my friends is going to send you some money as soon as he gets paid Zuph 
20:07 <     etank> it should be enough to cover the rest
20:07 <      Zuph> Excellent
20:07 <     etank> how do you all feel about not using them on the Charity PCs
20:07 <      Zuph> I say we give whoever contributed "Bonus Badges"
20:07 <   jkeyes0> :) :) :)
20:07 <     etank> yay to that
20:08 <     etank> so do you all agree that we not use the "good ones" on the Charity boxes
20:09 <   jkeyes0> agreed. if we have more of the sys76 ones, those would work
20:09              X626 agrees
20:09 <     etank> Zuph and i already talked about it some but i want to make sure that you are all ok with it
20:09 <     etank> jkeyes0: true
20:09              >>> bkingx!n=bkingx@74-131-218-251.dhcp.insightbb.com
20:09 <     etank> better late than never bkingx :)
20:09 <    bkingx> Just got home!!
20:10 <     etank> bkingx: we were just going over the Case Badges
20:10 <    bkingx> And still got more work to do.
20:10 <    bkingx> Gonna put in some OT hours remotely!
20:10 <     etank> ShadowXMG: what do you think?
20:10 <    bkingx> Keep going with the discussion, I'll be watching
20:11 < ShadowXMG> Im new here... just observing
20:11 <     etank> everyones input is very welcome
20:11 <     etank> ShadowXMG: did jkeyes0 tell you about our Charity Project
20:11 < ShadowXMG> vaguely
20:11 <     etank> ok
20:11 <   jkeyes0> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam/Projects/AluminiumCaseBadges for the case badge info, btw.
20:12 <     etank> the basics: we are taking in old PCs and fixing them up to donate to people that can not afford them
20:12 <   jkeyes0> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/CharityProject for the charity project info
20:12 <     etank> like families of small children
20:13 < ShadowXMG> okay i guess i got most of the rundown... my memory, shes not so good
20:13 <     etank> coool
20:13 <  Shrimpy_> i have an older pc with no hardrive that i can throw in. (its lonely)
20:13 <     etank> nice Shrimpy_ 
20:13 <     etank> so next on the topic list is: Next Cup of Ubuntu
20:14 < ShadowXMG> i may be able to franken pc one or 2 together, place i used to work would give us non working systems.. ill take a look
20:14 <     etank> 6 of us were able to get together last time and have coffee and geek talk
20:14 <      Zuph> I'll be able to host one in the ville on the 8th.
20:14 <     etank> by host do you mean at your house?
20:15 <      Zuph> No
20:15 <     etank> or a Heine Bros
20:15 <   jkeyes0> what time you thinking about, Zuph ?
20:15 <      Zuph> Heine Bros
20:15 <      Zuph> What would be best for everyone?
20:15 < Ubuntu-Ky> Hmmm. I think everyone is a geek in their own way
20:15 <      Zuph> Ubuntu-Ky: forget everyone
20:15 <     etank> i may not be able to make that one Zuph 
20:15 <      Zuph> Ubuntu-Ky: Die.
20:15 <     etank> that is the day after my wifes B-Day
20:15 <     etank> forget everyone
20:15 < Ubuntu-Ky> Ok etank
20:15 <      Zuph> ah
20:15 <     etank> but go for it anyway
20:15 <      Zuph> well, that's the first day I'm free to host.
20:16 <      Zuph> What time would be good?
20:16 <     etank> klb: you are in the Louisville area
20:16 <     etank> would you be interested in getting together for coffee on the 8th
20:17 <     etank> that is a saturday
20:17              <   BlankBruno!n=bruno@75.117.164.205 ["Leaving"]
20:18 <     etank> jkeyes0: what time would be good for you
20:18 <   jkeyes0> not sure. wife's b-day celebration is that day
20:19 <     etank> Zuph: would there be another day around that time that would work for you
20:19 <     etank> like maybe the 15th
20:19 <     etank> or 16th
20:19 <      Zuph> I would prefer a weekend, but the 15th should work.
20:20 <   jkeyes0> sadly, I'm out of town that weekend, the 15th (in NC), and I'll be out of town the following weekend
20:20 <     etank> argh
20:20 <   jkeyes0> most likely I just won't be able to make this one. no biggie for me.
20:21 <     etank> bkingx: what about you?
20:21 <     etank> ShadowXMG: would you be interested in getting together with us for this
20:22 <      Zuph> The problem is that no one seems to come unless contacted directly.
20:22 <      Zuph> I hate everything :(
20:22 < ShadowXMG> possibly, most likely ride with jkeyes0 the first time
20:23 <      X626> I'd like to come, but I won't be able to go to Louisville.
20:23 <     etank> ok
20:23 <   jkeyes0> if we could host one at starbucks here in frankfort, the 8th would easily work. :)
20:24 <     etank> the thing is that we have been trying to get one going in Da'Ville for a while
20:24 <   jkeyes0> a very good point
20:24 <     etank> and noone seems to ever go
20:25 <      Zuph> Because all of you suck.
20:25 <      Zuph> If I may be so dour.
20:25 <   jkeyes0> and louisville is... awkward, to drive in
20:25              etank hands Zuph a beer
20:25 <      Zuph> jkeyes0: Nah, you just have to know.
20:26 <      Zuph> Plus, the Heine Bros. I'm thinking of is dead easy to get to.
20:26 <     etank> that it is
20:26 <   jkeyes0> it's also kinda far away for a lot of people. :)
20:26 <     etank> but it isnt fair for Zuph to always be the one to travel so far either
20:27 <   jkeyes0> agreed
20:27 <      Zuph> And we do HAVE Louisville members
20:27 <      Zuph> Just, none of them DO anything
20:27 <     etank> how about we keep thinking about it and move on to the next topic
20:28              jkeyes0 +1
20:28 <     etank> the next topic is kind of on the same wave length
20:28 <     etank> IRL meetings
20:28 <     etank> we have a location ( in Lexington ( sorry Zuph )) that we can meet at
20:28 <      Zuph> If gas is above $3.00 a gallon, driving to Lexington is out of the question unless planned well ahead of time.
20:29 <     etank> it would be good to have real LUG style meets once a month
20:29 <     etank> or even every other month
20:29 <     etank> how many of you would be up for that
20:29              etank +1
20:29              jkeyes0 +1
20:29 <  Shrimpy_> +1
20:29              X626 +1
20:30              Zuph +1
20:30 <     etank> cool
20:30 <   jkeyes0> didn't you mention a location in lexington, etank to host the meetings?
20:31 <     etank> i dont know which school it is but I have a friend that is a teacher
20:31 <     etank> he has permission for us to meet there
20:31 <     etank> there would be plenty of power, desk space, white boards, projectors, etc
20:32 <   jkeyes0> network?
20:32 <     etank> and some of his students would likely want to participate too
20:32 <     etank> oh yeah, network too (thanks jkeyes0)
20:32 <   jkeyes0> network = good
20:32 <     etank> really all that we need to have a good meeting would be there
20:33 <     etank> all that we have to provide is interest in actually doing something
20:33 <     etank> i think that this would be a great way to attract new people too
20:33              <   zenwhen!n=zenwhen@ubuntu/member/zenwhen ["This computer has gone to sleep"]
20:33 <      Zuph> We could play king of the hill with a secured server. :)
20:33 <   jkeyes0> agreed
20:34 <     etank> and it doesnt always have to be in that location
20:34 <      Zuph> Divide into two teams, and at the end of a set time limit, whoever has controlled the server for the longest amount of time wins :)
20:34 <     etank> if we find a spot in Louisville that would work then we could meet there some too
20:34 <     etank> Zuph: that sounds like fun
20:35 <     etank> when would be a good time to shoot for for the first meet?
20:36 <     etank> we will need time to plan for it
20:36 <      Zuph> Sometime that gas has dipped below $3 a gallon, but before Gustsy :)
20:36 <  Shrimpy_> king of the hill that would be awesome
20:36 <      Zuph> When's Gutsy coming out?  The exact date?
20:36 <     etank> Zuph: i still think that we should have a release party for gutsy
20:37 <   jkeyes0> Zuph, supposed to be 10/19
20:37 <      Zuph> etank: I agree.
20:37 <      Zuph> :(
20:37 <     etank> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GutsyReleaseSchedule
20:37 <      Zuph> If It comes out 10/19, I'll have to skip the festivities.
20:37 <     etank> why Zuph 
20:37 <   jkeyes0> so, perhaps 10/18 instead
20:37 <      Zuph> That's my 21st Birthday, and the weekend has already been earmarked for celebration.
20:37 <     etank> if it doesnt slip some
20:37 <   jkeyes0> tribe 5 is out, btw.
20:38 <     etank> we dont have to do it on the actual release day
20:38 <     etank> some teams have done it a week or two after
20:38 <     etank> and i would love to see us do another install fest sometime soon as well
20:39 <  Shrimpy_> but then the hype about gusty will not be as high
20:39 <     etank> it is more for us to get together and celebrate
20:40              <   Shrimpy_!n=penguin@74-131-37-123.dhcp.insightbb.com ["Leaving"]
20:40 <     etank> Zuph: we can celebrate with an Ubuntu cake
20:40 <      Zuph> Hooray!
20:40 <     etank> and 21 candles
20:40 <      Zuph> Hehe
20:41 <   jkeyes0> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GutsyGibbon/Tribe5
20:41 <     etank> so how about we start thinking about maybe doing a LUG style meet early Oct
20:42 <     etank> do you think that we would have enough time to plan something for then
20:42 <     etank> we could make the first one about GPG stuff and have a key sighing
20:42 <     etank> we have been talking about doing one for a long time
20:42 <      Zuph> Late Sept. Early Oct. Would be good for an IRL meeting
20:43 <     etank> coo
20:43 <      Zuph> plenty of time to account for things, and we can use it to plan the release party
20:43 <     etank> bkingx: does that work for you?
20:43              jkeyes0 +1
20:43 <     etank> yup yup
20:43 <     etank> JarG0n: what are your thoughts?
20:43 <      Zuph> I just burped and tasted kabob.  It was just as delicious as the first time :)
20:43 <     etank> TMI
20:44 <      Zuph> haha
20:44 <      Zuph> I
20:44 <      Zuph> I'm just saying, it was a damn good kabob
20:44 <     etank> ShadowXMG: are you new to Linux or have you been using it a while
20:45 < ShadowXMG> lol, new to Ubuntu, but have been using 'nix since free bsd back in 99
20:45 <     etank> cool
20:45 < ShadowXMG> till recently fedora core was a staple of mine
20:45 <     etank> so you could add a lot to a LUG meet
20:45 < ShadowXMG> one would hope :)
20:45 <     etank> and we dont have to stick with Ubuntu only
20:46 <     etank> we can do BSD, Python, Perl, hacking, anything g33ky
20:46 < ShadowXMG> yeah, Jkeyes and I have discussed that a lot, virtual machines are our friends
20:46              >>> zackboarman1!n=root@host-65-80-116-141.owb.bellsouth.net
20:46 <     etank> welcome zackboarman1 
20:47 <     etank> ok
20:47 <     etank> i have one more thing to go over
20:47 <     etank> our website
20:48 <     etank> some of you may have seen that a few (about 8) of the Canonical servers were hacked
20:48 <     etank> most if not all of the LoCo sites were taken offline 
20:48 <     etank> we have some options here now
20:48 <     etank> 1) we can have them bring what we had back online
20:49 <     etank> 2) we can get on the community servers (dont know a time frame for that)
20:49 <     etank> 3) we can get an outside host and point the DNS name to it
20:49 <     etank> the easiest of these is to let Canonical continue to host it
20:50 <     etank> and all that would take is me reporting a bug on LP for it
20:50 <      Zuph> I say we stick with Canonical.
20:50 <      X626> So do I.
20:50 <   jkeyes0> sounds good here too
20:50 <     etank> the one thing with that is that we will need to upgrade the version of drupal that we are using
20:50 <     etank> but that part is easy
20:51 <     etank> is everyone good with that then?
20:51 <      Zuph> Yep
20:51              etank +1
20:51              X626 +1
20:51              jkeyes0 +1
20:51              Zuph +1
20:51 <     etank> i will post the bug tonight to get the ball rolling then
20:52 <     etank> anything else to discuss?
20:53 <   jkeyes0> if anyone needs a networking / server / workstation person, please let me know. :)
20:53 < ShadowXMG> or two :)
20:54 <     etank> i wish that i could get one of you hired where i am
20:54 <     etank> well if there is nothing else 
20:54 <     etank> ,--8<-
20:54 <     etank> |Summary:
20:54 <     etank> |1) \0/ Case Badges
20:54 <     etank> |2) Still thinking about coffee meet
20:54 <     etank> |3) Every other month IRL is good
20:54 <     etank> `-->8-
20:54 <     etank> 4) Sticking with Canonical hosting
20:55 <     etank> does that about sum it all up?
20:55 <   jkeyes0> sounds about like it
20:55 <     etank> cool
20:55 <     etank> meeting adjourned
20:55 <     etank> thanks everyone
20:56 <    bkingx> Good meeting!

</pre>
