{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">
|}

'''Note:''' The Kentucky LoCo team has merged with the Bluegrass Linux User Group. For news and information, go to their <nowiki>[[http://www.bglug.net|web site]]</nowiki>.

=== Welcome ===

Welcome to the wiki page of the Kentucky Local Community Team, a group of Linux enthusiasts who have joined together to share and spread Ubuntu Linux across the Commonwealth . Our aim is to provide community support for users of Ubuntu Linux, it's various distributions, and promote it's use by both individuals and organizations alike.

=== Who is this group for? ===

This group is for anyone in Kentucky who uses, or is interested in using, a flavor of Ubuntu, whether Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Xubuntu, or any other Linux distribution.  We strive to range in technical ability from "...Linux???", to "I'm an Ubuntu Master." 

=== Aims ===

* Provide consultancy and tutoring for new users.
* Distribute Ubuntu CDs to businesses, schools, institutions, organizations, and individuals.
* Develop an Ubuntu identity.
* Become a local community developer.
* Advocate free and open source solutions (FOSS) as alternatives, where they exist.

=== Events ===
Upcoming:

Past Events:
* <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam/GPGParty|Key Signing Party]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam/GutsyReleaseParty|Gutsy Release Party]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam/InstallFest032007|Install Fest Match 2007]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam/FeistyReleaseParty|Feisty Release Party]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam/InstallFest2008|Install Fest January 2008]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam/HardyReleaseParty|Hardy Release Party]]</nowiki>

=== Team Resume ===

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/Resume|Resume]]</nowiki> - Complete!  Click the link to see the Community Council Meeting Log.

=== Sub Pages ===

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
