{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Topics ===

* Install Fest discussion
** Dry Run report
** Date and time of Live Event
* Custom Artwork.

=== Log ===

<pre>
21:04 <     etank> ok. ready now.
21:04 <     etank> sorry guys and gals.
21:04 <     etank> thanks for being flexible about the meeting time tonight
21:05 < ScatterBr> np
21:05 <     etank> I just talked to venemous and he will be here in a few minutes
21:05 <     etank> so the topics for tonight are:     *
21:05 <     etank> so the topics for tonight are:           Install Fest discussion, Dry Run report, Date and time of Live Event, Custom Artwork.
21:06 < ScatterBr> etank: I noticed a "locobot" is that a sign of things to come?
21:06 <     etank> the locobot is a logbot.
21:06 <     etank> logs are in html format here http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/
21:07 <     etank> I would like to thank all of you that were able to make it to the Install Fest Dry Run
21:08 <     etank> i felt that the meeting went really well
21:08              >>> Shrimpy!n=Chatuser@128.163.226.102
21:08 <     etank> we had 9 members there in all
21:08 <     etank> so the bug topic for the evening is the Install Fest live event
21:09 <  srwalter> howdy Shrimpy (aka tony)
21:09 <   Shrimpy> hello!!!
21:09 <     etank> at the dry run it was suggested that we may need to move the date of the live event up sooner than first thought
21:09 <     etank> !hi | ScatterBrain 
21:09 <    ubotwo> ScatterBrain: Hi! Welcome to #ubuntu-kentucky!
21:09 <     etank> !hi | Shrimpy 
21:09 <    ubotwo> Shrimpy: Hi! Welcome to #ubuntu-kentucky!
21:09 <     etank> my bad
21:10 <     etank> srwalter mentioned that if we wait too long then we may miss out on getting UK students being able to be there
21:11 <     etank> the suggestion was to have the install fest and the release party on the same day (4/21)
21:11 <     etank> what are your thoughts on that idea
21:11              >>> comfurtn__!n=kyle@mrtcdsl-040.mis.net
21:11 <   tom8658> i like it
21:11 <   jkeyes0> and actually, if we space them out (afternoon/evening) that would technically make two events
21:11 <   Shrimpy> i also think that would be a good plan. might be a little crazy at first though
21:12 < ScatterBr> Good idea - as long as we firm up our plans/needs quickly.
21:12 <  srwalter> yes, that part is important
21:12 <     etank> i like the idea of doing the install fest from 1 - 4 and then retreat to the coffee house to party
21:13 <     etank> zenwhen: was able to get started on flyers for the event too
21:13 <   jkeyes0> sounds like a plan, etank.
21:13 <     etank> we are just needing to firm up the date and time before we print them
21:14 < ScatterBr> etank: have we confirmed the installfest room?
21:14 <     etank> to see a draft of the flyer look at the bottom of https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/InstallFest
21:14 <     etank> ScatterBrain: i will let srwalter or tom8658 speak to that
21:15 <   tom8658> ScatterBrain, not yet, i was waiting for confirmation of time/date
21:15 < ScatterBr> Love the flyer!
21:15 < ScatterBr> the color and the whitespace is a great look!
21:16 <  srwalter> nice font
21:16 <     etank> the "T"s look a little funny but other than that it rocks
21:16 <   tom8658> it looks good
21:16 <   Shrimpy> it looks nice and simple, but yet some style
21:17 <  srwalter> should we mention refreshments/door prizes on the flyter?
21:17 < ScatterBr> Just enough info too.
21:17 <   Shrimpy> i think everybody loves free food.
21:17 <  srwalter> (I have more to say about that topic, remind me in a sec)
21:17              >>> venomous!i=ven0m0us@gateway/tor/x-4c5aa95ad7151d02
21:18 <  venomous> better late than never!~
21:18 <  srwalter> !hi | venomous
21:18 <    ubotwo> venomous: Hi! Welcome to #ubuntu-kentucky!
21:18 <  srwalter> teehee
21:19 <     etank> venomous: we have been discussing the dry run and started to talk about joining the install fest and the release party on the same day
21:19              <   comfurtn!n=kyle@mrtcdsl-377.mis.net [Read error: 110 (Connection timed out)]
21:19              <   comfurtn__!n=kyle@mrtcdsl-040.mis.net ["Catch y'all later."]
21:19 <  venomous> i'm a vote +1 for the combination.
21:19              >>> comfurtn__!n=kyle@mrtcdsl-040.mis.net
21:19 <     etank> any more discussion on it?
21:19              ~   comfurtn__ is now comfurtn
21:19 <     etank> if not we can vote
21:20 <     etank> ok then lets vote on it
21:20              etank +1
21:20 < ScatterBr> +1 for combination; +1 for 21st, 1-4.
21:20              jkeyes0 +1
21:21 <  venomous> +1
21:21              srwalter +1
21:21              hobbesmaster +1
21:21              tom8658 +1
21:21 <   Shrimpy> +1
21:21 < queenofth> +1
21:21 <  comfurtn> +1
21:22 <     etank> looks like it passes then
21:22 <  srwalter> if I may talk more about refreshments, etc?
21:22 <     etank> srwalter: once the room has been confirmed can you get with zenwhen with the address so he can put it on the flyers
21:22 <  srwalter> sounds good
21:22 <     etank> take it away
21:23 <   tom8658> 99% sure its gonna be RGAN 207
21:23 <   tom8658> btw
21:23 <  srwalter> as we discussed at the dry run, refreshments and door prizes are great, but they require $$
21:23 <  srwalter> I looked into setting up a paypal "Donate" button.  it's actually really easy, but I didn't want to put it up until I knew everyone was okay with it
21:24 <     etank> where would it be
21:24 <  srwalter> that way, people can easily chip in a few dollars to make the Install Fest more fun for everyone
21:24 <  srwalter> we could probably be it on the Ubuntu wiki
21:24 <  srwalter> on the LoCo page, unless there are rules about that
21:24 <     etank> let me check on that a sec
21:25              >>> TylerCondoulo!n=chatzill@74-138-41-68.dhcp.insightbb.com
21:25 <  venomous> is it my lag time...or did everyone shut up??
21:25 <  srwalter> we're waiting on etank
21:25 < TylerCond> Finally I make it to a meeting, though I think I'm late
21:27 <     etank> we can move on 
21:27 <     etank> im talking with someone now about us being able to do the button on the wiki
21:27 <  srwalter> custom artwork?
21:28 <  venomous> we'll need to elect someone as "treasurer" should we do a donate type thing as srwalter suggests (good idea btw)
21:28 <  srwalter> good poitn
21:28 <  srwalter> I don't mind to serve, as I'm (nominally, at least) the treasurer of the LUG
21:29 <  venomous> 2nd the motion for srwalter as treasurer
21:29 <  venomous> all in favor?
21:29              srwalter +1
21:29              jkeyes0 +1
21:29              comfurtn +1
21:29 <   Shrimpy> +1
21:29 < TylerCond> +1
21:29 < ScatterBr> +1
21:29 < queenofth> +1
21:29 < hobbesmas> /vote
21:29              tom8658 +1
21:29              etank +1
21:30              <   comfurtn_!n=kyle@12.162.185.48 [Read error: 110 (Connection timed out)]
21:30              <   comfurtn!n=kyle@mrtcdsl-040.mis.net ["Catch y'all later."]
21:30              >>> comfurtn!n=kyle@mrtcdsl-040.mis.net
21:30 <  venomous> srwalter, sounds like you da man!
21:30              <   comfurtn!n=kyle@mrtcdsl-040.mis.net [Client Quit]
21:31 <  srwalter> I humbly accept.
21:31              >>> comfurtn!n=kyle@mrtcdsl-040.mis.net
21:31 <     etank> so it seems that the last thing to go over is the custom artwork
21:31 <  comfurtn> yep.
21:31 <     etank> we can thank comfurtn for this https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/CustomArtwork
21:32 <  comfurtn> i finally got the repo setup.
21:32 <  comfurtn> the link is now on the wiki
21:32 <  srwalter> pretty snazzy.  where is the horse logo from?
21:32              jkeyes0 applauds.
21:32 <     etank> bkingx found the horse head somewhere
21:32 <  comfurtn> some screenshots of the artwork in action are at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=397866&page=2
21:33 <  srwalter> I hope there are no trademark issues with it
21:33 <     etank> we have been using ut ever since
21:33 < TylerCond> Pretty awesome. :) Wish I still use GDM so I could use the GDM manager
21:34 <  comfurtn> we need to choose the wallpaper we want as default.
21:34 <  comfurtn> i'm thinking https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/CustomArtwork?action=AttachFile&do=view&target=wall_standard1.jpg....
21:34 <     etank> this is the first steep toward the custom cd
21:34 <  venomous> speaking of bkingx...where is that slacker??  he missed last week too.
21:35 <     etank> bkingx is on vacation this week
21:35 <  venomous> oh yeah...forgot
21:35 < TylerCond> Would that be available in other resolutions?
21:35 <     etank> i personally like this one the most
21:35 <     etank> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/CustomArtwork?action=AttachFile&do=view&target=usc_with_logo1.jpg
21:35 <  venomous> doesn't mean he ain't a slacker though!
21:35              etank agrees with venomous :)
21:35 < ScatterBr> I like the slick2 splah...the font and all looks better to me.
21:36 < ScatterBr> and the lighter of the wallpapers with the center logo.
21:36 < TylerCond> The chocolate one lets the horse and ubuntu logo stand out more
21:37 <     etank> how do you all feel about making it a poll on the forum?
21:37 < TylerCond> A poll would not be too bad of a idea
21:37              comfurtn agrees
21:37 < ScatterBr> +1 on the poll.
21:37 <  venomous> poll is a good idea, but limit the voting time frame lest it go on forever..
21:37 < ScatterBr> yep.
21:38 <  comfurtn> if anyone wants to test out the artwork packages, my repo is at "deb http://kyle-server.servehttp.com/apt / "
21:38 <  venomous> motion for a week on the polling time.
21:38 < ScatterBr> second.
21:38 <     etank> comfurtn: would like to be the one to set up the poll?
21:38              etank +1
21:38 < TylerCond> +1
21:38 <  comfurtn> etank, sure.
21:38 <     etank> comfurtn: thanks
21:39 <  comfurtn> yw.
21:39 < TylerCond> Question: Would Kubuntu variants be offered.
21:39 <  comfurtn> TylerCondoulo, yes, in due time.
21:40 <  comfurtn> which derivative are we using for the custom cd?
21:41 <     etank> comfurtn: what is the package name that we should use?
21:41 <  comfurtn> or should i just make packages for all three?
21:41 <  comfurtn> i'll say "kubuntu-artwork-ky"
21:43 <  comfurtn> horrible lag time tonight.
21:43 <  venomous> agreed...i'm topping out around 30s
21:44 <  comfurtn> about 10 seconds here.
21:44 <  srwalter> any word on Donate buttons?
21:44 <     etank> srwalter: just heard back.
21:44 <     etank> atoponce said that we should go for it
21:44 <  srwalter> good deal :)
21:44 <     etank> but a link would probably be better for the wiki
21:44 <     etank> instead of a button
21:45 <     etank> if anyone complains then we can handle it at that point
21:45 <  venomous> complainers can just go back to "windows"!
21:46              >>> W4ETT!n=chatzill@24-159-67-91.dhcp.jcsn.tn.charter.com
21:46 <     etank> i mean complainres from "Ubuntu"
21:46 <     etank> !hi | W4ETT 
21:46 <    ubotwo> W4ETT: Hi! Welcome to #ubuntu-kentucky!
21:46 <  venomous> still applies!
21:46 <     W4ETT> etank:  hi
21:47 <  srwalter> hmm, looks like the paypal HTML is actually a form
21:47 <  srwalter> (see http://dasbrennen.isa-geek.org/~srwalter/installfest.html)
21:47 <  srwalter> we could just link to that page?
21:47 <     etank> srwalter: about the paypal thing. will we need to set up a team bank account
21:47 < TylerCond> Would the custom install CDs be used at the install fest?
21:47              >>> Zuph!n=bradluys@74-138-203-144.dhcp.insightbb.com
21:48 <     etank> TylerCondoulo: i dont think that we have the time to work out all of the details before the install fest
21:48 < TylerCond> Ah, thought so
21:48 <     etank> we can use them after that
21:48 <      Zuph> Sorry I'm late to the late meeting.
21:48 <  srwalter> from my reading of that page, setting up a bank account would be more time and expense than we can deal with at this point
21:49 <     etank> np Zuph 
21:49 < TylerCond> This is the first meeting I've made it to
21:50 <     etank> so we were thinking about having some door prizes at the install fest
21:50 < TylerCond> and I won't make next weeks meeting, I'll be out of state at the time.
21:50 <   Shrimpy> more free stuff!!!
21:50 < TylerCond> What kind of door prizes?
21:50 <     etank> thinks like a book , t-shirt, etc
21:50 <  srwalter> e.g., a copy of the Official Ubuntu Book
21:50 <  srwalter> nice 6.10 DVD
21:51 <     etank> we dont need to go crazy with it though
21:51 <  venomous> free stuff is only free for the receiver....what about the giver??  how will we handle that?
21:51 <     etank> maybe 3 items
21:51 <      Zuph> A NEW CAR!
21:51 <   tom8658> the EE department might also give us some cash
21:51              Zuph hums the price is right music.
21:51 <   tom8658> by the way
21:51 < TylerCond> We could make custom T-shirts with the Ubuntu Kentucky Logo
21:51 <   Shrimpy> and the t-shirts don't have to be super nice
21:51 <     etank> venomous: that is what the paypal button is for
21:51 <  srwalter> probably the thing to do is get up the Donate button and see what a week gets us
21:52 <  srwalter> once we have a budget, it will be easier to put parameters on the number and types of prizes
21:52 <     etank> this assumes that we have people show up :)
21:52 <  venomous> yeah, but until it's set up and generating we'll have to front the cash
21:52 <  comfurtn> etank, hopefully.
21:52 <  srwalter> venomous, my plan is to hopefully take donations fomr the installfest before the installfest
21:52 < TylerCond> What city is the install-fest being held in?
21:53 <     etank> Lexington
21:53 < TylerCond> Ah
21:53 <     etank> on UK campus
21:53 <   Shrimpy> are you having the install fest at uk campus and then the party at the coffee house?
21:54 < TylerCond> Has a date been confirmed yet? (Sorry for the questions, this is the first time I made it to a meeting)
21:54 <     etank> that is the idea
21:54 <   Shrimpy>  ok just checking
21:54 <  srwalter> has anyone been to said coffee shop to tell us how big it is?
21:54 <  srwalter> TylerCondoulo: 4/21, 1pm-4pm
21:54 <     etank> TylerCondoulo: we are planning (firmly) for April 21st
21:54              >>> X626!n=HP_Owner@CPE-76-177-103-67.natcky.res.rr.com
21:54 <     etank> !hi | X626 
21:54 <    ubotwo> X626: Hi! Welcome to #ubuntu-kentucky!
21:54 <   tom8658> theres a nice coffee house really close to campus that could hold a reasonable group
21:55 < TylerCond> Probably won't make it to the install-fest then.
21:55 <  srwalter> it's a Saturday, btw
21:55 <      X626> Sorry I'm way late tonight.  I've had a lot going on this week.
21:55 < TylerCond> Oh, KDE's calander is set up weird, looked like it was a Friday.
21:55 <     etank> tom8658: zenwhen has set up something for Third Street Coffee
21:56 <   tom8658> cool
21:56 <     etank> the good news is guys that once we get through these two events we are all set to be an approved team :)
21:56 <   jkeyes0> woo!
21:57 <  comfurtn> woot!
21:57 < TylerCond> Whoot!
21:57 <   Shrimpy> hopefully it will not be bitter cold and we can enjoy the outside it it gets wild.
21:58 <     etank> does anyone have anything else to add tonight?
21:59 <      Zuph> Some please send me a flyer to print?
21:59 <      Zuph> *someone
21:59 < TylerCond> I will be out of state next week, and will have no access to a computer
21:59 < TylerCond> So I won't make it to next week's meeting
22:00 <     etank> so to recap: Install Fest from 1 - 4 and Release Party from 4 - ? on 4/21 and we like the artwork.
22:00 <  comfurtn> etank, good summary.
22:00 <     etank> someone will get with zenwhen on address of where we are doing everything
22:00 <   jkeyes0> were we planning on doing some sort of t-shirts or nametags or anything for the installfest?
22:01              <   venomous!i=ven0m0us@gateway/tor/x-4c5aa95ad7151d02 [Remote closed the connection]
22:01 <  srwalter> something just occurred to me re: paypal buttons
22:01 <     etank> srwalter: if you can not get with him then email the info to me and I can do it
22:01 <     etank> jkeyes0: if we can afford it that would be nice
22:01 <  srwalter> how easily for it be for someone to edit the wiki to point at a different paypal button?
22:01              etank is poor though :(
22:02 <     etank> srwalter: good point. it would be VERY easy to do that
22:02              >>> venomous!i=ven0m0us@gateway/tor/x-8ac21c42796694c2
22:02 <   tom8658> etank, zenwhen: Room 207, Ralph G. Anderson Building, but I can't confirm that until tomorrow
22:02              <   TylerCondoulo!n=chatzill@74-138-41-68.dhcp.insightbb.com ["ChatZilla 0.9.78 [Firefox 2.0.0.3/0000000000]"]
22:02 <     etank> can we host it on the UKLUG or LPLUG site temporarily
22:03 <   jkeyes0> I've never been to UK campus, so a map or directions would be wonderful
22:03 <   tom8658> etank, srwalter has the UKLUG site on his box, so yes
22:03 <   tom8658> jkeyes0, yeah. a map is probably a good idea
22:03 <  srwalter> that sounds like a reasonable plan
22:03 <     etank> does UK have a map on the school website
22:03 <   tom8658> yeah
22:03 <   tom8658> somewhere
22:04 <  comfurtn> http://ukcc.uky.edu/cgi-bin/dynamo?maps.391+campus+0503
22:04 <     etank> comfurtn: you work fast
</pre>
