{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Topics ===

* Status update on domain name registration (ubuntu-kentucky.org)
* Status update on charity project
* Report on contact with UKLUG
* Discuss meet and greet, release & key signing party, upcoming events
* Define and assign members to sub-teams (Web, Wiki, New Member, Documentation, Charity Project)
* Discuss suggestion of moving meetings to bi-weekly

=== Log ===

<pre>
20:01 <    bkingx> Good evening all!!
20:02 <      X626> Good evening.
20:02 <    bkingx> Are we ready to start?
20:02 <  montgoej> sounds good to me
20:02 <      X626> I'm ready.
20:02 <@    etank> go man go :)
20:02 <   jkeyes0> yep
20:02 < Koji-Mura> Ready when you are.
20:03 <    bkingx> Well, here is the agenda we are foloowing tonight: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/Meetings/2007Mar01
20:03 <    bkingx> First thing to get out of the way is domain registration.
20:04 <    bkingx> As most of you know, we are working toward our own space to do things based on a domain name.
20:04 <    bkingx> etank, and I have been working with Ubuntu trying to get them to do some registration for us
20:04 <    bkingx> But they have bene reluctant until we are approved.
20:05 <    bkingx> But I think we need to go ahead with our own registration and start building our site.
20:06 <   jkeyes0> So they're OK with us using the name, they just don't want to put up the money to help with it yet?
20:06 <    bkingx> If we agree, I'll register ubuntu-kentucky.org and we can deal with ownership details later.
20:06              montgoej agrees
20:06 <    bkingx> etank: do you have their response?
20:07              >>> venomous!i=ven0m0us@gateway/tor/x-4e12095a873e7c63
20:07 <@    etank> OK, got the official word on this... what we're doing is asking "new
20:07 <@    etank> loco teams" (i.e. those not yet "approved") to focus their team building
20:07 <@    etank> efforts by building their website on wiki.ubuntu.com. Once your team
20:07 <@    etank> gains approved status, you can request web hosting and we'll set you up.
20:07 <   jkeyes0> oh, so they're saying that we shouldn't register a name yet, and just use the wiki?
20:07 <  venomous> evenin' gentlemen!
20:08 <   jkeyes0> 'ey venomous
20:08 <    bkingx> I read it as they would be willing to talk about hosting and registration once we become an approved team.
20:09 <   jkeyes0> of course if we register ubuntu-kentucky.org, we could always point it to the wiki, so it's kinda the best of both worlds.
20:09 <    bkingx> And I think they are speaking specifically of kentucky.ubuntu-us.org
20:09 <   jkeyes0> then eventually point it to the kentucky.ubuntu-us.org site when the time comes.
20:09 <    bkingx> andhosting that site on their servers, not ours.
20:11 <    bkingx> And we also have some plans that they might not be able to support.  Things like our own wiki/documentation, email, etc
20:11 <    bkingx> I think we will have more flexibilty with resources by having our own server.
20:12              >>> Kambrik!n=none@CPE-75-81-224-48.we.res.rr.com
20:12 <   Kambrik> Did i miss the meeting again?
20:12 <    bkingx> So are we ready to bit ethe bullit on this, or wait until who knows when to be approved?
20:12 <@    etank> we are just getting started Kambrik 
20:13 <  montgoej> I say we just bite the bullet, we don't even know when we'll be approved
20:13 <   Kambrik> awesome
20:13 <  venomous> just started Kambrik
20:13 <   jkeyes0> it will most likely be summer before we're approved (just from looking over the approval process) because it'll take us that long to get all the activities in line.
20:13 <  venomous> little late myself...weather in cinci"nasti" sucks
20:13 <  montgoej> plus, when we're at the installfest, it'll be WAY easier to point the different people to our own site instead of a sub-forum or wiki page
20:14 <    bkingx> I agree....Any more opinions?
20:14 < Koji-Mura> Well, if we think we can foot the bill for hosting I'd say go for it. It certainly couldn't hurt to have more control over the site.
20:14 <   jkeyes0> How's the price on domain registration / hosting sounding so far? (or are you hosting it out of your home, bkingx?)
20:14 <   Kambrik> i agree with montgoej
20:15 <    bkingx> I have it on an ESX server, Ubuntu load (of course).
20:15 <    bkingx> etank did the setup on all this!
20:15 <   Kambrik> Are we looking for a hosting place?
20:15 <   jkeyes0> is it your own ESX server? (if so, how did you afford that??)
20:15 <  venomous> bkingx, is independently wealthy
20:15 <    bkingx> I got skillz.
20:16 <  venomous> volunteers his time for all this...what a guy!!
20:16 <  montgoej> transfer some skillz...I'm a broke sophomore who can barely afford an ok computer
20:16 <    bkingx> Sweet as sugar, huh?
20:16 <   Kambrik> *special spanx to bkingx*
20:16 <   jkeyes0> well, if it's hosted personally, then domain registration is really the only cost concern, right?
20:17 <    bkingx> Right...
20:17 <   Kambrik> Well bkingx if you decide not to host it then we may want to look into hosting @ www.m6.net
20:17 <   Kambrik> that is where all of our work related webpages are hosted
20:18 <   Kambrik> and they have alot of options
20:18 <   Kambrik> at a really good price
20:18 <    bkingx> Right...we can talk about moving it at a later time...right now we just want to determine if we want to go ahead and register it or wait for Ubuntu.
20:19 <    bkingx> IMHO, my preference is to go ahead and register.
20:19 <      X626> I agree.
20:19 <   jkeyes0> sounds good here
20:19 <@    etank> the question is will Canonical / Ubuntu be OK with us registering the domain.
20:19 <   Kambrik> whats the time frame on ubuntu?
20:19 <@    etank> we don't know the time frame
20:19 <   Kambrik> -k
20:20 <@    etank> we have been sending emails to them and waiting on responses
20:20 <   jkeyes0> Kambrik: we have to actually have IRL meetings and activities, etc. etc. etc. before they'll even consider us.
20:20 <    bkingx> sometime after approval....but who knows when that might be.
20:20 <   Kambrik> right
20:20 <   Kambrik> -k-
20:20 <   Kambrik> well then i guess either have meetings, and be acknowledged or go ahead and register
20:20 <    bkingx> And this is a request of Ubuntu, not a demand.
20:21 <@    etank> we have created tickets on launchpad and also submitted tickets to canonical about the hosting
20:21 <   Kambrik> -k-
20:21 <    bkingx> There is no trademark violation by using their name.
20:22 <   jkeyes0> as long as we mention that Ubuntu is copyrighted by Canonical, right?
20:22 <@    etank> their view is that they want to own anything with ubuntu in the name. they will even pay for the domain reg.
20:22 <    bkingx> So that is the delimma.
20:23 <    bkingx> And I have offered to transfer ownership to them if they desired in the future, but we still haven't heard anythin.
20:24 <    bkingx> OK...show of hands to go ahead and register????
20:24 <   Kambrik> right that is what i was going to say, just go ahead and register it, and then if they have a problem with it, then they can switch it...(hopefully)
20:24              bkingx hand
20:24              montgoej raises hand
20:24              Koji-Murasame raises his hand
20:24              X626 raises hand
20:24              jkeyes0 raises hand
20:25 <    bkingx> etank, and venomous ?
20:25 <  venomous> say hand
20:25 <  venomous> *msg hand
20:25 <    bkingx> LMAO!!
20:25 <    bkingx> OK...that is settled then.
20:26 <    bkingx> I'll do this tomorrow and we'll get started on development of the site.
20:26              etank +1
20:26 <   Kambrik> whats going to be on the site?
20:26 <@    etank> sorry i was tucking in the kids
20:26 <    bkingx> NP
20:26 <    bkingx> you can see what we have so far: http://64.191.174.220
20:27 <    bkingx> We plan to have logs of meetings, news articles, possibly personal blogs, a team wiki/documentation,
20:28 <    bkingx> maybe a helpdesk-ticket system
20:28 <    bkingx> That sort of thing.
20:28 <   Kambrik> cool
20:28 <  montgoej> sounds cool
20:28 <   Kambrik> will we have db access?
20:28 <   Kambrik> and what language PHP?
20:28 <    bkingx> And resources for the community to use.
20:29 <    bkingx> The site is running on Drupal
20:29 <    bkingx> etank: can you elaborate on this?
20:29 <@    etank> it is a drupal site hosted on our server so yeah we have full control of code / database
20:29 <   Kambrik> is the horse our mascot?
20:29              >>> queenofthe1ring!n=erin@74-140-213-167.dhcp.insightbb.com
20:29 <@    etank> hey queenofthe1ring 
20:29 <    bkingx> Yes...or logo
20:29 < queenofth> hello
20:29 <   Kambrik> -k-
20:29 <    bkingx> Represents KY, we think.
20:30 <   Kambrik> yeah
20:30 <   Kambrik> just wondering
20:30 <    bkingx> OK...so the charity project.....
20:30 <    bkingx> Do we have any updates?
20:31 <@    etank> not on my side
20:31 <    bkingx> At last count, we were looking at a possible 60 machine donation from the Oldham Co Schools.
20:31 <@    etank> Zuph isn't here
20:31 <    bkingx> We will still need many monitors, keyboards, mice, etc.
20:31 <  venomous> nor mine.  once we're a little more established...i think i can get some machines from work
20:31 <   Kambrik> I know every spring USI has an auction of there old machines, i will see if i can find out when that is and if we are able to get any of those
20:31 <    bkingx> Right...for those that don't know....Zuph was responsible for the initial 60 PC committment.
20:32 <@    etank> I think that one thing that we can do that doesn't involve machines is documentation
20:32 <  montgoej> I'm still talking to local businesses, my school, etc.
20:32 <  montgoej> but no luck so far
20:32 <    bkingx> Right...and remember, free as in beer is best!
20:32 <@    etank> the stuff that we can hand to the new owners that will help them along
20:32 <   jkeyes0> if I'd known about this 6 months ago, we had a bag of keyboards/mice we threw out at work. I'll look to be certain, but I just thought about that.
20:32 <   Kambrik> Who are we planning on giving these machines to?
20:33 <    bkingx> Several plans, Kambrik
20:33 <@    etank> people that can not afford them on their own
20:33 <   Kambrik> aweomse
20:33 <    bkingx> Needy families, doorprizes, etc.
20:33 <   Kambrik> cool
20:33 <@    etank> parents of children in school that really need them but need the money to put food on the table too
20:34 <    bkingx> We talked about sponsoring a poor school and setting up a computer lab for them.
20:34 <    bkingx> All Ubuntu, of course.
20:34 <   Kambrik> i was thinking down the road if this works out well, that we might be able to talk to some local schools etc and see what they think
20:34 <   Kambrik> lol
20:34 <   jkeyes0> yeah, I was looking over Edubuntu today, and wow. Great for kids.
20:34 <   Kambrik> bkingx we think alike
20:34 <    bkingx> Great minds!!
20:34 <   Kambrik> ;-)
20:34 <  montgoej> I talked to a guy at Linuxfest 06 about using Linux in schools, I'm gonna try to get back in touch with him, he was from Indiana so he might have some places for us in our area
20:35 <@    etank> jkeyes0: i run edubuntu here for my kids to use
20:35 <@    etank> they lobe it
20:35 <@    etank> s/lobe/love/
20:35 <   Kambrik> i lobe it more
20:35 <    bkingx> I think we established that we would like to stay in KY to promote our state support
20:35 <  venomous> just to play devil's advocate, but if you're talking about fayette county...you may be playing with politics you don't really want to play with.
20:35 <  montgoej> yeah, but he might have some places in ky, he goes to diff states
20:35 <    bkingx> Maybe like an Eastern KY school system or something.
20:35 <   jkeyes0> preferrably, bkingx. let's help our own first.
20:36 <   jkeyes0> I'm from eastern ky originally.
20:36 <  montgoej> I've gotta find him, he stepped in after some '
20:36 <  montgoej> *some police dude couldnt be found
20:36 <    bkingx> I was thinking of something like Perry Co or something like that.
20:37 <@    etank> we could also just work with the schools to use the machines that they currently have in a lab and do a half and half with windows and Ubuntu
20:37 <    bkingx> But that is all just thinking outloud.  We can solidify that after we actually have some machines.
20:37 <  montgoej> that's currently what mercer is talking about, at least for one lab
20:37 <    bkingx> Good idea, etank
20:37 <   jkeyes0> what level of school, btw?
20:37 <@    etank> all :)
20:38 <  montgoej> once we get windows domain login working, we're gonna move to getting ubuntu installed on multiple machines, starting with the STLP room
20:38 <@    etank> i think that the elementary schools would really like the educational tools that are in Edubuntu
20:38 <   jkeyes0> I was thinking the same thing etank.
20:38 <    bkingx> ditto
20:38 <   Kambrik> ditto
20:38 <   jkeyes0> anything above elementary would be a good place for ubuntu or kubuntu instead.
20:38 <@    etank> montgoej: look into pam
20:39 <@    etank> i agree
20:39 <   jkeyes0> what about seeing if they need a firewall / proxy URL monitoring solution like ipcop as well?
20:39 <   Kambrik> i hope to god they don't
20:40 <   jkeyes0> that is going a bit overboard, I think...
20:40 <  montgoej> anyone here messed with pam, logging into windows domains, etc?
20:40 <   Kambrik> samba pam?
20:40 <@    etank> i have
20:40 <   jkeyes0> I've been trying to talk the people at work into letting me set up an ipcop / advanced proxy system to replace our antiquated microsoft proxy servers.
20:40 <    bkingx> Well, I suggest we keep probing and see what kind of needs are out there and what is feasible for us to help support.  that IS why we are here, afterall.
20:41 <   Kambrik> indeed
20:41 <   Kambrik> jkeyes: i love ipcop that is what my firewall is
20:41 <   Kambrik> red/green/blue
20:41 <    bkingx> OK...we'll switch gears now.
20:41 <   Kambrik> whats next?
20:42 <    bkingx> In our expanding family here, we have been in contact with the UKLUG.
20:42 <@    etank> squid and dansguardian 
20:42 <   Kambrik> L7
20:42 <    bkingx> A few people here are affiliated with them and we wish to say Howdy!!
20:42 <    bkingx> fedaykin, and queenofthe1ring are two right now.
20:42 <   jkeyes0> welcome!
20:43 <    bkingx> and srwalter said he will be here a bit later.
20:43 < queenofth> hi :-)
20:43 <@    etank> they just recently did a demo of beryl on Ubuntu at the college and gave away 32 CDs
20:43 <  fedaykin> 'ello
20:43 <@    etank> we thought that it would be good to try to join in the effort
20:44 <  fedaykin> yeah missed all of the LUG meetings this semester - they're too early
20:44 <@    etank> wrong day of the week for me
20:44 < Koji-Mura> When does LUG meet?
20:44 < queenofth> wednesday evenings
20:44 <  fedaykin> every other wed 5:30
20:45 <@    etank> if we can join with them and them with us then we will be able to reach more people
20:45 < Koji-Mura> Yeah, I have class then.
20:45 <    bkingx> Exactly!
20:46 <    bkingx> They may have a few more resources we can tap in to like meeting places and affiliation with a major university; and we can help them by promoting their efforts and helping with their projects as well.
20:47 <   jkeyes0> We will most likely meet with a lot of non-ubuntu users who would be against a union
20:47 <   Kambrik> cool
20:47 <   jkeyes0> but I'm for trying anything to increase our numbers and gain strength
20:47 <    bkingx> I think you will be surprised....we have recieved a very warm welcome form them!
20:47 <   jkeyes0> really? very nice
20:47 < queenofth> there has been some talk of doing an install-fest which would help in all areas
20:48 <    bkingx> Absolutely!
20:48 <@    etank> we are planing an install-fest and Feisty release party
20:48 <    bkingx> I think this will be AWESOME!!
20:49 <   jkeyes0> any timeframe on that? location, etc?
20:49 <@    etank> we have talked about doing a dry run install-fest on March 24 (i think) so that we can get our stuff together before we do demos for new people
20:50 <  montgoej> what time would that be? do we have that worked out yet?
20:51 <    bkingx> I don't think we have the specifics worked out yet, but I would think mid afternoon through a pizza dinner and then ending whenever?
20:51 <   jkeyes0> so then definitely on a saturday or sunday?
20:51 <   jkeyes0> nm, I'm asleep. :P
20:51 <    bkingx> So do we want to pencil it in for about 3:00?
20:52 <  montgoej> that'll be good
20:52 <  montgoej> i'll probably have to leave ~6 if we do it later
20:52 <    bkingx> venomous: you offered to host at your house, is that still good?
20:53 <@    etank> unless our friends at the unversity have any pull / contacts ;)
20:53 <  montgoej> exactly what are we gonna do at the dry-run?
20:53 <  fedaykin> eh? pull for what ?
20:53 < Koji-Mura> I doubt I'd be able to make it on the 24th, no worries though.
20:53 <@    etank> fedaykin: using space at UK
20:53 <    bkingx> Ah...good suggestion.... queenofthe1ring, can you check with srw and see if they can get any space to use?
20:53 <  fedaykin> that's possible i would think
20:54 <   Kambrik> where (what town) would this take place at?
20:54 < queenofth> yes, i will
20:54 <    bkingx> Since this is just a dry run, I think we won't have more than 10.
20:54 <@    etank> we were talking about doing some demos / presentations.
20:54 <  venomous> long as it's still byob+sfm!
20:54 <@    etank> the dry run will give us a chance to go through the demos as a team and work out any rough spots
20:55 <@    etank> that way we look like we know what we are talking about to the new users.
20:56 < Koji-Mura> Well, hopefully some of us actually do know what we're talking about. XD
20:56 <@    etank> Kambrik: we would do it in Lexington
20:56 <   Kambrik> -k- bit far but i will see what i can do
20:56 <    bkingx> I would like to delegate the planning for this.... who would like to be the lead?
20:57 <@    etank> of course if we have high concentrations of members in other areas then there is nothing stopping us from doing something in places other than Lexington
20:57 <    bkingx> Or making a roadtrip if there is a special audience.
20:57 <    bkingx> etank: will you be the lead on this?
20:57 <  montgoej> well, I'm leaving, as always, I'll read the logs later
20:57              montgoej says bye!
20:57 <    bkingx> later montgoej
20:57 <@    etank> later montgoej 
20:57              <   montgoej!n=montgoej@adsl-80-24-241.bgk.bellsouth.net ["Leaving"]
20:58 <  venomous> brb
20:58 <@    etank> i can if no one else wants to take lead
20:58 <    bkingx> This is a nice segway into subteam creations.
20:59 <@    etank> yay
20:59              >>> srwalter!n=srwalter@74-140-213-167.dhcp.insightbb.com
20:59 <   jkeyes0> welcome, sr!
20:59 <@    etank> hey there srwalter 
20:59 <  fedaykin> 'ello srwalter
20:59 <@    etank> we were just talking about you
20:59 <   Kambrik> how many members are on the east side of KY?
20:59 <@    etank> all good stuff
20:59 <    bkingx> We talked about creating subteams as we get more members.  We are up to 31 now.
20:59 <   jkeyes0> Frankfort here
21:00 <   jkeyes0> haven't heard of many from EKY
21:00 <    bkingx> So we have a subteam for the Install Fest.
21:00 <   Kambrik> -k- bc i'm only 5mins from henderson
21:00 <   Kambrik> but its not a big deal
21:00 <   Kambrik> just wondering if it would be ideal to have east/west
21:00 <   jkeyes0> thought that was WKY, Kambrik?
21:00 <   Kambrik> install-fest
21:01 <   Kambrik> yeah henderson is
21:01 <   Kambrik> but i'm in evansville IN
21:01 <   jkeyes0> wife's from Madisonville.
21:01 <   Kambrik> wow we must be related.... lol just kidding
21:01 <    bkingx> There are some other subteams we would like to create....
21:01 <   jkeyes0> let's hear it, bkingx
21:02 <    bkingx> Charity Project (prob gonna be Zuph), WebSite, Team Wiki, New Member welcome committee
21:03 <    bkingx> would anyone like to volunteer for any of these?
21:03 <   jkeyes0> can you give a bit more detail on them?
21:03 <@    etank> i think that the web site and wiki could use some love
21:03 <    bkingx> No doubt.
21:03 <  srwalter> look out, fedaykin is a communist!
21:04 <  fedaykin> hahahahah
21:04 <    bkingx> We love communists too!
21:04 <@    etank> basically if there are some people on the wiki team and there are things that need to be added / updated then that team would take care of it
21:04 <  srwalter> (he's been to a few UKLUG meetings, and I tease him)
21:05 <@    etank> same with web
21:05 <  fedaykin> i'd love it if the page wasnt in php :)
21:05 <   Kambrik> I will do the wiki
21:05 <   jkeyes0> I'd be glad to help out on the Team Wiki team and / or the New Member welcome committee
21:05 <@    etank> fedaykin: me too
21:05 <@    etank> great
21:05 <      X626> What' wrong with PHP?
21:05 <   Kambrik> :-(
21:05 <@    etank> fedaykin: i started writing something in django for a LUG
21:05 <  srwalter> ooh, python
21:06 <@    etank> we can have more than one on a team
21:06              etank loves the python :)
21:06 <  fedaykin> oh yeah :)
21:06 <    bkingx> We are actually looking at two wiki's..one on the Ubutntu site, and one on our server.
21:06 <@    etank> long live the BDFL
21:06 <   jkeyes0> bkingx: what would be the difference in content?
21:06 <@    etank> i think that the concentration should be on the Ubuntu wiki
21:07 <@    etank> for ideas on the wiki stuff we can look at the NewYork, Ohio and Chicago teams
21:07 <    bkingx> right...and the server wiki be for, what did you say earlier etank ?
21:08 <@    etank> nothing
21:08 <    bkingx> Like How-To's
21:08 <    bkingx> Documentation.
21:08 <@    etank> tutorials
21:08 <    bkingx> That's it!!
21:08 <@    etank> but we could just host those on the website
21:09 <    bkingx> Right!
21:09 <    bkingx> So that would be the difference.
21:09 <@    etank> i don't think that we need two wikis
21:09 <    bkingx> I imagined hosting the tuts in a wiki format, but .....
21:09 <    bkingx> Hmmm
21:09 <    bkingx> Stealing thunder again, etank ?
21:09 <    bkingx> ;)
21:10 <   jkeyes0> I figured the site wiki would mirror the ubuntu site wiki, personally (no need to confuse visitors)
21:10              >>> Zuph!n=bradluys@74-130-65-46.dhcp.insightbb.com
21:10 <   jkeyes0> welcome, Zuph!
21:11 <      Zuph> I hate everything
21:11 <   jkeyes0> even puppies?
21:11 <      Zuph> especially puppies.
21:11 <   jkeyes0> but they're delicious!
21:11 <      Zuph> Puppies have HOMES.
21:12 <    bkingx> OK...so Kambrik is going to help out on the wiki.
21:12 < Koji-Mura> Lots of things have homes. Why are puppies distinguished by that?
21:13 <   Kambrik> yep
21:13 <      Zuph> I'm having difficulty finding one.
21:13 <    bkingx> Zuph....we have volunteered you for lead on the subteam for the Charity Project.
21:14 <      Zuph> I'll gladly do so.
21:14 <    bkingx> Beatimous!!
21:14 <   Kambrik> Hey zuph
21:14 <   Kambrik> i was saying earlier
21:15 <   Kambrik> that USI campus has a computer auction in the spring, and i'm hoping that they will donate some to our cause
21:15 <      Zuph> That would be awesome.  We're in need of monitors and keyboards and that sort of stuff.
21:16 <   Kambrik> -k-
21:16 <      Zuph> we have a ton of computers coming our way, though I'd like to organize something to work on standardizing an install at some point.
21:16 <    bkingx> And now the Web Subteam.
21:17 <   jkeyes0> what would that entail, bkingx? (what language, image creation, etc.?)
21:17 <    bkingx> There you go!  thinking already!
21:17              fedaykin whistles innocently
21:17              fedaykin looks at the ceiling
21:17 <   Kambrik> i would love to help on the webpage also, i don't know PHP though
21:17 <      X626> I know PHP.
21:17 <      Zuph> PHP = dead easy.
21:17 <  fedaykin> you shouldnt even think about learning php Kambrik
21:17 <  fedaykin> no PHP = dead broken
21:17 <    bkingx> Well, I think etank is the man to look to for this
21:18 <   Kambrik> i can help with the AJAX, Javascript, Photoshop etc
21:18 <@    etank> python FTW
21:18 <      X626> Again: What's wrong with PHP?
21:18 <  srwalter> it's ugly
21:18 <  srwalter> has a horrible object system
21:18 <  fedaykin> everything is global !!
21:18 <  srwalter> encourages bad program design
21:18 <   Kambrik> lol
21:18 <   Kambrik> good thing i learned asp instead
21:18 <  srwalter> you could drive semi-trucks through the security holes
21:18 <    bkingx> etank: are we looking to stay with drupal?
21:19 <  srwalter> "Let's set global variables based on unverified, user-provided data.  brilliant!"
21:19 <   Kambrik> what is drupal?
21:19 <      X626> I usually fix those types of holes (as good as I can).
21:19 <@    etank> drupal is a PHP based CMS
21:19 <   jkeyes0> Drupal is a free software package that allows an individual or a community of users to easily publish, manage and organize a wide variety of content on a website
21:19 <@    etank> content management system
21:20 <    bkingx> Nice copy and paste, jkeyes0
21:20 <    bkingx> LOL!
21:20 <   jkeyes0> :) :)
21:20 <   Kambrik> hmmmm
21:20 <    bkingx> That is what the current site is running.
21:20 <   Kambrik> -k-
21:20 <   jkeyes0> it uses a database for the backend, right?
21:21 <    bkingx> ladies and gents...I have to head off for the night.
21:21 <@    etank> yup
21:21 <   jkeyes0> g'night bkingx
21:21 <      Zuph> MySQL or Postgre unless there is some other trickery going on.
21:21 <    bkingx> etank: can you finish up for me?
21:21 <@    etank> MySQL
21:21 <@    etank> sure
21:21 <      Zuph> although the drupal backend uses a database abstraction layer and should work with almost anything.
21:21 <    bkingx> Great...I will catch up tomorrow.
21:22 <    bkingx> Later everyone!  Good meeting!!
21:22              <   bkingx!n=bkingx@mail.hsgworld.com ["Leaving"]
21:22 <   Kambrik> i'm working on an online chat using AJAX and SQLServer i was thinking that might be useful on the site
21:22 <   Kambrik> any takes?
21:23 <   jkeyes0> sounds like a neat idea. could be incorporated into the site as a live "ask a tech" section?
21:23 <   Kambrik> -k- keep it in mind
21:23 <@    etank> nice
21:24 <  fedaykin> why do you need SQLServer for a chat ?
21:24 <   Kambrik> log the chat rooms/ and messages
21:24 <   Kambrik> we do not have some permissions to delete files
21:24 <   Kambrik> so
21:24 <   Kambrik> i wanted to xml files
21:24 <   Kambrik> but
21:24 <   Kambrik> that failed
21:25 <  fedaykin> no no i just didnt think of logging
21:25 <  fedaykin> it makes sense
21:25 <   Kambrik> o
21:25 <@    etank> i have updated the wiki to show the sub teams. it is at the bottom. sign up on the teams that you would like to be on. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam
21:25 <   Kambrik> -k-
21:25 <@    etank> i will add the charity project in a little while
21:25 <      Zuph> excellent.
21:25 <@    etank> one of the other things that we have talked about doing is a key signing party
21:26              fedaykin points to srwalter
21:26 <  srwalter> whoo, public-key cryptography
21:26 <  fedaykin> :)
21:26 <@    etank> we could incorporate that with the dry run install-fest
21:26 <@    etank> since it will be just team members there
21:28 <      Zuph> Have we set time/location for the dry run?
21:28 <@    etank> i think that March 24th at 3:00PM was mentioned
21:28 <@    etank> place is up in the air
21:29 <@    etank> maybe at venomous' house or if we could use some space at UK
21:29 <  venomous> sorry for the lack of input this evening folks...been a long day and tomorrow will start too early.  time to pull the rip cord...see you folks on the ground.
21:29 <@    etank> gnight
21:29 <  venomous> yep, my place is still available if that's the group's decision.
21:30              <   venomous!i=ven0m0us@gateway/tor/x-4e12095a873e7c63 ["Leaving"]
21:30 <@    etank> the last topic for the night is meetings
21:30 <  srwalter> I'll check with the UKLUG president to see how room reservations are done
21:30 <@    etank> is the current schedule of once a week good for all or would every other week be better?
21:31 <@    etank> srwalter: thanks that would be great
21:31 < Koji-Mura> Once a week is great for me.
21:31 <      Zuph> I think once a week is good.
21:31 <      X626> Me, too.
21:31 <   Kambrik> ditto
21:31 <   jkeyes0> Once a week is great. I'm usually on here anyway
21:31 <@    etank> me too
21:31 <   jkeyes0> should we make the move to #ubuntu-kentucky?
21:32 <@    etank> it is there and registered
21:32 <@    etank> i think that it would be a good idea to start using it
21:32 <   jkeyes0> sounds like a great idea. Perhaps something in the room message pointing to #ubuntu-kentucky?
21:32 <      Zuph> If meetings were held in #ubuntu-kentucky, it would help a lot
21:33 <@    etank> next meeting will be there then
21:33              >>> comfurtn!n=kyle@205.138.133.252
21:33 <@    etank> i will make sure to mention it on the mailing for the meeting
21:34 <   jkeyes0> sounds good, etank.
21:36 <   Kambrik> -k- peps i gotta go... i will catch anything i miss on the notes...
21:36 <@    etank> does anyone have anything else to add tonight?
21:36 <    JarG0n> wow
21:36 <    JarG0n> long meeting?
21:36 <  srwalter> sorry I didn't make it until late
21:36 <   Kambrik> cya everyone...
21:36 <@    etank> later Kambrik 
21:36 <    JarG0n> yeah, I want to add something.
21:36              <   Kambrik!n=none@CPE-75-81-224-48.we.res.rr.com []
21:37 <@    etank> JarG0n: whats that
21:38 <    JarG0n> I thought that distributing Mark's video or audio on 'What's GNU?" on CD-R would be something to consider, along with Ubuntu CDs.  I know there's extra cost involved there, but it could go a long way in recruiting.
21:38              <   zenwhen!n=troy@ubuntu/member/zenwhen ["Leaving"]
21:38 <    JarG0n> From the sticky thread I posted today.
21:39              >>> zenwhen!n=troy@ubuntu/member/zenwhen
21:39 <  srwalter> how big is it?
21:39 <    JarG0n> let me check
21:39 <  srwalter> would there possibly be room to put it on custom Live CDs?
21:39 <    JarG0n> heck no
21:39 <    JarG0n> maybe the audio version
21:39 <   jkeyes0> it's what, 350-400mb?
21:39 <@    etank> 388MB
21:39 <  srwalter> ah.
21:40 < Koji-Mura> 319.4 MB on mine
21:40 <@    etank> audio was only 70MB i think
21:40 <    JarG0n> actually, the audio version may be better in fact.  He is a bit scruffy looking.
21:40 < Koji-Mura> lol
21:40 <    JarG0n> The hippie type.  If he reads this log, please don't take that personally. ;)
21:40 <@    etank> i thought that it would be a good idea to take some of the videos that the Ubuntu screen cast team has done and make CDs of them
21:41 <    JarG0n> Where is that ?
21:41 <@    etank> we could add that to the CD
21:41 <    JarG0n> We could make a companion CD explaining the benefits of Ubuntu that are not shown on the main site..
21:41 <@    etank> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScreencastTeam
21:45 <@    etank> anything else for tonight?
21:46 <   jkeyes0> so are we just adding one person to each team, or one person as a lead and others can join as necessary? I'd love to head up the new member welcome team if no one else is interested, and I'll gladly help out on whatever else I can.
21:47 <@    etank> we can have as many people on a team that want to be
21:47 <    JarG0n> The new member welcome team sounds interesting to me.
21:47 <    JarG0n> Being a Libertarian, I like propagandizing myself.
21:47 <@    etank> we may want to name one a leader of each team though
21:48 <@    etank> join any and all teams that you want to
21:48 <@    etank> just add your names to the wiki pages
21:48 <@    etank> we can even create teams on launchpad if it would be helpful
21:49 <@    etank> then there is a ticket system built in
21:50              <   comfurtn!n=kyle@205.138.133.252 ["Ex-Chat"]
21:51 <@    etank> alright then. the logs will be posted in a little bit.
21:51 <      Zuph> good deal.
</pre>
