{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== When and Where ===

We are planning to meet at <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/maps?hl=en&f=l&q=third+street+stuff&near=Lexington,+KY&ie=UTF8&ei=2_P5RfCHBIKIqwKfqeyvBA&sig2=PbWX6C_ADZIqlHB2KLID7A&cid=38048869,-84493278,3910748001610978393&li=lmd&z=14&t=m|Third Street Coffee]]</nowiki> on April 21^st^ at 16:00 EST

=== What ===

We plan for this to be a very laid back time to meet one another and celebrate all things Ubuntu. The location has coffee (duh) and free wifi.

=== More Info ===

There is a discussion thread on the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=380165|forums]]</nowiki>. It has also been discussed in IRC meetings. Logs can be found at <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam/Meetings/2007Mar15]]</nowiki>. Please feel free to post your ideas or join us in #ubuntu-kentucky on irc.freenode.net to discuss it more.

We hope to see everyone there :)

=== Post Event Status ===

After the Install Fest, a few of us met at the Third Street Stuff Coffee shop for a quick celebration for the Release of Feisty and to go over some thoughts of the Install Fest.  Thanks to all those that showed up and put in their opinions, we really appreciate it!  And congratulations Ubuntu on Feisty Fawn's release!!!
