{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">
|}

=== Project Focus ===
* To provide computer systems to families with school-age children who can not otherwise afford them.
* Use Xubuntu derivative and include educational applications.

=== Roadmap: (To do items...in order) ===

* Petition local organizations to donate functional machines.  '''(In progress)'''
** prefer 500mhz or greater, and intact. Other specs are variable.
 
* Determine central meeting place.  '''(In Discussion)'''
** Our supplies are spread out and need to be moved to a central location to be tested and prepared for installation.
 
* Develop our Linux package. '''(In Discussion)'''
** use xubuntu derivative that will run on slow machines.
** try to standardize the package for slipstreaming.
** Wikipedia mirror?  That's over 10GB of data.

* Locate suitable donation candidates and expand the project. '''(In Discussion)'''

=== Supplies ===
* 60 computers
* 11 monitors (need to be checked)

=== Topics of discussion: ===
* Who can get machines? How many and what kind of Specs?
* What should our MINIMUM baseline specs be? Most utilities will run reasonably well on 500mhz.
* What do we want in our Linux Package? Who has the expertise to slipstream this into one install CD?

All of this is in order of priority. I will update this post periodically with important info from the thread.

=== Packages ===

If you have an idea of what packages you think should go on these machines then add it to the <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam/CharityProject/PackageList| Package List]]</nowiki>.

=== Forum info ===
To make comments on the project, or ask questions, go to the forum at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=351344

=== Members ===

 <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam/CharityProject/Members|Charity Project Members]]</nowiki> 
