{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Topics ===

Topics for the evening are:

* IRL Meetings (discussion so far <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=389319]]</nowiki>).
* Wiki updates.
* Install Fest cont.
* News from sabdfl  :) 

=== Log ===

<pre>
20:00 <     etank> is everyone ready to get started?
20:00 <  montgoej> yep
20:00 <  comfurtn> s√≠
20:00 < redoscar3> Ready as rain.
20:00 <      X626> Yeah.
20:01 < ScatterBr> good to go
20:02 <     etank> ok as a reminder the topics for tonight are IRL Meetings, Wiki updates, Install Fest cont., News from sabdfl 
20:02 <     etank> first off is the IRL meetings
20:02 <  montgoej> brb, gotta eat supper real quick
20:02 <     etank> there has been talk of meeting at coffee shops just to talk and stuff
20:02              >>> digitone!n=ok@CPE-76-177-7-131.natcky.res.rr.com
20:03 <     etank> there is a thread for it at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=389319
20:03 <     etank> have we decided yet to do this in Louisville for the first one?
20:04 <     etank> and if so what about a date?
20:04 <  comfurtn> i'll abstain from this one.
20:04 <     etank> too bad Zuph isn't in here since it was his idea
20:04 <   jkeyes0> I'm pretty safe saying "Anytime, anyplace" for me.
20:05 <     etank> anyone else want to add ideas to this
20:06 <      X626> I can't make it to Louisville, but if we have anything in Lexington, I may be able to make it.
20:06 < ScatterBr> It
20:06 <  comfurtn> X626: same for me.
20:06 <     etank> X626: i am kind of the same way
20:06 < ScatterBr> It's a great big "depends on workload" for me.
20:06 < redoscar3> I'm a bit lukewarm to the idea only because in the past, everyone just sat around and stared at one another.
20:07 <     etank> i do think that it would be a good idea to do things in a few different towns though
20:08 <      X626> Yeah, that's a good idea.
20:08 < redoscar3> I've participated in computer clubs for 20+ years, and the results are always the same.
20:08 <     etank> the idea here is for us to drink coffee and talk geek 
20:08 <     etank> nothing heavy
20:09 <     etank> if it lasts and hour or 10 minutes it doesn't matter
20:09 < redoscar3> I understand.  I suppose it just depends on how the personalities click.
20:09 <   jkeyes0> and of course some people will bring laptops to distract from the obvious inadequacies of computer geekdom.
20:10 <     etank> i think that we should try to find places that have free wifi for that purpose
20:10 < ScatterBr> free wifi++
20:11 <  venomous> i thought the concensus was for the coffee shop on 3rd??
20:11 < redoscar3> That was in Lexington.  In Louisville, they were talking about Heine Bros on Bardstown Road.
20:11 <     etank> that is for the release party venomous 
20:12 <     etank> this is something that can be weekly / monthly 
20:12 <  venomous> disregard me....evidently i'm not up-to-date
20:13 <     etank> any other thoughts
20:13 <   jkeyes0> if we did regional, it would certainly make it easier for people to attend, but the groups would be tiny. perhaps regional for more often, and larger groups in one central location once per month/3months/whatever
20:13 <     etank> like i said too bad Zuph isn't here tonight
20:13 <     etank> jkeyes0: good idea
20:14 <   jkeyes0> and if we did louisville and lexington groups, I could float. :P
20:14 <     etank> how about we post some more ideas on the thread and then we can talk about it more next week
20:14 <      X626> That sounds good.
20:14 <   jkeyes0> sounds like a plan.
20:15 <     etank> ok then. the next topic is Wiki Updates
20:15 <     etank> there have been some changes made to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam
20:15 <     etank> when you get a chance look over them if you would and let me know what you think
20:16 <     etank> my goal was to clean things up a little
20:16 <     etank> each page (except the Approval Application) has a header on it
20:16 <  comfurtn> header def a plus.
20:16 <      X626> I like how it looks.
20:17              >>> dhtechs!n=dhtechs@24-159-67-91.dhcp.jcsn.tn.charter.com
20:17 <     etank> props go to comfurtn for the KnowledgeBase page
20:17 <     etank> he has done a great job on it i think
20:17 < redoscar3> Way to go comfurtn........
20:17 <  comfurtn> thanks, etank.
20:18 < ScatterBr> agreed.
20:18 <     etank> in line with the wiki stuff we need to assign / elect / whatever a team leader for the wiki team
20:18 <      X626> Yeah, a real good job.  I've looked at it once or twice, and I like how it looks.
20:18 <  montgoej> back...
20:19 <  comfurtn> wb montgoej
20:19 <     etank> would anyone like to volunteer to be team lead 
20:19 <     etank> or nominate someone
20:20 <  comfurtn> what would that entail exactly?
20:20 <     etank> just making sure that stuff stays looking nice and neat
20:20 <     etank> organize and all that
20:20 <  comfurtn> i could do that, if no one else feels strongly about it.
20:21 <   jkeyes0> with the great job on the knowledgebase, I'd nominate comfurtn
20:21 <     etank> any other nominees?
20:21 <  venomous> i would volunteer, but i find myself short on time lately.
20:22 <  comfurtn> organizing is one of my strengths, so it might be a good match.
20:23 <     etank> keep in mind that no matter who the leader is everyone can still add/edit the pages
20:23 <  venomous> comfurtn's good work on the kb speaks well for his nomination
20:23 <     etank> not all of the work falls on the leader 
20:23              montgoej agrees with venomous
20:23 <     etank> so lets vote
20:23 <     etank> all for comfurtn 
20:23              etank +1
20:23              jkeyes0 +1
20:23              X626 +1
20:23              montgoej + 1
20:23              ScatterBrain +1
20:23 < redoscar3> redoscar3 +1
20:24 <  venomous> +1
20:24 <     etank> done
20:25 <     etank> i just edited the wiki to show the change
20:25 <     etank> good job comfurtn 
20:25 <  comfurtn> k, thanks guys.
20:25 <     etank> next up is Install Fest cont.
20:26 <     etank> we still need to come up with a date for the dry run and also the live event
20:26 <     etank> not to mention a location
20:26 < ScatterBr> etank: How many people are you expecting?
20:26 <     etank> srwalter has said that he will check at UK for a spot for next week for the dry run if we want
20:26 <     etank> ScatterBrain: not really sure at this point
20:27 <     etank> depends on the number of members that will be there and how many we can convince/drag there
20:27 <  comfurtn> not sure if it matters, but i'll be at UK next tuesday.
20:27 < ScatterBr> I'm assuming it'll be at night/on the weekend?
20:27 <     etank> i would love to see 20 - 30 people including members
20:27 <     etank> weekend
20:28 <  comfurtn> let me make sure i'm right on this... the install party is scheduled in april.... and the dry run in undecided?
20:28 <     etank> for the dry run that is really going to be members only so that we can get our stuff in order
20:28 <  comfurtn> *is undecided?
20:29 <     etank> neither is really decided yet
20:29 <     etank> the release party is the only firm date so far
20:29 <     etank> and that is April 21st
20:29 <  comfurtn> ah, k.
20:30 <     etank> does next weekend work for most people for the dry run meeting?
20:30 <  venomous> so far...
20:30 <  montgoej> works for me
20:30 < ScatterBr> as of right no...
20:31 <   jkeyes0> afaik, next weekend would be great
20:31 < redoscar3> Works for me if nothing else comes up.
20:31 < ScatterBr> er...right now.
20:31              <   X626!n=X626@dialup-4.224.222.77.Dial1.Cincinnati1.Level3.net [Nick collision from services.]
20:32 < redoscar3> Are shipit CDs going to be available at the Install Fest?
20:32              >>> X626!n=X626@dialup-4.225.84.224.Dial1.Cincinnati1.Level3.net
20:32 <     etank> redoscar3: how do you mean?
20:33 < ScatterBr> They won't be even ready, right?
20:33 < redoscar3> Well, it might be nice to have them to hand out to those we install to.
20:33 <     etank> some of us have ordered some CDs that we will be able to bring and give out
20:33 < ScatterBr> I can probably create a few from D/L ISOs.
20:33 < redoscar3> That's only for Feisty, right?
20:33 <     etank> they are Dapper though
20:33 <     etank> not Edgy
20:34 <  comfurtn> which version are we leaning more toward?
20:34 <     etank> the thought was for dapper since it is LTS
20:35 < ScatterBr> I have some Dapper ShipIT CDs, I can make some Edgy if needed.
20:35 <     etank> my thought is to have Dapper, Edgy and Feisty there and give the user a choice
20:35 < redoscar3> I agree.  Unless the machines are super new, Dapper is a great distro with the LTS.
20:35 <     etank> if the user does not care what they get then we do Dapper
20:35 <  montgoej> I have some dapper Shipit cds
20:35              >>> l90bpm!n=nonroot@24-151-228-128.dhcp.kgpt.tn.charter.com
20:35 <      X626> I have some Edgy Shipit CDs.
20:35 <     etank> i have about 25 CDs from shipit
20:35 <  montgoej> maybe we can get lucky and get some Edgys like X626
20:36 <     etank> that would be nice
20:36 <   jkeyes0> I've got 10 from shipit
20:36              >>> Shirmpy_!n=chatzill@whlm07.sl.uky.edu
20:36 <  montgoej> I have 5 PPC, 4 64 bit and probably ~10 32 bit
20:36 <     etank> otherwise if anyone has a CD stomper then we can make our own
20:36 <     etank> !hi | Shirmpy_ 
20:36 <    ubotwo> Shirmpy_: Hi! Welcome to #ubuntu-kentucky!
20:36 <  Shirmpy_> Hello!
20:37 <     etank> and we will have machines with burners in them so we can make more if we need to
20:37 <    l90bpm> can I trouble you guys w/ a quick question.. if you don't know it's quite alright
20:38 <  venomous> l90bpm, trouble away...
20:38 <    l90bpm> Question on VNC -  Is it possible to create it on both machines? For instance, send from machine a to b one day and from b to a the next day?
20:38 <  Shirmpy_>  So is there going to be a high attendence at third street coffe in a month?
20:38              montgoej will be there...
20:39              jkeyes0 will be there too.
20:39 <     etank> Shirmpy_: i am hoping that we can have about 20 there or so
20:39              etank will be there
20:39              ScatterBrain is planning on being there.
20:39              X626 may be there.
20:39 <  Shirmpy_> awesome! (of course i'm going!)
20:39 <    l90bpm> sorry you all..  thanks anyway
20:40 <      X626> Sorry, but I  know nothing about VNC, so I wouldn't be able to help you.
20:41 <  Shirmpy_> i'm a little late but is there any clue on the install fest?  (or is that part of the fiesty realse party)
20:41 <   jkeyes0> what do you mean, send from machine a to b?
20:41 < ScatterBr> l90bpm: As long as the VNC server is running on both machines, then you can attach to either of them at any time.
20:41 <     etank> im chatting with him about it now
20:41 <   jkeyes0> exactly.
20:41 <  venomous> l90bpm, if i understand...just install server and client to both machines..
20:44 <     etank> so next weekend for the dry run right
20:44 <     etank> what about a time and location
20:44 <    l90bpm> thanks you all
20:44 <     etank> np
20:45 <     etank> ScatterBrain: did you have a place in mind that we could meet?
20:45 <    l90bpm> how is it that this is the free OS?  and I am sorry, but that IS like "free beer"
20:46 < ScatterBr> I was thinking about my church's gym, but power and Internet is iffy.
20:46 < ScatterBr> I think we could do the power, but we only have a 1.5/384 DSL.
20:46 <     etank> what church?
20:46 < ScatterBr> Athen's Christian Church....
20:46 < ScatterBr> Out past I-75 on Richmond Road.
20:46 <     etank> is that at exit 104
20:46 < ScatterBr> About 7 miles from downtown.
20:46 < ScatterBr> yep.
20:47 <  venomous> l90bpm, you'll have to explain your question a bit more...
20:47 <     etank> well that would work for sure for a dry run
20:47 <    l90bpm> sorry, I was just being silly..
20:48 < ScatterBr> I can try to arrange that for next Saturday afternoon then.
20:48 < ScatterBr> Unless they already have it abligated.
20:48 <  venomous> np...ain't no beer like "free beer", unless you're in paintsville...then, there just ain't no beer!!
20:48 < ScatterBr> er.. obligated.
20:48 <     etank> so does Athen's Church sound like a good location for everyone?
20:48 <  Shirmpy_> hahaha
20:48 <  montgoej> sounds good to me
20:48 <     etank> how about a vote
20:48              etank +1
20:49 <    l90bpm> I was trying my hand at a play on words there
20:49              jkeyes0 +1
20:49              ScatterBrain +1
20:49              X626 +1
20:49 <  Shirmpy_> wait, is this a dry run? (just to check things out?)
20:49 <     etank> ScatterBrain: you have to vote that way. it was your idea :)
20:49 < ScatterBr> Shirmpy_: Yes -Dry Run
20:49 <    l90bpm> I think it is like both "free" and the "free beer"
20:49 < ScatterBr> I could do +2
20:49 < ScatterBr> ;P
20:49 <     etank> Shirmpy_: the dry run is so we can do a run through of the stuff that we are wanting to do
20:50 <     etank> presentations and such
20:50 <  Shirmpy_> mmm, i don't know if i can make it up +1
20:50              montgoej + 0001
20:51 <     etank> sounds like a plan then
20:51 <     etank> srwalter said that he would do the same beryl demo that he did for E-Day
20:51 < ScatterBr> I'll contact my people and get back to everyone as soon as I know.
20:51 <     etank> and for presentations Zuph said that he would do one on server installs
20:52 <     etank> cool
20:52 <  Shirmpy_> well, i must go back to work, i just wanted to say hi and hope to see you soon! HAVE A GOOD DAY ...er NIGHT
20:52 <     etank> nice to meet you Shirmpy_ 
20:53 <     etank> Shirmpy_: are you a member of the KY team now?
20:53 <  Shirmpy_> etank: i just summited to it. but i attend the UK lug meetings
20:53 <     etank> cool
20:53 <     etank> ok. the last thing on the list for tonight is News from sabdfl :)
20:53 <  Shirmpy_> Nice to meet you all, bye bye
20:54              <   Shirmpy_!n=chatzill@whlm07.sl.uky.edu ["Chatzilla 0.9.77 [Firefox 2.0.0.1/2006120417]"]
20:54 <     etank> as you know we have been working towards becomming an approved team
20:54 <     etank> on tuesday i went for ubuntu membership and in the meeting sabdfl said some good things for the KY team
20:54              >>> digitone_!n=silver@CPE-76-177-28-50.natcky.res.rr.com
20:55 <     etank> and some others did as well
20:55              <   digitone!n=ok@CPE-76-177-7-131.natcky.res.rr.com []
20:55 <     etank> <  atoponce> etank is rock solid with loco work. if everyone were like etank when starting their state loco in the u.s., we'd have a team in every state in no time
20:55 <    l90bpm> I wish
20:55 <     etank> <  atoponce> oh, ny, and ky are rocking it in loco work
20:56 <     etank> <    sabdfl> the kentucky team looks well enough organised (grammar?) that i would be happy to +1 that, and the ringleaders for membership
20:56 <     etank> that are just a few of the things being said about the team
20:56 <  montgoej> I gotta leave now guys, sorry :(
20:56              <   montgoej!n=montgoej@adsl-80-24-144.bgk.bellsouth.net ["Leaving"]
20:56 <     etank> later m
20:56 <    l90bpm> have a good one
20:57 < ScatterBr> So what's left to become an *actual approved* team?
20:57 <     etank> now all we have to do is get jono on board with the idea
20:57 <     etank> jono's approval
20:57 <     etank> he said that we needed a little more experience first
20:57 < ScatterBr> What kind of experience?
20:58 <     etank> i think that once we have the release party and the get going on the install fest we will be good to go
20:58 < ScatterBr> Ah.... cool.
20:58 <     etank> but i am going to try to get with him and let him know what sabdfl and the others have said
20:58 <     etank> maybe that will sway him some :)
20:59 <   jkeyes0> so team approval is entirely up to jono?
20:59 <     etank> that and setting up partnerships with the local LUGs will help too
20:59 <     etank> no jono gives his opinion of if he thinks we are ready
20:59 <     etank> then it is up to sabdfl, mako and elmo
20:59 <     etank> in the CC meeting
21:00 <   jkeyes0> ah, nice.
21:00 <     etank> if he gets onboard with this then we could be approved at the next meeting
21:00 <   jkeyes0> woo!
21:00 <     etank> i just wanted you all to know what others were saying
21:01 < ScatterBr> cool.
21:01 <     etank> we are doing a good job (imho)
21:01              >>> EvilGold!n=Evilgold@74-131-221-228.dhcp.insightbb.com
21:01 <     etank> well thats all i have for tonight
21:02 <     etank> to recap:
21:02 <     etank> we are going to post more ideas about the IRL on the forum
21:02 <     etank> wiki looks good and comfurtn is the new team leader of that team
21:02 <     etank> install fest dry run at Athen's church next Saturday
21:02 <   jkeyes0> time?
21:03 <     etank> sabdfl thinks our team is looking good
21:03 <     etank> jkeyes0: good question
21:03 <   jkeyes0> tbd?
21:03 <     etank> 16:00?
21:03 < ScatterBr> If the gym is available, we should be able to meet just about anytime.
21:04 < ScatterBr> That works for me...
21:04 <     etank> anyone have a different suggestion
21:05 <     etank> if not then how about we adjourn (i think i spelled that right)
21:05              etank +1
21:06              X626 +1
21:06              jkeyes0 +1
21:06 <      X626> Yes, it is spelled right.
21:06              ScatterBrain +1
21:06 <     etank> X626: thanks
21:06 <  comfurtn> +1
21:06 <      X626> etank: np
21:06 <     etank> alright then. good meeting everyone
</pre>
