{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== How do I join? ===

Start by chatting/learning in our Internet Relay Chatroom (IRC), #bglug (on irc.freenode.net). You can also go to the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=203|Kentucky Team Forum]]</nowiki>, to post a question, or read about some of the projects we are planning. Also, sign up for our <nowiki>[[http://groups.google.com/group/bglug|mailing list]]</nowiki>. Join the team by going to the teams <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kentucky|Launchpad Page]]</nowiki> and clicking "Join the Team" on on the left of the screen.

=== How BGLUG / Ubuntu-Kentucky Can Help You ===

Stuck with something? Can't find an answer? Log in to our IRC channel and we'll do our best to help. If your problem needs to be solved in person, a volunteer may offer to help. Alternatively, if you want to talk to a wider audience about Ubuntu, Linux and FOSS, feel free to post in the forum.

=== How You Can Help BGLUG / Ubuntu-Kentucky ===

Join the team, of course - joining and participating is a boon to the moral of current members!  Additionally, providing feedback as to how we are performing as a team, or informing us of a need yet to be met, is a great help! 

=== Team Projects ===

* <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam-CharityProject|CharityProject]]</nowiki>
