{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== US Kentucky LoCo Team ===

Following its inception in January 2007, the Kentucky Team continues a rapid expansion.  Focusing on advertising, distributing, and demonstrating Ubuntu to the state of Kentucky, our intent is to provide community support to users of the various distributions of Ubuntu at the private and corporate level.

=== Key Details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Date:'''
| April 16^th^ 2007
|-
| '''Team Contact:'''
| EricLake <ericlake@ubuntu.com>
|-
| '''Membership:'''
| 52 as of April 12^th^, 2007
|-
| '''Mailing List:'''
| <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-ky/]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC:'''
| #bglug on irc.freenode.net
|-
| '''Forums:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-ky.ubuntuforums.org/]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Launchpad:'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kentucky]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Roadmap ===

* '''Sub-Teams:''' Established sub-teams dedicated to specific team tasks, including website design and support, wiki pages, <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam/CharityProject|CharityProject]]</nowiki>, intra-team communication, and new user support and education.
* '''Collaboration with LUGs:''' Contact Kentucky LUGs and user groups to coordinate joint events emphasizing an adoption of Ubuntu as the desktop and/or server environment of choice. We have already begun this process with the <nowiki>[[http://linux.uky.edu/|University of Kentucky LUG]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://lplug.org/|Lexington Professional LUG]]</nowiki>.
* '''Civic/Community Advocacy:''' Contact local governments, school boards, universities, and public libraries to foster adoption of Ubuntu as a viable alternative to less secure, more costly operating systems including proposing partnerships to aid in the distribution of media. 
** So far we have made contact with two schools about adopting Ubuntu in their computer labs.
* '''Charitable Contributions:''' Foster partnerships with local businesses to adopt programs providing Ubuntu-specific machines to the underprivileged.

=== Experience ===

* '''Communication Channels'''
** We have created, and are maintaining, lines of communication, including a mailing list, a Kentucky Team subforum, an IRC channel, and a wiki.
* '''Team Website''' 
** Once approved, we are ready to expand our presence by supporting a website hosted and maintained by team members. 
* '''Charity Project'''
** Forum Discussions: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=351344]]</nowiki>
** Wiki Page: <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam/CharityProject]]</nowiki>
* '''Install Fest'''
** A dry run for the Kentucky Team Install Fest for testing was held on 3/24/2007. There were 9 members present to discuss our plans for the live event.
** The Install Fest will be held on April 21^st^ in partnership with the <nowiki>[[http://linux.uky.edu|UKLUG]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.lplug.org|LPLUG]]</nowiki>
** Forum Discussion: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=379441]]</nowiki>
** IRC Meeting logs: <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam/Meetings/2007Mar15]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam/Meetings/2007Mar22]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam/Meetings/2007April05]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam/Meetings/2007April12]]</nowiki>
** Wiki Page: <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam/InstallFest|Install Fest]]</nowiki>
* '''Feisty Release Party'''
** The Kentucky Team Feisty Release Party is scheduled for April 21^st^ immediately following the Install Fest.
** Forum Discussion: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=380165]]</nowiki>
** IRC Meeting logs: <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam/Meetings/2007Mar15]]</nowiki>
** Wiki Page: <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam/FeistyReleaseParty]]</nowiki>
* '''New Team Member Support'''
** A sub-team is responsible for the welcoming of new members and assisting in helping them become active and productive advocates of Ubuntu, as well as contribute to the team as an approved member.
** Wiki Page: <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam/NewMembers]]</nowiki>
* '''New User Support'''
** We are compiling <nowiki>[[KentuckyTeam/KnowledgeBase|Documentation]]</nowiki> to assist users new to Ubuntu and/or the region.
* '''Ubuntu Members'''
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~troymcferron|TroyMcferron]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[EricLake|Eric Lake]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[brianking|Brian King]]</nowiki>

=== CC Meeting Log for team approval ===
<pre>
16:58 <    Seveas> locoteams, etank
16:58 <     etank> Hi everyone. The Kentucky Team was started on 1/12/07. We started with 3 members and have since grown to 54 (about 20 of which are active on a regular basis). We are having an Install Fest and Release Party this weekend. We have started a partnership with the UKLUG and LPLUG in the Lexington area. We are also in the process of starting a charity project. We are also working on ways to offer local support to new / existing users.
16:58 <     etank> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/ApprovalApplication
16:58 <    MikeB-> somerville32: many thanks also:)
16:58              >>> macluvjay!i=macluvja@fluxbuntu/developer/macluvjay
16:58 <    Seveas> somerville32, THANKS!
16:58 <    sabdfl> hi etank
16:58 <     etank> hi sabdfl
16:59 <     etank> we have some team members here to cheer us on and one of which is also on for membership today
16:59 <  atoponce> ahh. the kentucky team... solid loco, impressive progress, and great strength. etank and bkingx have done fabulous work getting this team up and running
16:59 <     etank> thanks atoponce
16:59 <    sabdfl> ubuntu-ky forums look pretty active too - is the community more mailing list or forums oriented?
16:59 <    bkingx> ty atoponce
17:00 <     etank> forums and irc
17:00 <    MikeB-> etank: the team is doing great work on the forums
17:00              >>> neversfelde!n=chrman@nrbg-4db4456c.pool.einsundeins.de
17:00              mako checks out the forums
17:01              <   lmierzej!n=lmierzej@drc242.neoplus.adsl.tpnet.pl []
17:01 <     etank> we use the mailing list mainly for meeting reminders
17:01 <  atoponce> the us teams project needs more people like etank and bkingx getting their loco teams up and running.
17:01 < imbrandon> are we doing memberships today? sorry but I have to run soon ( ~5 minutes ) and just wanted to place my +1 for sacater's ubuntu membership , he will make a good addition to the community and is workin twords MOTUship some day ( not yet ), he has been active ~3 months iirc on irc and seems to be a solid contributior almost daily, anyhow if someone could bring up my +1 when the time is correct please.
17:01 <    sabdfl> etank: what sort of reaction have you had from libraries?
17:01 <    Seveas> imbrandon, thanks
17:01 <     etank> the team hopes to one day be in a position to mentor other teams the way that Utah and Ohio have helped us
17:01 <   sacater> imbrandon: thanks :D
17:02 < somervill> I have to run too. +1 for apokryphos and ScottK for membership. :) ttyl  everyone
17:02 <     etank> we have not hit the libraries yet
17:02 <    sabdfl> thanks imbrandon
17:02 <     etank> we have started talking to schools though
17:02 <   sacater> welp: wanna add your +1 for me?
17:02 <    Seveas> sacater, not now
17:02 <     etank> trying to get them to let us set up half of the labs with Ubuntu
17:02 <    sabdfl> ok. libraries are sometimes concerned about responsibility for software installed by people who got it from them
17:02 <   sacater> welp: not now ;P
17:03 <    sabdfl> this all looks tight and well-run to me
17:03 <    sabdfl> who are the ringleaders?
17:03 <     etank> thank you
17:03              <   tsmithe!n=toby@ubuntu/member/tsmithe ["bug time!"]
17:03 <     etank> binkx, venemous and myself
17:03 <    bkingx> Thank for the library hint, sabdfl !
17:03 <     etank> we are the original 3 that got it started
17:03 <      mako> yeah, i tlooks like you're doing lots of great works
17:03 <    sabdfl> ok, i'm +1 on this one
17:04 <    sabdfl> great work so far
17:04 <     etank> i mean bkingx
17:04 <      elmo> +1
17:04 <      mako> yes, definitely a +1 from me as well
17:04 <      mako> keep up the good work
17:04 <    Seveas> congratz!
17:04 <     etank> thank you
17:05 <    bkingx> Thank you!!
17:05 <  atoponce> etank: bkingx: congrats
17:05 <   Nafallo> yay!
17:05 <    bkingx> Much work to be done!
17:05 <     etank> awesome!!
17:05 < highvolta> etank, bkingx: congrats and welcome :)
17:05 <    MikeB-> etank: congrats team Kentucky, but Indiana is still better at basketball:-)
17:05 <    Seveas> sacater will now jump the queue, he will have to go soon
17:05 < ScatterBr> Great work etank bkingx !
</pre>
