{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Topics ===

* Change back to weekly meetings
* "Powered by Ubuntu" Stickers
* Charity boxes (let's get these out!)

Please feel free to add to this list of topics as you see fit.

=== Log ===

<pre>
20:01 <      Zuph> Okay, are we ready to get the meeting started, or should we give people 10 more minutes?
20:02 <   Yoooder> whenever
20:02              >>> Zelut!n=christer@ubuntu/member/zelut
20:02              <   zenwhen_!n=zenwhen@adsl-074-171-220-223.sip.bgk.bellsouth.net [Remote closed the connection]
20:02 <      Zuph> bkingx: ?
20:02 <    bkingx> Zuph: yo
20:03 <    bkingx> Naw...let's start
20:03              >>> zenwhen!n=zenwhen@ubuntu/member/zenwhen
20:03 <      Zuph> Alright
20:04              <   p0g0!n=pogo@madwifi/support/p0g0 [Read error: 113 (No route to host)]
20:04 <    bkingx> So, first on the list.
20:05 <      Zuph> Well, Etank can't join us (or will be late) to this meeting, so bkingx and I will be your handy moderators for the evening.
20:05 <  venomous> applause for the mods!!
20:05              Zuph applauds himself
20:05 <    bkingx> We want to start back to weekly meetings.  Although they may be short, we think it may help in keeping interest alive and growth.
20:05 <    bkingx> Those in favor?
20:05              bkingx +1
20:06              Yoooder raises hand
20:06              Zuph +1
20:06              venomous +1
20:07 <    bkingx> Anyone else?
20:08 <    bkingx> Comments, questions, conspiracy theories about this item?
20:10 <    bkingx> OK, then that passes...we will be having weekly meetings from now on.
20:10 <    bkingx> Next up, Charity PC Cleanup.
20:11 <   jkeyes0> (I'm back, btw)
20:11 <    bkingx> We had to cancel the meeting at my house due to scheduling, but we hope to re-schedule soon.
20:11              >>> Pat40503!n=patchad@74-131-211-12.dhcp.insightbb.com
20:11 <    bkingx> I have started a new job, so it is hard to figure out what my schedule will be, but it shouldn't be too hard.
20:12 <    bkingx> Basically, we need to clean, inventory, and test the machines to see what we have.
20:12              <   venomous!i=ven0m0us@gateway/tor/x-b3fb86be6dedfc34 ["Leaving"]
20:13 <    bkingx> From there we can move to the project to load for charities.
20:13 <    bkingx> So by next week I hope to have a solid date to work on these machines.
20:14 <    bkingx> Next up, "Powered by Ubuntu" stickers.
20:14 <    bkingx> Zuph, want to fill us in?
20:16 <    bkingx> Guess not!
20:16 <    bkingx> Basically, we have some simple Powered by Ubuntu stickers to put on our machines.
20:17 <    bkingx> Problem we are finding is the top layer peels off leaving a blank sticker.
20:18 <    bkingx> So the NY team, I believe, has designed some aluminum ones that are pretty sweet.
20:18 <   jkeyes0> I think it's massachusetts, but that's a moot point
20:18 <    bkingx> They are being sold in lots, and of course, the more the cheaper.  
20:18 <    bkingx> Thanks jkeyes0 !
20:18 <   jkeyes0> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam/Projects/AluminiumCaseBadges
20:19 <    bkingx> Good job!
20:19 <    bkingx> jkeyes0: want to chime in here?
20:20 <   jkeyes0> not really. that link has all the info. It looks like Zuph has tentatively signed us up for 250 badges at $0.44, or 400 at $0.24
20:21 <    bkingx> Right, so we need volunteers to chip in and give up some money!
20:21 <    bkingx> These are VERY nice case badges.  If you can help. contact Zuph .
20:22 <   jkeyes0> I've got some spare funds in my paypal acct I'd be happy to donate.
20:22 <    bkingx> You da man!
20:22 <   jkeyes0> hooray for pinecone research sending to paypal. :)
20:22 <    bkingx> :)
20:22 <    bkingx> Ok, that is about it.
20:23 <    bkingx> Short and sweet!
20:23 <    bkingx> Does anyone have anything else?
20:23 <   jkeyes0> any ideas for another cup of ubuntu meeting?
20:23 <  Pat40503> Are any CRT's, keyboards,mice, etc needed?
20:23 <    bkingx> Pat40503: we have some CRT's and keyboards.  But mice are def needed.
20:23              >>> Zupht0r!n=Brad@74-138-194-123.dhcp.insightbb.com
20:24              <   Zuph!n=Brad@74-138-194-123.dhcp.insightbb.com [Read error: 113 (No route to host)]
20:24 <   Zupht0r> I hate my internet
20:24              ~   Zupht0r is now Zuph
20:24 <    bkingx> most of the CRT's are 15"
20:24 <      Zuph> Where are we?
20:24 <    bkingx> Done!  Thanks for coming!
20:24 <    bkingx> LOL
20:24 <      Zuph> Bah
20:24 <      Zuph> I hate everything
20:25 <    bkingx> Pat40503 was asking about accessories for the charity machines.
20:25 <    bkingx> and jkeyes0 was asking about another Cup of Ubuntu meeting.
20:26 <      Zuph> I am happy to host a cup of ubuntu in louisville any time!
20:26 <  Pat40503> I have about seven 17 in CRT's all were working last time I checked,another friend had a bunch of keyboards and mice he got when he bought at UK auction
20:26 <     etank> hi all
20:26 <   jkeyes0> holy crap, it's etank!
20:26 <    bkingx> Pat40503: Awesome!  Bookmark those for the project, if you can.
20:27 <  Pat40503> Not much at all last Tue at UK surplus auction.They have sold all summer
20:28 <    bkingx> Alright...we will know more when we find out how many machines we have.
20:28 <  Pat40503> My friend got a bunch of mostly all Dells  GX400  GX270 GX 150 those all P4 a a couple of P3 Dells I have a couple here I am using
20:28 <     etank> WTH
20:28 <     etank> meeting over already?
20:28 <    bkingx> WOW!  All of our machines are GX1's and 100's
20:29 <  Pat40503> He got 45 keyboards and maybe 50 mice but he tossed some in donations to Cove Lake that picks up stuff
20:29 <     etank> Pat40503: i'll take some :)
20:29 <    bkingx> Hmm...mice would be nice.
20:29 <     etank> so was everyone a go for the weekly meetings?
20:29 <     etank> and for chipping in on the case stickers?
20:30 <    bkingx> Yes and Yes
20:30 <  Pat40503> He already donated some. I keep asking if these items needed.I have some extras here seven CRTs 17in one 19 in
20:30 <     etank> and for once a month IRL meetings?
20:30 <     etank> I have a good friend that is a teacher that has the keys to the building and permission to allow us to meet in the school 
20:31 <     etank> we can have actual lug style meetings
20:31 <      Zuph> I like the idea of coffee shop meetings.
20:31 <     etank> that would be in addition to the coffee shop meetings
20:31 <     etank> one laid back and one more g33ky
20:31 <      Zuph> ah
20:31 <      Zuph> okay
20:32 <     etank> and he said that he is willing to get his students to do some of the clean up work on the charity boxes
20:32 <   jkeyes0> sweet
20:32 <     etank> as a "class project"
20:32 <     etank> and he can get them to do some of the OS install and config as well
20:32 <      Zuph> haha
20:32 <      Zuph> awesome
20:33 <     etank> and if we are interested in getting tax exemption and stuff he has some ideas for that
20:35 <     etank> that would help if we ever wanted to do the FreeGeek thing
20:36 <     etank> hi jkeyes0 
20:36 <   jkeyes0> hey etank!
20:36 <     etank> hi Yoooder 
20:36 <     etank> nice to meet you
20:37 <     etank> bkingx: did you upload logs from the meeting?
20:39 <    bkingx> not yet
20:39 <     etank> do you want me to do it?
20:39 <    bkingx> Sure.
20:39 <    bkingx> So meeting adjurned then?
20:39 <     etank> is it?
20:40 <     etank> does anyone have anything at all to add?
20:40 <    bkingx> Not I
20:40 <    bkingx> I say adjourn the meeting for tonight.
20:40 <     etank> what all was covered?
20:41 <    bkingx> Case Badges, weekly meetings, charity boxes, and your teacher buddy.
20:41 <     etank> is anyone interested in the IRL meetings at the school?
20:41 <    bkingx> People will contact Zuph for donating to case badges.
20:41 <    bkingx> We are moving back to weekly meetings.
20:41 <      Zuph> Okay
20:42 <    bkingx> We will schedule a cleanup date next week (I have to see how the new job goes)
20:42 <   jkeyes0> I like the idea of IRL meetings
20:42 <     etank> i realllllly would like to see more LUG style meets
20:43 <     etank> if not i may have to join a LUG
20:43 <    bkingx> Once a month....I think we can do that.
20:43 <      Zuph> So wait
20:43 <      Zuph> What was our decision on case badges?
20:43 <      Zuph> We need money
20:44 <      Zuph> And need to tell the MA team
20:44 <    bkingx> Anyone who wishes to donate can contact you.
20:44 <     etank> i have someone that has said that he would match whatever i contribute
20:44 <   jkeyes0> I've got $15 in my paypal I can donate
20:44 <     etank> would it be better to commit to a $dollar$ amount or a number of badges?
20:44 <      Zuph> I mean, I want to know how much we'll have so I know how many to order
20:44 <      Zuph> etank: yes yes a thousand times yes
20:45 <     etank> which ones?
20:45 <    bkingx> I should be able to find a few $$
20:45 <      Zuph> Dollar amount
20:45 <     etank> i agree
20:45 <      Zuph> Right now, we are committed to 250 or $110 at 44 cent each or 400 / $96 at .24 each
20:46 <     etank> Zuph: is that what you are going to do
20:46 <      Zuph> I am willing to put in $25!
20:46 <     etank> i see
20:46 <      Zuph> If we can get ~$100, then yes.
20:46 <      Zuph> I can't afford this on my own though.
20:46 <    bkingx> Hard to tell tonight, have to wait until the paycheck comes in.
20:46 <     etank> so we can stay at 250 badges and just collect for that 
20:46 <    bkingx> So 400 is cheaper that 250?
20:46 <      Zuph> It depends
20:46 <      Zuph> There are price levels
20:47 <      Zuph> If the total number of badges is under 1000, then they're .44 each
20:47 <     etank> so we are collecting to meet the $110 amount right now
20:47 <      Zuph> But if the total is between 1000 and 2500, they're .24 each
20:47 <      Zuph> Do we think we can meet $110 if we try???
20:47 <     etank> i think so
20:47 <      Zuph> Okay.
20:48 <     etank> if you are willing to do $25
20:48 <   jkeyes0> between me and you, Zuph, we're at $40, so it shouldn't be a problem.
20:48 <   Yoooder> I can kick in $10
20:48 <      Zuph> So it is settled.
20:48 <     etank> i am willing to pitch in about $20 - $25
20:48 <    bkingx> Yeah, I can chip in.
20:48 <      Zuph> ~$100 worth of case badges
20:48 <     etank> and my friend is willing to do the same
20:48 <      Zuph> excellent
20:48 <      Zuph> we have it then
20:48 <     etank> so that is about $100 then
20:48 <    bkingx> Might have to go to McDonald's instead of StarBucks for coffee now.
20:49 <     etank> they may be to expensive too
20:49 <     etank> McDonalds that is
20:50 <    bkingx> Yup...
20:50 <     etank> so how many people were present tonight?
20:51 <   Yoooder> who is taking up the collection?
20:51 <      Zuph> Not enough.
20:51 <      Zuph> I am
20:51 <      Zuph> Zupht0r is
20:51 <      Zuph> Me me me
20:51 <     etank> Zuph: how do you want us to get the money to you?
20:51 <      Zuph> Any way you can
20:51 <   Yoooder> what's your paypal?
20:52 <      Zuph> Let me check
20:52 <     etank> carrier pidgeon
20:52 <      Zuph> BradLuyster@gmail.com
20:52 <      Zuph> I will make a post in the forums about it.
20:52 <    bkingx> Thanks Zuph !
20:53 <      Zuph> No problem!
20:53 <     etank> how do we distribute them
20:53 <     etank> what will they be used for?
20:53 <      Zuph> Meetings / USPS
20:53 <     etank> i assume we will give them away at Install Fests
20:53 <     etank> oh yeah
20:53 <     etank> one more thing
20:54 <     etank> i signed us up for the O'Reilly UG thing
20:54 <     etank> we can get free books to review
20:54 <   jkeyes0> Zuph, you've got money from me.
20:54 <   jkeyes0> woot, etank !
20:54 <     etank> and also get free swag to give out at Fests
20:55 <     etank> http://ug.oreilly.com/
20:55 <    bkingx> Awesome!
20:55 <    bkingx> Put me down for an ESX book.
20:56 <    bkingx> ESX 3.0 if possible
20:56 <     etank> are you willing to write a review about it?
20:56 <   jkeyes0> ooh, an esx book would be great. we're getting ready to start using it.
20:56 <     etank> jkeyes0: it is very cool
20:57 <   jkeyes0> we've got an eval version right now. lots of fighting with it so far, but it's nice to have linux around...
20:57 <    bkingx> etank: sure
20:58 <    bkingx> jkeyes0: we are running about 8 esx servers right now.
20:58              >>> srwalter!n=srwalter@CPE-76-177-36-23.natcky.res.rr.com
20:58 <    bkingx> about 20 guests each.
20:58 <     etank> srwalter: w00t
20:58              srwalter hijacks the conversation
20:58 <   jkeyes0> wow. I need a job in your company
20:58 <  srwalter> any of you guys hooked ubuntu to an HDTV?
20:58 <    bkingx> jkeyes0: IBM - contract work.
20:58 <     etank> me hasn't
20:59 <    bkingx> I think they need an AIX admin.
20:59 <    bkingx> not I srwalter 
20:59 <   jkeyes0> curses, no AIX experience.
20:59 <     etank> srwalter: how ya been doing?
20:59 <   jkeyes0> not I either, srwalter. however, you might look at Gutsy (better Xorg)
20:59 <  srwalter> doing well.  still liking things at Lexmark?
20:59 <     etank> for the most part
20:59 <     etank> there more work than there are people :(
21:00 <  srwalter> yeah, but isn't that always how it is?
21:01 <     etank> is the meeting over now?????
21:02 <     etank> srwalter: if i had a HDTV i would be willing to test it with ya :)
21:02 <    bkingx> yeah, meeting adjourned.
21:02 <    bkingx> Good meeting!
</pre>
