{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Topics ===

* Web site additions
* Charity Project machines, we have some now  :) 
** Who is interested in helping to get an the OS on these boxes?
* We have Feisty CDs
** Who would like some to have to hand out?
** What is the most effective way of getting them to you?

=== Log ===

<pre>
20:07 <     etank> should we wait for bkingx and Zuph?
20:08 <  venomous> nope! tired...let's get it on and get it done..
20:09 <     etank> works for me
20:09 <     etank> as a reminder of the topics you can find them here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/Meetings/2007May10
20:09 < phr33kc00> Title: KentuckyTeam/Meetings/2007May10 - Ubuntu Wiki (at wiki.ubuntu.com)
20:09 <     etank> topic 1) Web site additions
20:10 <     etank> i have been working with someone in the last week to get a support map started
20:10 <     etank> it is started and up at http://map.ky.ubuntu-us.org/
20:10 < phr33kc00> Title: Ubuntu support points (at map.ky.ubuntu-us.org)
20:11 <    DJTrey> nice addition etank =)
20:11 <     etank> you can add your information to the site and then some that are looking for help will be able to find someone close to them
20:11 <     etank> we are working to get it translated to spanish 
20:12 <  venomous> won't do much good for the translation if none of us speak it!
20:12 <     etank> just in case we have anyone that can speak spanish on the team
20:12 < Ubuntu-Ky> Online for 20 days, 22:28  (background)
20:13 <     etank> also i was working with someone on doing irc stats but the bot wont stay in the room
20:13 <     etank> so DJTrey has set up a new stats page at http://74.236.248.200:8081/ubuntu-kentucky/
20:13 < phr33kc00> Title: #ubuntu-kentucky @ Freenode stats by DJTrey (at 74.236.248.200:8081)
20:13 <     etank> i think that it looks pretty cool
20:13 <     etank> i am starting to add this kind of stuff to the team web page at http://kentucky.ubuntu-us.org/
20:13 < phr33kc00> Title: Ubuntu Kentucky (at kentucky.ubuntu-us.org)
20:14 <     etank> topic 2) Charity Project machines, we have some now
20:14 <     etank> bkingx and Zuph picked up around 60 machines and monitors yesterday
20:15 <     etank> they are 500 mhz with 512 MB ram and 20 Gig HDDs
20:15 <       klb> Ubuntu-Ky, chanstats is <reply> Channel stats page is located at http://74.236.248.200:8081/ubuntu-kentucky/
20:15 < phr33kc00> Title: #ubuntu-kentucky @ Freenode stats by DJTrey (at 74.236.248.200:8081)
20:15 <       klb> chanstats is <reply> Channel stats page is located at http://74.236.248.200:8081/ubuntu-kentucky/
20:15 <       klb> Ubuntu-Ky, where's the chanstats?
20:15 <     etank> according to Zuph Xubuntu works really well on the machines
20:15 < Ubuntu-Ky> Channel stats page is located at http://74.236.248.200:8081/ubuntu-kentucky/
20:15 < phr33kc00> Title: #ubuntu-kentucky @ Freenode stats by DJTrey (at 74.236.248.200:8081)
20:15 <   jkeyes0> awesome, etank!
20:16 <    DJTrey> I might have a machine or two to donate in my basement. not for sure of the specs or anything. interested?
20:16 <     etank> Zuph kept half in louisville and bkingx brought the rest to Lexington
20:16 <     etank> sure we are interested
20:17 <   jkeyes0> I'll be glad to donate time to help with the setup/imaging/whateverisneeded.
20:17 <     etank> we need to figure out what packages we want to load on the machines as a base install
20:17 <     etank> jkeyes0: that was the next question that i have
20:17 <     etank> once we know what to install on them we need to get bodies to do the installs
20:18 <     etank> or find a way to build one and then replicate it quickly to the rest
20:18 <     etank> and OEM install type would be nice
20:19 <     etank> that way when the user first turns on the box they get to set the first user and password
20:19 <     etank>  
20:19 <  venomous> brb...phone
20:19 <   jkeyes0> that would be nice.
20:19 <     etank> any questions about what the Charity Project is?
20:20 <     etank> ok then. 
20:20 <     etank> who would be interested in donating time to get an OS on each of these machines?
20:20              jkeyes0 <--
20:21              DJTrey might if he was closed to lexington.
20:21 <    DJTrey> *closer
20:22 <     etank> cool
20:22 <     etank> i just created https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/CharityProject/PackageList
20:22 < phr33kc00> Title: KentuckyTeam/CharityProject/PackageList - Ubuntu Wiki (at wiki.ubuntu.com)
20:23 <     etank> we can use it to list the packages that users will need to have
20:23 <     etank> knowing that we are going to be using Xubuntu on them
20:23 <     etank> one package that i think is good to have is gcompris
20:24 <     etank> good for families with children in school
20:24              >>> Koji-Murasame!n=nick@74-131-36-125.dhcp.insightbb.com
20:24 <    DJTrey> I think we should have a mailing list for the group, if we do not already have one.
20:24 <   jkeyes0> we do
20:24 <     etank> speaking of Xubuntu
20:24 <     etank> hi Koji-Murasame 
20:24 < Koji-Mura> Hello ^_^
20:25 <     etank> DJTrey: https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-ky
20:25 <    DJTrey> ok
20:25 < phr33kc00> Title: Ubuntu-us-ky Info Page (at lists.ubuntu.com)
20:25 <     etank> Koji-Murasame: we got about 60 machines for the charity project
20:25 <     etank> good enough to run Xubuntu
20:25 < Koji-Mura> Awesome.
20:26 <     etank> if you have ideas of good apps to install on the boxes list them https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/CharityProject/PackageList
20:26 < phr33kc00> Title: KentuckyTeam/CharityProject/PackageList - Ubuntu Wiki (at wiki.ubuntu.com)
20:26 <     etank> i am thinking of some learning apps for school age kids
20:26 <     etank> and maybe some games that are easy on old hardware
20:27 <     etank> topic 3) We have Feisty CDs
20:27 < Koji-Mura> I don't know anything about the edubuntu software or apps, but I do know some of the software that runs on older hardware
20:28 <     etank> Koji-Murasame: that would work
20:28 <     etank> i have used edubuntu in the past for my kids so i can add some of those
20:29 <     etank> I got the box of 300 ubuntu, kubuntu, edubuntu CDs in about 2 weeks ago
20:29 <   jkeyes0> ./raisehand for CD's! (my coworkers are chomping at the bit, currently)
20:29 <     etank> if anyone is interested in getting some to be able to "evangelise" let me know
20:29 <     etank> jkeyes0: how many would you like
20:30 <     etank> i need to find a good way to get them to everyone
20:30 <   jkeyes0> not too many, really. maybe 5 or 10 each of ubuntu and kubuntu?
20:30 <     etank> that wont break the bank in shipping or gas
20:30 <     etank> i have 200 ubuntu 32 bit version
20:30 <     etank> but 30 kubuntu
20:30 <   jkeyes0> I can get them when we work on the charity PC's, or I can meet you somewhere in lex (I'll be down there this weekend probably.
20:30 <   jkeyes0> maybe 10 ubuntu and 2 kubuntu?
20:31 <     etank> that works
20:31 <     etank> let me know where you will be this weekend and i will meet you
20:31 < Koji-Mura> When are we working on the charity boxes (and where)?
20:31 <     etank> we need to keep some for the next Install Fest
20:31 <     etank> Koji-Murasame: good question
20:32 <   jkeyes0> I should be in lex sometime sunday, but I'm out of town the rest of the weekend. if not, I can find another time just to come around.
20:32 <     etank> i was hoping that Zuph and bkingx would be in here to answer that kind of question
20:32 < Koji-Mura> Ah.
20:33 <     etank> Koji-Murasame and jkeyes0, i linked this before you came in http://map.ky.ubuntu-us.org/
20:33 < phr33kc00> Title: Ubuntu support points (at map.ky.ubuntu-us.org)
20:33 <     etank> it is a support map for kentucky
20:33 <     etank> if you are interested then add your info to the page
20:33 <     etank> it is still in the works as of now
20:35 <   jkeyes0> I'm adding myself now
20:36 <     etank> that is all that i really had for tonights meeting
20:36 <     etank> i am starting to run out of ideas to have meetings for
20:36 <    DJTrey> The links on the left hand side of the website are broken and should be fixed
20:36 <    DJTrey> =)
20:37 <     etank> so if you have any ideas of stuff we can do or discuss then let me know
20:37 <     etank> DJTrey: which page?
20:37 <    DJTrey> main page
20:37 <     etank> my bad
20:39 <    DJTrey> ;)
20:39 <   jkeyes0> aight, I'm out to play some trivial pursuit. have fun guys, and I"ll email you about picking up CD's etank
20:39 <  venomous> guys...gotta run...unexpected out-of-towner this weekend.  ....something about "when it rains it pours" comes to mind.  later guys.  etank...i'll keep you posted with anything.
20:39              <   jkeyes0!n=jkeyes0@host-067-131-062-080.dhcp.fewpb.net ["Later!"]
20:41 <     etank> DJTrey: links fixed now
20:41 <    DJTrey> ko
20:41 <    DJTrey> *ok
20:41 < Koji-Mura> Anyone know the Lat/Long. for Lex off the top of their head XD
20:41 <     etank> lat = 38.0465 long = -84.4264
20:42 < Koji-Mura> thanks
20:43 <     etank> this is a good link to find that out at http://www.maps-n-stats.com/us_ky_population.html
20:43 < phr33kc00> Title: Kentucky Cities by Population (at www.maps-n-stats.com)
20:43 <     etank> venomous: sounds good
20:44              >>> Zuph!n=Brad@adsl-070-145-014-194.sip.sdf.bellsouth.net
20:44 <     etank> good meeting all
20:44 <     etank> hi Zuph 
20:44 <      Zuph> bah
20:44 <      Zuph> Sorry I missed everything, I guess
20:44 <     etank> do you want to say anything about the PCs?
20:44 <      Zuph> Left to eat at 6:30, and the service was so frigging slow I just now got back
20:44 <     etank> we went over everything but you may have more to add
20:45 <      Zuph> Ummm... Not right now, except that we need to concentrate our efforts on figuring out what packages to install and we need GOOD DOCUMENTATION
20:45 <      Zuph> Documentation will be key
20:45 <     etank> Zuph: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/CharityProject/PackageList
20:45 < phr33kc00> Title: KentuckyTeam/CharityProject/PackageList - Ubuntu Wiki (at wiki.ubuntu.com)
20:45 <     etank> add ideas there
20:45 <      Zuph> Daddy like
20:46 <      Zuph> That's all I can really add, then.
20:47 <      Zuph> I guess if anyone has an questions or concerns, let me read over the meeting log, and feel free to contact me.
20:48 <     etank> sounds good
20:48 <     etank> meeting is over unless anyone has anything at all to add
</pre>
