{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Topics ===

All about the Install Fest, What still needs to be done and who is going to do it?

=== Log ===

<pre>
20:01 <     etank> You all ready to start?
20:02 <  venomous> git 'er dun...
20:02 <  montgoej> I'm ready to go if you guys are
20:02 <    bkingx> Boogity Boogityt Boogity!!
20:03 <  montgoej> sorry guys, I gotta go, but I'
20:03 <  montgoej> *I'll read the logs
20:03              <   montgoej!n=montgoej@adsl-074-171-214-246.sip.bgk.bellsouth.net ["Ex-Chat"]
20:03 <     etank> OK. as i see it the only topic for the night is the Install Fest
20:03 <     etank> I have listed a few things that we need to make sure get done before the event
20:04 <     etank> 1) Hang flyers around town (whereever your town is)
20:04 <     etank> i got a bunch from Zuph so if there are any of you in the Lexington area that want to help blanket this area get with me
20:04 <     etank> the flyers are also located on the wiki 
20:05 <     etank> let me take a step back real quick
20:05 <     etank> who will be able to help with the Install Fest?
20:05 <  venomous> april 21 is a go for me
20:06 <    bkingx> I'm good
20:06 <     etank> I am pretty sure that srwalter and tom will be there too. (since it is on UK campus)
20:07 <    bkingx> Zuph?
20:07 <      Zuph> Yeah?
20:07 <    bkingx> You gonna be there?
20:07 <      Zuph> the install fest?
20:07 <    bkingx> yep
20:07 <      Zuph> Yes.
20:07 <    bkingx> Cool
20:08 <     etank> so that would make about 6 of us
20:08 <     etank> 7 if ScatterBrain is there too
20:08 <      X626> I should be there, too. (Unless something happens that prevents me from going)
20:08 <     etank> OK. We only have 9 days to get the flyers hung
20:08 <     etank> 2) Setup
20:09 <     etank> I am going to try to see if I can get with srwalter and see if we can go the night before to do some setup
20:09 <     etank> would anyone like to help with that if it is a go?
20:10              >>> biohypnotix!n=biohypno@75.90.166.112
20:10              Zuph raises his hand.
20:10 <    bkingx> I can help
20:10 <     etank> 3) Welcome Packets
20:11 <     etank> bkingx: has started on those
20:11 <     etank> i just got the "Powered by Ubuntu" stickers today
20:11 <    bkingx> COOL!!
20:11 <     etank> bkingx: what needs to be finalized for the packets to be done?
20:12 <    bkingx> We need some How-To's written
20:12 <    bkingx> Specifically, pnes for connecting to the IRC Server and the Forums.
20:12 <    bkingx> *ones
20:13 <     etank> the forums are easy
20:13 <     etank> just give them a URL
20:13 <     etank> the other can be copied from the wiki
20:13 <     etank> anything else?
20:13 <    bkingx> We need the Screencasts burned, if we still want to include those.
20:13 <     etank> I can do that tomorrow
20:14 <    bkingx> OK...if you make an ISO, I can burn some too.
20:14 <     etank> will do
20:14 <     etank> is that all for the welcome packet?
20:14 <    bkingx> And then a Welcome letter
20:15 <     etank> what kind of welcime letter?
20:15 <    bkingx> Soemthing that says, Hello, here we are, here some info, etc.
20:15 <    bkingx> Basically an intro to the Team, what we do etc.
20:16 <     etank> venomous: would you be willing to write something?
20:16 <    bkingx> Cover letter of sorts.
20:16 <    bkingx> venomous would be good at that!
20:16 <     etank> you are really good at that kind of stuff (you know, grammer)
20:17 <    bkingx> And I ain't??
20:17 <    bkingx> I'm good at IM!  LMAO!
20:17 <    |{evin> grammar
20:17 <  venomous> i could probably put something together.  just checking work email though...it seems tomorrow will be awfully busy...may have to be this weekend.
20:17 <     etank> see what i mean, I suck a speling too
20:17 <  venomous> that crunches us for time.
20:18 <     etank> we just need something that we can print sometime before next Saturday
20:18 <  venomous> i can grind something out this weekend then.
20:19 <    bkingx> That will work.
20:19 <    bkingx> One-pager should suffice.
20:19 <  venomous> see....some of us actually have to WORK when we're at work!!! we don't all have the luxury of jobs like etank and bkingx!!
20:19              etank is working on that though
20:19 <    bkingx> Pshaw!  I had to actually MOVE today
20:20 <  venomous> etank: with any luck...you'll be in the same boat as me
20:20 <    bkingx> Man....I would like to be in that boat too!
20:20 <     etank> 4) Presentations
20:20 <  venomous> bkingx: you mean "move" as in move your physical person???
20:21 <    bkingx> LOL....yep!
20:21 <  venomous> i'm working on it.  company is a good one, but keep you busy.
20:21 <     etank> is there anyone that is wanting to do a presentation?
20:21 <     etank> srwalter is going to do the beryl thing
20:21 <  venomous> clients do NOT want to pay big $$ for someone to just lay around..
20:22 <  venomous> no OJT stuff.  you better know it before you get there.
20:22 <    bkingx> LOL...I hear ya!
20:22 <     etank> i am going to do one on what Ubuntu is and why it is useful
20:22 <      Zuph> <-- Basic LAMP server install for home use.
20:22 <     etank> good
20:23 <     etank> jordon was asking about that on the forum
20:23 <  venomous> Zuph: I think that's a good idea, but what basic user (joe newbie) is going to have a need for a LAMP install?
20:23 <     etank> the install fest is not only for new users
20:23 <     etank> its is open for someone that just wants some help with a current install too
20:23 <  venomous> the "joe users" i've run across want internet and email....that's it....other than that...they're clueless
20:24              <   Zuph!n=BradLuys@74-138-203-144.dhcp.insightbb.com [Read error: 54 (Connection reset by peer)]
20:24              >>> Zuph!n=BradLuys@74-138-203-144.dhcp.insightbb.com
20:24 <      Zuph> Good question.  To do basic web development stuff.
20:24 <      Zuph> We aren't teaching users that are new to computers.
20:24 <      Zuph> We're teaching users that are new to LINUX.
20:25 <      Zuph> They probably have an inkling of a clue.
20:25 <  venomous> but aren't most "newbies" just that??? they want an alternative to having to pay bill gates for yet another license...
20:25              >>> comfurtn!n=kyle@mrtc-mm-600074.mis.net
20:26 <    bkingx> I think we can expect all levels of users at this Feat.
20:26 <    bkingx> *Fest
20:26 <      Zuph> Just because they're new to linux doesn't mean they're ignorant of computers and servers in general.
20:26              etank is just hoping that we have users there period
20:26 <      Zuph> I worked in IT for 3 years without knowing anything beyond "ls"
20:26 <  venomous> the chick i gave an ubuntu cd to at school was interested, but had no idea what a partition was...much less that you could install both xp and linux to the same computer, which most will want to do as they learn to wean themselves from windows
20:26              bkingx is too
20:27 <      Zuph> venomous:  We'll get those users, but a basic lamp install isn't going to be too stressful, difficult or time consuming for most people.
20:27 <      Zuph> I bet I can do it in 20 minutes.
20:27 <     etank> i agree with bkingx. we should be prepared for all types of users.
20:27 <    bkingx> How about a Virtualbox demo?
20:27 <    bkingx> So peeps won't have to dual boot
20:28 <  venomous> i agree, but am fearful of "scaring" people away.  they want the "...it just works..." things that has made windows easy
20:28 <  venomous> doesn't matter that it really doesn't "just work"
20:28 <     etank> i say we keep virtualization out of the equation unless someone there brings it up
20:28 <    bkingx> Cool
20:28 <  venomous> agree with etank
20:28 <      Zuph> venomous:  We can't cater to those users.  They'll never convert.
20:29 <      Zuph> The user that wants it to "just work" will get frustrated the minute something doesn't work exactly like windows.
20:29 <  venomous> the times i've brought up virtualization have brought "glazed" stares...
20:29 <     etank> Zuph has a good point there
20:29 <  venomous> true
20:30 <     etank> one thing to keep in mind is that we do not want to speak ill of any other OS / Distro
20:30 <    bkingx> Well, we can hold the demo and if people don't want to listen, they can watch the install bars go across the screen.
20:30 <  venomous> too late...i already profess my disdain of MS every chance i get..
20:30 <     etank> we don't what to be zealots
20:30 <    bkingx> Make the presentations optional
20:30 <     etank> not at the Install Fest though
20:31              <   TheLighty!i=lighty@riding.the.data-stream.org [Read error: 131 (Connection reset by peer)]
20:31 <    bkingx> agreed....we need to agree that there is a place for ALL OS's.
20:31              <   Zuph!n=BradLuys@74-138-203-144.dhcp.insightbb.com [Read error: 54 (Connection reset by peer)]
20:32 <     etank> ok. that is all i could think of
20:32 <     etank> what am i missing
20:33 <     etank> what can we do to make the event run as smoothly as possible
20:33 <  venomous> i think we're all smart enough to less common sense prevail at the fest....
20:33 <    bkingx> Do we have everything lined up as far as power, Internet, tables, chairs, etc?
20:33 <     etank> I just though of one
20:33 <     etank> we were going to build an apt mirror to make the installs faster
20:34 <     etank> i think that Zuph was going to do that
20:34 <  venomous> etank: do you still need one of my machines?
20:34 <  venomous> never mind...lag
20:34 <  venomous> is Zuph still up for that??
20:34 <    bkingx> OK...we need to make sure that is working before we just show up.
20:34 <     etank> tables, chairs etc i think will be there at the location
20:35 <     etank> we need a switch i think though for internet access
20:35 <     etank> powere should be good to go too
20:35 <    bkingx> I can get a nice 24-porter
20:35 <  venomous> covered....if need be
20:35 <     etank> need be
20:35 <  venomous> take your choice....cisco or nortel
20:36 <    bkingx> 3com
20:36 <     etank> i don't have a preference
20:36 <  venomous> the nortel has POE....not that we'll need it
20:36 <     etank> whatever works
20:36 <    bkingx> Network cables?
20:37 <  venomous> good though bkingx
20:37 <     etank> blank CDs
20:37 <    bkingx> I bought some yesterday.
20:37 <  venomous> i can supply wireless equip if we want to deal with that....else, i've got some cables...a few 50', but can access some 25
20:38 <    bkingx> 25ers should be fine.
20:38 <    bkingx> and at least one wireless AP might be good too.
20:38 <  venomous> done
20:38 <     etank> it would be good to be able to show someone how to connect to wireless
20:39 <     etank> we only have 3 hours there though since the Release Party is at 4
20:39 <  venomous> etank, you thinking open, or encrypted??
20:39 <     etank> both
20:39 <  venomous> ...can do both
20:39 <     etank> start open and then encrypt to show that side too
20:39 <  venomous> bear in mind....some wireless users will need an install of ndiswrapper for wireless to work though
20:40 <     etank> true
20:40 <    bkingx> What is our Internet source?
20:40 <     etank> but it is better to do that while we are there with them instead of them getting it home and getting mad
20:40 <     etank> bkingx: I have no idea
20:40 <     etank> UK Campus Internet
20:40 <     etank> whatever that is
20:41 <    bkingx> We need to have that determined asap as well.
20:41 <  venomous> is srwalters?? taking care of the internet
20:41 <     etank> why
20:42 <     etank> it will be the schools network
20:42 <    bkingx> We just need to make sure there are no problems accessing the Internet from our network.
20:43 <     etank> does anyone else have any thoughts
20:43 <    bkingx> Proxies, etc
20:43 <  venomous> etank: what i think bkingx is referring to is will there be a hot port we can get out of??  SIS experience with UK is that they seem to be a little "protective"
20:43 <    bkingx> Thanks venomous, that is exactly it.
20:43 <     etank> venomous: according to tom and srwalter there will be
20:44 <    bkingx> OK, cool.
20:44 <    bkingx> So venomous, you have the network stuff handled then?  Switch, Wireless AP, cables, etc?
20:44 <  venomous> good idea to doube check....without internet, we're sunk...doensn't matter how many "bery" machines we're running...
20:44 <    bkingx> good point, venomous
20:45 <     etank> I will email tom and make sure it is a go
20:45 <    bkingx> Thanks etank !
20:45 <     etank> this is the room that the UKLUG uses i think
20:45 <    bkingx> That will make me feel a bit better.
20:45 <  venomous> venomous: provide 24 port switch and 2 wireless AP.  one encypted...one not
20:45 <    bkingx> and 25' cables?
20:46 <     etank> i think that there is a projector in the room but i will check on that as well
20:46 <  venomous> will get a count tomorrow, but....off the top of my head?? maybe...5 and a few 50'
20:46 <    bkingx> OK....I'll see what I can round up as well.
20:47 <    bkingx> Tables and chairs we are pretty sure are in the room?
20:47 <  venomous> my 14' are all used up at the moment doing actual work stuff
20:48 <    bkingx> Have we decided on refreshments?
20:48 <     etank> srwalter said that he could take care of getting them
20:48 <    bkingx> Cool
20:48 <     etank> we have the "Donate" button on the UK site but it has been down for two days
20:48 <     etank> I would still like to get some kind of door prizes
20:49 <    bkingx> last thoughts are 'office supplies'
20:49 <    bkingx> I have an iMac we can give away.  Load it with Ubuntu PPC version.
20:49 <     etank> pens to fill out forms, tape to stick them to the sides of PCs
20:49 <    bkingx> Or maybe a raffle for something that big to help ofset the costs?
20:49 <    bkingx> RIGHT, etank
20:50 <    bkingx> I bought some sharpies (5), name badges, blank labels
20:50 <    bkingx> Pens and tape would be good.
20:50 <  venomous> if i can get to the office...i can get a supply of pens
20:51 <    bkingx> Can we get pens with Ubuntu-Kentucky on it?  :)
20:51 <     etank> not in enough time
20:51 <  venomous> bkingx: hah!!  what schedule are you working under??
20:51 <    bkingx> Yeah, I know
20:52 <    bkingx> notepads for people to take notes?
20:52 <     etank> all of this stuff is going to take money though
20:53 <  venomous> none of which we have!!
20:54 <    bkingx> I've already put in $90 for folders CD's. labels, etc.
20:54 <    bkingx> Surely we can pool together to get some stuff.
20:54 <  venomous> bkingx == bill gates
20:54              <   kyboy!n=kyboy@74-131-216-19.dhcp.insightbb.com ["Leaving"]
20:55 <  venomous> we may be overthinking this....there are going to issues we don't/didn't anticipate.  it's going to be a learning curve
20:55 <    bkingx> Yup...I like etank's comment about common sense.
20:56 <  venomous> if we beat ourselves up picking over the minutia....we'll drive ourselves crazy
20:57 <     etank> is there anything else we need to discuss?
20:58 <  venomous> i'm thinking we're ok...for tonight, anyway - that may be the medication talking though..
20:58 <    bkingx> Not that I can think of.
20:58 <     etank> i am planning on putting up flyers this weekend if anyone wants to elp
20:59 <     etank> meeting is done then
</pre>
