{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Topics ===
 
* Are we ready to go for approval?
* We have a web site now!!! How do we want to use it???
* Goals for sub-teams.

=== Log ===

<pre>
20:00 [notice!#ubuntu-kentucky] Hello Kentucky LoCo. It's 8:00PM so that means Meeting Time.
20:00 <@    etank> how is everyone tonight?
20:00              >>> jdimond!n=jdimond@c-68-53-20-102.hsd1.ky.comcast.net
20:00 < TheLighty> good evening
20:00 <    bkingx> ;)
20:00 <   jdimond> am I late?
20:00 <@    etank> zenwhen: how's it going
20:00 <@    etank> jdimond: just getting started
20:00 <   jdimond> nice
20:01 < TheLighty> it is now 20:00
20:01 <@    etank> my clock must be fast
20:01              etank needs to enable ntp
20:01 <  venomous> TheLighty: no colon in military time!!
20:01 <   jdimond> 2001
20:02 < TheLighty> my Aitomic clock shows that way
20:02 < TheLighty> aatomic
20:02 < TheLighty> forget it
20:02 <@    etank> well the items for discussion tonight are listed in the channel topic.
20:03 <@    etank> first thing on the list:
20:03 <  venomous> TheLighty: jus' pokin' at ya.  not supposed to be one there, anyway
20:03 < TheLighty> NP
20:03 < TheLighty> cheap clock
20:03 < TheLighty> dams special
20:03 < TheLighty> sams
20:03 <@    etank> Are we ready to submit our team for approval?
20:03 <   jkeyes0> woo, I made it. :)
20:03 <@    etank> what are your thoughts
20:03 <@    etank> welcome jdimond 
20:03 <@    etank> welcome jkeyes0 
20:04 <   jkeyes0> I think we're ready to submit. we've got lots of things planned out, and actual dates/times (or at least timeframes) for most of them.
20:04 <    bkingx> Ryan Seacrest is my hero!!
20:04 <@    etank> just in case you have not seen it yet, here is the draft of the approval app https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/ApprovalApplication
20:04 < TheLighty> I have a question
20:04 <@    etank> shoot
20:04 < TheLighty> there are 3 goals we should meet
20:04 < TheLighty> did we meet those yet
20:05 <@    etank> the ones that have not been meet yet are planned and on the calendar
20:06 <@    etank> we do need to fill in the holes on the application
20:06 <   jkeyes0> we need to create wiki / forum entries for each of our goals, I think.
20:06 <@    etank> it has a skeleton and muscle but we need to give it flesh
20:06 <   jkeyes0> and have open discussions about the goals in the forum
20:07 <  venomous> muscle needs toning!
20:08 <@    etank> any other thoughts on it?
20:08 <  venomous> from who?? me?
20:09 <@    etank> anyone
20:09 <@    etank> I just don't want us to try for approval until we all feel that we are ready
20:09 <   jkeyes0> I can expand on the New Team Member Support page and you can include it in the Experience section if you like.
20:09 <   jkeyes0> we can work more on the Documentation page
20:10 <@    etank> that sounds good
20:12 <@    etank> any other ideas / comments?
20:12 <@    etank> if not we can go to the next topic
20:12 <   jkeyes0> I think the app looks good.  A little further fleshing out, and some more work on some of the team pages, and we'll be in business.
20:14 <      X626> I want to help out with the documentation, but I'm no good at writing instructions.
20:14 <@    etank> lets skip the (touchy) web site topic
20:14 <   jkeyes0> save that for last, or not.
20:15 <@    etank> X626: you write it and we can edit it.
20:16 <      X626> Ok, that'll work.
20:16 <@    etank> should we take one sub-team at a time?
20:17 <    bkingx> Sure!
20:17 <@    etank> the wiki team first then
20:18 <@    etank> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/WikiTeam
20:18 <@    etank> I wrote what I was thinking of as the goals for this team today
20:18 <@    etank> does anyone else have anything to add to what is on the page now
20:19 <   jkeyes0> Under the objectives, KentuckyTeam is spelled wrong. Not a big deal though.
20:19 <  venomous> working on that now...
20:20 <@    etank> oops
20:21 <@    etank> so far bkingx, jkeyes0, kambrik and I are on that team
20:21 <@    etank> we do not have a leader assigned yet 
20:21 <      X626> I'm considering joining that team.
20:21 <@    etank> would anyone like to join the team or even lead it?
20:22 <@    etank> I think that venomous would be a good one for this team
20:23              bkingx seconds
20:23              etank thirds
20:23              etank wonders if he can do that
20:23 <  venomous> hah...bastardo!! trying to volunteer me....
20:24 <    bkingx> I think it is a done deal!!
20:24 <    bkingx> HAHA!
20:24              etank thinks that he just accepted
20:24 <@    etank> ok. the next subteam is the new members team
20:24 <@    etank> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/NewMembers
20:25 <  venomous> only if nobody cries when i edit...
20:25 <@    etank> so far jkeyes0 is the leader of the team with me and bkingx as members
20:25 <    bkingx> Edit away, my friend!
20:25 <@    etank> the goal of this team is to great new members and make them feel welcome to the team
20:26 <@    etank> show them around some and help them get involved and not be a bench warmer
20:26 <@    etank> jkeyes0: you want to add anything to that
20:27 <   jkeyes0> that pretty much covers it. I'm also making every effort to help them with technical issues, or point them to someone / someplace that can help them.
20:27 <@    etank> i would like to see every member of the team involved in some way
20:28 <@    etank> art, wiki, writing code, whatever
20:28 <   jdimond> can we join multiple teams?
20:28 <   jkeyes0> absolutely, Jd
20:28 <    bkingx> sure, jdimond
20:28 <   jdimond> put me down for new members then
20:28 <@    etank> yes
20:29 <@    etank> you can go to the https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/NewMembers/Members and add your info
20:29 <   jdimond> rogder
20:30 <@    etank> does anything else need to be said for this team?
20:30 <@    etank> pretty straight forward
20:30 <   jkeyes0> what did you have in mind as far as art for the new team?
20:30 <@    etank> the was just an example 
20:31 <@    etank> i was trying to say that i would like for members to be involved where ever their skills are
20:31 <    bkingx> I think etank was referring to helping new members become active in somethin
20:31 <   jkeyes0> k, didn't know if you were thinking ahead of me or not. we can all collaborate more on what we think should be on the wiki page, and get it in motion.
20:31 <@    etank> sure thing jkeyes0 
20:32 <@    etank> ok. the next team is the charity project team https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/CharityProject
20:32 <@    etank> this is one that i am pretty excited about
20:32 <@    etank> as of now Zuph is the leader with me and montgoej as members
20:33 <@    etank> is everyone up to speed on what this team is about?
20:33              >>> comfurtn!n=kyle@205.138.133.242
20:34 < TheLighty> yes
20:35 <@    etank> good enough
20:35 <    bkingx> lol
20:35 < TheLighty> sorry fo rbeing quiet, I had to take a call
20:35 <   jkeyes0> I'd like to be involved in the OS building / imaging process, at least
20:35 < TheLighty> where do you want me?
20:36 < TheLighty> I can help with most technical issues with pc's
20:36 < TheLighty> still learning Ubuntu
20:36 <@    etank> TheLighty: work where you feel comfortable
20:37 <@    etank> the plan is to load ubuntu on the pcs and then give them to needy people
20:37 <@    etank> the last team is the web team https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/WebTeam
20:38 <@    etank> this one it turns out doesn't need quite as much work at the moment :(
20:38 <    bkingx> ME Me Me!
20:38 <   jkeyes0> (btw, that site has KentuckTeam on it as well instead of KentuckyTeam)
20:38 <   jkeyes0> yeah, for the moment that one is on a bit of a hiatus. Isn't bkingx the team lead of it?
20:38 <@    etank> it is fixed now
20:38 < TheLighty> I can help with web team
20:38 <  venomous> jkeyes0....be careful about being good at anything though...you'll get "volunteered" for stuff!!
20:39 < TheLighty> hehe
20:39 <   jkeyes0> :) I'm glad to help out anywhere I can.
20:39 <    bkingx> I'll volunteer for lead on this one.
20:39 < TheLighty> okay I suck at everyting
20:39 < TheLighty> not really
20:39 < TheLighty> hey any of you want to see what I built
20:39 <    bkingx> I may delegate technical tasks out, but I think I can make it pretty nice.
20:39 <   jkeyes0> bkingx nominated for team lead!
20:40 < TheLighty> if ya need any you can toss my way
20:40 <  venomous> TheLighty: does it involve driving??
20:40 < TheLighty> I can drive
20:40 <  venomous> i'm probably over the legal limit!
20:40 < TheLighty> have a e150 for van too
20:40              >>> montgoej!n=Jordan@dialup-4.225.2.66.Dial1.Cincinnati1.Level3.net
20:40 <   jkeyes0> hey montgoej!
20:40 <@    etank> hey montgoej 
20:40 <    bkingx> hey montgoej
20:40 <  montgoej> ok, I'm finally here!!!
20:40 < TheLighty> hello'
20:40 <@    etank> we were just discussing the sub-teams
20:40 <  montgoej> ok
20:41 <@    etank> is everyone ok with bkingx leading the web team?
20:41 <   jkeyes0> seconded!
20:41 < TheLighty> third
20:41 <    bkingx> DANG!!  The only time someone asks if it is OK.
20:41 <  venomous> fourth..fifth...sixth...
20:41 <  montgoej> I say yes
20:41              bkingx feeling like a slug!!
20:42 <@    etank> good enough
20:42 < TheLighty> where is the salt?
20:43 <@    etank> bkingx: its official now. it says you are the leader on the wiki :)
20:43 <    bkingx> Uh oh...feeling a bit overwhelmed now!
20:43 <@    etank> that leads us to the web site
20:43 <    bkingx> Ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss
20:44 < TheLighty> what is going on with it
20:44 <@    etank> in a talk with jono this week we were asked to take down the site
20:44 <@    etank> the standard is to use statename.ubuntu-us.org
20:44 <@    etank> and not ubuntu-statename.org
20:44 <@    etank> the problem is that you have to be an approved team to get the sub-domain on ubuntu-us.org
20:45 < TheLighty> I thought he was re-thinking it
20:45 <@    etank> he did say today that he is considering changing that
20:45 <    bkingx> Let's just hope that he does.
20:45 <@    etank> he is thinking of allowing any loco team have a ubuntu-us.org name but for the un-approved teams it will point to their wiki
20:46              >>> Zuph_!n=bradluys@74-130-215-240.dhcp.insightbb.com
20:46 <@    etank> once they are approved then they can get it pointed to a different site
20:46 <@    etank> he Zuph_ 
20:46 <     Zuph_> Hola.
20:46 <@    etank> hey Zuph_ i ment
20:46 <  venomous> a few changes made.  still some tweaking to do, but edited at least....https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/ApprovalApplication#preview
20:46 <    bkingx> Give that example you gave me this afternoon, etank
20:47 <@    etank> for now if we get a sub-domain it will point to our team wiki
20:47 <@    etank> once approved we can then point it to the team web site and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam will be our wiki
20:48 <@    etank> venomous: looks good
20:49 <@    etank> so that is the offical (for now) word from jono
20:49 <    bkingx> so for now, we are stuck with wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam as our main site.
20:49 <@    etank> the idea behind that is it will keep the teams focused on building the team and not playing with a CMS
20:49 <    bkingx> When we get approved, we will be allowed to use Kentucky.ubuntu-us.org and point it to our web server.
20:50 <@    etank> that or they could host it for us. the decision is ours.
20:50 <    bkingx> BTW....I fought against all this, for what it is worth.
20:50 <  venomous> nominate bkingx for sergeant-at-arms...
20:51 <    bkingx> I still think it is the wrong way to go, but I'll respect whatever the decision is made.
20:51 <    bkingx> thanks, venomous
20:51 <@    etank> bkingx: good choice :)
20:51 <    bkingx> Hey, we all have the same goal.  And we will just have to agree to disagree.
20:52 <    bkingx> And of course, they have the final decision, so I'll respect that.
20:52 <    bkingx> <But I don't have to like it!!!!>
20:52 <    bkingx> ;)
20:52 <@    etank> bkingx: what was you thinking on the Testimonials section on the approval application?
20:52 <  montgoej> lol
20:52 <  montgoej> bkingx: I agree
20:53 <    bkingx> Especially since I am out $60 for the domain I registered.
20:53 <@    etank> who are you targeting to get testimonies from
20:53 <  venomous> etank: good question...
20:53 <    bkingx> I would think atponce, Vorian, to start
20:53 <  venomous> what are they testifying to though??
20:53 <@    etank> what are you looking for them to say?
20:53 <    bkingx> since zenwhen is our only Ubuntu member, his voice might be good.
20:53 <@    etank> venomous: you are so fast
20:54 <  venomous> that's the same thing SHE said!
20:54 <    bkingx> Something along the lines of why we would be a good team.
20:55 <    bkingx> Their personal experience with our team.
20:55 <  venomous> bkingx: i'm thinking if we can't stand on our own, testimonies might look like we're "pleading"..
20:55 < TheLighty> not at all
20:55 <    bkingx> I was jsut following the Ubuntu Membership application suggestions.
20:55 < TheLighty> they are a god thing to have
20:55 < TheLighty> it's like a resume
20:56 <  venomous> TheLighty: yeah, but everyone knows you don't put "bad" references on resumes.
20:56 <    bkingx> The CC recommended it as supporting documentation.
20:56 <  venomous> every reference is going to say, "...best thing since sliced bread, blah, blah,"
20:56 < TheLighty> well that is why you only show positve
20:57 <    bkingx> But we don't have to include it if we don't want.
20:58 <  venomous> it is my opinion (and only mine) that testimonials/references are just fluff to aid an application/resume having difficulty standing on its own merits.
20:58 <    bkingx> I'm indifferent.
20:59 <  venomous> the opinions stated previously do not represent those of the management and staff...
21:00 <     Zuph_> venomous: I agree, which is why, unless you're applying for your first job in high school, you put "references available upon request" on your resume.
21:00 <@    etank> Zuph_: are you in favor of the Testimonials section then?
21:01 <  venomous> Zuph_: true, but i don't even put "on request" on there.  everyone already knows you'll provide them if requested....wasted space.
21:01 <    bkingx> I say we leave them out until we see what we end up with for our application.
21:01 <     Zuph_> My resume has never been so tight that two words was a bother.  Maybe just me, though.
21:01 <     Zuph_> etank: against.
21:02 <@    etank> anyone else?
21:02 <  venomous> changes to wiki already made....deletion of "testimonials"
21:02              bkingx against, for now.
21:02 <  montgoej> against for now
21:03 <      X626> also against for now
21:03 <    bkingx> That should be good then
21:04 <@    etank> ok. did we cover everything on the discussion list then?
21:04 <    bkingx> DId we decide to postpone the install fest then?
21:05 <   jkeyes0> postpone? why?
21:05 <@    etank> I think that doing the release party and install fest on different days would be best
21:05              <   JarG0n!n=liberty@74-140-213-1.dhcp.insightbb.com ["Ex-Chat"]
21:05 <    bkingx> Agree.
21:05 <    bkingx> So which one do we postpone?
21:06 <@    etank> the install fest
21:06 <@    etank> feisty has a set date for release
21:06 <@    etank> if they hit the date that is
21:06 <    bkingx> Fair enough....and then keep the Release party for April 20th then?
21:07 <@    etank> sounds good to me
21:07 <@    etank> vote
21:07              etank +1
21:07              bkingx +1
21:07              montgoej +1
21:07              jkeyes0 +1
21:07              X626 +1
21:08              Zuph_ +1
21:08              jdimond +1
21:08 <    bkingx> Passed!
21:08 <@    etank> venomous |{evin TheLighty zenwhen 
21:08 <@    etank> what do you guys think
21:09 <    bkingx> Then finally, do we postpone the dry-run for the install fest then?
21:09 <   jkeyes0> Honestly? I say we keep it on schedule. it might take more than one to make it run smoothly...
21:09 <@    etank> i don't think we should either
21:09 <   jkeyes0> and one thing that will help our application is more IRL meetings.
21:10 <@    etank> vote to keep the date set
21:10              etank +1
21:10              jkeyes0 +1
21:10              montgoej + uno
21:10              X626 +1
21:10              Zuph_ +1
21:10              bkingx +1
21:10 <@    etank> venomous: what is your vote since it is at your house
21:10 <@    etank> unless srwalter comes through for us
21:10 <  venomous> had to recycle some beer...
21:11 <  venomous> reading
21:11 <  venomous> sounds fine to me...
21:11 <@    etank> date stays March 24th then
21:11 <   jkeyes0> at what time?
21:12 <@    etank> jkeyes0: good question
21:12 <    bkingx> mid-afternoon?
21:13 <    bkingx> venomous: have a suggestion?
21:13 <  montgoej> didn't we say last time that it would be about 3:00 p.m.
21:13 <@    etank> that works for me
21:14 <  montgoej> works for me?
21:14 <   jkeyes0> it will last what, 6 hours?
21:14 <    bkingx> That sounds like a long time, but realistically, it could be 9:00.
21:14 <  venomous> doesn't matter...late afternoon, early evening is fine.  use it as a segway to drinkin' and a hold 'em tournament!
21:15 <    bkingx> HELLS YEAH!
21:15 <  montgoej> I've gotta be somewhere at 7:00 so I might have to leave if it's gonna be really long
21:15 <    bkingx> BTW... venomous, I created a Calendar Wiki.  The link is on the main page under Meetings.
21:16 <   jdimond> i cant make it
21:16 <    bkingx> You can do what you want to with it.
21:16 <@    etank> How do we get people to come?
21:16 <    bkingx> Offer free beer!!
21:16 <@    etank> how do we get the word out?
21:16 <    bkingx> Then say the keg got dropped.
21:17 <@    etank> anyone with a real suggestion
21:17 <  venomous> door prize is a gratuitous buy-in to the hold 'em tournament afterwards!
21:18 <@    etank> ok. something to think about then.
21:19 <    bkingx> That's a good one, venomous
21:19 <@    etank> so to recap ... we are going to do more work on the approval app, the web site is on hold for now, and we are going to get going with the sub-teams
21:19 <    bkingx> yup
21:19 <  venomous> "...even a blind squirrel..."
21:20 <   jkeyes0> honestly, if each person can bring 2 others, (and we can get a lot of members to come, which is still kinda questionable), we'll have a lot of people there.
21:20 <@    etank> also the install fest has been postponed but the dry run is still on March 24th and the release party is still on April 20th
21:21 <@    etank> "get a lot of members to come" that is the trick there.
21:21 <@    etank> we have 35 members and 13 here now
21:21 <@    etank> that really isn't a bad ratio though
21:21 <    bkingx> Yeah...not too bad.
21:22 <   jkeyes0> well, we regularly have between 10-15 members in meetings. If 10 people bring 2 people each, that's still 30 people in a room watching installs.
21:22 <   jkeyes0> and there's nothing that says we can't do it more than once.
21:22 <@    etank> we just each need to find a place in the team to be involved
21:22 <    bkingx> LOL..you make that sound so exciting!
21:22 <@    etank> jkeyes0: good points
21:22 <  comfurtn> about the number of people at the meetings... for me at least, thursdays at 8 are just not convenient.
21:23 <    bkingx> I think doing it more than once is a GREAT Idea.
21:23 <    bkingx> And we need some people to take notes and help create an agenda.
21:23 <@    etank> comfurtn: what would be a better time for you
21:24 <  comfurtn> well, it just so happens that i have nightclass on thursdays.. so i never get back to the computer before 9, sometimes later.
21:24 <@    etank> bkingx: we need to have some members create a presentation showing the benefits of Ubuntu / Open Source
21:24 <  comfurtn> i'm up for writing anything that we need.
21:24 <    bkingx> True...
21:24 <   jkeyes0> we could either change the date or the time, either way
21:25 <    bkingx> Nominate comfurtn for presentation material
21:25              jkeyes0 +1
21:25              jdimond +1
21:25              etank +1 but i will help out 
21:25 <  comfurtn> "the benefits of Ubuntu/Open Source" ?
21:26 <  comfurtn> what type of presentation are we wanting?
21:26 <    bkingx> Sounds liek we need a-team presentation sub
21:26 <   jkeyes0> great idea, bkingx
21:26 <@    etank> or whatever topics you think will get non-linux users excited about ubuntu
21:26 <  venomous> brb phone
21:26 <@    etank> something in impress would work
21:27 <@    etank> just some slides with images and the topics being discussed
21:27 <  comfurtn> yeah, that will be simplest.
21:27 <   jkeyes0> what's impress, etank ?
21:27 <  comfurtn> open office powerpoint.
21:27 <@    etank> impress == powerpoint
21:27 <   jkeyes0> it's called "presentation" on mine, I believe.
21:27 <@    etank> impress > powerpoint
21:28 <@    etank> that is what the menu says but in OO it is impress.
21:28 <   jkeyes0> Hehe, there's a presentation template called "HumanUbuntu". Might be good to use that...
21:29 <@    etank> i think that we need to burn a cd with some screen casts on it to give to them as well
21:29 <   jdimond> are we going to work on other projects besides ubuntu advocacy?
21:29 <@    etank> that and some printed documentation
21:29 <   jkeyes0> I can work out bringing a projector
21:29 <@    etank> we have the charity project
21:29 <    bkingx> Sure, jdimond .
21:29 <    bkingx> And what else did you have in mind?
21:29 <@    etank> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/CharityProject
21:30 <   jdimond> like, say, helping out with packages that need work in ubuntu and what not
21:30 <  venomous> south park is on!!
21:30 <@    etank> jdimond: if you have the ability to do that then great. I think that is a good idea.
21:30 <    bkingx> DVR, venomous
21:30 <   jkeyes0> I'd love to help create new packages. I need to learn that at some point..
21:30 <  comfurtn> jdimond: maybe we could tackle a bug or something as a team.
21:30 <@    etank> I don't know how many of us are programmers though
21:30 <   jdimond> exactly
21:30 <  venomous> so much for getting any more work done
21:31 <@    etank> comfurtn: jdimond good ideas
21:31 <  montgoej> I know a bit about compiling, creating packages, etc.
21:31 <  comfurtn> oh wow, impress just crashed on me.
21:31 <  montgoej> I'm willing to help as much as possible
21:31 <  venomous> running downstairs, but i'm up in the "geek room"
21:31 <   jkeyes0> I was a programmer in college. I can fix minor bugs in compiling, but I'd have to relearn alot to do anything major.
21:31 <    bkingx> And we had plans to create a team custom CD.
21:32 <   jdimond> custom cd would be an awesome project also
21:32 <  montgoej> a lot of packages that are broke are just because not all dependencies are listed
21:32 <    bkingx> With apps and configs we recommend as a team
21:32 <  comfurtn> bkingx: we should make a wiki page to brainstorm that.
21:33 <  montgoej> we could always set up a repo with meta packages such as things to help install gui administration apps, games, etc
21:33              jdimond +1
21:33 <@    etank> ok we are off the topics for tonight. is everyone good with adjourning for the evening?
21:33 <    bkingx> Agreed....how about discussion on the forums, and compiling the info on the wiki?
21:33 <  comfurtn> sounds good.
21:33 <@    etank> im not saying that we stop the discussion here
21:34 <    bkingx> Nope...I'm done.
21:34              montgoej + 0001
21:34 <@    etank> i am just saying that we call the meeting done
21:34 <    bkingx> Yeah, I need to get the kids to bed.
21:34 <@    etank> meeting done then
21:34 <    bkingx> Good Meeting everyone!!!
21:34 <  venomous> adjourned....

</pre>
