{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==

A Key Signing Party is an opportunity for the LoCo team to get together for some face time while discussing cryptography and its uses.
No experience or prior knowledge is assumed, all comers welcome.  Bring a few dollars to contribute toward pizza, if that's your thing.

=== Plans ===

'''Date:'''  October 6, 2007 <<BR>>
'''Time:'''  6:00 PM <<BR>>
'''Location:'''  East Side Technical School <<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?ie=UTF-8&oe=utf-8&client=firefox-a&q=east+side+techn+ical+school&near=Lexington,KY&ll=38.027752,-84.445971&iwstate1=dir:to&iwloc=A&f=d&daddr=2208+Liberty+Rd,+Lexington,+KY+40509&safe=on|Map]]</nowiki>

==== Details ====

Since probably most of us have never been to one before, I wanted to go      
over what to expect, how to prepare, what to bring, etc.  The most
important thing to bring is yourself, even if you can't bring a                 
computer.  In fact, bringing a computer is almost counter-productive. 
<<BR>>
To prepare, generate a GPG key for yourself.  If you have access to a           
linux box, this is essentially a matter of "gpg --gen-key".  Once you
have your key, you will want to write down on a piece of paper the "Key         
ID" and the "Key Fingerprint."  The fingerprint looks like the long             
series of hex digits in my signature.  You should ideally also bring a          
photo ID.                                                                                                                                                      
<<BR>>
At the party, you'll recieve a paper table.  At the top, you'll write           
your key ID and your key fingerprint.  While eating your pizza and              
socializing, you'll go around and add other people's names, key ids, and        
fingerprints to your table.  You should check their ID, too.  Don't             
write down their info unless you are sure you of their identity (that           
is, after all, the whole point of the exercise).                                
<<BR>>                                                                                
At some point during the night, there will be some talks given about the        
basics of public key cryptography (how it works and what it is good             
for), as well as practical tips on using crypto.  If you get stuck and          
can't get a key generated before the party, this part should give you           
enough info to be able to generate your own key.          
<<BR>>
Note!  You should not at any time during the party use someone's else's         
computer.  And you probably shouldn't let anyone use your computer,             
either.  If we all trusted each other, we wouldn't need cryptography :)         
Wait to do the actual signing after the event.                                  
<<BR>>                                                                                
Here's a few links of suggested reading:                                        <<BR>>
http://people.debian.org/~stevenk/keysigning.html                               <<BR>>http://cryptnet.net/fdp/crypto/keysigning_party/en/keysigning_party.html     <<BR>>
