{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Hey, man, don't you know we're LoCo?

== Introduction ==
This is the India Ubuntu Kerala LoCo Team.  Many of us are in abroad now.  However, we are a statewide team, and membership is open to everyone.  Our goal is to promote Ubuntu, Open Source Software, and the <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ubuntu_%28philosophy%29|ideal]]</nowiki> behind Ubuntu -- "Humanity to others."

== Join The Team ==
There are many ways to join the team, or get more information about the Kerala Ubuntu LoCo.  Kerala Team membership is open to everyone.  Please join and start contributing and learning today!

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KeralaTeam/IRC|IRC]]</nowiki>
 {*} <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-in|Mailing List]]</nowiki>
 {*} <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=389|Forum]]</nowiki>
 {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kerala|Launchpad]]</nowiki>
 {*} <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-in.info/|Team Webpage]]</nowiki>
 
If you'd like hop into our channel and see what happening or just say Hi! Click <nowiki>[[http://java.freenode.net//index.php?channel=ubuntu-us-nm|HERE]]</nowiki> to connect.

== Newest Projects ==
  For more information regarding LoCo webpages, check out the LoCoCreatingWebsite page.

Go to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KeralaTeam/WebPage|webpage project page]]</nowiki> and add your thoughts!

== News ==
''' Month Year '''

''' Month Year '''

== Progress ==

=== Goals ===
* Promote, educate, and advocate Ubuntu in the state of Kerala and world wide.
* Coordinate a yearly Linux Expo in the state of Kerala.
* Set up a support structure for Ubuntu in the state of Kerala.
* Have numerous community-based projects based on the idea and spirit of Ubuntu.
* Hold quarterly InstallFest

=== Accomplishments ===
* 
* 
* 
* 

== Official Ubuntu Loco The Kerala Team ==

Go <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeams|here]]</nowiki> to find out more about LoCo Teams. 

KeralaTeamApprovalApplication

== Kerala Linux User Group Resources ==

We at the Kerala Ubuntu LoCo just love Ubuntu, but we think Linux in all it's shapes and forms is just fantastic, so if you need any information about other Linux distributions, or just Linux in general, check out these other Linux users' groups:

=== Kerala Linux Users Group (KLUG) ===
<nowiki>[[http://klug.blog.com|KLUG]]</nowiki>

=== Kerala Gnu & Linux Users Group (KGLUG) ===
<nowiki>[[http://klglug.blog.com|KLGLUG]]</nowiki>

=== Indian Linux Users Group ===
<nowiki>[[http://www.linux-india.org|LINUX INDIA]]</nowiki><<BR>>

=== Indian Linux Users Group - Chennai ===
<nowiki>[[http://www.ilugc.in|ILUGC]]</nowiki>

=== Indian Libre Users Group - Cochin ===
<nowiki>[[http://www.ilug-cochin.org|ILUG]]</nowiki>

=== GNU Linux Users Group - Trivandrum ===
<nowiki>[[http://www.ilug-tvm.org|ILUGT]]</nowiki>

If you know of any more Kerala Linux resources, please let us know, and we will add them to this wiki. Or join the group to add changes, too.

CategoryUbuntuTeams CategoryLoCoTeams
