{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:other-kernel-o-version-and-flavours
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===
Discuss the mainline baseline version for Oneiric. Also discuss the current kernel flavours for each architecture. We will also discuss the source branch for these flavours. Finally we will touch on the ports architectures.

=== Release Note ===
TBD

=== Kernel Version ===
Discussions on which mainline kernel base is appropriate for Oneiric. As Oneiric is not an LTS we do not require a specific version for alignment upstream. Therefore we will likely be using the latest version released at kernel freeze.

==== Assumptions ====
Based on the cadence of previous upstream releases, I'd anticipate the following upstream release timeline:
* 2.6.39 releases around June, 2011
* 2.6.40 releases around Sept 2011
* 2.6.41 releases around Dec 2011

Kernel freeze for Oneiric is Sept 15, 2011

Taking the above into consideration, I suspect we should go with a 2.6.40 kernel as a 2.6.41 kernel may be too early into the -rc releases to provide enough stability.

=== Flavours ===
Are we carrying the appropriate flavours?

==== Distro ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Architecture'''
| '''Flavour'''
| '''Description'''
|-
| i386
| generic
| kernel for desktop machines with less than 4GB of ram
|-
| i386
| generic-pae
| kernel for desktop machines with more than 4GB of ram
|-
| i386
| virtual
| kernel for virtual machine use (KVM/EC2)
|-
| amd64
| generic
| kernel for desktop machines
|-
| amd64
| server
| kernel for server machines
|-
| amd64
| virtual
| kernel for virtual machine use (KVM/EC2)
|-
| armel
| versatile
| kernel for ARM versatile (QEMU)
|-
| armel
| omap
| kernel for ARM OMAP-3 hardware
|}

==== Ports ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Architecture'''
| '''Flavour'''
| '''Description'''
|-
| powerpc
| powerpc
| PowerPC
|-
| powerpc
| powerpc-smp
| PowerPC with SMP support
|-
| powerpc
| powerpc64-smp
| PowerPC64 with SMP support
|}

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
<pre>
put your session notes here

Version
=======  ==
2.6.40 looks to be landing about the right time.

The following items may need specific patches:

1) apparmour net stuff, permissions rework, etc
2) seccomp2 patches 
3) xen dom0 blkback

Flavours
========  ==
Not planning on removing any of the existing flavours.

We may need a Xen kernel but will pick that at feature freeze.

Not planning on changing the arm flavours supported out of master,
omap3.
N900 was suggested, but we have no plans to expand without demand in the 
kernel team.

Discussions on the virtual flavour, get the modules back which is
missing.  For EC2 we would want them all installed to reduce bugs.

Also we should be reviewing the Amazon kernels. Both the kernle
configuration differences and the patches for applicability.
get_reference_source -p <package> -a XXXX-XXXX-XXXX

[apw/rtg] ti-omap4 ???
[ogasawara] decide if we need xen flavour before feature freeze
[apw] investigate pulling 'excluded' modules for -virtual into a new binary package/udebs
[stefan-bader-canonical] review patches and config for Amazons EC2 kernels
</pre>

----
CategorySpec
