{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues January 24, 2017 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Highlights ====

* fwts 17.01.00 was released end of last week:
	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FirmwareTestSuite/ReleaseNotes/17.01.00

-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
We uploaded a newer v4.9 based Zesty kernel to the archive.  It's based on the 4.9.5 upstream stable kernel.

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/4.9.0-15.16|https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/4.9.0-15.16]]</nowiki>

Please test and let us know your results. We also have a preliminary rebase to v4.10 (4.10-rc5 to be exact) available in our unstable repo:

<nowiki>[[https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel/ubuntu/+source/linux/+git/unstable|https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel/ubuntu/+source/linux/+git/unstable]]</nowiki>

We'll eventually converge on a v4.10 based kernel for Zesty. 

-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>
Current cycle: 06-Jan through 28-Jan
====================================================================  ==
         06-Jan   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
09-Jan - 14-Jan   Kernel prep week.
15-Jan - 27-Jan   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         30-Jan   Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
====================================================================  ==
          trusty  3.13.0-107.154
           vivid  3.19.0-79.87
         precise  3.2.0-120.163
          xenial  4.4.0-58.79
         yakkety  4.8.0-32.34

linux-lts-trusty  3.13.0-107.154~precise1
 linux-lts-vivid  3.19.0-79.87~14.04.1
linux-lts-xenial  4.4.0-58.79~14.04.1

Next cycle: cycle: 27-Jan through 18-Feb
====================================================================  ==
         27-Jan   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
30-Jan - 04-Feb   Kernel prep week.
05-Feb - 17-Feb   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         20-Feb   Release to -updates.

</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://people.canonical.com/~kernel/cve/pkg/ALL-linux.html
 

-----
