{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:hardware-p-kernel-version-and-flavors
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===
Discuss the mainline baseline version for Precise Pangolin 12.04. Also discuss the current kernel flavours for each architecture. We will also discuss the source branch for these flavours. Finally we will touch on the ports architectures.

=== Release Note ===
TBD

=== Kernel Version ===
Discuss which mainline kernel base is appropriate for Precise Pangolin 12.04. Precise is also an LTS release.  As such, we would prefer to align with upstream's long term support kernel if at all possible.  This does assume we know what the next long term support kernel will be.  We would also prefer to have a longer testing/baking period for this kernel to provide more bug fixes and stability for our users.  This may result in our choosing a slightly older kernel vs. the bleeding edge.

==== Assumptions ====
Based on the cadence of previous upstream releases, I'd anticipate the following upstream release timeline:
* v3.0 released July 21, 2011
* v3.1 released Oct 24, 2011
* v3.2 releases around Jan 2012
* v3.3 releases around March/April 2012

Kernel freeze for Precise is April 5, 2012

Taking the above into consideration, I would propose selecting the v3.2 kernel to provide a longer duration for testing, bug fixes, and overall stability.

=== Flavours ===
Are we carrying the appropriate flavours?

Discussions regarding merging amd64.generic and amd64.server have already began:

  https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/kernel-team/2011-October/017413.html

It was also requested that we evaluate the need for the NON PAE kernel.  Are all intel and amd supporting PAE now for supported kernels?

==== Distro ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Architecture'''
| '''Flavour'''
| '''Description'''
|-
| i386
| generic
| kernel for desktop machines with less than 4GB of ram
|-
| i386
| generic-pae
| kernel for desktop machines with more than 4GB of ram
|-
| i386
| virtual
| kernel for virtual machine use (KVM/EC2)
|-
| amd64
| generic
| kernel for desktop machines
|-
| amd64
| server
| kernel for server machines
|-
| amd64
| virtual
| kernel for virtual machine use (KVM/EC2)
|-
| armel
| omap
| kernel for ARM OMAP-3 hardware
|}

==== Ports ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Architecture'''
| '''Flavour'''
| '''Description'''
|-
| powerpc
| powerpc
| PowerPC
|-
| powerpc
| powerpc-smp
| PowerPC with SMP support
|-
| powerpc
| powerpc64-smp
| PowerPC64 with SMP support
|}

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

<pre>
Welcome to Ubuntu Developer Summit!

put your session notes here
 
Based on the cadence of previous upstream releases, I'd anticipate the following upstream release timeline:

v3.0 released July 21, 2011
v3.1 released Oct 24, 2011
v3.2 releases around Jan 2012
v3.3 releases around March/April 2012

NOTE: Kernel freeze for Precise is April 5, 2012

actions:

[] work out the non-trival set of hw we will lose by dropping non-pae
[] should we move the non-pae kernel to universe and community maintained
[] talk to themuso/jk about needing the non-smp powerpc flavor
[apw] connect with arm people for armhf flavor
[jj] check that we're setting nx-emu on the right bit (see http://kernel.ubuntu.com/git?p=ubuntu/ubuntu-oneiric.git;a=commitdiff;h=775e6e802597c3f6c334cdaaf8df807dd28c6dd6)
</pre>

----
CategorySpec
