{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues May 03, 2016 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Highlights ====

* We released v4.2.8-ckt9 extended stable
* We released v3.19.8-ckt20 extended stable
* Ubuntu 16.04 LTS released on Thurs Apr 21, 2016
 

-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
We have opened our yakkety kernel repo at the following location:

https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel/ubuntu/+source/linux/+git/yakkety

At this time is it just a copy of our Xenial kernel.  We'll look to get this rebased to v4.6-rc6 (or newer) soon.  We are still evaluating which kernel version to converge on for the 16.10 release.
-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>
Current cycle: 15-Apr through 09-May
====================================================================  ==
         15-Apr   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
17-Apr - 23-Apr   Kernel prep week.
24-May - 06-May   Bug verification & Regression testing.
         09-May   Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
====================================================================  ==
   precise  3.2.0-101.141
    trusty  3.13.0-85.129
     vivid  3.19.0-58.64
      wily  4.2.0-35.40

lts-trusty  3.13.0-84.128~precise1
lts-utopic  3.16.0-69.89~14.04.1
lts-vivid   3.19.0-56.62~14.04.1
lts-wily    4.2.0-35.40~14.04.1
lts-xenial  4.4.0-14.30~14.04.2

Next cycle: 06-May through 27-May
====================================================================  ==
         06-May   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
08-May - 14-May   Kernel prep week.
15-May - 27-May   Bug verification & Regression testing.
         30-May   Release to -updates.
    
</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://kernel.ubuntu.com/reports/kernel-cves.html

-----
