{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues Feb 23, 2016 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Highlights ====

* The xenial kernel gained experimental support for mounting fuse and ext2/3/4 filesystems from within unprivileged containers. More information is at http://blog.forshee.me/2016/02/container-mounts-in-ubuntu-1604.html.
 
-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
Our Xenial kernel has been re-based to v4.4.2 and is available for testing in the archive, ie linux-4.4.0-7.22. Please test and let us know your results. Also, as an early reminder, Xenial Kernel Freeze is Thurs, April 7. We encourage anyone needing kernel patches pulled into Xenial to please submit them well in advance of Kernel Freeze to allow for as much testing as possible. Thanks!
-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>
Current cycle: 19-Feb through 12-Mar
====================================================================  ==
         19-Feb   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
21-Feb - 27-Feb   Kernel prep week.
28-Feb - 05-Mar   Bug verification & Regression testing.
06-Mar - 12-Mar   Regression testing & Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
====================================================================  ==
   precise  3.2.0-99.139
    trusty  3.13.0-78.122
     vivid  3.19.0-50.56
      wily  4.2.0-29.34

lts-trusty  3.13.0-78.122~precise1
lts-utopic  3.16.0-61.81~14.04.1
lts-vivid   3.19.0-50.56~14.04.1
lts-wily    4.2.0-29.34~14.04.1

Next cycle: 11-Mar through 02-Apr
====================================================================  ==
         11-Mar   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
13-Mar - 19-Mar   Kernel prep week.
20-Mar - 26-Mar   Bug verification & Regression testing.
27-Mar - 02-Apr   Regression testing & Release to -updates.
</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://kernel.ubuntu.com/reports/kernel-cves.html

-----
