{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:hardy-kernel-schedule
* '''Packages affected''': linux-source

=== Summary ===

Due to increasing pressures and requirements from teams outside of the kernel team, it is necessary to better document the kernel release schedule, beginning with Hardy/8.04.

=== Rationale ===

=== Use Cases ===

* MID vendors

=== Assumptions ===

Kernel RC releases are at unknown points, as well kernel final release. All dates are based on Hardy release schedule.

=== Design ===

TBD

=== Implementation ===

TBD

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during CD testing, and to show off after release.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Things to do
* Rebase on 2.6.24-rcX when they are released, no arbitrary rebase
** Gives us, community and vendors known points to work from
** Easier to push bugs upstream with known failure points
* Cherry pick where appropriate (major bugs that can't wait till next -rc)
* After 2.6.24 release, uploads will be merged with 2.6.24.y
* LUM/LRM driver syncs at start of cycle, and at regular intervals until UVF.
* Regular uploads in sync with expected milestones.

Based on full hardy release schedule: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardyReleaseSchedule

Base dates:

* Dec 13th: Finish first lum/lrm upstream merges by this date
* Alpha 1: Expected -rc1 upload with new build system (ABI-less pkg names)
* Alpha X: Uploads rebased/merged with latest tagged kernel
* After Alpha5 upload, prior to Alpha6 upload, last merge window for lum/lrm modules with upstream.
* 2 days prior to upload will be bug/patch day.
** Gives time to detect build failures prior to upload
* Last upstream sync for 2.6.24.y will be just before beta-freeze
* After beta-freeze, only major bugs and security bugs will be addressed.

----
CategorySpec
CategoryKernel
