{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues Feb 02, 2016 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Highlights ====

* Kamal has released 3.13.11-ckt33 stable
* Kamal has released 4.2.8-ckt3 stable
* Kamal has released 3.19.8-ckt14 stable
* Colin pushed a new version of stress-ng to Debian and it was sync'd to Ubuntu Xenial.
  Updates to stress-ng V0.05.12:
** smarter CPU cache size detection and new cache stressor options
   --cache-level, --cache-ways, --cache-no-affinity
   (thanks to James Hunt, Intel)
** CPU online/offline stressor
** file-copy stressor (for the new file_copy_range() system call)
** man page fixes

-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
Our first v4.4 based kernel from last week has finally promoted to the release pocket in Xenial.  Our Xenial master/master-next branch has since been re-based to the v4.4.1 kernel and recently uploaded.  We appreciate any testing and feedback  this v4.4 based kernel as it will be our target for 16.04!
-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>
Current cycle: 29-Jan through 20-Feb
====================================================================  ==
         29-Jan   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
31-Jan - 06-Feb   Kernel prep week.
07-Feb - 13-Feb   Bug verification & Regression testing.
14-Feb - 20-Feb   Regression testing & Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
--------------------------------------------------------------------
   precise  3.2.0-98.138
    trusty  3.13.0-77.121
     vivid  3.19.0-49.55
      wily  4.2.0-27.32

lts-trusty  3.13.0-77.121~precise1
lts-utopic  3.16.0-60.80~14.04.1
lts-vivid   3.19.0-49.55~14.04.1
lts-wily    4.2.0-27.32~14.04.1 
 
Next cycle: 19-Feb through 12-Mar
====================================================================  ==
         19-Feb   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
21-Feb - 27-Feb   Kernel prep week.
28-Feb - 05-Mar   Bug verification & Regression testing.
06-Mar - 12-Mar   Regression testing & Release to -updates.

</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://kernel.ubuntu.com/reports/kernel-cves.html

-----
