{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues February 28, 2017 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
We have a 4.10 based kernel available in the archive:

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/4.10.0-8.10|https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/4.10.0-8.10]]</nowiki>

Please test and let us know your results.  It is still currently based on the v4.10-rc8 upstream kernel but we plan to upload a rebase to v4.10 final soon.
-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>

Current cycle: 17-Feb through 11-Mar
====================================================================  ==
         17-Feb   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
20-Feb - 25-Feb   Kernel prep week.
26-Feb - 10-Mar   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         13-Mar   Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
====================================================================  ==
          trusty  3.13.0-109.156
           vivid  3.19.0-81.89
         precise  3.2.0-122.165
          xenial  4.4.0-63.84
         yakkety  4.8.0-38.41

linux-lts-trusty  3.13.0-109.156~precise1
 linux-lts-vivid  3.19.0-81.89~14.04.1
linux-lts-xenial  4.4.0-63.84~14.04.1

Next cycle: 10-Mar through 01-Apr
====================================================================  ==
         10-Mar   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
13-Mar - 18-Mar   Kernel prep week.
19-Mar - 31-Mar   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         03-Apr   Release to -updates.

</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://people.canonical.com/~kernel/cve/pkg/ALL-linux.html
 

-----
