{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues July 26, 2016 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Highlights ====

* Highlight 1
* Highlight 2
* Highlight 3

-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====

-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>
Current cycle: 15-Jul through 06-Aug
====================================================================  ==
         15-Jul   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
18-Jul - 23-Jul   Kernel prep week.
24-Jul - 05-Aug   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         08-Aug   Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
====================================================================  ==
  precise  3.2.0-106.147
    trusty  3.13.0-92.139
     vivid  3.19.0-65.73
      wily  4.2.0-42.49
    xenial  4.4.0-31.50

lts-trusty  3.13.0-92.139~precise1
lts-utopic  3.16.0-77.99~14.04.1
lts-vivid   3.19.0-65.73~14.04.1
lts-wily    4.2.0-42.49~14.04.1
lts-xenial  4.4.0-31.50~14.04.1

Next cycle: 05-Aug through 27-Aug
====================================================================  ==
         05-Aug   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
08-Aug - 13-Aug   Kernel prep week.
14-Aug - 26-Aug   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         29-Aug   Release to -updates.

</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://people.canonical.com/~kernel/cve/pkg/ALL-linux.html
 

-----
