{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues October 11, 2016 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Highlights ====

* Ubuntu 16.10 Releasing with a v4.8 kernel on Thurs Oct 13

-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====

Our Ubuntu 16.10 release will ship with a v4.8 based kernel on Thurs Oct 13.  We have the first v4.8.1 stable patch set already queued for SRU.

-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>
Current cycle: 07-Oct through 29-Oct
====================================================================  ==
         07-Oct   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
10-Oct - 15-Oct   Kernel prep week.
16-Oct - 28-Oct   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         31-Oct   Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
====================================================================  ==
  precise  3.2.0-111.153
    trusty  3.13.0-98.145
     vivid  3.19.0-71.79
    xenial  4.4.0-42.62

lts-trusty  3.13.0-98.145~precise1
lts-vivid   3.19.0-71.79~14.04.1
lts-xenial  4.4.0-42.62~14.04.1

Next cycle: 28-Oct through 19-Nov
====================================================================  ==
         28-Oct   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
31-Oct - 05-Nov   Kernel prep week.
06-Nov - 18-Nov   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         21-Nov   Release to -updates.
</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://people.canonical.com/~kernel/cve/pkg/ALL-linux.html
 

-----
