{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues Mar 08, 2016 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Highlights ====

* Highlight 1
* Highlight 2
* Highlight 3
-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====

-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>
Current cycle: 19-Feb through 12-Mar
====================================================================  ==
         19-Feb   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
21-Feb - 27-Feb   Kernel prep week.
28-Feb - 05-Mar   Bug verification & Regression testing.
06-Mar - 12-Mar   Regression testing & Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
====================================================================  ==
   precise  3.2.0-99.139
    trusty  3.13.0-79.123
     vivid  3.19.0-51.58
      wily  4.2.0-30.36

lts-trusty  3.13.0-79.123~precise1
lts-utopic  3.16.0-62.83~14.04.1
lts-vivid   3.19.0-51.58~14.04.1
lts-wily    4.2.0-30.36~14.04.1

Next cycle: 11-Mar through 02-Apr
====================================================================  ==
         11-Mar   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
13-Mar - 19-Mar   Kernel prep week.
20-Mar - 26-Mar   Bug verification & Regression testing.
27-Mar - 02-Apr   Regression testing & Release to -updates.
</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://kernel.ubuntu.com/reports/kernel-cves.html

-----
