{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues Nov 17, 2015 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Highlights ====
* '''Kamal has released 3.19.8-ckt10 stable.'''
* '''Luis has placed 3.16.7-ckt20 stable out for review.'''
* '''Kamal has placed 3.13.11-ckt30 stable out for review.'''
* '''GKH selected v4.4 as the next upstream LTS kernel.'''

-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
* Our Xenial kernel is open for development.  Our Xenial master branch is still tracking Wily's v4.2 based kernel, but Xenial master-next is currently rebased to v4.3.  We’re actively getting DKMS packages cleaned up against v4.3 before we upload to the archive.

* Important upcoming dates:
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule

* Thurs Dec 31 - Alpha 1 (~ 6weeks away)

-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====
 '''Status for the main kernels, until today:'''
** Precise	- Testing & Verification
** lts-Trusty - Testing & Verification
** Trusty		- Testing & Verification
** lts-Utopic - Testing & Verification
** lts-Wily	- Testing & Verification
** Vivid 		- Testing & Verification
** Wily 		- Testing & Verification
 
 '''Current opened tracking bugs details:'''
*** http://kernel.ubuntu.com/sru/kernel-sru-workflow.html
 '''For SRUs, SRU report is a good source of information:'''
*** http://kernel.ubuntu.com/sru/sru-report.html
 
 
 '''Schedule:'''
 
 '''Current cycle: 08-Nov through 28-Nov'''

******** 06-Nov   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
**** 08-Nov - 14-Nov   Kernel prep week.
**** 15-Nov - 21-Nov   Bug verification & Regression testing.
**** 22-Nov - 28-Nov   Regression testing & Release to -updates.
             
 '''Next cycle: 29-Nov through 19-Dec'''

******** 27-Nov   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
**** 29-Nov - 05-Dec   Kernel prep week.
**** 06-Dec - 12-Dec   Bug verification & Regression testing.
**** 13-Dec - 19-Dec   Regression testing & Release to -updates. 

             

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://kernel.ubuntu.com/reports/kernel-cves.html
