{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues April 26, 2016 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Highlights ====

* Ubuntu 16.04 LTS released on Thurs Apr 21, 2016
* Highlight 2

-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
We released the Ubuntu 16.04 LTS release on Thurs Apr 21, 2016.  This shipped with the linux-4.4.0-21.37 kernel which was based on the v4.4.6 stable kernel release. All patches are now subject to SRU policy.  We are currently working on getting our Ubuntu 16.10 Yakkety Yak kernel rebased.  Thanks!

-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>
Current cycle: 06-Apr through 27-Apr
====================================================================  ==
         06-Apr   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
08-Apr - 14-Apr   Kernel prep week.
15-Apr - 27-Apr   Bug verification & Regression testing.
         30-Apr   Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
====================================================================  ==
   precise  3.2.0-101.141
    trusty  3.13.0-85.129
     vivid  3.19.0-58.64
      wily  4.2.0-35.40

lts-trusty  3.13.0-84.128~precise1
lts-utopic  3.16.0-69.89~14.04.1
lts-vivid   3.19.0-56.62~14.04.1
lts-wily    4.2.0-35.40~14.04.1
lts-xenial  4.4.0-14.30~14.04.2

Next cycle: 27-Apr through 17-Jun
====================================================================  ==
         27-Apr   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
29-Apr - 04-Jun   Kernel prep week.
05-Jun - 17-Jun   Bug verification & Regression testing.
         20-Jun   Release to -updates.
    
</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://kernel.ubuntu.com/reports/kernel-cves.html

-----
