{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Release Meeting Items ===

Overall status is reported at the first link below.  Burn down for Oneiric Final is at the second link below.  Burndown for the cycle is at the third link:

* [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/ReleaseStatus/Oneiric
* [LINK] http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/canonical-kernel-team-ubuntu-11.10.html
* [LINK] http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-oneiric/group/topic-oneiric-kernel-tasks.html

Yesterday we uploaded a new linux-meta-3.0.0-12.14 to resolve some missing meta-packages.  This morning we also uploaded a new linux-3.0.0-12.20 kernel to resolve install dependency issues for linux-image-extra.  We uploaded to -proposed as a safety precaution in case it takes too long to build.  It will be copied to the release pocket should it finish building in time, else it'll be promoted to -updates as a day 0.  Also, with kernel.org coming back online, upstream stable v3.0.5 and v3.0.6 were released.  We've queued these stable updates for the first Oneiric kernel SRU.  We are currently below both of our final milestone and overall burndown charts.  The remaining 2 work items are not release critical.

Of the remaining bugs called out on the agenda against the kernel, status is as follows:
* Bug:480444 -- packet storm with linux NFSv4 client when calling ftruncate()
** Needs further investigation
* Bug:710733 -- LKCD Not Executing kexec Properly
** Confirmed against Oneiric, not release critical, investigation ongonig.
* Bug:714862 -- Atheros AR3002 cannot be turned up/is not recognized.
** assigned to kernel dev, investigation ongoing.
* Bug:746133 -- Video loses sync on omap4
** Fix Released
* Bug:754711 -- [Dell Studio XPS 1340] Doesn't enter suspend mode
** looks to be a nouveau suspend issue, later mainline kernels seem a little better.  With a 3.0 Oneiric kernel system is able to suspend, but does not resume. systemtap debug scripts to help investigate are being worked on for Oneiric, see Bug:815944 (systemtap fix recently posted upstream). 
* Bug:758486 -- omapdss DISPC error on Panda platform
** Fix Released
* Bug:761082 -- [Lenovo Edge 15] High Pitched buzzing when hibernating
** Confirmed against Oneiric, investigation ongoing.
* Bug:790712 -- 20110531 i386 server ISO: order 5 allocation failure during install
** it appears the order 5 allocation is not significant to the issue, investigation ongoing.
* Bug:814325 -- fuzzy and corrupted display with update in natty-proposed
** issue confirmed upstream, actively under investigation by multiple devs.
* Bug:831954 -- CGROUPS_BLKIO need to be enabled on omap4
** Fix Released
* Bug:836250 -- [Oneiric] Intel Corporation Centrino Ultimate-N 6300 poor networking, packet loss and very slow Lenovo X201 and T500 laptops
** Assigned to kernel dev, investigation ongoing.

=== Milestoned features ===

See <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/canonical-kernel-team-ubuntu-11.10-beta-1.html|Milestone ubuntu-11.10-beta-1]]</nowiki> for features and tasks for the current milestone.  The <nowiki>[[http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-oneiric/group/topic-oneiric-kernel-tasks.html|overall burndown chart]]</nowiki> for the entire release is also available.

=== Kernel BurnDown ===

* <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/canonical-kernel-team-oneiric-alpha-1.html|Oneiric-alpha-1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/canonical-kernel-team-oneiric-alpha-2.html|Oneiric-alpha-2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/canonical-kernel-team-oneiric-alpha-3.html|Oneiric-alpha-3]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/canonical-kernel-team-ubuntu-11.10-beta-1.html|Ubuntu-11.10-beta-1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/canonical-kernel-team-ubuntu-11.10-beta-2.html|Ubuntu-11.10-beta-2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/canonical-kernel-team-ubuntu-11.10.html|Ubuntu-11.10]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/canonical-kernel-team.html|Oneiric Cycle Overall]]</nowiki>

=== Status Color Key ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| ~-'''Color'''-~
| ~-'''Definition'''-~
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#ff0000">~-'''Red'''-~
| ~-In danger of not making this release-~
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#ffff00">~-'''Yellow'''-~
| ~-Has issues that need to be resolved in order to make the release-~
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#00ff00">~-'''Green'''-~
| ~-No issues and on track for delivery in this release-~
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#00cc00">~-'''Dark Green'''-~
| ~-Not yet started, expected to make the release-~
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#999999">~-'''Grey'''-~
| ~-Deferred-~
|-
| <rowbgcolor="lightblue">~-'''''Light Blue'''''-~
| ~-Done-~
|}
