{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues October 04, 2016 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Highlights ====

* Highlight 1
* Highlight 2
-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====

-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>
Current cycle: 16-Sep through 08-Oct
====================================================================  ==
         16-Sep   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
19-Sep - 24-Sep   Kernel prep week.
25-Sep - 07-Oct   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         10-Oct   Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
====================================================================  ==
  precise  3.2.0-110.151
    trusty  3.13.0-96.143
     vivid  3.19.0-69.77
    xenial  4.4.0-38.57

lts-trusty  3.13.0-96.143~precise1
lts-vivid   3.19.0-69.77~14.04.1
lts-xenial  4.4.0-38.57~14.04.1

Next cycle: 07-Oct through 29-Oct
====================================================================  ==
         07-Oct   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
10-Oct - 15-Oct   Kernel prep week.
16-Oct - 28-Oct   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         31-Oct   Release to -updates.

</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://people.canonical.com/~kernel/cve/pkg/ALL-linux.html
 

-----
