{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:hwe-o-fwts-enhancements
* '''Created''': 2010-10-11
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

While the first 10 months of development of the Firmware Test Suite provided a reasonable first-cut of the tool, there are some short comings and features need to be enhanced to make the tool even better at identifying BIOS/firmware issues.

Items for discussion:

* Ways to get greater adoption of fwts - what can we do better?
* Deficiencies and issues with current version
* Features that need including. 

Some work items were not included in Ubuntu 11.04 Natty which have been postponed to 11.10:

Create a basic BIOS tracking working/broken features against vendor, version
Identify ACPI errors in the kernel log and report them via apport.

And some feature requests for 11.10 are as follows:

* Better UEFI support.
* Improved SMBIOS checking.
* Catching IRQ mis-routing issues.
* Automated kernel error message extraction to help keep klog test in sync with kernel.
* Need to target fwts on the server side, so build bootable image without the need for a desktop.
* Dump/validate EFI_SYSTEM_TABLE (signature 0x5453595320494249)

And for discussion:

Integration/Usage with checkbox like test tools and general QA usage

Identifying BIOS/ACPI/UEFI issues recorded in LaunchPad and constructing tests to check for these.

=== Release Note ===

New features implemented this cycle:

* wmi: check for known GUIDs
* s3power: check power loss during suspend.
* Add unique IDs for failed tests messages.
* s3/s4 device quiescence checking.
* Bootable ISO image (non-desktop, so works for server checking)
* tested against thousands of bug reports
* stability - many bug fixes.
* fully document tool: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/Reference/fwts|https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/Reference/fwts]]</nowiki>

=== Rationale ===

Need to extend the test suite to cater for new UEFI firmware.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

=== Unresolved issues (as of 16/09/2011) ===

The original plan was to port the fwts framework to UEFI and plug in UEFI specific tests.  However, we now see that the BITS project may be a good platform to get a grub2 UEFI bootable image to plug in UEFI specific protocol tests. This has been postponed for Oneiric and should be re-visitied for Oneiric+1.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
