{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues Dec 15, 2015 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Highlights ====
* '''Kamal has released 3.13.11-ckt31 and 3.19.8-ckt11'''
 
* '''The team announced that we will maintain 4.2.y-stable until August 2016'''

* '''We are now building the s390x architecture.'''
 
-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
Our Xenial master-next branch has been rebased to v4.3.3 and uploaded to xenial-proposed.  We continue to track v4.4-rc5 in our unstable repository.  We will eventually rebase the Xenial master/master-next branches to v4.4 since that is our target kernel version for 16.04.

-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====
 
<<BR>>
Note the next cycle is starting in 3 weeks after the end of the currentcycle. That means we are skipping the 20-Dec through 09-Jan cycle. The reason for this is simple, there won't be any Canonical kernel team members working the last 2 weeks of 2015. There would be no one to re-spin kernels if regressions were found.
<<BR>>
<<BR>>
There is a possibility that there might be some new kernel packages during the 20-Dec through 09-Jan timeframe but if there are they will be addressing very specific bugs and will not be including upstream stable releases as
is usual.
<<BR>>
<<BR>>

<pre>
Current cycle: 29-Nov through 19-Dec
====================================================================  ==
         27-Nov   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
29-Nov - 05-Dec   Kernel prep week.
06-Dec - 12-Dec   Bug verification & Regression testing.
13-Dec - 19-Dec   Regression testing & Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
--------------------------------------------------------------------
   precise  3.2.0-96.136
    trusty  3.13.0-73.116
     vivid  3.19.0-41.46
      wily  4.2.0-21.25

lts-trusty  3.13.0-73.116~precise1
lts-utopic  3.16.0-56.75~14.04.1
lts-vivid   3.19.0-41.46~14.04.2
lts-wily    4.2.0-21.25~14.04.1

Next cycle: 10-Jan through 30-Jan
====================================================================  ==
         08-Jan   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
10-Jan - 16-Jan   Kernel prep week.
17-Jan - 23-Jan   Bug verification & Regression testing.
24-Jan - 30-Jan   Regression testing & Release to -updates.
</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://kernel.ubuntu.com/reports/kernel-cves.html

-----
