{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



See the <nowiki>[[Kernel]]</nowiki> main page for a list of topics.

=== Mission ===
The Ubuntu Kernel Team aims to provide the highest quality Linux kernel for Ubuntu and the Ubuntu family of products. The Linux Kernel is the core of Ubuntu and is the rock upon which we base all other Ubuntu technology, and is a usable, high-quality desktop & server operating system for users around the world. It strives to be the best free software development platform in existence. 

=== Responsibilities ===
Specific areas that the Kernel Team are responsible for currently include, in no particular order:

* Develop in an open model, in collaboration with community and upstream.
* Enable for a wide range of hardware, to match trends and user expectations of Ubuntu's goals. 
* Maintenance of central package of the Linux Kernel for Ubuntu supported architectures and ports.
* Development standards and collaborative development support for the Ubuntu Linux Kernel
* The Ubuntu Kernel git tree
* The Ubuntu kernel-team mailing list
* Automated Vanilla Linux Kernel Builds and packaging
* Selection of the Linux Kernel Version for Ubuntu Releases
* Serve as the interface to the Linux Kernel Upstream
* Ubuntu Kernel Bug Policies
* Ubuntu Kernel Team Community documentation on how to contribute to the Ubuntu Kernel
* Ubuntu Kernel Roadmaps for new releases <nowiki>[[KernelTeam-Roadmap]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu Kernel Team weekly reporting

=== Communications ===
* '''Blogs'''
** We have a team blog located here: <nowiki>[[ http:--voices.canonical.com-kernelteam- ]]</nowiki> individual team members have syndicated their personal blogs to the team blog as well.
* '''Matrix'''
** We have moved from IRC to Matrix (as of March 2025) and can be found in the #kernel:ubuntu.com room
* '''Mailing List'''
** kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com 
** you can subscribe here: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/kernel-team]]</nowiki>
** We run our mailing list much like the Linux Kernel Mailing List (LKML). Users can propose patches, ask questions and find general info. This list has medium traffic volume. For more info you can read <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/KernelPatches]]</nowiki>

=== Launchpad Teams ===
The Ubuntu Kernel Team is in Launchpad as:
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel-team]]</nowiki> this is the moderated public team in which we interact with the Ubuntu Community.
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~canonical-kernel-team]]</nowiki> this is a private team used by the Canonical Kernel Team for Canonical paid hardware enablement and other Canonical business.

=== Contacts ===
Matrix nicks are in brackets.

==== Ubuntu Platform Kernel Team ====
** Brett Grandbois [brettgrand] (Director)
** AndyWhitcroft [apw] (Kernel Engineer - Architect) blog: <nowiki>[[http://awhitcroft.blogspot.com/]]</nowiki>
** Paolo Pisati [ppisati] (Kernel Engineer)
** MarceloCerri [mhcerri] (Kernel Engineer)
** StefanBader [smb, gnarl] (Kernel Engineer - Lead)
** KleberSouza [klebers] (Kernel Engineer)
** BenRomer [bromer] (Kernel Engineer)
** JuergHaefliger [juergh] (Kernel Engineer)
** <nowiki>[[CengizCan|Cengiz Can]]</nowiki> [cengizcan, cengiz_io] (Kernel Engineer)
** PhilipCox [philcox] (Kernel Engineer)
** <nowiki>[[john-cabaj|John Cabaj]]</nowiki> [john-cabaj] (Kernel Engineer)

See also <nowiki>[[Contacts|Contacts]]</nowiki>.

----
CategoryKernel CategoryUbuntuTeams
