{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues January 31, 2017 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Highlights ====

* Colin snapped up stress-ng 0.07.17 today, it contains fixes to the tlb-shootdown, fcntl, get, fifo, tsc, af-alg, vm-rw stressors and extra features to the resources stressor and a new tmpfs stressor.

-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
We uploaded a newer v4.9 based Zesty kernel to the archive.  It's based on the 4.9.6 upstream stable kernel.

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/4.9.0-16.17|https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/4.9.0-16.17]]</nowiki>

Please test and let us know your results. We also have a preliminary rebase to v4.10 available in our unstable repo:

<nowiki>[[https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel/ubuntu/+source/linux/+git/unstable|https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel/ubuntu/+source/linux/+git/unstable]]</nowiki>

We intend to upload a 4.10 based kernel to the archive shortly.
-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>

Current cycle: 27-Jan through 18-Feb
====================================================================  ==
         27-Jan   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
30-Jan - 04-Feb   Kernel prep week.
05-Feb - 17-Feb   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         20-Feb   Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
====================================================================  ==
          trusty  3.13.0-107.154
           vivid  3.19.0-79.87
         precise  3.2.0-120.163
          xenial  4.4.0-58.79
         yakkety  4.8.0-32.34

linux-lts-trusty  3.13.0-107.154~precise1
 linux-lts-vivid  3.19.0-79.87~14.04.1
linux-lts-xenial  4.4.0-58.79~14.04.1

Next cycle: 17-Feb through 11-Mar
====================================================================  ==
         17-Feb   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
20-Feb - 25-Feb   Kernel prep week.
26-Feb - 10-Mar   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         13-Mar   Release to -updates.

</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://people.canonical.com/~kernel/cve/pkg/ALL-linux.html
 

-----
