{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues April 11, 2017 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

-----

==== Highlights ====

* Highlight 1

* Highlight 2
-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====

-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>

Current cycle: 31-Mar through 22-Apr
====================================================================  ==
         31-Mar   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
03-Apr - 08-Apr   Kernel prep week.
09-Apr - 21-Apr   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         24-Apr   Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
====================================================================  ==
         precise  3.2.0-126.169
          trusty  3.13.0-116.163
           vivid  3.19.0-84.92
          xenial  4.4.0-72.93
         yakkety  4.8.0-46.49

linux-lts-trusty  3.13.0-116.163~precise1
 linux-lts-vivid  3.19.0-80.88~14.04.1
linux-lts-xenial  4.4.0-72.93~14.04.1

Next cycle: 21-Apr through 13-May
====================================================================  ==
         21-Apr   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
24-Apr - 29-Apr   Kernel prep week.
30-Apr - 12-May   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         15-May   Release to -updates.

</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://people.canonical.com/~kernel/cve/pkg/ALL-linux.html
 

-----
