{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


The Ubuntu Kernel has a very large number of reported bugs, far more
than can possibly be handled.  This document attempts to indicate 
where and why the Ubuntu Kernel Team focuses its efforts.

=== Focus Areas ===

The Ubuntu Kernel Team is focused in three main areas:

# security vunerabilities and exposures
# stable kernel regressions
# development kernel bugs

==== Security Vulnerabilities and Exposures ====

Security vunerabilities and exposures in the Ubuntu Kernel are handled
firstly by the Ubuntu security team.  Issues with the Ubuntu Kernel are
translated into bugs against the kernel.  These are are high priority bugs
for the Ubuntu Kernel Stable Team.  These bugs are identified as below:

 1. tagged kernel-cve-tracker

==== Stable Kernel Regressions ====

Stable updates for the Ubuntu kernel are produced in by the Ubuntu Kernel
Stable Team.  They collate incoming stable updates and fixes for bugs
found in the stable series.  These are then batched up and kernels are
pushed into -proposed for testing.  Testing both by early adopters and
by the dedicated QA resources then validates those kernels.  Once they
have been validated in QA they will then pass into -updates for general
consumption.  Bugs introduced by these updates are seen as a significant
problem and therefore a focus for the stable team.  There are three
places/ways bugs can be found:

# verification-failed -- verification of the update as a whole failed testing, or the fix for a specific bug failed to fix the issue,
# regression-proposed -- something that used to work no longer does, spotted while the kernel is still in the -proposed pocket, and
# regression-updates -- something that used to work no longer does, spotted onced the kernel hits the masses

verification-failed and verification-proposed bugs are of highest severity
as they prevent release of the kernel and it must be fixed and re-tested
before release.

regression-updates bugs are potentially of very high impact as they have
made it out to the greatest number of users.

These bugs are idenfied as below:
# tagged verification-failed
# tagged regression-proposed
# tagged regression-updates

==== Development Kernel Bugs ====

The next development release is owned and driven by the Ubuntu Kernel
Development Team.  They are responsible for getting the latest mainline
kernels integrated into Ubuntu and for maintaining the quality of it.
They are interested in all bugs which appear in the development release.
During development apport is enabled aiding their reporting.  These are
identified as below:

 1. tagged oneiric (currently)

=== Focus Bugs ===

Within each focus area we are focused on those bugs with the most severe
symptoms or those affecting the highest number of people (ie those in
common hardware).

As bugs are reported they will go through
<nowiki>[[Kernel-BugTriage|primary bug triage]]</nowiki>, which should lead to the basic
information required for a developer being supplied and attached to
the bug.  The bug will the be marked Confirmed.

We are therefore focused on bugs in the Areas identified above which are
in the confirmed state.
