{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Welcome to the first Ubuntu Kernel Bug Triage Summit (Maverick)!

This will take place on Saturday September 11, 2010 in #ubuntu-classroom and #ubuntu-classroom-chat.

Please note: This event is the first one of its kind planned. As such, we are keenly interested in your feedback on how you think it went. Please send feedback to kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com. Based on your feedback, and that of the various involved parties, we may change the way we do the next one.

=== The Timetable ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Time
| Date
| Session Name
| Session Leader
|-
| 1400 - 1500 UTC
| Saturday, September 11, 2010
| General Introduction
| Jeremy Foshee
| <|4> <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2010/09/11/%23ubuntu-classroom.html|Session Log]]</nowiki>
|-
| 1500 - 1600 UTC
| Saturday, September 11, 2010
| Graphics/KMS/DRM/X
| Steve Conklin
|-
| 1600 - 1700 UTC
| Saturday, September 11, 2010
| Audio/Pulse
| Brad Figg/David Henningsson
|-
| 1700 - 1800 UTC
| Saturday, September 11, 2010
| General Q&A
| apw, ogasawara, sconklin, diwic
|}

=== Joining the Ubuntu Kernel Bug Triage Summit (Maverick) ===

Getting involved is simple. The recommended way is to use <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lernid | Lernid]]</nowiki> to get the full value of the content.

You can also connect using any IRC client. Simply go to:

* irc.freenode.net
* `#ubuntu-classroom` for the main session and `#ubuntu-classroom-chat` for the chatroom.

==== Guidelines for sessions ====

===== General Session =====
* If you don't know, Ask!.

* Where can the kernel team and our userspaces be reached on IRC?

* The concept of "Patches fix things." is flawed in that, for example, fixes to a particular driver do not fix all issues with a class of drivers.

* Description and location of the No Bug Duplicates policy

* As a triager, if you see new duplicates marked or comments from users indicating they are also affected, please ask for a new bug from them, if one has not already been filed, while reminding them of the Duplicates policy

===== Subsystem sessions =====
* Overview of what is included in the subsystem section of the kernel.

* When you don't know who to ask, the people in these locations can help you find an answer.

* What classes of problems in this subsystem are you likely to encounter the most?

* HowTo on Data collection and troubleshooting.

* Where are my upstreams/Upstream Bugs/LP Bugs/Patches located?

* Who's Who in this subsystem? (Who should I believe when they provide information to OR or in their own bugs)

* Current shortcomings in wiki/subsystem documentation and what areas are we looking for contributions.
