{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues December 20, 2016 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Highlights ====

* stress-ng 0.07.12 released; has new Datagram Congestion Control Protocol stressor.
* Firmware test suite (FWTS)16.12.00 will be released December 21st.
* "top"-like modes added to cpustat 0.02.01 and smemstat 0.01.16
 
-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
We uploaded a newer v4.9 based Zesty kernel to the archive:

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/4.9.0-11.12 | https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/4.9.0-11.12]]</nowiki>

This has been promoted to the release pocket.  Please test and let us know your results.  We anticipate we'll eventually converge on a v4.10 based kernel for Zesty.

-----

-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>
Current cycle: 16-Dec through 07-Jan
====================================================================  ==
         16-Dec   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
19-Dec - 24-Dec   Kernel prep week.
25-Dec - 06-Jan   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         09-Jan   Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
====================================================================  ==
          trusty  3.13.0-107.154
           vivid  3.19.0-79.87
         precise  3.2.0-120.163
          xenial  4.4.0-58.79
         yakkety  4.8.0-32.34

linux-lts-trusty  3.13.0-107.154~precise1
 linux-lts-vivid  3.19.0-79.87~14.04.1
linux-lts-xenial  4.4.0-58.79~14.04.1

Next cycle: 06-Jan through 28-Jan
====================================================================  ==
         06-Jan   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
09-Jan - 14-Jan   Kernel prep week.
15-Jan - 27-Jan   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         30-Jan   Release to -updates.

</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://people.canonical.com/~kernel/cve/pkg/ALL-linux.html
 

-----
