{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Management of LPIA Kernel Trees ==

Abbreviations:

DISTRO == standard Ubuntu distribution 

MID == Mobile Internet Device

=== The Current Situation ===

LPIA kernel trees are being maintained in multiple git repositories. 

==== Hardy ====
The Hardy MID LPIA tree is located here:
git://kernel.ubuntu.com/mid-team/hardy-netbook.git

The Hardy DISTRO tree is here:
git://kernel.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ubuntu-hardy.git

MID deliverables are currently all based off of the Hardy release

Note: Netbooks are LPIA but not MIDs ??

Do we need a third column in this table? DISTRO, NETBOOK, MID

These trees have the following differences:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 80%">'''Hardy LPIA kernel differences'''
|-
| Difference
| DISTRO
| MID
|-
| High Mem support
| No HM support
| Requires HM support
|-
| ALSA patches
| Hardy baseline
| Has backports from later kernels
|-
| frequency of releases
| seldom | sometimes multiple times per day
|-
| Adding drivers
| probably in kernel, may not want all of them
| need to be added to LUM
|-
| Menlow/Non Menlow support
|-
| ALSA
| built-in
| ALSA as a LUM module
|-
| DRM
| 
| must build both in-kernel DRM and PSB DRM module, select at boot time
|}

Statements that I can't resolve into the above framework:

config (Netbooks are LPIA arch but not MIDS)
      This means enabling HIGHMEM, SECURITY, and other support that is
not in the default LPIA kernel.

=== Desired Outcome ===

We would like to bring all the kernels into one repository. The purposes are:
## to improve maintainability by making security and other patches easily available to all
## to bring the fast-moving development for mid devices into the distro

==== Which flavours are required ====

Should we maintain separate flavours for netbook and other builds with different requriements?
Is proliferation of flavours a problem?

==== How branches are managed ====

With everything in one tree, we can branch as needed to meet the frequent release
requirements for netbooks, and pull all branches back into the main distro branch
when convenient.

=== Application to other releases and archs ===

Whatever is decided should be applicable to moving MID/netbook builds to Jaunty,
and also apply to the ARM arch, as we will soon have a number or ARM variants to
deal with.
