{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:hardware-kernel-n-stable-support-responsibilities
* '''Created''': 2010-10-05
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

Decide what level of support the various kernel flavors (topic branches) will get and whether it will be possible to distribute that work to various people/groups.

=== Release Note ===

N/A

=== Rationale ===

At the moment security updates and proposed uploads for all topic branch kernels (ec2, arm) are done (or are tried to be done)  at the same time as the changes for the main kernel. This raises several issue as the time required for preparing the packages and doing some basic tests multiplies. Also the tests have to be done by different people and by that add more delay which is a bigger issue for the security release, but also the proposed uploads are usually lagging behind.
Do we keep on releasing security the same way as now or could it be decoupled? 

=== Assumptions ===

* It should be possible to do security releases for the main distro quicker but we don't want to lag too much for the topic branches either.
* Expertise on the code for the topic branches often is usually distributed to other teams.
* Hardware for tests is distributed to other teams.

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
