{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Meetings are generally held on a Tuesday at 17:00 UTC.  We generally skip meetings where the majority of the kernel team is travelling, such as for UDS or the Platform Sprint.  Meetings are held on the #ubuntu-meeting channel on FreeNODE.

=== Pre-meeting Checklist ===

There are a few pre-meeting items:

* '''-1 day''' -- update the agenda for any new blueprints (KernelTeam/Meeting).  Likely you should also update the meeting template below to allow simply cut-n-paste of topics etc into the meeting and aid the next chair
* '''-1 day''' -- announce the kernel team meeting to the kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com mailing list (see email announcement below)
* '''-1 hour''' -- announce the kernel team meeting in #ubuntu-kernel (see IRC announcement below)
* '''-5 mins''' -- repeat IRC announcement

==== Email Announcement ====

<pre>
To: Kernel team list <kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com>
Subject: Upcoming Ubuntu Kernel Team Meeting - Tuesday, 20th of April - 17:00 (UTC)

The next Ubuntu Kernel Team Meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, April 20th, 17:00
UTC in #ubuntu-meeting on Freenode.

If there are any discussion points or items for decision that you would like to
add to the agenda [1], add an item to it and begin preparations to present a
short introduction to the topic on #ubuntu-meeting during the scheduled session.
Outstanding Action Items from last week are included in the agenda.

[1]: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/Meeting

As usual, anyone interested in the development of Ubuntu Kernel is welcome to
attend.
</pre>

==== IRC announcement ====

<pre>
</pre>

=== Running the meeting ===

Meetings on #ubuntu-meeting are aided by the MootBot.  This records the subject areas, actions and links provided during the meeting and generally aids understanding of the logs.  You will need to use some MootBot specific commands to gain its attention and solicit its help.

The first step is to have a Roll Call, this just helps the meeting transcribers to know who was in the meeting.  Then the meeting itself starts by tickling MootBot with #startmeeting and then pasting in the meeting agenda links.  We then proceed through the agenda topics using the [TOPIC] tags.  Once the meeting is done, close it off with #endmeeting.

<pre>
Roll Call
...
[LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/Meeting
[LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/ReleaseStatus/Maverick
...
[TOPIC] Outstanding Action: <which> (owner)
...
[TOPIC] Blueprint: <name> (owner)
...
[TOPIC] Other Release Tasks: <which> (owner)
...
[TOPIC] Status: Maverick overall (ogasawara)
[TOPIC] Status: Security & Bugfix Kernels (smb/gnarl/sconklin)
[TOPIC] Release Metrics (JFo)
[TOPIC] Incoming Bugs: Regressions (JFo)
[TOPIC] Incoming Bugs: Bug day report (JFo)
[TOPIC] Open Discussion or Questions: Anyone have anything?
...
</pre>

=== Post-meeting checklist ===

After the meeting there are a number of administrative tasks:

* write up the minutes of the meeting in the wiki (Kernel''''''Team/Meeting/2010-04-20)
* update the main meeting page to close the current meeting and create a new entry for the next week with the template agenda
* email out the raw text from the wiki to the ubuntu-platform@lists.ubuntu.com and kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com email lists (see email minutes below)
After the meeting convert the agenda into a past meeting adding the IRC log links etc as well as producing the Minutes and emailing them out.

==== Email Minutes ====

Paste in the whole wiki page to an email as below.

<pre>
To: Kernel team list <kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com>,
        ubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com
Subject: Ubuntu Kernel Team meeting minutes, 2010-05-18

[The minutes below are also available in the Ubuntu wiki at this URL:
 http://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/Meeting/2010-05-18 ]

== Meeting Minutes ==
<nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2010/05/18/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt|IRC Log of
the meeting.]]</nowiki>

=== Agenda ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/Meeting#Meeting: Tues, 18 May,
2010|20100518 Meeting Agenda]]</nowiki>
[...]
</pre>

==== References ====
1. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/RunningTheIRCMeeting
