{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues April 05, 2016 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Highlights ====

* Kamal released v4.2.8-ckt7 stable
* Kamal released v3.19.8-ckt18 stable
 

-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
Our Xenial kernel remains based on the latest v4.4.6 stable release and is available for testing in the archive, ie linux-4.4.0-17.33.  Please test and let us know your results.  Also be aware that Xenial Kernel Freeze is Thurs, April 7.  Any patches which have not landed by now will be subject to SRU.  Thanks!

-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>
Current cycle: 01-Apr through 23-Apr
====================================================================  ==
         01-Apr   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
03-Apr - 09-Apr   Kernel prep week.
10-Apr - 16-Apr   Bug verification & Regression testing.
17-Apr - 23-Apr   Regression testing & Release to -updates.

Note: April 21 is release day

Kernel Versions
====================================================================  ==
   precise  3.2.0-101.141
    trusty  3.13.0-85.129
     vivid  3.19.0-58.64
      wily  4.2.0-35.40

lts-trusty  3.13.0-84.128~precise1
lts-utopic  3.16.0-69.89~14.04.1
lts-vivid   3.19.0-56.62~14.04.1
lts-wily    4.2.0-35.40~14.04.1
lts-xenial  4.4.0-14.30~14.04.2

Next cycle: 22-Apr through 14-May
====================================================================  ==
         22-Apr   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
24-Apr - 30-Apr   Kernel prep week.
01-May - 07-May   Bug verification & Regression testing.
08-May - 14-May   Regression testing & Release to -updates.
</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://kernel.ubuntu.com/reports/kernel-cves.html

-----
