{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues April 19, 2016 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Highlights ====

* Kamal released v4.2.8-ckt8 stable
* Kamal released v3.19.8-ckt19 stable
* Luis released v3.16.7-ckt27 (the final 3.16-stable)
* Kamal released v3.13.11-ckt39 (the final 3.13-stable)

-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
We have promoted our final Xenial kernel, ie linux-4.4.0-21.37, for the 16.04 release this Thurs.  It is based on the v4.4.6 stable release.  All patches are now subject to SRU policy. Thanks!

-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>
Current cycle: 01-Apr through 23-Apr
====================================================================  ==
         01-Apr   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
03-Apr - 09-Apr   Kernel prep week.
10-Apr - 16-Apr   Bug verification & Regression testing.
17-Apr - 23-Apr   Regression testing & Release to -updates.

Note: April 21 is release day

Kernel Versions
====================================================================  ==
   precise  3.2.0-101.141
    trusty  3.13.0-85.129
     vivid  3.19.0-58.64
      wily  4.2.0-35.40

lts-trusty  3.13.0-84.128~precise1
lts-utopic  3.16.0-69.89~14.04.1
lts-vivid   3.19.0-56.62~14.04.1
lts-wily    4.2.0-35.40~14.04.1
lts-xenial  4.4.0-14.30~14.04.2

Next cycle: 22-Apr through 14-May
====================================================================  ==
         22-Apr   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
24-Apr - 30-Apr   Kernel prep week.
01-May - 07-May   Bug verification & Regression testing.
08-May - 14-May   Regression testing & Release to -updates.
</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://kernel.ubuntu.com/reports/kernel-cves.html

-----
