{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues July 19, 2016 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Highlights ====

* stress-ng V0.06.12 released in Yakkety; includes a more generic icache stressor and a new GCC atomic ops stressor; plus a load of bug fixes.
* We released Linux 3.19.8-ckt23 stable (and 3.19.y has now reached EOL) 
* We released Linux 4.2.8-ckt13 stable (and 4.2.y has now reached EOL)
 
-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
Our Yakkety kernel master-next tree has applied the latest v4.6.4 stable patches.  We are preparing to get this uploaded to the Yakkety archive.

<nowiki>[[https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel/ubuntu/+source/linux/+git/yakkety]]</nowiki>

Our unstable branch has been rebased to v4.7-rc7.

<nowiki>[[https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel/ubuntu/+source/linux/+git/unstable]]</nowiki>

Also, as noted in previous newsletters, we are also going to target a v4.8 based kernel for the 16.10 release.
-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>
Current cycle: 15-Jul through 06-Aug
====================================================================  ==
         15-Jul   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
18-Jul - 23-Jul   Kernel prep week.
24-Jul - 05-Aug   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         08-Aug   Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
====================================================================  ==
  precise  3.2.0-106.147
    trusty  3.13.0-92.139
     vivid  3.19.0-65.73
      wily  4.2.0-42.49
    xenial  4.4.0-31.50

lts-trusty  3.13.0-92.139~precise1
lts-utopic  3.16.0-77.99~14.04.1
lts-vivid   3.19.0-65.73~14.04.1
lts-wily    4.2.0-42.49~14.04.1
lts-xenial  4.4.0-31.50~14.04.1

Next cycle: 05-Aug through 27-Aug
====================================================================  ==
         05-Aug   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
08-Aug - 13-Aug   Kernel prep week.
14-Aug - 26-Aug   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         29-Aug   Release to -updates.

</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://kernel.ubuntu.com/reports/kernel-cves.html

-----
