{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad entry''': UbuntuSpec:hardware-q-kernel-version-and-flavors
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===
Discuss the mainline baseline version for Q 12.10. Also discuss the current kernel flavors for each architecture.  We will also touch on the support of ports architectures.

=== Release note ===
TBD

==== Assumptions ====
Based on the <nowiki>[[http://phb-crystal-ball.org/|cadence of previous upstream releases]]</nowiki>, I'd anticipate the following upstream release timeline:

* The v3.4 kernel is predicted for Wednesday, June 6, 2012
* The v3.5 kernel is predicted for Friday, August 24, 2012
* The v3.6 kernel is predicted for Monday, November 12, 2012

Kernel freeze for Quantal is Oct 4, 2012

=== Flavours ===
TBD: The i386 non-PAE kernel flavor has been removed in Quantal 12.10.  How are we going to properly handle upgrades from Precise->Quantal for PAE capable systems running the i386 non-pae generic kernel flavor currently in Precise.  As of now, upgraders to Quantal are being left with a Precise i386 non-pae kernel.

Below are the current flavors provided in Quantal:

==== Distro ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Architecture'''
| '''Flavour'''
| '''Description'''
|-
| i386
| generic-pae
| kernel for 32 bit i386 machines
|-
| i386
| virtual
| kernel for virtual machine use (KVM/EC2)
|-
| amd64
| generic
| kernel for desktop/server machines
|-
| amd64
| virtual
| kernel for virtual machine use (KVM/EC2)
|-
| armel/armhf
| omap
| kernel for ARM OMAP-3 hardware
|-
| armel/armhf
| omap4
| kernel for ARM OMAP-3 hardware
|}

==== Ports ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Architecture'''
| '''Flavour'''
| '''Description'''
|-
| powerpc
| powerpc-smp
| PowerPC with SMP support
|-
| powerpc
| powerpc64-smp
| PowerPC64 with SMP support
|}

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
----
CategorySpec
