{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Canonical Kernel Team Bug Day ==

The focus of today's bug day will be wifi bugs.  Each developer has a list of 15 bugs to focus on.  The goal for the wifi bugs is to make sure the bug reporters have tested with the latest wireless stack available.

There is also a community section for anyone else wanting to help out.  The community section is composed of Triaged bugs which may need to be verified with the upstream kernel.  Feel free to drop into the #ubuntu-kernel IRC channel on FreeNode if you have any questions.

=== Developer Sections: Wifi Bugs ===
# Check that the bug has been confirmed against the Jaunty release.
## If not, ask them to test Jaunty. (see Stock Reply)
** Set the status to Incomplete
# If the bug has been confirmed against Jaunty, do one of the following:
## If the driver being used is available via linux-backports-modules (for ex iwl3945, iwl4965, ath5k, ath9k, etc), have them re-test using linux-backports-modules-jaunty as it contains an updated compat-wireless stack.  It may also be good to have them test the latest upstream compat-wireless stack.  Ask for debug files if necessary.  (see Stock Reply)
** Set the status to Incomplete
** tag bug "compat-wireless"
** tag bug "needs-kernel-logs"
## If confirmed against linux-backports-modules, the latest upstream compat-wireles stack, and debug files attached, set status to Triaged and set Importance.
## If the driver is not available via linux-backports-modules, have them test the latest upstream mainline kernel and provide logs if necessary. (see Stock Reply)
** Set the status to Incomplete
** tag bug "needs-upstream-testing"
** tag bug "needs-kernel-logs"
1. If confirmed against the latest upstream kernel and debug files are attached, set the Status to Triaged and set Importance 

=== Community Section: Triaged Bugs ===
# Check that the bug has been confirmed against the Jaunty release.
## If not, ask them to test Jaunty (see Stock Reply)
** Set the status to Incomplete
1. If the bug has been confirmed against Jaunty, check if the bug has also been tested with the upstream mainline kernel
** If not tested with the upstream mainline kernel, ask them to test with the upstream mainline kernel (see Stock Reply)
*** Set status to Confirmed
*** tag "needs-upstream-testing"
*** tag "needs-kernel-logs"

== Tools ==
Here are references to some useful tools that may help you more efficiently process the list of bugs.

=== greasemonkey ===

https://launchpad.net/launchpad-gm-scripts

http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~gm-dev-launchpad/launchpad-gm-scripts/master/files

This is a collection of greasemonkey scripts which Launchpad users and Ubuntu developers have found useful.  For the purpose of Bug Day's, the <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/%7Egm-dev-launchpad/launchpad-gm-scripts/master/annotate/head%3A/lp_stockreplies.user.js|stockreplies gm-script]]</nowiki> will be the most useful.  The stockreplies script allows you to save custom comments to insert into bug reports and additionally set the status and importance of a bug at the same time.

=== launchpadlib ===
https://help.launchpad.net/API/launchpadlib

The launchpadlib library depends on wadllib, another open-source library released by the Launchpad team. Get a copy of the launchpadlib and wadllib source with bzr and install it.
<pre>
  $ bzr branch lp:wadllib
  $ cd wadllib
  $ sudo ./setup.py install
 </pre>
Then do the same for launchpadlib.
 <pre>
  $ bzr branch lp:launchpadlib
  $ cd launchpadlib
  $ sudo ./setup.py install
 </pre>

After installation you can write custom scripts to manipulate bug reports.  This is useful for dealing with a list of bugs which all require the same type of actions/comment.  For example, here is a <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ogasawara/lplib/stock-reply.py|stock-reply.py]]</nowiki> script which reads a list of bugs from a "stock.txt" file, posts a standard comment to each bug, transitions the status to Incomplete, and subscribes oneself to the bug report.  It's quicker to use a launchpadlib script for this rather than having to do a page load per bug in order to use the greasemonkey stockreplies. 

== Stock Replies ==
Here's some common stock replies that may apply to some of the bugs.  Feel free to modify or combine stock replies below to best fit each bug:

=== Test Jaunty ===
<pre>
Unfortunately it seems this bug is still an issue.  Can you confirm this issue exists with the most recent Jaunty Jackalope 9.04 release - http://www.ubuntu.com/news/ubuntu-9.04-desktop .  Please let us know your results.  Thanks.
</pre>
* Set status to Incomplete

=== Test linux-backports-modules-jaunty ===
<pre>
Can you please try installing the linux-backports-modules-jaunty package.  The linux-backports-modules-jaunty package contains and updated compat-wireless stack which may help.  Be sure to reboot after installing this package in order to test.  Please let us know your results.

If the issue remains even after installing and testing linux-backports-modules-jaunty, could you then please try the latest upstream compat-wireless stack.  See http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Download for more info.  If the issue exists upstream, we'll want to work with the upstream developers to try to get this resolved.  Also, after confirming the issue remains with the latest upstream compat-wireless stack, be sure to also run the following command from a Terminal (Applications->Accessories->Terminal).  It will automatically gather and attach updated debug information to this report.

apport-collect -p linux-image-2.6.28-11-generic <bug #>

</pre>
* Set status to Incomplete
* Tag "compat-wireless" and "needs-kernel-logs"

=== Confirmed for Jaunty, Test Upstream ===
<pre>
If you could also test the latest upstream kernel available that would be great.  It will allow additional upstream developers to examine this issue.  Refer to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelMainlineBuilds .  Once you've tested the upstream kernel, please remove the 'needs-upstream-testing' tag.  This can be done by clicking on the yellow pencil icon next to the tag located at the bottom of the bug description and deleting the 'needs-upstream-testing' text.  Please let us know your results.

If the issue remains with the upstream kernel, please be sure to also run the following command from a Terminal (Applications->Accessories->Terminal).  It will automatically gather and attach updated debug information to this report.

apport-collect -p linux-image-2.6.28-11-generic <bug #>

Thanks in advance.
</pre>
* Set status to Confirmed
* Tag "needs-upstream-testing"
* Tag "needs-kernel-logs"

== Bug List ==
Please refer to the following for the list of bugs to focus on for this bug day:

http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ogasawara/kernel-bugday/20090707.html
