{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues Nov 24, 2015 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Highlights ====
* '''Colin packaged up the Intel Platform Quality of Service Tool (pqos), available in the intel-cmt-cat package in Xenial Xerus.'''
** http://smackerelofopinion.blogspot.co.uk/2015/11/intel-platform-shared-resource.html

* '''Colin created a ZFS Mini Reference Guide'''
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/Reference/ZFS

* '''Kamal has released 3.13.11-ckt30 stable.'''

-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
* Our Xenial master branch remains based on Wily's v4.2 kernel, currently at v4.2.3.  Xenial master-next is at v4.3 and we’re still getting DKMS packages cleaned up against v4.3 before we upload to the archive.  Our unstable repo is tracking the latest v4.4-rc2 release in parallel.  We’ll eventually rebase both our Xenial master/master-next branches to v4.4 since that is our target kernel version for 16.04.

* Important upcoming dates:
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule

* Thurs Dec 31 - Alpha 1 (~ 5weeks away)

-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====
 '''Status for the main kernels, until today:'''
** Precise	- Testing & Verification
** lts-Trusty - Testing & Verification
** Trusty		- Testing & Verification
** lts-Utopic - Testing & Verification
** lts-Wily	- Testing & Verification
** Vivid 		- Testing & Verification
** Wily 		- Testing & Verification
 
 '''Current opened tracking bugs details:'''
*** http://kernel.ubuntu.com/sru/kernel-sru-workflow.html
 '''For SRUs, SRU report is a good source of information:'''
*** http://kernel.ubuntu.com/sru/sru-report.html
 
 
 '''Schedule:'''
 
 '''Current cycle: 08-Nov through 28-Nov'''

******** 06-Nov   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
**** 08-Nov - 14-Nov   Kernel prep week.
**** 15-Nov - 21-Nov   Bug verification & Regression testing.
**** 22-Nov - 28-Nov   Regression testing & Release to -updates.
             
 '''Next cycle: 29-Nov through 19-Dec'''

******** 27-Nov   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
**** 29-Nov - 05-Dec   Kernel prep week.
**** 06-Dec - 12-Dec   Bug verification & Regression testing.
**** 13-Dec - 19-Dec   Regression testing & Release to -updates. 

             

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://kernel.ubuntu.com/reports/kernel-cves.html
