{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:hardware-kernel-n-stable-proposed-testing
* '''Created''': 2010-10-05
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

Decide how tests for proposed kernels will get done. Where results will be available and how we proceed in case of problems.

=== Release Note ===

N/A

=== Rationale ===

In order for upstream stable changes being better checked for possible regressions we need to have testing of proposed kernels on a bigger hardware base. If anything breaks there, we need to have some process defined to make the kernel-team aware of those issues and prevent the proposed kernel to go to updates.

=== Assumptions ===

* Uploading to proposed will trigger regression testing.
* Failures get reported
* Proposed kernels will not go to updates as long as there are failures.

=== Design ===

==== Test Procedure ====

* Define the set of hardware and the testing procedure used. Probably for the beginning only boot and installation tests. Some ideas there:
*** Make it simple to add tests. For example could run the qa-regression tests from the bzr branch.
*** Maybe crazy but could it be open, so people could contribute by running things on private HW?
* Where are we now?
* What steps are needed to get where we want to be? Short term and long term.

==== Test Results ====

* What is the output of the tests?
* Where does it go to?
* What form?
* How detailed?
* Automatically file bugs?
* Notification system? (subscribe to get results when there are regressions)

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
