{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Given the current amount of regression tagged bugs, it has become a priority for us to address as many of these as possible prior to the release of the Ubuntu 10.04 LTS (Lucid Lynx). As such, I have worked with Pete Graner on addressing these issues via Kernel Team Bug Days.

As with all bugs, not everyone is affected. If you are interested in working on or providing more information on those bugs you are experiencing, please do so. All assistance is welcome. However, these bug days are geared more toward the team working through current Lucid regression tagged bugs and then moving into the regression backlog. Our goal is to identify actual regressions and work to get the fixes included in the kernel, as needed, to resolve the bugs. If you have questions about this, please send an e-mail to me. jeremy.foshee@canonical.com

The schedule is agressive, but necessary:

There will be
2 Team Bug Days for 29-2 April 
and 3 for 5-9 April, 12-16 April and 19-23 April. 

I will track the bugs in the same manner as we do for normal Bug Days.

=== Current Kernel Team Bug Day (Wednesday, April 7, 2010) ===

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bugs?field.tag=regression-potential+lucid&field.tags_combinator=ALL|Lucid Regression bugs]]</nowiki>

Our priority will be getting these into a state where they can be worked. initial triage and verification that they are, in fact, regressions is the first order of business. This includes making sure the titles are descriptive enough for the team to identify from the main bug page.

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bugs?field.tag=regression-potential+regression-release+regression-proposed+regression-updates&field.tags_combinator=ANY|All Regression tagged bugs by importance]]</nowiki>

This is a secondary target. These bugs need the same triage as the Lucid bugs listed above.

<nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/jfo/kernel-buglist.html|Kernel BugList]]</nowiki> 

This is the report for the weekly bug call. These are 'low hanging fruit'.

=== Upcoming Kernel Team Bug Days ===

* Friday, April 9, 2010

* Monday, April 12, 2010

* Wednesday, April 14, 2010

* Friday, April 16, 2010

* Monday, April 19, 2010

* Wednesday, April 21, 2010

* Friday, April 23, 2010

=== Archive ===

* Thursday, April 1, 2010

* Monday, April 5, 2010

* Wednesday, April 7, 2010
