{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Canonical Kernel Team Bug Day ==

With such a large volume of bugs against the kernel, it makes sense to try and tackle bugs which may already have presented a fix.  As a result, the focus of today's bug day will be bugs with a resolved upstream bug watch.  Feel free to drop into the #ubuntu-kernel IRC channel on FreeNode if you have any questions.  The goal will be to handle the bugs as follows.

=== Bugs with a resolved upstream bug watch ===
# Confirm the upstream bug watch indeed correlates the the launchpad bug
## If so, determine if the bug should be resolved (ie Won't Fix or Fix Released) in launchpad as well and update the status accordingly.
## Otherwise ask the bug reporter to test with the latest Lucid Alpha 2 release and upstream kernel.  Set the Status to Incomplete (see Stock Reply)

== Tools ==
Here are references to some useful tools that may help you more efficiently process the list of bugs.

=== greasemonkey ===

https://launchpad.net/launchpad-gm-scripts

http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~gm-dev-launchpad/launchpad-gm-scripts/master/files

This is a collection of greasemonkey scripts which Launchpad users and Ubuntu developers have found useful.  For the purpose of Bug Day's, the <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/%7Egm-dev-launchpad/launchpad-gm-scripts/master/annotate/head%3A/lp_stockreplies.user.js|stockreplies gm-script]]</nowiki> will be the most useful.  The stockreplies script allows you to save custom comments to insert into bug reports and additionally set the status and importance of a bug at the same time.

=== launchpadlib ===
https://help.launchpad.net/API/launchpadlib

The launchpadlib library depends on wadllib, another open-source library released by the Launchpad team. Get a copy of the launchpadlib and wadllib source with bzr and install it.
<pre>
  $ bzr branch lp:wadllib
  $ cd wadllib
  $ sudo ./setup.py install
 </pre>
Then do the same for launchpadlib.
 <pre>
  $ bzr branch lp:launchpadlib
  $ cd launchpadlib
  $ sudo ./setup.py install
 </pre>

After installation you can write custom scripts to manipulate bug reports.  This is useful for dealing with a list of bugs which all require the same type of actions/comment.  For example, here is a <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ogasawara/lplib/stock-reply.py|stock-reply.py]]</nowiki> script which reads a list of bugs from a "stock.txt" file, posts a standard comment to each bug, transitions the status to Incomplete, and subscribes oneself to the bug report.  It's quicker to use a launchpadlib script for this rather than having to do a page load per bug in order to use the greasemonkey stockreplies. 

== Stock Replies ==
Here's some common stock replies that may apply to some of the bugs:

=== Test Lucid ===
<pre>
Unfortunately it seems this bug is still an issue.  Can you confirm this issue exists with the most recent Lucid Lynx 10.04 release - http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/lucid/alpha-2/.  If the issue remains in Lucid, please test the latest 2.6.32 upstream kernel build - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelMainlineBuilds .  Let us know your results.  Thanks.
</pre>
* Set status to Incomplete

== Bugs ==
Please refer to the following for the list of bugs to focus on for this bug day:

https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bugs?field.status:list=NEW&field.status:list=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status:list=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&field.status:list=CONFIRMED&field.status:list=TRIAGED&field.status:list=INPROGRESS&field.status:list=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status_upstream=resolved_upstream

Stats can be seen at:

http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ogasawara/kernel-bugday/20100119.html
