{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:hardware-kernel-n-bug-handling
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===
Continuing on the work we have completed in previous blueprints, I'd like for this session to focus on what can be done to continue our efforts in making bugs and bug work more of a fixed priority for the team as well as determining what changes can be made to our current method of determining the bugs to be put on the Top 50 list. We'll also review the utility of the Top 50 and gather ideas on improvements there should that process be seen as effective.
=== Release Note ===

This section should include a paragraph describing the end-user impact of this change.  It is meant to be included in the release notes of the first release in which it is implemented.  (Not all of these will actually be included in the release notes, at the release manager's discretion; but writing them is a useful exercise.)

It is mandatory.

=== Rationale ===

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/Specs/OtherKernelNBugHandling

* Bugs with patches
* Process for handling
* Validation
* picking up bugs with patches, review them and either reject them or push them to the upstream maintainer for review/acceptance
* drive these to 0

* More productive bug lists 
** QA
** picking up issues coming out of QA
** real machines we can get direct testing on
** Cert
** Regressions
** issues which have appeared in a later release
** Release Mgr
** OEM
** machines sold with Ubuntu and then upgrade and no longer work
** Support
** Bugs with large number of dups/heat/comments
** low priority bugs which affect a huge number of people are actually more important and should be raised
** heat calculation actually takes into account # of dups, comments and metoos

* kerneloops reports
* use the grouping facility to identify duplicates
* bdmurray has done some work here

* Update wiki docs to reflect new processes

Regression types have been reviewed and now we have regression-release, -proposed, -updates + a tag with the version the regression has been found in and nomination of the affected releases.

==== ACTIONS ====
See blueprint whiteboard for actions.
----
CategorySpec
