{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This document describes how to apply an upstream stable update to an Ubuntu kernel. Example commands here are taken when applying the 3.13.11-ckt13 release; version numbers must be changed appropriately.

----

1. Create a tracking bug (be sure to take note of the bug number!).

 <pre>
 $ kteam-tools/stable/create-stable-tracker --version 3.13.11-ckt13
 </pre>

1. Generate the set of patches to be applied.

 <pre>
 $ git format-patch v3.13.11-ckt12..v3.13.11-ckt13 -o /tmp/3.13.11-ckt13
 </pre>

1. Update the patches to include the appropriate buglink and sign-offs.

 <pre>
 $ kteam-tools/maintscripts/maint-modify-patch --sob=sforshee --bug=1408779 /tmp/3.13.11-ckt13/*.patch
 </pre>

1. Apply patches to master-next.

 <pre>
 $ git am /tmp/3.13.11-ckt13/*.patch
 </pre>

 Some patches may have already been applied; keep track of these for the purposes of updating the tracking bug.

1. Update configs.

 <pre>
 $ fakeroot debian/rules updateconfigs
 </pre>

1. Update the tracking bug with the list of patches. The output of:

 <pre>
 $ git log --format=%s --reverse v3.13.11-ckt12..v3.13.11-ckt13
 </pre>

 Remove any patches from this list which were already applied and list them separately in the tracking bug.

1. Do a test build.

1. Push the updates to the master-next branch.
