{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== What ====
The Ubuntu Kernel Team have developed (and are continuing to develop) a number of scripts,
utilities and processes to help them do all the things they do. 

Some of the things in kteam-tools:
* Scripts that are used to perform kernel builds on remote systems.
* Scripts to setup jailed kernel compilation environments (chroots). This allows a single host to build kernels for different Ubuntu releases.
* Scripts and support files to produce daily, custom test isos from the daily, master, Ubuntu isos.
* Scripts used for general / stable kernel maintenance.
* Scripts to produce .debs for mainline kernels

==== Where ====
kteam-tools are managed via git in a git repository on the Ubuntu kernel git repository
server. A copy of the repository can be obtained via:
<pre>
git clone https://git.launchpad.net/~canonical-kernel/+git/kteam-tools
</pre>

==== Configuring ====
In order to use some of the maintainer's scripts (in the maintscripts directory) you'll need to copy the file maintscripts/doc/example-maintscripts.cfg to $HOME/.maintscripts.cfg, and edit it so that you are in the 'signer' line.

If you add your own name to this configuration file, please change it in the kteam-tools tree and push it back to the repo on zinc

==== Contribute ====
# Get a copy of the latest version of the repository using the command line given above in the '''Where''' section. 
# Make any changes that you wish to contribute.
# Send a pull request to the Ubuntu kernel team mailing list asking that your changes be taken from your git repository and merged into the master kteam-tools git repository.
