{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Canonical Kernel Team Bug Day ==

As we approach Karmic's final release it's important we don't let release critical bugs go unnoticed.  That being said, the focus of today's bug day will be newly reported kernel bugs.  Each developer has a list of 20 bugs to focus on.  The goal for the day is to triage each bug to ensure we don't miss any critical bugs.

There is also a community section for anyone else wanting to help out.  The community section is also composed of newly reported kernel bugs.  These will share the same goal of making sure each bug gets triaged and any critical bugs noted.  Feel free to drop into the #ubuntu-kernel IRC channel on FreeNode if you have any questions.

=== Developer and Community Sections: New Bugs ===
# Verify the bug has been confirmed against the latest Karmic 9.10 Beta release:
## If not, ask them to test Karmic and if possible also test the latest mainline kernel build. (see Stock Reply)
** Set status to '''Incomplete'''
# If the bug still remains with the latest Karmic 9.10 Beta release:
## If logs necessary to debug the issue have been captured and attached to the bug:
** Set status to '''Triaged''' and also set the Importance
1. If logs have not been provided, ask them to do so (see Stock Reply)
** Set status to '''Incomplete''' 

== Tools ==
Here are references to some useful tools that may help you more efficiently process the list of bugs.

=== greasemonkey ===

<nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/launchpad-gm-scripts|Launchpad Greasemonkey Scripts]]</nowiki> modify the look and feel of Launchpad to help one efficiently and effectively triage bugs.  The <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/launchpad-gm-scripts|Launchpad Greasemonkey Scripts]]</nowiki> were recently packaged into a Firefox extension and made available from a PPA:

https://launchpad.net/~gm-dev-launchpad/+archive/ppa

Enable the gm-dev-launchpad PPA (see instructions in link above) and install the firefox-lp-improvements package.  For the purpose of Bug Day's, the <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/%7Egm-dev-launchpad/launchpad-gm-scripts/master/annotate/head%3A/lp_stockreplies.user.js|stockreplies gm-script]]</nowiki> will be the most useful.  The stockreplies script allows you to save custom comments to insert into bug reports and additionally set the status and importance of a bug at the same time.

<pre>
NOTE: You can point your lp_stockreplies.user.js to http://people.ubuntu.com/~andres.mujica/greasemonkey/kernel-replies.xml where the Kernel standard replies are available.  (Also a kernel-tags.xml is available)
</pre>

=== launchpadlib ===
https://help.launchpad.net/API/launchpadlib

The launchpadlib library depends on wadllib, another open-source library released by the Launchpad team. Get a copy of the launchpadlib and wadllib source with bzr and install it.
<pre>
  $ bzr branch lp:wadllib
  $ cd wadllib
  $ sudo ./setup.py install
 </pre>
Then do the same for launchpadlib.
 <pre>
  $ bzr branch lp:launchpadlib
  $ cd launchpadlib
  $ sudo ./setup.py install
 </pre>

After installation you can write custom scripts to manipulate bug reports.  This is useful for dealing with a list of bugs which all require the same type of actions/comment.  For example, here is a <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ogasawara/lplib/stock-reply.py|stock-reply.py]]</nowiki> script which reads a list of bugs from a "stock.txt" file, posts a standard comment to each bug, transitions the status to Incomplete, and subscribes oneself to the bug report.  It's quicker to use a launchpadlib script for this rather than having to do a page load per bug in order to use the greasemonkey stockreplies. 

<pre>
NOTE: In Karmic, python-launchpadlib and python-wadllib are available from main.  In Jaunty you can install them with sudo apt-get install python-launchpadlib  python-wadllib. Some minor changes are available at bzr but for most use cases it would work this way.  If you want to grab the latest version from bzr be aware of Bug 400170 - https://launchpad.net/bugs/400170 
</pre>
=== Arsenal Scripts ===

If you intend to use the Arsenal Scripts (Use them with caution, and take into account that at some point in time some of those would run automatically) follow the Readme file available at http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~arsenal-devel/arsenal/master/annotate/head%3A/README

You can grab them like this:
<pre>
  $ bzr branch lp:~arsenal-devel/arsenal/master
 </pre>
    	 
Also for the Template-Python dependency be sure to use:

 <pre>
  $ svn co svn://svn.tt2.org/tt/Template-Python/trunk Template-Python
 </pre>

== Stock Replies ==
Here's some common stock replies that may apply to some of the bugs.  Feel free to modify or combine stock replies below to best fit each bug:

=== Test Latest Karmic and Upstream ===
<pre>
Can you confirm this issue exists with the most recent Karmic Koala 9.10 Beta release?  ISO CD images are available at http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/karmic/ .  If the issue remains with Karmic it would be great to then also test the latest upstream mainline kernel available.  This will allow additional upstream developers to examine this issue.  Refer to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelMainlineBuilds .  Thanks in advance.
</pre>
* Set status to Incomplete

=== Needs Debug Info ===
'''Note: it's best to substitute the actual bug# into the apport-collect command when posting the comment below'''
<pre>
Unfortunately we need additional information to further debug this issue.  Please run the following command from a Terminal (Applications->Accessories->Terminal).  It will automatically gather and attach kernel debug information to this bug report.

apport-collect -p linux <bug#>
</pre>
* Set status to Incomplete

== Bug List ==
Please refer to the following for the list of bugs to focus on for this bug day:

http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ogasawara/kernel-bugday/20091013.html
