{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



This is to be the definitive guide to working with Patchworks as an Ubuntu kernel team member.

==== What ====
Patchworks is a web based application that helps track and process patches that have been
submitted to the Ubuntu kernel team mailing list kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com (UKML). By using
this tool the kernel team hopes to reduced the amount of effort that goes into reviewing
kernel patches, to handle the patches in a more consistent manner and to reduce the chance
that a patch will be missed or forgotten.

==== Where ====
Patchworks is hosted by ozlabs.org. The URL of Patchwork is http://patchwork.ozlabs.org.
The list of patches for the Ubuntu kernels is shown at http://patchwork.ozlabs.org/project/ubuntu-kernel/list/.
Anyone can look at the individual patch submissions, who submitted the patch, who is reviewing
the patch and the current state of the patch.

==== Access ====
The first step in gaining access to process the patches is to create an account. In the 
right hand corner of the web page title are links to "login", "register" and "about".
Click on the "register" link and fill out the form that you are presented with to get an
account.

Once you have an account you can 1. create "bundles" of patches and 2. update the state
of your own patches.

In order to process other people's patches you need to be given "maintainer" access permission
to the ubuntu-kernel project. To request "maintainer" access, send an email to "admin@patchwork.ozlabs.org"
and ask to be added as a maintainer of the ubuntu-kernel project.

==== Processing Patches ====

We process patches by moving them into various states.  Bugs start as ''New''
and progress to other states based on discussion on UKML.  To change the state
of a patch check the checkbox located left of the patch title that you wish to
change.  Then down in the ''Properties'' box below the patch list, pull down
the ''Change state'' to the new state and click the ''Update'' button.  We use
a subset of the available states, those in use and their meaning are detailed
below:

 New:: a patch which has not yet been processes or assigned
 Under Review:: a patch which has been identified as a genuine patch, generally it will be assigned to the owner for the release in question
 Accepted:: once a patch has the required ACKs and has been applied to the tree it is moved to Accepted, this removes it from the list
 Rejected:: if the result of the review is that the patch was not applied to the tree it is moved to Rejected, this removes it from the list.
 Superseded:: when a patch is modified and a replacement submitted that new patch will appear as its own entry in the list, the old one is marked Superseded, this removes it from the list.

The patch ''Delegate'' is the person responsible for managing the patch as it
progresses through Patchwork. The ''Delegate'' is usually one of the reviewers
of the patch. The ''Delegate'' is usually the person who commits the patch to
the official source tree once it has had the required number of ACKs.

==== Patch List View ====
The patch list can have filters applied to it so that you see the patches that you are
interested in. In the blue bar above the column titles is a ''Filters'' link. Clicking
on that will expand the blue area and allow you to select what to filter on.
