{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Each question in the FAQ is its own wiki page.  This allows us to use the wiki page aggregation operations to automatically generate the various section FAQs and the top level FAQ from the exact same question source.  Each question should be categorised into one of these main sections:

* Help -- prominant questions on how to get help from somewhere
* General -- general questions which do not have a specific section
* Tweek -- questions on how to tweak and configure your kernel
* Testing -- questions about how to test or other testing subjects
* Debugging -- questions pertinant to debugging kernel issues
* Triage -- questions about triaging kernel bugs
* Dev -- all developer related questions

If you think a new section is needed, remember it needs to be added to the main FAQ page as well.

=== Page Naming ===

When you make a new question create a new page in <code>Kernel/FAQ/<section><shortname></code>.  So for example a question about the mainline builds and how they could be used for debugging might be named <code>Kernel/FAQ/DebuggingMainlineBuilds</code>.  You should use <code><section>000<shortname></code> for questions which belong at the top of a section.  

=== Page Format ===

Each question should contain a level two <code>== ...? ==</code> heading which is formed as a simply worded question.  The overall contents should be limited to a paragraph, perhaps two, if the contents is more complex it probabally warrents its own page which should have a simple pointer in the FAQ.

=== Linkages ===

Some questions are also directly linked to and those linkages should be recorded below.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Page'''
| '''Questions'''
|-
| <nowiki>[[KernelTeam-MainlineBuilds]]</nowiki>
| Debugging/MainlineBuilds.*
|-
| <nowiki>[[Kernel-GettingInvolved]]</nowiki>
| GeneralFindingTeam GeneralMailingList GeneralFindingDocumentation GeneralHelpWith DevKernelSource DevDeveloperResources DevKernelBugs
|}

=== Needed Questions ===
* 

=== Existing Questions ===

