{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues May 17, 2016 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Highlights ====

* We released Linux v4.2.8-ckt10 stable
* We released Linux v3.19.8-ckt21 stable
* stress-ng 0.06.00 released for Yakkety:
   http://smackerelofopinion.blogspot.co.uk/2016/05/some-extra-features-landing-in-stress.html

-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel/ubuntu/+source/linux/+git/yakkety

Our Yakkety kernel tree still remains a snapshot of our Xenial kernel. We'll look to get this rebased to v4.6-rc7 or newer soon.  Note, we are still evaluating which kernel version to converge on for the 16.10 release.
-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>
Current cycle: 27-Apr through 17-Jun
====================================================================  ==
         27-Apr   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
29-Apr - 04-Jun   Kernel prep week.
05-Jun - 17-Jun   Bug verification & Regression testing.
         20-Jun   Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
====================================================================  ==
   precise  3.2.0-101.141
    trusty  3.13.0-85.129
     vivid  3.19.0-58.64
      wily  4.2.0-35.40

lts-trusty  3.13.0-84.128~precise1
lts-utopic  3.16.0-69.89~14.04.1
lts-vivid   3.19.0-56.62~14.04.1
lts-wily    4.2.0-35.40~14.04.1
lts-xenial  4.4.0-14.30~14.04.2

    
</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://kernel.ubuntu.com/reports/kernel-cves.html

-----
