{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues March 29, 2016 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Highlights ====

* Kamal released v3.13.11-ckt37 stable
 
 

-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
Our Xenial kernel remains based on the latest v4.4.6 stable release and is available for testing in the archive, ie linux-4.4.0-16.32.  Please test and let us know your results.  Please be aware that Xenial Kernel Freeze approximately 1 week away on Thurs, April 7.  Anyone needing kernel patches pulled into Xenial should submit those immediately in order to make Kernel Freeze. Thanks!

-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>
Current cycle: 11-Mar through 02-Apr
====================================================================  ==
         11-Mar   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
13-Mar - 19-Mar   Kernel prep week.
20-Mar - 26-Mar   Bug verification & Regression testing.
27-Mar - 02-Apr   Regression testing & Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
====================================================================  ==
   precise  3.2.0-101.141
    trusty  3.13.0-85.129
     vivid  3.19.0-58.64
      wily  4.2.0-35.40

lts-trusty  3.13.0-84.128~precise1
lts-utopic  3.16.0-69.89~14.04.1
lts-vivid   3.19.0-56.62~14.04.1
lts-wily    4.2.0-35.40~14.04.1
lts-xenial  4.4.0-14.30~14.04.2

Next cycle: 01-Apr through 23-Apr
====================================================================  ==
         01-Apr   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
03-Apr - 09-Apr   Kernel prep week.
10-Apr - 16-Apr   Bug verification & Regression testing.
17-Apr - 23-Apr   Regression testing & Release to -updates.

Note: April 21 is release day
</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://kernel.ubuntu.com/reports/kernel-cves.html

-----
