{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues Feb 16, 2016 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Highlights ====
* The linux-lts-wily kernel will be seeded in the upcoming 14.04.4 Trusty LTS point release taking place on Thurs Feb 18.
* Kamal released v3.19.8-ckt15
* Kamal released v3.13.11-ckt35
* Colin got thermald 1.5 into Xenial 
* Colin packaged up the latest version of intel-cmt-cat (v0.1.4), it is a cache monitoring and configuration tool.  More info at:
   http://smackerelofopinion.blogspot.co.uk/2016/02/intep-platform-quality-of-service-and.html

-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
Our Xenial kernel remains based on v4.4.1 and is available for testing in the archive, ie linux-4.4.0-6.21. Please test and let us know your results. Also, as an early reminder, Xenial Kernel Freeze is Thurs, April 7. We encourage anyone needing kernel patches pulled into Xenial to please submit them well in advance of Kernel Freeze to allow for as much testing as possible. Thanks!
-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>
Current cycle: 29-Jan through 20-Feb
====================================================================  ==
         29-Jan   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
31-Jan - 06-Feb   Kernel prep week.
07-Feb - 13-Feb   Bug verification & Regression testing.
14-Feb - 20-Feb   Regression testing & Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
====================================================================  ==
   precise  3.2.0-99.139
    trusty  3.13.0-78.122
     vivid  3.19.0-50.56
      wily  4.2.0-29.34

lts-trusty  3.13.0-78.122~precise1
lts-utopic  3.16.0-61.81~14.04.1
lts-vivid   3.19.0-50.56~14.04.1
lts-wily    4.2.0-29.34~14.04.1

Next cycle: 19-Feb through 12-Mar
====================================================================  ==
         19-Feb   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
21-Feb - 27-Feb   Kernel prep week.
28-Feb - 05-Mar   Bug verification & Regression testing. 
06-Mar - 12-Mar   Regression testing & Release to -updates.
</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://kernel.ubuntu.com/reports/kernel-cves.html

-----
