{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues December 06, 2016 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Highlights ====

* Version 0.02.01 of cpustat for Ubuntu Zesty 17.04 has been released. It features even lower CPU overhead and a new top-like mode, see
   http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~cking/cpustat
 
-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
We uploaded a newer v4.9 based Zesty kernel to the archive:

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/4.9.0-6.7 | https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/4.9.0-6.7]]</nowiki>

It is currently based on v4.9-rc8 an we hope to have it promote out of -proposed before Dec 16.  Please test and let us know your results.  We anticipate we'll eventually converge on a v4.10 based kernel for Zesty.

-----

-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>
Current cycle: 25-Nov through 17-Dec
====================================================================  ==
         25-Nov   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
28-Nov - 03-Dec   Kernel prep week.
04-Dec - 16-Dec   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         19-Dec   Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
====================================================================  ==
          trusty  3.13.0-106.153
           vivid  3.19.0-76.84
         precise  3.2.0-119.162
          xenial  4.4.0-52.73
         yakkety  4.8.0-29.31

linux-lts-trusty  3.13.0-106.153~precise1
 linux-lts-vivid  3.19.0-76.84~14.04.1
linux-lts-xenial  4.4.0-52.73~14.04.1

Next cycle: 16-Dec through 07-Jan
====================================================================  ==
         16-Dec   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
19-Dec - 24-Dec   Kernel prep week.
25-Dec - 06-Jan   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         09-Jan   Release to -updates.

</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://people.canonical.com/~kernel/cve/pkg/ALL-linux.html
 

-----
