{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:kernel-maverick-version
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===
The purpose of this spec is to choose the mainline kernel that will become the base for the Maverick kernel development cycle. 

=== Release Note ===

Based on the anticipated release time frame for the upstream kernel in relation to the Maverick release cycle cadence, it has been decided that the Maverick kernel will be based on the 2.6.35 upstream kernel.

=== Rationale ===
Every release cycle we must choose a kernel that is as recent as possible while still remaining stable. Typically the decision is simply the most recently released kernel prior to the Ubuntu release.  As Maverick will be the successor of an LTS release, we will likely try to push for the bleeding edge.

=== Assumptions ===
Based on the cadence of previous upstream releases, I'd anticipate 2.6.34 being released around June 2010, 2.6.35 being released around Sept 2010, and 2.6.36 being released around Dec 2010. 

Kernel freeze for Maverick is Sept 16, 2010

=== Summary ===
==== 2.6.33 (released 24 Feb 2010) ====
* 2.6.33-rc1 nouveau is merged and misc new drivers pulled in
* 2.6.33-rc2 lots of staging driver and arch updates
* 2.6.33-rc3 ext4 and reiserfs fixes as well as lots of small driver changes, new firewire stack marked as recommended
* 2.6.33-rc4 majority is DRM changes (nouveau, i915, and radeon)
* 2.6.33-rc5 i915 KMS fixes and misc driver fixes
* 2.6.33-rc6 half arch changes and again nouveau and radeon fixes as well as misc driver fixes
* 2.6.33-rc7 i915 and radeon KMS fixes
* 2.6.33-rc8 regression fixes and lots of one-liner fixes

==== 2.6.34 (released 16 May 2010) ====
* 2.6.34-rc1 2/3 driver related changes, rest is arch related changes and misc updates
* 2.6.34-rc2 messy and ugly
* 2.6.34-rc3 lots of regression fixes, and misc driver and fs fixes
* 2.6.34-rc4 VM regression fixes, new network driver (cxgb4), radeon and nouveau updates
* 2.6.34-rc5 random fixes, i915 variable renames, radeon updates, amd-iommu fixes, sparc now knows ftrace, fixes to xfs, ecryptfs, cephfs and nfs
* 2.6.34-rc6 regression fixes and powerpc defconfig updates
* 2.6.34-rc7 small random driver fixes (likely last of the rc's)
* 2.6.34 small misc fixes

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
<pre>
Kernel Version
==============  ==
With the current upstream cadance we are expecting v2.6.35 to release mid to late september.  With a likely Maverick kernel freeze date at the end of September, we are therefore unable to take an early v2.6.36 release.

The decision therefore is v2.6.35 for Maverick.

ARM VERSIONS
============  ==
Need to try and get the vendors on the same level, at v2.6.35.

For OMAP3 we are expecting to have a small delta, and hope to get that as a merged branch (in master) and use that as reference platform.

OMAP4 support in 2.6.35 will be there, but very basic, not enough for a full ubuntu stack.  There is a fair pile of patches pending for upstream.  Likely we will have an OMAP4 enablement branch to allow the full stack to be applied.  It will beed backports from v2.6.36.

Most of the ARM bugfixes fixes are already scheduled for v2.6.35, there are some features coming but not significant for us.

Freescale: they are currently planning on v2.6.34.  they have timing constraints due to new silicon appearing around v2.6.35 release date

Marvell: v2.6.32, mostly upstream from v2.6.34.  It is therefore possible v2.6.35 will just work for Dove.  Still may be some patches needed for more than 'basic' support; display is missing.

Samsung: currently targetting v2.6.34 and have some 60 patches on top.

Smoothstone: missing the v2.6.35 window, a fairly large patch stack

Get the message out that we want to get proposed patches for ARM merging arround v2.6.35-rc2
</pre>
----
CategorySpec
