{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Canonical Kernel Team Bug Day ==

The focus of today's bug day will be suspend/resume bugs.  Each developer has a list of 20 bugs to focus on.  The goal for the day is to make sure each bug has been appropriately Triaged.

There is also a community section for anyone else wanting to help out.  The community section is also composed of suspend/resume bugs that need to be Triaged.  Feel free to drop into the #ubuntu-kernel IRC channel on FreeNode if you have any questions.

=== Developer and Community Sections: Suspend/Resume Bugs ===
1. Check that the bug has been confirmed against the latest Karmic 9.10 Alpha release.
** If not, ask them to test Karmic and and the latest mainline kernel build. (see Stock Reply)
*** Set the status to Incomplete
1. If the bug has been confirmed against Karmic, verify they've supplied the additional debug information outlined at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingKernelSuspendHibernateResume.
** If not, direct them to the DebuggingKernelSuspendHibernateResume wiki (see Stock Reply)
*** Set the status to Incomplete
# If the bug has been confirmed against Karmic and the corresponding debug information provided, set the Status to Confirmed and set Importance 
# If the bug has also been confirmed against the mainline kernel, set status to Triaged and set Importance.  Ask reporter to also open an upstream bug at bugzilla.kernel.org (see Stock Reply)

== Tools ==
Here are references to some useful tools that may help you more efficiently process the list of bugs.

=== greasemonkey ===

<nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/launchpad-gm-scripts|Launchpad Greasemonkey Scripts]]</nowiki> modify the look and feel of Launchpad to help one efficiently and effectively triage bugs.  The <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/launchpad-gm-scripts|Launchpad Greasemonkey Scripts]]</nowiki> were recently packaged into a Firefox extension and made available from a PPA:

https://launchpad.net/~gm-dev-launchpad/+archive/ppa

Enable the gm-dev-launchpad PPA (see instructions in link above) and install the firefox-lp-improvements package.  For the purpose of Bug Day's, the <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/%7Egm-dev-launchpad/launchpad-gm-scripts/master/annotate/head%3A/lp_stockreplies.user.js|stockreplies gm-script]]</nowiki> will be the most useful.  The stockreplies script allows you to save custom comments to insert into bug reports and additionally set the status and importance of a bug at the same time.

<pre>
NOTE: You can point your lp_stockreplies.user.js to http://people.ubuntu.com/~andres.mujica/greasemonkey/kernel-replies.xml where the Kernel standard replies are available.  (Also a kernel-tags.xml is available)
</pre>

=== launchpadlib ===
https://help.launchpad.net/API/launchpadlib

The launchpadlib library depends on wadllib, another open-source library released by the Launchpad team. Get a copy of the launchpadlib and wadllib source with bzr and install it.
<pre>
  $ bzr branch lp:wadllib
  $ cd wadllib
  $ sudo ./setup.py install
 </pre>
Then do the same for launchpadlib.
 <pre>
  $ bzr branch lp:launchpadlib
  $ cd launchpadlib
  $ sudo ./setup.py install
 </pre>

After installation you can write custom scripts to manipulate bug reports.  This is useful for dealing with a list of bugs which all require the same type of actions/comment.  For example, here is a <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ogasawara/lplib/stock-reply.py|stock-reply.py]]</nowiki> script which reads a list of bugs from a "stock.txt" file, posts a standard comment to each bug, transitions the status to Incomplete, and subscribes oneself to the bug report.  It's quicker to use a launchpadlib script for this rather than having to do a page load per bug in order to use the greasemonkey stockreplies. 

<pre>
NOTE: In Karmic, python-launchpadlib and python-wadllib are available from main.  In Jaunty you can install them with sudo apt-get install python-launchpadlib  python-wadllib. Some minor changes are available at bzr but for most use cases it would work this way.  If you want to grab the latest version from bzr be aware of Bug 400170 - https://launchpad.net/bugs/400170 
</pre>
=== Arsenal Scripts ===

If you intend to use the Arsenal Scripts (Use them with caution, and take into account that at some point in time some of those would run automatically) follow the Readme file available at http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~arsenal-devel/arsenal/master/annotate/head%3A/README

You can grab them like this:
<pre>
  $ bzr branch lp:~arsenal-devel/arsenal/master
 </pre>
    	 
Also for the Template-Python dependency be sure to use:

 <pre>
  $ svn co svn://svn.tt2.org/tt/Template-Python/trunk Template-Python
 </pre>

== Stock Replies ==
Here's some common stock replies that may apply to some of the bugs.  Feel free to modify or combine stock replies below to best fit each bug:

=== Test Karmic and Test Upstream ===
<pre>
Can you confirm this issue exists with the most recent Karmic Koala 9.10 Alpha release.  ISO CD images are available at http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/karmic/ .  If the issue remains with Karmic it would be great to then also test the latest upstream mainline kernel available.  This will allow additional upstream developers to examine this issue.  Refer to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelMainlineBuilds .

Finally, if you could also take a look at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingKernelSuspendHibernateResume and provide answers to the questions mentioned under the "Information Gathering" section that would be great.
</pre>
* Set status to Incomplete

=== Request Debug Info ===
<pre>
Please take a look at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingKernelSuspendHibernateResume .  If you could provide answers to the questions mentioned under the "Information Gathering" section that would be great.  Thanks in advance.
</pre>
* Set status to Incomplete

=== Open Upstream Bug ===
<pre>
Thanks for verifying this issue with the upstream kernel.  If you could also open an upstream bug report at bugzilla.kernel.org that would be great.  Please be sure to post a link to the upstream bug here in this report so that we can set up an upstream bug watch.
</pre>

== Bug List ==
Please refer to the following for the list of bugs to focus on for this bug day:

http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ogasawara/kernel-bugday/20090818.html
