{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== chroot into the build environment ====
Depending on what may be installed on your system you may use "dchroot" or "schroot" to chroot into the build environment. 

For example:
<pre>
schroot -c lucid-i386
</pre>

You should chroot into a 64bit build environment to build 64bit kernel package, 32bit build environemt to build 32bit kernel package. 

==== Setup the build tree ====
This step generates the debian control files required to build the kernel. The ''clean'' target is a bit of a misnomer here since we moved the generated files (control.stub, control) out of version control. The ''clean'' target actually creates these files. It is a known drawback, and unavoidable.

<pre>
fakeroot debian/rules clean
</pre>

==== Modify debian/changelog ====
Modify the debian/changelog file to reflect something unique about this build, for example, you may use a launchpad bug number that you might be building this kernel for.

Modify the the first line, for example:
<pre>
linux (2.6.27-12.28)  UNRELEASED; urgency=low
</pre>

to

<pre>
linux (2.6.27-12.28~lpNNNNNNUSERNAME1) UNRELEASED; urgency=low
</pre>

==== Build the kernel package ====
* Arch specific builds:
<pre>
fakeroot debian/rules binary-generic
</pre>

* All arches:
<pre>
fakeroot debian/rules binary-arch
</pre>
