{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page provides a "cookbook" for running the Ubuntu Kernel team's IRC meeting. This meeting is generally run in the #ubuntu-meeting channel on FreeNode.

==== 1. Pre-meeting email ====
The day before the IRC meeting is to take place, send an email announcement to the Ubuntu kernel team, public mailing list. The email should look something like the following:

<pre>
Upcoming Ubuntu Kernel Team Meeting - Tuesday, 15th of December - 17:00	(UTC)
</pre>
<pre>
The next Ubuntu Kernel Team Meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, December 15th, 17:00
UTC in #ubuntu-meeting on Freenode.

If there are any discussion points or items for decision that you would
like to raise, add your item to the agenda [1] and prepare a short
introduction on the topic to present during the meeting.  As usual,
anyone interested in the development of the Ubuntu Kernel is welcome to
attend.

[1]: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/Meeting
</pre>

==== 2. Pre-meeting IRC announcement ====
Approximately one hour before the IRC meeting is to start, post a little announcement in the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode. We encourage anyone in the community that is interested to attend the meeting.
<pre>
* *
* * Ubuntu Kernel Team Meeting - Today @ 17:00 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting
* *
</pre>

==== 3. Pre-meeting prep ====
Before the meeting takes place I build my "runes" file. I take the agenda for
the meeting and add the mootbot keys to each line so that when it's time to run the meeting I just cut and paste into the IRC channel. The "runes" I used for the Tues Nov 15, 2011 meeting are:

<pre>
Roll Call
[LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/Meeting
[LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/ReleaseStatus/Precise

[TOPIC] ARM Status (ppisati)

[TOPIC] Release Metrics and Incoming Bugs (ogasawara)

[TOPIC] Milestone Targeted Work Items (ogasawara)

[TOPIC] Status: Precise Development Kernel (ogasawara)

[TOPIC] Status: CVE's (apw)

[TOPIC] Status: Stable, Security, and Bugfix Kernel Updates - Oneiric/Natty/Maverick/Lucid/Hardy (bjf/herton)

[TOPIC] Open Discussion or Questions? Raise your hand to be recognized (o/)

</pre>

==== 4. Run the meeting ====
Start the meeting off with a "Roll Call" just to make sure most of the kerne team is in
the channel.

Next, "#startmeeting" which will signal to "meetingology" that a new meeting is starting and
to start capturing.

Go through the "runes", moving from topic to topic. If no one contributes to a topic after
15 seconds, move on.

==== 5. Post meeting ====
As soon as the meeting finishes, The meetingology bot will post something similar to the following:

<pre>
<meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Nov 15 17:05:39 2011 UTC.
<meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2011/ubuntu-meeting.2011-11-15-16.59.moin.txt
</pre>

==== 6. Update the KernelTeam/Meeting wiki ====
# Open the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/Meeting?action=edit&editor=text | KernelTeam Meeting]]</nowiki> page for editing.
# Add the date and agenda for next week's meeting.  Just copy and paste the agenda from the meeting which just took place.  Any modifications to the agenda can be made throughout the week.  
# For the meeting which just took place, add the minutes.  For example,
<pre>
===== Minutes =====
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/Meeting/2011-11-15
* IRC Logs: http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/11/15/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt
* Blog: http://voices.canonical.com/kernelteam/
</pre>

==== 7. Create the "Weekly Report" ====
There are some useful scripts in the kteam-tools git repo (git://kernel.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/kteam-tools.git) for helping generate a nicely formatted moin output for the weekly report.  Look at the <nowiki>[[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/git?p=ubuntu/kteam-tools.git;a=blob;f=irc-meeting/README;h=7172b5d77f8acdfacc10c3c7c2e7930672bb58f7;hb=HEAD|README]]</nowiki> for instructions on how to use the scripts.

Alternatively, take the moin.txt which the meetingology bot pasted at the end of the meeting and create a new wiki page with the raw output.  Take a look at Take a look at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/Meeting/2011-11-15 for an example.

==== 8. Send out meeting minutes email ====
Who to send it to:
* ubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com
* kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com
* ubuntu-news-team@lists.ubuntu.com

What to send:
* It has been requested that the entire meeting minutes just be cut and pasted into the email that is sent out, so that's what we do.

For an example, see 

Subject:
<pre>
Minutes from the Ubuntu Kernel Team meeting, 2011-11-15
</pre>

Body:
Copy and paste the information you created in Step 7 (Create the Weekly Report) above. The "moin" text is the email body text.

==== 9. The Kernel Team Blog ====
The kernel team now has a blog at http://voices.canonical.com/kernelteam. Add a blog entry
with the meeting minutes there.

* Click the "login" link on the lower right side of the page
** This will use your OpenID via launchpad
** This will then redirect you to voices.canonical.com/kernelteam/Array (which is a 404)
* Delete Array from the above link, ie return to voices.canonical.com/kernelteam
* Go to Site Admin->Posts->Add New
* Create a blog post with the meeting minutes
** Again, there are some useful scripts in the kteam-tools git repo (git://kernel.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/kteam-tools.git) for helping generate a nicely formatted html output for the blog.  Look at the <nowiki>[[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/git?p=ubuntu/kteam-tools.git;a=blob;f=irc-meeting/README;h=7172b5d77f8acdfacc10c3c7c2e7930672bb58f7;hb=HEAD|README]]</nowiki> for instructions on how to use the scripts.

==== 10. Adjust the topic in #ubuntu-kernel ====
You will need channel ops privilege. If your nick has the right permissions you can enable channel ops with:
<pre>
/msg chanserv op #ubuntu-kernel
</pre>
Then you can change the date of the next meeting in the topic with:
<pre>
/topic <new topic message>
</pre>
I generally just copy/paste the existing one and adjust the date. After that channel ops is no longer needed and can be relinquished with:
<pre>
/msg chanserv deop #ubuntu-kernel
</pre> 
