{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Kernel Related Package Updates (WIP NOT active) ==

This document describes the process to update and test new versions of the packages related to the kernel in SRUs.  Specifically this lists a set of packages which are highly kernel version sensitive and need to be updated in previous releases as and when later kernels are backported to those releases.

Packages such as crash (full list of packages under ''Packages'' below) are affected by changes in internal layout of the kernel.  Typically such packages are inherently backwards compatible with older kernels.  When we update the kernel in an older series or, as we do in LTS series, we backport newer kernels as an elective install we need to update these packages to support the newer kernels.

New versions of the packages listed under ''Packages'' below can be SRUed into older releases provided the following process is followed.  Typically this will be complete backports from the source series for the kernel.

=== Packages ===
* crash -- kernel crash dump analyser
* makedumpfile -- kernel crash dump extractor
* kexec-tools -- tools to support fast kexec reboots (kernel crash initiation)

=== QA Process ===

When a new version of any of these packages is uploaded to -proposed, the following will be done:

* the Kernel team will test these packages in combination with the GA kernel stream
* the Kernel team will test these packages in combination with the previous backport kernel (if present)
* the Kernel team will test these packages in combination with the backport kernel
* the Kernel team will touch test these package with derivatives which are likely to consume the modified packages

In addition, prior to being uploaded to -proposed, the Kernel team does the following testing
* The new package candidate version is built in a PPA and tested on the target suite before being uploaded to the archive at all.

=== Releasing the SRU ===
The release criteria for these packages is unchanged.

=== SRU Template ===
<pre>
=== Begin SRU Template ===
[Impact]
This release contains both bug-fixes and new features and we would like to
make sure all of our supported customers have access to these improvements.
The notable ones are:

** <TODO: list any LP: # included>

See the changelog entry below for a full list of changes and bugs.

[Test Case]
The following development and SRU process was followed:
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/kernelRelatedUpdates

The Kernel team will be in charge of performing SRU testing and will attach a summary of that test to this bug.  Kernel team members will not mark ‘verification-done’ until this has happened.

=== End SRU Template ===

<TODO: Paste in change log entry>
</pre>
