{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues March 14, 2017 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
We have a 4.10 based kernel available in the archive: 

https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/4.10.0-11.13

Please test and let us know your results. It is based on the v4.10 upstream kernel, which is the target kernel version we plan to release with for 17.04. 
-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>

Current cycle: 10-Mar through 01-Apr
====================================================================  ==
         10-Mar   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
13-Mar - 18-Mar   Kernel prep week.
19-Mar - 31-Mar   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         03-Apr   Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
====================================================================  ==
          trusty  3.13.0-112.159
           vivid  3.19.0-82.90
         precise  3.2.0-124.167
          xenial  4.4.0-66.87
         yakkety  4.8.0-41.44

linux-lts-trusty  3.13.0-112.159~precise1
 linux-lts-vivid  3.19.0-82.90~14.04.1
linux-lts-xenial  4.4.0-66.87~14.04.1

Next cycle: 31-Mar through 22-Apr
====================================================================  ==
         31-Mar   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
03-Apr - 08-Apr   Kernel prep week.
09-Apr - 21-Apr   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         24-Apr   Release to -updates.

</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://people.canonical.com/~kernel/cve/pkg/ALL-linux.html
 

-----
