{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



The review process that the Ubuntu Kernel Team uses has changed significantly since the Lucid Cycle. This page is an effort to clearly define how that process works in its current form. This is in no way a finalized process as we will be reviewing it periodically and making corrections.

=== Initial Bug Processing ===
New bugs that are processed in our first tier of Triage as defined on the <nowiki>[[Kernel-BugTriage|Bug Triage page]]</nowiki> will be tagged with the 'kernel-needs-review' tag along with whatever kernel subsystem they are a part of. In cases where the subsystem is not easily determined, the 'kernel-uncat' tag will be used to define a bug that needs to be looked at manually to have its subsystem further defined. This has the added benefit of seamlessly providing a method to look at all bugs identified as being generated in a certain subsystem, thus further providing a holistic view of symptoms that may be masking an underlying issue. We will also use these tags to provide granularity to our Triage team so that they can work through the specific subsystem bugs that are of interest to them.

=== Priority Identification ===
Once the subsystem has been determined and tagged, the bug will go automatically to the subsystem reviewer via their report to be further identified as a bug that needs to be on the priority listing or not.

* * Please note: even though a bug may not make it to the priority list this doesn't mean that the bug is not important or that it will not be seen. It is simply not in the list of priorities for that week. In most cases, there may already be a fix in the upstream stable branch that addresses the issue as it is stated in the bug.

==== The Priority List ====
The initial priority list will contain up to 50 bugs separated out by affected subsystem. These bugs may run the entire breadth of the kernel. Additionally, it may be necessary to include bugs that are urgent from a business standpoint that may have otherwise precluded them from being included. These bugs could be something as simple as an issue that seems simple on the surface that affects a lot of users. The bug supervisor may, at his or her discretion, add bugs to the list that take it over the stated 50. The number of bugs on the list will have an impact on the time spent that week on bug work for the team.

The list will be reviewed weekly on the Ubuntu Kernel Bug Call. This will be the opportunity to have the list modified to reflect changing priorities for the week. It will also be during this meeting that the amount of bug focus for the week will be determined.

==== Regression List ====
In addition to the Priority List mentioned above, the Ubuntu Kernel Team will maintain a listing of all regression tagged bugs so that further work may be completed on them as needed. This list will be the focus of Regression Bug Days occurring throughout the cycle.
