{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues July 05, 2016 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
Our Yakkety kernel master-next tree has applied the latest v4.6.3 stable patches.

<nowiki>[[https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel/ubuntu/+source/linux/+git/yakkety]]</nowiki>

Our unstable branch has been rebased to v4.7.

<nowiki>[[https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel/ubuntu/+source/linux/+git/unstable]]</nowiki>

Also, as noted in previous newsletters, we are also going to target a v4.8 based kernel for the 16.10 release.
-----
-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>
Current cycle: 24-Jun through 16-Jul
====================================================================  ==
         24-Jun   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
27-Jun - 02-Jul   Kernel prep week.
03-Jul - 15-Jul   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         18-Jul   Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
====================================================================  ==
   precise  3.2.0-105.146
    trusty  3.13.0-91.138
     vivid  3.19.0-64.72
      wily  4.2.0-41.48
    xenial  4.4.0-28.47

lts-trusty  3.13.0-91.138~precise1
lts-utopic  3.16.0-76.98~14.04.1
lts-vivid   3.19.0-64.72~14.04.1
lts-wily    4.2.0-41.48~14.04.1
lts-xenial  4.4.0-28.47~14.04.1

Next cycle: 15-Jul through 06-Aug
====================================================================  ==
         15-Jul   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
18-Jul - 23-Jul   Kernel prep week.
24-Jul - 05-Aug   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         08-Aug   Release to -updates.

</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://kernel.ubuntu.com/reports/kernel-cves.html

-----
