{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues November 15, 2016 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
We have uploaded our first v4.9 based Zesty kernel to the archive:

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/4.9.0-1.2 | https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/4.9.0-1.2]]</nowiki>

It is currently based on v4.9-rc5.  We will continue to rebase and upload as newer -rc's are released.  For now, please test and let us know your results.

-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>
Current cycle: 28-Oct through 19-Nov
====================================================================  ==
         28-Oct   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
31-Oct - 05-Nov   Kernel prep week.
06-Nov - 18-Nov   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         21-Nov   Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
====================================================================  ==
          trusty  3.13.0-102.149
           vivid  3.19.0-75.83
         precise  3.2.0-116.158
          xenial  4.4.0-49.70
         yakkety  4.8.0-28.30

linux-lts-trusty  3.13.0-102.149~precise1
 linux-lts-vivid  3.19.0-75.83~14.04.1
linux-lts-xenial  4.4.0-49.70~14.04.1

Next cycle: 18-Nov through 10-Dec
====================================================================  ==
         18-Nov   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
21-Nov - 26-Nov   Kernel prep week.
27-Nov - 09-Dec   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         12-Dec   Release to -updates.

</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://people.canonical.com/~kernel/cve/pkg/ALL-linux.html
 

-----
