{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



A vital part of bug triage is ensuring the required information is collected.  This page should guide you as to the required information for various bug types.

=== General Kernel Bugs ===
For a general kernel bug you should ensure that the bug was filed against the <code>linux</code> package and contains attachments such as the <code>dmesg</code> file.  If it does not you should request that kernel debugging information be collected and added to the bug:

<pre>
$ apport-collect -p linux <bug#>
</pre>

=== Kernel Sound Bugs ===
If this is a sound related Ubuntu kernel bug, run the following to gather and attach important sound debugging information to the bug:

<pre>
$ apport-collect -p alsa-base <bug#>
</pre>

=== Problems in capturing information ===

==== Bootloader ====

If the bug occurs during bootup, you can disable the splash screen in one of the following ways:
* Permanent: Edit /boot/grub/menu.lst and remove ''splash'' and ''quiet'' kernel parameters to bootloader from the entry for the buggy kernel
* Temporary: Press 'Escape' key at the 3 second pause by Grub bootloader. Then press 'e' (edit) on the buggy kernel entry, followed by 'e' again on the ''kernel'' line. Then remove the ''splash'' and ''quiet'' keywords and press 'b' to boot.
* In 10.04 and later releases, hold the right-shift key after the bios check completes to see the grub menu. Then press 'e' (edit) on the buggy kernel entry, followed by 'e' again on the ''kernel'' line. Then remove the ''splash'' and ''quiet'' keywords and press 'b' to boot.

==== Capturing OOPs ====

If the bug report involves a crash, it is hoped that a kernel backtrace (aka OOPS, kernel panic) is available. If the machine does not completely lockup from the crash, the backtrace should be available in the `dmesg` output. If the crash completely locks the system:
* Take a look at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/CrashdumpRecipe
* If using linux-crashdump (above) is not successful try and see if any backtrace was logged to `/var/log/kern.log.0`. Please attach this file if anything was captured. 
* If unable to log the full backtrace, supply a digital photo of the screen to capture the crash.  It most important to capture the beginning of the kernel oops or panic. 
* When all fails, try to see if <nowiki>[[KernelTeam-Netconsole]]</nowiki> can help out.

==== In X window mode ====

Sometimes crashes occur in X, and so terminal access is not available (to capture the kernel backtrace). When this occurs, the user should try to recreate the crash at the console (Ctrl+Alt+F1). If this is not possible, then annotate the bug as such.
