{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Canonical Kernel Team Bug Day ==

The focus of today's bug day will be bugs with a resolved upstream bug watch as well as old incomplete bugs.  Each developer has a list of 20 bugs to focus on.  There is also a community section for anyone else wanting to help out.  The community section is composed of only old incomplete bugs.  Feel free to drop into the #ubuntu-kernel IRC channel on FreeNode if you have any questions.  The goal will be to handle the bugs as follows.

=== Bugs with a resolved upstream bug watch ===
# Confirm the upstream bug watch indeed correlates the the launchpad bug
# If so, determine if the bug should be resolved (ie Won't Fix or Fix Released) in launchpad as well.
# Otherwise ask the bug reporter to test with the latest Jaunty release and upstream kernel.  Set the Status to Incomplete (see Stock Reply)

=== Old Incomplete Bugs ===
# If the last comment is more than 6 weeks old and the requested information has not been provided, close the bug as Won't Fix (see Stock Reply)
# If the requested information has been provided, make sure the latest Jaunty release has been tested as well as tested with the latest upstream kernel (see Stock Reply)
# If the issue has been confirmed against the latest Jaunty release and tested with the upstream kernel, move the bug from Incomplete to Triaged (or In Progress if you want to work on the bug).

== Tools ==
Here are references to some useful tools that may help you more efficiently process the list of bugs.

=== greasemonkey ===

https://launchpad.net/launchpad-gm-scripts

http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~gm-dev-launchpad/launchpad-gm-scripts/master/files

This is a collection of greasemonkey scripts which Launchpad users and Ubuntu developers have found useful.  For the purpose of Bug Day's, the <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/%7Egm-dev-launchpad/launchpad-gm-scripts/master/annotate/head%3A/lp_stockreplies.user.js|stockreplies gm-script]]</nowiki> will be the most useful.  The stockreplies script allows you to save custom comments to insert into bug reports and additionally set the status and importance of a bug at the same time.

=== launchpadlib ===
https://help.launchpad.net/API/launchpadlib

The launchpadlib library depends on wadllib, another open-source library released by the Launchpad team. Get a copy of the launchpadlib and wadllib source with bzr and install it.
 <pre>
  $ bzr branch lp:wadllib
  $ cd wadllib
  $ sudo ./setup.py install
 }}}
Then do the same for launchpadlib.
 {{{
  $ bzr branch lp:launchpadlib
  $ cd launchpadlib
  $ sudo ./setup.py install
 }}}

After installation you can write custom scripts to manipulate bug reports.  This is useful for dealing with a list of bugs which all require the same type of actions/comment.  For example, here is a <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ogasawara/lplib/stock-reply.py|stock-reply.py]]</nowiki> script which reads a list of bugs from a "stock.txt" file, posts a standard comment to each bug, transitions the status to Incomplete, and subscribes oneself to the bug report.  It's quicker to use a launchpadlib script for this rather than having to do a page load per bug in order to use the greasemonkey stockreplies. 

== Stock Replies ==
Here's some common stock replies that may apply to some of the bugs:

=== Test Jaunty ===
{{{
Unfortunately it seems this bug is still an issue.  Can you confirm this issue exists with the most recent Jaunty Jackalope 9.04 release - http://www.ubuntu.com/news/ubuntu-9.04-desktop .  If the issue remains in Jaunty, please test the latest upstream kernel build - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelMainlineBuilds .  Let us know your results.  Thanks.
</pre>
* Set status to Incomplete

=== Old Incomplete ===
<pre>
This bug report is being closed because we received no response to the previous inquiry for information. Please reopen if this is still an issue in the current Ubuntu release, Jaunty Jackalope 9.04 - http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download.  If the issue remains in Jaunty, please test the latest upstream kernel build - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelMainlineBuilds .  To reopen the bug, click on the current status under the Status column and change the status back to "New".  Thanks.
</pre>
* Set status to Won't Fix

== Bugs ==
Please refer to the following for the list of bugs to focus on for this bug day:

http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ogasawara/kernel-bugday/20090609.html
