{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
<<BR>>
== THE TESTING PERIOD IS OVER ==
Thank you for all the help testing however we are no longer accepting further feedback.
<<BR>>
<<BR>>
=== Script problems ===
[giantkiar]
I have these problems in while executing "Hibernate/Resume smoke test" (snr-003) on Ubuntu Karmic Koala (9.1) with my HP Compaq nx8220:
- on Ubuntu-9.1_LIVE
[ 411.412730] ipw2200: Unable to load ucode: -22
[ 411.412738] ipw2200: Unable to load firmware: -22
[ 411.412740] ipw2200: Failed to up device
[ 413.288109] PM: Cannot find swap device, try swapon -a.
- on Ubuntu-9.1_INSTALLED
[ 411.412727] Failed to send CARD_DISABLE: Command timed out.
[ 411.412730] ipw2200: Unable to load ucode: -22
[ 411.412738] ipw2200: Unable to load firmware: -22
[ 411.412740] ipw2200: Failed to up device
After these errors
on Ubuntu-9.1_LIVE --> black screen, moving mouse I see normal Desktop.
on Ubuntu-9.1_INSTALLED --> my pc hibernate normally.
In both case after this all works normally.
What Can I do to improve this strange behavior ? See this bug <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pm-utils/+bug/550548|#550548]]</nowiki>

[xiaoyirf]
After upgrade to jaunty, the problem is gone!!!!!!!!!!!!
[xiaoyirf]
Presario CQ50
crash due to the following error
Apr 12 10:52:39 ubuntu pulseaudio[5428]: ltdl-bind-now.c: Failed to find original dlopen loader.
Apr 12 10:52:39 ubuntu pulseaudio[5431]: main.c: setrlimit(RLIMIT_NICE, (31, 31)) failed: Operation not permitted
Apr 12 10:52:39 ubuntu pulseaudio[5431]: main.c: setrlimit(RLIMIT_RTPRIO, (9, 9)) failed: Operation not permitted
Apr 12 10:52:40 ubuntu pulseaudio[5431]: alsa-util.c: Cannot find fallback mixer control "Mic".
Apr 12 10:52:56 ubuntu pulseaudio[5431]: module-x11-xsmp.c: X11 session manager not running.
Apr 12 10:52:56 ubuntu pulseaudio[5431]: module.c: Failed to load module "module-x11-xsmp" (argument: ""): initialization failed.

[pitwalker]
1:I'm not a HDD killer, I remove it from my notebook 2:USB KEY is my friend 3:The optical drive is best as opened

[Zulu] How to report a problem? Script says apport bug report will be generated automatically, however after hard-reset nothing seems to be generated. For the record, laptop freezes on first test.
* [Tarpoon] I have the same Problem, Fujitsu Siemens Amilo1630A, freezes when trying to resume after Hibernating.
* [TheKorn]  Same here; no options to report anything on first test faceplant.  Can hit the power button to try and bring it back up, but then I have to pull the battery and the AC adapter as it locks up HARD.  Toshiba Satellite L305.
* [Sihendra] Same with my NEC P9110. In the first test: succesfully suspended but failed auto resume. When trying manual resume nothing shown on the LCD and require me to hold the power button for secs to do hard boot, after reboot nothing happened.

[NicolòChieffo]: my laptop does not automatically resume after 20 seconds. Where can I report it?
* AndyWhitcroft: does it resume if you request it do so by hand?  If so then this is an acpi wakeup issue.  See bug  Bug:307090 in Launchpad as well as the upstream bug <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=12013|12013]]</nowiki>
** TomVetterlein: Has anyone reported this yet? If so what is the bug number? I'm happy to report if need be. Obviously I don't want to knowingly create a duplicate bug though.
**** Reported for the Dell XPS M1330 as <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/353115|bug 353115]]</nowiki>, which resumes fine by hand and on lid-open, but not on a timer.
**** [arqbrulo]: For those of us where the "hpet=disable" did not work, is there a bug report / solution yet?
** baldrick: "Does it resume if you request it do so by hand?".  The script also mentions resuming by hand: "Should the machine fail to resume, first attempt to manually resume it."  What does this mean - how does one manually resume?

GregKNicholson: is this only for laptops? I'd like to test my desktop but, obviously, removing the AC cord wouldn't work as anticipated :)
* SebastianBreier: There's a --server switch for the script. Haven't researched it, but maybe this is good for desktops as well?

[alkisg]: The stress test has too many repetitions (30) for the (common?) case that the laptop doesn't autoresume after the specified timeout. I don't think many users will have the patience to manually resume the laptop 30 times (I know I didn't :)).

[Walter_Wittel]: Thanks for the fantastic script! An HTML form for results entry would be good to reduce wiki locking problems (how many have results and gave up?).

[André Pirard]: plz note a slight typo : "consumed: X mW" should be "consumed: X mWh".

[lp:_sebastian_]: Can I run this script on my intrepid installation and the results will still help? CUrrently I have no time and HDD space to install jaunty beta.

[Miron Cuperman]: A couple of issues.  First, to people that have experienced issues with wakeup, I find that wakeup works if RTC is set to UTC, not localtime.  Second, power consumption calculation doesn't really work with my setup and is probably underestimated in many setups because it takes time for the measurement to settle.  With my Sony Vaio VGN-SZ360 it shows negative power consumption, where in fact the sleep consumption is pretty high (2500 mW).  I recommend changing the estimate procedure as follows: measure battery state X, sleep 20 minutes, wake up, wait 5 minutes, measure battery state Y, wait 5 more minutes, measure battery state Z.  Hourly sleep consumption is then: (Y - (Z - Y) - X) * 3.

[Paul Stotts]: I'm not sure what to do with this information, so I'll put it here.
I have a Compaq Presario 1500, which passed the script test except for one problem. After the first test, the keyboard no longer worked, and I couldn't unlock the machine until I pluged in an external usb keyboard to enter my password. After that one time, the password prompt never came up. When I tried to report the results, I found that 'Auto eth0' was down, and I had to run dhclient to get the network established again.
Video=Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 7500]
Ethernet Controler=82801CAM (ICH3) PRO/100 VE (LOM) Ethernet Controller
Kernel Version=2.6.28-11-generic
If someone else wants to take it from here it would be ok with me. (I'm going to try to back out of here gracefuly)

=== Script questions ===

[lp:_sebastian_]: Is it possible to run this script and do the testing on a live-CD system? If so, are there special things I need to take care when testing on a live-CD environment?

[André Pirard]: In my mind, there is no theoretical reason why suspend/resume would not work with a liveCD. However, gathering diagnostic data left behind a crash is impossible after a cold reboot, unless such data would be redirected to, say, USB storage and there is no explained procedure to do that.
Jaunty life CD resume test only worked once on HP Compaq 6720s and never on Asus Z9200 both on which installed Intrepid is OK; X seems the problem; the test failed from the command line.
So, the question remains : is it really supposed to work and should it be debugged?

[Piete Brooks]: Ignoring theories, I just tried it on a ThinkPad T30 using 9.04 Beta, and it works (except that after the 20 min suspend it reports that the '''ECHO''' procedure is failing to tee. Mentions the battery consumption at the end, so I suspect no useful info lost).
Sure, if it fails then it'll be harder to get useful info, but if it works you can report that, and if not, you can report at which stage it failed.

* [lp:_sebastian_]: It seems that the live-CD as well as the USB-live-system don't work for this test. I can understand that it might be hard to impossible but on the other side I have to say IF the test would work on a live system I could run it on at least 5 machines. By now I can't even run it on my own as I don't want to upgrade right now.

[SorooshYazdani]: Quick question about running the script: My laptop fails to suspend and resume when it is not connected to the AC, however it doesn't crash, and if I connect the AC half an hour later, it will suspend no problem. When I run this script, should I do a cold restart after a failed/resume cycle? or can I just connect the AC and the fact that the AC status was different will be clear?

=== Reporting Questions ===

[BruceAdams]: I don't know what the video or wireless hardware is in my ThinkPad R50e laptop. Is there an easy way for Ubuntu to tell me what it knows about my hardware?

[André Pirard]: lspci and lshw at the command line will probably be clear enough

[Rafael Gattringer]: When the suspend test succeeds, but the resume part has to be activated manually, the contributors on this page report both PASS and FAIL. So perhaps it should be defined, if PASS only stands for the suspend part or also implies, that the resume part was done as intended automatically.

[André Schild]: All tests did work for me, but the laptop always did suspend for 5 minutes, no matter if the script was telling me it would suspend for 20 second, 20 minutes or counted down to a few seconds. I did not relize this in the first try. Purhaps others which tell that it did not resume itself, perhaps would also have had to wait 5 minutes?

[George Poulson]:  Asus EEE PC 900, Ubuntu Karmic UNR9.10, all updates applied as at 2010-02-09 21:00 GMT

First test: SUSPEND FAILED, did not go to sleep

Tests 2-5: All OK

Test 6:
before: 80 mWh
after: 100 mWh
consumed: -20 mW
sleep seconds: 1206 sec
overall usage: -59 mW

Tests 7-End - all OK

Something strange is happening re: battery consumption??

=== Script results ===

Hardware info and test results for https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/SuspendResumeTesting

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Model
| Video
| Wireless
| Kernel Version
| Manual PASS/FAIL
| Script PASS/FAIL
| Bug #
| Remarks
|-
| ACER ASPIRE ONE AO532h
| Intel N10 Family Integrated Graphics Controller
| Atheros Communications Inc. AR9285 Wireless Network Adapter
| 2.6.38-5-generic
| PASS
| FAIL
| 708959
| Test 1 SUSPEND FAILED, did not go to sleep. All others passed Battery Consumption 128 mW
|-
| Toshiba Portege R500 (PPR50E-00K00JEN)
| Intel 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express
| Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 4965 AG or AGN
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 100% PASS no errors or problems.  Battery Consumption: 846 mW
|-
| Acer TravelMate 5720
| Intel GM965/GL960
| Intel PRO/Wireless 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Acer Aspire 1640
| Intel Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML
| Intel(R) Pentium(R) M processor 1.73GHz
| 2.6.32-14-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery consumption: 107 mw
|-
| Acer 5315-2122
| Stock
| Stock
| 2.6..228-11generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Battery  Consumption: 0mW (unreliable)  - Did not suspend or in other tests Hybernate
|-
| Acer Aspire 2920
| Intel GM965/GL960
| Intel 3945 ABG
| 2.6.28-7
| PASS
| PASS 1-5, FAIL 6
| 
| Timeouts for auto-resume do not work - have to manually press power button to resume properly
|-
| Acer Aspire 3055
| ATI  RADEON Xpress 1100
| Atheros AR5007EG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| had to manually resume the system
|-
| Acer Aspire 3680
| Intel 945GM/GMS Integrated Graphics Controller
| Broadcom Corporation BCM4318 [AirForce One 54g] Wireless LAN Controller (rev 02)
| 2.6.27-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| works, Battery Consumption: 277 mW
|-
| Acer Aspire 4520
| Nvidia GeForce 7000M
| ar5bxb63
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Black screen after resume, CTRL+Alt+Fx - CTRL+Alt+F7 necesary for X to restart
|-
| Acer Aspire 5230
| ATI Radeon HD 3200
| Atheros AR928X
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| No auto-resume, black screen after manual resume
|-
| Acer Aspire 5536
| ATI Radeon HD 3200
| Atheros AR928X
| 2.6.31-5-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| No auto-resume, black screen after manual resume
|-
| Acer Aspire 5520
| NVidia Geforce 7000m
| Atheros AR242X
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Acer Aspire 5652WLMI
| Nvidia Geforce Go 7600
| Intel 3945 ABG
| 2.6.27-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Acer Aspire 5740-5780
| Intel Arrandale
| Atheros AR928X
| 2.6.32-14-generic-pae
| PASS
| FAIL 1, PASS 2-7
| 
| Consumed 31 mWh
|-
| Acer Aspire 5920g
| xserver-xorg-video-nv: nvidia 8600m gt
| Intel 4965
| 2.6.28-6
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/324895|324895]]</nowiki>
| X server fails to start/had to manually resume the system
|-
| Acer Aspire 5920g
| nvidia-glx-180: nvidia 8600m gt
| Intel 4965
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| had to manually resume the system
|-
| Acer Aspire 6930
| nvidia GeForce 9300m GS
| Intel Centrino 2
| 2.6.27-11
| PASS
| FAIL
| 
| had to manually resume the system each time
|-
| Acer Aspire 7004
| nvidia-glx-180: Nvidia Geforce Go 6100
| BCM4311 802.11b/g WLAN (rev 01)
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 122 mW
|-
| Acer Aspire 8930
| nvidia-glx-180.44: Nvidia Geforce 9600M GT
| Intel 5100
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| No bug report
|-
| Acer 9303WSmI
| Nvidia GeForce 7600
| Atheros
| 2.6.28-6
| FAIL
| 
| To be filed
| 
|-
| Acer Aspire 9410Z
| Nvidia Geforce 7300
| BCM4311 802.11b/g WLAN (rev 01)
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 74 mW
|-
| Acer Aspire 9500
| ATI Radeon Mobility X700
| Intel 2200BG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 135 mW. Timeouts for auto-resume do not work. I had to blacklist "saa7134" (if not, no resume → see <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/316405|this bug]]</nowiki>)
|-
| Acer Aspire 9920
| NVidia GeForce 8600M GT
| 4965AGN
| 2.6.28-11-generic #40-Ubuntu SMP
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Failed to suspend (freeze tasks failed) with some apps open, worked with only Firefox open, 23 mW
|-
| Acer Aspire One
| Intel 945GME
| Atheros AR242x
| 2.6.28-11.38
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 44mW
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOne|Acer Aspire One]]</nowiki> AOA 110L ZG5
| Intel 945GME
| Atheros AR242x (AR5BXB63)
| 2.6.28-11.37
| PASS
| FAIL 1, PASS 2-7
| 
| Test 1 (dbus) - suspend ok but had to manually resume after > 20 sec., not solved with hpet=disable
|-
| Acer Aspire One AOA 150 ZG5
| Intel 945GME
| Atheros AR242x (AR5BXB63)
| 2.6.28-11.37
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 29mW
|-
| Acer Aspire One AOA 150-Aw ZG5 120GB HDD
| Intel 945GME
| Atheros AR242x
| 2.6.26-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 38mW
|-
| Acer Aspire One D150
| Intel 945GME
| Atheros AR242x
| 2.6.28-11.38
| PASS
| PASS 1-6, FAIL 7
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/350769|#350769]]</nowiki>
| The 10" model seems to have different issues from the earlier models
|-
| Acer Extensa 5620
| Intel GM965
| Intel PRO/Wireless 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Doesn't work my usb keyboard after resume, but I can 'fix' it, if I detach and reattach.
|-
| Acer Extensa 5630Z
| Intel
| Atheros AR928X
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| After resume nm-applet connects to wireless network, but cannot access internet
|-
| Acer Extensa 5635Z
| Intel GMA4500M
| Atheros AR928X
| 2.6.31-17-generic x86_64
| PASS
| FAIL 1, PASS 2-7
| 
| *** TEST 1 -- suspend triggered via dbus message => SUSPEND FAILED, did not go to sleep. before: 4325 mWh after: 4313 mWh consumed: 12mW sleep seconds: 1207 sec overall usage: 35 mW
|-
| Acer TravelMate C210
| nVidia GeForce Go 7300
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 50mW
|-
| Acer TravelMate 4002 wlmi
| ATI Radeon Mobility 9700
| Intel 2200
| 2.6.28-11
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/350351|#350351]]</nowiki>
| Doesn't wake up after suspend.
|-
| Acer TravelMate 5720G
| ATI Radeon HD2400XT
| Intel  3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| FAIL
| 
| Battery Consumption: 60mW. Automatic resume doesn't work; always resumed manually.
|-
| Acer TravelMate 6293
| Intel X4500MHD
| Intel     PRO/Wireless 5300 AGN
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| FAIL
| 
| 
|-
| Acer TravelMate 6592
| ATI Radeon Mobility HD2400XT
| Intel 4965
| 2.6.27-11
| FAIL
| 
| 
| Doesn't wake up after suspend.
|-
| Acer TravelMate 800LCi
| ATI Radeon Mobility FireGL 9000
| Intel PRO/wireless 2100
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| FAIL
| 
| All manual resumes were successfull.  All auto resumes failed. 38mW
|-
| Acer TravelMate 8106wlmi
| ATI Radeon Mobility X700
| Intel 2915ABG
| 2.6.28-12
| PASS
| FAIL
| 
| All manual resumes were successfull.  All auto resumes failed. 54mW
|-
| Alienware M15X
| GeForce 8600GT
| Intel 4965 AG or AGN
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| FAIL
| 
| All manual resumes were successful.  All auto resumes failed.  Overall Consumption = 109mW.  First version of Linux I've used that resumed with functional wireless and sound out of the box.
|-
| Apple imac 8.1
| Mobility Radeon HD 2600 XT
| Broadcom Corporation BCM4328
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| FAIL
| 
| 
|-
| Apple Macbook Pro5.1
| GeForce 9400M
| 
| 2.6.28-6
| FAIL
| 
| 
| Has firmware issue unable to boot USB drive
|-
| Apple Macbook 4.1
| Intel GM965/GL960
| Broadcom Corporation BCM4328
| 2.6.28-11
| FAIL
| PASS
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/327311|#327311]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| Apple Macbook
| Intel 945GM
| Atheros AR5008
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Apple MacBook Pro4.1
| GeForce 8600M GT
| Broadcom BCM4328
| 2.6.28-6
| FAIL
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/324895|324895]]</nowiki>
| Xserver in a spin LP324895
|-
| Apple MacBook Pro 4,1
| GeForce 8600M GT
| Broadcom BCM4328
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 536 mW
|-
| Apple MacMini 2Ghz
| Intel 945GM
| Atheros AR242x
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Asus A6000 A6Jc
| nVidia 7300
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 804 mW. From time to time a black screen with some parts/windows visible after resuming.
|-
| Asus A6Ja
| Radeon Mobility X1600
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 390 mW. The first resume was screen locked and wanted a password. All other resumes did not. Is this intended?
|-
| Asus A6000 A6Va
| ATi Radeon Mobility X700
| Intel 2200BG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/334587|334587]]</nowiki>
| Laptop resumes only if proprietary drivers are enabled.
|-
| Asus A8JS
| GeForceGo 7700
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Auto resume does not work. No 20 minutes power test done.
|-
| Asus M70VM
| GeForce 9600M GS (rev a1)
| Atheros AR928X
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Auto resume does not work.  Used kepress (space) to resume after each sleep.  Overall usage: 737 mW for test 5.
|-
| Asus EeePC
| Intel Mobile 945GME
| Atheros AR242x
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Asus EeePC 701SD
| Intel Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML
| RTL8187SE
| 2.6.28-9
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Asus EeePC 900
| Intel Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML
| Atheros AR242x 802.11abg
| 2.6.28-8
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Asus EeePC 900
| Intel Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML
| Atheros AR242x 802.11abg
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/348469|348469]]</nowiki>
| I'm still seeing session loss after resume. Only problem that showed up running script was intermittent need to manually resume (sometimes it worked on its own).
|-
| Asus EeePC 900HD
| Intel Mobile 915GM/GS/910GML
| Realtek RTL8187SE
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| 
| 
| have to wake up manually (tap a key) every time, so did not do entire test script
|-
| Asus EeePC 901
| Intel Mobile 945GME
| RaLink RT2860
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Asus EeePC 1000
| Intel Mobile 945GME
| RaLink RT2860
| 2.6.28-8-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Asus EeePC 1000H
| Intel 945GME
| RaLink RT2860
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS*)
| PASS*)
| 
| 0mW *) didn't wake up by itself
|-
| ''Asus'' EeePC 1000H
| Intel 945GME
| RaLink RT2860
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS*)
| PASS*)
| 
| 0mW *) didn't wake up by itself
|-
| Asus EeePC 1000HE
| Intel Mobile 945GME
| Atheros AR928X
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 76 mW - did not resume automatically
|-
| Asus EeePC 1002HA
| Intel Mobile 945GME
| Atheros AR928X
| 2.6.28-13-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 0 mW
|-
| Asus F7F
| Intel Mobile 945GM/GMS/GME, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
| Intel PRO/Wireless 3945ABG [Golan] Network Connection (rev 02)
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| :-)
|-
| Asus F3SV
| GeForce 8600M GS
| Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 4965 AG or AGN [Kedron] Network Connection (rev 61)
| 2.6.28-11-generic x86_64
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| works without any problem. consumed: 429 mW overall usage: 1281 mW
|-
| Asus M6NE
| Radeon Mobility 9700
| Intel PRO/Wireless 2200BG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 137mW. On one resume (after delay 58) CPU fan was very loud, otherwise everything went ok.
|-
| Asus P1-AH2 Server
| nVidia GeForce 6150
| None
| 2.6.28-8-server
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Tested running the Ubuntu Server
|-
| Asus P5B
| nVidia GeForce 8800
| None
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| PASS
| 
| Always suspend for less than a second before resuming with no input
|-
| Asus X51R
| Radeon Xpress 200M
| none
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Doesn't resume. HDD LED is glowing, but there's no operations with HDD. Alt+SysRq+R,E,I,S,U,B doesn't work. Have to power off with button.
|-
| Asus Z9200
| ATI Radeon X700
| Intel 2200BG
| 2.6.27-11-generic i86
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| manual resume only
|-
| Asus Z37E
| Intel GM965/GL960
| Intel 4965 AGN
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| first time, kernel panicked during 42s delay, but not repeatable, so probably my usual kernel panics. "consumed 62mW" but "overall usage 184mW"
|-
| Benq JoyBook s32b
| Intel GM965/GL960
| Atheros AR242x 802.11abg
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Benq Joybook R23
| AMD Turion 64
| S3 Unichrome Pro VGA Adapter 64mb
| 2.6.28.13-generic AMD64
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Lost Wireless (RT2500 onboard chipset) first time and never got back. Occasional keyboard lock up-would recover on next suspend/resume cycle.
|-
| Bliss 4020 (Platform: FIC M296)
| Ati Radeon Mobility M9 [rv250]
| Wireless Marvell 8335
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Doesn't resume automatically in TEST1. power consumption : 0mW (227sec)
|-
| Clevo M767TU
| nVidia Geforce 9300M GS
| Intel 5300AGN
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| auto-resume did not work
|-
| Compal Hel80
| nVidia GeForce 7600 Go
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 83mW (Only works with proprietary nVidia driver; default nv driver doesn't bring up display)
|-
| Compaq Presario CQ60
| nVidia GeForce 8200M G
| ath9k
| 2.6.28-11
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/349608|#349608]]</nowiki>
| Fails to resume properly
|-
| '''HP''' Compaq Presario CQ50
| nVidia GeForce 8200
| Atheros AR242x
| 2.6.28-11-generic x86_64
| 
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/350169|350169]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| Compaq Presario V6200T
| Intel GM945
| Broadcom BCM43xx
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 0 mW
|-
| Compaq 8710w
| nVidia Quadro FX 1600M
| Intel PRO/Wireless 4965 AGN
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Compaq V2500CA
| ATI Technologies Inc Radeon XPRESS 200M 5955 (PCIE)
| Broadcom Corporation BCM4318 [AirForce One 54g] 802.11g Wireless LAN Controller (rev 02)
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Power consumption from script is negative: -32 mW; suspends below 14 seconds take 14 seconds
|-
| Dell Inspiron E1405
| Intel GM945
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| Has synaptic mouse issue
|-
| Dell Inspiron E1405
| Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
| Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 3945ABG [Golan] Network Connection (rev 02)
| 2.6.28-11-generic #37-Ubuntu SMP
| FAIL
| PASS 20sec tests, FAIL 20min
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/352207|#352207]]</nowiki>
| After enabling UXA in xorg.conf, for me, BOTH suspend and hibernate return to gdm.  The 20 minute test here resumed itself, but to gdm
|-
| Dell E1505
| Nvidia Gforce GO 7300
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Dell E1505
| Radeon X1400
| Broadcom BCM4328
| 2.6.27-11
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| 
|-
| Dell Inspiron E1505N
| Intel 950 GM
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.27-11
| Pass
| Pass
| 
| Timeouts for auto-resume do not work - have to manually press power button to resume properly; Battery consumption  46mw
|-
| Dell Inspiron E1505n
| GeForce Go 7300
| Broadcom Corporation BCM4401-B0 100Base-TX
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 77 mW
|-
| Dell Inspiron mini 9
| Intel 945GME
| Broadcom
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| FAIL
| 
| Timeouts for auto-resume do not work - have to manually press power button to resume properly
|-
| Dell Inspiron 600m
| ATI Technologies Inc Radeon RV250 [Mobility FireGL 9000] (rev 01)
| Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 2200BG [Calexico2] (rev 05)
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 626 mW - This system has been known to have failures on resume from suspend before.
|-
| Dell Inspiron 630m
| Intel Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML
| Intel PRO/Wireless 2200BG
| 2.6.27-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 2442mW
|-
| <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam-DellInspiron640m|Dell Inspiron 640m]]</nowiki>
| Intel Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML (rev 03)
| Intel PRO/Wireless 3945ABG [Golan] (rev 02)
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 44 mW
|-
| Dell Inspiron 1420
| Intel GM965/GL960
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Dell Inspiron 1420
| Intel GM965/GL960
| Intel 4965AGN
| 2.6.28-8-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Dell Inspiron 1420
| Intel 965
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Dell Inspiron 1420
| Intel GM965/GL960
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.31-12-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL 1, PASS 2-7
| 
| Battery Consumption: 53 mW
|-
| Dell Inspiron 1501
| Ati Radeon Xpress 1150 256MB
| Broadcom Corporation BCM4311 802.11b/g WLAN (rev 01)
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 80 mW
|-
| Dell Inspiron 1520
| Intel GM965/GL960
| Broadcom Corporation BCM4311 802.11b/g WLAN (rev 01)
| 2.6.28-11.38
| PASS
| FAIL #1 did not go to sleep, others: PASS
| 
| manual resume only
|-
| Dell Inspiron 1520
| Nvidia 8600M GT
| Intel 3945 ABG
| 2.6.27-11
| PASS
| FAIL
| 
| 
|-
| Dell Inspiron 1520
| Nvidia 8600M GT
| Intel 3945 ABG
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 74 mW (4GB RAM)
|-
| Dell Inspiron 1520
| Nvidia 8600M GT
| Intel 4965 AGN
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/350273|#350273]]</nowiki>
| Battery Consumption: 56 mW
|-
| Dell Inspiron 1520
| Nvidia 8600M GT
| 
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 2047 mW (2GB RAM)
|-
| Dell Inspiron 1520
| Nvidia 8400M GS
| Intel 3945 ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 62 mW
|-
| Dell Inspiron 1521
| ATI Radeon X1270
| Broadcom BCM4311
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| 
| 
| No problems encountered.
|-
| Dell Inspiron 1525
| Intel GM965/GL960
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/361061|361061]]</nowiki>
| Suspend works fine but not the auto resume
|-
| <nowiki>[[DellInspiron1546 | Dell Inspiron 1546]]</nowiki>
| ATI-M92 LP[MobilityRadeonHD 4300 Series]
| BroadcomBCM4312 802.11b/g LP-PHY
| 2.6.37-12-generic
| Pass
| Pass
| 
| Battery Consumption: 77 mW
|-
| Dell Inspiron 1720
| Nvidia 8600M GT
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Dell Inspiron 1721
| ATI Radeon X1200
| -
| 2.6.28-11.37
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 2215mW, SSD
|-
| Dell Inspiron 5150
| nVidia Corporation NV34M [GeForce FX Go5200 64M] (rev a1)
| Broadcom Corporation BCM4306 802.11b/g Wireless LAN Controller (rev 02)
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 74 mW - This system has been known to have failures on resume from suspend and hibernate before.
|-
| Dell Inspiron 6000
| ATI Mobile Radeon X300
| Intel 2200BG
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Dell Inspiron 6400
| Intel 945
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| ??
| 
| 
|-
| Dell Inspiron 6400
| Intel 945
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-9
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Suspend Battery 32mW
|-
| Dell Inspiron 6400
| Intel 945
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| FAIL
| 
| Suspend/resume was fine but I had to manually resume every time
|-
| Dell Inspiron 6400
| ATI Radeon X1400
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 56 mW
|-
| Dell Inspiron 6400
| ATI Radeon X1400
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.27-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 41 mW, using open radeon driver
|-
| Dell Inspiron 6400
| Intel 945
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-9
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Dell Inspiron 6400
| nVidia !GeForce Go 7300
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11
| 
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 118 mW
|-
| Dell Inspiron 8600
| ATI RV350 [Mobility Radeon 9600 M10]
| Intel 2915ABG
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Dell Inspiron 8600
| NVidia !GeForce FX Go5200
| Intel 2200BG
| 2.6.27-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Dell Inspiron 8600
| NVidia !GeForce FX Go5200
| Intel 2915ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Manual or first test in script does go to suspend, and power LED fades in and out as expected, but then nothing can bring it out of suspend.  Pressing any key or mouse does nothing.  Pressing power button or LCD close switch causes something to happen, power LED shines on steady green, rainbow streaks appear on the screen, which then slowly fades to a beautiful purple cloud, which fades to a nice green, ...   Nothing can revive it except Alt+SysRq+B
|-
| Dell Inspiron 9400/E1705
| ATI Radeon Mobility X1400
| Dell Wireless 1500
| 2.6.28-9
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 68mW
|-
| Dell Inspiron 9400
| ATI Radeon Mobility X1400
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| FAIL
| 
| Didn't run the whole test. Automatic resume didn't work, everything else was fine
|-
| Dell Latitude C400
| Intel 830M
| 
| 2.6.28-11
| FAIL
| PASS
| 
| The test passes but the screen does not turn on after the first suspend and you have to complete the test via remote desktop. Therefore FAIL on manual suspend.
|-
| Dell Latitude C600
| ATI Rage Mobility M3 AGP 2x
| 
| 2.6.28-7
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/329104|329104]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| Dell Latitude C640
| ATI Radeon Mobility 7500
| ?
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| PASS 1-3, FAIL 4
| 
| Screen is corrupted after resume. Something moves when I move the pointer. Switching to terminal makes screen blank.
|-
| Dell Latitude C810
| nVidia NV11 [!GeForce2 Go]
| None
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Ethernet Controller: Xircom Cardbus Ethernet 10/100 (Xircom Device 1181) - Kernel driver in use: xircom_cb => Ethernet doesn't work after first resume and later; Test6 (battery drain during suspend) - consumed 580mW; overall Battery-Comsumption: 1718mW
|-
| Dell Latitude D400
| Intel 82852/855GM rev 02
| Broadcom BCM4306 802.11b/g
| 2.6.31-14-generic
| PASS
| TEST 1 - FAIL, TEST 2-7 PASS
| TEST 1 - SUSPEND FAILED, did not go to sleep
| TEST 6: consumed: 130 mW, sleep seconds: 1204 sec, overall usage: 388 mW
|-
| Dell Latitude D430
| Intel GMA945
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-8
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Dell Latitude D430
| Intel 945
| Broadcom 4328
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Dell Latitude D520
| Intel 945
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Most tests passed, but several required me to manually push the power button for the resume to work.
|-
| Dell Latitude D610
| ATI X300
| Intel 2915ABG
| 2.6.28-11
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Tested from CD/Live system: After script starts, first wakeup has to happen manually, then machine wakes up somewhat, but X is hosed - you see the mouse pointer blinking, Kill leads to X restarting
|-
| Dell Latitude D620
| NV G72M
| BCM4311
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Dell Latitude D620
| NV G72M
| Intel3945ABG, BCM5752
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery consumption is 68mW
|-
| Dell Latitude D620
| Intel 945GM
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery consumption is 35mW
|-
| Dell Latitude D630
| Intel GM965
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Dell Latitude D630
| nVidia Corporation Quadro NVS 135M (rev a1)
| Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 3945ABG [Golan] Network Connection (rev 02)
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/jockey/+bug/34043|34043]]</nowiki>
| had to add 'Option "NvAGP" "1"' to the NVIDIA Device section in xorg.conf, otherwise resume never worked
|-
| Dell Latitude D820
| NV Quadro NVS 120M
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11
| See remarks
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/checkbox/+bug/353078|#353078]]</nowiki>
| Manual resume works with nv-glx-180 driver. Screen does not resume with open driver. Auto resume does not work with either driver.
|-
| Dell Latitude D830
| Intel GM965/GL960
| BCM4311
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Dell Latitude D830
| Quadro NVS 140M
| Intel 4965 AG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery consumption is 14mW
|-
| Dell Latitude D830
| Quadro NVS 140M
| Intel 3945 AG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery 59mW usind nvidia driver
|-
| Dell Latitude E6400
| Intel X4500MHD
| Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 5300 AGN
| 2.6.28-11.38
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Does not wake up after 20sec, had to press the power button to resume. All the rest seemed to work fine.
|-
| Dell Latitude E6400
| Intel X4500MHD
| Broadcom BCM4312
| 2.6.28-11-generic 64bit
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| All seemed to work fine. (Broadcom 5.10.27.11)
|-
| Dell Latitude E6500
| nVidia Quadro NVS 160M 256MB
| Intel WiFi Link 5300
| 2.6.28-11-generic x86_64
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| No display on waking (Seems to partially come back - wifi led is on, but capslock is unresponsive)  Happens both with open and proprietary video driver.
|-
| Dell Optiplex GX260
| Intel 82845G/GL
| Intel 82540EM
| 2.6.28-13-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Goes into suspend but does not resume automatically.  Resumes with power button, but display is glitchy after resume. Goes to hibernate, but does not recover. Says "Waking up please wait", but then screen just goes black, though SSH still works.
|-
| Dell Precision M70
| nVidia
| 
| 2.6.28.11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery 59mW
|-
| Dell Precision M90
| Intel 3945ABG
| nVidia GeForce 7950GTX
| 2.6.28.11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Had to manually resume - Battery 89mW
|-
| Dell Precision M90
| Intel 3945ABG
| nVidia G71 [Quadro FX 1500M]
| 2.6.28.11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery 83mW
|-
| Dell Studio 1537
| Intel GM45 Express
| Intel 5300 AGN
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Dell Studio 1537
| ATI Radeon 3400
| Intel 5100 AGN
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 38 mW. Works perfectly if you fix the script to schedule alarm according to you timezone (not GMT)
|-
| Dell Studio 1555
| ATI Mobility Radeon HD 4570
| Intel WiFi Link 5100 802.11agn Half Mini-Card
| 2.6.32-22.33
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pm-utils/+bug/573938|Bug 573938]]</nowiki>
| Previously worked with Karmic
|-
| Dell Studio XPS 13
| NVIDIA 9500m
| Atheros AR928X
| 2.6.28-11-generic x86_64
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Can't autoresume after 20 seconds, pressing the power button works.
|-
| Dell Vostro 1000
| ATI Radeon Xpress 1150 HyperMemory
| Broadcom BCM4312 802.11a/b/g (rev 01)
| 2.6.28-11.40
| PASS
| FAIL
| 
| suspend ok but had to manually resume after > 20 sec., not solved with hpet=disable
|-
| Dell Vostro 1000
| ATI Radeon Xpress 1150
| Broadcom
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Dell Vostro 1310
| Intel 965GM
| iwl3945
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Dell Vostro 1400
| Intel GM965
| Intel 4965AGN and Broadcom BCM4311 rev 02
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| FAIL
| 
| Can't autoresume after 20 seconds, pressing the power button works. Battery consumption is 68mW
|-
| Dell Vostro 1400
| Nvidia GeForce 8400
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| 
| 
| Battery consumption is 53mW
|-
| Dell Vostro 1400
| Nvidia GeForce 8400
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery consumption is 65mW
|-
| Dell Vostro 1700
| Intel GM965/GL960
| Intel PRO/Wireless 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| --
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/352091|#352091]]</nowiki>
| Fails at third time
|-
| Dell XPS M1210
| Nvidia GeForce Go 7400
| Intel PRO/Wireless 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| The screen did not always redrawn correct after suspend, the background was black but Window decoration was ok
|-
| Dell XPS M1330
| Intel GM965/GL960
| Intel 4965 AG or AGN
| 2.6.28-6/2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Intrepid install/Jaunty kernel; Battery Consumption: 62 mW
|-
| Dell XPS M1330
| NVidia 8400M GS
| Intel 4965
| 2.6.28-6
| FAIL
| 
| ???
| Video issue on resume
|-
| Dell XPS M1330
| Intel GM965
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Dell XPS M1330
| NVidia 8400M GS
| Intel 4965
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/353115|bug 353115]]</nowiki>
| Ubuntu 9.04 beta. Doesn't auto-resume, requires power-button press. Using nvidia-173 binary-only driver. 45mW suspend consumption (over much longer test period)
|-
| Dell XPS M1330
| NVidia 8400M GS rev. a1
| Intel 3945ABG (rev 02)
| 2.6.27-11
| PASS
| FAIL
| 
| 
|-
| Dell XPS M1330
| nVidia G86 [GeForce 8400M GS]
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.38-5
| Test1 FAILED; else PASSED
| PASS
| 
| Natty install; Battery Consumption: 68 mW
|-
| Dell XPS M1330
| nVidia G86 [GeForce 8400M GS]
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.38-7
| Test1 FAILED; else PASSED
| PASS
| 
| Natty install; Battery Consumption: 77 mW
|-
| Dell XPS1530
| NVidia GE 8400
| Intel 4965 AG or AGN
| 2.6.28-6
| FAIL
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/324895|324895]]</nowiki>
| wifi doesn't work at all on boot
|-
| Dell XPS1530
| NVidia GE 8400
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| 
| 
| Using nvidia-glx-180 driver
|-
| Dell XPS m1530
| nVidia 8600M GT (rev a1)
| Intel 4965 AG or AGN
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 309 mW
|-
| EEPC Intel
| ??
| Atheros 5k
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Falcon Northwest (Desktop AMD, VIA K8V Deluxe motherboard)
| ATI AIW 9800 pro (r350 chip)
| wired Ethernet
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 425968
| Computer suspends but script doesn't resume it, and sometimes doesn't resume when I press the power button
|-
| Foxconn 6150K8MD-8EKRSH (Desktop board)
| Nvidia GeForce 6150+nForce 430
| 3com OfficeConnect Wireless 54Mbps 11g Compact USB Adaptor
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Suspend don't turn off PowerLED and CPU FAN, computer is not in suspend mode, but don't working. - only way out is reset or power off/on computer
|-
| FSC Amilo Si 1520
| Intel Mobile 945GM/GMS
| Intel 3945 ABG
| 2.6.28-11.37
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Touchpad dead after first resume. Battery Consumption: 53 mW; using UXA as AccelMethod
|-
| Fujitsu '''Siemens''' Amilo M1437G
| ATI Radeon Mobility X700
| Intel PRO/Wireless 2200BG
| 2.6.27-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 122mW
|-
| Fujitsu ESPRIMO Mobile U9200
| Intel GM965
| Intel 4965
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 38 mW
|-
| Fujitsu '''Siemens''' ESPRIMO Mobile V5545
| ATi Radeon HD2400
| Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 4965 AG or AGN [Kedron] Network Connection (rev 61)
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Power consumption 125mW (unreliable). Using ati-radeon open-source driver.
|-
| Fujitsu PSeries Lifebook
| Intel 855GE
| Intel 2200
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| successful 10 suspend/resumes - no need to manually resume
|-
| Fujitsu Siemens Lifebook C1320
| Intel Mobile 916GM/GMS/910GML
| Intel 2200BG (Centrino)
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| After test1 KDE asked for a login. After all the other tests it did not. No flaws at all. Wireless started up after resume on its own. Perfect result.
|-
| Fujitsu S6240
| Intel 915GM (rev 04)
| ipw2200 (Intel PRO/Wireless 2915ABG [Calexico2], rev 05)
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Fujitsu Lifebook T3010
| Intell 82852/855GM (rev 02)
| Intel PRO/Wireless 2100 3B Mini PCI (rev 04)
| (32 bit) 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS (with Note)
| Pass (with Note)
| 
| The wireless network goes away after wakeup from sleep, There is a workaround but this seems like a suspend related bug
|-
| Fujitsu Lifebook T4220
| Intel GM965/GL960
| Intel 4965 AGN
| 2.6.28-11-generic x86_64
| PASS/FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Generally, X always crashes on resume. Script fails to resume automatically (have to press power button or close/open lid).
|-
| Gateway P-7811fx
| Nvidia GeForce 9800M GTS
| Intel wifi link 5100 (abgn)
| 2.6.28-11-generic x86_84
| PASS
| FAIL
| 
| 
|-
| Gateway 7330GZ
| Stock
| Dell Latitude D600 Stock
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Caps Lock Button Blink (Kernel Panic)
|-
| HP 530
| Intel GM950
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-11-generic x86
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 0mW
|-
| HP 550
| Intel GM965 / Intel GMA X3100
| Broadcom BCM4312
| 2.6.27-7-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 11 mW
|-
| HP Compaq 6751s
| ATI Technologies Inc RS690M [Radeon X1200 Series]
| BCM4312 802.11a/b/g (rev 02)
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| FAIL
| 
| Automatic resume did not work for me, had to resume manually. I waited for longer than 5 minutes.
|-
| HP d530 SFF(DC578AV)
| 82865G Integrated Graphics Controller
| NetXtreme BCM5782 Gigabit Ethernet
| 2.6.27-7-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| HP DV6245
| Intel 945GM/GMS
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| HP G60-126CA
| nVidia GeForce 8200M G [10de:0845] (rev a2)
| Atheros AR928X Wireless [168c:002a] (rev 01)
| 2.6.28-11-generic x86_64
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/352098|352098]]</nowiki>
| after suspending, press power button to manually resume -- very slow -- finally comes to blank screen with white mouse pointer -- only option is manual poweroff
|-
| HP-G62
| Intel i915
| Atheros AR9285
| 3.0.0-9-generic
| FAILED-hibernate
| FAILED
| Bug #75288
| 
|-
| HP EliteBook 2730p
| Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 07)
| Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 5100 AGN [Shiloh] Network Connection
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Timeouts do not work - have to manually press power button to resume properly
|-
| HP Mini 1000
| Intel GM945
| Broadcom BCM4312
| 2.6.28-7
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| HP Mini 2133
| Via CN896
| BCM 4312
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| HP Mini 2133
| Via CN896
| BCM 4312
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| /home on SD card not mounted after resume
|-
| HP Mini 5102
| Intel NM10 Express
| Broadcom Corporation BCM4312 802.11b/g (rev 01)
| 2.6.32-22-generic
| PASS
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/checkbox/+bug/564971|Bug #564971]]</nowiki>
| TEST 1 FAIL: SUSPEND FAILED, did not go to sleep (<nowiki>[[http://launchpadlibrarian.net/49102147/5102ResumeTestResults.txt|HP Mini 5102 suspend_test --full Results (10.04)]]</nowiki>)
|-
| HP Pavilion dv2315nr (dv2000z)
| GeForce Go 6150
| Broadcom BCM4311
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 107 mW
|-
| HP Pavilion dv2570el
| Intel GM965
| Intel 3945 ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic x86_64
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 53 mW
|-
| HP Pavilion dv2845se
| NVIDIA GeForce Go 7150M
| Broadcom 4321AG
| 2.6.27-11-generic x86_64
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| In neither case it resumes; only a dark screen
|-
| HP Pavilion dv5230tx
| NVIDIA GeForce Go 7400
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Tested with Jaunty rc1.  Did not auto-resume in first test.  Manual resume also failed.  Suspend/resume works perfectly in Intrepid.
|-
| HP Pavilion dv5283ea
| NVIDIA GeForce Go 7400
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic x86_64
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 0mW
|-
| HP Pavilion dv5z
| ATI Mobility Radeon HD 3450
| Atheros AR242x
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Only cursor shows on resume, not rest of display
| 
|-
| HP Pavillion dv5-1050ep
| NVIDIA GeForce 9600M GT
| Broadcom BCM 4312
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/301353|301353]]</nowiki>
| Can sleep properly, but doesn't respect timeouts as defined in suspent/resume test script nor does it resume successfully in either case. It just goes on writing messages to the screen about failed attempts to access the disk (somethink like that!) and that change of status was detected.
|-
| HP Pavilion dv7-1113eo
| ATI Mobility Radeon HD 3450
| Atheros AR242x
| 2.6.28-7-generic
| FAIL
| 
| 
| Keybord, touchpad not working after first resume.
|-
| HP Pavilion dv7-1132d, TurionX2
| ATI RS780M/RS780MN
| Atheros AR928X pci-x
| 2.6.28-6
| FAIL
| 
| ???
| 
|-
| HP Pavilion dv-6324us
| NVidia GeForce 6150 Go
| Bssroadcom BCM4311
| 2.6.28.11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Screen is sometimes black except the gnome-term until refreshed. Battery Consumption: 95mW
|-
| HP Pavilion dv-6635el
| NVidia GeForce 8400M GS
| Intel 3945 ABG
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Had to manually resume the system. Battery Consumption: 91 mW
|-
| HP Pavilion dv-6700t
| NVidia GeForce 8400M GS
| Intel 4965 AGN
| 2.6.28-11
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Manual resume required to advance script.  Test failed two times: once at 30 seconds of interative test and once at 50 seconds.
|-
| HP Pavilion dv-6740er
| NVidia GeForce 8400M GS
| Broadcom 4312
| 2.6.28-11
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/335682|335682]]</nowiki>
| Suspend works fine, Resume fails, last known working Ubuntu version is 8.04
|-
| HP Pavilion dv-6807eo
| NVidia GeForce 8400M GS
| Atheros AR242x 802.11abg
| 2.6.28-11
| FAIL
| 
| 
| 
|-
| HP Pavilion dv-6830us
| Intel X3100
| Broadcom 4312
| 2.6.28.10
| 
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 95mW
|-
| HP Pavilion dv-8211eu
| ATI Radeon Xpress 200M
| Broadcom 4311
| 2.6.31-20
| FAIL
| FAIL 1,2 and stopped
| #447058
| battery consumption VERY high
|-
| HP Pavilion dv-9533eg
| NVidia GeForce 8400M GS
| Broadcom bcm4328 802.11b/g/n
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/335682|335682]]</nowiki>
| Suspend works fine, Resume fails, last known working Ubuntu version is 8.04 LTS
|-
| HP Pavilion dv-9530em
| NVidia GeForce 8400M GS
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 95 mW
|-
| HP Pavilion dv-9894ca
| NVidia GeForce 8400M GS
| BCM4328 802.11a/b/g/n (rev 03)
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Ran it Live
|-
| HP Pavilion 061
| GeForce FX 5200
| None
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| FAIL
| 
| No auto-resume. Network lost after resume
|-
| HP Pavilion tx2510
| ATI Radeon HD 3200
| Broadcom BCM4328 802.11a/b/g/n (rev 03)
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| FAIL
| 
| No auto-resume. Notice it is known to be affected by bug 307090, but auto-resume in the script doesn't work even after it does work normally (thanks to the "hpet=disable" tweak).
|-
| HP nw8440
| ATI Mobility X1600
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-8
| PASS
| PASS
| --(#328522)--
| fixed
|-
| HP nc6400
| Intel 945GM
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| FAIL
| 
| Does not autoresume, otherwise fine through the manual part of the script.
|-
| HP nc6400
| Intel 945GM
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| All is fine at my box. Battery Consumption: 35 mW. HW Version: 68YCU BIOS Ver. F.0A Release Date: 04/17/2007
|-
| HP nc6320
| Intel 945GM
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.27-14
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 35 mW After test #2 backlight fails.
|-
| HP nc6220
| Intel 915GM
| Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 2915ABG
| 2.6.28-11.37
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Manual Resume Only
|-
| HP nc8430
| ATI Radeon Mobility X1600
| Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 3945ABG [Golan] Network Connection (rev 02)
| 2.6.28-11.37
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Had to manually resume the system. Battery Consumption: 36 mW.
|-
| HP Compaq nx6110
| Intel 915GM/GMS/910GML
| Broadcom BCM4318
| 2.6.28-11.38
| PASS
| FAIL #1 did not go to sleep, others: PASS
| 
| manual resume only
|-
| HP Compaq nx6110
| Intel 915GM/GMS/910GML
| Intel 2200BG [Calexico2]
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| manual resume only, Battery Consumption: 31mW.
|-
| HP nx6110
| Intel 915GM
| Broadcom BCM4318
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| HP nx6125
| Radeon Xpress 200M
| n/a
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 67mW. manually resume only
|-
| HP nx6310
| Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/GME, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
| Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 3945ABG Network Connection (rev 02)
| 2.6.24-24-generic
| PASS
| FAIL #1, PASS #2-#6
| 
| TEST #6: before: 2726 mWh after: 2720 mWh consumed: 6 mW sleep seconds: 1206 sec overall usage: 17 mW
|-
| HP nx6310
| Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/GME, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
| Broadcom Corporation BCM4311 802.11b/g WLAN (rev 01)
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 11 mW
|-
| HP nx6325
| Ati Radeon Xpress 200M
| Broadcom Corporation BCM4312
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| I always had to resume manually. USB Mouse only worked after replugging. Cosumed: 16mW
|-
| HP Compaq nx7000
| ATI Technologies Inc Radeon RV250 [Mobility FireGL 9000] (rev 01)
| Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless LAN 2100 3B Mini PCI Adapter (rev 04)
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 48 mW
|-
| HP Compaq nx8220
| ATI Technologies Inc Radeon X600
| Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 2200bg
| 2.6.31-20-generic
| FAIL
| PASS
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pm-utils/+bug/550548|#550548]]</nowiki>
| Battery Consumption: 33 mW; I have these problems in while executing "Hibernate/Resume smoke test" (snr-003) on Ubuntu Karmic Koala (9.1) with my HP Compaq nx8220: [ 411.412730] ipw2200: Unable to load ucode: -22 [ 411.412738] ipw2200: Unable to load firmware: -22 [ 411.412740] ipw2200: Failed to up device [ 413.288109] PM: Cannot find swap device, try swapon -a. After these error on Ubuntu-9.1_LIVE --> black screen, moving mouse I see normal Desktop. on Ubuntu-9.1_INSTALLED --> my pc hibernate normally. In both case after this all works normally. What Can I do to improve this strange behavior ?
|-
| HP Compaq nx9010
| ATI Technologies Inc Radeon IGP 330M/340M/350M
| RaLink RT2500 802.11g Cardbus/mini-PCI (rev 01)
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/367184|367184]]</nowiki>
| Blank screen on resume
|-
| HP Compaq 6530b
| Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 07)
| Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 5100 AGN [Shiloh] Network Connection
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/349768|349768]]</nowiki>
| Battery Consumption: 40 mW After test, fails to wake itself up
|-
| HP Compaq 6710b
| Intel GM965/GL960
| Intel 3945ABG/BG
| 2.6.28-9
| FAIL
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/349768|349768]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| HP Compaq 6710b
| Intel Mobile GM965/GL960
| PRO/Wireless 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11 x86_64
| 
| FAIL
| Info added to <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/349768|349768]]</nowiki>
| Results from the script are really bad
|-
| HP Compaq 6710b
| Intel Mobile GM965/GL960 (rev 0c)
| Broadcom Corporation BCM4328 802.11a/b/g/n (rev 03)
| 2.6.27-9-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Possible glitch on first resume, came right after hitting ctrl-alt-f7
|-
| HP Compaq 6715b
| ATI Technologies Inc RS690M [Radeon X1200 Series]
| Broadcom Corporation BCM4312 802.11a/b/g (rev 02)
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 68mW, no automatic resume, wlan and bluetooth working, hpet=disable did not solve automatic resume problem
|-
| HP Compaq 6720s
| Intel GM965/GL960
| Broadcom BCM4312
| 2.6.27-9-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/349768|349768]]</nowiki>
| 53 mW, manual resume only
|-
| HP Compaq 6720s
| Intel GM965/GL960
| Broadcom BCM4312
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/352689|352689]]</nowiki>
| 53 mW
|-
| HP Tablet PC Tx1100
| NV17 [GeForce4 420 Go 32M]
| ipw2100
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/jockey/+bug/34043|34043]]</nowiki>
| had to add 'Option "NvAGP" "1"' to the NVIDIA Device section in xorg.conf, otherwise resume never worked
|-
| INMOVE (Asustek barebone) S37S
| nvidia-glx-180: nvidia 8400m G
| Intel 4965
| 2.6.28-7
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Intel DX58SO2 Motherboard
| nVidia GeForce GT 430
| N/A
| ubuntu 2.6.38-8
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| dbus did not trigger suspend.  If machine is left for several hours it reboots rather than resuming (bug reported to Intel by PCS For Everyone
|-
| Lenovo 3000 N500
| Intel GMA 4500HD
| Intel Wireless WiFi Link 5100AGN REV=0x54
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| none
| Battery Consumption: 155 mW; Celeron M 575, 2GB
|-
| Lenovo 3000 N500
| Intel GMA 4500MHD
| Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 5100 AGN [Shiloh] Network Connection
| 2.6.28-11.40
| PASS
| FAIL
| 
| Resume did not function at all automatically but worked manually.  before:5132 mWh,after: 5132 mWh,consumed: 0 mW,sleep seconds: 2095 sec,overall usage: 0 mW.  Intel(R) Pentium(R) Dual  CPU  T3200  @ 2.00GHz.  2GB.
|-
| Lenovo 3000 N100 0768
| Intel GMA 945
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-11 x86_64
| PASS
| FAIL
| 
| no automatic resume. Resume works fine manually
|-
| Lenovo 3000 N100
| Nvidia GeForce Go 7300
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28.11.14
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 119 mW, no automatic resume, manual resume works perfectly
|-
| Lenovo 3000 N100
| Nvidia GeForce Go 7300
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| FAIL
| 
| SD/MMC cardreader not working after resume. No automatic resume. Touchpad stops responding after 2nd resume. Keyboard stops responding after 5th resume.
|-
| Lenovo 3000 N200
| Intel GM950
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| IBM ''''Thinkpad'''' R31
| Intel 830
| BCM4306
| 2.6.28-11-generic#40
| Fail
| Fail
| 
| Passed after one upgrade, but Fails now always, after another update :-(. WAS: Had to manually resume by pressing Fn key. Previous beta Jaunty kernel failed immediately, this is first one since 7.10 working 100% so far
|-
| Lenovo ThinkPad R500
| Intel 4500mhd
| Intel 5100
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| works
|-
| Lenovo R61
| Intel GM965
| Intel 3945abg
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Lenovo R61
| Intel 965GM
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| FAIL
| 
| Energy consumption: 1214mW. With just battery, fails to wake itself up (tries to do so, but goes to sleep again, have to press suspend key combo)
|-
| Lenovo R61
| nVidia Quadro NVS 140M (using nVidia 180.44 driver)
| Intel 4965 AGN
| 2.6.28-11-generic #39-Ubuntu SMP 64-bit
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 240 mW.  Had to manually resume on tests 2, 4, and 6
|-
| Lenovo T60
| Intel 945GM
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Lenovo T60p
| Mobility FireGL V5250
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 920 mW. Test 4, had to manually press power button to comeback from sleep state
|-
| Lenovo T61
| Intel 965GM
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Lenovo T61
| Intel 965GM
| Intel 4965
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| Energy consumption: 1400mW, with battery, fails to wake itself up (tries to do so, but goes sleeping again, have to press powerbutton
|-
| Lenovo T61
| Intel 965GM
| Intel 4965
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/350337|350337]]</nowiki>
| The script fails to resume on battery.  All process on AC work just fine
|-
| Lenovo T61
| nVidia Quadro NVS 140M (using open-source display driver)
| Intel 4965
| 2.6.28-11
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Test 1: FAIL resume fails with blank (but lit) screen, no error reporting mechanism started on reboot. Could not proceed to Test 2 onwards.
|-
| Lenovo T61
| nVidia Quadro NVS 140M (using proprietary display driver)
| Intel 4965
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Test 2: automatic resume fails, manual resume then succeeds. Test 4: automatic resume fails, manual resume then succeeds. Test 6: automatic resume fails, manual resume then succeeds (consumed 430mW, overall usage 1266mW). Battery Consumption: 1266 mW
|-
| Lenovo T61P
| Intel 82PM965 & nVidia Quadro FX 570M
| Intel 4965
| 2.6.28-11
| FAIL
| 
| 
| fails to wake itself up (tries to do so, but goes sleeping again, have to press powerbutton
|-
| Lenovo X60s
| Intel 945GM
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Lenovo X60
| Intel 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express (rev 03)
| Intel 3945ABG [Golan] (rev 02)
| 2.6.27-11-generic
| FAIL
| PASS
| 
| It does not automatically un-suspend if the power cord is disconnected
|-
| Lenovo X61s
| Intel GM965/GL960
| Intel 4965 AG or AGN
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Lenovo X61
| Intel 965
| Intel 4965
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| Will sometimes hang after multiple suspend/resums; also suffers from know issue of immediate suspend after resume if using hotkeys to issue suspend
|-
| Lenovo X61
| Intel 965
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| also suffers from known issue of immediate suspend after resume if using hotkeys to issue suspend
|-
| Lenovo ''''Thinkpad'''' X61 Tablet
| Intel 965
| Intel 4965
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Had to manually resume by close/open lid or pressing Fn key. 666 mW (when leaving it suspended overnight)
|-
| Lenovo X61
| Intel 965
| Atheros AR5212
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Lenovo X61s
| Intel 965GM
| Intel 465AG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| Pass
| na.
| 
| Jaunty update of 04.04.09 fixed suspend/resume problems
|-
| Lenovo '''ThinkPad''' T500
| Intel X4500HD
| Intel 5350
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| Fail 2 and 4
| 
| Doesn't resume automatically in TEST2 and 4. It is tried to resume. HDD and fun start working but after 2 second switch off. After manual press power button system start normally. power consumed 280 mW, Sleep 1220 sec, overall usage 826 mW
|-
| Lenovo W500
| ATI Radeon HD3650
| Intel WiFi 5300
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| suspend is fine, but does not resume. I get a black screen most of the time. The wireless LED goes to stable state and the hard disk LED stops blinking. Most likely a graphics problem.
|-
| Lenovo X200
| Intel GM45 Express
| Intel 5300
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 824 mW.Had to manually resume when AC chord was unplugged
|-
| Lenovo X200 Tablet
| Intel GM45 Express
| Intel 5100AGN REV=0x54
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 862 mW. Manual resume required for all tests
|-
| Lenovo X200 Tablet
| Intel GMA X4500MHD
| Intel 5100AGN REV=0x54
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 862 mW. Manual resume required for all tests
|-
| Lenovo X301
| Intel GMA 4500MHD (rev 7)
| Intel WiFi Link 5300
| 2.6.31-19
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: N/A. Manual resume required when AC not  pluged in. Failed under early Karmic kernels, now works reliably.
|-
| Lenovo ???
| NVS140M
| 
| 2.6.28-6
| FAIL
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/324895|324895]]</nowiki>
| X server in flat spin LP324895
|-
| Lenovo Ideapad S10e
| Intel 945GME
| Broadcom BCM4312
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Lenovo Ideapad Y530
| GeForce 9300M GS (rev a1)
| Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 5100 AGN [Shiloh]
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Failed in test case #1. Switched to text mode and did not power off monitor.
|-
| LG E500 L.APFNV
| Intel GM965/GL960
| Atheros AR5007EG
| 2.6.27-11
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Can't resume from suspend, Hibernate works
|-
| LG E500 X.APCAY
| ATI Mobility HD2600
| Atheros AR242x
| 2.6.28-11
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Can't resume from suspend.
|-
| LG LW60 Express
| Intel Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML
| Intel PRO/Wireless 2200BG [Calexico2]
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/349768|349768]]</nowiki>
| Battery Consumption: 24mW, manual resume only
|-
| LG R405-A.CP03A9
| ATI Radeon Xpress 1250
| RaLink RT2860
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/358192|358192]]</nowiki>
| The script fails to resume from suspend, also in the stress test (in which the system was resumed manually) the system failed to resume in one of the later auto tests, even when the power button was pressed to manually resume.
|-
| Maxdata ECO 4000A
| SiS 661/741/760
| RaLink RT2500
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| PASS
| 
| 104 mW; Manual Resume needed twice during the iteration cycle at 36 and 14 seconds.
|-
| Medion 40653
| ATI Mobility Radeon 9600 M10 / RV350
| 
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Medion MD95600 (Rebranded MSI MS-1012)
| Intel Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML
| Intel PRO/Wireless 2200BG [Calexico2]
| 2.6.18-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/351094|#351094]]</nowiki>
| Screen did not recover after resume, was black/off
|-
| Medion MD96500
| ATI X700 XL
| Intel® Pro/Wireless 2200
| 2.6.27-14
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| No auto suspend
|-
| Medion MD96970
| nVidia GeForce 9300M G (rev a1)
| Intel® PRO/Wireless 4965 AG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| 
|-
| MSI M510C
| ATI Mobility Radeon 9700
| Intel 2200 BG
| 2.6.31-19-generic
| PASS
| FAIL 1, PASS 2-7
| 
| Test 1: SUSPEND FAILED, did not go to sleep; Battery Consumption: 47 mW
|-
| MSI M662
| Intel  Intel Graphics Media Accelerator 950
| Ralink RT73
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| none
| Jaunty in June 2009 (failed in May 2009)
|-
| MSI NOTEBOOK VR630
| GeForce 9100M G (rev a2)
| Atheros AR928X
| 2.6.28-11
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/349983|#349983]]</nowiki>
| Fail during resume.
|-
| MSI PC
| Nvidia Geforce 7300 (185.13)
| n/a
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| MSI S271
| ATI Radeon Xpress 200M
| Realtek rt2500pci
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 80 mW
|-
| MSI S262
| Intel GM945
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| MIXED
| 
| The script is terminated on the test where I unplug AC while suspended. Only the first test requires password when waking up. I'm using Option "AccelMethod" "UXA", otherwise graphics are really slow. I will try once without UXA, and see how it goes. UPDATE: The script works when UXA is commented out. Also confirming that only test number one requires password on waking up.
|-
| MSI Wind U100
| Intel GM945
| Realtek 8187SE
| 2.6.28-8
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Timeouts for auto-resume do not work - have to manually press power button to resume properly
|-
| MSI Wind U100X
| Intel 945GME (rev 03)
| Realtek RTL8187SE
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 62 mW <<BR>> 65mW
|-
| Packard Bell BG46
| Intel GM965
| Atheros AR5007EG (AR242x)
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 672mW
|-
| Packard Bell SJ51
| nVidia 7000M
| Realtek 8187b
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| 
|-
| Panasonic toughbook CF-Y5
| Intel 945GM
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Had worked in 8.10
|-
| Panasonic toughbook CF-Y5
| Intel 945GM
| 
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/350711|350711]]</nowiki>
| had worked in 8.10
|-
| Panasonic CFY7J
| Intel GM965
| Intel 4965
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Sager NP5270
| nVidia GeForce GO 7800 GTX
| Intel 2915 ABG[Calexico2]
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| power consumption 125mW. All drivers ok
|-
| Samsung NC10 (UK)
| Intel 945GME
| Atheros AR242x
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Worked perfectly, auto resumes every test.  Battery suspend 0mw apparently (AC not plugged in).  UK NC10 2.6.28-11 (beefsack) // For me only resumes manually by pressing the power button. Everything else works fine. (atrejut)
|-
| Samsung NC10
| Intel 945GME
| Atheros AR242x
| 2.6.28-11
| FAIL
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/344183|344183]]</nowiki>
| failed TEST 4, no auto-resume from the script
|-
| Samsung NC20
| Via Chrome 9 VX800
| Intel Wifi Link 5100 (non-stock)
| 2.6.28-11
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| FAIL - no auto resume from any tests.  Battery Consumption: 219 mW. Despite auto resume not working, manual resume works perfectly
|-
| Samsung P35
| ATI Mobility Radeon 9600/9700 (RV350) Driver: radeon
| Intel Pro Wireless 2200BG
| 2.6.28-11-generic #42
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/366156|366156]]</nowiki>
| Screen keeps either black or shows psychedelic patterns after resume
|-
| Samsung Q1U
| ?
| Atheros
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Samsung Q45
| Intel Mobile GM965/GL960
| Intel PRO/Wireless 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11.38
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 185 mW
|-
| Samsung Q45
| nVidia GeForce 8400M G
| Intel PRO/Wireless 3945ABG [Golan]
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Timeouts for auto-resume do not work - have to manually press power button to resume properly
|-
| Samsung R50
| ATI Radeon Mobility X700 (Driver: radeon)
| Intel PRO/Wireless 2200BG
| 2.6.28-11
| Suspend fails/Hibernate works
| FAIL
| 
| Resume fails after Suspend. CPU workload 100%. Kubuntu 8.10 works without failures.
|-
| Samsung X20
| Intel GMA 900
| Intel PRO/Wireless 2200BG
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 20sec Timeouts did not work, manual wakeup worked. TEST6 auto resume worked, but was only 61secs. BattCons: 1416mW (unreliable)
|-
| Samsung NP-X60
| ATI M56P (Mobility Radeon X1600)
| IPW3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery 86mW
|-
| Self-built desktop
| ATI Radeon HD 2400 PRO
| n/a
| 2.6.28-7
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Did not unplug power cord: desktop has no battery
|-
| Self-built desktop
| Geforce 7600GT
| n/a
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Did not unplug power cord: desktop has no battery
|-
| Self-built desktop
| Geforce 8800 GTS
| n/a
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASSED MOSTLY
| 
| 4 from 30 test didn't go into sleep. By all tests i had to get it out of the suspend mode manually
|-
| Sharp D4 Intel Poulsbo
| 
| 
| 2.6.28-6
| FAIL
| 
| ???
| 
|-
| SHS Computer
| GeForce 8400M G
| USB wireless DWA-140
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Sony Vaio PCG-K33
| ATI IGP 340M
| Atheros AR5001X+
| 2.6.28-11
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/362096|362096]]</nowiki>
| Black screen after resume, required cold boot; never worked with 8.04/8.11
|-
| Sony Vaio PCG4C1L
| Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device
| Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 2200BG [Calexico2]
| 2.6.27-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Said it would suspend ... did ... after 40 secs I turned back on. Black screen.  Seemed to be at least partly resumed, but no video.  Could not test furthur.
|-
| Sony Vaio PCG-R600HFP (PCG-R505GC)
| Intel i830m
| Atheros AR5413
| 2.6.28-8
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Option "NoAccel" "true" in xorg.conf, because of nonworking EXA/UXA
|-
| Sony Vaio PCG-5B1L
| Intel 855GM
| Intel 2200BG
| 2.6.28-9
| PASS
| PASS
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hal-info/+bug/336521 | 336521]]</nowiki>
| No backlight on resume
|-
| Sony VAIO SZ450N
| GeForce Go 7400 Uses NV driver,
| 
| 2.6.28-6
| FAIL
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/324895|324895]]</nowiki>
| tested to fail with and without AC power & Wireless.
|-
| Sony VAIO SZ650N
| Intel GM965/GL960
| Intel 4965
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Sony VAIO SZ650N
| Nvidia GeForce 8400M (free driver)
| Intel 4965
| 2.6.28-11
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/351264 | 351264]]</nowiki>
| Fails to resume
|-
| Sony VAIO SZ650N
| Nvidia GeForce 8400M (non-free driver: nvidia)
| Intel 4965
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/349584 | 349584]]</nowiki>
| Fails to resume; video blank but can Ctrl+Alt+F1 to terminal
|-
| Sony VAIO TZ22VN
| Intel 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Sony VAIO TZ2500
| Intel Graphics Media Accelerator 950 graphics card
| Intel 4965 AG or AGN
| 2.6.24-23-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Does not auto-resume, does not produce bug report. After I turn it back on the screen stays off while the machine seems to work. Must turn manually restart machine.
|-
| Sony VAIO VGN-FE31M
| Geforce 7600
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 0 mW
|-
| Sony VAIO VGN-FE41M
| Geforce Go 7400
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic 64bit
| PASS
| FAIL
| 
| Does not resume on script (manual works)
|-
| Sony VAIO VGN-FW11M
| Mobility Radeon HD3400
| Intel Corporation Wireless WiFi Link 5100
| 2.6.28-11-generic 64 bit
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| ok
|-
| Sony VAIO VGN-FW21E
| ATI Mobility Radeon HD 3400 Series
| Intel Corporation Wireless WiFi Link 5100
| 2.6.28-11-generic 64 bit
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| I have to resume the laptop manually, Battery Consumption: 271 mW
|-
| Sony VAIO VGN-FZ21M
| Nvidia G86M GeForce 8400M GT
| PRO/Wireless 4965 AG or AGN Kedron
| 2.6.28-11-generic 64 bit
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| ok
|-
| Sony VAIO VGN-FZ31M
| Nvidia G86M GeForce 8400M GT
| PRO/Wireless 4965 AG or AGN Kedron
| 2.6.27-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| ok Battery Consumption: 3223 mW
|-
| Sony VAIO VGN-FW31ZJ
| Ati Radeon 3650 Mobility
| Intel Wireless WiFi Link 5100AGN REV=0x54
| 2.6.28-11-generic #36
| PASS
| Most passed, hard lockup during stress testing after 40 second delays
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/351262|351262]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| Sony VAIO VGN-NR32Z
| Geforce 8400M GT
| ?
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Ok
|-
| Sony VAIO VGN-TX2
| Intel 915GM
| Intel 2200BG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Suspend consumption: 580 mW
|-
| Sony VAIO VGN-S360
| ATI Mobility Radeon 9600 M10
| Intel PRO/Wireless 2200BG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 448 mW
|-
| System76 serval 3
| nvidia-glx-180: nvidia 8600m gt
| Intel 4965
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
|-
| ThinkPad R50e
| Intel 82852/855GM
| Intel 2200BG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| USB mouse issue fixed with 4/2 updates (same kernel version).
|-
| Thinkpad R51e
| ATI Mobility Radeon X200 (radeon driver)
| ath5k
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/351842|351842]]</nowiki>
| I must switch it on manually, and it does not resume. More on launchpad:)
|-
| Thinkpad R51 28885RU
| Intel 855GM
| Intel PRO/Wireless 2200BG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Do not resume automatically when on battery ; resume automatically on AC.
|-
| Thinkpad R61
| Quadro NVS 140M
| Intel 4965AGN
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 1197 mW
|-
| Thinkpad T21
| S3 Inc. 86C270-294 Savage/IX-MV (rev 11)
| Herkules HWGUSB2-54-V2 RT2571WF (Driver: rt73usb)
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS*
| PASS*
| 
| Battery Consumption: 537mW. Had to rmmod rt73usb and rt2x00usb before testing. Does not work when both loaded. First release I can do suspend. NO SOUND AFTER RESUME!
|-
| Thinkpad T21
| S3 Inc. 86C270-294 Savage/IX-MV (rev 11)
| Edimax EW-7318USgv (Driver: rt73usb)
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| 
| 
| 
| Suspend worked closing case and using Fn-F4. No sound after resume.
|-
| Thinkpad T30
| Radeon Mobility M7 LW (7500)
| ipw2915ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 1466 mW using 9.04 Beta liveCD
|-
| Thinkpad T30
| Radeon Mobility M7 LW (7500)
| ipw2915ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 1735 mW
|-
| Thinkpad T42
| Radeon Mobility M7 LW (7500)
| ipw2200BG ([Calexico2])
| 2.6.28-8.28-generic
| PASS
| PASS (see comment)
| 
| Did not auto-resume from the script if unplugged (but manual worked)
|-
| Thinkpad T42
| Radeon Mobility 9600 M10
| Atheros AR5212 ath5k
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS (see comment)
| 
| Did not auto-resume from the script if unplugged (but manual worked)
|-
| Thinkpad T42 (2373)
| Radeon Mobility M7 LW (7500)
| Atheros AR5212 ath5k
| 2.6.28-11.42, generic
| PASS
| PASS (see comment)
| 
| Did not auto-resume from the script if unplugged (but manual worked); Battery Consumption: 4664 mW
|-
| Thinkpad T42p
| A M10 NT FireGL
| Intel 2200BG
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Thinkpad T42p
| ATI Technologies Inc M10 NT [FireGL Mobility T2]
| Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless LAN 2100 3B Mini PCI Adapter
| 2.6.28.11.14
| 
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 926 mW
|-
| Thinkpad T42
| ?
| ?
| ?
| FAIL 1x (see bug report), else: PASS
| PASS (see remark)|
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/350682|350682]]</nowiki>
| Did not auto-resume from the script
|-
| Thinkpad T'''-'''60
| Intel 945
| Intel 3945AVG
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| Hangs once in a long while
|-
| Thinkpad T60
| ATI Radeon Mobility X1400
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Thinkpad T60 Tablet
| Intel 945GM (rev03)
| Atheros Communications Inc. AR5212 802.11abg NIC (rev 01)
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| auto wakeup doesn't work. power consumption 703mW. All drivers ok (incl. wireless) after script.
|-
| Thinkpad T60
| ATI Technologies Inc M52 [Mobility Radeon X1300]
| ATI Technologies Inc M52 [Mobility Radeon X1300]
| 2.6.28-11-generic x86_64
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| power consumption 1479mW. All drivers ok (incl. wireless) after script.
|-
| Thinkpad T60
| ATI Mobility Radeon X1300 (radeon driver)
| iwl3945
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[ https:--bugs.launchpad.net-ubuntu-+bug-351821|351821]]</nowiki>
| Doesn't resume automatically if on battery power. Manual resume ok. Failed to sleep about half of the time. Disconnected from network at the end of the script, but manual reconnect ok. Battery Consumption: 822 mW
|-
| Thinkpad T60p
| FireGL 5200
| Intel 3945abg
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Script cannot resume without AC power attached
|-
| Thinkpad T60p 2007-CTO
| ATI Technologies Inc M56GL [Mobility FireGL V5200]
| Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 3945ABG [Golan] Network Connection (rev 02)
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Thinkpad T61
| Intel GM965
| Intel 4965agn
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Thinkpad T61
| Intel GM965
| Intel 4965agn
| 2.6.28-11
| 
| 
| 
| First 3 suspends worked. Did not auto resume (pushed power button to resume.) Stopped test.
|-
| Thinkpad T61
| NV 104M
| Intel 4965
| 2.6.28-6
| FAIL
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/324895|324895]]</nowiki>
| Video Issue on Resume
|-
| Thinkpad T61
| Intel GM965
| Atheros AR5008
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| After some earlier tests I hade to resume manually. Batt. Cons. 1127 mW
|-
| Thinkpad T61
| nVidia Quadro NVS 140M (open source driver)
| Intel 4965 AGN
| 2.6.28-11
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-nv/+bug/324895|324895]]</nowiki>
| after resume, screen stays blank
|-
| Thinkpad T61
| nVidia Quadro NVS 140M (nVidia's driver, version 180)
| Intel 4965 AGN
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| with AC cord removed, auto-resume did not work
|-
| Thinkpad X32
| ATI Radeon Mobility M6 LY
| Intel 2200BG [Calexico2]
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Wakeup from suspend without AC requires the user to trigger a wakeup with the Fn-key, lid-switch, etc.
|-
| Thinkpad X40
| Intel 855GM
| Intel 2200BG
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Thinkpad X40
| Intel 855GM
| Intel 2200BG
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| FAIL auto-resume on tests 2, 4, 5, 6
| 
| Auto-resumes on timer when A/C cord present, but not otherwise
|-
| Thinkpad X40
| Intel 855GM
| Intel 2200BG
| 2.6.28-6
| FAIL
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pm-utils/+bug/292256|292256]]</nowiki>
| There are multiple types of X40, see bug #292256. A fix for #292256 is trivial, see my remark
|-
| Thinkpad X41
| Intel 915GM/PM/GMS/910GML
| PRO/Wireless 2915ABG [Calexico2]
| 2.6.28-6
| FAIL
| 
| 
| Fails to resume automatically when power is disconnected.  Manual resume works.  Wacom does not work after suspend/resume (mouse tracking is off by about 6 inches)
|-
| Thinkpad X60
| Intel 945GM
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Thinkpad X61 Tablet
| Intel GM965/GL960
| Intel 4965 AG or AGN
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Toshiba Portege M200
| GeForce FX Go5200
| Intel PRO/Wireless 2100 3B
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/358963|358963]]</nowiki>
| Doesn't go to sleep.
|-
| Toshiba Portege M400
| Intel 950GM
| Intel PRO/Wireless 3945
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| WARNING: RESUME FAILURE, unpredictable/inconsistent pattern (but never recovers on its own), Apport doesn't generate bug report
|-
| Toshiba Portege R500
| Intel Mobile 945GMS
| Intel PRO/Wireless 4965 AGN
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Toshiba Satellite PSA70C-RX100E
| Radeon Mobility 9100IGP
| Atheros
| 2.6.28-11
| FAIL
| 
| 
| Status light goes back into "active mode" (blue) but the display does not wake up; same behaviour when triggered by suspend action on logout button
|-
| Toshiba Satellite A100-732
| ATI Radeon Mobility X1400
| Intel PRO/Wireless 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Resumes (only manually) in Test 1, fails both script and manually in Test 2
|-
| Toshiba Satellite A205-4577
| Intel GM945
| Intel 3945
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Toshiba Satellite A215-S4747
| ATI Technologies Inc  [Radeon X1200 Series]
| Atheros Communications Inc. AR242x 802.11abg
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| resume timeouts PASS.  Battery 37 mW.
|-
| Toshiba Satellite A215-S5818
| ATI Technologies Inc RS690M [Radeon X1200 Series]
| Atheros Communications Inc. AR242x 802.11abg
| 2.6.28-11#38
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| resume timeouts fail, but close and open lid OK.  Battery 37 mW.
|-
| Toshiba Satellite L40
| Intel GM965
| Realtek RTL8187B
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/350030|#350030]]</nowiki>
| First test failed, with a cursor blinking. Workaround can be found here: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/279798/comments/14|#279798]]</nowiki>
|-
| Toshiba ''Satellite'' L300-11f
| Intel 965GM
| rtl8198
| 2.6.28-10-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Suspend don`t turn off LCD backlight, computer is not in suspend mode (according to LEDs) no possibility to resume - only way out is reset computer
|-
| Toshiba Satellite L300
| Intel GmaX3100
| Realtek Rtl8198 USB
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL with first test
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugsBattery Consumption: 74 mW -/349641|#349641]]</nowiki>
| Does'nt resume the suspend, only long power button press help (4 sec).
|-
| Toshiba Satellite L300-19J
| Intel 4500MHD
| Intel 5100
| 2.6.28-6
| FAIL
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/324808|#324808]]</nowiki>
| When resume, the HDD led lights up for a second or two, and after nothing.
|-
| Toshiba Satellite L350-16A
| Intel Mobile 4 (rev 07)
| Realtek RTL8187B
| 2.6.27-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Screen goes black, but starts to blink. Restart needed to resolve problem. Manual suspend is problematic too.
|-
| Toshiba Satellite Pro A100
| ATI Mob. Radeon X1400
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/343318|#343318]]</nowiki>
| Doesn't wake up after suspend. Neither with the script nor manually. I attached <nowiki>[[http://launchpadlibrarian.net/24222744/TOSHIBA_Satellite%20Pro%20A100_suspend_resume_failure.txt|more info to the bugreport]]</nowiki>.
|-
| Toshiba Satellite A100-283
| Intel Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller rev. 03
| Intel PRO/Wireless 3945ABG
| 2.6.27-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Suspend, resume works. The power loss calculation for the battery was incorrect. Lanchpad bug report to be filed
|-
| Toshiba Satellite Pro P100
| nVidia Corporation G72M [Quadro NVS 110M/GeForce Go 7300] (rev a1)
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Doesn't wake up after suspend with the script. Manually, it seems to wake up (some leds on) but the screen remains black and the notebook remains locked. 2ND Test after installing NVidia Proprietary drivers: best but it wakes up but only manually
|-
| Toshiba Satellite Pro A30
| Intel 855GM
| rt2500pci
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Test 1 failed, Test 2 resumed after 20 seconds but everything was frozen.Hard reset didnt produce apport
|-
| Toshiba Satellite U200
| Intel 945GME
| Intel PRO/Wireless 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Toshiba Satellite U200
| Intel 945GME
| Intel PRO/Wireless 3945ABG + zd1211rw
| 2.6.28-11
| FAIL
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/350941|#350941]]</nowiki>
| Exactly the same computer than above with zd1211rw module loaded
|-
| Toshiba Satellite U300
| Intel Mobile GM965/GL960
| Intel PRO/Wireless 4965
| 2.6.28-6
| PASS
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Toshiba Satellite U300
| Intel Mobile GM965/GL960
| Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8101E/RTL8102E
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| 
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 77 mW
|-
| Toshiba Satellite U400
| Intel GMA4500
| Intel Corporation Wireless WiFi Link 5100
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| 
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 98 mW
|-
| Toshiba Tecra 8000
| NM2200 MagicGraph 256AV
| RT2500 802.11g Cardbus
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/193738|193738]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| Toshiba Tecra A9
| Intel 965GM
| Intel 3945AGB
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Strange: It did always sleep 5 minutes, not 20 seconds or 20 minutes as displayed by the sript. Power consumption : 114mW (305sec)
|-
| Toshiba Tecra A9
| nVidia Quadro NVS 130M (rev a1)
| Intel 4965AGN (rev 61)
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/203251| 203251]]</nowiki>
| Never completes going into suspend.  White cursor just blinks on the screen.
|-
| Toshiba Tecra M1
| Trident Microsystems CyberBladeXP4m32
| Intel Pentium M processor 1400MHz
| 2.6.31-19-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| 
|-
| Uniwill P55IM1
| Nvidia GeForce 8600M GS
| Intel PRO/Wireless 4965
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| 
| 
| Battery Consumption: 125 mW
|-
| Yakumo Q7M Mobilium Duo YW
| Intel Mobile 945GM/GMS
| Intel PRO Wireless 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| 
|-
| Zepto Znote 6615WD
| Nvidia Geforce Go 7600
| Intel 3945 ABG
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 0mW (???)
|-
| Zepto Znote 6615WD
| Nvidia Geforce Go 7600
| Intel 3945 ABG
| 2.6.28-11 x86_64
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 0mW (???)
|-
| Zepto Znote 3215W
| Intel GMA X3100
| Intel 4965AGN
| 2.6.28-11
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 0mW (???)
|-
| (not a laptop, <nowiki>[[http://launchpadlibrarian.net/24460563/hardinfo_report.html|hardware]]</nowiki>)
| nVidia GeForce 6600 GT
| nVidia Corporation CK804 Ethernet Controller
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/350477|#350477]]</nowiki>
| Second try to suspend fails
|-
| (not a laptop, <nowiki>[[http://launchpadlibrarian.net/26235581/hardinfo_report01.05.2009.jaunty.html|hardware]]</nowiki>)
| nVidia GeForce 6600 GT
| nVidia Corporation Ethernet Controller
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/350477|#350477]]</nowiki>
| to suspend fails every times
|-
| IBM ThinkPad T30
| Intel
| Airo
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| Fail
| Fail
| 
| T30 suspended in first manual test, did not resume - had to resume manually.  Resumed automatically thereafter, although in second test, was after 10 sec, not the expected 20.  Somewhere along the way lost ethernet connection - had to reboot in order to reconnect.
|-
| IBM Thinkpad X60S
| Intel
| Intel3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11 generic
| FAIL
| PASS
| 
| Doesn't return from timed suspend w/ no AC connected; Battery Consumption: 1125mW (unrel, ~3min)
|-
| Dell XPS M1330
| GeForce 8400M GS
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 71 mW
|-
| Sony VPN-SZ360
| Intel 945GM
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 2700 mW (very high!) Script measurement method gives incorrect result due to settling time
|-
| Samsung Q35
| Intel 945GM
| Intel 3945ABG
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 0mW (yes, after 20min). After the manual test and the first automatic test Ubuntu asked for my password to unlock the screen. After all the other tests it did not. No flaws at all. Wireless started up after resume on its own. Perfect result.
|-
| LG E500 U.AP52R
| GeForce 8600M GS
| Atheros AR242x
| 2.6.28-11-generic
| FAIL
| FAIL
| 
| Suspended, but not starting. Hard drive doesn't rotating after trying to resume. After ~5sec notebook turns off.
|-
| Packard Bell Dot ZG5
| Intel Mobile 945GME Express Integrated Graphics Controller
| Atheros AR5001
| 2.6.32-14-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 89 mW
|-
| Acer Aspire 5720Z
| Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller
| AR5001 Wireless Network Adapter
| 2.6.35-23-generic
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 128 mW
|-
| FUJITSU SIEMENS ESPRIMO Mobile V5535
| Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] 771/671 PCIE VGA Display Adapter (rev 10)
| Atheros Communications Inc. AR5001 Wireless Network Adapter (rev 04)
| 2.6.35-24-generic i686
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| Battery Consumption: 222 mW
|-
| HP Pavilion dv9700 Notebook PC
| nVidia Corporation G86 [GeForce 8400M GS] (rev a1)
| Atheros Communications Inc. AR5001 Wireless Network Adapter (rev 01)
| 2.6.35-25-generic #44-Ubuntu SMP Fri Jan 21 17:40:48 UTC 2011 i686
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| overall battery usage: 95 mW
|-
| Lenovo G550 2958
| Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 09)
| Broadcom Corporation BCM4312 802.11b/g LP-PHY (rev 01)
| 2.6.35-25-generic #44-Ubuntu SMP Fri Jan 21 17:40:48 UTC 2011 i686 GNU/Linux
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| overall battery usage: 144 mW
|-
| HP G60 3612
| Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 07)
| Atheros Communications Inc. AR5001 Wireless Network Adapter (rev 01)
| 2.6.35-28-generic #49-Ubuntu SMP Tue Mar 1 14:40:58 UTC 2011 i686 GNU/Linux
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| overall battery usage: 156 mW
|-
| Acer Aspire One 753
| Intel Corporation Core Processor Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 02)
| Broadcom Corporation BCM43225 802.11b/g/n (rev 01)
| 2.6.38-7-generic
| PASS
| FAIL 1, PASS 2-7
| 
| Test 1 Suspend FAILED, did not go to sleep. All others passed Battery Consumption 44 mW
|-
| Acer Aspire One ZG5 AOA110
| Intel Corporation Mobile 945GME Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
| Atheros Communications Inc. AR5001 Wireless Network Adapter (rev 01)
| U1104-Oliwia-Aspire-ZG5 2.6.38-8-generic Apr 11 03:31:50 UTC 2011 i686
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| overall battery usage: 44 mW
|-
| Dell Vostro 1000
| ATI Technologies Inc RS482 [Radeon Xpress 200M] (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
| Dell Wireless 1390 WLAN Mini-Card
| 2.6.38-8-generic #42-Ubuntu SMP Mon Apr 11 03:31:50 UTC 2011 i686 athlon i386
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| overall battery usage: 480 mW
|-
| Fujitsu Siemens Amilo Pi 2550
| ATI Technologies Inc Mobility Radeon HD 2400
| Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 3945ABG [Golan] Network Connection (rev 02)
| 2.6.38-11-generic #48-Ubuntu SMP Fri Jul 29 19:05:14 UTC 2011 i686
| PASS
| PASS
| overall battery usage: 170 mW
|-
| HP Mini 210-1000
| Intel Corporation N10 Family Integrated Graphics Controller
| Broadcom Corporation BCM4312 802.11b/g LP-PHY (rev 01
| 2.6.38-11-generic #48-Ubuntu SMP Fri Jul 29 19:05:14 UTC 2011 i686
| PASS
| PASS
| overall battery usage: 94 mW
|-
| Medion Akoya E7214
| Intel Corporation Core Processor Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 12)
| Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8191SEvB
| 2.6.38-11-generic #48-Ubuntu SMP Fri Jul 29 19:05:14 UTC 2011 i686
| PASS
| PASS
| 
| overall battery usage: 71 mW
|}
----
<<BR>>
<<BR>>
== THE TESTING PERIOD IS OVER ==
Thank you for all the help testing however we are no longer accepting further feedback.
<<BR>>
<<BR>>

CategoryCanonicalEmployee
