{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues June 21, 2016 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
<nowiki>[[https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel/ubuntu/+source/linux/+git/yakkety]]</nowiki>

Our Yakkety kernel master-next tree still remains a snapshot of our Xenial kernel. However, our unstable branch has been rebased to v4.7-rc4's.

<nowiki>[[https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel/ubuntu/+source/linux/+git/unstable]]</nowiki>

Also, as noted in previous newsletters, we are also going to target a v4.8 based kernel for the 16.10 release.
-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>
Current cycle: 03-Jun through 25-Jun
====================================================================  ==
         03-Jun   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
06-Jun - 11-Jun   Kernel prep week.
12-Jun - 24-Jun   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         27-Jun   Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
====================================================================  ==
   precise  3.2.0-102.142
    trusty  3.13.0-87.133
     vivid  3.19.0-59.66
      wily  4.2.0-36.42
    xenial  4.4.0-22.40

lts-trusty  3.13.0-86.131~precise1
lts-utopic  3.16.0-71.92~14.04.1
lts-vivid   3.19.0-59.66~14.04.1
lts-wily    4.2.0-36.42~14.04.1
lts-xenial  4.4.0-22.40~14.04.1

Next cycle: 24-Jun through 16-Jul
====================================================================  ==
         24-Jun   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
27-Jun - 02-Jul   Kernel prep week.
03-Jul - 15-Jul   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         18-Jul   Release to -updates.

</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://kernel.ubuntu.com/reports/kernel-cves.html

-----
