{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues Jan 12, 2016 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Highlights ====
''' * Upstream kernel v4.4 was released.'''

''' * Vivid is going EOL in about 3 weeks.  This is likely the last SRU cycle for it.'''

''' * A real-time page monitoring tool that Colin developed has landed in Xenial.'''
* The tool can be useful in tracking page activity in running processes:
  http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~cking/pagemon/

  https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pagemon

-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
We have rebased our unstable kernel repo to v4.4 and will follow suit in our Xenial repository shortly and upload it to the archive.  Please stay tuned.
-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>
Current cycle: 10-Jan through 30-Jan
====================================================================  ==
         08-Jan   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
10-Jan - 16-Jan   Kernel prep week.
17-Jan - 23-Jan   Bug verification & Regression testing.
24-Jan - 30-Jan   Regression testing & Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
--------------------------------------------------------------------
   precise  3.2.0-97.137
    trusty  3.13.0-74.118
     vivid  3.19.0-43.49
      wily  4.2.0-23.28

lts-trusty  3.13.0-74.118~precise1
lts-utopic  3.16.0-56.77~14.04.1
lts-vivid   3.19.0-43.49~14.04.1
lts-wily    4.2.0-23.28~14.04.1
 
Next cycle: 29-Jan through 20-Feb
====================================================================  ==
         29-Jan   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
31-Jan - 06-Feb   Kernel prep week.
07-Feb - 13-Feb   Bug verification & Regression testing.
14-Feb - 20-Feb   Regression testing & Release to -updates.
</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://kernel.ubuntu.com/reports/kernel-cves.html

-----
