{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Canonical Kernel Team Bug Day ==

We have quite a number of issues relating to Suspend and Resume on a variety of hardware. This bug day will be focused on triage of the new bugs in addition to identifying potential duplicates and marking them as such. Feel free to drop into the #ubuntu-kernel IRC channel on FreeNode if you have any questions.  The goal will be to handle the bugs as follows.

=== New Suspend Resume bugs ===
1. Check the generated list of suspend resume bugs (page updates hourly): 
*** http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/jfo/NewSuspendResumeBugs.html
1. Conduct an initial triage of the bug as outlined in the Kernel Triage pages: 
*** <nowiki>[[ https:--wiki.ubuntu.com-KernelTeam-KernelTeamBugPolicies | General Tips ]]</nowiki> 
*** <nowiki>[[ https:--wiki.ubuntu.com-DebuggingKernelSuspendHibernateResume | Suspend-Resume triage tips ]]</nowiki>
1. Check for possible duplicates based on hardware and driver and mark the new bugs as such.

== Tools ==
Here are references to some useful tools that may help you more efficiently process the list of bugs.

=== greasemonkey ===

https://launchpad.net/launchpad-gm-scripts

http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~gm-dev-launchpad/launchpad-gm-scripts/master/files

This is a collection of greasemonkey scripts which Launchpad users and Ubuntu developers have found useful.  For the purpose of Bug Day's, the <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/%7Egm-dev-launchpad/launchpad-gm-scripts/master/annotate/head%3A/lp_stockreplies.user.js|stockreplies gm-script]]</nowiki> will be the most useful.  The stockreplies script allows you to save custom comments to insert into bug reports and additionally set the status and importance of a bug at the same time.

=== launchpadlib ===
https://help.launchpad.net/API/launchpadlib

The launchpadlib library depends on wadllib, another open-source library released by the Launchpad team. Get a copy of the launchpadlib and wadllib source with bzr and install it.
<pre>
  $ bzr branch lp:wadllib
  $ cd wadllib
  $ sudo ./setup.py install
 </pre>
Then do the same for launchpadlib.
 <pre>
  $ bzr branch lp:launchpadlib
  $ cd launchpadlib
  $ sudo ./setup.py install
 </pre>

After installation you can write custom scripts to manipulate bug reports.  This is useful for dealing with a list of bugs which all require the same type of actions/comment.  For example, here is a <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ogasawara/lplib/stock-reply.py|stock-reply.py]]</nowiki> script which reads a list of bugs from a "stock.txt" file, posts a standard comment to each bug, transitions the status to Incomplete, and subscribes oneself to the bug report.  It's quicker to use a launchpadlib script for this rather than having to do a page load per bug in order to use the greasemonkey stockreplies. 

== Stock Replies ==
Here's some common stock replies that may apply to some of the bugs:

=== Test Lucid ===
<pre>
Unfortunately it seems this bug is still an issue.  Can you confirm this issue exists with the most recent Lucid Lynx 10.04 release - http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/lucid/alpha-2/.  If the issue remains in Lucid, please test the latest 2.6.32 upstream kernel build - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelMainlineBuilds .  Let us know your results.  Thanks.
</pre>
* Set status to Incomplete

== Bugs ==
Please refer to the following for the list of bugs to focus on for this bug day:

New status suspend/resume bugs
https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=NEW&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_supervisor=&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_cve.used=&field.affects_me.used=&field.tag=suspend+resume&field.tags_combinator=ANY

Open Suspend/Resume bugs (not new status)
https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_supervisor=&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_cve.used=&field.affects_me.used=&field.tag=suspend+resume&field.tags_combinator=ANY&search=Search

Stats can be seen at:

http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/jfo/kernel-bugday/20100216.html
