{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== !!! Please scroll down to old links section for working links !!! ====
=== Kernel Build related infromation ===
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-QuickBuildLocal| How to build a kernel on your local machine.]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-QuickBuildPPA|How to build a kernel in a PPA.]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-DKMSPackaging|How to build dkms packages.]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-ModConfigBuild|How to modify kernel config and build kernel.]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-ApplyPatchBuild|How to apply patches and build a kernel.]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-KernelBuildScripts|How to use kernel build scripts.]]</nowiki>

=== Kernel Patch Submission ===
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-UpstreamPatchSubmission|How to submit patches upstream.]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-SRUPatchSubmission|How to submit SRU patches.]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-UKMLPatchSubmission|How to submit sauce patches to ubuntu kernel.]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-PushToRemoteGitTree|How to push patches to remote git tree.]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-StablePatchFormat|Required Stable Patch Format.]]</nowiki>

=== Kernel Maintenance Related information ===
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-WhatIsSRU|What is kernel stable release update (SRU).]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-SRUPolicy|What is the SRU policy.]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-AboutKernelABI|What is kernel ABI and when-why is it incremented.]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-ABIPackages|List of packages that needs ABI bump during stable update.]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-AddingNonFreeFirmware|How to add non-free firmware.]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-AddingFreeFirmware|How to add free firmware.]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-KernelPackageVersioning|How to version changes to kernel packages.]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-KernelUpdatePolicy|What is the kernel security update policy.]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-TopicBranches|What are topic branches.]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-KernelReleaseSchedule|What is the kernel release schedule]]</nowiki>

=== Kernel Bug Fixing ===
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-KernelBugFixing|How to fix a kernel bug]]</nowiki>

=== Guides and Other Useful Documentation. ===
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-FAQDeveloper| Kernel frequently asked question (FAQ).]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-GitCheatSheet|A GIT cheat sheet.]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://book.git-scm.com/index.html|Community Documentation on GIT]]</nowiki>

=== Old links ===
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-FAQDeveloper]]</nowiki> -- developer oriented Frequently Asked Questions
* <nowiki>[[KernelTeam-KernelTeamBugPolicies]]</nowiki> - How to triage kernel bugs.
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-BuildYourOwnKernel]]</nowiki> - Minimalist kernel build guide
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-KernelDevelopmentShift|KernelDevelopmentShift]]</nowiki> - New development model.
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-KernelGitGuide|KernelGitGuide]]</nowiki> - Using the git repos.
* <nowiki>[[http://book.git-scm.com/index.html|Community Git Documentation]]</nowiki> - Community Git Documentation.
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-GitCheatSheet|GitCheatSheet]]</nowiki> - Git recipes
* <nowiki>[[KernelTeam-KernelUpdates]]</nowiki> - Updates to stable kernels.
* <nowiki>[[KernelTeam-KernelMaintenance]]</nowiki> - How to maintain the kernel.
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Maintenance-Beginner]]</nowiki> - A beginners guide to Ubuntu kernel maintanence.
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Maintenance-Advanced]]</nowiki> - An advanced guide to Ubuntu kernel maintanence.
* <nowiki>[[KernelTeam-KernelForIdiots]]</nowiki> - Scott's notes on making custom kernels cause he can't grep the above two things fast enough
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-KernelBugFixing|KernelBugFixing]]</nowiki> - Process flow for fixing kernel bugs.
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-KernelBuildScripts|KernelBuildScripts]]</nowiki> - Information on how to use some helper scripts for remote building.
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-KernelPatches|KernelPatches]]</nowiki> - How to submit a patch and why we will or won't take patches.
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-KernelPackageVersioning|KernelPackageVersioning]]</nowiki> - How to version changes to kernel packages.
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-KernelPackagePolicies|KernelPackagePolicies]]</nowiki> - Describes the kernel packages maintainer functions
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-ABIPackages|Kernel Package ABI Relationships]]</nowiki> - Which packages need ABI bumping during stable updates.
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-KernelConfig|KernelConfig]]</nowiki> - Why the Ubuntu config is the way it is.
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-TopicBranches|TopicBranches]]</nowiki> - What is a Topic Branch?
* <nowiki>[[KernelTeam-StableKernelMaintenance]]</nowiki> - how the SRU process applied to the kernel.
* <nowiki>[[http://idlethread.blogspot.com/2009/01/recipe-of-day-cross-compiling-armel.html|ARM kernel cross compilation]]</nowiki>
* KernelTeam/EncryptedHome - info on how to encrypt your sensitive data, such as your .ssh keys
* <nowiki>[[KernalTeam-EC2Kernel]]</nowiki> - Information on the Ec2 Topic Branch
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-BestPractices|BestPractices]]</nowiki> - Best Practices tips and tricks
* <nowiki>[[KernelTeam-BuildKernelWithChroot]]</nowiki> - Setting up an chroot environment for build kernel
* <nowiki>[[KernelTeam-DKMSPackaging]]</nowiki> - How to build a DKMS Package
* <nowiki>[[KernelTeam-HardwareEnableWithDSDT]]</nowiki> - Read the DSDT and enable extra function on your laptop
* <nowiki>[[KernelTeam-AddingNonFreeFirmware]]</nowiki> - Adding firmware to linux-firmware-nonfree
* <nowiki>[[KernelTeam-AddingFreeFirmware]]</nowiki> - Adding free firmware to Ubuntu
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Quirks-LowMemoryCorruption]]</nowiki> - How to fix "low memory corruption bugs"
* <nowiki>[[KernelCustomBuild]]</nowiki> - building your own kernels Q&A
* <nowiki>[[GitKernelBuild]]</nowiki> - Build mainline kernel from git.  Also help with submitting bugs to upstream bugzilla.kernel.org
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-SwitchFirewireStack]]</nowiki> - How to switch from legacy to new firewire stack.
* <nowiki>[[Kernel-Dev-MaintainerStarter|MaintainerStarter]]</nowiki> - How to open the kernel for the next development release
