{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues March 22, 2016 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Highlights ====

* Kamal released v4.2.8-ckt6 stable
* Kamal released v3.19.8-ckt17 stable
* Colin sync'd the latest stress-ng into Xenial:
    stress-ng 0.05.21, new system calls and system stressos:
     syslog(), sync_file_range(), getdents*(), remap_file_pages(),
     prlimit(), capget(), get_robust_list(), fstatfs(), floating point
     exception handling, fd over socket (CMSG).
 

-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
Our Xenial kernel has been re-based to v4.4.6 and is available for testing in the archive, ie linux-4.4.0-15.31.  Please test and let us know your results. Also, as an early reminder, Xenial Kernel Freeze is ~2 weeks away on Thurs, April 7. We encourage anyone needing kernel patches pulled into Xenial to please submit them as soon as possible in order to make Kernel Freeze.  Thanks!

-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>
Current cycle: 11-Mar through 02-Apr
====================================================================  ==
         11-Mar   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
13-Mar - 19-Mar   Kernel prep week.
20-Mar - 26-Mar   Bug verification & Regression testing.
27-Mar - 02-Apr   Regression testing & Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
====================================================================  ==
   precise  3.2.0-101.141
    trusty  3.13.0-85.129
     vivid  3.19.0-58.64
      wily  4.2.0-35.40

lts-trusty  3.13.0-84.128~precise1
lts-utopic  3.16.0-69.89~14.04.1
lts-vivid   3.19.0-56.62~14.04.1
lts-wily    4.2.0-35.40~14.04.1
lts-xenial  4.4.0-14.30~14.04.2

Next cycle: 01-Apr through 23-Apr
====================================================================  ==
         01-Apr   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
03-Apr - 09-Apr   Kernel prep week.
10-Apr - 16-Apr   Bug verification & Regression testing.
17-Apr - 23-Apr   Regression testing & Release to -updates.

Note: April 21 is release day
</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://kernel.ubuntu.com/reports/kernel-cves.html

-----
