{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


This page is intended to be a pool of symptoms and tricks or links to places that help getting to the bottom of the problem.

=== Symptoms ===

* System pauses during boot and requires to hit a key several times to continue
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/DebuggingVoodoo#Incorrect%20IRQ0%20override|Timer interrupt is not correctly routed]]</nowiki>

=== Debugging Hints ===

==== Incorrect IRQ0 override ====

The BIOS claims that IRQ0 is routed to another IRQ on the IO-APIC, but this is not true. In some cases[1][2] it was possible to check the chipset configuration and ignore the wrong override. But the documentation for most chipsets are NDA.
With a tickless system we got the state where all CPU's go into a deeper C-state and require a timer interrupt to wake up. If the timer interrupt is not routed correctly this does not happen.

Possible boot options to try (with "debug lapic=debug"):

* acpi_skip_timer_override
* hpet=disabled / nohpet
* idle=poll (idle=halt might only work on systems without C1E)

With "debug lapic=debug" Linux will show the process of trying to get the interrupt right and also displays the interrupt routing in the IO-APIC.

[1] <nowiki>[[http://git.kernel.org/?p=linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux-2.6.git;a=commitdiff;h=33fb0e4eb53f16af312f9698f974e2e64af39c12|x86: SB450: skip IRQ0 override if it is not routed to INT2 of IOAPIC]]</nowiki>

[2] <nowiki>[[http://git.kernel.org/?p=linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux-2.6.git;a=commitdiff;h=2bfef69d9e8cc056aa4dbc13f2136747340b4515|x86: SB600: skip IRQ0 override if it is not routed to INT2 of IOAPIC]]</nowiki>
