{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues August 23, 2016 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Highlights ====

* FWTS was released, 16.08.01,
    https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FirmwareTestSuite/ReleaseNotes/16.08.01

-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
Our Yakkety kernel is currently based on v4.6.7.  We briefly had a v4.6 based kernel in yakkety-proposed, but has since been revoked while we clean up some failures.

<nowiki>[[https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel/ubuntu/+source/linux/+git/yakkety]]</nowiki>

Our unstable branch has also been rebased to v4.8-rc3.

<nowiki>[[https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel/ubuntu/+source/linux/+git/unstable]]</nowiki>

Also, as noted in previous newsletters, we are also going to target a v4.8 based kernel for the 16.10 release.
-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====

<pre>
Current cycle: 05-Aug through 27-Aug
====================================================================  ==
         05-Aug   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
08-Aug - 13-Aug   Kernel prep week.
14-Aug - 26-Aug   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         29-Aug   Release to -updates.

Kernel Versions
====================================================================  ==
  precise  3.2.0-107.148
    trusty  3.13.0-93.140
     vivid  3.19.0-66.74
      wily  4.2.0-42.49
    xenial  4.4.0-34.53

lts-trusty  3.13.0-93.140~precise1
lts-utopic  3.16.0-77.99~14.04.1
lts-vivid   3.19.0-65.73~14.04.1
lts-wily    4.2.0-42.49~14.04.1
lts-xenial  4.4.0-33.53~14.04.1

Next cycle: 26-Aug through 17-Sep
====================================================================  ==
         26-Aug   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
29-Aug - 03-Sep   Kernel prep week.
04-Sep - 16-Sep   Bug verification & Regression testing..
         19-Sep   Release to -updates.
</pre>

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://people.canonical.com/~kernel/cve/pkg/ALL-linux.html
 

-----
