{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

You may want to <nowiki>[[http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/git-push.html|git-push]]</nowiki> your changes to a remote git tree so that your could make your changes publicly available, and/or you could provide a maintainer with a pull request. 

==== Add a remote git repo ====
<pre>
git remote add <name of repo> <link to the tree>
</pre>
example:
<pre>
git remote add lucid ssh://zinc.canonical.com/srv/kernel.ubuntu.com/git/manjo/ubuntu-lucid.git
</pre>

==== push your changes to remote git repo ====
<pre>
git push <name of repo> <local branch>
</pre>
example:
<pre>
git push lucid lp554433
</pre>

==== Modifying a branch after a push ====
At times corrections need to be made after the changes are pushed to the repo. Here are the steps to push these changes to the repo under the same branch.
* make your code changes, corrections or modifications
* modify your git commit message to reflect the changes you have made
<pre>
git commit --amend
</pre>
* push your changes to the remote repo. Note the '''+''' sign prefix to local branch name. 
<pre>
git push <name of repo> +<local branch>
</pre>
example:
<pre>
git push lucid +lp554433
</pre>
