{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Getting the source ===

The source for linux-firmware in Ubuntu is available via git.

<pre>
git clone git://kernel.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/linux-firmware.git
</pre>

The `master` branch tracks the master branch of the upstream linux-firmware git repository. There are also branches for each Ubuntu release.

=== Versioning ===

The upstream linux-firmware maintainers do not do formal releases, so there is no upstream version number to use when packaging for Ubuntu. The Ubuntu version numbers for linux-firmware are of the format `1.x[.y]`, e.g. 1.127.10 or 1.138. For the development release the `y` component is omitted, and the `x` component is incremented for each new release. The first stable release in a series will have the `y` component added and set to 1, and the `y` component is incremented for each subsequent stable release.

Each new release should be accompanied by a signed tag in git, e.g.

<pre>
git tag -sa -m "Ubuntu-1.139" Ubuntu-1.139
</pre>

=== Updating against upstream ===

Updating linux-firmware against upstream is done by rebasing the Ubuntu patches on top of the upstream `master` branch. E.g.

<pre>
git remote add upstream git://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/firmware/linux-firmware.git
git fetch upstream
git checkout <branch>
git rebase -i upstream/master
</pre>

Then sanity check the patches that git says will be rebased and resolve any conflicts that arise during the rebase.

When testing after a rebase, be sure to test installation along with linux-firmware-nonfree. Firmware files may have been added upstream which are already present in linux-firmware-nonfree, which may lead to conflicts.
