{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad entry''': UbuntuSpec:hardware-q-kernel-config-review
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':
=== Summary ===
Review of the kernel configuration for Q 12.10. This will concentrate on confirming the policy for various option types as well as new options. For major new options, we will discuss and confirm the selection of each.

=== Release Note ===
TBD

=== Rationale ===
We need to review the Q kernel config to:

* Ensure sanity of options we have enabled/disabled
* Ensure that we have the best possible coverage for hardware
* Ensure we maintain our security options

=== Implementation ===

We need to review the default selection criteria for new options. We need to review any new options to ensure they are sensibly set. Finally we need to review important options such as filesystem selections and security options to ensure they are set as expected.

==== Selection Criteria ====

The basic rules are:

# if the option may be selected as module then we will enable it as a module,
# if the option creates a new subsystem (or filesystem) we will enable it,
# if the option is unlikely to cause regressions to existing behaviour we will enable it,
# if the option is dependent on EXPERIMENTAL then our normal policy is to not enable it, however it it is device specific we will enable it even though EXPERIMENTAL,
# else it will be disabled.

Additionally we have general policy of building in:

# subsystems associated with busses (as they will probe much earlier that way)
# boot essential subsystems
# default filesystems
# extremely common drivers
# usbhost interface drivers as they have huge ordering requirements
# cpufreq because it's hard to do in userspace
# non-discoverable drivers

==== Q Config Review(s) ====

* <nowiki>[[UDS|UDS Quantal]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Alpha1|Quantal Alpha-1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/configs/quantal/reviews/Alpha2.html|Quantal Alpha-2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/configs/quantal/reviews/Alpha3.html|Quantal Alpha-3]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/configs/quantal/reviews/Current.html|Current]]</nowiki>

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
