{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Tues Dec 08, 2015 ===

==== Introduction ====
This newsletter is to provide a status update from the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  There will also be highlights provided for any interesting subjects the team may be working on.

If you would like to reach the kernel team.  You can find us at the #ubuntu-kernel channel on FreeNode.  Alternatively you can mail the Ubuntu Kernel Team mailing list at: kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com

==== Highlights ====
* '''Stefan found a regression where cryptsetup hangs in the Trusty proposed kernel''' 
** http://pad.lv/1522766
** Stefan and Luis worked together on finding and verifying the offending patch.
** Due to this regression, the following kernels had to be re-spun:
** trusty linux 3.13.0-72.115
** precise linux-lts-trusty 3.13.0-72.115~precise1
** vivid linux 3.19.0-40.45
** trusty linux-lts-vivid 3.19.0-40.45~14.04.1

* ''' The Kernel Team is backporting Hyper-V specific features, functionality and fixes from the v4.3 kernel to Wily.'''
** http://pad.lv/1519917
** 14.04's HWE kernel will eventually change to Wily.  This will bring improved performance, functionality and stability to the LTS kernels on Hyper-V.
   
-----

==== Devel Kernel Announcements ====
Our Xenial master and master-next branch have both been rebased to v4.3.  A v4.3 based kernel is now officially available for testing from the archive, linux-4.3.0-2.11.  Please test and let us know your results.  Our unstable repo has been rebased to track v4.4-rc4 in parallel.  We will eventually transition both our Xenial master/master-next branches to v4.4 since that is our target kernel version for 16.04.

-----

==== Stable Kernel Announcements ====
 '''Status for the main kernels, until today:'''
** Precise	- Testing & Verification
** lts-Trusty - Testing & Verification
** Trusty		- Testing & Verification
** lts-Utopic - Testing & Verification
** lts-Wily	- Testing & Verification
** Vivid 		- Testing & Verification
** Wily 		- Testing & Verification
 
 '''Current opened tracking bugs details:'''
*** http://kernel.ubuntu.com/sru/kernel-sru-workflow.html
 '''For SRUs, SRU report is a good source of information:'''
*** http://kernel.ubuntu.com/sru/sru-report.html
 
 
 '''Schedule:'''

 '''Current cycle: 29-Nov through 19-Dec'''

******** 27-Nov   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
**** 29-Nov - 05-Dec   Kernel prep week.
**** 06-Dec - 12-Dec   Bug verification & Regression testing.
**** 13-Dec - 19-Dec   Regression testing & Release to -updates. 

 '''Next cycle: 20-Dec through 09-Jan'''

******** 18-Dec   Last day for kernel commits for this cycle
**** 20-Dec - 26-Dec   Kernel prep week.
**** 27-Dec - 02-Jan   Bug verification & Regression testing.
**** 03-Jan - 09-Jan   Regression testing & Release to -updates.

-----

==== Status: CVE's ====
 The current CVE status can be reviewed at the following link:
 http://kernel.ubuntu.com/reports/kernel-cves.html

-----
