{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Kevin Becker, apply for the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel-uploaders|Ubuntu Kernel Uploaders]]</nowiki> team membership, to get upload rights for the linux-* packages.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Kevin Becker
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| http://launchpad.net/~kevinbecker
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/kevinbecker/
|}

== Who I am ==

My name is Kevin Becker and I've been part of the Canonical Kernel Team since December 2023. I received a Master's Degree in Computer Science and Engineering from University at Buffalo in 2012. I've been working with Linux for about 20 years, embedded systems for about 15 years, and realtime Linux for about 13 years. I received my commit rights in March 2024.

== My Ubuntu story ==

I started using Linux in 2003 and found Ubuntu in 2005. Since then I've primarily used Ubuntu or Ubuntu flavors on all my computers, with some diversions to other distros (usually Arch) at times.

=== My involvement ===

Since joining Canonical, I've been working on the linux-realtime kernel and improving testing of the realtime kernel at Canonical. I'm also working with testing/tracking latencies of the realtime kernel. I worked with the PREEMPT_RT patches for about 13 years at my previous job at an aerospace company.

=== Activity ===

http://launchpad.net/~kevinbecker

=== Sponsoring ===

==== Summary ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #dd4814; text-align: center; color: white;"> '''Sponsor'''
| '''# Packages'''
|-
| Joseph Salisbury
| 32
|-
| Ian May
| 14
|-
| Tim Gardner
| 14
|-
| Roxana Nicolescu
| 11
|-
| Jacob Martin
| 6
|-
| Thibault Ferrante
| 6
|-
| Juerg Haefliger
| 4
|-
| Stefan Bader
| 2
|-
| Total
| 89
|}

==== Details ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Date
| Sponsor
| Sponsoree
| Package
| Version
| Distribution
|-
| 2024-01-16 16:55
| Thibault Ferrante
| Kevin Becker
| linux-kvm
| 5.4.0-1105.112
| focal
|-
| 2024-01-16 17:12
| Thibault Ferrante
| Kevin Becker
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.4.0.1105.101
| focal
|-
| 2024-01-16 17:12
| Thibault Ferrante
| Kevin Becker
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.4.0-1105.112
| focal
|-
| 2024-01-16 21:43
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Kevin Becker
| linux-kvm
| 5.15.0-1050.55
| jammy
|-
| 2024-01-16 21:49
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Kevin Becker
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.15.0.1050.46
| jammy
|-
| 2024-01-16 21:49
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Kevin Becker
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.15.0-1050.55
| jammy
|-
| 2024-01-19 13:43
| Tim Gardner
| Kevin Becker
| linux-aws
| 5.15.0-1053.58
| jammy
|-
| 2024-01-19 18:56
| Tim Gardner
| Kevin Becker
| linux-meta-aws
| 5.15.0.1053.52
| jammy
|-
| 2024-01-19 18:57
| Tim Gardner
| Kevin Becker
| linux-signed-aws
| 5.15.0-1053.58
| jammy
|-
| 2024-01-19 18:57
| Tim Gardner
| Kevin Becker
| linux-restricted-modules-aws
| 5.15.0-1053.58
| jammy
|-
| 2024-01-19 21:03
| Thibault Ferrante
| Kevin Becker
| linux-kvm
| 5.4.0-1106.113
| focal
|-
| 2024-01-19 21:42
| Thibault Ferrante
| Kevin Becker
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.4.0.1106.102
| focal
|-
| 2024-01-19 21:42
| Thibault Ferrante
| Kevin Becker
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.4.0-1106.113
| focal
|-
| 2024-01-22 15:42
| Tim Gardner
| Kevin Becker
| linux-aws-5.15
| 5.15.0-1053.58~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-01-22 16:27
| Tim Gardner
| Kevin Becker
| linux-meta-aws-5.15
| 5.15.0.1053.58~20.04.41
| focal
|-
| 2024-01-22 16:28
| Tim Gardner
| Kevin Becker
| linux-signed-aws-5.15
| 5.15.0-1053.58~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-01-22 16:28
| Tim Gardner
| Kevin Becker
| linux-restricted-modules-aws-5.15
| 5.15.0-1053.58~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-09 15:09
| Ian May
| Kevin Becker
| linux-oracle
| 5.15.0-1052.58
| jammy
|-
| 2024-02-09 15:53
| Ian May
| Kevin Becker
| linux-meta-oracle
| 5.15.0.1052.47
| jammy
|-
| 2024-02-09 15:53
| Ian May
| Kevin Becker
| linux-signed-oracle
| 5.15.0-1052.58
| jammy
|-
| 2024-02-09 15:53
| Ian May
| Kevin Becker
| linux-restricted-modules-oracle
| 5.15.0-1052.58
| jammy
|-
| 2024-02-12 15:36
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Kevin Becker
| linux-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0-1057.65~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-12 16:07
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Kevin Becker
| linux-meta-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0.1057.65~20.04.46
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-12 16:08
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Kevin Becker
| linux-signed-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0-1057.65~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-12 16:08
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Kevin Becker
| linux-restricted-modules-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0-1057.65~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-15 12:52
| Ian May
| Kevin Becker
| linux-oracle
| 5.15.0-1053.59
| jammy
|-
| 2024-02-15 14:02
| Ian May
| Kevin Becker
| linux-signed-oracle
| 5.15.0-1053.59
| jammy
|-
| 2024-02-26 13:55
| Stefan Bader
| Kevin Becker
| linux-meta-oracle
| 5.15.0.1053.49
| jammy
|-
| 2024-02-26 13:56
| Stefan Bader
| Kevin Becker
| linux-restricted-modules-oracle
| 5.15.0-1053.59+1
| jammy
|-
| 2024-02-26 16:45
| Juerg Haefliger
| Kevin Becker
| linux-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0-1058.66~20.04.2
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-26 17:48
| Juerg Haefliger
| Kevin Becker
| linux-signed-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0-1058.66~20.04.2
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-26 17:49
| Juerg Haefliger
| Kevin Becker
| linux-restricted-modules-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0-1058.66~20.04.2
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-28 13:48
| Tim Gardner
| Kevin Becker
| linux-meta-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0.1058.66~20.04.48
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-11 15:29
| Ian May
| Kevin Becker
| linux-gcp-5.15
| 5.15.0-1054.62~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-11 16:02
| Ian May
| Kevin Becker
| linux-meta-gcp-5.15
| 5.15.0.1054.62~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-11 16:03
| Ian May
| Kevin Becker
| linux-signed-gcp-5.15
| 5.15.0-1054.62~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-11 16:03
| Ian May
| Kevin Becker
| linux-restricted-modules-gcp-5.15
| 5.15.0-1054.62~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-15 19:53
| Ian May
| Kevin Becker
| linux-gcp-5.15
| 5.15.0-1055.63~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-15 20:14
| Ian May
| Kevin Becker
| linux-meta-gcp-5.15
| 5.15.0.1055.63~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-15 20:14
| Ian May
| Kevin Becker
| linux-signed-gcp-5.15
| 5.15.0-1055.63~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-15 20:15
| Ian May
| Kevin Becker
| linux-restricted-modules-gcp-5.15
| 5.15.0-1055.63~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-04-30 19:36
| Jacob Martin
| Kevin Becker
| linux-gkeop-5.15
| 5.15.0-1045.52~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-04-30 20:15
| Jacob Martin
| Kevin Becker
| linux-meta-gkeop-5.15
| 5.15.0.1045.52~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-04-30 20:15
| Jacob Martin
| Kevin Becker
| linux-signed-gkeop-5.15
| 5.15.0-1045.52~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-05-10 05:40
| Jacob Martin
| Kevin Becker
| linux-gkeop-5.15
| 5.15.0-1046.53~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-05-12 21:18
| Jacob Martin
| Kevin Becker
| linux-meta-gkeop-5.15
| 5.15.0.1046.53~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-05-12 21:19
| Jacob Martin
| Kevin Becker
| linux-signed-gkeop-5.15
| 5.15.0-1046.53~20.04.1
| focal
|}

==== Other Kernels ====

'''jammy:linux-realtime''' and '''jammy:linux-uc22-realtime''' kernels for the s2024.01.08, 2024.02.05, s2024.02.05, 2024.03.04, s2024.03.04, 2024.04.01, s2024.04.01 and 2024.04.29 cycles. They were reviewed by Joseph Salisbury. 

'''bionic:linux-raspi-5.4''' for the s2024.03.04 and 2024.04.01 cycles. They were reviewed by Tim Gardner.

'''bionic:linux-azure-5.4''' for the s2024.04.01 cycle. This was reviewed by Roxana Nicolescu.

==== Other Packages ====

'''noble:ubuntu-realtime''' metapackage. This was reviewed by Juerg Haefliger.

=== Areas of work ===

I have primarily worked on the Realtime Kernel. I'm supporting the jammy and noble linux-realtime kernels and snaps. I've been adding realtime tests to autotest-client-tests, including tests from rt-tests and rteval. I've begun work on a latency/performance regression dashboard using Grafana for 24.10. I'm also assisting with plans around enabling kdump by default in some configurations.

=== Things I could do better ===

I need to learn more about kernel snaps.

== Plans for the future ==

* Oracular realtime kernel
* Jammy 6.8 realtime backport
* Improvements for testing and performance tracking of the realtime kernel. Eventually, I would like to expand this to other kernels
* I would like to make a new test for realtime that also acts a sample realtime application
* Combine sched-ext and PREEMPT_RT
* ADT/RT Hinting Guide

=== Upload Rights ===

I'm requesting upload rights for the kernel package set for all active series, which includes all the "linux*" packages.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Roxana Nicolescu (roxanan) ===
==== General feedback ====
Kevin has been doing an amazing job preparing the kernels but also testing
and making sure they are delivered on time. The learning curve was very fast
and it seems he's been doing it for longer. I fully trust him with upload right!

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=8Fez
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

I have reviewed a number of packages prepared by Kevin and have found
no issues. I am certain he will continue to produce superb work.
He has my endorsement and +1

Tim Gardner
May 16, 2024

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=c+wS
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Joseph Salisbury ===
==== General feedback ====
I've reviewed many of Kevin's packages and have found no issues. Kevin has my endorsement as I am confident in his abilities.

Joseph Salisbury May 16, 2024
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=IeSK
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>
