{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Kevin Mulligan ==

=== Kevin Mulligan ===

Email: kevin AT SPAMFREE teamindecisive DOT com

'''Basics:''' 21 year old Management Major, Windows user since 3.11 with a vested interest in the success of anything free source. Very little Linux experience (namely, <nowiki>[[http://www.arklinux.org|Ark]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.mandrakelinux.com|Mandrake]]</nowiki>), no programming skills. 

Gave Unbuntu a try on a whim, very impressed that it auto-detected ''everything'' including my wireless card, unlike Mandrake. I am not a complete newb, at least in a Windows environment (e.g. helping friends with problems), but I doubt that will be of much use for Unbuntu.

As noted elsewhere in the Wiki, I am one of those users who feels I have not much to offer, but I'm willing to give this a shot. I want to feel like I am contributing to something bigger than myself. I've got to start somewhere...

'''Interests:'''
* Helping with spell checking, editting, and making everything understandable to even the most basic user. I find I have a sharp eye for editting mistakes, and this is where I see myself being most useful.
* Mozilla - Firefox, Thunderbird, Sunbird.
* Developing documentation for first time users that explains everything from the ground up (where you should install programs, need-to-know commands, How-To, etc.).

'''Availability:''' Part time, as I am a full time student.

More to come...
=== Messages ===
----
CategoryHomepage
