{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Kevin Gailey (hybrid) ==

I've been using Linux since Mandrake 10.1 when I dual booted Windows ME and Mandrake. At the time I did not know much Linux at all. About a year and a half later I got shipit CDs for Warty 4.10. From then on I have used every Ubuntu and every Xubuntu version released and have loved it! Ubuntu has allowed me to be a complete newbie, but then progress into a complete *nix lover. I am now helping jadaz87 and testing Fluxbuntu, the community driven version of Ubuntu with Fluxbox WM. Also I write occasional docs for EasyUbuntu and the Ubuntu Wiki.

=== Interaction ===
* I have been helping in IRC for over a year
* I am near always in #kubuntu-offtopic and/or #ubuntu-nun
* I use Ubuntu and Xubuntu PPC and x86_64 User 
* Member of the New User Network and active member in #ubuntu-classroom 
* Help found the Ubuntu School and am an active Instructor, where I instructed in the first ever Ubuntu Classroom Session with over 70 users. - Which can be found at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom - and any questions gear towards this should be sent to newusernetwork@gmail.com
* Part of the Marketing Team, where I help with the Ubuntu Magazine and create Pro Ubuntu Ads and Howtos
* Operator in #kubuntu-offtopic and #ubuntu-classroom
* Am ready to help in any way with anyone on any of the above
=== Currently ===

Right now I am a Sophmore in Texas. I am studying to get my A.C.E for video editting. 
I work for an independent media company I helped start. I currently produce, shoot, host and edit the video there. I also, occasionally, host an audio show or podcast. My media work also extends to the ''Buntudot'' podcast, where I edit their podcasts and post the best Ubuntu stories. I am also began planning on work for my indie movie. I hope to finish it before I graduate. :)

=== Contacting Kevin ===
* I can be found on the freenode IRC network under the name hybrid in #ubuntu+1 #ubuntu-es #ubuntu #kubuntu-offtopic or #kubuntu 
* I can be contacted via email at  *AIM: GothNMotion
* Jabber: newusernetwork@gmail.com

-Kevin Gailey
----
CategoryHomepage
