{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Who I am ===

I'm Khalid Rashid, a social worker who recently passed the examination. I've formely worked and studied in the IT field but I found it boring to work with it full time, people are much more fun to work with. And open source is the philantropy in IT, so it was only natural that my interest would be drawn here =)

=== Contact me! ===

* '''Email:''' Khalid.Rashid@gmail.com
* '''OpenPGP:''' <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0xBFC11F5F|BFC11F5F]]</nowiki>
* '''IRC:''' KhaaL @ freenode (seldom used)
* '''Launchpad:''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~khalid-rashid]]</nowiki>
* '''Identi.ca:''' <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/khaal]]</nowiki>

=== Contributions ===
* Actively submitting bugs, I like using beta software and using beta software along with bugsubmitting is an enjoyable time-passing for me (even though I need to work on my bugsubmitting skills - advice are greatly appriciated!).
* Helping people in the ubuntu-forums.
* Correcting and adjusting wiki documentation when I stumble upon something that needs improvement. My biggest additions have been enabling boot booster in the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EeePC/Using#Enabling%20Bootbooster|eeepc page]]</nowiki>.
* Actively argumenting for opensource and its advantages at workplaces.
* Last but not least, I offer people IRL to try out and use ubuntu - and I offer free support to them as long they're using ubuntu.

=== Future Plans ===
* Understanding Linux and ubuntu better.
* Getting more workplaces to use opensource software, thus cutting running costs for the public service (remember I'm a social worker!).
* Getting a gamer movement on linux growing and heard, and getting more games published to linux.
* '''World domination, har har har@#!'''
