{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Khadya Niti ===
Email: ...

(See information about <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity/SampleTeam/CreatingMenuBar|creating a menu bar]]</nowiki> like the one above)

Khadya Niti is a project of a team of Indian open source software developers and translators, engaged in developing software, mobile and online tools for Indian farmers.
Indian farmers are excluded from normal stakeholder rights regarding sustainable and unsubsidized farming as a profession, in a skewed urban development model.
Indian farmers are increasingly being made helpless and marginalized, due to a combination of factors like globalization, exclusion from national infrastructure, misleading education / marketing, and unmitigated economic risks.
The role played by English language, media, various technologies and Internet, have only served to further accentuate this process of marginalization and exclusion, from sustainable, informed, healthy and wholesome development choices and local / rural creativity.

This is the front page of your team's website, and you may want to put recent news, events and other information on here to help keep it current and interesting. Use your imagination, and you can create a really nice website. :)

=== Latest News ===

* News item
* Another news item

=== Latest Events ===

* This event
* That event

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryBuildingCommunity]]</nowiki>
==== KhadyaNiti ====

----
CategoryHomepage CategoryBuildingCommunity
