{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Kilian Krause, apply for MOTU upload rights.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Kilian Krause
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~seraph
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KilianKrause/
|}

== Who I am ==
''I'm a geek, Debian Developer and passionate IT enthusiast.''

== My Ubuntu story ==
''I've first encountered Ubuntu during my time building GnomeMeeting (now called Ekiga) snapshots first for Debian only and then adding Ubuntu, some RPM based discs and even win32. Together with Bastian Blank I've maintained an automatic building farm - based on dak, wanna-build and buildd/sbuild - which was lots of fun. We've not been able to support this Buildserver.NET service up to now but it has started some great ideas like the regular archive rebuild of Debian or some of the regression tests that are now in the pkg-voip packages. During that time I've had a number of developers that had been using exclusively these snapshots packs for their development - saving them lots of time and ensuring smooth upgrades.''

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
=== Areas of work ===
''I've helped building up the Debian pkg-voip team and taken over sponsoring on Debian mentors whenever I can find the time to do so. Lately I don't find a lot of time to regularly read through the d-mentors list and actively participate in there, but I've got a number of sponsors who contact me directly and keep me quite busy. Quite a number of them actually do come from Ubuntu and want their version uploaded to Debian.''

=== Things I could do better ===

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''Those packages I maintain - like fex - seem to not receive the proper care in Ubuntu which is why I want to stand up and help look after them more closely.''
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

* I coordinated a lot of work together with Kilian when I was actively working on `ekiga`, `pwlib` and `libopal`. Kilian was very easy to work with and very helpful in the coordination between Debian and Ubuntu. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dholbach]]</nowiki> 
----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Andreas Moog ===
==== General feedback ====
I have worked with Kilian in Debian, with reversed roles (I was the sponsoree, he was the sponsor) and he is both a skilled packager and a very pleasant person to work with. He helped me improve my packaging to meet the high quality standard in Debian.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
These packages were sponsored by Kilian for me:

http://packages.qa.debian.org/n/nzbget.html

http://packages.qa.debian.org/libp/libpar2.html

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Nothing particular here.

=== JamieStrandboge ===
==== General feedback ====
I sponsored a security update for Kilian. The quality was high and based on his current role in Debian and my limited interactions with him in Ubuntu, I think he would be a welcome addition to Ubuntu.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
I sponsored fex security updates for Kilian, for which he is the package maintainer in Debian. It was a very good experience as he approached me asking about the status of fex with regard to a recent security update and offered to provide tested patches. After mentioning fex is community-supported, he promptly provided patches. He was very pleasant to work with overall.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
None.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jdstrand]]</nowiki> 
----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
