{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Homepage: [WWW] http://kitchetech.com

SMGL Page:

IRC Nick(s):kitche

Used to work on a Linux Distro named Source Mage Still might go back to work on it.

22 years old

Location/Country: New York State United States

When did you first start using Linux and why? Well I started using linux toward the end of my high school years since I just seen to many problems for me with Windows.

How long have you been using the [WWW] SMGL distribution?About 3 months

What piqued your interest in SMGL initially?Wanted to choose what was installed compared to other source distros, and easy of use.

What future do you personally see for SMGL?SMGL will grow bigger since it has ease of use.

Tell us a little bit about yourself. Education/Career/Skills? Well right now I am a Full time College Student. My major is Information Technology. My skills are mostly debugging software along with some programming but I only only JAVA as of now.

Any personal messages for the Source Mage users out there?

vi or emacs? I am a vi user even though I don't get why users fight over what editor is easier.

KDE or GNOME? neither

BSD or GPL? WEll I haven't really looked into the licenses all that much but I m sorta a middle ground person towards these.

What other OS programs/software have you worked on? none well I am a beta tester for skyOS.

Do you have any family? yep I have one brother and a mom and dad

What other hobbies? WEll I mostly like to mess with tuff take it apart and put it back togeter.

What kind of car do you drive? Or what is your dream car? Well my dream car is anything that has a lot fo power.
----
CategoryHomepage
