{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is an overview of gsoc2010 project ideas by kiwinote.

=== Software Center Redesign ===
Details are located at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/kiwinote/gsoc2010/sc-redesign
<pre>
This project involves a redesign of software-center. The current implementation contains inconsistencies and doesn't scale well to the full scope/potential of software-center. This project overcomes these issues and will open many doors of opportunity for the next few cycles.
</pre>
The software-center developers are aware of this project, but I as of yet do not know how supportive they are of it. The project affects software-center quite severely. It would however be of great benefit to software-center. The Maverick cycle is the perfect cycle for such changes. The project would increase not only the usability of software-center, but also the modularity of software-center, ie encouraging development. This project can help make software-center really awesome, and I would love to work on this.

=== Software Center Improvements ===
Details are located at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/kiwinote/gsoc2010/sc-improvements
<pre>
This project brings many smaller improvements to the current implementation of software-center. Gdebi and apturl integration will be part of this project. The other components of this project are very flexible and can be determined on a week to week basis. Some suggestions are provided in the project proposal.
</pre>
If the software-center developers are not supportive of sc-redesign, then this project would be a great choice. It does not undertake any major changes, but instead improves the current implementation of software-center in many areas.

=== About me ===
I have been using Ubuntu actively for the last nine cycles and have taken an interest in the Software Center project. My Launchpad profile can be found at https://launchpad.net/~kiwinote.

=== Contact ===
If you have any queries or comments, please don't hesitate to contact me. My contact details can be found in my launchpad profile and in my official gsoc application.
