{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This is a gsoc project idea by kiwinote. Please ensure to read https://wiki.ubuntu.com/kiwinote/gsoc2010 first.

=== Mini projects ===
Each of these mini projects should take no longer than a week to complete. A selection of these (or other) mini projects will be completed during gsoc2010.

===== Integrate gdebi functionality =====
This mini project will involve extracting the required metadata from the package and displaying it in a 'details' view.

Quote from <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SoftwareCenter|software-center specification]]</nowiki>: "Integrating those various utilities will make handling software easier, socially improve security, hopefully free space on the Ubuntu CD, and provide a prominent showcase for Ubuntu and partner software."

===== Integrate apturl functionality =====
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SoftwareCenter#apturl

This mini project will involve implementing the apturl startup parameters. 'custom package lists' must be implemented to make this behaviour fully functional.

Quote from <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SoftwareCenter|software-center specification]]</nowiki>: "Integrating those various utilities will make handling software easier, socially improve security, hopefully free space on the Ubuntu CD, and provide a prominent showcase for Ubuntu and partner software."

===== Categorise 'provided by Ubuntu' view =====
https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/software-center/+bug/528051

32000 items should not be viewed as a list. It is slow and not easily browsable.

===== Sort list views by title, rather than package name =====
https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/software-center/+bug/541950

Packages are currently sorted by package name, rather than title name. This makes lists hard to browse.

===== Remove 'view' menu =====
The 'view' menu filters between the 'main' and 'universe' sections. This is quite similar to the channel filters located under the 'get software' section. The 'provided by Ubuntu' view could for instance be split into 'Ubuntu: maintained by Canonical' and 'Ubuntu: community maintained' (or something like that). The 'view' menu can then be removed.

===== Implement 'this is where the application can be found' tile =====
https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/software-center/+bug/420517

As in mockup in bug report. Or have a 'launch' button.

===== Categorise 'installed software' view =====
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SoftwareCenter#installed

Per spec.

===== Bug fixing/triaging =====
Software-center has too many open bugs. Quite a few of them need closing/fixing.

===== Add your ideas here =====

=== Timeline ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#cccccc"> '''Week starting'''
| '''Task'''
| '''Context'''
|-
| <-5 #eeeeee> May 2010
|-
| May 24th
| <#E47A7A> Exams
| /!\ gsoc starts
|-
| May 31st
| <#E47A7A>Exams
| {*} Alpha1 (June 3rd)
|-
| <-5 #eeeeee> June 2010
|-
| June 7th
| <#E47A7A> Exams
| 
|-
| June 14th
| <#E47A7A> Exams
| 
|-
| June 21st
| <#CCFFCC> mini project (gdebi integration)
| 
|-
| June 28th
| <#CCFFCC> mini project (apturl integration)
| {*} Alpha2 (July 1st)
|-
| <-5 #eeeeee> July 2010
|-
| July 5th
| <#CCFFCC> mini project (tbd)
| 
|-
| July 12th
| <#CCFFCC> mini project (tbd)
| /!\ gsoc midterm evaluation (July 16th)
|-
| July 19th
| <#CCFFCC> mini project (tbd)
| 
|-
| July 26th
| <#E47A7A> GUADEC
| 
|-
| <-5 #eeeeee> August 2010
|-
| August 2nd
| <#CCFFCC> mini project (tbd)
| {*} Alpha3 (August 5th)
|-
| August 9th
| <#CCFFCC> mini project (tbd)
| 
|-
| August 16th
| <#FFEBBB>
| /!\  gsoc ends (August 16th)
|-
| August 23rd
| <#FFEBBB>
| {*} FeatureFreeze (August 26th)
|-
| August 30th
| <#FFEBBB>
| {*} Alpha4 (September 2nd)
|-
| <-5 #eeeeee> September 2010
|-
| September 6th
| <#FFEBBB>
| 
|-
| September 13th
| <#FFEBBB>
| {*} UserInterfaceFreeze (September 16th)
|-
| September 20th
| <#FFEBBB>
| {*} Beta (September 23rd)
|-
| September 27th
| <#FFCCCC> -
| {*} DocumentationStringFreeze (September 30th)
|-
| <-5 #eeeeee> October 2010
|-
| October 4th
| <#E47A7A> Academic year starts
| 
|}

=== Comments ===
Please add any comments here. Alternatively you can contact me via https://launchpad.net/~kiwinote.
