{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Kleber Sacilotto de Souza, apply for upload rights for the linux kernel package(s).'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~kleber-souza
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KleberSouza/
|}

== Who I am ==
I'm Kleber Souza and I joined Canonical in April/2017. I'm part of the Kernel Stable Team and my current responsibilities are mainly related to the kernel SRU process.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I started using GNU/Linux around 1998, when I got fascinated by it at first sight. I had used several distributions and around 2005 I heard about Ubuntu for the first time when someone was distributing Ubuntu CDs at the university. It really got me by the attention to details on the user interface and how everything was well bound together and offering a great "just works" experience. Since then it has been my primary distro for my workstations and personal servers.
 
=== My involvement ===
As noted above, my current involvement is with stable kernel maintenance. This involves the following:

* Reviewing and applying patches from kernel-team mailing list.
* Applying and backporting patches for CVE's.
* Reviewing and applying upstream stable patch sets.
* Crank turning (prepare the kernel trees, close the versions and building the deb source packages) for all the main kernels and their derivatives and backports.
* Crank turning for embargoed CVE's.
* Stable automation and scripts maintenance.
* Mentoring new hires on the stable release process.
* Automated Tests (ADT) management and bugs investigation.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

I am currently one of the main people responsible for the kernel SRU cycle, with full commit access to all the kernel team repositories, lacking only per-package upload to have additional rights and be able to accept series nominations on Launchpad bugs.

Due to that, I have been involved with a large amount of bugs:
https://bugs.launchpad.net/~kleber-souza

Most of these bugs are tracking bugs for the kernel packages that I have prepared and built, bugs that I have verified and bugs that I have worked with the reports for fix verification.

In summary, I'm proud of being part of the kernel stable team and being to contribute to the quality, security and cadence of the kernel SRU.

=== Sponsoring ===
Here is a list of sponsored packages:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Date'''
| '''Sponsor'''
| '''Package'''
| '''Version'''
| '''Distribution'''
|-
| 2017-04-06 16:52
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| linux
| 3.13.0-117.164
| trusty
|-
| 2017-04-06 16:52
| Stefan Bader
| linux-lts-trusty
| 3.13.0-117.164~precise1
| precise
|-
| 2017-04-07 12:42
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| linux-meta
| 3.13.0.117.127
| trusty
|-
| 2017-04-07 13:00
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| linux-signed
| 3.13.0-117.164
| trusty
|-
| 2017-04-07 14:46
| Stefan Bader
| linux-lts-xenial
| 4.4.0-73.94~14.04.1
| trusty
|-
| 2017-04-07 15:51
| Stefan Bader
| linux-meta-lts-xenial
| 4.4.0.73.60
| trusty
|-
| 2017-04-07 16:06
| Stefan Bader
| linux-signed-lts-xenial
| 4.4.0-73.94~14.04.1
| trusty
|-
| 2017-04-12 09:06
| Stefan Bader
| linux-hwe
| 4.8.0-48.51~16.04.1
| xenial
|-
| 2017-04-12 09:06
| Stefan Bader
| linux
| 4.8.0-48.51
| yakkety
|-
| 2017-04-12 09:20
| Stefan Bader
| linux-meta
| 4.8.0.48.60
| yakkety
|-
| 2017-04-12 09:34
| Stefan Bader
| linux-signed
| 4.8.0-48.51
| yakkety
|-
| 2017-04-12 13:58
| Stefan Bader
| linux-raspi2
| 4.8.0-1035.38
| yakkety
|-
| 2017-04-12 14:56
| Stefan Bader
| linux-meta-hwe
| 4.8.0.48.20
| xenial
|-
| 2017-04-12 15:02
| Stefan Bader
| linux-signed-hwe
| 4.8.0-48.51~16.04.1
| xenial
|-
| 2017-04-12 15:58
| Stefan Bader
| linux-meta-raspi2
| 4.8.0.1035.39
| yakkety
|-
| 2017-04-25 10:45
| Stefan Bader
| linux-meta
| 4.4.0.77.83
| xenial
|-
| 2017-04-25 11:08
| Stefan Bader
| linux
| 4.8.0-51.54
| yakkety
|-
| 2017-04-25 15:47
| Stefan Bader
| linux-signed
| 4.8.0-51.54
| yakkety
|-
| 2017-04-25 15:53
| Stefan Bader
| linux-meta
| 4.8.0.51.63
| yakkety
|-
| 2017-04-25 17:32
| Stefan Bader
| linux
| 4.4.0-77.98
| xenial
|-
| 2017-04-25 19:21
| Stefan Bader
| linux-signed
| 4.4.0-77.98
| xenial
|-
| 2017-04-26 10:22
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| linux-hwe
| 4.8.0-51.54~16.04.1
| xenial
|-
| 2017-04-26 13:54
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| linux-signed-hwe
| 4.8.0-51.54~16.04.1
| xenial
|-
| 2017-04-26 14:01
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| linux-meta-hwe
| 4.8.0.51.22
| xenial
|-
| 2017-04-28 10:41
| Stefan Bader
| linux-hwe-edge
| 4.10.0-21.23~16.04.1
| xenial
|-
| 2017-04-28 10:41
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| linux
| 4.10.0-21.23
| zesty
|-
| 2017-04-28 12:41
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| linux-signed
| 4.10.0-21.23
| zesty
|-
| 2017-04-28 12:50
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| linux-meta
| 4.10.0.21.23
| zesty
|-
| 2017-04-28 14:27
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| linux-raspi2
| 4.10.0-1005.7
| zesty
|-
| 2017-04-28 16:19
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| linux-meta-raspi2
| 4.10.0.1005.7
| zesty
|-
| 2017-05-02 09:37
| Stefan Bader
| linux-signed-hwe-edge
| 4.10.0-21.23~16.04.1
| xenial
|-
| 2017-05-02 09:46
| Stefan Bader
| linux-meta-hwe-edge
| 4.10.0.21.14
| xenial
|-
| 2017-05-17 14:44
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| linux
| 4.4.0-79.100
| xenial
|-
| 2017-05-17 15:06
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| linux-signed
| 4.4.0-79.100
| xenial
|-
| 2017-05-17 15:12
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| linux-meta
| 4.4.0.79.85
| xenial
|-
| 2017-07-19 10:50
| Andy Whitcroft
| linux-hwe
| 4.10.0-29.33~16.04.1
| xenial
|}

Source:
http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=*kleber*&sponsoree_search=name

=== Upload Rights ===
I'm requesting upload rights for the kernel package set for all active series, which includes all the "linux*" packages.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
I plan to continue working on the Kernel stable team, improving the automation of the SRU cycle process, improving tests coverage and getting involved in other areas such as live patching.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
Particularly regarding the kernel stable process, we currently have a large amount of backports, derivatives and customs kernels and all of them require manual work to get the packaging done. It doesn't scale in terms of man/hour needed for every SRU cycle. However, we are already making progress in automating the process, and when most of the steps are automated, we will be able to spend more attention to the review process, CVE backports, bugs investigation, etc.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Stefan Bader ===

==== General feedback ====

I have sponsored multiple kernel uploads for Kleber and cannot think
of any reason why he should not getting full kernel PPU rights.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

Kleber has handled serveral rounds of SRU cycles as lead in charge
now and we did not have any complaints. He understands the process
and shows careful consideration in his work.
He also started to guide new members of the kernel team and I fully
agree with the feedback he gives.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v2
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=1i5G
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Andy Whitcroft (~apw) ===

==== General feedback ====

I have worked with Kleber Souza regularly since he joined Canonical.
He has shown a real aptitude for the work.  He has been keen to work within
the process and not shy to tell us when it is wrong and help us improve it.
He has always been quick to follow up on issues arrising from his work.

Overall he is a valued member of the kernel team and I would (and do)
trust him completely with delivering our kernels.  Fully recommended
for membership.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

Over the Christmas period and early new year we worked closely on the
kernel team response to the Meltdown/Spectre process.  This involved
untold respins of kernels across the board as patchsets evolved.  He was
invaluable in getting those kernels built and released when we did.

I have also had the occasion to review a number of his packages as part of
performing Queue reviews of kernels in my role as a member of the SRU team.
These are always good quality.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

Trust himself more to take decisions.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=VuaQ
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
