{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Supplemental Material ==
== Radiobiology Worker Risk Assessment Using Stress Indicators and Proteomics ==

=== Description ===
These supplemental documents are a guideline for statistics using R. This statistic approach could be applied not only in proteomics field but also in other comparative data used in experimental biology.  All the steps and command lines can be adapted easily to your experiment.  We describe step by step our approach to perform statistic comparison and bioinformatic analysis applied to chromosome aberration, oxidative stress and Mass spectrometry and ELISA data. 

=== Supplemental files ===

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/kmezhoud/Radiobiology_risks?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=Supplemental_Tutorial.pdf|Supplemental_Tutorial.pdf]]</nowiki>: This file describes in detail with screenshot of the major steps of all biostatistic and bioinformatic analysis. 

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/kmezhoud/Radiobiology_risks?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=Supplemental_Table1bis.pdf|Supplemental_Table 1bis.pdf]]</nowiki>: The Table 1bis lists identified protein with related diseases.

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/kmezhoud/Radiobiology_risks?action=AttachFile&do=view&target=Supplementary_netbox-report.html|Supplemental_netbox-report.html]]</nowiki>: This file is the report of network interaction after running <nowiki>[[http://cbio.mskcc.org/downloads/index.html|NetBox]]</nowiki> program.

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/kmezhoud/Radiobiology_risks?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=Supplemental_Sheets.xls|Supplemental_Sheets.xls]]</nowiki>: This spreadsheet file has several sheets as following:

Sheet 1 – Crude ORBIT – The ORBIT MSMS data used for identification and quantification.

Sheet 2 – Crude MALDI – The MALDI MSMS data used for identification and quantification. 
 
Sheet 3 -  Samples – General characteristic of the exposed and the control groups including the gender proportion, age, smoking status and duration of work in radiobiology department.

Sheet 4 – Stress data – The detail of general characteristic of exposed and control groups used for oxidative stress analysis.

Sheet 5 – OBRIT – The workflow of statistic analysis of crude ORBIT MSMS data. 

Sheet 6 – MALDI – The workflow of statistic analysis of crude MALDI MSMS data. 

Sheet 7 – ACTB – The detail of ELISA test of Human plasma actin protein (ACTB).

Sheet 8 – GC - The detail of ELISA test of Human plasma Vitamin D Binding Protein (GC).

Sheet 9 – 14-3-3 - The detail of ELISA test of Human plasma 14-3-3 protein (YWHAZ).

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/kmezhoud/Radiobiology_risks?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=Supplementary_MSMSspectra.pdf|Supplemental_MSMSspectra.pdf]]</nowiki>: This file has the Screenshot of MSMS spectra used for identification and quantification of selected proteins identified with 3 peptides or less.
