{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Knot 3 release status ==

This documents the current state of the knot-3 release.  Please don't change this unless you are a release manager.

=== Milestone release processes ===

The following checklist should be followed by milestone release managers. (Those people should feel free to amend this if experience demonstrates that other tasks are necessary.)

* ☑ A few days in advance of the planned milestone release date, ask the documentation team to prepare a web page about the changes since the last milestone.
* ☑ Check that core developers have landed everything major they need to land (or talk them out of it).
* ☑ Warn the QA team of the upcoming milestone release.
* ☑ Tell Jeff Bailey that we're getting close to a release and ask for re-certification on our test hardware.
* ☑ Announce the milestone freeze on the #ubuntu-devel topic and possibly `ubuntu-devel-announce`. There is generally no need to tell people to hold off on uploads, as they will be held automatically by Soyuz once the next task is performed.
* ☑ Set the distrorelease to FROZEN in Soyuz temporarily.
* ☑ Stop all live filesystem and cdimage cron jobs.
* ☑ Clear out the testing grid
* ☑ Test and iterate uploads as required, make sure to clear the testing grid for each iteration.
* ☑ Go over DISTRORELEASE-changes since the last milestone to make sure that all relevant major changes have been documented in the milestone's web page.
* ☑ Prepare the release announcement (this should refer to the web page prepared by the doc team rather than going into details of changes itself).
* ☐ Publish the milestone CD images.  This usually requires mangling the HEADER.html in the directory where the images are stored, since publish-release isn't smart enough to do the right thing there.
* ☐ Verify that all mirrors have images.
* ☐ Send the release announcement (current opinion on the target for the announcement seems to be `ubuntu-devel-announce` for non-beta/RC/final releases, and Bcc to `fridge-devel`).
* ☐ Set the distrorelease back to DEVELOPMENT.
* ☐ Clear out any pending entries in the UNAPPROVED queue.
* ☐ Turn live filesystems and cdimage cron jobs back on.

----
----
CategoryLookMergeDelete
