{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Knot 1 release status ==

This page describes the current state of the Knot 1 milestone release of Edgy.

=== Routine tasks ===

Those need to be checked before release

* clear out sync requests daily
* clear out bits of the NEW queue daily (particularly during sync periods)
* clear out pending main/universe promotions/demotions at least weekly (http://people.ubuntu.com/~cjwatson/anastacia.txt)
* clear out pending removals at least weekly (both requested and `archive-cruft-check`-driven)
* sync priority overrides at least weekly (http://people.ubuntu.com/~cjwatson/jessica.txt)

=== Todo before release ===

* check britney uninstallables and out-of-date output daily (http://people.ubuntu.com/~cjwatson/testing/edgy_probs.html)
* check that ISOs actually work as frequently as is convenient
** check for .OVERSIZED files daily, and do something about them (may require coordination with derivative leads)

=== Actual release process ===

* A few days in advance of the planned milestone release date, ask the documentation team to prepare a web page about the changes since the last milestone.
* Check that core developers have landed everything major they need to land (or talk them out of it). (DONE)
* Announce the milestone freeze on the #ubuntu-devel topic and possibly `ubuntu-devel-announce`. There is generally no need to tell people to hold off on uploads, as they will be held automatically by Soyuz once the next task is performed. (DONE)
* Set the distrorelease to FROZEN in Soyuz temporarily. (NOT DONE, requires manual approval of binaries too (maybe))
* Stop all live filesystem and cdimage cron jobs. (DONE)
* Warn the QA team of the upcoming milestone release.
* Test and iterate uploads as required.
* Go over DISTRORELEASE-changes since the last milestone to make sure that all relevant major changes have been documented in the milestone's web page.
* Prepare the release announcement (this should refer to the web page prepared by the doc team rather than going into details of changes itself).
* Publish the milestone CD images.
* Verify that all mirrors have images.
* Send the release announcement (current opinion on the target for the announcement seems to be `ubuntu-devel-announce` for non-beta/RC/final releases, and Bcc to `fridge-devel`).
* Set the distrorelease back to DEVELOPMENT.
* Clear out any pending entries in the UNAPPROVED queue.
* Turn live filesystems and cdimage cron jobs back on.

=== Other blockers ===

None at this time.
----
CategoryLookMergeDelete
