{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


우분투 커뮤니티에서는 버그를 위한 기여자들을 늘 필요로 합니다. 특히 런치패드에 등록되어 있는 수천 개의 버그를 적절한 팀에 할당하여 해당 버그가 수정될 수 있도록 하는 일은 무척 중요합니다.

이 문서에는 사람들과 함께 작업하기 위한 특별한 이벤트의 개요와 우분트 버그 분류에 참여하는 방법에 대해 설명되어 있습니다. 여기서 소개하는 이벤트들은 새로운 지원자들에게 흥미로울 뿐만 아니라 재미있는 경험을 얻게 해 줄 것입니다. 다음은 버그 잼 운영에 관한 간단한 안내입니다.

== 필요 사항 ==

버그 잼을 진행하려면 다음과 같은 것들이 필요합니다.

* 강사 - 버그 분류에 대한 지식이 있고, 여러 가지 질문에 대답할 수 있는 사람으로, 보통은 이전에 버그 데이에 참여했거나 #ubuntu-bugs 나 메일링 리스트에 주기적으로 참여하는 사람입니다.
* 날짜 - 행사 날짜로 새로 참여하는 사람들을 위한 시간을 최소 2시간 이상 포함하고 있어야 합니다. 행사가 예상보다 천천히 진행될 수 있으므로 충분한 시간을 확보해야 합니다.
* 장소 - 미팅 장소는 네트워크를 사용할 수 있어야 하며, 많은 이들에게 전력선(파워)를 제공할 수 있어야 합니다. 그리고 참석자들이 편안함을 느낄 수 있는 장소면 더욱 좋습니다.
* 5-a-day Playbook (선택 가능) - 참석자들이 행사 진행을 따라오는데 어려움이 없도록 도와주는 안내 시트 <nowiki>[[attachment:Jams-Bugs-5-A-Day-5-a-day.pdf]]</nowiki>

=== Asking people to prepare for the Jam ===

* Ask Everyone to sign up for <nowiki>[[5-A-Day|5-a-day]]</nowiki> - We encourage your LoCo to sign up for 5-a-day statistics so you can have your name in lights as your team fixes bugs.
* To properly confirm bugs (and test fixes) on the current development release, ask the jammers to set up one of the methods on <nowiki>[[UsingDevelopmentReleases]]</nowiki>.
* Feel free to ping JorgeCastro or DanielHolbach via email if you would like an irc tutoring session on tips and tricks on how to run a successful Bug Jam.

=== Material ===
* <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mBY7wfX2jpA|Running Bug Jams and Packaging Jams Video]]</nowiki>
* HelpingWithBugs - BugSquad landing page: all important information is linked from here.
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/brian-murray-interview.ogg|Interview with Brian Murray]]</nowiki>: lots of useful information about bug triage. (Full Fresh Ubuntu episode: http://freshubuntu.org/podcast/145/).
* <nowiki>[[http://youtube.com/watch?v=UpnAyzYXvwU|Interview with Brian Murray at UDS Intrepid]]</nowiki>.
* Quick Overview <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToTriage-Charts|Bug Workflow charts]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[http://videos.ubuntu.com/qa/assigning-packages-to-bugs.ogg|Assign a package to bugs video]]</nowiki>, there are also <nowiki>[[Bugs-FindRightPackage|docs]]</nowiki> about the same topic available.
** '''warning''': this video advises triagers to assign bugs to the <code>acpi-support</code> package.  This is wrong!  Recent versions of Ubuntu use <code>pm-utils</code> for suspend-resume, <code>acpi-support</code> is not involved in this process.  Do not assign bugs to this package, they will only have to be triaged again by a much smaller group of developers.  Please refer all triagers to the <nowiki>[[Bugs-FindRightPackage|docs]]</nowiki> mentioned above for current information about which packages to assign bugs to.
* <nowiki>[[attachment:bug_report_triage_feb09.odp|Bug Report Triage Presentation]]</nowiki> A presentation to instruct on reporting and triaging Bugs
* <nowiki>[[attachment:2009-30-01-bug_report_triage_ES_co.odp|Bug Report Triage Presentation in SPANISH!!]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[attachment:GlobalBugJam-GlobalBugJam.pdf|Global Bug Jam Cheatsheet]]</nowiki>

== Holding the Session ==
=== Introduction Session ===
* Do a quick presentation that covers
** bug statuses
** mention the bug importances
** what makes a good bug report
** what a duplicate, subscriber, assignee is
* Show a few bugs and explain the aspects of them and answer questions. (Especially show a few that have little information, so people get an idea what to start working on.)

=== Workflow ===
* As people triage bugs keep track of the amount of bugs touched. This can be done with tomboy notes, a marker on a whiteboard, or some other means. It is important that you have some number so that you can measure improvement and progress as you have more Jams.
* Try to group people who have similar interests in groups of four, so they can try to work on bugs together and answer questions in a group.

=== Tools & Helpful Information ===
* Follow the <nowiki>[[HelpingWithBugs]]</nowiki> page.
* '''Ask people to check out <nowiki>[[Bugs-EasyTasks]]</nowiki> which links to easy bugs to get started with.'''
* Make sure everyone knows about the #ubuntu-bugs IRC channel along with your LoCo's channel
** Get in touch with people on `#ubuntu-bugs` if you run into problems.
** The IRC channel is a great place to paste links and other information.
** If you need help during the jam, feel free to ask questions in #ubuntu-bugs
** Try to keep your specific Jam's talk in your loco's channel
* Use Gobby to share notes and links:
** Install Gobby
** and tell it to connect to <code>gobby.ubuntu.com</code>. 
** You will be presented with a list of documents being edited.

----
CategoryJam
