{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



우분투 커뮤니티에서는 패키징을 할 수 있는 사람을 더 많이 필요로 합니다. 우분투를 선택하는 가장 큰 이유 중 하나는, 설치하고 사용할 준비가 되어 있는 소프트웨어의 방대한 카탈로그가 있다는 것이고, 이러한 이유로 말그대로의 수천개의 애플리케이션이 관리되어져야 합니다. 이 수천개의 애플리케이션들은 패키징을 돕고 높은 수준의 품질로 패키지를 관리하는 지역사회 지원자들에 의해 거대해지고 성장합니다. 비록 애플리케이션의 숫자가 증가 하고 있지만, 우리는 더욱더 많은 지원자들을 필요로 합니다.

일반적으로 만약 누군가가 패키징에 대해 관심을 표한다면, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/GettingStarted 를 소개하지만 사람들은 어려워 합니다. 또다른 좋은 방법은 사람들이 패키징을 빠르게 익힐 수 있는 패키징 잼입니다.

LoCoTeams 의 거대한 네트워크와 함께 더욱더 많은 팀들이 패키징 잼에 참여합니다 - 여러사람들이 모인 가운데, 몇몇 강사들이 참석자들에게 복잡한 우분투 패키지를 관리하는 법을 소개하는 이벤트도 있습니다. 이 이벤트들은 패키징에 참여할 새로운 사람들을 끌어들일 뿐만이 아니라, 매우 큰 즐거움도 선사합니다!  이 페이지는 패키징 잼에 참여할 수 있는 기본적인 가이드만을 제공합니다. :)

== 필요한 것들 ==

패키징 잼을 하기 위해 아래와 같은 몇 가지가 필요합니다:

* '''강사(들)''' - 패키징에 대해 어느정도 알고 있고, 질문에 답할 수 있고, 몇가지 예기치 못한 것에 대해 대처할 수 있는 사람이면 됩니다. (강사는 <nowiki>[[PackagingGuide]]</nowiki> 에 대한 경험을 필요로 합니다.)
* '''약속의 날''' - 어떤 여유로운 시간이면 됩니다. 참고로, 미시간의 LoCo 팀은 토요일 정오에서 저녁 8시까지 진행합니다. 진행이 예상보다 느려질 수도 있습니다. 하지만 그래서 충분한 시간을 제공합니다.
* '''장소''' - 인터넷이 연결되고, 모두를 위한 전기가 있고, 조금의 안락을 가져다 줄 수 있는 그런 곳이면 됩니다.
* '''우분투 지역 미러''' (''옵션'') - 인터넷이 취약하거나 열악한 곳에서 도움이 됩니다. 우분투 미러를 어떻게 설정할 수 있는지는 다음의 문서를 보세요: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Debmirror.
* '''패키징 도움책''' (''옵션'') - 여기에는 참석자들에게 인쇄해서 나누어 주거나 배포할 수 있는 일반적인 작업 흐름을 제공합니다. <nowiki>[[attachment:playbook.pdf]]</nowiki>

여기서, 하나를 더 추가하자면 패키징이라는 여행에 참여하는 사람들을 위해 간식이나 음료를 제공하는 것도 좋은 방법입니다.

=== 질문자를 위해 잼에서 준비해야 할 것 ===

* 버그를 제대로 확인하기(그리고, 해결을) 위해, 참가자는 <nowiki>[[UsingDevelopmentReleases]]</nowiki>중 하나의 방법을 택할 수 있습니다.
* 질문자를 위해 설치해야할 패키지는 <nowiki>[[PackagingGuide-Lists-ImportantDevelopmentPackages]]</nowiki> 에 있습니다.

== Running The Jam ==

=== Prerequisites ===

* Start out getting everyone setup, 
* Check for connectivity, and watch out for people with different versions of Ubuntu running. For instance the mirror might only have gutsy and someone comes with feisty. It's not a deal killer, but adds for surprises. 
* Now suggest everyone use `gobby` for communicating things throughout the meeting. It makes for a great place for the person running the Jam to paste links, commands, and other notes for the group to follow. This really lets the people save the shared documents and everyone goes him with notes from the day's events. It also really eliminates the need for a projector or other method of sharing screens.
* The next step is to get everyone's GPG keys setup and make sure that they're available for signing the packages later on. This is also a good time to have a mini key signing party to get everyone introduced and to verify any GPG key issues are sorted out early. There's some good documentation for this on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GnuPrivacyGuardHowto|GnuPrivacyGuardHowto]]</nowiki>
* <pre>
sudo apt-get install devscripts build-essential wget fakeroot cdbs patchutils debhelper gobby dh-make
</pre>
* (bzr has an <nowiki>[[http://blogs.gnome.org/jamesh/2008/02/19/bzr-avahi/|avahi plugin]]</nowiki> that can be used so people can find each other's repositories on a local network).

=== Holding the Session ===

* Follow the <nowiki>[[PackagingGuide-HandsOn]]</nowiki> (and <nowiki>[[PackagingGuide-Recipes]]</nowiki>) material.
* Alternatively (if you plan to have more time):
** Follow the <nowiki>[[PackagingGuide]]</nowiki> documentation.
** First go through the Getting Started section to get everyone's packaging environment setup. 
** Then start with the <nowiki>[[PackagingGuide-Basic]]</nowiki> and walk through the packaging of `hello` together. A helpful hint is to keep one version back when you download initially. This gives you a chance to walk through upgrading the package to the latest source available later on.
** After getting `hello` packaged try to update to the latest source version by using '''uupdate'''. This should be a nice quick exercise.
** Once you get through packaging hello, see if anyone brought a packaging problem the group can work on together. In our group someone wanted to update the `xastir` package. We did it together so the users had a real world example of something and one person went home with their own problem solved.
* Plug <nowiki>[[MOTU-GettingStarted]]</nowiki> a couple of times. :-)
* Get help on <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?randomnick=1&channels=ubuntu-motu|#ubuntu-motu]]</nowiki>.

----
CategoryJam
