{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Project ideas that need a developer ==

* Ubuntu on a key
** Application installs ubuntu on a USB key (full system not just iso contents like usb-creator)
** Modified to be a minimal system which requires little write to disks, instead utilizing RAM intelligently

* Desktop Firewall interface with customizable "Zone Alarm style" notifications
** Incorporating projects like Tux Guardian and moblock.
** The goal is to make a very easy to use, yet very powerful which includes custom alerts through libnotify and per-application network rules (i.e. do not let program "foo" have Internet access). 
** Per process Internet configuration (blacklist by default, then whitelist traffic per process and specify IPs, ports or fully open.
** devfil could help with upstream to get notification support. Per-process limitations are GUI exposure issues. iptables can do it, but it's not obviously needed for most users.

* Create a transparent daily image backup/restore system
** Can be used while the filesystem is mounted and being used
** Only backs up what it has to (progressive)
** Saves data to an image file which can be dd'd or burned to CD

* Virtual video device
** Very much like GTK-recordmydesktop it will allow the user to select a portion of the screen but instead of recording it to a file it will pass it along to a device file which can be used by a number of programs (seen by the program as a webcam).
** This would allow you to use pre-recorded video OR cheese OR visualizer as your webcam input program. 
** This program should also allow a playlist of video files to be used as device which other applications can use.
** See if v4l2loopback which allows for creation of "virtual video devices" can help with this project.
** Can be used for loops, live screencasts, filters (including background manipulation).
** Interface for switching video sources

* Nautilus Improvements
** Improvements to the Nautilus File Manager
** Allocates space before it copies. 
** Checks all the files to be copied before they are copied.
** Resistant to inter-filesystem name errors, hidden files
** Brings any issues to be resolved to the user before copy starts.
** Does not stop in the middle of a large transfer to tell you there is an error. 
** File Manager should calculate and displays the size of directories in detailed list view.

* Firefox add-on that plays flv (flash video) on the site with ffmpeg. 
** This makes us work with a tool which is a little more open and less bloated than Adobe's Flash player.
** Current workaround (add to .bashrc): alias playflv='vlc $(ls -tr /tmp/Flash* | tail -1)'

* Video Conference
** Multiplatform
** Multi-user
** No port forwarding
** Encrypted option
** ubuntu-voip team is expecting to have encrypted SIP working for lucid (status?).

* Packet Trace Map
** Live representation of internet packets, port numbers etc. on a world map (references geolocate IP database)
** Shows all packets leaving and entering your computer.
** Provides your INT/EXT IP, destination IP and all bounces in between, inclusing DNS resolution info.

* Splash screen customization application
** Graphical application to create splash screen, custom throbbers and animations

* FS-Clone
** Created a clone of an existing filesystem and makes it bootable
** Application which allows a clone of the files on a filesystem (without using dd)
** Started with <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/582778|Bug #582778]]</nowiki>
** For technical details on this this is accomplished see <nowiki>[[komputes-HowToCloneFilesystem|Making a copy of a bootable drive (clone filesystem)]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/komputes/Projects/Accessibility?action=AttachFile&do=view&target=acessibilitynotes.txt|Accessibility Improvements]]</nowiki> - Better Voices and Better Speech Recognition

* <nowiki>[[http://fontmatrix.be/|Fontmatrix]]</nowiki> is a font manager. The project needs a new maintainer since 2009. 

* <nowiki>[[http://mfnboer.home.xs4all.nl/twinkle/index.html|Twinkle SIP Client]]</nowiki> needs a new maintainer. Twinkle is unmaintained since 2009. <nowiki>[[https://github.com/ichramm/Twinkle|This project]]</nowiki> tries to rescue it by asking developers to contribute to it. The main task is to migrate Twinkle from Qt3 to Qt4 and to get it back into Ubuntu's repositories. It is an extremely useful and powerful SIP client.
