{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== 2013 Seminar & Parties log ===
==== January, 2013 ====
* Page : https://forum.ubuntu-kr.org/viewtopic.php?f=2&t=23544
* Date : 26, Jan, 2013
* 1st class : HTML5 Web Socket - JooWon Baek
* 2nd class : Why are we uncomfortable with English? - MinJae Cho
* 3rd class : Analyzing network packets using WireShark - TaekHyun Lee
* 4th class : Apple and OpenSource: New compiler llvm - Jung Kim

==== February, 2013 ====
* Specially, This Seminar went off on Microsoft Korea's classroom
* Page : https://forum.ubuntu-kr.org/viewtopic.php?f=2&t=23691
* Date : 23, Feb, 2013
* 1st class : What is Networking?  Why is this so difficult? - GunYoung Yun
* 2nd class : How to develop Win32 applications on Linux - DukGyu Lim
* 3rd class : "The War of IT 2013" - YoungWook Kim
* 4th class : Fun with Rasberry Pi using Ubuntu" - Funfun

==== March, 2013 ====
* Page : https://forum.ubuntu-kr.org/viewtopic.php?f=2&t=23893
* Date : 30, Mar, 2013
* 1st class : Hacking Attack with Android Mobile - NamJun Kim
* 2nd class : "Computer Science? Computer Engineering? What is the difference? - BongGyu Lee
* 3rd class : Easy XML XSL FO - Sebul
* 4th class : Python 3 Web Framework, pylatte - SangGeun Park

==== April, 2013 ====
* Page : https://forum.ubuntu-kr.org/viewtopic.php?f=2&t=24114
* Date : 27, Apr, 2013
* 1st class : Hadoop! Big Data!  What are these guys? - KiHan Park
* 2nd class : The way to be an IT person - DongHyung Lee
* 3rd class : Bob Ross and Programming - yemharc
* 4th class : A story about a guy who spent his all youth life with Linux - JunYup Park
==== May, 2013 ====
* Page : https://forum.ubuntu-kr.org/viewtopic.php?f=2&t=24318
* Date : 25, May, 2013
* 1st class : System Hacking: How-to - Sungwoo Kim
* 2nd class : How to choose computer hardware for Ubuntu - WooYoung Choi
* 3rd class : How to manage your time as a developer - KyungSun Lee
* 4th class : Qualification for a guy who is willing to resign his job - HyunMook Shin

==== June, 2013 ====
* Ubuntu Korea Team was joined Korea Community Day
* Ubuntu Kwangju Team opened Seminar on these own place
* Page : https://forum.ubuntu-kr.org/viewtopic.php?f=2&t=24540
* Page : https://forum.ubuntu-kr.org/viewtopic.php?f=2&t=24488
* Date : 29, Jun, 2013
* Kwangju class : Programming an ircbot using Pircbot library - lindol

==== July, 2013 ====
* Page : https://forum.ubuntu-kr.org/viewtopic.php?f=2&t=24684
* Date : 27, Jul, 2013
* 1st class : Exploitation on Internals: SSDT Hooking - SunJoo Park
* 2nd class : How would you live from now - YoungChan Han
* 3rd class : What happened in the community - Nalee Jang
* 4th class : The relationship between automobile and Linux - DaeJin Kim

==== August, 2013 ====
* Page : https://forum.ubuntu-kr.org/viewtopic.php?f=2&t=24870
* Date : 31, Aug, 2013
* 1st class : A story about Embedded from a middle school student - JinWoo Kwon, Kawoon Middle School
* 2nd class : A story about OpenSource from a Grad student - SangIn Park, SungKyunKwan University
* 3rd class : A story about OpenSource in the capital market - HeungJae Kim, Koscom
* 4th class : A story about Java and OpenSource - SungChul Park, SK Planet
* 5th class : OpenSource & Hadoop & Big Data at a glance - HyungJoon Kim
* 6th class : Venture Spirit: Preparation to survive from a company incorporation - SeungEun Myung, Venture Square
* 7th class : A story of a robot and my dream - Dennis Hong, Virginia Tech
* 8th class : Ubuntu and Open Hardware - Funfun

==== September, 2013 ====
* Page : https://forum.ubuntu-kr.org/viewtopic.php?f=2&t=25034
* Date : 28, Sep, 2013
* 1st class : How to use NS-3 Networking simulator on Ubuntu - BongGyu Lee
* 2nd class : Platform-Architecting a SmartCar software on Linux - DaeJin Kim
* 3rd class : A story of Booyo Linux - JunYup Park
* 4th class : Introduction of OpenSource software for Non-IT companies - M.D TaeHo Kim
* 5th class : OpenSource search engine and Korean Language - SooMyung Lee

==== October, 2013 ====
* Ubuntu Korea Team was joined to Daum Corp. Big Conference
* Page : http://devon.daum.net/2013/#!/
* Date : 26/27, Oct, 2013

==== November, 2013 ====
* Page : https://forum.ubuntu-kr.org/viewtopic.php?f=2&t=25296
* Date : 30, Nov, 2013
* 1st class : From beginning to now - DongHo Kang
* 2nd class : Android Media Framework - TaeHwan Kwon
* 3rd class : One Shot, One Oppertunity - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Drake%20Song|Drake_KR]]</nowiki>
* 4th class : Gnome and You - ChangSuk Oh

==== December, 2013 ====
* Page : https://forum.ubuntu-kr.org/viewtopic.php?f=2&t=25451
* Date : 21, Dec, 2013
* 1st class : Presentation on Linux - YoungBin Han
* 2nd class : Yes, I am a CEO - HyoJun Kim
* 3rd class : Curse of dawn in Linux - Junsoo Kim
