{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The Kubuntu Quick Guide is a quick introduction to the Kubuntu distribution and the applications installed by default; it has not yet been officially released. This quick guide will be a "pocket reference" which provides high-level introductions to concepts and applications...and is heavy on graphics and screenshots.  This quick guide is neither an in-depth study of Kubuntu nor is it a "one-pager".  The guide will be released at version 1.0 and will coincide with Kubuntu 5.10 release in October 2005.

=== Document Plan for the Kubuntu Quick Guide ===

# '''Audience:''' The audience for the Kubuntu Quick Guide is the first-time/new Kubuntu/KDE user.  This user will not be new to computing, in general, and will have a good idea of the tasks he/she wants to perform, but may be left searching when it comes to relating past experience to Kubuntu.
# '''Document Outline:''' See the Document Outline section below. The freeze date for the outline has been met.
# '''Target Presentation Formats:''' HTML
# '''License:''' GFDL and CC-BY-SA (for details, see DocteamLicense)
# '''Technologies and Techniques:''' The Kubuntu Quick Guide will be written in DocBook XML, and stored in the docteam's Subversion repository. When the move to the new wiki is complete, each chapter will have its own wiki page, and will be (hopefully) kept in sync with the svn repository. In the interim, the document may be viewed <nowiki>[[http://lnix.net/~froud/kquickguide/C/index.html|here]]</nowiki>.  An attempt to update this location will be made daily, however, the Subversion repository will always hold the latest revision.
# '''Release Target:''' The guide will be released at version 1.0 to coincide with the 5.10 Kubuntu release; following the <nowiki>[[BreezyReleaseSchedule|Breezy Badger Release Schedule]]</nowiki>.
# '''Links to Current Version:''' At this time, the most current version is only available in the docteam's Subversion repository (see below for instructions on how to retrieve it), however, a fairly recent representation of the document will be pushed to this <nowiki>[[http://lnix.net/~froud/kquickguide/C/index.html|location]]</nowiki>.
# '''How to Contribute:''' There are two ways to participate: 1) send an email to the ubuntu-doc mailing list (ubuntu-doc@lists.ubuntu.com), or 2) make changes directly to the svn repository (see DocteamStepByStepRepository).
# '''Primary Contact:''' <nowiki>[[TroyWilliams|Troy Williams]]</nowiki> ("judax" on irc channel #ubuntu-doc at irc.freenode.net). I also read the ubuntu-doc mailing list.

=== Current Version ===
For now, the best way to get the entire Kubuntu Quick Guide is to check the files out of the docteam's svn repository. For help on how to get the files, see DocteamStepByStepRepository.

You can also use the links at the bottom of this page to view the various sections of the guide. Eventually, the Kubuntu Quick Guide wiki pages will be synchronized with the svn repository.

To build an HTML version of the Kubuntu Quick Guide, change to the <code>kde</code> directory and at the command line type <code>make kqg</code>.

'''Note:''' Result of the above make can be found in ../ubuntu-docs/build/kde/kquickguide/.

'''Example:'''
<pre>
troy@ubuntu:~ $ 
troy@ubuntu:~ $ cd ubuntu-doc/kde
troy@ubuntu:~/ubuntu-doc/kde$ make kqg
</pre>

To see the Kubuntu Quick Guide in GNOME's help browser, change to the <code>kquickguide</code> directory and at the command line type <code>yelp kquickguide.xml &</code>.

'''Example:'''
<pre>
troy@ubuntu:~/ubuntu-doc/kde/kquickguide/C $ yelp kquickguide.xml &
</pre>

=== Feel Free to Contribute ===

All comments, suggestions, and criticisms are welcome.

'''IMPORTANT:''' The Kubuntu Quick Guide will be released under the GFDL and CC-BY-SA licenses. If you are going to add content which is copied verbatim from another source, you MUST make sure that it is allowed, and you must include a reference to the source.

Also, list your name with anything you contribute so we can add it to the Acknowledgements section of the Kubuntu Quick Guide. Major contributors will be added as co-authors.

The Kubuntu Quick Guide source is contained in one file.  The file is <code>kquickguide.xml</code>.

=== Document Outline ===

 1. <nowiki>[[http://lnix.net/~froud/kquickguide/C/ch01.html|Introduction]]</nowiki> The introduction to the Kubuntu Quick Guide. It describes what the Kubuntu Quick Guide is, some of the goals, and also its applicability.  It also introduces Kubuntu and provides a listing of online and community resources.

 1. <nowiki>[[http://lnix.net/~froud/kquickguide/C/ch02.html|Getting started with Kubuntu]]</nowiki> Add text here.

 1. <nowiki>[[http://lnix.net/~froud/kquickguide/C/ch03.html|The K Menu]]</nowiki> Add text here.

 1. <nowiki>[[http://lnix.net/~froud/kquickguide/C/ch04.html|The System Menu]]</nowiki> Add text here.

 1. <nowiki>[[http://lnix.net/~froud/kquickguide/C/ch05.html|Beyond Kubuntu basics]]</nowiki> Add text here.
----
CategoryDocteam CategoryLookMergeDelete
