{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hi,
  Am slowly working on understanding and extending Ubuntu. Interested in contributing to design and programming. kernel primitives, python, wireless, ZeroConf, firewall, security and wiki ...

  Some of the related stuff I am interested include the OLPC (One Lap top per Child) - especially the Ad-hoc network algorithmics, wireless primitives, sensor networks, <nowiki>[[http://blogs.cisco.com/AON/archives/2006/06/aon_as_an_intel.html|intelligent edges]]</nowiki>, distributed precision tome synchronization algorithmics (who knew - there is a 2nd order relationship between MANET and music !), the Tor anonymous routing et al. 

  You can find some of my thoughts in a <nowiki>[[http://blogs.cisco.com/AON/|blog]]</nowiki>.

  I also have been contributing to the First Lego League Robotics tournemts as a jugde for the last couple of years ... the creativity of children is amazing ...

  Another area of my interest is the history and relevance of concert music; most probably will develop an introductory explorative-collaborative-handson music history course for children on the OLPC ...

Ubuntu Specific participation & modest contribution :

* Presented "Edubuntu: A Linux Distribution for Education" at Computer-using Educators Conference <nowiki>[[http://www.cue.org/handouts/CUE2006/|CUE 2006]]</nowiki> on Mar 11,2006
* Edgy Eft Ideas (May/June '06)
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/comprehensive-coherent-wireless-client|New-Improved Kinder-Gentler Wireless Client Interface Widget]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/what-do-non-geeks-want|Discussion about the needs of everyday users]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/ubuntu-on-olpc|Ubuntu for the One Lap Top Per Child Project]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/easy-to-use-wiki|A user-friendly, P2P-social-tagging-capable Wiki as part of Edgy Eft]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/sync-from-old-to-new-computer|Sync two (or more) ubuntu installations - data, programs et al]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/enterprise-management-features|Feature set for managing Ubuntu Installations across a large enterprise]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/application-aware-firewall|Application Aware Firewall]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/ubuntu-home-media-server|Ubuntu based media server for home entertainment networks]]</nowiki>

* Attend the Edgy Summit in Paris, June 19-22, 2006
* Attended <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxpip.org/ubuconwiki/UbuCon|UbuCon 2006]]</nowiki> at Google. Hosted a BOF on "What do non-geeks want"
* Will be attending Mountainview Summit next week. Haven't contributed much in terms of code, may be this time. (Didn't make it to MView ;o()

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Let us see how it all works out; if the body is able and willing (the spirit is!)...; priority and focus is the key 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
"Not all those who wander are lost ..." -J.R.R.Tolkien
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
----
CategoryHomepage
