{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

My Contributions for Ubuntu and Debian:

== Debian ==
=== Development/Maintenance ===
* I have prepared crawl 0.4.5-1 package:
** I have split source package into 4 different packages in order to provide both text-based and X versions of game.
** Rewritten most files from debian/ subdirectory, written patch for game to look for config files in
     $HOME/.config/crawl/

== Ubuntu ==
=== Development/Maintenance ===
==== Merges/syncs ====
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/369495|Sync of flight-of-the-amazon-queen]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/379314|Merge of xserver-xorg-input-vmmouse]]</nowiki>
** (also <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/379413|update of mdetect needed by this merge]]</nowiki>)
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/373463|python-apptools]]</nowiki>
* Forwarded our changes to debian so we could drop Ubuntu delta in packages:
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/377180|python-django]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/376271|python-django-filebrowser]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/377178|python-django-extensions]]</nowiki>
* Merged <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/375000|transmission 1.61-2]]</nowiki> from Debian Unstable:
** Closed all relevant LP bugs
** Written Launchpad Integration patch
** In cooperation with transmission developers and Ubuntu Bug Squad I've also triaged most of remaining transmission bugs
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/381745|Sync pitivi 0.13.1-1]]</nowiki>

==== Updates ====
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/333246|update of psi to fix spell checker when QT 4.5 used]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/320142|updated crawl to current upstream version]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/342916|fix rulesdispatch to work with Python 2.6]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/383109|mercurial fix to build it correctly with python 2.6]]</nowiki>
==== SRUs ====
* <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/367214|SRU for python-django-tagging to fix a possible Exception caused by authors' error]]</nowiki>
*** Also prepared <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-django-tagging/+bug/367214/comments/9|patch for KK]]</nowiki>, which is awaiting MOTU sponsorship.
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/96644|SRU for zabbix package]]</nowiki>
** Closes bugs <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/172775|LP: #172775]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/96644|LP: #96644]]</nowiki> for Jaunty and Hardy.
** Currently awaits motu-sru ACK.
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/378868|Simple SRU for photo-uploader package]]</nowiki>
** Currentls awaits motu-sru ACK.
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/368855|SRU for cherrypy3 to fix it with Python 2.6]]</nowiki>
** Got ACK from motu-sru, awaits sponsoring from MOTU.
** Prepared <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/jaunty/+source/cherrypy3/+bug/368855/comments/9|update of cherrypy3 to 3.1.2]]</nowiki> to fix this issue in KK.
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/242573|another SRU for cherrypy3 package]]</nowiki>
** Currently awaits motu-sru ACK.
=== Bug Triaging ===
I'm working with Bug Control to triage bugs. As mentioned earlier I have triaged most bugs in transmission package, I'm also trying to triage few bugs every day. You can see list of bugs I'm involved in on my LP page: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~kklimonda]]</nowiki>
=== Community ===
I'm active member of Ubuntu community - you can catch me on IRC: I'm helping people on #ubuntu-bugs, #ubuntu+1. Discussing with other developers on #ubuntu-motu. Also helping users on Polish LoCo channel #ubuntu-pl.

Additionally I help other users on Polish Ubuntu forum: http://forum.ubuntu.pl/
