{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Welcome to my public page!

==== About me ====

Systems and Software Engineer. A jack of all trades and master of none.

I currently live in Berlin, Germany, but used to live in Krakow, Poland, London, United Kingdom and Tokyo, Japan.

Feel free to get in touch via e-mail or otherwise, I am always happy to help.

==== Contact details ====

My name: Krzysztof Wilczynski (Japanese: ウィルチェンスキ ・ クリストフ)

My e-mail address: krzysztof.wilczynski@linux.com (short: kw@linux.com); or alternatively: krzysztof.wilczynski@fsck.io (short: kw@fsck.io).

Jabber: ``krzysztof.wilczynski``@``jabber.org`` and ``krzysztof.wilczynski``@``jabber.org.uk``.

Slack on <nowiki>[[http://gophers.slack.com|gophers]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://hangops.slack.com|hangops]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://elixir-lang.slack.com|elixir-lang]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://devopschat.slack.com|devopschat]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://techlondon.slack.com|techlondon]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://itamae.slack.com|itamae]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://hashtaggaming.slack.com|hashtaggaming]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[kmug-warsaw.slack.com|kmug-warsaw]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[awssecurityforum.slack.com|awssecurityforum]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[https://chefcommunity.slack.com|chefcommunity]]</nowiki> as kw or kwilczynski.

IRC: matti on network <nowiki>[[irc:--www.oftc.net-|irc.oftc.net]]</nowiki> on #kernelnewbiews and matti on network <nowiki>[[irc:--freenode.net-|irc.freenode.net]]</nowiki> on ##devops.

About me: <nowiki>[[http://about.me/kwilczynski|kwilczynski]]</nowiki>.

Twitter: <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/kwilczynski|kwilczynski]]</nowiki>.

My Launchpad page: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kwilczynski|kwilczynski]]</nowiki>.

My Keybase page: <nowiki>[[https://keybase.io/kwilczynski|kwilczynski]]</nowiki>.

My projects and Open Source contributions: <nowiki>[[https://github.com/kwilczynski|kwilczynski]]</nowiki>.

My GPG Key ID: <nowiki>[[http://pgp.mit.edu:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0x3DE334E7|3DE334E7]]</nowiki>

My GPG Key fingerprint: 12D2 7D5D 8C8E 9BF1 AABC 7C7C 7C64 768D 3DE3 34E7

==== Activities ====
* <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2010/10/01/%23ubuntu-classroom.html#t19:58|Class on Ruby]]</nowiki> for UbuntuAppDeveloperWeek

==== Testimonials and feedback for Membership Application ====

Note: This is the place, where '''you''' can leave feedback (both positive and negative) about me, my work and activities for the Ubuntu community.

/* Leave you feedback below this line, thank you for support! */

* ''"I had been searching for quite some time on why my ruby on rails installation process was going haywire when I met Krzysztof on #rvm.  He calmly  started helping me troubleshoot the problem one step at a time and stayed with me for about 3-4 hours through a long and arduous process.  Not only did he help me solve my problem, he answered any random queries I had about the Ubuntu system and Linux in general.  I had my problem resolved and learned along the way.  It is people like Krzysztof that make me want to be a part of this community and learn more about Linux."'' -- Chris, September, 2010

* ''"After chatting in #ubuntu-uk for a while about old computer components folks had lying around, Matti sent me 1GB of DDR2 RAM for free, which was very kind indeed! Much, much appreciated. Many thanks, Matti!"'' -- <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~neil-martin28|Neil Martin]]</nowiki>, December, 2009

* ''"Matti helped me as I was installing <nowiki>[[http://crl.ucsd.edu/innate/tlearn.html|tlearn]]</nowiki>. He showed me step by step how to compile and install. Thanks a lot matti for your help. Forever Ubuntu. :)"'' -- Erolci, December, 2009

* ''"Krzysztof is a very enthusiastic member of both the Ubuntu community and the computer community at large.  He is one of the nicest and kindest guys I've ever met who would honestly be a great asset to any team or community of people through his enthusiasm, his nice personality and his participation in that which interests him.  He has the patience and friendliness of a saint and will even buy you a coffee as he has done for me a few times before if you are in his presence."'' -- <nowiki>[[Chris|Christopher 'ianto' Swift]]</nowiki>,  Point of Contact of <nowiki>[[WelshTeam|Ubuntu Cymru]]</nowiki>, December, 2009

* ''"Krzysztof is a great guy, learns pretty quick and doesn't give up. Keep up the good work"'' -- <nowiki>[[dhillonv|Vikram Dhillon]]</nowiki>, December, 2009

* ''"Krzysztof's answers are accurate and carefully chosen based on the teammate's skills. He shares his pieces of information clearly from DyDNS to algorithms' complexity. I have had great time in working with him."'' -- Sami, December, 2009

* ''"Matti helped me step-by-step for over an hour in #ubuntu-uk as I was having major problems with a botched install of ubuntu server. Very patient and kind, and he certainly knows what he's doing. Thanks again for all the help!"'' -- Brad W, January 2010

* ''"Matti provides masses of great support in #ubuntu-uk, always picking up the difficult problems and sticking with them until they are fixed. He certainly helped me a lot today fixing ATI drivers on a customer laptop."'' -- AlanBell

* ''"Matti is very considerate and generous in offering his help. Assisted me in resolving an issue with Puppet. He is good in explaining the solution to a problem instead of just giving you an answer to fix your problem.  "'' -- janwari, February, 2010
