{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Krzysztof Kozlowski, apply for the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel-uploaders|Ubuntu Kernel Uploaders]]</nowiki> team membership, to get upload rights for the linux-* packages.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://www.launchpad.net/~krzk
|-
| '''Activity'''
| https://bugs.launchpad.net/~krzk
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KrzysztofKozlowski
|}

== Who I am ==

I am Krzysztof Kozlowski a member of the Ubuntu Kernel Team, employed by Canonical. I help to maintain the Ubuntu kernels and related packages for all actively supported Ubuntu releases. I am active upstream kernel contributor (according to <nowiki>[[https://lwn.net/Articles/845831/|v5.11]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://lwn.net/Articles/839772/|v5.10]]</nowiki> very active) and upstream kernel maintainer of <nowiki>[[https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/process/maintainers.html#memory-controller-drivers|memory controller drivers]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/process/maintainers.html#nfc-subsystem|NFC subsystem]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/process/maintainers.html#arm-samsung-s3c-s5p-and-exynos-arm-architectures|Samsung S3C/Exynos ARM and ARM64 architectures]]</nowiki> and several drivers.

== My Ubuntu story ==

Some years ago I used mostly Gentoo and FreeBSD, however since ~2009 Ubuntu is my main choice of OS for most of my machines: desktops and reliable servers.  I am using Ubuntu on my work-related machines (both desktop and servers), personal laptop and personal cloud servers. On ARM development boards I use ArchLinux or Yocto simply because it is very easy to put them to the DUT.

Starting from childhood and up to early professional life, I was mostly using Linux OS as system administrator and software developer. Since few years I am focused on Linux kernel and embedded systems. I contributed also to Yocto/OpenEmbedded.

Contributions to Ubuntu are new to me, so it is a very interesting time.

=== My involvement ===

I have been part of the Ubuntu kernel team working on Ubuntu cloud kernels for major cloud providers. I prepared few edge kernels, did reviews of kernel patches on mailing lists, backported some patches to fix CVEs. I am also working on fixing regression tests (autotest, LTP, kernel selftests and others).

== Sponsoring ==

Here is a list of sponsored packages:
		
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Date
| Sponsor
| Sponsoree
| Package
| Version
| Distribution
|-
| 2021-03-30 12:51
| Marcelo Cerri
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-signed-oracle-5.8
| 5.8.0-1025.26~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2021-03-30 13:45
| Marcelo Cerri
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-meta-oracle-5.8
| 5.8.0.1025.26~20.04.2
| focal
|-
| 2021-04-01 11:48
| Marcelo Cerri
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-meta-azure-5.8
| 5.8.0.1027.29~20.04.2
| focal
|-
| 2021-04-06 14:13
| Marcelo Cerri
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-azure-5.8
| 5.8.0-1027.29~20.04.2
| focal
|-
| 2021-04-06 15:09
| Marcelo Cerri
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-signed-azure-5.8
| 5.8.0-1027.29~20.04.2
| focal
|-
| 2021-04-06 16:51
| Marcelo Cerri
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-oracle-5.8
| 5.8.0-1025.26~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2021-06-14 14:36
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-meta-oracle-5.11
| 5.11.0.1008.8~20.04.2
| focal
|-
| 2021-06-14 14:42
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-signed-oracle-5.11
| 5.11.0-1008.8~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2021-06-14 14:43
| Ubuntu Kernel Ancillary Bot
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-restricted-signatures-oracle-5.11
| 5.11.0-1008.8~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2021-06-14 14:43
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-restricted-modules-oracle-5.11
| 5.11.0-1008.8~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2021-06-17 11:28
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-oracle-5.11
| 5.11.0-1008.8~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2021-06-24 10:05
| Kelsey Skunberg
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-azure
| 5.8.0-1037.39
| groovy
|-
| 2021-06-24 10:21
| Kelsey Skunberg
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-meta-azure
| 5.8.0.1037.37
| groovy
|-
| 2021-06-24 10:22
| Kelsey Skunberg
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-signed-azure
| 5.8.0-1037.39
| groovy
|-
| 2021-06-24 10:22
| Kelsey Skunberg
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-restricted-modules-azure
| 5.8.0-1037.39
| groovy
|-
| 2021-06-24 10:22
| Ubuntu Kernel Ancillary Bot
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-restricted-signatures-azure
| 5.8.0-1037.39
| groovy
|-
| 2021-06-25 13:00
| Stefan Bader
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-azure-4.15
| 4.15.0-1119.132
| bionic
|-
| 2021-06-25 13:20
| Stefan Bader
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-meta-azure-4.15
| 4.15.0.1119.92
| bionic
|-
| 2021-06-25 13:21
| Stefan Bader
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-signed-azure-4.15
| 4.15.0-1119.132
| bionic
|-
| 2021-06-25 13:21
| Stefan Bader
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-restricted-modules-azure-4.15
| 4.15.0-1119.132
| bionic
|-
| 2021-06-25 13:21
| Ubuntu Kernel Ancillary Bot
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-restricted-signatures-azure-4.15
| 4.15.0-1119.132
| bionic
|-
| 2021-06-28 09:00
| Kelsey Skunberg
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-azure-5.4
| 5.4.0-1052.54~18.04.1
| bionic
|-
| 2021-06-28 09:04
| Kelsey Skunberg
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-meta-azure-5.4
| 5.4.0.1052.31
| bionic
|-
| 2021-06-28 09:05
| Kelsey Skunberg
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-signed-azure-5.4
| 5.4.0-1052.54~18.04.1
| bionic
|-
| 2021-06-28 09:05
| Kelsey Skunberg
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-restricted-modules-azure-5.4
| 5.4.0-1052.54~18.04.1
| bionic
|-
| 2021-06-28 09:05
| Ubuntu Kernel Ancillary Bot
| Krzysztof Kozlowski
| linux-restricted-signatures-azure-5.4
| 5.4.0-1052.54~18.04.1
| bionic
|}

Source: <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Krzysztof+Kozlowski&sponsoree_search=name]]</nowiki>

== Upload Rights ==
I'm requesting upload rights for the kernel package set for all active series, which includes all the "linux*" packages.

== Endorsements ==

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Stefan Bader (smb) ===

==== General Feedback ====

I have done some of the reviews for Krzysztof and in those I had
found nothing to complain. Moreover from working with him in
general I trust him to know what to do and when not to do things.
And he speaks up and asks in the latter case.
He also is cautious about the impact an action has on the bigger
scale.
So I am +1 for granting Krzysztof kernel PPU rights.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=rnq5
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Marcelo Cerri (mhcerri) ===

==== General Feedback ====

I have reviewed kernels and dependents packages prepared by Krzysztof
and I've never found any problems with them. I trust Krzysztof's
skills to prepare, update and fix kernel packages as he has shown very
capable in those tasks. He is also very cautious, asking questions and
looking for advice when necessary. Krzysztof has my endorsement for
his kernel package upload rights.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=cOvB
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Kelsey Skunberg (KelseyS) ===

==== General Feedback ====

I have reviewed some of Krzysztof's work and cannot recall finding a single problem. He is careful and precise with any tasks he takes on. Krzysztof doesn't hesitate to ask questions or clarify information. I am in full support of Krzysztof earning his upload rights. +1
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=ETyV
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA256

=== Kleber Souza (klebers) ===
==== General feedback ====
I have reviewed some kernel packages prepared by Krzysztof and they have all been done with care. Krzysztof has demonstrated to learn quickly and to have attention to details so I trust that he is going to be careful with his uploads and will consult others when things do not go as expected. Therefore I am +1 for Krzysztof's kernel package upload rights.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----

iQEzBAEBCAAdFiEE8u2tbvu5Bl/TA9thRqrzNXDhFisFAmEKmIQACgkQRqrzNXDh
FitkLwf9FPaCw/iNaYALe+lPl6stb4m/LGwhBY5o7YVF+PJyiRsUih3eNgTncs9W
mu40oCOg592bCncyqoFSZKjAmn2KKP/iqe7eE4CjQMbYrHNcuJfDvEV7gcptMQkf
SWtd2URTsTq9aS7zVC4smOrNxpuqAXXtaam8ZXKji74BAA5GpoYC2jemStcZdK15
UpnqEulymafbfBRigzkBOI+p0v6G5iJe3+GybAdVzPnR10rvYL+RoQGmnwWMW5hB
EJfslKq11KHS0oBx0z+7BW6nYDP0CFDTqJYdHsGvgof7mXeXpP8oXsnHC+vRk6Iv
tzcbD+ZZeRAa971Rg/pwL7q3shJLvA==
=JOhG
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

=== Template ===
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>
