{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Im just someone who is very passionate about computing and the technology
associated with it. I have learned a great deal about our world through computers,
and have met alot of interesting people through its use in the
last 11 or so years. The internet is a very incredible tool,
which has given me great opportunities to allow me to get
very far in my own life.

I believe that now is the time to give back and contribute towards
the advancement of the world wide web. To allow everyone, in every place
of the world, regardless of anything and everything, to be apart of
this amazing human creation.

For me the spirit of ubuntu symbolises this in every way.

Its through my everyday uses of debian, that i recognise, what a
powerful idea ubuntu is. It has unlimited potential, for each
of us to utilise in our own unique way.
:)

- kalpesh@ubuntu.org.zw
-"https://launchpad.net/~zimbabwe-team" 
-"https://launchpad.net/~kthaker"

== Ubuntu Achievements ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Officially joined the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZimbabweTeam|Zimbabwe LoCo]]</nowiki> Team & signed the Code of Conduct
| 
| April 2008
|-
| Helped organise the very first Ubuntu meeting in Zimbabwe
| 
| May 2008
|-
| Registered the ubuntu.org.zw domain and setup Web & DNS zone services for it
| 
| June 2008
|-
| Organised server hardware specifics & co-setup the Debian based Zimbabwe <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.org.zw|Ubuntu/OSS repository server]]</nowiki>
| 
| July 2008
|-
| Volunteered to be the primary contact/maintainer/updater for the Ubuntu repository server
| 
| August 2008
|-
| Arranged & setup <nowiki>[[http://mail.ubuntu.org.zw|webmail & mailing list]]</nowiki> services with Google Apps for our loco team
| 
| September 2008
|-
| Part of the primary organising team for our very first <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.org.zw/node/11|Ubuntu release party]]</nowiki> in Zimbabwe
| 
| November 2008
|-
| Setup the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.org.zw|primary Drupal based PHP website]]</nowiki> and added a photo album for team events
| 
| November 2008
|-
| Assumed role of Team Leader and Team Contact of  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZimbabweTeam|Zimbabwe Ubuntu LoCo Team]]</nowiki>
| 
| September 2012
|}
