{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Upgrade ==

One of the great features of Debian based systems is the ability to upgrade, from one version to the next, directly from the internet.
This is a bit tricky from Kubuntu 6.06 LTS (Dapper) to Kubuntu 6.10 (Edgy),  because some essential packages are changing names among other things.
The purpose of this page is to document how I do the upgrades, to make it as painless as possible.

** The official way to do this is documented at <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EdgyUpgrades|EdgyUpgrades]]</nowiki>

=== The process ===

I recommend doing this from a console session.

At the login screen press Alt-N to switch to a console session.

Login with your username and password.

1. Become root.
<pre>
sudo -i
</pre>

2.  First ensure that ''both'' "main restricted" lines are uncommented before doing this, i.e., in /etc/apt/sources.list,
the following two lines
<pre>
 deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ dapper-updates main restricted
 deb-src http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ dapper-updates main restricted
</pre>
do ''not'' have a comment character (#) in front.  

Then backup and change /etc/apt/sources.list from dapper to edgy. The backup will be: /etc/apt/sources.list.bak

<pre> 
</pre>

3. Update package indexes.

<pre> 
</pre>

4. Do the dist-upgrade

<pre> 
</pre>

5. Install some magic packages.

<pre> 
</pre>

6. Install all the held-back packages. (This can be evil if you have put packages on hold manually, as they will be upgraded.)

<pre>
</pre>

NOTE:  during this step, one user reports that his terminal screen showed what looked almost like a printer or screen test page, and then went 
blank.  After about a half hour, he turned off the computer, rebooted, and redid the above two lines.  Things worked fine thence.  

7. Reboot to complete the upgrade.
<pre>
</pre>
Done.

=== Comments ===
Did it work for you? Did you experience problems? 
Please give me feedback!

----

For me it worked, although I had a couple of small problems because my hard drive get full during the install. (Hopefully you were online. :) ) To help the others to avoid this problem (or solve it alone) here comes the solution. (As I have learned from fdoving, all the packages get downloaded before install, so you really need free space for an upgrade.)

First of all, if you run to a problem, you will get some description of it in the last lines of the program output. (ex: no space left on device). Then you can find out the source of the problem. In my case I had to run
<pre>
</pre>

Then I tried to do the last step again, but get an error. The solution is the same: read the last few lines, probably you will even get a hint. Follow the hint, and if you get a new error then follow the next hint, etc. As long as you get some hints.

Once you don't get more hints, start again the process from step 4. -- V7
