{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/kubuntu-dialup-support
* '''Created''': 6/6/06 by JonathanRiddell
* '''Contributors''': JonathanRiddell
* '''Packages affected''': kppp, knet

=== Summary ===

Make sure dialup works on Kubuntu

=== Rationale ===

Dialup is largely untested by Kubuntu developers.  However it is still much used and we should ensure it works on Kubuntu.

=== Use cases ===

Maisie has no ADSL and needs to use a modem to connect to the internet.  kppp doesn't work out of the box.

Archie has ADSL but uses a USB modem that needs to connect with PPPoE.  

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

We need a dialup testing team.  We also need an ADSL without router testing team.

KNet seems to do dialup and ADSL connections, maybe just go with that.  It probably needs a user interface review however.

KPPP currently is deliberately broken by default with /etc/ppp/peers/kppp-options needing "noauth" in it, what are the security implications of having this on by default?

----
There is a new spec that might supersede this: DialUpSupport
----
CategorySpec
