{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''Tutors:''' <nowiki>[[https://www.launchpad.net/~claydoh|Clay]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://www.launchpad.net/~myriam|Myriam]]</nowiki>

'''Requirements:''' Knowing how to communicate

=== Description ===

Support is a big subject, however here we focus on user-to-user help. This takes place in the forums, on mailing lists, and in IRC. Increasingly, social networks are a support place now. 

=== Why providing support rocks ===

Providing support is awesome because:
* It does not require advanced skills or knowledge from everybody. Your own experience using Kubuntu is the perfect place to start.
* You actually end up learning more as you help others, which increases your own knowledge and skills. This can be a gateway to learning other things, from bug triaging to packaging, and perhaps even to programming.
* Love and respect from everyone.

==== Getting Started ====

 1. Go where the help is needed:
** <nowiki>[[http://kubuntuforums.net|Kubuntu Forums]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/kubuntu-users|kubuntu-users]]</nowiki> mailing list
** #kubuntu IRC Channel
# Hang out in your venue of choice.
# Answer questions you feel you you know the answers to, and direct users to the appropriate resources.
# Remember to follow the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/about/about-ubuntu/conduct|Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>.

=== Career ===

# Support efforts are one way for the non-technical user to become an official Kubuntu Member.
# Rubbing elbows with the great, good-looking Kubuntu Team.
# <nowiki>[[https://www.launchpad.net/~apachelogger|apachelogger]]</nowiki>.

=== More Resources ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.kubuntuguide.info|Kubuntuguide]]</nowiki>: an external wiki for Kubuntu, since 2007.

CategoryKubuntuReview 
