{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

A list of things we could probably focus on for Kubuntu 8.04 Hardy Heron.

''Note: If you'd like to leave a comment or add a suggestion, please include your signature by adding @``SIG@ at the end. Thanks!''

=== Focused bug work ===

Hardy will be an LTS release. Aside from catching up to Ubuntu's features and preparing for KDE 4, we should also focus a lot on stability and polish. We should probably try to fix (not just close) long standing bugs and issues. A few things particularly come to mind:

* Adept (usability and error handling)
* Upgrade tool
* System Settings and kde-guidance

=== Kubuntu Testers ===

First of all we really need to get more testers to be able to hunt down possible bugs and showstoppers as early as possible. But most importantly, we probably need a place/structure for testers to be able to communicate and report more effectively about these things. This is not just for testing ISO's but for upgrading, new features, regressions, everything. I'm not sure if #ubuntu+1 is a proper place for this. Perhaps we can make use of #kubuntu-testers again? or do we invite them to #kubuntu-devel directly, since it has the largest concentration of developers? We could also provide them with some tips or guides for reporting bugs or setting up a virtual machine for testing.

This is one area that we really need the help of the user community, so making it conducive and easy for them to help out would be a big advantage.

=== Community Involvement ===

We are a community distribution, and we should be able to use that to our advantage. We have a large resource pool in the community, and it would be great if we could utilize that. We have to make it easier for users to be able to contribute in the areas that interest them. We should also be able to to setup a system that would make it easier for developers and the user community to communicate and interact.

An example of this is a proposal I made in KubuntuForums.Net: http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3088690 . This system will enable both users (particularly the forum community) and developers to have convenient points of interaction (aside from the bug tracker). The point is to make it easy and conducive for users to start contributing, within the environment they're comfortable with, until such time that they are more comfortable with the more standard and direct tools. But at the same time, developers will (and perhaps should) be able to check on these easily (rather than scour the whole forums for ideas/problems).

We probably need to update https://wiki.kubuntu.org/HelpingKubuntu to include current junior jobs and low hanging fruits, too. It would also probably be useful if we put who to contact for those specific jobs/items.

=== Kubuntu Package Selection ===

In light of the recent poll that was made in KubuntuExtras, we could probably try to re-evaluate the default packages that we offer. Specially since there seems to have been a decision to include some KDE 4 apps in Hardy as well.

How about the status of D3lphin and Strigi as well? It seems that D3lphin upstream is at a standstill, which means a lot of the fixing and adding of features will be Kubuntu's responsibility (kinda like Adept now). Are we willing to do and support that for an LTS? How is Strigi also performing for our users?

=== WinFOSS ===

nixternal has made a <nowiki>[[http://blog.nixternal.com/2007.11.08/do-you-winfoss/|post about the WinFOSS apps in the CD]]</nowiki>. Considering the plan to put KDE 4 apps on Hardy, as well as add Compiz, is it still practical or advantageous for us to maintain these? Are the WinFOSS apps (still) effectively answering a need? Or are we being limited with what we can do on the CD because of it?

=== Others ===

New User "Kit" - http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3088589.0 - a sort of first run doc or icon that can link to very important FAQ's, issues, information, etc. at a single glance. It can even include community-contributed information, such as KubuntuExtras. First run things and desktop icons seem to be frowned upon, but wouldn't there be cases where the benefits outweigh the rules? Perhaps a panel shortcut then?

Integrate extra mouse button configuration into the systemsettings via imwheel. http://packages.ubuntu.com/hardy/utils/imwheel - The lack of extra button support puts users off in thinking Linux isn't polished or made to be too generic to support fancy features that seemed standard to them. @``SIG@
