{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2009/10/02/%23ubuntu-meeting.html

=== Discuss top bugs to quash ===

We discussed the bugs to squish.  We think we have a handle on what the main problems are.

=== Dragon vs. Kaffeine ===

We decided to change to Dragon due to possible stability problems with Kaffeine.  Better safe than sorry.

=== K3b KDE 3 vs. KDE 4 ===

We decided to go with k3b from KDE 4.  The KDE 3 version is likely to be just as broken.  It was noted the KDE 4 version had poor translations however.

=== IRC Ultimate Showdown of Ultimate Destiny ===

A close vote went with a preference of Quassel over Konversation, this keeps with the status quo from Jaunty.

=== kopete-facebook inclusion ===

kopete-facebook to be moved to universe, it is not stable

=== kubuntu-dev team and archive reorg ===

a kubuntu-dev team will be created for archive upload rights and will self-appoint new members, the council will keep an eye on the process to ensure it scales.

=== package updates ===

We discussed packages to be updated and who would do them

=== Crash handling after release ===

We want to use Dr Konqi for most apps once apport get turned off for the release.  yuriy will ask Pitti about keeping apport turned on for Kubuntu specific apps.

=== ibus as default ===

It was noted that Qt text fields default to XIM input.  Quintasan will look into whether that can and should be changed to ibus.
