{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:kubuntu-karmic-website
* '''Created''': 2009-05-29
* '''Contributors''': JonathanRiddell, RyanKavanagh, AnthonyMercatante, RoderickGreening, RomanShtylman, YuriyKozlov
* '''Affects''': Kubuntu Website

=== Summary ===

The current website isn't the most user-friendly and is hard to navigate. We want to change this.

=== Assumptions ===

This website should work in at least Arora, Konqueror, Firefox, Galeon and IE{6,7}

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

The changes will first be tested on our testservers (hosted by RyanKavanagh and RoderickGreening). They will then by pushed onto launchpad and applied onto the official websites by the Canonical sysadmins.

==== UI Changes ====

* Get rid of the latest news in the masthead, we'll adopt action items "Download", "Get Help", "Support", "Tour", similar to the Xubuntu website
** Download icon from KGet and other Oxygen icons will be used --- Done without "Tour" on testsite, waiting for other items first @SIG
* News should be moved to a block on the left showing only headlines and short sub-headline. ­--- Done on the testsite, waiting for other items before moving everything to the live site -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ryanakca]]</nowiki>  * Download and Archive blocks on the left will disappear --- Done on the testsite, waiting for other items before moving everything to the live site -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ryanakca]]</nowiki>  * Main page content should focus on describing with pictures what Kubuntu can do and who uses it
* Screenshot module will be used. --- Waiting on the sysadmins -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ryanakca]]</nowiki>  * The new Kubuntu wiki theme is currently stuck in RT, we will poke the sysadmins to make this available for testing then change it to default before release --- Done -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ryanakca]]</nowiki>  --- Now default theme --- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ryanakca]]</nowiki>  * The wiki theme should also be applied to help.ubuntu.com/community/ --- Waiting for sysadmins -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ryanakca]]</nowiki>  * Feature tour like the Ubuntu.com one  http://www.ubuntu.com/products/whatisubuntu/904features/ --- Please help
* On the Community & Support page, we will split it into different languages, with a link (or dropdown box) to a page for each language --- In progress -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ryanakca]]</nowiki>  --- Done -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ryanakca]]</nowiki>  * Smaller font size. --- We don't set a font size... not sure what to do about this, I can try shrinking everything by 5%-15%... -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ryanakca]]</nowiki>  * We should investigate more engaging content such as developer and user interviews.

==== Code Changes ====

Code in lp:~kubuntu-website/kubuntu-website/kubuntu-theme-v2 for appearance
Code in lp:~kubuntu-website/kubuntu-website/kubuntu-screenshot-viewer for screenshot module.

==== Wiki Page ====

* Text on wiki.kubuntu.org/Kubuntu should be replaced with something interesting.
* The dead links in the top bar should be removed --- In progress, waiting for the theme to go default -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ryanakca]]</nowiki>  --- Done --- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ryanakca]]</nowiki>  * Fix the icons on the top bar and link to a page describing how to connect to IRC

----
CategorySpec
