{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': none yet
* '''Packages affected''': kubuntu-default-settings

=== Summary ===
* Talk about the processes to make changes to kubuntu-default-settings
* Review the change to /.hidden

=== Rationale ===

=== Scope ===
* The initial settings of All KDE applications installed in Kubuntu

=== Design ===
* After Review at the BoF from a KDE Useability Member Review and the core Kubuntu Team there is not a good reason to keep .hidden from /

=== Implementation ===
* Remove .hidden file from /

* Change the compressed files mimetype association to use the integrated ark_part by default rather than the current standalone Ark.  This is a good compromise between the standalone application and integrated kioslaves.

* In Konqueror we will merge the stop and refresh buttons into one button to reduce the space taken up by toolbar buttons.

* Remove from the default list of KTorrent search sites any site which primarily promotes illegally copied files.

----
CategorySpec
