{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Kubuntu Dapper Release Comments ==

Tell us what you think below:

* This rocks - JonathanRiddell
* Kick ass, joining the devel list now to see if I can contribute to the next one - <nowiki>[[AWing]]</nowiki>
* HP PSC1210 up and printing in a few minutes!!!!!!!!!!! - LM 
* Kubuntu rocks! Awesome work from the kubuntu team. You guys are great. Thank you - kmon
* Installation into a VMWare virtual machine was flawless. Yum!  Although the Epson inkjet printer drivers are <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/cupsys/+bug/42123|still broken]]</nowiki>
* OK I amend my previous comments. Our upgrade of a Compaq Evo from Kubuntu 5.10 to 6.0.6 has been a complete and abject failure - we've had problem after problem and currently the system boots into text mode only. I'm sure it's nice, but until my wife can boot into KDE again, it is no more useful to her than a brick.
* English/Russian keyboard input up and working - thanks for the multi-language utilities.  Yes, this distro rocks!  - LM 

=== Installation / upgrade problems ===
* In the <nowiki>[[http://kubuntu.org/announcements/6.06-lts-release.php|release announcment]]</nowiki> the instructions "If you have a Kubuntu 6.06 CD put it in the drive and run ''apt-cdrom''from the command line then follow the instructions above." are misleading (This is especially bad if you use Alt-F2 to enter this, it does nothing and shows nothing!). On a typical Kubuntu install you actually have to type '''sudo apt-cdrom add'''.   And for us even this didn't work because Adept crashed installing the upgrades. Perhaps the release announcement should refer to DapperUpgrades
