{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Agenda ==
* Can we get a list of what needs doing, and the priority of each item, before release?  We're probably not likely to get *all* of the bugs fixed before release.  - Hobbsee
== Member candidates ==
* <nowiki>[[imbrandon]]</nowiki> ( Brandon Holtsclaw )
* "kwwii" ( Kenneth Wimer )

== Meeting Log ==

Meeting log can be read there : <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~fabbione/irclogs/ubuntu-meeting-2006-05-22.html|first part]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~fabbione/irclogs/ubuntu-meeting-2006-05-23.html|second part]]</nowiki>.

== Summary ==

First, Riddell asked each one to just tell who (s)he is.
<pre>
  === Riddell jonathan riddell
  === Lure is Luka Renko
  === allee Achim Bohnet
  === Hobbsee is Sarah Hobbs, she thinks...
  === kwwii is Kenneth Wimer
  === m-onkey Carlos Diener
  === toma is Tom Albers
  === comm[A|n] der is Robert Mueller
  === bddebian [n=bdefrees@mail.ottens.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
  === `6og Karl Goetz (usually)
  === OculusAquilae is Bastian Holst
  === imbrandon is Brandon Holtsclaw
  === nixternal is Richard Johnson
  11:06  klichota  klichota is Krzysztof Lichota
  === crimsun [n=crimsun@pdpc/supporter/silver/crimsun] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
  === kmon Javier monteagudo, just a reader
  === linuxmonkey is Terry Jacob (at least I think I am)
</pre>

Because of Hobbsee's ''sleeping state'', she asks to report her agenda point for later.

=== Members ===
==== Brandon Holtsclaw - imbrandon ====
* He mentions his Wiki page : <nowiki>[[imbrandon]]</nowiki> for presentation
* crimson mentions that imbrandon has been ''taking an active role in universe-fixing for 6.06''
* imbrandon mentions that bddebian uploaded a lot for him
* Hobbsee mentions imbrandon fixing kvirc and having been working with him in -motu fixing dh_iconcache
* Answering Riddell, imbrandon mentions he's been around #kubuntu-devel for 3 months
* imbrandon mentions his presence mostly on IRC in -motu and #kubuntu, for ''general help, like install problems and setting up restricted formats for people'', ''sudo understanding and such'', and that he spends ''about 6 hours a day on average'' on #kubuntu and #kubuntu-offtopic
* Riddell mentions the fact that imbrandon is no op for the moment and that it'll be fixed
* Red-Sox mentions that imbrandon ''helps out a lot for us newbies'' in #kubuntu-offtopic
* On Riddell's question ''will you be able to help us with the RC and final release at all?'', imbrandon aggrees: ''yes (...) i'm here for the long haul''
* Hobbsee mentions how hard it is to answer to people on #kubuntu, because of very high ''ratio of newbies to people who know what they're talking about'' and mentions that ''imbrandon tends to be one of the few people that helps around''
* Tonio_ mentions that ''he also did a quite interesting bunch of patches''
* Lure: ''I think we need more people to help newbies in irc and forums - thsi is where Kubuntu is lacking'' (+25 from Hobbsee)
* Answering a few questions about involvment in Edgy, imbrandon: ''i plan on being very active in edgy and kde4'' and can definitively be put on Riddell's ''list of people to throw packaging problems at''.
* ''i plan on concentrating on kde ( qt4 patches ) but i also lkike to look on malone and help where i can  while ideling on irc heling new people''
* imbrandon did '''sign the Code of Conduct''' (question from toma)

===== Votes =====
* Riddell: ''well I've not heard much involvement from imbrandon before but what I'm hearing here is good and the testimonials are all positive so I think a +1 from me''
* ''Hobbsee is debating saying yes, or asking for more contributions before membership...''
** Hobbsee: ''+1 from the stuff i see in -motu - i'd like to see you in #k-devel though :)''
* allee: ''many others supported him.  +1 from me too.''
* Tonio_: ''+1 for me although I wasn't here at the beginning''
* toma: ''+1 for me''
<pre>
11:25  Riddell  seems like +1s all around
11:25  Riddell  thanks for taking the grilling imbrandon and congratulations on being the first kubuntu-member
</pre>

==== Kenneth Wimer - kwwii ====
* kwwii, presenting himself (he had no Wiki page at that moment):
** ''well, I am kenneth wimer, been around linux for a long while''
** ''worked for another major linux company for 7 years doing all the graphics''
** ''kde member, kde-hci member, kde-artists ring-master or such''
** ''since about a 6-8 months using kubuntu''
** ''in the meantime, a ubuntu-art member''
** ''did lots of stuff for dapper''
** ''learning deb packaging recently''
* Riddell: ''well I know kwwii pretty well, I don't have any questions (...) he did all the dapper artwork for kubuntu''
* Riddell mentions that ''kwwii is contracted by canonical at the moment''
* To toma's question about being working on kde stuff as well, kwwii answers: "I am part of the oxygen team''
* At that moment, kwwii had '''NOT signed the Code of Conduct''' (question from toma)
* He even had no wiki page (first question from Hobbsee, Tonio_ then precises its importance), but he mentions his blog :  http://kwwii.blogspot.com
* Riddell: ''he won't get into the kubuntu-members team without signing the conduct''
===== Votes =====
* Hobbsee: ''+1 based on the artwork contributions - looking forward to seeing what happens in edgy''
* Tonio_: ''+1 based of artwork contribution, work done for the linux tag (...)''
* Riddell: ''+1 from me for kubuntu artwork, top linuxtag help and oxygen goodness''
* toma: ''+1 for me, although a wiki page describing yourself is badly missing''
* allee: ''kwwii: then +1 of course!!''
<pre>
11:37  Riddell  +1s all round again, congatulations kwwii
</pre>

==== Tom Albers - toma ====
He has been added during the meeting (not present on agenda):
<pre>
11:37  Riddell anyone else here for membership?
11:38  toma    Riddell: maybe i should be there?
</pre>

* Riddell mentions that ''toma is our KDE link on the committee''
* toma, presenting himself :
** ''well, I'm working on RSIBreak, i was working on digiKam''
** ''i was a dutch translator before that''
* Tonio_ mentions that toma works on codeine
* Answering Tonio_, toma mentions he worked on media:/ library and tried to implement it in codeine (upstream implemented it differently)
* toma then mentioned :
** ''next to that, i did some packaging on alioth (debian). learning from allee
** ''and code kde-nl member core''
* Answering to Riddell asking what makes him interested in Kubuntu: "i think linux should be easier for the users and i'm seeing kubuntu making a good efford doing so, so i want to help in that area and focuessed on KDE''
* allee mentions toma's upstream work on kipi-plugins
* Answering Riddell, toma mentions that he attended all kde meetings in Netherlands and no other one.
* toma: ''yes, i can not say I have done a lot for kubuntu untill now, but I will be more active, you have to know that the council is a bit of a surprise for me.''
** Riddell: ''toma: I'm not asking for more kubuntu involvement, as I say we value you for the upstream involvement''
* Answering to Hobbsee, toma confirms that he '''has signed the Code of Conduct''

===== Votes =====
* Riddell: ''toma get a +1 from me for bringing KDE knowledge to kubuntu council, but I think we'd expect more kubuntu contribution for most members so I understand if others vote the other way''
* ''Hobbsee would like to wait, and see more contributions, but is then happy to approve both membership and kcc status''
* Tonio_: ''+1 for me, based on the future and the specific case of toma (cc member before beeing a member)''
* allee: ''I trust/know toma.  +1''
<pre>
11:51  Riddell  toma is in the positive then, congratulations and welcome to kubuntu membership
</pre>

=== Next point: Figuring out where the work has to be done - Hobbsee ===
Agenda point is following :
* Can we get a list of what needs doing, and the priority of each item, before release?  We're probably not likely to get *all* of the bugs fixed before release.  - Hobbsee

Riddell:
* Repositories
** Main is already frozen, all uploads should be mentioned on DapperReleaseRadar or approved by mdz.
** Universe is excepted to remain open until next tuesday.
* Bugfixing
** In Universe, bugfixes should be fine
** In Main, important bugfixes where it's obvious they won't break other things should be fine too but need aproval first.

==== Testing ====
===== Wiki pages =====

Riddell asked for a Kubuntu version of <nowiki>[[Testing/Short]]</nowiki>. imbrandon took it and Odyx proposed to re-read it. imbrandon will have to make <nowiki>[[Testing/CurrentKubuntu]]</nowiki> for Release Candidate too if possible.

===== Release Candidate =====

Tonight's ''nightly build'' will be the first Release Candidate, please start testing from tomorrow morning (european time). Results should be reported to <nowiki>[[Testing/CurrentKubuntu]]</nowiki>.

Big priority is to test Ubiquity, which should be able to do ''anything partman can do''. and has smiliar possibilities as the text installer.

* `6og mentions that ntfs issues have been solved recently, so everyone should be sure to get recent CDs (daily images)
* imbrandon mentions that it is possible to test with VmWare.

===== Other major bugs =====

* OdyX mentions that konqueror/kaffeine/kmplayer still crashes from time to time on several pages
* Tonio_ mentions ''graphical'' postint scripts (java packages, postfix) in Adept.
* allee mentions wiki.konqueror.org continuously asking to accept certificate. This seems both a lack in certificate and a konqueror bug (toma confirms).
* klichota mentions that kdesktop crashes with live CD in QEMU.

=== Else ===

* linuxmonkey mentions RestrictedFormats that needs to be adapted to Kubuntu. OdyX takes it.
* toma and Hobbsee congratulate Riddell for his newsletter. Riddell indeed mentions the possible suggestions on KubuntuNewsletter.
* Short discussion about RAM size needed for live. It seems 128 MiB is just fine, a bit slow but fine.

=== Next meeting ===
Next meeting is planned on 6th June at 21UTC.
