{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:adept-welcome-screen-must-die
* '''Packages affected''': adept

=== Summary ===

After this work is complete, a user would launch the adept updater and they should see sources updating and then packages needing update.  No welcome screen.  Just right down to business.

=== Release Note ===

Adept updater no longer has the unnecessary welcome screen, bit instead takes you to updating your sources and upgrading your system faster and easier.

=== Rationale ===

The welcome screen in adept updater is unnecessary.  It should be removed so that folks can update their systems quicker and more intuitively.

=== Use Cases ===

Garfield sees the adept notifier in his system icons, and clicks it.  He notices that unlike in the past, he only sees sources being updated and then he sees all of the packages that need to be updated.

=== Assumptions ===

N/A?

=== Design ===

Adept updater opens, sources update, shows upgradable packages.

=== Implementation ===

==== UI Changes ====

Kill the adept updater welcome screen.

==== Code Changes ====

This should, IIRC, only require a change of the app.cpp in adept/updater/.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

This would be easily tested by simply running the adept_updater with kdesu and verifying that it is not displaying a welcome screen anymore.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

N/A

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
