{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:kubuntu-maverick-kolab
* '''Created''':2010-05-11
* '''Contributors''': JonathanRiddell, Paul Adams
* '''Packages affected''':kdepim

=== Summary ===

Ensure Kubuntu 10.10 supports Kolab fully as a client through Kontact.

=== Release Note ===

Kubuntu 10.10 is now a certified client for Kolab groupware thanks to extensive testing and verification by Kolabsys.

=== Rationale ===

Groupware is useful functionality for our users.

=== User stories ===

Maisie is a sysadmin for a large company which is changing its groupware system to Kolab.  She installs Kubuntu 10.10 on her laptop and is pleased that it talk to the Kolab server without problems.

=== Assumptions ===

The server packages get included, see ServerMaverickKolab

=== Design ===

It will be a goal of the Kubuntu team in 10.10 to ensure our kdepim packages pass the Kolabsys test suite for Kolab.

Package Akonadi, kdepimlibs, kdepim-runtime and kdepim through the normal Kubuntu Ninjas process.

Have Kolabsys test our packages on each update.

=== Implementation ===

Kolabsys engineers will join Kubuntu's community communication methods through our IRC channels and mailing lists.

When a new build of akonadi or kdepim packages is uploaded they will run their test suite on their infrastructure and send the results to a dedicated mailing list, up to a maximum of three a day.

We will notify the Kolabsys engineers to new uploads and to packages in kubuntu-ninjas for testing.  Optionally we will also notify them of updates and backports to 10.04 which they can test.

----
CategorySpec
