{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Phonon Backend Gstreamer Testing ==

Should we change to phonon-backend-gstreamer?  Please test (preferably on Natty but Maverick also useful) and let us know how it works for you.

=== Known problems ===
* DVD menus - apachelogger working on a fix
* last.fm in Amarok - only affects paying last.fm people

=== How to test ===

* Install phonon-backend-gstreamer
* Uninstall phonon-backend-xine (just to be sure)
* In System Settings -> Multimedia -> Phonon -> Backend  change backend to GStreamer
* Play some music, watch some videos, play a game

Things to test
* Does music play
* Do videos play
* After installing ubuntu-restricted-extras do more videos play?
* Do videos play with compositing turned on and off?
* Do headphones work?  USB and audio jack.

=== Results ===
==== JonathanRiddell ====

Works well with videos and music I have with compositing turned on and off.
USB headphones work too

==== Valorie Zimmerman ====

Mp3s will play in Amarok once codecs are installed; I suggest adding them to Kubuntu-restricted-extras, otherwise Amarok just crashes, and Dr. Konqui doesn't pop up. Videos from Youtube play, no problem. I don't have games with sound. Compositing normally fails during my sessions, and isn't on now. I don't have USB headphones, but regular plugin ones work. 

NO streams work, however, not just last.fm paid ones. I'm working with Harald on this, but this seems like a deal-killer to me. This is in Mav, with KDE 4.5.4. Phonon-gst built from git, phonon also built from git.
