{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Everyone who plans to attend either in person or remotely should add their name to the appropriate list, so we know who of Kubuntu will be joining us. Spec ideas go into the ideas selection and if sufficient content/importance they will be turned into actual Launchpad blueprints in due time. Every spec should have at least one session lead, if the lead is not present in person a "proxy" should be selected and brought up to speed on the topic to act as hand of the lead (sounds all professional, doesn't it \o/).

=== Persons ===
==== On-Site ====
# DarkwingDuck aka David Wonderly
# claydoh aka ClayWeber
# Quintasan aka <nowiki>[[MichalZajac|Michał Zając]]</nowiki>
# afiestas aka Alex Fiestas
# rbelem aka Rodrigo Belem
# JonathanRiddell
# maco aka Mackenȝie
# Aurelien le Gateau

==== Remote ====
# valorie aka valorie-zimmerman
# shadeslayer aka Rohan Garg
# bulldog98 aka Jonathan Kolberg
# Princess Butterfly aka Harald Sitter
# JontheEchidna aka Jonathan Thomas
# yofel aka Philip Muskovac

=== Specs ===
==== Old friends ====
* Intro
** First Kubuntu session on Monday -> review oneiric
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-p-kubuntu-introduction
* Packaging Precice
** Can we automate packaging more?
** Worth using UDD branches?
** Revise Ninja processes to be more efficient with macro upstream packages
** Point releases as stable release updates?
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-p-kubuntu-packaging
* Kubuntu Defaults
** Nepomuk by default?
** KMail2/Akonadi
** Akonadi off by default (calendar integration)?
** QT_ACCESSIBILITY
** LightDM?
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-p-kubuntu-defaults
* Kubuntu Quality
** LTS?
** How to maintain quality
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-p-kubuntu-quality
* Kubuntu Docs
** David's baby
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/kubuntu-docs/+spec/desktop-p-kubuntu-docs-precise
* Kubuntu Active?
** Whither Kubuntu Mobile?
** Plasma Active for the win?
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-p-kubuntu-active
* Kubuntu and Muon
** Improvements to Muon?
** Samba install?  Other packagekit places?
** Distro upgrade?
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-p-kubuntu-muon
* Kubuntu Group Photo
** Say cheese
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-p-kubuntu-group-photo

==== Ideas ====
* Kubuntu Desktop/Netbook/Mobile/Tablet - how to manage it all [apachelogger]
* Kubuntu Bug Triage team [apachelogger]
** How to get bug triage under control
* Workshop: How to write blog posts [apachelogger]
* Profiling the Workspace [apachelogger]
** Make login faster
** Make app start faster
** Make everything faster
* Branding for status.ubuntu.com should be available at http://status.kubuntu.org/
* What left to do to become an operating system
** Hardware tools like "Disk management"
** Better printing
** Your idea here
* Building an across distro bug triage team
* Switch the DVD to an USB image [debfx]
** size < 2GB
** use it as our main distibution medium
** language packs
** wallpapers
** some additional software (e.g. firefox, kamoso) but not all of KDE SC
* Your idea here [session lead here]
