{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Those nice volume up/down buttons don't work on your laptop? Or they don't work on that fancy keyboard with the extra buttons? Is MultimediaKeys not making any sense?  Did this work with Gnome but not under KDE?  Read on...

* '''This is just one way''', You could also fix up the keyboard layout mappings by being really arcane, or hack in all sorts of other ways.  This way is fairly reliable, and fairly simple, but it is also a complete workaround.  It would be better if things like this "just worked"  

* Oh yeah, and this really has '''nothing to do with Kubuntu, KDE, or Volume''' really.  This is a fairly reliable procedure for making unknown keys "work"

First off, you need to determine if your special keys are generating any events at all.  It's possible that they are generating events, just that your system doesn't know what to do with them.

 0. From a console window
  {{{
        xev
  }}}

 0. Press your special key.
 You should hopefully see a bunch of information flying past.  xev is fairly noisy.
  {{{
      KeyRelease event, serial 30, synthetic NO, window 0x3800001,
                 root 0x9e, subw 0x0, time 12757170, (76,-15), root:(80,681),
                 state 0x10, keycode 236 (keysym 0x0, NoSymbol), same_screen YES,
                 XLookupString gives 0 bytes:
  }}}
 If you don't, try looking in /var/log/messages (or dmesg) for lines like...
  {{{
    atkbd.c: Unknown key pressed (translated set 2, code 0x85 on isa0060/serio0).
    atkbd.c: Use 'setkeycodes e005 <keycode>' to make it known.
  }}}
 If you're getting this, go back to <nowiki>[[MultimediaKeys]]</nowiki> and learn about setting up keycodes from scratch.  We don't care here over on this page :)

 0. Phew, now that those problem children are gone, you are looking for that <code> "keycode 236" </code> number.  (it could be any number)  You  can see from the <code> "NoSymbol" </code> that your system doesn't know what to do with this keycode.

 0. Find out what keysym you want to assign to this keycode.  This can be a bit more difficult.  Here's the most common ones...
  {{{
   XF86AudioMute
   XF86AudioLowerVolume
   XF86AudioRaiseVolume
   XF86AudioPlay
   XF86AudioStop
   XF86AudioNext
   XF86AudioPrev
  }}}
 If you want different ones (there's plenty more to choose from!) have a look at the file /etc/X11/xkb/symbols/inet

 0. Now, make a file that contains xmodmap lines, something vaguely like this (this is for a dell inspiron 8600)
  {{{
   
   $ cat ~/.xmodmaprc
   keycode 160 = XF86AudioMute
   keycode 174 = XF86AudioLowerVolume
   keycode 176 = XF86AudioRaiseVolume
   keycode 162 = XF86AudioPlay
   keycode 164 = XF86AudioStop
   keycode 153 = XF86AudioNext
   keycode 144 = XF86AudioPrev
   $ 
  }}}
 0. Ready to go!  

  {{{
   xmodmap ~/.xmodmaprc  
  }}}

 (Or wherever you felt like putting the file, with whatever name you felt like giving it)

!That's all folks

Making this run at startup is a whole new ball game.  There are about 1000000 ways of making things run at startup, depending on what system you're running, so I'm not going into it here.

----
CategoryKubuntu
