{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Agenda ==

* Default KDE installation requires to much manual configuration and the look is not very nice, we need to talk about kubuntu-default-settings and what could/should be set by default. - AnthonyMercatante
* DPI setting.  Best to worst:  Xorg autodetects it (use 100dpi if it fails),  installation asks for it, xorg hardcodes it,
 hardcode 100 dpi only for KDE, do nothing as it is currently (so on autodetect failure use 75 dpi). - AchimBohnet
** DPI related: kubuntu wiki fonts page fonts are almost half as small as the default KDE fonts here. -- AchimBohnet
** DPI autodetection is no good (145x147 is ugly on 15.4" 1920x1200) - LukaRenko
* Regeneration of K menu on KDE upgrade: When I upgraded from 3.5 to 3.5.1, I didn't have that cool '''Settings''' feature under '''Actions''', and I ended up deleting all KDE settings (with some rm command I found on the internet, my fonts were also too big, but that was my error) and got the menu to regenerate. - Nirvana
** It has come to my attention that it seems to be an ''upgrade'' issue, and not an ''installation'' issue. I found this by looking at the menu of the Special Live CD (with kde 3.5.1 + Koffice 1.5beta), which appears the same as when I deleted all KDE settings. - Nirvana
* kubuntu needs an index-search project, use kat or others . I have noticed that NLD now have a program named kbeagle, so shall we use beagle .    Freeflying
** KubuntuFileSearchWithKat or KubuntuFileSearch -- PatrickDavies
** As we know ubuntu may use beagle as the default index-search , so shall we use beagle too   -- Freeflying
*** I think what FreeFlying is suggesting, is that since ubuntu uses beagle as the default index search, Kubuntu should use Kbeagle, I guess for familliarity -- Nirvana
* Adding klik ( http://klik.atekon.de ) to Dapper. See http://klik.atekon.de/wiki/index.php/Dapper
    Hopefully we'll have some klik devs at the meeting to talk about it more. -- RaphaelPinson
* Working a bit closer together with Debian's KDE application pkg maintainers and therefore potential debian sponsors.  One possibility 'Debian KDE Extra Team' svn repository: http://svn.debian.org/wsvn/pkg-kde/kde-extras/.   To get involved:
** get an alioth account
** on #debian-qt-kde ask for an addition to pkg-kde project with commit right to kde-extras tree (admins usually ask for a signed e-mail to verify the irc nick and alioth user match)
** where to put the branch for kubuntu's debian/ dirs?
  -- AchimBohnet

* klickibunti is a webgui, where users can build their own customized iso images.

== Meeting Log ==

Meeting log can be found <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~fabbione/irclogs/archived/2006-02/ubuntu-meeting-2006-02-16.html|here]]</nowiki>.

== Summary ==

=== New MOTU KDEs (raphink) ===
	
	News from #kubuntu-devel: Jonathan Patrick Davies (jpatrick) and Anthony Mercatante (Tonio) were
	accepted as MOTUs last Tuesday. Having more MOTUs focused on KDE is
	something we really needed, so we're happy to have them. :)

=== Kubuntu Default Settings (Tonio) ===

==== The "double-click" ====
	
	All recent operating systems use double-click to open files and folders.
	However KDE does not. It was decided that it was too big a change from
	the default KDE and the whole of KDE would be after us if we changed that.
	
	Single-click won with majority.

==== Default fonts are too big / too small ====
	
	There was decision between setting the Xft DPI size, X server DPI and
	setting a Kubuntu-specific DPI.
	
	Decided to modify the DPI to fit with GNOME's Xft settings if possible.
	
==== Konversation & Kopete's tabs ====
	
	Konversation - it decided to keep the tabs at the bottom as input box
	with the tabs is nice easy area to do all the work in.
	
	For Kopete to was decided to gather all the conversations in one window
	with tabs like Gaim.
	
==== ksplash-engine-moodin ====
	
	Moodin is a KSplash engine (as the name suggests), that allows to have
	very nice smooth splashscreen. Having been in main inclusion for a
	month, we decided to put our feet on it :)
	
	Theme we want:
	
** http://www.kde-look.org/content/show.php?content=29426
	
	And matching KDM:
	
** http://www.kde-look.org/content/show.php?content=29331
	
	Thanks to Patrick for getting author to change to GPL for Dapper.
	
	It's MainInclusionReport can be found here:
	
** <nowiki>[[MainInclusionReportKSplashMoodin]]</nowiki>
	
	Very professional looking and there was global acceptance.
	
==== KNemo ====
	
	This is a small applet for Kicker that monitors your network interfaces.
	It can monitor the traffic, IP, etc.
	
	Related to this was that Network Manager won't get into Dapper (GNOME
	or KDE).
	
	Final decision: Set knemo in kubuntu-default-settings nicely and don't
	use it by default.
	
	MainInclusionReport:
	
** <nowiki>[[MainInclusionReportKNemo]]</nowiki>
	
==== Fonts ====
	
	Fonts on Hoary were white with black around them.
	
	As they are now, it's impossible to use bright wallpapers, without
	setting the fonts because they're white by default.
	
	Decision: Revert to Hoary settings.
	
=== Klik ===
	
	Klik devs Niall Walsh (bfree) and pipitas were at the meeting to dicuss
	Klik.
	
	Klik is a web based software installer which allows you to fetch deb
	packages extract and rework them into a portable filesystem image
	prefect for testing new software.
	
** http://klik.atekon.de/wiki/index.php/Dapper
	
	The idea is of course not to make it the default packaging system. It
	would prevent users from installing lots of unofficial packages around,
	messing their sources.list with trashy stuff and so on.
	
	To be thought about and brought up to TechBoard maybe.

=== Working with Debian packagers ===
	
	It's surely a good idea to try and get more in touch with Debian KDE
	packagers. And send new Kubuntu KDE packages there.
	
** ContributingToDebian

=== Next meeting ===

Wednesday, Feb 22nd 2006, 20:00 UTC
