{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''obsolete page'''

== KubuntuHoaryReleaseKnownProblems ==

== Known Problems with the Kubuntu Release ==

* Admin mode in KControl can break (upstream bug?)
* KDE i18n packages are not on disk (plan formed at Sydney LanguagePack BoF)
* Kaffiene uses 100% CPU after close (fix uploaded)
* kde-python not compiled properly
* kdevelop misses designer support
* /etc/kderc disappears (fix uploaded)
* kicker messes up during upgrade (fix uploaded)
* knetworkconf conflicts with kdelibs-data (fix uploaded)
* k3b misses cdrao (it was setuid root, should be possible to make it not setuid)
* Openoffice KDE file dialog causes OOO crash (see below for workaround: config change)
* Overlapping files (knetworkconf, knemo, kdelibs-data)  fixes in hoary-updates
* Kopete MSN authentication broken (fix in hoary-updates)

From RichardDmitruchina Fri Apr 8 18:20:27 +0100 2005
From: Richard Dmitruchina
Date: Fri, 08 Apr 2005 18:20:27 +0100
Subject: Problem enabling root
Message-ID: <20050408182027+0100@www.ubuntulinux.org>

I enabled root per the Ubuntu wiki, and was able to apt-get in terminal, but got an "incorrect" password trying to use Ksynaptic.?? As a multiple Linux distro user, my gut feeling is most of us would prefer a root login.  At least offer it as an option.  My home users won't like entering my phobic 21 digit user(root)  password each time we login to Kubuntu.  sinczar 030508

''Kubuntu uses sudo, enter your user account's password not the root password. -- JonathanRiddell''

''The KDE utilities in administrator mode seem to make use of sudo regardless of whether you have an active root account, at least after an expert installation which provides such a root account. Try adding your normal user to the sudoers file using visudo, then entering that users password when prompted by KDE. See also bug #9832 (https://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=9832) about sudo and root, and bug #9119 for issues with kdesu. -- PaulBoddie''

''It looks to me as though you want a complex password for the account with root access and a simple password for your user account. You could create a second user account that has a complex password for sudo access, and remove sudo access to your standard user. This would give you the security of the complex root password, with a simple to use user password. -- SPAZ''

From MathieuPERESSE Wed Apr 13 10:08:33 +0100 2005
From: Mathieu PERESSE
Date: Wed, 13 Apr 2005 10:08:33 +0100
Subject: Problem with USB Key - Automatic UMS Icon Display in KDe
Message-ID: <20050413100833+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

It used to work in the RC but after an update, it doesn't work anymore. Manual mounting works. pmount is installed. (I've done a "sudo apt-get remove --purge udev hal pmount" and reinstalled the packaged but it is still not working..). What components are involved in this "automagic process" ?? Is there a paper about the KDE Removable Device AutoMount/AutoRecognition ?

From PaulBoddie Sun Apr 17 13:59:53 +0100 2005
From: Paul Boddie
Date: Sun, 17 Apr 2005 13:59:53 +0100
Subject: UTF-8 locales and non-UTF-8 filesystems/filenames
Message-ID: <20050417135953+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

By default, Kubuntu uses UTF-8 locales which don't work nicely with older filesystems (eg. Ubuntu 4.10) since non-ASCII characters will appear as ? in filenames. There doesn't seem to be a convenient way of undoing this installation choice, and I found I had to reinstall in expert mode, choosing an ISO-8859-15 locale instead.

''The "UTF-8 everywhere" problem also manifests itself in K3B. Unless one presumably overrides the "Input Charset" - select "Force input charset" and a character set matching the filesystem - the filenames on CD/DVD will probably be UTF-8 encoded. Consequently, CDs and DVDs won't mount cleanly in non-UTF-8 locales. If only the Linux filesystem people hadn't just swept this issue under the carpet... -- PaulBoddie''

From AlbertCardona Wed Apr 20 19:08:44 +0100 2005
From: Albert Cardona
Date: Wed, 20 Apr 2005 19:08:44 +0100
Subject: kwifimanager in a powerpc G4 with airport
Message-ID: <20050420190844+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

I can't get kwifimanager to work in an encrypted wireless lan, in the Hoary 5.04 live cd on a [PowerBook G4 1.5 MHz 17''] G4 1GHz with a regular airport wirelss card (not extreme). Somehow the encrytpion option is always set to "off" no matter what options one sets in. Is there any way to go around this problem such as a different wifi card manager application? Are the kwifimanager developers aware of this problem?

By the way this wiki page is diffcult to manage and way too easy to delete everything as I have just did when trying to delete my two-times entered message.

From NickBoyce Wed Apr 27 20:47:54 +0100 2005
From: Nick Boyce
Date: Wed, 27 Apr 2005 20:47:54 +0100
Subject: Problem Applying kdelibs-data Update
Message-ID: <20050427204754+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

There seems to be a problem using apt-get update/upgrade to apply any security updates released since Hoary's release - an update to the kdelibs-data package fails, with the message :
<BLOCKQUOTE>dpkg: error processing 
  /var/cache/apt/archives/kdelibs-data_4%3a3.4.0-0ubuntu3.1_all.deb  
  (--unpack):
<BR>  trying to overwrite `/usr/share/icons/default.kde', which is also in package knetworkconf
</BLOCKQUOTE>

--Ashrujit Writes
I removed Knetworkconf and updated using Kynaptic. Updated fine. Havent tried installing Knetworkconf again as I dont need it.

<P>A quick google reveals that many people are reporting this - e.g. http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-25294.html -  but nobody appears to know the exact cause or appropriate fix.  If anyone does know what the right fix is, please add the info here. 

http://moba.linuxfaqs.de/kdelibs-debug.sh has some sort of fix! Found from #kubuntu

I've told in IRC at least to 5 people how to get his modelines correct. The automatic probing for some monitors seems to fail miserably. Perhaps the installation phase really should ask "use AUTOMATIC or MANUAL detection?" in the next version, just in case..  Failed for my higher end TFT panel as well.. (Furryball)

From histed Fri Apr 29 18:59:33 +0100 2005
From: Mark Histed
Date: Fri, 29 Apr 2005 18:59:33 +0100
Subject: OpenOffice.org crash with kde file picker 
Message-ID: <20050429185933+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

With Hoary, kubuntu-desktop installed, OOO crashes on use of the KDE file dialog.  
(To use this dialog, not on by default:
Start OOO, Tools->Options->General->uncheck "Use OpenOffice.org dialogs", then select File->Open. 
If the GNOME dialog appears, edit /etc/openoffice/openoffice.conf to force KDE setup)

A fix is here:
http://bugs.kde.org/show_bug.cgi?id=100849#c4

The Userlist for KDM cannot be enabled. Perhaps the kdm-theme of kubuntu doesnt have this feature?
