{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''kubuntu-default-settings'' is a package that has rc files for KDE applications, as well as artwork for Kubuntu.  You can find most of the files in /usr/share/kubuntu-default-settings/kde4-profile/default/share/config/

''kubuntu-kde4-desktop'' lists the applications we install as default.  You can find these in the seed: http://people.ubuntu.com/~ubuntu-archive/seeds/kubuntu-kde4.hardy/desktop

The intention is to simplify settings, applications should just work and splash screens, tips of the day etc just get in the way.

=== kdelibs ===

* Sub menus are bad.  To simplify the k-menu, Utilities has been flattened to one level.  The old kcontrol categories (X-KDE-settings-hardware etc) have been marked not to be included to stop them appearing in Lost and Found. YES
* cryptodefaults: don't warn when submitting forms to unencrypted sites, we do this all the time with Google etc  YES
* kdeglobals: show previews in file manager by default (whyever wouldn't we?)  YES
* kcookiejarrc: accept by default (I find it hard to believe normal users really want to filter every single cookie)  YES
* kio_httprc: set Firefox userid on google.com, makes gmail and calendar work
* kwalletrc: don't run first time wizard, its more confusing than than just asking for a password  MIBBY

=== kdebase ===

* dolphin: show information bar by default
* ktip: don't run this.  Just kill it.  Kill it dead.  YES YES YES
* kwin: double click on window bar to maximise/minimise (does anyone use window shading?)  YES (check Seli?)
* konquerorsu: NoDisplay (root is bad)  
* klipper: NoDisplay (autostarted)
* systemsettings: NoDisplay (in Computer and Favourites)
* kmenuedit: NoDisplay (in right click menu)  YES
* Home.desktop: NoDisplay (we have a Computer menu now)  YES

=== kdeutils ===

* kwalletmanager: NoDisplay (available though systray applet)

=== kdenetwork ===

* kppplogviewer: NoDisplay (available through kppp)  YES

=== kdepim ===

* NoDisplay on apps included in Kontact, users don't need two ways to get to the same thing
* konsolekalendar: NoDisplay (it's a console tool)

=== kdemultimedia ===

* Add an autostart file for kmix, set main window hidden by default  YES

=== kdesdk ===

* Don't show profile option for kate, its confusing and gets in the way of the app just starting
