{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''Kubuntu Testers'''

=== About us ===

==== Introduction ====
The Kubuntu Testers team is a group of Kubuntu users that are willing to help their favorite distribution. Our primary objective is to track bugs and test the upcoming stable release but we actually do a lot more than that - see  How To Contribute. We're an open team and we'll welcome anyone who wants to help out.

==== How to Join ====

 1. Create a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/+login|Launchpad account]]</nowiki>, if you don't have one.
 2. Join the team <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/kubuntu-testers|here]]</nowiki>.
 3. Join the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/kubuntu-devel|kubuntu-devel]]</nowiki> mailing list.
 4. Hang out on <nowiki>[[IRC|IRC]]</nowiki> in #kubuntu-devel on irc.libera.chat. You can request being added to the !testers ubottu factoid so you get notified when testing help is needed.

==== First Steps ====

* Check the <nowiki>[[Testing/Kubuntu/Introduction]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[Testing/Kubuntu/Current]]</nowiki> pages with useful information about the release currently being tested.
* Read an introduction to <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs|Reporting Bugs]]</nowiki>.
* Read this wiki page about the DebuggingProcedures used in Kubuntu.
* Read about further ways how to help <nowiki>[[Testing]]</nowiki> - laptop testing, server testing etc.
 
==== How to Contribute ====

* Use one of the more current versions of Kubuntu, preferably the upcoming release. ( <nowiki>[[https://wiki.kubuntu.org/Releases|Information about releases]]</nowiki> )
* Notice every sign of unexpected behavior, examine it and report it in  <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+filebug|the Malone bug tracker ]]</nowiki> .
* Try to replicate bugs subscribed to us in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/kubuntu-testers/+subscribedbugs|Malone]]</nowiki>, add useful information to them (debugging output, detailed info).
* Participate in <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kubuntu/QA|other projects]]</nowiki> of the Kubuntu Testers team.
* Share your experience with other testers, discuss bugs and other news via our IRC channel or the mailing list.
* Help building and improving the documentation (HOWTOs, FAQs,wiki pages) for novice and future testers.

=== Meetings ===

To be planned. Members will be informed in time via mailing list.

=== Contact ===

* IRC channel: #kubuntu-devel on irc.libera.chat
* Mailing list: kubuntu-devel on <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/kubuntu-devel|http://lists.ubuntu.com/]]</nowiki>
* Launchpad Team page: https://launchpad.net/~kubuntu-testers

----
'''Sub-pages :''' ----

----
CategoryUbuntuTeams
CategoryKubuntu
CategoryKubuntuUseful
CategoryKubuntuRubbish
