{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/kubuntu-printer-sharing
* '''Created''':  by JonathanRiddell
* '''Contributors''': JonathanRiddell
* '''Packages affected''': kdeprint

=== Summary ===

Easy way to turn on CUPS printer browsing and sharing.

=== Rationale ===

For security reasons printer sharing with CUPS is turned off by default, we should offer an easy way to turn it on similar to that added in gnome-cups-manager.

=== Use cases ===

Kirsty has a printer on her local network, she wants Kubuntu to be able to print to it.

Gregor has a printer connected locally to his computer, he wants to be able to share it with others on his local network.

=== Scope ===

Ensuring kdeprint has the same functionality as gnome-cups-manager.

=== Design ===

Add an item to the Printer Manager menu in KControl module of kdeprint to enable (or disable) printer sharing and browsing.

=== Implementation ===

A toggle action menu item "Enable Printer Browsing" which will by default be set to the value returned by /usr/share/cups/browsing_status.  When chosen it will run /usr/share/cups/enable_browsing, if this script succeeds it will toggle the menu item.  If it doesn't succeed an error message will be shown.

Another menu item "Enable Printer Sharing" should run /usr/share/cups/enable_sharing in the same way.

----
CategorySpec
