{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/kubuntu-kwlan-inclusion
* '''Created''':   by NaelMasood
* '''Packages Affected''': wlassistant, kwlan

=== Summary ===

Replace the current wireless network detection program, Wlassistant, with Kwlan.

=== Rationale ===

In Kubuntu right now, the included program to detect and connect to WiFi networks is Wireless Assistant (wlassistant). While this is a adequate tool, its major drawback is that it does not support wpasupplicant, meaning it cannot connect to WPA-secured networks. While Kubuntu includes wpasupplicant in a default install, the only way to utilize it is through hacking of text files, which is daunting to new users and (obviously) only works if one knows what they are doing. Current the only KDE gui app for connecting to wireless networks is KNetworkManager, which can only be installed from the repos.

One possible solution already exists in the form of KWlan <nowiki>[[http://kde-apps.org/content/show.php?content=37041]]</nowiki>. This wireless tool supports all the possible encryption options that wpasupplicant offers, and includes options for some features that KNetworkManager lacks (features that keep KNM from being included in a default install) such as static IPs. The program also supports making an Internet connection through PPPoE, which has been cited as a missing feature in Kubuntu. KWlan packages are already available in Edgy in universe, so the program would need more through testing to see if it would be included in main (much less a default install).

=== Use Cases ===

* John installs Kubuntu on his system and needs to connect to the Internet though his WPA-encrypted wireless network. He is a bit daunted by text files, and would prefer a GUI to connect to the network.  He looks at the included wlassistant, but is disappointed to find that it only supports WEP. The only current WPA tools, KNetworkManager or KWlan, are only installable from the repos, which needs an Internet connection for, which puts him in a catch-22.
* Mary installs Kubuntu and attempts to set up her PPPoE connection so she can connect to her DSL provider. She tries to use KPPP, but find out it only supports dial-up connections. She gets frustrated when she learns that she cannot install any her PPPoE config software without being on the Internet - again, another catch-22 to get herself online.

=== Implementation ===

* Test kwlan packages to assure suitability of the program for inclusion to main
* Promote kwlan packages to main
