{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Agenda ==
* Are we going to get some kde pictures of flight 4?  Surely we dont only have improvements only to gnome.  Mornfall should have some pictures of the new Adept and the Update Notifier which should be somewhere in the documentation.  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DapperFlight4 [ '''Not discussed''' ]

* Wireless tools - are there any that are better than kwifimanager for scanning and connecting to new networks?  I realise that we're not going to be able to have knetworkmanager for dapper, only dapper +1, but wifi-radar looks pretty good - could we integrate this with wireless tools or something?  (Ignore this point if it doesnt make sense/isnt worth talking about/there isnt time) wifi-radar is available in the respiratory (Hobbsee) [ '''Not discussed''' ]
== Meeting Log ==

Meeting log can be found <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~fabbione/irclogs/archived/2006-02/ubuntu-meeting-2006-02-22.html|here]]</nowiki>

== Summary ==
=== Default Graphic Program ===

Krita is very complex, although complete too and most people don't wish to use
Krita for basic stuff.

Kolourpaint is much more simple and easier to use. So most users don't have to
figure out about layers and so on when they only want to draw a square or a
circle.

Krita is there to match the Gimp in Ubuntu and in SVN is looking really nice in
terms of usability improvements. And if KOffice is used in Dapper+1, then we'll
have Krita anyway.

Both can't be included as it goes against the whole single CD idea.

Decision: Remove Krita, add Kolourpaint for simplity.

== Next Meeting ==
Next meeting: March 15 2006 20:00 UTC
