{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Comments on the Kubuntu Release ==

Do you like what you see?  Log in and add a comment using the box at the bottom of the page.

 < flurble> woot! dragons! cute!

From zenfoo Fri Apr 8 15:52:06 +0100 2005
From: zenfoo
Date: Fri, 08 Apr 2005 15:52:06 +0100
Subject: problem whith kdm
Message-ID: <20050408155206+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

I've a problem whith kdm: when I start kde whith kdm, the non KDE applications (gaim, firefox, synaptic...) are not translated in my default language (french). When i start kde with gdm, it work fine.

From RuiMatos Fri Apr 8 18:15:20 +0100 2005
From: Rui Matos
Date: Fri, 08 Apr 2005 18:15:20 +0100
Subject: .jigdos have a problem
Message-ID: <20050408181520+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

The .jigdo files for kubuntu have the lines (i386 in this case):

Filename=hoary-install-i386.iso
Template=hoary-install-i386.template

which prevent them from working, please fix it. Meanwhile is it OK to just change those lines to kubuntu-5.04-install-i386.* and continue using jigdo-lite?

From BauduinRaphael Sat Apr 9 11:14:15 +0100 2005
From: Bauduin Raphael
Date: Sat, 09 Apr 2005 11:14:15 +0100
Subject: Great stuff
Message-ID: <20050409111415+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

Kubuntu is really the distro I was looking for: Debian power, current packages, current KDE, easy configuration.
Some things need some work (kynaptic is quite basic for now compared to synaptic eg), but nothings's annoying, it's just that it will get even better. 
I thing I hope will be done: include the Qt based mozilla applications, or at least Firefox (see http://www.kdedevelopers.org/node/view/666)

From ColinWatson Sat Apr 9 15:07:17 +0100 2005
From: Colin Watson
Date: Sat, 09 Apr 2005 15:07:17 +0100
Subject: Jigdos fixed
Message-ID: <20050409150717+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

I've fixed the .jigdo files; please report bugs in Bugzilla rather than on the wiki, though, as it's too easy for us to miss things otherwise.

From clayasaurus Sat Apr 9 21:00:39 +0100 2005
From: clayasaurus
Date: Sat, 09 Apr 2005 21:00:39 +0100
Subject: k3b and cdrdao
Message-ID: <20050409210039+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

when I start k3d, it complains that it can't write cd's because cdrdao is not installed! plz fix. 

From AbdullahRamazanoglu Sun Apr 10 00:40:40 +0100 2005
From: Abdullah Ramazanoglu
Date: Sun, 10 Apr 2005 00:40:40 +0100
Subject: Qt based Firefox
Message-ID: <20050410004040+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

Please don't. Firefox, Thunderbird, OO.o and similar well established apps among "the trio" (Linux,Windows,Mac) should look, feel, and behave exactly the same in all these platforms, as it's one of the most important features of them. Changing their look&feel will harm Kubuntu as it will partly isolate Kubuntu from the rest of the world, and will be a less attractive distro for both those individuals who wish to switch and for those companies using mixed platforms.

From Alex Mon Apr 11 21:11:17 +0100 2005
From: Alex
Date: Mon, 11 Apr 2005 21:11:17 +0100
Subject: misc probs running the AMD64 install package, 
Message-ID: <20050411211117+0100@www.ubuntulinux.org>

My experiences are: cdrdao also missing here, both xine/kaffeine crash instead of playing video files. Amarok also crashed on MP3 playing (though solved it via wiki hints and using synaptic)  Both kynaptic and later synaptic don't work when started from the kmenu. When I try to open another harddisk partition via "Storage Media" I get an error saying something about missing fstab entries. (Thumbdrives/Memorysticks do work perfectly though) My refresh-rate at 1024x768 was only at 60Hz, I actually had to manually edit xorg.conf to fix that - I prefer not to use vi! So, although it looks great and sounds great, this distro is not for me - to many issues to fix.

That all said: it is pretty speedy! My thumdrives worked perfectly, sound and network was up-and-running out of the box. Installer went perfect as well. And although not configured correctly, my wacom-tablet does work somewhat. Also, I figure firefox would be a default-install - and for kde with the crystal/kde theme enabled.

From FabioSMonteiro Wed Apr 13 03:13:55 +0100 2005
From: Fabio S Monteiro
Date: Wed, 13 Apr 2005 03:13:55 +0100
Subject: My comments
Message-ID: <20050413031355+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

I agree 100% with Bauduin Raphael: "... Debian power, current packages, current kde...", almost perfect for me.
Some hints: about k3b and cdrdao - You just need to add universe to your repositories and then install cdrdao package. sudo apt-get install cdrdao.
about kynaptic: It works fine for me, I started it and then mark Synaptic for installation (added only 4 or 5 packages related with gtk 2) ;)
about firefox/thunderbird: I prefer to use the original installation/zip archives distributed by mozilla. The packages have a lot of useless dependencies (IMHO).
For me Kubuntu is THE Distribution!!!!!!!!!!! Great Work!

From ALANSTRETTON Wed Apr 13 20:25:56 +0100 2005
From: ALAN  STRETTON
Date: Wed, 13 Apr 2005 20:25:56 +0100
Subject: sudo
Message-ID: <20050413202556+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

I have only been trying Kubuntu for a few hours, but sudo drives me mad !  The kde control center does not seem to work with sudo & does not recognise my user password.  This means I cannot do some of the most basic tasks as adding printers, editing samba, changing kdm, etc etc etc.  Please give us back root !!  Oh yes and Midnight Commander.  Otherwise I love it !

From PaulBoddie Mon Apr 18 13:35:45 +0100 2005
From: Paul Boddie
Date: Mon, 18 Apr 2005 13:35:45 +0100
Subject: sudo - possible solution
Message-ID: <20050418133545+0100@www.ubuntulinux.org>

If you installed in expert mode, become root in the usual way at a console prompt, then edit the sudoers file using visudo - see bug #9832 (https://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=9832).

From StuartRackham Thu Apr 21 23:33:02 +0100 2005
From: Stuart Rackham
Date: Thu, 21 Apr 2005 23:33:02 +0100
Subject: A Big thank you
Message-ID: <20050421233302+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

Been using Kubuntu 5.04 intensively for over a week now, feels "just right". Congratulations and thanks for a brilliant distro (IMHO the best KDE+Debian distribution yet).

 