{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:kubuntu-jaunty-setup
* '''Created''': 2008-12-22
* '''Contributors''': JonathanRiddell
* '''Packages affected''': kubuntu-default-settings

=== Summary ===

Changes to KDE in Kubuntu

=== Release Note ===

Kubntu Jaunty has a new power manager while System Settings is easier to use and includes printing setup integrated.

=== Rationale ===

Always things to be improved.

=== Use Cases ===

Krissy wants to open a PDF, she clicks on it in Konqueror and it opens in Konqueror.

=== Implementation ===

Powerdevil will replace guidance-power-manager as the power manager.  Ensure suspect, hibernate and monitor keys are responded to by powerdevil.  The upgrade tool should remove guidance-power-manager.  The power profiles should be removed from Powerdevil's primary UI, power management is best handled by the computer.

We will fix the image on the logout menu to ensure it matches its background.

System settings currently uses a widget with a line drawn at the top of its categories.  This is due to be improved in KDE 4.3 to draw the line at the bottom and we will backport this change.

system-config-printer-kde should be converted to a KControl module as soon as this is possible with pykde 4.

The following will be set to be embedded when opened in Konqueror:

* PDFs
* text files
* images
* ''not'' Videos and Audio

Tonio will change these default settings and propose upstream

The switch user dialogue should be changed to use the same dialogue as other logout options instead of krunner.  The lengthy explanatory text should be removed as it is no longer needed.

Window sizes should be changed to ensure applications fit with text alongside icons with patches made for upstream.  Problem applications include Okular, Kontact and Umbrello.

----
CategorySpec
