{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:kubuntu-maverick-netbook-config
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': ScottK, JonathanRiddell
* '''Packages affected''': ubiquity, kdebase-workspace, kubuntu-netbook-default-settings

=== Summary ===

Changes to Plasma Netboot in Maverick

=== CDs ===

Merge Kubuntu and Kubuntu Netbook into a single image.

Add a check in Ubiquity before the UI starts to detect the screen size.  if height < 640 it's probably a netbook so load Plasma Netbook workspace instead of Plama Desktop.  Also apply kubuntu-netbook-default-settings by editing a config file.

In the Plasma workspace choose kcontrol module ensure kubuntu-netbook-default-settings gets applied/unapplies as appropriate on change.

=== Plasma configuration ===

Port to new javascript configuration (and drop patches): http://www.notmart.org/index.php/Software/Script_your_netbook
Check on kdebase/workspace/kcontrol/workspaceoptions and make sure plasma-netbook autostart works with KDE 4.5

=== AppMenu ===

Work with upstream (notmart) and get agreement on AppMenu integration in the first version of KDE that works with Qt 4.8
Develop changes to Application Control widget to work with AppMenu
Update netbook panel layout
----
CategorySpec
