{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:desktop-lucid-firefox-kde-integration
* '''Created''': 2009-11-17
* '''Contributors''':
* '''Packages affected''': firefox

=== Summary ===

KDE integration is still suboptimal in ubuntu; work and patches were done by opensuse. We should:

** evaluate what was done for opensuse (did this ever go into production)
** match that with what was discussed for the intrepid (see: firefox-kde-integration-intrepid)
** gather/document the patches made by opensuse
** check upstream status on patches
** evaluate and discuss trademark implications with mozilla
** produce PoC packages for consumption
** decide what can be done

=== Release Note ===

This section should include a paragraph describing the end-user impact of this change.  It is meant to be included in the release notes of the first release in which it is implemented.  (Not all of these will actually be included in the release notes, at the release manager's discretion; but writing them is a useful exercise.)

It is mandatory.

=== Rationale ===

This should cover the _why_: why is this change being proposed, what justifies it, where we see this justified.

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Gobby document: evaluate-firefox-kde-integration-lucid

* Firefox Installer
** Hide Installer Package after Install (no display setting in config)
** Remove package after successful install
** divert
** purge 
** Fix seeds to be a recommends and not depends
* Gvfs (or some G* pkg) - mime types unsupported if not installed
* SUSE Patches - need to investigate how to integrate these
  (http://en.opensuse.org/KDE/FirefoxIntegration)
  Screencast: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sCt6BzFiDts&feature=player_embedded
** LP for possible investigation: ppa:debfx/firefox-kde
** KDE File dialog
** KDE Mime type integration
** KDE icon mapping (we get this currently through QtCurve)
** RSS Feed support (akregator)
** Notification system (KNotify?)
** Set as default Wallpaper was removed.. can it work in kde 4.4
  
  Need to best determine how to detect which env/session is running (Gnome/KDE)
  Qt relevant code: http://tinyurl.com/y98wd76
  Summary: test window manager, then DESKTOP_SESSION var, then GNOME_DESKTOP_SESSION_ID

Action: 
* apachelogger committed a fix for uninstalling the installer (bug 439431)
* Look into reinstalling after firefox is removed
* Explore options for reducing vertical space taken for netbooks (fonts, bookmark/tab bar)
* Investigate D-Bus intefaces cmd/availability to query for KDE ver (set as wallpaper issue)
* Setting default browser (XDG maybe - Gnome/KDE may need patching)

----
CategorySpec
