{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Kubuntu 12.04 LTS ===

The Kubuntu team is proposing that the Kubuntu 12.04 release be supported for 5 years as an LTS release.

=== Considerations ===

* '''Ubuntu Desktop LTS Support Cycle'''
** The Ubuntu Desktop support cycle is for 12.04 to be supported for 5 years.  Kubuntu has a history of following the Ubuntu Desktop LTS support cycles (except for 08.04) and Canonical's customers will continue to expect this.
* '''Upstream Qt and KDE support cycles'''
** This is a good time for an LTS.  Qt is working on Qt 5 which will be shipped later in 2012 and KDE is working on KDE Frameworks 5 which will be shipped after Qt 5.  So Qt 4 and KDE Frameworks 4 are both mature and stable products which will be suitable for supporting for 5 years.

=== Point Releases ===

* Kubuntu will be following the point releases with Ubuntu:
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PrecisePangolin/ReleaseSchedule
** Kubuntu 12.04.1: 18 October 2012
** Kubuntu 12.04.2: 31 January 2013
** Kubuntu 12.04.3: 15 August 2013
** Kubuntu 12.04.4: 24 January 2014
* We have Kubuntu members who are willing to test this releases

=== Support Plan ===

~kubuntu-dev and ~kubuntu-members will be the supporters of Kubuntu 12.04 as an LTS.

JonathanRiddell works for Canonical and will be responsive to support requests for Canonical.  AurelienGateau will be emergency backup.

KDE has active security updates from upstream.

Qt has active security updates from upstream.

Kubuntu security updates are handled by either Kubuntu or Ubuntu Security team as currently.

The Kubuntu team has a history of successfully updating KDE SC releases, for example 4.7.3 in oneiric.  They go through a rigorous QA process which involves testing in a PPA, testing in -proposed and finally moving to -updates.  This includes KDE SC translation packages.  This is expected to be kept for the 12.04 LTS.

As a team we have a successful history of updating Kubuntu packages for notable bugfixes, examples in oneiric:
* https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/oneiric-changes/2011-November/011405.html konversation
* https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/oneiric-changes/2011-November/011403.html libmsn

=== Release Status ===

12.04 is currently in development.  There is an active discussion about whether we will release 1.5GB image but this involves taking software away from our current DVDs rather than adding it.

We will consider KDE-telepathy to replace Kopete, but only include it if it works reliably and upstream can commit to supporting it.

We expect to release a Kubuntu Active image for tablets and mobile, we will not include this in an support plan and will have the necessary software in universe.

=== Tech Board Requirements ===

Align with Ubuntu LTS release cycle.

* Must have a proven track record of participating in at least 2 non-LTS releases before applying to TechnicalBoard for LTS designation.
** We have been part of the Ubuntu releases since Hoary
* Flavor's support plan presented to Tech Board and approved; support plan should indicate period of time if Beyond 18months (3yrs or 5yr), key contacts, and setting expectations as to level of support. Support plan public and ongoing support contacts accessible for discussion of bugs and security issues (or alternates designated) through life of project.
** See above
* Key Upstream packages worth supporting for extended cycle.
** In our seeds: kubuntu-common, desktop, dvd, live, ship, ship-live, supported, supported-desktop-extra
* Written confirmation from IS that space and resources are available to retain images in archive through LTS life cycle. 
** Ask them but it hasn't been an issue thus far

=== Sabdfl KubuntuLtsRequirements ====

<nowiki>[[KubuntuLtsRequirements]]</nowiki> lists Sabdfl's requirements from 2010.

* '''Category Indicators'''
** '''Messaging Menu'''
** This is present and installed and used by default
** '''Sound Menu'''
** Unfortunately nobody had time to work on this in Kubuntu or DX team.  It has been reviewed by upstream and considered a desirable feature.
* '''Application Indicators'''
** These were developed by KDE where it is called KStatusNotifierItem.  KDE and Qt applications work on Ubuntu and Ubuntu applications work on Kubuntu.
* '''Global Menu'''
** Present and used by default in the netbook setup.  Supported upstream in Qt now.
* '''Notify-OSD Support'''
** Supported upstream now, applications handle the notify-osd by correctly by default.  There is also a Colibri plasma notifier which immitates the behaviour of the Ubuntu desktop one.

=== Tech Board Questions ===

From the tech board meeting about Edubuntu 
* how many developers does the Kubuntu team have
** 7 active members in https://launchpad.net/~kubuntu-dev/+members plus agateau

=== List of proposed long-term support applications ===

Kubuntu seeds are available at: https://code.launchpad.net/~kubuntu-dev/ubuntu-seeds/kubuntu.precise

They inherit from the Ubuntu seeds and most of the software in Kubuntu is part of Ubuntu Desktop.

==== Kubuntu-common ====

* (bluedevil)
* (pulseaudio-module-bluetooth)
* (avahi-autoipd)
* (plasma-widget-networkmanagement)
* (mobile-broadband-provider-info)
* (ttf-wqy-microhei)
* (fonts-nanum)
* (fonts-liberation)
* (im-switch)
* (ibus-qt4)
* (plasma-widget-kimpanel)
* khelpcenter4
* phonon-backend-gstreamer
* kdepasswd
* (rekonq)
* konsole
* (plasma-widget-folderview)
* kde-workspace-bin # Plasma, ksplash and more
* kde-window-manager
* klipper
* ksysguard
* systemsettings
* (system-config-printer-kde)
* (kamera)
* (gwenview)
* kdemultimedia-kio-plugins
* kmix
* kde-zeroconf
* (kopete)
* (ark)
* (printer-applet)
* (kwalletmanager)
* (kcalc)
* (userconfig)
* (muon)
* (muon-installer)
* (muon-notifier)
* (gstreamer0.10-qapt)
* (gtk2-engines-oxygen)
* (kdesudo)
* xdg-user-dirs
* (upower)
* (udisks)
* language-selector-kde
* software-properties-kde
* (apport-kde)
* (xdg-utils)
* (jockey-kde)
* (kubuntu-default-settings)
* (plasma-widgets-addons)
* (kubuntu-notification-helper)
* (qapt-deb-installer)
* (oxygen-cursor-theme)
* (oxygen-icon-theme)
* (oxygen-icon-theme-complete) [i386]
* (libqca2-plugin-ossl)
* (kde-config-gtk)
* (plasma-widget-message-indicator)
* (plasma-widget-facebook)
* (apturl-kde)
* (pulseaudio)
* (partitionmanager)
* (kaccessible)
* (kmag)
* (kvkbd)
* (xcursor-themes)
* (kubuntu-docs)
* (plymouth-theme-kubuntu-text)
* (plymouth-theme-kubuntu-logo)
* (cryptsetup) #needed for encrypted devices, also in d-i-requirements seed but might be needed for 3rd party drives

=== Desktop ===

* plasma-desktop # Plasma for desktops/laptops
* (k3b)        # kde CD burning
* plasma-netbook
* kubuntu-netbook-default-settings
* dolphin
* kdm
* (akregator)
* (kaddressbook)
* (kdepim-kresources)
* (kdepim-strigi-plugins)
* (kdepim-wizards)
* (kdepim-runtime)
* (kmail)
* (knotes)
* (kontact)
* (korganizer)
* (ktimetracker) [i386]
* (ksystemlog)
* (kpat)
* (kdegraphics-strigi-analyzer)
* ksnapshot
* okular
* (okular-extra-backends)
* (dragonplayer)
* (kppp)
* (kdenetwork-filesharing)
* (kate)
* (quassel)
* (amarok)
* (kubuntu-web-shortcuts)
* (ktorrent)
* (cdrdao)
* (pinentry-qt4) # for SMIME e-mail support
* (gnupg-agent) # for SMIME e-mail support
* (gpgsm) # SMIME engine
* (kde-config-touchpad)
* (plasma-widget-menubar)
* (appmenu-gtk)
* (appmenu-gtk3)
* (kmousetool)
* (brltty)
* (libreoffice-style-oxygen)
* (libreoffice-kde)
* (kubuntu-firefox-installer)
* (usb-creator-kde)
* kubuntu-desktop # the metapackage itself

==== DVD ====

With packages also seeded in Ubuntu removed

* calligra
* calligra-dev
* anthy
* (krdc) 
* (krfb)
* kdeaccessibility
* kdeadmin
* kde-baseapps
* kde-runtime
* kde-workspace
* kdeedu
* kdegames
* kdegames-card-data-extra # Not part of kdegames metapackage, so seed explicitly
* kdegraphics
* kdemultimedia
* kdenetwork
* kdepim
* plasma-widgets-addons
* plasma-runners-addons
* plasma-widget-lancelot
* kdesdk
* kdeutils
* scribus
* kde-icons-mono
* qt4-designer
* konq-plugins
* kde-wallpapers
* kde-workspace-data-extras
* pyqt4-dev-tools
* libqscintilla2-designer
* python-qscintilla2
* libqt4-sql-odbc
* libqt4-sql-psql
* libqt4-sql-sqlite
* qt4-demos
* qt4-dev-tools
* qt4-doc-html
* kinfocenter
* (konversation)              # kde irc-client
* skanlite  # Support for scanning, consider for CD if there's room
* (choqok)
* (kuser) # has some LDAP features
* ktorrent
* (krosspython)
* (speedcrunch)
* plasma-widget-ktorrent
* (kdevelop)
* kubuntu-full # Metapackage for the dvd

==== Language packs ====

* /^language-pack-kde-[^-]+$/

==== Live ====

* ubiquity-frontend-kde
* ubiquity-slideshow-kubuntu

==== Ship ====

* oem-config-kde

==== Supported ====

Excluding transitional packages

* libk3b6-extracodecs
* oxygen-cursor-theme-extra
* gtk2-engines-oxygen
* kdeplasma-addons
* kdewebdev
* kdetoys
* firefox-kde-support
* qt3-designer #qt3 is in LSB
* libqtwebkit-qmlwebkitplugin
* libqtwebkit4-declarative
* kubuntu-netbook

* /^kde-l10n-.+$/
* /^calligra-l10n-.+$/
* /^kdevelop-l10n-.+$/

* pkgbinarymangler # needs to be in main to stay in the buildd chroots

==== Sources ====

<pre>
Source                          | Maintainer                                                                        
--------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
aalib                           | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
akonadi                         | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
alsa-plugins                    | Ubuntu Core Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                    
app-install-data-partner        | Michael Vogt <michael.vogt@ubuntu.com>                                            
app-install-data-ubuntu         | Michael Vogt <michael.vogt@ubuntu.com>                                            
apt-xapian-index                | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
apturl                          | Michael Vogt <mvo@ubuntu.com>                                                     
aspell                          | Brian Nelson <pyro@debian.org>                                                    
aspell-en                       | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
attica                          | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
binutils                        | Ubuntu Core developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                    
bluedevil                       | Debian KDE Extras Team <pkg-kde-extras@lists.alioth.debian.org>                   
boost1.46                       | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
cdparanoia                      | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
chardet                         | Piotr Ożarowski <piotr@debian.org>                                                
cln                             | Richard Kreckel <kreckel@ginac.de>                                                
clucene-core                    | Fathi Boudra <fabo@debian.org>                                                    
cryptsetup                      | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
d-conf                          | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
debconf-kde                     | Debian KDE Extras Team <pkg-kde-extras@lists.alioth.debian.org>                   
dictionaries-common             | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
dnsmasq                         | Simon Kelley <simon@thekelleys.org.uk>                                            
docbook-xml                     | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
docbook-xsl                     | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
enchant                         | Debian QA Group <packages@qa.debian.org>                                          
exiv2                           | Debian KDE Extras Team <pkg-kde-extras@lists.alioth.debian.org>                   
flac                            | Debian Multimedia Maintainers <pkg-multimedia-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>
fonts-liberation                | Debian Fonts Task Force <pkg-fonts-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org>                 
fonts-nanum                     | Debian Fonts Task Force <pkg-fonts-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org>                 
gdb                             | Ubuntu Core developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                    
gdk-pixbuf                      | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
giflib                          | Thibaut GRIDEL <tgridel@free.fr>                                                  
glib-networking                 | Debian GNOME Maintainers <pkg-gnome-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>          
gpm                             | Peter Samuelson <peter@p12n.org>                                                  
gpsd                            | Bernd Zeimetz <bzed@debian.org>                                                   
gsettings-desktop-schemas       | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
gst-plugins-base0.10            | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
gst-plugins-good0.10            | Ubuntu Desktop Team <ubuntu-desktop@lists.ubuntu.com>                             
gstreamer0.10                   | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
gtk2-engines-oxygen             | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
gwenview                        | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
hicolor-icon-theme              | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
hunspell                        | Debian LibreOffice Maintainers <debian-openoffice@lists.debian.org>               
hunspell-en-us                  | Ubuntu Core Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                    
ibus-qt                         | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
icoutils                        | Colin Watson <cjwatson@debian.org>                                                
icu                             | Jay Berkenbilt <qjb@debian.org>                                                   
ilmbase                         | Debian PhotoTools Maintainers <pkg-phototools-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org>      
im-switch                       | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
jackd2                          | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
jockey                          | Martin Pitt <martin.pitt@ubuntu.com>                                              
json-c                          | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
kamera                          | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kate                            | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kcm-gtk                         | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kde-baseapps                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kde-runtime                     | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kde-wallpapers                  | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kde-workspace                   | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kde4libs                        | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kdeaccessibility                | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kdeadmin                        | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kdemultimedia                   | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kdenetwork                      | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kdepim-runtime                  | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kdepimlibs                      | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kdeplasma-addons                | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kdesudo                         | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kdeutils                        | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
konsole                         | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kopete-message-indicator        | Maintainer: Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                   
kubuntu-debug-installer         | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kubuntu-default-settings        | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kubuntu-docs                    | Ubuntu Documentation Team <ubuntu-doc@lists.ubuntu.com>                           
kubuntu-notification-helper     | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kvkbd                           | Debian QA Group <packages@qa.debian.org>                                          
libarchive                      | Andreas Henriksson <andreas@fatal.se>                                             
libasyncns                      | Tanguy Ortolo <tanguy+debian@ortolo.eu>                                           
libatasmart                     | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
libavc1394                      | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
libbluedevil                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
libcaca                         | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
libcanberra                     | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
libdatrie                       | Theppitak Karoonboonyanan <thep@debian.org>                                       
libdbusmenu-qt                  | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
libdiscid                       | Debian QA Group <packages@qa.debian.org>                                          
libdmtx                         | Roberto Lumbreras <rover@debian.org>                                              
libdv                           | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
libencode-locale-perl           | Debian Perl Group <pkg-perl-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>                  
libfile-basedir-perl            | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
libfile-desktopentry-perl       | Debian Perl Group <pkg-perl-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>                  
libfile-listing-perl            | Debian Perl Group <pkg-perl-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>                  
libfile-mimeinfo-perl           | Debian Perl Group <pkg-perl-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>                  
libfont-afm-perl                | Debian Perl Group <pkg-perl-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>                  
libgadu                         | Marcin Owsiany <porridge@debian.org>                                              
libgnome-keyring                | Debian GNOME Maintainers <pkg-gnome-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>          
libhtml-form-perl               | Debian Perl Group <pkg-perl-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>                  
libhtml-format-perl             | Debian Perl Group <pkg-perl-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>                  
libhtml-parser-perl             | Debian Perl Group <pkg-perl-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>                  
libhtml-tagset-perl             | Debian Perl Group <pkg-perl-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>                  
libhtml-tree-perl               | Debian Perl Group <pkg-perl-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>                  
libhttp-cookies-perl            | Debian Perl Group <pkg-perl-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>                  
libhttp-daemon-perl             | Debian Perl Group <pkg-perl-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>                  
libhttp-date-perl               | Debian Perl Group <pkg-perl-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>                  
libhttp-message-perl            | Debian Perl Group <pkg-perl-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>                  
libhttp-negotiate-perl          | Debian Perl Group <pkg-perl-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>                  
libical                         | Fathi Boudra <fabo@debian.org>                                                    
libiec61883                     | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
libimobiledevice                | gtkpod Maintainers <pkg-gtkpod-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org>                     
libindicate                     | The Ayatana Packagers <pkg-ayatana-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org>                 
libindicate-qt                  | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
libio-socket-inet6-perl         | Masahito Omote <omote@debian.org>                                                 
libio-socket-ssl-perl           | Debian Perl Group <pkg-perl-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>                  
libiodbc2                       | Debian QA Group <packages@qa.debian.org>                                          
libjpeg6b                       | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
libkexiv2                       | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
libkipi                         | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
liblwp-mediatypes-perl          | Debian Perl Group <pkg-perl-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>                  
liblwp-protocol-https-perl      | Debian Perl Group <pkg-perl-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>                  
libmailtools-perl               | Anibal Monsalve Salazar <anibal@debian.org>                                       
libmng                          | Kartik Mistry <kartik@debian.org>                                                 
libmsn                          | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
libmusicbrainz3                 | Ross Burton <ross@debian.org>                                                     
libnet-http-perl                | Debian Perl Group <pkg-perl-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>                  
libnet-ssleay-perl              | Debian Perl Group <pkg-perl-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>                  
libnetfilter-conntrack          | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
libogg                          | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
libopenobex                     | Hendrik Sattler <debian@hendrik-sattler.de>                                       
libotr                          | Thibaut VARENE <varenet@debian.org>                                               
libplist                        | gtkpod Maintainers <pkg-gtkpod-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org>                     
libproxy                        | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
libqalculate                    | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                 
libraw1394                      | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
libshout                        | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
libsndfile                      | Erik de Castro Lopo <erikd@mega-nerd.com>                                         
libsocket6-perl                 | Masahito Omote <omote@debian.org>                                                 
libsoup2.4                      | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
libssh                          | Laurent Bigonville <bigon@debian.org>                                             
libthai                         | Theppitak Karoonboonyanan <thep@debian.org>                                       
libtheora                       | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
libtimedate-perl                | Debian Perl Group <pkg-perl-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>                  
liburi-perl                     | Debian Perl Group <pkg-perl-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>                  
libvisual                       | Debian QA Group <packages@qa.debian.org>                                          
libvisual-plugins               | Debian QA Group <packages@qa.debian.org>                                          
libvorbis                       | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
libwww-perl                     | Debian Perl Group <pkg-perl-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>                  
libwww-robotrules-perl          | Debian Perl Group <pkg-perl-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>                  
libxslt                         | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
libxss                          | Debian X Strike Force <debian-x@lists.debian.org>                                 
meanwhile                       | Chris Vanden Berghe <chrisvdb@debian.org>                                         
mhash                           | Chris Hanson <cph@debian.org>                                                     
mobile-broadband-provider-info  | Bhavani Shankar <bhavi@ubuntu.com>                                                
modemmanager                    | Alexander Sack <asac@ubuntu.com>                                                  
mtools                          | Anibal Monsalve Salazar <anibal@debian.org>                                       
muon                            | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
mysql-5.5                       | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
nas                             | Steve McIntyre <93sam@debian.org>                                                 
neon27                          | Laszlo Boszormenyi (GCS) <gcs@debian.hu>                                          
network-manager                 | Ubuntu Core Dev Team <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                      
network-manager-pptp            | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
networkmanagement               | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
nspr                            | Ubuntu Mozilla Team <ubuntu-mozillateam@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
nss                             | Ubuntu Mozilla Team <ubuntu-mozillateam@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
ntrack                          | Alexander Sack <asac@debian.org>                                                  
obex-data-server                | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
obexd                           | Debian Bluetooth Maintainers <pkg-bluetooth-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>  
openexr                         | Debian PhotoTools Maintainers <pkg-phototools-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org>      
orc                             | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
oxygen-icons                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
oxygencursors                   | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                 
pango1.0                        | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
partitionmanager                | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
phonon                          | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
phonon-backend-gstreamer        | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
pkg-kde-tools                   | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
plasma-widget-facebook          | Ubuntu MOTU Developers <ubuntu-motu@lists.ubuntu.com>                             
plasma-widget-message-indicator | The Ayatana Packagers <pkg-ayatana-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org>                 
polkit-kde-1                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
polkit-qt-1                     | Debian Qt/KDE Maintainers <debian-qt-kde@lists.debian.org>                        
pptp-linux                      | Ola Lundqvist <opal@debian.org>                                                   
prison                          | Debian Krap Maintainers <debian-qt-kde@lists.debian.org>                          
pulseaudio                      | Ubuntu Core Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                    
pycurl                          | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
pykde4                          | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
python-cups                     | Ubuntu Core developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                    
python-debian                   | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
python-qt4                      | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
python-smbc                     | Ubuntu Core Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                    
pyxdg                           | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
qapt                            | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
qca2                            | Debian Qt/KDE Maintainers <debian-qt-kde@lists.debian.org>                        
qca2-plugin-ossl                | Debian Qt/KDE Maintainers <debian-qt-kde@lists.debian.org>                        
qimageblitz                     | Debian Qt/KDE Maintainers <debian-qt-kde@lists.debian.org>                        
qjson                           | Lisandro Damián Nicanor Pérez Meyer <lisandro@debian.org>                         
qrencode                        | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
qt-assistant-compat             | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
qt-gstreamer                    | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
qt4-x11                         | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
qtwebkit-source                 | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
raptor2                         | Dave Beckett <dajobe@debian.org>                                                  
rasqal                          | Dave Beckett <dajobe@debian.org>                                                  
redland                         | Dave Beckett <dajobe@debian.org>                                                  
rekonq                          | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
rtkit                           | Debian Multimedia Maintainers <pkg-multimedia-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>
sg3-utils                       | Ritesh Raj Sarraf <rrs@debian.org>                                                
sgml-data                       | Debian QA Group <packages@qa.debian.org>                                          
shared-desktop-ontologies       | Debian Krap Maintainers <debian-qt-kde@lists.debian.org>                          
shared-mime-info                | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
sip4                            | Debian Python Modules Team <python-modules-team@lists.alioth.debian.org>          
software-properties             | Michael Vogt <michael.vogt@ubuntu.com>                                            
soprano                         | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
sound-theme-freedesktop         | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
speech-dispatcher               | Ubuntu Accessibility Developers <ubuntu-accessibility@lists.ubuntu.com>           
speex                           | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
strigi                          | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
sysfsutils                      | Martin Pitt <mpitt@debian.org>                                                    
system-config-printer           | Ubuntu Core Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                    
taglib                          | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
ttf-wqy-microhei                | Zhengpeng Hou <zhengpeng-hou@ubuntu.com>                                          
udisks                          | Utopia Maintenance Team <pkg-utopia-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>          
unattended-upgrades             | Michael Vogt <michael.vogt@ubuntu.com>                                            
unixodbc                        | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
update-notifier                 | Michael Vogt <michael.vogt@ubuntu.com>                                            
upower                          | Utopia Maintenance Team <pkg-utopia-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>          
usb-modeswitch                  | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
usb-modeswitch-data             | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
usbmuxd                         | Julien Lavergne <julien.lavergne@gmail.com>                                       
userconfig                      | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
virtuoso-opensource             | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
wavpack                         | Debian Multimedia Maintainers <pkg-multimedia-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>
x-kit                           | Alberto Milone (tseliot) <albertomilone@alice.it>                                 
xapian-bindings                 | Olly Betts <olly@survex.com>                                                      
xapian-core                     | Olly Betts <olly@survex.com>                                                      
xcursor-themes                  | Debian X Strike Force <debian-x@lists.debian.org>                                 
xdg-user-dirs                   | Ubuntu Desktop Team <ubuntu-desktop@lists.ubuntu.com>                             
xdg-utils                       | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
yajl                            | John Stamp <jstamp@users.sourceforge.net>                                         
</pre>

==== Desktop ====

<pre>
Source                           | Maintainer                                                              
---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------
amarok                           | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                     
appmenu-gtk                      | Ubuntu Desktop Team <ubuntu-desktop@lists.ubuntu.com>                   
appmenu-qt                       | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                     
atk1.0                           | Debian GNOME Maintainers <pkg-gnome-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>
brltty                           | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>               
cdrdao                           | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>               
djvulibre                        | Barak A. Pearlmutter <bap@debian.org>                                   
dvd+rw-tools                     | Optical Media Tools Team <pkg-opt-media-team@lists.alioth.debian.org>   
ebook-tools                      | Pino Toscano <pino@kde.org>                                             
gnupg2                           | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>               
gpgme1.0                         | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>               
grantlee                         | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                     
gtk+2.0                          | Ubuntu Desktop Team <ubuntu-desktop@lists.ubuntu.com>                   
hyphen                           | Debian LibreOffice Maintainers <debian-openoffice@lists.debian.org>     
k3b                              | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                     
kdegames                         | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                     
kdegraphics-strigi-analyzer      | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                     
kdepim                           | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                     
ksnapshot                        | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                     
ktorrent                         | Debian KDE Extras Team <pkg-kde-extras@lists.alioth.debian.org>         
kubuntu-firefox-installer        | Harald Sitter <apachelogger@ubuntu.com>                                 
kubuntu-meta                     | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                     
kubuntu-netbook-default-settings | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                     
kubuntu-web-shortcuts            | Ubuntu Core Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>          
libassuan                        | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>               
libcrypt-passwdmd5-perl          | Bart Martens <bartm@debian.org>                                         
libdbusmenu                      | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>               
libgpod                          | gtkpod Maintainers <pkg-gtkpod-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org>           
libksba                          | Debian GnuTLS Maintainers <pkg-gnutls-maint@lists.alioth.debian.org>    
libktorrent                      | Debian KDE Extras Team <pkg-kde-extras@lists.alioth.debian.org>         
liblastfm                        | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                     
libmpc                           | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>               
libmtp                           | Alessio Treglia <alessio@debian.org>                                    
libreoffice                      | Ubuntu Core Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>          
libspectre                       | Debian Krap Maintainers <debian-qt-kde@lists.debian.org>                
libtextcat                       | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>               
libwpd                           | Rene Engelhard <rene@debian.org>                                        
libwpg                           | Rene Engelhard <rene@debian.org>                                        
libwps                           | Rene Engelhard <rene@debian.org>                                        
libzip                           | Fathi Boudra <fabo@debian.org>                                          
loudmouth                        | Ross Burton <ross@debian.org>                                           
lp-solve                         | Juan Esteban Monsalve Tobon <esteban@v7w.com>                           
mythes                           | Debian OpenOffice Team <debian-openoffice@lists.debian.org>             
okular                           | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                     
pinentry                         | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>               
plasma-widget-menubar            | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                     
pth                              | NIIBE Yutaka <gniibe@fsij.org>                                          
pyudev                           | Debian Python Modules Team <python-modules-team@lists.alioth.debian.org>
qtscriptgenerator                | Modestas Vainius <modax@debian.org>                                     
quassel                          | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>               
stlport4.6                       | Debian OpenOffice Team <debian-openoffice@lists.debian.org>             
suitesparse                      | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>               
synaptiks                        | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                     
syslinux                         | Daniel Baumann <daniel.baumann@progress-technologies.net>               
taglib-extras                    | Modestas Vainius <modax@debian.org>                                     
usb-creator                      | usb-creator Hackers Team <usb-creator-hackers@lists.launchpad.net>      
xfonts-mathml                    | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>               
</pre>

==== Supported ====
<pre>
Source                         | Maintainer                                                                           
-------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
boost-defaults                 | Debian Boost Team <pkg-boost-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org>                          
dee                            | Kartik Mistry <kartik@debian.org>                                                    
kde-l10n-ar                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-bg                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-bs                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-ca                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-ca-valencia           | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-cs                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-csb                   | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-da                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-de                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-el                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-engb                  | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-eo                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-es                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-et                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-eu                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-fi                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-fr                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-fy                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-ga                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-gl                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-gu                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-he                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-hi                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-hr                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-hu                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-ia                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-id                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-is                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-it                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-ja                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-kk                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-km                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-kn                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-ko                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-lt                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-lv                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-mai                   | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-mk                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-ml                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-nb                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-nds                   | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-nl                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-nn                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-pa                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-pl                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-pt                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-ptbr                  | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-ro                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-ru                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-si                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-sk                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-sl                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-sr                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-sv                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-tg                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-th                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-tr                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-ug                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-uk                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-wa                    | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-zhcn                  | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kde-l10n-zhtw                  | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kdetoys                        | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kdewebdev                      | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
kmozillahelper                 | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                                  
language-pack-kde-zh-hans      | Language pack maintainers <language-packs@ubuntu.com>                                
language-pack-kde-zh-hans-base | Language pack maintainers <language-packs@ubuntu.com>                                
language-pack-kde-zh-hant      | Language pack maintainers <language-packs@ubuntu.com>                                
language-pack-kde-zh-hant-base | Language pack maintainers <language-packs@ubuntu.com>                                
language-pack-zh-hans          | Language pack maintainers <language-packs@ubuntu.com>                                
language-pack-zh-hans-base     | Language pack maintainers <language-packs@ubuntu.com>                                
language-pack-zh-hant          | Language pack maintainers <language-packs@ubuntu.com>                                
language-pack-zh-hant-base     | Language pack maintainers <language-packs@ubuntu.com>                                
ledit                          | Debian OCaml Maintainers <debian-ocaml-maint@lists.debian.org>                       
libaal                         | Felix Zielcke <fzielcke@z-51.de>                                                     
libav                          | Ubuntu Core Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                       
libdc1394-22                   | Guus Sliepen <guus@debian.org>                                                       
libdmx                         | Debian X Strike Force <debian-x@lists.debian.org>                                    
libgee                         | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                            
libgsm                         | Jochen Friedrich <jochen@scram.de>                                                   
libsdl1.2                      | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                            
libsepol                       | Russell Coker <russell@coker.com.au>                                                 
libunity                       | Ubuntu Core Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                       
libva                          | Debian Multimedia Maintainers <pkg-multimedia-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>   
libvpx                         | Sebastian Dröge <slomo@debian.org>                                                   
libyaml                        | Anders Kaseorg <andersk@mit.edu>                                                     
lua5.1                         | John V. Belmonte <jbelmonte@debian.org>                                              
nux                            | Didier Roche <didrocks@ubuntu.com>                                                   
ocaml                          | Debian OCaml Maintainers <debian-ocaml-maint@lists.debian.org>                       
opencryptoki                   | Debian QA Group <packages@qa.debian.org>                                             
pkcs11-helper                  | Eric Dorland <eric@debian.org>                                                       
pkgbinarymangler               | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                            
postgresql-common              | Martin Pitt <mpitt@debian.org>                                                       
qt-x11-free                    | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                            
ruby1.9.1                      | akira yamada <akira@debian.org>                                                      
schroedinger                   | Maintainers of GStreamer packages <pkg-gstreamer-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>
sphinx                         | Jakub Wilk <jwilk@debian.org>                                                        
trousers                       | Pierre Chifflier <pollux@debian.org>                                                 
underscore                     | Debian Javascript Maintainers <pkg-javascript-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org>         
wayland                        | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                            
x11proto-bigreqs               | Debian X Strike Force <debian-x@lists.debian.org>                                    
x11proto-composite             | Debian X Strike Force <debian-x@lists.debian.org>                                    
x11proto-damage                | Debian X Strike Force <debian-x@lists.debian.org>                                    
x11proto-dmx                   | Debian X Strike Force <debian-x@lists.debian.org>                                    
x11proto-dri2                  | Debian X Strike Force <debian-x@lists.debian.org>                                    
x11proto-fixes                 | Debian X Strike Force <debian-x@lists.debian.org>                                    
x11proto-fonts                 | Debian X Strike Force <debian-x@lists.debian.org>                                    
x11proto-gl                    | Debian X Strike Force <debian-x@lists.debian.org>                                    
x11proto-randr                 | Ubuntu Core Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                       
x11proto-record                | Debian X Strike Force <debian-x@lists.debian.org>                                    
x11proto-resource              | Debian X Strike Force <debian-x@lists.debian.org>                                    
x11proto-video                 | Debian X Strike Force <debian-x@lists.debian.org>                                    
x11proto-xcmisc                | Debian X Strike Force <debian-x@lists.debian.org>                                    
x11proto-xf86bigfont           | Debian X Strike Force <debian-x@lists.debian.org>                                    
x11proto-xf86dga               | Debian X Strike Force <debian-x@lists.debian.org>                                    
x11proto-xf86dri               | Debian X Strike Force <debian-x@lists.debian.org>                                    
x11proto-xf86vidmode           | Debian X Strike Force <debian-x@lists.debian.org>                                    
x11proto-xinerama              | Debian X Strike Force <debian-x@lists.debian.org>                                    
</pre>

==== DVD Source ====

<pre>
Source                   | Maintainer                                                                        
-------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
advancecomp              | Piotr Ozarowski <ozarow@gmail.com>                                                
anthy                    | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
automoc                  | Debian Qt/KDE Maintainers <debian-qt-kde@lists.debian.org>                        
avogadro                 | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
bbdb                     | Joerg Jaspert <joerg@debian.org>                                                  
blas                     | Debian Science Team <debian-science-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>          
bsd-finger               | Anibal Monsalve Salazar <anibal@debian.org>                                       
cfitsio3                 | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
choqok                   | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
create-resources         | Debian Multimedia Maintainers <pkg-multimedia-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>
dcraw                    | Steve King <debian@invux.com>                                                     
dict-foldoc              | Iustin Pop <iustin@debian.org>                                                    
dict-gcide               | Ritesh Raj Sarraf <rrs@debian.org>                                                
dict-jargon              | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
dict-moby-thesaurus      | John Goerzen <jgoerzen@complete.org>                                              
dotconf                  | Shane Wegner <shane@debian.org>                                                   
enscript                 | Tim Retout <diocles@debian.org>                                                   
espeak                   | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
eyed3                    | Alexander Wirt <formorer@debian.org>                                              
fftw3                    | Paul Brossier <piem@debian.org>                                                   
fonts-dustin             | Debian Fonts Task Force <pkg-fonts-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org>                 
fonts-nanum-coding       | Debian Fonts Task Force <pkg-fonts-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org>                 
glew1.5                  | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
gnugo                    | Martin A. Godisch <godisch@debian.org>                                            
gsl                      | Dirk Eddelbuettel <edd@debian.org>                                                
imagemagick              | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
intel-gpu-tools          | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
kalgebra                 | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kalzium                  | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kanagram                 | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kbruch                   | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kcolorchooser            | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kdeartwork               | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kdegraphics-mobipocket   | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kdegraphics-thumbnailers | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kdesdk                   | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kdevelop                 | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kdevplatform             | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kgamma                   | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kgeography               | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
khangman                 | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kig                      | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
klettres                 | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kmplot                   | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
koffice                  | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kolourpaint              | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
konversation             | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kross-interpreters       | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kruler                   | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
ksaneplugin              | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kstars                   | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
ktouch                   | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kturtle                  | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
kwordquiz                | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
lapack                   | Debian Science Team <debian-science-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>          
lbdb                     | Roland Rosenfeld <roland@debian.org>                                              
libftdi                  | Aurelien Jarno <aurel32@debian.org>                                               
libgsf                   | J.H.M. Dassen (Ray) <jdassen@debian.org>                                          
libindi                  | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
libkdcraw                | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
libkdeedu                | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
libksane                 | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
liblqr                   | Bernd Zeimetz <bzed@debian.org>                                                   
libmad                   | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
libnova                  | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
libofa                   | Debian QA Group <packages@qa.debian.org>                                          
libpqxx3                 | Debian QA Group <packages@qa.debian.org>                                          
libqtgtl                 | Richard A. Johnson <nixternal@ubuntu.com>                                         
librcps                  | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
librsvg                  | Josselin Mouette <joss@debian.org>                                                
libspnav                 | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
libtunepimp              | Ubuntu Core Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                    
libvformat               | Thomas Preud'homme <robotux@celest.fr>                                            
libvncserver             | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
libwmf                   | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
libxbase                 | Michael Vogt <mvo@debian.org>                                                     
lirc                     | Ubuntu Core Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                    
llvm-2.8                 | LLVM Packaging Team <pkg-llvm-team@lists.alioth.debian.org>                       
marble                   | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
meta-kde                 | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
netpbm-free              | Andreas Barth <aba@not.so.argh.org>                                               
openbabel                | Debichem Team <debichem-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org>                            
opengtl                  | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
optipng                  | Nelson A. de Oliveira <naoliv@debian.org>                                         
parley                   | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
plotutils                | Floris Bruynooghe <flub@devork.be>                                                
portaudio19              | Debian VoIP Team <pkg-voip-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>                   
pstoedit                 | Roland Stigge <stigge@antcom.de>                                                  
pyenchant                | Piotr Ożarowski <piotr@debian.org>                                                
python-dateutil          | Guido Günther <agx@sigxcpu.org>                                                   
python-iniparse          | Ludovico Cavedon <cavedon@debian.org>                                             
python-levenshtein       | Nicolas FRANCOIS (Nekral) <nicolas.francois@centraliens.net>                      
python-numpy             | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
python-vobject           | Calendarserver Maintainers <calendarserver-maintainers@lists.alioth.debian.org>   
qoauth                   | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
qscintilla2              | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
rocs                     | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
ruby-defaults            | akira yamada <akira@debian.org>                                                   
ruby1.8                  | akira yamada <akira@debian.org>                                                   
scribus                  | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
skanlite                 | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
sonic                    | Bill Cox <waywardgeek@gmail.com>                                                  
speedcrunch              | Bart Martens <bartm@debian.org>                                                   
step                     | Kubuntu Developers <kubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>                               
tidy                     | Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                         
translate-toolkit        | Debian l10n developers <debian-l10n-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org>                
unclutter                | Axel Beckert <abe@debian.org>                                                     
utidylib                 | Python Applications Packaging Team <python-apps-team@lists.alioth.debian.org>     
vera                     | Sven Joachim <svenjoac@gmx.de>                                                    
vorbis-tools             | Debian Xiph.org Maintainers <pkg-xiph-maint@lists.alioth.debian.org>              
vorbisgain               | Ubuntu Core Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>                    
xdiagnose                | Bryce Harrington <bryce@ubuntu.com>                                               
xplanet                  | Ruben Molina <rmolina@udea.edu.co>                                                
xrestop                  | Moray Allan <moray@debian.org>                                                    
</pre>

----
CategoryKubuntu
