{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Agenda ==
* Discuss https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/kdenetwork/+bug/50387 - what should our defaults for Kopete be? --Hobbsee
* What's that ''''''-- nixternal  thing, and how do we use it?
* When will we get the wiki.kubuntu.org certificate fixed?
* Use same font size (in pt) for wiki.kubuntu.org as for KDE desktop (here, e.g., with 120dpi, one ctrol-+ is needed) -- allee
* Can somebody report from UDS Paris meeting (conclusions/plans for Edgy)? -- LukaRenko 2006-06-26 12:43:46
* Timetable for KDE 3.5.3 ( or what ever version we're starting with ) getting uploaded to Edgy ( Gnome uploaded already ) -- <nowiki>[[imbrandon]]</nowiki>
* Suggest getting a KDE theme and redirects for doc.kubuntu.org and help.kubuntu.org just as *.ubuntu.com -- <nowiki>[[imbrandon]]</nowiki>
*** i have information concerning this topic -- nixternal 2006-06-26 15:56:26

== Member candidates ==
* <nowiki>[[KennyDuffus]]</nowiki> ~-aka seaLne-~

==== Kenny Duffus Membership Interview ====
* '''Wiki:''' <nowiki>[[KennyDuffus]]</nowiki>
* '''Launchpad:''' https://launchpad.net/people/kduffus
* 10k+ launchpad karma
* Signed Code of Conduct
* Community Work
* Participating since September 2005
* Various bug triaging
* Runs behindubuntu.org
* Has done a few packages
* Community Council Remarks
* Riddell makes it known that he knows Kenny in real life and often sleeps on his floor when stuck in Glasgow
* Lure states that KennyDuffus has done great work on Dapper bug triaging
* imbrandon makes it known that KennyDuffus is a KubuntuTeam member
* Kubuntu Future
* KennyDuffus would like to see improvements in Accessibility
* Kubuntu Community Council Approves Membership

== Meeting Log ==

Meeting log can be read <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~fabbione/irclogs/ubuntu-meeting-2006-06-26.html|first part]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~fabbione/irclogs/ubuntu-meeting-2006-06-27.html|second part]]</nowiki>.

== Summary ==
===== Discuss https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/kdenetwork/+bug/50387 - what should our defaults for Kopete be? --Hobbsee =====
* some members think it is normal and some do not.
* some members express their concern over Kopete sharing 'hidden' information while some think it should be "locked down"
* it is made known that these functions can be disabled and enabled by the user
* members do agree that if the information being shared is to much, then it should be deactivated by default, and then allow the user to enable it, while giving them a warning.
* further development discussion to be followed

===== What's that ''''''-- nixternal  thing, and how do we use it? =====
<pre>
<nixternal> look at the line i added under imbrandon's last agenda item...see my name and the info after it..that is what -- nixternal <nowiki>[[DateTime(2006-06-26T23:41:13Z)]]</nowiki> does in the wiki
<imbrandon> nixternal, yes and that is explained in the "NOTE:" below, someone just didn't read
</pre>

===== When will we get the wiki.kubuntu.org certificate fixed? =====
<pre>
<Riddell> ...when the sysadmins get around to it
<Riddell> I'll politely poke them this week
</pre>

===== Use same font size (in pt) for wiki.kubuntu.org as for KDE desktop (here, e.g., with 120dpi, one ctrol-+ is needed) -- allee =====
* font sizes need to be uniform across the many Ubuntu/Kubuntu sites
<pre>
<allee>	Fonts of wiki.kubuntu are way to small here.
<allee>	We had a similar discussion about defeat font size in kubuntu.  I argue that same applies to wiki ;)
<Riddell> allee: heno was in charge of the wiki, I think canonical has a new webmaster about to start so it's probably in flux
<allee>	Someone should fix the css
<Lure>	allee: really? they are quite big here (147DPI), both konqueror and firefox
<Riddell> allee: however best thing would be if you or someone could make a patch and I'll find the right person to send it to
<allee>	Lure: when I press once ctrl-+.  font size roughly matches here.
<Riddell> allee: although you shouldn't use fixed point sizes in webpages
<Lure> allee: I need to do Ctrl+ - twice to have the same size as wiki.k.org
</pre>

===== Can somebody report from UDS Paris meeting (conclusions/plans for Edgy)? -- LukaRenko 2006-06-26 12:43:46 =====
* everybody wants to know what went on in Paris concerning Kubuntu and Edgy+
* https://launchpad.net/people/jr/+specs is pointed out by Riddell, he also states he will tidy up the specs.
* Riddell briefly explains some of the specs he is excited about
* Riddell makes it known that he will blog the information concerning UDS Paris.

===== Timetable for KDE 3.5.3 ( or what ever version we're starting with ) getting uploaded to Edgy ( Gnome uploaded already ) -- <nowiki>[[imbrandon]]</nowiki> =====
* members are interested in knowing if and when KDE 3.5.3 will be uploaded to Edgy
* Riddell lets everyone know that he is currently compiling kdelibs, and also explains that some programs aren't quite ready

===== Suggest getting a KDE theme and redirects for doc.kubuntu.org and help.kubuntu.org just as *.ubuntu.com -- <nowiki>[[imbrandon]]</nowiki> =====
* MatthewEast is in the process of working with all of the following issues/discussions
<pre>
<nixternal> KDE theme is being worked on as we speak...redirects are all still in the process as the transfer to h.u.c isn't' complete 100%...we (DocTeam & WikiTeam) are currently working on getting this all organized...mdke is the man in charge
<Riddell> nixternal: who's working on redirects?
<nixternal> only CatDocs is being transferred from current wiki to new wiki...Matthew East
<jjesse> i don't think anything has been setup yet for help.kubuntu.com to redirect to anything, it was just a minor suggestion at the time to mdke
<nixternal> Kubuntu themes are being recreated due to the moinmoin upgrade...old theme doesn't work with new server
<Riddell> OK, I'll talk to mdke and see if he needs anything out of me for it
</pre>

===== Further discussion concerning meeting dates and times =====
* '''Next Meeting:''' <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=7&day=17&year=2006&hour=13&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|July 17, 2006 @ 13:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
