{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Kubuntu HWDB Client Feedback ==

Say what you thought of KubuntuHWDB here:
----
I loved it -- JonathanRiddell ----
well, i like it as well. nice idea, nice looking implementation. tough the sound didn't work, and with the nv driver, it's very slow in drawing. typing leads to 100 % cpu usage, and lags behind. as KDE3/PyQt3 apps don't have this, it must be PyQt4, i guess. -- superstoned Wed Aug 16 2006
----
'''allee:'''  Nice.   Things I missed in 0.6-0ubuntu12:

* Back button
* don't preselect 'yes' when the result is not know (e.g. sound)
   As long as no value is selected, disable 'Next'
* Before data are send, show me the data to be transmitted
* displayed hwdb id:  make it selectable via mouse
* label button on last page 'Exit'
* s/ubuntu/kubuntu/ at the top on the pages
* Audio test page:  ... detected soundcard: <name>  Did ...  After <name> a '.' is missing
* Teach german translator(s) to use ü instead of ue etc ;-)
----
The possibilities are endless with this tool, good job everyone, works great here! -- nixternal ----

el (2006-08-22)

Nice little app :) but some remarks (especially with regard to the use case when people do not know at first what the app is for, that means open it when browsing through the menu). 

==== Introductory page ====
* In the first paragraph, there should be explained what this tool is for and the benefits - both for the user himself and Kubuntu. This is collecting information about the support of hardware used by Kubuntu users with the goal to provide full support for all of them. something like "Your feedback is needed to improve Kubuntu", and possibly add "for your own benefit".  '''Important'''
* Below, there may be details about the hardware database collection (what is it, is it public, where to access), how to submit it and further details on privacy.
* Consider if the label "hardware database" is something that is likely to be clicked by non-technical users. Possibly "Hardware feedback  tool" is more appropriate

==== Navigation ====
* As allee pinted out, a "Previous" button is missing. The user should be able to correct comments or go back to the introduction page any time. '''Important'''
* Instead of "Forward", say "Next". This is basically a wizard.  '''Important'''
* Provide a progress indicator on top of the dialog so the user knows what is going to happen and less likely to cancel the dialog:
   Audio - Video - Mouse - Keyboard - Network - Comments - Send Information

   Mark the currently active page, and possibly add marks to the completed ones.  

==== General Page Layout ====
* Currently, the yes/no/etc radio buttons are quite far from the question that is asked. There is no obvious relation between them. Rather set the radio buttons horizontally below the questions:

   Did you hear the sound?        - - - - - - - - -          play again

   o Yes   o Partial   o No   o I do not have a sound card.

   Comments:
 

* Instead of "N/A", offer a more descriptive label (I do not have a sound card)  '''Important'''
* Some options are not applicable in some cases, e.g. "No" and "N/A" for video settings. Leave the no, but remove the N/A. 
* When selecting no, an arrow indicates that there was a problem. Remove the arrow from the radio box, but add it to the comment field and mark the page with a red cross in the progress indicator.
* Make clear what you want to know in the comments area. If the user selects "Yes", provide a hint below the comments label "Was it difficult to set up the sound card?". For "Partial" - "What exactly did not work, what did work?". If the user selects "No", ask other questions that are of interest here, e.g. "Have you tried to make it work? What have you tried so far?"  '''Important'''
* If it does not work ("No" is selected), provide a hint below the comments area that by submitting this information, Kubuntu will do its best to support this device as soon as possible and provide it via the Updater tool.  '''Important'''

==== Audio and Network Test ====

* Currently it is not clear at first what is happening when the test animation are shown. Provide a heading and progress indicator.
* Provide a hint that speakers should be attached and volume needs to be up for audio; that network cable or modem connection has to be established for network.  '''Important'''

==== Audio page ====

* Avoid technical slang in the first line (detected soundcard: V8235 in my case). Ask the question "Did you hear the sound?" and add the sound card details below it (if at all), in small font. '''Important'''

==== Video ====

* Write technical details in small font below "Is your video display working properly?" 

==== Mouse and Keyboard ====

* Move keyboard to mouse in the overall sequence.  '''Important'''
* In the hints line, ask e.g. if mouse wheel works, touchpad and mouse work together, touchpad features work etc.

==== Send Information ====

* Provide an introductory phrase that user should review the settings. to send, he should push the button below.  '''Important'''
* Provide an overview of the detected settings (Video: works, Sound: works partial, etc).  '''Important'''
* Offer a big send button.
* NEVER write "Thank you for your contribution" in bold letters before the data is actually sent. Users tend to overlook the send button and just close the window. '''Important'''
* show the progress bar (your submission is prepared) after "send" has been clicked.
* When sending, do not write "timeout (30 seconds) and provide a progress bar.

==== confirmation Screen ====

* Here: "Thank you for your contribution"  '''Important'''
* This page is quite techie... Explain more briefly that this id helps to find problems when getting online support or reporting bugs, that you can see it any time by opening this tool.  '''Important'''
* Instead of copy to clipboard make it selectable (as allee said). So the only button which is left is "show online record".  

==== No internet connection ====

* In the case of no internet connection, provide the confirmation screen with the introduction to send an email right away.

==== Start again ====

* On the confirmation screen, provide an option to run it again. '''Important'''
