{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Kubuntu has a new website, but there are still many things to do for the
upcomming Kubuntu 8.10 release. Everybody is welcome to help contribute to the
following tasks. Feel free to add ideas and mockups under each header.

== Kubuntu Start Page ==

This page is localised and the content is written by the Ubuntu Documentation
team.  The goal is to have new users want to keep this page as their web
browsers default home page, since it provides a way to quickly communicate with
users should any major bug happen (think the broken X upgrade a few releases
ago), and it's Google search box *might* bring in revenue to Kubuntu (still
unsure if it would be possible for us).

Whomever decides to tackle the page should probably collaborate with Ubuntu's
driver.

=== Ideas ===

Many good ideas were proposed at the Ubuntu Web Presence team's meeting (<nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2008/07/22/%23ubuntu-website.html|logs]]</nowiki>), starting at
21:47.

==== Konqueror style ====

I was thinking of a variation of the Konqueror start page, with  "[x] Search
the Web  [ ] Search Kubuntu Documentation" under the search box. Using the
Konqueror start page as a base would also permit us to have a look that's
already integrated into KDE4, and since it already resizes with the browser
window, it's nice for those with smaller screens/etc. At the meeting, it was
also suggested that we have a tip of the day with random KDE tips that would
help our users feel even more at home and help them get that extra "Ooomph!"
out of their software. -- RyanKavanagh 
== Website header / masthead ==

Kubuntu.org has a header / masthead where we currently place the latest
headline.  Several people have suggested that we better use this prime piece of
real estate. One suggestion was to display a
motto/slogan/catch phrase that would really sell Kubuntu; another was to have
mastheads similar to Ubuntu or the count down banner.

== Countdown Banners ==

Will Kubuntu have snazzy countdown banners on the website for 8.10?

Assuming that people from the community are interested in designing these,
here's what requirements from the web presence team's meeting:

* Target dimensions are 180x150
* 30 images numbered 1 - 30
* one image saying "It's almost here" or some similar message
* one image saying "It's here, download 8.10 now" or something similar
* The images should not make reference to Intrepid Ibex

It shouldn't really be one person making all the images, so feel free to submit
lots of gutsy proposals, we can always refine them after if needed.

== Feature Tour ==

We currently have a <nowiki>[[http://www.kubuntu.org/tour|"Tour"]]</nowiki> of Kubuntu, except
that it is mainly text. This should probably be updated to something nicer. To
quote the web presence team's <nowiki>[[Website/IntrepidFeatureTour|suggestions]]</nowiki> for the
feature tour and the
<nowiki>[[https://lists.canonical.com/archives/ubuntu-website/2008-July/000240.html|meeting minutes]]</nowiki>:

* The Tour should be modular - so bits can be added and removed as needed
   without having to take down the entire tour and individuals can look after
   each module.
* The Tour should be non-linear.
* It should feature applications in standard Kubuntu that a newbie should
   expect to get.
* It should have multimedia.
* Localisation would be AWESOME.
* The audience is Windows users; they should not be addressed directly but they
   should find the information they are looking for and be convinced to give
   Kubuntu a try. (The audience part could be broader imho, any comments on it? -- RyanKavanagh )
* The feature tour can't be made with Flash since the standard (K)Ubuntu
   install doesn't have Flash/etc. Ajax and js were suggested at the meeting,
   but the choice of language would really be up to the implementor. An idea
   with ajax was to use it to hide text, and then display it with a cool effect
   when people click.
* The tour must also function without js, though it's reasonable to expect less
   functionality/visual appeal.
