{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==
Welcome to the Kubuntu News and Media Wiki page. This page is designed to help you locate news and media sources for Kubuntu, as well as provide points of contact for media outlets in search of interviews and such about Kubuntu.

== Announcements ==
All announcements related to Kubuntu can be located on its <nowiki>[[https://www.kubuntu.org/|official website]]</nowiki>, under the <nowiki>[[https://kubuntu.org/news/|News]]</nowiki> link. These announcements generally inform the public of application and system updates made to the Kubuntu operating system.

== News ==
News specific to the Kubuntu operating system can be located in various locations across the Internet. Some of these locations include:
* <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com|The Ubuntu Fridge]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://dot.kde.org|The Dot]]</nowiki> (a KDE news service)
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter|The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter]]</nowiki> (an Ubuntu community service)
* <nowiki>[[http://news.google.com/news?hl=en&tab=wn&ned=us&q=Kubuntu&btnG=Search+News|Google News]]</nowiki> (search term - ''Kubuntu'')

== Media ==
There are various forms of media on the Internet with respect to Kubuntu. There are plenty of screenshots, videos, and screencasts for Kubuntu. Some of these resources include:
* <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=Kubuntu&search_type=|YouTube Videos]]</nowiki> (search term - ''Kubuntu'')
* <nowiki>[[http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Screencasts]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.thecodingstudio.com/opensource/linux/screenshots/index.php?os=kubuntu|The Coding Studio Kubuntu screenshots]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linux.com/feature/117051|Linux.com Installing Kubuntu video tour]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://linuxscreenshots.org/os/kubuntu/|LinuxScreenshots.org]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://images.google.com/images?q=Kubuntu&ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-8&um=1&sa=N&tab=wi|Google Image Search]]</nowiki> (search term - ''Kubuntu'')

== Press Contacts ==
=== Jonathan Riddell ===
'''Location:''' Scotland
'''Telephone:''' +44 (0)7941 938912

----
CategoryKubuntuUseful
