{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''NOTE''': This page is part of the Ubuntu Specification process.  Please check the status and details in Launchpad before editing.  If the spec is Approved then you should contact the Assignee, or another knowledgeable person, before making changes.

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/kubuntu-cd-samples-whole-kde
* '''Packages affected''': kdeaccessibility, kdeedu, kdegames and kdetoys (in a way)

=== Summary ===

As it is, the Kubuntu CD comes without any sampling from kdeaccessibility, kdeedu, kdegames and kdetoys packages. This should not be. Those packages belonging to these categories which are not too space-hogging should be included in the CD.

kdevelop is big, and probably kdewebdev, so I do not report them, but the above listed packages, especially kdegames and kdeedu should be there in the Kubuntu CD to give people an idea of what KDE can give. And in the interest of the differently-abled users, kdeaccessibility may also be included.

=== Rationale ===

Someone who comes to Linux for the first time and starts using Kubuntu as his/her first distro will think that KDE does not have any accessibility helpers, educational programs, and games. These can be a serious put-off. Especially games, and to a lesser extent accessibility and then educational programs. games and accessibility programs are part of the standard expectation of a computer-user nowadays. So we should indicate to the new Kubuntu user that KDE does have such programs, though many cannot be included on a single CD. Adding educational programs and toys will make the user go "Hey cool" and this increases the popularity of KDE / Kubuntu / Linux.

Additionally, the magnifier and mouse click tools are a requirement for many users whom have disabilities. The magnifier in particular is required by many people whom can see well enough in their day-to-day business but have trouble when looking at a monitor (which includes almost everyone over the age of 50 who don't wear glasses). If you can't see the screen well enough to read it you are probably never going to fig out how to use Adept to get the magnifier. Aside from being helpful for people with disabilities the magnifier is a tool that can come in very handy for anyone who might be using a non-conventional setup where the screen is further away than a standard office type setup. Particularly, when Kubuntu is used as a media PC for display on a large screen TV. In this situation movies are easy to see but text can be very difficult to make out. The screen magnifier is a life saver for these types of setups. At ~500kb there really is no argument for not including this particular application.

=== Use cases ===

'''Negative''': Ram pops in his Kubuntu Desktop CD and starts up his computer. He finds no games. He says "aw this Kubuntu sucks" and throws off the CD. He may also curse if he spent time and money downloading the CD image.

'''Positive''': Hari pops in his Kubuntu Desktop CD and starts up his computer. He finds that KDE has very nice games. He looks in the package manager for more and finds that a lot more games are downloadable. He says "hey, Kubuntu is kool" and recommends KDE/Kubuntu/Linux to his friends.

=== Implementation ===

We realize that the CD does not have much capacity, so we have to make some space to include more packages. As it is, the CD is full. So we suggest;

Remove:
 karm - I suspect low popularity
 katapult - it's severely broken. See malone bug #57737

OK I realize that the above two removals are unlikely. Here are some better suggestions:

1. Replace OpenOffice with KOffice. KOffice is much smaller and offers all important functionality needed.

2. If that is not possible, then at least remove:

 openoffice help
 openoffice thesaurus

This will definitely free up about 20 MB.

After that, add at least some of the following relatively small packages:

'''KDE Accessibility:'''
  kmag
  kmousetool
'''KDE Edu:'''
  kbruch
  kig
  kmplot
  kpercentage
  ktouch
  kturtle
'''KDE Games:'''
  kasteroids
  kmahjongg
  kpat
  ksnake
'''KDE Toys;'''
  amor
  eyesapplet
  fifteenapplet
  kworldclock

----
CategorySpec
