{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Discuss the Pretty-Ization of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/pretty-kubuntu-release-page|Kubuntu Release]]</nowiki> Page for future releases -- Nirvana  * Discuss a comment regarding sharing SMB printers: http://www.chinwong.com/index.php/site/comments/life_without_windows/ -- Nirvana  * Brief Update on KubuntuDocs for Edgy if I am available -- JonathanJesse
* Brief Update on Kubuntu Edgy Artwork -- KennethWimer  * Suggest creating firefox-kubuntu ( theme ) package to complement the new firefox-ubuntu ( theme ) dep so Kubuntu users who choose firefox don't have to deal with the brown theme ( can this not be a dep of u-d-s and not firefox so k-d-s can add a dep of firefox-kubuntu for the artwork/theme or even add it right to k-d-s ) -- imbrandon     - Something <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Packages/Candidates/Kubuntu|there]]</nowiki> about that.
* Briefly ask Riddell to explain what packages Kubuntu wants tested for backporting and if there is a list/wikipage with them listed and what the current status of backports are -- imbrandon 
Hobbsee's Stuff:
* Who wants to deal with kvpnc?  Has it fallen off the edge of the world again?
* Are amarok-arts packages being put in Edgy, for amarok 1.4.1?
* Who's writing the UVF exception report for kopete?  Where's the changelog again?  
* What actually happened to wlassistant?  The new version didnt seem to get uploaded.  Once it is, we can remove kdelibs-bin from the repositories, so it stops showing up on britney. http://people.ubuntu.com/~cjwatson/testing/edgy_probs.html  
* Who has an edgy ppc chroot?  I need to find out why kubuntu-desktop isn't installable on ppc. 
      - seems installable on my iBook ppc and useable ( EDIT : i was wrong, seems i was in a dapper chroot when i checked, probably becouse of amarok and other kde bits not installable on ppc yet read: edgy_probs.html from cjwatson ) <nowiki>[[imbrandon]]</nowiki>
* Anyone who wants to cheer about my packages on Tuesday's Tech Board meeting is welcom; it's at 2000UTC.
* Gamin fixes from https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuEdgyPackageUpdates - any packagers interested in doing these?  I think we can start doing these after the Knot 1 freeze.  I'm happy to sponsor people's uploads of this after the TB meeting.
* Lure, i have kpowersave and powersave on REVU for you to poke at.  feel free not to use them, whatever you like.  currently, kpowersave is giving me grief.
* Can we get the views in konqueror reverted?  (ie, be able to click on the button, and detailed list/icons/pictures view is shown, as is standard in KDE?  What other changes might make sense to revert?
* Are people interested in having a Kubuntu ToDo list on the wiki?  Kinda like all my stuff above, and people can take bits and pieces as they want?  I do have a copy of it in my brain, but that's not terribly useful for anyone else.
* Is it good, me trying to organise everything like this, or should i stop?
* Anything else I think of during work.
/End of Hobbsee's stuff. :P

=== Member Candidate ===
* RichJohnson ~-aka nixternal-~

==== Rich Johnson Membership Interview ====
* '''Wiki:''' RichJohnson
* '''Launchpad:''' https://launchpad.net/people/nixternal
* Community Work
*** DocumentationTeam - Working with JonathanJesse on a Kubuntu "Switching From Windows" Document
*** WikiTeam - Helping out DocumentationTeam with Wiki maintenance
*** MarketingTeam - Maintains the wiki, and helps spread Kubuntu!!!
*** BugTeam - Bug triage
*** IRC, Forums, and Launchpad Support
*** ChicagoTeam - Chicago Ubuntu Local Community Team, current Team Lead/Contact
*** Recently had his first package approved and uploaded!!!
* Kubuntu Community Council Remarks
*** Riddell asks about Kubuntu Switching from Windows Documentation
***** RichJohnson states it has a base, and content is currently being worked on
*** rraphink asks about envolvement in the Kubuntu community
***** RichJohnson states envolvement is mainly KDE, Kubuntu Documentation, packaging, and such
*** A couple of others state the various other contributions by RichJohnson
* Kubuntu Future
*** Documentation, Packaging, and Programming to come!!!
* Kubuntu Community Council Approves Membership

=== Meeting Log ===
Meeting log can be read <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~fabbione/irclogs/ubuntu-meeting-2006-07-17.html|Here]]</nowiki>

=== Summary ===
===== Brief Update on Kubuntu Edgy Artwork -- KennethWimer =====
* kwwii gave a brief update as to the specs on Kubuntu artwork.
* Members where concerned about a look that wouldn't say "KDE"
* Members also let it be known that 'We are not KDE'
* kwwii showed off some purple

===== Discuss the Pretty-Ization of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/pretty-kubuntu-release-page|Kubuntu Release]]</nowiki> Page for future releases -- Nirvana =====
* Nirvana wants to make the releases page, the page where everyone downloads the Kubuntu .iso's, better looking.
* Nirvana states he has created a few different css templates
* Kamion get's involved and they play with the pages css and show the different results

===== Discuss a comment regarding sharing SMB printers: http://www.chinwong.com/index.php/site/comments/life_without_windows/ -- Nirvana =====
* Nirvana states that sharing a printer via Samba is not an easy task
* Riddell let's it be known that there is a spec concerning this.
* The following is a snip of the conversation:
<pre>
<Nirvana> comment: "As an addendum, I tried sharing the printer using Samba, but this task is really more difficult than it should be. Nobody should have to edit configuration files or to scour the mailing lists simply to share a printer on the network."

<Nirvana> comment:  I did try a number of solutions, but so far, no luck. This REALLY should be a matter of right-clicking the printer and opening up a share menu. Unfortunately, this is one of those areas that still needs improvement in making this distro even more user-friendly. Jerome, maybe this is something you can get intoa simple GUI method of sharing a printer on an Ubuntu machine?
</pre>

===== Brief Update on KubuntuDocs for Edgy if I am available -- JonathanJesse =====
* JonathanJesse was not available for comments, deferred.

===== Suggest creating firefox-kubuntu ( theme ) package to complement the new firefox-ubuntu ( theme ) dep so Kubuntu users who choose firefox don't have to deal with the brown theme ( can this not be a dep of u-d-s and not firefox so k-d-s can add a dep of firefox-kubuntu for the artwork/theme or even add it right to k-d-s ) -- imbrandon =====
* Riddell states he hasn't really looked at, and doesn't know how easy/difficult it would be to implement, and that they can probably get firefox to depend on one or the other
* After some discussion, imbrandon states that kubuntu-firefox would be a good idea
* Riddell has the idea of adding a 'Crystal' theme to the Ubuntu Firefox Themes package
* imbrandon agrees, and states that it could be made the default for Kubuntu
* Riddell asks if imbrandon could take care of it, and imbrandon steps up!!!

===== Briefly ask Riddell to explain what packages Kubuntu wants tested for backporting and if there is a list/wikipage with them listed and what the current status of backports are -- imbrandon =====
* Riddell states that kaffeine has been completed, dbus needs to be tested, and if anyone can think of more, then go ahead.

===== Backports gets brought up and discussed, refer to the logs for more information =====

==== Begin Hobbsee's Agenda Items ====
<pre>
<Riddell> so Hobbsee has some agenda items
<Hobbsee> Riddell: heh, yes, some.
</pre>
'''UNDERSTATEMENT!!!'''
===== Who wants to deal with kvpnc?  Has it fallen off the edge of the world again? =====
* Hobbsee notes that it is not on the Edgy list
* Hobbsee notes that Debian and Ubuntu have digressed and it probably won't be an easy merge
* fabo is the man for kvpnc

===== Are amarok-arts packages being put in Edgy, for amarok 1.4.1? =====
* Hobbsee asks if it is being kept or removed:
*** Riddell states "Removed"
* Riddell states gstreamer isn't supported backend

===== Who's writing the UVF exception report for kopete?  Where's the changelog again? =====
* Riddell is writing it

===== What actually happened to wlassistant?  The new version didnt seem to get uploaded.  Once it is, we can remove kdelibs-bin from the repositories, so it stops showing up on britney. http://people.ubuntu.com/~cjwatson/testing/edgy_probs.html =====
* allee states this is on his TODO
* Hobbsee states all of the ubuntu repos have gotten rid of kdelibs-bin, except wlassistant, which seemed to be uploaded to the wrong distro by accident.

===== Who has an edgy ppc chroot?  I need to find out why kubuntu-desktop isn't installable on ppc. =====
* imbrandon does

===== Gamin fixes from https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuEdgyPackageUpdates - any packagers interested in doing these?  I think we can start doing these after the Knot 1 freeze.  I'm happy to sponsor people's uploads of this after the TB meeting. =====
* Hobbsee states 'nixternal might want to do some of these'
*** Thanks Hobbsee ;)
* Riddell notes that gamin stuff is dependant on not using gamin actually working
* imbrandon and nixternal both express interest
*** Riddell states it's entirely trivial just rebuild with build1 or ubuntu2 version numbers
* Riddell states it isn't final yet, but expects that gamin will be removed
*** Hobbsee ask's for a poke when it becomes confirmed so she can let others know of the fixes
* Riddell states there may be autoconf-2.6 issues with the rebuilds

===== Can we get the views in konqueror reverted? (ie, be able to click on the button, and detailed list/icons/pictures view is shown, as is standard in KDE? What other changes might make sense to revert? =====
* Riddell states the rationale is not to have a lot of buttons
* Riddell also states there really is no room currently for them
* It is stated that they don't get used enough, and should stay as a menu item instead

===== Are people interested in having a Kubuntu ToDo list on the wiki?  Kinda like all my stuff above, and people can take bits and pieces as they want?  I do have a copy of it in my brain, but that's not terribly useful for anyone else. =====
* '''YES'''

===== Is it good, me trying to organise everything like this, or should i stop? =====
* People are actually surprised that Hobbsee is "Organising" ;)

===== FINGERS ARE CROSSED, AS WELL AS TOES, FOR KNOT 1 =====

===== Further discussion concerning meeting dates and times =====
* '''Next Meeting:''' TBA
