{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Want to help?  See <nowiki>[[Kubuntu-Todo]]</nowiki>

=== kubuntu-release-schedule ===

We should consider realigning the Kubuntu schedule to KDE 4's six monthly cycle.  How would be manage release management, upgrade process, package archives and commercial support?

* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/kubuntu-release-schedule
* https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuReleaseSchedule

=== kubuntu-intrepid-version ===

In light of our release schedule plans, what changes should be made to KDE packages in what timescale.  Should KDE 3 packages be moved to universe?  Should they be removed entirely?  Should KDE 4 be moved to /usr?

* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/kubuntu-intrepid-version
* https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuIntrepidVersion

=== kubuntu-porting ===

What other applications do we have which need ported to KDE 4.

* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/kubuntu-intrepid-kde4-porting
* https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuIntrepidKDE4Porting

=== kubuntu-community ===

The annual cycle for kubuntu-council is up again, which members should retire and who should we consider for new members?  How can we increase the Kubuntu developer community and get more people into MOTU?

* https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/kubuntu-intrepid-council
* https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuIntrepidCouncil

=== kubuntu-filesharing ===

Improve the filesharing experience in Kubuntu.  Related to easy-file-sharing but ensuring changes are integrated with KDE and can go upstream.

* https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/kubuntu-filesharing
* https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuFilesharing

=== kubuntu-intrepid-website ===

What needs done to get the new website launched?

* https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuIntrepidWebsite
* https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/kubuntu-intrepid-website

=== kubuntu-defaults ===

Review defaults for KDE4.  E.g., are we using Oxygen or Ozone as the default theme?

* https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuIntrepidDefaults
* https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/kubuntu-intrepid-defaults

----
CategorySpec CategoryKubuntu
