{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''obsolete page'''

What do you think of the preview?  See KubuntuReleaseCandidateKnownProblems first and then log in and use the comment box at the bottom of the page to add your comments.

== News articles about the preview ==

From JeanDarcoux Thu Mar 31 03:01:47 +0100 2005
From: Jean Darcoux
Date: Thu, 31 Mar 2005 03:01:47 +0100
Subject: 
Message-ID: <20050331030147+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

In konqueror, if I download a huge file from an http site,    
the download window always show 100 percent during the download,    
from beginning to the end of the download.    
Cf bug #8356

This bug is still present in release candidate.

From JeanDarcoux Thu Mar 31 03:02:54 +0100 2005
From: Jean Darcoux
Date: Thu, 31 Mar 2005 03:02:54 +0100
Subject: Trash action are not availlable inside media:/
Message-ID: <20050331030254+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

If I mount a lexar USB key in konqueror and it contain a directory. If I right
click on the directory icon and try to send it to trash, I get an error message.
Cf. bug #8354

this bug is still present in release candidate

From JeanDarcoux Thu Mar 31 03:06:29 +0100 2005
From: Jean Darcoux
Date: Thu, 31 Mar 2005 03:06:29 +0100
Subject: 
Message-ID: <20050331030629+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

If konqueror is configured to see quicktime movies with the kaffeine plugin and you go to the apple site (for example, if you see this cute movie http://www.apple.com/trailers/disney/poohs_heffalump_movie.html ) and you close the browser before the end of the movie, you get a "signal 11" error message and konqueror crash.

From JeanDarcoux Thu Mar 31 03:14:40 +0100 2005
From: Jean Darcoux
Date: Thu, 31 Mar 2005 03:14:40 +0100
Subject: kpdf plugin in konqueror
Message-ID: <20050331031440+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

If konqueror is configured to use kpdf as the default viewer for pdf, and you open any pdf file (for example http://www.deas.harvard.edu/courses/cs121/handouts/Godeldoc.pdf), the fonts are very small and not readable. I did not found the way to increase font size. I get similar problem with the acroread plugin into konqueror. kghostview seems to render pdf file better in konqueror.

From JeanDarcoux Thu Mar 31 03:38:07 +0100 2005
From: Jean Darcoux
Date: Thu, 31 Mar 2005 03:38:07 +0100
Subject: 
Message-ID: <20050331033807+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

My hard drive (hda1) is formatted to be a reiser filesystem. I am using the 2.6.10-5-386 kernel from ubuntu and allmost everything works well. The only problem probably related to this kernel is that, when booting I get a message saying;
 VFS: Can't find ext3 filesystem on dev hda1
 this message is followed by a delay of about 5 seconds. After this delay, the system show normal message like
 mounting a tmpfs over /dev
 and then the boot continues without problem.

My /etc/fstab contain reiserfs for this partition and I cannot figure out what is wrong.
I think this is similar to bug #2100, but there is no solution or indication.

From AbdullahRamazanoglu Thu Mar 31 20:04:07 +0100 2005
From: Abdullah Ramazanoglu
Date: Thu, 31 Mar 2005 20:04:07 +0100
Subject: Not a bug report but a proposal.
Message-ID: <20050331200407+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

As silly as it might seem, adding a "* * * * * root /bin/sync" to /etc/crontab increased robustness of my filesystems (ext3) an order of magnitude (perhaps sync also flushes on-drive cache or maybe just perception?) particularly when my 3 yo kid isn't quite prepared to differentiate a PC from a TV. :)

From JeanDarcoux Tue Apr 5 02:01:56 +0100 2005
From: Jean Darcoux
Date: Tue, 05 Apr 2005 02:01:56 +0100
Subject: configure printers with CUPS
Message-ID: <20050405020156+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

To configure my printer with cups, I had to do the following command 
sudo adduser cupsys shadow
sudo /etc/init.d/cupsys restart

to be able to log in my root account on http://localhost:631
Please create this user when installing the cpus package.

CategoryArchive
