{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
20:00 < Nightrose> HELLO EVERYONE :)
20:00 < Nightrose> \o/
20:00 < Nightrose> Can I see some hands please?
20:00 < Nightrose> Who is here for Kubuntu tutorials day?
20:01 < Nightrose> Woahh awesome :)
20:01 < Nightrose> Let's start right away with a little intro then.
20:01 < Nightrose> You probably expected Nixternal the Vista lover here, eh?
20:01 < Nightrose> Tell you what: You won't get him today :(
20:01 < Nightrose> But no need to be sad because you will get me and a whole bunch of other Kubuntu folks instead ;-)
20:01 < Nightrose> For those who don't know me: I'm Lydia.
20:02 < Nightrose> I am here to tell you a little about what a cool community Kubuntu has and how you can become a part of the family :)
20:02 < Nightrose> Here is a brief summary of what I am about to cover:
20:02 < Nightrose>   * A little about myself
20:02 < Nightrose>   * A little about Kubuntu
20:02 < Nightrose>   * A breakdown of the various development roles in the Kubuntu community
20:02 < Nightrose> And now everyone please sit back and relax :)
20:02 < Nightrose> Please note down questions you have so I can answer them at the end.
20:03 < Nightrose> === About Me ===
20:03 < Nightrose> * Free software dudette and advocate
20:03 < Nightrose> * Community person
20:03 < Nightrose> * Involved in Amarok, KDE and Kubuntu for nearly 2 years now
20:03 < Nightrose> * Doing promo, advocacy, community stuff and bug triage most of the time as well as some packaging
20:03 < Nightrose> * Go by Nightrose on nearly every communication protocol and website imaginable
20:03 < Nightrose> * Email me at lydia@kde.org
20:03 < Nightrose> * Check out my blog at http://blog.lydiapintscher.de
20:03 < Nightrose> So lets go on to the juicy stuff, shall we?
20:03 < Nightrose> What is this Kubuntu thing everyone in the world should be using?
20:04 < Nightrose> === About Kubuntu ===
20:04 < Nightrose> * Official project of the Ubuntu GNU/Linux distribution
20:04 < Nightrose> * We use the same exact base system as Ubuntu, we just use KDE instead
20:04 < Nightrose> * It is pronounced koo-BOON-too
20:04 < Nightrose> * First released in 2005 with the Hoary Hedgehog (5.04) version
20:04 < Nightrose> * http://www.kdedevelopers.org/node/591 - The post that started it all, by some smart guy named Jonathan Riddell
20:04 < Nightrose> Riddell: You there to say hello? ;-)
20:04 < Nightrose> ;-)
20:04 < Nightrose> === Where Kubuntu is today ===
20:05 < Nightrose> * One of the top KDE based GNU/Linux distributions available
20:05 < Nightrose> * Still a small, yet tight-knit community of highly dedicated developers
20:05 < Nightrose> * People who are fun to work with
20:05 < Nightrose> * Both a KDE 3 and a KDE 4 Remix version available
20:05 < Nightrose> * Switch to KDE 4 with the next release
20:05 < Nightrose> * In numerous large scaled environments (Canary Islands, French Parliament, and others)
20:05 < Nightrose> * A tad bit better than yesterday, only to be made better with YOUR help, so it will be even better tomorrow and the day after towmorrow...
20:05 < Nightrose> Ah, you know where this is going, right ;-)
20:05 < Nightrose> = Development Roles =
20:05 < Nightrose> There are many roles available for you to get involved in, no matter your experience level, we have a job for you!
20:05 < Nightrose> I will break down the jobs or roles that I feel are in order starting with the easiest all the way to the hardest.
20:05 < Nightrose> Feel free to communicate with developers by utilizing our mailing list - https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/kubuntu-devel (Subscription based - low traffic).
20:06 < Nightrose> Note that this list is NOT for user support, for support please see the list information provided in the upcoming section on user support.
20:06 < Nightrose> The roles I will break down briefly cover: Advocacy, Support, Bug Triage, Documentation, Packaging, and Coding
20:06 < Nightrose> === Advocacy ===
20:06 < Nightrose> Advocacy is nothing more than a fancier, and better sounding word for marketing.
20:06 < Nightrose> I am willing to bet a couple of you just went, "How in the heck is advocating Kubuntu related to development?"
20:06 < Nightrose> Yes, advocacy helps in the development of Kubuntu, and by you advocating, you are therefore helping to develop Kubuntu.
20:06 < Nightrose> It is about getting Kubuntu known and used!
20:06 < Nightrose> This gets Kubuntu in the hands of other people who will use the system and typically report back any issues or compliments to the developers.
20:06 < Nightrose> How can you advocate?
20:07 < Nightrose> * Get with one of your LoCo teams
20:07 < Nightrose> * Get with one of your local Linux Users Groups (LUG)
20:07 < Nightrose> * Talk about it face-to-face with friends, family, colleagues, and strangers in the dark (Careful using Kubuntu as a pickup line! Some girls (and boys) might never leave you again ;-))
20:07 < Nightrose> * Give talks at events
20:07 < Nightrose> * Work at the Kubuntu booth at an event
20:07 < Nightrose> let's get on to user support then :)
20:07 < Nightrose> === User Support ===
20:07 < Nightrose> How can user support be considered a development role?
20:07 < Nightrose> * You develop a sense of pride when helping others
20:07 < Nightrose> * You develop respect not only for the OS, but also for the users, the developers, and yourself
20:07 < Nightrose> * You develop a repoir within the Kubuntu community
20:08 < Nightrose> * You help users, see things that could be made better by developers, and report that to the developers
20:08 < Nightrose> yes?
20:09 < Nightrose> yes
20:09 < Nightrose> right
20:09 < Nightrose> not _only_ irc
20:09 < Nightrose> eagles0513875: I will get to that ;-)
20:09 < Nightrose> ok let's move on
20:09 < Nightrose> Having someone like YOU helping out the Kubuntu users helps out the development community tremendously.
20:10 < Nightrose> You free up the main developers _a lot_ of time and you also are provided the ability to take what you learn from common issues and communicate that effectively, allowing developers to make a better Kubuntu.
20:10 < Nightrose> Places you can provide user support:
20:10 < Nightrose> * IRC - #kubuntu on Freenode (see https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat)
20:10 < Nightrose> * Ubuntu Forums - http://ubuntuforums.org
20:10 < Nightrose> * Kubuntu Forums - http://www.kubuntuforums.net/
20:10 < Nightrose> eagles0513875: ^ ;-)
20:10 < Nightrose> * Mailing List - https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/kubuntu-users (Subscription based - medium traffic)
20:10 < Nightrose> * At your local LUG or LoCo events
20:10 < Nightrose> Everyone needs support and community love, and these are 2 very important areas in development because it helps people use and understand Kubuntu.
20:10 < Nightrose> You don't know every fricking detail of Kubuntu yet and fear you therefore can't provide support to other users?
20:10 < Nightrose> Fear not. Most of the stuff you will be dealing with will come up several times and you will learn quickly. And after all noone needs to know everything. This is why we need a lot of different people to give support.
20:10 < techno_freak> Nightrose, here as well - https://answers.launchpad.net/
20:11 < Nightrose> oh right...
20:11 < Nightrose> good point
20:11 < Nightrose> thanks
20:11 < Nightrose> ok support is a cool thing
20:11 < Nightrose> but what also needs to be done is:
20:11 < Nightrose> === Bug Triage ===
20:12 < Nightrose> Bug triage is a huge part of the development process and comes in easy and difficult tasks.
20:12 < Nightrose> For the easy, simply going through bug reports and testing to see if you can reproduce the issue and then confirming the bug is a big part on ensuring it gets fixed.
20:12 < Nightrose> When bugs sit in the New or Incomplete status, their chances of getting looked at in depth are minimal compared to a report that has been Confirmed.
20:12 < Nightrose> eagles0513875: yes?
20:13 < Nightrose> they can help by asking the people who know more about the product if they know a fix
20:13 < Nightrose> like the people who actually developed the programm
20:13 < Nightrose> dublicate search is also a good thing
20:14 < Nightrose> yea for example
20:14 < Nightrose> or filing the bug upstream
20:14 < Nightrose> if it needs to be fixed there
20:14 < Nightrose> to bugs.kde.org mostly
20:15 < Nightrose> question answered? :)
20:15 < Nightrose> ;-) no prob
20:15 < Nightrose> let's go on then
20:15 < Nightrose> For the difficult part, simply fix the bug by patching the software in question.
20:15 < Nightrose> More about bug triage in txwinger's talk "How to squish the besties" at 23:00 UTC
20:15 < Nightrose> Ohhhhhhhh and now the Vista lover's favourite thing :P
20:15 < Nightrose> I can tell you he _really_ loves this stuff!
20:16 < Nightrose> Who knows what it is?
20:16 < Nightrose> haha right
20:16 < Nightrose> === Documentation ===  \o/ \o/
20:16 < Nightrose> Ohh I can hear him screaming YAAAAAAAAAAY \o/
20:16 < Nightrose> Told you! He really loves it.
20:16 < Nightrose> Documentation is a very large task in the free software world and it is no different here in Kubuntu.
20:16 < Nightrose> As it stands, there are about 3 or 4 of us who work on the Kubuntu documentation, with nixternal and Jonathan Jesse typically available most of the time.
20:16 < Nightrose> With our future with KDE 4, ALL of our documentation needs to be rewritten in order to suite it. Currently all of our documentation is KDE 3 based.
20:16 < Nightrose> We house our documentation in Bazaar which a revision control system.
20:16 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: sry for interruption again  when you say patching you mean just uploading the changelog to launchpad then some senior dev takes it and repackages it
20:17 < Nightrose> eagles0513875: mostly that is how patching works yes
20:17 < Nightrose> well
20:17 < Nightrose> not only the changelog
20:17 < Nightrose> but also the actual fix of course ;-)
20:18 < Nightrose> ok :)
20:18 < Nightrose> on with documentation then
20:18 < Nightrose> For further information on documentation please see either of the following:
20:18 < Nightrose> * Ubuntu Documentation Project wiki - https://wiki.kubuntu.org/DocumentationTeam
20:18 < Nightrose> * Ubuntu Documentation Project mailing list - https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-doc (Subscription based - low traffic)
20:18 < Nightrose> * IRC - #ubuntu-doc on Freenode (see https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat)
20:18 < Nightrose> * Ask nixternal! He likes that :P
20:19 < Nightrose> Forky: yes - please ask again at the end
20:19 < Nightrose> stdin++ ;-)
20:19 < Nightrose> eagles0513875: many :P
20:19 < Nightrose> Ok you all sat back and relaxed until now, right?
20:19 < Nightrose> Stop it!
20:19 < Nightrose> Here comes the hard stuff!
20:19 < Nightrose> No more relaxing and sipping tea!
20:20 < Nightrose> Actually, that was a lie, the last 2 topics are pretty easy to learn, and a total blast....
20:20 < Nightrose> === Packaging ===
20:20 < Nightrose> What exactly is packaging?
20:20 < Nightrose> I will tell you what it isn't...It isn't that sharp plastiK stuff you try to cut away to get at your new geeky toy!
20:20 < Nightrose> If you used Adept, Synaptic, apt-get, or aptitude to install a piece of our free software, then what you have done is downloaded a package which was extracted into the proper locations within your system, ensuring at the same time that any of that applications dependencies were also installed.
20:20 < Nightrose> What happens is you have a select group of developers who spend their PERSONAL TIME creating, editing, and maintaining Debian based packages so you can download and install them.
20:21 < Nightrose> The reason behind PERSONAL TIME being in caps wasn't to yell at you...it was to let everyone know that will read this here and in the log files, to breathe before tearing into community members because your favorite package might be broken...bare with us, and we shall fix it for ya!
20:21 < Nightrose> Of course, you could always fix it too, especially seeing as this is the packaging section :)
20:21 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: can i point something out about the irc channel
20:21 < Nightrose> sure
20:21 < Nightrose> indeed
20:22 < Nightrose> very much needed
20:22 < Nightrose> ;-) yes
20:22 < Nightrose> be patient
20:22 < Nightrose> people might not be around all the time
20:22 < Nightrose> but they will get to your problem eventually
20:22 < Nightrose> if they know how to fix it
20:23 < Nightrose> no prob - that was useful ;-)
20:23 < Nightrose> What should you know if you are thinking about packaging?
20:23 < Nightrose> Requirements include:
20:23 < Nightrose> * Familiarity with the command line
20:24 < Nightrose> * Ability to download, extract, configure, build, and install a tarball (file.tar.gz and such)
20:24 < Nightrose> * Familiarity with Debian based packaging scripts and utilities (pbuilder, dh_make, dh_install, and more)
20:24 < Nightrose> * ls, cd, mv, mkdir, rm, man, info, dget, wget, tar and a few more....easy stuff!
20:24 < Nightrose> * wget http://foo.com/bar.tar.gz && tar -xf bar.tar.gz
20:24 < Nightrose> * dh_make, debdiff, lintian, pbuilder, dh_install, debuild, dput, and more....
20:25 < Nightrose> Still not overly difficult!
20:25 < Nightrose> More information on packaging can be located at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU.
20:25 < Nightrose> Also don't forget to catch the packaging talk at 21:00 UTC by our favourite Riddell :)
20:25 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: can i talk to you in private bout motu after this
20:25 < Nightrose> yes
20:26 < Nightrose> ok and now the last and hardest of all things I am going to talk about today ;-)
20:26 < Nightrose> === Coding ===
20:26 < Nightrose> ahhhh ya! the fun stuff that will fry your brain ;-)
20:26 < Nightrose> Are you an elite coding ninja?
20:26 < Nightrose> A code monkey?
20:26 < Nightrose> A CS student just learning how to code?
20:26 < Nightrose> anything else that has to do with coding? :P
20:27 < Nightrose> (don't take code monkey in the negative way! We love monkeys ;-))
20:27 < Nightrose> haha
20:27 < Nightrose> Quite some stuff needs to be coded or ported to KDE 4. So help is welcome and needed. To find out what you can do talk to Riddell.
20:27 < Nightrose> There are coding projects available for various types of coders.
20:27 < Nightrose> C++ and Python are our 2 main languages here at Kubuntu and if you have any experience we should have something for you.
20:27 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: in regards to coding what is the best way to get experience
20:27 < Nightrose> coding ;-)
20:28 < Nightrose> really
20:28 < Nightrose> you need to do it
20:28 < Nightrose> thx Riddell :)
20:28 < Nightrose> eagles0513875: you need to actually code so you get practice
20:28 < Nightrose> start with something easy
20:29 < Nightrose> and then take on harder stuff
20:29 < leleobhz> Nightrose: talking about development
20:29 < Nightrose> yea then check out the todo page and see if something interesting is there
20:29 < Nightrose> :)
20:29 < Nightrose> leleobhz: ?
20:30 < leleobhz> Nightrose: im not a ubuntu devel (want to be)
20:30 < leleobhz> Nightrose: and i have a lot of skill in debian packaging
20:30 < Nightrose> leleobhz: sounds great
20:30 < leleobhz> Nightrose: have some way to help, except by revu?
20:30 < Nightrose> wohooo
20:31 < Nightrose> very good
20:32 < Nightrose> leleobhz: poke apachelogger for a revu then ;-)
20:32 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: guessing thats it lol :p
20:32 < Nightrose> ok on with the coding?
20:32 < Nightrose> Do you have a project in mind?
20:32 < Nightrose> If so, then come to one of our regularly scheduled developer meetings and place your ideas on the agenda for that meeting.
20:32 < Nightrose> https://wiki.kubuntu.org/Kubuntu/Meetings  -- Keep an eye on this page or http://fridge.ubuntu.com to see when our next meeting will be
20:32 < Nightrose> Who knows, maybe you can twist some arms to get your idea developed and included in the next release, and future releases, of Kubuntu.
20:33 < Nightrose> soooo and now lets get to....
20:33 < Nightrose> = Conclusion =
20:33 < Nightrose> YES! I KNOW YOU ALL JUST SAID "THANK GOD IT IS FINALLY OVER!!!!"
20:33 < Nightrose> I would like to thank each and every one of you for attending this talk.
20:33 < Nightrose> I hope it wasn't to boring for you and that you are now ready to explode with questions, comments, and ideas.
20:33 < techno_freak> thanks a lot Nightrose, good work :)
20:34 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: i have a question
20:34 < Nightrose> Thanks again and if you have any questions, please do not hesitate to ask, and comments and ideas can be fired my way as well.
20:34 < Nightrose> COMMUNITY!
20:34 < Nightrose> COMMUNITY!
20:34 < Nightrose> COMMUNITY!
20:34 < Nightrose> ;-)
20:34 < santiago-ve> Nightrose, thanks to you
20:34 < Nightrose> :p
20:34 < Nightrose> thanks folks
20:34 < Sanne> Thanks Nightrose :)
20:34 < Nightrose> ok...
20:34 < blaze> Nightrose: thanx
20:34 < Nightrose> now on to the questions
20:34 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: what if i want to setup a repository in my area how can i do that and keep it updated with the main canonical servers
20:35 < Nightrose> let's make it easy
20:35 < Nightrose> one at a time
20:35 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: what if i want to setup a repository in my area how can i do that and keep it updated with the main canonical servers
20:35 < Nightrose> eagles0513875: not possible with launchpad right now
20:35 < Nightrose> if I understand correctly what you are trying to do
20:35 < Nightrose> ahhhh
20:35 < Nightrose> a mirror...
20:35 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: what techno_freak
20:36 < Nightrose> yea that is possible
20:36 < Nightrose> there should be a howto on the ubuntu wiki
20:36 < Nightrose> we can search for it later
20:36 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: i do actually have a complaint about the wiki
20:37 < Nightrose> ubunturos: as often as we fell like it - once every 6 month would be cool
20:37 < ubunturos> Nightrose: hmm, :)
20:37 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: may i pst u
20:37 < Nightrose> eagles0513875: yes - will answer later
20:37 < Nightrose> BiNaRi0: he is busy with something else
20:38 < Nightrose> HappySmileMan: they are already
20:38 < Nightrose> HappySmileMan: beta 1
20:39 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: has it ever been considered to take the ubuntu server kernel which im gathering is more light weight and implementing it in the desktop versions
20:39 < HappySmileMan> Nightrose: I'm running Beta 1, but I had to add some repository for it, will the 4.1 ones be default?
20:39 < Nightrose> eagles0513875: no idea, sorry
20:39 < kubuntupedia> Nightrose, what are good books to learn KDE/Qt and Python programming?
20:39 < Nightrose> HappySmileMan: for intrepid
20:41 < Nightrose> BiNaRi0: yes me :P
20:41 < techno_freak> BiNaRi0, Nightrose did it
20:42 < Nightrose> leleobhz: there are no stupid questions ;-)
20:42 < Nightrose> yes
20:42 < carl> Nightrose: could you give example of very well written applications (qt4, KDE), with possibly commented source code, so it would be easier to learn from a good example ?
20:43 < Nightrose> carl: hmmm not really sorry - maybe Riddell can - or stdin
20:44 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: is there a list on the wiki for those who want to become bug fixers on what they need to install
20:44 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: on their machines to be able to bug fix
20:44 < Nightrose> judith_ie: come here after the tutorial day and ping me ;-)
20:45 < Nightrose> eagles0513875: you mostly only need the apps you triage for - if you want to fix bugs you need to have a look at the packaging howto
20:45 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: ok
20:46 < Nightrose> judith_ie: what exactly do you want to know? switch to KDE 4 is the main thing we need to do for intrepid - if you want to help check the todo and see if there is stuff you are interested in :)
20:47 < Nightrose> clinx: there will always be patches ;-)
20:47 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: can i make a suggestion
20:47 < Nightrose> sure
20:48 < kubuntupedia> Nightrose: I am busy with advocacy. I have started http://kubuntupedia.com/ , what should I discuss on this website? Besides a review, KDE, installing packages (e.g. Firefox)?
20:49 < Nightrose> kubuntupedia: nice :)  mind if I have a look at it later and give you some tips?
20:49 < Nightrose> :)
20:49 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: want my website as well not much on there right now just a forum
20:50 < Nightrose> sure
20:50 < Nightrose> :)
20:50 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: mine is geared to the total linux noob with simplified how to's
20:50 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: http://howtokubuntu.x10hosting.com
20:50 < Nightrose> ok :) will have a look later
20:50 < Nightrose> judith_h: exactly ;-)
20:50 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: u have to register
20:51 < Nightrose> ok
20:51 < Nightrose> ah yea
20:51 < Nightrose> he is good
20:51 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: right now im having issues with emailing confirmations so if u sign up im going to have to activate ur registration
20:51 < Nightrose> ok
20:51 < Nightrose> pc_master: mp3 codecs for example
20:52 < Nightrose> so amarok can play mp3s
20:52 < Nightrose> and some video codecs if I am not mistaken
20:52 < Nightrose> ah
20:52 < Nightrose> thx stdin
20:52 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: i know this has gotten outa control can you explain what goes in each repository
20:52 < Nightrose> pc_master: ^
20:52 < Nightrose> eagles0513875: there is a nice wikipage on that too - i will try to find it for you later
20:53 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: ok lol
20:53 < Nightrose> haha thanks nosrednaekim
20:53 < Nightrose> yea
20:53 < Nightrose> main channels are english
20:54 < Nightrose> and then there are localizedo ones
20:54 < Nightrose> like #kubuntu-de
20:54 < Nightrose> ok folks....
20:54 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: will you be on tomorrow or for a while
20:55 < Nightrose> I think it is time fo seele!!!!
20:55 < Nightrose> ;-)
20:55 < Nightrose> eagles0513875: yes
20:55 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: ill be back cuz i need to grab dinner
20:55 < Nightrose> ok
20:55 < seele> Nightrose: i get 5 more minutes :)
20:55 < Nightrose> thank you everyone for coming and asking interesting questions :)
20:55 < Nightrose> haha ok seele
20:56 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: doubt you will be able to start the next session cuz nobodys goign to stop asking them questions
20:56 < Nightrose> ;-)
20:56 < MrLimeni> Nightrose: This was a quality time
20:57 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: another random question if i find some bugs would you be willing to mentor me on em
20:57 < Nightrose> :) thanks MrLimeni - I enjoyed it as well
20:57 < Nightrose> eagles0513875: depends on how much I know about them but yes
20:57 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: :)
20:58 < Nightrose> GreySim: #kubuntu-kde4
20:58 < Nightrose> :)
20:58 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: whats the link to the page that tells me everything i need to bug fix
20:58 < Nightrose> !packaging guide
21:00 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: none of those links are it
21:00 < eagles0513875> Nightrose: talk to you when i get back
21:00 < Nightrose> hmm yea
21:00 < Riddell> thanks very much Nightrose 
21:01 < Nightrose> :) you're welcome
21:01  * Nightrose bows
</pre>
