{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Kubuntu Newsletter ==

In this newsletter: release candidate, Kubuntu meeting, KOffice 1.5.1, Kubuntu in Rosetta, Adept 2.0, Icecream and the Summer of Code.

=== Release Candidate ===

The Kubuntu 6.06 LTS Release Candidate was made available yesterday.  

 https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2006-May/000081.html

There have been no critical bugs from the Release Candidate so please test it
either from a fresh install or by upgrading from Breezy and let us know how
you get on.  We especially welcome reports of installs from the new Ubiquity
installer on the Desktop CD.

 https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuDapperFeedback

=== Kubuntu Meeting ===

The first Kubuntu Meeting with the new Kubuntu Council was held, minutes are
available at:

 https://wiki.kubuntu.org/Kubuntu/Meetings/2006-05-22

We approved three new members, imbrandon, toma and kwwii.  We also discussed
what needs to be done before the final release.

The next meeting is on June 6th at 21:00UTC in #ubuntu-meeting, all welcome.

=== KOffice 1.5.1 ===

KOffice 1.5.1 was released and packages are available for Kubuntu

 http://kubuntu.org/announcements/koffice-151.php

These packages contain a fix for the Kexi tables problem.  Unfortunately the 1.5.1 
release was too late to get into Dapper.

=== Kubuntu in Rosetta ===

Rosetta is now complete for the upcoming release.  This is the first release where
Rosetta supports Kubuntu and all of KDE in main has been imported.

 https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2006-May/000082.html

I sent out some guidance to KDE translators in using Rosetta.

 https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2006-May/000082.html

Jonathan Jesse noted that Kubuntu Docs have been imported into Rosetta and
translations of them are very welcome.

  https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/kubuntu-devel/2006-May/001218.html

=== Adept 2.0 ===

Peter Rockai released Adept 2.0.  Adept is Kubuntu's package manager and the
2.0 release adds an update notifier icon in the system tray and a simplified 
Add/Remove Programs installer.

=== Icecream Packages ===

Icecream packages have entered the archive as icecc and icecc-monitor.  Icecream 
is a cluster compiler, similar to distcc but with a central server for automatic setup.  It was 
written by KDE Developer Stephen Kulow.

  http://wiki.kde.org/Icecream

=== Kubuntu Summer of Code ===

Google's Summer of Code 2006 has begun and Kubuntu has four students
working on QTParted, Guidance, a floppy/USB disk formatting tool and a
port of the Ubuntu OEM installer.  These should be exciting projects.
