{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Members ===

Andreas Wenning and Roderick Greening were given Kubuntu Membership.

=== Beasties and todo to intrepid ===

We looked at the state of Kubuntu Bugs, good progress has been made on kdebase, kdebluetooth is likely to remain broken for release.  Language packs are still incomplete.  We discussed how to prevent breakage in future cycles, more Kubuntu developers in core-dev would help.  Scott suggested the topic be raised at UDS.

=== KDE 4 Documentation ===

Claydoh suggested and volunteered for a wiki page describing the differences between KDE 3 and 4.  We were most pleased.

Roderick volunteered to write a tutorial on using plasmoids and the new panel and kickoff menu to help users become more familiar with KDE4.

=== Kubuntu MID and Mobile ===

Several people said they were interested in creating a Kubuntu MID and/or Mobile project for Jaunty.  This would make use of Qt Extended and Plasma mobile.

=== KDE 4.2 ===

KDE 4.2 alpha/beta/rc for Intrepid => kubuntu-experimental, KDE 4.2.x for Intrepid => intrepid-backports, KDE 4.1.x for Intrepid => hardy-propsed/updates, KDE 4.2* in Jaunty ASAP

=== Gap analysis ===

It was suggested to have a gap analysis spec for UDS, against KDE 3 and Ubuntu.
