{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:foo
* '''Packages affected''': N/A

=== Summary ===

We need a KMenu item that a user can click to get a list of one-click fixes that will solve common problems that normally require command-line interaction.

=== Release Note ===

This section should include a paragraph describing the end-user impact of this change.  It is meant to be included in the release notes of the first release in which it is implemented.  (Not all of these will actually be included in the release notes, at the release manager's discretion; but writing them is a useful exercise.)

It is mandatory.

=== Rationale ===

Example situation: Adept crashes and leaves the dpkg database locked.  The user could solve the problem with `dpkg -configure -a`, but they are unfamiliar and uncomfortable with the command-line.  We need a way for these users to solve problems on their computers without having to deal with the command-line.

=== Use Cases ===

Daisy Duke uses adept regularly to manage her packages, but one time it crashed.  She would like to be able to click somewhere to fix this problem instead of hitting the command-line.

Gilligan has a wired network at home, and one day it just stops working.  He goes to #kubuntu and they tell him to just type `sudo ifdown eth0 && sudo ifup eth0` in order to reset his network adapter.  He is very uncomfortable using the command-line, so someone instead suggests he clicks "One-Click Fixes" in his K Menu and clicks the "Reset Network Devices" icon in the konqueror window that shows up.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

Couldn't we just use a read-only directory of .desktop entries in konqueror for this?  These .desktop entries could run just simple shell scripts or Perl or Python scripts to solve these common problem.

==== UI Changes ====

I think Konqueror could solve this problem nicely.

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
