{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Description template ==

'''Use lp:~neon/project-neon/dummy-ubuntu as boilerplate'''

Description: <modulename> module for Project Neon
 This package contains unstable builds of <modulename> for Project Neon.<<BR>>
 You are using this at your own risk.<<BR>>
 ..<<BR>>
 <module description taken from our stable packaging>

Description: <modulename> module for Project Neon - debugging symbols
 This package contains the debugging symbols of <modulename> for Project Neon.<<BR>>
 You are using this at your own risk.<<BR>>
 ..<<BR>>
 <module description taken from our stable packaging> 

== HOWTO ==
* checkout lp:project-neon and go to tools/
* Add a new source import with add_import.py
* initialize the packaging from the dummy template with ''neon_pkg_init.sh <pkg>'' where <pkg> is the git repository name
* cd to project-neon-<pkg>/debian, adjust the packaging as instructed (esp. check the breaks/replaces)
* when done commit your changes, the branch has already been created on launchpad
* create a source package recipe with add_recipe.py

== Packaging status ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Package'''
| '''Person and Status'''
|-
| hupnp
| 
|-
| python/pykde4
| https://blueprints.launchpad.net/project-neon/+spec/pykde4
|-
| ktorrent
| 
|-
| printer applet
| 
|-
| kde-l10n
| 
|-
| Krita Plugins
| 
|-
| xtest
| for testing localization
|-
| kajongg
| 
|-
| https://projects.kde.org/projects/playground/accessibility/libkdeaccessibilityclient
| 
|}
