{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''obsolete page'''

Kubuntu must support all possible languages - i.e, whatever Qt supports.

The problem is, kubuntu uses much more than Qt - we have OOo, FireFox, etc. So, all supported languages should be intersection of the sets that are supported under all of them. This means co-ordinating between ICU, Pango and Qt. Mozilla, in particular, requires a special compile time option (with a patch also I think), to enable *proper* pango rendering (not pango-lite/whatever)

We should try to achieve a sitautation where a supported language/script must be supported across all applications, and if an application does not work, it should be removed from the base and equivalents that do work should be used instead.

=== Stuff that works ===

Kolourpaint
* text system uses underlying Qt text shaping engine. So most (if not all) languages supported by Qt are supported here.

=== Stuff that doesnt work ===

Kate/Kwrite
* do not work well with Indic family - should be replaced with KEdit.

Amarok & Kaffeine
* do not display internationalized strings (at least French strings).

=== Support Levels ===

* Text rendering and XKB input methods
* Input methods (beyond xkb support)
* Language services
** locale
** spell-checker

=== Optional compliance levels ===
* Advanced rendering - requirements for advanced typography
* Grammar checker/helper
