{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Kubuntu Dapper Beta Feedback ==

=== Known Problems ===

* '''Live CD Installer (espresso) crashes and wipes partitions table without asking.''' I would recommand not to use this version, and I think the webmasters should remove the download link. See bug <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/40464|40464]]</nowiki> and DapperBeta/PartitionTableCorruption
* Adept can't start, it complains about not being able to read the Apt database. See bug <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/40410|40410]]</nowiki>
** workaround: run <code>sudo debtags update</code>
** fixed with recent update
* Printing from an application gives an error 
* Live CD Installer randomly crashes when trying to create dialogue boxes (e.g. on close or after the Indentity page)

=== Feedback ===

Please leave general feedback below, report bugs to Launchpad http://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bugs

* Great distro!
* Love the distro. Though its hard to find out how to use bluetooth. Nobody use bluetooth chat.
    And I think that firefox should be used as browser as it is much more stable.
    - Pascal

    Firefox in my opinion is '''''much slower''''' at loading websites than Konqueror 
    - William Shand
    
    I've never experienced that firefox has been slower that Konq and I've used both quite extensively. This is a discussion that will not be settled here though. Again, love the dist! -Pascal

    I don't think firefox is much slower in loading pages, but it DOES undoubtedly start much slower.... -superstoned

* why do i get a blank page with "image/svg+xml" in konqi when i try to see the svg image riddell posted a while ago? and why is svgdisplay not associated with svg files, but firefox? -superstoned
* should we set 'text completion' to 'dropdown & automatic' everywhere? -superstoned
