{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== KDE 4 RC 2 ==
The second release candidate of KDE 4 has been released and packages are available for Kubuntu 7.10.

If you want to test KDE 4 without installing packages download the <nowiki>[[http://kubuntu.org/~jriddell/cds/kubuntu-kde4-rc2.iso|live CD (466MB)]]</nowiki>.  <nowiki>[[http://kubuntu.org/~jriddell/cds/kubuntu-kde4-rc2.iso.md5|md5sum]]</nowiki> This CD includes a preview of the Konqueror Webkit engine.

Want to get into free software development? Join our <nowiki>[[KubuntuTutorialsDay|Tutorials Day]]</nowiki> on Thursday 13th December.

They install to /usr/lib/kde4 and can be installed alongside your existing KDE 3.
Instructions:

* Remove previous KDE 4 packages, they are not compatible (apt-get remove kdelibs5 kde4base-data kde4libs-data)
* Add deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/kubuntu-members-kde4/ubuntu gutsy main to your /etc/apt/sources.list
* Install all available updates (important to do this '''before''' continuing)
* Install kdebase-workspace kdebase-runtime kdebase-kde4, note that PPAs aren't authenticated so you will likely get a warning when installing
* KDE 4 apps should appear in your KDE 3 K-menu or you can run a full session by selecting "KDE 4" from your login manager.
* To avoid having to start a second X server for a full session install xserver-xephyr and run Xephyr :1 & export DISPLAY=:1; xterm and run startkde in the Xerphyr xterm.

Packages are also being uploaded to hardy and gutsy-backports.

Thanks to stdin for his help with these packages.
