{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
Kubuntu 6.10 Beta Released

The beta release for Kubuntu 6.10 (codenamed Edgy Eft) is now available for download and testing.

Kubuntu is a user-friendly operating system based on KDE, the K Desktop Environment. Kubuntu is a part of the Ubuntu project and has a predictable 6 month release cycle making it a great distribution for everyone.

New in this release are improved accessibility, power management, multimedia button support and a hardware feedback application.

Download
--------

Download Kubuntu 6.10 Beta here (choose the mirror closest to you):

  Europe:
    http://se.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/6.10/
    http://fr.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/6.10/
    http://nl.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/6.10/

  United States:
    http://us.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/6.10/

  Asia:
    http://tw.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/6.10/

  United Kingdom:
    http://releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/6.10/

  Rest of the World:
    http://releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/6.10/

Please download using Bittorrent if possible.

Users of Kubuntu 6.06 LTS can upgrade to 6.10 Beta over the internet by following the instructions for Adept at:

 https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EdgyUpgrades

The final version of Kubuntu 6.10 is expected to be released in
October.

What's New?
-----------

For more details of what's new in this release see:

 https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EdgyEft/Beta/Kubuntu

Here are some of the highlights:

System Settings:
 The user interface has been redesigned thanks to a review from the KDE Usability experts.

Guidance Power Manager:
 The new power management applet makes full use of HAL to support hibernation and battery status on almost all laptops.

Zeroconf:
 Local network browsing can be turned on with a tick of a box, and similar functionality has been added added for printer browsing.

Hardware Database:
 The Kubuntu Device Database application lets you easily give the Kubuntu and Ubuntu developers feedback on how well Kubuntu supports your hardware.  We can use this information to improve Kubuntu.

Artwork:
 Our great new 6.10 artwork has been designed for Kubuntu by Ken Wimer, one of the artists working on the Oxygen icon theme.

Kubuntu 6.10 Beta comes with the latest KDE and major applications:
* KDE 3.5.4
* Konversation 1.0
* Amarok 1.4.3, with automatic installation of MP3 support
* OpenOffice.org 2.0.4 RC 2
* X.org 7.1
* For developers, unsupported packages of the first KDE 4 preview are available

And the base system:
* GCC 4.1.1
* glibc 2.4
* Linux 2.6.17
* New init system, Upstart

Feedback
--------

If you have comments on this release please leave them on this wiki page:

 https://wiki.kubuntu.org/EdgyEft/Beta/Kubuntu/Feedback

Currently known problems are listed at:

 https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuEdgyKnownProblems

Please report bugs through the Launchpad bug tracker:

  http://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bugs

If you need help see the many support options listed at:

 http://kubuntu.org/support.php

Contact
-------

For more information about Kubuntu visit our website:

 http://kubuntu.org

Press contacts are listed at:

 http://kubuntu.org/contact.php

Many thanks to all the people who have helped with this Kubuntu release.
</pre>
