{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Meeting log can be found <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~fabbione/irclogs/archived/2006-03/ubuntu-meeting-2006-03-16.html|here]]</nowiki>

== Summary ==
* ''Knemo -- Hobbsee wants it in.''

Decided: Riddel will include it on the CD to see complaints/compliments, still looking for a volenteer to write a main inclusion report

* ''Konversation tabs - at the first Kubuntu meeting it was decided to keep the tabs at the buttom. However the latest kubuntu-default-setting's upload says: "Added tabs on top for konversation and default theme set to "Square" for better visibility" -- PatrickDavies ''

Tonio_ indicates that he changed all of them to the bottom. No issue.

* ''Are we going to get some kde pictures for flight 5? Surely we dont only have improvements only to gnome. Mornfall should have some pictures of the new Adept and the Update Notifier which should be somewhere in the documentation. What other areas of kde have been changed between breezy and dapper, that are worth putting into the summary page? <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DapperFlight5]]</nowiki> -- Hobbsee ''

jjesse volunteers to help, but is a bit busy. bkjones offers to help as well. Tm_T offers help as well. They will sort it out between them.

* ''Should we change default layout of KDE menu from "Name (Description)" to "Description (Name)" as proposed in forums. I have changed it and I really like it (maybe some description need change still) -- LukaRenko''

Decided: lets not ping-pong between them, lets keep it at the KDE default for now.

* ''Add open K-menu by default to win key. I know that this is a hot topic, but users moving to Linux really need it, and more experienced uers can switch it off, if they don't like. -- V7''

Decided: if there is a patch to make it happen we are happy to include it.

Decided: Tonio_ will hang ksnapshot to the print key

* ''Klaptop vs. Kpowersave: any testers willing to help - see KubuntuPowersave -- LukaRenko''

We need to fix building issue with latest libsysfs, allee gives some tips.
Some prefer KPowersave about KLaptop (old, bad translations, crash on suspend)
plan is for Lure to get new version into universe, and Riddell to read up on these power tools

* ''What happened to the klickibunti idea? --Nirvana''

Riddell: ask amu

* ''Usplash down in kubuntu? (i.e. splash screen on the halt process. AFAIK ubuntu already has it). -- kmon''
Riddel is working on it, but kdm is horribly complex and he got it working for shutdown from kdm, but not shutdown from within KDE. He'll post my patch on the bug report, but doesn't want to spend ages on kdm.

* ''There seems to be some (read: many) complaints in #kubuntu about the new theme being far too blue. I'd like to suggest using <nowiki>[[http://www.kde-look.org/content/show.php?content=30314|this]]</nowiki> as the kdm theme, and possibly the desktop theme as well. It's GPL'd, so we'd have no licencing problems. -- Hobbsee''

kwwii is working on the artwork for dapper, if anyone has things he should be working on add them to KubuntuDapperArtworkTodo

* ''There is a request for large wallpaper which is usefull for dual monitor setups.''

kwwii will look at the issue, maybe include something or else put it in a special package.

* Applications have a real problem using system://home as that is nothing qt can handle. So apps need to be using kurl or convert it to a real path. Tonio_ has a patch which replaces it with $home, but it has some issues. Probably unresolvable. There might be a possibility through .desktop files, but perfect it will never be.

== Next Meeting ==
Next meeting: '''Undecided'''
