{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== KUBUNTU EXPRESS SETUP ==

This is a step-by-step guide, after Kubuntu has been installed, to make the OS more visually appealing and to add some practical functionality.

=== BACKUP IMPORTANT FILES ===

Create backups of critical files.

<pre>
sudo -i
cp /boot/grub/menu.lst /boot/grub/menu.lst.original
cp /etc/apt/sources.list /etc/apt/sources.list.original
cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.original
cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab.original
cp /etc/pam.d/common-password /etc/pam.d/common-password.original
cp /etc/default/linux-restricted-modules-common /etc/default/linux-restricted-modules-common.original
cp /etc/usplash.conf /etc/usplash.conf.original
cp /etc/init.d/mountdevsubfs.sh /etc/init.d/mountdevsubfs.sh.original
exit
</pre>

=== IMPROVE DISK ACCESS ===

Improve disk performance (and disk life).

<pre>
sudo sed -i 's/relatime/noatime/g' /etc/fstab
</pre>

=== BOOT SCREEN ===

You can obtain grub bootsplash images from <nowiki>[[http://www.kde-look.org]]</nowiki>.  Download an image to a folder called ''~/Installation Files'' and execute the following, replacing ''<bootsplashimagename>'' with the name of your boot splash image.

<pre>
sudo mkdir /boot/grub/images
sudo cp ~/Installation\ Files/<bootsplashimagename>.xpm.gz /boot/grub/images
</pre>

Make changes to ''menu.lst''.

<pre>
kdesudo kate /boot/grub/menu.lst
</pre>

Juste below the section ''## ## End Default Options ##'', you will see something like the following.  Make a note of the value following the word ''root''.  In this example it is ''(hd0,5)''.  This is the location of the linux kernel.

<pre>

title		Ubuntu 8.04.1, kernel 2.6.24-19-generic
root		(hd0,5)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-19-generic root=UUID=92034190-a1d1-4fa6-b68c-8c7dc9992200 ro quiet splash
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-19-generic
quiet
</pre>

Add the following at the beginning of ''menu.lst''.  Be sure to make the following replacements:
1. Replace ''<bootsplashimagename>'' with the name of your boot splash image.
2. Replace ''(hd0,5)'' with the location of your linux kernel, noted above.

<pre>
splashimage=(hd0,5)/boot/grub/images/<bootsplashimagename>.xpm.gz
foreground fffafa
background 4169e1
shade 0
viewport 6 3 76 23
</pre>

Increase the time you have to select your operating system.

Replace:
* <pre>
timeout		3
</pre>

With:
* <pre>
timeout		30
</pre>

Comment out ''hiddenmenu'' so you are given options to select an operating system.

Replace:
* <pre>
hiddenmenu
</pre>

With:
* <pre>
</pre>

Save and close ''menu.lst''.

=== PASSWORD ===

To allow passwords to be 3 characters long, execute the following.

<pre>
kdesudo kate /etc/pam.d/common-password
</pre>

Replace:
* <pre>
password   required   pam_unix.so nullok obscure min=4 max=8 md5
</pre>

With:
* <pre>
password   required   pam_unix.so nullok min=3 max=8 md5
</pre>

Save and close ''common-password''.

=== INSTALL FONTS ===

The <nowiki>[[https://www.redhat.com/promo/fonts/|Liberation Fonts]]</nowiki> are similar to Microsoft's ''Times New Roman'', ''Arial'', and ''Courier New'' fonts.  Red Hat released them under the GPL+exception license.

You can install these fonts using ''apt-get''.

<pre>
sudo apt-get install ttf-liberation
</pre>

Install Microsoft True Type Core Fonts for the Web.  These fonts include: ''Andale Mono, Arial Black, Arial, Comic Sans MS, Courier New, Georgia, Impact Times New Roman, Trebuchet, Verdana, and Webdings''.

<pre>
sudo apt-get install msttcorefonts
</pre>

Alternatively, manually install Liberation Fonts from <nowiki>[[https://fedorahosted.org/releases/l/i/liberation-fonts/|here]]</nowiki>.  Download the fonts to a folder called ''~/Installation Files'' and execute the following.

<pre>
tar -xvpzf ~/Installation\ Files/liberation-fonts-ttf-3.tar.gz
sudo cp -r ~/liberation-fonts-0.2/ /usr/share/fonts/
sudo chmod -R a+r /usr/share/fonts
rm -r ~/liberation-fonts-0.2/
</pre>

Also, if you have a licensed copy of some other commercial fonts, you can tar them and manually install them, as in the example below.  (Be aware of licensing regulations regarding use of commercial fonts).  Place the tar in a folder called ''~/Installation Files'' and execute the following.

<pre>
tar -xvpzf ~/Installation\ Files/microsoft-fonts.tar.gz
sudo cp -r ~/microsoft-fonts/ /usr/share/fonts/
sudo chmod -R a+r /usr/share/fonts
rm -r ~/microsoft-fonts/
</pre>

=== SELECT FONTS ===

==== Configure the User's Fonts ====

Select system fonts and use font smoothing.  Improve the appearance of GTK Applications, and use your default fonts in GTK Applications like Firefox.

<pre>
sudo apt-get install gtk2-engines-qtcurve
</pre>

Select: '''K | System Settings | General (tab) | Appearance | Fonts | Adjust All Fonts'''
* Change all fonts to Liberation Sans
* Change all font sizes to 9
* Change fixed width fonts to Monspace
* Change fixed width font size to 9
* Select: Use anti-aliasing | Enabled
* Select: Use anti-aliasing | Configure | Use sub-pixel Rendering: RGB; Hinting style: Full *
* Choose thehinting style that looks best on your screen.

Select: '''K | System Settings | General (tab) | Appearance | GTK Styles and Fonts'''
* Select: Use my KDE style in GTK applicaitons
* Select: Use my KDE fonts in GTK applicaitons

===== Disable Autohinting for Bold Fonts =====

<pre>
kate ~/.fonts.conf
</pre>

Add the following at the end of ''.fonts.conf'' (between the existing ''<fontconfig>''...''</fontconfig>'' tags).

<pre>
<fontconfig>

 <!-- Disable autohint for bold fonts -->
 <match target="font" >
  <test compare="more" name="weight" >
   <const>medium</const>
  </test>
  <edit mode="assign" name="autohint" >
   <bool>false</bool>
  </edit>
 </match>
</pre>

==== Configure the Root User's Fonts ====

Do the same settings for root, so ''kdesudo'' will show nice fonts.  Also set the fonts anf font smoothing for KDM (The Login Screen).

<pre>
kdesudo systemsettings
</pre>

Select: '''K | System Settings| General (tab) | Appearance | Fonts | Adjust All Fonts'''
* Change all fonts to Liberation Sans
* Change all font sizes to 9
* Change fixed width fonts to Monspace
* Change fixed width font size to 9
* Select: Use anti-aliasing | Enabled
* Select: Use anti-aliasing | Configure | Use sub-pixel Rendering: RGB; Hinting style: Full *
* Choose thehinting style that looks best on your screen.

Select: '''K | System Settings | General (tab) | Appearance | GTK Styles and Fonts'''
* Select: Use my KDE style in GTK applicaitons
* Select: Use my KDE fonts in GTK applicaiton

Select: '''K | System Settings | Advanced (tab) | Login Manager | General'''
* Select: Use anti-aliasing for fonts

===== Disable Autohinting for Bold Fonts =====

<pre>
kdesudo kate /root/.fonts.conf
</pre>

Add the following at the end of ''.fonts.conf'' (between the existing ''<fontconfig>''...''</fontconfig>'' tags).

<pre>
<fontconfig>

 <!-- Disable autohint for bold fonts -->
 <match target="font" >
  <test compare="more" name="weight" >
   <const>medium</const>
  </test>
  <edit mode="assign" name="autohint" >
   <bool>false</bool>
  </edit>
 </match>
</pre>

Save and close ''/.fonts.conf''.

==== Configure Fonts in Dolphin File Manager ====

Select: '''K | Utilities | File Manager | Settings | Configure Dolphin | View Modes'''

Select: '''Icons'''
* Font Family: Liberation Sans
* Font Size: 9
Select: '''Details'''
* Font Family: Liberation Sans
* Font Size: 9
Select: '''Previews'''
* Font Family: Liberation Sans
* Font Size: 9

==== Configure Fonts for Clock ====

Right click on the Clock in the bottom right of your desktop.

Select: '''Configure Clock'''
* Check: ''Date'', ''Seconds'', ''Day of week''
* Time Font : Liberation Sans (leave the default font size)
* Date Font : Liberation Sans (leave the default font size)

=== USE GLOBAL FONT SMOOTHING (OPTIONAL) ===

The above font smoothing technique applies at a user level and must be done for each user.  Optionally, you can set font smoothing globally, for all users.

The ''.fonts.conf'' in each user's home folder overrides the global settings.  Unfortunately, each time a user accesses the '''K | System Settings | Appearance''', a new ''.fonts.conf'' is automatically created (see <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kde-systemsettings/+bug/69085|bug 69085]]</nowiki>).  Therefore, if you use this option, each user will have to manually delete their local ''.fonts.conf'' after every access of '''K | System Settings | Appearance'''.

To set font smoothing globally, execute the following.

<pre>
sudo dpkg-reconfigure fontconfig-config --force
</pre>
Select:
* Font tuning method for screen: Autohinter
* Enable subpixel rendering for screen: Automatic
* Enable bitmapped fonts by default? No

===== Globally, Disable Autohinting for Bold Fonts =====

<pre>
kdesudo kate /etc/fonts/local.conf
</pre>

Add the following to ''local.conf''.

<pre>
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE fontconfig SYSTEM "fonts.dtd">
 <!-- Disable autohint for bold fonts -->
 <match target="font" >
  <test compare="more" name="weight" >
   <const>medium</const>
  </test>
  <edit mode="assign" name="autohint" >
   <bool>false</bool>
  </edit>
 </match>
</pre>

Save and close ''local.conf''.

===== Delete Unnecessary ''.fonts.conf'' Files =====

Delete the ''.fonts.conf'' file in the home folder of ''each'' user.

<pre>
rm ~/.fonts.conf
</pre>

Delete the ''.fonts.conf'' file for the root user.

<pre>
sudo rm /root/.fonts.conf
</pre>

=== LOCALE SETTINGS ===

Select: '''K | System Settings | Regional & Language | Time & Date'''
* Time format: pH:MM:SS AMPM
* First day of the week: Sunday
Select: '''K | System Settings | Regional & Language | Other'''
* Paper format: US Letter
* Measure system: Imperial
Select: '''K | System Settings | Date & Time'''
* Set date and time automatically

Allow users to select their own image icon.

Select: '''K | System Settings | Advanced | Login Manager | Users'''
* User Image Source: User, Admin

=== USER PERSONAL SETTINGS ===

Select: '''K | System Settings | About Me'''
* Enter the user's ''Name''
* Select the user's ''image'' icon
* Enter the user's ''EMmail address''

=== FIREFOX ===

===== Install Firefox =====

<pre>
sudo apt-get install firefox-3.0
</pre>

===== Fix browser and tab display problems. =====

In the Firefox menu bar, click: '''Tools | Add-ons'''

In the Add-ons dialog, select: '''Get Add-ons'''

Click: '''Browse all Add-ons'''

Search for...
<pre>
Install Kde4 + Firefox3 Theme
</pre>
(You will have to register to download and install this theme).

===== Set Firefox as the default web browser. =====

Select: '''K | System Settings | Default Applications | Web Browser | firefox'''

===== View multimedia within your browser. =====

<pre>
sudo apt-get install mozilla-mplayer
</pre>

=== FLASH ===

<pre>
sudo wget http://www.medibuntu.org/sources.list.d/hardy.list -O /etc/apt/sources.list.d/medibuntu.list
wget -q http://packages.medibuntu.org/medibuntu-key.gpg -O- | sudo apt-key add - && sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get install kubuntu-restricted-extras
</pre>

Install multimedia codecs.

<pre>
sudo apt-get install libk3b2-extracodecs w64codecs mozilla-mplayer libvisual-0.4-plugins
</pre>

(Note if you have a 32 bit processor, you should install ''w32codecs'' instead of ''w64codesc'', above).

=== DVD ===

<pre>
sudo apt-get install libxine1-ffmpeg libdvdread3 debhelper fakeroot build-essential
sudo /usr/share/doc/libdvdread3/install-css.sh
</pre>

=== OTHER SOFTWARE ===

<pre>
sudo apt-get install kompare k9copy fslint k3b kdict
sudo apt-get install kolourpaint blender gimp
</pre>

Software Development

<pre>
sudo apt-get install netbeans
sudo apt-get install umbrello
</pre>
