{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:kubuntu-dolphin-by-default
* '''Packages affected''': dolphin

=== Summary ===

Make Dolphin the default file manager in Kubuntu

=== Rationale ===

Dolphin is the default file manager in KDE 4.  We should be ahead of the curve and adopt it in Kubuntu's KDE 3 setup.

=== Use Cases ===

Krissy wants to use Kubuntu and can easily find her files with Dolphin.

=== Scope ===

Settings, main inclusion.

=== Design and Implementation ===

Add Dolphin to the Kubuntu desktop seed. There are no other dependencies outside main.

Set Dolphin as the application manager for inode/directory and directory-locked to dolphin in kubuntu-default-settings.

Replace the "storage media" icon with a hard disk icon, the current icon is meaningless.

Dolphin lacks the right click service menu to compress files or folders.  Reimplement it as a .desktop service file which calls Ark, rather than as a kpart which calls Ark.

Ensure good documentation for changing back to Konqueror by default covering both the GUI, via the ComponentChoser KCM Module, and command line methods.

----
CategorySpec
