{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
THIS IS PAGE IS CURRENTLY UNDER DEVELOPMENT BY THE KUBUNTU DEVELOPMENT TEAM
</pre>
== Introduction ==
Kubuntu Edgy Eft has now been released!  Here we are defining a list of the most critical bugs in Edgy.

== Post Install Problems ==
=== Appearance ===
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/61331|#61331]]</nowiki> (NOT FIXED) Tahoma ttf font with antialiasing looks extremely bold. In dapper antialiasing looked better.

=== Hardware ===
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/58552|#58552]]</nowiki> Mounting Problems in Kubuntu Edgy after the Xserver is restarted
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/30207|#30207]]</nowiki> (in progress) media:/ does not handle floppy mounting correctly
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/30447|#30447]]</nowiki> Using fglrx or ati drivers may cause KDM/xorg to freeze on logout or reboot 

=== Installing Software ===
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/64531|#64531]]</nowiki> apt-index-watcher needs 100% CPU load every few seconds

=== Applications (Main) ===
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/47649|#47649]]</nowiki> kpdf does not print PDFs as landscape
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/68832|#68832]]</nowiki> Openoffice.org writer crashes every time an image is selected (using KDE)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/37711|#37711]]</nowiki> scribus (with scim-qtimm) changing values in spin-boxes not possible

=== Languages and Accessibility ===
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/63145|#63145]]</nowiki> Language pack for Gnome installed instead of language pack for KDE
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/47181|#47181]]</nowiki> Broken i18n support in adept

=== Network ===
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/wlassistant/+bug/64841|#64841]]</nowiki> Wireless Assistant's (wlassistant) DHCP support was broken during the Edgy release cycle, and is still broken in the final release.

=== Web ===
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/52670|#52670]]</nowiki> Thunderbird uses konqueror as web browser (other apps do the same thing)

== Fixed ==
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/62610|#62610]]</nowiki> Adept doesn't allow Manage Repositories
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/60058|#60058]]</nowiki> Problem applying changes in konqueror search engines config dialog
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/57066|#57066]]</nowiki> Choosing which grub item to boot into when restarting doesn't work
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/56377|#56377]]</nowiki> Klipper crashes while launched via desktop file when parsing ~/.kde/share/config/klipperrc.
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/59134|#59134]]</nowiki> kdm still halts the system instead of powering down
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/59502|#59502]]</nowiki> Kdeprint fails to install a new printer.
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/59504|#59504]]</nowiki> Translation is broken in kde applications menus.
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/57170|#57170]]</nowiki> Not prompted to choose action while inserting an optical media.
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/59007|#59007]]</nowiki> Install MP3 support not working in Ubuntu
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/56206|#56206]]</nowiki> kpersonalizer (the first time wizard) starts every time I start KDE
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/62594|#62594]]</nowiki> Bluetooth devices cant be paired and computer is not discoverable.
