{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Put here things we could propose for Summer of Code ideas.

* Windows settings import for Ubiquity (likely taken by Tm_T)
* Automatic Configuration Tool Generator - takes a .ui file and a verbose description of some configuration file and the possible values and outputs a PyQt4 GUI frontend for setting up that configuration file
* systemsettings applet for configuring ufw firewall.
* Editor for sudoers
* Port adept to KDE4 and improve it
* kde4 app to download & install themes, wallpapers, sounds, plasmoids, etc
*** This is already implemented upstream in svn -- nixternal  * a system settings applet to allow choosing specific panel layout types - ie. KDE/Windows (1 panel at bottom), Gnome/MacOS (2 panels), and others.
* Add much more effects to the kwin composite engine so it becomes more attractive (compiz cube for example?)
* if possible, support for compiz plugins, so that extending the kwin engine becomes much easier and faster
*** This has already been considered and duly rejected by upstream KDE because to do this would be basically re-implementing compiz. -- nosrednaekim 3/4/08
* Better composite effects configuration system, as right now, with few effects, it already becomes hopelessly messy
* a button/applet to globally disable and enable all notifications (eg. for presentations, or watching a movie)
* working kde4 display configuration tool for new xorg/xrandr.  Preferably sharing code with whatever the gnome guys are using now.  Maybe keeping the front-end/interface from the current displayconfig.
* A QT/KDE ui for Sbackup (Simple Backup - A 2005 SoC Ubuntu project)
* A KDE4 version of knetworkmanager & katapult, with some good bugfixes for knetworkmanager which currently has many weird quirks
* Function to colorize the color scheme, e.g., shift the hue for everything
