{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Information ==
Kubuntu currently ships with a variety of applications in which suit the average user. We do realize that this doesn't suit everyone, even the newest of users who are looking for that one particular package that they do not know is available. Because Kubuntu currently doesn't have any extra space located on the CDs, we have come up with the next best thing and that will be a "Kubuntu Extras Document" which will be located in the system documentation starting with the 8.04 (Hardy Heron) release as well as the community documentation wiki.

* Why not have a "Kubuntu Extras" section as a part of Adept's post install/upgrade process? This might be include as a checklist of the softwares listed here and a single install button will provide the checked ones.

So, if you have some applications that you use with your Kubuntu system, please add them to the growing list below. If someone has already added your application, then second the application by adding a checkmark (./) by typing a `(`.`/`) next to the application listed. Thank you!

Comment: could we also have a mark (.\) for votes against it please? - MyriamSchweingruber
* These suggestions are just going to be documented. They are not going to be included with a default install, so there is no reason to request removal in my opinion.

== Suggestion List - To be included ==

---- '''KDE/Qt'''

* Bas``Ket (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* bibletime (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* Codeine (Should be default, instead of Kaffeine, imho, as it's interface is much cleaner and less cluttered by default, and is more focused on usability - sandsmark)  (./) (./)
* Dictionary (KDict) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* Filelight (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* K9Copy (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) 
* KCalc  (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* KCharSelect (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* KCHMViewer (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* kdegames meta-package (./) (./) (./)
* Kdenlive (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) Kdenlive sounds like a good migrataion from windows movie maker... Once it hits 0.6
* KFTPGrabber (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* KGet (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* KGpg (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* kfax (This is needed to open .tiff pictures/attachments (fax2email) and should be included by default - DivanSantana) (./) (./)
* kicker-applets (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* Kile (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* Kirocker (./) (./) (./)
* Kmplayer (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* KMy``Money2 (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) -especially the 0.9 (currently in development) as it has some nice new wizards/features
* KNemo (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* KNet``Load (./) (./)
* KOffice (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* Kolour``Paint (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* Konq-Kim (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* kpowersave (./)
* KRename (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* krusader (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* kshutdown
* KSudoku (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* ksynaptics (./) (./)
* kvideoencoder
* pwManager (./)
* Qt``Parted (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* rsibreak (./)
* SMPlayer (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* SoundKonverter (./) (./) (./) (./)
* Superkaramba (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* Wengophone (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (Openwengo?)
* Yakuake (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* transKode (./)
* moblock
* FileZilla (./) (./) (./) (./)
* Kat
* KMobile Tools (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* Okular
* Q7z (./)
* QComic``Book (./)
* Scribus-ng (currently no dtp app, usefull for people making small magazines etc and of course larger stuff) (./) (./)
* Traverso - multitrack audio recording and editing suite-it is starting to be really useful (I don see any similar program) (./)
* Kee``Pass``X  (./) (Password Manager, I don't know why the last big improved version it wasn't updated in Kubuntu 8.04)
---- '''non-KDE/Qt'''
* aMSN (./) (.\) (kopete handles msn just fine -- loyeyoung)
* aMule (./) (./) (./) (./)
* DeVeDe (./) (./)
* Firefox (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* Gimp (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (.\) (./) (./) (./)
* gip (wonder what the KDE equivalent is?)
* Googlizer
* Glipper
* Gnu``Cash (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* Inkscape (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* Pdfedit (./) (Still buggy)
* Pdftk (./) (./) (./)
* Pidgin (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (.\) Why not kopete? loyeyoung  (./)
* Streamtuner
* Synaptic('couse the complete adept bundle s***) (./) (./) (./)
* Thunderbird (./)
* VLC player (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* Wine (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* Winedoors (or another Wine GUI) (.\) 
* XSane (./)
* Lynx (A Must-Have, if X is broken) (./) This is true (.\) See Links2 
* Links2 (instead of Lynx. Links2 looks and works better -- loyeyoung) (./)
* Elinks (in text-only console, more functional than links/lynx, and links2 can be configured to fire off elinks in console -- loyeyoung) (./)
* Avidemux 
* a good and reliable solution to synchronize data with Palm PDAs and Pocket PCs. (./) (./)
* xfig (./) 

* gnuplot (./) 

loyeyoung -- I vote against recommending Gimp and other GNOME apps, My experience is that dragging in GNOME dependencies on a KDE box causes much misery for small incremental benefit. The menu systems are different, and it's a huge drain on system resources. Although many computers will be able to run both KDE and GNOME, I wouldn't lead a newbie down that road. (GTK apps that don't drag in GNOME seem to do fine, otoh.)

---- '''Proprietary'''
* Opera (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)  I vote against that, it's proprietary and could only be integrated in the restricted repository. MyriamSchweingruber - (Sure? I see it's now moved into main, which means license is OK, and is fully supported - TonyWhite) (This *is* the category for proprietary software... -sandsmark) (Opera should be included and support - Jwednesday)
* Skype (./) (./)
* striata-reader (For reading/opening .emc encrypted files like bank statements) (./) (./)

---- '''Suggested, but already included'''

* K3B (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* Ktorrent (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* Katapult (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./) (./)
* knotes (./) (./) (./) (./)

== Suggestion List - To be removed ==
** IMO the Dolphin / Konqueror controversy will be moot with KDE 4.1, as most annoyances of Dolphin will then be fixed. (AndreasZitzelsberger)
** D3lphin (./) - oh come on, this is great, you don't have to use it if you don't like it, but removing something the Kubuntu team (and the KDE folks) has voted for is silly. MyriamSchweingruber. 
** Also note that the Dolphin "NAY" sayers are the minority. There have been way more people say "YES" and enjoy Dolphin as the default file manager.
** Go ahead and remove Dolphin. It's redundant compared to Konqueror and will probably never catch up, with miles and miles of difference in functionality. - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.kubuntu.org/goodtimetribe|GoodTimeTribe ]]</nowiki>
** Dolphin is a good file manager. Those who don't like it can still use Konqueror.
** OpenOffice.org - Just a suggestion, to be replaced by Koffice. ClayWeber 
** There is already a spec on replacing OpenOffice with KOffice. Currently, KOffice still has too many bugs for my taste. After KOffice 2 is out, it may be a worthy replacement for OpenOffice, though. Sorry, but KOffice has a long way to go to replace OpenOffice, if you like, install both (Daniel477)
** I think that only kde or qt applications should be in Kubuntu's list. Jmaspons  (Disagree - this should be a list of packages a Kubuntu user would need to have a really nice system - Gimp, for example, is the finest image editing program on any platform ;) - TonyWhite) (Krita, part of Koffice instead?? -AlexPerry2) (Krita actually beats Gimp in several respects - sandsmark). Non KDE/QT applications should be included. Having the ability to operate those, and excluding them is missing a big opportunity and leaves out a demonstration of the capability to run both. - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.kubuntu.org/goodtimetribe|GoodTimeTribe ]]</nowiki>
* SMPlayer is better than KMplayer
* Wondering, that no one suggested XSane. Copy&Print with Kooka is awful.
     I totally agree, XSane is way better than Kooka (AndreasZitzelsberger)
