{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Created:  by AnthonyMercatante
* Priority: NeedsPriority
* Contributors: 

=== Summary ===

Purpose of this page is to define the list of TODO things before Dapper is released, classify major bugs.

=== Rationale ===

Kubuntu gets mature with time. We all remember that due to the last minute inclusion of kde 3.4.3, we have experienced many issues while releasing Breezy. We need to avoid that and prepare the Dapper release with a better organisation.
All KDE versions have been released with many majors since 3.4.2. The actual version (3.5.1) unfortunatly has the same problem, and we have to deal with this. The purpose of that page is then to summarize the situation, and report the main bugs and problems whose resolution is a major priority.
Some have already been resolved actually.

=== Bugs ===

==== kdeprint ====

===== (Resolved) <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/kdebase/+bug/33173]]</nowiki> =====
The error was failing connection to cups server. It has been resolved within kubuntu-default-settings package, setting the default server to "localhost".

===== <nowiki>[[http://bugs.kde.org/show_bug.cgi?id=115891]]</nowiki> =====
The problem is kdeprint printing an error message prompting while listing printers and no one has already been conigured in cups.
Investigating this we saw that the gnome-cups-manager had the same problem, but was only reporting to the shell output, which makes is invisible to the users. Best would be to patch cups to avoid reporting a problem when the printers list is empty (CUPS-Get-Printers client-error-not-found: No destinations added). Another solution could be to patch kdeprint to ignore the error in the same way gnome-cups-manager does.

==== Kicker/Konqueror ====

===== <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/kubuntu-default-settings/+bug/33917]]</nowiki> =====
The new way the SystemMenu kicker applet works is a pain...
That creates lots of issues while opening big files, cause they are copied to tmp, due to the usage of system:/home instead of the simple $HOME directory. GTK apps also can't understand this.
A patch has been release for this to go back to the 3.4.2 way to manage this and works, but creates an issue in Konqueror while loading the System extention in the Sidebar...

==== SystemSettings ====

===== <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/kde-systemsettings/+bug/22635]]</nowiki> =====
The old bug using doubleclick is still there. This issue is really making SystemSettings partially unusable for many users.

===== (Fix Commited in SVN) <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/kde-systemsettings/+bug/22846]]</nowiki> =====
There was another old accessibility issue with scaling. SystemSettings was not able to correctly scale on <800 height screens, causing the "Apply" button to be outside the screen, and although unclickable.
Fix has been released in SVN. Testers required !!! :-)

==== Kontact ====

===== (Resolved) <nowiki>[[http://bugs.kde.org/show_bug.cgi?id=118924]]</nowiki> =====
Kontact was crashing contacts when closing the application with an oponed mail.
Fix commited thanks to kde developper Till.

==== KDE Libs dependancy on Avahi ====

https://launchpad.net/bugs/34440

Several programs (Ksysguard, Krusader, KFTPGrabber...) crash if Avahi is not installed. 

=== Desktop ===

==== skim ====

Skim is actually installed by default and displays in the system tray.
Although it is a very interesting application for Chinese people, there is no reason for it to display on all desktops all over Europe, Africa etc...
We need to find a way that the icon displays only while localisation is set to Zh.
