{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-doc/+spec/kubuntu-help-website
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': JonathanJesse
* '''Packages affected''': kubuntu-docs

=== Summary ===

Currently the help.ubuntu.com website shows the current system documentation however there is no link for Kubuntu dcoumentation.  help.kubuntu.org would replace this.

=== Release Note ===

This section should include a paragraph describing the end-user impact of this change.  It is meant to be included in the release notes of the first release in which it is implemented.  (Not all of these will actually be included in the release notes, at the release manager's discretion; but writing them is a useful exercise.)

It is mandatory.

=== Rationale ===
Official Ubuntu documentation is found under the help.ubuntu.com website.  There is currently no way of finding the official Kubuntu Docs package online that I have found.  This should change.  help.kubuntu.org would then be searchable by google and would also help users who don't have the Kubuntu Docs installed on their system

=== Use Cases ===
Jimmy needs to find something about Kubuntu and does not have access to the kubuntu-docs package on their is no place to go to fid that information.
=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===
Build the kubuntu-docs package in a format this available on the web.  create a link off the help.kubuntu.org web page to help.ubuntu.com/community for the official Ubuntu Community Wiki.

Keep the look and feel of www.kubuntu.org on help.kubuntu.org, link to the Community wiki
'
Would need to be upgraded each release

=== Implementation ===
Contact the ubuntu-docs team plus the kubuntu-devel team.  Work with whoever maintains the Kubuntu website to make sure the links get created and whatever needs to be done to get this up and working.

==== UI Changes ====
No changes to the Kubuntu UI or system, changes made to www.kubuntu.org and creation of subdomain help.kubuntu.org

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
