{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Note this project is very delayed, it may not be available in karmic or may be implemented later as an update

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:kubuntu-karmic-xsplash
* '''Created''':2009-08-24
* '''Contributors''': JonathanRiddell
* '''Packages affected''':kdm

=== Summary ===

Create a boot splash experience for Kubuntu

=== Release Note ===

Kubuntu includes a new pre-login boot splash

=== Rationale ===

X is due to be started sooner in the boot process than previously and usplash is going away.  A splash should be shown to tell the user their computer still cares.

=== User stories ===

Mariamne boots her computer and watches pretty graphics while it boots, happy in the knowledge that it'll be up and running shortly.

=== Assumptions ===

ksplashx is already run after login.

=== Design ===

Use ksplashx as our splash, it has minimal dependencies and is already available to all Kubuntu users.

Have KDM start ksplashx as the first thing it does.  Have KDM signal to ksplashx to fade out when the greeter is ready to display.

=== Implementation ===

Start `ksplashx Default` in the /etc/kde4/kdm/Xsetup script

Patch KDM to use the code from KSMServer::upAndRunning when its greeter is shown.

==== UI Changes ====

The ksplashx Default theme shows a disk loading and will suffice for a startup screen.  We could optionally replace it with a distro logo or a circular throbber.

----
CategorySpec
