{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Members ===

Michael Casadevall (NCommander) was made a member.

=== UDS ===

We discussed UDS and encourage people to apply for sponsorship.

=== Move to in Dolphin ===

It was proposed to add Move to and Copy to right click menu actions enabled in Dolphin.  We decided to talk to upstream about their reasons before making our own decision.

=== mountmanager ===

We pondered whether to include mountmanager in the desktop seed.  Lacking a use case and noting the UI problems, we decided no.

=== Upgrade Testing ===

Harald put out a call for hardy to intrepid testing.  We need to do lots of this.

=== Bug Triaging Status ===
Harald and Jonathan Thomas gave a status report for the state of KDE bugs in Malone.
Currently triaged KDE modules/ Kubuntu apps include:
* adept
* kde4libs
* kdebase-runtime
* Almost kdebase-workspace

Modules that need some loving include:
* kdebase
* kdepim -- HALP!

The Kubuntu-team Launchpad team is also being re-purposed to become a Kubuntu-bugs team, which will track all Kubuntu-related bug email. 

=== Jaunty Goals ===

We discussed possible goals for Jaunty including
* KDE 4.2
* Improving system-config-printer
* Improving package management (maybe even with packagekit)
* Filesharing (hardy spec deferred)
* K-Menu alternatives (raptor, lancelot...)
* codec install
* include KOffice 2
* kcontrol apps integration
* support MID?
