{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


This page holds information about unofficial kubuntu packages.

== Kubuntu.org Unofficial Packages ==

<nowiki>[[http://kubuntu.org|Kubuntu]]</nowiki> provides unofficial packages for users who want a bleeding edge desktop. To browse the packages see: http://kubuntu.org/packages/

These packages have been digitally signed using <nowiki>[[http://kubuntu.org/announcements/kubuntu-packages-jriddell-key.gpg|Jonathan Riddell's key]]</nowiki>. A copy of the key is also kept on <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~jriddell/kubuntu-packages-jriddell-key.gpg|people.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki> for verification. 

To add this key do:

<pre>
wget http://people.ubuntu.com/~jriddell/kubuntu-packages-jriddell-key.gpg
sudo apt-key add kubuntu-packages-jriddell-key.gpg
</pre>

Then add the source to your /etc/apt/sources.list. The source will depend on the packages you want to add, see the <nowiki>[[http://kubuntu.org/announcements/|kubuntu.org main announcements page]]</nowiki> for more information on this.

Please consider using mirrors, these will be included in <nowiki>[[http://kubuntu.org/announcements/|kubuntu.org main announcements page]]</nowiki> when new packages are available.

=== Packages ===

==== KDE ====
* <nowiki>[[http://kubuntu.org/announcements/kde-357.php|KDE 3.5.7 Announcement]]</nowiki>
* Report your experience/comments/issues on <nowiki>[[/KDE357]]</nowiki> subpage

==== KOffice ====
* <nowiki>[[http://kubuntu.org/announcements/koffice-163.php|KOffice 1.6.3 Announcement]]</nowiki>
* Report your experience/comments/issues on <nowiki>[[/KOffice163]]</nowiki> subpage
 
==== Amarok ====
* <nowiki>[[http://kubuntu.org/announcements/amarok-1.4.5.php|Amarok 1.4.5 Announcement]]</nowiki>
* Report your experience/comments/issues on <nowiki>[[/Amarok145]]</nowiki> subpage

== Kubuntu.org Beta/Prerelease ==
These are beta/prerelease/test repositories prepared by JonathanRiddell (Kubuntu project leader) where latest beta/prerelease of KDE flagship applications are released. 

'''Attention:''' these repositories should be used for testing and all issues should be reported to original authors (http://bugs.kde.org).

=== Packages ===

==== KOffice Beta/Prerelease ====
* no prerelease - see above

==== Amarok Beta/Prerelease ====
* no prerelease - see above
