{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Kubuntu Topic Based Help Layout ==
This page will allow us to collaborately create the answers to some of the most common questions on a per topic basis.

== Top Level Categories ==
This page is to work on the menu structure for the TopicBasedHelp spec. <nowiki>[[TopicBasedHelp/TopLevelCategories]]</nowiki> is the current proposed structure. http://nixternal.ubuntu-rocks.org/stuff/doc/ktbh currently displays a proposed mock-up of the layout. The following will break down each section/topic.

=== About Kubuntu ===
* This will contain information from the About Kubuntu document
### Introduction
### About the Name
### Free Software
### The Difference
### The Desktop
### Version and Release Numbers

=== Linux Basics ===
* File structure
* Basic commands
*** http://www.linuxdevcenter.com/linux/cmd/
* Troubleshooting commands
* ??

=== The Desktop ===
* Information about KDE
* Link to KDE system docs (help:/)

=== Multimedia ===
* Audio
*** Getting Amarok to play MP3s
* libxine-extracodecs
*** Converting MP3s to OGG
*** Creating Audio CD
* K3b
*** libk3b2-mp3 - adds mp3 decoding capabilities
* Video
*** Kaffeine
*** Playing DVDs
* libdvdread
*** libdvdcss
*** Youtube
* Flash

=== Networking ===
* Introduction & Concepts
* Ethernet
*** LAN (TCP/IP)
*** DSL (PPPoE)
* Wi``Fi
*** Drivers
* Ndiswrapper
* bcm43xx-fwcutter
*** Encryption
* Dial-Up
*** Modems?
* Connecting to Windows Domain
* Connecting to Windows Workgroup
*** Sharing files
* Music
*** Amarok & Samba+smbfs
*** idaap (iTunes like server)

=== Internet ===
* Web Browsing
*** Konqueror / KHTML
*** Firefox preview
* How to install
* Plugins
* E-mail
*** KMail
*** Evolution preview
* How to install
*** Thunderbird preview
* How to install
* File sharing
*** KTorrent

=== Office Suite ===
* OpenOffice.org
*** Word Processing (Writer)
*** Spreadsheet (Calc)
*** Presentation (Impress)
*** Database (Base)
* KOffice preview
*** How to install

=== Graphics ===
* digiKam
* Gwenview
* Kooka
* KPDF
* Krita
* Ksnapshot

=== Gaming ===
==== KDE Games ====
* Information about KDE Games (i.e., installation, descriptions, etc.)

==== GNOME Games ====
* Information about GNOME Games (same as KDE Games)

==== Windows Replacements ====
* Info about what replaces Solitaire, FreeCell, Minesweeper, Hearts, and Pinball

==== Popular Gaming Titles ====
* Information on the latest popular titles (i.e., Quake 4, Half-Life, WoW, and more)

=== Development ===
* Information about the languages used to dev Kubuntu
*** C++
*** Qt
*** Python
* Information on how to contribute back to Kubuntu

== Feedback ==
* Please add feedback here
