{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Member candidates ==
* <nowiki>[[Linuxmonkey]]</nowiki> 

== Meeting Log ==

Meeting log can be read there : <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~fabbione/irclogs/ubuntu-meeting-2006-06-06.html|first part]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~fabbione/irclogs/ubuntu-meeting-2006-06-07.html|second part]]</nowiki>.

== Summary ==

Introductions ...
<pre>
=== toma is Tom Albers
=== Riddell is Jonathan Riddell
=== Hobbsee is Sarah Hobbs
=== Tonio_ is Anthony Mercatante
=== pygi is Mario Danic
=== Lure is Luka Renko
=== imbrandon is Brandon Holtsclaw
=== kmon javier
=== linuxmonkey is Terry Jacob
=== goldenear is Nicolas Le Guen
</pre>

=== Members ===
==== Terry Jacob - linuxmonkey ====
<pre>
linuxmonkey	Hi my name is Terry Jacob and I want to apply to membership as to be able to work with a great bunch of people and become more dedicated to kubuntu
</pre>
* Riddell as about linuxmonkeys wiki page and is pointed to <nowiki>[[Linuxmonkey]]</nowiki>
* Riddell ask what have you done to help Kubuntu?
<pre>
12:06	linuxmonkey	well I help out as much as I can in #kubuntu as well as I have started to design Display Pictures for people to use to be able to show their support for Kubuntu
</pre>
* Riddell and Hobbsee point out that he has been active on #kubuntu since May 27th
* He DID sign the CoC and also has Zero karma on launchpad.net as pointed out by Hobbsee
* Its agreed that Linuxmonkey needs a little more to be a member
<pre>
12:13	Riddell	linuxmonkey: but I think we need more visible contributions before making you a member
12:13	Riddell	linuxmonkey: but don't let this put you off, #kubuntu needs all the helpers it can get and docs do too
</pre>

===== Votes =====
* N/A

=== Agenda : idea to centralise unofficial packages on kubuntu.org dapper - kmon ===
** Agreed that -backports is the place to centralize the repos , kubuntu.org is for early adopters and testers
<pre>
11:18	Riddell	> I think this is handled by the last item at the tech board
11:18	Riddell	> and new packages should be in backports
</pre>

=== Agenda : wiki pages for kubuntu - kmon ===
** Agreed that kmon, imbrandon, nixternal, linuxmonkey and goldenear should chat about this when they can and work out how to tidy the wiki pages and spec it, then work with the current ubuntu-doc team to get it done ( possibly a kubuntu-doc team creation )

<pre>
11:29	Riddell	> kmon: your item, wiki pages
11:29	kmon >	ok, me again
11:29	kmon >	the wiki is messy
11:30	kmon >	kubuntu wiki page is full of pages about everything
11:30	kmon >	helping users, packaging, testing
......
11:35	Riddell	> kmon, imbrandon, nixternal, linuxmonkey and goldenear should chat about this when they can and work out how to tidy the wiki pages
11:35	Riddell	> there's lots of things on there that are now obsolete or need updating
11:35	Lure >	can somebody write a spec what should be done - otherwise it will be hard to allign the efforts of many people...
</pre>

=== Agenda : server space on kubuntu.org - hobbsee ===
** Agreed cannot be accomplished for non-employees
<pre>
11:37	Riddell >	Hobbsee: your item
11:37	Hobbsee >	Is it possible to get upload space or something on kubuntu.org? eg, kubuntu.org/people/~hobbsee? Would it be useful? Who would we give it to?
11:37	Hobbsee >	although i heard later that that's cannonical people only...
11:38	Riddell >	short anwer is no, canonical doesn't give out server space to non-employees
....
11:38	Hobbsee >	is there some sort of equivalent place that we can upload to, or just use REVU, and say "do not review"?
11:38	Riddell >	and people.ubuntu.com is badly named, it was named before ubuntu was public
11:38	Riddell	>however if you read daniel silverstone's interview on behindubuntu you'll see they're planning personal archives on launchpad
11:39	Riddell >	so you can upload your source packages and they'll get compiled (at low priority) and put into your personal archive
11:39	imbrandon >	Hobbsee: for the time being i can give you server space on my server and a shell account if thats what your needing atm likehttp://www.buntudot.org/people/~hobbsee/

</pre>

=== Else ===

* Hobbsee ask about certificate on wiki.kubuntu.org and Riddell explains it is being worked on ATM.
* Short disscussion about adding Keytouch for Edgy 
* Short Disscussion about looking at Oskar ( kmplayer successor ) being the default audio player in Edgy replacing both kaffeine and kmplayer
* Riddell Reminds everyone to review the Edgy Specs before Paris 
<pre>
12:26	Riddell	remember to review the specs https://launchpad.net/people/jr/+specs
</pre>

=== Next meeting ===
Next meeting is planned on 26th June at 21UTC.
