{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/kubuntu-accessibility
* '''Created''':  6/6/06 by JonathanRiddell
* '''Contributors''': JonathanRiddell, HenrikOmma
* '''Packages affected''': kdeaccessibility, kubuntu-live

=== Summary ===

Make sure all of KDE's accessibility tools are available in main (as long as they work) and create an accessibility live CD profile.

=== Rationale ===

We want everyone to be able to use Kubuntu; for people with disabilities this is not possible without accessibility tools currently only in Universe.

=== Use cases ===

There is a large range of use cases representing users with different disabilities (visual, physical, auditory) using computers for different purposes (general school/office work, design/composition or development/sysadmin). See more details <nowiki>[[Accessibility/UserGroups|UserGroups]]</nowiki>.

=== Scope ===

Test the existing KDE accessibility tools for main inclusion and seed them on the Live CD. Also consider non-KDE apps like SOK. 

=== Design ===

We should follow the same set of options as on the Ubuntu CD, but use KDE tools to meet these needs where appropriate.  Technologies to be used are:

* High contrast - Use KDE high contrast themes
* Magnification - Use Kmag or possibly MCM/compiz-mag if ready in time
* Screen reader - Use kttsd support in applications - investigate if Orca will run in KDE (i.e. gets any useful input)
* Keyboard and Mouse - Turn on the KDE keyboard and mouse features like StickyKeys by default, use KmouseTool
* On-screen Keyboard - Use SOK if KDE port exists by this time

These options should be selectable from the Live CD boot menu as with the Ubuntu version.

=== Implementation ===

Edit casper to load profiles equivalent to that done on the Ubuntu.  The profiles will mirror those used in Ubuntu.

* Lesser Visual Impairment
** Enlarged, no high contrast theme
** High contrast, not inverted
** Plain background
** Magnifier

* Moderate Visual Impairment
** High contrast theme, inverted, large
** KDE Text To Speech turned on for supported applications
** KSayIt loaded

* Minor Motor Difficulties 
** Sticky keys
** On-screen feedback for sticky keys

* Motor Difficulties - Pointing Devices
** Kmousetool
** Henrik's Simple Onscreen Keyboard project if ready

* Blindness
** Not possible yet in KDE because we do not have a proper on-screen keyboard

==== Code ====

Put configuration files for profiles into kubuntu-default-settings in separate directories from the normal default-settings.  Casper will then edit /etc/kderc to add the appropriate profile directories to prefixes=.

----
CategorySpec CategoryKubuntuUseful
