{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Using Bootcamp, re-size your OS X partition so that you have large chunk for “Windows XP”
 Reboot
 Download and install rEFIt from:
 http://refit.sourceforge.net/ (The docs on their site tell you have to install)

Boot into the Dapper LiveCD.

NOTE: if you are using the alternate cd, make sure to select expert server installation and skip installation of the bootmanager, otherwise installation will hang there (at least it did for me)

 Be plugged into Ethernet, so your net works.
Run through the Ubuntu installer. I suggest for now, only creating a / partion, and a swap.
In the mount point setup, don’t mount the /mount/EFI System Partiion.
The install will fail at the end when it tries to install GRUB. That’s OK.

Open a Terminal.
<pre>
mkdir /mnt/ubuntu
mount /dev/sda3 /mnt/ubuntu/
mount -t proc none /mnt/ubuntu/proc
mount -o bind /dev /mnt/ubuntu/dev
chroot /mnt/ubuntu /bin/bash
apt-get install lilo lilo-doc linux-686-smp linux-image-2.6.15-26-686 linux-restricted-modules-2.6.15-26-686 linux-kernel-headers
</pre>
create/edit /etc/lilo.conf. Should look something like this:
<pre>
boot=/dev/sda3
 default=Ubuntu
map=/boot/map
 delay=20
 image=/vmlinuz initrd=/initrd.img
 root=/dev/sda3
 label=Ubuntu
 read-only
</pre>
Now:
Open another terminal Window, this window is not chrooted into your Ubuntu install.
Run parted as root and type:
<pre>
 print
 set (choose the number of your your Linux root partition)
 boot
 on
 quit
</pre>
Next:
Switch back to the chrooted terminal
 Run the command
 <code>lilo -b /dev/sda</code>
Exit out of your chrooted environment, and umount all the partitions you mounted:
<pre>
 umount /mnt/ubuntu/proc
 umount /mnt/ubuntu/dev
 umount /mnt/ubuntu
</pre>
Reboot. Enter the rEFIt Partition editor, make sure the MBR/GPT maps are in sync.

NOTE: for German users: you have to press "z" key instead of "y" to update the mbr.

Final setup:
 
 Debconf:
 
 Run <code>sudo dpkg-reconfigure debconf</code> choose dialog, then the defaults.

  -- ??? why would you need to do that?  -- MatthiasUrlichs

 Wireless:
 <code>modprobe new_wlan_scan_sta</code>
 Run synaptic
 search for network manager
 install network manager daemon and network manager gnome
Mapping your Apple Key to act as Alt and more:
 <code>sudo vi $HOME/.xmodmap</code> (might create a new file, thats ok) and add:
<pre>
keycode 115 = Alt_L Meta_L
add mod1 = Alt_L Meta_L
 
keycode 101 = F1
keycode 212 = F2
keycode 160 = F3
keycode 174 = F4
keycode 176 = F5
keycode 214 = F7
keycode 215 = F8
keycode 216 = F9
keycode 217 = F10
</pre> 
 
 To get middle and left mouse buttons on the right-hand Apple and lower enter key by adding this to the .xmodmap:
<pre>
 keycode 116 = Pointer_Button2
 keycode 108 = Pointer_Button3
</pre> 
Now go to your System Menu, then Preferences, and click on Sessions. Click the Startup Programs tab.
 Add:
 <code>xmodmap $HOME/.xmodmap</code>
Next time you login into Gnome you will have your keys maped.
Video:
To get video working, using Synaptic and turn on the Universe Repo, then search for 915resolution, install it, and restart.

Source:

http://bin-false.org/?p=17
http://gentoo-wiki.com/HARDWARE_Apple_MacBook
----
CategoryLaptop
