{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Meeting started by czajkowski at 17:02:21 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-10-04-17.02.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Kubuntu Council Catch up
''LINK:'' https://rt.ubuntu.com//Ticket/Display.html?id=20296   (Riddell, 17:16:26)

Meeting ended at 17:45:29 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* czajkowski (36)
* Riddell (36)
* beuno (27)
* dholbach (17)
* pleia2 (17)
* Darkwing (16)
* JontheEchidna (7)
* jono (7)
* shadeslayer (3)
* meetingology (3)
* xnox (2)
* sabdfl (1)

=== Full Log ===

 17:02:21 <czajkowski> #startmeeting

 17:02:21 <meetingology> Meeting started Thu Oct  4 17:02:21 2012 UTC.  The chair is czajkowski. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 17:02:21 <meetingology> 

 17:02:21 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 17:02:27 <czajkowski> aloha and welcome to the CC meeting

 17:02:40 * pleia2 waves

 17:02:41 <czajkowski> just waiting on some CC folks to join and we shall continue shortly

 17:03:08 <czajkowski> #topic Kubuntu Council Catch up

 17:03:31 <czajkowski> so who's here from the CC ?

 17:03:41 <beuno> o/

 17:03:53 <dholbach> I am, sort of

 17:03:56 <pleia2> :)

 17:04:01 <dholbach> still busy with the Ubuntu 24h crazyness marathon

 17:04:02 <czajkowski> ok then

 17:04:20 <czajkowski> so Kubuntu council, thanks for coming along, how are things going with you guys these days ?

 17:04:40 <Riddell> well mixed

 17:04:55 <Riddell> you'll know that canonical dropped us as a supported flavour earlier this year

 17:05:00 * pleia2 nods

 17:05:26 <Riddell> the announcement for that was handled really badly by canonical

 17:05:59 <pleia2> yeah, it was very confusing for a lot of people

 17:06:01 <Riddell> the only communication to the kubuntu community was an e-mail which would be great for any politician, managed to say nothing about what was happening

 17:06:13 <JontheEchidna> (I suppose those of us here from KC should also wave)

 17:06:36 <Riddell> and they changed the message about support for 12.04 which I had to read about in someone blog comments

 17:06:46 <pleia2> :\

 17:06:47 <Riddell> so that was pretty disappointing treatment of the community

 17:07:08 <beuno> right

 17:07:11 <Darkwing> I'm still recieving some wonderful comments based on that.

 17:07:17 <czajkowski> nods was this brought up in the last meeting I think ?

 17:07:22 <beuno> Riddell, and you feel that hasn't been "fixed">

 17:07:29 <czajkowski> this is the 2nd time we've meet wtih kubuntu council.

 17:07:42 <beuno> s/>/?

 17:07:55 <JontheEchidna> I'm not sure what could be done to "fix" it. It may be "water under the bridge" at this point.

 17:08:12 <JontheEchidna> it's hard to re-do a press announcement ;-)

 17:08:17 <beuno> indeed

 17:08:26 <beuno> so what do things look like moving forward?

 17:08:42 <Riddell> now we have a company who wants to sponsor us by providing a the support service canonical dropped

 17:08:53 <Riddell> and I get e-mails from people asking for just this

 17:09:05 <Riddell> but they've been in discussions with canonical since april and it still hasn't happened

 17:09:13 <Riddell> so that feels really frustrating

 17:09:38 <Darkwing> From the community standpoint, people are asking if Canonical is stalling because they still "own" kubuntu

 17:09:42 <JontheEchidna> when you say "it still hasn't happened", you are referring to discussions between the company wanting to provide support, and canonical?

 17:09:46 <Darkwing> That's the reaction I have recieved.

 17:09:54 <beuno> yeah, of course

 17:10:04 <beuno> nothing moving forward, no communication

 17:10:05 <Riddell> if canonical don't want to support kubuntu I get that (they have to make money) but now they're stopping the community from being able to do useful things

 17:10:11 <beuno> doesn't benefit anyone

 17:10:11 <JontheEchidna> e.g. canonical saying, "yes, you can provide support for kubuntu"?

 17:10:28 <Riddell> JontheEchidna: right, it's their agreement is moving forward but at a snails pace

 17:10:30 <czajkowski> Riddell: who have you been dealing with in Canonical?

 17:10:34 <Riddell> I'm told there's only 1 issue left to go

 17:10:40 <czajkowski> I think we the CC can chase up on this if needed.

 17:10:45 <beuno> Riddell, JontheEchidna, Darkwing, we'll chase this up

 17:10:47 <beuno> right

 17:10:48 <beuno> :)

 17:10:54 <Riddell> czajkowski: amanda and steve george

 17:11:28 <beuno> k, we'll get on the case and let you guys know

 17:11:38 <beuno> this seems the worst of all situations

 17:11:46 <Darkwing> This conversation started at last UDS. IMO, this is killing our community of support.

 17:12:21 <Riddell> actually it started before then, UDS was when we finally got a meeting

 17:12:23 <beuno> of course, uncertainty is terrible for businesses

 17:12:33 <Darkwing> Not to mention the trust of the community of Ubuntu/Canonical (They are being lumped into one at this point

 17:12:36 <Darkwing> )

 17:13:07 <czajkowski> Darkwing: I can understand that, it might have been an idea to have pinged the CC in the mean time if there was a delay

 17:13:19 <Darkwing> Of course, I've been out of the daily loop the last 3 months.

 17:13:20 <czajkowski> we dont have any control over the Canonical communications but could have chased up on things before now

 17:13:46 <pleia2> yeah, always feel free to come to us :)

 17:13:58 <pleia2> I'm glad we have these catchup meetings though, good to catch stuff like this

 17:14:06 <Riddell> there's no deliberate attempt to restrict kubuntu there, but we're so low down on the priority list it just doesn't get done

 17:14:13 <Riddell> another issue is getting sysadmin to update the website

 17:14:25 <pleia2> yeah, I saw that ticket from August the other day

 17:14:29 <Darkwing> :)

 17:14:32 <pleia2> have you followed up with them on IRC?

 17:14:46 <Riddell> I don't know who to ping any more

 17:15:10 <dholbach> the people in #canonical-sysadmin should be able to help

 17:15:12 <pleia2> in #canonical-sysadmin they always have a "vanguard" in the topic

 17:15:15 <dholbach> on freenode

 17:15:17 <czajkowski> Riddell: like all RTs #canonical-sysadmin in freenode

 17:15:27 <Riddell> I'd rather just move off canonical's web servers but I know that'll end up in another months long issue of getting it approved

 17:15:28 <pleia2> they'll be the active one at the time (best to ask during weekdays)

 17:16:06 <Riddell> I guess I'll try that

 17:16:17 <czajkowski> Riddell: do you have an RT number ?

 17:16:26 <Riddell> https://rt.ubuntu.com//Ticket/Display.html?id=20296

 17:16:29 <czajkowski> there is a vanguard on there all days at least and even some weekends

 17:16:33 <beuno> Riddell, how about filing an RT to move the domain off of canonical?  it will at least be a food place to document and discuss

 17:17:19 <Riddell> beuno: one thing at a time!  I don't want to distract them!

 17:17:32 <beuno> heh

 17:17:35 <pleia2> :)

 17:17:43 <beuno> smart man

 17:17:58 <czajkowski> does ayone else from the council have any other comments

 17:18:08 <czajkowski> I've just pinged somone in the IS channel to follow up on the RT

 17:18:19 <pleia2> the quetzal+kubuntu logo from that beta post is so great

 17:18:36 <Riddell> for the coming UDS I don't know what track to put specs into or who will accept the specs for UDS

 17:18:47 <Riddell> czajkowski: you mean someone other than me moaning :)

 17:19:05 <czajkowski> Riddell: no I just mean someone elses view as well

 17:19:07 <czajkowski> if they want

 17:19:10 <czajkowski> it's an open meeting

 17:19:20 <Darkwing> Just from my observations in the Kubuntu community

 17:19:35 <Darkwing> This is still teh biggest issue

 17:19:41 * pleia2 nods

 17:19:50 <Darkwing> Because our hands are completly tied.

 17:19:59 <beuno> yeah, I'm really sorry to hear we're still in this situation

 17:20:19 <Darkwing> Canonical severed the buisness situation and then we are not allowed to fix it yet.

 17:20:45 <sabdfl> hi folks

 17:20:50 <Darkwing> Hey Mark

 17:21:00 <czajkowski> 18:19 < deej> czajkowski: I'll give the score a bump on it

 17:21:00 <czajkowski> 18:19 < deej> It's not a big deal but it's not a five minute thing either

 17:21:03 <czajkowski> 18:19 < czajkowski> deej: can you give me an ETA rougly please :)

 17:21:04 <shadeslayer> hi :)

 17:21:06 <czajkowski> 18:20 < deej> czajkowski: Is it urgent enough that it should take precedence over release stuff?

 17:21:09 <czajkowski> 18:20 < czajkowski> not over release stuff no

 17:21:12 <czajkowski> 18:20 < czajkowski> but is high as it's reported a few months ago

 17:21:14 <czajkowski> 18:20 < deej> Okay, so I'll score it so it should happen pretty much immediately post-release

 17:21:17 <czajkowski> so the RT ticket will be looked into

 17:21:20 <czajkowski> and again if there are other RTs that need to be followed up on please jsut ask

 17:21:34 <Darkwing> So, August RT is not going to be looked at for another month?

 17:21:43 <pleia2> release is in 2 weeks :)

 17:21:53 <Riddell> that means we'll have out of date content on the website for the release

 17:22:00 <Darkwing> Riddell: +1

 17:22:58 <beuno> as for UDS

 17:22:59 <czajkowski> well we;re in a better place than we were 10 mins ago

 17:23:06 <Riddell> yep, thanks

 17:23:16 <beuno> Riddell, wouldn't you follow the same process as x/lubuntu?

 17:23:31 <Riddell> beuno: I don't know what that is

 17:23:47 <beuno> dholbach, you look like a persona who does know!

 17:24:23 <beuno> or maybe jono is around?

 17:24:32 <jono> hey

 17:24:36 <dholbach> beuno, we're in a hangout on air

 17:24:37 <beuno> \o/

 17:24:52 <dholbach> beuno, which xubuntu/lubuntu process were you referring to?

 17:25:03 <beuno> 17:18 < Riddell> for the coming UDS I don't know what track to put specs into or who will accept the specs for UDS

 17:25:04 <jono> what can I help with?

 17:25:06 <beuno> dholbach, ^

 17:25:09 <Darkwing> jcastro... just ask Jorge :D

 17:25:45 <jono> Riddell, just put them on the logical tracks (E.g. Desktop for KDE related topics, Foundations for lower level bits, Community for governance)

 17:25:52 <jono> and ask the track leads to ensure they get scheduled

 17:25:58 <dholbach> beuno, ah sorry - I must have missed that bit - if you choose Desktop, it might help to have a chat with Jason Warner before and if you choose 'other' I think it was Kate in the past

 17:26:52 <jono> there will be no Other track this time

 17:26:54 <jono> we removed it

 17:26:56 <dholbach> ah ok

 17:26:59 <jono> we might need to update the website

 17:27:40 <dholbach> I'll make a note

 17:28:20 <Riddell> I think I'm out of moans :)

 17:29:41 <Riddell> oh I forsee issues if ubuntu gets rid of alpha and beta milestones but that's a technical issue rather than community

 17:29:55 <pleia2> yeah

 17:30:28 <xnox> Riddell: release management was under "other" track last time... wasn't it?!

 17:30:44 <Riddell> xnox: yes, dunno what track that'll be this time

 17:30:50 <xnox> Riddell: plus there will be feedback from R session where I think that will come up =)

 17:33:23 <Riddell> czajkowski: any other questions?

 17:33:52 <czajkowski> Riddell: can you please let the CC know the exact outstanding issue that you are wating to hear back on, either here or via email please so we can follow up on this

 17:34:10 <dholbach> how is the actual work on Kubuntu coming on? do you have new contributors helping out?

 17:35:30 <Riddell> we seem to have a good number of contributors, not sure we're doing as good at recruitment as we have done

 17:35:53 <dholbach> I saw a couple of folks who might be ready for upload rights :)

 17:36:09 <dholbach> I'll reach out to them again - maybe they'll need encouragement from others as well :)

 17:36:17 <Riddell> yeah that would be good

 17:36:34 <dholbach> I'll let you know how it goes :)

 17:37:57 <Riddell> czajkowski: ok I'll send an e-mail

 17:38:14 <czajkowski> Riddell: thank you

 17:39:33 <dholbach> apart from recruitment - do you think the kubuntu community is working out fine generally? just in terms of getting things done?

 17:40:38 <Riddell> dholbach: for distro development yes I think so

 17:41:21 <dholbach> ok great

 17:41:24 <dholbach> that's good to know

 17:42:05 * JontheEchidna agrees

 17:42:19 * shadeslayer agree as well :)

 17:42:48 <shadeslayer> while we could always do with more people, we're managing well

 17:43:49 <czajkowski> any other comments folks ?

 17:44:16 <beuno> none from me

 17:44:36 <dholbach> no, I think I'm all set as well

 17:44:53 <JontheEchidna> all set here

 17:45:07 <pleia2> thanks for joining us :)

 17:45:13 <Riddell> thanks for inviting us

 17:45:25 <czajkowski> thanks folks for coming along

 17:45:29 <czajkowski> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
