{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== point of origin ==
http://identi.ca/notice/21886573

== description ==
Find out whether we can replace OpenOffice.org (OOo) with KOffice (KO) just now. Shortcomings and rough edges of KO should be pin pointed so that they can be resolved in short to mid-term and ultimately result in a situation where OOo can be partially or completely replaced by KO.

== procedure ==
# call for contributors
# signup to mailing list
# send out testing information
# [TEST TIME]
# send out questionnaire
# questionnaire gets answered
# evaluate questionnaire
# send out results

== notes ==
* KO 2.2
** Via own PPA to prevent breakage of any sort (provide super easy instructions on how to get it)

== survey questions ==
# What do you think of KOffice? [500 characters, free form]
# Did you ever use OpenOffice.org? [y/n]
## If yes, do you personally feel that KOffice does the job just as well? [y/n]
# Did you ever use Microsoft Office? [y/n]
## If yes, what version(s)? [2000, XP, 2003, 2007, 2010]
# Please describe each of the following applications with one adjective.
## KWord [30 characters, one word]
## KSpread [30 characters, one word]
## Krita [30 characters, one word]
## KPlato [30 characters, one word]
## Karbon [30 characters, one word]
## KChart [30 characters, one word]
## Kexi [30 characters, one word]
# Do you find KOffice visually attracting? [y/n]
## If no, why not? [250 characters, free form]
# Did you find every function you needed? [y/n]
## Which one did you miss especially? [250 characters, free form]
# Did you use the KOffice support channels? [y/n]
## If yes, which one(s)? [KDE Forum, other forum ...., KOffice mailing list, other mailing list ...., KOffice IRC channel, other IRC channel ...., commercial support from ....., other .....]
# Ratings (see below)
# Any other remarks? [500 characters, free form]

=== Ratings (per App) ===

Ratings can be done on a scale from one to six, one being awesome, six being horrible.

# Compability with file formats
# Stability
# Visual appeal
# Visual appeal of icons
# Features
# Descriptiveness of the interface
# Descriptiveness of icons
# Usable

== open questions ==
* what questioning software to use? (limesurvey?)
* what precise questions to ask?
** What they think of the UI (need to find a better word than "UI" for the survey)
** What they think of the features
** If they think it's stable
** What doesn't work for them (of the features it includes, not the missing one)
** What features they miss compared to OpenOffice.org
** What they think of replacing OOo with KOffice (or if they want to recommend it to others, can also be asked instead of the replacing)

== questionnaire ideas ==
* split per application, if a user chooses to not test an application then they must not
* ask general questions like "how good do you find XY" or "how easy is it to find your way in the UI of XY"
* don't allow too much user generated input since it is a hassle to evaluate (experience from a user survey conducted by the Amarok team some years ago)
** 200 characters as a maximum?

== ideas ==
* use kde infrastructure where possible and necessary? -- there is danger of getting bashed for doing kubuntu centric stuff there
* Consider setting up some sort of survey? -- What type of questions are to be asked? Will users be turned off by one that is too lengthy?
* get reviewers from kubuntuforums, ubuntuforums, kubuntu-users@l.u.c, kubuntu.org, locos, blog posts
* need to provide a bit of a guide on how to prepare in order to commit a sensible review (i.e. give users an idea of what they should be looking at/should be doing etc.) ... from experience people tend to be too precise in regards of "useless" junk while they completely miss obvious flaws in super important parts (say they notice that there is an icon missing, but that the xls import filter fails to import the first xls to find on google stays unnoticed)
* it might be more appealing if we have some kind of give-away present ... maybe we can get a N900 sponsored?
** Or maybe a N900 and a few items from the Canonical Store? That way more people have a chanche of winning and most Kubuntu items in the Canonical Store are not that expensive.
