{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''obsolete page'''

== Known Problems with the Kubuntu 5.04 Release Candidate ==

* pmount was not included in the seeds (fixed in later releases)

From JosPoortvliet Thu Mar 31 12:12:18 +0100 2005
From: Jos Poortvliet
Date: Thu, 31 Mar 2005 12:12:18 +0100
Subject: 
Message-ID: <20050331121218+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

does this mean usbsticks do appear, but do not get mounted? as this was my main concern yesterday, when I tried the latest kubuntu cd... its nice to see the sticks appear, but if you clicked them, you just got an error! really disappointing.

and is it really clever to let konqi load all externally called url's?

From RolfOffermanns Thu Mar 31 14:55:19 +0100 2005
From: Rolf Offermanns
Date: Thu, 31 Mar 2005 14:55:19 +0100
Subject: 
Message-ID: <20050331145519+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

@Jos: I had exactly the problems you described and '''sudo apt-get install pmount''' fixed it for me.

From JeanDarcoux Thu Mar 31 23:00:22 +0100 2005
From: Jean Darcoux
Date: Thu, 31 Mar 2005 23:00:22 +0100
Subject: to mount usb memory stick
Message-ID: <20050331230022+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

I get similar problem (stick icon visible, but error message when mounting). I added the following line to my /etc/fstab
/dev/sda1       /media/sda1     auto    umask=0,user,sync,codepage=850,noauto,exec,users 0 0
and now it works.

CategoryArchive
