{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:kubuntu-accessibility-keyboard
* '''Packages affected''': kvkbd, kubuntu-default-settings

=== Summary ===

Ship Kubuntu with a virtual keyboard application.

=== Rationale ===

Kubuntu needs to focus on accessibility and usability. A virtual keyboard is essential part of that plan.

=== Use Cases ===

Joe has a handicap or disease and want to use the computer. He might need a virtual keyboard.

Steve's keyboard just died, he can use a virtual keyboard as temporary replacement.

Jonathan Riddell's keyboard doesn't work properly with Feisty, he can use a virtual keyboard waiting for a fix :)

Matthias forgot which key he needs to press for the special character in his daughter's name. He uses the virtual keyboard to find it.

=== Scope ===

Kvkbd package in main.

kubuntu-default-settings package and usability profile settings.

=== Design ===

Package kvkbd, get it reviewed and into main, so that we can ship with it. We also needed to contact upstream for a few improvements and suggestions: being able to resize the window, being able to define macros, have layers for numpad and a possible one button based key selection.

We are also concerned about suggesting another name for the app, as the current one is not trivial to remember and pronounce.

Tweak kubuntu-default-settings to add kvkbd integrated to the accessibility profile for low minor-motor-difficulties.

== Feedback ==
* I have gone ahead and created the package and uploaded to revu (<nowiki>[[http://revu.tauware.de/details.py?upid=6298]]</nowiki>. Waiting for some assistance with the k-d-s edits for kvkbd integration. -- nixternal 
----
CategorySpec CategoryKubuntuUseful
