{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Kubuntu 8.10 KDE 3 to KDE 4 Migration FAQ ===

As Kubuntu moves forward to Intrepid Ibex 8.10 and beyond,  the migration from KDE 3 to KDE 4 brings up many questions and concerns. Hopefully this section will address these issues.

See <nowiki>[[http://techbase.kde.org/Schedules/Is_KDE_4.1_for_you%3F|Is KDE 4.1 for you?]]</nowiki>.

For general KDE 4 information please look <nowiki>[[http://userbase.kde.org/An_introduction_to_KDE|at userbase]]</nowiki>

== Will 8.10 include KDE 3? ==
8.10 will only include KDE 4 as its desktop. KDE 3 will not be available.  As the code-name suggests, Intrepid is intended as a deliberately cutting edge release, if you would rather stay with what you know 8.04 continues to be fully supported. The development team decided that time and manpower considerations as well as the probable(possible) lack of further 3.5x releases prevent them from maintaining 2 separate versions, and KDE 4 was chosen as the version to move forward with. 

== I use 8.04 (Hardy). How long will I be able to use it, and thus continue using KDE 3? ==
8.04 still has approximately a year of (security) updates left. While it is uncertain if there will be any future KDE 3 releases, 8.04 and KDE 3.5 are quite stable so continuing to use that until its end-of-life arrives is feasible. By then Kubuntu developers will be working on our third KDE 4-based release.

== What about KDE 3 applications? ==
Most KDE 3 based applications will still run in KDE 4. Kubuntu includes some KDE3 applications as they do not yet have a KDE4 version released: Amarok and Konversation are two examples. 

== Will my KDE3 settings work in KDE4? ==
Most of  your settings, preferences, and configurations fill carry over to KDE4. The exception to that will be various desktop-related settings as this is completely different in KDE4. This includes things such as desktop wallpaper and panel settings.

== In 8.10, KDE 4 is not "feature complete"; I am missing the ''_x_'' configuration/customisation Option ==
Kubuntu 8.04 with KDE 4.1.2 provides a fully functional and usable desktop. However it does not yet have all the customisation and configuration options KDE 3 took many years to develop. KDE 4.2, due in January 2009 will have a number of new options available, see <nowiki>[[http://techbase.kde.org/Schedules/KDE4/4.2_Feature_Plan|4.2 Feature Plan]]</nowiki> for a probable list.

=== KDE 3 to KDE 4 upgrading ===
Though upgrading Hardy to Intrepid ''is'' supported, the automatic process has been disabled in Kubuntu as this would completely remove KDE 3 from the user's system. There is no way to undo this upgrade.

To manually start the upgrade process, first make sure you have the package '''kubuntu-desktop''' installed. Then use the alt-f2 run-command dialog or a terminal window to enter the following command:
<pre>
kdesudo "adept_manager --dist-upgrade-devel"
</pre>
You will see a prompt for Version Upgrade.  Choose that option and follow the prompts to start the upgrade process.

After upgrading to 8.10 your .kde settings directory will be converted to KDE 4 settings, this means you will not easily be able to downgrade.  The .kde4 directory from 8.04 KDE 4 Remix will not be used.
