{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/mneptok|mneptok]]</nowiki>
|-
| <|1(> '''IRC''':
| '''mneptok''' (''freenode'')
|-
| <|1(> '''Email''':
| kurt@ubuntu.com
|-
| <|1(> '''Location''':
| <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albuquerque|Albuquerque, NM USA]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Who? ===

My name is Kurt, and I won't bog down this page with unnecessary personal details. If you want to know more about who I am as a person and what makes me tick, there are some external sites that may interest you. Among them:

<nowiki>[[http://www.mneptok.com/|My website]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://blogs.gnome.org/mneptok/|My GNOME blog]]</nowiki>

I'm a longtime free software advocate, however with a significant streak of pragmatism. I promise to understand and respect your principled position if you promise to understand and respect my pragmatism. Free software is a big tent.

=== What? ===

I'm employed by <nowiki>[[http://askmonty.org|Monty Program Ab]]</nowiki> as Chief Community And Communications Officer. It's a fancy way of saying I herd cats.

I'm also an active <nowiki>[[http://gnome.org|GNOME]]</nowiki> Foundation member, although perhaps less so than in past years. I serve as part of the all-volunteer sysadmin team, mostly handling account requests and changes. I've been know to futz with GNOME's Mailman instance, as well. I also run the bots for the sysadmin IRC channel.

In the Ubuntu community I'm most active on IRC, where I serve as part of the ops team in the official channels. You can find me using the nick "mneptok." I'm happy to help users when I can, I only ask for a little understanding of my professional commitments. IOW, I may not /msg back in the first 12 seconds. Grab a juice box. Or a nap.

If you're a GNOME hacker or user, you can find me using the same nick on GIMPnet, the GNOME IRC network. I can be found in #sysadmin.

I consider these roles as my privilege to serve, not a shoulder epaulet denoting some perceived rank. Feel free to ask if there's anything you think I may be able to do to help either project.

=== How? ===

If you're interested in my free software interests, I use <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org|GNOME]]</nowiki> and/or <nowiki>[[http://icculus.org/openbox|OpenBox]]</nowiki> to get my GUI world running. I have a somewhat unhealthy deep affection for <nowiki>[[http://zsh.sourceforge.net/|the Z shell]]</nowiki>, where I spend most of my day. I'm beginning to realize I have a <nowiki>[[http://bazaar-vcs.org/|Bzr]]</nowiki> addiction. I use nano in the shell from years of pico keybinding familiarity (thanks pine!) and <nowiki>[[http://www.openkomodo.com|KomodoEdit]]</nowiki> for a GUI editor.

My favorite programming language is the one that results in the best implementation of the desired goal. I favor function over form, but will happily take both in equal measure. If it's light, clean, stable, and functional, I'm a happy man. I only wish I could demand the same of my own body.

----
CategoryHomepage
