{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Overview ===

This page is will list

** a set of features whose performance impacts we think are worth studying
** instructions to reproduce reliable measurements
** Results

Once we have these measurements, we can apply what we've learned to make recommendations (at KvmWorkloads) based on specific workloads.

=== Features to measure ===
** drive format (qcow2, raw (file), raw (LVM), qed)
** driver interface (virtio, scsi, ide)
** cache performance (cache=none, writeback, unsafe, writethrough)
** nic model (rtl8139, virtio)
** network type (tap, user)
** swap or no swap?
** overcommit types
*** none, ksm, balloon, both ksm and balloon
*** for ksm, try 1 oneiric VM, 2 oneiric VMS, and 1 oneiric and 1 lucid VM.
** Guest root filesystems (xfs, jfs, ext4, ext2)
*** test each with both virtio and scsi)
** Host filesystem.  (xfs, jfs, ext4)
** Guest memory (128M,256M,512M, 1024M, 2048M)
*** with and without swap?
** Guest smp (1,2,4,8)
Tests could include kernbench, dbench, unixbench.

=== Reproduction instructions ===

General advice:  use the same system as much as possible for each test.  My plan is to have one system, re-install for each test with the same preseed to ensure the same filesystem layout.

=== Results ===
