{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Ubuntu 22.04 LTS is the version of the Ubuntu operating system that will be released in April, 2022. The development codename given to this release is "Jammy Jellyfish".

== Before You Start ==

* You can directly upgrade to Ubuntu 22.04 LTS ("Jammy Jellyfish") from either Ubuntu 20.04 LTS ("Focal Fossa") or Ubuntu 21.10 ("Impish Indri").
* Be sure that you have all updates applied to your current version of Ubuntu before you upgrade.
* Before upgrading it is recommended that you read the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/JammyJellyfish/ReleaseNotes|release notes for Ubuntu 22.04]]</nowiki>, which document caveats and workarounds for known issues in this version.

If you have a version of Ubuntu other than 20.04 or 21.10, please see <nowiki>[[UpgradeNotes]]</nowiki> for information on how to upgrade.

== Upgrade from 20.04 LTS or 21.10 to 22.04 LTS ==

=== Ubuntu Desktops ===

You can easily upgrade over the network with the following procedure.
# Run the '''update-manager''' application;
# In Update Manager, click the '''Settings...''' button, and enter your password to start the Software Sources application.
# Select the sub menu '''Updates''' from the Software Sources application.
# Confirm the "Notify me of a new Ubuntu version:" option is set to "For any new version" if you are using 21.10 or to "For long-term support versions" if you are using 20.04 LTS. If it is not set properly modify it to the appropriate option.
# Close the Software Sources application and return to Update Manager.
# In Update Manager, click the '''Check''' button to check for new updates.
# If there are any updates to install, use the '''Install Updates''' button to install them, then exit.
# In a terminal run `update-manager -c -d`.
# A message will appear informing you of the availability of the new release.
# Click '''Upgrade'''.
# Follow the on-screen instructions.

<pre> comment need confirmation these pages exist
=== Kubuntu Desktops (Recommended) ===

Direct upgrades to Kubuntu 22.04 are supported from Kubuntu 20.04 or 21.10.

* <nowiki>[[JammyUpgrades-Kubuntu|Upgrade Kubuntu 20.04 or 21.10 to 22.04]]</nowiki>
</pre>

=== Ubuntu Studio Desktops ===

Direct upgrades to Ubuntu Studio 22.04 are supported from Ubuntu Studio 21.10.

* <nowiki>[[https://ubuntustudio.org/ubuntu-studio-22-04-lts-release-notes/#Upgrading|Upgrade Ubuntu Studio 21.10 to 22.04]]</nowiki>

=== Xubuntu Desktops ===

Direct upgrades to Xubuntu 22.04 are supported from Xubuntu 20.04 or 21.10.

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.xubuntu.org/releases/22.04/upgrading|Upgrade Xubuntu 22.04 or 21.10 to 22.04]]</nowiki>

=== Lubuntu Desktops ===
Direct upgrades to Lubuntu 22.04 are supported from Lubuntu 20.04 or 21.10

* <nowiki>[[https://manual.lubuntu.me/stable/D/upgrading.html|Upgrade Lubuntu 20.04 or 21.10 to 22.04]]</nowiki>

=== Ubuntu Servers ===

# Make sure the `Prompt` line in /etc/update-manager/release-upgrades is set to 'normal' if you want non-LTS upgrades, or set to 'lts' if you only want LTS upgrades.
# Launch the upgrade tool: <pre>
do-release-upgrade -d
</pre>
1. Follow the on-screen instructions.

Note that the server upgrade will use GNU screen and automatically re-attach in case of a dropped connection.

== See Also ==
* UpgradeNotes for all supported versions of Ubuntu

== Troubleshooting ==

See the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/JammyJellyfish/ReleaseNotes|release notes]]</nowiki>.

----
CategoryUpgrade
