{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''Acrobat Reader is no longer available in supported versions of Ubuntu.'''

== Introduction ==

This guide explains how to install support for Japanese fonts in <nowiki>[[#Acro7.0|Adobe Reader 7.0 under Ubuntu 6.06.]]</nowiki> And <nowiki>[[#Acro8.1|Adobe Reader 8.1 in Ubuntu 7.10]]</nowiki>

== Adobe Reader 7.0 under Ubuntu 6.06. ==

=== Installation ===

Before you start, make sure you have <nowiki>[[AcrobatHowTo|installed Adobe Reader 7.0]]</nowiki>.

1. Download two jpnfont packages from the Adobe site

{{{
mkdir /tmp/{4,5}
cd /tmp/5
wget ftp://ftp.adobe.com/pub/adobe/acrobatreader/unix/5.x/jpnfont.tar.gz
cd /tmp/4
wget ftp://ftp.adobe.com/pub/adobe/acrobatreader/unix/4.x/jpnfont.tar.gz }}}

2. Unpack and install

{{{
cd /tmp/5
tar -xzf jpnfont.tar.gz
cd /usr/lib/Adobe/Acrobat7.0/Resource/CMap
su
tar -xf /tmp/5/JPNKIT/LANGCOM.TAR
cd /usr/lib/Adobe/Acrobat7.0/Resource/Font
tar -xf /tmp/5/JPNKIT/LANGJPN.TAR 
cd /tmp/4
tar -zxf jpnfont.tar.gz
cd /usr/lib/Adobe/Acrobat7.0/Resource/Font
tar -xf /tmp/4/JPNKIT/LANGJPN.TAR }}}

3. Try it!

Fire up your Adobe Reader - support for Japanese fonts should work now.

=== Notes ===

This above section is based on a now inaccessible <nowiki>[[http://lists.suse.de/archive/m17n/2005-Aug/0027.html|August 2005 guide for Suse distros]]</nowiki>.

----

== Adobe Reader 8.1 in Ubuntu 7.10 ==

1. Download the required fonts pack from <nowiki>[[http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/acrrasianfontpack.html|Adobe]]</nowiki>
   ''For this howto it will be assumed you are after the Japanese FontPack81_jpn_i486-linux.tar.gz but other languages should work exactly the same''

2. Unpack it to a temporary directory using your favourite gui tool or
{{{
cd temporary-directory
tar -zxvf FontPack81_jpn_i486-linux.tar.gz}}}

3. Run the installation script
{{{
cd JPNKIT
sudo ./install}}}

* You will be asked if Acrobat 8.1 is installed
* You will be asked to accept the licence agreement
* You will then be asked to enter the location where you installed the Adobe Reader '''DO NOT accept the default /opt!''' The default location is '''/usr/lib''' but you can check this by opening another terminal and typing ''locate /Adobe/Reader8/Resource'' and looking at what comes up.
eg.
{{{
/usr/lib/Adobe/Reader8/Resource/Linguistics/Providers/Proximity/usa8603.lex
/usr/lib/Adobe/Reader8/Resource/Linguistics/Providers/Proximity/brt0401.lex
/usr/lib/Adobe/Reader8/Resource/Linguistics/Providers/Proximity/brt0402.lex
/usr/lib/Adobe/Reader8/Resource/Linguistics/LanguageNames
/usr/lib/Adobe/Reader8/Resource/Linguistics/LanguageNames/DisplayLanguageNames.en_US.txt}}}
Enter the bit '''before''' the /Adobe/Reader8/ and press enter

If everything works you should get
{{{
Installing Common binaries ... 
Done

Installing Common resources ... 
Done

Installing Japanese language resources ... 
Done
Installation completed.}}}

3. Go try it!
 ''And then clean up the temporary directory and install files - it's good housekeeping ;-)''

----
