{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


You can use <nowiki>[[http://download.java.net/media/java3d/builds/release/1.5.2/j3d-1_5_2-linux-i586.zip | java3d]]</nowiki> with the j2re1.6 Ubuntu Package

Just download Java3d and install it into /usr/lib/j2se/1.6/jre (more detail above)

Ubuntu 9.10

The 1.5.2 release of the Java 3D API for Ubuntu runs on JDK version 1.5.0 and higher. To manually install this release, do the following:

Download and unzip j3d-1_5_2-XXX.zip into a temporary download directory, for example, /tmp. This will create a j3d-1_5_2-XXX subdirectory in /tmp where the downloaded files can be found. The file you need for manual installation is j3d-jre.zip.

Create a folder for the j3d jar files and native libraries, for example, /myhome/j3d, and unzip j3d-jre.zip into this directory as follows:

cd /myhome/j3d
unzip /tmp/j3d-1_5_2-*/j3d-jre.zip

Modify your CLASSPATH environment variable to include the full paths to j3dcore.jar, j3dutils.jar, and vecmath.jar. For example:

export CLASSPATH=.:/myhome/j3d/lib/ext/j3dcore.jar:/myhome/j3d/lib/ext/j3dutils.jar:/myhome/j3d/lib/ext/vecmath.jar

Modify your LD_LIBRARY_PATH environment variable to contain the full path to the lib/<ARCH> directory. For example, on 32-bit Linux:

export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/myhome/j3d/lib/i386
At this point your Java installation should be able to see the j3d class files. Users of IDEs such as NetBeans and Eclipse should consult the IDE's documentation to see how to add jar files and native libraries to their current project.

The Ubuntu /lib also need to be filled with 

libj3dcore-ogl-cg.so
libj3dcore-ogl.so

These files are located at <extracted path>/lib/i386/*.
use following code to copy:

$> sudo cp <extracted path>/j3d-1_5_2-linux-i586/lib/i386/* /lib/
----
CategorySoftware
