{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''jBrout''' is a JPEG (format widely used by digital cameras) picture manager software.

Written in python/pygtk under the GPL licence, it allows the user – through a user-friendly interface – to associate keywords to pictures (IPTC tags) and process extensive research on these keywords.

Many features are incorporated in the software, therefore it is possible to:
* navigate by album, by tag and by period,
* tag pictures with IPTC keywords (tags)
* rotate pictures without loss,
* use and modify Exif information,
* export pictures (to a Web gallery in HTML format, perform like a HTTP server, send by email,...),
* export to a Flickr or PicasaWeb account,
* call externals tools (for example open picture with Gimp),
* use a basket system to pick out pictures.

Keywords are stored with the pictures (using IPTC metadata), making their exchange easier: When sending a picture, its associated keywords are also sent. This method of storing information offers a certain durability of data since keywords are not dependent of an external file.

== Install jBrout from repository ==

The last package is 0.2.201, released 07-Apr-2008.

In a terminal:
<pre>
sudo gedit /etc/apt/sources.list
</pre>
Add the following lines in the file /etc/apt/sources.list :
<pre>
deb http://jbrout.free.fr/download/debian binary/
</pre>
In a terminal:
<pre>
sudo apt-get update
</pre>
Then:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install jbrout
</pre>

== Install jBrout from SVN sources ==

The SVN sources often offers a most recent version of jBrout.

If necessary, install subversion:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install subversion
</pre>
Install these libraries:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install python-lxml python-imaging jhead exiftran
</pre>
Then:
<pre>
sudo svn co http://svn.jbrout.python-hosting.com/trunk /usr/lib/jbrout
</pre>

Add an entry in your menu with the Alacarte editor:

* Name: Picture Manager jBrout
* Comment: Manage your pictures with jBrout
* Command: /usr/lib/jbrout/jbrout.py
* Icon: /usr/lib/jbrout/gfx/jbrout.ico

== Useful links ==

* <nowiki>[[http://jbrout.python-hosting.com/|Official webpage]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JBrout|jBrout on Wikipédia]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://jbrout.free.fr/help/en/|Online support]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://jbrout.free.fr/help/en/Manual_jBrout_0.2.182.pdf|PDF documentation]]</nowiki>
----
CategorySoftware
