{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


For details about installing go here: <nowiki>[[MacBookAir2-1-Precise]]</nowiki> (link to <nowiki>[[MacBookAir2-1-Karmic]]</nowiki> is dead)

== General ==
* Lucid LiveCD boots fine without any specific boot parameters. 
* Lucid runs much faster out of the box than Karmic
* Touchpad seems to work better

== Video ==
* Resolution is incorrect (not 1280x800) with default binary hardware drivers.
* Download the latest binary driver from the nvidia website and
* External displays work with Nvidia's 'x server settings' tool (under the system/administration menu).

== Sound ==
* Speaker works with Alsa version 1.0.22 (the version you get when you update Lucid), by adding the following line at the end of /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf:
** options snd-hda-intel model=mb5
* Speaker works with Alsa version 1.0.23. The instructions to install are found there: http://monespaceperso.org/blog-en/2010/05/02/upgrade-alsa-1-0-23-on-ubuntu-lucid-lynx-10-04/ Line-out works after adding the following line to /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf:

** options snd-hda-intel model=mba21

* Be sure to set the volume in the alsamixer
** Start 'alsamixer' on a commandline and make sure no channel is muted (press 'M') and navigate with the keys. Set the volume with the keys as well.
* Microphone (still) doesn't work

== Touchpad ==
* Works without modification

== Apple keys ==
* Volume works
* Display brightness and keyboard backlight work (incl. auto-adjust), but requires you to add the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mactel-support/+archive/ppa|Mactel]]</nowiki> PPA and install pommed and additional packages from there. Reboot after installation/upgrade.

== Network ==
* Works (both wifi-G and wifi-N)
