{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Macbook Pro 7,1 and Ubuntu 13.04 (Raring Ringtail) ==

This page describes the specific aspects of the installation of Ubuntu 13.04 on a MacBookPro 7,1. Note that this is seriously broken. My advice: install 12.04 instead.

=== Basic Installation Instructions ===

Common things about installing and maintaining Ubuntu on Intel-based Macs:
<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MactelSupportTeam/AppleIntelInstallation|Intel CPU-based Macintosh Generic Installation Instructions]]</nowiki>.

=== Suspend & Hibernate ===

Works out of the box, except that bluetooth seems to break suspend sometimes.

=== Fan ===

It is recommended to use '''macfanctl'''.
<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:mactel-support
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install macfanctld
</pre>
The config file is located at /etc/macfanctl.conf. The default configurations seems to work well.

=== Wireless ===

You have to install proprietary drivers to activate WiFi. According to <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/questions/252958/broadcom-driver-woes|this]]</nowiki>, it is better to install '''linux-firmware-nonfree''' than '''bcmwl-kernel-source'''.

=== Touchpad ===

Works on fresh install, but with limited capabilities. <nowiki>[[https://github.com/BlueDragonX/xf86-input-mtrack|mtrack]]</nowiki> ('''xserver-xorg-input-mtrack''') seems to be doing a better job than synaptics ('''xserver-xorg-input-synaptics'''). Here is a configuration that seems to give a similar behavior to OSX:
<pre>
Section "InputClass"
    MatchIsTouchpad "on"
    Identifier      "Touchpads"
    Driver          "mtrack"
    Option          "Sensitivity" "0.66"
    Option          "IgnoreThumb" "true"
    Option          "ThumbRatio" "70"
    Option          "ThumbSize" "35"
    Option          "TapButton1" "1"
    Option          "TapButton2" "3"
    Option          "TapButton3" "2"
    Option          "TapButton4" "0"
    Option          "ClickFinger1" "1"
    Option          "ClickFinger2" "3"
    Option          "ClickFinger3" "2"
    Option          "ScrollUpButton" "4"
    Option          "ScrollDownButton" "5"
    Option          "ScrollLeftButton" "6"
    Option          "ScrollRightButton" "7" 
    Option          "SwipeUpButton" "0"
    Option          "SwipeDownButton" "0"
    Option          "SwipeLeftButton" "8"
    Option          "SwipeRightButton" "9"
    Option          "Swipe4UpButton" "0"
    Option          "Swipe4DownButton" "0"
</pre>

=== Video/Graphic Card ===

Works on fresh install, though installing nvidia driver seems to be broken. See for instance <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/questions/348577/installing-nvidia-driver-on-13-04-64bit-macbook-pro-7-1|this]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/questions/213696/installing-additional-drivers-resulted-in-command-line-interface|that]]</nowiki>.

=== Keyboard functions ===

It is necessary to use '''pommed''' to enable Apple specific keys as volumes, media, brightness.

=== Bluetooth ===

Works fine out of the box, but apparently not with all devices. For instance, some keyboards are not recognized. <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/questions/283611/bluetooth-problem-on-lubuntu-12-04-2-lts|Here]]</nowiki> is a workaround that seems to work, though you have to do it after each reboot.

Also, when you turn it off manually, apparently you can't turn it on again. But <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro7-1/Quantal#Disable_Bluetooth_on_startup|this]]</nowiki> seems to work.

=== Microphone ===

Broken.

=== Apple Remote Control ===

No experience.
