{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


This section is documentation for those who have the MacBook 5,2 model.

So far, the Ubuntu 9.04 distribution is being tested and results for installation are give below.

Leigh Kennedy's MacBook
Processor: 2GHz Intel Core 2 Duo
RAM: 2GB
Graphics: NVIDIA GeForce 9400M

Please note: 2GB MacBook model will be perfect for the test as it is the cheapest MacBook 5,2 model and can be used for minimum requirements purposes...
----

===== The results: =====
The MacBook had difficulty booting into Live CD as there was an "acpi' error.
When "acpi" was set to 'off', the MacBook managed to get into Live CD and installed Ubuntu without a problem.
This is where the bad news comes in...

Once you rebooted into GRUB, the keyboard failed to work!

----
(new info march 11 2015 bij Gerald)
The "acpi" error is to avoid by doing folowing before installing Ubuntu 14:
1 Unplug power cable.
2 Remove battery out of Macbook.
3 Hold the power button for at least 5 seconds. (it gives a hard resset according Apple)
4 Put battery in the Macbook.
5 Plug in Powersuply.
6 Start installing Ubuntu 14.
During install screen breaks up but wait some time and Ubuntu setup will start.
If after several restarts it wont boot up then do step 1 - 5 again and it will work fine again.
(end new info march 11 2015 by Gerald)

Please note, this issue is being worked on. '''It is recommended that you DO NOT wipe Mac OS X off the system until further notice.'''
Troubleshooters/testers wanted!
