{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



<nowiki>[[PageDiscussion|Discuss this page]]</nowiki>
----

== Introduction ==
This is a guide for all of those frustrated by the guides about setting up Ubuntu on Macbooks, because they were meant for 7.10 and not 8.04.

== Wireless Setup ==

(Make sure you are connected to the internet)
First, you must install ndiswrapper for you to be able to install the wireless driver.  You do this by going to "add/install programs" and searching for "ndiswrapper".  Once that's done move on to the next step:

Next, open a terminal.  Download, unzip, and place driver in the directory by copying and pasting each line below into the terminal. 
<pre>
wget http://ftp.us.dell.com/network/R151517.EXE
mkdir driver
unzip -a R151517.EXE -d driver/
cd driver/DRIVER/
</pre>

After that's done, copy and paste each line below into the terminal.  Don't do it all at once, that will not work.  For those who aren't simply copying and pasting, but typing in each line.  in "sudo ndiswrapper -i bcmwl5.inf" it's not fifteen but L and 5.

<pre>
sudo ndiswrapper -i bcmwl5.inf
sudo ndiswrapper -l
sudo ndiswrapper -m
sudo modprobe ndiswrapper
</pre>

Then open up the gedit startup modules by typing the line below into the terminal.

<pre>
sudo gedit /etc/modules
</pre>

Then add ndiswrapper at the bottom of the list, it should look something like this (whatever you do, don't change anything BUT adding ndiswrapper, completely changing this could mess up your system):

<pre>

lp
mousedev
psmouse
ndiswrapper
</pre>

After you've done all of this you have to reboot your system.  When your computer restarts you should be able to connect to a wireless network with no problems.

----
CategoryMac
