{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This page is about installing Ubuntu 14.04 (Trusty Tahr) on MacBookPro 11,3, a 15-inch Mac laptop released in early 2014, which has a retina display, solid-state drive, and is based on Haswell Intel CPU.  

Most of the problems are the same as for the MacBookPro 11,1 so first check the solutions here <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro11-1/Trusty]]</nowiki>

Most notibly is the non working wlan upon installation. The chipset is a Broadcom named BCM4360 and currently the best working solution is to install bcmwl-kernel-source, remember that the laptop does not have a ethernet port per default so other means to get the package is needed. 

Tested working version of bcmwl is http://launchpadlibrarian.net/181487980/bcmwl-kernel-source_6.30.223.248%2Bbdcom-0ubuntu1_amd64.deb

As of 2014-10-20 the current nvidia drivers (nvidia-330) are having issuses with support for external hdmi screen with a resolution higher than HDMI. This was solved by installing nvidia-340 driver from ppa:xorg-edgers/ppa. Ie:<pre>

   sudo add-apt-repository ppa:xorg-edgers/ppa
   sudo apt-get update
   sudo apt-get install nvidia-340
</pre>

If the brightness control does not work try using:

Fix for this was to run <pre>
   setpci -v -H1 -s 00:01.00 BRIDGE_CONTROL=0
</pre>

Taken from http://askubuntu.com/questions/370857/cant-adjust-screen-brightness-on-macbook-pro-10-1-ubuntu-13-10
