{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

The problem with searching is sorting the through all the answers you get!  Starting out by narrowing your search down is the key to getting better results.

=== Google ===
A regular Google (Yahoo, etc) websearch is very powerful.  Remember to try it a couple of times using different words or phrases.

Google has an <nowiki>[[http://www.google.ca/advanced_search?hl=en&output=linux&restrict=linux|advanced linux related search page]]</nowiki> than can be very helpful.

=== Ubuntu User Mailing List ===
To search any specific mailing list, <nowiki>[[http://search.gmane.org/|gmane]]</nowiki> is useful.  <nowiki>[[http://dir.gmane.org/gmane.linux.ubuntu.user|start your query here for just the ubuntu-user mailing list]]</nowiki>.

=== All the Ubuntu Mailing Lists ===
You can search all the Ubuntu Mailing List archives. Use a Google ''site search'' keyword <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/advanced_search?q=site:lists.ubuntu.com|like this]]</nowiki> by inserting '''site:websiteToSearch''' in your search terms.

=== Lots of Mailing Lists and Newsgroups ===

=== Ubuntu Official Documents ===
<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/|Start here]]</nowiki> and look for the search box on the top right hand side of any page.

=== Ubuntu Community Documents ===
<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community|Start here]]</nowiki> and look for the search box on the top right hand side of any page.

=== Ubuntu Wiki ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/|Start here]]</nowiki> and look for the search box on the top right hand side of any page.

=== Ubuntu Forums ===
The Ubuntu Forums have a <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/search.php|dedicated advanced search page]]</nowiki> as well as a simple search on the top of any page.

~-with apologies to <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Waylon_Jennings|Waylon Jennings]]</nowiki>-~
