{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


There are many many options for cloning and system backups.  Consider this only a brief introduction to the possibilities.

=== Cloning Installed Software ===
To replicate your packages selection on another machine (or restore it if
re-installing), you can do 
<pre>
aptitude --display-format '%p' search '?installed!?automatic' > ~/my-packages
</pre>
move the file "my-packages" to the other machine, and there type 
<pre>
sudo xargs aptitude --schedule-only install < my-packages ; sudo aptitude install
</pre>

See also <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReinstallingSamePackages|Reinstalling Same Packages]]</nowiki>

=== Complete System Imaging ===
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MondoMindi|Mondo Rescue]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://clonezilla.org|Clonezilla]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://fogproject.org|FOG]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.remastersys.klikit-linux.com|Remastersys]]</nowiki>
* Commercial products like Norton Ghost and Acronis True Image usually handle linux installations fine as well.

=== Backups ===
There are many ways to back your system up.
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BackupYourSystem|Backup Up Your System]]</nowiki> has a somewhat disjointed pile of suggestions and options.
These are commonly used for large installations/enterprises and can be used for home users as well.
* <nowiki>[[http://amanda.zmanda.com/|Amanda]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.bacula.org/|Bacula]]</nowiki>
* http://backuppc.sourceforge.net/
Rsync based tools are handy, quick and can save space when combined with hard links like
* <nowiki>[[http://www.rsnapshot.org/|rsnapshot]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.gnu.org/savannah-checkouts/non-gnu/rdiff-backup/|rdiff-backup]]</nowiki>
And there are many many more options like these
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DuplicityBackupHowto|Duplicity]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HomeUserBackup|Home User Backup]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TimeVault|TimeVault]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://flyback-project.org/|FlyBack]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://backintime.le-web.org/|Back In Time]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryBackupRecovery
