{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



This document belongs to <nowiki>[[..-#The_basics|Manual Full System Encryption (with Extras)]]</nowiki>.

== Description ==

 BIOS::
 :: A system built into the hardware that allows the computer to start up.

 UEFI::
 :: A newer system to replace BIOS.

UEFI stands for Unified Extensible Firmware Interface, often called just EFI for short (for historical reasons). It includes a hardware-based security measure to help protect against malware.

== EFI and this process ==

These instructions pertain to machines with EFI.

If your computer is too old to have EFI, or for some reason you have disabled it, you would need a modified process, and the Boot cannot be encrypted. See <nowiki>[[..-#Advanced_features|Advanced features]]</nowiki>.

== Do I have EFI? ==

=== Windows ===

Press `Win`+`R` and enter `msinfo32`.

In the window that opens, in the right-hand column, look for "BIOS Mode".

* If it says "Legacy", your computer doesn't use EFI and this process won't work.
* If it says "UEFI", your computer uses EFI and you can use this process.

=== Linux ===

1. Open a terminal (`Ctrl`+`T`).

1. Type (or cut-and-paste) the following command.
<pre>
<nowiki>[[ -e -sys-firmware-efi ]]</nowiki> && echo EFI || echo BIOS
</pre>

*** If the result reads "BIOS", your computer doesn't use EFI and this process won't work.

*** If the result reads "EFI", your computer uses EFI and you can use this process.

----

 CategoryInstallation CategorySecurity
