{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



This document belongs to <nowiki>[[..-#The_basics|Manual Full System Encryption (with Extras)]]</nowiki>.

== Requirement ==

Hybrid suspend is an optional feature, and so if you're not interested, please skip this section.

== Description ==

 Suspend::
 :: Sends your computer to a very low-power sleep

 Hibernate::
 :: Powers off the computer completely, but first saves its state (your open applications and work)

 Hybrid suspend::
 :: Sends the computer to sleep, but first saves its state

== Benefits ==

Powering off your computer means that you have to close all applications, and reopen them when you power on. Suspending and hibernating save your state, so that when you return to your computer, you can immediately continue from where you left off.

* ''Suspend'' uses only a tiny amount of power, useful not only to reduce electricity consumption but also to significantly extend battery life on a mobile device (e.g. laptop) when you are not using it. Resuming work from where you left off is almost immediate. However, losing power (whether due to a battery going flat or a general power failure) means that you lose your state.

* ''Hibernate'' uses no power at all. It protects you from losing power, but resuming work from where you left off is much slower than from suspend.

* ''Hybrid suspend'' makes the best of both worlds. It suspends so that you can resume fast, but also saves your state as if hibernating to protect your state in the case of losing power.

== Caveat ==

Not all hardware successfully supports hybrid suspend, and as Ubuntu does not directly support it, this means that it is not guaranteed to work. However, if you choose to try it, the instructions tell you how to enable it, and you can test it on your own machine.

----

 CategoryInstallation CategorySecurity
