{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



This document belongs to <nowiki>[[..-DetailedProcess#The_stages|Manual Full System Encryption (with Extras): Detailed Process]]</nowiki>.

== Explanation ==

You will download and run the script (application) that will:
* Prepare your partitions for the installer
* Run the installer
* Fix problems created by the installer

== Download the application ==

* Open the terminal (`Ctrl`+`T`, or use the menu).

* Copy-and-paste the following command to download the application. Warning: This looks like two lines because of the documentation formatting, but it's in fact just one line. Copy the entire thing and paste it into your terminal.
<pre>
sudo wget --no-verbose --output-document=/usr/local/sbin/encryptinstallation https://www.dropbox.com/s/dmqnzqs1bbp6dm9/encryptinstallation?dl=1
</pre>

* Copy-and-paste the following command to enable the application to run.
<pre>
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/sbin/encryptinstallation
</pre>

* If you are trying to install Ubuntu 18.04, skip this step. But, if you are trying to install Ubuntu 20.04, copy-and-paste the following command.
<pre>
sudo sed --in-place -e 's/luksFormat/luksFormat --type=luks1/' /usr/local/sbin/encryptinstallation
</pre>

== Run the application ==

In a moment, you will start the application. When you do so:
* It will ask you some questions.
* It will prepare your system for the Installer.
* It will start the Installer.
* When it starts the Installer, you will need to <nowiki>[[..-DetailedProcessInstallUbuntu|open the instructions]]</nowiki> (I'll remind you).

So…

Still in the terminal, enter this command:
<pre>
encryptinstallation
</pre>

Answer the questions, and when the Installer starts, <nowiki>[[..-DetailedProcessInstallUbuntu|open the instructions]]</nowiki>.

----

 CategoryInstallation CategorySecurity
