{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



This document belongs to <nowiki>[[..-|Manual Full System Encryption (with Extras)]]</nowiki>.

== Support ==

If you hit a problem that this troubleshooting guide doesn't help, you can ask for support. In all cases, it might be helpful to point to <nowiki>[[..-|these instructions]]</nowiki> so that people know what you are trying to do.

* The <nowiki>[[https://ubuntuforums.org|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki> is a friendly and welcoming place, with a <nowiki>[[https://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=326|section just for beginners]]</nowiki>, or you might prefer the section for <nowiki>[[https://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=333|Installation and Upgrades]]</nowiki>.

* <nowiki>[[https://askubuntu.com/|Ask Ubuntu]]</nowiki>, a member of <nowiki>[[https://stackexchange.com/sites|StackExchange]]</nowiki>, is a no-nonsense Q&A site for Ubuntu-related questions.

== Computer fails to boot after upgrade or new installation ==

On rare occasions, you might find that the computer fails to boot. This can happen if Windows makes a major (not necessarily large) update, or if Grub becomes corrupted in some other way.

# Boot into a Live CD.
# <nowiki>[[..-DetailedProcess#Check_your_keyboard|Check your keyboard]]</nowiki>.
# Open a terminal.
# To unlock your partition, enter the following command. Replace `/dev/SYSTEM_PARTITION` with your '''system partition''', e.g. `/dev/sda5` or `/dev/nvme01n1p5`. You will be prompted for your system passphrase.
    <pre>
    sudo cryptsetup open --type=luks /dev/SYSTEM_PARTITION system
    </pre>
1. Mount your system partition. Replace `/dev/EFI_PARTITION` with your '''EFI System Partition (ESP)''', e.g. `/dev/sda2` or `/dev/nvme01n1p2`.
    <pre>
    sudo mkdir /mnt/root
    sudo mount /dev/mapper/system-root /mnt/root
    sudo mount /dev/mapper/system-boot /mnt/root/boot
    sudo mount /dev/EFI_PARTITION /mnt/root/boot/efi
    </pre>
1. Enter something called `chroot` (don't worry about what it means).
    <pre>
    sudo mount --bind /dev /mnt/root/dev
    sudo mount --bind /run /mnt/root/run
    sudo chroot /mnt/root
    mount --types=proc proc /proc
    mount --types=sysfs sys /sys
    </pre>
1. Fix Grub. This might take a couple of minutes to run.
    <pre>
    refreshgrub
    </pre>
1. Enter the following command.
    <pre>
    exit
    </pre>
1. Close all open windows, and reboot your computer.

=== Still failing to fix the boot? ===

Please see <nowiki>[[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2399092&page=9&p=14063261&viewfull=1#post14063261|this helpful post]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://gist.github.com/lovromazgon/7d0a5b6ac8f7557059a8b97e8442720b|this helpful script]]</nowiki>.

----

 CategoryInstallation CategorySecurity
