{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This small guide explains how to map the Windows key in order to use it as a modifier, under Ubuntu. This guide also shows how to map common Windows Key shortcuts so that the behavior is similar to default Windows functionality. This whole process is accomplished using the 'xmodmap' utility.

First, we will need to edit or create the .xstartup file. This file is run when the GUI is started, and will give persistence to this modification. If the file exists, open your favorite text editor then edit to include the following commands.  If the file does not exist, add the following to a new file and save it to "/home/user/.xstartup".

<pre>
xmodmap -e "remove mod4 = F13"
xmodmap -e "keycode 115 = Super_L"
xmodmap -e "add mod4 = Super_L"
</pre>
'' '''Note''': You can type these three commands directly in a terminal window to test them. If the first command returns  '''commandline:1:  bad remove modifier keysym list (empty)''', then simply delete it or add a # before it to comment it out.''

==== Map Keys ====
In order to create your key shortcuts, you will need to open the Keyboard Shortcuts window from the System > Preferences menu. Click on the shortcut you want to create, then assign your key combination. 

For example, if you want to copy the "Run" dialog box functionality from Windows (Win+R), just click on ''Show the panel run application dialog'', then press Win+R at the same time. 

===== Common Windows Shortcut Key Combinations =====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Key'''
| 
| '''Keyboard Shortcuts Item Name'''
| 
| '''Windows equivalent'''
|-
| Win+R
| 
| Show the panel run application dialog
| 
| Run dialog
|-
| Win+E
| 
| Home Folder
| 
| Windows Explorer (or My Documents)
|-
| Win+L
| 
| Lock Screen
| 
| Lock Screen
|-
| Win+F
| 
| Search
| 
| Search Files or Folders
|-
| Win+M
| 
| Hide all windows and focus desktop
| 
| Minimize all windows, showing desktop
|-
| Win+D
| 
| Hide all windows and focus desktop
| 
| Bring desktop to front, minimizing all windows
|}

----
