{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Содержание'''<<BR>>
|}

<!> Нужно обновить из https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu

== Введение ==

<nowiki>[[http://medibuntu.sos-sts.com/|Medibuntu]]</nowiki> ('''M'''ultimedia, '''E'''ntertainment & '''D'''istractions '''I'''n U'''buntu''') - это репозиторий, содержащий пакеты, которые не могут быть включены в Ubuntu по юридическим причинам (авторские права, лицензионные ограничения, патенты и т.д.).

== Disclaimer ==

Законы о патентах и авторском праве действуют по-разному, в зависимости от той страны, где вы находитесь. Если вы не уверены в особенностях использования закрытых форматов в вашей стране, обратитесь за юридической консультацией.

Посмотрите <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/philosophy|философию свободного ПО]]</nowiki> и страницу FreeFormats для получения подробной информации по этой теме.

== Установка отдельных пакетов ==

Большинству пользователей Ubuntu нужны только некоторые пакеты из репозитория Medibuntu, такие как libdvdcss2 для воспроизведения DVD и неродные кодеки (w32codecs, w64codecs, ppc-codecs). Если вам нужны только они, следуйте следующим инструкциям.

* С помощью броузера зайдите на сайт http://medibuntu.sos-sts.com/repo/pool/.
* Choose the directory labeled as the distribution you are using.

* Click either free or non-free depending on where the package you want to install is located.

* Go into the directory labeled as the architecture you are using.

* Save the package you intend to install to your personal directory on your hard drive.

* Right click on the package you just downloaded.

* Select Ubuntu Package Menu.

* Choose Install Package.

'''Примечание:''' Иногда при просмотре репозитория появляется сообщение "Forbidden". Это известная проблема и мы работаем над этим (смотрите отчёт <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/medibuntu/+bug/104425|Bug #104425]]</nowiki>). Перезагружайте страницу, пока не отобразится её содержимое.

== Свободные и несвободные компоненты ==

Medibuntu has two components for its repository. They are labeled ''free'' and ''non-free''. The free component has the packages for software whose sources are made freely and/or are distributed with an open source license such as the GNU Public License. The non-free component contains software whose sources are not made freely available and/or are distributed with a license that restricts certain ways the software can be distributed.

Software in the free component are not distributed in the Ubuntu repositories because of legal issues with that software in certain countries. Some software such as Amarok and Kaffeine are distributed through the main Ubuntu repositories but with certain functionalities taken away, again because of legal issues. Medibuntu distributes these kind of packages with those functionalities in place.

Software in the non-free component are not distributed in the main Ubuntu repositories because of the licenses that these software are distributed with restricts how they can be distributed. The software in the non-free component are usually not needed for general use as there are alternatives or implementations in other open source licensed software. Some software, such as Google Earth and Adobe Acroreader, are available directly from the company's website that owns the rights to them.

Since the packages in the non-free component are usually not needed, the instructions in the next section will include a step to exclude acquiring package information from the non-free component of the Medibuntu repository.

== Добавление репозиториев ==

Сперва, добавьте gpg ключ Medibuntu в список доверенных поставщиков пакетов.
<pre>
wget -q http://medibuntu.sos-sts.com/repo/medibuntu-key.gpg -O - | sudo apt-key add -
</pre>

Затем, добавьте внешний sources.list от Medibuntu. Убедитесь, что используете правильный sources.list that corresponds to your current distribution.

* Ubuntu 6.06 "'''Dapper''' Drake"
<pre>
sudo wget http://medibuntu.sos-sts.com/sources.list.d/dapper.list -O /etc/apt/sources.list.d/medibuntu.list
</pre>

* Ubuntu 6.10 "'''Edgy''' Eft"
<pre>
sudo wget http://medibuntu.sos-sts.com/sources.list.d/edgy.list -O /etc/apt/sources.list.d/medibuntu.list
</pre>

* Ubuntu 7.04 "'''Feisty''' Fawn"
<pre>
sudo wget http://medibuntu.sos-sts.com/sources.list.d/feisty.list -O /etc/apt/sources.list.d/medibuntu.list
</pre>

* Ubuntu 8.04 "'''Hardy''' Heron"
<pre>
sudo wget http://www.medibuntu.org/sources.list.d/hardy.list -O /etc/apt/sources.list.d/medibuntu.list
</pre>

Чтобы исключить получение пакетов из несвободных разделов репозитория Medibuntu, о которых уже говорилось в предыдущем разделе, введите следующую команду:

<pre>
sudo sed -e 's/ non-free//' -i /etc/apt/sources.list.d/medibuntu.list
</pre>

Наконец, обновите информацию о пакетах:
<pre>
sudo apt-get update
</pre>

== Воспроизведение шифрованных DVD ==

Для воспроизведения шифрованных DVD необходим пакет libdvdcss. libdvdcss - это простая библиотека, предназначенная для доступа к DVD как к блочному устройству, не беспокоясь о расшифровке. Более подробную информацию можно найти на http://www.videolan.org/developers/libdvdcss.html.

Ниже приведены инструкции по установке этого пакета с помощью командной строки.

Если вы подключили репозиторий Medibuntu:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install libdvdcss2
</pre>

Иначе скачайте и установите вручную:
* '''i386'''
<pre>
wget http://medibuntu.sos-sts.com/repo/pool/feisty/free/i386/libdvdcss2_1.2.9-2medibuntu2+build1_i386.deb
sudo dpkg -i libdvdcss2_1.2.9-2medibuntu2+build1_i386.deb
</pre>
* '''amd64'''
<pre>
wget http://medibuntu.sos-sts.com/repo/pool/feisty/free/amd64/libdvdcss2_1.2.9-2medibuntu2+build1_amd64.deb
sudo dpkg -i libdvdcss2_1.2.9-2medibuntu2+build1_amd64.deb
</pre>
* '''powerpc'''
<pre>
wget http://medibuntu.sos-sts.com/repo/pool/feisty/free/powerpc/libdvdcss2_1.2.9-2medibuntu2+build1_powerpc.deb
sudo dpkg -i libdvdcss2_1.2.9-2medibuntu2+build1_powerpc.deb
</pre>

== Playing Non-Native Media Formats ==

There are a few formats such as certain Windows formats, Real, and Apple Quicktime which do not have native codecs under Linux. To work around this issue, external binary codecs are used instead to play these formats. <nowiki>[[http://www.mplayerhq.hu/|MPlayer]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://xinehq.de/|xine]]</nowiki> use such external codecs and these codecs are stored in the MPlayer website in their codecs directory located at http://www.mplayerhq.hu/MPlayer/releases/codecs/.

Medibuntu distributes a package which contains these codecs. The codecs are under the non-free component of the repository. If you followed the directions above to exclude the non-free component, follow the steps again to add the Medibuntu repository to your system's list of APT repositories and skip the step to exclude the non-free component. 

Below are the instructions for installing the packages using the command line. For other methods, please refer to <nowiki>[[InstallingSoftware|Installing Software]]</nowiki>.

If you wish to install just the individual external codecs package, you can first download the individual package and then install the package.

* For '''i386''', the package is called '''w32codecs'''.
<pre>
wget http://medibuntu.sos-sts.com/repo/pool/feisty/non-free/i386/w32codecs_20061022-0medibuntu1+build1_i386.deb
sudo dpkg -i w32codecs_20061022-0medibuntu1+build1_i386.deb
</pre>

* For '''amd64''', the package is called '''w64codecs'''.
<pre>
wget http://medibuntu.sos-sts.com/repo/pool/feisty/non-free/amd64/w64codecs_20061203-0medibuntu1_amd64.deb
sudo dpkg -i w64codecs_20061203-0medibuntu1_amd64.deb
</pre>

* For '''ppc''', the package is called '''ppc-codecs'''.
<pre>
wget http://medibuntu.sos-sts.com/repo/pool/feisty/non-free/powerpc/ppc-codecs_20061022-0medibuntu2_powerpc.deb
sudo dpkg -i ppc-codecs_20061022-0medibuntu2_powerpc.deb
</pre>

If you have added the entire Medibuntu repository, install the package using APT.
* For '''i386''', the package is called '''w32codecs'''.
<pre>
sudo apt-get install w32codecs
</pre>

* For '''amd64''', the package is called '''w64codecs'''.
<pre>
sudo apt-get install w64codecs
</pre>

* For '''ppc''', the package is called '''ppc-codecs'''.
<pre>
sudo apt-get install ppc-codecs
</pre>

* '''NOTE''': This ppc-codecs package is currently only available for edgy and feisty. These codecs are also available from <nowiki>[[http://www.mplayerhq.hu/|MPlayer]]</nowiki> and can be downloaded directly from http://www.mplayerhq.hu/MPlayer/releases/codecs/all-ppc-20061022.tar.bz2.

== Reporting Bugs ==

Medibuntu has its own Launchpad page to report bugs and request features and other enhancements. To report a bug found in any package distributed with Medibuntu, file a bug report at https://launchpad.net/medibuntu/+filebug. 

== Links ==

* http://www.medibuntu.org/ - Medibuntu's Home Page
* https://launchpad.net/medibuntu/ - Medibuntu's Launchpad Page
