{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Parent page <nowiki>[[Evolution]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[PageDiscussion|Discuss this page]]</nowiki>

'''Please note:''' With the introduction of Evolution 2.22 in Ubuntu 8.04 it is now much simpler to migrate Evolution and all it's settins to another computer. With Evolution running see ''File > Backup Settings'' and ''File > Restore Settings''.

== Introduction ==
This document provides a quick guide to how to transfer your email and account settings from one Ubuntu computer to another with Evolution. It has been tested on Evolution versions 2.2 -> 2.4 (Hoary -> Breezy). The same procedure applies if you want to transfer your email from one user to another on the same computer. There is a plugin available for recent versions of evolution that will do this automatically for you, but if this is not available, this guide should do the trick.

=== Explanation ===

Evolution keeps its details in various places inside your home directory (~). The data is kept in <code>~/.evolution</code>, the account details are kept in <code>~/.gconf/apps/evolution</code> and the passwords are kept in <code>~/.gnome2_private/Evolution</code>. So you need to copy all three of these directories, but there is a catch: you need to copy the data while no program is using it.

=== Procedure ===

0. Run these two command on both the source and the target computer (these stop the programs that might interfere with your copy):
** <code>gconftool-2 --shutdown</code>
** <code>evolution --force-shutdown</code>
# Copy the directories <code>~/.evolution</code>, <code>~/.gconf/apps/evolution</code> and <code>~/.gnome2_private/Evolution</code> from the source computer to the same place on the target computer.
# Start Evolution on the target computer (this will automatically start the programs that you stopped in step 1).

Note: Take care not to start any Gnome applications between steps 1 and 2, as these will automatically restart the programs that you want to have stopped.

== See also ==
* <nowiki>[[Evolution]]</nowiki> is the main page about Evolution
* <nowiki>[[MigrateEvolutionToThunderbird]]</nowiki> explains how to migrate from Evolution to Thunderbird.

----
CategoryEmail CategoryInternet
