{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== What is Miro ? ===

Miro is a front-end program used to play internet TV video and RSS feeds such as those from Classic Cartoons, YouTube and Discovery Channel.
It's available for Hardy Heron (8.04) and later.
 
=== Installation ===

==== Set the Source - Jaunty and earlier ====

Add the repository by going to System - Administration - Software Sources, click on the 'Third Party Software' tab. Now click on 'Add' and enter
* for Hardy:    <code>deb http://ftp.osuosl.org/pub/pculture.org/miro/linux/repositories/ubuntu hardy/</code>
* for Intrepid: <code>deb http://ftp.osuosl.org/pub/pculture.org/miro/linux/repositories/ubuntu intrepid/</code>
* for Jaunty:   <code>deb http://ftp.osuosl.org/pub/pculture.org/miro/linux/repositories/ubuntu jaunty/</code>

Click on 'Close' and press 'Reload' when prompted.
Now go to Applications - Accessories - Terminal.

==== Set the Source - Lucid and later ====

Add the repository by going to Applications - Accessories - Terminal and enter the following: 
<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:pcf/miro-releases
</pre> 

==== Install Miro Package ====
Update the apt cache with
<pre>
sudo apt-get update
</pre>
Install the program with
<pre>
sudo apt-get install miro
</pre>
Once complete you now need to reboot the PC and a menu shortcut will be generated (Applications - Sound and Video - Miro Internet TV).

=== Codecs ===

Make sure you have installed the restricted-extras for your version of Ubuntu. In Applications - Accessories - Terminal you can get these as follows, provided you have the multiverse repository activated, (in Software Sources, Ubuntu Software Tab it's shown as 'Software restricted by copyright or legal issues)
* for Ubuntu:  <code>sudo apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extras</code>
* for Kubuntu: <code>sudo apt-get install kubuntu-restricted-extras</code>
* for Xubuntu: <code>sudo apt-get install xubuntu-restricted-extras</code>
These packages may not be available or restrictions on their use may be made for certain countries.

=== License ===

Miro is free for private and personal use. 

=== Useful Links ===

* http://www.getmiro.com/ - home page
* http://www.getmiro.com/using-miro/help/ - get help here.
* https://miroguide.com/ - Miro guide to programs.
* https://miroguide.com/feeds/6443 - the Ubuntu mp3 feed.
----
CategoryMultimedia
