{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<nowiki>[[..-|Return to the main mkusb page]]</nowiki>
-----
== Usage and version - get started ==

'''usage-n-version''' shows text mode outputs, that help you get '''mkusb''' started.

<nowiki>[[attachment:00-usage-n-versions-6.txt]]</nowiki>

== Some screenshots of mkusb 8 ==

=== Work flow ===

The following text screen dumps help illustrate the work flow with a sequence of menus 

<nowiki>[[attachment:01-iso-testing_installing-new-version.txt]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[attachment:02-installing-iso-file.txt]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[attachment:03-installing-compressed-image-file.txt]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[attachment:04-help-mkusb.txt]]</nowiki>

=== Toggle USB only ===

'''toggle-usb-only''' allows you to switch between showing
* only USB drives and
* all drives including internal drives.
Sometimes the target drive is an internal drive or an eSATA drive

<nowiki>[[attachment:05-toggle-usb-only.txt]]</nowiki>

=== Wipe the first megabyte ===

<nowiki>[[attachment:06-wipe-first-megabyte.txt]]</nowiki>

== Installing mkusb in Ubuntu 14.04.1 ==

This dialogue in a terminal window

<nowiki>[[attachment:07-installing-mkusb-in-ubuntu-14.04.1.pdf]]</nowiki>

will '''install mkusb and pv''' if you have previously installed '''Synaptic''' or some other program in order to install the repository (alias source) '''Universe''' or connected to it via the following terminal window command line <nowiki>[[..-install-to-ubuntu-12.04|(another command in Ubuntu 12.04 LTS)]]</nowiki>
<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository universe
</pre>

== Using mkusb-nox ==

The following dialogue in a terminal window will '''run mkusb-nox, start by installing pv''' and then install two iso files into a pendrive (one after another, at the end 'ISO-testing' re-cloning with the daily build.

Running in '''Arch linux''' illustrates that mkusb-nox works in many different linux distros.

<nowiki>[[attachment:08-mkusb-nox-dialogue-with-comments.pdf]]</nowiki>

== Console output of mkusb 10 - live with persistence ==

This text screen dump was made with mkusb version 10.0.1 during installation of Lubuntu live with persistence.

<nowiki>[[attachment:09-mkusb-console.txt]]</nowiki>
-----
<nowiki>[[..-|Return to the main mkusb page]]</nowiki>
