{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[..-|Return to the main mkusb page]]</nowiki>
-----
== Help with testing and critical comments - reply at ==

Please write your test results and comments as a '''reply''' in the thread 
<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1958073|Howto make USB boot drives]]</nowiki> 
at the Ubuntu Forums.
-----
== Testing ==

Please test that it works as expected, looking for

* bugs
* things that can be misunderstood
* things that are not user friendly

== New ways for mkusb to work ==

The release candidate in the PPA '''ppa:mkusb/unstable''' has basically only added eye candy for the old way to work, that was there in the text mode version. Is it enough, or must there be new ways to work to make it work for new users?

=== Starting mkusb ===

Is it OK to run mkusb as a command line tool, where the input file is entered as parameter #1 (the source of the cloning, where the target is the USB drive)?
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#EEFFDD>I found the answer 'No' ... at least many newcomers from Windows or MacOS want menus for as much as possible.
|}

Generally:
<pre>
mkusb path/input.iso
</pre>
Example:
<pre>
mkusb mini.iso
</pre>

Or is it important, that I add an outer layer, with a menu tool to select input file (iso file or compressed image file)?
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#EEFFDD>I found the answer 'Yes', and developed graphical user interface for this purpose
|}

Start via '''dash''' in standard Ubuntu

or via '''Menu -- System -- mkusb''' in the other Ubuntu flavours (Kubuntu, Lubuntu ... Xubuntu).

=== Installing mkusb ===

Now mkusb can be installed via PPA.

* Is the installation via PPA (according to these wiki pages) easy enough?
* Is it important that mkusb is made available from the menu/dash automatically in the installation process?
* Is updating and upgrading to new versions working correctly?
* ...
-----
<nowiki>[[..-|Return to the main mkusb page]]</nowiki>
