{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF0000>
|-
| <#FFAAAA:>Warning
|-
| FakeRAID is not supported by Ubuntu. Doing this could ultimately result in loss of all data.
|}

=== A brief guide, on how to mount windows RAID 0 Volumes in Ubuntu ===

In short Ubuntu uses a program to help it interface with the software raid devices common on many of today's devices.

The way you can make ubuntu (and perhaps other forms of linux) automount your raid volumes every time you log onto Ubuntu (thus bridging the gap between now, and when it is automagically a part of Ubuntu)

 
==== Navigating to your Raid Volumes ====

Open up Terminal, and navigate to where the volumes are represented:

<pre>
cd /dev/mapper
</pre>

==== Examining your Raid Volumes ====

<pre>
dir}}}

to see what your folder looks like (you should see several files of similar name)

==== Examing your Raid Volumes Deeper ====

Get a sense of what each file represents. Generally it will look like xxx_xxxxxxx_VolumeN or xxx.xxxxxxx_VolumeNN.

These represent the Master-Volumes, and the Sub-Volumes they contain. In Example xxx_xxxxxxx_Volume0 contains xxx_xxxxxxx_Volume01, etc. The Sub-Volumes are partitions of the Master-Volume.

Now use fdisk to see what each volume contains:

{{{
fdisk -l xxx_xxxxxxx_VolumeN
</pre>

==== Making Sure NTFS-3g is Installed ====

Make sure you have NTFS-3g, even though you most likely already have it.

<pre>
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install ntfs-3g
</pre>

==== Mounting your Raid Volumes ====

Make sure you know who you are mounting to where.

First create where you would like these to mount to:

<pre>
sudo mkdir /mount
</pre>

<pre>
sudo mkdir /mount/[whatevernamehere]
</pre>
(without the brackets of course)

etc, until you have created as many directories for as many partitions as you want to mount.

Now make sure they mount, they will if you have the right partition selected, so if it doesn't work, try a different partition, or make sure you are using sudo first (gives you root permission)

<pre>
sudo mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/mapper/xxx_xxxxxxx_VolumeNN /mount/[whatevernamehere]
</pre>

If it doesn't return any text, it mounted.

Check the directory by going to it, and seeing what's inside.

<pre>
cd /mount/[whatevernamehere]
</pre>

<pre>
dir
</pre>

Test mounting all the drives you want to mount, this way you double check that you know which partition to direct fstab (the config file for the automounter) towards.

==== Making your Raid Volumes Automount with Fstab, with all the data we have collected ====

Edit Fstab to automount these drives for you on Start-Up

<pre>
sudo nano /etc/fstab
</pre>
{you can use any text editor here, that you like, in favour of nano}

add lines that look like this in the bottom

"/dev/mapper/xxx_xxxxxxxxxx_Volume01       /mount/[whatevernamehere] ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0"

Next time you start up, your partitions should be mounted.

{*} '''Please contribute your lessons learned here.'''

----
CategoryHardware CategoryInstallation CategoryInstallation CategoryInstallation
