{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Parent page: <nowiki>[[Programming|Programming Applications]]</nowiki>

== Introduction ==
The Mozart Programming System is an advanced development platform for intelligent, distributed applications. The system is the result of a decade of research in programming language design and implementation, constraint-based inference, distributed computing, and human-computer interfaces. As a result, Mozart is unequalled in expressive power and functionality. Mozart has an interactive incremental development environment and a production-quality implementation for Unix and Windows platforms. Mozart is the fruit of an ongoing research collaboration by the Mozart Consortium.

Mozart is based on the Oz language, which supports declarative programming, object-oriented programming, constraint programming, and concurrency as part of a coherent whole. For distribution, Mozart provides a true network transparent implementation with support for network awareness, openness, and fault tolerance. Mozart supports multi-core programming with its network transparent distribution and is an ideal platform for both general-purpose distributed applications as well as for hard problems requiring sophisticated optimization and inferencing abilities. We have developed many applications including sophisticated collaborative tools, multi-agent systems, and digital assistants, as well as applications in natural language understanding and knowledge representation, in scheduling and time-tabling, and in placement and configuration.
(<nowiki>[[http://www.mozart-oz.org/|source]]</nowiki>)

== Installing Mozart 2 ==

You may want to first uninstall Mozart 1 if you have alreay installed it.
To do that, open a terminal and run
<pre>
sudo dpkg -r mozart mozart-stdlib
</pre>
=== Installation Instructions for Ubuntu 64-bit ===
The <nowiki>[[http://www.mozart-oz.org/download/view.cgi?action=debian&version=1.4.0|official website of Mozart]]</nowiki>
suggests installing the package `mozart`, `mozart-doc` and `mozart-stdlib` from the Ubuntu Software Center.
'''Don't do that''' if you're running a 64-bit version of Ubuntu.
These package are broken for this architecture.

Instead, follow the instructions below

* Install <nowiki>[[apt:emacs|GNU-Emacs]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[apt:tcl8.5|tcl8.5]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[apt:tk8.5|tk8.5]]</nowiki>.

* Download the latest deb file <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/mozart-oz/files/v2.0.0-alpha.0/|here]]</nowiki>. If you are on Ubuntu 64 bit, it should end by `-amd64.deb`. `amd64` is a synonym for `x86_64`, the 64 bit version of the Architecture `x86` used by the AMD and Intel processor that are on almost all personal computers these days. At the time of writer, the name of the file is `mozart2-2.0.0~alpha0+build.3777.62f3ec5-amd64.deb`. If you are on Ubuntu 32 bits, it should end by `-i386.deb` where `i386` is another name for `x86` (more info <nowiki>[[http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2144875/i386-different-from-x86|here]]</nowiki> if you are curious).

* Open your file manager (i.e. ''Nautilus'') and double click on the downloaded file. It will open it with the ''Ubuntu Software Center''. If it does not, right click on the file and choose "Open With Other Application..." and then select the Ubuntu Software Center.

* The ''Ubuntu Software Center'' will say "Only install this file if you trust the origin.", this is normal. Click the Install button, authenticate as asked and wait for the installation to proceed. If it complains about dependency problem, check that you have correctly done the point 1. of this section.

== Installing Mozart 1.4.0 ==
=== Installation Instructions for Ubuntu 64-bit ===
The <nowiki>[[http://www.mozart-oz.org/download/view.cgi?action=debian&version=1.4.0|official website of Mozart]]</nowiki>
suggests installing the package `mozart`, `mozart-doc` and `mozart-stdlib` from the Ubuntu Software Center.
'''Don't do that''' if you're running a 64-bit version of Ubuntu.
These package are brocken for this architecture.

Instead, follow the instructions below

* Install <nowiki>[[apt:ia32-libs|the "ia32-libs" package]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[apt:libx11-6:i386|the 32-bit "libx11-6" package (i.e. "libx11-6:i386")]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[apt:libgmp10:i386|the 32-bit "libgmp10" package (i.e. "libgmp10:i386")]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[apt:emacs|GNU-Emacs]]</nowiki>.

* Download <nowiki>[[attachment:mozart_1.4.0-8.1~matttbe0_amd64.deb|this deb file]]</nowiki>.

* Open your file manager (i.e. ''Nautilus'') and double click on the downloaded file. It will open it with the ''Ubuntu Software Center''. If it does not, right click on the file and choose "Open With Other Application..." and then select the Ubuntu Software Center.

* The ''Ubuntu Software Center'' will say "Only install this file if you trust the origin.", this is normal. Click the Install button, authenticate as asked and wait for the installation to proceed. If it complains about dependency problem, check that you have correctly done the point 1. of the section '''Installation Instructions for Ubuntu 64-bit''' of this wiki.

* To install the remaining part of the Mozart standard library, install <nowiki>[[apt:mozart-stdlib|the "mozart-stdlib" package]]</nowiki>. You can also get the doc by installing <nowiki>[[apt:mozart-doc|the "mozart-doc" package]]</nowiki>.

=== Installation Instructions for Ubuntu 32-bit ===
'''Warning: if you are using a 64-bit version of Ubuntu, see the appropriate section above !'''

As suggested by the <nowiki>[[http://www.mozart-oz.org/download/view.cgi?action=debian&version=1.4.0|official website of Mozart]]</nowiki>, simply install <nowiki>[[apt:mozart|the "mozart" package]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[apt:mozart-stdlib|the "mozart-stdlib" package]]</nowiki>.
You can also get the doc by installing <nowiki>[[apt:mozart-doc|the "mozart-doc" package]]</nowiki>.

=== Troubleshooting ===

==== Graphics Engine (tk.exe) crashed or could not be started ====
If you get the following error message
<pre>
Graphics Engine (tk.exe) crashed or could not be started
</pre>
when launching Mozart.
That's maybe because you are missing one of the three 32-bit packages you '''had''' to install.
So check you have installed <nowiki>[[apt:ia32-libs|the "ia32-libs" package]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[apt:libx11-6:i386|the 32-bit "libx11-6" package (i.e. "libx11-6:i386")]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[the apt:libgmp10:i386|32-bit "libgmp10" package (i.e. "libgmp10:i386")]]</nowiki>.

However, even if you do that, you may still end up with the same problem.
If you go to `/usr/lib/mozart/platform/unknown-unknown$` and type:
<pre>
linux32 ./tk.exe
</pre>
and you get something like
<pre>
./tk.exe: error while loading shared libraries: libtk8.4.so.0: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64
</pre>
That means `tk.exe` is still finding the wrong arch library.
I managed to fix it by making a symbolic link in `/usr/lib/mozart/platform/unknown-unknown/lib` to the libraries installed by this package in `/usr/lib32`.
Hope this helps, it worked for me.

==== Could not link module ====
If you get an error like the following
<pre>
%********************** Error: module manager *******************
%**
%** Could not link module
%**
%** Could not load functor at URL: x-oz://system/wp/QTk.ozf
%**--------------------------------------------------------------
</pre>
you are likelly to be missing some part of the Mozart standard library.
Make sure you have installed <nowiki>[[apt:mozart-stdlib|the "mozart-stdlib" package]]</nowiki>
as recommended above.

== External Links ==

For more information about Mozart see the following links

* < http://www.mozart-oz.org/ > - Mozart - Mozart official website.
* < http://www.mozart-oz.org/download/view.cgi?action=debian&version=1.4.0 > - Mozart Help - Mozart official page for Ubuntu with the broken package reference.

----
CategoryInstallation
