{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#FFF280"> {i} Multimedia is part of the UserDocumentation series of index pages.  Please read the WikiGuide prior to making changes.
|}

=== General Multimedia Support ===

* <nowiki>[[RestrictedFormats|Restricted Formats]]</nowiki> - How to get MP3, DVD and other formats to play.
* <nowiki>[[MultimediaApplications|Multimedia Applications]]</nowiki> - The most commonly used sound and video applications available on Ubuntu.

=== Listening to Music ===

* <nowiki>[[CDRipping|CD Ripping]]</nowiki> - Copying your audio CDs to your computer
* <nowiki>[[AudioCDCreation|Audio CD Creation]]</nowiki> - Make audio CDs
* <nowiki>[[RestrictedFormats-iTunesMusicStore|iTunes Music Store]]</nowiki> - Accessing the iTunes Music Store in Ubuntu
* <nowiki>[[RestrictedFormats-MP3|MP3 Playback]]</nowiki> - Listen to MP3 music files

=== Watching Videos and DVDs ===

* <nowiki>[[RestrictedFormats-PlayingDVDs|Playing DVDs]]</nowiki> - help on enabling DVD playback
* <nowiki>[[RestrictedFormats-StreamingVideo|Play Streaming Video from the Internet]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[iPodVideo|iPod Video]]</nowiki> - Using an iPod Video with Ubuntu

=== Recording Audio ===

* <nowiki>[[AudioCapture|Audio Capture]]</nowiki> - Making your Microphone Work
* <nowiki>[[MidiSoftwareSynthesisHowTo|Creating Music with MIDI Software]]</nowiki> - Setup MIDI sound using Timidity.
* <nowiki>[[ThirdPartyAudioApplicationTutorials|Third-party audio application tutorials]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[HowToRipRealaudioStreamsToMp3|Convert RealAudio to MP3]]</nowiki>

=== Recording Video ===

* <nowiki>[[DVDAuthoring|DVD Authoring]]</nowiki> - Creating DVDs.
* <nowiki>[[Transcoding|Converting video files]]</nowiki> - Converting video or audio from one codec or format to another.
* <nowiki>[[HowToCaptureDigitalVideo|Capturing Digital Video]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Firewire]]</nowiki> - Information on getting Firewire devices working in Ubuntu
* <nowiki>[[Webcam]]</nowiki> - Using webcams in Ubuntu

=== Editing Video ===
* <nowiki>[[kdenlive]]</nowiki> - Installing and using a video editing application
* <nowiki>[[Veejay]]</nowiki> - Installing and using a VJ application
 
=== Capture Streaming Media ===

* <nowiki>[[CaptureRTSP]]</nowiki> - Capture RTSP Stream.

=== Configuring Audio and Video Hardware ===

* <nowiki>[[Sound]]</nowiki> - Collection of pages related to sound
* <nowiki>[[AudioCapture|Audio Capture]]</nowiki> - Making your Microphone Work
* <nowiki>[[DebuggingSoundProblems|Debugging Sound Problems]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[SurroundSound|Surround Sound]]</nowiki> - Using surround sound in specific applications.
* <nowiki>[[BluetoothAudio|Using a Bluetooth Headset]]</nowiki> 

=== Ripping and Playing Karaoke ===

* <nowiki>[[CDGRipping|CDG Ripping]]</nowiki> - Copying Karaoke CD's to your computer

=== Other Topics ===

* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntustudio.org/|Ubuntu Studio]]</nowiki> - A version of Ubuntu dedicated to audio, video and graphics production
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio]]</nowiki> User Documentation
* <nowiki>[[TheGimpHowto|Editing Images with The Gimp]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[TextToSpeech|Text to Speech]]</nowiki>
