{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==

'''Mutt''' is a small but very powerful text-based mail client for Unix operating systems.  It is great for testing mail server setups and sending email messages via the command line.

== Installation ==

Mutt has '''mail-transport-agent''' as a dependency which means if you don't have a Mail Transport Agent installed on your system and you install Mutt an MTA will also be installed, <nowiki>[[Postfix]]</nowiki> being the default.  If you want to install a different MTA than Postfix, <nowiki>[[Exim4]]</nowiki> for example, you will need to install the package before installing Mutt.

If you don't need a full fledged and feature full MTA, but want to send messages using Mutt a good substitute is the '''ssmtp''' package in the Universe repository.  
'''SSMTP''' can be configured to send mail to a proper MTA or mail hub.

'''Mutt''' can be installed from the Main repository see InstallingSoftware for details.

== Sending Messages Via CLI ==

Once you have Mutt and a MTA installed sending messages via command line or bash script is simple.

For example:

<pre>
echo "Test" | mutt -s Hello user@example.com
</pre>

The above command will send a message to ''user@example.com'' with the subject of "Hello" '''(the -s)''' and the word "Test" in the message body.

== SSMTP configuration ==

This section will provide instructions on using the '''ssmtp''' package to deliver mail to another MTA.

The SSMTP configuration file is <code>/etc/ssmtp/ssmtp.conf</code> edit the following options:

<pre>
mailhub=mta.example.com
hostname=your_local_machine
</pre>

That should do it, just make sure that you are allowed to relay messages through the host configured in the '''mailhub''' option.

=== SSMTP with SMTP AUTH ===

Here are some options you can configure if the '''mailhub''' you are using requires authentication in order to relay messages:

<pre>
AuthUser=username
AuthPass=password
UseTLS=YES
UseSTARTTLS=YES
</pre>

You may not need the ''UseTLS'' and ''UseSTARTTLS'' options.  Use these options to configure TLS encryption with the MTA (usually a good idea).

'''Note:''' this guide has been tested on Ubuntu 6.06 (Dapper), Ubuntu 7.06 (Feisty), and Ubuntu 7.10 (Gutsy).
----
CategoryEmail
