{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== installation on Ubuntu 11.10 ===
Temporary fix until Oracle fix it:

<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:olivier-berten/misc
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install mysql-workbench-gpl
</pre>

=== Installation on Ubuntu 10.10 ===
The official MySQL site includes DEB packages for the latest versions of both WorkBench and Ubuntu, in 32 and 64 bits:  

<nowiki>[[http://www.mysql.com/downloads/workbench/#downloads]]</nowiki>

"Ubuntu Linux" in an option in the platform dropdown list.  

=== Installation on Ubuntu 10.04 LTS - the Lucid Lynx ===

Download the ubuntu package from the <nowiki>[[http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/workbench/|MySQL web site]]</nowiki>
<pre>
sudo apt-get install libctemplate0 libzip1 python-pysqlite2 mysql-client python-crypto python-paramiko
sudo dpkg -i mysql-workbench-gpl-5.2.27-1ubu1004-i386.deb
</pre>

''You can check the full dependencies list by using apt-rdepends (sudo apt-get install apt-rdepends to install it)''

Then, you have MySQL Workbench listed under "Applications > Programming".

=== Previous Ubuntu version ===
As of this writing (November 2009), MySQL Workbench can be easily installed on Ubuntu/Gnome. Just <nowiki>[[http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/workbench/|download the binary .deb file from the MySQL web site for workbench]]</nowiki> (currently named mysql-workbench-oss-5.1.18-1ubu904-i386.deb), save it to your home directory. Then run:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install liblua5.1-0 libzip1 libmysqlclient15off python-pexpect
sudo dpkg -i mysql-workbench-oss-5.1.18-1ubu904-i386.deb (adapt the name accordingly)
</pre>

Then, you have MySQL Workbench listed under "Applications > Programming".

/*
I think this could be removed.

If you get this error when trying to connect to your local MySQL database:
<pre>
Couldn't load library libmysqlclient_r.so:
libmysqlclient_ro.so: cannot open shared
object file: No such file or directory"
</pre>

Create a symbolic link like so:
<pre>
sudo ln -sf /usr/lib/libmysqlclient_r.so.16.0.0 /usr/lib/libmysqlclient_r.so
</pre>

<nowiki>[[http://bugs.mysql.com/bug.php?id=47152|Bug #47152]]</nowiki>. 
------------------------------------------------------

These are the previous notes left for history purpose:

My notes on installing MySqlWorkBench.

As far as I can tell, no one has started working on packaging it.

<pre>
sudo apt-get install build-essential liblualib50-dev libglade2-dev libxml++2.6-dev libgtkmm-2.4-dev libpcre3-dev libmysqlclient15-dev uuid-dev libglut3-dev

 wget http://dev.mysql.com/get/Downloads/MySQLGUITools/mysql-gui-tools-5.0r5.tar.gz/from/http://mysql.mirrors.hoobly.com/

tar -xzvf mysql-gui-tools-5.0r5.tar.gz

cd  mysql-gui-tools-5.0r5/mysql-gui-common
./configure --enable-grt --enable-canvas
make
make install

cd ../mysql-workbench
./configure
make
make install

mysql-workbench 
</pre>

It runs.  it segfaulted on me in the fist 5 min of playing.  so play on backup data.  here is a line to dump all databases (except the system one) from one server:

<pre>
mysql -u root -pfoo -Bqse 'SHOW dATABASES'  | grep -Ev '^mysql$' | while read db ; do mysqldump  -uroot -pfoo --databases $db ; done >all_databases.sql 

sudo apt-get install mysql-server-5.0
mysql -u root < all_databases.sql 

</pre>
----
from the mail list:

The "extra requirements"  for mysql-gui-common (when you want support for the Generic Canvas and the GRT) include uuid-dev package and several others, as described here:
 http://forge.mysql.com/wiki/Building_MySQL_GUI_Tools_on_Linux

I then came across this post which depressed me at first:
 http://www.monkeyhelper.com/2006/07/mysql_workbench_and_ubuntu_dap.html

However, I was able to get completed builds on everything using the SVN trunk
revisions for my Ubuntu 6.06 LTS (Dapper) (on both my i386 and also on my AMD64/x86_64 host) by doing as follows:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install subversion autoconf automake1.9 libtool

svn co http://svn.mysql.com/svnpublic/mysql-gui-common/trunk mysql-gui-common
cd mysql-gui-common
sh ./autogen.sh --enable-grt --enable-canvas
make
sudo make install
cd ..

svn co http://svn.mysql.com/svnpublic/mysql-administrator/trunk mysql-administrator
cd mysql-administrator
sh ./autogen.sh
make
sudo make install
cd ..

sudo apt-get install libgtkhtml3.8-dev 

$ ls /usr/lib/pkgconfig/libgtk*

$ svn co http://svn.mysql.com/svnpublic/mysql-query-browser/trunk mysql-query-browser
$ cd mysql-query-browser
$ sh ./autogen.sh --with-gtkhtml=libgtkhtml-3.8
$ make
$ sudo make install
$ cd ..

svn co http://svn.mysql.com/svnpublic/mysql-workbench/trunk mysql-workbench
cd mysql-workbench
sh ./autogen.sh
make
sudo make install
cd ..

svn co http://svn.mysql.com/svnpublic/mysql-migration-tool/trunk/ mysql-migration-tool
cd mysql-migration-tool

</pre>

I'll clean this up as I go.
----
Some more notes (new user)

I'm trying this on using the directions up top. 

While trying to compile the tools I get the following: 

 g++ -DHAVE_CONFIG_H -I. -I. -I../../.. -I/usr/include/mysql -DBIG_JOINS=1 -fPIC -I/usr/include/glib-2.0 -I/usr/lib/glib-2.0/include -I/usr/include/libxml2 -I/usr/include/freetype2 -DDLOAD_JVM -I/usr/include/lua50 -I../../../library/base-library/include -I../../../library/utilities/include -I../../../library/utilities/shared_include -I../../../library/generic-runtime/include -I../../../library/generic-canvas/include -I../../../library/generic-canvas/ftgl/include -DENABLE_LUA_MODULES -I../include -MT GraphRenderer.lo -MD -MP -MF .deps/GraphRenderer.Tpo -c GraphRenderer.cpp  -fPIC -DPIC -o .libs/GraphRenderer.o
GraphRenderer.cpp: In member function 'void GraphRenderer::recalc_outer_rect()':
GraphRenderer.cpp:432: error: 'INT_MAX' was not declared in this scope
GraphRenderer.cpp:434: error: 'INT_MIN' was not declared in this scope

It appears these used to be warnings, but that changed in g++-4.3.

Compiling with g++4.2 I get other errors. 
* /
