{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Available Plugins ==

''' mythplugins'''

This package will install '''''all''''' of the MythTV plugins.

'''mythbrowser'''

Mythbrowser is an integrated web browser plugin for your MythTV system.

'''mythcontrols'''

External controls for MythTV.  This will allow you to modify button mappings and key bindings.

'''mythflix'''

MythFlix allows you to monitor your Netflix dvd rental queue.

'''mythdvd'''

MythDVD provides an interface for launching your preferred DVD player from
MythTV, and also supports transcoding DVDs into audio/video streams which
can be played by MythVideo, using the transcode package.

'''mythgallery'''

MythGallery allows you to visually browse a directory tree containing image
files. It can display any image file format supported by Qt, and supports
image rotation and simple slideshows.

'''mythgame'''

MythGame can be used as a frontend to start any emulator or binary that your host OS
runs.

'''mythmusic'''

MythMusic provides a digital audio jukebox integrated with MythTV. It
supports Ogg Vorbis, FLAC and MP3 streams, displays visualizations, and can
also encode new Ogg Vorbis or FLAC streams from audio CDs using a CD-ROM
drive.

'''mythnews'''

MythNews is an RSS feed news reader plugin for MythTV that keeps you up-to-date on your favorite news topics

'''mythphone'''

Mythphone is a phone and videophone capability on MYTH using the standard
SIP protocol. It is compatible with Microsoft XP Messenger (see caveat
below) and with SIP Service Providers such as Free World Dialup
(fwd.pulver.com).

'''mythvideo'''

MythVideo allows you to browse and play video streams, using an external
player, from within the MythTV interface.

'''mythweather'''

MythWeather displays current and forecast weather information within
MythTV.

'''mythweb'''

MythWeb provides a web interface which can be used to view listings,
schedule recordings, delete recordings, and search for programs. It can
also browse mythmusic's music database, and may eventually support playing
music streams as well.

'''mytharchive'''

MythArchive is a plugin for MythTV that lets you create DVDs from your
recorded shows, MythVideo files and any video files available on your
system. It can also archive recordings in a proprietary format that
archives not only the file but also all the associated metadata like title,
description and cut list information which will mean you can create backups
of myth recordings which can later be restored or it will also allow you to
move recordings between myth systems without losing any of the metadata. It
is a complete rewrite of the old MythBurn bash scripts, now using python,
and the mythfrontend UI plugin.

'''mytharchive-data'''

The supporting data file for mytharchive.  Mytharchive won't function without this.
