{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== This Page is under construction ==

== Installation and Setup ==
Install the mythnews plugin:
<pre>
$ sudo apt-get install mythnews
</pre>
Choose your RSS feeds:
* Start the mythfrontend and navigate to '''Utilities/Setup --> Setup --> Info Center Settings --> News Settings''' and select the feeds you would like to read.

== Basic Usage ==
To use MythNews go to '''Information Center --> News Feeds'''
* Navigation:
** Use up and down arrows to move through the list of news feeds.
** Select a news feed with the right arrow.
** Browse cached articles with the up and down arrows.
** Use the left arrow to return to the feeds list.
* Update an un-updated feed with "I" (This information may not be correct)
* Adding, Editing, Deleting a feed
** Press "M" to open the MythNews Menu
** Select from "Edit News Site", "Add News Site", or "Delete News Site"
== Updating news-sites.xml to latest ==
All RSS feed information is stored in a file calles news-sites.xml.  The version of this file provided with the Ubuntu repository packed is a bit dated.  To update to the latest version:
<pre>
$ cd /usr/share/mythtv/mythnews
$ sudo mv news-sites.xml news-sites.xml_backup
$ sudo svn co http://svn.mythtv.org/svn/trunk/mythplugins/mythnews/mythnews/
$ sudo cp mythnews/news-sites.xml .
$ sudo rm -r mythnews
</pre>

== Purging Feed Data ==
The feeds you choose during setup are stored in the "newssites" table of the mythconverg database.  The article information is stored in the home directory of the user who runs mythfronted in this directory:
<pre>
~/.mythtv/MythNews/
</pre>
To purge MythNews data and cached articles:
1. Drop the newssites table.  From the '''Backend''' machine:
<pre>
$ mysql -u root -p
mysql> DROP TABLE mythconverg.newssites;
mysql> exit
</pre>
1. Delete cached articles.  From the '''Frontend''' machine:
<pre>
$ cd ~/.mythtv/MythNews
$ rm *
</pre>
1. Start the mythfrontend and navigate to '''Utilities/Setup --> Setup --> Info Center Settings --> News Settings''' and select the feeds you would like to read. 

== Known Issues ==
* The default install package has some obsolete feed addresses (ie: Computers --> Ubuntu News)
* Not all RSS feeds can be accessed by MythNews (ie: http://www.digg.com/rss/index.xml)
----
