{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Video Cards ===
Out of the box, Ubuntu includes support for video cards via open source drivers.  You may want to enable the proprietary drivers for your graphics card if you are looking for better 3D acceleration (especially if you want to use the OpenGL effects of mythfrontend), or if you are looking to use TV-Out support for your graphics card.

==== ATI/AMD Graphics Cards ====
If you have an ATI/AMD graphics card that is generally newer than a Radeon 9000, you can use the proprietary graphics driver.

This guide is loosely based upon the guide at https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI:

 1) Install the driver:
<pre>
</pre>
 2) Make sure that fglrx isn't in the  DISABLED_MODULES list in /etc/default/linux-restricted-modules-common.

 3) Update module dependencies
  <pre>
</pre>
 '''If you don't have xorg installed yet, do these steps after installing xorg (later in the guide)'''

 5) Configure xorg for your card.
<pre>
</pre>
 6) Disabled the Composite extension since it isn't yet supported by ATI/AMD graphics cards.  Edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
  <pre>
</pre>
  Add this to the bottom:
<pre>
Section "Extensions"
        Option      "Composite" "0"
EndSection
</pre>

 7) Switch to Virtual Terminal 1 (CTRL-ALT-F1) and Restart GDM/KDM (whichever you will be using)
<pre>
</pre>
  or
  <pre>
</pre>

 8) Test to see if the driver loaded properly.
<pre>
</pre>
  If you see output similar to this, things are working properly:
   <pre>
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: RADEON 9700 Generic
OpenGL version string: 2.0.5755 (8.24.8)
</pre>
  If you see output similar to this, things aren't working properly:
<pre>
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: www.mesa3d.org
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.2 (1.5 Mesa 6.4.1)
</pre>

If GDM/KDM hasn't started or isn't properly working
See
<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI]]</nowiki>, the forums, and #ubuntu for more help.

==== Nvidia Graphics Cards ====
Nvidia provides a list of cards that supported by their proprietary drivers at http://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/1.0-8762/README/appendix-a.html. See if your card is supported by the ordinary or the legacy drivers.

This guide is loosely based on the guide at https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia.

 1) Install the appropriate driver for your card
<pre>
</pre>
  or
  <pre>
</pre>

 2) Make sure that the nv isn't disbled:
<pre>
   </pre>
if you see:
     <pre>
DISABLED_MODULES="nv"
     </pre>
make it:
     <pre>
DISABLED_MODULES=""
     </pre>

 3) Update module dependencies
  <pre>
</pre>

 '''If you don't have xorg installed yet, do these steps after installing xorg (later in the guide)'''

 4) Enable the driver
<pre>
</pre>
 5) Switch to Virtual Terminal 1 (CTRL-ALT-F1) and Restart GDM/KDM (whichever you will be using)
  <pre>
</pre>
  or
  <pre>
</pre>
 6) If you see the NVIDIA Splash Screen, things have worked correctly.  Otherwise, you will need to troubleshoot further.

See <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia]]</nowiki>, the forums, or #ubuntu for additional assistance.

==== PVR-350 Video Output ====
If you are using a PVR-350, video output can be enabled on this card via this howto:

<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MythTV_Edgy_hardware_pvr-350_TV-out|X running on PVR-350 out click here.]]</nowiki>
