{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Install MythTV ===
A backend will need to have mysql-server installed as well as mythtv-backend.  Mythtv-backend doesn't depend on mysql-server since the mysql server can be located elsewhere on your network.  Also, if this is a secondary backend, don't install mythtv-database or mysql-server.  Just configure this backend to connect to the master backend instead.

 1. Install the mythtv software.

** From Synaptic Package Manager, Search for mysql.  Choose '''mysql-server'''.   Search for mythtv.  Choose '''mythtv-frontend''', '''mythtv-backend''', and '''mythtv-database'''.  Press the apply button and mythtv will be installed.

** Behind the scenes, a mythtv user will be created in PAM as well as mysql.  The database will be installed into mysql and the initial configuration performed.

** You will be asked for the password to the root account of mysql.  By default, there is no password.

 2. 
 3. 
 4. 
 4. 
 5. 
 6. 
 7. Test the Frontend.  Once your backend is fully configured and running, launch the frontend from a terminal window.

  <pre>
mythfrontend
</pre>

 Just watch for any error messages in the terminal.  As long as this is free from errors, you can launch from the icon in the Sound & Video group from now on.
