{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== MythTV DVB-S HowTo ==

Getting DVB-S working in <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MythTV|MythTV]]</nowiki> with Ubuntu (Mythbuntu) 12.04. Tested with the following card:
** Hauppauge Nova-S Plus

== mythtv-setup ==

At the end of the <nowiki>[[http://www.mythbuntu.org|Mythbuntu]]</nowiki> installation process <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MythTV/Install/mythtv-setup|mythtv-setup]]</nowiki> should start. If not, you can enter "mythtv-setup" in an terminal or click it in the Application menu.

Add DVB-S card, as card type choose: '''DVB DTV TV-Card (v3.x)'''.

As Frontend ID there should be some autodetected text, for '''Hauppauge Nova-S Plus''' it is: '''Conexant CX24123/CX24109 Subtype: DVB-S''' .

For video source you can use '''Transmitted guide only (EIT)''' .

Input connections: '''Dvb''' , Video source: '''EIT''' , '''Scan for channels'''

For '''Astra 19.2E''' you need these settings: 

* frequency: 12551000

* symbolrate: 22000000

* polarity: Vertical

for the full scan. 

For '''Hotbird''' (not tested): 

* frequency: 12539000

* symbolrate: 27500000

* polarity: horizontal

If you do a 'complete scan of all transponders' and 'search new transports' activated, you will find 1145 channels in april 2012 if you include encrypted ones.

== alternative scan for channels in console ==

If the scan in ''mythtv-setup'' doesn't work, do it by hand:

Go to a console, e.g. by typing Strg-Alt-F1 (Ctrl-ALt-F1), log in and type:
<pre>
sudo service mythtv-backend stop
cd
scan /usr/share/dvb/dvb-s/Astra-19.2E > channels.conf 
</pre> 
(not dvbscan anymore)

If you have more than one adapter and your Nova-S is for example adapter1, type
<pre>
sudo scan -a 1 /usr/share/dvb/dvb-s/Astra-19.2E > channels.conf
</pre>
If you want another satellite than Astra, just ls in this directory and choose the one that fits for you. 
You should see a lot of channels running through you screen. The channels.conf should be in your home-directory after scanning.

To start it all again type
<pre>
sudo service mythtv-backend start
mythfrontend
</pre>

Now you can import your new channels.conf in ''mythtv-setup'' instead of scanning for channels there.
----
CategoryHardware
