{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==

MythImport  is  a  Perl script that can be used to add recordings to an "on the go" backend.

== Installation ==

To get the latest version you will need to enable the Mythbuntu Testing Repository (see Testing Packages section):
http://www.mythbuntu.org/testingandreporting

Install MythImport
<pre>
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install mythimport
</pre>

== Options ==
input - Input directory where exported recordings and sql live.
output - Output directory, use this if you want to transfer the recordings to a different directory.
cleanup - Specify what files to delete  upon  sucess  (available  options: all, recordings, sql).

== Examples ==
<pre>
mythimport input=/mnt/usb/mythtv/ output=/var/lib/mythtv/recordings/ cleanup=all
</pre>

== Troubleshooting ==
If you get an error about config.xml missing, this can normally be found in the home directory of the user who runs your MythTV Fronend, and can be fixed by creating a symlink in mythtv's home directory (because that is the user who runs the daemon).  By default most of these symlinks should exist if you are running Jaunty or using the weekly builds, if you run into problems it is always a safe bet to make sure the config.xml exists in the following places:
<pre>
* * These are especially important when using the RSS feature or running as a user job **
/home/%your_user_account%/.mythtv
/root/.mythtv
/home/mythtv/.mythtv
</pre>
----
