{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Install MythTV ===
The majority of the rest of the work should be handled by debian packaging.

A backend will need to have mysql-server installed as well as mythtv-backend.  Mythtv-backend doesn't depend on mysql-server since the mysql server can be located elsewhere on your network.  

 1. Install the mythtv software.
  ''Note:'' If this is a secondary backend, don't install mythtv-database or mysql-server.  Just configure this backend to connect to the master backend instead.  

** From Synaptic Package Manager, Search for <code>mysql-server</code>.  Choose '''mysql-server'''.   Search for <code>mythtv-</code>.  Choose '''mythtv-backend''', and '''mythtv-database'''.  Press the apply button and mythtv will be installed.

** Behind the scenes, a mythtv user will be created in PAM as well as mysql for database use.  The database will be installed into mysql and the initial configuration performed.  Also a mythtv group will be made.  All users that you want to have access to mythtv configuration or usage need to be in this group.

** You will be asked for the password to the root account of mysql.  By default, there is '''no''' password.

 2. 
 3. 
 4. 
 5. 
 6. 
 7.  
 8. Remotely test your frontend.  Since you won't be installing the frontend locally, you will need to configure your frontend to properly connect to this backend to test its functionality.
