{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Installation and Setup ===
On your frontend machine: (you will need to do this step on each frontend you want to use mythflix on)
<pre>
$ sudo apt-get install mythflix
</pre>
'''The next command must be run by the each user that will be running mythfrontend (for most people this will be just one user).'''  If you're not already logged in as that user, press CTRL-ALT-F1, log in as that user and run the next line of code:<<BR>>
 <pre> 
$ /usr/share/mythtv/mythflix/scripts/netflix.pl -q <queueName> -L <username> <password>
</pre>
* Your username is an email address<<BR>>
* This should produce the message:
<pre>
Code 200
    </pre>
** If you get the error:
    <pre>
Can't locate LWP/UserAgent.pm
    </pre>
** run the following code (as root) then try the above code again:
   <pre>
$ sudo apt-get install libwww-Perl
    </pre>
** Or if you get this message:
    <pre>
Code 501
    </pre>
** run the following code (as root) then try the above code again:
   <pre>
$ sudo apt-get install libcrypt-ssleay-perl
    </pre>

You must now setup some browse-rss feeds in order to spawn mythconverg.netflix (the database):
* Go to '''Utilities/Setup --> Setup --> Info Center Settings --> Netflix Settings'''
** Choose at least one of the browse-rss feeds
* Go to Netflix.com and login.  At the very bottom of the page click on "RSS"
** You will see four addresses under "Personal Feeds".  You want to insert them in the following code that you need to run on the '''backend''' machine: (you should only need to do this once, even with multiple frontends:
  <pre>
$ cat /etc/mythtv/mysql.txt | grep DBPassword
  </pre>
  <pre>
$ mysql -u mythtv -p
  </pre>
enter your DBPassword from above.
Then, enter the following two instructions, '''substituting''' the '''''complete URL for your Queue RSS''''' for '''''"RSS-Q"''''' and the '''''complete URL for your History RSS''''' for '''''"RSS-H"''''':
<pre>
insert into mythconverg.netflix values ('Queue','NetFlix', 'RSS-Q','http://cdn.nflximg.com/us/icons/nficon.ico', null, 1, '[queueName from above]');

insert into mythconverg.netflix values ('History','NetFlix', 'RSS-H','http://cdn.nflximg.com/us/icons/nficon.ico', null, 2, '[queueName from above]');

exit
  </pre>

You should now have a working plugin.  Go to '''Information Center --> Netflix''' in the frontend menu to start using it.

=== Adding and Editing RSS Feeds ===
'''Editing feeds and adding custom feeds makes use of PHPmyadmin.  Please make sure you have this installed as a prerequisite:'''
 https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MythTV/Install/WhatNext/phpmyadmin
Enable additional feeds (such as "Commedy Top 25", "Independent Top 25", etc.):
* Start mythfrontend
* Go to '''Utilities/Setup --> Setup --> Info Center Settings --> Netflix Settings'''
* Select or de-select the RSS feeds you would like shown in Mythflix's "Browse Movies" section.
Editing Existing RSS feeds:
 Some of the RSS feeds available by default in MythFlix have obsolete RSS addresses.  These included Music & Musicals, Special Interest, Sports & Fitness, and Television Top 25.
* Go to netflix.com, click on RSS at the very bottom of the page in the middle.
* You will see the Netflix Top 25 by Genre RSS feeds.  Each genre is identified by a gid (genre identification) number which is what has become obsolete.  For instance, the Music & Musicals gid is 2310 as you can see by its RSS address:
  <pre>
http://rss.netflix.com/Top25RSS?gid=2310
</pre>
* Open PHPmyadmin in a browser (replace "localhost" with your backend's ip address if necessary):
  http://localhost/phpmyadmin
* Log in as root with password, select "mythconverg" from the "database" drop-box.  Click on the "netflix" table in the left hand column and click on the "browse" tab in the right hand pane.
* Locate the feed you would like to change by its name (ie: Music & Musicals).  Click on the pencil icon beside it to edit the feed information.
* In the edit window change the value of the "url" row to match the address you looked up on the Netflix RSS webpage.  Click the "go" button on the bottom of the page to save this change.
Adding Custom RSS Feeds to MythFlix:
 Custom RSS feeds not normally available can be added using PHPmyadmin.  For example, you can add recommendations using these steps:
* Go to netflix.com, click on RSS at the very bottom of the page in the middle.
* Locate the "Recommendations" feed URL under the "Personalized Feeds" list.
* Open PHPmyadmin in a browser (replace "localhost" with your backend's ip address if necessary):
  http://localhost/phpmyadmin
* Log in as root with password, select "mythconverg" from the "database" drop-box.  Click on the "netflix" table in the left hand column.
* Click on the "Insert" tab at the top of the right hand pane.
* In the insert window fill in these values:
** '''name:''' Recommendations
** '''category:''' Netflix
** '''url:''' <RSS Feed URL from the Netflix RSS page>
** '''ico:''' (Uncheck the "null" checkbox) '''value:''' {{http://cdn.nflximg.com/us/icons/nficon.ico}}
** '''updated:''' (Make sure "null" box is checked)
** '''is_queue:''' (Uncheck the "null" checkbox) '''value:''' 0
* Click the "go" button at the bottom of the page to save your setting.
* Start mythfrontend, go to '''Utilities/Setup --> Setup --> Info Center Settings --> Netflix Settings''' and select your newly added RSS feed.

=== External Links ===
<nowiki>[[http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/index.php/MythFlix|MythFlix at mythv.org]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryVideo
