{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== mythv-setup ==
<code>mythtv-setup</code> is the binary used for the initial configuration of a MythTV backend.  It is QT based and needs to be launched on an X server (not necessarily on the machine that the backend is running on).

=== X-Forwarding mythtv-setup ===
If the backend machine that is being setup doesn't have an X server, <code>mythtv-setup</code> can be launched remotely through a ssh connection that has X forwarded over it.  It can be run on windows machine running Cygwin/X, a linux/unix machine running xorg-x11, or a MacOS machine running Apple/X11.

The connection is generally forwarded by running the following command on a client machine:

<pre>
ssh USER@MACHINE -X
</pre>

** ''MACHINE'' is the ip address or hostname of the machine that you are ssh'ing into

** ''USER'' is the username normally used for configuring things on this machine.

Once connected to the remote machine, apps can be launched as though they are being run locally.

=== This guide ===
Note: This guide isn't all inclusive, but should help most people get through the initial mythtv-setup process.  If you are looking for more details about a particular section, you will want to see the following areas:
<nowiki>[[http://www.mythtv.org/docs/mythtv-HOWTO-9.html#ss9.1|The official mythtv documentation ]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/index.php/Main_Page|The official mythtv wiki ]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.gossamer-threads.com/lists/mythtv/users/|The official mythtv mailing list archive ]]</nowiki>

=== Starting mythtv-setup ===
<code>mythtv-setup</code> must either be launched as a user that is in the <code>mythtv</code> group.

Once your are in the mythtv group and have logged out/in, you will be able to launch <code>mythtv-setup</code>.
<pre>
mythtv-setup
</pre>

=== Troubleshooting ===
If it shows up blue and throws errors relating to databases, check these things:
* Are you in the mythtv group?
** You can check who is in the mythtv group by running
<pre>
grep mythtv: /etc/group
</pre>
** If you aren't in the mythtv group, add yourself to the group
<pre>
sudo usermod -a -G mythtv USERNAME
</pre>
   Where USERNAME is the name of the user being added.
** After adding yourself to the group, remove ~/.mythtv and then '''log out/in'''.
<pre>
rm ~/.mythtv -rf
</pre>
* If you are already in the group, try to remove ~/.mythtv and then try again.
<pre>
rm ~/.mythtv -rf
</pre>
* If you still have troubles connecting to the database, you can use these commands to reset the password:
<pre>
mysql -u root mysql
</pre>
<pre>
mysqlcheck -r -u mythtv -pmythtv mythconverg
</pre>
<pre>
UPDATE user SET Password=PASSWORD('mythtv') WHERE user='mythtv';
</pre>
<pre>
FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
</pre>
<pre>
quit
</pre>

Another common problem is that the mysql database cannot be found. The most probable cause is that you entered the wrong mysql root password when you installing <code>mythtv-database</code>. Mythtv-database needs the mysql root password in order to create the table needed for mythtv. The solution is to reinstall <code>mythtv-database</code> from scratch making sure before that you know the right mysql root password. One way of doing this is to actually reset the password to whatever you want by using
<pre>
sudo mysqladmin password NEWPASSWORD
</pre>

When you install mythtv-database, it wiĺl prompt you for the mysql root password which is at this point NEWPASSWORD above if you reset the mysql root password.

To reinstall mythtv-database
<pre>
sudo apt-get remove --purge mythtv-database
sudo apt-get install mythtv-database
</pre>
