{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Ubuntu needs some good video editors.  Since there seems to be no page at all on this topic, I figured I would start one, listing the ones I know.  I'm trying to get into this, but I haven't really tried any of these.  Thus, the order that these editors are presented has no meaning.  FSF.org has a section on video editors (which is probably more useful than this page) <nowiki>[[http://www.fsf.org/campaigns/priority.html#videoediting|here]]</nowiki>.

==== LiVES ====
This one is installable from <nowiki>[[http://www.getdeb.net/app/LiVES|Getdeb.net]]</nowiki>.  At the time of this writing, this project is having a fund raising initiative by http://linuxfund.org/ , which is how this project came to my attention.

==== Jahshaka ====
http://jahshaka.org/  This editor was formerly available on Ubuntu, but it ran into inner trouble and disappeared altogether.  It appears to be back, and preparing for a new release.  Lets hope it gets packaged for Ubuntu.

==== Avidemux ====
Installable via apt-get, etc.  I was told that this is a powerful video editor with a steep learning curve.

==== Kino ====
Installable via apt-get, etc.  I just discovered this.  The GUI seems very straight forward.
