{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==
Ubuntu is a great OS for use in both virtualization hosts and in guest virtual machines and software appliances. Virtualization simply means the running of another OS within a '''host''' OS, through the usage of a special "hypervisor" application which handles everything about how the guest OS operates within (and with) the host system.

"Guest" OSes are typically installed to virtual drives; large and expanding (typically) files to which a the guest OS is installed in the same way that one would install the same OS to a hard disk. The guest OS then runs from that virtual drive. Another configuration, not recommended for beginners or those with high-value systems (always backup your data), is the running of a guest OS from another hard drive partition. This mode is called "raw disk" and requires special setup; using a small virtual "drive" file (for example in vmdk format) as an interface to the hard disk, and special commands which handle certain aspects of that system's startup. 

== Hosts ==
There are quite a few virtualization platforms you can use a Ubuntu host with:

=== Open Source ===
* KVM (Kernel Virtual Machine) - the officially maintained choice
** <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/12.04/serverguide/C/virtualization.html|Official documentation]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[KVM|Community documentation]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.openvz.org/|OpenVZ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.qemu.org|Qemu]]</nowiki>
* VirtualBox
* <nowiki>[[Xen]]</nowiki>

=== Proprietary ===
* Parallels
* VMware (https://help.ubuntu.com/community/VMware)

* <nowiki>[[http://www.jumpbox.com/|JumpBox]]</nowiki> uses Ubuntu as the OS in their guest appliances.

== Guests ==
* Ubuntu can be used as a guest OS in all of the above virtualization environments. 

* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/products/whatisubuntu/serveredition/jeos|Ubuntu Server Edition JeOS]]</nowiki> is a specialized version of Ubuntu to create Virtual Appliances for KVM or VMWare.
* python-vm-builder is a tool which allows you to automate the creation of virtual machine.  See the <nowiki>[[JeOSVMBuilder]]</nowiki> tutorial for more information.

== Links ==

* https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CategoryVirtualization

----
CategoryVirtualization
