{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Setting up VirtualBox Guest Additions ==
Guest Additions provide additional capability to a guest virtual machine, including file sharing.  '''Guest Additions''' means:
* software installed on a guest virtual machine
* software from a third party (Oracle), not open source and not installed in the usual fashion for the guest OS

Guest Additions are distributed on their own CD image (.iso file) named '''VBoxGuestAdditions.iso'''.  How you get that file to the guest can depend on the OS of the guest - see below.

After installing Guest Additions, on some, older guests you might need to restart the guest.

=== For recent guest OSs ===

In the guest virtual machine, choose '''Devices -> Install Guest Additions''' from the menubar of VirtualBox.

VirtualBox will look for the needed file.  Failing to find it, it may give you an opportunity to download the file from the internet.

If all that fails, follow one of the steps below.

=== Ubuntu or similar ===

==== Getting VBoxGuestAdditions.iso ====

You have several choices.  On the host (not the guest):
* Download a VirtualBox package from https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads (you might have installed this package when you installed VirtualBox). The package should include the '''VBoxGuestAdditions.iso''' file.
* Open http://download.virtualbox.org/virtualbox/ and enter the subdirectory for the latest version of VirtualBox. It should contain the corresponding '''VBoxGuestAdditions_X.Y.Z.iso''' file.
* Install a package through the usual channels for your distribution.  For example, you might use:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install virtualbox-guest-additions-iso
 </pre>

Some, recent versions of VirtualBox will now be able to find the file on the host when you choose '''Device -> Install Guest Additions''' on the VirtualBox running a guest.  Continue with instructions for setting up file sharing.

For other, older versions of guest OS's and VirtualBox, the .iso file is on the host, but the guest needs to see it (and file sharing is not yet enabled.)  Follow the next two steps for mounting the .iso file and executing the scripts in the .iso file. 

==== Making VBoxGuestAdditions.iso visible to the guest ====

Just as you mounted a .iso CD image for your guest OS when installing it on the guest, now mount '''VBoxGuestAdditions.iso''' as a CD on the guest.  For example, in the VirtualBox window, choose the Storage section under Details, and so forth.

Note that recent versions of VirtualBox have changed the method of mounting .iso files.

Now start the guest.

==== Executing install script for Guest Additions on older Linux guests ====

Make sure you have the image, for example VBoxGuestAdditions.iso or VBOXADDITIONS, mounted as CDROM.

If you are running a Linux guest, open a terminal and type:
<pre>
cd /cdrom
</pre>

in for instance Ubuntu Lucid, the CD image should mount at /media/<cd name> so that would be
<pre>
cd /media/<cd name>
</pre>

then run:
<pre>
sudo sh ./VBoxLinuxAdditions.run
</pre>

Alternatively simply run
<pre>
./autorun.sh
</pre>

If you would like to uninstall the Guest Additions, run:
<pre>
sudo sh ./VBoxLinuxAdditions.run uninstall
</pre>

=== References ===
* <nowiki>[[https://www.virtualbox.org/manual/ch04.html | VirtualBox Manual. Guest Additions]]</nowiki>
