{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== What are 'VMware Tools'? ===

The VMware Tools are software installed on a guest VM for improving performance when running on a <nowiki>[[VMware-Esx]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[VMware-Player]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[VMware-Server]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[VMware-Workstation]]</nowiki> host. The tools provide:

* VMware Network acceleration
* VMware Video acceleration
* Host to Guest time synchronization
* Seamless mouse movement between host and guest
* Cut & Paste - Guest to Host and Guest to Guest
* Disk Shrink (with VMware Toolbox running at root)
* Startup/Shutdown Scripts (with VMware Toolbox running at root)
* HeartBeat (<nowiki>[[VMware-Esx]]</nowiki> only)

This page explains how to install the VMware Tools on an Ubuntu guest VM.

=== Installing VMware tools on an Ubuntu guest ===
VMware tools can be obtained from:

* the ''open-vm-tools'' package in Ubuntu
* packages.vmware.com
* your VMware host (this method does not use .deb packages)

VMware recommends users to use open-vm-tools on Linux, including Ubuntu.

==== Installing from Ubuntu package open-vm-tools on Trusty Tahr 14.04 and later ====

open-vm-tools is the recommended method of installing VMware tools on Ubuntu. Packages are available in the main repository since 14.04.
<pre>
apt-get install open-vm-tools open-vm-tools-desktop

apt-get install open-vm-tools
</pre>

If you are on Trusty after upgrading from an older release, you may need to use open-vm-tools-lts-trusty-desktop instead.

=== Legacy Ubuntu Installations ===
Given the nature of virtualization, there may be a need for continued usage of very old versions of Ubuntu. Instructions for 10.04 to 12.04 are listed below. For anything older, please consult VMware's <nowiki>[[https://www.vmware.com/support/packages.html| installation guide]]</nowiki>.

==== Installing from Operating System Specific Packages (OSPs) on Lucid Lynx 10.04 to Precise Pangolin 12.04 ====

The package open-vm-tools is available in the multiverse repository for releases 10.04 to 12.04. However, these versions are very out of date and may not have the drivers for newer versions of ESXi and VMware Workstation / Player / Fusion. For this reason, if you are still in need of a legacy Ubuntu VM, installation from VMware's repository is recommended. 
'''Use 12.04 package for Ubuntu 12.10, 13.04 and 13.10 releases.'''

To add the repository do:
<pre>
Lucid: apt-add-repository 'deb https://packages.vmware.com/tools/releases/latest/ubuntu/ lucid main'
Natty: apt-add-repository 'deb https://packages.vmware.com/tools/releases/latest/ubuntu/ natty main'
Oneiric: apt-add-repository 'deb https://packages.vmware.com/tools/releases/latest/ubuntu/ oneiric main'
Precise: apt-add-repository 'deb https://packages.vmware.com/tools/releases/latest/ubuntu/ precise main'

wget http://packages.vmware.com/tools/keys/VMWARE-PACKAGING-GPG-RSA-KEY.pub -q -O- | \
    apt-key add -

apt-get update
</pre>

'''Note:''' using apt-add-repository will also add an entry for sources, which are not available in the vmware repository. You'll need to manually delete the deb-src entry for "packages.vmware.com", which should be at the bottom of your /etc/apt/sources.list file.

To install do:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install vmware-tools-esx-kmods-kernel_release

sudo apt-get install vmware-tools-esx-nox

sudo apt-get install vmware-tools-esx

sudo apt-get install linux-headers-virtual
</pre>

Verify the succesful installation 
<pre>
pgrep -fl vmtoolsd

/sbin/lsmod
</pre>

Kernel modules are only loaded for the virtual devices being used. However, the vmmemctl module should always be loaded.

==== Installing from your VMware host ====

Warning: This install method does not use Ubuntu packages. Instead, it bypasses ''dpkg'' and writes files directly to your system. This is generally not recommended.

Start up a terminal window and do the following to ensure that you have the required packages for building VMware Tools or your kernel.

<pre>
sudo apt-get install build-essential linux-headers-`uname -r` psmisc
</pre>

NOTE: linux-headers-`uname -r` is not required on a default build as these headers already exist. They are listed here in case you have made kernel modifications.

From the VMware menu, choose <code>VM->Install VMware Tools</code>. You should see a mounted CD image show up on the desktop. In the File Browser that pops up, right-click the VMwareTools*.tar.gz file and extract to the Desktop.

If the cdrom was not automatically mounted, mount the cdrom (in your guest OS) by doing
<pre>
sudo mkdir /media/cdrom

sudo mount /dev/cdrom /media/cdrom

sudo cp /media/cdrom/VMwareTools*.tar.gz ~/Desktop

tar xvf VMwareTools*.tar.gz

</pre>

Open a terminal window, and run the following commands.

<pre>
cd ~/Desktop/vmware-tools-distrib
sudo ./vmware-install.pl
</pre>

During vmware-install.pl, choose the default answers to everything (just hit the <enter> key).

You can configure the tools as root

<pre>
sudo vmware-toolbox
</pre>

Otherwise run them as a user (not root)

<pre>
vmware-toolbox
</pre>

* In order for the synchronized clipboard and mouse to function as well as the host shared folders feature, you must have vmware-toolbox running, although you can minimize the window.

To have vmware tools auto start with your sessions, go to System->Preferences->Sessions->Startup Programs. Click Add, enter vmware-toolbox, Ok, Close.

If you are running a Kubuntu guest OS.
<pre>
echo "/usr/bin/vmware-toolbox" > ~/.kde/Autostart/vmware-toolbox.sh
chmod +x ~/.kde/Autostart/vmware-toolbox.sh
</pre>

In order to get the scroll wheel to work again after the above install, you will need to make a minor change to the xorg.conf file.

In the "Configured Mouse" section, change the following line as indicated:

<pre>
Option "Protocol" "imps/2"
</pre>

If you have more than five buttons (scroll wheel counts as three), then you might need the following line:

<pre>
Option "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
</pre>

Restart X.

=== Additional Resources ===
* <nowiki>[[http://www.vmware.com/support/ws4/doc/new_guest_tools_ws.html#1008207|VMware Tools for Linux Guests]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://kb.vmware.com/vmtnkb/search.do?cmd=displayKC&docType=kc&externalId=2308&sliceId=SAL_Public|Repeated Keystrokes Occur in Terminal Window on Linux Guest]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://kb.vmware.com/selfservice/microsites/search.do?language=en_US&cmd=displayKC&externalId=1022525 ]]</nowiki>
