{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

VMware is well known and has a reputation for ease of use. Many of its core products are free of charge (but not open source). 

With an AMD x86_64 Ubuntu OS as host, it is necessary to install ia32-libs prior to using it.

* <nowiki>[[VMware-Player|VMware Workstation Player]]</nowiki> is the most basic version of VMware available. It's designed to play existing VM images. There are many existing, downloadable images for free Operating Systems.

* <nowiki>[[VMware-Workstation|VMware Workstation]]</nowiki> is more advanced, and includes a built-in VM creator, as well as the ability to capture an OS snapshot at any point in time. With VMWare Workstation you can also  <nowiki>[[VMware-Workstation-NativeVirtualMachine|use an existing physical partition as a virtual machine]]</nowiki>. VMware workstation requires a paid license to use.

== Installing Ubuntu in a Virtual Machine ==

* Download an Ubuntu .iso image.
* Create a new VM from VMware booting from the .iso

== Installing VMware Tools ==

The VMware Tools can be installed on an Ubuntu guest VM to improve its performance. See <nowiki>[[VMware-Tools]]</nowiki> for instructions.

----
 CategoryVirtualization
