{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

VMware Workstation Player (formerly VMware Player) allows you to run entire operating systems in a ''virtual machine'', which runs on top of Ubuntu or Windows. To the ''guest'' operating system (the one running inside the virtual machine), it appears as though it were running on its own PC. The ''host'' operating system runs the VMware Workstation Player, which provides the ''guest'' with resources like network access. It can be downloaded for free from <nowiki>[[https://www.vmware.com/products/workstation-player.html|VMware]]</nowiki>.

Virtual machines configured with ''an operating system and applications ready to perform a specific function'' are called '''virtual appliances'''. An appliance can be created using certain VMware products, or you can download ready-made appliances. A wide variety of appliances (both certified and other-wise) are available from <nowiki>[[http://www.vmware.com/vmtn/appliances/|VMware's Appliance Marketplace]]</nowiki>.

== Installing VMware Player ==
=== On Ubuntu 14.04 and later ===
1. Install build-essential: <pre>
sudo apt install gcc build-essential -y
</pre>
2. Download the VMware bundle from <nowiki>[[https://www.vmware.com/go/tryplayerpro-linux-64|VMware]]</nowiki>
3. Open a terminal then run the package using gksudo: <pre>
gksudo bash VMware-Player-14.0.0-6661328.x86_64.bundle
</pre>
* If nothing appears, you may need to make the file executable. You can do so with this command: <pre>
chmod +x VMware-Player-14.0.0-6661328.x86_64.bundle
</pre>

== Improving Performance ==

1. You can improve performance by using the <nowiki>[[VMware-Tools]]</nowiki> on your guest OS.

== Support ==

 VMWare Player is currently not available via the Ubuntu repositories. While the package page for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vmware-player|vmware-player]]</nowiki> in Launchpad does exist, no packages exist. Please do not report bugs against vmware-player, or add bug tasks for vmware-player on current bug reports. Instead, please seek support via: <nowiki>[[http://www.vmware.com/support/product-support/player.html]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/support]]</nowiki>.
