{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) is a way of turning an internet-connected device into a telephone. Most applications use <nowiki>[[SIP]]</nowiki> to make calls - this is the foremost industry standard, although <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XMPP|XMPP (also known as Jabber)]]</nowiki> is also extremely popular.

==== SIP or XMPP (Jabber)? ====
SIP has slightly more emphasis on voice, video and corporate telephony, whereas XMPP originated as a solution for chat and messaging but it's extensible nature allows it to support voice and video.  Many people use both SIP and XMPP from a single client.

=== VoIP and messaging on the Ubuntu desktop ===
Ubuntu's principal application for this is called <nowiki>[[Empathy]]</nowiki>, and provides many features in addition to simple voice, such as video chat.

There are several other end-user applications which you may also consider:
* <nowiki>[[Jitsi]]</nowiki> is the most extensive and versatile open source VoIP and messaging solution
* <nowiki>[[Ekiga]]</nowiki> was previously the default VoIP solution in Ubuntu
* <nowiki>[[KPhone]]</nowiki> the definitive KDE desktop voice application
* <nowiki>[[Twinkle]]</nowiki> looks good with KDE desktop; no video chat
* <nowiki>[[Qutecom]]</nowiki> also fits KDE desktop better; successor to wengophone, but no tie-in to one provider

=== Ubuntu as a VoIP / Real-time communication (RTC) server ===
* To start quickly, the <nowiki>[[http://www.rtcquickstart.org|Real-time communications (RTC) quick start guide]]</nowiki> is highly recommended
* <nowiki>[[repro]]</nowiki> is a SIP proxy server supporting federated VoIP between <nowiki>[[Ubuntu]]</nowiki> servers and other external servers on the public internet
* <nowiki>[[Asterisk]]</nowiki> an advanced user to professional grade telephony server which can route calls between various sources

Please also see the Debian wiki about <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/UnifiedCommunications|Unified Communications]]</nowiki> as many of the Debian solutions are available on Ubuntu.

=== Skype ===
It was previously possible to install Skype, but there are both technical and ethical reasons why you should not (see <nowiki>[[SkypeEthics]]</nowiki> for more):
* unethical business practices - disclosure of IM conversations to the Chinese government leading to imprisonment of Chinese pro-democracy campaigners.
* closed-protocol - Skype users can only call Skype users; SIP users, however, can call anybody on any network.
* closed-source - What's Skype doing to your computer? Who knows? Is it secure? Who knows? All the alternative applications above are open source.
* privacy and advertising: Skype's new owners, Microsoft, are scanning the content of Skype calls and building up a huge database profiling all their users to help in more insidious forms of advertising

== External Links ==

* <nowiki>[[http://dione.no-ip.org/wordpress/computing/introduction-to-sip/|Introduction to SIP]]</nowiki>
