{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About Me ==
My name is Michael Carosin but I go by the nick of Jack31 on Freenode IRC network. I am 16 years old and currently live in Washington State, US. I have been using various linux distributions for a while and recently switched over to ubuntu, finding its ease of use, community collaboration, and rich features and support outstanding. I enjoy being able to help people with problems they might have and will try to help as much as I can. 

Other activities I enjoy include playing improv piano, building electronics and electrical circuitry and tesla coils, doing chemistry experiments and reactions, and hanging out with my friends.

=== Ubuntu-Youth ===
Ubuntu-Youth is a IRC channel on the Freenode IRC network. The idea came from Melissa Draper (elkbuntu) who you probably know from ubuntu-women among other things. 
The main goal of ubuntu-youth is to create a cool and friendly environment for kids and teens to hang out in and get help with ubuntu problems. Often on IRC, the larger channels of 1000's of users may be intimidating and confusing to a new user. Ubuntu-youth tries to create an atmosphere that is friendly and helpful to whoever needs it.
----
CategoryHomepage
