{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Who I Am
| Jacob Rahme (Jake)
|-
| Where I Am
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/jacobr|wiki]]</nowiki>
|-
| What I'm Doing
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jacob-rahme|LaunchPad]]</nowiki>
|-
| GPG Key
| 2048R/2A528B00
|}

=== Who I am ===
I'm Jake, a first year student at Algonquin College's School of Advanced Technology, in the Computer Sciences - Computer Engineering course. With going to Algonquin I'm currently residing in Ottawa, Ontario. I first started using Ubuntu in grade 10, where I started to dual boot it with a copy of Vista for gaming with. Then after I left high school for a year I switched to using it as my primary OS on my laptop, and still a secondary on my Desktop. This summer I got rid of my copy of windows on my desktop, and with 10.04 have been only booting Ubuntu, using a Virtual Machine with a copy of XP for classes that require me to do specific CLI commands. As for hobbies I do a lot of gaming, and am a player of Magic: The Gathering. Work wise before I started school I was working as a Sales Consultant for Consumer and Corporate Mobility (my business cards were ridiculous) for Bell, and as a repair technician at a small computer shop in my home town of Lindsay, Ontario. 

=== What I Know ===
* Certified A+ Technician
* Basic Android OS development

=== What I'm Learning ===
* Java
* Python
* C#
* CCNA certification

=== What I Want to Accomplish ===
I want to help contribute to the Ubuntu Community and assist in improving on the operating system, through applications, or even contributing to the development of the OS it self, I also look to improve my own skills in coding. But most of all I want to start doing meaningful work on something that I have loved doing for years.

=== Future Plans ===
Right now I'm working on my first year of my 3-year Computer Sciences - Computer Engineering diploma. So that is going to occupy me for the next few years. After that though I am going to take a look at the job market, and decide if I want to work right away, if I want to go back to school and define my self a specialty, or maybe do both as the situation allows.

Short term, I am looking to succeed in all my courses, and increase my skill base as much as possible.
