{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Personal Data ====

Name: Jaime Conde Rojas

City: Cancun, Quintana Roo, Mexico

Languages: Spanish and English

Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~jamesjedimaster]]</nowiki>

IRC: '''jamesjedimaster''' on channels #ubuntu-mx, #ubuntu-mx-council, #linux_mx, #unixmexico @ irc.freenode.net

=== History with Linux ===

I'm a Linux user since 1998. Started with a variation of RedHat 4.0. I used RedHat until 7.3 then a few years used Fedora. A friend told me about Ubuntu and became my main distro since 6.06 Dapper Drake. 

==== Ubuntu Contribution ====

* First Ubuntu Distribution: 6.06 Dapper Drake

* Join Ubuntu-mx team in March, 2009

* Join Launchpad in May 2008

* Moderator in <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntumexico.org|Ubuntu México]]</nowiki> since November 2009

* Member of the #ubuntu-mx-council since January 2010

==== Ubuntu today's and the future ====

I joined <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntumexico.org|Ubuntu México]]</nowiki> because is a good place to learn and to teach my knowledge to novice people. I like to help others to understand how Linux works, how Ubuntu works to get the best results. The use of CLI is important, even more important than any graphic environment like KDE, Gnome, XFCE, among others; they make Linux easy to use, but in some cases the command line is faster and simpler. Being part of #ubuntu-mx-council is important because it is another way to help and improve Ubuntu México.

I own a cybercafe with Kubuntu 9.04 in all computers and most people like it.

=== Support for membership (sus comentarios aqui y adjunten su usuario con enlace a su wiki o launchpad profile) ===

----
CategoryHomepage
