{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===
My name is James Henstridge, and I have been using and working on Ubuntu since 2004.  I currently work on <nowiki>[[https://one.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu One]]</nowiki> for Canonical.  Prior to that I was a member of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net|Launchpad]]</nowiki> development team, and over the years I have made various contributions to Ubuntu in both roles.

Prior to my involvement with Ubuntu I was quite active in the <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org/|GNOME]]</nowiki> community, having started projects such as the <nowiki>[[http://www.pygtk.org/|PyGTK bindings]]</nowiki>, which has been used by many Ubuntu desktop tools over the years.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~jamesh
|-
| IRC
| jamesh
|-
| Email
| or
|-
| Website
| http://www.jamesh.id.au
|-
| Blog
| http://blogs.gnome.org/jamesh/
|}

=== Contributions ===

* I wrote some of the GNOME customisations for Ubuntu 4.10, <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~jamesh/gnome-applets-battstat-status.patch|making the battery status applet more compact]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~jamesh/gnomevfs-network-volumes-in-network.patch|some changes to display of volumes in Nautilus]]</nowiki>, abd <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~jamesh/trashapplet-fixes.patch|a rewrite of portions of the Trash Applet to make it work reliably]]</nowiki>.

* I performed the migration of Ubuntu's bug tracker data from Bugzilla to Launchpad, as detailed <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2006-January/000051.html|here]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2006-January/000054.html|here]]</nowiki>.

* I wrote the first scripts used to produce schedules for Ubuntu Developer Summits based on blueprints registered in Launchpad (e.g. <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~jamesh/ubz/|schedules for Ubuntu Below Zero]]</nowiki>).  Maintainership of these scripts was taken over by Scott James Remnant and they eventually morphed into the much more powerful <nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/|summit scheduler]]</nowiki> in use today.

* I helped develop the OpenID Provider features of Launchpad, which gave community sites a secure and supported method of using the same Launchpad login credentials as Canonical run sites were using.  This code eventually morphed into the current <nowiki>[[https://login.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Single Sign On]]</nowiki> site, which is a Django rewrite of the original Zope site.

* Other contributions to various areas of Launchpad, including the translations system, code hosting and PPA handling.

* When starting on the Ubuntu One project, we needed a way to tie the OpenID based login used by Ubuntu sites to Django's native account system.  The result was <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/django-openid-auth|django-openid-auth]]</nowiki>, which has also been reused by a number of community sites.

* I have had a few sponsored <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jamesh/+uploaded-packages|package uploads]]</nowiki> accepted into the archive as part of my work on Ubuntu One.

* I rewrote much of the Bindwood package (Ubuntu One's bookmark synchronisation package; since discontinued) for Natty to make it compatible with Firefox 4+.

* I have been helping out by <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/users/12469/james-henstridge|answering questions]]</nowiki> on the Ask Ubuntu site.

=== Future Goals ===

I will continue to help improve Ubuntu One and find new ways for users to as part of the Ubuntu One team.

I would also like to improve my packaging skills, partly to help keep my software up to date in Ubuntu as a prospective developer.

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here. 
