{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''This is under construction, it will be finished when its ready.'''

== To Do ==
* Finish this wiki page.
* Find out how I can contribute to Ubuntu specifically and the open source community.
* Register a new OpenPGP Key
* Sort out signing the (updated) version of the Ubuntu CoC
* Organise IRC

=== About Me ===

 '''IRC:''' jhg on irc.freenode.net

 '''Launchpad:''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jhg]]</nowiki>

 '''Background:''' I live in southern England (or the land of rain, as described by my French friend Pierre-Yves) and have been using GNU/Linux for several years but haven't had the time to learn how to contribute to this fantastic distribution. Any suggestions would be well received.

I am friends with <nowiki>[[https://wiki.kubuntu.org/PatrickDavies|Patrick Davies]]</nowiki>

My unloved website is available at: <nowiki>[[http://www.jamesgreenhalgh.co.uk|jamesgreenhalgh.co.uk]]</nowiki>

== Planned Contribution ==
Possible areas for contribution will be put here shortly.
(http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/)

* Join the laptop testing team
* Bug triaging
* Support for new Ubuntu users
* Community forum help? Once reputation / post count improves ;)

== Resources ==
* A 15" Intel Mac Book Pro
* An Acer Aspire One 150x
* A Playstation3 Console System

----
CategoryHomepage
