{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== James Stansell ==

Email: Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/people/jamesstansell

I used Debian GNU/Linux for about 9 years, and was generally happy with it. I've used Ubuntu since 5.04 (Hoary Hedgehog) and have been very pleased with it.  I've done a fair bit to let others know how great Ubuntu is.

If you're viewing this wiki page because of a link from me, I'm really glad you've come here.  Please let me know what comments or questions you have!

=== WikiMail ===
 (''temporary notes can be left in this section'')

=== Ubuntu Code of Conduct ===

First, if you haven't heard of the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> please take a few minutes to review the 6 points.  I don't see the code of conduct referred to much, but to me it represents the heart of the Ubuntu project.  The "Ubuntero: Yes" notation on my Lauchpad page means that I have signed it and strive to operate by it.  If you would care to sign it then I encourage you to do so.  If you prefer not to, that's OK too, but I still request that you abide by it for any Ubuntu-related discussions.

=== How to install the Ubuntu install CD onto the hard disk ===

Thanks to Alec the Geek!
http://alecthegeek.wordpress.com/2007/01/06/handy-hack-how-to-install-the-ubuntu-install-cd-onto-the-hard-disk/

=== openoffice.org taking ages to load ===

My openoffice.org2, which installed when I upgraded to Breezy, was originally very slow to load. I found out the most of that time was spent looking for a JVM to use. It kept starting the system java (I think kaffe was /usr/bin/java) apparently testing for something it needed.

I was able to dramatically increase the startup speed by going to the java portion of the OOo options panel and telling it where the Sun jre 1.5 was installed. It sat for quite a while, apparently doing some of the same startup tests, but than when I closed OOo it re-opened amazingly fast.

=== dosemu ===
The dosemu package from multiverse worked well on Hoary but fails on Breezy.  I see the same or similar problem with Dapper.  A possible work-around seems to be:

 1. alien the rpm from dosemu.org (no options needed)
 2. (as root) echo 0 > /proc/sys/kernel/randomize_va_space

Relevant links:
* https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/dosemu/+bug/2372
* http://prdownloads.sourceforge.net/dosemu/dosemu-1.2.2-1.i386.rpm?download
* http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-84718.html
* http://www.ussg.iu.edu/hypermail/linux/kernel/0503.3/1942.html
* http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=327153

=== Information for FirefoxNewVersion ===
The FirefoxNewVersion page is missing information that would be answered by these:

* What are the relevant bug numbers?
* Can alien do a credible job of converting firefox-1.5.tar.gz to a debian package?

=== Current Interests ===

* Size of Ubuntu? Are there any estimates available as to the size of the Ubuntu community?  Please let me know!  (If I'm looking at the Ubuntero List https://launchpad.net/people/+ubunterolist correctly, there are currently 2294 registered.)
* Chess for Linux, especially for 10 - 15 year olds.  Something like ChessMaster would be great.  Running under Wine would be acceptable.  (ChessMaster 7000 doesn't, and I haven't found any reports of any version of ChessMaster that does.)
* Improved printing for HP DeskJet 870C.  Margins (especially from Firefox), fonts and colors are troublesome.
* I'd like to see an Ubuntu users group in the Tulsa, Oklahoma area.
* Making the PPP dialer respect the modem sound setting.  https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/system-tools-backends/+bug/18331
* Get my (cheap) digital camera working properly - Concord Eye-Q Easy Too.

=== Essays ===
* JamesStansell/SoftwareForPeople (story in progress)

----
CategoryHomepage
