{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Name''':
| James Page
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''jamespage''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~james-page]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Blog''':
| <nowiki>[[http://javacruft.wordpress.com]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Location''':
| ''Norfolk, UK''
|}

=== Background ===

I've been using and deploying Linux since I was at University in the early 90's; started with Slackware, then Red Hat, then Fedora and then Ubuntu in the last couple of years.  

Apache + JBoss on Red Hat Enterprise Linux was my first foray into deploying open-source instead of propriety software in an enterprise and I've not looked back; The rest of the propriety software environment quickly followed.....  Nagios, Puppet, Solr, MySQL and more.  I find that open-source is both more cost effective and more flexible than deploying propriety software.

Before that I was a Java Applications Developer working with early versions of Java Enterprise Edition on very expensive propriety middle-ware.

=== My involvement ===

My current areas of involvement:

* Ubuntu Server Team.
* Ubuntu Server ISO Testing.
* Ubuntu Server ec2 Testing.
* Ubuntu Java.

=== Status ===

This week:

* Polishing packaging and submitting packages in the Jenkins dependency chain for upload to Debian.

Next week:
 
* More package polishing
* QA Automation Sprint in London
