{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

=== Summary ===

My name is James Hunt, and between 2010-10-25 and 2015-06-11, I worked for Canonical as a member of the FoundationsTeam working on <nowiki>[[Upstart]]</nowiki> and other early-boot and plumbing technologies.

=== Info ===

* https://launchpad.net/~jamesodhunt/

=== Specs ===

* <nowiki>[[FoundationsTeam-Specs-MaverickFinishUpstart]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[FoundationsTeam-Specs-QuantalUpstartStatefulReexec]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[FoundationsTeam-Specs-RaringUpstartUserSessions]]</nowiki>

=== Contributions ===

==== Utopic (18/04/2014-23/10/2014) ====

* Upstart
** Landed cgroup support upstream.

     Overall, adding cgroup support was a huge project since it required the core of Upstart to be rewritten to ensure the cgroup manager (`cgmanager`) on which it now depends could not stall or block upstart.

==== Trusty (18/10/2013-17/04/2014) ====

* Upstart
** Developing cgroup support (see <nowiki>[[http://upstart.ubuntu.com/wiki/Cgroup]]</nowiki>).

==== Saucy (01/05/2013-17/10/2013) ====

* Upstart
** Wrote `upstart-local-bridge`.
** Wrote `upstart-dbus-bridge`.
** Part wrote `upstart-dconf-bridge`.
** Created `libupstart` library.
** Optimised Session Init shutdown (Bug Bug:1227212).
** Added ability to unset inherited environment variables.
** Wrote a suite of DEP-8 tests for automatic Upstart boot testing.
** Created an apport hook to handle both System Init and Session Init issues.
** Fixed a bug in apport that stopped core files being collected for Upstart.
* Boot
** Wrote lp:~jamesodhunt/ubuntu/saucy/sysvinit/log-processes-and-open-files-on-shutdown
     to help diagnose shutdown issues (not yet merged).
* Modified `distro-info` to allow number of days until a milestone to be displayed.

==== Raring (19/10/2012-24/04/2013) ====

* Upstart
** Landed Stateful re-exec feature (Upstart 1.6.1).
** Wrote spec for <nowiki>[[FoundationsTeam-Specs-RaringUpstartUserSessions|Enhanced User Sessions]]</nowiki>.
** Wrote `upstart-monitor` GUI/CLI tool.
** Wrote `upstart-file-bridge`.
** Landed Upstart 1.8.
* Misc
** Wrote <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/utfout|utfout]]</nowiki> utility (in Debian and Ubuntu archives).
** Wrote <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/procenv|procenv]]</nowiki> utility (in Debian and Ubuntu archives).

==== Quantal (27/04/2012-18/10/2012) ====

* Upstart
** "stateful re-exec" feature.
*** Wrote spec for <nowiki>[[FoundationsTeam-Specs-QuantalUpstartStatefulReexec|Stateful Re-exec]]</nowiki>.
*** Code completed but not landed in Quantal since tests not finished.

==== Precise (20/10/2011-26/04/2012) ====

* Upstart
*** "`console log`" facility allowing job output to be logged (bug Bug:328881)
*** Default console value of "`log`" so all job output logged by default.
      (has already found some long-standing bugs in other packages since errors are now visible!)
*** "`initctl notify-disk-writeable`" facility to allow jobs *ending* before the disk becomes writeable to be logged
     (this even works for jobs which "``start on startup``").
*** User job logging
      (totally different design to system job logging for performance and security reasons. Not yet available).
*** Enhanced Upstart test framework in NIH library.
*** <nowiki>[[PrecisePangolin-ReleaseNotes-TechnicalOverviewUpstart|Detailed Upstart Release Notes]]</nowiki> covering Oneiric->Precise and Lucid->Precise upgrades.

==== Oneiric (05/05/2011-13/10/2011) ====

* Made significant progress on:
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/foundations-o-upstart-for-admins/
** Bug Bug:328881: implementation of Job logging for Upstart (complicated by need to support user jobs).

==== Natty (25/10/2010-28/04/2011) ====

* Upstart
** Added <code>Debug</code> stanza (not documented).
** Added <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/natty/en/man5/init.5.html|Manual]]</nowiki> stanza.
** Added <nowiki>[[http://upstart.at/2011/03/11/override-files-in-ubuntu-natty|Override File support]]</nowiki>.
** Wrote <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~upstart-devel/upstart/trunk/view/head:/contrib/bash_completion/upstart|Upstart bash-completion script]]</nowiki>.
** Implemented <nowiki>[[http://upstart.at/2011/03/25/visualisation-of-jobs-and-events-in-ubuntu-natty/|initctl show-config]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://upstart.at/2011/03/16/checking-jobs-and-events-in-ubuntu-natty/|initctl check-config]]</nowiki> commands (see <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/en/man8/initctl.8.html|man page]]</nowiki>.
** Wrote <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/en/man8/init-checkconf.8.html|init-checkconf(8)]]</nowiki>.
** Wrote <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/en/man8/initctl2dot.8.html|initctl2dot(8)]]</nowiki>.
** Wrote comprehensive <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/en/man7/upstart-events.html|upstart-events(7)]]</nowiki> manual page.
** Improved unit/functional tests by adding ability to run "<code>init</code>" and "<code>initctl</code>" directly.
** Co-authored the "Upstart Cookbook" (currently Draft):
*** http://upstart.ubuntu.com/cookbook/
* Byobu
** Wrote <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~kirkland/byobu/trunk/view/head:/usr/lib/byobu/time_binary|/usr/lib/byobu/time_binary]]</nowiki>.
** Wrote <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~kirkland/byobu/trunk/view/head:/usr/bin/byobu-ulevel|/usr/bin/byobu-ulevel]]</nowiki>.
** Wrote <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~kirkland/byobu/trunk/view/head:/usr/bin/byobu-ugraph|/usr/bin/byobu-ugraph]]</nowiki>.
* Miscellaneous
** Wrote <nowiki>[[Plymouth]]</nowiki> wiki page.
** Wrote <nowiki>[[DistributedDevelopment-Documentation-GettingTheSource|Section 0 of UDD GettingTheSource page]]</nowiki>.
** Wrote <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~jamesodhunt/+junk/clone/files|clone tool]]</nowiki> (similar to <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/natty/en/man1/unshare.1.html|unshare(1)]]</nowiki>).

==== Significant Bugs ====

* Bug Bug:876626: A nasty security bug caused by a small behavioural change (which itself had been introduced to make the boot more robust).
* Bug Bug:553745: The infamous plymouth SIGSEGV bug had been open for over 2 years and took a significant amount of effort to identify the fix. With 270 duplicates, it even put launchpad under strain: if the main bug links hangs/fails (due to all those duplicates (Bug Bug:839141)), try <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plymouth/+bug/553745/+text|the text view]]</nowiki>.
* Bug Bug:771372: Required taking a holistic approach and seeing the real problem, not just patching the very particular problem reported.
* Bug Bug:829980: Required tracing the problem through Upstart's udev bridge, D-Bus, udev and the kernel. Identified fact that udev is not fully specified (precise format of data is not defined).
* Bug Bug:912558: Worked closely with <nowiki>[[davewalker|Daviey]]</nowiki> and community members on this "Critical" bug to identify the problem (rather a bizarre one which proved difficult to track down!) and find a fix.
* Bug Bug:1060249: One of those awkward "multiple failure" bugs that can be tricky to track down. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debconf/+bug/1060249/comments/15|Comment #15]]</nowiki> explains the problem and solution succinctly.
* Bug Bug:1235649: Critical Saucy release bug. Nominally appeared to be a memory leak in Upstart. But extensive debugging proved that it was not an Upstart bug. In fact, the issue was caused by a combination of a kernel bug on particular Touch hardware (Bug Bug:1234743) coupled with a bug in the way Unity was registering a D-Bus connection with Upstart coupled to libdbus caching all unprocessed client signals.

=== Applications ===

* <nowiki>[[JamesHunt-PPUApplication|PPU]]</nowiki>

=== Contact ===

* mailto:james.hunt@ubuntu.com
* freenode irc: `jodh` on `#ubuntu-devel` & `#upstart`

----
CategoryHomepage
