{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== About Me ===

'''Name:''' Jamie Strandboge

'''Location:''' Central Texas, USA

'''Occupation:''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security|Ubuntu Security Engineer]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://www.canonical.com/|Canonical Ltd.]]</nowiki>)

'''Launchpad page:''' https://launchpad.net/~jdstrand/

==== History ====
I have been using free software since 1997.  I started with !RedHat and shortly thereafter moved to Debian.  In addition to various patches and the like, my largest contribution to free software prior to joining Canonical was creating and maintaining for several years the Gnome2.2 backport for Debian Woody.  In my consulting work, I supported Ubuntu, Debian, !RedHat, CentOS, OpenBSD and pretty much any platform that used free software.

==== Ubuntu ====
Notable contributions to Ubuntu include:
* Creating many security updates for Ubuntu, some of which can be seen in <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-security-announce/|https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-security-announce/]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuFirewall|Uncomplicated Firewall]]</nowiki> (author)
* <nowiki>[[AuthClientConfig]]</nowiki> (author)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openssl-blacklist|OpenSSL blacklist]]</nowiki> (author)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openvpn-blacklist|OpenVPN blacklist]]</nowiki> (author)
* <nowiki>[[SecurityTeam-Specifications-AppArmorLibvirtProfile|AppArmor security driver for libvirt]]</nowiki> (author)
* Contributor to <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/qa-regression-testing|QA Regression Testing]]</nowiki> (additions, fixes, new code)
* Contributor to <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/ubuntu-cve-tracker|Ubuntu CVE Tracker]]</nowiki> (additions, fixes, new code, maintenance)
* Contributor to Apparmor in Ubuntu and added/updated <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/KnowledgeBase/AppArmorProfiles|enforcing Apparmor profiles]]</nowiki> to various packages. Wrote <nowiki>[[DebuggingApparmor]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[ApparmorProfileMigration]]</nowiki>
* Bug maintenance in Launchpad (primarily focused on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security|ubuntu-security]]</nowiki>)
* Active <nowiki>[[ArchiveAdministration|archive admin]]</nowiki>
* Performing audits, especially during the MainInclusionProcess
* Reviewing and sponsoring many uploads for MOTU, MOTU-Swat and others
* Making additions to and editing documentation for the <nowiki>[[SecurityTeam]]</nowiki> and writing the <nowiki>[[UbuntuPentest-Coc]]</nowiki>
* Other contributions too numerous to mention (eg <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jdstrand/+packages]]</nowiki>)

=== Contact ===

'''IRC:''' jdstrand@irc.freenode.org (#ubuntu-devel, #ubuntu-server, #ubuntu-motu, #ubuntu-security)

'''E-mail:''' jamie@ubuntu.com 

CategoryHomepage
