{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


If you want to participate in a snappy jam, the organisation of the event is very similar to other <nowiki>[[Jams|jams]]</nowiki>.

=== Introduction ===
With snappy we are going to bring Ubuntu to the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/internet-of-things|world of devices]]</nowiki>, the cloud and elsewhere along with the best of apps out there. Stability, security, upgrades being taken care of for you.

If this sounds interesting to you and you want to make great stuff happening with Ubuntu, check out these pages first:
* Snappy overview: https://developer.ubuntu.com/snappy/
* Get started: https://developer.ubuntu.com/snappy/start/

=== Ideas for involvement ===
* Follow the <nowiki>[[https://developer.ubuntu.com/en/snappy/start/|Get started]]</nowiki> section and check out the <nowiki>[[https://developer.ubuntu.com/snappy/guides/|Snappy guides]]</nowiki>: if you don't have a device, use KVM.
* <nowiki>[[https://developer.ubuntu.com/en/snappy/porting/|Port snappy to your device]]</nowiki>
* Put together some snappy apps:
** Maybe put together a script to convert apps like node.js or pypi or ... into snappy apps
** with upstream communities to make it natural to publish apps built using their existing packaging frameworks
** runtime and build environment
** Apps which would be great to have snappified:
** <nowiki>[[http://mediagoblin.org/|media goblin]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://www.npmjs.com/|node.js apps]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://ghost.org/|ghost blogging]]</nowiki> (node.js)
** explore <nowiki>[[https://github.com/ajaxorg/cloud9/|c9.io based node.js sdk]]</nowiki>
** pastebin in all languages
** finish etherpad-lite and go next steps (wrt. explore extensions etc.)
*** https://github.com/asac/etherpad-lite
*** http://snappy.asac.ws:9001/p/README
*** TODO items
*** investigate if and how extension modules could maybe be installed without having to repackage the pad
*** make armhf port
*** make it 'multi arch'
** <nowiki>[[https://owncloud.org/|owncloud]]</nowiki> (without docker)
** <nowiki>[[https://wordpress.org/download/|wordpress]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://mediatomb.cc/pages/download|mediatomb]]</nowiki>
* Testing:
** Extend <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~snappy-dev/snappy/snappy/files/head:/_integration-tests/|self tests ]]</nowiki>
** Explore upgrade testing with kvm and cloud
* Look at our partners listed on http://ubuntu.com/things/. If you are interested in one of the topics they are working on, let us know. We might be able to facilitate to set up a work relationship and identify starter tasks that would help them to ramp up in the snappy ecosystem.
