{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Me ==

I am Jan Claeys, 32 years old, living in <nowiki>[[http://www.brugge.be/|Bruges]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.belgium.be/|Belgium]]</nowiki>.

My computing experience started with a <nowiki>[[http://www.nvg.ntnu.no/sinclair/computers/zxspectrum/spec1648.htm|Sinclair ZX Spectrum 48K]]</nowiki> and its built-in BASIC language around 1984.  Later, on an XT-clone, I learned about Turbo Pascal 3.x and used this up to BP 7 (I still prefer Pascal over C/C++!).  I've worked as a Cold``Fusion/web developer in the past, but my favourite programming language is now <nowiki>[[http://www.python.org/|Python]]</nowiki>.

My first experiences with "linux" were on servers in 2000 (Debian, Red Hat, Cobalt), but I haven't used it on the desktop seriously (as in: "everyday use") before January this year (2005).  That's when I did the "cold turkey" from 99% Windows to 99% Ubuntu. I am a member of <nowiki>[[http://lugwv.be/|LugWV]]</nowiki>.

I also was involved (as a board member & doing support) in <nowiki>[[http://www.tik.be/|Tik vzw / PUB]]</nowiki>, a non-profit representing customers of my ISP (and other ISPs in the near future), which also tries to represent internet users in general (e.g. where digital civil rights are involved).

== Ubuntu ==

My involvement in Ubuntu until now includes sitting in several (too many ;) ) Ubuntu IRC-channels & mailing lists & trying to help people when possible, and I also follow several Belgian & Dutch (linux) newsgroups on Usenet.

I also did some Dutch translations, both for Ubuntu & for upstream projects.  This is something I want to get more involved into. I am a member of Ubuntu's DutchTeam and BelgianTeam.

I've also reported some bugs of course (and I should probably have reported more).
----
CategoryHomepage
