{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Name      :''' Jannis Pohlmann
* '''Status    :''' ''Xfce Developer''
* '''Project   :''' Xfce (libxfce4menu, xfce4-mixer and more), Xfce Goodies (administration, xfce4-verve-plugin and more)
* '''Location  :''' Lübeck, Germany
* '''O/S       :''' Lunar Linux
* '''E-mail    :''' jannis@xfce.org
* '''Launchpad :''' https://launchpad.net/~jannis-xfce
* '''IRC       :''' ''JPohlmann'' @ irc.freenode.net
* '''Skype     :''' ''jannispohlmann''

=== About me ===

I'm a 23 year old computer science student, programmer and musician from Lübeck, Germany. I'm currently working for the Institute of Theoretical Computer Science at the University of Lübeck. I've been using Linux for about four or five years. In 2005 I became an Xfce and Lunar Linux developer.

=== Contributions to Xfce ===

The first project I worked on for Xfce was ''InstallIt'', a GUI installer for source tarballs downloaded from the web. I got stuck at some point and dropped it eventually. After that I started to work on other things, the first being libxfce4menu. Xfce 4.4 was released without any contributions of mine (except for a few patches maybe) but since then I've become part of the core team. Starting with the upcoming 4.6 release I'll be the maintainer of

* ''thunar''
* ''libxfce4menu''
* ''xfce4-appfinder''
* ''xfce4-mixer''

and the co-maintainer of ''xfce4-settings'' and ''exo''. I'm familiar with most parts of the Xfce code base and have written several extensions (so-called ''goodies''):

* ''thunar-media-tags-plugin''
* ''xfce4-verve-plugin''
* ''xfce4-time-out-plugin''

I'm also the main coordinator of the Xfce goodies infrastructure. 
