{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Approval Application for Japanese Team (ubuntu-jp) ==

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - 21 July 2009
* '''Team Contact''' - Jun Kobayashi <jkbys@ubuntu.com>
* '''Membership''' - 8 active members and tens of volunteers as of 21 July 2009. (2 new members in this year)
** One of our team member, Fumihito Yoshida, was approved for Ubuntu Membership in April.
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-jp on lists.ubuntu.com with 1986 members as of 22 July 2009.
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-jp on Freenode
* '''Launchpad Page''' - https://launchpad.net/~japaneseteam
* '''Web Site''' - http://www.ubuntulinux.jp
* '''Web Forum''' - http://forum.ubuntulinux.jp
* '''Wiki Site''' - http://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp

=== Roadmap ===
* '''Spread Ubuntu in Japan''' - Increase the number of Japanese users involved in the Ubuntu community.
** Continue running LoCo team resources: <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.jp/|Web site]]</nowiki>, IRC (#ubuntu-jp), Mailing List (unbuntu-jp@lists.ubuntu.com), <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntulinux.jp/|Web forum]]</nowiki>.
** Hold local events for Ubuntu users four or more times per year.
** Attend local FLOSS conferences four or more times per year.
** Write articles on local magazines and web sites.
** Advise more companies which plan to use Ubuntu for business.
* '''Meetings''' - Continue to organise regular weekly IRC meetings.
* '''Make Ubuntu better for Japanese users''' - Translate more applications, improve Japanese input support, and work to build up and provide a better Japanese language environment.
** Continue to create and distribute Japanese Remix Desktop CDs.
** Maintain jp.archive.ubuntu.com to update comfortably for Japanese users.
* '''Better relation ships with other FOSS communities''' - Expand cooperative ties with other Ubuntu and FOSS comunities.
** Improving the relationship with Debian JP Project is most important
** Encourage more of the Japanese LoCo Team members to become Ubuntu Members.
* '''Translate Japanese contents related Ubuntu''' - like "Ubunchu!"(see below)

=== Experience ===
* '''Regular IRC Meeting''' - We organize meetings in #ubuntu-jp on irc.freenode.net every Tuesday (13:00 UTC / 22:00 JST).

* '''Ubuntu Kaizen Project''' - We managed the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-jp-improvement|Ubuntu Kaizen Project]]</nowiki> to manage bugs submitted in Japanese.

* '''Meetings with companies''' - We have talked about Ubuntu with some companies which are considering using Ubuntu for their business.
** Hirose Electric Works, ltd. released "UBiL" which is Virtual Server Thin Client based on Ubuntu.
** ATOK X3 (propietary Japanese input method software for Linux) supports Ubuntu 8.10 and Ubuntu 9.04.

* '''Ubuntu Offline Meeting Tokyo''' - We held two Ubuntu event for users.
** In January and April meetings, we had install party, trouble shooting and seminars.
** In April meeting, we held Ubuntu 9.04 release party too.
** This event is co-sponsored by Hirose Electric Works, ltd.
** We are planning to hold this event every few months.

* '''Japanese Ubuntu articles''' - We have written articles for following print and online local magazines:
** Nikkei Linux August issue: <nowiki>[[http://itpro.nikkeibp.co.jp/article/MAG/20080702/309965/|"Ubuntu 8.04　effective utilization" / "How to grow Ubuntu"]]</nowiki>
** "<nowiki>[[http://www.shuwasystem.co.jp/products/7980html/2012.html|Ubuntu Linux Beginers Kit]]</nowiki> for 8.04 LTS"
** Software Design: "<nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/2008/200811|First Review: Ubuntu 8.10]]</nowiki>"
** Software Design:  <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/2008/200812|-Learning Unix Technology- "What is init daemon"]]</nowiki>
** Nikkei Linux December issue: <nowiki>[[http://itpro.nikkeibp.co.jp/article/MAG/20081105/318539/|True face of Ubuntu 8.10 Server]]</nowiki>
** Interviewd by local magazine "<nowiki>[[http://www.ascii.co.jp/books/books/detail/978-4-04-867516-1.shtml|Kantan-Ubuntu]]</nowiki>"
** "<nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/2009/200901|Software Design:Using software RAID on Linux]]</nowiki>"
** "Install Ubuntu to your second homebuilt computer" for Nikkei WinPC which is a Japanese computer magazine published by Nikkei BP.
** Software Design: <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/2009/200905|Let's experience merits of Ubuntu - illustrate installation, leverage netbook, create variants -]]</nowiki>
** "HP MIE Review" for a Japanese local magazine "Software Design".
** "Ubuntu 9.04 Tettei Kaibou" for a Japanese local magazine "ASCII.technologies".
** Team members talked about team's activity and Ubuntu community in ASCII Mediaworks' interview. This is described on a magazine "Sakusaku Ubuntu!" published on 27th May.
** Team members talked about team's activity for a Japanese local magazine "Linux 100%". 
** gihyo.jp: <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/serial/01/ubuntu-recipe|Ubuntu Weekly Recipe]]</nowiki> / <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/clip/01/ubuntu-topics|Ubuntu Weekly Topics]]</nowiki> (ongoing)

* '''Conference Attendance''' - We have attended following conferences:
** Open Source Conference: as exhibitor and speaker
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2008-kansai/|Open Source Conference 2008 Kansai]]</nowiki> / <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2008-fall/|Open Source Conference 2008 Tokyo/Fall]]</nowiki> / <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.jp/News/OSC-2009-Sendai|Open Source Conference Sendai 2009]]</nowiki> / <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.jp/News/OSC-2009-Tokyo-Spring|Open Source Conference 2009 Tokyo/Spring]]</nowiki>
** Debian-Ubuntu BoF was held by Japanese Team and Debian JP Project on <nowiki>[[http://lc.linux.or.jp/lc2008/|Japan Linux Conference 2008]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/HidekiYamane?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=20080911_LC_Debian-Ubuntu-BoF.odp|odp file for presentation]]</nowiki>)
** Exhibited at the "Gathering the Linux Distributions" at <nowiki>[[http://www.rakuten.co.jp/event/techconf/2008/|Rakuten technology conference]]</nowiki>
** We exhibited at the <nowiki>[[http://k-of.jp/2008/index.html|Kansai Open Source 2008]]</nowiki>

* '''Japanese Remix Desktop CDs''' - We create and distribute Japanese Remix Desktop CDs for each release of Ubuntu.
** http://www.ubuntulinux.jp/news/kubuntu804-ja-desktop-cd
** http://www.ubuntulinux.jp/News/ubuntu810-desktop-ja-remix
** http://www.ubuntulinux.jp/News/ubuntu8042-ja-desktop-cd
** http://www.ubuntulinux.jp/News/ubuntu904-desktop-ja-remix

* '''Ubunchu!'''
** Hajime Mizuno, Fumihito Yoshida who are Japanese LoCo Members and Martin Owens who is US-Massachusetts LoCo Member got the rights to translate "Ubunchu", which is a Japanese Manga comic, into English in cooperation with the author Hiroshi Seo.
** And it's translated to 11 languages.
** http://seotch.wordpress.com/
** http://doctormo.wordpress.com/2009/04/02/ubunchu-the-ubuntu-manga-is-now-in-english/

* '''Archive mirrors''' - We have deployed and maintain new archive mirrors in Japan with help of some organizations.
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+mirror/ubuntutym.u-toyama.ac.jp-archive|University of Toyama]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+mirror/ubuntu-ashisuto.ubuntulinux.jp|K.K. Ashisuto]]</nowiki>
