{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Re-approval Application 2013 for Japanese LoCo Team (ubuntu-jp) ==

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - 18 June 2013
* '''Team Contact''' - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jkbys|Jun Kobayashi]]</nowiki>
* '''Membership''' - 11 active core members and tens of volunteers as of 18 June 2013.
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-jp on lists.ubuntu.com with 2722 members as of 19 July 2011.
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-jp on Freenode
* '''Launchpad Page''' - https://launchpad.net/~japaneseteam
* '''Web Site''' - http://www.ubuntulinux.jp
* '''Web Forum''' - https://forums.ubuntulinux.jp
* '''Wiki Site''' - https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp

=== Roadmap ===
* '''Spread Ubuntu in Japan''' - Increase the number of Japanese users involved in the Ubuntu community.
** Continue to organize regional meetings.
** Attend local FLOSS conferences four or more times per year.
** Distribute Ubuntu DVDs at events.
** Continue running LoCo team resources: <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.jp/|Web site]]</nowiki>, IRC (#ubuntu-jp), Mailing List (unbuntu-jp@lists.ubuntu.com), <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntulinux.jp/|Web forum]]</nowiki>.
** Write articles on local magazines and web sites.
** Advise more companies which plan to use Ubuntu for business.
* '''IRC Meetings''' - Continue to organise regular weekly IRC meetings.
* '''Make Ubuntu better for Japanese users''' - Translate more applications, improve Japanese display and input support, and work to build up and provide a better Japanese language environment.
** Maintain jp.archive.ubuntu.com to make Japanese users update their ubuntu system comfortably.
** Continue to create and distribute Japanese Remix Desktop DVD images which supports Japanese input even in live session.
* '''Better relation ships with other FOSS communities''' - Expand cooperative ties with other Ubuntu and FOSS comunities.
** Maintain cooperation with Debian JP Project.
** Deepen exchanges with other FLOSS communities including LibreOffice, Linaro, Android, etc.
* '''Deepen exchanges with Ubuntu users in other countries'''
** Encourage more of the Japanese LoCo Team members to become Ubuntu Members.

=== Experience ===

Experiences from 20 June 2011 to 18 June 2013.

* '''Meetings''' - We organized events for Ubuntu users.

* '''Conference Attendance''' - We have attended following conferences.
** <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntulinux.jp/node/34| Ubuntu Offline Meeting 13.05 Tokyo]]</nowiki>; host
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Events/OSC2011Nagoya|Open Source Conference 2011 Nagoya]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Events/OSSC2011Aizu|Open Source Small Conference 2011 Aizu]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Events/OSC2011TokyoFall|Open Source Conference 2011 Tokyo/Fall]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2012-spring/|Open Source Conference 2012 Tokyo/Spring]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2012-nagoya|Open Source Conference 2012 Nagoya]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2012-sendai|Open Source Conference 2012 Sendai]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2012-kyoto|Open Source Conference 2012 Kansai@Kyoto]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2012-fall/|Open Source Conference 2012 Tokyo/Fall]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2012-aizu/|Open Source Conference 2012 Aizu]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2013-spring/|Open Source Conference 2012 Tokyo/Spring]]</nowiki>; booth participation

* '''Meetings with organizations''' - We have talked about Ubuntu with some companies which are considering using Ubuntu for their business.

* '''Team Reports''' - We have submitted the summary of our activities to TeamReports page continually ( <nowiki>[[JapaneseTeam-TeamReports|summary page]]</nowiki> ). 

* '''Regular IRC Meeting''' - We organize meetings in #ubuntu-jp on irc.freenode.net every Tuesday (13:00 UTC / 22:00 JST).

* '''Ubuntu Kaizen Project''' - We manage the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-jp-improvement|Ubuntu Kaizen Project]]</nowiki> to handle bugs submitted in Japanese.

* '''Japanese Ubuntu articles''' - We have written articles for following papers and online local magazines
** Ubuntu Magazine Japan - The first Ubuntu specialized magazine in Japan. We wrote articles for them. / quartery
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.asciimw.jp/elem/000/000/010/10362/|vol.06]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.asciimw.jp/elem/000/000/010/10400/|vol.07]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.asciimw.jp/elem/000/000/010/10451/|vol.08]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.asciimw.jp/elem/000/000/010/10493/|vol.09]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.asciimw.jp/elem/000/000/010/10509/|vol.10]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.asciimw.jp/elem/000/000/010/10549/|2013 Summer(vol.11)]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/serial/01/ubuntu-recipe|Ubuntu Weekly Recipe]]</nowiki> / weekly
** Serialized in 269 articles as of 18 June 2013. (from June 2011: + 97 articles)
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/clip/01/ubuntu-topics|Ubuntu Weekly Topics]]</nowiki> / weekly
** Serialized in 277 articles as of 18 June 2013 (from June 2011: +101 articles).
** <nowiki>[[http://ascii.jp/elem/000/000/435/435813/|Ittoke! Ubuntu DoJo!]]</nowiki> - Conversational style articles on ascii.jp
** Serialized in 56 articles as of 18 June 2013 (from June 2011: +12 articles, finished at Oct 2010).
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/2010/201005|"Ubuntu Monthly Report" SoftwareDesign]]</nowiki> - has been serialized since May 2010, and continues today.(from Jun 2011: +24 articles)
** "Software Design"(Jun 2013) <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/201306|First Impression of Ubuntu 13.04]]</nowiki> written by Fumihito Yoshida
** "Software Design"(Nov 2012) <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/201211|A new/evolving features of Ubuntu 12.10]]</nowiki> written by Ikuya Awashiro
** "Software Design"(Aug 2012) <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/201208|"We recommend best Operating Systems for us";chapter 3: Ubuntu]]</nowiki> written by Fumihito Yoshida
** "Software Design"(May 2012) <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/201205|A first report of Ubuntu 12.04 LTS]]</nowiki> wirten by Ikuya Awashiro

* '''Japanese Ubuntu Books''' - Our member wrote some books in Japanese. You can purchase in Japanese book stores and amazon.co.jp.
** "<nowiki>[[http://www.shuwasystem.co.jp/products/7980html/3381.html|Ubuntu Linux Introduction Kit for 12.04]]</nowiki>" written by Hajime Mizuno (date of publication: 12 June 2012)
** "<nowiki>[[http://ascii.asciimw.jp/books/books/detail/978-4-04-886687-3.shtml|Ubuntu Server Practical Bible]]</nowiki>" written by Fumihito Yoshida (date of publication: 19 March 2013)

* '''Japanese Remix CDs/DVDs''' - We create and distribute Japanese Remix Desktop CDs/DVDs for each release of Ubuntu.
** <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntulinux.jp/News/ubuntu1110-desktop-ja-remix|Ubuntu 11.10 Desktop Japanese Remix]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntulinux.jp/News/ubuntu1204-desktop-ja-remix|Ubuntu 12.04 LTS Desktop Japanese Remix]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntulinux.jp/News/ubuntu12041-desktop-ja-remix|Ubuntu 12.04.1 LTS Desktop Japanese Remix]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntulinux.jp/News/ubuntu1210-ja-remix|Ubuntu 12.10 Desktop Japanese Remix]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntulinux.jp/News/ubuntu1304-ja-remix|Ubuntu 13.04 Desktop Japanese Remix]]</nowiki>

* '''Archive/Release mirrors''' - We maintain archive mirrors in Japan with help of some organizations.
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+mirror/ubuntutym.u-toyama.ac.jp-archive|University of Toyama]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+mirror/ubuntu-ashisuto.ubuntulinux.jp|K.K. Ashisuto]]</nowiki>
