{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Approval Application for Japanese Team (ubuntu-jp) ==

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - 16 July 2008
* '''Team Contact''' - Jun Kobayashi <jkbys@ubuntu.com>
* '''Membership''' - 6 active members and tens of volunteer as of 16 July 2008. 
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-jp on lists.ubuntu.com with 1344 members as of 16 July 2008.
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-jp on Freenode
* '''Web Site''' - http://www.ubuntulinux.jp
* '''Web Forum''' - http://forum.ubuntulinux.jp

=== Roadmap ===
* '''Make Ubuntu better for Japanese users''' - Translate more applications, improve Japanese input support, and work to build up and provide a better Japanese language environment.
** Negotiate with mirrors@ubuntu.com about switching jp.archive.ubuntu.com to the new archive mirror servers in Japan.
** Continue to create and distribute Japanese Remix Desktop CDs.
* '''Meetings''' - Continue to organise regular meetings.
* '''Spread Ubuntu in Japan''' - Increase the number of Japanese users involved in the Ubuntu community.
** Continue running LoCo team resources: <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.jp/|Web site]]</nowiki>, IRC (#ubuntu-jp), Mailing List (unbuntu-jp@lists.ubuntu.com), <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntulinux.jp/|Web forum]]</nowiki>.
** Attend events and to write articles actively.
** Advise more companies which plan to use Ubuntu for business.
* '''Better relation ships with other FOSS communities''' - Expand cooperative ties with other Ubuntu and FOSS comunities.
** Improving the relationship with Debian JP Project is most important
** Encourage more of the Japanese LoCo Team members to become Ubuntu Members.

=== Experience ===
* '''Regular IRC Meeting''' - We organize meetings in #ubuntu-jp on irc.freenode.net every Tuesday (14:00 UTC).

* '''Ubuntu Kaizen Project''' - We started the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-jp-improvement|Ubuntu Kaizen Project]]</nowiki> to manage bugs submitted in Japanese.

* '''Meetings with companies''' - We have talked about Ubuntu with some companies which are considering using Ubuntu for their business.

* '''LoCo Membership process''' - We have written details of how new member can join our LoCo team, based on the Ubuntu Membership process used by the Community Council.

* '''Japanese version of Official Ubuntu Book''' - We have supervised the Japanese version of the Official Ubuntu Book.

* '''Japanese Ubuntu articles''' - We have written articles for following print and online local magazines:
** <nowiki>[[http://direct.idg.co.jp/item_detail.command?item_cd=UBUNTU_WORLD|Ubuntu World]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ascii.co.jp/books/magazines/unix/20080618.shtml|Unix Magazine Unix Magazine July 2008 issue]]</nowiki>: Ubuntuとその派生ディストリビューションについて
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/2008/200807|Software Design Unix Magazine July 2008 issue]]</nowiki>: Windowsで動くLinux「andLinux」～Windows上でUbuntuを使おう！
** Nikkei Linux April - July issues: Ubuntuの育て方（連載中）
** Think IT: <nowiki>[[http://www.thinkit.co.jp/article/84/|【OS-1グランプリ】Ubuntu徹底活用！]]</nowiki>
** gihyo.jp: <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/serial/01/ubuntu-recipe|Ubuntu Weekly Recipe]]</nowiki> / <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/clip/01/ubuntu-topics|Ubuntu Weekly Topics]]</nowiki>（共に連載中）

* '''Conference Attendance''' - We have attended following conferences:
** Open Source Conference: as exhibitor and speaker
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2007-kansai/|OSC2007Kyoto]]</nowiki> / <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2007-fall/|OSC2007Tokyo Fall]]</nowiki> / <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2008-spring/|OSC2008Tokyo Spring]]</nowiki>
** Japan Unix Society: as speaker
** <nowiki>[[http://www.jus.or.jp/benkyokai/08-05.html|Study meeting in May 2008「Ubuntuによるデスクトップ環境 〜Unixデスクトップは難しくない〜」]]</nowiki>
** LinuxWorld Expo/Tokyo 2008: as speaker
** <nowiki>[[http://www.idg.co.jp/expo/lw/lw2008/details/index.html#c23|「世界に広がるUbuntu、次の狙いはエンタープライズ市場」]]</nowiki>
** LinuxWorld Expo/Tokyo 2007: as panelist
** <nowiki>[[http://www.idg.co.jp/expo/lw/lw2007/openuposs.html|「Distribution/Communityが語るLinux Desktopの未来」]]</nowiki>
** The 86th Linux Kernel code reading: as speaker
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ylug.jp/modules/pukiwiki/index.php?reading|「『初心者向け』と思われているUbuntuの裏側」]]</nowiki>
** Kansai Open source Forum: as speaker
** <nowiki>[[http://k-of.jp/2007/d_stage.html#S13|「Ubuntu 7.10の紹介」]]</nowiki>

* '''Japanese Remix Desktop CDs''' - We create and distribute Japanese Remix Desktop CDs for each release of Ubuntu.
** http://www.ubuntulinux.jp/news/ubuntu710-ja-desktop-cd
** http://www.ubuntulinux.jp/news/kubuntu710-ja-desktop-cd
** http://www.ubuntulinux.jp/news/ubuntu804-ja-desktop-cd

* '''Japanese Remix Virtual Machines''' - We create and distribute virtual machines for Virtual Box and VMware for each release of Ubuntu.
** http://www.ubuntulinux.jp/news/ubuntu804-ja-vm
** http://www.ubuntulinux.jp/news/ubuntu710-ja-vm

* '''New archive mirrors''' - We have deployed and maintain new archive mirrors in Japan with help of some organizations.
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+mirror/ubuntutym.u-toyama.ac.jp-archive|University of Toyama]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+mirror/ubuntu-ashisuto.ubuntulinux.jp|K.K. Ashisuto]]</nowiki>
