{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== ReApproval Application 2017 for Japanese LoCo Team (ubuntu-jp) ==

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - 22 June 2017
* '''Team Contact''' - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jkbys|Jun Kobayashi]]</nowiki>
* '''Membership''' - 12 active core members and tens of volunteers as of 22 June 2017.
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-jp on lists.ubuntu.com with 2722 members as of 19 July 2011.
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-jp on Freenode
* '''Launchpad Page''' - https://launchpad.net/~japaneseteam
* '''Web Site''' - http://www.ubuntulinux.jp
* '''Web Forum''' - https://forums.ubuntulinux.jp
* '''Wiki Site''' - https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp

=== Roadmap ===

* '''Spread Ubuntu in Japan''' - Increase the number of Japanese users involved in the Ubuntu community.
** Continue to organize regional meetings.
** Attend local FLOSS conferences four or more times per year.
** Continue running LoCo team resources: <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntulinux.jp/|Web site]]</nowiki>, IRC (#ubuntu-jp), Mailing List (unbuntu-jp@lists.ubuntu.com), <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntulinux.jp/|Web forum]]</nowiki>.
** Write articles on local magazines and web sites.
** Advise more companies which plan to use Ubuntu for business.
** Hold a release party.
* '''IRC Meetings''' - Continue to organise ondemand IRC meetings.
* '''Make Ubuntu better for Japanese users''' - Translate more applications, improve Japanese display and input support, and work to build up and provide a better Japanese language environment.
** Maintain jp.archive.ubuntu.com to make Japanese users update their ubuntu system comfortably.
** Continue to create and distribute Japanese Remix Desktop DVD images which supports Japanese lang packs even in live session.
*** and continue efforts to reduce differencies between Official Imange and Japanese Remix
* '''Better relation ships with other FOSS communities''' - Expand cooperative ties with other Ubuntu and FOSS comunities.
** Maintain cooperation with Debian JP Project.
** Deepen exchanges with other FLOSS communities including LibreOffice, etc.
* '''Deepen exchanges with Ubuntu users in other countries'''
** Encourage more of the Japanese LoCo Team members to become Ubuntu Members.

=== Experience ===

Experiences from 16 July 2015 to 22 June 2017.

* '''Meetings''' - We organized events for Ubuntu users.
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Events/OfflineTokyo201512| Ubuntu 15.10 release party]]</nowiki>; host (<nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/serial/01/ubuntu-recipe/0403|event reprot]]</nowiki>)
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Events/OfflineTokyo201606| Ubuntu 16.04 LTS release party]]</nowiki>; host (<nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/serial/01/ubuntu-recipe/0428|event reprot]]</nowiki>)
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Events/OfflineTokyo201612| Ubuntu 16.10 release party]]</nowiki>; host (<nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/serial/01/ubuntu-recipe/0452|event reprot]]</nowiki>)
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Events/OfflineTokyo201705| Ubuntu 17.04 release party]]</nowiki>; host (<nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/serial/01/ubuntu-recipe/0473|event reprot]]</nowiki>)

* '''Conference Attendance''' - We have held and attended following conferences.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2015-kyoto/|Open Source Conference 2015 Kansai@Kyoto]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2015-fall/|Open Source Conference 2015 Tokyo/Fall]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2016-spring/|Open Source Conference 2016 Tokyo/Spring]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2016-gunma/|Open Source Conference 2016 Gunma]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2016-do/|Open Source Conference 2016 Hokkaido]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2016-okinawa/|Open Source Conference 2016 Okinawa]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2016-kyoto/|Open Source Conference 2016 Kyoto]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2016-fall/|Open Source Conference 2016 Tokyo/Fall]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2016-hiroshima/|Open Source Conference 2016 Hiroshima]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2017-spring/|Open Source Conference 2017 Tokyo/Spring]]</nowiki>; booth participation

* '''Meetings with organizations''' - We have talked about Ubuntu with some companies which are considering using Ubuntu for their business.
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~akira-tanaka|Akira Tanaka]]</nowiki> has become a member of Ubuntu Japanese LoCo Team.

* '''Team Reports''' - We have submitted the summary of our activities to TeamReports page continually ( <nowiki>[[JapaneseTeam-TeamReports|summary page]]</nowiki> ).

* '''Ondemand IRC Meeting''' - We organize meetings in #ubuntu-jp on irc.freenode.net every Tuesday (13:00 UTC / 22:00 JST).

* '''Ubuntu Kaizen Project''' - We manage the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-jp-improvement|Ubuntu Kaizen Project]]</nowiki> to handle bugs submitted in Japanese.

* '''Japanese Ubuntu articles''' - We have written articles for following papers and online local magazines
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/serial/01/ubuntu-recipe|Ubuntu Weekly Recipe]]</nowiki> / weekly
** Serialized in 476 articles as of 22 June 2017. (from July 2015: around +100 articles)
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/clip/01/ubuntu-topics|Ubuntu Weekly Topics]]</nowiki> / weekly
** Serialized in around 450 articles as of 22 June 2017 (from July 2015: around +100 articles).
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/2017/201707|"Ubuntu Monthly Report" SoftwareDesign]]</nowiki> - has been serialized since May 2010, and continues today. (from July 2015: +24 articles)
** "Software Design"(May 2016) <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/2016/201605|About Ubuntu 16.04 LTS]]</nowiki>
** "The Advantage of Ubuntu" by Mizuno Hajime
** "Changes of Ubuntu 16.04 LTS" by Mitsuya Shibata
** "The comparisons of flavours" by Ikuya Awashiro
** "Juju, MAAS and LXD; Ubuntu Server 16.04 LTS" by Fumihito Yoshida
** "All About Ubuntu 16.04 LTS" <nowiki>[[http://itpro.nikkeibp.co.jp/atcl/mag/14/236750/060900032/|Nikkei Linux 2016/05]]</nowiki> written by Ubuntu Japanese Team
** "Software Design"(Aug 2016) <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/2016/201608|About apt packaging system]]</nowiki> written by Mitsuya Shibata

* '''Japanese Ubuntu Books''' - Our member wrote some books in Japanese. You can purchase in Japanese book stores and/or amazon.co.jp.
** "<nowiki>[[https://eb.store.nikkei.com/asp/ShowSeriesDetail.do?seriesId=D2-00258430B|Ubuntu 16.04 LTS super-understanding book]]</nowiki>" written by Ubuntu Japanese Team
*** <nowiki>[[https://www.amazon.co.jp/dp/B01LYN4ODS|Kindle version]]</nowiki>

* '''Japanese Remix CDs/DVDs''' - We create and distribute Japanese Remix Desktop DVDs for each release of Ubuntu.
** <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntulinux.jp/News/ubuntu1510-ja-remix|Ubuntu 15.10 Desktop Japanese Remix]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntulinux.jp/News/ubuntu1604-ja-remix|Ubuntu 16.04 LTS Desktop Japanese Remix]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntulinux.jp/News/ubuntu1610-ja-remix|Ubuntu 16.10 Desktop Japanese Remix]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[ihttps:--www.ubuntulinux.jp-News-ubuntu1704-ja-remix|Ubuntu 16.04 Desktop Japanese Remix]]</nowiki>
** For all releases, we translated release note:
*** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseNotes/Ja|Ubuntu 15.10 Release Notes]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseNotes/Ja|Ubuntu 16.04 LTS Release Notes]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseNotes/Ja|Ubuntu 16.10 Release Notes]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZestyZapus/ReleaseNotes/Ja|Ubuntu 17.04 Release Notes]]</nowiki>

* '''Archive/Release mirrors''' - We maintain archive mirrors in Japan with help of some organizations.
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+mirror/ubuntutym.u-toyama.ac.jp-archive|University of Toyama]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+mirror/ubuntu-ashisuto.ubuntulinux.jp|K.K. Ashisuto]]</nowiki>
