{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Approval Application for Japanese Team (ubuntu-jp) ==

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - 16 June 2011
* '''Team Contact''' - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jkbys|Jun Kobayashi]]</nowiki>
* '''Membership''' - 10 active core members and tens of volunteers as of 19 June 2011.
** One of our team member, Nobuto Murata, was approved for Ubuntu Membership in Jan 2011.
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-jp on lists.ubuntu.com with 2640 members as of 19 July 2011.
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-jp on Freenode
* '''Launchpad Page''' - https://launchpad.net/~japaneseteam
* '''Web Site''' - http://www.ubuntulinux.jp
* '''Web Forum''' - https://forums.ubuntulinux.jp
* '''Wiki Site''' - https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp

=== Roadmap ===
* '''Spread Ubuntu in Japan''' - Increase the number of Japanese users involved in the Ubuntu community.
** Continue to organize regional meetings.
** Attend local FLOSS conferences four or more times per year.
** Distribute Ubuntu CDs at events.
** Continue running LoCo team resources: <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.jp/|Web site]]</nowiki>, IRC (#ubuntu-jp), Mailing List (unbuntu-jp@lists.ubuntu.com), <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntulinux.jp/|Web forum]]</nowiki>.
** Write articles on local magazines and web sites.
** Advise more companies which plan to use Ubuntu for business.
* '''IRC Meetings''' - Continue to organise regular weekly IRC meetings.
* '''Make Ubuntu better for Japanese users''' - Translate more applications, improve Japanese display and input support, and work to build up and provide a better Japanese language environment.
** Maintain jp.archive.ubuntu.com to make Japanese users update their ubuntu system comfortably.
** Continue to create and distribute Japanese Remix Desktop CDs which supports Japanese input even in live session.
* '''Better relation ships with other FOSS communities''' - Expand cooperative ties with other Ubuntu and FOSS comunities.
** Maintain cooperation with Debian JP Project.
** Deepen exchanges with other FLOSS communities including LibreOffice, Linaro, Android, etc.
* '''Deepen exchanges with Ubuntu users in other countries'''
** Encourage more of the Japanese LoCo Team members to become Ubuntu Members.

=== Experience ===

Experiences from 22 July 2009 to 19 June 2011.

* '''Meetings''' - We organized events for Ubuntu users.
** Ubuntu Offline Meeting Tokyo 9.08
** 1 Aug 2009 at Hirose Building, Akihabara, Tokyo.
** Organized by Ubuntu Japanese Team and Hirose Electric Works, Ltd.
** Ubuntu 9.04 install party, seminar sessions and lunch party.
** 70 participants.
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Offline200908Report|Report page(Japanese)]]</nowiki>
** Ubuntu Offline Pre-Meeting Kansai 10.08
** 21 Aug 2010 at ASTEM, Kyoto.
** Seminar sessions and lunch party.
** 30 paticipants.
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Events/OfflineKansai201008Report|Report page(Japanese)]]</nowiki>
** Ubuntu Offline Meeting Kansai 10.10
** 30 Oct 2010 at ASTEM, Kyoto.
** Seminar sessions and lunch party.
** 40 participants.
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Events/OfflineKansai201010Report|Report page(Japanese)]]</nowiki>
** Ubuntu 10.10 Release Party Tokyo
** 6 Nov 2010 at British Pub HUB, Akihabara, Tokyo.
** 68 participants.
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Events/OfflineTokyo201011/Report|Report page(Japanese)]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://picasaweb.google.com/106468260551425064278/Ubuntu1010ReleasePartyTokyo|Photos]]</nowiki>
** Ubuntu Offline Meeting Kansai 11.03
** 19 Mar 2011 at ASTEM, Kyoto.
** Seminar sessions and lunch party.
** 40 participants.
** Participants donated 55,000 yen in total for Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami victims.
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Events/OfflineKansai201103|Report page(Japanese)]]</nowiki>
** Ubuntu Hour at Tachikawa, Tokyo.
** Held 10 times.
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Hour/TokyoTachikawa|Event page(Japanese)]]</nowiki>

* '''Conference Attendance''' - We have attended following conferences.
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/OSC2009Nagoya|Open Source Conference 2009 Nagoya]]</nowiki> - 22 Aug 2009 at Nagoya.
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/OSC2009TokyoFall|Open Source Conference 2009 Tokyo Fall]]</nowiki> - 30-31 Oct 2009 at Tokyo.
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/OSC2010TokyoSpring|Open Source Conference 2010 Tokyo Spring]]</nowiki> - 26-27 Feb 2010 at Tokyo.
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/OSC2010Sendai|Open Source Conference 2010 Sendai]]</nowiki> - 22 May 2010 at Sendai.
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Events/OSC2010Kansai|Open Source Conference 2010 Kansai@Kyoto]]</nowiki> - 9-10 Jul 2010 at Kyoto.
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Events/OSC2010Nagoya|Open Source Conference 2010 Nagoya]]</nowiki> - 7 Aug 2010 at Nagoya.
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Events/OSC2010TokyoFall|Open Source Conference 2010 Tokyo/Fall]]</nowiki> - 10-11 Sep 2010 at Tokyo.
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Events/OSC2011TokyoSpring|Open Source Conference 2011 Tokyo/Spring]]</nowiki> - 4-5 Mar 2011 at Tokyo.
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Events/OSC2011Kobe|Open Source Conference 2011 Kansai@Kobe]]</nowiki> - 16 Apr 2011 at Kobe.
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Events/OSC2011Sendai|Open Source Conference 2011 Sendai]]</nowiki> - 21 May 2011 at Sendai.
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Events/OSC2011Hokkaido|Open Source Conference 2011 Hokkaido]]</nowiki> - 11 June 2011 at Sapporo.

* '''Meetings with organizations''' - We have talked about Ubuntu with some companies which are considering using Ubuntu for their business.
** Minoh City - We adviced Minoh city to deply Ubuntu LTSP environment to teachers' room in common schools.
** Ashisuto

* '''Team Reports''' - We have submitted the summary of our activities to TeamReports page continually.

* '''Regular IRC Meeting''' - We organize meetings in #ubuntu-jp on irc.freenode.net every Tuesday (13:00 UTC / 22:00 JST).

* '''Ubuntu Kaizen Project''' - We manage the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-jp-improvement|Ubuntu Kaizen Project]]</nowiki> to handle bugs submitted in Japanese.

* '''Japanese Ubuntu articles''' - We have written articles for following print and online local magazines
** Ubuntu Magazine Japan - The first Ubuntu specialized magazine in Japan. We wrote articles for them.
** <nowiki>[[http://ascii.asciimw.jp/books/books/detail/978-4-04-867996-1.shtml|Vol.1]]</nowiki> - 29 Sep 2009
** <nowiki>[[http://ascii.asciimw.jp/books/books/detail/978-4-04-868258-9.shtml|Vol.2]]</nowiki> - 30 Nov 2009
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.asciimw.jp/elem/000/000/010/10106/|Vol.3]]</nowiki> - 23 Feb 2010
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.asciimw.jp/elem/000/000/010/10163/|Vol.4]]</nowiki> - 31 May 2010
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.asciimw.jp/elem/000/000/010/10259/|Vol.5]]</nowiki> - 31 Aug 2010
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/serial/01/ubuntu-recipe|Ubuntu Weekly Recipe]]</nowiki>
** Serialized in 176 articles as of 15 June 2011.
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/clip/01/ubuntu-topics|Ubuntu Weekly Topics]]</nowiki>
** Serialized in 172 articles as of 18 June 2011.
** <nowiki>[[http://ascii.jp/elem/000/000/435/435813/|Ittoke! Ubuntu DoJo!]]</nowiki> - Conversational style articles on ascii.jp
** Serialized in 44 articles as of 9 June 2011.
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/2009/200909|"Do you know? - processes behind OS" SoftwareDesign 2009-09]]</nowiki> - written by Fumihito Yoshida.
** <nowiki>[[http://ascii.asciimw.jp/books/books/detail/978-4-04-868164-3.shtml|NetWalker Guide Book]]</nowiki> - Published on 29 Oct 2009. We wrote many articles for it.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.atmarkit.co.jp/flinux/special/eucaly/eucalya.html|"Start cloud computing with Ubuntu" @IT]]</nowiki> - Published in 25 Nov 2009, written by Fumihito.
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/2010/201005|"Ubuntu Monthly Report" SoftwareDesign]]</nowiki> - has been serialized since May 2010, and continues today.
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/2010/201006|"Features of Ubuntu LTS 10.04" SoftwareDesign 2010-06]]</nowiki> - Published on 18 May 2010, written by some of us.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.shuwasystem.co.jp/products/7980html/2681.html|Ubuntu Linux Introduction Kit for 10.04]]</nowiki> - Published on 15 July 2010, written by Jun Kobayashi and Nobuto Murata.
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/2010/201010|"New Generation Filesystem - Btrfs" SoftwareDesign 2010-10]]</nowiki> - Published on 18 Sep 2010, written by Fumihito.
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/2010/201011|"Features of Ubuntu 10.10" SoftwareDesign 2010-11]]</nowiki> - Published on 18 Oct 2010, written by Fumihito and Ikuya.
** <nowiki>[[http://tech.ascii.jp/elem/000/000/582/582920/|"Ubuntu 10.10" ASCII.technologies]]</nowiki> - Published on 24 Jan 2011, written by Ikuya.
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/2011/201105|"Ubuntu 11.04 New Desktop Environment" SoftwareDesign 2011-05]]</nowiki> - Published on 18 Apr 2011, written by Hajime Mizuno.

* '''Japanese Remix CDs''' - We create and distribute Japanese Remix Desktop CDs for each release of Ubuntu.
** <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntulinux.jp/News/ubuntu910-desktop-ja-remix|Ubuntu 9.10 Desktop Japanese Remix CD]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntulinux.jp/News/ubuntu1004-desktop-ja-remix|Ubuntu 10.04 LTS Desktop Japanese Remix CD]]</nowiki> - We have pressed 1,000 CDs to hand out in events.
** <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntulinux.jp/News/ubuntu1010-desktop-ja-remix|Ubuntu 10.10 Desktop Japanese Remix CD]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntulinux.jp/News/ubuntu1104-desktop-ja-remix|Ubuntu 11.04 Desktop Japanese Remix CD]]</nowiki>

* '''Archive mirrors''' - We maintain archive mirrors in Japan with help of some organizations.
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+mirror/ubuntutym.u-toyama.ac.jp-archive|University of Toyama]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+mirror/ubuntu-ashisuto.ubuntulinux.jp|K.K. Ashisuto]]</nowiki>
