{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== ReApproval Application 2015 for Japanese LoCo Team (ubuntu-jp) ==

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - 16 July 2015
* '''Team Contact''' - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jkbys|Jun Kobayashi]]</nowiki>
* '''Membership''' - 11 active core members and tens of volunteers as of 16 July 2015.
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-jp on lists.ubuntu.com with 2722 members as of 19 July 2011.
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-jp on Freenode
* '''Launchpad Page''' - https://launchpad.net/~japaneseteam
* '''Web Site''' - http://www.ubuntulinux.jp
* '''Web Forum''' - https://forums.ubuntulinux.jp
* '''Wiki Site''' - https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp

=== Roadmap ===
* '''Spread Ubuntu in Japan''' - Increase the number of Japanese users involved in the Ubuntu community.
** Continue to organize regional meetings.
** Attend local FLOSS conferences four or more times per year.
** Continue running LoCo team resources: <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.jp/|Web site]]</nowiki>, IRC (#ubuntu-jp), Mailing List (unbuntu-jp@lists.ubuntu.com), <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntulinux.jp/|Web forum]]</nowiki>.
** Write articles on local magazines and web sites.
** Advise more companies which plan to use Ubuntu for business.
** Hold a release party.
* '''IRC Meetings''' - Continue to organise regular weekly IRC meetings.
* '''Make Ubuntu better for Japanese users''' - Translate more applications, improve Japanese display and input support, and work to build up and provide a better Japanese language environment.
** Maintain jp.archive.ubuntu.com to make Japanese users update their ubuntu system comfortably.
** Continue to create and distribute Japanese Remix Desktop DVD images which supports Japanese input even in live session.
*** and continue efforts to reduce differencies between Official Imange and Japanese Remix
* '''Better relation ships with other FOSS communities''' - Expand cooperative ties with other Ubuntu and FOSS comunities.
** Maintain cooperation with Debian JP Project.
** Deepen exchanges with other FLOSS communities including LibreOffice, Linaro, Android, etc.
* '''Deepen exchanges with Ubuntu users in other countries'''
** Encourage more of the Japanese LoCo Team members to become Ubuntu Members.

=== Experience ===

Experiences from 19 June 2013 to 16 July 2015.

* '''Meetings''' - We organized events for Ubuntu users.

* '''Conference Attendance''' - We have held and attended following conferences.
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Events/gihyojp-recipe-300| Ubuntu Weekly Recipe and Topics 300th event]]</nowiki>; host (<nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/serial/01/ubuntu-recipe/0306|event report]]</nowiki>)
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Events/OfflineTokyo201405| Ubuntu 14.04 LTS release party]]</nowiki>; host (<nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/serial/01/ubuntu-recipe/0325|event report]]</nowiki>)
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Events/10thAnniversary| Ubuntu 14.10 release party and 10th anniversary]]</nowiki>; host (<nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/serial/01/ubuntu-recipe/0355|event report]]</nowiki>)
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Events/OfflineTokyo201506| Ubuntu 15.04 release party]]</nowiki>; host (<nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/serial/01/ubuntu-recipe/0380|event reprot]]</nowiki>)
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2015-do/|Open Source Conference 2015 Hokkaido]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2015-okinawa/|Open Source Conference 2015 Okinawa]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2015-spring/|Open Source Conference 2015 Tokyo/Spring]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2014-fall/|Open Source Conference 2014 Tokyo/Fall]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2014-do/|Open Source Conference 2014 Hokkaido]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2014-kyoto/|Open Source Conference 2014 Kansai@Kyoto]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2014-okinawa/|Open Source Conference 2014 Okinawa]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2014-spring/|Open Source Conference 2014 Tokyo/Spring]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2013-fall/|Open Source Conference 2013 Tokyo/Fall]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2013-do/|Open Source Conference 2013 Hokkaido]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2013-kyoto/|Open Source Conference 2013 Kansai@Kyoto]]</nowiki>; booth participation
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2013-okinawa/|Open Source Conference 2013 Okinawa]]</nowiki>; booth participation

* '''Meetings with organizations''' - We have talked about Ubuntu with some companies which are considering using Ubuntu for their business.
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~akira-tanaka|Akira Tanaka]]</nowiki> has become an admin of Ubuntu Japanese Translators Team.

* '''Team Reports''' - We have submitted the summary of our activities to TeamReports page continually ( <nowiki>[[JapaneseTeam-TeamReports|summary page]]</nowiki> ).

* '''Regular IRC Meeting''' - We organize meetings in #ubuntu-jp on irc.freenode.net every Tuesday (13:00 UTC / 22:00 JST).

* '''Ubuntu Kaizen Project''' - We manage the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-jp-improvement|Ubuntu Kaizen Project]]</nowiki> to handle bugs submitted in Japanese.

* '''Japanese Ubuntu articles''' - We have written articles for following papers and online local magazines
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/serial/01/ubuntu-recipe|Ubuntu Weekly Recipe]]</nowiki> / weekly
** Serialized in 382 articles as of 16 July 2015. (from June 2013: around +100 articles)
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/clip/01/ubuntu-topics|Ubuntu Weekly Topics]]</nowiki> / weekly
** Serialized in around 380 articles as of 16 June 2015 (from June 2013: around +100 articles).
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/2015/201507|"Ubuntu Monthly Report" SoftwareDesign]]</nowiki> - has been serialized since May 2010, and continues today.(from June 2013: +24 articles)
** "Software Design"(Nov 2013) <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/201311|Emacs for Everywhere]]</nowiki> written by Hajime Mizuno
** "Software Design"(Nov 2013) <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/201311|Deatils for 13.10]]</nowiki> written by Hiroshi Chonan
** "Software Design"(Jun 2014) <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/201406|About Ubuntu 14.04 LTS]]</nowiki>
*** "The future of convergence" by Chonan Hiroshi
*** "Ubuntu GNOME 14.04 LTS and GNOME Shell" by Ikuya Awashiro
*** "Input Method for Ubuntu 14.04" by Ikuya Awashiro
*** "What's Long Term Support?" by Ikuya Awashiro
*** "Ubuntu SDK and Ubuntu Touch" by Mitsuya Shibata
*** "New packages for Foundation and Server" by Yoshida Fumihito
** "Software Design"(Feb 2015) <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/201502|Ubuntu and systemd]]</nowiki> written by Mitsuya Shibata
** "Software Design"(Mar 2015) <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/201503|Snappy Ubuntu Core]]</nowiki> written by Mitsuya Shibata

* '''Japanese Ubuntu Books''' - Our member wrote some books in Japanese. You can purchase in Japanese book stores and amazon.co.jp.
** "<nowiki>[[http://itpro.nikkeibp.co.jp/article/MAG/20140602/560891/|Ubuntu super-understanding book]]</nowiki>" written by Ikuya Awashiro, Fumihito Yoshida, Hiroshi Chonan
*** <nowiki>[[http://www.amazon.co.jp/dp/B00LMY5N6Y/|Kindle version]]</nowiki>
** "<nowiki>[[http://www.shuwasystem.co.jp/products/7980html/4134.html|Ubuntu Linux Introduction Kit for 14.04]]</nowiki>" written by Hajime Mizuno

* '''Japanese Remix CDs/DVDs''' - We create and distribute Japanese Remix Desktop DVDs for each release of Ubuntu.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.jp/News/ubuntu1310-ja-remix|Ubuntu 13.10 Desktop Japanese Remix]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.jp/News/ubuntu1404-ja-remix|Ubuntu 14.04 LTS Desktop Japanese Remix]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.jp/News/ubuntu1410-ja-remix|Ubuntu 14.10 Desktop Japanese Remix]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.jp/News/ubuntu1504-ja-remix|Ubuntu 15.04 Desktop Japanese Remix]]</nowiki>
** For all releases, we translated release note:
*** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/ReleaseNotes/Ja|Ubuntu 13.10 Release Notes]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/ReleaseNotes/Ja|Ubuntu 14.04 LTS Release Notes]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseNotes/Ja|Ubuntu 14.10 Release Notes]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseNotes/Ja|Ubuntu 15.04 Release Notes]]</nowiki>

* '''Archive/Release mirrors''' - We maintain archive mirrors in Japan with help of some organizations.
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+mirror/ubuntutym.u-toyama.ac.jp-archive|University of Toyama]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+mirror/ubuntu-ashisuto.ubuntulinux.jp|K.K. Ashisuto]]</nowiki>
