{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Jason Cohen ===

I've been using Linux for about two years. I began using Mandrake and then moved up to Debian which I use on my server/Mythtv (mythtv.org) system. I run Ubuntu on my Desktop and try to provide as much support as I can on #ubuntu. I've also begun providing support on the Ubuntu Forums. I have quite a lot of experience setting up MythTV systems. My box has a 1/2 TB of storage on an LVM, 2 tuners and also is used to rip/encode DVDs to xvid with dvdrip. Feel free to ask me general questions about Ubuntu, Debian, or Mythtv. 

==== Contact Information: ====

'''Email:''' 
'''AIM:''' jc4485

'''IRC:''' My nick is jasoncohen and you can usually find me in #ubuntu and #mythtv-users

'''GPG Key:''' 9BEC42C1

==== Personal Information: ====

Age: 20

Location: East Brunswick, New Jersey

University: Brandeis University in Waltham, MA

Academic Interests: Politics, Philosophy, Law. If you ever want to discuss the latest political or legal headlines, feel free to private message me or send me an IM. I'm always happy to debate. 

==== Contributions ====

* I regularly provide support on the #ubuntu IRC channel
 
* I am a member of the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewUserMentors|New User's Network.]]</nowiki> We provide support to new Ubuntu users by giving 10 hours/week or more of support via IRC, the forums and mailing lists. 

* I have contributed to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AddingRepositoriesHowto|Adding Repositories]]</nowiki> wiki by adding screenshots and clearer descriptions. 

* I provide support on the Ubuntu and Backport forums and try to look for dependency problems on Backport packages. I found dependency issues in Backport's Konversation and Firefox/Mozilla packages which were soon fixed. I've also discovered a kernel panic in Breezy as well as issues with the new usplash which have been resolved. 

* I have also created a new wiki page about the Multimedia codecs & Audio/Video software available in Ubuntu with screenshots, descriptions, and information about the reppositories & packages needed to enable multimedia functionality. See <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewUserGuideMultimedia?action=show|Multimedia Support]]</nowiki>

* I also created a wiki page to facilitate adding the Universe, Multiverse, and Hoary-Extras repositories as a link off my Multimedia Support wiki. See <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewUserGuideAddingRepositories|Adding Repositories for Multimedia Support]]</nowiki>

=== Links ===

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewUbuntuUsers|New Ubuntu Users Guide]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AddingRepositoriesHowto|Adding Repositories]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewUserGuideMultimedia?action=show|Multimedia Support]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewUserGuideAddingRepositories|Adding Repositories for Multimedia Support]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryHomepage
