{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jason-arkell]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''E-Mail''':
| jason.arkell@hotmail.com
|-
| '''IRC''':
| 
|-
| '''Blog''':
| 
|-
| '''Jabber''':
| 
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| 
|}
 I really don't know the meaning of the word "Quit"

== Introduction ==

I heard a little bit about Ubuntu, and decided to learn more, and have loved it ever since I first tried Hardy Heron. Not only the software but also the community. Getting involved myself was only the next natural step.

== Community Involvement ==

I rebuild and donate computers for families who cannot afford new ones. If they are a struggling family or new comers to Canada I help who I can. I load Ubuntu along with any other software they may need and send them out. It first started when I heard about some families that had a few kids, and the oldest ones couldn't get to sleep before midnight because they all had to do their homework on the one computer. So I started setting them up with systems built from spare parts I could find and of course powered with Ubuntu. I continue with support for them afterwards as well. I have started testing several editions of Ubuntu on my laptop and will be updating that Wiki soon.

Long term goals:

 -Find a way to get new system parts to build better systems for people who need them

== Testimonials ==
