{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

At the moment I work as a ''Applications Development Senior Programmer Analyst'' (really a software developer) for Citi Consumer Group UK part of Citi Holdings (previously Egg).

My main interests at the moment are:

* '''Desktop Testing:''' <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Automation/Desktop|Ubuntu Desktop Testing]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-desktop-testing|launchpad]]</nowiki>), <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/DesktopTesting|Gnome Desktop Testing]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://mail.gnome.org/archives/desktop-testing-list/|Mailing List]]</nowiki>), <nowiki>[[http://ldtp.freedesktop.org/wiki/|Linux Desktop Testing Project (LDTP)]]</nowiki>
* '''Ubuntu:''' ubuntuQA
* '''GREAT Computing:''' <nowiki>[[http://greatc.wikia.com]]</nowiki> - Guarantees for computing. 
* '''Wikibooks:''' <nowiki>[[http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Version_Control|Version Control]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Guide_to_Windows_Commands|Guide to Windows Commands]]</nowiki>
* '''Personal Links''' <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~jason-cozens|Launchpad]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/JasonCozens|Gnome]]</nowiki>

=== UbuntuQA ===

Useful Links:

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JauntyReleaseSchedule
* http://live.gnome.org/DesktopTesting
* http://ldtp.freedesktop.org/wiki/

==== ubuntu-destop-testing ====

==== Setting Up VirtualBox ====

* Downloaded alpha 6 iso.
* Created new virtual machine
* Got the following error when starting the new VM: 

<pre>

VirtualBox kernel driver not installed. The vboxdrv kernel module was either not loaded or /dev/vboxdrv was not created for some reason. Please install the virtualbox-ose-modules package for your kernel, e.g. virtualbox-ose-modules-generic..
VBox status code: -1908 (VERR_VM_DRIVER_NOT_INSTALLED).

Result Code: 
0x80004005
Component: 
Console
Interface: 
IConsole {1dea5c4b-0753-4193-b909-22330f64ec45}
</pre>

''All VMs are generating this message tonight.'' (2009-03-19 Thu)

See:

* http://forums.virtualbox.org/viewtopic.php?p=498&sid=9bf9dafc5ece9224ebc2c996bfa8e5ef

<pre>
jason@AmyEx:~$ uname -r
2.6.24-23-generic
</pre>

Looking at the installed packages it seems that the kernel has been updated.

<pre>
jason@AmyEx:~$ dpkg --get-selections virtualbox-ose*
virtualbox-ose					install
virtualbox-ose-guest-modules-2.6.24-21-generic	purge
virtualbox-ose-guest-modules-generic		purge
virtualbox-ose-modules-2.6.24-21-generic	purge
virtualbox-ose-modules-2.6.24-22-generic	install
virtualbox-ose-modules-generic			purge
virtualbox-ose-source				install
</pre>

So install latest version:

<pre>
jason@AmyEx:~$ sudo apt-get install virtualbox-ose-modules-2.6.24-23-generic 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
The following NEW packages will be installed
  virtualbox-ose-modules-2.6.24-23-generic
0 upgraded, 1 newly installed, 0 to remove and 3 not upgraded.
Need to get 327kB of archives.
After this operation, 918kB of additional disk space will be used.
Get: 1 http://archive.ubuntu.com hardy-updates/universe virtualbox-ose-modules-2.6.24-23-generic 24.0.8 [327kB]
Fetched 327kB in 0s (356kB/s)                                    
Selecting previously deselected package virtualbox-ose-modules-2.6.24-23-generic.
(Reading database ... 172434 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking virtualbox-ose-modules-2.6.24-23-generic (from .../virtualbox-ose-modules-2.6.24-23-generic_24.0.8_i386.deb) ...
Setting up virtualbox-ose-modules-2.6.24-23-generic (24.0.8) ...
</pre>

This fixed  things. The VM now started but went to the command prompt at IO APIC was not enabled.

* Enable IO APIC.
* Start VM

==== Running ubuntu-destop-testing ====

Running ./bin/ubuntu-destop-testing, the tests work but the following warning happens:

<pre>
' Warning: AT-SPI error: pre method check: add: Unknown CORBA exception id: 'IDL:omg.org/CORBA/COMM_FAILURE:1.0'
</pre>

Start by looking at:

* http://www.mail-archive.com/gnome-accessibility-devel@gnome.org/msg01367.html
* http://www.nabble.com/Bug-on-ldtp.getapplist()-----to21202766.html

==== Desktop Testing Documentation ====

* ldtp - http://ldtp.freedesktop.org/wiki/Home

=== ubuntu deployments ===
I've decided to keep a note of how well deployments went to family and friends.

Compaq Evo 1015v. My wife uses a compaq laptop and I tried installing 7.04 on this.
There were problems with this installation so I tried 6.06.
This worked but there were some problems with the graphics.
Buttons appeared with vertical lines.
I have been told that this has been fixed in 6.10.
I've yet to try this.
I plan to try installing 7.04 again but may wait until 7.10.

The more problematic issues were to do with rendering in Firefox.
One was printing web pages.
Some web pages would only print one page.
I checked for similar problems on Firefox's buzilla and the problem seems to be
due to bugs in IE that mean poor html and css print formatting is rendered in IE when it shouldn't be.

Hotmail (dare I say it) is a problem.
It now has a classic and full version.
The full version only seems to work on Windows OS's.

My wife bought a Nokia N6300 which came with a CD containing documentation and a flash (swf)
presentation. This would not work on ubuntu.

Firefox 2.0 is needed for some websites (TalkTalk).
It was difficult installing this on 6.06.
I ended up installing Swiftweasel.
=== Advocacy ===
==== Ubuntu Advocacy ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Dec 2006 got 10 6.06 ubuntu CDs (5 PC, 3 64Bit, 2 Mac)
|-
| PC 1.
| Technical Lead at egg
|-
| PC 2.
| Call Center Architect at egg
|-
| PC 3.
| Development support at egg
|-
| PC 4.
| Project Manager at egg (citibank)
|-
| PC 5.
|-
| 64 Bit 1.
| Joel Smith
|-
| 64 Bit 2.
| Me
|-
| 64 Bit 3.
|-
| Mac 1.
| Christina Aguilera's guitarist
|-
| Mac 2.
| Spencer Cozens (Muscian)
|}
===== ubuntu installation: Julie Cozens (my wife) =====
Installed unbuntu 6.06 on Julie's compaq evo n1015v.
I tried installing 7.04 but had problems.
There are some problems with the graphics,
vertical lines on some buttons.
I've been told these are fixed in 6.10.

The main problems we've had are websites and hotmail
that don't work in firefox. TravelSupermarket is one
and some emails in hotmail from bmi baby will only
print the first page.
I've reported the problems with travelsupermarket to
the firefox team.

==== Free Software Advocacy ====
Sep 2006 Added to monodoc documentation.

2006 Main instigator in getting subversion as the developers' version control system at egg.com.
This replaced Visual SourceSafe and was up against Team Foundation Server.
----
CategoryHomepage
