{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:45%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~crane]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=4222|Crane on Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''Crane''' on ''irc.freenode.net''   ''#ubuntu-alabama''
|-
| '''Mailing List'''
| <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-al|ubuntu-us-al]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|}

==== About Me ====

 I have been using Ubuntu from the release of Warty. I started linux running a game server and migrated it to a desktop usage.
 I play FPS games such as Quake3 and 4, UT2004, Urban Terror, True Combat, and others. I am '''not''' a coder or programmer so my technical knowledge is limited. I love to help others when there is a problem and hope I can bring something back to the community as well. I am 38 years old, Live an Birmingham, Alabama U.S. I've been married for 17 years and loving every minute of it. I have 2 children, Daughter 10 years old, and a Son 5 years old.

==== Current Projects ====
* I am an active member of the LoCo group for Alabama, US.
  The group has done a couple of projects which include:
** Birmingham TechMixer 07
** Alabama Lug Fest
** Donating and assisting with computers for schools.
* Upcoming events include:
** Gutsy installfest - Oct.27
** Birmingham Techmixer - Feb. o8
** Alabama Lugfest 08 - T.B.A.
 

* Latest News 

 Currently I am still working with the LoCo, helping a couple of schools with hardware for computers and working with Cartridgesforkids to help raise money for the schools.

 I try to get on irc channel as much as I can on freenode at  '' #ubuntu-alabama '' '' #ubuntu-us '' '' #balu '' and a couple others.

 I still try to help answer questions on the forums at ubuntu as well as a couple of other Ubuntu related communities.
----
CategoryHomepage
