{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
* '''Add your feedback like this w/o the bold, and then use the @``SIG@ at the end of your line, look at the first post for reference'''
* '''All serious issues should be still <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+filebug|submitted as bug]]</nowiki>!'''

== WARNING ==
* Post known issues here
* Doesn't work with VIA Chrome 9 IGP chips, hangs when loading desktop (https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-openchrome/+bug/299631) -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:toni-helenius]]</nowiki>  * Doesn't work at all with Intel 865 graphics; <nowiki>[[https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=21470|X freezes on boot]]</nowiki>. Slightly edited #intel-gfx@freenode log tidbit follows;
  <pre>
[Thursday 23 July 2009] [02.48.52] <anholt>     I've managed to reproduce the problem on an 865, and spent a couple of days trying to fix it, with no luck so far.
[Thursday 23 July 2009] [02.49.54] <Zorael^nb>  anholt: mmkay. well, at least it's comforting to know it's not just some freak error only I'm getting :3
[Thursday 23 July 2009] [02.50.21] <anholt>     Zorael: yeah, it looks like it's a problem specific to 865 and not 855.
[Thursday 23 July 2009] [02.51.23] <anholt>     it's also specific to render accel, so we're looking at just disabling render accel on it.
  </pre>
 Not yet fixed as of 27/7 and xf86-video-intel git commit 8084f76d86f048ca5b82da089fffa9665dbbcdd5. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:zorael]]</nowiki> 
== Feedback ==
* Add feedback here
* Hi, haven't tested it yet, but as soon as I have my netbook with me I'll upgrade. I only wanted to comment something. I hope karmic doesn't have kde3 apps anymore, but many apps aren't upgraded to kde4 yet, as gambas. I know oxygen won't ever be available in qt3, but I know qtcurve is, and it's as configurable as gtk version. Can we have qt3 configured to used qtcurve as the default theme, and qtcurve settings the same as in gtk? I think it would look great like that. I built and tested qtcurve in jaunty and it looks great, altought I had some trouble with qt3 settings to match. Well, just sharing my idea. Testing soon the alpha image. @''Daniel Velasco''@
