{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:jaunty-usb-creator
* '''Created''': 2008/12/17
* '''Contributors''': EvanDandrea
* '''Packages affected''': usb-creator

=== Summary ===

This should provide an overview of the issue/functionality/change proposed here. Focus here on what will actually be DONE, summarising that so that other people don't have to read the whole spec. See also CategorySpec for examples.

=== Release Note ===

This section should include a paragraph describing the end-user impact of this change.  It is meant to be included in the release notes of the first release in which it is implemented.  (Not all of these will actually be included in the release notes, at the release manager's discretion; but writing them is a useful exercise.)

It is mandatory.

=== Rationale ===

This should cover the _why_: why is this change being proposed, what justifies it, where we see this justified.

=== Use Cases ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

<pre>
need console frontend to usb-creator
command line option to specify a directory to write to, where will it write the MBR to?  Don't.
documentation issue, write syslinux mbr using dd
package adding functionality is a requirement of the bacula discussion
adding to alternate CDs?  stick them in the pool directory?
an option to go the other way, given the directory, write it to a usb disk
chrooted directory launching command?  ctrl-d.  Would need to update the md5sum of the squashfs.  late_command like option to run a script in the chroot.
Kern Sibbald (Bacula)
</pre>
==== From UDS session ====
<pre>
Package selection (gnome-app-install)
Windows frontend using pygtk or ctypes wrapper (from wubi)
kde frontend
Any issues with the UI?
policykit
- move to gvfs for non-deprecated icon/name lookup
full localization
support for SD cards
install into a folder?
command line options and text frontend
always show format button
slight reworking of HAL code (watch for property modifications before scanning for new devices)
upload to debian
fix update-initramfs issue
make sure that everything that gets saved to casper-rw is something we care about (ex. not /tmp)
make sure that we're syncing the disk after writing, updating the kernel's view of the partition table after writing it, etc
accurate free space calculation
fix wubi to work from usb disks
download button to grab the latest release (and md5sum)?
check md5sum if .md5sum file is in the same directory.

PPA sources via gnome-app-install (able to do locally to usb-creator? or system wide)
talk to soren about collaboration
terminal for editing the underlying filesystem
save the selections you make in the usb-creator (package selection specifically) and you can share the resulting file with your friends
bug in g-a-i whereby PPA packages are not shown, talk to mvo, google repository
CDs as well as USB disks as targets
</pre>

----
CategorySpec
