{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
The Ubuntu team is pleased to announce Ubuntu 9.04 Desktop and Server
editions and Ubuntu Netbook Remix, continuing Ubuntu's tradition of
integrating the latest and greatest open source technologies into a
high-quality, easy-to-use Linux distribution.

Read more about the features of Ubuntu 9.04 in the following press releases:

  Desktop edition    http://www.ubuntu.com/news/ubuntu-9.04-desktop
  Server edition     http://www.ubuntu.com/news/ubuntu-9.04-server
  Netbook Remix      http://www.ubuntu.com/news/ubuntu-9.04-unr

Ubuntu 9.04 will be supported for 18 months on both desktops and servers.
Users requiring a longer support lifetime may choose to continue using
Ubuntu 8.04 LTS rather than upgrading to or installing 9.04.

Ubuntu 9.04 is also the basis for new 9.04 releases of Kubuntu, Xubuntu,
Edubuntu, UbuntuStudio, and Mythbuntu:

        Kubuntu      http://kubuntu.org/news/9.04-release
        Xubuntu      http://xubuntu.org/news/9.04-release
       Edubuntu      http://edubuntu.org/news/9.04-release
      Mythbuntu      http://mythbuntu.org/9.04/release
  Ubuntu Studio      http://ubuntustudio.org/downloads

To Get Ubuntu 9.04
------------------

To download Ubuntu 9.04, or obtain CDs, visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu

Users of Ubuntu 8.10 will be offered an automatic upgrade to 9.04 via
Update Manager.  For further information about upgrading, see:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading

As always, upgrades to the latest version of Ubuntu are entirely free of
charge.

We recommend that all users read the release notes, which document
caveats and workarounds for known issues.  They are available at:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/904

Find out what's new in this release with a graphical overview:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/904overview

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but
aren't sure, try asking on the #ubuntu IRC channel, on the Ubuntu Users
mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

## ubuntu on irc.freenode.net
  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/

Helping Shape Ubuntu
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways
you can participate at:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

About Ubuntu
------------

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops, laptops,
netbooks and servers, with a fast and easy install and regular releases.  A
tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications is included, and an
incredible variety of add-on software is just a few clicks away.

Professional services, including support, are available from Canonical
Limited and hundreds of other companies around the world.  For more
information about support, visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/support

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Ubuntu and about this release on our website:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's
very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

</pre>
