{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
The Ubuntu team is pleased to announce the Release Candidate for Ubuntu
9.04 Desktop and Server editions and Ubuntu Netbook Remix.  Codenamed
"Jaunty Jackalope", 9.04 continues Ubuntu's proud tradition of integrating
the latest and greatest open source technologies into a high-quality,
easy-to-use Linux distribution.

We consider this release candidate to be complete, stable, and suitable for
testing by any user.

Ubuntu 9.04 Desktop Edition brings faster boot speeds and a new
notification system to your everyday computing experience.

Ubuntu 9.04 Server Edition makes it easy to experiment with cloud computing
using Eucalyptus on your own servers, and sports an improved mail server
integration stack based on postfix and dovecot.

Ubuntu 9.04 Netbook Remix brings a new, easy-to-use interface
that is designed to be used on the smaller screens of netbook devices.

The Ubuntu 9.04 family of variants, Kubuntu, Xubuntu, Ubuntu Studio, and
Mythbuntu, also reach RC status today.

The final release of Ubuntu 9.04 is scheduled for 23 April 2009 and will
be supported for 18 months on both desktops and servers.  Users requiring a
longer support lifetime may choose to continue using Ubuntu 8.04 LTS, with
security support until 2011 on the desktop and 2013 on the server, rather
than upgrade to 9.04.

Before installing or upgrading to Ubuntu 9.04 please review the
instructions and caveats in the release notes:

http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/904

In addition, there are a small number of known bugs in the release
candidate that will be fixed before the Ubuntu 9.04 release, but warrant
highlighting for your attention:

http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/904overview#Known%20issues

About The Release Candidate
---------------------------

The purpose of the Release Candidate is to solicit one last round of
testing before the final release. Here are ways that you can help:

* Upgrade from Ubuntu or Kubuntu 8.10 to the Release Candidate by
   following the instructions in the release notes referenced above.

* Participate in installation testing using the Release Candidate CD
   images, by following the testing and reporting instructions at
   http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/ISO

Desktop features
----------------

Faster boot times:  improvements to Ubuntu's start-up process mean you can
spend less time waiting and more time being productive with your Ubuntu
desktop.

Notification system:  notifications, those alerts that signify a change of
status on your system or whether someone is contacting you, have been
made consistent across applications to provide a pleasing, intuitive
experience for users.

Server features
---------------

Cloud computing:  Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud (powered by Eucalyptus) puts you
in control of your own cloud computing infrastructure, compatible with
Amazon's Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) but running on your own servers behind
your firewall.  Ubuntu Server Edition 9.04 will also see Ubuntu available
on Amazon EC2 -- making it the most complete cloud environment available
today.

Turn-key mail servers:  the dovecot-postfix package in Ubuntu 9.04 provides
an all-in-one solution for deploying SMTP, POP3, and IMAP services with
integrated server-side filtering support.

Netbook Remix features
----------------------

Built-for-purpose interface: favourite applications and websites are just a
click away, making Ubuntu Netbook Remix a great choice for netbook users.

Faster boot times: improvements to Ubuntu's start-up process mean you can
spend less time waiting and more time being productive with your Ubuntu
Netbook desktop.

Ubuntu Netbook Remix is known to work on these netbook models:
Asus Eee PC 900
Asus Eee PC 1000
Acer Aspire One
Dell Mini 9

Kubuntu features
----------------

Kubuntu, built on the amazing KDE 4.2, brings users a complete,
full-featured KDE4 desktop with many new applications and innovations.

Please see https://wiki.kubuntu.org/JauntyJackalope/RC/Kubuntu for details.

Xubuntu features
----------------

Xubuntu comes with the light-weight Xfce 4.6 desktop environment for those
who want a desktop that is easy to use, but places particular emphasis on
conserving system resources.

Please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/JauntyJackalope/RC for further
details.

Ubuntu Studio features
----------------------

Ubuntu Studio includes updates to input hardware and sound device
management from Ubuntu Desktop and a complete suite of tools for generation
of audio, video, and graphic content.

Ubuntu Studio 9.04 also features a streamlined installation process, giving
you a familiar Ubuntu desktop and all of your studio applications in a
single step.

The realtime kernel flavor (linux-rt) has returned and is again used by
default in Ubuntu Studio.  The rtirq script (http://alsa.opensrc.org/Rtirq)
is also now included in the ubuntustudio-audio package.  It is recommended
that users not use the new EXT4 filesystem with the linux-rt kernel on
production systems due to some reports of instability.

Jack-audio-connection-kit now includes support for the Free Firewire Audio
Drivers (FFADO, www.ffado.org).

Mythbuntu features
------------------

As of 9.04, Mythbuntu fits better into the Ubuntu ecosystem by using the
same build methods as all other remixes and derivatives.  Because of this,
9.04 has been a focus around stability and preparing for an easy transition
to the next version of MythTV (0.22) later this year.

Unfortunately, the main Mythbuntu website, http://mythbuntu.org is
temporarily down due to a problem with the hosting provider.  RC images
will still be available at
http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/mythbuntu/releases/jaunty .  We'll restore the
other mirrors as soon as the main site returns.

A more complete tour of the features new in 9.04 can be found at
http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/904overview

About Ubuntu
------------

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops, laptops, netbooks
and servers, with a fast and easy installation and regular releases.  A
tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications is included, and an
incredible variety of add-on software is just a few clicks away.

Professional services including support are available from Canonical and
hundreds of other companies around the world.  For more information about
support, visit http://www.ubuntu.com/support

To Get the Ubuntu 9.04 Release Candidate
----------------------------------------

To upgrade to Ubuntu 9.04 Release Candidate from Ubuntu 8.10, follow these
instructions:

https://help.ubuntu.com/community/JauntyUpgrades

Or, to perform a new installation or try out 9.04 "live" from CD, download
the Ubuntu 9.04 Release Candidate here (choose the mirror closest to you):

FIXME: grab current mirror list at publishing time

  Africa:

*** http://bw.releases.ubuntu.com/9.04 (Botswana)
*** http://ls.releases.ubuntu.com/9.04 (Lesotho)
*** http://mz.releases.ubuntu.com/9.04 (Mozambique)
*** http://sz.releases.ubuntu.com/9.04 (Swaziland)
*** http://ubuntu.mirror.ac.za/ubuntu-release/9.04 (South Africa)
*** http://zw.releases.ubuntu.com/9.04 (Zimbabwe)

  Asia:

*** ftp://ftp.corbina.net/pub/Linux/ubuntu-cd/9.04 (Russian Federation)
*** http://ftp.cse.yzu.edu.tw/pub/Linux/Ubuntu/ubuntu-cd/9.04 (Taiwan)
*** http://ftp.daum.net/ubuntu-releases/9.04 (Korea, Republic of)
*** http://ftp.linux.org.tr/ubuntu-releases/9.04 (Turkey)
*** http://ftp.tcc.edu.tw/iso/Ubuntu/9.04 (Taiwan)
*** http://ftp.twaren.net/Linux/Ubuntu/ubuntu-cd/9.04 (Taiwan)

  Europe:

*** http://de.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-releases/9.04 (Germany)
*** http://ubuntu.ipacct.com/releases/9.04 (Bulgaria)
*** http://se.releases.ubuntu.com/9.04 (Sweden)
*** http://nl.releases.ubuntu.com/releases/9.04 (Netherlands)
*** http://es.releases.ubuntu.com/9.04 (Spain)
*** http://ftp-stud.hs-esslingen.de/pub/Mirrors/releases.ubuntu.com/9.04 (Germany)

  North America:

*** http://mirror.anl.gov/pub/ubuntu-iso/CDs/9.04 (United States)
*** http://less.cogeco.net/ubuntu-releases/9.04 (Canada)
*** http://linux.nssl.noaa.gov/releases/9.04 (United States)
*** http://mirror.csclub.uwaterloo.ca/ubuntu-releases/9.04 (Canada)
*** http://mirrors.ccs.neu.edu/releases.ubuntu.com/9.04 (United States)
*** http://mirrors.gigenet.com/ubuntu/9.04 (United States)

  Oceania/Australia:

*** http://ftp.citylink.co.nz/ubuntu-releases/9.04 (New Zealand)
*** http://ubuntu-releases.optus.net/9.04 (Australia)
*** http://mirror.internode.on.net/pub/ubuntu/releases/9.04 (Australia)
*** http://mirror.pacific.net.au/linux/ubuntu-releases/9.04 (Australia)
*** http://planetmirror.com/pub/ubuntu/releases/9.04 (Australia)

  South America:

*** http://ubuntu.c3sl.ufpr.br/releases/9.04 (Brazil)
*** http://espelhos.edugraf.ufsc.br/ubuntu-releases/9.04 (Brazil)
*** http://ftp.ucr.ac.cr/ubuntu-cd/9.04 (Costa Rica)

  Rest of the world:

    http://releases.ubuntu.com/9.04 (Great Britain)

Please download using BitTorrent if possible.  See
https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BitTorrent for more information about
using BitTorrent.

Feedback and Helping
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways you
can participate at

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help turn this
Release Candidate into the best release of Ubuntu ever.  Please note that,
where possible, we prefer that bugs be reported using the tools provided,
rather than by visiting Launchpad directly.  Instructions can be found at

  https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but are
not sure, first try asking on the #ubuntu IRC channel on FreeNode, on the
Ubuntu Users mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Ubuntu and about this preview release on our
website, IRC channel and wiki. If you are new to Ubuntu, please visit:  

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's
very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

</pre>
