{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== General Information ===

<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2008-September/000481.html|"Jaunty Jackalope"]]</nowiki> is the code name for Ubuntu 9.04, which was released on 23 April 2009. See the <nowiki>[[JauntyReleaseSchedule|Jaunty release schedule]]</nowiki>.

See also <nowiki>[[UDSJaunty|the Ubuntu Developer Summit for Jaunty]]</nowiki>, which took place on December 8th to 12th, 2008 on Google Campus, Mountain View, California, USA.

If you want to see what the developers have cooking for the Jaunty release, feel free to take a look through the <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/jaunty|Jaunty Jackalope blueprint page]]</nowiki> or the <nowiki>[[TechnicalOverview|Jaunty Jackalope Technical Overview]]</nowiki>.

<<BR>>
For for more information on the final Jaunty release:
** <nowiki>[[ReleaseNotes|Jaunty Release Notes]]</nowiki>
** Ubuntu 9.04 release announcement <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2009-April/000122.html|April 23, 2009]]</nowiki>
** Ubuntu 9.04 end-of-life announcement <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2010-September/000137.html|October 23, 2010]]</nowiki>
=== Bugs in Jaunty ===

It should come as no surprise that the alpha release of Jaunty Jackalope contains bugs. Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help fix bugs and improve future releases. Please report bugs per the instructions on ReportingBugs.

If you want to help out with bugs, the <nowiki>[[BugSquad|Ubuntu Bug Squad]]</nowiki> is always looking for help.

=== More Information ===

The next release after Jaunty is codenamed KarmicKoala; the <nowiki>[[Releases]]</nowiki> page contains a list of all Ubuntu releases.

You can find out more about Ubuntu on the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu website]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu wiki]]</nowiki>.

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, please take a look at the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate|Get Involved]]</nowiki> page.

To have future Ubuntu development announcements emailed to you, please go to the <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-announce|ubuntu-devel-announce]]</nowiki> page and subscribe with your email address.

To have future Ubuntu package updates emailed to you, please go to the <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/jaunty-changes|jaunty-changes]]</nowiki> page and subscribe with your email address.

More Kubuntu information can also be found at <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Jaunty|Kubuntuguide]]</nowiki>. 

=== Release Parties ===

For every Ubuntu release we like to organize parties all over the world. At these parties everyone is welcome and we get together to celebrate, meet new friends and often introduce people new to Ubuntu to our community and our Operating System. Release parties are not only a great way to meet people but they are a lot of fun!

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BuildingCommunity/RunningReleaseParty|Running a Release Party]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryMarketing
