{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-doc/+spec/jaunty-serverguide|Launchpad Entry]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://code.edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-core-doc/ubuntu-doc/ubuntu-jaunty|Jaunty ubuntu-doc bzr branch]]</nowiki>

=== Summary ===

Gather and confirm ideas on additions and updates for the Server Guide during the Ubuntu 9.04 release cycle. 

=== Release Note ===

The ubuntu-serverguide package will include more information.  Updated and Additional sections:
* Apache section updated, and integrated better with new LAMP Applications section.
* New Kerberos and LDAP section, which details configuring Kerberos KDCs with an OpenLDAP backend.
* All sections now have links on where to find further information.
* New Logical Volume Manager (LVM) sub-section under the Advanced Installation section.
* New update-motd section detailing how the Message Of The Day (MOTD) is updated in Ubuntu.
* DRBD is now covered in the new Clustering chapter.
* New section on using eCryptfs.
* New Eucalyptus section.
* OpenNebula also gets it's own section.

(Will need to be updated depending on which sections make it in before SF).

It is mandatory.

=== Rationale ===

A significant amount of problems with any computer system can be solved with good documentation. To that end having relevant and up to date documentation for the Ubuntu Server Edition is a worthwhile venture.

=== Use Cases ===

Documentation shipped with Ubuntu Server Edition in the ubuntu-serverguide package. Also, the content is available on the help.ubuntu.com web site.

=== Assumptions ===

Server admins are reading the Server Guide.

=== Design ===

Currently the Ubuntu Server Guide is drafted in DocBook XML files. There are also corresponding pages in the Community Wiki related to topics in the guide. 

=== Implementation ===

Confirm or add to the proposed list of ideas gathered on the ServerTeam/IdeaPool page. Then document the confirmed subjects in DocBook format. Also, updating any relevant pages in the community wiki. 

==== Confirmed ====

* Detail storing Kerberos principals in LDAP.  '''Needs Review'''

* Section on LVM to supplement Software RAID.  '''Done'''

* DRBD '''Needs Review'''

* Update and expand Apache section. '''Needs Review'''
** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc/2008-September/011760.html|Server Guide Proposal (LAMP/Tomcat/Scripting Languages)]]</nowiki> '''Needs Review'''
** Need to update the ''Wiki Applications'' section and change it to '''LAMP Applications''' combining content from <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ApacheMySQLPHP|ApacheMySQLPHP]]</nowiki> page. '''Needs Review'''

* Review Virtualization section to make sure it covers necessary tools and procedures.

* Updates to current sections.
** Update RAID section to RAID both '''/''' and '''swap''' partitions. '''Needs Review'''

* Fix bugs in current guide. '''Done'''

* Provide a PDF of the Server Guide. '''Done - Should be provided with update to help.ubuntu.com'''

* Update the landing page of the Ubuntu Documentation: have a Ubuntu Server section at the same level as Desktop section. Then a list of the first level sections of the Server Guide.

* Explain /etc/motd and how it's updated. '''Needs Review'''
 
* Screen usage. '''Needs Review'''

* Ubuntu Cloud Computing
** Eucalyptus integration. '''Done'''
** OpenNebula section.  '''Needs Review'''

* EcryptFS options. '''Needs Review'''

* Added Resources/References for each section. '''Needs Review'''

* Section on etckeeper. '''Needs Review'''

==== Discussion ====

----
CategorySpec
