{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Packaging ==
=== How is Java Packaging different? ===

Check out the <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/doc/packaging-manuals/java-policy/|Debian Java Policy]]</nowiki>.

Follow the <nowiki>[[JavaTeam-KnowledgeBase-Packaging|packaging for Java developers guide]]</nowiki>

=== What exactly is already packaged somewhere ? ===

With Java it's sometimes difficult to know if some classes are not already shipped somewhere as part of a given package.
JavaTeam/JavaContents addresses that by providing java-Contents.gz files containing a map of packages / jar / classes shipped in a given release.

=== Building ===

Many Java packages require that the build^dependencies are installed in order to build a source package.  If you work with many different Java packages with different or conflicting build-dependencies, you may want to build your source packages in a snapshot chroot.

The buildds have a debconf setting to automatically accept the Sun Java licenses, to allow autobuilding of packages.  The following command will replicate this configuration for your build chroots:
<pre>
echo "buildd shared/accepted-sun-dlj-v1-1 boolean true" | debconf-set-selections
</pre>

=== Are there any packaging examples? ===
Check out the <nowiki>[[PackagingGuide-Lists-ReferencePackages#Java|Java Reference Packages]]</nowiki>.

----
CategoryJavaTeam
