{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}
== Introduction ==
Brief introduction to the team, meeting, and theme if possible.

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JavaTeam <<BR>>
'''Meeting Log:''' http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2008/07/24/%23ubuntu-meeting.html <<BR>>
'''Meeting Chair:''' EmmetHikory <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' DaliborTopic <<BR>>

== Agenda Items ==
The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:
* [:JavaTeam/Roadmap:Roadmap] review -- EmmetHikory
* Presentation of the JPP Maven patchset by Deepak Bhole -- ThierryCarrez DateTime(2008-07-22T07:08:15Z)
* About Scala and how to help - -- MichaelGreifeneder DateTime(2008-07-22T19:40:37Z)

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:
* persia
* Koon
* dbhole
* slytherin
* mikegr

== Proceedings ==
* Meeting called to order at 15:02, by Meeting Chair, EmmetHikory 

== Agenda ==

The following is a break down of the entire meeting by agenda items. 

* Roadmap review

OpenJDK is now fully in main. Since DaliborTopic is at OSCON, item "integration with the server stack" has been skipped. Since no volunteers were found to drive "Identify possible opportunities to optimise the Java stack", it was dropped from the Roadmap. Status of "Transition Java packages from multiverse to universe where possible." is reported by slytherin to have no blocking issues, except a few FTBFS - he has compiled a list of package and will post it online. ThierryCarrez has created a draft spec for Maven support at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JavaTeam/Specs/MavenSupportSpec that shows what the problems are. He invited DeepakBhole to explain the Fedora/JPackage solution. Finally, slytherin had nothing to report on version consistency between Ubuntu Intrepid/Debian Lenny.

* Presentation of the JPP Maven patchset by Deepak Bhole

Fedora's motivation was two fold: firstly to allow full offline builds, and secondly to use jars from the system. The current maven offline switch does not actually result in maven staying offline - it will still query online repositories for updates. There is a single patch in Fedora/JPP that fixes both issues, which patches places where Maven decides whether to go online. The other component of the patch is that packages bring and install their own POMs. A central file, /etc/maven/maven-dempap.xml handles the mapping of POMs to installed JARs, the packages install their own POM fragments under /etc/maven/fragments/. During postinstall, they cat the fragments into the central depmap file.

* About Scala and how to help

Mikegr asked how to get an updated version of Scala packaged. Persia suggested that he talks with the Debian maintainer first, and he agreed to do that.
