{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

The purpose of this page is to evaluate java applications/libraries for a move from multiverse to universe.

Here is a command to find which multiverse packages with 'java' in name are in Debian main. You need to have multiverse repository enabled in /etc/apt/sources.list
<pre>
grep 'java' /var/lib/apt/lists/archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_*_multiverse_binary-i386_Packages |grep Package|cut -d ':' -f 2|xargs rmadison -u debian|grep ' unstable |'
</pre>

In case you have deb-src line for jaunty (multiverse) in your /etc/apt/sources.list file use following commands.
<pre>
grep-dctrl -sPackage -F Build-Depends,Build-Depends-Indep java-gcj-compat-dev /var/lib/apt/lists/archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_jaunty_multiverse_source_Sources |cut -d ':' -f 2|xargs rmadison -u debian|grep ' unstable |'
</pre>
<pre>
grep-dctrl -sPackage -F Build-Depends,Build-Depends-Indep sun-java5-jdk /var/lib/apt/lists/archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_jaunty_multiverse_source_Sources |cut -d ':' -f 2|xargs rmadison -u debian|grep ' unstable |'
</pre>
<pre>
grep-dctrl -sPackage -F Build-Depends,Build-Depends-Indep sun-java6-jdk /var/lib/apt/lists/archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_jaunty_multiverse_source_Sources |cut -d ':' -f 2|xargs rmadison -u debian|grep ' unstable |'
</pre>

In case you don't have deb-src line for jaunty (multiverse) in your /etc/apt/sources.list file ...

Few more commands that will help you which java applications or libraries package live in multiverse in Ubuntu but are in Debian main. The versions in both archives may not be same.
<pre>
reverse-build-depends sun-java5-jdk|sort -u|xargs rmadison|grep 'jaunty/multiverse'|cut -d '|' -f1|xargs rmadison -u debian|grep ' unstable |'
</pre>
<pre>
reverse-build-depends sun-java6-jdk|sort -u|xargs rmadison|grep 'jaunty/multiverse'|cut -d '|' -f1|xargs rmadison -u debian|grep ' unstable |'
</pre>
<pre>
reverse-build-depends java-gcj-compat-dev|sort -u|xargs rmadison|grep 'jaunty/multiverse'|cut -d '|' -f1|xargs rmadison -u debian|grep ' unstable |'
</pre>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Package Name
| Build with OpenJDK
| Build with GCJ
| Any license problems
| Any multiverse dependencies
| Bug number(s) if any
|-
| bytecode
| ?
| ?
| ?
| ?
| 
|-
| libjdic-java
| ?
| ?
| ?
| ?
| 
|-
| libjibx-java
| ?
| ?
| ?
| ?
| 
|-
| libjogl-java
| Yes
| 
| No
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/305166|305166]]</nowiki>
|-
| libswingx-java
| ?
| ?
| ?
| ?
| 
|-
| worldwind
| ?
| ?
| ?
| libjogl-java
| 
|}
