{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}
== Introduction ==
Brief introduction to the team, meeting, and theme if possible.

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JavaTeam <<BR>>
'''Meeting Log:''' http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2008/07/17/%23ubuntu-meeting.html <<BR>>
'''Meeting Chair:''' EmmetHikory  <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' DaliborTopic <<BR>>

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:
* persia
* Koon
* slytherin
* mareks
* robilad

== Agenda Items ==
The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:
* [:JavaTeam/Roadmap:Roadmap] review -- EmmetHikory DateTime(2008-07-11T15:23:15Z)
* [:JavaTeam/TeamReport:Team Report] planning -- EmmetHikory DateTime(2008-07-11T15:23:15Z)
* Using Maven in packaging: identified problems, spec, roadmap... -- ThierryCarrez DateTime(2008-07-16T15:06:07Z)
* Discuss standard runtime depends/recommends for Java libraries -- ThierryCarrez DateTime(2008-07-16T15:06:07Z)

== Proceedings ==
* Meeting called to order at 15:03, by Meeting Chair, EmmetHikory 

== Agenda ==
The following is a break down of the entire meeting by agenda items.

* Road Map review
Presented by: EmmetHikory

OpenJDK is in main, so it can be moved to the list of done items. 

Integration of Java into the server stack has Maven 2 as a blocker.
As an example, packaging Glassfish hinges on Maven 2 integration in the distribution,
figuring out the large and complicated dependency graphs for transitive dependencies needed to build it,
and discovering when it may be necessary to package multiple versions of a library package, due to ABI
changes. Some tools can assist with the process, like Jar Analayzer, japitools, sigcheck. DaliborTopic to 
break out smaller tasks.

Migrating packages to main hasn't seen updates in Ubuntu, syltherin is working on statcvs, lucene2, tinylaf and libcodemodel-java.

* Using Maven in packaging

ThierryCarrez explained that three problems exist with Maven as it is packaged today. Firstly, Maven relies on online download of dependencies, while we need to do everything offline. Secondly, Maven should use installed packages, rather then its own repository. And finally, Maven heavily utilizes plugins, some of which are official, while others aren't. Fedora has a solution that involves shipping POMs along with the packages, and a mapping from POMs to packages. DaliborTopic passed on the offer of DeepakBhole to assist someone merging in his patchset from Fedora.

* Discuss standard runtime depends/recommends for Java libraries

ThierryCarrez started a discussion on what should be right depends and recommends for a Java library, i.e. when and whether it should depend on -headless, -jre, etc. He offered to start a Wiki document outlining the issues. 
