{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Welcome to the Java Team reporting page. Every month this page should be filled with bullet points indicating the summary of some of the work you have been working on. As you work on something, try to summarise it here. A few guidelines for how to write good points here:

* Keep it simple and short - single sentences are best. :)
* Try to summarise your work and not be over-detailed - we don't need to know specifics, just a summary of the kind of work involved
* Where possible, include relevant links.

You should get all your reporting included here by the '''22nd''' of every month.

=== The Report ===

Add your report items here.

* Important stuff
** openjdk in main. Check <nowiki>[[/MainInclusionReportOpenJDK6|MainInclusionReportOpenJDK6]]</nowiki>
* Syncs/Merges
** statcvs - Synced from Debian unstable. Builds with GCJ now. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/247712|bug 247712]]</nowiki>
* Updates
** xmlgraphics-commons - Fixed missing classes problem. Build depends on Sun JDK hence moved to multiverse. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/189125|bug 189125]]</nowiki>
** batik - Updated to 1.7. Builds with openjdk. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/150484|bug 150484]]</nowiki>
** fop - Fixed FTBFS.

----
CategoryTeamReport<<BR>>
CategoryJavaTeam
