{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}
== Introduction ==
Brief introduction to the team, meeting, and theme if possible.

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JavaTeam <<BR>>
'''Meeting Log:''' http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2008/08/21/%23ubuntu-meeting.html <<BR>>
'''Meeting Chair:''' EmmetHikory <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' DaliborTopic <<BR>>

== Agenda Items ==
The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:
* Roadmap review -- EmmetHikory
* DeveloperWeek -- EmmetHikory

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:
* persia
* dalibor
* Koon

== Proceedings ==
* Meeting was called to order at 15:00 by Metting Chair, Emmet Hikory.

The following is a break down of the entire meeting by agenda items.

* Roadmap review

DaliborTopic built GlassFish from source using packaged maven. Looked at downloaded JARs, about 100 of them are not from maven or Sun, so may be interesting to check which ones are missing in Ubuntu. They would map to a lot less then 100 packages, since maven downloads multiple different versions of them during the build. Working on tools to automate checking which JARs have been packaged.

TheirryCarrez was on vacation, so no updates on Maven. 

* Developer Week

No takers for an ubuntu-java talk.
