{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
Second Java Team Meeting

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JavaTeam <<BR>>
'''Meeting Log(s):''' http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2008/07/10/%23ubuntu-meeting.html <<BR>>
'''Meeting Chair:''' EmmetHikory <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' DaliborTopic <<BR>>

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:

===== Members Present =====
* persia
* robilad
* doko
* mareks
* dholbach

== Agenda Items ==
The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:
* Road Map review -- EmmetHikory 2008-07-10 08:10:54
* Eclipse -- FlavioMartins 2008-07-02 13:58:41
*** and SWT in current versions (see [WWW] bug 123064) -- maestro_alubia 2008-07-07 13:35:37
* Moving meetings to 14h -- -- Robilad 2008-07-10 14:45:14

== Proceedings ==
* ''Meeting called to order at '''16:01''', by Meeting Chair, '''EmmetHikory'''''

=== Agenda ===
The following is a break down of the entire meeting by agenda items.

===== Road Map review =====
'''Presented by:''' EmmetHikory

Discussion of items in the proposed RoadMap, item by item, led by EmmetHikory, resulted in 
items 

* "Evaluate difficulties faced when utilizing applications that depend and/or are built on Java."
* "Improved Java environment on PowerPC"

being dropped from the roadmap, and items 

* "Identify possible opportunities to optimise the Java stack"

being deferred to the next meeting.

On the 'OpenJDK MIR' item, Doko explain the MIR for OpenJDK6 was 'mostly done'. DaliborTopic volunteered to be the driver for the "Integration of Java into server stack" item, and to break it down a bit in the roadmap. EmmetHikory volunteered to be the driver for "Transition Java packages from multiverse to universe where possible", but 'would be happy to hand it to anyone who wants to take over', as it 'might be an easy way for someone new to get involved'.

===== Eclipse =====

Since xhaker was absent, this item was deferred until the next meeting.

===== Moving meetings to 14h =====
'''Presented by:''' DaliborTopic

The suggestion to move the meeting to an earlier time was discussed to accomodate man-di, and the team agreed to shift
meetings to 14h. The next meeting will take place on Thu, 2008-07-17, at 14h UTC.
