{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}
== Introduction ==
Brief introduction to the team, meeting, and theme if possible.

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JavaTeam <<BR>>
'''Meeting Log:''' http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2008/08/14/%23ubuntu-meeting.html <<BR>>
'''Meeting Chair:''' EmmetHikory <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' DaliborTopic <<BR>>

== Agenda Items ==
The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:
* Roadmap review -- EmmetHikory
* Discuss possibility of putting JRE on desktop and/or server CD images. -- -- onkarshinde 2008-08-14 11:44:46
* Generic discussions like, default look and feel, removal of -gcj packages from 'Recommends' -- -- onkarshinde 2008-08-14 11:44:46 

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:
* persia
* slytherin
* robilad

== Proceedings ==
* The meeting was called to order at 15:00 by EmmetHikory.

The following is a break down of the entire meeting by agenda items. 

* Roadmap review

DaliborTopic showed http://weblogs.java.net/blog/kohsuke/archive/20080107/modules.png as a graph of GlassFish dependencies. Maven comes with a dependency-analysis plugin, which generates reports like http://myfaces.apache.org/tobago/tobago-sandbox/dependency-analysis.html . While that plugin is Maven-specific, there is also a more general JarAnalyzer tool, that's in Debian, available from http://www.kirkk.com/main/Main/JarAnalyzer .As an additional tool for tracking packaging between distributions, he mentioned http://sparcs.kaist.ac.kr/~tinuviel/package/list.cgi?name=java . DalbiorTopic will break out the packages that need packaging into their own Wiki page.

Slytherin has taken over the identification of optimization opportunities, with removing -gcj from Recommends as a start.

Transition Java packagse from multiverse to universe where possible is progressing with Slytherin having logged bugs against libgdata-java and libcodemodel-java, and with libswingx-java coming soon. 

Maven packaging support options were expanded by kaloo, who added an alternative proposal in the Wiki, and had an interesting idea of dynamically generating pom files based on apt-cache and fooling maven. Since neither he nor Koon were present, this wasn't discussed further.

* Discuss possibility of putting JRE on desktop and/or server CD images

Koon to talk to server team about putting JRE on the CD. Deferring for desktop until intrepid+1. Slytherin to contact kubuntu team about making the gtk look & feel default.

* removal of -gcj packages from 'Recommends'

Targetted for the end of the month, peformed by slytherin when possible.
