{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}
== Introduction ==
Brief introduction to the team, meeting, and theme if possible.

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JavaTeam <<BR>>
'''Meeting Log:''' http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2008/07/31/%23ubuntu-java.html <<BR>>
'''Meeting Chair:''' EmmetHikory <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' DaliborTopic <<BR>>

== Agenda Items ==
The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:
* [:JavaTeam/Roadmap:Roadmap] review -- EmmetHikory
* Maven2 with JPP patchset builds open for testing -- ThierryCarrez DateTime(2008-07-30T19:17:16Z)

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:
* persia
* Koon

== Proceedings ==
* Meeting called to order at 15:02, by Meeting Chair, EmmetHikory 

Agenda

The following is a break down of the entire meeting by agenda items.

* Roadmap review

Since no roadmap representatives were present beside Koon, the chair moved onto the second agenda point.

* Maven2 with JPP patchset builds open for testing

Koon has created an initial patched package in his PPA. It allows setting the -D options to maven, -Dmaven2.offline.mode -Dmaven2.ignore.versions -Dmaven2.usejppjars, that enable mvn-jpp behaviour. Actual execution will likely fail, due to
missing dependency mapping file and POMs. Koon would like testers, will post to ubuntu-java mailing list about it.
