{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}
== Introduction ==
Brief introduction to the team, meeting, and theme if possible.

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JavaTeam <<BR>>
'''Meeting Log:''' http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2008/08/07/%23ubuntu-meeting.html <<BR>>
'''Meeting Chair:''' EmmetHikory <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' DaliborTopic <<BR>>

== Agenda Items ==
The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:
* Roadmap review -- EmmetHikory

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:
* persia
* robilad
* Koon
* slytherin

== Proceedings ==
* The meeting was called to order at 15:02 by EmmetHikory.

The following is a breakup of the meeting by agenda items.

* Roadmap review

DaliborTopic had no progress to report on the breakdown of items involved for integrating Java into the server stack. ThierryCarrez was concerned about Java programs and libraries not having to pull all of X in on the serverside, so wanted to know more about possibilities to automatically determine the set of libraries an application/library uses. But due to reflection, for example, that's not possible, according to DaliborTopic. ThierryCarrez is looking at updating dependecies in the archive where possible to be for -headless.

Slytherin was working on JBoss, while ThierryCarrez has drafted most of the Maven spec and is waiting for comments, while his updated proof-of-concept package is in PPA.
