{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



-------
 {{http://es-la.facebook.com/profile/pic.php?oid=AQASnsMCaAHuenPN7XBaqu_K5UK03eUrvlLvJxUohW9rKb47H8wTAuy8dfTI-punmCk&size=normal&usedef=1}}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jbravoc27|jbravoc27]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''GPG Key'''
| AC1C34F3
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| I have no forum yet.
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''javierbravoconde''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| jbravoc27@hotmail.com
|-
| '''Ubuntu User'''
| {{http://ubuntucounter.geekosophical.net/img/ubuntu-user.php?user=33370}}
|}

=== About Me ===
As you can deduce from my login my name is Javier. I am a 27 years old engineer providing IT Services in the travel agencies business. My first approach to the Linux world was approximately five years ago  within a domestic environment, the distribution was Open Suse. Afterwards I tried for the first time Ubuntu in 2008 (Release 8.04 I still have the CD!). It really surprised me the simplicity in all the installations step and the low terminal dependency at user side (I would say it is the main obstacle for people coming from Windows).
The final immersion arrived at the middle of 2009 (Release 9.04) I finally felt in love with Ubuntu and now is the only OS running in my laptop. I am also very fortunate because I recently changed my work and now I am in touch with several Linux environments so my knowledge on this area is growing fast.
As hobbies I enjoy playing football once per week with my colleagues and hiking in the Alpes when the weather permits

==== Skills and Knowledge Areas ====

{*} C# <<BR>>
{*} HTML, XHTML, JavaScript <<BR>>
{*} XML <<BR>>
{*} SOA <<BR>>
{*} Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server <<BR>>
{*} Java <<BR>>
{*} Python <<BR>>
{*} CMMi <<BR>>

=== Team Memberships ===
 {*} Postulating for <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/|Beginners Team]]</nowiki> .

=== Future Plans & Projects ===
 {*} I am currently learning some advanced techniques in C++ since my job demands it. <<BR>>
 {*} As a short term objective I am planning on study some advanced algorithms and data structures. <<BR>>
 {*} As a mid term objective I would like to get a certification on Java and Oracle. <<BR>>

==== Current Project & Goals ====
 {*} I am not currently participating in any official project inside Ubuntu community.

=== Contributions to the Ubuntu Community ===
 {*} Not remarkable contributions by the time being.

==== Support ====
 {*} Not remarkable support by the time being.

==== Forum Guides: ====
 {*} Not forum guides by the time being.

==== Wiki ====
 {*} Not Wiki contributions by the time being

== Testimonials ==
 {*} Not testimonials by the time being

----
CategoryHomepage
