{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Who am I? ==
Software Engineer, with 8 years commercial experience

=== Languages ===

Matlab, Simulink, Stateflow, C, MISRA C, Delphi

=== Operating Systems ===
I have developed high-level software on the Windows platform (and embedded) for ~8 years, and have rarely used *nix applications in a commercial environment.  I run a multi-boot installation of Windows flavours and extensively evaluate new applications both for work and social ends.

== Why Ubuntu ? ==

I am an advocate of open-source software, and am impressed with the pronounced increase in the quality of many open-source software applications over the past couple of years. To that end, I have been replacing commercial applications with open-source ones, where the open-source application is up to par.

Ubuntu is a good opportunity to step into the world of Linux, and complete the open-source "experience".

=== The Good ===
Ubuntu is proving to be extremely stable, and the standard installed components are a good starting point.  The Package manager principle is just fab! 

=== The Bad ===
Installation of Ubuntu is stable and farily straight-forward even for a Dual-booting.
However, installing Wireless Lan drivers is not so user-friendly!

=== The Ugly ===
Ubuntu user interface isn't ugly - it's just brown - I like blue, so have managed to change most things to Blue, using the Glassy Theme - but not everything - It's a shame the theme manager doesn't apply themes to all standard gui components - eg Login dialog etc.
How about some high-end graphics animations, for those that want a "pretty" desktop - Desktop  Effects only has 2 options - and 1 of them - "wobble" - is just plain annoying!

=== Moving On ===
The Ubuntu Grub installation did a fab job of dual-booting, but the Chain Loading to get Windoze started was less-than-slick.  I downloaded and installed Grub4Dos, and now I have a slick boot screen that allows me to lauch any of my XP partitions directly from grub (Chain Load the ntldr) - and all sorts of other nice options - I even found a nice blue ubuntu splash screen for the boot loader :)

=== Under Construction ===
I've noticed what i think are some errors in the Ubuntu Community documentation - where i can i'd like to update / correct them.  I'm brand-new to Ubuntu, so please be nice - and don't "flame" me if i get things wrong ;)
----
CategoryHomepage
