{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

My current employer is Canonical. I work on the juju gui team, but not on the gui.

I have more than 20 years of experience in system administration and software development in all of university, public and private companies. After 5 years of independent consulting, I joined Arbor Networks and was responsible for developing and maintaining software for ASERT including the ATLAS Portal. In this role I developed the future ATLAS vision and preserved the originality and availability of ATLAS.

I have extensive software development experience in Windows and Linux systems. Prior to joining Arbor, I wrote software for iPad for a global manufacturing company,  for desktop Windows for engineering analysis for another global manufacturing company and for large scale data center remote server process management using Windows and Linux for a leading payroll processing company. The Microsoft MVP program recognized me as a technical expert and awarded me as a C# MVP three times.

I holds a MS in Computer Science and Engineer and a BS in Computer Science both from Oakland University in Rochester, MI.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| jrwren
|-
| GTalk
| jrwren@gmail.com
|-
| Email
| jrwren@xmtp.net
|-
| Website
| http://jrwren.wrenfam.com
|}

=== Contributions ===

I wrote the Wordpress section of the Ubuntu Server Guide. (https://code.launchpad.net/~evarlast/serverguide/wordpress)

=== Future Goals ===

Unsure.

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".
