{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

My blog: <nowiki>[[http://jrwren.wrenfam.com/blog/|LazyDawgSillyEvarlast]]</nowiki>

My LP page: <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~evarlast]]</nowiki>
including ppa: <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~evarlast/+archive]]</nowiki>

My forum page: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=218893]]</nowiki>  I hate non-sense idle chat forums. But for support, forums are great. 

A couple of "problems" that I've helped with: 
* I had a client with a Seagate FreeAgent Pro external USB disk that had a problem. Presumably this could be an issue with any external USB disk. <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=492033]]</nowiki> 

$cat /sys/block/sdc/device/scsi_disk\:3\:*/allow_ restart
0
$ echo 1 | sudo tee /sys/block/sdc/device/scsi_disk\:3\:*/allow_ restart
1
/$ cat /sys/block/sdc/device/scsi_disk\:3\:*/allow_ restart
1

* In my case it was an external USB disk issue but it UUID disk problems could happen for other reasons. This is just a very helpful command to know! <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=430123]]</nowiki>

to refresh the uuid's in /dev/disk/by-uuid, run vol_id using sudo, passing the partition as the argument:

sudo vol_id /dev/sdc1
----
CategoryHomepage
