{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About me ===

My name is Saša Bodiroža. I'm a student from Belgrade, Serbia. Currently, I am studying at the Department of Computer Sciences, School of Electrical Engineering. My main area of interest is computer architecture and organization.

My first contact with Linux was in 2000. I tried out Red Hat and Debian, but that did not work out quite well. I found out about Ubuntu in February, 2007. Since March, 2007. it's the only system I use on my computer.

=== Skills ===

While working within Ubuntu community (specifically Mozilla team), I have been using a broad set of tools. I am fairly good with debhelper scripts and I have a basic knowledge of CDBS. I have been using dpatch and quilt for patching. I have a good knowledge of bzr, and basic knowledge of svn.

I have been learning the structure of XUL extensions and how they work. I have learned a bit about JavaScript and XUL while helping out with ubufox extension.

I have a good knowledge of C and C++. I am planning to learn GTK.

=== Working on ===

==== Mozilla team ====
* Member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mozillateam|Ubuntu Mozilla]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mozilla-extensions-dev|Ubuntu Mozilla Extensions team]]</nowiki>.
* Ubuntu QA contact for few Mozilla extensions (<nowiki>[[https://www.launchpad.net/~jazzva/+packages|link]]</nowiki>).
* Bug squashing :).
==== Packaging ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Program name
| Link
| Comment
|-
| MMS
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/95005|LP #95005]]</nowiki>
| On hold until a new release
|-
| Jabbin
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/95670|LP #95670]]</nowiki>
| On hold (missing copyright and license information)
|-
| FakeNES
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/99789|LP #99789]]</nowiki>
| Restrictive build system
|-
| gnome-voice-control
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/123109|LP #123109]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/gnome-voice-control/+distributions|Uploaded to archive]]</nowiki>
|}
==== Merges and syncs ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Program name
| Link
| Comment
| Release
|-
| axel
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/axel/+bug/159343|LP #159343]]</nowiki>
| sync
| hardy
|-
| dash
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dash/+bug/159612|LP #159612]]</nowiki>
| merge
| hardy
|-
| dhelp
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dhelp/+bug/161832|LP #161832]]</nowiki>
| sync
| hardy
|-
| kobodeluxe
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kobodeluxe/+bug/174770|LP #174770]]</nowiki>
| merge
| hardy
|-
| ksimus
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ksimus/+bug/161837|LP #161837]]</nowiki>
| merge
| hardy
|-
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ksimus/+bug/225499|LP #225499]]</nowiki>
| sync
| intrepid
|-
| liferea
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/liferea/+bug/228827|LP #228827]]</nowiki>
| merge
| intrepid
|-
| tracker
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/tracker/+bug/229146|LP #229146]]</nowiki>
| merge
| intrepid
|}
==== Translating ====
* Member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-sr|Ubuntu Serbian Translators team]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/~jazzva/|List of translations]]</nowiki>
==== Helping out ====
* Answering questions on Launchpad Answers section.
* <nowiki>[[https://answers.launchpad.net/~jazzva/+commentedquestions|List of commented questions]]</nowiki>

=== Contact info ===

* Launchpad: http://launchpad.net/~jazzva
* Homepage: http://www.jazzva.com
* Email:  * IRC: Jazzva on irc.freenode.net

----
CategoryHomepage
