{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== JBoss in Ubuntu ==

It can be quite difficult to install JBoss for people that just want to setup a JBoss installation.

=== Goals ===
* Allow easy installation of JBoss and its many different ''projects'' - as shown on http://www.jboss.org/projects/download/

=== Current Packages ===
There are some packages within Ubuntu that are related to JBoss

==== Binary packages ====
These packages are within '''universe''':
* libjboss-common-java - The JBoss Common Project
* libjboss-profiler-java - JBoss Profiler
* libjboss-serialization-java - JBoss Serialization

These packages currently only contain specific jar files related to the above JBoss projects.

ie: libjboss-common-java includes the ''jboss-common.jar'' file only...

The above packages are based on the information from http://wiki.jboss.org/wiki/JBossCommonProject

==== Source packages ====

There is also a source package within '''multiverse''' named ''jbossas4''
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/jbossas4/

However, this includes a bug - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/jbossas4/+bug/184557

==== Debian ====
There is some active work being done on debian svn in relation to JBoss:
* http://svn.debian.org/wsvn/pkg-java/trunk/jbossas4

However, they do not currently have an application server working yet.

=== Considerations ===
The libjboss-common-java package stores the library files (jar) within ''/usr/share/java'', which is where all java related libraries / jar files are located within Ubunutu.
Will need to keep this consistent.

There will be many different packages, created in a structured way.

Look at using the above JBoss Common Project information...

=== Current JBoss binary tree ===
Currently when you extract the binary zip file, it will create a specific tree, which JBoss will look for.

This information is most likely configurable somewhere within the extensive JBoss configuration files, as it will need to conform to current Ubunutu locations (ie: jar files located within ''/usr/share/java'' for example).

* '''lib''' - contains the base jar files required for JBoss
** '''endorsed''' - contains serializer, xalan and xercesImpl - required Apache jars
* '''bin''' - scripts and main jar files for starting JBoss
* '''client''' - client side jar files
* '''server''' - JBoss server tree (this is where all the "guts" of JBoss is)

=== Notes ===
May implement own packages based on http://anonsvn.jboss.org/repos/

Most people that want '''JBoss''' actually want '''JBossAS'''.

=== Ideas ===
I think that there should be a Ubuntu package for each of the subversion repositories found at http://anonsvn.jboss.org/repos/ prefixed with '''jboss''', and suffixed with '''java'''.

eg:
* '''jboss-common-java'''
* '''jboss-hibernate-java'''
* '''jboss-jbossas-java'''
* etc...

Not sure how to handle ''libraries'' however, as all java programs are basically just made up of lots of jar files... (which it seems Debian maintainers are calling libraries - in relation to ''libjboss-common-java'' package).

==== Dependencies ====
* Sun JDK packages - either one of OpenJDK, 1.4.99 < Sun JDK  > 1.6.0  (JBossAS 4.x is '''not certified for JDK6''' and '''has several bugs filed against JDK6 and higher''')
* Note: JbossAS 5 is GA as well as JBossAS 5.1.0 and supports and is '''certified for Java6'''

----
CategoryDocumentation
