{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| {{https://launchpad.net/@@/person}} Name
| Justin Des Lauriers
|-
| {{https://launchpad.net/favicon.ico}} Launchpad Profile
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jdeslaur|jdeslaur]]</nowiki>
|}

== About Me ==
My name is Justin Des Lauriers and I am new to the Ubuntu world.  I just made the switch to using it full time, which is interesting, new and exciting.  I have limited scripting and programming experience.  I took some Java and C++ in college but haven't kept up with it.  Currently I am trying out python because I want to be break into the security industry and am applying to get my MS in Technology Management.  I currently have a MCTS in active directory configuration and almost two years in network design and a 6 months working for a startup consulting firm/ Wireless internet provider.

I am a huge advocate for virtualization and think that its the greatest thing since sliced bread.  At my job we have deployed several servers virtually as well as using it as a test bed for configurations changes.  I am looking forward to when we have the budget to have a clustered host with a complete virtual environment.

I am curently looking for a new projects and learning experiences, in anything. I am a member of the Speech control team and really looking forward contributing and learning from them.
----
CategoryHomepage
