{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:50%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 0.1em 0.1em;" style="padding:0.1em;"> {{https://launchpad.net/favicon.ico}} '''Launchpad'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~JeanAustinR | JeanAustinR]]</nowiki>
|-
| {{http://www.gnupg.org/favicon.ico}} '''GPG Keys'''
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0x95CFA3DB3AB754E60D47C58293EB5507C86E34DE&op=index | C86E34DE]]</nowiki> , <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0x2CFA5C3CD070205588CA740FBC4F14F9805D5251&op=index | 805D5251]]</nowiki>
|-
| {{http://s2.wp.com/i/favicon.ico}} '''Website'''
| <nowiki>[[http://www.jeanaustinr.com| www.jeanaustinr.com]]</nowiki>
|-
| {{https://twitter.com/favicon.ico}} '''Twitter'''
| <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/JeanAustinR| JeanAustinR]]</nowiki>
|-
| {{http://plus.google.com/favicon.ico}} '''Google+'''
| <nowiki>[[http://gplus.to/jeanaustinr| JeanAustinR]]</nowiki>
|-
| {{https://wiki.ubuntu.com/favicon.ico}} '''Ubuntu Forums'''
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=678032|zeroseven0183]]</nowiki>
|-
| {{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} '''IRC'''
| zeroseven0183 on irc.freenode.net
|-
| {{https://launchpad.net/@@/mail}} '''Email'''
| 
|}

=== About Me ===

Jean Austin Rodriguez is 100% Filipino, an alumni member of the Alpha Phi Omega (ΑΦΩ) International Service Fraternity and an Eagle Scout.

He actively advocates Free and Open Source Software and he strongly supports the Open Web. As a Mozilla Representative, he is helping build a new generation of webmakers.

He loves music where jazz, classical and hip-hop are his favorite genres. He is also a huge fan of mixed martial arts and the UFC.

He desires God above all else because he is a Christian. He lives and breathes 1 Timothy 1:15-16 and Philippians 1:21.

He works as a full time system administrator for Toyota.

=== Contributions to the Ubuntu Community ===

His main focus are advocacy, quality assurance and support.

{*} Ubuntu Bug Squad
* bug reporter and triager for Ubuntu Tweak, Mozilla Firefox, Lightread and Pidgin
{*} Ubuntu Team Philippines
* skills sharing session speaker (Toyota), "<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuone.com/2ZI0ioSQKPzwWhjxB4lYru | Linux, Freedom, and The Use of Disposable Computers]]</nowiki>", August 2010
* organizer of <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/photos/104168843479135841309/albums/5663877292408463473 | Ubuntu Oneiric Release Party (Santa Rosa)]]</nowiki>, October 2011
** promoted Ubuntu and distributed ISOs to attendees
* organizer of <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/photos/104168843479135841309/albums/5739043972071878049 | Ubuntu Precise Release Party (Santa Rosa)]]</nowiki>, May 2012
* distributed Ubuntu CDs, DVDs, and ISOs to friends and colleagues every official release
* social media promoter of all things Ubuntu

{*} Ubuntu Forums and Launchpad
* member of Ubuntu Answers Team in Launchpad
{*} Ask Ubuntu
* answers Mozilla Firefox and Lubuntu questions

=== Future Plans & Projects ===

I plan to organize a sub-local community group for Ubuntu Team Philippines here in the city and continue to introduce Free and Open Source Software and the Open Web to universities and colleges.

=== Testimonials ===
