{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== JeanRemyFalleri ==

http://jr.falleri.free.fr/wikini/

=== Status ===

Kubuntu beginner developer.

=== Story ===

Hello my name is Jean-Remy Falleri and i am a 22 years old french ingeneer student.
I started to use Debian 3 years ago, and i am fond of the Kde desktop manager. I want to help the kubuntu (and thus the ubuntu project) by creating package we will make the latest KDE applications available to the users.
I also plan to write documentation, and i am very interested to take part in project which increase KDE usability (like Kay) and KDE-Debian interaction.

=== Work in progress ===

==== Packages ====

* <nowiki>[[http://jr.falleri.free.fr/fichiers/kubuntu/katapult/|Katapult, a KDE item launcher]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://jr.falleri.free.fr/fichiers/kubuntu/kat/|Kat, a file indexer for KDE]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://jr.falleri.free.fr/fichiers/kubuntu/kftpgrabber/|KFTPGrabber, a ftp client for KDE]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://jr.falleri.free.fr/fichiers/kubuntu/kasablanca/|Kasablanca, a ftp client for KDE]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://jr.falleri.free.fr/fichiers/kubuntu/speedcrunch/|SpeedCrunch, a next generation calculator in QT]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://jr.falleri.free.fr/fichiers/kubuntu/ktvschedule/|KTvSchedule, a xmltv front-end for KDE]]</nowiki>

I help a little to the universe GCC4 migration (brahms package for now).

==== Documentation ====

I am writing a KubuntuPackagingGuide

==== Development ====

===== Kay =====

I am programming Kay a plugged device notifier for KDE, in order to make Kubuntu more user-frienldy for usb using.

http://jr.falleri.free.fr/fichiers/devel/kay/

===== Katapult =====

The quick launcher for KDE.
Katapult

===== Kapture =====

I have joined the libapt-front project, which aims to make a portable librairy designed to speed the apt front-end progamming. you can't found the project homepage at:

https://alioth.debian.org/projects/libapt-front

Also, i am going to join the Kapture team because Kynaptic is not supported at all, and helps them to program Kapture for maybe having an usable version for Breezy...

=== Contact ===

Jabber: jre@jabber-hispano.org

Email: jr.falleri_at_laposte.net

Irc: #kubuntu-devel on the freenode irc server, Nickname: JRe
----
CategoryHomepage
