{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Name      :''' Jean-François Gagnon Laporte
* '''Status   :''' ''Ubuntu hopeful''.
* '''Project   :''' No strings attached right now ...
* '''Location  :''' Brossard, Québec, Canada
* '''O/S       :''' Ubuntu (i386, AMD64, PPC, SPARC)
* '''E-mail    :''' kioshen (at) gmail (dot) com
* '''Launchpad :''' https://launchpad.net/~kioshen
* '''IRC       :''' ''Kioshen'' @ irc.freenode.net
* '''Moto      :''' Learn. Do. Teach.

=== About me ===

Hi there and welcome to my wiki page. I've been dabbling in GNU/Linux (mostly a drake user then) since 2000 but I've really got into it near 2003 when I've discovered Gentoo (before being slightly burned by LFS :) ).  After a while thought, I wanted to try another distribution so I've checked Debian a little before trying out Ubuntu (breezy IIRC ...) for it's balance between bleeding edge and stability. I've been fairly impressed upon installation and started using it part time until feisty's developpment window. In a nutshell, that's my journey in GNU/Linux land.

Since I've been using GNU/Linux for a long time, I though that it was high time that I seriously begin contributing back to the community. I've had my share of bug reporting in my Gentoo days but nothing major to speak of so it's time for a change. I'm also a reference for a lot of people around me regarding computers so I guess I should expand my knowledge by sharing it with everyone in the community.

=== Skill Set ===

* I'm a System Administrator by day so I know my way around most services needed to run a business like Apache, Samba, Squid and many others.
* I've learned programming languages during college like C/C++, Pascal, Java and VB6 (*Shudders* ...) but haven't praticed very much. However, I have boosted my bash-fu for simplifying my work days. I've also begun learning Python since I miss programming and it should be a pretty useful skill in Ubuntu.
* I'm a hardware junkie so I own at least one machine representing this group of architecture : i386, AMD64, PPC and SPARC.
* Because of my days using Gentoo, I know how the GNU/Linux stack works and fits together.
* I'm fluent in both French and English. (Started learning Japanese too)
* Personnality skills include loving helping people out, very curious by nature and being dependable among others.
* Distribution/OS I've used/tried over time in no particular order : Mandrake, Red Hat, Slackware, Gentoo, LFS, Debian, (x)Ubuntu, Knoppix, DamnSmallLinux, Morphix, SLAX, FreeBSD, OpenBSD, Solaris and Symphony OS.

=== My Contributions ===

==== Team Membership ====

* Member of Ubuntu Canada Team

==== Translation/Localization ====

==== Support & Bug Triage ====

* Helping people out on the ubuntu-ca mailing list.
* Tech support on #ubuntu at irc.freenode.net
* Triaged one bug and filed a couple but nothing major as of now.

==== Documentation ====

* Done some cleanup of wiki pages for the Ubuntu Open Week 2007

==== Community, Advocacy, & Marketing ====

==== Code, Packaging, & Development ====

=== Plans & Goals ===

* Finish learning Python.
* Become a full fledged MOTU in 6 months.
* Become a Canonical employee.
* Become a french translator.
* Let's start from there and let's see how it goes :).

----

'''Note''': If this layout seems familiar to you, it's because the Wiki Template has been implemented first by CodySomerville. Thanks Cody :).

----
CategoryHomepage
