{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''I, Jean-Louis Dupond, apply for MOTU'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Jean-Louis Dupond
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~dupondje
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JeanLouisDupond
|}

== Who I am ==
''Currently i'm 24 and living in Belgium (Flanders).''
''I'm using Linux all day, at work and at home.''
''The coolest thing about Open Source is being able to improve the software yourself.''

== My Ubuntu story ==
''I'm working with Ubuntu since Dapper came out.''

''Since Karmic I've been using the Alpha versions, and step by step getting involved into the development of Ubuntu''

=== My involvement ===
''I contribute to Ubuntu by doing some bugfixes and reports for Ubuntu and Debian.''
''Since almost 3 years i'm also doing some merges and syncs to get newer versions in Ubuntu.''
''I'm also Debian Maintainer for cryptsetup and working on Remmina.''

=== Areas of work ===
Did already alot of merges/syncs.
The whole list can be found on https://launchpad.net/~dupondje/+related-software

I also did some SRU work like:
https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/remmina/+bug/937522
Where I fixed the Clipboard in Remmina.
Also helped to get the Papyon patches in Ubuntu to be able to login to MSN again:
https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/papyon/+bug/887349

I also took care of splitting up cryptsetup in cryptsetup and cryptsetup-bin.
This made decrypting harddisks more user-friendly, as they did not have to install the package manually as it was included by default.

=== Things I could do better ===
I'm currently trying to get a better knowledge of C.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
''I would like to become more active, the more bugs gets killed, the better!''
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''A thing that is somewhat annoying is the dev-cycle.
We have deadlines to work on merges/syncs, and cannot keep working on them the whole year.''

== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''
=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
Through the last cycles I sponsored a number of uploads of Jean-Louis and I was always happy with the work he did. He should totally become a MOTU!

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fsl/4.1.9-4
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/git-review/1.16-1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pysieved/1.1-0.2
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ucommon/5.2.2-1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/automysqlbackup/2.5-6ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ikiwiki/3.20100610ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mrtg/2.16.3-1ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager-strongswan/1.1.2-1ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/zabbix/1:1.8.2-1ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linuxtv-dvb-apps/1.1.1+rev1355-1ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/tulip/3.1.2-2.3ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xaralx/0.7r1785-3ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apcalc/2.12.3.3-1ubuntu3

=== Martin Pitt ===
==== General feedback ====

I sponsored some 10 packages for Jean-Louis and they were all flawless. The one exception is bug 343363 which still needed some minor tweaking, but that was a very intrusive patch and thus any other reviewer will always find things to improve. He has been around for a fair while and shows both enthusiasm as well as good work, so I welcome him to become a MOTU. Thank you for your contributions, keep up the good work!

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
Sponsored packages:
* cdebootstrap: Bug:806089
* courier: Bug:803176
* dnprogs: Bug:749176
* papyon: Bug:887349
* cryptsetup: Bug:776264
* cryptsetup: Bug:474258 and Bug:343363
* remmina: Bug:937522

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pitti]]</nowiki> 
=== Stefano Rivera ===
==== General feedback ====

Dupondje would be a good addition to MOTU. He's fairly active and helpful on IRC. Over the last few cycles, I've sponsored a handful of things. Everything was perfect (although the snort merge had already gone for a round of changelog improvement before I got there).

He also recently helped me out in preparing to remove wxwidgets2.6, which was tied up in a broken xaralx. Dupondje had a workaround to get it building, but I eventually figured out the root cause and uploaded something targetting that, instead.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Package
| Version
| Bug
| Action
| Notes
|-
| SourcePackage:sssd
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-sssd-1.2.1-1- | 1.2.1-1 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:602476
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:source-highlight
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-maverick-+source-source-highlight-3.1.4-1- | 3.1.4-1 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:602439
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:pdns
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-oneiric-+source-pdns-2.9.22-9ubuntu1- | 2.9.22-9ubuntu1 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:756198
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:pdns
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-precise-+source-pdns-3.0-1.1ubuntu1- | 3.0-1.1ubuntu1 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:931133
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:schroot
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-precise-+source-schroot-1.4.25-1- | 1.4.25-1 ]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SourcePackage:snort
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-precise-+source-snort-2.9.2-3ubuntu1- | 2.9.2-3ubuntu1 ]]</nowiki>
| Bug:816634 Bug:872582 Bug:703707 Bug:798608 Bug:754230 Bug:876615 Bug:891904 Bug:918250 Bug:639755 Bug:931454 Bug:316878 Bug:722488
| 
| 
|}

==== Areas of Improvement ====

I believe snort needs a sync/merge :)

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>
