{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Contact ===
Email 

jean7491[AT]gmail[DOT]com

IRC

jean7491 on #Ubuntu-be
=== About me ===
Born in 1947, I am living in Ostende (Belgium).

After my professional live, I have spend a lot of time helping other people with computers and software problems, based on my experience. 

Without academic education in informatics, I am just an (more or less) experienced user.

Linux-Mandriva user in 2006, Ubuntu user since 2007, I am convinced of the value of the Linux and FOSS world.

I intent to use my free time and experience to contribute to the promotion of Ubuntu in Belgium.

I am active in the Ubuntu Belgian community since November 2008, mostly in the organization of booths in computers fairs.
=== Teams/Groups ===

SpreadUbuntu: Joined on 2009-06-24  

Ubuntu Belgium Events Team: Joined on 2009-04-12

Belgian Local Community Team: Joined on 2009-03-26 

=== Linguistic ability ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Language'''
| '''Native'''
| '''Reading'''
| '''Writing'''
| '''Speaking'''
|-
| Dutch (nl)
| No
| Very good
| Good
| Good
|-
| English (en)
| No
| Very good
| Good
| Good
|-
| French (fr)
| Yes
| Very good
| Very good
| Very good
|-
| German (de)
| No
| Good
| Difficult
| Fairly good
|-
| Hungarian (hu)
| No
| Less than good
| Not able
| Not able
|}

=== Activities ===

I am concern with the development of an adapted documentation for the promotion of Ubuntu in Belgium, in French, as in Dutch (presentation, flyers, posters, ...).

Since 01/2009 I have participated to several Dipro computer fairs in Belgium to promote Ubuntu in a large public, by planning, organizing and/or contributing to the organization of booths (approximately 12 each year) in several cities, mainly in the Flemish part of Belgium. 

I also organized an Ubuntu-be booth in the yearly fair Accenta 2009 in Ghent (Flanders Expo) on 19-20/09/2009 and within The Digital Week 2010 in Ostend.

Since 03/2009, I am leading the weekly IRC meeting of Ubuntu.be. 
 
  
=== Testimonials ===

Place your testimonial about me here -- your name [date] 
