{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''I, Jean-Philippe Orsini, apply for upload rights for package psensor.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Jean-Philippe Orsini
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~jfi
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JeanPhilippeOrsini
|}

== Who I am ==
I am based in France near Paris and working as a software developer for an international
software company (a well-known one with a blue logo...). 
During my free time, I like to develop small programs with various technologies.

Since a couple of years, I am developing a monitoring software named Psensor: http://wpitchoune.net/psensor/
which works on any Linux distribution but takes advantages of some Ubuntu specific technologies like the Indicators and Unity Launcher.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I am using Linux since the begining of my computer sciences education at the university (probably around 1994). First, I was using the Slackware distribution and spent thousand of hours tuning the configuration
files of twm and fvwm and compiling core components manualy. Later, after a couple of years using Redhat/Fedora, I have switched to Ubuntu (iirc around 2007-2008) to focus more on my development stuff than OS installation/tuning.

3 years ago, I wanted to make Psensor available and easy to install, so I have learn how to do a Debian packaging,
use PPA, bzr and Launchpad. 

I received an amazing and spontaneous help and reviews on IRC from various Ubuntu packaging gurus during my initial Psensor packaging. The interaction with the upload sponsors or Ubuntu members on IRC have always been very smooth
and helpful. It leads me think that it is now time for me to contribute more to Ubuntu by handling the Psensor package
upload.

I am the upstream Psensor author and maintainer of its Debian package.

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

My main contribution is around Psensor:
* did the Debian packaging, Psensor is available in the Debian repository since the 7.0.0 release. See http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/psensor.html.
* answered to all questions in LP.
* fixed bugs reported in LP about Psensor. I did most of the Psensor patches.
* merged translations from LP to upstream source.

I have also contributed to few patches for other packages/softwares, the most useful one is the addition of the Unity Launcher support for Lifera, see https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/liferea/+bug/732848.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
I plan to keep handling bugs reported to Psensor in LP, packaging of future Psensor releases and merging
of Psensor translations submitted in LP to upstream sources.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
