{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Basic Stuff ==

'''Note:''' ''any similarity between my page and MacoMorgan 's is purely coincidence. It is also a coincidence that
JosephValdovinos page looks like mine''

'''Name:''' Jeffrey Elkner

'''Location:''' Washington, DC

'''Email:''' jeff@elkner.net

'''IRC:''' jelkner @ irc.freenode.net on #schooltool, #ubuntu-dc, and #ubuntu-sv

'''AIM:''' jelkner

'''Linux User #:''' 35266

'''Ubuntu User #:''' 17475

'''Launchpad:''' https://launchpad.net/~jelkner

'''Current OS's:''' Lucid and Lubuntu on dozens of machines.

My handle for pretty much the entire Internet is jelkner.

== Latest News ==

** Learning Web2Py.

== Other Stuff ==

I'm a high school teacher at the Governor's Career and Technical Academy in Arlington, Virginia.
I've been using GNU/Linux in the classroom since 1994, and teaching Computer Science with Python
since 1998.

== Education ==

I have an Associate Degree in Computer Science from Northern Virginia Community College, a Bachelors
Degree in Mathematics from University of Maryland, College Park, and a Masters Degree in Computer
Science from Bowie State University.

== Ubuntu Stuff ==

My friend PaulFlint introduced me to Ubuntu in December, 2004, when he dressed up as Santa Claus ("Saint Nicholinus", he says) and handed out "Warty" CDs.  "Hoary" got me hooked, and I've been installing Ubuntu everywhere I go ever since.

I attended the UbuntuDownUnder and UbuntuBelowZero developer summits where I worked on the specification
for Edubuntu.

I am also actively involved with the SchoolTool project, as project manager for a competency tracking application called CanDo being written by two of my former students which is being built on top of SchoolTool.

My son and I both have USB speakers, which we are having difficulty getting to work properly.  I'm currently looking at:

http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=997506

and following the instructions therein.  I'll report back what I find.

== Community Involvement ==

I'm a founding member of the DC Ubuntu LoCo Team and YHSLUG.  I've setup Edubuntu/Ubuntu
labs in the following locations in the DC metro area:

## Yorktown High School, Arlington, VA - in the CS lab (http://linus.yhspatriot.net/cs).
## Tenants and Workers United, Alexandria, VA - Community access lab (http://www.tenantsworkers.org).
## Mount Rainier Public Library, Mount Rainier, MD (http://mtrainierfol.org/).
## HB-Woodlawn Program, Arlington, VA - CS lab.
## W-L High School, Arlington, VA - CS lab.
## Governor's Career and Technical Academy in Arlington, VA - where I am currently employed.
## People's Media Center, Washington, DC - Community access lab.
## Ethiopian Community Service & Development Council, Washington, DC (http://www.jirs.org/jirs/jirs0005zg.html).

As a Computer Science teacher, I have exposed hundreds of young people to Ubuntu in
my classroom.  Each of my students receives an Ubuntu CD at the beginning of the
year, and many of my former students have gone on to become active in the Ubuntu
community.

== PGP Key ==

<pre>
-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
Version: GnuPG v1.4.6 (GNU/Linux)

mQGiBEJvN0kRBACgPoGLb0CCCR/EzTv0uUmZEVqS6f/qTsjrpgy7WfhjmubRYp1d
YBQvCoySur971lwQz7XQ5lYoNsSzWTVxPMmUTixNik2lnjdqdzccB7X804fO0UEX
sFN+nn4Z+iJWUw2TzsVpk4LYl10xDX4N8134Q26f5p9gO78j13FeB2GZLwCgvcOk
TTW8Y90Gd4NmIi2oLY12lU8EAIMax5Bld33irTZ60xn6mSVPPCxOw/GTaZWVhSeE
kIbPLmAdZHCbhPhnsLpH5o6+3CtdszFIir/2mAIXbmChoojaNwHWtKJMHMuBSK6D
8eW5f6e0AqWCrNHkb7vH8TSCramuTIQW+5eI8ue4AZ5zRR391AGjnW3e89thwmOi
YeoGA/42owXEsriMV8k+D+l59fMHX0WUAGiCImoh4O/SNPUFubz6KEuN1//k01Kg
KopubbO8T9vQ9BH41PyjLwvT9PIUFy4d7foOH1PSO3T3I/thzuqNego98VRQSVOG
K1l6JDIuw/qypOPGDfqoqGL58ycgfRpN5kXY81ffJBBzsHvH27QgSmVmZnJleSBF
bGtuZXIgPGplZmZAZWxrbmVyLm5ldD6IXgQTEQIAHgUCQm83SQIbAwYLCQgHAwID
FQIDAxYCAQIeAQIXgAAKCRCH9YGFa4yiqxpuAJ4521tpSo2Lwj7GtuGww863BFYd
FwCgj6AZew7w+cJm8DNEgpIVHwA6TYSIRgQQEQIABgUCQm84VAAKCRDdynmcYUNN
1oiHAKCTA+VctZgV8inkh+hV2yOrjXZSLgCfdJ3wC1SmGlio5mMZh1sK6UH/H++I
RgQTEQIABgUCQm873QAKCRCvc7YIqUBQr+uSAJ9Slc4+eJ9f3fhIJk0TrehxKvv9
WACeMq+Vc8uX4G8VJiOhyDbq/GgHwBy0IEplZmYgRWxrbmVyIDxqZWxrbmVyQGRp
dm1vZC5jb20+iF4EExECAB4FAkQcjicCGwMGCwkIBwMCAxUCAwMWAgECHgECF4AA
CgkQh/WBhWuMoqv++wCfRxHLOZzk5hJYzfUaAogXG0aUI6oAn2IuERlkOk7IN7xp
aRbqzTb1A8CXuQENBEJvN0sQBADUHJ3uKgOvJqZlnzmrAMXaAXb1oaSrgbZqv6A4
RouP7RCVpLaT5xRQL9Nvx+YT+lvPCxnBVevVodaoHK25IMngDUtmJhsbpH0/vRmu
r0lE54Ezw8riUad9ToG5aee258dp93sfJ5Ccotst7LyzqxC1liYn/wWnKDTVy0CH
J7mwKwADBQP9FQP5+5yUd1wHingeLpAObsEdW8PyflrFydwvy/2Liat//KXKwmoP
Pl9sSiL3yygtUk2bAcjOIYfRrCLrwC9ZjQx+7UBWZ29acM84AKJnl3bto/x2Wau3
k8OD366WEc7818ZSm2MYnPw4cAjb091ZpHsjVvm5p580oAegmSqDDhaISQQYEQIA
CQUCQm83SwIbDAAKCRCH9YGFa4yiqwEhAKCNMxta7wawGX+ZPIEFQ3HBr0tPQQCf
d6TB/qcQW3AVLfud2MkJEBqZqiQ=
=LXoY
-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
</pre>

== Projects ==

** Open Book Project: http://openbookproject.net - Free educational materials.
** CanDo: http://cando.schooltool.org - The CanDo competency tracking application.
** SchoolTool: http://schooltool.org - The SchoolTool school information system.
** UbuntuGrok : Setting up a Grok development environment on Ubuntu 8.04
** MoodleZope : Setting up a school server to run moodle and zope2.7 on port 80
** LearningZope3 : Creating a simple zope3 application
** EdubuntuInstallations : Sites where Edubuntu is up and running
** EdubuntuUserStories : A collection of user stories (in the eXtreme Programming sense) for Dapper
** MondoMindi : Setting up mondo / mindi backup on a Breezy box
** <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RouterConfiguration|RouterConfiguration]]</nowiki>

== Cool and Useful Stuff ==

=== IRC weblog Links ===

** #schooltool irc logs are located here: http://source.schooltool.org/irclogs/index.html
** #ubuntu-sv irc logs are located here: http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/

=== Firefox Extensions ===

* http://www.krickelkrackel.de/autohide/  Full screen mode for firefox.  Great for S5 slide presentations.
* http://chrispederick.com/work/webdeveloper/  Great tools for web developers.

----
CategoryHomepage
