{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Stuff for SebastienBacher, DanielHolbach and JeffWaugh to do while at GUADEC. Please add your ideas below in the suggestions section (and let me know who you are!):

* PulseAudio: Talk with Lennart, Monty (Red Hat) and others about its use in GNOME and distros - common desktop audio strategy
* GnomeSystemTools / Umbrella: Talk with Red Hat dudes, Carlos Garnacho about system tool / control panel strategy
* Bazaar love: Talk to people about bzr, particularly about bzr as a distributed backchannel for an svn mainline
* gnome-session: What's the status of the new session manager?
* Epiphany: Deal with issues brought up at UDS regarding viability of Epiphany as our default browser
* i18n issues: GNOME needs to better integrate i18n stuff like input methods
* LDTP / Dogtail: GrumpyGroundhog testing for GUI apps
* telepathy/galago: Ready for desktop use in edgy timeframe?
* bluetooth: status of bluetooth desktop software (mjg59 is hacking on this)
* Evolution: status of maintenance, development plans, etc.
* bug-buddy: python, launchpad, crash collectors (fer, bkor)

=== Suggestions ===

* Avahi Everywhere (ScottJamesRemnant)
* Issues relating to mono apps in desktop seed? (ScottJamesRemnant)
* Documentation: Can the Gnome docs be restructured as "generic Gnome-using OS" docs, so that vendors can fill in OS-specific parts instead of having to write awkward parallel/replacement docs? (MatthewPaulThomas)
* Launchpad: Get comments (ideally in writing) about what people think of Malone, Rosetta, ''etc'', and how we can improve (MatthewPaulThomas)
* gstreamer: installing required codecs when an app need one, having a machine-readable list of supported codecs shipped with gstreamer plugins in a standard way (SebastienBacher)
* Ask Ridley people about replacement plans for the GnomeClient API (it is a common reason why apps link to the whole library stack since libgnomeui depends on most of them) (JaniMonoses)
** Can we remove GnomeClient from modules that don't really need/use it (gnome-power-manager?)
** GnomePasswordDialog in libgnome?
** Is it sane to drop XSMP support as policy?
** Other pre-Ridlification opportunities for simplifying library dependencies
