{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

I, Jelmer Vernooij, apply for upload rights for package(s):

* Bazaar-related: bzr, bzr-svn, bzr-git, bzr-grep, bzr-hg, bzr-gtk, qbzr, bzr-cvsimport, bzr-dbus, bzr-email, bzr-explorer, bzr-fastimport, bzr-loom, bzr-pqm, bzr-rewrite, bzr-search, bzr-stats, bzr-upload, bzr-xmloutput, bzrtools, trac-bzr, wikkid
* Misc bzr plugin dependencies: dulwich, subvertpy, meliae
* Samba-related: tdb (in main), tevent, talloc (in main), ldb, samba4, heimdal, openchange, samba (in main)

I am the maintainer or a uploader for all of these packages in Debian and am involved to some degree in all of them upstream as well.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Jelmer Vernooij
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| http://launchpad.net/~jelmer
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JelmerVernooij
|-
| '''Debian QA developer page'''
| http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=jelmer
|-
| '''Homepage'''
| http://samba.org/~jelmer
|}

== Who I am ==

Jelmer Vernooij (jelmer on IRC), in daily life a hacker on the <nowiki>[[Bazaar]]</nowiki> project working at Canonical (previously a member of the <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/soyuz|Soyuz]]</nowiki> Launchpad team). I've been contributing to Free Software since ~2000, in particular to Samba, but also to several other projects such as Bazaar, OpenChange and Subversion.

== My Ubuntu story ==

I've used Ubuntu since I was introduced to it at Linux.Conf.Au (and a bit of Ubuntu Down Under) in 2005. My desktop machine is dual boot Sid/Lucid/Natty and I run Ubuntu on my laptop and various servers. 

=== My involvement ===

Pretty much all my contributions to Ubuntu are contributions to upstream projects (Samba, OpenChange, Bazaar, Subversion), packaging in Debian and Launchpad.

Most of my direct contributions to Ubuntu so far have been in sync requests.

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&field.status%3Alist=INPROGRESS&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status%3Alist=FIXRELEASED&assignee_option=choose&field.assignee=jelmer&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_supervisor=&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.component-empty-marker=1&field.tag=&field.tags_combinator=ANY&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.has_cve.used=&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.affects_me.used=&field.has_no_package.used=&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_branches.used=&field.has_branches=on&field.has_no_branches.used=&field.has_no_branches=on&search=Search|Fixed bugs I am assigned to in Ubuntu]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~jelmer/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-datecreated&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status%3Alist=FIXRELEASED&field.assignee=jelmer&field.bug_reporter=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch=&field.has_no_package=|My fixed bugs in all projects tracked by Launchpad]]</nowiki>
 

=== Things I could do better ===

In the past I have often been out of sync with the distribution release schedules - both Debian and Ubuntu. In some cases this resulted in older versions of my packages ending up in the distribution. 

I would also like to be more visible in both distributions and constructively contribute to the making of new policy.

In the past I've occasionally been uncareful requesting syncs (resulting in FTBFS and wasting sponsor time), I think I've been doing a lot better in that regard recently.

== Plans for the future ==

I am very interested in <nowiki>[[DistributedDevelopment]]</nowiki> and improving the toolchain for building packages from branches. 

=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

Especially because we're such a fast-moving distribution that's including and developing the latest and greatest technologies it is important to make sure that we don't break existing users' systems. This is a huge challenge as we have so many different users, a large number of software packages and a wide variety of hardware to support.

We are in a very fortunate position in that we get a lot of feedback from users in the form of bug reports. It is a pity we can't give each bug report the attention it deserves. 

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

=== Artur Rona ===
I remember some cases when I was getting something from sponsors queue requested by Jelmer and there were FTBFS. I know that Jelmer has got great knowledge, but please make sure that package builds fine on chroot. It is important if you want to get upload access.

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Andrew Starr-Bochicchio ===
==== General feedback ====
I've worked with Jelmer as a member of Debian's pkg-bazaar team. Without his extensive efforts there, bazaar's extended family of plugins would be in dire shape in both Ubuntu and Debian. Giving Jelmer upload rights for bazaar related packages in Ubuntu would be extremely helpful. As bazaar continues to become more and more central to the Ubuntu Developer's workflow, granting him these permissions will go a long way to ensure we continue to ship these important packages.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
While I've never sponsored an upload to Ubuntu for Jelmer, I often sync his work directly from Debian. Just a few recent examples:

https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bzrtools/+bug/703168

https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bzr-search/+bug/703165

https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/loggerhead/+bug/661307

https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bzr-svn/+bug/522362

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:andrewsomething]]</nowiki> 
=== James Westby ===
==== General feedback ====

Jelmer is incredibly knowledgeable about Debian packaging, Bazaar and Samba, and has been around Ubuntu long enough to know the processes fairly well. I would trust him to know what to do, or ask if he didn't.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

I don't have any examples to hand. For Bazaar I basically rely on Jelmer to maintain the packages in Debian, and then ACK his sync requests when needed.

=== Martin Pool ===

I've known Jelmer through open source work for nearly ten years, starting in Samba and related projects, and for the last five years in Bazaar.  It has been a real pleasure, and I'm always impressed by how much he gets done.

Jelmer has a lot of broad experience across open source software, both in packaging and upstream development.

I would be happy to give Jelmer commit access to any project I maintain (and I have done so) because I know he would use it responsibly and thoughtfully, and he would ask someone if he was not justifiably confident what to do.  

I think giving him upload rights can only be a good thing for the packages involved and for Ubuntu more generally.

Jelmer has uploaded many of the bzr packages to Debian for years now, and it's been very good.

I've reviewed dozens (or more) of his patches and he has reviewed mine and it's always been productive.  I have not seen anything foolish that would raise any concerns about giving him access.

=== Chuck Short ===

Jelmer's knowledge of Samba would greatly help Ubuntu users. I would love to get help with Samba maintenance and Jelmer's experience would be a great help.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----

<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
