{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

===== This is the Ubuntu wiki page for Ubuntu user "Jeremiah Foster" =====
To contact me you can email jeremiah at jeremiahfoster dot com. Or go to <nowiki>[[http://jeremiahfoster.com]]</nowiki>;

This page holds notes that I use when I am using Ubuntu Linux. Here is a set of pages I maintain or contribute to regarding Ubuntu:

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTestingTeam/IBMxSeries336|IBM xSeries 336]]</nowiki>

== How to install and configure exim4 under Ubuntu ==

This HOWTO explains how to install and configure exim4 as an MTA (Mail Transfer Agent).

''''Please note that mail servers are complicated applications. Please read all available documentation before you set one up. If you are not very careful, you 
can easily create an open relay and get your domain blacklisted.'''' Furthermore, if you turn to the debian exim4 mailing list you will find people disappointed
that you have not at least made an attempt to read the documentation. I cannot stress strongly enough the importance of reading, _at least_, the file called
spec.txt.

Now that you have read the documentation, lets start to set up the Exim MTA. Here is the command you run to install and start configuring
exim4;

<pre>
apt-get -y install exim4-daemon-heavy
</pre>

=== Overview ===

1. Use apt-get to install exim4 package.
2. Test exim to see if it is working.

=== Details ===

=== Resources ===
<nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/jeremiah?action=show]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/6.10/ubuntu/serverguide/C/email-services.html]]</nowiki>

== Personal Ubuntu notes ==

Nov 20 2008:

Wow, just realized I have been using Ubuntu for about four and half years. It must not suck. :^)

Oct 10:

Started exim4 how to, running Edgy. Edgy seems really great so far, Evolution has been a bit buggy but I am sure that will work out before the final
release.

July 17:

I am interested in writing a HOW TO for apache2 SSI (Server Side Includes) but I suppose one has to join the documentation team before
one is allowed to edit that page, despite the fact there is no info there.

June 22: 

I hope to develop some HOW TOs, mostly because I like to use them. If they are helpful to others well that is great. I generally use some source on the internet for the bulk of the info so I it is probably not fair of me to claim that I am the author. Here is a the first in what I hope will be a long list;

http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=196414

June 15: 

I have updated to Dapper LTS on three machines. One of them is my old Dell at home, one is my fast machine at work, and the other is an IBM 
blade that we use for our work web site. So this last machine is a production server, Dapper seems to be working well for us in a production environment. Soon I will move our other two FreeBSD machines over to Dapper and we will be a linux-only shop. 

Now I need to run out and find more info on setting up RAID. heh.

January 22: 

I am now running Breezy on two different machines. On the Dell Poweredge I tried to install Debian but apparently there are known problems with certain Dell hardware and Debian. I had kernel panics trying to install debian on the Dell machine. With Ubuntu I had no such problem. I noticed that Ubuntu was using the i386 kernel instead of the i686 but that should not make much difference. In any case, I have been very pleased so far with Ubuntu, it seems to be a very good distribution.

It has not been free from all problems however. I have had to run fsck manually and done at least two complete re-installs. But that is a part of using linux, so you have to back up your data.

December 15:

I installed Warty last week at work and at home. I have to say I am pleasantly surprised. I had heard a lot about Ubuntu and I must say it is living up to the hype. I remember Mark Shuttleworth speaking at the 2004 EuroPython conference in Gothenburg and he spoke about his community project, before Ubuntu had a name. He had some good things to say, and he went out and did what he said would do. I'm impressed.

Now, onto some notes for my two installations. The work machine, lets call him slam since all my computers have s names, is at this moment being upgraded from Warty to Breezy. I had an old Warty install CD hanging around and used that when I encountered upgrade problems with Fedora. I prefer the apt-get tool to Red Hat's rpm or yum tools, it is much easier to use. I have just issued an 

`$ sudo apt-get dist-upgrade`

and the terminal is chugging away. Just for reference here is the output of 

`$ uname -a`

Linux slam 2.6.8.1-3-386 #1 Thu Nov 18 11:47:33 UTC 2004 i686 GNU/Linux.
----
CategoryHomepage
