{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Colorado Local Ubuntu user

member of the ColoradoTeam

Running Edgy, and Fiesty on five different machines.

==== Contact: ====

Email:
pedalwrench007 at gmail dot com

Weblog:

www.spudz.org

Resume:

Professional Profile of Jeremy James Schroeder

A Mixed Environment Systems Engineer with nine years of experience in designing, installing, and troubleshooting Windows and Linux systems; with a proven track record in identifying problems and developing innovative cost saving solutions.  

Professional Experience

2004 to Present
Sungard Availability Services, Thornton, CO
Operations Technician (Dedicated Accounts)

Provide direct operational support of Sungard's largest managed services customers, maintaining ownership and end of the road support for complex environments.  Assist and consult with customers in the design and implementation of new architectures. 
	
Maintain and monitor over 1300 Windows 2000, Windows 2003, and Linux servers
Assist the customer in the physical layout and installation of their equipment in Sungard's secure cabinets. 
Ensure customer installations are in accordance with standard procedures and Service Level Agreements.
Provide Tier 1 and 2 support to Sungard's customers. 
Develop, maintain, and manage relationships with assigned customers.
Primarily responsible for monitoring customer applications and Sungard's operational architecture through a Network Operating Center (NOC) environment. 
Utilize technical expertise to analyze, troubleshoot and react to issues requiring immediate attention.
Complete assigned work orders in an efficient manner.
Ensure the quality of service delivery continues to meet Sungard ISO certification requirements.
Assist the Systems Engineers to develop and maintain LAN/WAN customer environments and systems administration support.

2002 to 2004
Self Employed, Fraser, CO
Contract Systems Administrator / Network Administrator
 
Serve as a Systems Administrator / Network Administrator for various clients in and around Fraser, Colorado. Services included 
Server/Client setup and repair, Network design, setup and repair, website design and setup, and wireless Internet setup and installs. 
Designed and implemented Microsoft Windows 2000 and Redhat Linux based file servers, and print servers. 
Designed and implemented a full Active Directory structure for multiple clients.  
Set up and deployed Apache, PHP and MySQL for web application development 

2000 to 2002
CCD Corporation, Westminster, CO
Network engineer/Systems Engineer

Serve as on site network consulting for clientèle, which included client/server setup and repair in networked environments of 5 to 100 clients according to client needs. Network Administration of a cutting edge network for a local ISP/ASP consisting of 20 to 25 servers: 

Planned and Implemented a full backup and disaster recovery solution using a Storage Area Network, Veritas Backup Exec, VB script, and a Dell Multi-tape Drive for the entire network.
Expanded infrastructure from 5 Windows 2000 servers to 20 Windows 2000 Servers.
Expanded infrastructure from 20 Wyse terminal client desktops to well over 150 desktop clients.
Automated and designed procedures for installing new web clients using VB script.
Setup and repaired multiple Microsoft Exchange Servers from severe system crashes.
Utilize various shell scripting for easily installing users, website and domains.

1998 to 2000	
Icebox Systems, Fraser, CO
Computer Technician

Responsibilities include testing, troubleshooting, and repairing of customers computer systems. Also, building new and refurbishing older computers. Answering technical support telephone calls, and setting up dial-in accounts for a local Internet service provider. Setting up Windows NT servers for dial in user authentication.  Also, setup Windows NT servers for domain and web site hosting.  

1997 to 1998	
Intel Corporation, Rio Rancho, NM
Manufacturing Technician

Responsibilities included performing daily maintenance and operations that surround the Etch area. Coordinate product flow with other organizations within the microchip production facility. Worked with team to manage operations and run pilot test products. Team Safety Representative.

1995 to 1997	
Marquip Incorporated, Madison, WI
Production Assistant

Responsibilities included building, testing, troubleshooting, and repair of newly assembled production, prototype and warranted High Voltage drive assemblies, and to ensure on-time shipment of parts and quality control. Performed High Voltage, Low Voltage, and Digital test, which included use of digital oscilloscopes, digital multi-meters, and variable DC power supplies. Troubleshooting 
included reading schematic diagrams and printed circuit board layouts. Repairs included component removal, component insertion, and hand soldering of integrated circuits and discreet components. Worked with ISO 9001.

Education

1997 Herzing College of Technology, Madison, WI, 
Associate of Science in Electrical Engineering Technology GPA 3.7

Technical Skills

Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows NT server, Microsoft Windows XP, Microsoft Windows Server 2000, Microsoft Windows Server 2003, Red Hat Linux, SUSE Linux, and Debian Linux. Cisco OS for routers and switches
Networking: TCP/IP, Internet, Ethernet, Wireless
Protocol support: IP, OSPF, BGP, RIP, VLAN
Applications: Microsoft Office Products, Open Office, Various SAN clients, Vmware Products, Veritas Backup Exec, ARCserve Backup, Tivoli Storage Manager, Microsoft Exchange Server, Microsoft Terminal Server, Microsoft IIS, Microsoft Active Directory, Apache, Bind, and MySQL. Various network sniffer programs. Various system administration programs for both Microsoft Windows NT server and Red Hat Linux for user setup and administration.
Hardware: HP Proliant Servers and Blade Centers, Sun Fire Servers, IBM Blade Centers.  All other forms of Desktop equipment.  Cisco Switches and Routers.  BigIP F5, EMC Storage Arrays, Hitachi Storage Arrays. 

Special Skills

Bilingual (English/Spanish) 2 year

Military Experience

Specialist (E-4) Motor Transport Operator, ARMY National Guard 1992-2000
