{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Jérémie "Toadstool" Corbier ==

I am a 21 year-old french guy. I study telecommunications engineering in Brest, France. I am particularly interested in the current deployment of IPv6. I am also network and system administrator of the <nowiki>[[http://resel.fr/|ResEl]]</nowiki> association. We deal with a 500 machines students network and we provide some services such as 17 TV channels on LAN or @resel.fr Jabber accounts to our members. The whole services are powered by 12 Debian servers.

=== Linux and me ===

I have been using GNU/Linux since November 2000. My first experience was with a Debian Potato I installed on my parents' old computer. As I did not have a permanent nor efficient Internet connection at that time I had to wait for Woody release to discover a little further this world.

I use Ubuntu since Warty was released. At that time I was thrilled by this distribution because it was the first to work out of the box on my laptop. I have been an Ubuntu user since then and I have decided to help making Dapper the best Linux distro ever released.

I have organized 4 Ubuntu Install Parties (about 60 attendees each time) in my engineering school.

=== Contact ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''e-mail'''
| jcorbier@ubuntu.com
|-
| '''Jabber'''
| jcorbier@resel.fr
|-
| '''IRC'''
| ''Toadstool'' on freenode
|-
| '''Launchpad'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/jcorbier/|jcorbier]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Ubuntu involvement ===

==== Packaging and developments ====

* I am the Debian maintainer for <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/w/wide-dhcpv6.html|wide-dhcpv6]]</nowiki>, a well-programmed DHCPv6 solution and <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/m/mmpython.html|mmpython]]</nowiki>, a Python media metadata retrieval library. I am currently packaging <nowiki>[[http://freevo.sourceforge.net/|freevo]]</nowiki>, an open-source home theatre, and <nowiki>[[http://slim.berlios.de/|SLiM]]</nowiki>, a Simple Login Manager.
* I have worked with Debian Lintian Maintainers and asked them to reserve -D and --debian options for Debian derivatives such as Ubuntu. I am now working on a Lintian patch to better include Ubuntu specific checks (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/36505|Malone #36505]]</nowiki>). The -D switch will be used to get back to Debian behaviour.

==== Bug triaging and fixing ====

I am part of the Ubuntu BugSquad and I do my best to report and triage bugs.

I have fixed a few bugs and made some merges. See <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/jcorbier/+packages|my Uploaded Packages list]]</nowiki>.

==== IRC ====

I spend a lot of time on #ubuntu-fr, #ubuntu-fr-testing, #ubuntu-bugs and #ubuntu-motu helping people as much as I can.

==== French translations ====

I am certainly not the most active translator in the French Translation Team but when I am not wandering about Malone I try to translate a few packages.

=== Plans ===

I would like to:

* Become a MOTU to help maintaining Universe and stop bothering MOTUs when I have got a tiny patch.
* Package a few missing applications.
* Help new packagers on #ubuntu-motu and REVU.
* Get a little more involved in the French Translation Team.
* Spread Ubuntu everywhere.

=== Testimonials ===

* While I cannot judge Toadstool's technical abilities or packaging skills, I can vouch for his community spirit. He's a regular at #ubuntu-motu, #ubuntu-bugs, and has often helped others, and kept the action lively. Always a gentleman with great manners, he defines the spirit of an Ubuntero. I suppose we could certainly use more new members like Toadstool! -- CarthikSharma
----
CategoryHomepage
