{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About me ===

I am a longtime Ubuntu user and advocate. I have done windows>Ubuntu migrations, and actively support an office of mixed platform systems as a volunteer. I have experience with many distros, and have skills in server implementations, maintenance and security; desktop implementation, support and maintenance/security; LAMP applications and web development; networking implementation, security and troubleshooting; SOHO backup and mail server installs and maintenance.

I am an independent computer and internet consultant specializing in search engine optimization and content management systems, particularly Drupal.

I am the MLUG webmaster, and participate in many open source projects. I have been involved in the development of NetJuke, doing graphics for the project, as well as beta testing.

I have a degree in English Literature and the Philosophy of Science.

=== Contributions ===
I am primarily an advocate, although I do many support instances, and perform consulting on migrations and cross-platform interoperability. I have moved at least 20 people to full time use of Ubuntu, and support them when needed. I have attended Ubuntu meetings, and actively participate in the chat rooms giving advice when possible.

=== Plans & Vision for Ubuntu ===
Ubuntu is one of the keys to allowing the general public to have a choice when it comes to operating systems. The freedom we lose every day can be combated in a way with increasing freedom of software and the liberty of thought and creativity this allows. I see Ubuntu as being an important stepping stone to regaining the sense of camaraderie and sharing that previously was the domain of the pure sciences.

=== Local organizations ===
I am a member of and/or helped founding the following organizations:
* <nowiki>[[http://www.mlug.ca|MLUG]]</nowiki> - Montreal Linux Users Group
----
CategoryHomepage
