{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Jeremy Bicha, apply for ''~ubuntu-desktop'' membership.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Jeremy Bicha
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jbicha]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[JeremyBicha]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==
I'm a US Navy veteran who is switching to an IT career field. I taught myself Ubuntu and am pleased that I've found ways to make Ubuntu better for millions of users. I spend too much time with Ubuntu and need to get some other hobbies. :-)

I don't consider myself a strong programmer, but I believe I do pretty well with packaging. I can hack Python and manage to cargo cult C++ good enough to have fixed several bugs.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I got involved with Desktop development near the end of the Natty cycle with the GNOME 3 PPA. It was a great opportunity as there was a bunch of work that needed to be done. The review process felt easier as it was just a PPA. I got more experience with submitting merge proposals (MPs) and working on a variety of packages. As Oneiric opened for GNOME 3, I started submitting my work for merging directly into the main archive.

Before the GNOME 3 PPA, I had done a few MPs but I had had difficulty finding stuff to package that was within my abilities. My first MP was just before Karmic was released to get Moodle to work for Edubuntu.

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jbicha/+uploaded-packages]]</nowiki>

https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-games/+changelog

https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vinagre/+changelog

I contribute patches to GNOME and I now have GNOME git commit access. Here's one example:

https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=621037

While outside the Desktop set, I did convert gufw to PyGObject this cycle.

=== Areas of work ===
Late in the Natty release cycle, I filled a critical need by assisting with updating the GNOME User Guide for Ubuntu. I was accepted into ~ubuntu-core-doc and have continued to contribute significantly there.

=== Things I could do better ===
Attention to detail is critically important with direct upload rights to many of the core packages.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
Ubuntu's relationship with GNOME could be better. With my quite limited perspective, I've seen this more with fanboys than with developers. Things I've done to help with this:
* I run GNOME Shell a decent amount of the time (as we're in Oneiric bugfix mode, I've also been using Unity more since that needs more attention).
* I packaged the last two GNOME Shell updates for Ubuntu. It's important that GNOME Shell works well in Ubuntu or else we'll get a lot of negative attention.
* I contribute back to GNOME (as mentioned above).

It is difficult for a new contributor to get started contributing. I think this has improved quite a bit with harvest, the Ubuntu Packaging Guide, and Patch Pilots. I don't know how to keep improving this but I try to be friendly, thank contributors, and help contributions along.

I also am watching Ubuntu Friendly as we badly need a better way to track hardware regressions and hopefully users in the near feature will be able to check for these regressions before upgrading.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
