{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Jeremy LaCroix ===

Email: 
=== About Me ===
I am a Technologist, IT Technician, an Ubuntu user and forum community member since 2004. I am a Linux Advocate since 2000, and Ubuntu Advocate ever since I've discovered it. My primary focus is testing. I test each and every Ubuntu release before the freeze period, and report all bugs that I find. 

=== Contributions ===
My primary focus, until my programming knowledge increases to a higher level, is testing new releases (and reporting bugs), advocating Ubuntu, and writing technology articles either about or with Ubuntu.

My recent bug reports are here:

https://bugs.launchpad.net/~jlacroix82

My Ubuntu Community activity can be viewed here:

http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=3199

I also write for Linux.com several times a year, and most of the articles I write are either about Ubuntu, or wrote using Ubuntu as an example. Some of my most recent articles are here:

http://www.linux.com/feature/120112 (Ubuntu 7.10 Review)

http://www.linux.com/feature/119332 (Gnome 2.20 Review)

http://www.linux.com/feature/118100 (Wesnoth Review)

http://www.linux.com/articles/62438?tid=129 (Guide to make a restore script)

My personal web site where I blog about computer games I design and technology is here:

http://www.jlacroix.info

=== Future Plans ===
I hope some day to gain enough programming knowledge to contribute code to Ubuntu releases. I am studying C++ right now so that hopefully those skills can be useful to the project and community.

Another goal for the future is to code a computer game in C++ for inclusion into Ubuntu's repositories for everyone to enjoy.

Until then, I will continue to do what I can to Advocate Ubuntu's use and test each release so that I can help make sure each release is as good as it can be. I will always offer my assistance with Ubuntu when asked.

----
CategoryHomepage
