{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Jeremy Bicha, apply for ''<nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki>'' membership.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Jeremy Bicha
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jbicha]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[JeremyBicha]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==
I'm a US Navy veteran and currently work at the <nowiki>[[http://www.open-it-lab.com/|Open IT Lab]]</nowiki> in South Carolina introducing people to open source technologies. I taught myself Ubuntu and am happy that I've found ways to make Ubuntu better for millions of users. I spend too much time with Ubuntu and need to get some other hobbies. :-)

I don't consider myself a strong programmer, but I believe I do pretty well with packaging. I do a fair amount of patching too.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I got involved with Desktop development near the end of the Natty cycle with the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~gnome3-team/+archive/gnome3/+packages?field.series_filter=precise|GNOME 3 PPA]]</nowiki>. It was a great opportunity as there was a bunch of work that needed to be done. The review process felt easier as it was just a PPA. I got more experience with submitting merge proposals (MPs) and working on a variety of packages. As Oneiric opened for GNOME 3, I started submitting my work for merging directly into the main archive and officially joined the Desktop Team later that summer.

Before the GNOME 3 PPA, I had done a few MPs but I had had difficulty finding stuff to package that was within my abilities. My first MP was just before Karmic was released to get Moodle to work for Edubuntu.

I got involved with ubuntu-docs about the same way as there was a critical need for help in getting the user documentation into shape near the end of the Natty cycle. It had been synced from a still-incomplete snapshot of the GNOME docs which described GNOME Shell, not Unity.

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jbicha/+uploaded-packages]]</nowiki>

* Since last summer, I've joined the <nowiki>[[https://alioth.debian.org/projects/pkg-gnome/|Debian GNOME team]]</nowiki> and become a Debian Maintainer. I'm also a GNOME Foundation <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org/foundation/membership/|member]]</nowiki>.
* I converted gufw to PyGObject.
* I've helped keep all of GNOME 3 up to date in Ubuntu.

=== Areas of work ===
Mostly GNOME (& ubuntu-docs), but I am interested in assorted universe stuff too

=== Why I Want to Join MOTU ===
I am interested in a broader range of packages than are in the ubuntu-desktop and desktop-extra sets. There are quite a few GNOME-related apps that aren't in those sets as they are unofficial (one example is gcompris which I've kept up-to-date for Edubuntu the past year). I needed to get help from MOTUs with the tracker 0.14 and clutter 1.10 transitions last cycle. (I also helped with the texlive 2011 transition in quantal, but that's core-dev so never mind.)

Sponsorship works but eventually, it becomes an extra hassle for the sponsoree and the sponsors.

=== Things I could do better ===
Micah has to remind me too often to use the -v flag when I merge from Debian.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
I'm helping lead up the proposed Ubuntu GNOME flavor which is a goal for 12.10.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
Ubuntu's relationship with GNOME is still not built on mutual trust and respect.

We badly need a better way to track hardware regressions and hopefully users in the near feature will be able to check for these regressions before upgrading.

It is difficult for a new contributor to get started contributing. I think this has improved quite a bit with harvest, the Ubuntu Packaging Guide, and Patch Pilots. At the Open IT Lab, we're working on a roadmap of workshops that can help potential contributors learn how to get involved.

I wish Canonical had a stronger PR team. For instance, I'd like to see more official press engagement during and immediately after UDS to clarify what was discussed since UDS is critical to how Canonical & the community prepare the next version of Ubuntu.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

=== Jonathan Carter (highvoltage) ===

I haven't sponsored any of Jeremy's packages, but I'm familiar with his work. In Edubuntu we use a few of the packages he maintains (like gnome-fallback-session) that I've been keeping a close eye on. His work is high quality, he's willing to help wherever he can and I trust him to do a good job as a MOTU.

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
I would definitely trust Jeremy Bicha with MOTU upload rights. He has done a great job keeping various parts of the Desktop and the Docs world under control and the uploads I checked were of tip-top quality.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bognor-regis/0.6.12+git20101007.02c25268-7
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grilo-plugins/0.1.18-3
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sound-theme-freedesktop/0.7.pristine-2
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/babl/0.1.10-1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gegl/0.2.0-1ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/spice-protocol/0.10.1-1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/yelp-xsl/3.0.0-0ubuntu2
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/liferea/1.6.6b-0ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/meta-gnome2/1:2.30+11ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-color-manager/3.2.0-0ubuntu1

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
