{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Joseph Freeman ===

Email: 
=== About Me ===
* I am a university student and am currently studying for a computer science degree.
* I am very interested in Linux (especially Ubuntu) and the Open Source movement in general.
* I enjoy programming in C/C++ and am working through the source code of Glib, GTK+ and GNOME (GObject is the most difficult to understand) ;-)
* I have found the greatest joy in life in Jesus Christ. He is my savior from eternal death. I have become a son of the living God, Yahweh, by believing that His son, Jesus, came to earth, died for my sins (any disobedience against God), was raised from death to life, and is now in heaven at the right hand of God. I know that one day I and all other believers will be with Him forever in heaven. If you would like to discuss the Truth of God with me, then e-mail me as soon as possible.

=== Links ===
* <nowiki>[[http://webpages.charter.net/jfree143/|How To Know You Will Live and Not Die]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.thehopeproject.com/?format=mov&bandwidth=500|"The Hope" Video That Shows the Truth of God - Streaming]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://media.gospelcom.net/hopeproj/en/|"The Hope" Video That Shows the Truth of God - English - Download]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://media.gospelcom.net/hopeproj/es/|"The Hope" Video That Shows the Truth of God - Spanish - Download]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://media.gospelcom.net/hopeproj/fr/|"The Hope" Video That Shows the Truth of God - French - Download]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://net.bible.org/bible.php?book=Joh&chapter=1|The NET Bible]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.wnd.com|World Net Daily]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.slashdot.org|Slashdot]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.gtk.org|GTK+]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org|GNOME]]</nowiki>
...

----
CategoryHomepage
