{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/jhbuild-dependencies
* '''Created''': 2006-06-10 by GuillaumeDesmottes
* '''Contributors''': GuillaumeDesmottes
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

The aim of this spec is to suggest to create a meta-package that installs all the external dependencies 
needed to build GNOME HEAD in a jhbuild environment.

=== Rationale ===

A lot of new GNOME contributors try to build the HEAD version using jhbuild. Currently it's far from being trivial and some users are quickly discouraged.
Some projects try to make this process easier. For example <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/JhAutobuild|jhAutobuild]]</nowiki> provides a way to <nowiki>[[http://jhbuild.bxlug.be/|centralise]]</nowiki> build results.

I suggest than we create a meta-package named jhbuild-dependencies that install all the external dependencies needed to build GNOME using jhbuild.
It will be easier for a new user to just install this package instead to look for <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/JhbuildDependencies|a dependencies list]]</nowiki> often outdated unfortunately.

=== Use cases ===

* Lucien wants to build GNOME using jhbuild but don't know exactly which packages he have to install.
* René have a big server and would like to share its power to automatically try to build GNOME and report logs on http://jhbuild.bxlug.be/. René have just to program his cron to daily update the jhbuild-dependencies package and launch the build.

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

* We start to install a Edgy chroot on http://jhbuild.bxlug.be . We already have one with Sarge and one with Sid. Using this chroot environment i should be able to easily run building test and detect when a new dependency is missing.

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
