{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Describe Jig here.
Jig owns Pc's and oldworld G3 ppc's

Hardware
I was given a G3 AIO a while back, and finally got around to using ubuntu because i could find any instructions. Specs are 300MHz PowerPC, 512 ram, 7Gb 
IDE drive. Plus the usual on-board serial ports, network, sound, DTB (ADB?) keyboard and single button mouse. I installed MacOS9.2.1 and came with MacOS8 installed origally.

Preparation
Boot up the MacOS9.2.1 install CD and run Disc Preperation Tool. Made a single partition and leaft the rest of the drive unallocated. Installed MacOS, The only thing you really need is Stuffit and a browser which are both part of the minimal OS8 install. 

BootX
Downloaded the BootX_1.2.2.sit and burned a file cd through nero, Drop the sit archive onto the StuffIt program (it's hidden somewhere in the Internet Tools folder) to unpack it, open the resulting folder and drop it's contents into the System Folder to properly install it. It will configure itself as a startup and Applemenu item. 

Insert the ubuntu PPC install disk and navigate to the /install/powerpc folder. Copy vmlinux (the linux kernel) to “System Folder/Linux Kernels”. Copy initrd.gz (the init ramdisk image) to “System Folder” and rename it to ramdisk.image.gz 

BootX should appear on the apple menu, and also run on every reboot. When you run BootX it should have “Use Ramdisk” checked and show vmlinux as an available kernel. If this is all in order go ahead and click the “Linux” button and in a short while you should be looking at the regular Ubuntu install dialogs. 

Partitioning
When it gets to partitioning the drive Ubuntu will suggest using the entire disk for Linux. Don't do that because you still need MacOS to run BootX to boot Linux. Select the “Use Free Space” option or partition manually. I set up /dev/hda6 as root using the reiserfs filesystem, and later added a small swapfile. None of this is particularly important as long as you remember where you put your root. You will need to know later. 

Copying /boot to the HFS* System Folder
The rest of the install is fairly straightforward until you get to the part where Ubuntu tries to install a bootloader. GRUB and Lilo don't work on OldWorld Macs, so Ubuntu will warn you that no bootloader can be installed. Switch to a second console at this point (Option-F2) and use “df” to see where things are currently mounted. In my case the newly installed ubuntu was on /dev/hdc7 (The installer calls it /dev/ide0/host0/bus0/target0/lun0/part6, but this is just an initrd thing, by this stage in the install /dev/sda devices will work) mounted as /target and the HFS filesystem was /dev/hdc6. Make a mountpoint and mount the HFS filesystem. 

* HFS is the partition where Apple OS is installed. So we have : "hfs+" (Apple) + "ext3" (for ubuntu) + "swap" partitions. 

cd /target
mkdir hfs
mount /dev/sda5 hfs -t hfs If your MacOS Partition is formatted with HFSExtended (hfs+), use the hfsplus filesystem instead. 

cd /target
mkdir hfs
mount /dev/sda5 hfs -t hfsplus You might also want to add an entry to /etc/fstab so it will be mounted when you reboot. This makes updating kernels easier in the future. 

echo '/dev/hdc6 /hfs hfs defaults' >> etc/fstab Or for hfsplus: 

echo '/dev/hdc6 /hfs hfsplus defaults' >> etc/fstab Now copy the kernel and boot image over; 

cp boot/vmlinux hfs/System\ Folder/Linux\ Kernels/vmlinux
cp boot/initrd.img hfs/System\ Folder/ramdisk.image.gzOption-F1 to get back to the installer, and tell it to go ahead and reboot. 

When the machine reboots the BootX dialog should come up straight away. Hoary seemed to find it's own rootfs but Breezy doesn't, so type "root=/dev/sda6" in the kernel parameters box. Press tab so the Linux button is highlighted then click on the “Save as default” button. Then click Linux. 

Ubuntu should proceed through the rest of the install as usual. 

Other hints
If you want a more OSX-like desktop install KDE (either download it in synaptic or install from a kubuntu CD). I haven't figured out how to theme Gnome to look and behave like OSX yet. 

If you only have a one-button mouse, F11 and F12 on the keyboard will act as the middle and right mouse buttons. 
