{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Contact Info ===

Jim McQuillan

Location: Waterford, MI, USA

Email: jam at ltsp.org

IRC: jammcq on the #ltsp channel on irc.freenode.net

=== Interests ===

* LTSP - I'm the founder and project leader of an awesome project that provides Thin client support to Linux servers.  The Linux Terminal Server Project <nowiki>[[http://www.LTSP.org]]</nowiki>

* I'm now focusing on shaping LTSP to play better with Linux distributions, so that we can integrate LTSP into distributions of all flavors.  Take a look at <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ltsp.org/twiki/bin/view/Ltsp/MueKow|Project MueKow]]</nowiki> for a look at some of our plans.

* I've travelled all over the world, talking about LTSP, including really cool places like Germany, Italy, England, Spain, Norway, Brazil, Canada and all over the US.

* I've been working with Unix since 1984.  Back in those days, we used (dare I say it) SCO Xenix.  Been on Linux since somewhere around 1995.

* I'm currently the president of the Michigan Unix Users Group <nowiki>[[http://www.mug.org|MUG]]</nowiki>.

* When I'm not working on LTSP, I'm busy running my own consulting company: McQuillan Systems.  I specialize in the healthcare industry.  lately, I've been spending alot of time gluing systems together, including RIS, MIS, Transcription, Dictation, PACS, and tying into insurance companies and hospital systems.

=== Time Available ===

* Pretty much every waking minute.  Well, unless I'm working on billable stuff for clients.
----
Related pages:
<<FullSearch>>
----
CategoryHomepage
