{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jincreator|jincreator]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''GPG Key'''
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0x9711D6A8ED1CE62F12AA02267E5FB7C5CB6B5A06&op=index|CB6B5A06]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1437223|jincreator]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu Korea Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.or.kr/memberlist.php?mode=viewprofile&u=3388|jincreator]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| jincreator - irc.ubuntu.com
|}

=== Jinkyu Yi ===
I'm college student studying for computer science and engineering.
I first meet Linux at 2008 and become fan of FOSS.
I'm living in Korea.

=== Team Memberships ===

{*} Ubuntu Korean Team
{*} Ubuntu Korean Translators

=== Future Plans & Projects ===
Spread FOSS to Korea.
Study programming.
Finish writing this page! :)

==== Current Project & Goals ====
 {*} I'm working to improve Ubuntu environment better for Koreans. So I will...
** fix fonts settings.
** report bug about typing Korean letters.

=== Contributions to the Ubuntu Community ===
Note: Often people like to list their major contributions, so people know the good work they've done. When you apply for membership to restricted teams, the senior members usually like knowing what you've done before. In this example, several subsections exist. The more work you do, the longer this section will become.

==== Support ====
 {*} On Ubuntu Korea Forums and irc #ubuntu-ko, I answered to people who have problems using or installing Ubuntu as I can.

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here.
