{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Jiří Podvolecký ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jiri-podvolecky | jiri-podvolecky]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''jp_hranice''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|}

=== About Me ===
 I like Linux from begining of my free carrier. My first job was in computer-game-caffe-bar. After this for long years I got not a job, especialy "on" computer. In come back to home after some healing in 2008 and my brother Charles give me Ubuntu on something like family computer. 
 I study IT on high school in town named Lipník nad Bečvou = name near basswood next: upon river named Bečva.
 I was in Neederland and Italy and for a moment in Germany. When I was a little child my fammily offen tour to Slovakia. I am from city Hranice (Weiskirchen) in canton Přerov situated in archdiocese/locality of of Girl named metropolition Olomouc. All this is Czech Republic.

=== My Involvement ===
 I am involved with ISO testing, AutomatedTesting and bug reporting.

=== My Vision ===
 I plan to upgrade my knowledge and be much useful for human being, what Ubuntu is.

----
CategoryHomepage
