{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~joaosantana|joaosantana]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''GPG Key'''
| See Launchpad Page
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=500981|Cybrarian]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''JoaoSantana''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| See Launchpad Page
|-
| '''Linux User:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://counter.li.org|#442101]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu User:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntucounter.geekosophical.net/img/ubuntu-user2.php?user=20728|#20728]]</nowiki>
|}

'''Later put an image'''

=== About Me ===

My name is João Santana, a 30 years old guy who lives in Great Recife, Pernambuco State/Brazil.

I have training in Library Science (although I did not graduate) and I'm in the middle of an undergraduate degree in Human Resource Management.

Quite nothing to do with Information Technology, in short.

Since 2007 I've been using Ubuntu as my operating system, primarily for home use. I became interested in system administration and desktop development over the years, and calls to the support of the companies where I worked halved since then.

At the end of 2011 I assumed responsibility for conducting Ubuntu LoCo Team Pernambuco, a task that has been accomplished with the invaluable help of other ubunteros in my state.

=== Contributions to the Ubuntu Community ===

{*} Between October 2006 and October 2010 I worked as a volunteer technical support, helping to solve problems from users through the Brazilian mailing list. Since then I've been concentrating on support through <nowiki>[[https://answers.launchpad.net/~joaosantana|Launchpad Answers]]</nowiki>.

{*} Between 2008 and 2010 was an associate collaborator to Brazilian Translation Team. Although I'm not anymore related to Translation Team, I'm still helping projects providing translations to Brazilian Portuguese (see <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/~joaosantana|my page in Launchpad Translations]]</nowiki> for more info).

{*} Since 2008 I have been acting as an evangelist, promoting Ubuntu on events and conversations with people connected to Information Technology industry in my state.

{*} In October 2011 I took the main lead of the Ubuntu LoCo Team Pernambuco.

=== Team Memberships ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <style="background:#592441;color:#FFFFFF;">Team
| <style="background:#592441;color:#FFFFFF;">Since
| <style="background:#592441;color:#FFFFFF;">Role
|-
| Ubuntu Brasil
| 2007-07-12
| Member
|-
| Ubuntu LoCo Enthusiasts
| 2008-02-24
| Member
|-
| Ubuntu Brasil - PE
| 2008-02-25
| Admin
|-
| DeadUbuntu Community Team
| 2008-02-26
| Member
|-
| Ubuntu Screencast Team
| 2008-02-26
| Member
|-
| Ubuntu Brazilian Planet
| 2008-03-03
| Member
|-
| Launchpad Beta Testers
| 2008-03-11
| Member
|-
| My spouse runs Ubuntu!
| 2008-10-27
| Owner
|-
| Launchpad Users
| 2008-12-16
| Member
|-
| 5 A Day Participants
| 2009-07-03
| Member
|-
| Ubuntu Users
| 2009-08-12
| Member
|-
| Launchpad Translators
| 2009-09-02
| Member
|-
| Ubuntu Font Family Interest Group
| 2010-09-15
| Member
|-
| Ubuntu Power Users
| 2011-10-28
| Member
|}

=== Future Plans & Projects ===

{*} Accomplish LPIC-1 until middle 2012.

==== Current Projects & Goals ====

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something to say about my work on Ubuntu Community, please feel free to edit this section and drop some words.

----
CategoryHomepage
