{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Hi!
My name is João Pinto. I'm a FOSS & Ubuntu advocate.

=== Contact information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| João Pinto
|-
| '''Nickname'''
| joaopinto
|-
| '''Email'''
| joao.pinto (at) getdeb (dot) net
|-
| '''IRC'''
| joaopinto on irc.freenode.net
|-
| '''Launchpad'''
| https://launchpad.net/~joaopinto
|-
| '''JabberID'''
| lamego.pinto (at) gmail (dot) com
|-
| '''Sites'''
| http://www.getdeb.net | http://www.playdeb.net
|}

Thanks to BUGabundo whose template I reused and adapted. 

=== About me ===
I am 31 years old, currently working as a server systems operations specialist.

=== Contributions to F/LOSS ===

* I have created and I am the team leader for the <nowiki>[[http://www.getdeb.net|GetDeb]]</nowiki> software portal 
* I am the main developer for <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/apt-portal|APT-Portal]]</nowiki>
* I am an active bug reporter for Ubuntu at launchpad (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~joaopinto|bugs related to me]]</nowiki>)
* I am an active member of the Portuguese LoCoTeam (on IRC, ML);
* I am a F/LOSS Advocate, I promote the use of open source software like Firefox, OpenOffice.org and GNU/Linux distros like Ubuntu;
* I advocate and support Ubuntu adoption at my job
* I have submitted an IRC protocol patch to Pidgin - grep "Joao.*Pinto" /usr/share/doc/libpurple-bin/copyright
* I was an active participant on the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=33506|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki>
* I was the main developer for http://freshmeat.net/projects/ptlinkircd/
* I was the main developer for http://freshmeat.net/projects/ptlinkservices/
* I was the main developer for http://freshmeat.net/projects/libircservice/
* I was the main developer for http://freshmeat.net/projects/multichat/

=== Future Goals ===

* Roll-out playdeb powered on apt-portal
* Active contribution to other Ubuntu and FOSS projects

=== Testimonials for Membership Application ===
I have had contacts with João for quite a while. He is extremely active on the Portugal Ubuntu and FLOSS communities, and his work, there and elsewhere, is enough to qualify him. Now, add in his work with <nowiki>[[http://www.getdeb.net|GetDeb]]</nowiki>, and his interactions with users... Highly recommended. +1, no doubt. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/hggdh2|C de-Avillez]]</nowiki>
----

GetDeb.net is only a small fraction of the many things João does within the Ubuntu Community. He is _very_ active on the IRC channel and Mailing list for the PT LocoTeam, and one of the most helpful people I've seen.

João represents what I believe to be the true spirit of community, so a very confident +1 from me. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/gouki|Tiago Faria]]</nowiki>
----

João Pinto has been doing a great job with the Portuguese LoCoTeam, using his professional knowledge to help in any tough situation. 
He's all a great guy, who deserves to join the ret of the gang of Ubuntu Members
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BUGabundo|BUGabundo]]</nowiki>
----

He is a very active member in the Portuguese Ubuntu community. Always very helpful to others. It's the kind of members any community needs.
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/rramalho|Ricardo Ramalho]]</nowiki>
