{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Jochen Skulj - German Translator

=== Contact information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Jochen Skulj
|-
| '''Email'''
| jochen@jochenskulj.de
|-
| '''Jabber'''
| joskulj@jabber.org
|-
| '''IRC'''
| joskulj
|-
| '''Launchpad'''
| https://launchpad.net/~joskulj
|-
| '''Blog'''
| http://joskulj.blogspot.com/
|}

=== About me ===

My name is Jochen Skulj, I was born in 1970 and live in the area of Cologne, Germany. Since 2006 I am contributing translations to the German GNOME Translator Team. Besides this I also joined the German Ubuntu Translator Team. My aim is to improve the representation of Upstream Translations within Ubuntu and help to establish a closer collaboration between Upstream and Ubuntu.

=== My background ===

I studied Computer Science in the early 1990ies. Since 1995 I am employed at a German Federal Tax Authority. There I was first working on application/database programming and QA tasks. Currently I am mainly responsible for requirement analysis within the further development of our enterprise application system. My technical skills comprise Java, PL/SQL and Python Programming, Software Design/Software Architecture and common Java-based enterprise technologies.

I am handicapped and therefore I am strongly interested in accessibility issues.

=== My contributions ===

* Translations and reviewing translations
* Mentoring new translators
* Organizing the German Translation Team
* Translation process for the German Translation Team (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGermanTranslators/Anforderungsprofil|german text]]</nowiki>)
* Requirements for new translators (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGermanTranslators/Anforderungsprofil|german text]]</nowiki>)
* Restructured team wiki page of the German Translation Team (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGermanTranslators|german text]]</nowiki>)
* Presenting our translation process at the <nowiki>[[http://ubucon.de/|German Ubucon 2008]]</nowiki> together with SebastianHeinlein (<nowiki>[[http://www.glatzor.de/fileadmin/files/presentations/ubucon-ubuntu-l10n-de-2008.10.18.pdf|german slides]]</nowiki>)

=== My Goals ===

* Improving the German translation
* Further expanding of the German Translation Team and finding more long-term translators
* Improving the team structure by setting up further guidelines

=== Testimonials ===

SebastianHeinlein: He has done a great job in reviving the German translation team, working out a new process and keeping things going! Jochen is definitely the guy the German translation team has always needed!

----
CategoryHomepage
