{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
This page serves as a list of pages edited by me for various categories.  This serves as documentation of contributions.

== Security-related pages ==
Security is a major area of interest of mine.  I hold a firm belief that any system which is not secure by default is not properly done.  I hold an equally firm belief that securing a system should be easy and intuitive, and should not prevent the user from being productive.  I also believe that security should be as transparent as possible to the end user.

=== Automatic Security Updates ===
The <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AutomaticSecurityUpdates|Automatic Security Updates]]</nowiki> page gives a quick tutorial on creating a script to automatically retrieve and install security updates for the current Ubuntu version.  This script, thanks to `lsb_release`, does not need to be edited after upgrading to a new version of Ubuntu.
* General clarification and cleanup
* Using graphical tools as much as possible

=== IPTables HowTo ===
The <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/IptablesHowTo|IPTables HowTo]]</nowiki> page provides basic directions for configuring an IPTables firewall.  It is not intended to be an advanced reference or a guide to all the capabilities of IPTables.  It is merely a brief introduction to give an end user the knowledge to quickly secure their system.

It's worth noting that Ubuntu has no external services after an installation of the desktop system, and I'm not aware of any remote exploits for a default desktop installation that a firewall would prevent (no, a DoS doesn't count) so getting a full-blown firewall up isn't as critical for Ubuntu as for certain other commercial operating systems.
** Edited commands to encourage the use of `sudo` rather than opening a root shell
** Moved explanations of all options used into a single section to allow for a quick reference and also for easier adding/editing of options in the future
** Added a script which allows <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NetworkManager|NetworkManager]]</nowiki> to automatically save IPTables rules when an interface is disabled, and to restore IPTables rules when an interface is enabled.

=== Stricter Defaults ===
The <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/StricterDefaults|Stricter Defaults]]</nowiki> page gives a brief overview of certain default settings that could pose a potential security risk.  Recommended changes to these settings are given, with the goal of maximizing security without sacrificing usability.
* General cleanup
* Updating with more accurate information
* Added SSH configuration changes

=== Strong Passwords ===
The <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/StrongPasswords|Strong Passwords]]</nowiki> page provides directions on generating strong passwords.  A method using a program is provided, as well as a method for manual generation.
* Added a section providing a method for manual generation of strong passwords.

== Networking-related Pages ==
These pages deal primarily with networking and may or may not be specific to Ubuntu, or even Linux in general.

=== NetworkManager 0.6.x ===
Ubuntu has used <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NetworkManager|NetworkManager]]</nowiki> since Dapper Drake (6.06), possibly earlier, up to Hardy Heron (8.04).
* Minor edits to correct structure and spelling.

=== NetworkManager 0.7 ===
Starting with Intrepid Ibex, Ubuntu uses <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NetworkManager0.7|NetworkManager 0.7]]</nowiki>.
* Minor edits to correct spelling and grammar.
* Completely changed a FAQ entry on the DNS search path to direct users to use the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NetworkManager0.7|NetworkManager]]</nowiki> GUI as much as possible.

== Miscellaneous Pages ==
These pages simply don't fit nicely into any other category.  The content I edit may or may not fall under my areas of interest.

=== Switching to Ubuntu From Windows ===
The unofficial directions for <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SwitchingToUbuntu/FromWindows|switching to Ubuntu from Windows]]</nowiki> provides Windows users with resources, directions, and tips for making the switch as simple as possible.
* The section on <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SwitchingToUbuntu/FromWindows#Hardware%20support|hardware support]]</nowiki> initially asked users to request the manufacturer to provide either a Linux driver or the source code for their Windows driver.  This would not go over very well, so the point was edited to request that users ask for documentation instead.
** There are no shortages of debates over whether it's sufficient to get the vendor to provide their own driver.  My opinion is that no, it is not, and no Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA) should be signed to get the documentation needed.  Why not?  Because that's counter-productive to ensuring that hardware has a fully open driver that can be improved and fixed when (not if) bugs are found.  Documentation is very important to the driver creation and maintenance process.  Anyone who believes otherwise should try to create or maintain a driver without any documentation.
* Originally, the paragraph at the very end of the hardware support section seemed to be very discouraging for users who might otherwise attempt to get involved.  The paragraph was edited to maintain the idea that hardware support could be a long time coming, hopefully in a way that now encourages (or at least doesn't discourage) users from getting involved.

=== Tovid ===
<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Tovid|Tovid]]</nowiki> is a collection of video disc authoring tools allowing users to create DVDs and other video discs from one or more video files.
* Created the page based off <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=183936|this thread]]</nowiki> on the Ubuntu Forums.

=== Restore Nautilus Location Bar ===
By default, Nautilus displays the pathbar.  Some users prefer to use the location bar.  <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestoreNautilusLocationBar|This page]]</nowiki> shows how to use the location bar for either one single window, or for all windows.
* Created the page based off <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=77346|this thread]]</nowiki> on the Ubuntu Forums.

=== HP dv2622ca Laptop Test Page ===
* Submitted details of laptop testing done for the HP Pavilion dv2622ca Entertainment Notebook Computer
