{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


----
<<BR>>
__'''About Me''' (Joel Kilthau/wgarider)__

I'm a systems engineer for a media company in Atlanta and have been using Linux, in some incarnation, since 1999. I started with Red Hat, then SUSE, and now Ubuntu (since 7.10). I am looking at earning the Ubuntu Certified Professional certification this year and am actively engaged in using Ubuntu, both professionally and personally.

<<BR>>
'''Launchpad profile''': https://launchpad.net/~joel-k

<<BR>>
__Ubuntu Contributions__

I've been active in the Ubuntu community for several years, including testing, evangelism, and participating in Ubuntu and FLOSS events. I am also actively seeking new ways to contribute  to the continued success of Ubuntu and building awareness of Ubuntu and FLOSS in my community.

<<BR>>
__LoCo__

I am a new member of the Georgia LoCo and have been a regular participant in many events over the last ten years including all the Atlanta Linux Showcase events and the Atlanta Linux Fest. 

<<BR>>
__Evangelism__

I have been involved in a number of aspects of Open Source Evangelism. I constantly promote Ubuntu with my coworkers and in the community I live in. I organized a program in my community to refurbish PC's, install Ubuntu and give them to people who couldn't afford a computer. I am currently engaged in introducing Ubuntu Server and continuing to promote Open Source solutions, as options to proprietary software, at my place of business. I regularly distribute Ubuntu install disks and assist others in installing it, as well as trying to educate people that there are alternatives to commercial operating systems and software.
