{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Note''': This page includes previous information for archival purposes. Please see the <nowiki>[[JoeTerranova|main page]]</nowiki> for up to date information.

=== Contributions ===

==== New Jersey LoCo Team ====

Since OgMaciel handed over the team in November, I've been trying to strengthen the Ubuntu Community in New Jersey through creating an active and important Local Community Team. Working with LUGs and Ubuntu users in the area, it's slowly but surely coming along.

{*} Wiki Page: NewJerseyTeam

{*} Website: http://nj.ubuntu-us.org

===== Previous Events =====
* <nowiki>[[NewJerseyTeam-Events-CHLUG20070302|Talk at Cherry Hill Linux Users Group, March 2, 2007]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[NewJerseyTeam-Events-TCF|Trenton Computer Festival, April 28-29, 2007]]</nowiki>

===== Upcoming =====
* <nowiki>[[NewJerseyTeam-Events-InstallfestJune| June Installfest in Cherry Hill]]</nowiki>
* Undecided awe-inspiring event in early August

==== Pennsylvania LoCo Team ====

The Pennsylvania LoCo Team is a strong community, and since Kevin first invited me to give a talk at the Philadelphia Area Computer Society, I've been following their progress and supporting them when I can.

* Talk at Philadelphia Area Computer Society
  After seeing my presentation on Ubuntu and LoCo Teams at CHLUG, Kevin Valentine invited me to give a presentation at the Philadelphia Area Computer Society (PACS). I was a bit hesitant at first (the organizer asked me to focus on "what is linux" more than "what is Ubuntu," which was somewhat of a non-issue at CHLUG), but overall it went very well.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.joeterranova.net/photos/pacs|Pictures]]</nowiki>
** Linux Presentation from PACS <nowiki>[[attachment:linux.odp|(OO Impress File)]]</nowiki>
** Ubuntu Presentation from PACS <nowiki>[[attachment:ubuntu.odp|(OO Impress File)]]</nowiki>
** Blog posts
** <nowiki>[[http://princessleia2.livejournal.com/333193.html|Liz]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://jedijf.blogspot.com/2007/05/pacs-meeting-success.html|Jim]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.joeterranova.net/2007/05/22/pacs-presentation-pa-loco-team/|mine]]</nowiki>
 I came along for the following events, but had little part in the organization and planning of them.
* 20070602: Ubuntu Install-Fest at Nonprofit Technology Resources (NTR)
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=429143|Forum Thread Discussion Event Plans and "Action Items"]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=462693|Forum Thread Discussing Success!]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://jedijf.blogspot.com/2007/06/amazing-installfest.html|Jim Fisher Blog Entry]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://joeterranova.net/photos/PhillyJuneInstallfest/|Photos]]</nowiki>
* 20070609: Dual-Boot PC Donation to Girls Inc
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=465276|Forum Thread Discussing Event]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.joeterranova.net/photos/girls_inc/|Photos]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://meetlinux.com/images/20070609_girlsinc/|Photos from Kevin Valentine]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://princessleia2.livejournal.com/336325.html|Elizabeth Bevilacqua Blog Entry]]</nowiki> (+photos)

==== Presentation Files ====

* LoCo Team Presentation at CHLUG. <nowiki>[[attachment:NewJerseyTeam-Events-CHLUG20070302-CHLUG_LoCo_Presentation.odp|(OO Impress File)]]</nowiki>
* Linux Presentation from PACS <nowiki>[[attachment:linux.odp|(OO Impress File)]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu Presentation from PACS <nowiki>[[attachment:ubuntu.odp|(OO Impress File)]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu Community Presentation for LUG/IP <nowiki>[[attachment:ubuntu-community.odp|(OO Impress file)]]</nowiki>

==== Testimonials ====
Jedijf
Jim Fisher  Ubuntu Pennsylvania LoCO - Philly / Southeastern Team - Communtiy Outreach Team

If it wasn't for the support of Joe Terranova, at all of our Loco's events, we would not have been able 
to make the progress that we have made so far.

Joe's presentation at the Philadelphia Area Computer Society created so much interest that not only helped
to propel the Ubuntu-Pennsylvania LoCo and Ubuntu, but caused PACS to look into themselves, and see what they needed to do
as an organization to create this much buzz.

Joe did not stop there, he could have easily basked in the success of an amazing presentation, but Joe walks 
the walk.  He attended the Philly Installfest and took on the most difficult install challenges that the day offered.
(See my blog for details).  I could easily recap all of our events, and what Joe did to help, but that info is readily
available.

I just want the CC and Joe to know that I am glad that he is always just a bridge toll away.

-Jim Fisher 

--
Joe is a solid asset to both the NJ Team and the PA Team.  He is active with the US Teams Project, and has been very instrumental in seeing both teams successful.  He would be a fine addition to the Ubuntu Members. - AaronToponce

