{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Joey's OpenOffice Translation Related FAQs ==

This is just a place to hold some good info so it doesn't wander off.

=== How do I suck down the latest development release for translating? ===

By far the easiest way to do this is to get the latest files, patches, QA items, and sources from <nowiki>[[http://www.janik.cz/|Pavil Janik]]</nowiki> via this rsync script:
<pre>

rsync -P -avvv rsync://ftp.linux.cz/pub/localization/OpenOffice.org/devel/build/* .
</pre>
Simply create a directory, for example /home/<user>/pavel and then run the script inside that directory.

=== What's your method for verification of translations in Rosetta? ===
Quite simply, POFILTER, which comes with the translate toolkit available via:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install translate-toolkit
</pre>

These are the steps that I follow:

# Download data from launchpad https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/dapper/+lang/eo (or your language)
# When you get it in email save as name.po from subject line (it always shows up as <lang>.po)
# Run "pofilter --openoffice <name.po> <name-pofilter.po>"
# Edit <name-pofilter.po> and correct all the errors you believe to be real.
# Open with gtranslate <name.po> and save with your header and UTF  (this is probably optional but I do it to avoid merge errors)
# Open with gtranslate <name-pofilter.po> and save with your header and UTF
# Run "pomerge -i <name-pofilter.po> -t <name.po> -o <name-corrected.po>"
# Load <name-corrected.po> back into Rosetta by editing the <name> template.

=== Tim's method for busting out the .po files from Rosetta back to normal ===
 
# Download the ~10 large .po files from Rosetta and put them in a directory together
# Join them together with: <pre>
 $ msgcat `find . -name "*.po"` > allRosetta.po
 }}}
# Download the latest POT templates from <code>http://ftp.linux.cz/pub/localization/OpenOffice.org/devel/POT/?C=M;O=D</code> (or use the RSYNC method above)
# Extract the archive somewhere
# Copy and paste the script below into a file and save it as rosetta2ooo {{{
for f in `find $1 -name "*.pot"`; do tempfile=`dirname $f`/temp.po; msgmerge -N $2 $f > $tempfile; awk '$1 !~ /^#~/ {print $0} $1 ~ /^#~/ {exit}' $tempfile > `dirname $f`/`basename $f pot`po; rm $tempfile; done 
</pre>
# <code>chmod +x rosetta2ooo</code> to make executable
# Run <code>rosetta2ooo ~/pot_root/ ./allRosetta.po</code> where ~/pot_root/ is where you extracted the .pot files to, and ./allRosetta.po is the gigantic everything-from-Rosetta file 

[Thanks to Erdal Ronahi for the `msgmerge -N' tip, which cuts execution time from four ''days'' to around fifteen minutes.  :-) ]

=== Unanswered Questions ===

 1. What happens <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/rosetta-users/2006-May/001518.html|next?]]</nowiki>
