{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| John Mazer
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~johnmazer|John Mazer]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==
My name John Mazer from Wilkes-Barre, PA I am a programmer from Florida where I helped create Widows programs in Visual Studio VB mostly I was hired by a small company in Pennsylvania so I moved. I hated it so I was looking for a new job while continuing my Education in the UofS (University of Scranton) I took Computer Science. I graduated with Masters in Computer Science.

== My Ubuntu story ==

I was going in for an interview when I saw something neat, fresh on the Receptionist Computer A circle with people holding hands.
I thought is was very new so The Owner came out and asked me back to his desk I seen about 6 computers on his desk. I have used windows, RedHat and Fedora I heard of Ubuntu, but never used it. I asked him what systems he uses he Ubuntu, and out of the desk he pulled out a disk and gave it to me. He hired me, and he gave me my new OS Ubuntu 8.10 I now have Ubuntu Jaunty 9.04 on my laptop.
His name is Leo Jackson.

== My Contributions ==

* None really as of yet I joined Launchpad and sign the code of conduct.
* I signed up to a few teams on Launchpad.

== Future Work ==

* Leo Jackson said he will mentor me, but I have to decide what I want to start with.
* I will work on bugs and answers and help out wherever I can.
* I plan to become a MOTU.
* I want to package programs and help get them in to Ubuntu.
* I will keep pushing myself to do more and more.
* I want to squash <nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-bugs- | Bug 1 ]]</nowiki>.
* I want to work toward core development. 

== Testimonials ==

* <nowiki>[[lajjr]]</nowiki> - John does know how to code he has also helped in adding packages to our local Repo. I will help start triaging bugs too.
  
