{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, John Cabaj, apply for the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel-uploaders|Ubuntu Kernel Uploaders]]</nowiki> team membership, to get upload rights for the linux-* packages.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| John Cabaj
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://www.launchpad.net/~john-cabaj
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/john-cabaj
|}

== Who I Am ==
My name is John Cabaj, and I'm member of the Ubuntu Kernel Team. I help maintain a variety of Ubuntu kernels and related packages in accordance with our <nowiki>[[StableReleaseUpdates|Stable Release Updates Cycle]]</nowiki>. I also contribute to several Ubuntu Cloud Linux Kernels. I received a Master's Degree in Computer Engineering from the University of Wisconsin-Madison in 2015.

== My Ubuntu Story ==
My first experience with Linux was during university around 2010, using Ubuntu 10.04 (or thereabouts) on a Dell XPS M1730. I recall the experience out of the box was promising, though !WiFi drivers back then were a bit more of a hassle (can't access the internet, and can't download the driver because you can't access the internet). I then installed Ubuntu on a Dell Netbook (<nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Netbook|remember those?]]</nowiki>) so I could avoid going to the school computer labs to do my OS coursework.

When I graduated and joined a local startup, I primarily used Ubuntu 14.04 and dove into bash scripting various portions of a machine learning pipeline. I then joined a medical device company which was primarily using CentOS. There I worked with the RT kernel (via the PREEMPT_RT patchset) primarily writing user-space applications running as a systemd service before joining Canonical in 2022.

=== My Involvement ===
During my time at Canonical, I've worked in a variety of areas including: Livepatch support for IBM Z, CVE triaging and patch submission, external support cases, FIPS compliance, mailing list review, and general kernel package preparation.

=== Activity ===
https://bugs.launchpad.net/~john-cabaj

=== Sponsoring ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Date'''
| '''Sponsor'''
| '''Sponsoree'''
| '''Package'''
| '''Version'''
| '''Distribution'''
|-
| 2022-10-18 21:45
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| John Cabaj
| linux-kvm
| 4.15.0-1129.134
| bionic
|-
| 2022-10-18 22:02
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| John Cabaj
| linux-meta-kvm
| 4.15.0.1129.122
| bionic
|-
| 2023-01-12 05:01
| Khaled El Mously
| John Cabaj
| linux-ibm
| 5.15.0-1024.27
| jammy
|-
| 2023-01-12 05:16
| Khaled El Mously
| John Cabaj
| linux-meta-ibm
| 5.15.0.1024.20
| jammy
|-
| 2023-01-12 05:16
| Khaled El Mously
| John Cabaj
| linux-signed-ibm
| 5.15.0-1024.27
| jammy
|-
| 2023-02-14 21:54
| Khaled El Mously
| John Cabaj
| linux-ibm
| 5.15.0-1026.29
| jammy
|-
| 2023-02-14 22:11
| Khaled El Mously
| John Cabaj
| linux-meta-ibm
| 5.15.0.1026.22
| jammy
|-
| 2023-02-14 22:12
| Khaled El Mously
| John Cabaj
| linux-signed-ibm
| 5.15.0-1026.29
| jammy
|-
| 2023-03-03 06:34
| Philip Cox
| John Cabaj
| linux-ibm
| 5.15.0-1027.30
| jammy
|-
| 2023-03-03 06:49
| Philip Cox
| John Cabaj
| linux-meta-ibm
| 5.15.0.1027.23
| jammy
|-
| 2023-03-03 06:50
| Philip Cox
| John Cabaj
| linux-signed-ibm
| 5.15.0-1027.30
| jammy
|-
| 2023-03-30 18:55
| Philip Cox
| John Cabaj
| linux-meta-ibm
| 5.15.0.1028.24
| jammy
|-
| 2023-03-30 18:56
| Philip Cox
| John Cabaj
| linux-signed-ibm
| 5.15.0-1028.31
| jammy
|-
| 2023-03-30 20:10
| Philip Cox
| John Cabaj
| linux-ibm
| 5.15.0-1028.31
| jammy
|-
| 2023-04-24 19:32
| Philip Cox
| John Cabaj
| linux-ibm
| 5.15.0-1030.33
| jammy
|-
| 2023-04-24 20:03
| Philip Cox
| John Cabaj
| linux-meta-ibm
| 5.15.0.1030.26
| jammy
|-
| 2023-04-24 20:03
| Philip Cox
| John Cabaj
| linux-signed-ibm
| 5.15.0-1030.33
| jammy
|-
| 2023-05-18 18:33
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| John Cabaj
| linux-ibm
| 5.15.0-1031.34
| jammy
|-
| 2023-05-18 18:41
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| John Cabaj
| linux-meta-ibm
| 5.15.0.1031.27
| jammy
|-
| 2023-05-18 18:42
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| John Cabaj
| linux-signed-ibm
| 5.15.0-1031.34
| jammy
|-
| 2023-05-23 18:10
| Philip Cox
| John Cabaj
| linux-ibm
| 5.15.0-1032.35
| jammy
|-
| 2023-05-25 05:25
| Philip Cox
| John Cabaj
| linux-meta-ibm
| 5.15.0.1032.28
| jammy
|-
| 2023-05-25 05:26
| Philip Cox
| John Cabaj
| linux-signed-ibm
| 5.15.0-1032.35
| jammy
|-
| 2023-06-07 15:40
| Tim Gardner
| John Cabaj
| linux-ibm-5.15
| 5.15.0-1032.35~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2023-06-07 15:43
| Tim Gardner
| John Cabaj
| linux-meta-ibm-5.15
| 5.15.0.1032.35~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2023-06-08 14:34
| Tim Gardner
| John Cabaj
| linux-signed-ibm-5.15
| 5.15.0-1032.35~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2023-06-16 18:11
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| John Cabaj
| linux-ibm
| 5.15.0-1033.36
| jammy
|-
| 2023-06-16 18:12
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| John Cabaj
| linux-meta-ibm
| 5.15.0.1033.29
| jammy
|-
| 2023-06-16 18:12
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| John Cabaj
| linux-signed-ibm
| 5.15.0-1033.36
| jammy
|-
| 2023-06-16 21:04
| Tim Gardner
| John Cabaj
| linux-ibm-5.15
| 5.15.0-1033.36~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2023-06-16 21:07
| Tim Gardner
| John Cabaj
| linux-meta-ibm-5.15
| 5.15.0.1033.36~20.04.2
| focal
|-
| 2023-06-16 21:07
| Tim Gardner
| John Cabaj
| linux-signed-ibm-5.15
| 5.15.0-1033.36~20.04.1
| focal
|}

=== Upload Rights ===
I'm requesting upload rights for the kernel package set for all active series, which includes all the "linux*" packages.

== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

== Endorsements ==

''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Luke Nowakowski-Krijger ===

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

I have sponsored a few of John's packages and he has always prepared them with care and consideration. Every time there have been issues John has always worked with me to fix them and has given proper consideration subsequent times. I would trust John with upload rights and give my +1 on his sponsorship. 

Luke Nowakowski-Krijger Apr 20, 2023
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=CC1g
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Philip Cox ===
I have sponsored a handful of John's packages.  All of the packages I have sponsored were done properly, including re-spins which can be a little tricky sometimes.  He knows what he needed to do and has figured out how to do it.

Whenever I have given feedback on his package preparations, he has understood my feedback, and altered his preparations where required.  This feedback has not package quality related, but workflow related.

philcox - April 27, 2023
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=eIhD
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

=== Ian May ===
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

I have been reviewing John's kernels for multiple SRU cycles. They are prepared correctly and prove that John understands kernel preparation and the upload process. When an unexpected situation arises in the package building process, John has shown no issues resolving them in a timely manner.  I have trust that John will take the proper precautions in all packages he uploads.

I will happily give my endorsement for upload rights.

Ian May - 2023.05.25
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=G0ZS
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

=== Tim Gardner ===

Hash: SHA512

I have reviewed and uploaded a number of kernels for John. All have been without error. I am +1 for upload rights.

Tim Gardner May 30, 2023
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=oTKh
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>
