{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I've a degree in Mathematics and Philosophy from Warwick University which was awarded in 1976. After graduation I worked for the accountancy firm Pannell, Fitzpatrick & Co (now part of Pannell Kerr Forster) in Athol Street, Douglas Isle of Man. Later, I obtained the National Computing Centre Certificate in Systems Analysis, and a postgraduate Diploma in Management Accounting from the North-West Regional Management Centre.

In 1988 I started working for the London Borough of Southwark as a computer programmer, where I worked on Payroll and on the Student Grants and Tuition Fees System. I moved on to the banking software house Midas Kapiti (part of Misys Banking Systems) in 1976, and then to the Arab Bank in the City of London in 1997; in 2000 I moved to the Charities Aid Foundation in West Malling where I supported their CAF Bank operation. Since May 2004 I've been offering IT and bookkeeping services to individuals and small businesses.

I've lived in Lambeth since 1981, and have been involved in a variety of community organisations, most recently with the Lambeth Savings and Credit Union (lscu.org.uk) and the Brixton Market Traders (brixtonmarket.net).

http://johntucker.biz
----
CategoryHomepage
