{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== John Ghormley ==

=== About Me ===

I came into the personal computing world as a hardware type.  I built my first personal computer in 1978 from a Motorola 6800 microcomputer engineering evaluation kit to which I added a whooping 1K BYTES of RAM, a cassette interface for program storage, and incorporated a Teletype Model 15 as my first printer.  Human interface was via a dumb terminal I built from scratch.  Programming was in hexadecimal machine language.

When IBM introduced their PC, I became a contract consultant to assist clients in setting up their hardware, networks, and software.  I remained in that business until 1999.

I've been interested in Linux since 1996 and installed several distros on PCs both as desktops and as servers. My first Ubuntu experience was with Ubuntu 5.04, which I downloaded and burned to a Live CD to help me repair my wife's PC at work. However, I didn't become a full time Linux user until I installed Ubuntu 8.04 on my primary desktop PC in January, 2009.  Since then, I have run Ubuntu as my desktop OS of choice.  I wish I had made the change earlier.  

About a year later, I was introduced to Ubuntu's Local Community and started to get involved with the North Carolina Loco Team.  In early 2010, I was selected as the Advocacy Lead for the NC Loco Team.

=== Contact Info ===

* '''IRC Nick''' - jcg2 (irc.freenode.net)
* '''email address''' - john [at] johnghormley [dot] com
* '''Launchpad''' - https://launchpad.net/~john-johnghormley

=== Blogs ===

* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntunc.wordpress.com |JCG]]</nowiki> - Blog instantiated in March, 2010

=== Community Involvement ===

* I am the team lead for Advocacy for the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam |NC LoCo Team]]</nowiki>.
** I help
** organize events
** publicize events
** develop marketing plans for events
** update wiki's
* I participated in the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam/Projects/GlobalJam201003|2010 Global Jam NC Loco event]]</nowiki> on March 27, 2010 at <nowiki>[[http://www.panerabread.com/|Panera Bread]]</nowiki> in <nowiki>[[http://www.toknc.com/|Kernersville, NC]]</nowiki>.
* I am the organizer for the <nowiki>[[http://www.meetup.com/Guilford-County-Linux-Users-Group/|Guilford County Linux Users Group]]</nowiki> which meets in <nowiki>[[http://www.greensboro-nc.gov/|Greensboro, NC]]</nowiki> once per month.
* I have presented a session to the <nowiki>[[http://www.meetup.com/Guilford-County-Linux-Users-Group/|GCLUG]]</nowiki> regarding the activity of and membership in, the NC LoCo Team in March, 2010.
* I Blog about my experiences in the Ubuntu community, with Ubuntu in general, and experiences I have had as a PC user/support person since the days of the original IBM PC.

=== Team Roles ===

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NorthCarolinaTeam |NC LoCo Advocacy Lead]]</nowiki> - 2010

=== Current Activity Notes ===

=== Testimonials ===

None to date.

---- 
<nowiki>[[NorthCarolinaTeam-CategoryNorthCarolinaTeamProfile]]</nowiki> 
