{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== John Vivirito ===

Email: 
OpenPGP keys:  <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0x03B9D4425A97DBB9BABAC1DDAA2838413C1C3C2A|3C1C3C2A]]</nowiki>

I am a member of <nowiki>[[http://www.trilug.org/|TriLug]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntumembers|Ubuntu Members]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-irc|Ubuntu IRC]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/bugsquad|Ubuntu Bugs]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-qa|QA]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-desktop-effects|Ubuntu-desktop-effects]]</nowiki>
 

My Personal website is <nowiki>[[http://www.freewebs.com/ubuntufreak/|Personal Site]]</nowiki>

My launchpad Site is <nowiki>[[https://beta.launchpad.net/~johnvivirito|Launchpad Site]]</nowiki>

=== About ===

Im a 31 year old living in Apex N.C. USA. 

=== Interest ===

* Helping people

* Packaging for ubuntu/kubuntu (just started learning)

* Making Kubuntu as well defined as Ubuntu is in support and docs.

* In the progress that Kubuntu has made over the years and would enjoy helping Kubuntu in future progress

=== Contributions ===

* Some Wiki pages

* Help users in IRC

* Teaching classes in #ubuntu-classroom (last one i did was basic compiling)

* Worked closely with others to pull #ubuntu-nun back to life.

* Bug triaging <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/gnomefreak/+subscribedbugs|bugs]]</nowiki>

* Helping with Kubuntu related bugs.

* Started a launchpad team <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-desktop-effects|ubuntu-desktop-effects]]</nowiki>

* Packaged Iceape for Gutsy

* Working with the Ubuntu-Mozilla Team in bug triage along with packaging.

* Set up a Ubuntu-Mozilla Team repo for testing packages before uploaded. see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam/PreviewArchives|PreviewPackages]]</nowiki>

=== In The Future ===

* Working on my Python and C programming, so i can learn how to write/package/maintain Ubuntu programs/apps.

* Working on my packaging for Ubuntu and Kubuntu.
  

----
CategoryHomepage
