{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== John Eckersberg ===

==== Who am I? ====

John Eckersberg

Email: johnny@csee.wvu.edu

AIM: eck006

Jabber: jeckersb@jabber.org

I am a graduate student at West Virginia University, located in Morgantown, WV, USA.  I am 22 years old and pursuing a MS in Computer Science.  I am currently employed by the Lane Department of Computer Science and Electrical Engineering as a Senior System Administrator.  I manage a highly-available server infrastructure of approximately 50 servers, with almost all running a custom version of Hoary.  We are also nearing completion of a Dapper port of our infrastructure.  We currently manage about 150 custom packages across a staff of 5 people (see ScottHenson for my evil cohort in crime).  Eventually I'm going to document our entire process and will link it here.  It's quite impressive and quite useful to others.

==== Stuff I've done for Ubuntu ====

Up until this point I have spent some time trolling on #ubuntu and done some bug reporting.  I intend on getting more involved in the coming months, and hopefully I can get a package or two under my belt at some point.

I also created <nowiki>[[US-WV-Morgantown]]</nowiki> and am the contact person for it.
----
CategoryHomepage
