{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| <nowiki>[[http://johnhaitas.info|John Haitas]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Personal Website'''
| http://johnhaitas.info
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~jhaitas/
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JohnHaitas
|}

== Who I am ==

I'm a Computer Programmer in a neuroscience laboratory at <nowiki>[[http://www.vanderbilt.edu|Vanderbilt University]]</nowiki>.

I was born in Johannesburg, South Africa. When I was 4 years old, my family moved to Nashville, Tennessee. I grew up in Nashville, living there until it was time for higher education. I then moved to Dallas, Texas where I studied Electrical Engineering. At <nowiki>[[http://www.smu.edu/|SMU]]</nowiki> in Dallas I earned a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering.

I am an avid supporter of <nowiki>[[http://www.arsenal.com/|The Arsenal]]</nowiki> and the <nowiki>[[http://www.titansonline.com/|Tennessee Titans]]</nowiki>.

== My involvement ==

I am an active in the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/TennesseeTeam|Tennessee LoCo]]</nowiki>. Currently I am the Point of Contact for Middle TN.

I currently maintain community documentation for <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WebKit|WebKit]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MATLAB|MATLAB]]</nowiki> and the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBook4-1/Lucid|MacBook 4,1]]</nowiki>.

I have contributed to Ubuntu's <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community|Community Documentation]]</nowiki> for <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Programming|Programming]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/VMware|VMware]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBook4-1/Karmic|MacBook]]</nowiki>.

== Testimonials ==
* I met John in person somewhere around Jun 2009 in Nashville, TN along with Eric Goddard (ericG). My first impression is that he is a grounded individual interested in Computer Science, specifically in system/network security and Ubuntu. When no one else will operate MootBot during the monthly LoCo TN IRC meetings, John almost always steps up and volunteers. Good People. - Rich Gray (netritious)
