{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~j.m.k|John.Michael.Kane]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=36501|John.Michael.Kane]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''Bourne''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|}

=== About Me ===

I have been using computers since receiving my first one a ColecoVision ADAM. Since that time I have done build and repairs on computers for family, and friends. I have been using Ubuntu since Hoary Hedgehog, and while Ubuntu was not my first experience with Linux. I am pleased to have found it, and the great community that surrounds it as well.

The openness and welcomeness of the Forums is a great asset to the broader Linux community, and being a member of the community can be pretty neat, as well.

=== Contributions to the Ubuntu Community ===

==== Support ====

 {*} Ubuntu Forums ~ Ubuntu Forums <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=36501|John Michael Kane]]</nowiki> .

 {*} Documentation. I maintain on the forums as time allows.

** Forums :

  {*} <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=765428|Advantages and Disadvantages of 64bit. (Plus install Guides)]]</nowiki>

=== Future Plans ===

 {*} I plan to remain active with Ubuntu as much as possible.
 
 {*} Continuing to work with the UDSF/UGA team to ensure their success as a team.
