{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== About Me ==
John Anderson is a software developer in Salt Lake City. He currently works for <nowiki>[[http://www.orchidesolutions.com|Orchid Event Solutions]]</nowiki> writing conference management software that runs on open source technology.

He also contributes to these open source project:
* <nowiki>[[http://www.mono-project.com/Main_Page|Mono]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/torrentvolve|TorrentVolve]]</nowiki>
 
=== My interest in Ubuntu ===
I first tried Ubuntu in April 2005. I'm platform agnostic, I always have multiple distro's running in my house at the same time and Ubuntu sounded like an interesting replacement for my debian boxes. 

=== Contact ===
* Email me if you like: sontek {at} gmail {dot} com
* Jabber: sontek {at} gmail {dot} com
* Find me in the #ubuntu-utah channel on irc.freenode.net (sontek)
* Find me in the #monodev channel on irc.gnome.org (sontek)
* <nowiki>[[http://www.sontek.net/|My Blog]]</nowiki>

== Community Contributions ==

=== Utah LoCo Team ===
I attend the Salt Lake City Ubuntu meetings every month.

== Utah LUGS == 
I attend 
* <nowiki>[[http://www.plug.org|PLUG]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://uug.byu.edu/|BYU UUG]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.sllug.org/|SLLUG]]</nowiki>

=== Ubuntu Tutorials ===
I provide many tutorials and tips for Ubuntu and Linux in general on my blog.
----
CategoryHomepage
