{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jjohansen|John Johansen]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''jjohansen''' (''freenode'', ''oftc'')
|-
| <|2(> '''Email''':
| john.johansen@canonical.com
|-
| jrjohansen117@gmail.com
|-
| '''GPG''':
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0xD92678445CD9BFA56C74EC8EC4057122C10A23E6&op=index|C10A23E6]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Location''':
| <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beaverton,_Oregon|Beaverton, Oregon, USA]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About Me ===
I am a member of the Ubuntu Kernel Team working for Canonical on the Ubuntu Kernel, and AppArmor development.  Currently I am working on security and general bug fixing in the Kernel.  I am also an upstream developer for the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/apparmor|AppArmor]]</nowiki> project.

=== Community ===
I started to become involved with the Ubuntu community during the Gutsy development cycle, though I had installed and played with each release starting with Warty.

'''IRC'''. I'm usually on #ubuntu-devel, #ubuntu-hardened, #ubuntu-kernel, #ubuntu-server, #apparmor (oftc.net), #ecryptfs (oftc.net)

I did an open week session a few cycles ago about how to use <nowiki>[[ttps:--wiki.ubuntu.com-MeetingLogs-openweekKarmic-AppArmor|AppArmor]]</nowiki>.

Outside of Ubuntu I am currently involved in the <nowiki>[[http:apparmor.net|AppArmor]]</nowiki> project, and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ecryptfs|ecryptfs]]</nowiki>.

=== Software ===

Currently my major contributions are to the AppArmor project.  And I have been involved with the Ubuntu EC2 kernel and some bug work on Ecryptfs.

In the past I worked on compiler hardening for the gcc compiler.  As well as hardening patches for glibc.

=== Future ===
I have been tweaking software for a long time starting back in the Amiga dev scene, and then writing opensource drivers and software for BeOS, before moving on to linux full time in 2000.  I have always been drawn to working on the core of the OS and tools, tinkering with the kernel, gcc, and glibc, fortunately there still appears to be a lot of tinkering to do in these areas.

Beyond that I am working with the AppArmor project towards version 3 and with improvements in usability and mediation capability.  And I have gotten back in to hacking on ARM based platforms, this time using Ubuntu instead of the bare metal Nintendo DS hacking of the past.  I also have plans of resurrecting the handwriting recognition project I started working on back in grad school, which would be nice to see running in Ubuntu.

My <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jjohansen|launchpad page]]</nowiki>
