{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jon-monreal|My Launchpad Account]]</nowiki>
=== About Me ===
I started using Linux in 2004 with Gentoo's 2004.1 release. Although it was quite an undertaking for a new user, I found the process of getting Gentoo working enlightening (their documentation was incredibly helpful). I started using Ubuntu with 6.10 Edgy Eft, and have been enjoying the experience ever since.
==== Contributions ====
===== Summary =====
Over my time here, I have assisted many new users on the Ubuntu Forums with their problems, helped with a few questions on Launchpad, and done a bit of translation work. I have also introduced several people to Ubuntu, assisting them when problems arose (and they're still using Ubuntu).
===== Detailed Information =====
<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/search.php?searchid=67391908|Assisted nearly 100 people on the Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://answers.launchpad.net/~jon-monreal|Helped answer questions on Launchpad]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~jon-monreal|Filed a bug report]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/contributor/Jon%20Monreal/|Contributed ideas to Ubuntu Brainstorm]]</nowiki>
==== Plans for the Future ====
While Ubuntu has come far since earlier releases, I don't believe anyone would disagree with me when I state that we still have far to go.

One reason I help new users on the Ubuntu Forums is because I realize that if they don't get courteous and helpful support, they have a far greater chance of returning to the proprietary operating systems that they likely came from.
==== What I'm Up To ====

=== Testimonials ===
If you have anything nice to say about me, I'd greatly appreciate it. Although I don't plan to do so as of right now, I do hope to apply for Ubuntu membership in the future. If you would like to add a testimonial to this page, please use a third-level heading under this section. Thanks.
