{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''IRC''':
| '''jonar''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''Twitter''':
| http://twitter.com/jf_archer
|}

=== About Me ===

'''About'''
I work Linux, play Linux and probably sleep Linux. I've been hooked ever since a friend showed me a redhat command line around 16 years ago. It was actually a MySQL database updating a webpage that got me excited, I was really into HTML (not very good, but into it) back then, and generating info on the fly using php was just mind blowing. So I installed what I remember to be RedHat 5.x and stuck with it. 

Right up until recently I've been a die hard RedHat/Fedora fan, into beta testing, helping out in the forums/mailing lists etc, but recently had a change of heart and installed Ubuntu 12.04 and although I still work with RedHat and keep a close eye/VM on Fedora, I think the decision was the right one and am sticking with it for now.

'''Disciplines'''
I'm by no means a coder (as I mentioned before I was crap with HTML, lord knows how bad I'd be with real code), but I try to give back in other ways. I run the local LUG for Rossendale and East Lancashire, bug test, help out in forums and mailing lists and any scripts/code I do write will always be available to the community.
