{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About me ===

** 18 years old, American. (Birthday 08-21-1991)
** High school senior
** Using Linux for 3 years, started off with Fedora off and on (switching between that and windows) before quickly moving on to Kubuntu full-time. New to Linux on the desktop (04/2006), been using Kubuntu since Feisty.
** Actually, my dad started me off with Linux as a youngin', starting at Red Hat 5 or 6. I have fond memories of playing XBill and XBoing on our 486 in the basement.

=== Interests ===

** Genetics.
** Computers.

=== Contact ===

** '''email''' echidnaman(at)kubuntu(dot)org
** '''irc''' JontheEchidna on freenode #kubuntu #kubuntu-devel #konversation #amarok #plasma
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/echidnaman|Launchpad page]]</nowiki>

== Ubuntu activity ==

=== New packages activity (outdated) ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| Name & URL
| Description
| Version
| Distribution
| Comments
|-
| (./)
| <nowiki>[[http://kde-look.org/content/show.php/Toggle-Compositing?content=78299|Toggle-compositing]]</nowiki>
| KWin effects toggling plasmoid
| 0.1-0ubuntu1
| Intrepid
| Approved
|-
| (./)
| <nowiki>[[http://kde-look.org/content/show.php/Plasma+WiFi?content=79476|plasmoid-wifi]]</nowiki>
| Wifi signal strength plasmoid
| 0.5-0ubuntu1
| Intrepid
| Approved
|-
| (./)
| <nowiki>[[http://kde-look.org/content/show.php/plasma-am4rok?content=77297|plasmoid-am4rok]]</nowiki>
| Media controller plasmoid
| 0.5-0ubuntu1
| Intrepid
| Approved
|-
| (./)
| <nowiki>[[http://kde-look.org/content/show.php/Weather+Plasmoid?content=84251|plasmoid-weather]]</nowiki>
| Weather display plasmoid
| 0.4-0ubuntu1
| Intrepid
| Approved
|-
| (./)
| <nowiki>[[http://kde-look.org/content/show.php/Previewer?content=84465|plasmoid-previewer]]</nowiki>
| File previewer plasmoid
| 0.1-0ubuntu1
| Intrepid
| Approved
|-
| (./)
| <nowiki>[[http://kde-look.org/content/show.php/QuickAccess?content=84128|plasmoid-quickaccess]]</nowiki>
| Quick file access plasmoid
| 0.5.2-0ubuntu1
| Intrepid
| Approved
|-
| (./)
| <nowiki>[[http://kde-look.org/content/show.php/Flickr+Plasmoid?content=83246|plasmoid-flickr]]</nowiki>
| Display interesting photos on flickr
| 0.1-0ubuntu1
| Intrepid
| Approved
|-
| (./)
| <nowiki>[[http://lancelot.fomentgroup.org/|plasmoid-lancelot]]</nowiki>
| Alternative application launcher menu for KDE4
| 1.0.3~svn860641-0ubuntu2
| Intrepid
| Approved
|-
| (./)
| kio-bookmarks
| KIO slave for displaying/navigating bookmarks
| 0.2.1-0ubuntu1
| Intrepid
| Approved
|}

** Helped package KDE 4.1 RC1. (~ half of the language packs, plus skanlite)
** Backported kdewebdev-kde4 4.0.98 to the Kubuntu-members-kde4 ppa.
** Backported konq-plugins-kde4 4.0.98 to the Kubuntu-members-kde4 ppa.
** Worked on this for Intrepid: https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuIntrepidDesktopDefaults
** Packaged 3 of the 4.1 final packages for Intrepid
** Backported 11 of the KDE 4.1 final packages to the Hardy PPA (apachelogger can vouch for all this)
** Various miscellaneous packaging-related bugfixes.
** Heavy involvement in almost every KDE release since 4.1. (Ask any of my sponsors/companion developers)
** Heavy involvement in the general development of Kubuntu 9.04, 9.10, and 10.04, focusing on packaging in both universe and main as well as bug control.

=== Coding ===

* Ported jockey-kde from PyQt4 -> PyKDE4 for Intrepid.
* Ported software-properties-kde from PyQt4 -> PyKDE4 for Intrepid.
* Contributed various bugfix/polishing patches for Adept.
* Lead developer of the upcoming kubuntu-notification-helper notification daemon.
* C++ port of the kubuntu-firefox-installer, which was able to knock off 3MB of ruby dependencies off the Kubuntu live CD while remaining total feature parity with the ruby version.

=== Bug triaging ===

* I have been actively triaging KDE bugs for over a year as of November 2009
* I resolved ~15% of the bugs in kdebase for the kde3 -> kde4 transition. (yuriy can vouch for this)

=== User support ===
* I have lurked in #kubuntu-kde4 since around the middle of April, 2008 giving support. (Moved to #kubuntu when Intrepid was released)

=== Future ===

** Package moar plasmoids
** Become MOTU, dominate universe (done)
** Package KDE each release (ongoing)
** Hone C++ skills, become more involved in KDE development.
----
CategoryHomepage
