{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Tech blog: http://www.kdedevelopers.org/blog/57
* Homepage: <nowiki>[[http://jriddell.org/|http://jriddell.org/]]</nowiki>
* Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~jr

=== Moi ===

I'm a KDE and Kubuntu developer.  I'm 28, living in Edinburgh in Scotland.

=== Kubuntu ===

I was one of the first Kubuntu developers.  I started off by packaging the latest KDE for Ubuntu as soon as Ubuntu went public and supporting the many new Ubuntu users who wanted to use KDE.  Ubuntu took a wee while to work out its community processes but once it did I was the first Ubuntu member and the first core-dev and started uploading KDE packages.  By the time of the second Ubuntu release we were in a position to release a KDE variant called Kubuntu.  

I'm now a Canonical employee privileged enough to work full time on Kubuntu.  I make packages, write apps such as the installer, test images, do releases and try to build the community.

=== KDE ===

I'm also a KDE developer.  I look after Umbrello UML Modeller (not very much these days alas).  I'm an editor on KDE Dot News and run Planet KDE.

=== Ubuntu ===

In the wider Ubuntu world I'm an archive admin, processing new queue and other tasks each Tuesday.  I'm also on the release team.

----
CategoryHomepage
CategoryCanonicalEmployee
