{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== ARB Application ===

As per https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AppReviewBoard/Restaffing, I am applying for a position on the ARB.

=== General ===

* Name: Jonathan Carter
* Ubuntu Wiki Page: <nowiki>[[JonathanCarter]]</nowiki>
* Contact details: jonathan@ubuntu.com or highvoltage on freenode/oftc

=== Key Achievements ===

* See link to my wiki page above.

=== Goals ===

* I'd like to help make application reviews as quick and painless as possible for people who have something to contribute. The process should also be attractive compared to other software delivery platforms so that the Ubuntu software center should be the first place people choose to publish their software.
* Do things that are generally useful to the larger free software eco-system. Be nice to Debian, etc.

=== Testimonials ===
* I've been working with Jonathan for quite a few years, mostly on Edubuntu but also as a sponsor and mentor for MOTU. I believe he'd be a great addition to the ARB team. StephaneGraber
* Jonathan has been a MOTU for a lot longer than me, and pushed me to eventually join Ubuntu & MOTU. For that (and other reasons) I respect Jonathan's judgement, and strongly support his application to join ARB. He's more than technically competent, and is committed to the future of Ubuntu. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:stefanor]]</nowiki>  * I second the other nominations. Jonathan has consistently maintained Edubuntu for years and is a valued member of MOTU. It just makes sense for Jonathan to be on the App Review Board. -- JeremyBicha  * ... (please don't forget to sign with your `@``SIG``@`)
