{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jonedney/|jonedney]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| jedney on Freenode
|-
| '''Website''':
| <nowiki>[[https://jonedney.com|https://jonedney.com]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Email''':
| jedney@jonedney.com
|}

== About Me ==
I've been in the web hosting industry since 2012, primarily in a customer satisfaction/sales specialist role. It was this year I was introduced to Linux and Ubuntu. In the years following, I focused on family and being a Single Dad, while in 2019, I've taken a new motivation for Linux and reviving my IT career.

== Professional Work ==
I do not have professional experience outside of my place as a Solutions Specialist Is Needed Guy at the web hosting company <nowiki>[[https://www.a2hosting.com|A2 Hosting]]</nowiki>. I am currently pursuing further Linux experience via <nowiki>[[https://linuxacademy.com|Linux Academy]]</nowiki>.

== Contributions ==
 {*} Currently, None.

== Future Goals ==
 {*} Obtain LPIC-1 Certification
 [*] Become more familiar with Ubuntu in order to provide community help

== Testimonials ==
If I helped you, I'd love to hear about it.  I appreciate it!
