{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/wendell|wendell]]</nowiki>
|-
| <|2(> '''IRC''':
| '''jwendell''' (''freenode'')
|-
| '''jwendell''' (''gimpnet'')
|-
| '''Email''':
| wendell@bani.com.br
|-
| '''Blog'''
| http://www.bani.com.br
|-
| '''Jabber''':
| jonh.wendell@gmail.com
|-
| '''Location''':
| <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maceió|Maceió]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alagoas|Alagoas]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brasil|Brasil]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About me ===
I'm a 27 years old programmer by profession. I was born and live in <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maceió|Maceió]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alagoas|Alagoas]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brazil|Brasil]]</nowiki>. Maceió is known as ''Water Paradise'', because its wonderful beaches and lagoons.

I am married and have two beautiful children. I work for a <nowiki>[[http://www.usinasantoantonio.com.br|sugar/alcohol factory]]</nowiki>.

=== Open Source ===
I started using Linux in 1997 at School. One year later, i was responsible for an local ISP, by migrating its servers to Linux. My love for Linux and Open Source softwares has grew up from that epoch.

=== Ubuntu ===
I started using Ubuntu in 2005, with Breezy. It saved me a lot of time by doing what i had to do manually in other distributions. So, definitely Ubuntu is my distro!

==== Contributions to Ubuntu ====
In the spirit of Open Source model, i like to contribute to the community. Some Ubuntu-related contributions are:

* Work on bug triages (ubuntu-qa team)
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/people/wendell/+subscribedbugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=Unconfirmed&field.status%3Alist=Needs+Info&field.status%3Alist=Rejected&field.status%3Alist=Confirmed&field.status%3Alist=In+Progress&field.status%3Alist=Fix+Committed&field.status%3Alist=Fix+Released&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.owner=&field.status_upstream=&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch.used=&field.tag=|List of bugs i have worked on]]</nowiki>
* Work on translations (ubuntu-l10n-pt-br team)
** <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/people/wendell/+translations|Some translations i have made]]</nowiki>
* Work on documentation (ubuntu-br-doc)
* Help users on list and irc (brazilian users)
* A few patches for Ubuntu packages
* Administrator of Alagoas LoCo sub-team (ubuntu-br-al team)
* I've made a simple frontend to festival, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/products/fala/|fala]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/project/screenshots.php?group_id=176828&ssid=41759|Screenshot]]</nowiki>). I hope it get in Universe in Feisty.
* <nowiki>[[https://bugz.launchpad.net/people/wendell/+karma|My Launchpad karma]]</nowiki>

==== Plans for Ubuntu ====
I believe Ubuntu can be better yet, both for novice and advanced Linux users. I want to continue helping on bugs and become an Ubuntu developer.

=== Contributions to other open source softwares ===
I have contributed on some softwares, like gPHPEdit, SBackup, Vino (GNOME).

== Testimonials ==
* Jonh is a very good member of Brazilian Team. He is very present and doing a good job with translations, documentation, bug reports and general helping. He also has a blog linked to <nowiki>[[http://planeta.ubuntu-br.org|Ubuntu Brazilian Planet]]</nowiki>. <nowiki>[[AndreNoel3|AndreNoel]]</nowiki>

* Jonh does a good job developing to gnome, his work in Brazilian Team with documentation, translation, help in mainling list, and support in the #ubuntu-br@freenode.net is very good! He is an active member in ubuntu-br. <nowiki>[[LicioFernando]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryHomepage
