{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''This is a summary for the Q&A session that was streamed live on 2012-01-03, and can be found at <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CN1EvEcKNb4]]</nowiki>.''

* When is a ROM for the Phone OS going to be published?

  ''Right now it's not entirely clear when there's going to be some images that can be published. We announced the phone yesterday and there are a series of things that need to happen to get to a point where you can actually release software. I'd imagine you can probably expect some ROMs to be out around the 13.04 timeline, but don't take my word on that. We're also working on improving the foundational layer of Ubuntu.''

* What display server does the phone currently use?

  ''I think it's currently using Xorg, that's it's the same that we're using for the Ubuntu Desktop. We're evaluating different display servers (one question we get all the time is when are you moving to Wayland). We really want the same display server to be used with the phone and desktop, so it's not as simple as it was when you were only thinking about the desktop, now you're caring about the phone as well, and in the future we're going to care about the tablets too. The switch to a new display server is something that is up in the air and there's some technical evaluation going in there, and I'm looking forward to discuss that at UDS.''

* Recently, the search results in Dash is sent to Amazon. I don't care how encrypted the information is, it is still my private searches. Can I be sure that no information at all is sent to Amazon or any third parties if I turn off logging in the System Setting, or must I log my own outgoing?

  ''You can turn off all outgoing traffic, and that won't do any online searches. When you switch that off, your searches won't leave your machine. So if you only want a local search experience, you can turn them off in the privacy settings.''

* With Ubuntu Phone using Qt, do you plan to move away from Gnome/GTK on the Desktop?

  ''No, not at all. So, a couple years ago we made an announcement that Qt was going to be a first-class citizen in Ubuntu Desktop. And what that means is that we're going to ship Qt in the archives, so you will be able to install it as an official dependency in Ubuntu, and if you write an application that's using Qt, you can be sure that the dependencies can be called so people can run the application in Ubuntu. That's not going to change with GTK. GTK is a first-class citizen in Ubuntu, and so is Qt. Again, there's two kind of considerations we need to make. One, is whether we support Qt and GTK in Ubuntu (that's a general rule), and the second one is what does Canonical spends their money on, in terms of writing software.''

* Will the Phone OS be compatible with all my standard Linux programs?

  ''The phone it's just Ubuntu with another Unity UI and a customized foundational layer. So, the phone is essentially a kernel that is optimized for a low-profile phone device. But it's just Ubuntu, so you should be able to run any Ubuntu applications on that. Of course, for example, if you run Libre``Office in a phone, it's not going to be look pretty good, as it's not designed for a phone UI, so someone's going to need to create a new user interface. But you should be able to run any Ubuntu applications.''

* Are there (already) any plans concerning root access limitations for Ubuntu Phone OS? I mean tricks similar to what may be observed on Android, where you need to grant yourself root access in order to modify OS's core components, which voids warranty - this makes sense as it is a way to prevent users from screwing up system stuff, but results in the OS not being completely  *open *, as some things can't be done by any application, and need to be done by something build-in into OS instead. Are there plans to keep Ubuntu Phone open in this matter, or will mobile manufacturers/vendors be able to lock down the phone by limiting root access?

  ''I don't really know 100% what the answer is going to be. I suspect that this is really going to be down to the manufacturer. The reason why most phones are locked down to the degree they're locked down is because one of the most expensive aspect of bringing new software or hardware to the market is support. When someone preinstalls Ubuntu in a laptop, or preinstalls it in a phone, or whatever, building a product is a thing, but then you have to deal with returns, and support questions, and warranties, and that's when things get complicated and expensive. That's the reason why so many phone manufacturers lock them down. So, I think our policy at Canonical with Ubuntu is going to be "we provide this mobile operating system, and we'd love it to be open", but at the end of the day this is something that someone is going to take and deploy on a hardware device and ship it.''

* Will the images be available for the Nexus 7 or the Nexus 10?

  ''My guess is no, because the Nexus 7 and the Nexus 10 are tablets.''

* Will I be able to use apt-get and have access to the repos I currently use?
  ''I suspect the repos are going to be customized for the phone.''

* Any thoughts about Zorin OS?

  ''I have never heard about it.''

* Will I be able to develop in Python and use things like GTK and Py``Game in the Phone?

  ''Right now, if you want to develop an application for the phone, we don't support Python, we support HTML5 and QML, or native OpenGL. Ubuntu is a platform that has always supported multiple programming languages. So if you want to write Python, or C, or C++, or Mono, or whatever, we've always provided the capabilities to do that. On a desktop you've got a much more horse power to do that. The challenge you have with the phone is you have a very constrained user interface model. You've got a small screen, and strained resources as well. In a desktop you can use this whole big screen and you can put toolbars, and buttons, and whatever. On a phone it's different, you have a little chunk of screen. Therefore, from performance perspective, you don't have as much horse power with the desktop. When the SDK team was assessing the best platform to use throughout applications, there was a lot of discussion, and I was involved in some of this, and this has been a long discussion for the last couple of years. Canonical is a company that was born in the culture of Python, but one of the problems we've been having recently is scopes. I mean, you can write scopes in Python for the dash, but if you've got a ton of scopes that are running, and they are all running in Python, you'll start seeing the performance fit. So recently we've been trying to find a good platform that is simple to use but has the performance benefit. Some of you may know, but Mark Shuttleworth has taken a very interest goal, that is a language that is developed to Google, which is kind of a high-level looking language, and solves a bunch of problems people may have with Python, and it's super efficient, you can actually compile it. We can step to the phone as an example. We can say 'screw you guys, you have to write applications in C'. But who wants to write applications for a phone in C? Really, no one likes C. People who write C do it because they have to. People write software in high-level languages. They like writing applications in Python or C+. So, that's the reason why we felt QML was a really nice middle ground. Because in one hand it's really slick, so you can do really nice transitions and effects, and you can build beautiful interfaces very quickly and easy, it's a kind of mix between CSS and a declarative kind of markup language. But the benefit is that QML is backended in a C++ platform that Qt runs in. So you can write applications in Qt, which is in C++, and is super fast and has a really nice API, or you can use QML and write a simpler application much more quickly. We want the web to be a part of the phone as well, that's why we have HTML5, and it's an awesome framework.''

* Why making the phone announcement now when the release is so far from now? Will the developers build be made available earlier?

  ''The announce yesterday was not for a product you could put in your pocket. It was for a new platform we're building. The reason why we announce it is because the phone is now at a point where design's mature enough and implementation is mature enough at a point we can talk about operators and handset manufacturers to bring a product to market that runs the Ubuntu OS. We had two options in how we could do this. We could have done this in completely top secret and completely privately, where we had a series of boardroom meetings where we go, we take the phone OS, we present it to handset manufacturers, and if someone buys it that's awesome, and if they don't then we quietly kill it. That could've been one approach. That's not the culture that we do at Canonical. The way we do things is we announce it and we get people excited and interested about it, and we get people in the community. Yesterday we didn't only announce the phone, but we also encouraged the community to build the first wrap of applications that we're going to roll at the phone. We had over 500 people saying they wanted to help. Part of it is getting the community interested in participating. May have seen a little early, but everyone would agree that it's better to know about this thing publicly that keeping all the stuff secret.''

* QML needs a C++ application compiled to use it? Will it be possible to write an application in just QML with no C++?

  ''Yes, that's the beauty of QML.''

* What do you think about closed source software under Linux?

  ''The idea about Linux is the power of a completely open system. Everyone's got the wrong right view about this. People can talk about ethics in the free software world, and may say it's not ethical to use not free software in free software. But some people think Ubuntu is not free software because we have binary blobs that we shouldn't. In my view, ethics is a very personal thing. Everyone's got a definition of what they consider to be ok. Speaking personally, I don't define my ethics by software, I define my ethics by means of person. I don't feel unethical by using Skype, I use Skype probably every day. I use non-free applications in the web, such as Gmail. I use non-free applications in my computer, such as Steam. I don't personally feel unethical at all. Now, am I supportive? No. It's a necessity for the times where free software alternatives doesn't exist. I basically use non-free software when I can't find a free software solution.''

* Are there any plans to make Qt applications native in the Ubuntu Desktop?

  ''There are no current plans to do this, but it wouldn't surprise me if this is done in the future.''

* How many employees are working in Canonical?

  ''I think we're just under 600''

* Why is everyone interested in building a mobile OS?

  ''I think it's just an area in where people feel interested. Depends on the timeline people do this. We believe there's a great opportunity for something that's beautiful and open.''

* I've read that the minminal requirements for Ubuntu phone is ARMv9. Since ARM is listed by ARMv1-8, so which one is it? I have a phone with ARMv7. Will it support Ubuntu OS on my phone?

  ''I'm not sure. The best thing to do is to ask one of the developers in the #ubuntu-phone channel.''

* How long is Ubuntu Phone in development and how many of Canonical employees knew about it?

  ''It's been a Canonical idea for 3 or 4 years. What we do on Canonical is we work on lots of different things, but what the customer demands in terms of products, we focus on that area. There was a great opportunity, and this was the time to jump with the phone. In terms of how many people knew about it, probably most people on Canonical.''

* What about Vala?

  ''There's no plans to ship Vala on the phone.''

* What browser is going to be the default browser for the phone?

  ''I have no idea.''

* Would Ubuntu for phone have in-app advertisements like in Android, which is good for developers to monetize their apps?

  ''This is not something we've been formally working on. This is something a phone manufacturer defines. So far, I haven't heard anything about that.''

* If a developer has an Android app, does the app needs to be written for the Ubuntu Phone? Do you think you're going to have enough developer support?

  ''First of all, you need to write new applications for the Ubuntu Phone. And I think there's going to be a developer community for a few reasons. I don't want to be mean towards Android or iOS, but it's just not fun writing applications for the iPhone, or for Android. Who wants to write applications in Objective-C or Java? No one wants to do that. People want to do it with fun and high-level toolkits. So I think the developer platform is nicer, you can squeeze more juice out of your applications, and we have a fantastic developer community who are building applications for Ubuntu today, and I think they will be interested in the phone too. But the other thing, I think no one loves their Android phone. A lot of people love their iPhones. I think people will love the Ubuntu Phone, and they will love writing applications for it. The other thing it's it will support HTML5. So there's an opportunity for web developers, there's an opportunity for developers and they have a platform they'll love.''

* A mobile OS lives and dies on the abundance of well designed and useful applications. Does Canonical have any plans to provide useful API's for developing native applications, like Google Maps, in-app billing, etc.?

  ''Yes, we do.''

* Safe to assume their will be a really cool Guitar App available for Ubuntu Phone?

  ''I hope so!''

* Will the speed in Unity improve? Will Unity 2D come back?

  ''The speed in Unity will definitely be improved. And Unity it's not something we just have in the Desktop, it's something we have in the Desktop and Phone. I think you're going to start seeing more performance improvements. The way Unity is built is just a pretty simple code base, and it's based in a series of libraries. One thing that we're going to announce soon is an improvement on how the dash and scopes work, and that's something we're going to be discussing in the next 2 or 3 weeks.''

* Is there a possibility to have an Ubuntu Phone ISO for already launched, and popular, phones like Galaxy S3 or Note II?

  ''It may come, but may take a while.''

* Are there any news from the battery life and memory focused work on the Nexus 7?

  ''There's been a ton of work, putting benchmarks in place. There's been some great work going on there. There's also been some posts from Alex Chiang, but I'm not sure if they're in the planet. I'm going to ask Daniel Holbach in my team to get in contact with him to get some more info in the topic.''

* Can I get a Terminal in the new Phone OS?

  ''I'm not sure, but I suppose so.''

* Is there a simulator for the Phone OS? If not, when will it be available?

  ''There is no emulator, but you can download the SDK.''

* The Ubuntu Phone looks good and practical, but what about Artificial Intelligence like Siri or Google Voice?

  ''As Mark demonstrated in the video, you will be able to use voice control with it, with the HUD.''

* How is the Phone OS going to handle swiping in an application that requires left/right swipes like a book reader app? Will it "confused" between a system swipe or an application swipe?

  ''I'm not sure about this.''

* Why we don't have a "create installation disk" button in Ubuntu? So that there is no need to download it.

  ''We can do it, but mostly when people have installed Ubuntu they're done, that's it. And you can get all from ubuntu.com.''

* You said earlier that Python has performance enhancements. How come on 'Getting started with Ubuntu developement' states "We recommend using Python and GTK to create applications for Ubuntu"... Will QML be coming to the Ubuntu Desktop as a recommended language to develop with?

  ''It may be. I think it may be good to recommend something around cross-platforms. But our policy at Ubuntu has always been the same. We make a set of recommendations, but that doesn't mean you can't write applications in Qt, C++, or QML, or C+, or a Django app.''

* Any chance on getting the Preview feature in dash to be backported to 12.04?

  ''That's probably not going to happen.''

* Does Ubuntu comes with any closed source by default?

  ''No, just the binary blobs.''

* Do you consider the "swipe from the sides" model to be discoverable?  As in a new user, who is expecting some kind of prompt or visual cue, how do they know what to do, etc.?

  ''I imagine the phone will ship with some kind of tutorial.''

* One item spoken about with Android is fragmentation. Is there any concern from Canonical's perspective regarding fragmentation once device manufacturers start working with the platform?

  ''That's always a risk for a general purpose operating system. I'm not going to deny, but the difference, I think, with Ubuntu phone is that the configurability of each implementation is from a visual perspective, so I think we're going to have much more consistency.''

* What can we expect on Ubuntu 13.04, seen on the "mobile" Ubuntu?

  ''There may be an image you can play with, but there will not be a formal release.''

* Android (Google) has some UI design guidelines. Is Canonical planning to come up with something similiar?

  ''Yes, we are. It's just not done yet.''

* Will the Ubuntu Phone ship with media preinstalled, perhaps some Severed Fifth?

  ''It'd be great if Severed Fifth was like a ringtone. I don't think putting heavy metal in the phone will be great, at least by default. Maybe Gangnam Style, it may work.''

* When will btrfs come to Ubuntu, before 2020?

  ''I don't know if btrfs is going to be by default.''

* Will be apps able to integrate with U1 (sync with desktop)?

  ''Absolutely. Ubuntu One has got this cool feature called Ubuntu One Database (U1DB). It's basically where you save application data, and it syncs between your devices. Ubuntu One is a collection of technologies.''

* What's the selling point of Ubuntu Phones for regular users, to convince them from switching from ecosystem rich OSes to a new one? Is it just the new clean UI? Or is the Ubuntu Phone supposed to be just for Linux enthusiasts?

  ''It's just not for Linux enthusiasts, but it's a phone that can be trusted to enterprises as well.''

* Without a JVM, how will the different architectures (ARM vs x86) will be handled by the apps?

  ''Qt and HTML5, all of that runs in multiple architectures.''

* Are there plans to make an utility to convert Ubuntu Phone apps to Java or Objective-C, for devs who want to hit all major platforms?

  ''That's not a plan right now.''

* As far as I know, U1DB struggles with collisions, how will be this solved?

  ''I'm not aware about the struggles with collisions.''

* How much will the Ubuntu Phone influence the development of Ubuntu Desktop? I would love to see some of the Phone features on the Desktop.

  ''A lot of the benefits you can see in the phone, you will see in the desktop, as it's a shared code-based Unity.''

* When will there be Ubuntu "Mobile" App showdown?

  ''That will happen when the SDK is finally released, probably in the 13.10 cycle.''

* Will the Ubuntu Phone run the same background tasks (cron jobs, daemons, etc.) as Ubuntu Desktop, or is that separated?

  ''Probably not because of battery considerations.''

* Have you used Android 4.0 and above ? I think the HOLO UI is better than iOS.

  ''I'm running the latest Android update, and as I said it, I don't love it.''

* Any plans to port Android's Dalvik VM to Ubuntu for Phones?

  ''I don't think so!''

* Have you ever used a Nexus phone (like Galaxy Nexus or Nexus 4) with ICS? If so, how can you claim the interface is not beautiful and polished?

  ''I have, and I can claim the interface is not beautiful and polished.''
