{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Jaunty targets ===
* lybniz (mathematical function graph plotter) - could duplicate functionality but is small and user friendly. I'm thinking more for elementary/junior high
* stellarium ( real-time photo-realistic sky generator) - very cool astronomy stuff
* octave (GNU Octave language for numerical computations) - Matlab-compatibility. also needs lam, mpich, hdf5, gnuplot
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuMainInclusionQalculate|qalculate]]</nowiki> (Powerful and easy to use desktop calculator) - Unit conversion, plotting, tons of features. Already has a <nowiki>[[UbuntuMainInclusionQalculate|MIR]]</nowiki>. also needs libqalculate, cln, gnuplot
* jokosher (simple and easy to use audio multi-tracker) - also needs gnonlin

=== Possibilities ===

==== Science/Math ====

* <nowiki>[[http://db-maths.nuxit.net/CaRMetal/index_en.html|carmetal]]</nowiki>
* wxmaxima
* lyx or texmacs
* stellarium
* grass or qgis
* ghemical
* qucs
* qcad
* fityk
* labplot
* octave 
* drgeo
* pybliographer
* beamer
* R
* mayavi
* celestia
* tkgate
* xorsa
* flightgear

==== Programming ====
* KDevelop
* phpmyadmin
* drpython
* quanta/nvu/web site editor

==== Young Children ====
* childsplay

==== Music ====
* kguitar
* jokosher

==== Reading ====
* gutenbrowser

==== Flashcards ====
* granule
* mathwar

==== Teacher Tools ====
* ksociograma
* bibshelf
* drupal
* mediawiki or moin
* <nowiki>[[http://www.dotproject.net/|dotproject]]</nowiki> - project/task management web app

==== Administration ====
* fet
* <nowiki>[[http://mrbs.sourceforge.net/|MRBS]]</nowiki> - meeting room booking system (needs packaging)

==== Content management ====
* <nowiki>[[http://www.dokeos.com/|dokeos]]</nowiki> - e-learning and course management web app (needs packaging)
* <nowiki>[[http://www.lamsfoundation.org/|LAMS]]</nowiki> - learning activity management system (needs packaging) Java-based
* <nowiki>[[http://www.hjournal.org/|hyperjournal]]</nowiki> - online and printed publishing web app. geared towards online peer-reviewed journals. (needs packaging)
* <nowiki>[[http://www.greenstone.org/|greenstone]]</nowiki> - digital library collection building and distribution (needs packaging)
* <nowiki>[[http://www.mahara.org/|mahara]]</nowiki> - open source e-portfolio, weblog, resume builder and social networking system, connecting users and creating online learner communities

==== Misc. ====

* alexandria - Gnome book collection manager

=== Resources ===
* <nowiki>[[MainInclusionProcess]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuMainInclusionRequirements]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuMainInclusionQueue]]</nowiki>
