{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Contact Info ===

* '''Email''': stash.montgomery@gmail.com
* '''IRC''': montgoej on irc.freenode.net
* '''Jabber''': stash.montgomery@gmail.com
* '''OpenPGP key''': 1C8FB91B

=== About Me ===

My name is Jordan Montgomery, I am a 15 year old Ubuntu user from Kentucky and I've been using Linux(installed) since July of 2006. I first ran into Linux back in 7th or 8th grade, and I really liked the Ubuntu LiveCD, but I didn't want to do an install because my system was horrible and the CD drive was a bit finicky. Now that I have a newer system, I have 7.04 "Feisty Fawn" running on it. I do a bit of programming and web design with C++, Python, PHP, HTML, CSS and TI-Basic, but I'm not too good yet. I am on the Ubuntu-Kentucky LoCo team and I'm lovin' it. I hope to get a laptop soon, which, just like my home computer, will be strictly Ubuntu.  I have used many distros, but Ubuntu has kept me hooked. As of now, the list is(in no particular order):
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.kubuntu.com|Kubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.xubuntu.com|Xubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.christianubuntu.com|Ubuntu CE]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.sabayonlinux.org|Sabayon]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://fedora.redhat.com|Fedora]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.opensuse.org|OpenSuse]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.pcbsd.org|PC-BSD]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.freebsd.org|FreeBSD]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.mepis.org|Mepis]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://debian.org|Debian]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://linuxfromscratch.org|LFS]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.damnsmalllinux.org|DSL]]</nowiki>

=== Contributions to the Ubuntu Community Thus Far ===

* Promoting Linux at my High School
** Installing Ubuntu on one computer, Xubuntu on another
** Support and upkeep on the school Ubuntu computers
** Teaching the "tech guys" to use Linux/Ubuntu
** Handing out free CDs at school
* Active member on Launchpad
** Filing bug reports
** Member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-loco-enthusiasts|Ubuntu LoCo Enthusiasts]]</nowiki>
** Tested Ubuntu 7.04 "Feisty Fawn"

=== Contributions to the Ubuntu Kentucky Team ===

* Active member of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam|Ubuntu-Kentucky LoCo]]</nowiki> Team
* Attended and helping at the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/InstallFest|InstallFest]]</nowiki> on April 21, 2007
* Attended the InstallFest Dry-Run on March 24, 2007
* Active in #Ubuntu-kentucky on Freenode
* Member of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KentuckyTeam/CharityProject/Members|Charity Project Team]]</nowiki>
* Member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kentucky|Ubuntu Kentucky]]</nowiki>
* Subscribed to many of the Ubuntu Kentucky team projects such as [artwork, <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kentucky/|Blueprints]]</nowiki>, etc.

=== Personal(Geeky) Goals for 2007 ===

* Increase usage of Ubuntu and GNU/Linux in my local community and school
* Increase knowledge of Python and PHP
* Increase contributions to the Ubuntu Community
* Become more involved in the planning/organizing stages of events with my local LoCo group
* Attend OLF 2007!
* Get a shiny Ubuntu Membership
* Find more local(as in, my local county) Linux/Open Source users/enthusiasts
* Win FBLA Cyber Security National competition
* Find better goals to accomplish
----
CategoryHomepage
