{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~laserjock|laserjock]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''Laser''''''Jock''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''GPG''':
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0xDE6B4AC392742B33|92742B33]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu Member''':
| 2005-12-06
|-
| '''Ubuntu MOTU''':
| 2006-02-14
|-
| '''Ubuntu Core Developer''':
| 2007-06-19
|}
==== About Me ====
  I am in my sixth year of graduate school at the University of Nevada, Reno. I am working on my PhD in Physical Chemistry. I have been an avid linux user since I started grad school. I have a broad range of development interests in Ubuntu including documentation, Universe, Edubuntu, and community management.

== Ubuntu Activity ==

=== Main ===

==== Uploads ====
** iptables (1.3.3-2ubuntu4 in dapper) sponsored by raphink
** gcompris (7.4-3ubuntu2 in edgy ) sponsored by ogra
** tuxpaint (1:0.9.16-1ubuntu1 in feisty) sponsored by ogra
** python-imaging (1.1.5-10ubuntu1 in edgy-updates) sponsored by crimsun
** edubuntu-docs (0.7-1 in feisty) sponsored by ogra
** system-tools-backends (2.2.1-3ubuntu1 in gutsy) sponsored by dholbach
** gcompris (8.3.1-3ubuntu1 in gutsy) sponsored by ogra
** tuxpaint (1:0.9.16-1ubuntu3 in gutsy) sponsored by ogra

==== Approved MIRs ====
** <nowiki>[[MainInclusionReportRasmol|rasmol]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[MainInclusionReportQcad|qcad]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[MainInclusionReportEdubuntuDocs|edubuntu-docs]]</nowiki>

=== MOTU ===
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~laserjock/+packages|packaging]]</nowiki>
** teaching <nowiki>[[MOTU-School|MOTU School]]</nowiki> sessions
** reviewing packages on <nowiki>[[http://revu.tauware.de|REVU]]</nowiki>
** sponsoring contributor uploads
** lead <nowiki>[[MOTU-Teams-Science|MOTU Science]]</nowiki> team
** liaison between MOTU and Launchpad development team

=== Documentation Team ===
** <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/packagingguide/C/index.html|Ubuntu Packaging Guide]]</nowiki> - lead author and maintainer.
** help maintain ubuntu-docs packaging and build scripts.
** maintain edubuntu-docs package.

=== Edubuntu ===
** implementing group-driven dynamic menus. [UbuntuSpec:edubuntu-dynamic-menus] and [UbuntuSpec:edubuntu-menus-completion]
** providing more packages for Edubuntu's server addon CD via review and MIR.
** drafted specs and attended UDS-Paris, UDS-Mt. View, and UDS-Sevilla.
** Edubuntu Council member.

== Debian Work ==
==== Packages I maintain ====
<nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/plotdrop.html|plotdrop]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/g/gausssum.html|gausssum]]</nowiki> <<BR>>

==== Projects I'm involved in ====

<nowiki>[[http://alioth.debian.org/projects/debichem|Debichem]]</nowiki> -  chemistry and biochemistry package maintenance team.

== Other FLOSS Projects ==
<nowiki>[[http://www.ichthux.com|Ichthux]]</nowiki> - Christian Kubuntu derivative in Universe. <<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://www.nongnu.org/gchemutils/|Gnome Chemistry Utils]]</nowiki> - chemistry library and application suite for Gnome.<<BR>>

------
Related pages:
<<FullSearch>>

----
CategoryHomepage
