{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Jordan Uggla ===

Contact information:

* Email:  *IRC:  Jordan_U on irc.freenode.net
* Launchpad site: https://launchpad.net/~jordanu
* OpenPGP key: <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0xBAE93F632D6A29D4155BCAF69A4C87E162CEFEA0&op=index]]</nowiki>

=== Personal History ===

I am a 21 year old college student, majoring in computer science. For many years I've provided technical support in the #ubuntu IRC channel and elsewhere and I am the primary developer of Super GRUB2 Disk http://www.supergrubdisk.org/.

=== Contributions ===

* Support in #ubuntu
* Development of Super GRUB2 Disk and minor contributions to upstream GRUB2.

=== IRC Op ===
I would like to be an operator in #ubuntu on irc.freenode.net. I already often join #ubuntu-ops to warn about trolls and other problems in #ubuntu, so it makes sense to actually become an operator. I can keep a cool head, I have gotten pretty good at spotting trolls, and I am good at defusing conflicts.

==== Testimonials ====

* ActionParsnip
   Jordan_U is a solid contributor in #ubuntu and really knows his stuff. I can thoroughly
   vouch for his abilities and knowledge and his ability as an Op on Freenode.
