{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Hi, I'm Jordan Erickson. I've been involved with Linux since around 1994 when I installed Redhat 5.1 on my PC at home. Since then, I've been intrigued with open source software and the community behind it. These days I own and operate a <nowiki>[[http://www.logicalnetworking.net|technical support and consulting company]]</nowiki> that specializes in <nowiki>[[http://www.logicalnetworking.net/school|deploying and supporting Linux LTSP installations in educational environments]]</nowiki> such as schools. I mainly work with Ubuntu and Debian distributions since I fell in love with apt as well as the sound and solid practices of the Debian community many years ago.

My current work in the open source community includes helping maintain the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuLTSP|Ubuntu LTSP Wiki]]</nowiki>, helping inform people of what open source software is and how it differs from other methods of developing software, introducing youth to open source software and practices, and various other means of exposing the benefits of OSS to the world.

I have a <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/logicalnetworkingnet|YouTube channel]]</nowiki> that contains various video tutorials regarding Linux, open source software and other related content.

I am the visionary and self-proclaimed director of development of the LTSP <nowiki>[[http://logicalnetworking.net/wiki/doku.php#projectthin_client_manager_tcm|Thin-Client-Manager]]</nowiki> along with two very awesome Python developers (more welcome to join the project!).

Finally, one of my latest ventures is to help the TuxType software development community bring more features to the already fantastic open source touch typing program. I have set up a <nowiki>[[http://logicalnetworking.net/wiki/doku.php?id=tuxtyping|Wiki page]]</nowiki> detailing what is going on there.

You can reach me by e-mail here: jerickson -at- logicalnetworking -dot- net, on IRC (irc.freenode.net) as "Lns", or on Jabber as Lns@binaryredneck.net .
