{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Launchpad is a vital resource for Ubuntu support and development. There are also many teams within the Ubuntu project that have a stake in Launchpad's development. The purpose of this liaison team it to provide two-way communication between Launchpad developer and management and the Ubuntu community. The team is composed of individual liaisons representing their respective Ubuntu teams as well as representatives from the Launchpad team.

<pre>
Liaison:
one that establishes and maintains communication for mutual understanding and cooperation
</pre>

The liaison's duties:
** Provide Launchpad developers with prioritized bugs/specs relevant to their team
** Provide their teams with information on Launchpad changes and progress
** Drive constructive discussion around needed Launchpad changes or possible bug fixes
** Advocate on behalf of their team to Launchpad developers and management
** Do the all of the above in as transparent and collaborative of a way as possible

Some useful liaison activities:
** Solicit Launchpad feedback on a specific change or Launchpad feature
** Solicit individual priority bugs affecting QA
** Consult Launchpad developers for possible future directions

It should be noted that for this team to be successful it needs to keep the relationships to Launchpad development teams and Ubuntu teams open and effective. Constructive criticism, concrete proposals, and usable feedback are very welcome. Rants, clearly unfeasible proposals, or general complaining does not help. Alternatively, liaisons are to represent their teams and should be approachable as well as open to suggestions.
