{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{{{#!irc
<Syntux> boredandblogging, nothing much other than what's in the wiki
<Syntux> but I would like to emphasis that we are not a social group and so we encourage joining if the candid can contribute and only contribute to the team activities.
<boredandblogging> Syntux: most of your focus seems to be at the university level, have you reached out in any other way?
<Syntux> we are not trying to replace the local lug in its social activities and we are trying to build a team of qualified people to spread the word properly.
<popey> sorry guys
<Syntux> boredandblogging, we do have plans for small computer shop https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-jo/2008-June/000147.html
* Invitado (n=Invitado@190.152.45.188) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<JanC> Syntux: you participate with the LUGs though?
<Syntux> unfortunately most of computer shops install FreeDOS if the customer decline paying for MS and that's either because they don;'t know about Linux or they don't know that there is a local group that can provide help
<JanC> damn, why can't I get on the wiki  :-(
<Syntux> JanC, I'm a core member of Jolug.
<Syntux> JanC, and of course as a team we do participate in Jolug social activities although it's not that much
<Syntux> one of our plans is to do things slowly, we are not planning to have more than one activity per month which can include lecture, course and install fest
<boredandblogging> from the lectures and workshops you have done, have you gotten people interested or using Ubuntu?
<Syntux> we are also trying to reach other universities out of the city but yet we don't have good contacts there.
<Syntux> boredandblogging, yes we even got some active members out of the lectures
<popey> Syntux: do you have any way of "measuing" your membership? do you use mailing list stats, forum stats or launchpad team members?
<Syntux> namely Ramy Eid, he's IEEE member in Jordan university and he did all the logistic for us when we head there.
<boredandblogging> Syntux: the Ubuntu Lab, did you approach the university to do that?
<Syntux> popey, I don't have access to the mailing list stats yet and my team is relatively inactive on forums and launchpad but seriously active on the floor
<Syntux> most of them are fresh university students and they do WoW and online gaming rather than IRC, forums and mailing lists.
<popey> :)
<JanC> Syntux: when did you start with the LoCoTeam (I didn't find anything before March on the application-page that I had open in my browser?)
<Syntux> boredandblogging, not as Ubuntu LoCo because of bureaucracy so we had to push some student to ask for it and then they invited us to do it
<Syntux> JanC, the first serious activity as a loco team was in March and before I was head hunting and inviting joluggers to join me
<boredandblogging> Syntux: will the LoCo be involved in maintenance of the lab or will the university do that?
<Syntux> boredandblogging, two university students will handle that plus we gave the lab coordinator a crash course in ubuntu
<Syntux> and if thing went out of control we don't mind going to fix it
<Syntux> we actually had a plan to sign a contract with the JU so we give them free maintenance if they let us use the lab as our primary lab for the LocO
<Syntux> but couple of weeks later we got a better offer from the Royal Scientific Society which include an office, lab and library space
<JanC> that's a lot you get  ツ
<Syntux> and we still negotiating it with them http://temp.syntux.net/Concept_Letter.pdf as we don't want to sign on something way bigger than our capabilities
<Syntux> JanC, we made a good reputation out of the first course and lecture so people started to call asking for the same in their university
<effie_jayx> Syntux,  sorry I was on my cellphone. i was following. are you guys documenting your efforts anywhere?
<Syntux> we even got some calls from companies who wants to shift their IT infrastructure to Ubuntu
<Syntux> but our answer was no, yet we cannot help in that
<effie_jayx> Syntux,  sounds like a very interesting project and t would be a wonderful thing t share amonts LoCo teams
<Syntux> effie_jayx, other than the two links mentioned in the wiki?, no :-0
<Syntux> effie_jayx, already did in the LoCo contact mailing list :D
<Syntux> once we agreed with the RSS regarding the National Open Source office thingy we are planning to do some partnership or mediation between Canonical and local companies
<effie_jayx> Syntux,  great. sorry my bad, cellphone navigation not as cool
<boredandblogging> seems like Jordan is making good progress, but I think a couple more months of this good work is needed
<Syntux> surprisingly many companies want to shift (especially after activating copyrights laws in Jordan with MS squad hunting after pirates) but they don't know how or where to get the "Enterprise" support
<Syntux> effie_jayx, oh then here you go https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JordanTeam/ApprovalApplication https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JordanTeam
<popey> I am inclined to agree boredandblogging, it's dificult going on the say of one person, rather than a body of evidence (forums, launchpad, mailing lists etc), and this is obviously hard for Syntux, but a good goal to reach for.
<JanC> the fact that the first (public) activity was only in March means that the LoCoTeam doesn't exist for at least 4 months yet...
<Syntux> JanC, we applied when the condition was three months :-)
<Syntux> anyway I do understand that we are relatively new team and we still have long way
<popey> that's a minimum, not a maximum
<Syntux> I know :D
<boredandblogging> effie_jayx: thoughts?
<effie_jayx> I think a bit of sharing of projects in the mailing list is healthy
<Syntux> and by the way, I have sent an email to almost all of you guys asking you about the Concept letter regarding using RSS as our legal umbrella but never heard from you guys
<Syntux> effie_jayx, can we define "sharing of projects in the mailing lists"
<effie_jayx> however i do agree with JanC in the fact that the team should be a bit more of a team effort
<Syntux> we don't want to go in that agreement before we hear from the LCC or CC
<boredandblogging> what is RSS?
<Syntux> It is a team effort, I'm just a leader or more of coordinator with charisma to get people moving ;)
<Syntux> boredandblogging, Royal Scientific Society
<effie_jayx> Syntux,  right, then
<Syntux> boredandblogging, http://temp.syntux.net/Concept_Letter.pdf
<Pretto> hacktick, like what ???
<boredandblogging> Syntux: Jordan is starting out well, just keep going
<Syntux> the thing about LoCo team or any social activity in Jordan that people are not into such activities
<Syntux> so someone has to show them the how-to and give them the directions to do it
<Syntux> and this is what I do basically with them, but they do most of the tasks, not me.
<boredandblogging> Syntux: keep leading them
<boredandblogging> JanC, effie_jayx, popey: do we have consensus? Jordan should come back in a couple of months?
<Syntux> especially when it comes to getting inside universities which is something seriously hard in Jordan
<popey> boredandblogging: yes
<popey> with some more evidence of work done
<JanC> boredandblogging: I think that's better yes
<Syntux> popey, I have a link with photos and cert regarding every and each task we did
<Syntux> or I'm missing something here?
<popey> that's great, keep going
<JanC> they seem to do great things, just not for long enough
<Syntux> or what kind of evidences LCC is looking to see more than photos and certs?
<boredandblogging> Syntux: you just need more
<Syntux> yeah sure :-)
<boredandblogging> and at the rate you are doing them, we want you to come back soon
<JanC> Syntux: it should be okay to use an existing legal entity as a proxy for activities (many LoCoTeams already do that occasionally, when they have release parties and such)
<Syntux> of course we will
<Syntux> JanC, yeah of course but I really would appreciate it if you guys could have a look at the concept letter and give me a feedback on it, just in case.
<Syntux> another thing, can we have access to ubuntu-jo.com and mailing list before we become official team?
<boredandblogging> canonical probably own ubuntu-jo.org, don't know about .com
<Syntux> sorry, .org
<boredandblogging> but yes, once approved, you can use the domain
<Syntux> so we cannot get it before that?
<JanC> a mailing list you can already get IIRC?
<popey> yes JanC
<Syntux> JanC, yes but I do not have access to it as admin, I don't know how many or who's in it
<popey> Syntux: who is the admin?
<Syntux> popey, admin of the mailing list
<boredandblogging> Syntux: unfortunately, unapproved locos would spend too much time on the website than doing other things like install fests and workshops
<boredandblogging> shall we move on El Salvador?
<popey> Syntux: can you contact rmyeid+ubuntu@gmail.com?
<popey> they are the admin of the ubuntu-jo mailing list
<Syntux> well, then we will have to go with our second option which is Nashmi.org which means Ubuntu in Jordanian dialect.
<Syntux> popey, I can, but what for?
<popey> boredandblogging: surely they can get dns pointing to their own hosting
<popey> Syntux: to assist in administering the list
<Syntux> popey, ah ok.
<boredandblogging> popey: no, not before being approved
<boredandblogging> i went through this with Jono last year :-)
<popey> boredandblogging: is that a new rule? other non-approved teams do
<popey> ok
<boredandblogging> some locos got grandfathered in
<Syntux> it's ok we will go with nashmi.org on our prints.
<boredandblogging> before any decision was made
<boredandblogging> Syntux: good luck and come back soon
<Syntux> sure, thank you for your time.
<boredandblogging> anyone from El Salvador here?
<effie> el salvador?
<JanC> Syntux: you should be able to get ubuntu-jo.org within 2 months  ツ
}}}
