{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''I, Jorge Salamero, apply for upload rights for Zentyal packages: zbuildtools, zentyal-ca, zentyal-common, zentyal-core, zentyal-dhcp, zentyal-dns, zentyal-firewall, zentyal-network, zentyal-ntp, zentyal-objects, zentyal-openvpn, zentyal-printers, zentyal-samba, zentyal-services, zentyal-squid, zentyal-users.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Jorge Salamero Sanz
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~bencer
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JorgeSalamero/
|}

== Who I am ==
I'm a member of the Zentyal team, working for the company supporting the project. 

== My Ubuntu story ==
I've been a Debian Developer since 2007 and when I started working on Zentyal I got myself working with Ubuntu on a daily basis.

=== My involvement ===
Still at the beginning, we started making sure that Ubuntu precise ships all the depends we need (libredis-perl, libhtml-mason-perl, l7-filter-userspace, etc) and prepared new packages to replace the old ebox-* ones.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
Working on Zentyal packaging https://launchpad.net/~zentyal and its Ubuntu integration.

Replace ebox packages with Zentyal packages on 12.04: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ebox/+bug/928501

Write Zentyal chapter for the server-guide: https://code.launchpad.net/~bencer/serverguide/serverguide-precise-zentyal/+merge/98220

=== Areas of work ===
I've been working very close with our Release Manager to improve the packaging and current state of Zentyal packages in Ubuntu Precise. Also making sure that Zentyal depends were on a good shape.

=== Things I could do better ===
Get more involved in the server team.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
I would like to get more involved in the server team making sure that all packages related to Zentyal are in a good shape (samba, openvpn, squid, dansguardian, etc).

New blueprints related to Zentyal integration in Ubuntu: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~zentyal

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
When Debian and Ubuntu packaging are different without justification.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
=== huats ===
==== General feedback ====
I haven't sponsored his work, but I have audited some of his packages before they were uploaded (due to NEW mecanism) since I am working on a daily basis on Zentyal (for my company). The overall package were really good. And he has demonstrate a real interaction to take into considerations the little suggestions that I made. That is why I am in favor of giving him Per Package Upload rights of the whole zentyal suite.

=== jamespage ===

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

I provided feedback on the zentyal packages detailed above that Jorge prepared for Ubuntu Precise and then sponsored them into the release.

Jorge did a great job on a) preparing a good set of initial packages for precise and b) working the recommended changes into the packaging including quite a bit of re-factoring to support the transition from ebox.

He obviously has a great understanding on zentyal and its packaging and I think that he should have upload rights for these packages.

I believe that he will do a good job on keeping zentyal well maintained in Ubuntu going forward.

==== Areas for Improvement ====

I'd like to see Jorge get a better understanding of the overall Ubuntu release cycle/process - this will be important going forward as he starts to maintain this set of packages in Ubuntu  - with or without sponsorship :-))

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
