{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Basic Stuff ==

'''Note:''' ''If my page looks like MacoMorgan 's is just a coincidence . It is also a coincidence that
JeffreyElkner, JosephValdovinos page looks like mine''

'''Name:''' Jorge Garcia

'''Location:''' Arlington, VA

'''Hometown:''' Arlington, VA

'''Email:''' jorge-badmam@hotmail.com

'''IRC:''' Jorge on hotmail.com and jorge.a.garcia.flores.@gmail.com
'''
'''Ubuntu User #:''' 924198

'''Current OS's:''' ubuntu and windows 7

= Latest News = http://jorge-a-garcia.blogspot.com/
** Learning Web2Py.

== Other Stuff ==

I'm a high school student I always like learning about computers and I'm still learning stuffs, and I've being using windows and xp but most of the time I'll use XP. 

== Education ==

I'm still in high school.i go to Washington Lee and this year I'm studying computer skill classes with Mr Elkner. 
MY NAME IS JORGE I BEEN STUDYING IN MANY HIGHS SCHOOL. AND NOW I AM IN CAREER CENTER. I AM TAKING COMPUTER CLASSES THIS IS MY LAST YEAR IN  CAREER CENTER. MY GOAL FOR THIS YEAR IS TOO LEARN AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE TO USE THIS IN THE FUTURE. THE REASON WHY I'M TAKING THIS CLASS IN THE CAREER CENTER IS BECAUSE I WANT TO GO TO COLLEGE AND STUDY COMPUTER PROGRAMMING, SO I THINK BY TAKING THIS CLASS WILL HELP ME IN THE FUTURE.
