{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Also available in Spanish (también disponible en español): JorgeJuan/FgRunHowToEs

How to compile fgrun (FlightGear launcher) in Ubuntu without having to compile extra programs or libraries

Tested with:

** fgrun 1.0.1
** Ubuntu 8.04.1 (Hardy) AMD-64 and i386

=== Steps ===

These steps are intended to be run in a terminal window. You can find a terminal windows in the applications menu, but if you do not know what a terminal window is, maybe this instructions are not for you.

** Of course, install flightgear

  <pre>
$ sudo apt-get install flightgear
</pre>

** Download fgrun source tar file from sourceforge: http://sourceforge.net/projects/fgrun/, for example:

  <pre>
$ wget http://heanet.dl.sourceforge.net/sourceforge/fgrun/fgrun-1.0.1.tar.gz
</pre>

** Unpack the source and enter the source directory:

  <pre>
$ tar zxvf fgrun-1.0.1.tar.gz
$ cd fgrun-1.0.1
</pre>

** Install required libraries (it is a single line)

  <pre>
$ sudo apt-get install build-essential plib1.8.4c2 plib1.8.4-dev simgear-dev libfltk-dev zlib1g zlib1g-dev libopenal0a libopenal-dev libalut0 libalut-dev libglut-dev libjpeg-dev
</pre>

** Install automake and autogen

  <pre>
$ sudo apt-get install automake autogen
</pre>

** Edit 'src/Makefile.am' to include extra simgear and plib libraries. Locate simgear_libs and plib_libs and change them to (it is just two lines):

  <pre>
simgear_libs = -lsgmodel -lsgmath -lsgscreen -lsgprops -lsgxml -lsgmisc -lsgdebug -lsgstructure -lsgenvironment -lsgtiming -lsgbucket -lsgephem -lsgmagvar -lsgmaterial -lsgnasal -lsgroute -lsgserial -lsgsky -lsgtgdb -lsgthreads -lsgsound -lsgenvironment -lsgio

plib_libs = -lplibssg -lplibsg -lplibul -lplibnet
</pre>

** Run autogen

  <pre>
$ ./autogen.sh
</pre>

** Run configure with some extra params. If it gives errors, please tell me to update this Howto.

  <pre>
./configure LIBS="-ljpeg -lglut -lalut"
</pre>

** Now, run 'make' and, if it works, run 'make install'

  <pre>
$ make
$ sudo make install
</pre>

** Enjoy!

  <pre>
$ fgrun
</pre>

=== Comments ===

** ...
