{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:45%; background:#F1F1DD; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Contents'''
|-
| 
|}
== About me ==

My name is Jorge Solórzano, I'm from Managua, Nicaragua. 23 years old, Computer Engineer, passionated about free-software and who promotes Ubuntu and free-formats, I prefer Ogg Vorbis and Ogg Theora instead MP3/AAC/h264.

=== Contact information ===

* Email: jorsol (@t) ubuntu (.dot) org (dot.) ni
* Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~jorsol
* IRC: jorsol at irc.freenode.net

== My involvement in Ubuntu ==
I'm an official member and former CC member of the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.org.ni/|Nicaraguan Ubuntu LoCo Team]]</nowiki>.

I'm an Ubuntu user since Feisty, I started after I went to the first FLISOL in Nicaragua (when the community had just a few months) and began contributing to the community in September 2007, just after the SFD07.

My first meeting with the community was in the release party of Ubuntu Gutsy and my first talk was in the first <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/linuxtour/BarcampUbuntu2007|Barcamp]]</nowiki> about free-formats (when I first know the meaning of ''Bar'' in Barcamp XD).

I joined the community in September 2007, in December 8 of that year I become part of the webmasters of ubuntu.org.ni, and just 5 days latter I become an official Ubuntu-ni Member, and just a few months latter I become part of a select group called the CC, the Community Council of Ubuntu Nicaragua... so yes with a little hard work you can become part of this great community. :-)

I was hired (with another CC member) in a government institution to do a massive migration of computers to Ubuntu Linux, the project is moving slowly but forward with around 400 computers migrated... so yes you can have a job doing the things you like. :D

=== Presentations ===
* Barcamp 1.0 about free-formats, multimedia mostly (Ogg Vorbis/Theora, FLAC, Speex).
* Document Freedom Day 2008 about free-formats and open-standards (OpenDocument vs OOXML).
* FLISOL 2008 in Juigalpa, Chontales about Introduction to Free-Software.
* a few others I can't remember in small events.

=== Events ===
* FLISOL and SFD 2007 like visitor.
* DFD and FLISOL 2008 like speaker.
* SFD 2008 like staff.
* FLISOL 2009 like half-time staff.
* SFD 2009 like installer.
* FLISOL 2010 like installer/staff in Granada.
* some others small events I can't remember.

----
CategoryHomepage
