{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== José Antonio Rey ==

=== About Me ===
My name is José Antonio Rey. I'm a Ubuntu Member from Peru, former Lo``Co Council member, and conference speaker. I've been with the community since 2011, and participated in different areas of it, especially focused in Community Advocacy and Events/Logistics. I currently work for <nowiki>[[https://hiperderecho.org|Hiperderecho]]</nowiki> in Peru, as their Community Director.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Location
| Lima, Peru
|-
| Timezone
| UTC -5 (no DST)
|-
| {{https://launchpad.net/favicon.ico}} Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jose|José Antonio Rey]]</nowiki>
|-
| {{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} IRC
| jose in irc.freenode.net
|-
| {{https://launchpad.net/@@/mail}} Email
| jose@ubuntu.com
|-
| Website
| http://joseeantonior.wordpress.com
|}

=== Contributions ===

* Running <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuonair.com|Ubuntu on Air!]]</nowiki>
* Juju charmer
* Conference speaker and booth organizer
* Former Lo``Co Council member
* Ubu``Con Latin America 2015-2016-2017 organizer
* Author of the Official Ubuntu Book, 8th & 9th editions
* Ubuntu News Team and Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter
* Ubuntu Classroom Team
* Ubuntu Beginners Team
 
=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here.

==== Community Council ====

==== LoCo Council ====

Jose Antonio is always keen to help where he cans and looking for new opportunities to do some work and make things better, he is easy to work with and has a lot of interest on making the Ubuntu Community even better and bigger. Definitely thumbs up! <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:nvalcarcel]]</nowiki>

I have worked personally with Jose on numerous Ubuntu projects over the past two years after I first met him at UDS in Oakland. I was very impressed with his ability to be able to work well with people both his age, and people older than him. He is someone who see's a goal and works to reach it. I have seen this when he personally spearheaded Ubuntu On Air back in the summer of 2012 and turned Ubuntu On air into the great tool that it is today. He is very enthusiastic about LoCo's as well. Because of his experience managing the LoCo for the country of Peru where he lives, he is able to see how a LoCo needs to be run. He can use all these skills to better improve LoCo's overall. Trust me, you will not regret him on any Ubuntu governing body.
<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:philipballew]]</nowiki>

I met José at UDS and I have worked with him, or seen his activity, on many Ubuntu projects. He is a great contributor and I am sure will be a great asset to loco teams with a role on the Loco Council. <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:alanbell]]</nowiki>

Jose, although a adolescent like me, is a very hard-working person towards promoting Ubuntu across the world. Either as a Local Community contact, or as the Ubuntu on Air! leader, he has demonstrated his experience in leading several efforts. I'm sure the LoCo council will find him a useful and very passionate member:) -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:smartboyhw]]</nowiki> 
José is a friend and a co-worker in the Peruvian LoCo Team, he has been doing a excellent job as team contact and web maintainer.
He definitely should be part of the Ubuntu LoCo Council !!! -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dante]]</nowiki> 
Jose is a hard-working individual passionate about improving the Ubuntu community and spreading Ubuntu in Peru and around the world. He also uses social media effectively for the cause. I've collaborated with him on a few of his contributions to summit.u.c in the past. I'm sure he will be a great asset in the LoCo Council. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:bilalakhtar]]</nowiki> 
I know Jose from several teams in the community, and He is always willing to help whenever He can, also in My opinion his work on Ubuntu On Air is quite impressive. I really see in him a great LoCo Council material, what's why I support his application for LoCo Council. -- PabloRubianes

From my perspective, Jose is a very dedicated member of the community, and *very* enthusiastic about his contributions. He has excellent organisation skills [which can be easily spotted by looking what a great work he does with UbuntuOnAir, as well as the Youth and Classroom teams], and such skills would be very beneficial for the LoCo Council. I believe that he would be a perfect member of the Council, given his experience with both global Ubuntu Community and local teams. An enthusiastic, perfectly organized and keen to work hard person - that's the LoCo Coucil member we need, and that's Jose! -- RafalCieslak 
While I have not worked with Jose recently, I have interacted with him in the past while working on the News Team and Classroom Team. Jose is very passionate about his work, and he can be depended on to see tasks through to the end and organize groups of people to complete larger projects. He has always shown a strong interest in helping out with his LoCo team and serving as an ambassador for Ubuntu within his community. I think Jose would be a great addition to the LoCo Council, where I know he will make the extra effort to improve our LoCo community in addition to fulfilling standard duties and meetings. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:nhandler]]</nowiki> 
José is great. He's easy to work with, reliable, a lot of fun and helped out in many many projects I also worked in. I like how much energy he brought to many places he contributed to. Keep up the good work! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dholbach]]</nowiki> 
I've known José for some time now, he is great to work with, methodical and has bags of enthusiasm. I think he would make an excellent contribution to the LoCo council and wholeheartedly support his application. <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki> 
While I may not have worked with Jose much, what I have has been quite effective, I support Jose in his quest to help by serving on the Lo``Co council. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:unit193]]</nowiki> 
José would be a fine addition to the Lo``Co Council. He has been an active contributing member of the community for a long while now, and my interactions with him have always been excellent. -- <nowiki>[[popey]]</nowiki>

I've worked with Jose on a bunch of stuff, mostly launching ubuntuonair.com. He's very passionate and will chase down people in order to make things happen. That's my favorite attribute; if I'm not being fast enough he'll chase me down until I can unblock him, then he goes on to do great things! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jorge]]</nowiki> 
With an excellent work ethic and a predisposition to serving and assisting projects and community members with anything that is needed, José is a great and helpful addition to any team, and would serve well as a council member. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mikeholstein]]</nowiki> Fri Sep 20 14:35:23 EDT 2013

=== Contact Me ===

If you need some information about me, or want to just say hi, do not hesitate and send me an email to jose@ubuntu.com - I'll be happy to answer you.

----
CategoryHomepage
