{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== JoseHenriques ==

=== Jose Henriques ===

Email: 

=== Documentos traducidos y/o en proceso de traduccion: ===

* ComoGrabarIso ('''90%''')
* ComoSmartBootManager ('''90%''')
* ComoNetbootInstall ('''90%''')
* ComoObtenerUbuntu (''En progreso'')

----

'''Sobre el 90%:''' El Status en realidad es 100%, pero como no he recibido ningun comentario de otros usuarios que hablen el mismo idioma le coloco 90%. Despues de que reciba algun comentario, sugerencia, correccion o visto bueno su Status pasara a ser 100%.

=== Mensajes o Comentarios (Messages or Comments): ===

* Deja tus mensajes aqui (Proyectos en donde necesites ayuda con la traduccion(es), Correcciones, etc)

 -- Si no te molesta, corregiré algunos pequeños detalles en  tus traducciones. (A saber: repeticiones de palabras, tildes, etc). BrunoGarcia

* Leave your messages here (Projects where you need help with translation(s), etc)

 -- i added an english link+note to all your pages, and to the english ones also, what do you think, and could you translate to spanish? -- AlexanderPoslavsky (btw great work)

 -- I changed it so it looks loke the FrontPage, what do you think? -- AlexanderPoslavsky
'''Simple and better, i like it! I will do the respective changes at the translated pages''', JoseHenriques

* btw you are doing a great job, why don't you join ubuntu-doc? (http://lists.ubuntulinux.org/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-doc), AlexanderPoslavsky
'''I 'm in ubuntu-doc (as Jose Henriques), i sent an email about the changes made at the frontpage of the wiki, thanks''', JoseHenriques

----
Welcome
----
CategoryHomepage
