{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Email''':
| josewendy1@gmail.com
|-
| '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jose-lopez | jose-lopez]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| YOUR-IRC-USERNAME
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1260278 | Borunco]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Current Status''':
| Active Contributor
|-
| '''Main Role/Position''':
| Supporter
|}

== Introduction ==

 Hi my name is Jose Lopez (borunco)

== About Me ==

 I'm 52 years old, custom home builder. Have been using Linux since march 2011, fell in love with Lubuntu may 2011.

== Lubuntu Involvement ==

 I have joined Lubuntu Team on 28/10/2012.

== Projects ==

 To be updated

== Experience, Skills and Activities ==

 Since finding the world of Linux and Lubuntu, I've been Learning as much as possible on working with the systems. As my hobby I build computers, and try to see what makes them tick. As I learn I love to share my knowledge to new comers, it's very exiting to see them go thru what I went thru as you realize the endless possibilities. Great fun

== My Contributions ==

 I help as many as possible to the length of my experience on Facebook official, Ubuntu forums, Open Linux forums.

== Future Plans and Goals ==

 I would like to be more active in the testing of future Lubuntu release, and be more of a part in support to further the work that is being done in this GREAT Operating System

== Testimonials ==

<nowiki>[[amjjawad]]</nowiki> - I have met joselopez (Borunco) at Ubuntu Forum. I don't know him personally, but I do know for sure that he is one of those who is able to do a lot in order to achieve what he wants. He is very eager to learn, very helpful and like to learn new stuff. He is one of the most active supporter for Lubuntu and I'm glad to know someone so nice like him.
