{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I Joseph Salisbury, apply for the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel-uploaders|Ubuntu Kernel Uploaders]]</nowiki> team membership, to get upload rights for the linux-* packages.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Joseph Salisbury
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://www.launchpad.net/~jsalisbury
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JosephSalisbury
|}

== Who I am ==

I am Joseph Salisbury and I work for Canonical as a member of the Ubuntu Kernel Team.  Currently, I perform the role of defect analyst and triage all incoming kernel bugs.  I also assist the Stable Kernel Team with applying upstream stable updates and turning the crank for stable releases.  I have interest in all areas relating the kernel, and enjoy working with the upstream Community. 

== My Ubuntu story ==

I first starting working with Ubuntu around 2008.  I have worked with Ubuntu on the desktop as well as the server.  My first role that focused specifically on Ubuntu was as a server support engineer at Canonical.  I have been using Linux since around 1999.  My first experience with Linux was working on a project at Sun Microsystems, comparing the performance of Sun Solaris vs. Red Hat Linux.   

=== My involvement ===

I joined the Ubuntu Kernel Team in October of 2011 as the Defect Analyst.  Prior to joining the Kernel Team, I was an Ubuntu Server Support Engineer.  As a Defect Analyst, I review each new bug reported against the kernel.  I review and triage each kernel bug reported, which could be against the current development kernel or any of the prior supported stable kernels.  The priority with the development kernel is to identify bugs and hit them hard and fast, so we can fix as many issues as possible, before release.

Although my main focus has been as a Defect Analyst, I've also been involved fixing bugs as well.  This has allowed me to increase my interaction with upstream by submitting patches, etc.  In addition, I assist Ubuntu users on kernel issues via IRC, mailing lists, etc.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

I've triaged thousands of kernel bugs.  The following URL contains the activities I've been involved regarding bugs triage and fixing: 

  https://bugs.launchpad.net/~jsalisbury

I've submitted several patches to the Ubuntu Kernel team mailing list.

I've submitted several patches upstream, which are now part of the Linux kernel.

I've made many Ubuntu users happy by fixing their issues and/or bug.

As my main focus has been on kernel packaging, there are several Linux related packages that I have uploaded into Ubuntu repositories.  As I do not have upload rights yet, I always need to find sponsors for these packages.  Here's a list of all the packages I have already uploaded:

==== Summary ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #dd4814; text-align: center; color: white;"> '''Sponsor'''
| '''# Packages'''
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~brad-figg|Brad Figg]]</nowiki>
| 0
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #dd4814; text-align: center; color: white;"> '''Total packages'''
| '''0'''
|}
==== Details ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #dd4814; text-align: center; color: white;"> '''Package'''
| '''Version'''
| '''Sponsor'''
|}

=== Areas of work ===

As referred, my main focus so far has been on kernel bug triage for the Kernel Team.  Although I've been working more closely with LuisHenriques, KamalMostafa and BradFigg all the team members that have upload rights.

=== Things I could do better ===

Since I started working for Canonical, my main focus has been to focus on the kernel.  I would like to also become proficient with packaging and maintenance.

=== General ===

My short term goal is to get kernel uploads rights, so I can upload kernel packages without needing a sponsor.

For the medium/long term, I would like to gain more knowledge on packaging of the other packages within Ubuntu distro. I would also like to further my work with the upstream community to benefit Ubuntu as well as give back to upstream.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

My only dislike at this point is that Ubuntu is not being more widely distributed by OEMs in the mainstream computing industry.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
