{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page is intended to be an archive to document all my MOTU activities. I'll try to dedicate at least 2 hours a day for every task.

=== Tasks ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <style="background-color: #ff6600; color: #000000; font-weight: bold;"> Task #
| <style="background-color: #ff6600; color: #000000; font-weight: bold;"> Task
| <style="background-color: #ff6600; color: #000000; font-weight: bold;"> Date Started
| <style="background-color: #ff6600; color: #000000; font-weight: bold;"> Status
| <style="background-color: #ff6600; color: #000000; font-weight: bold;"> References
|-
| 1
| Mandatory Reading
| 02/02/2011
| <style="background-color: lightgreen;"> DONE
| UbuntuDevelopment \ UbuntuDevelopers \ <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/GettingStarted|MOTU/GettingStarted]]</nowiki> \ PackagingGuide
|-
| 2
| Installing & Setting Development Tools
| 04/02/2011
| <style="background-color: lightgreen;"> DONE
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide/Complete#Packaging%20Tools|Packaging Tools]]</nowiki> \ PbuilderHowto
|-
| 3
| Fix a Bitesize Bug
| 10/02/2011
| <style="background-color: lightgreen;"> DONE
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide/Recipes/Debdiff|Recipes/Debdiff]]</nowiki> \ <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~josernestodavila/calibre/debian-fix-706221/+merge/49331|LP: #706221]]</nowiki>
|-
| 4
| Upgrade a Package
| 18/02/2011
| <style="background-color: lightgreen;"> DONE
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide/Recipes/PackageUpdate|Recipes/PackageUpdate]]</nowiki> \ <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/logjam/+bug/682461|LP: #682461]]</nowiki>
|-
| 5
| Adopt a Debian Package
| 23/08/2011
| <style="background-color: lightyellow;"> WAITING FOR SPONSOR
| <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/AdoptarUnPaquete|Adopt A Package (in Spanish)]]</nowiki> \ <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=583244|Debian BTS: #583244]]</nowiki> \ <nowiki>[[http://mentors.debian.net/package/glipper|Package in Debian Mentors]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Notes ===

Breaf description or comments for every task.

'''Task 2'''
----
In order to create my pbuilder environment I followed the steps described in Mackenzie Morgan post <nowiki>[[http://ubuntulinuxtipstricks.blogspot.com/2010/08/is-packaging-new-software-hard.html | Is packaging new software hard?]]</nowiki>

<pre>
sudo apt-get install pbuilder ubuntu-dev-tools devscripts
ls -s /usr/bin/pbuilder/dist ~/pbuilder-natty
~/pbuilder-natty create
</pre>

'''Task 3'''
----
I had to tackle a few obstacles to complete this task. First one, patches not applied cleanly. Two out of three patches where in upstream code already, so they are not needed anymore. To remove the patches I used:

<pre>
quilt delete 01_libsoup2.4.patch
quilt delete 02_glib_errors.patch
</pre>

The remaining patch needed to be refershed, because part of it was in upstream code, so I used:

<pre>
quilt push -f
quilt refresh 00_debian.patch
quilt pop -a
</pre>

And we are done with the patches. Now when we tried to build the package in pbuilder it failed to build due to missing Build-Depends after adding ''Intltools, libdbus-1-dev, libdbus-glib-1-dev'' the package was built successfully.
