{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Notes for the Community Council Meeting ==

=== Promotion Efforts (Backing or Involvement of Canonical): ===

* How shall the cooperation with other projects (e.g. GNOME) be handled/governed?
* Create special posters/flyers with the logo of the cooperating project
* Creation of a promotion team (which works tightly together with the ArtTeam to create marketing collateral for events)
* Giving the contacts/leaders of LoCoTeams more possiblities to help the organization of events (contacts to companies like HP to get Displays etc.)
* Is Canonical just a sponsor of the booth like any other company? Will there just be a Canonical logo at the booth, if there is a official representative, there is an active support of the booth (colaterals etc.) or some other direct affiliation with the particular effort or do we always include Canonicals logo, as it is the main sponsor of the project.
* According to the above: Canonical could sponsor promotional efforts by taking over the costs of printing posters, flyers or production of other marketing collateral, if there is a logo somewhere (Like HP does for GNOME)

Some of this points could be governed by the Ubuntu Foundation like this:

 1. Companies (Canonical, O'Reilly, HP, ...) can support the Ubuntu Foundation in general. Thus the Foundation creates the promotion stuff with all logos included and ensures everyone gets mentioned.
 2. Ubuntu Foundation provides the ressources for the effort.
 3. LoCoTeams-Contacts go to the Foundation for help.
 4. If there is a need for hardware at a booth, the Foundation provides the appropriate contact information to the LoCoTeams-Contacts.
 
=== Possible Problems in Collaborating with other projects: ===

These topics where discussed rather casual by GNOME Deutschland e.V. members and me at the Linux Tag in Karlsruhe. It was mostly about advantages and drawbacks of a collaboration of GNOME with Ubuntu at conferences.

* There was the (valid) fear that Ubuntu could be too prominent at a combined booth.
* Ubuntu should not be the only operating system to present the GNOME environment (GNOME is still an environment for all UNIX-like operating systems).
* On the other hand: If Ubuntu actively supports the cooperational effort, the majority of Operating Systems '''should''' be Ubuntu.
* Should we create some kind of informal contract on who is responsible for what.
* Add to the last item: What can Ubuntu do for the other project?
* There is a general problem that GNOME is not as recognized by the users as it deserves to be. This is because most operating systems (incl. Ubuntu) re-brand GNOME to their needs until absolutely nothing of GNOME is visible anymore (Even the foot in the menu is replaced and there is no "Powered by GNOME" on the splash screen). This could be either declined or improved by the wrong or right actions at conferences. '''As we are proud to use GNOME, we should improve this situation.'''

=== Misc. ===

There are certainly more points to add and everyone is invited to do so. As well as Kubuntu should be at the same booth as Ubuntu or should the Kubuntu community have their own partnerships with KDE.
