{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== About Me ==

I'm a dude who was pressured into Linux a few times by a friend in college and through the years tried Suse, Fedora, Gentoo, Arch Linux, and Ubuntu.  The switch became permanent about two years ago and ever since I've been trying to find work in a Linux environment.

I have some very basic programming under my belt thats self taught thanks to the vast array of FREE information out there on the internet.

Non-tech related I'm trying to become more zen-like, I'm becoming a fierce texas hold-em player, and if not for a back injury I would be keeping in shape still at a kickboxing/muay thai gym.

=== Programming Languages ===

* Bash <<BR>>
* PHP <<BR>>
* Perl

== Tech Blog ==

You can get a better understanding of what I've done and what I know here at my blog:

<nowiki>[[http://josimba.wordpress.com|Josimba's Blog|target="_blank"]]</nowiki>

== Goals ==

* To gain experience contributing to the Ubuntu community <<BR>>
* To get a job in a Linux environment <<BR>>
* To become a Linux Developer <<BR>>

== Contribution ==

None yet but hopefully I can start filling this out soon!

== Contact Information ==

Launchpad <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~josimba|Josimba|target="_blank"]]</nowiki>

Ubuntu Forum  <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1441202|Josimba|target="_blank"]]</nowiki>
