{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I am an Open Source enthusiast, Pythonista, and developer of Unity Tweak Tool.

Most of the time, I search the interwebz for interesting stuff on topics ranging from psychology, physiology, astronomy, mathematics, quantum physics, to cute kittens and their plans for world domination.

I can code in more than two dozen languages, but primarily use python to solve minor annoyances in day to day life.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| phanimahesh,phanimahesh-web
|-
| GTalk
| phanimahesh
|-
| Email
| phanimahesh AT gmail DOT com
|-
| Website
| http://phanimahesh.wordpress.com
|-
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~phanimahesh|phanimahesh]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Contributions ===

Ubuntu is the operating system of choice when I recommend a linux distro to my friends. I have introduced Ubuntu to a lot of my friends, gifted Ubuntu CDs to interested people, and am one of the local gurus for everything Ubuntu. We have labs with more than 200 PCs running Ubuntu, and most freshmen have never even heard of Ubuntu before. Hence I get a good number of queries. I have also influenced the conversion of a small laboratory with 20 PCs to Ubuntu.

I am a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~freyja-dev|member of Freyja Development Team]]</nowiki>, and together we developed Unity Tweak Tool, a settings manager for Unity desktop. It is one of the all time top rated 100 apps in the Ubuntu Software Centre.

I am a <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/users/45659/mahesh|member of Ask Ubuntu]]</nowiki>, and engage myself in the review queue and the chat room.

Ocassionally, I write summaries for Ubuntu Weekly Newsletters.

I also help with bug triaging on Launchpad. I concentrate primarily on bugs reported against Unity Tweak Tool, but at times venture past my project.

=== Future Goals ===

I plan to continue what I have been doing till now. Advocate free software, Ubuntu, help users, develop applications, and contribute to UWN and on launchpad when I find time. I have plans to develop apps for ubuntu Mobile and conduct a Ubuntu install fest in our campus, but I can not fully commit to either, at present.

=== Comments ===
'''Note:''' This section is for people who aren't Ubuntu members to cheer or comments that aren't testimonials from existing members.

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' This section is for existing Ubuntu members to leave testimonials.  People who aren't Ubuntu members can leave a comment above in favor of the application.

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here. 
