{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

 Hello Everyone,
 Welcome to Ubuntu Wiki...
 ________________________________________________________________________________________________

 Ubuntu is my favorite Operating System, I love to use Ubuntu. I have downloaded many tools for my ubuntu - Now I have started Customizing my Ubuntu. 

 With in 6 Months I am going to distribute my customized Ubuntu to my friends and People around me... 

 My Contributions to Ubuntu:

 1) I am ruuning LinuxDCOM community to help people who migrating to Ubuntu Operating System.
    Website: www.linuxdcom.co.cc
   
 2) I have recently started LinuxDCOM wiki inorder to Promote Linux and Ubuntu Operating System, Anyone can become member of my community and Promote Linux and Ubuntu by posting Articles, questions, Inviting Friends to join...

 Any One Can Join LinuxDCOM Community: http://linuxdcom.wetpaint.com

 Projects I am Working on...

 ibuntu - Ibuntu is my primary objective...
  
 LaunchPad link: https://launchpad.net/ibuntu 

 Ibuntu is an Ubuntu based Os which has GNOME and KDE 4.0 Desktop environment with many useful applications for Student developers, Home users and Colleges...

 SARVAC: This is Secondary Objective...

 My Friend B.Sriram started this project, This is Ultimate Linux Project. Under his leadership and guidance I am Working on this Project.
LaunchPad: https://launchpad.net/sarvac
----
CategoryUbuntuTeams
