{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


My name is  '''Seowon Jung''', nicknamed '''Seony''', the official contactor for the Korean Ubuntu LoCo Team.  A discipline manager (군기반장) for Korean Ubuntu User Group IRC Channel is my another duty.
First of all, english is not my first language.  So if you found something wrong grammatically, please forgive me.
Actually my friends gave me an english name, Brian, however I much prefer being called by my Korean name to be called Brian.

I came to Hawaii in 2007 to be an accountant (AICPA), but suddenly I changed my mind. After graduating Kapiolani Community College in 2010, I transferred to Hawaii Pacific University, Computer Science, and I had to take 8 more required classes such as Physics and Mathematics.

Currently I'm living in Honolulu Hawaii, USA.  I work at University of Hawaii, College of Education as an IT Specialist.  My job is to administer linux servers, network equipments, and IT infrastructures.  The college has introduced OpenStack Cloud, and currently I focus on it and Bacula Enterprise Network Backup.  One thing very special is, all servers' operating systems at College of Education is Ubuntu.  It's valuable, and significative. Korean Ubuntu LoCoTeam contractor works with Ubuntu!!!

----

Why? Why did I change my major? Many students especially international students like me are studying accounting recently; this is a major reason that I made me to change my major from accounting to computer science. It's kinda hard for me but been pretty fun. Sometimes I miss that I was a banker.
I started using Linux since 1995 with Slackware 2.2.  I love Linux and Ubuntu.  I will never stop using Linux and Ubuntu.

/* 
하하하,안녕하세요? 위 본문에 분명히 "문법가지고 딴지걸지 말라"하셨는데...딴지는 아닙니다.
Many students especially international students like me '''ARE''' studying accounting recently; this is a reason that I made me '''to생략''' change my major from accounting to computer science. 
은 어떨까요? 2011.03.15 jason jang */

/* to를 생략하려면 change를 changing이라고 바꿔야합니다. 결국 이거나 그거나 마찬가지죠 ㅎㅎ
is/are는 감사합니다. 2011.05.28 Seony*/

----

Currently I am using Ubuntu 12.04 LTS server, iMac, MacMini Server and MacBook Pro. I so much love it (맥빠).
Even though I've been using Linux since 1993, what I've done and learned is only installing. That's why I'm forever beginner.
