{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Welcome ===
My name is Juan Cardelino and I'm an unbuntu/linux enthusiastic. I'm currently collaborating with some projects, mainly with the Spanish Translation of Ubuntu (see <nowiki>[[UbuntuSpanishTranslators]]</nowiki>).
You can find my home page at : http://iie.fing.edu.uy/~juanc.

Here are some tips and tricks I've figured out so far
* <nowiki>[[JuanCardelino-TVAntsTutorial]]</nowiki> : How to make TVants and other P2P TV software run under linux.

-----------
=== DDTP: Algunos comentarios sobre la traducción de paquetes con localizaciones para diferentes idiomas ===

En el proyecto ddtp-ubuntu, dentro del paquete ddtp-main, hay aproximadamente 6000 cadenas repetitivas. En realidad son 6 distintas, y luego hay un juego de 6 para cada idioma. Al traducir esto es importante mantener la coherencia entre todas. Aquí tengo las traducciones actual es para las 6 cadenas: JuanCardelino/TraduccionLocalizaciones<<BR>>

==== nombres de idiomas: ====
http://home.unilang.org/main/resources.php?l=es&section=general <<BR>>
aquí hay una lista de nombres de idiomas en francés, español, e inglés: <<BR>>
http://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usuario:Javier_Carro/Pruebalenguas_del_mundo_comparativa_es_en_fr

=== Notas ===
* T.O. texto original
* T.T. texto traducido
* T.A. traducción anterior

=== Traducciones ===

Algunas traducciones dudosas con sugerencias. 
=== Dudas de frases completas ===
77.
lexical analyser generator for Haskel<br>
Generador de analizadores lexicográficos para Haskel

ddtp-main

364
* The GNU Bourne Again SHell
* El intérprete de comandos GNU de Bourne, otra vez.
----
CategoryHomepage
