{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Juan Carlos Torres (Jucato) ==

=== Contact ===

* Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~jucato
* Website: <nowiki>[[http://jucato.org|Jucato's Data Core]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://jucato.org/blog|Blog]]</nowiki>
* IRC: Jucato
* E-mail: carlosdgtorres@gmail.com
* GPG: <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0xA5A60CA4&op=index|A5A60CA4]]</nowiki>

=== /whois ===

* I'm 23 years old from Laguna, Philippines; a graduate of AB Philosophy. 
* Currently still unemployed (for various reasons). 
* I've been using Linux and Kubuntu on a desktop for over a year now (January 7 marks my Linux birthday). 
* I've always wanted to give back to the community that has given me so much, so I do every little way that I can to help.
* I'm mainly interested in, and currently self-studying programming,  web design/development, and a bit of (computer) graphic design. And I like cats.

=== What I've done (so far) ===

* For the past months I've been mainly doing user support, both for Kubuntu and KDE in general. I help in the forums, both <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org|Ubuntuforums]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.kubuntuforums.net|KFN]]</nowiki>., and in IRC. The bulk of my contribution to the Ubuntu community so far has come from user support.
* I have also done some amount of bug reporting and triaging (for both Kubuntu and KDE). 
* I've also written the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CustomizeKubuntu|CustomizeKubuntu]]</nowiki> guide, which is based on a <nowiki>[[http://docs.kde.org/stable/en/kdebase/userguide/customizing-desktop.html|similar guide]]</nowiki> that I wrote for KDE, which is now included in the <nowiki>[[http://docs.kde.org/stable/en/kdebase/userguide/index.html|KDE User Guide]]</nowiki>.
* I have also recently become an Operator in #kubuntu
* I have written two patches for Konqueror and submitted those upstream (still waiting...)

=== Future Goals ===

* I plan to get more involved with the technical aspects of Kubuntu development, like packaging. And as my programming knowledge gets better, maybe even more technical stuff
* I plan to continue helping with increasing the quality (and quanity?) of user support, specially in Kubuntu. I'm specifically focusing on KFN and #kubuntu.
* I plan on coordinating with the Forum Council and with KFN's owner, to see what we could do about KFN's current status and any future plans for it.
* I also plan on getting a little bit involved with documentation, but those plans are still on hold.

CategoryHomepage
