{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Juerg Haefliger, apply for upload rights for the linux kernel package(s).'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Juerg Haefliger
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~juergh
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JuergHaefliger/
|}

== Who I am ==

I'm Juerg Haefliger and I joined Canonical on June 1st, 2017. I'm part of the Kernel Stable Team and my current responsibilities include kernel SRU crank turning, custom kernel maintenance and backporting of CVE patches to older series. I have a background in Electrical Engineering and worked as a HW/SW engineer for Compaq/HP/HPE for ~16 years before joining Canonical.

== My Ubuntu story ==

I started using GNU/Linux around 1998 at the university, when Slackware was the only distribution :-) I have used several distributions since then and around 2005 I stumbled over Ubuntu for the first time. 

=== My involvement ===

As noted above, my current involvement is with stable kernel maintenance. This includes the following:

* Reviewing patches from kernel-team mailing list.
* Backporting patches for CVE fixes.
* Crank turning (prepare the kernel trees, close the versions and build the deb source packages) for all the main kernels and their derivatives and backports.
* Stable automation and scripts enhancements and fixes.
* Ownership and maintenance of custom kernel.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

I am currently one of the main people responsible for backporting Meltdown/Spectre patches and cleaning up the older series to bring them more in line with upstream's implementation. I've already uploaded kernel packages during the Meltodown/Spectre crisis so I must have the proper upload privileges, I'm just lacking a formal sign off ;-)

Due to that, I have been involved with a large amount of bugs:
https://bugs.launchpad.net/~juergh

Most of these bugs are tracking bugs for the kernel packages that I have prepared and built, bugs that I have verified and bugs that I have worked with the reporters for fix verification.

In summary, I'm proud of being part of the kernel stable team and being able to contribute to the quality, security and cadence of the kernel SRU.

=== Sponsoring ===

==== Summary ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Sponsor'''
| '''# Packages'''
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~smb|smb]]</nowiki>
| 25
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kleber-souza|kleber-souza]]</nowiki>
| 20
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~cascardo|cascardo]]</nowiki>
| 6
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~apw|apw]]</nowiki>
| 1
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kamalmostafa|kamalmostafa]]</nowiki>
| 2
|-
| '''Total packages'''
| '''54'''
|}

==== Details ====
Here is a list of sponsored packages:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Date'''
| '''Sponsor'''
| '''Sponsoree'''
| '''Package'''
| '''Version'''
| '''Distribution'''
|-
| 2017-06-08 15:17
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux
| 4.8.0-55.58
| yakkety
|-
| 2017-06-09 17:38
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-signed
| 4.8.0-55.58
| yakkety
|-
| 2017-06-13 08:56
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-meta
| 4.8.0.55.68
| yakkety
|-
| 2017-06-15 09:33
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-raspi2
| 4.8.0-1039.42
| yakkety
|-
| 2017-06-15 14:00
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-meta-raspi2
| 4.8.0.1039.43
| yakkety
|-
| 2017-06-20 15:04
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux
| 4.8.0-57.62
| yakkety
|-
| 2017-06-21 07:51
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-meta
| 4.8.0.57.70
| yakkety
|-
| 2017-06-21 08:49
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-signed
| 4.8.0-57.62
| yakkety
|-
| 2017-06-21 14:15
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-raspi2
| 4.8.0-1041.45
| yakkety
|-
| 2017-06-21 15:07
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-meta-raspi2
| 4.8.0.1041.45
| yakkety
|-
| 2017-06-23 06:28
| Stefan Bader
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-meta-lts-xenial
| 4.4.0.82.67
| trusty
|-
| 2017-06-23 06:49
| Stefan Bader
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-signed-lts-xenial
| 4.4.0-82.105~14.04.1
| trusty
|-
| 2017-06-23 08:15
| Stefan Bader
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-lts-xenial
| 4.4.0-82.105~14.04.1
| trusty
|-
| 2017-06-26 16:09
| Stefan Bader
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux
| 4.10.0-26.30
| zesty
|-
| 2017-06-27 08:09
| Stefan Bader
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-meta
| 4.10.0.26.28
| zesty
|-
| 2017-06-27 08:35
| Stefan Bader
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-signed
| 4.10.0-26.30
| zesty
|-
| 2017-06-27 10:52
| Stefan Bader
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-raspi2
| 4.10.0-1010.13
| zesty
|-
| 2017-06-27 11:31
| Stefan Bader
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-meta-raspi2
| 4.10.0.1010.12
| zesty
|-
| 2017-06-29 09:14
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux
| 4.10.0-28.32
| zesty
|-
| 2017-06-29 10:42
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-meta
| 4.10.0.28.29
| zesty
|-
| 2017-06-29 10:53
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-signed
| 4.10.0-28.32
| zesty
|-
| 2017-06-29 14:55
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-meta-raspi2
| 4.10.0.1011.13
| zesty
|-
| 2017-06-30 10:25
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-raspi2
| 4.10.0-1011.14
| zesty
|-
| 2017-09-13 06:15
| Stefan Bader
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux
| 4.10.0-35.39
| zesty
|-
| 2017-09-13 06:25
| Stefan Bader
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-meta
| 4.10.0.35.35
| zesty
|-
| 2017-09-13 06:29
| Stefan Bader
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-signed
| 4.10.0-35.39
| zesty
|-
| 2017-09-13 08:08
| Stefan Bader
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-raspi2
| 4.10.0-1018.21
| zesty
|-
| 2017-09-13 08:46
| Stefan Bader
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-meta-raspi2
| 4.10.0.1018.19
| zesty
|-
| 2017-09-13 11:34
| Stefan Bader
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux
| 3.13.0-132.181
| trusty
|-
| 2017-09-13 12:11
| Stefan Bader
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-meta
| 3.13.0.132.141
| trusty
|-
| 2017-09-13 12:19
| Stefan Bader
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-signed
| 3.13.0-132.181
| trusty
|-
| 2017-09-19 11:11
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux
| 3.13.0-133.182
| trusty
|-
| 2017-09-19 13:25
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-meta
| 3.13.0.133.142
| trusty
|-
| 2017-09-19 13:29
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-signed
| 3.13.0-133.182
| trusty
|-
| 2017-10-10 11:23
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux
| 3.13.0-134.183
| trusty
|-
| 2017-10-10 13:22
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-meta
| 3.13.0.134.143
| trusty
|-
| 2017-10-10 13:22
| Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-signed
| 3.13.0-134.183
| trusty
|-
| 2017-10-12 08:54
| Stefan Bader
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-gcp
| 4.10.0-1008.8
| xenial
|-
| 2017-10-12 09:56
| Stefan Bader
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-meta-gcp
| 4.10.0.1008.10
| xenial
|-
| 2017-10-12 11:37
| Kamal Mostafa
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-aws
| 4.4.0-1002.2
| trusty
|-
| 2017-10-12 12:14
| Kamal Mostafa
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-meta-aws
| 4.4.0.1002.2
| trusty
|-
| 2018-04-06 10:52
| Andy Whitcroft
| Juerg Haefliger
| kmod
| 15-0ubuntu7
| trusty
|-
| 2019-02-06 10:39
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux
| 4.4.0-143.169
| xenial
|-
| 2019-02-06 10:47
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-signed
| 4.4.0-143.169
| xenial
|-
| 2019-03-14 14:34
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-meta-hwe
| 4.18.0.17.67
| bionic
|-
| 2019-03-14 14:39
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-signed-hwe
| 4.18.0-17.18~18.04.1
| bionic
|-
| 2019-03-14 16:01
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-hwe
| 4.18.0-17.18~18.04.1
| bionic
|-
| 2019-04-04 09:57
| Stefan Bader
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-raspi2
| 4.15.0-1034.36
| bionic
|-
| 2019-04-04 10:32
| Stefan Bader
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-meta-raspi2
| 4.15.0.1034.32
| bionic
|-
| 2019-04-04 12:22
| Stefan Bader
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-kvm
| 4.15.0-1032.32
| bionic
|-
| 2019-04-04 12:25
| Stefan Bader
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-meta-kvm
| 4.15.0.1032.32
| bionic
|-
| 2019-04-05 07:40
| Stefan Bader
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-lts-xenial
| 4.4.0-146.172~14.04.1
| trusty
|-
| 2019-04-05 08:57
| Stefan Bader
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-meta-lts-xenial
| 4.4.0.146.128
| trusty
|-
| 2019-04-05 12:37
| Stefan Bader
| Juerg Haefliger
| linux-signed-lts-xenial
| 4.4.0-146.172~14.04.1
| trusty
|}

<<BR>>
Source:
https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Juerg+Haefliger&sponsoree_search=name

=== Upload Rights ===

I'm requesting upload rights for the kernel package set for all active series, which includes all the "linux*" packages.

== Plans for the future ==

=== General ===

I plan to continue working on the Kernel stable team, improving the automation of the SRU cycle process, improving test coverage, backporting CVE fixes and maintaining primarily older series.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

Particularly regarding the kernel stable process, we currently have a large amount of backports, derivatives and customs kernels and all of them require manual work to get the packaging done. It doesn't scale in terms of man/hour needed for every SRU cycle. However, we are already making progress in automating the process, and when most of the steps are automated, we will be able to spend more attention to the review process, CVE backports, bugs investigation, etc.

----
== Comments ==

''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Stefan Bader (smb) ===

==== General Feedback ====

I have reviewed multiple kernel uploads for Juerg and found them to
be well prepared. I appreciate his careful approach and that he will
bring up any concerns early. I trust him to be considering the effects
of his uploads carefully.

For that I am +1 for adding Juerg to the kernel PPU list.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=yS20
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Kleber Souza (kleber-souza) ===
==== General feedback ====
I have reviewed and sponsored several of Juerg's packages and he has demonstrated to be able to quickly learn the SRU process, be attentive to details, take ownership, produce quality work and be very responsive. He has also demonstrated great technical knowledge in handling most of the Spectre/Meltdown backports for the older releases.

I am confident that Juerg is capable of handling kernel uploads following the SRU process and with the quality expected.

Based on that I vote in favour of his PPU rights.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Juerg is very professional and easy to work with. My interactions with Juerg have always been positive.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----

iQEzBAEBCgAdFiEE8u2tbvu5Bl/TA9thRqrzNXDhFisFAlzT6WsACgkQRqrzNXDh
FiusQgf8CH6hQiur3xvegYj8WoPQvhc567lyyLLGuSNl+BrRtXQnF7/+9NafNMUk
YnDjCiRX0rXmOYnH6l+JKW1L6W/sfhRBIT3832EF5MHLSAp6Xgnd6idehqu4n3WF
KOX6kn/WnNDxmPsUr3vkaCG7A05BGy6pbRIhRqWFsenK3U3rj02VH/daFizQR+fU
lqRb5fsu6zcS9gCH9vG9Hm13cMZ/sst0lPo3A3CDeOAi8SsAfEttR/wCn3JT175N
kA0dyYejKC8xFFc8hiSlzsllguAwW1jlNly4N2YSczI5tEcsQHRHECTjKU+/PeQc
uQ0EBjGAC/1ZyaHBvfbFli+eW7Y5NA==
=J6c/
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Andy Whitcroft ===

==== General feedback ====
I have found Juergh to be conciensious and careful; if anything stopping
short.  I trust him to ask when he is unsure.  +1 for upload rights.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I have worked with Juergh on a number of high profile security issues.
He has worked diligently and with professionalism.  These have often had
long embargo periods which have been kept and met.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=VbY8
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
