{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hello,
  I have been into technology since I can recall. I always liked it and was even the best at it in Kindergarten with opening and finding things. I have really advanced since my last two years with technology. Either coding, diagnosing, fixing hardware, and more! I am just proud to say I am part of the Ubuntu-Arizona team and can't wait to contribute to the Ubuntu community and LoCo team!
----
My name is Michael Mitchell and have lived in Arizona for my whole life. Though moving to Tennessee, I plan to make the most of this learning and social experience! I plan to major in something technologically related (Game Design, Software Design, etc.).
----
My nick comes from the Juggernaut (Xmen). Juggernaut being defined as:
"The term juggernaut is used to describe any literal or metaphorical force regarded as unstoppable that will crush all in its path."
I am (as of 12-14-07) 6 feet 200 lbs and 13 years old... and rock at football. So I am unstoppable on the field and.... yeah.
----
  Computer:
My current computer (as of 12-14-07) is a Dell Optiplex GX110 (just google it)
My future computer will be this:

https://secure.newegg.com/NewVersion/Wishlist/PublicWishDetail.asp?WishListNumber=9421147&WishListTitle=Christmas+%2D07+Core+2+Duo+2%2E2

Basically: A Core 2 Duo - 2.2GHz, 2GB RAM, getting video card later for birthday.
----
  Video Games:
I am involved in the DS Scene, basically, the underground DS community. If you have a DS and interested in getting started, htp://www.gbatemp.net is where the info is at! Great Community and flawless info.

Thanks for looking!
----
CategoryHomepage CategoryArizonaTeam
