{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* Created:  by JaneWeideman
* Priority: NeedsPriority
* People: NeedsLead, NeedsSecond
* Contributors: JaneWeideman
* Interested:
* Status: UbzSpecification, BrainDump (then DraftSpecification then EditedSpecification then ApprovedSpecification), DistroSpecification
* Branch: UbuntuTrack
* Malone bug: 
* Packages affected: 
* Depends: 
* Dependents:
 <<FullSearch>>
* BoF sessions: none yet 

=== Summary ===
Jukebox Centralization is good, right now there are many programs to do similar tasks, for example, there's a ripper, a cd player, a music jukebox, there should be a centralized jukebox with support for playing cd's & ripping, maybe next version of rhythmbox? Do we need eog & gthumb? gthumb is better, and maybe f-spot gets better by the timeframe of dapper.

=== Rationale ===

About Rhythmbox:

The next version of Rhythmbox will be able to play CD's, so gnome-cd could be scrapped. Rhythmbox can also burn music CD's so serpentine could be scrapped.

Note/wish: please don't scrap gnome-cd as long as Rhythmbox doesn't start up as fast as gnome-cd... Also, the full Rhythmbox window has lots of stuff in it - a gnome-cd replacement that starts when an audio cd is inserted should have a smaller window, with less controls.

=== Use cases ===

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
----
CategoryLookMergeDelete
