{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== About me ===

I am Julian Alarcon, I'm a System Engineer from the <nowiki>[[http://www.unal.edu.co|National University of Colombia]]</nowiki>, in Bogota, Colombia. 

=== Testimonials ===
* "I was among the original Ubuntu-co leads and passed the torch to a team of very active and visible team members. Julian was among the first to step up to various administrative duties and has always been involved in important decisions leading to ubuntu-co being one of the most active Latin American local teams. Great Ubuntu member material!" - FabianRodriguez Oct.3 2008

==== Contact Information ====
* Email:  * Launchpad account: <nowiki>[[http://www.launchpad.net/~alarconj|alarconj]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntuforums's nickname: <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.com|darkhole]]</nowiki>
* My website/Blog: <nowiki>[[https://desentropia.com/|desentropia.com]]</nowiki>
* Twitter: <nowiki>[[https://twitter.com/julian_alarcon_|julian_alarcon_]]</nowiki>
* Linkedin: <nowiki>[[https://www.linkedin.com/in/julian-alarcon/|julian-alarcon]]</nowiki>
* Github: <nowiki>[[https://github.com/julian-alarcon/|julian-alarcon]]</nowiki>
* Gitlab: <nowiki>[[https://gitlab.com/julian-alarcon/|julian-alarcon]]</nowiki>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right;  font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1DD; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Contents'''
|-
| 
|}
=== Memberships ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#F1F1DD:(>'''Member of:'''
| 
| <#F1F1DD:(>'''Launchpad'''
| <#F1F1DD:(>'''Contact:'''
|-
| Ubuntu Members
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntumembers/+members|Site]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership|Website]]</nowiki>
|}

=== I'm Working on ===

* Learning
* Improving Ubuntu beta testing newer versions

=== What I've done ===

* Translated Ubuntu to Spanish. Also helped to translate some little projects, like Deluge and similar.
* Giving support to users from Colombia, through the mailing lists, forum and chat IRC in Ubuntu Colombian Team.
* Spreading Ubuntu to "everywhere".
* Motivating the development of the Free Software in my school partners.
* Admin in the Ubuntu Colombian Team, approving members, creating projects, and events, making externals relations with many local Free Software Communities.
* Working on a little business of free support (as a beer) of computers using Ubuntu and Free Software to every people.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam/Ubucon2008||Ubucon Colombia 2008]]</nowiki> in November.
* I was helping on the first OpenFest 2008 of the University of San Buenaventura.
* Participate in the Flisol 2008 with Ubuntu-Co.
* I was helping installing in two Installing Festivals in my University, this are called "Festival de Instalación de Linux", approximately I have installed in this events 10 sytems, and gifted hundred of Ubuntu Cd's. 
* Participate in the <nowiki>[[http://www.flisol.net/|FLISOL]]</nowiki> 2007 (Latinamerican Festival of Free Software Installation) with the Ubuntu Colombian Team. We gifted approximately 300 Ubuntu, Kubuntu and Xubuntu CD's.
* Participate in the <nowiki>[[http://www.flisol.net/|FLISOL]]</nowiki> 2008 with the Ubuntu Colombian Team. In this time, I was showing the possibilities of Ubuntu.
* Translated Ubuntu since Feisty Fawn.
* A little game under GPL license named <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/boc|Battle Overseas: Charged]]</nowiki> using XP methodology and free tools.
* I was working in the last <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuSpanishTranslators/IntrepidSprint|Sprint of Translation of Ubuntu to Spanish]]</nowiki> resolving dudes, and translating.

=== I would like to ===
* Travel a lot.

== En Español ==

=== Sobre mi ===
Soy Julian Alarcon, soy Ingeniero de Sistemas de la <nowiki>[[http://www.unal.edu.co|Universidad Nacional de Colombia]]</nowiki>, en Bogotá, Colombia.

==== Información de contacto ====

* Email:  * Cuenta de Launchpad: <nowiki>[[http://www.launchpad.net/~alarconj|alarconj]]</nowiki>
* Apodo en Ubuntuforums: <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.com|darkhole]]</nowiki>
* Sitio web/Blog: <nowiki>[[https://desentropia.com/|desentropia.com]]</nowiki>
* Twitter: <nowiki>[[https://twitter.com/julian_alarcon_|julian_alarcon_]]</nowiki>
* Linkedin: <nowiki>[[https://www.linkedin.com/in/julian-alarcon/|julian-alarcon]]</nowiki>
* Github: <nowiki>[[https://github.com/julian-alarcon/|julian-alarcon]]</nowiki>
* Gitlab: <nowiki>[[https://gitlab.com/julian-alarcon/|julian-alarcon]]</nowiki>

=== Membresías ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#F1F1DD:(>'''Member of:'''
| 
| <#F1F1DD:(>'''Launchpad'''
| <#F1F1DD:(>'''Contact:'''
|-
| Ubuntu Members
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntumembers/+members|Site]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership|Website]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Estoy trabajando en ===
* Aprendiendo
* Ayudando a probar nuevas versiones beta de Ubuntu

=== Que he hecho ===

* Traducir Ubuntu al Español. Tambien ayudado a traducir algunos pequeños proyectos como Deluge y similares.
* Dar soporte a usuarios de Colombia, a través de la lista de correos, el foro y el chat IRC del Equipo Colombiano de Ubuntu.
* Difundiendo Ubuntu en "todas partes".
* Motivar el desarrollo de Software Libre en mis compañeros de estudio.
* Administrador en el Equipo Colombiano de Ubuntu, aprobando miembros, creando proyectos y eventos, creando relaciones externas con muchas comunidades de Software Libre locales.
* Trabajando en un pequeño negocio de soporte gratuito de equipos de computo usando Ubuntu y Software Libre.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam/Ubucon2008||Ubucon Colombia 2008]]</nowiki> en Noviembre.
* Estuve ayudando en el primer OpenFest 2008 de la Universidad de San Buenaventura.
* Participar en el Flisol 2008 con Ubuntu-Co.
* He colaborado en dos Festivales de Instalación de Linux en mi Universidad. He instalado aproximadamente 10 equipos en estos, y regalado cientos de CD's de Ubuntu. 
* Participé en el <nowiki>[[http://www.flisol.net/|FLISOL]]</nowiki> 2007 (Festival Latinoamericano de Instalación de Software Libre) con el Equipo Colombiano de Ubuntu. Regalamos aproximadamente 300 CD's de Ubuntu, Kubuntu y Xubuntu.
* Participé en el <nowiki>[[http://www.flisol.net/|FLISOL]]</nowiki> 2008 (Festival Latinoamericano de Instalación de Software Libre) con el Equipo Colombiano de Ubuntu. Esta vez estuve mostrando las posibilidades de Ubuntu.
* Traducido Ubuntu desde Feisty Fawn.
* Un pequeño juego bajo licencia GPL llamado <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/boc|Battle Overseas: Charged]]</nowiki> usando metodología XP y herramientas libres.
* Estuve trabajando en el último <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuSpanishTranslators/IntrepidSprint|''Sprint'' de traducción de Ubuntu al Español]]</nowiki> resolviendo dudas, y traduciendo.

=== Me gustaría ===
* Viajar mucho.

----
Related pages:
<<FullSearch>>
----
CategoryHomepage
CategoryColombianTeam
