{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About Julian Andres Klode ===
* Email: jak@debian.org / juliank@ubuntu.com / jak@jak-linux.org
* IRC nickname: juliank (OFTC/FreeNode/GIMPNet)
* Languages: German, English
* Blog: https://blog.jak-linux.org/
* Projects website: https://jak-linux.org/

=== Who am I? ===
I’m Julian (juliank on Launchpad, IRC), many may primarily recognize me as the maintainer of APT. I have been a part of the Ubuntu and Debian communities since about 2006, an Ubuntu Member since 2007 (17 years now, wow, half of my life).

My interest in Ubuntu started in 2006 from the Debian side, when I worked with @mvo on various package management stuff while still in school, such as APT, python-apt, gnome-app-install, software-center, and so on. I was working on packaging the Ubuntu tools for Debian primarily.

In 2015 I took over as the primary apt maintainer from mvo, and started upstream branches for Ubuntu LTS releases, providing updates for the stable releases, and 1 year later, in 2016, I became a Core Developer.

At the start of 2018 I joined Canonical in the Ubuntu Foundations team. Since then I have of course been significantly more active in Ubuntu than before. One of the first things I did when I joined was improve the merge-o-matic to add dynamic filtering via JavaScript to be able to easily search for my past merges and team merges - good memories. I continue to maintain APT and other pieces of the package management stack.

=== Participation in Projects & Organizations ===
* <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=jak|Debian Developer]]</nowiki> since 2018
* <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~juliank|Ubuntu Member]]</nowiki> since 2007-11-29
* <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~juliank|Ubuntu Core Developer]]</nowiki> since 2016-07-04
* <nowiki>[[http://spi-inc.org/|Software in the Public Interest]]</nowiki>: Contributing Member
* <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org/|GNOME]]</nowiki>: Former member of developers group in Bugzilla/git for gnome-main-menu

=== 'Thank you' section (who and why) ===
* Daniel Baumann (daniel@debian.org) sponsored my first uploads to Debian
* Martin Zobel-Helas (zobel@debian.org) was my first Application Manager in the Debian New Maintainer Process
* Bernd Zeimetz (bzed@debian.org) was my second Application Manager in the Debian New Maintainer Process
* Michael Vogt (mvo@ubuntu.com) is the reason for my Ubuntu membership and most packages I maintain
* Vincent Untz (vuntz@gnome.org) merged my (gnome-main-menu) patches in GNOME and was the reason for my GNOME account

---
CategoryHomepage
