{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

Hi, my name is Juliano Fischer Naves. I am a informatics professor at Rondônia Federal Institute of Education, Science and Technology, in the city of Ji-Paraná, Rondônia, Brazil, where I try to teach my students about the benefits of open source daily. Currently, I am pursueing the Ph.D. degree at Federal Fluminense University. I am a Ubuntu user since 2006 and spreaded Ubuntu through ShipIt programme. I can say that was my first contribution and I am proud to be part of the beginning. I'm also part of brazilian translation and documentation teams.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| julianofischer
|-
| GTalk
| julianofischer
|-
| Email
| julianofischer@gmail.com
|-
| Launchpad
| launchpad.net/~julianofischer
|-
| Website
| www.ic.uff.br/~jfischer
|}

=== Contributions ===

 . Brazilian portuguese translation team;
 . Brazilian documentation team;
   . Portuguese <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-br.org/UbuntuHashes|Ubuntu Hashes page]]</nowiki> updated
 . <nowiki>[[http://spreadubuntu.neomenlo.org/pt-br/users/julianofischer/track|Translating marketing materials for brazilian portuguese]]</nowiki>.
 . Wow, I noticed that I'm appearing as a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+topcontributors|top contributor]]</nowiki> due to my contributions in Rosetta (Feb. 6, 2014)

=== Future Goals ===

 . Establishment of Rondônia Local Community.

=== Testimonials ===
