{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Julian Andres Klode, apply for core-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Julian
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~juliank
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[JulianAndresKlode]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==
I am a Debian Developer involved in / sometimes leading python-apt development. I have developed dh-autoreconf and hardlink and maintain various other packages in Debian. I'm also working on APT, and currently am the one doing the releases and maintaining the xenial branch.

== My Ubuntu story ==

=== My involvement ===

I started using Ubuntu productively in 2006, and since then have contributed to Ubuntu mostly through fixing bugs in Debian and by syncing them in Ubuntu.

I am an Ubuntu member, and recently also a member of Ubuntu bug control.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

Porting python-apt to Python 3, writing dh-autoreconf, and improving APT: SHA1 deprecation, fetcher sandboxing, new pinning engine, and other stuff.

=== Areas of work ===

I mostly work on APT right now, but I also maintain several other packages in Debian and also work on APT reverse dependencies from time to time. I've worked a lot with mvo, and a lot of different people helped me sponsor uploads and APT SRUs.

I'm also involved in hplip packaging on the Debian side, which is kind of weird and partially non-free right now.

I also maintain various small utilities, the best known is dh-autoreconf which recently became a dependency of debhelper itself.

=== Things I could do better ===

I'd like to have more time to fix bugs and improve my software, but university keeps me busy, so I only have time sporadically. 

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

I plan to bring support for aptitude patterns to APT and introduce seccomp sandboxing for fetchers. Some of those changes probably require changes in reverse dependencies. I'm also interested in adding an AppArmor layer to our sandboxing, but have not checked yet if that makes sense.

Obviously, I also plan to fix a lot of bugs and upload a lot of new APT releases.

I also hope to get the hplip packaging in a sane state copyright wise (it's synced).

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

Bugs are annoying. Let us fix them!

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== mvo ===
==== General feedback ====
I worked with Julian for a couple of year, first on python-apt, then on apt itself. His work is always high quality and he has a good judgement. I trust Julian that he will do a good job maintaining apt/python-apt. I'm sure he will also do a good job with the others fwiw, its just that all my work with him was centered around apt/python-apt :)

=== xnox ===
Please grant JulianK Ubuntu Core Developer rights, he knows what he is doing. Anything else would be silly, given that he effectively lands apt into Ubuntu already anyway.

<pre>
<xnox> rbasak, the list of PPU packages he requests are fine. However, he also finds things and fixes bugs in other dependant packages, and is capable of being an effective core dev =)
* xnox wants juliank as a core dev, cause he would be a good core dev =)
<rbasak> The first part of that reason is a good reason. The second part is a good endorsement but not in itself a reason :)
<rbasak> Please put your reasons in your endorsement ;)
</pre>

=== Martin Pitt ===
I've followed Julian's work for a long time now. I fully trust his very capable skills in the world of apt and related packages, and he is very enthusiastic and engaged to fix things in Ubuntu as well. He also knows about our release process and freezes and coordinates updates accordingly. I fully support and recommend granting PPU rights -- in fact, I also fully support him becoming a full core developer.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryCoreDevApplication]]</nowiki>
