{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

====== About a person who should be doing homework right now ======

Hello wonderful world of open source community! I have to say, I'm really glad to be part of this noble cause ;) Honored, really. 

=== About moi ===

I am currently a college student in Long Beach, California. Every once in a while, I would stop and admire the brilliant work accomplished by the open source community.

=== How I met Linux ===
I first found out about Linux about a year ago while I was bored and browsing the web for something new to do with my computer. I ran across Ubuntu, and I tried it on my computer.  I didn't like it because it was so different from Windows and contained so many bugs.

Fast-forward to March, 2010.  Spring break just started, and my computer got the blue-screen of death.  I was devastated.  No way I could survive spring break with no internet. But I remembered Ubuntu and I remembered seeing Linux magazines that provide their distros for free on a DVD.  Long story short, Ubuntu is now my main and only OS and I'm loving it. 

=== Info for BugSquad ===

As for the different areas in the Linux environment, I'm interested in sound, desktop, appearance, panels, and program compatibility. I'm interested in Linux in general.

I'm in the North America Pacific Timezone, or the Los Angeles area (GMT -8:00)

I'm free all day on weekends and nights on weekdays (5pm and after) I'm freest on Friday night and Saturday night.

=== Conclusion ===

Need I say it? I'm a Linux addict! And I'll do my best to help out and contribute to the great Linux community :)

----
CategoryHomepage
