{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Jury Mancinelli ===

Hi,

I'm an Electronic Engineer, and I was born "in the far" 1976... a great year!
I live in Rome, Italy, where I was born: I like this old and confused City.
I have been started with Linux in the 1996-1997, more or less, using Red Hat.

Now I use Ubuntu, and have been following it since it's first release.

==== Personal Data ====
* Birthdate: July 14, 1976
* City of birth: Rome, Italy
* Where I live: Rome, Italy

==== Education ====
* Type: Degree in Electronic Engineering, focused on Telecommunications Systems
* University: Università degli Studi "Roma Tre" - Rome, Italy
* Dates Attended: 10/1995 - 06/2001

==== Job ====
I'm working for an important company that produces radio equipments.

==== Interests ====
I like the Art: Painting, Comix, Rock Music and Architecture.
* Interesting "Painting" artists: Walter Valentini, Alessandro Gianvenuti
* Interesting Comix: Cybersix (Trillo - Meglia), ESP (La Neve)
* Interesting Rock Band: Subsonica (Turin, Italy), Bluvertigo (Italy), Placebo, The Cure
* Interesting Architecture: Renzo Piano

==== Contact Details ====
* My Professional Site: http://www.linkedin.com/in/jurymancinelli
* My Blog (Italian): http://occhinbici.splinder.com
* Email: 

That's all folks!
See You in Ubuntu-it Community!

----

CategoryHomepage
