{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Tm_T ==

=== Contact ===
* Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~tmt
* IRC: Tm_T

=== Who am I? ===
A Finnish human-like creature who has a twisted sense of humour and an endless stock of stories. Loves music and art, many kinds of science and even does a lots of philosophical thinking (usually ending up messing own thoughts). But only after a large cup of coffee. Or three.

* Lives in Eastern Finland

=== So how did I spend my time? ===
* User helping in IRC, since 2005 on various Ubuntu and KDE channels
* IRC channel administration (although I'm old and slow)
* Random debugging, whining, testing and developing all over KDE and (K)Ubuntu
* Marketing! </3
* Building our LoCo FinnishTeam to be the best of them all!
* Whatever people ask me to do and I'm able to (:

=== How I'm now ===
* Focus on personal life, not active in Ubuntu community in any meaningful capacity
* Sometimes reachable on IRC

=== Testimonials ===
"Jussi is an extremely good helper in #kubuntu - humorous, non-judgemental, and diplomatic. The sort of person who fits the Freenode definition of "catalyst". Also a just and fair operator in the channels they are responsible for. And of course, someone who helps support my coffee habit!" 
<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mystic-scientist]]</nowiki> 

Jussi is always helpful and light-hearted. Mystic-Scientist, hear hear! <nowiki>[[ValorieZimmerman]]</nowiki>
