{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Not an open format.
=== Elián Hanisch ===
I'm an avionics technician and electronic engineering student. I started using linux in 2007, my first distribution was Kubuntu 6.06 and I have been a Kubuntu user since then.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Location:'''
| Buenos Aires, Argentina
|-
| '''IRC:'''
| m4v, on irc://irc.libera.chat
|-
| '''Launchpad:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~m4v]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Why Ubuntu? ===
I don't believe Ubuntu is the "best" distro out there, neither the one with the best technical merits. But Ubuntu has a great community, where I feel comfortable working with, and is the distro with the vision I believe is right. For the same reason you can only have freedom of speech if there's a literate society, you can only push open source if the society can use it, and for that the Linux desktop has to be easy to use, and mainly "just work". Not just for the people without computer skills, but for professionals that can't afford wasting time in figuring out why video or wireless isn't working. Since that's Ubuntu's aim, I'm with Ubuntu.

=== Contributions ===
Most of my work is devoted to the Spanish support channels in freenode, I joined first `#kubuntu-es` and a couple of years later `#ubuntu-es`. Together with erUSUL I helped to get `#ubuntu-es` back to its feet, give some new life to our social channel `#ubuntu-es-cafe` (previously named `#ubuntu-es-offtopic`), recruit new operators and get an Spanish infobot. I have been active since 2008, and been responsible of the channels' health since 2010.

I work with the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-bots|Ubuntu IRC Bots]]</nowiki> team, writing code, fixing bugs and whatever problem I can help with the bots in general. Also working on <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/devel/wiki/Stormyfacts|Stormyfacts]]</nowiki>, a factoid plugin for ubottu & clones that aims to improve factoid collaboration and localization.

I also help the Spanish Ubuntu classroom team, mostly with IRC organization, Classbot, and keeping an eye on the occasional troll that shows during events.

=== Long term goals ===
* Build a team in `#ubuntu-es` that can keep up the good work without me, I'm studying engineering so I expect to have less time to spare in the future.
* Keep on improving our bots with uncalled-for features.

=== Testimonials ===
''Thanks everyone! I'm now a member!''

* Either Elián gets membership, or ubottu gets it! Seriously though, the work he does for UbuntuBots is more than enough to warrant membership. He's helpful, thoughtful, and a great contributor to the smooth running of IRC. You owe him! ;) -- <nowiki>[[TSimpson]]</nowiki>

* I only know m4v from his tireless work on ubottu, and from contacts on IRC; he is hard-working, and epitomizes what is best about Ubuntu, the commmunity, and its members. There is no one more deserving of membership that I can think of. Highly recommended. <nowiki>[[bazhang]]</nowiki>

* m4v has been contributing to the Ubuntu IRC community for almost as long I can remember. He works tirelessly on ubottu, helps out with the Spanish speaking channels and is generally a calming influence on those around him. He gets my highest recommendation for membership - a major asset to the Ubuntu IRC community. -- <nowiki>[[JussiSchultink]]</nowiki>

* I don't think there is anything I can add that hasn't alredy been said about m4v. He is well deserving of membership. Great big +1 from me <nowiki>[[idleone]]</nowiki>

* As mate of the op group I work on daily basis with m4v and I can say that very few people in the #ubuntu-es channel work as hard as him, I'll be happy to support its request for membership <nowiki>[[~chilicuil]]</nowiki>
