{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Maarten Lankhorst, apply for upload rights for package(s) related to the Xorg stack.'''

x11proto-*-dev, libxrandr, x11-xserver-utils, xorg, xorg-server, libdrm, mesa, wayland, libtxc-dxtn, xf86-*,
xserver-xorg*

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Maarten Lankhorst
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~mlankhorst
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaartenLankhorst
|}

== Who I am ==
''I'm Maarten Lankhorst. In the past I've worked upstream on wine and I'm still involved with it, and I maintain the ubuntu-wine ppa and fix sound related issues there. Since last year I've started working upstream on nouveau and that's how I originally got involved with ubuntu. I'm now working on trying to get optimus support working properly. ''

== My Ubuntu story ==
Before ubuntu started I ran various distros (debian, gentoo, arch) and even ran linuxfromscratch for a while. From that I learned how most lower level system components work together and the first ubuntu distro I ran was probably Edgy Eft. There were also a few years I didn't run ubuntu at all after hardy I think, but since precise
I started using ubuntu again. Before that I was running debian then fedora.

I started getting involved again because I was hired by canonical to work on the X stack. I've helped get the current X.org stack in quantal in place, and test the bits related to optimus support. Right now I'm mostly working trying to get upstream support ready and working on the renamed quantal stack for precise.

Since this will involve creating an entire new set of packages, I feel like I should apply for core-dev rather than PPU.

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
=== Areas of work ===
* ubuntu wine ppa:
* maintaining https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-wine/+archive/ppa and uploading new versions when they become available, cooperated with Scott Ritchie on this.
* X.org stack:
* maintaining and testing the backported stack of quantal in precise in https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/q-lts-backport (WIP, not latest versions currently)
* Preparing the initial versions of most packages for the transition to xorg 1.13
* push and release rights for all xorg-server related packages on freedesktop
* Linux kernel:
* Some patches WIP related to synchronization for dma-buf (optimus support related)

I've worked together with the other ubuntu and debian developers working on X, among which RAOF, Sarvatt, tjaalton, bryceh, and jcristau and isolated and reported some bugs to upstream, or sent fixes for them.

=== Things I could do better ===
Pay closer attention to bugs, didn't put much time into it at all during my vacation.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''I think the SRU process for quantal will create extra paperwork when those same patches would need to be SRU'd to precise too, there might be some need to bypass paperwork in this case.''
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''
=== Bryce Harrington ===
==== General feedback ====
He has an eye for detail and quality.  He is very knowledgeable into the depths of the X.org gfx stack, and I have no complaints for his packaging work, but I've sponsored only a few packages from him so far.  Overall, I do trust him to make the right decisions.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
We've mostly worked together on the LTS point release X.org update stack.  This is a critically important chunk of code to update, however based on my experiences working with mlankhorst I trust him to see it through successfully.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
* Bug triage
* More SRU upload proposals for LTS

=== Scott Ritchie ===
==== General feedback ====
Maarten has been helping me keep packages current in the Ubuntu Wine PPA for some time.  He's learned some of the idioms of Debian packaging quite fast, and keeps his distro-specific patches up to date.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
We've worked together as comaintainers of the Ubuntu Wine PPA for some time now.  I've done most of the "new" packaging work, while Maarten has handled the updates, but we've coordinated quite closely and worked well together.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
More sending of patches upstream (in our case, upstream has a history of rejecting some)

=== TimoAaltonen ===
==== General feedback ====
I've sponsored a number of packages for Maarten, and he has quickly learned the workflow for updating packages in the X stack. There have been no issues with them as of late.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
He prepared most of the obscure video drivers ready for the new xserver video abi, so I only had to upload them to quantal-proposed and that's it. He also worked actively with upstream on the new hybrid graphics plumbing, fixing issues before they got in the hands of other users.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
bug triage is something we all could be better at, and looks like Maarten has already taken the hint seriously :)

=== ChrisHalseRogers ===
==== General feedback ====
I've sponsored a number of X uploads for Maarten from pkg-xorg git, mostly earlier in the Quantal development cycle while he was learning the ropes. He quickly adapted to our workflow and was producing packages I was happy with first time after a short time.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
He prepared many of the packages for the first X transition in Quantal. Although there was initially a bit of impedance with the git workflow - and, like all of us, sometimes forgot to push to pkg-xorg - he quickly got everything settled. He knows when to ask for clarification, and how to respond to it.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
I think Maarten could do with some more exposure to some of the SRU policies and the reasoning behind them, but he'll get that as he starts to submit more SRUs.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryCoreDevApplication]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
