{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Approval Application for the Macedonian LoCo Team ===

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - (''08.06.2008'')
* '''Team Contact''' - Arangel Angov <arangel@linux.net.mk>
* '''Membership''' - 11 as of 1st June 2008
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-mk@lists.ubuntu.com (request has been sent to rt@ubuntu.com)
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-mk on Freenode

=== Roadmap ===

Plans for future activities:

* ''Localization'' - We have some plans to reorganize in order to get more translations IN from GNOME upstream and also involve some of the newer members in the process.
* ''Ubuntu for Macedonia'' - We have future plans for moving our wiki homepage to http://ubuntu.linux.net.mk.

=== Experience ===

Most of the members of this team were involved in the localization of Ubuntu since the beginning. Others have been working on offering free support, holding presentations and other advocacy activities.

* ''Localization'' - We've already translated most of Ubuntu in Macedonian. ( https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy/+lang/mk )
* ''Ubuntu mirror'' - We've setup and are currently maintaining an unoffical local Ubuntu mirror. It's been actively used by Ubuntu users from Macedonia since Ubuntu Dapper. ( http://mirror.on.net.mk/ubuntu )
* ''Ubuntu for Macedonia'' - In 2005 Free Software Macedonia (our mother organization) started a campaign called "Ubuntu for Macedonia". We distributed 1000 Ubuntu CDs from shipit.ubuntu.com accross the country (population is 2 million people). The campaign continues  in 2008 with the creation of the web forums called "Ubuntu for Macedonia". The forums are located at http://ubuntu.linux.net.mk/forum. We just launched a competition on our forum (http://ubuntu.linux.net.mk/forum/viewtopic.php?f=10&t=46&p=208#p208) - everyone that will contribute with 2 HOWTO's or help find 4 simple solutions to the existing issues on the forum will get an Ubuntu t-shirt. 
* ''Ubuntu in public schools'' - We are also indirectly involved in the Macedonian government's project for deployment of Ubuntu on every PC in all primary and secondary schools in Macedonia. We are responsible for the maintenance of the translations of GNOME/Ubuntu - these translations are going to be used by every student in Macedonia.

Links per activity:
(Sorry but most of them are in Macedonian) 

* '' Localization status:'' https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy/+lang/mk

* '' The Macedonian team on Launchpad:'' https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-mk

* '' Ubuntu for Macedonia announcement:'' http://slobodensoftver.org.mk/vesti/ubuntu_za_makedonija

* '' HOWTO for handling customs when ordering Ubuntu CDs:'' http://slobodensoftver.org.mk/vesti/ubuntu_carina

Other links from team members:

* '' Ubuntu sharing in the city of Bitola'' - http://www.flickr.com/photos/lugola/429226765/ 

* '' Photos of Ubuntu CDs "flood", again in Bitola'' - http://picasaweb.google.com/jovan3.14/Ubuntu

* '' Short review and upgrade howto for Hardy'' - http://ufo.linux.net.mk/archives/299

* '' Announcing the comeback of "Ubuntu for Macedonia"'' - http://ufo.linux.net.mk/archives/298

* '' Our Ubuntu artwork guru and team member's blog (Ubuntu category only)'' - http://pablisher.lugola.net/?tag=%D1%83%D0%B1%D1%83%D0%BD%D1%82%D1%83

* '' Another short review by a team member'' - http://instantekspert.blogspot.com/2008/04/ubuntu-804.html
