{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Any similarity between my page, JeffreyElkner's page, and MatthewGallagher's page is because they used mine and as a template.

=== Basic Stuff ===

'''Name:''' Mackenzie Morgan

'''Nick pronunciation:''' MACK-oh (''not'' MAY-ko...that's <nowiki>[[BenjaminMakoHill | Mako]]</nowiki>'s name)

'''Location:''' Washington, DC

'''Hometown:''' Pittsburgh, PA

'''Email:''' 

* maco.m@ubuntu.com

'''IRC Op:''' 

* #kubuntu
* #ubuntu 
* #ubuntu-us-dc 
* #ubuntu-women
* #ubuntu-women-project
* #ubuntuforums

'''Jabber:''' macoafi@gmail.com

'''Linux User #:''' 432169

'''Ubuntu User #:''' 8495

'''Launchpad:''' https://launchpad.net/~maco.m

'''Current OS:''' Kubuntu Lucid

'''Blog:''' http://ubuntulinuxtipstricks.blogspot.com

My handle for pretty much the entire internet is maco.  Variations are macoafi or macogw if the site requires 6 letters, but maco usually means me.

I'm a junior at GWU in Washington, DC.  I'm a Computer Science major with a concentration on computer security and information assurance.  If anyone who happens to be reading this is from GW or somewhere in DC, say hi.

=== Governance ===
I'm an op in a handful of Ubuntu channels (listed above), an <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org | Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki> moderator, and on the <nowiki>[[Membership-RegionalBoards-Americas | Americas Regional Membership Board]]</nowiki>.

=== Memberships ===
I became an Ubuntu Member in October 2007. If you're working on your wiki page to become one yourself, here's a look at one mine looked like at the time: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MacoMorgan?action=recall&rev=5 | clicky link]]</nowiki>

I became a MOTU in November 2009.  Here's what my application looked like: <nowiki>[[MacoMorgan-MOTUApp | clicky link]]</nowiki>

What's next?  I'll apply for the ~kubuntu-dev team before 11.04 is released.

=== Tech Stuff ===

==== Programming ====

Java, C, Python, GTK+, PyKDE

==== Code/Patches ====

Adding minimum speed, maximum speed, and acceleration to GSynaptics was my first patch.  It's not in the (very old) version 0.9.5 that's in Hardy, though.  I packaged up 0.9.14 to take care of it for Hardy.  It is in Intrepid.

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/seahorse/+bug/215729|Bug #215729]]</nowiki> was the first bug I helped fix.

First kernel patch: http://lkml.org/lkml/2009/2/13/346

===== Currently working on... =====
Add an option for a gradient background in gnome-panel ... nevermind. GNOME's replacing gnome-panel anyway so it's no use :(

<nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/gally | Gally]]</nowiki>, a program to teach sign language, built on the KDE4 Platform

==== My PPA ====
Add
<pre>
deb     http://ppa.launchpad.net/maco.m/ubuntu gutsy main restricted universe multiverse
deb-src http://ppa.launchpad.net/maco.m/ubuntu gutsy main restricted universe multiverse</pre>
to your /etc/apt/sources.list and then <code>sudo apt-get update</code>  Currently, my PPA has Twitux 0.61 and GSynaptics 0.9.14 for Hardy.
=== PGP Key ===

<pre>
-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
Version: SKS 1.0.9
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=MN4q
-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----</pre>

Oh, and um, by the way... http://hall-of-fame.ubuntu.com/?feature=mackenzie-morgan
