{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



* '''Name      :''' Mad Nick (madnick)
* '''Project   :''' Doing my best to contribute to Xubuntu
* '''Location  :''' Sweden
* '''O/S       :''' Xubuntu
* '''E-mail    :''' dr.madnick [at] gmail [dot] com
* '''Launchpad :''' https://launchpad.net/~dr-madnick
* '''IRC       :''' ''madnick'' @ irc.freenode.net

=== About me ===

I made first contact with computers in school as a young boy in 1995, the machine ran Windows 3.11 and I quickly started to modify text strings in QBASIC, it wouldn’t be long until I had written my own program from scratch, the year after my dad got me a computer, running Windows 95, a bit later my friends dad got us Visual Basic 4, and I was up and running with GUI’s. And in 1997 my dad got us a 28k modem, at which point I realized that I of course must have a home page ;) So I started learning HTML. Things pretty much continued in the VB and HTML direction for a while, until I started junior high school and took a break from computers for a while. When I was 15, my interest in computers peaked once again, and I applied to a electrical engineering / computer programming high school, I got in, and took courses in C++, Java and Visual Basic, while also “studying” C++ and PHP in my spare time. After graduation I directly applied to the university, I got in and started studying something Computer Science’y. I didn’t graduate fully, but I did get some work experience and then I started my own programming business. Things went on pretty well, for a while, then I got sick (which is why I am sometimes weird), and I am now retired.

I’ve been using Xubuntu since 6.06, but I only recently (2011) got involved with it, it happened suddenly after a Xubuntu Community Meeting on IRC which I happened to attend, and I got the job to write a theme for Plymouth in Oneiric, and so I did (with great help from the artwork guys), after that I looked into building a LightDM greeter, it was close to finished, but time ran short and it was postponed until Oneiric+1.
I also try to help out with testing as much as I can. You might find me randomly saying something about an image on IRC, this is because I’ve had troubles navigating the testing websites, but GridCube solved that with his interface, and I’m learning Google Docs as well.

=== Skill Set ===

* Strong knowledge of C and x86 Assembly, as well as PHP, Javascript, SQL and HTML.

* I won’t use the word strong here but: C++, C#, Java, VB4-.NET, Python and more.

* Not sure if its a skill, but I am a nice guy, or so my friends tell me. :)
