{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

I've been playing with computers since I spent a large portion of my savings
on a VIC20. The path after that was quite predicatble, C-64, Amiga500, x486.
The first time I installed Linux was in '95, as I grew more and more tired of
having to spend money on my OS/2 system I decided to try this Linux thing out.
All my mates were saying it was so good. I haven't turend back since. (I
shamefully have to admit I've installed a Windows system or two since then,
but never for my own use.)

I've gone through a few Linux distros. The first one I installed was Slackware
(mid-nineties, remember!). Then Debian Potato, some RedHat, Mandrake for
several years, back to Debian, a quick flirt with Gentoo and then back to
Debian. Now I've ended up with Ubuntu, and I love it!

== Interests ==

I've mostly made small additions/improvements to software I'm using. I've
contributed bug-fixes (sometimes even code implementing new features) to

* ORBit2 (the IDL compiler)
* Umbrella (http://umbrella.sourceforge.net/)
* check (http://check.sourceforge.net/)
* PyGGy (http://www.lava.net/~newsham/pyggy/)

Most of all I'm writing small programs for my own use in Python. (Bounder,
part of <nowiki>[[http://bunny.sourceforge.net/index.html|Bunny]]</nowiki>). I've recently put together a small program inspired by Password Minder (described in this <nowiki>[[http://msdn.microsoft.com/msdnmag/issues/04/07/SecurityBriefs/default.aspx|article]]</nowiki>), the program is called <nowiki>[[http://therning.org/magnus/computer/keysafe/|KeySafe]]</nowiki>.

I keep a small APT repository with software that I've either packaged myself
or, in a few cases, Debian/Ubuntu packages I felt needed some improvements.
Check <nowiki>[[http://therning.org/magnus/computer/apt-repo/|here]]</nowiki> for more details.

== GnuPG key ==

My main GnuPG is AB4DFBA4 with email address 'magnus (at) therning (dot) org'.

== Pages I have an interest in ==

* VerifyIsoHowto

----
CategoryHomepage
