{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Hi!! ==

I'm Magnus Brandt and I am a partner at <nowiki>[[http://www.aspirix.se|Aspirix AB]]</nowiki> in Sweden. Aspirix is a independent IT company focusing at delivering total care of customers primary with open source software, mainly with the help of <nowiki>[[http://www.openBravo.com|OpenBravo]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.openerp.com|OpenERP]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.alfresco|Alfresco]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://samba.org/|Samba]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.zimbra|Zimbra]]</nowiki> and of course Ubuntu!

Aside from work I'm helping the community to translate OpenERP to Swedish.

Some other work for the community involves implementing accounting in Openbravo ERP for the Swedish market.

I've been involved in the Open Source communities since 1996. 
I started with Debian but I'm getting more and more of an Ubuntie :)

== Hej!! ==
Jag heter Magnus Brandt och är delägare i <nowiki>[[http://www.aspirix.se|Aspirix AB]]</nowiki>. Aspirix är ett fristående företag som hjälper företag med deras IT system främst med hjälp av öppen källkodssystem som <nowiki>[[http://www.openBravo.com|OpenBravo]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.openerp.com|OpenERP]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.alfresco|Alfresco]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://samba.org/|Samba]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.zimbra|Zimbra]]</nowiki> och självklart Ubuntu!

Vid sidan om arbetet hjälper jag just nu communityn att översätta OpenERP till svenska.

Annat arbete för olika communitys innebär att implementera svenskt bokföringsstöd i OpenERP och Openbravo ERP

Jag har varit med i olika open source communitys från 1996.
Jag började med Debian och har kört en rad olika dialekter som Gentoo, Slackware, Redhat, Suse men trivs just nu bäst i Ubuntu!
