{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


----

=== About Me ===
Real name is Mahmudin Ashar (''nickname : ashar'') 25 years old, currently live in ''' Yogyakarta ''',Indonesia fouder of <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntubuzz.com | www.ubuntubuzz.com]]</nowiki>.  I'm Blogger, Programmer, Web designer, Interested with Networking/Networking Security and Currently works for government of indonesia.

I graduated from Gadjah Mada University / a bachelor degree of Computer Science with final assigment '''"How to build reliable backup and restore system using rsync"'''.

my currently activity is works and maintain some ubuntu servers in my office and writing some Ubuntu/OpenSource article in <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntubuzz.com | www.ubuntubuzz.com]]</nowiki>, yes this is our lovely blog that express our passionate with ubuntu and opensource.

=== Experience with Ubuntu ===
* My experience with ubuntu is start in 5 years ago when was build a mail system called ''"Domain Pop Forwarding Email System"'', this system looks like ''"evolution"'' the difference is, this system is web bassed application and can be used by many people in a company (all staff in a company). This system is dedicated to small company (there are many in indonesia) who can not afford dedicated mailserver and provides email services for their staff.
* Other experience is build webbased backup and restore system (something like affiliate backup) using rsync. this system is based on ''"Easy Automated Snapshot-Style Backups with Linux and Rsync"''  by adding interactive  interface and ''"restore"''  module.
* Some Other Experience is build a debian based server for an Internet Service Provider in Yogyakarta.
 
=== Contribution to Ubuntu ===
Not many things that I contribute in Ubuntu, one thing that i assiduous and proud of is a Ubuntu/OpenSource fan blog in <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntubuzz.com | www.ubuntubuzz.com]]</nowiki> that Maintained and write by myself and my small ubuntu comunity.

=== Future Plans ===
* I want to be Ubuntu Planet Contributor. 
* Get our Community [Ubuntu Buzz!] bigger and Make it as good as OMG! Ubuntu.

=== Contact ===
* Email : <nowiki>[[mailto:mahmudinashar@yahoo.co.id | mahmudinashar@yahoo.co.id]]</nowiki>
* Facebook : <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/plktn | Mahmudin Ashar]]</nowiki>
* Twitter : <nowiki>[[http://www.twitter.com/ubuntubuzz | Ubuntubuzz]]</nowiki>
