{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Andras Borek ==

=== About ===

I'm a product of Hungary since 1970, a long time FOSS fanatic, a sailor, a father of two well behaving boys and everyday Ubuntu user. I graduated as an electrical engineer in 1994 in Budapest. My love with hacking started a long time ago, back in 1983 with ZX81 Basic. In 1986 published my first article about creating sprites on ZX Spectrum in Assembly. Since end of 2006 I'm the member of <nowiki>[[http://netidok.hu/|Netidők]]</nowiki> - a weekly radio show in the Hungarian National Radio, where I talk about free culture, open source movement and operating systems.

=== Find me ===

* '''Personal blog:''' <nowiki>[[http://borek.hu/|borek.hu]]</nowiki>
* '''Launchpad profile:''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mail-borek|My profile on Launchpad]]</nowiki>
* '''My Facbook profile:''' <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/andras.borek|facebook.com/andras.borek]]</nowiki>
* '''My Twitter profile:''' <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/borekdothu|twitter.com/borekdothu]]</nowiki>
* '''Netidők homepage:''' <nowiki>[[http://netidok.hu/|netidok.hu]]</nowiki>
* '''Netidők blog:''' <nowiki>[[http://netidok.postr.hu/|netidok.postr.hu]]</nowiki>
* '''Netidők fan page:''' <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/netidok|facebook.com/netidok]]</nowiki>

=== Publications & Public speeches - related to IT ===

* '''1986''' Creating a 4 Character Sprite on ZX Specturm; Z-80 Assembly code
* '''2006 - To date''' Open source related subjects; Netidők weekly talk show
* '''2009''' Mandatory use of open standards in government and public services; Computerworld Online, <nowiki>[[http://computerworld.hu/kotelezo-lesz-a-nyilt-szabvanyok-hasznalata.html|Article]]</nowiki>, ISBN/ISSN 02377837
* '''2010''' Tanítani, de mit? / Teach, but what?; Computerworld print, in: Computerworld Hungary, ISBN/ISSN 02377837
* '''2010''' e-Világi trendek / Trends in e-World; Computerworld Online, <nowiki>[[http://computerworld.hu/e-vilagi-trendek.html|Article]]</nowiki>, ISBN/ISSN 02377837
* '''2010''' Read/write culture that changes the media; Public presentation @ Organization for student and youth journalism
* '''2010''' Community development and open society; Public presentation about WEB2.0 technology and read/write culture @ Academy for Civil Communication

----
