{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

'''Note''': when writing a report this template should be vigorously edited; as a rule of thumb, every individual point should be replaced with a description of the actual situation in the package in question.  The purpose of the report is to convey information to the reviewer, so there is no problem with varying the text in the bullet items, or with adding additional information.

Please be informative, and in particular be thorough in investigating and explaining any weaknesses and problems with the package.  The purpose of the report is to show to the reviewer that the package has been properly investigated, and to give the reviewer the information from that investigation, for their decision.

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/l/logwatch]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures 
# ''Rationale:'' 
** [WWW] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerPackageReview
 0. ''Security:''
** CVE: None against current version.
** Secunia: None against current version
** No binaries running as suid or sgid root.
** No daemons
** Network activity: Doesnt open a port.
** Any source code review performed ?  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.)
	no
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?
	When the user wants to change what they are monitoring in the log file. It is simple to change though.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:logwatch]]</nowiki>: Bugs in debian can sit in bug tracker for more than 130 days.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/l/logwatch.html]]</nowiki>: calm
** <nowiki>[[http://www2.logwatch.org:81/index.html]]</nowiki> is calm
** <nowiki>[[http://www2.list.logwatch.org:81/pipermail/logwatch-devel/]]</nowiki>: calm
** Hardware: No
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance:
		Yes
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ?
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ?
	Nothing fancy uses debhelper.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
  	Depends on virtual package mail-transport-agent.
	Recommends libdate-manip-perl.
** Are these all in main ?
	Yes
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please 

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/logwatch/+bug/184871]]</nowiki>

ChuckShort
