{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This project has recently been moved under the ubmrella of Xfce and we have been considering it for xubuntu
before that, but waited for the package to land in debian first. It is being actively improved on upstream to
work as a thunar plugin as well.

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/x/xarchiver, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:'xubuntu default archive manager'
# ''Security:''
** No CVE entries.
** No Secunia history.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** Does not open any port.
** Source code review:
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** No showstopper Debian bugs.
** Good maintenance in Debian.
** Active upstream.
** No critical bugs in <nowiki>[[http://bugs.xfce.org]]</nowiki>
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Meets <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards.
** Standard cdbs packaging, standard patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
