{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for AuthClientConfig ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/a/auth-client-config]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Future versions of ldap-auth-config will be dependent on the package.
** This package allows template based pam and nsswitch configuration, which is part of the plan for simplified ldap authentication.
 0. ''Security:''
** This is a new package and has no historical data.
** This package consists of a python script that requires root privileges to function.  It is not SUID/GUID.
** This package does not access any network ports.
** This package installs a python script in /usr/sbin.
** The source has had a cursory review by <nowiki>[[dendrobates|RickClark]]</nowiki>
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** This package requires profiles/templates to work properly.  Examples are provided.
** This package does not use debconf over medium.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.strandboge.com/software/auth-client-config|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** This package does not deal with hardware.
 0. ''Standards compliance:''
** This package is <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Packaging system: debhelper and python-central.  This is a very simple package.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** debconf, python
** Are these all in main ? Yes
 0. ''Background information:''
** This will allow Ubuntu easier integration as a network authentication client.  Currently it must be done by hand.

=== Reviewers ===

<nowiki>[[dendrobates|RickClark]]</nowiki>

MartinPitt: looks good to me; fine to go to main when it actually gets used
