{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for powerman ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/powerman]]</nowiki>; available for i386, amd64.
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of nut
** Powerman allows to manage a wide range of Power Distribution Units (PDUs). Through it, NUT can offer its standardised layers (API, namespace, ...) and tools to manage both PDUs and UPSs
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=powerman|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=PRODUCT_NAME|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** All the framework is working with the "powerman" user. This change (not running as root) was part of the initial Debianisation
** Network activity: powermand opens the port 10101/tcp to receive client queries.
** No binary or structured data processed.
** A source code review has been performed by the Debian Developer (ArnaudQuette).
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?
*** All the profiles are in complain mode by default. Powerman need to be told what device(s) are present. 
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:powerman]]</nowiki>:
    Powerman is currently still blocked in the Debian new queue:
    http://ftp-master.debian.org/new/powerman_2.3.3-1.html
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/powerman.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous (but still waiting the initial inclusion!).
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/powerman/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=34170&atid=410407|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: no bug currently.
** Hardware: this package adds support for Power Distribution Units (PDUs), which are common devices in Data Centers.
    <nowiki>[[http://powerman.sourceforge.net/supported.html|list of supported devices]]</nowiki>
** An upstream test suite is available using "make check" for non regression testing.
    This feature is not used during the build stage.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? Yes
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ? debhelper + cdbs
0. ''Dependencies:''
** in universe:
*** genders: can be disabled by removing the Build-Depends in debian/control and --with-genders from DEB_CONFIGURE_EXTRA_FLAGS in debian/rules! but it's an interesting feature (MIR for Genders?!)
** in main:
*** libwrap0-dev
*** libcurl4-gnutls-dev
*** libncurses5-dev
0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ? Simple
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ? upstream developer and Debian developer.
0. ''Background information:''
** this point is part of the <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/improved-power-management|Improved Power Management blueprint]]</nowiki>, which will help the Server Team
** What do upstream call this software ? powerman

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/337226]]</nowiki>

Author: ArnaudQuette
