{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/d/dhcdbd, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Dependency of Network Manager
** Provides a D-BUS interface to dhclient
** Interacts "sanely" with our dhclient setup (ie. reads pids and leases files properly)
 0. ''Security:''
** No CVE entries.
** No Secunia history.
** Root binary (dhcdbd) started by d-bus; cannot be de-rooted as it needs to start dhclient which has to be started as root.
** Does not open any port.
** Source code review:
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Not packaged in Debian.
** Active upstream.
** No critical (or indeed normal) bugs in <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.redhat.com/]]</nowiki>
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Meets <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards.
** Standard debhelper packaging, simplest patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===

* ScottJamesRemnant
