{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
Hopefully we can get a regular irc meeting schedule set up, day and time TBA. As membership grows, this should get easier to accomplish.

Physical meetings are a goal as well, as it appears many of us are relatively close geographically. Again, any dates TBA

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaineTeam <<BR>>
'''Meeting Log(s):''' http://people.ubuntu.com/~fabbione/irclogs/Location_of_Log.html <<BR>>
'''Meeting Chair:''' Chairperson's Name <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' Person's Name <<BR>>

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:

===== Members Present =====
* Member 1
* Member 2

===== Others Present =====
* Person 1
* Person 2

== Agenda Items ==
Please add any items that need discussion here [ClayWeber]

The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:
* Agenda Item 1
* Agenda Item 2

== Proceedings ==
* ''Meeting called to order at '''TIME''', by Meeting Chair, '''Chairperson'''''
* '''''LAST MEETING DATE''' meeting minutes were amended and approved'''''

=== Agenda ===
The following is a break down of the entire meeting by agenda items.

===== Agenda Item =====
'''Presented by:''' Name - brief statement about person (i.e., teamwork involvement)

Insert a brief excerpt concerning the agenda and the communication involved.
<pre>
Insert IRC Log Reference Here
</pre>
'''Outcome:''' "'''Approved/Denied'''"

== Conclusion ==
Brief statement concerning the meeting and outcome.
