{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/x/xdg-utils, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** XDG is the agreed cross-distro cross-desktop method for applications to perform various actions, we should include them on the CD by default
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=xdg-utils|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=xdg-utils|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** Does not open any port.
** Source code review:
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'normal'.
** No showstopper <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:xdg-utils|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>.
** Good <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/x/xdg-utils.html|maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki>.
** Active <nowiki>[[http://portland.freedesktop.org|upstream]]</nowiki>.
** No critical bugs in <nowiki>[[https://bugs.freedesktop.org/buglist.cgi?query_format=specific&order=relevance+desc&bug_status=__open__&product=Portland&content=|upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Standard debhelper packaging, standard patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
