{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntu ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/u/ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntu]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures (arch: all).
# ''Rationale:''
** This package is needed in main to complete the <nowiki>[[UbuntuSpec:ubiquity-slideshow|ubiquity slideshow specification]]</nowiki>
0. ''Security:''
** Ubuntu specific package that only interfaces with ubiquity.  There are no CVE entries, nor is there any history at Secunia.
** It's a set of web pages with some javascript.  There are no daemons.  It does not run as root (ubiquity drops privileges before executing UI code), it does not pull data from non-local sources.
** I have scanned the source code as I helped get the package in shape, and have not noticed any glaring issues.  However, this was not a thorough investigative search.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** This package should install cleanly in all situations.
** The package does not ask any debconf questions.
** As this is an Ubuntu-specific package, there are no Debian bugs, nor is it maintained there.
** <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntu|Upstream]]</nowiki> is very active.
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntu|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: There are no bugs filed yet.
** Hardware: This package does not interface with hardware.
** There is no test suite, but as this is a content package, it does not need one.
0. ''UI standards:''
** All strings are translatable using gettext.  Translations are handled using Rosetta.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** The package complies with both <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>.
** The packaging system is cdbs without any patches.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** The package itself has no dependencies, being a content package.  However, it's only useful with ubiquity and pywebkitgtk, which are both in main.
0. ''Maintenance:''
** This package will require a moderate amount of maintenance.
** The ubiquity-slideshow team is responsible for handling the bugs for this package.  They may need to call upon the Ubuntu artwork, and design and usability teams in fixing bugs.
** The bug contact in Ubuntu is the <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~ubiquity-slideshow|ubiquity-slideshow]]</nowiki> team.
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package is clear from the package's debian/control file.
** This package is called ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntu, and it provides ubiquity-slideshow.
0. ''Internationalization:''
** Everything is translatable using gettext and Rosetta.  Ubiquity handles feeding the slideshow the correct locale.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntu/+bug/414837]]</nowiki>

EvanDandrea
