{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Main Inclusion Report for Displayconfig-Gtk ===

 1. Availability: The package is already be in the Ubuntu universe, and builds for the architectures it is designed to work on.

 2. Rationale:  displayconfig-gtk is used by both the BulletProofX spec and the simple X config spec (which is implemented by the DisplayConfigGTK spec).  Both of these specs are Medium priority and accepted as series goals for Gutsy.  Ultimately, this tool helps us address bug 3731 - Ubuntu's second oldest bug, and one oft-mentioned in Ubuntu reviews.

 3. Security:  
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=displayconfig-gtk|CVE]]</nowiki> entries.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=displayconfig-gtk|Secunia]]</nowiki> history.
** No entries at http://people.ubuntu.com/~pitti/ubuntu-cve/unfixed.html
** No entries at http://people.ubuntu.com/~pitti/ubuntu-cve/unchecked.html
** No executables with suid/sgid bit set.
** No executables installed into /sbin or /usr/sbin
** Nothing installed to /etc/init.d/*.  No daemon programs installed.
** Connects to X Server using standard XLib calls
    - modules/ixf86misc.c uses "XOpenDisplay(displayname)" to connect to X Server, where 'displayname' originates from the 'DISPLAY' environment variable.  XOpenDisplay uses IPC if a local host is specified, or TCP otherwise.
** Does not open any ports other than to X server.  Checked with:
    - Visual inspection of all code files
    - Returns nothing:  grep -sir serial .
    - Returns nothing:  grep -sir host .
    - Returns nothing:  grep -sir sock . | grep -vi yenta_socket
    - Returns nothing:  grep -sir 'port' . | grep -v tests/data | grep -iv 'import' | grep -vi 'support' | grep -vi 'report' | grep -vi 'apport' | grep -vi 'backport' | grep -v 'newport' | grep -v 'portion'
    - Reviewed all instances of 'connect', 'open', 'stream', 'service'

 4. Quality assurance:
** Package works out of the box with no configuration required.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions
** Upstream is actively improving the package.  It is maintained in bzr via launchpad, and main developers include Ubuntu/Canonical developers.
** There are no long-term outstanding bugs which affect the usability of the program to a major degree.  
** There are only 19 known bugs, none at High priority.
** Apport is used for capturing crash bugs, so we know rapidly if there are crash issues.
** displayconfig-gtk does not rely on any exotic hardware.

 5. Standards compliance: The package meets common packaging standards
** FHS
** Debian Policy
** Debian library packaging guide standards.
** The source packaging uses standard debhelper/cdbs build rules

 6. Dependencies:
** All dependencies are in main
    - Build-Depends: debhelper (main), python-all-dev (main), python-central (main), intltool (main), python-distutils-extra (main), cdbs (main)
    - Depends: python-gtk2 (main), python-glade2 (main), laptop-detect (main), guidance-backends (main)

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
