{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for trousers ==

=== Requirements ===

 0. ''Availability:''
** source package: <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/t/trousers/]]</nowiki>
** binary packages needed in ''main'': '''libtspi-dev, libtspi1'''
** binary packages that should remain in ''universe'': '''trousers, trousers-dbg'''
** available for all supported architectures
 0. ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of ecryptfs-utils on i386 (MainInclusionReportEcryptfsUtils)
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=trousers|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: '''none'''
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=trousers|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: '''none'''
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ? '''no'''
** Any daemons ? '''yes''', but '''not''' in the  libtspi* library/headers
** Network activity: does it open any port ? '''yes for trousers, no for libraries'''
** Does it handle incoming network data ? '''yes for trousers, no for libraries'''
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? '''no'''
** Any source code review performed ? '''no'''
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? '''none''', it's a library
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?  '''no'''
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:trousers|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: '''none'''
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/t/trousers.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is '''vigorous''' ?
** <nowiki>[[http://trousers.sourceforge.net/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is '''vigorous''' ?
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=126012&atid=704358|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: '''none critical'''
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? '''To some extent, yes'''; actually, it's the kernel TPM driver that deals with TPM chips on the motherboard, this package is the userspace component.
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging? '''not part of the source package''', but a testsuite is available in an Upstream CVS module
** Is it enabled to run in the build? '''no'''
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ?  '''yes'''
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ?  '''yes'''
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ? '''debhelper'''
** Patch system ?  '''dpatch'''
** Any packaging oddities ?  '''no'''
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** libttf2 (freetype1)
** Are these all in main ?
** No, libttf2 (freetype1): MainInclusionFreetype
 0. ''Background information:'' Quoting debian/control:
** Description: open-source TCG Software Stack (daemon), TrouSerS is an implementation of the Trusted Computing Group's Software Stack (TSS) specification. You can use TrouSerS to write applications that make use of your TPM hardware. TPM hardware can create, store and use RSA keys securely (without ever being exposed in memory), verify a platform's software state using cryptographic hashes and more. TrouSerS aims to be compliant with the 1.1b and 1.2 TSS specifications available from the Trusted Computing Group website at http://www.trustedcomputinggroup.org/. 
** What do upstream call this software ? '''trousers'''
** Has it had different names in the past ? '''no'''

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: Bug:247590

* Dustin Kirkland
