{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libffado ==

=== Requirements ===

0. ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libf/libffado/]]</nowiki>; available for i386 and amd64 architectures.

0. ''Rationale:''

** The libffado library provides support for FireWire based audio devices

** libffado will allow Jackd into main, fixing Bugs <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/407841|#407841]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/152487|#152487]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/84900|#84900]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/109659|#109659]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/360590|#360590]]</nowiki>

0. ''Security:''

** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=libffado|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: '''none'''

** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=libffado|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: '''none'''

** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ? '''No binaries running as root or suid root, one daemon, which is a dbus server.'''

** Network activity: does it open any port ? '''no'''

** Does it handle incoming network data ? '''no'''

** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? '''Yes, processes audio to and from firewire audio devices.'''

0. ''Quality assurance:''

** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? '''None, details below:'''
** The shared library libffado1 is used by jack-audio-connection-kit to work with firewire audio devices. Jack itself needs to be configured to use firewire audio via libffado.
** Most if not all firewire audio hardware require firmware to be uploaded to the device using tools from the ffado-tools package, before they can be used. The firmware in question has to be obtained from Windows drivers.

** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? '''no'''

** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=libffado|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: (mention any that are particularly relevant, and any showstoppers) '''None found for libffado, libffado-dbus-server, libffado-mixer-qt4, libffado-tools, libffado-dev or libffado1'''

** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libf/libffado.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead ? '''Maintenances in Debian appears to be vigorous'''

** <nowiki>[[http://subversion.ffado.org/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead ? '''There appears to be vigorous activity upstream'''

** <nowiki>[[http://subversion.ffado.org/report|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: (mention any particularly relevant or critical) '''no noticeably relevant or critical bugs'''

** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? '''This package does deal with audio hardware via firewire. Such hardware is commonly in use by audio/video enthusiasts/professionals.'''

** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ? '''Yes there is a test suite, and it is enabled in the upstrea build system.'''

0. ''UI standards:''

** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ? '''No internationalized strings.'''

** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ? '''No translatable strings.'''

** End-user applications ship a desktop file ? '''Yes.'''

0. ''Standards compliance:'' 

** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ?

** The package is FHS compliant.
** A slight concern about some python files not being placed in a standard location so pycentral/python-support can handle them, however this may require more work than its worth with the upstrea build system to fix.

** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ?

** CDBS packaging system

** no patch system used

** The package code does not get built when debian/rules is called with the build target. The code gets built when calling the binary target only.

0. ''Dependencies:''
** '''debhelper'''
** '''scons,'''
** '''cdbs'''
** '''cdbs'''
** '''dbus'''
** '''python'''
** '''python-dbus'''
** '''python-qt4'''
** '''pyqt4-dev-tools'''
** '''dh-buildinfo'''
** '''pyqt-tools''' 
** '''python-qt4-dbus'''
** '''autotools-dev'''
** '''expat'''
** '''glib2.0'''
** '''glibmm2.4'''
** '''libiec61883'''
** '''libraw1394'''
** '''libxml++2.6'''
** '''libxml2'''

** Are these all in main ? '''yes'''

0. ''Maintenance:''

** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?  (Simple packages may largely take care of themselves; complex packages will need dedicated developers paying attention to them.) '''Little maintenance should be required'''

** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ? '''Upstream (FFADO) developers along with Ubuntu and Debian developers'''

** Who is the package bug contact in Ubuntu? (Needs one if its a nontrivial package which does not fully maintain itself through Debian) '''<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntustudio-dev|Ubuntu Studio developers]]</nowiki>'''

0. ''Background information:''

** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain. '''It should already be clear'''

** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ? '''Upstream calls this software FFADO (Free FireWire Audio Drivers).  It was previously known as FreeBoB'''

0. ''Internationalization:''

** Are graphical applications translatable? '''No.'''

** Do they support gettext? '''No.'''

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/416778|https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libffado/+bug/416778]]</nowiki>

''Author: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~slavender|Scott Lavender]]</nowiki>''
