{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libpixman-1-dev ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' any architecture
# ''Rationale:''
** pixman (libpixman-1-dev) is a new hard dependency of the xserver as of version 1.4.
** This code used to be inside the xserver, but a fork of it was being maintained in Cairo.  By moving it out of xserver into a formal library, both X and Cairo can share bug fixes and improvements, and keep the code in sync.
** This is not to be confused with the old 'libpixman' 0.1.6 package, which is an obsolete, antique version of this imported from debian originally, but now dropped by them.  A <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libpixman/+bug/156420|request for dropping this package]]</nowiki> was filed during Gutsy (as encouraged by upstream), but is still pending.
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=pixman|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: 0 entries
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=pixman|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: 0 entries
** This package has no binaries and no daemons.
** This package does not open any ports and does not handle network data.
** Source code review assumed to be done upstream by Xorg.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** There are no situations where the package will not work without configuration.
** The package does not ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium'
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?ordering=normal;archive=0;repeatmerged=1;package=libpixman-1-dev|libpixman-1-dev]]</nowiki> has no open bugs in Debian
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/pixman.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is steady and frequent
** <nowiki>[[http://http://cgit.freedesktop.org/pixman/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is steady and frequent
** <nowiki>[[http://|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: Only one recently reported bug; a fix has been pushed to git
** Hardware: This package does not deal directly with hardware
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Complies with <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Provided by Debian; assume it complies with <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki>.
** Packaging uses debhelper/quilt
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** No dependencies
 0. ''Background information:''
** Description: pixel-manipulation library for X and cairo. A library for manipulating pixel regions -- a set of Y-X banded rectangles, image compositing using the Porter/Duff model and implicit mask generation for geometric primitives including trapezoids, triangles, and rectangles.
** This library is also known as libpixman, libpixman-1, libpixman-1-dev, etc.

=== Reviewers ===

TimoAaltonen: reviewed, needed for xorg-server 1.4.

MartinPitt: approved
