{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for akonadi ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/a/akonadi]]</nowiki>; will be available for all supported architectures when the buildds get round to it
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of KDE 4
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=akonadi|no CVE entries]]</nowiki>: ...
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=akonadi|no Secunia history]]</nowiki>: ...
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid. akonadiserver is the daemon
** Does not use network directly, but plenty of running agents do for it
** Processes its own data
** No known source code review performed
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package always works out of the box without configuration
** The package asks no debconf questions
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:akonadi|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/a/akonadi.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm
** <nowiki>[[http://pim.kde.org/akonadi/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is busy
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.kde.org/buglist.cgi?product=Akonadi&bug_status=UNCONFIRMED&bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_status=REOPENED|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: Only a few open
** Hardware: Does not deal with hardware
** Upstream includes a test suite for the server and test harness for agents is being worked on
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** Packaging system (cdbs)
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Qt, cmake, libmysqlclient15-dev, all in main.  soprano, automoc to be main reviewed.
 0. ''Background information:''
** Upstream call it akoanadi

Upsteam explains the different parts of Akonadi:

11:43 < till> Riddell: the server, that's currently in kdesupport, but intended for f.d.o, mid term
11:43 < till> Riddell: Only a QtCore dependency, no kde deps at all.
11:44 < till> Riddell: the access library for KDE apps, inclduing models, views, helpers, etc, that's in kdepimlibs
11:44 < till> Riddell: BC guaranteed, as per kdelibs rules and regulations, kdelibs dependency, obviously
11:45 < till> Riddell: and finally the agents (strigi feeder, nepomuk search managers, threading agent) and resources, which are special
              agents (like the old kresources) for maildir, imap server access, etc.
11:45 < till> Riddell: those are in kdepim/akonadi

The akonadi package contains the server.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/228952]]</nowiki>

Report Author: JonathanRiddell
