{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libxml++2.6 ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libx/libxml++2.6]]</nowiki>; built on all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of Gobby, which in turn is to be added to Edubuntu (main inclusion report already accepted for Gobby itself and its other build-dependencies)
 0. ''Security:''
** No security issues known to me.
** This library ships which no binaries.
** The package mainly wraps libxml2 (which is already in main) for C++, so it might share vulnerablities induced by the usage of this library. But such issues likely need to be fixed in libxml2 only.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package is shipped in universe since Dapper Drake.
** No additional configuration is necessary to use this package.
** The package is not kept up-to-date in Debian and Ubuntu normally and it's mostly updated on new GNOME releases.
** There are currently no open bugs in Launchpad assigned to this source package, only two bugs had been reported in the package's lifetime to Launchpad.
** Upstream is responsive as far as I could tell (e.g. supported by the (gtk|glib)mm maintainer). I only found one "critical" bug in their bug tracker <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=386013|GNOME bugzilla #386013]]</nowiki>, which is confirmed but not yet squashed. (But it's a corner case, though, so the assertion of being critical might not be true.)
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** The package follows the FHS.
** The packaging system used is debhelper with no patch system employed.
** The things debian/rules does with the files generated and used as source files by Autotools look a bit strange, but not wrong (i.e. touching all files).
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** The source package's build-dependencies are all in main. No additional runtime dependencies are needed.
 0. ''Background information:''
** The bare website of this package is available at <nowiki>[[http://libxmlplusplus.sourceforge.net/]]</nowiki> including links to open bugs.

=== Reviewers ===

''Proposer of main inclusion'': Philipp Kern, Debian developer

'''Approved''' for Ubuntu main by Ian Jackson 29.8.07.
