{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/o/openvpn]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerPackageReview
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=openvpn|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: Few entries, none affects the version in hardy.
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=openvpn|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: same as cve.
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ?
    It involves daemons on both client and server, no suid/sgid.
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ?
    Yes it opens a configurable port. Yes it handles network incoming data.
** Any source code review performed ?  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.)
    no
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?
    Given the very specific nature of the package, it needs to be configured properly before it can be of any use.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?
    Yes, some scripts will require review. For example "db_input medium openvpn/create_tun" does not apply to Ubuntu as we use udev.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:openvpn|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: Several bugs that need to be addressed.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/o/openvpn.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is very calm
** <nowiki>[[http://www.openvpn.net|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ?
    no
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance:
    Yes the package looks compliante.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ?
    no libraries
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ?
    debhelper, no patch system, no odditied.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All B-D and Depends are in main. Nothing fancy.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/183698]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''

FabioMassimoDiNitto
