{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libusb-1.0]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** libusb-1.0 is a library to allow user-land applications to access USB devices.
** The library is a build dependency of libdc1394-22, where it was introduced in Debian unstable with version 2.1.0-2 to enable support for IIDC-over-USB.
** libdc1394-22 is itself a dependency of a large number of packages in main. 
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=libusb|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: '''None'''
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=libusb|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: '''None'''
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ? '''No'''
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ? '''Not directly, although consumers of the library might.'''
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? '''No'''
** Any source code review performed ?  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.)
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? '''n/a'''
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? '''No'''
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libusb-1.0|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: '''One M&W bug, nothing serious.'''
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libu/libusb-1.0.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> '''seems to be vigorous.'''
** <nowiki>[[http://libusb.wiki.sourceforge.net/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is '''calm. A new maintainer has taken over the project as of January 2008.'''
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?limit=10&func=&group_id=1674&atid=101674&assignee=&status=1&category=&artgroup=&keyword=&submitter=&artifact_id=&assignee=&status=&category=&artgroup=&submitter=&keyword=&artifact_id=&submit=Filter|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: '''Bugs are being fixed on a regular basis.'''
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? '''The library is designed to communicate with USB devices.'''
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  '''No.''' Is it enabled to run in the build ? '''n/a'''
0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ? '''No'''
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ? '''No'''
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ? '''n/a'''
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? '''Yes'''
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ? Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ? '''Package uses debhelper and quilt. Quite straightforward.'''
0. ''Dependencies:''
** libc6
** findutils
** Are these all in main ? '''Yes'''
0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ? The package is simple and does not have any Ubuntu specific modifications. The maintenance effort is likely to be limited.
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ? '''Debian'''
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** What do upstream call this software ? '''libusb.''' Has it had different names in the past ? '''No'''
0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext? '''No'''

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/388423]]</nowiki>

''author: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mok0|mok0]]</nowiki>''
