{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/a/apturl]]</nowiki>; its python ... thus available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Its a Depends of ubufox; ubufox uses apturl to trigger install of apt packages in new plugin finder service.
0. ''Security:''
** No known security issues.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? ... no configuration required.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No!
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? Isn't hardware specific.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes, it stored its python modules in the pycentral hierarchy and installs /usr/bin/apturl, /usr/share/apturl/apturl.glade and adds a firefox preference file to /usr/share/firefox/defaults/pref/apturl.js to define the protocol handler.
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Its a native package that uses debhelper.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** python
** python-central (>= 0.5.8)
** python-gtk2 (>= 2.6.3-2)
** python-glade2 (>= 2.6.3-2)
** python-vte (>= 1:0.11.15-4)
** gksu (>= 2.0.0-1ubuntu3)
** gnome-icon-theme (>= 2.14.0-1)
** gnome-app-install
** Are these all in main ? Yes.
0. ''Background information:''
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ? Ubuntu/Canonical is upstream (developed by Michael Vogt).

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: looks fine, approved
