{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for apt-cacher ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/a/apt-cacher/]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Saves bandwidth on any LAN installs with more than one PC, by cachin packages
** Specifically aimed at optimizing package caching, so setup, footprint and learning curve very small
** Improves security by letting all PCs on a LAN update from the apt-cacher server, not directly to the Internet
** Dramatically speeds up local LAN installs as max speed is LAN's max speed - not the ISP's
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=apt-cacher|CVE entries]]</nowiki>:
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2005-1854|CVE-2005-1854]]</nowiki> - Unknown vulnerability in apt-cacher in Debian 3.1, related to "missing input sanitising," allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary commands on the caching server.
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=apt-cacher&w=1|Secunia history]]</nowiki>:
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/advisories/16327/|SA16327]]</nowiki> - Debian apt-cacher Unspecified Arbitrary Command Execution]
** Runs as either a daemon or as a CGI script on a web server, requires explicit configuration changes to start automatically after installation (does not start automatically after install)
** Opens port 3142 to listen to local requests, uses apt to get packages on upstream net connection
** No source code review
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package requires one configuration file change (setting autostart variable) to work
** No debconf questions asked at install time
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:SOURCE_PACKAGE_NAME|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: (mention any that are particularly relevant, and any showstoppers)
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/a/apt-cacher.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm
** No external/official web site found except for <nowiki>[[http://www.nick-andrew.net/projects/apt-cacher/|the previous maintainer]]</nowiki>.
** Hardware: This package does not deal with hardware.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>: '''not checked'''
** <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance: Yes, also see th e <nowiki>[[http://changelogs.ubuntu.com/changelogs/pool/universe/a/apt-cacher/apt-cacher_1.5.5/apt-cacher.copyright|copyright file]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance: '''not checked'''
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ? - '''not checked'''
 0. ''Dependencies:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/hardy/perl/perl|perl]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/hardy/utils/bzip2|bzip2]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/hardy/perl/libwww-perl|libwww-perl]]</nowiki>
** All dependencies are in main
 0. ''Background information:''
** From the package's info:
{{{
Description: Caching proxy for Debian package and source files
 Apt-cacher performs caching of .deb and source packages which have been
 downloaded by local users. It is most useful for local area networks with slow
 internet uplink.
 .
 When a package is requested, the cache checks whether it already has the
 requested version, in which case it sends the package to the user immediately.
 If not, it downloads the package while streaming it to the user at the same
 time. A local copy is then kept for use by other users.
 .
 Apt-cacher has been optimized for best utilization of network bandwidth and
 efficiency even on slow low-memory servers. Multiple ways of installation are
 possible: as a stand-alone HTTP proxy, as a daemon executed by inetd or as a
 CGI program. Client machines are configured by changing APT's proxy
 configuration or modification of access URLs in sources.list.
 .
 The package includes utilities to clean the cache (removing obsolete package
 files), generate usage reports and import existing package files.  Experimental
 features include a simple package checksum verification framework and
 pre-fetching of new packages (upgrade candidates).
 .
 Apt-cacher can be used as a replacement for apt-proxy, with no need to modify
 client's /etc/apt/sources.list files (and even reusing its config and cached
 data), or as an alternative to approx.}}}

=== Reviewers ===

* MIR authored by FabianRodriguez, MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apt-cacher/+bug/191378|Bug #192378]]</nowiki>
