{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for gnome-vfs-obexftp ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/g/gnome-vfs-obexftp, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Provides gnome ability to connect to a OBEX device filesystem. This package is needed by bluez-gnome which is installed by default. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/debian/+source/bluez-gnome/+bug/131530|Launchpad bug #131530]]</nowiki>

 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=PRODUCT_NAME|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=PRODUCT_NAME|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** Does not open any port.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions.
** No critical bugs in <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.gnome.org/|upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki> and debian/launchpad bug tracker
** Doesn't deal with exotic hardware, only bluetooth OBEX compatible devices
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** I'm "pretty sure" that it meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>, Need verification
** I'm "pretty sure" that it meets <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards. Need verification
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main
