{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for rsyslog ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/r/rsyslog]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** We're trying to switch from sysklogd to rsyslog, as <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/Rsyslog|Debian has made the jump]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/foundations-karmic-rsyslogd]]</nowiki>
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=rsyslog|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: 3 total, none that apply to version currently in Ubuntu (4.2.0)
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=rsyslog|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** The main rsyslog daemon does run as root normally (and in Debian).  Since our previous solution (sysklogd) ran as a user (after we modified it), it would be nice to make rsyslog do the same.  There is a <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rsyslog/+bug/388608|bug about it]]</nowiki>, wherein I backport support for running as a user and add support for reading from kmsg ('''this has been accepted into Ubuntu''').
** Network activity: Doesn't open ports or talk to remote machines by default, but it can be configured to send or receive syslog events over the network 
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data?  No.  It has some plugins to write to mysql or pgsql, but it does so through libraries.
** Any source code review performed ?  Not by me, mterry
** <nowiki>[[http://wiki.rsyslog.com/index.php/Security|Upstream security advice]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.rsyslog.com/Topic6.phtml|Upstream security advisories]]</nowiki>
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?  None that I know of
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:rsyslog|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: None seem particularly relevant, or likely to be showstoppers
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/r/rsyslog.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki>: I'd call it 'vigorous'.  About one upstream point release a month, a couple packaging changes a month.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.rsyslog.com/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous.  But very careful.  They have 'stable', 'beta', and 'experimental' branches: v3, v4, and v5.  After writing this, a particular version in the v4 branch recently became stable.  So v4.2 is the latest stable release.  They recommend (and Debian uses) v4.2.  'stable' only gets bugfixes.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.adiscon.com/rsyslog-bugs.html|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: None seem particularly relevant or critical.  But only 9 open bugs?!  It seems like an actively used tracker, just a really low count.  I think the default view only shows priority bugs, which is why it doesn't list many.  Maintainer responded quickly to a patch of mine.
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ?  Doesn't deal with hardware
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ?  Yes, there is a test suite in ./tests but it is not enabled by default in the build.
0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ?  No
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ?  N/A
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ? No, not a visible app
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ?  Seems compatible that I can see.  Lintian clean.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.rsyslog.com/doc-syslog_parsing.html|"RFC3164 compliant"]]</nowiki>
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ?  Uses debhelper and quilt.  No obvious packaging oddities.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** rsyslog: libc6 (>= 2.4), zlib1g (>= 1:1.1.4), lsb-base (>= 3.2-14), adduser, ucf (>= 0.8)
** rsyslog-doc: none
** rsyslog-gnutls: libc6 (>= 2.4), libgnutls26 (>= 2.5.9-0), rsyslog (= 3.22.0-1ubuntu1)
** rsyslog-gssapi: libc6 (>= 2.4), libgssapi-krb5-2 (>= 1.7dfsg~beta1), rsyslog (= 3.22.0-1ubuntu1)
** rsyslog-mysql: libc6 (>= 2.4), libmysqlclient15off (>= 5.0.27-1), debconf (>= 0.5) | debconf-2.0, rsyslog (= 3.22.0-1ubuntu1), dbconfig-common, ucf
** rsyslog-pgsql: libc6 (>= 2.4), libpq5 (>= 8.3~beta1), debconf (>= 0.5) | debconf-2.0, rsyslog (= 3.22.0-1ubuntu1), dbconfig-common, ucf
** rsyslog-relp: libc6 (>= 2.3), librelp0 (>= 0.1.1), rsyslog (= 3.22.0-1ubuntu1)
** Are these all in main ?  Everything except for librelp0 is (and of course rsyslog).  librelp is a library developed for rsyslog originally for "reliable event logging over the network".  It will also <nowiki>[[MainInclusionReport-librelp|need to be included]]</nowiki>, unless we want to keep rsyslog-relp in universe.
0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?  Presumably not much.  Debian's maintainership is very good.
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ?  Michael Biebl is the very active Debian maintainer.
0. ''Background information:''
** Here's the main package's control file Description:
  <pre>
Description: enhanced multi-threaded syslogd
 Rsyslog is an enhanced syslogd supporting, amongst others:
** reliable syslog over TCP and SSL/TLS
** on-demand disk buffering
** email alerting
** writing to MySQL or PostgreSQL databases (via separate output plugins)
** permitted sender lists
** filtering on any part of the syslog message
** on-the-wire message compression
** fine grained output format control
** backup log destinations
 .
 It is quite compatible to stock sysklogd and can be used as a drop-in
 replacement. Its advanced features make it suitable for enterprise-class,
 encryption protected syslog relay chains while at the same time being very
 easy to setup for the novice user.
  </pre>
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ?  No different names that I can find.  Just 'Rsyslog'
** Fedora uses rsyslog as default logger since Fedora 8.  Debian since Lenny.
0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext?  No graphical part of it.  Does not support gettext

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/388605]]</nowiki>

Report author: <nowiki>[[mterry]]</nowiki>
