{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/x/xjump/|Available for all supported architectures]]</nowiki>
# ''Rationale:''
** Currently Xubuntu has no games by default. We'd like to include some small, fun, games such as this one.
** High user demand (see <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2006-December/002664.html|Games for feisty]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2006-December/002599.html|Deferred Edgy Ideas for Feisty]]</nowiki> threads.)
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=xjump|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=xjump|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** Does not open any port.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'normal'.
** No showstopper <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:xjump|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>.
** Good <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/x/xjump.html|maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki>.
** No active upstream (but the package is small enough and low risk enough for us to maintain)
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Meets <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards.
** Standard debhelper/cdbs/dbs packaging, standard patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
