{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for ltspfs ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/l/ltspfs, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:'' Needed for LTSP localdevice support
# ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=ltspfs|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=ltspfs|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** Does open any port (client binary for ltspfsd).
** Source code review:
** `ltspfs.c`: potential buffer overflow/arbitrary code execution with `sprintf` and `popen` (unchecked $DISPLAY), needs discussion about invocation and privilege boundaries
** UPDATE: this just got fixed
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'normal'.
** Not in debian yet (the ltsp people expressed interest to get it in though)
** Active <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ltsp.org/twiki/bin/view/Ltsp/LtspFS#Installing_ltspfs_on_your_LTSP_s|cvs]]</nowiki> only (see the text, upstream will move to LP once its in main).
** No critical bugs in <nowiki>[[https://bugs.freedesktop.org/buglist.cgi?query_format=specific&order=relevance+desc&bug_status=__open__&product=&content=ltspfs|upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki> (upstream will move to LP)
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Standard debhelper packaging, no patch system, no libs.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
