{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/u/udhcp]]</nowiki>; available for all supported archictecutres
# ''Rationale:''.
** LTSP is currently using ipconfig as a dhcp client in the initrd but this one just performs a one time query without any possibility for lease renewal.
** The udhcpc binary is extremely small (22kB), isn't linked on anything outside of the libc making it perfect for inclusion in an initrd.
** The only purpose of it being in Main would be to use it inside the initrd for LTSP with a small script doing the network configuration, the server component (udhcpd) would remain in Universe.
0. ''Security:''
** No current <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=udhcp|CVE]]</nowiki> entries.
** No current <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=udhcp|Secunia]]</nowiki> history.
** The client part runs as root (expected behavior for a dhcp client)
** No source code review taken.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** A script is required for the client to work, otherwise the values are simply returned to the user. Such a script already exists for LTSP and will be improved if udhcpc is accepted in main.
** No debconf questions are asked.
** Upstream doesn't seem to be active, though that client is the one used on all DD-WRT powered routers and probably on some other embedded Linux and as such as a wide number of users.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:udhcp|Debian bugs]]</nowiki> nothing critical.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/u/udhcp.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** Seems to use the <nowiki>[[http://bugs.busybox.org|busybox]]</nowiki> bugtracker
** No special hardware is required.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** udhcp does not use debhelper.
** The source package is still on standard 3.6.2 but can easily be updated to 3.8.1 after dropping two lines from the control file (section fields for binary packages) and removing a -i option to a make call in rules. No watch file is provided.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** No build dependency outside build-essential
** No dependency outside libc6 for both binary packages.
** All in main.

udhcpc and udhcpd were designed to provide a lightweight dhcp client and server environment for embedded use, the client part is then perfect for use inside an initrd image.

There are currently two dhcp clients in main, ipconfig which doesn't fit LTSP's need (see above) and dhcp3-client (dhclient3) which is 10 times bigger and doesn't provide the next-server value which is required for LTSP's needs.

=== Reviewers ===

 MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/udhcp/+bug/383177]]</nowiki>

''StéphaneGraber''
