{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for scim-bridge ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/s/scim-bridge]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** As scim is currently unusable in Hardy and scim-bridge provides a workaround which solves all the problems we currently have, we should use scim-bridge by default. LP bugs which would be solved for the time being:
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/scim/+bug/2246
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/scim/+bug/66104
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/scim/+bug/92932
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/scim/+bug/94310
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/scim/+bug/100030
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/scim/+bug/155780
** and maybe more.
 0. ''Security:''
** /usr/bin/scim-bridge is running as daemon
** No network activity. Uses Unix Domain Sockets by default.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** 'im-switch -s scim-bridge' needs to be run once to set the environment variables right.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:scim-bridge|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: nothing serious
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/s/scim-bridge.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> vigorous
** <nowiki>[[http://www.scim-im.org/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=108454|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: none
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant
** Packaging system: debhelper, dpatch
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Build-Depends: debhelper (>= 5.0.0), autotools-dev, libgtk2.0-dev (>= 2.10.1-1),
 scim-dev (>= 1.4.6-1), dpatch, libqt3-mt-dev (>= 3.3.6), libqt4-dev
** Depends: scim-modules-socket, scim | skim
** all in main

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/196387]]</nowiki>

* ArneGoetje
* ColinWatson (seems generally reasonable; I made a few minor edits)
