{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for edubuntu-docs ==

<code>edubuntu-docs</code> has been in Universe since Dapper because it was lacking enough content to warrant shipping on the Edubuntu CD. The Edgy and Feisty development cycles have introduced an "Edubuntu Handbook" along with some other Edubuntu specific documentation.

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' edubuntu-docs is available in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/edubuntu-docs|Universe]]</nowiki>
# ''Rationale:''
** Edubuntu needs its own documentation to illustrate not only the similar characteristics it shares with Ubuntu but to also separate it from Ubuntu with topics such as LTSP, School Tools, Educational Applications, etc.
 0. ''Security:''
** No security issues noted. The package consists of images and DocBook XML files.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** This package works out of the box. A few display bugs need to be worked out before release (Yelp frontpage needs to be finished) but Matthew East and the documentation team is working on it.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant. Uses CDBS as it is based on the <code>ubuntu-docs</code> packaging.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Depends on <code>ubuntu-docs</code> which is already in Main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
