{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libmbca ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libm/libmbca]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures or some subset ?
# ''Rationale:''
** library to provide users with a mobile broadband wizard backed up with a provider database
** Build Dependency of NetworkManager Applet (when adding mobile broadband wizard support)
0. ''Security:''
** no security issues known
** The binaries run as normal user
** does not use any ports (except for dbus maybe)
** Brief review of code done by asac
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package works out of the box when the mobile-broadband-provider-info package is available and NM Applet is properly patched
** the package does not ask any debconf questions
** not yet in debian (no debian bugs)
** not yet in debian (no entry on packages.qa.debian.org)
** <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/NetworkManager/MobileBroadband/]]</nowiki> (not yet official) part of the gnome project; subproject of NetworkManager
** Hardware: This package deals with 3g hardware which is recognized by hal and only on a high level (e.g. no driver)
** No test suite - code is reasonably small enough. also its a GUI application
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant.
** Packaging system cdbs.  No patchsystem used yet (simple-patchystem included in rules).
0. ''Dependencies:''
** mobile-broadband-provider-info (data-only package) needs to go to main too.
0. ''Background information:''
** Purpose: 3g provider database wizard for Network Manager.
0. ''Code/Packaging:'' <nowiki>[[http://code.launchpad.net/libmbca]]</nowiki> 

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/273514]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
