{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for XInput ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/x/xinput]]</nowiki>; any architecture
# ''Rationale:''
** This is an important command line configuration tool for Xorg's InputHotplug, which we're introducing starting with Intrepid.  Since input devices are no longer listed in xorg.conf, users generally won't be using xorg.conf for special configuration settings; this tool is currently the main non-xorg.conf way of making such changes.
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=xinput|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: '''none'''.  CVE's 2007-6427 and 2006-5397 are about the XInput extension, not this xinput command line tool.  They're both fixed in our Xorg.
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=xinput|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: '''none'''.  SA28532 is in regard to the XInput extension, not the xinput command line tool.  It's fixed in our Xorg.
** No binaries are running as root or suid/sgid.   No daemons.  It's a userspace command line tool like xrandr.
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ?  '''No network activity'''
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ?  '''No''', it merely interacts with the X server.
** Any source code review performed ?  I read through all the code (there's not much).  It is mostly just X operations and printfs.  There are no network calls, and the code is quite concise and clean.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?  '''Obviously, only applicable if input-hotplug is in use, but that will be the default goin gforward'''
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?  '''No'''
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:xinput|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: (mention any that are particularly relevant, and any showstoppers) '''None'''
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/x/xinput.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is '''calm''' ?
** <nowiki>[[http://gitweb.freedesktop.org/?p=xorg/app/xinput.git|Upstream]]</nowiki> is '''calm''' ?
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.freedesktop.org|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>:  There are bugs against XInput (the extension), but didn't spot any against xinput (the app) in a cursory search.  But, I don't expect there'd be many bugs against this tool.
** Hardware: This tool deals with input hardware, but in a generic manner - it has no hardware-specific code.
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  '''No'''
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ?   '''Yes'''
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ?  '''Yes'''
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  debhelper.  No packaging system (typically would use quilt tho).  No packaging oddities.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Build-Depends:  libx11-dev, libxi-dev, libxext-dev, x11proto-input-dev (>= 1.4), xutils-dev
** Are these all in main ?  '''Yes'''
 0. ''Background information:''
** "Xinput is an utility for configuring and testing XInput devices."
** What do upstream call this software ?  '''xinput''' Has it had different names in the past ? '''no'''

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/254749]]</nowiki>

''Bryce Harrington''
