{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for lazr.uri ==

Provides an object-based API for manipulating URIs.

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/s/lazr.uri]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures or some subset ? Architecture: all
# ''Rationale:''
** (Build-)Dependency of python-wadllib (transitively python-launchpadlib), and perhaps other things in future.
0. ''Security:''
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ? No
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ? No
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? No, only strings.
** Any source code review performed ? Brief look.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? None.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No.
** No in Debian (yet, I plan to maintain it there)
** <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/lazr.uri|Upstream]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead ? calm and friendly.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/lazr.uri|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: no bugs of note.
** Hardware: No
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ? Yes, no (will fix on next upload)
0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ? No, but a library where the couple of strings are error messages that would hopefully not be shown to the user.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ? plain debhelper with no patches
0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper (>= 6), python-central (>= 0.6.0), python, python-setuptools
** Are these all in main ? yes
0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ? very little
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ? james_w with the aid of LAZR developers.
** Who is the package bug contact in Ubuntu? james_w
0. ''Background information:''
** What do upstream call this software ? lazr.uri

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/418151]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''

* Author: james_w
