{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for `zaptel` ==

# ''Availability:'' Zaptel is in universe, Arch: any
# ''Rationale:'' As with bug #18175, Zaptel cards connect to POTS/BRI/PRI lines, and are generally used with SIP servers to route calls as a far less expensive PBX.  It has particularly strong support in the Asterisk userbase, and including this would go a long way towards having really good Asterisk support in main.
# ''Security:'' 
** No CANs found by daniels (it's a new program)
 0. ''Quality assurance:''  
** Maintained by the Debian VoIP team
** Two unreproducible FTBFS bugs in Debian, awaiting more information.  One of them only applies to the version in experimental.  A few other bugs, but seem to be resolved rather rapidly.
** Requires exotic hardware which takes effort to support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** The package meets the FHS.
 0. ''Dependencies:'' 
** (none)

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: Similar to MainInclusionReportAsterisk, this package requires someone who knows the package well, has the necessary hardware, and commits to maintain it for a longer term. If there is an approved Ubuntu specification that requires this package, then I will reconsider, but for now I rather want to not burn our hands with it.
