{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main inclusion report for libnotify ==

=== Requirements ===

1. ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libn/libnotify, compiled on all arches.

2. ''Rationale:'' Proposed build dependency of gnome-power and gnome-volume-manager, will probably be used more in Gnome.

3. ''Security:''
* No CANs.
* No Secunia record.
* Very young package, so no security history yet; however, it is relatively uncritical.
* audited `notify.c`: 
** found potential integer/buffer overflow in icon frame handling, but that is usually controlled by the application. MartinPitt patched it and sent it to upstream.
** shallow dbus interface, no other obvious flaws
* audited `notify-send.c`: no problems found

4. ''QA:''
* Installation: 
** `libnotify0`, `libnotify-dev`: only a library, no end user tool.
** `libnotify-bin`: single binary `notify-send` which works out of the box on i386 and amd64, but hangs on powerpc.
* Bugs: package not in Debian, no upstream bugs.

5. ''Standards compliance:''
* Standard `cdbs` packaging.
* FHS met.
* Debian policy met.

6. ''Dependencies:''
* `notification-daemon`

=== Reviewers ===

MartinPitt: approved; notify-send hang on ppc is not critical and will be fixed soon
