{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for isoquery ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/i/isoquery]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** New build-dependency of localechooser, replacing previous inline Python implementation. Queries iso-codes XML files.
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=isoquery|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=isoquery|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: none
** No binaries running as root or set-id; no daemons.
** No network activity.
** Processes structured XML data from the iso-codes package.
** Brief source code review performed by Colin Watson; looks trivial.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Requires no configuration.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:isoquery|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/i/isoquery.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** Upstream is the <nowiki>[[http://pkg-isocodes.alioth.debian.org/|Debian iso-codes project]]</nowiki>; the upstream and Debian maintainers are the same.
** There is a test suite, although it does not run at package build time.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Appears to comply with <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>.
** Straightforward debhelper packaging. No patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.
 0. ''Maintenance:''
** Fairly trivial and I don't expect much in the way of maintenance requirements.
** Tobias Toedter is the upstream and Debian maintainer. I don't think he's involved with Ubuntu.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/299032]]</nowiki>

* ColinWatson
