{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for librpc-xml-perl ==

The RPC::XML package is an implementation of XML-RPC.

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libr/librpc-xml-perl/]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Runtime dependency of apparmor-utils which is in main.
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=xml+rpc|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=xml+rpc|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** No daemons.
** Network activity: The package provides classes for sample client and server implementations, a server designed as an Apache location-handler. It doesn't start any daemon by default, nor install a default apache location-handler. It handles network data.
** Any source code review performed: No.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration: None.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium': No.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:librpc-xml-perl|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: None.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libr/librpc-xml-perl.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://search.cpan.org/~rjray/RPC-XML-0.59/]]</nowiki> is calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=RPC-XML|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: 4 bugs.
** All the tests passes on linux: http://cpantesters.perl.org/show/RPC-XML.html#RPC-XML-0.59
** Hardware: No.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance: Yes.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance: Yes.
** Packaging system: debhelper. No Patch system. No packaging oddities.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** libxml-parser-perl in main.
** libwww-perl in main.
** perl in main.
 0. ''Background information:''
** Upstream name is called RPC-XML and is part of CPAN.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
