{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for update-motd ==

=== Requirements ===

 0. ''Availability:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/u/update-motd/]]</nowiki>
** binary packages needed in ''main'': '''update-motd'''
** same package for all supported architectures.
 0. ''Rationale:''
** update-motd is a modular framework useful for Ubuntu servers, allowing administrators to dynamically generate more interesting /etc/motd; will be required by landscape-client
** UpdateMotd
** CVE entries - '''none'''
** Secunia history - '''none'''
** Binaries running as root or suid/sgid: '''none'''
** Daemons: '''none'''; update-motd runs as a cron job if enabled
** Network activity: '''no ports opened'''
** Does '''not'' handle incoming network data
** Does '''not'' directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data
** Source code review performed by:  KeesCook, ChuckShort
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package '''works''' out of the box without configuration
** The package '''does not''' ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium'
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:update-motd|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: '''not yet a Debian package'''
** <nowiki>[[http://ecryptfs.sourceforge.net/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is '''new''', we are upstream
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware? - '''no'''
** Test suite: '''none'''
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) is '''debhelper'''
** Patch system is '''none'''
** '''No''' packaging oddities
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Runtime
** cron, debianutils
** Build
** debhelper, po-debconf
** Are these all in main? - '''yes'''
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package is clear from the package's debian/control file.  '''Quoting debian/control''': update-motd - This package contains a generic framework for regularly running scripts and updating the /etc/motd. This package installs a cronjob that executes on a configurable, regular interval, running each script in /etc/update-motd.d, in lexical order. When the cronjob runs, the output of all scripts in /etc/update-motd.d will be concatenated and written to /etc/motd. Other packages, or users should symlink scripts into /etc/update-motd.d, pre-pending a 2-digit number to help with ordering.
** It '''has not''' had different names in the past

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: Bug:260443

* DustinKirkland
