{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libnet-dns-perl ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libn/libnet-dns-perl/]]</nowiki>; available for all architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of spamassassin and libmail-dkim-perl (both spec'ed for Intrepid):
*** ServerAmavisdDKIMSpec
*** ClamavSpamassassinInMain
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=Net::DNS|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: Three CVEs in 2007, none since.  (note: I did the patches for these and they weren't very hard to deal with - upstream responded quickly to the issues).
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=Net::DNS&w=0|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: Same as Mitre
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ? No Any daemons ? No
** Network activity: does it open any port ? Yes (it will get answers to queries)  Does it handle incoming network data ? Yes.
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? No.
** Any source code review performed ?  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.) No.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? None
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=libnet-dns-perl|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: A few interesting bugs, but none confirmed against newer versions.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libn/libnet-dns-perl.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://search.cpan.org/~olaf/Net-DNS-0.63/lib/Net/DNS.pm]]</nowiki> is active.
** <nowiki>[[http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Net-DNS]]</nowiki>: Nothing critical.
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? No.
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ? Yes. Is it enabled to run in the build ? Yes.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? N/A.
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ? debhelper  Patch system ? dpatch Any packaging oddities ? Standard perl module.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** libnet-dns-perl
*** Depends: libc6
*** Depends: libdigest-hmac-perl
*** Depends: <libmime-base64-perl> perl
*** Depends: libnet-ip-perl
*** Depends: perl
*** Depends: <perlapi-5.10.0> perl-base
** Are these all in main ? No.
*** MainInclusionReportLibnetIpPerl
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** What do upstream call this software ? Net::DNS Has it had different names in the past ? No.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libnet-dns-perl/+bug/243301]]</nowiki>

Author: ScottKitterman
