{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for qcad ==

<code>qcad</code> is one of the better CAD apps for Linux and is one of the only ones that is free/open source and in Ubuntu. Edubuntu would like to add qcad to it's add-on CD for use by high-school and university students.

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' In universe since Warty, http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/q/qcad/ , and binaries are available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** About the only free/open source CAD program in Ubuntu
** Part of UbuntuSpec:edubuntu-on-two-cds
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=qcad|entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=qcad|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** No binaries running as root/suid/sgid and no daemons or open ports.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** No configuration necessary and no debconf questions.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:qcad|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: 3 open and 4 forwarded upstream. Nothing critical or showstopper
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/q/qcad.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm
** <nowiki>[[http://http://www.ribbonsoft.com/qcad.html]]</nowiki> is strong
** Upstream bug tracker: None
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <code>qcad</code> is <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Packaging uses debhelper and dpatch. Nothing exciting.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All dependencies are in Main

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: uses qt3 and does not support gettext, but otherwise it's fine. Approved because it is an edubuntu goal
