{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for digikamimageplugins ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/d/digikamimageplugins ; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Provides basic photo editing functionality to Digikam Editor.
** Digikam is installed by default (kubuntu-desktop) and digikamimageplugins was only left out due to space constraints in edgy.
** There are <nowiki>[[http://mail.kde.org/pipermail/digikam-devel/2007-March/010955.html|plans to merge]]</nowiki> this package into main digikam with next major release.
 0. ''Security:''
** No related <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=digikam|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=digikam|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** All the code is provided in form of shared objects, loaded by main digikam application (not running suid/sgid).
** No network ports are opened by plugins.
** No source code review was performed.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package does not need any configuration.
** No questions are asked during installation.
** No open <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=digikamimageplugins|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/d/digikamimageplugins.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is very active and done by Kubuntu member.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.digikam.org|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous and has very active maintainer. Several Kubuntu members are active contributors to upstream.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.kde.org/buglist.cgi?product=digikamimageplugins|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: most of open issues are wishlist bugs.
** No hardware dependency.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Package complies with <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and<nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki>: all shared objects w/o soname, strict version dependency on digikam package.
** Uses standard cdbs packaging & patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Same as digikam, all dependencies already in main.
 0. ''Background information:''
** None.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
