{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

'''Note''': when writing a report this template should be vigorously edited; as a rule of thumb, every individual point should be replaced with a description of the actual situation in the package in question.  The purpose of the report is to convey information to the reviewer, so there is no problem with varying the text in the bullet items, or with adding additional information.

Please be informative, and in particular be thorough in investigating and explaining any weaknesses and problems with the package.  The purpose of the report is to show to the reviewer that the package has been properly investigated, and to give the reviewer the information from that investigation, for their decision.

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/a/acpica-unix]]</nowiki>; In universe, available on all platforms
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of kvm (MainInclusionReportKVM)
 0. ''Security:''
** No vulnerabilities known.
** No known source code review.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Does not ask any questions during install. (It's a compiler..)
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:acpica-unix|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>. None of particular interest.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/a/acpica-unix.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm. (If it works, don't fix it)
** <nowiki>[[http://developer.intel.com/technology/iapc/acpi/downloads.htm]]</nowiki> is calm. (Again: If it works, don't fix it)
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Compliant to both <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>. 
** Packaging is straightforward debhelper based.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Build-Depends: debhelper (>= 4.0.0), flex-old, bison, quilt
** Depends: libc6 (>= 2.5-5)
** All are in main already.
 0. ''Background information:''
** It's used to compile DSDT's (acpi information) for kvm (and qemu).
** Upstream calls it ACPI CA - Unix.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/181816]]</nowiki>

* SorenHansen
