{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for cupsddk ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/c/cupsddk, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Needed to build printer drivers, especially the SpliX driver which is in main. Also provides tools for generating and manipulating PPD files and generic PCL and ESC/P drivers. Is part of the LSB DDK, so it will be used more in the future. 
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=cupsddk|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=cupsddk|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** Does not open any port.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box, requiring no configuration different to other printer drivers.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions.
** Active <nowiki>[[http://www.cups.org/ddk/|upstream]]</nowiki>. Project is a part of the CUPS project which is owned by Apple. On the upstream home page you find user and developer newgroups/MLs and PPDs for the drivers coming with cupsddk.
** Currently no open bugs in the <nowiki>[[http://www.cups.org/ddk/str.php|upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>, PPD files meet Adobe standard (test by running them through "cupstestppd" passes).
** Standard debhelper/cdbs/dbs packaging, standard patch system.
** Part of LSB DDK
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===

'''Approved''' for Ubuntu main by Ian Jackson 30.8.07.
