{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for Xfce4-places-plugin ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/x/xfce4-places-plugin, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:'xubuntu panel'
# ''Security:''
** No CVE entries.
** No Secunia history.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** Does not open any port.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Not in Debian yet.
** Active upstream (upstream developer is subscribed to the xubuntu-devel ML).
** <nowiki>[[http://preview.tinyurl.com/3cha7p|No critical bugs]]</nowiki> in <nowiki>[[http://bugs.xfce.org]]</nowiki>
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 

** Standard cdbs packaging.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** libatk1.0-0, libc6, libcairo2, libexo-0.3-0, libfontconfig1, libglib2.0-0, libgtk2.0-0, libpango1.0-0, libthunar-vfs-1-2, libx11-6, libxcomposite1, libxcursor1, libxdamage1, libxext6, libxfce4util4, libxfcegui4-4, libxfixes3, libxi6, libxinerama1, libxrandr2, libxrender1, xfce4-panel
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===

''Approved. -iwj''
