{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

This report is a follow-up of bug https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/46186. Since my knowledge is limited, I am limited on giving information on some subjects, but I tried to do so. Any help or additional questions from people that know more about this kind of things is welcome! 

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/feisty/admin/bluez-pcmcia-support]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures, amd64, i386, powerpc
# ''Rationale:''
** This package is required for PCMCIA bluetooth devices to work. It gives users a better out-of-the-box experience that there PCMCIA bluetooth device works without installing additional packages. 
 0. ''Security:''
** There are no CVE entries
** There are no Secunia entries
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ?: I think so since this is concerning drivers.
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ?: I don't think so.
** Any source code review performed ?  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.): No.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?: Pff, I actually don't know how to get to know this.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?: No.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:bluez-pcmcia-support|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: no
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/b/bluez-pcmcia-support.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead: doesn't exists ?
** <nowiki>[[http://www.bluez.org|Upstream]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead: no ?
** <nowiki>[[http://www.bluez.org|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: Couldn't find bug tracker
** Hardware: Bluetooth PCMCIA adapters
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance: don't know ?
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance: don't know ?
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ?: don't know
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** bluez-utils (in main)
** pcmciautils (in main)
 0. ''Background information:''
** ...

=== Reviewers ===
Danny Haak
