{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for clucene-core ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/c/clucene-core/; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of strigi
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=clucene|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=clucene|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: none
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.  No daemons.
** Network activity: does not open any port.  Do not handle incoming network data.
** No known source code review performed.  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.)
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In no situation does the package not work out of the box without configuration
** The package asks no debconf questions higher than priority 'medium'
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:clucene-core|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/c/clucene-core.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm due to infrequent upstream releases 
** <nowiki>[[http://clucene.sourceforge.net/index.php/Main_Page|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm 
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=80013&atid=558446|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: quiet
** Hardware: This package does not deal with hardware
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant 
** Packaging system cdbs,  Patch system simple-patchsys.mk, No packaging oddities
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** none outside autotools build system and build-essential
** All in main 
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package is be clear from the package's debian/control file.
** Upstream call this software clucene-core stable.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: looks good, waiting for a quick security audit from Kees
