{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for Mozvoikko ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/m/mozvoikko/]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:'' mozvoikko adds Finnish spellchecking support for Firefox. Thus it is related to the Ubuntu's core philosophical ideal nr. 2: "Every computer user should be able to use their software in the language of their choice." Mozvoikko depends on libvoikko to do that. Voikko is the only open source solution for a good quality Finnish spell-checking. <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/jaunty/libvoikko1|libvoikko]]</nowiki> is already in main. When Thunderbird 3 is released, this extension can be used to provide Finnish spellchecking also for TB.

 0. ''Security:''
** This is a Firefox extension and only handles data written in textboxes
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Works out of the box (Firefox restart if of course required)
** No major bugs known
** Debian package: <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/m/mozvoikko.html]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://ap1.pp.fi/mozilla/mozilla+voikko.html|Upstream]]</nowiki> development quite an active (page only in Finnish)
 0. ''UI standards:''
** Only visible strings are suggestions for the misspelled words and one line in the Firefox's extension list (only in Finnish as only Finnish speaking people use this)
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Debhelper packaging 
** Debian policies met
** Patch system: basic script to apply every patch file under debian/patches. There is currently only one patch and it can probably be removed when the next version is released.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Build: xulrunner-dev, libvoikko-dev
** Use: libvoikko1, voikko-fi, firefox-3.0 | firefox-3.1 | abrowser (>= 3) | iceweasel (>= 3)
** All of these are in main except iceweasel
 0. ''Maintenance:''
** Needs to check that works after every main release of Firefox (this one will work with 3.0 and 3.1, 3.2 unsure but will probably work
** I (<nowiki>[[HeikkiMäntysaari]]</nowiki>) will monitor this package and keep it up-to-date in Debian and also in Ubuntu
 0. ''Internationalization:''
** There is no need for translation
 0. ''Comment''
** Goal is to add this package as a part of the official Finnish language support to improve an user experience for every Finnish users.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mozvoikko/+bug/321457]]</nowiki>

Author of this report: <nowiki>[[HeikkiMäntysaari]]</nowiki>
