{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for LIBPST ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libpst/0.6.27-0ubuntu1]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Provides the following binary packages: libpst1, libpst-dev, and readpst
** Build dependency of Evolution 2.26 (libpst-dev)
** run-time dependency for Evolution 2.26 and readpst (libpst1)
** provides drop-in replacement for current readpst 0.5.3-1 (sourced from Debian)
** Supports Outlook 2003 and 2007 mail files (*.PST).
 
 0. ''Security:''
** CVE for libpst: <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=libpst|no entries]]</nowiki>
** CVE for readpst: <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=readpst|no entries]]</nowiki>
** Secunia for libpst: <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=libpst|no entries]]</nowiki>
** Secunia for readpst: <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=readpst|no entries]]</nowiki>
** No binaries running setuid/setgid, no daemons
** Network activity: No network activity
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? Yes, reads Outlook mail files, and converts them to *IX mail files.
** Any source code review performed ? Not to my knowledge.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? No cases are known. Currently only Evolution and readpst will use the library; readpst is a optional command-line converter.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No debconf questions asked, since there are no configuration options.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=libpst|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=512909 is the upgrade request opened on Debian for this new version.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libp/libpst.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead ? Seems to be calm to dead; no real development has happened for some years. Particularly, no support for Outlook 2007 is provided.
** <nowiki>[[www.five-ten-sg.com-libpst]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead ? Development seems to be vigorously pursued.
** <nowiki>[[http://|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: No bug tracker is known for upstream; usually email is sent to the maintainer/developer (Carl Byington <carl@five-ten-sg.com>)
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? The package does not deal with hardware.
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ? No test suites are known; the only known way to test is to grab (somewhere) an Outlook PST file, and convert it.
 0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ? No internacionalisation effort has been done on the package.
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ? No. See above.
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ? No desktop entries are needed or provided.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Complies with Debian.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? Complies with Debian 3.8.0
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ? We packaged it with CDBS and symple-patch-sys. Due to a borked initial debianisation provided by upstream, we decided to provide a get-orig-source in ./debian/rules for cleanup; we also run autotools on build-time to inhibit the creation of useless ./debian files.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** imagemagick, in main
** libfreetype6, in main
** libgd2-xpm, in main
** zlib1g, in main
** libjpeg62, in main

** Are these all in main ? Yes
 0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?  Although development is actively pursued (current upstream version is 0.6.34), we do not expect much maintenance effort; we expect to need to upgrade as upstream Evolution upgrades its requirements.
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ? upstream at http://five-ten-sg.com is expected to fix bugs; Ubuntu bugsquad/bugcontrol/developers are expected to contact upstream.
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ? This package is a fork from the original known project at http://sourceforge.net/projects/ol2mbox/; this project seems to be dead since 2003. Two forks are known from it: Debian (which is maintained, but did not keep on with development), and 5-10 (just accepted in Ubuntu, and actively pursuing development). 
 0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext? No graphical applications are provided by the package; nevertheless the command-line utility 'readpst' could be internationalised.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/351577]]</nowiki>

''author: <nowiki>[[Hggdh]]</nowiki>''
