{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/o/openipmi]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerPackageReview
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=PRODUCT_NAME|CVE]]</nowiki> entries.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=PRODUCT_NAME|Secunia]]</nowiki> history.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** No daemons are run.
** Allows user to remote monitor network devices so network activity.
** Does not open a port.
** No source code review.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package might not work if the hardware is not supported or working properly.
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:openipmi|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: 
** Debian package does not load any of the kernel drivers <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=412755|#412755]]</nowiki>.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/o/openipmi.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/openipmi/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=36127&atid=416298|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>
** Special hardware is required to use openipmi.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant
** Uses debhelper with no patch system
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper, dpatch, cdbs, libsnmp-dev, libpopt-dev, libncurses5-dev
** All in main

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openipmi/+bug/188063]]</nowiki>

''ChuckShort''
