{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for suomi-malaga ==

=== Requirements ===

1. ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/s/suomi-malaga/ , builds on all platforms

2. ''Rationale:'' suomi-malaga (of which currently only "voikko-fi" is built) is needed by libvoikko, a (Finnish) spell-checking library that is also to be proposed for main inclusion. Voikko (as a whole) is the only open source solution for a good quality Finnish spell-checking. myspell, aspell, ispell, hunspell just do not handle it well enough for general work. Thus it is related to the Ubuntu's core philosophical ideal nr. 2: "Every computer user should be able to use their software in the language of their choice."

3. ''Security:'' No CVEs or other security issues.

4. ''Quality assurance:''  
** Works out of the box.
** No major bugs known.
** Debian package: http://packages.qa.debian.org/s/suomi-malaga.html

5. ''Standards compliance:''
** debhelper packaging.
** FHS met.
** Debian policy/ies met.

6. ''Dependencies:''
** <nowiki>[[MainInclusionReportMalaga]]</nowiki>

7. Comment: The main goal is to have libvoikko/tmispell-voikko/openoffice.org-voikko as an official part of the Finnish language support in Ubuntu, supporting ispell and libenchant (tmispell-voikko) and openoffice.org. More is coming (like Mozilla support). With the Voikko support integrated, the following packages may be removed from language-support-fi dependencies: myspell-fi, aspell-fi, wfinnish. And the binary packages to add there include at least voikko-fi, libvoikko1, tmispell-voikko, libenchant-voikko and openoffice.org-voikko.

== Reviewers ==
MartinPitt: approved
