{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for ilmbase ==
=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/i/ilmbase]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of openexr 1.6.1 (libopenexr6)
** When upstream released OpenEXR 1.6.1, they factored out some of the codebase into a seperate tarball, called Ilmbase. Ilmbase was auto-synced from Debian unstable.
** In order to sync openexr from Debian unstable, Ilmbase must be in main.
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=ilmbase|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=ilmbase|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** No binaries or daemons running as root. 
** Network activity: None
** Handles image data: From <nowiki>[[http://openexr.org|OpenEXR]]</nowiki>, OpenEXR is a high dynamic-range (HDR) image file format developed by Industrial Light & Magic for use in computer imaging applications. 
** No source code review/security audit performed to author's knowledge.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Works out of the box.
** Does not ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium'.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:ilmbase|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: No major relevant bugs.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/i/ilmbase.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm. There is an active maintainer, Adeodato Simó, who has addressed bug reports and patches as they have come up.
** <nowiki>[[http://openexr.org|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm. Stable releases with periodic updates to address bugs and other issues.
** <nowiki>[[http://http://savannah.nongnu.org/bugs/?group=openexr|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: FTBFS with G++4.3. Addressed in Debian package.
** Hardware: Does not deal with hardware,
** There is a test suite in the upstream source. It is enabled to run after the build.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Complies with <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>.

** Standards compliance with <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki>

** Packaging system: debhelper,  Patch system: None
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** autotools-dev
** debhelper
** All dependencies in main.
 0. ''Background information:''
** Used to be part of OpenEXR's main tarball, but factored out into its own release as of OpenEXR 1.6.1.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ilmbase/+bug/240943]]</nowiki>

AUTHOR: Andrew Hunter (rexbron) <andrew AT aehunter DOT net>
