{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for gtk2-engines-murrine ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/g/gtk2-engines-murrine/]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures  (arch: any)
# ''Rationale:'' Xubuntu wants to use it as default theme engine.
# ''Security:'' 
** No CVEs or other security issues.
** No binary running as root or suid/sgid. No daemon.
** Network activity: doesn't open any port, doesn't handle incoming network data.
** No source code review performed.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Responsive upstream.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/unstable/source/gtk2-engines-murrine]]</nowiki>: no bug particularly relevant, and no showstopper (murrine was in Ubuntu since feisty)
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/g/gtk2-engines-murrine.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is rather active (a new upload is pending).
** <nowiki>[[http://cimi.netsons.org/pages/murrine/download.php]]</nowiki> upstream is rather active and responsive.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** The package meets the FHS and the Debian Policy.
** Standard debhelper packaging.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** <gtk2.0-binver-2.10.0> libatk1.0-0 libc6 libcairo2 libfontconfig1 libglib2.0-0 libgtk2.0-0 libpango1.0-0 libx11-6 libxcomposite1 libxcursor1 libxdamage1 libxext6 libxfixes3 libxi6 libxinerama1 libxrandr2 libxrender1
** All are in main.
 0. ''Background information:'' The general purpose and context of the package is clear from the package's debian/control file.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
