{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for ps3pf-utils ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/ps3pf-utils; Available for ppc only.
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency and dependency of ps3-kboot.
 0. ''Security:'' No issues known.
** There are no suid binaries or daemons.
** Network activity: No networking involved in package.
** Any source code review performed ? Yes, I reviewed the code in the process of some debugging. Was written by Sony, and seems to meet normal practices. (pitti: did a quick check for the usual overflow and /tmp race suspects, didn't find anything)
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? None
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? None
** No existing Debian package.
** Hardware: This package is specific to Playstation 3. It has programs that operate on the ps3 framebuffer to set video modes, and also a program that accesses the ps3 flash space.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? No libraries in package.
** Packaging system: Uses debhelper
# ''Dependencies:'' None
# ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ? Same as the package.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
