{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libflickrnet ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libf/libflickrnet]]</nowiki>; architecture independent.
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of f-spot version 0.4.1-1.
** Previous versions of f-spot in Debian and Ubuntu linked against a bundled version of libflickrnet. For 0.4.1-1, Debian decided to link against the external library to better localize potential bugs.
 0. ''Security:''
** No security history.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid. No daemons.
** Network activity: Communicates with flickr.com using HTTP (API at http://api.flickr.com/ and static data). Does not handle incoming network data.
** Any network activity can be prohibited using the .NET/Mono permissions control, although it is hard to think of a use case when a user would like to strip all Flickr client applications of their functionality.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** This package has no configuration files.
** This package does not ask any debconf questions.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libflickrnet|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: none reported.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libf/libflickrnet.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> began on September 1, appears alive. The Debian CLI team (responsible for F-Spot) can take over if the package becomes orphaned.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.codeplex.com/FlickrNet|Upstream]]</nowiki> is rather active. Two stable releases (last one July 31, 2007). Last SVN commit November 27.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.codeplex.com/FlickrNet/WorkItem/List.aspx|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: 10 open issues (out of 50 ever reported). Most of these are feature requests. The most serious one that isn't a feature request seems to be <nowiki>[[http://www.codeplex.com/FlickrNet/WorkItem/View.aspx?WorkItemId=11992|a performance issue]]</nowiki>.
** Hardware: This package does not deal with hardware.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> is not applicable to Mono libraries.
** Packaging system: cdbs.
** Patch system: quilt.
** No packaging oddities apart from using a shell script (debian/orig.tar.sh) to repack upstream ZIPs in get-orig-source. This, however, seems to be standard practice.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** cli-common, mono, gnome-sharp2
** All dependencies are in main.
 0. ''Background information:''
** debian/control provides sufficient information about the general purpose and context of the package. 
** Upstream name: FlickrNet API Library. It had no different names in the past.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libflickrnet/+bug/177169]]</nowiki>

''uthor of this report: Matvey Kozhev <sikon@lucidfox.org>''
