{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for clamav ==

The purpose of promoting clamav is to get a more complete server solution.

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/c/clamav/]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures 
# ''Rationale:'' 
** Approved spec for Intrepid: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ClamavSpamassassinInMain.  Note: clamav-milter binary can stay in Universe.
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=clamav|CVE entries]]</nowiki> Clamav has a long history of large numbers of CVEs.  It seems to be trending better.
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=clamav|Secunia History]]</nowiki>: 
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ? NO   Any daemons ? YES (clamav-freshclam, clamav-daemon, and clamav-milter)
** Network activity: does it open any port ? Yes  Does it handle incoming network data ? YES
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ?  YES
** Any source code review performed ?  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.) NO
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? None
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:clamav|Debian Bugs]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/c/clamav.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.  The current maintainer is a bit burned out on the package and has recently started pkg-clamav on alioth.  He's agreed to host Ubuntu branches in the same Git repository and we can work on it together there.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.clamav.net|Upstream]]</nowiki> is frenetic and does not have a good track record for interface stability.  
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.clamav.net|Upstream Bug tracker]]</nowiki>
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? NO
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ? YES  Is it enabled to run in the build ?
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? YES
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? YES
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ? Debhelper Patch system ? dpatch historically, maintained in Git now.  Any packaging oddities ? Package is complex and somewhat painful due to it's long and complex history.  Debian maintainer plans to simplify post-Lenny.
0. ''Dependencies:''
    Build-Depends: dpkg-dev (>= 1.13.19), debhelper (>=5.0), po-debconf, zlib1g-dev (>=1:1.1.4), libbz2-dev, libmilter-dev, libgmp3-dev, libwrap0-dev, perl, bc

    Depends :  adduser, ucf (>= 0.28), logrotate,  sharutils, arj, and unzoo
** Are these all in main ? NO (MIR needed for arj and unzoo) 
0. ''Background information:''
** What do upstream call this software ? CLAMAV  Has it had different names in the past ? NO

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/clamav/+bug/261249]]</nowiki>

Author: leonelnunez and ScottKitterman
