{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libnetaddr-ip-perl ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libn/libnetaddr-ip-perl/]]</nowiki>; available for all architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Depends for libmail-spf-perl, which is a recommendation of Spamassassin
** Spamassassin promotion is spec'ed for Intrepid.
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=libnetaddr-ip-perl|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None under Debian package name or Perl module name
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=libnetaddr-ip-perl|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None under Debian package name or Perl module name
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ? No  Any daemons ? No
** Network activity: does it open any port ? No  Does it handle incoming network data ? No
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? Processes IP and CIDR range addresses.
** Any source code review performed ?  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.) No
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? None.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=libnetaddr-ip-perl|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libn/libnetaddr-ip-perl.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is active.  Maintained in the Perl Modules team.
** <nowiki>[[http://search.cpan.org/~luismunoz/NetAddr-IP-4.007/IP.pm|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm.  Package is mature.
** <nowiki>[[http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=NetAddr-IP|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: Nothing exciting.
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? No.
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ? Yes. Is it enabled to run in the build ? Yes.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? N/A.
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ? Debhelper Patch system ? Quilt  Any packaging oddities ? No.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** perl, perl-base, libc6
** Are these all in main ? Yes.
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ?

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libnetaddr-ip-perl/+bug/271124]]

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''

ScottKitterman

ColinWatson (looks fine to me)
