{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage xulrunner-1.9 ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/x/xulrunner-1.9]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Prospective build dependency of yelp, epiphany, devhelp and others
** replacement for firefox 2 as the default gecko provider
** dependency of firefox 3
 0. ''Security:''
** upstream will provide security supports for xulrunner 1.9 through firefox 3 releases.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package works out of the box.
** No debconf questions are asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.mozilla.org]]</nowiki> is an active and well known project with lots of employed and volunteer contributors
** <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.mozilla.org]]</nowiki>: has plenty of bugs :)
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** xulrunner is a SDK + a runniner. Its not a traditional lib. The package ships everything in pkglibdir.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? Its not a real library, but an SDK + a runner. Thus, soname versioning does not apply as it ships its own mechanism to detect and load the dependent libs of the right runner (gecko runtime).
** Packaging System: We use cdbs + quilt to maintain this package.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All general dependencies are in main. currently animated png lib + sqlite + cairo are shipped in-source and are thus more or less duplicated. We try to resolve this situation until firefox 3 final release.
 0. ''Background information:''
** The XulrunnerGecko page outlines the peculiarities and transition steps for xulrunner in the wiki.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/173922]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
