{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/papyon/]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures or some subset ? Available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** This package contains the MSN protocol used by telepathy-butterfly which won't work without it.
** Empathy is slated to become the default instant messenger for Karmic.
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=papyon|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=papyon|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ? No
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ? No. Yes.
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? No
** Any source code review performed ?  No
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? None known.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:papyon|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: there aren't bugs.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/papyon.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is frenetic
** <nowiki>[[http://telepathy.freedesktop.org/wiki/Papyon|Upstream]]</nowiki> is frenetic
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.freedesktop.org/buglist.cgi?query_format=advanced&short_desc_type=allwordssubstr&short_desc=&product=Telepathy&component=papyon&long_desc_type=substring&long_desc=&bug_file_loc_type=allwordssubstr&bug_file_loc=&status_whiteboard_type=allwordssubstr&status_whiteboard=&keywords_type=allwords&keywords=&bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_status=REOPENED&emailassigned_to1=1&emailtype1=substring&email1=&emailassigned_to2=1&emailreporter2=1&emailqa_contact2=1&emailcc2=1&emailtype2=substring&email2=&bugidtype=include&bug_id=&chfieldfrom=&chfieldto=Now&chfieldvalue=&cmdtype=doit&order=Importance&field0-0-0=noop&type0-0-0=noop&value0-0-0=|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: there are only two low-priority bugs ATM.
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? No.
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ? No.
0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ? There are no strings.
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ? Upstream doesn't provide a .pot file.
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ? No.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes.
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ? debhelper, no, no.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** python (>= 2.5), python-crypto, python-gobject, python-openssl, python-support (>= 0.90.0)
** Are these all in main ? Yes.
0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ? <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~d.filoni|Devid Antonio Filoni]]</nowiki> maintains it.
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ? <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~d.filoni|Devid Antonio Filoni]]</nowiki> (Ubuntu MOTU)
** Who is the package bug contact in Ubuntu? <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~d.filoni|Devid Antonio Filoni]]</nowiki>
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ? The software was called pymsn (papyon it's a fork of the unmaintained pymsn library).

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/388898]]</nowiki>

Author: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~d.filoni|Devid Antonio Filoni]]</nowiki>
