{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for scim-m17n and dependencies ==

=== Requirements ===

 0. ''Availability:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/s/scim-m17n]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
** <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/m/m17n-lib]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
** <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/m/m17n-db]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
** <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libo/libotf]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
 0. ''Rationale:''
** m17n-lib contains input methods, which are needed for Vietnamese language support. The preferred way to use these input methods is through scim-m17n. Hence the language-support-input-vi package depends on scim-m17n and its dependencies.
# ''Security:'' not applicable. 
# ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? None
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
** scim-m17n <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:scim-m17n|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: none
** m17n-lib <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:m17n-lib|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: none
** m17n-db <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:m17n-db|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: nothing serious
** libotf <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libotf|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: nothing serious
** scim-m17n <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/s/scim-m17n.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** m17n-lib <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/m/m17n-lib.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous (has new maintainer recently)
** m17n-db <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/m/m17n-db.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** libotf <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libo/libotf.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm
** scim-m17n <nowiki>[[http://www.scim-im.org/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm
** m17n-lib <nowiki>[[http://www.m17n.org/m17n-lib-en/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** m17n-db<nowiki>[[http://www.m17n.org/m17n-lib-en/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** libotf <nowiki>[[http://www.m17n.org/libotf/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** scim-m17n <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=108454&atid=650539|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: none
** m17n-lib No Upstream bug tracker available (only a spam infested mailing list)
** m17n-db No Upstream bug tracker available (only a spam infested mailing list)
** libotf: No Upstream bug tracker available
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? No
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs):
** scim-m17n: debhelper, no patch system
** m17n-lib: debhelper, cdbs, dpatch
** m17n-db: debhelper, cdbs, dpatch
** libotf: debhelper, cdbs, no patch system
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** libc6, libgcc1, libscim8c2a, libstdc++6, scim, libanthy0, libfontconfig1, libfreetype6, libfribidi0, libgd2-xpm, libice6, libsm6, libx11-6, libxml2, libxt6, zlib1g
** Are these all in main ? Yes.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/203965]]</nowiki>

Arne Goetje
