{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/c/compiz-bcop
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of compiz-compcomm-plugins-main
** 
 0. ''Security:''
** no knowns CVEs
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.  No daemons.
** Network activity: no open  port ?  No handling of incoming network data ?
** No source code review was performed but the code is 1500 lines of XSLT plus some shell script around it
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box, does not reqiure debconf or configuration
** Debian does not have the package yet
** <nowiki>[[http://www.opencompositing.org|Upstream]]</nowiki> is alive and kicking
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.opencompositing.org/|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: Does not have any relevant bugs
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>.
** Packaging system cdbs without patch system. Straightforward packaging.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** xsltproc (main)
 0. ''Background information:''
** The only reason we need this package is that it is required to build compiz-compcomm-plugins-main.
** Upstream calls this software "bcop" but because the software is only useful in the context of compiz we called the binary and source package "compiz-bcop".

=== Reviewers ===
