{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for Murrine ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/m/murrine/; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Interest expressed by Xubuntu development team and the user community for use as default GTK2 engine.
** Ubuntu Studio will use Murrine as the default GTK2 engine.
** Enough interest in forums for engine to run Murrine based themes for unoffical packages and guides to be written. 
 0. ''Security:''
** No CVE entries.
** This can be attributed to Murrine being a new addition to Universe. Security issues will be addressed if they arise. 
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ? No. Any daemons ? No.
** Network activity: None
** Reviewed through the REVU system for inclusion into Universe.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? The user is required to enable a Murrine based theme for the engine to be used, but that is not related to the engine itself. 
** Not in Debian
** <nowiki>[[http://cimi.netsons.org/pages/murrine.php|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous. Upstream responds well to feature and bug fix requests from users.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes. 
** Packaging system cdbs, with the simplepatch system. No real packaging odities. 
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All dependencies are in main

=== Reviewers ===
