{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for autopkgtest (aka autodebtest) ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' Ubuntu developer is upstream.  Package is in http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/a/autopkgtest (was previously known as autodebtest).  Not architecture-specific.
# ''Rationale:''
** AutomatedTesting (approved spec from UBZ)
 0. ''Security:''
** This is a new package so there is no advisory history.
** There are no set-id binaries.  However, virtualisation schemes often involve root privilege, either directly or via a helper such as dchroot.
** Does not open any port (indeed).
** Source code review: not done.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Package is upstream from Ubuntu and is wholly new so no bugs reported.  It is under active development to enhance it.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Debian policy latest Standards-Version, and so obviously FHS too
** Standard use of debhelper; no patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Just debhelper (build-time); python2.4 (runtime).

=== Reviewers ===

The package was entirely written by Ian Jackson and there has been no independent review.

MartinPitt: approved
