{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for cups-pdf ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/c/cups-pdf, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** This is a very small but useful package. It allows users to generate PDF files from every application by simply printing to the "PDF" printer.
 0. ''Security:''
** No open issues on <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=cups-pdf|CVE]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=cups-pdf|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** CUPS backend gets started as root but drops privileges for creating the output file and calling ghostscript. Additional security by AppArmor profile of current cupsys package. This code could be much more defensive and drop privileges much earlier, but it does sanitize title etc. MartinPitt could not find an immediately visible attack.
** Does not open any port.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box, requiring no configuration different to other printer drivers. Simply install the package and use the print queue generated during the package installation.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions.
** Active <nowiki>[[http://www.physik.uni-wuerzburg.de/~vrbehr/cups-pdf/|upstream]]</nowiki>.
** No critical bugs on <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cups-pdf/|Launchpad]]</nowiki>, no upstream bug tracker.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>, PPD files meet Adobe standard (test by running them through "cupstestppd" passes), and the printing requirements of LSB 3.2.
** Standard debhelper/cdbs/dbs packaging, standard patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
