{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is a main inclusion report for beep-udeb.

* Source Package: beep
* Binary Package: beep-udeb

1. Availability: http://ports.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-ports/pool/universe/b/beep/ - available in universe

2. Rationale: beep-udeb is a required udeb for debian-installer on armel, and is used to notify d-i status on boards such as the NSLU2 which don't come with a serial console, or an integrated display

3. Security: As beep-udeb is used only during and by the installer, security risks are negotiable at best. It simply beeps, and has no user interaction beyond that.

4. Quality assurance: beep-udeb has no bug reports on Ubuntu or Debian. Its parent package on Debian has minor bugs such as "it sounds bad on sparc". As beep works on x86/amd64, it is easily maintainable even without an ARM board

5. Standards Compliance: beep is source and binary lintian clean.

6. Dependency: libc is the only dependency for beep

7. Maintenance: This package has one simple function: make a beep on the internal speaker. Maintenance of this package will be extremely low.

Security concerns:
* beep is setuid, installed in /usr/bin, required to access the internal speaker.
* This program has no network functionality.
