{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for farsight2 ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/f/farsight2]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Dependency of empathy
** 
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=farsight2|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=farsight2|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ? No
** Network activity: does it open any port?  Does it handle incoming network data?  No
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data? Yes, using gstreamer
** Any source code review performed? No
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration? None known
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium'? No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:farsight2|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: No bugs
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/f/farsight2.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm
** <nowiki>[[http://telepathy.freedesktop.org|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.freedesktop.org/|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: Nothing critical
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? Not directly
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ? Included but not run in our package
0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ? No strings
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ? No strings
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ? None needed
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ? cdbs
0. ''Dependencies:''
** libnice (not in main)
0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?  Upstream maintains debian packages
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  Upstream maintains debian packages
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext? No strings

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/388898]]</nowiki>

Report Author: KenVanDine 
