{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for odt2txt ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/o/odt2txt]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Recommends of tracker
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=odt2txt|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=odt2txt|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: no records found
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid; no daemons
** Network activity: does not open ports or handle network data
** Does directly process OpenOffice.org odt files to extract the text contents; it uses zlibg to unpack the odt and uses its own embedded implementation to parse the xml.
** There is an alternative implementation of the odt2txt binary available in the unoconv package, which is currently also in universe but which uses python-uno for the implementation.  No investigation has been done to confirm whether that implementation is compatible with tracker, and it does not currently satisfy tracker's Recommends.
** No source code review has been done.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package is believed to work out-of-the-box in all cases.
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:odt2txt|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: no major bugs 
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/o/odt2txt.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm
** <nowiki>[[http://stosberg.net/odt2txt/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm
** No upstream bug tracker.
** Hardware: package is not hardware-sensitive.
** Includes a minimal upstream test suite which is not currently enabled in the build.
0. ''UI standards:''
** The commandline interface is not internationalized.  The primary use of this package is as a helper for tracker, and will not be exposed in the GUI.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance: yes
** Packaging system: cdbs
** Patch system: none
0. ''Dependencies:''
** libc6
** zlib1g
0. ''Maintenance:''
** Package is not expected to require significant ongoing maintenance.
** The package will not be actively monitored by Ubuntu developers, and we will rely primarily on the Debian maintainer to provide bugfixes.  The package is currently in sync with Debian.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/359881]]</nowiki>

''SteveLangasek''
