{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for silc-toolkit (libsilc-1.0-2) ==

=== Requirements ===

 1. ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/silc-toolkit|silc-toolkit]]</nowiki> is http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/s/silc-toolkit, available for all supported architectures
 2. ''Rationale:''
** Required to <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/gaim/+bug/44728|build Gaim with SILC support]]</nowiki>.
** Gaim comes with SILC support by default in the Windows version and is available for other Linux distributions as a plug-in. It is a fairly standard feature of Gaim. 
** Would be required for any other <nowiki>[[http://silcnet.org/community/clients/|SILC-enabled applications]]</nowiki>.
 3. ''Security:''
** 1 <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=silc|CVE entry]]</nowiki>.
** 1, "Less Critical", unpatched <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/product/5646/|Secunia advisory]]</nowiki>.
** No mention in <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~pitti/ubuntu-cve/unfixed.html|Ubuntu-cve Unfixed]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~pitti/ubuntu-cve/unchecked.html|Unchecked]]</nowiki>
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid. ????
** Does not open any port. ????
** Source code review: ????
 4. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'normal'. ???? I don't think it does.
** No unresolved <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=libsilc-1.0-2|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>.
** No unresolved <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/silc-toolkit/+bugs|Ubuntu bugs]]</nowiki>.
** Good <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/s/silc-toolkit.html|maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki>. It looks like <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=370794|somebody else is intending to take over the package]]</nowiki>, however. ????
** Active <nowiki>[[http://www.silcnet.org/|upstream]]</nowiki>.
** No critical bugs in <nowiki>[[http://www.silcnet.org/support/bugs.php|upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>. ???? There isn't a visible bug-tracker.
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 5. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> ????
** Meets <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards. ????
** Standard debhelper/cdbs/dbs packaging, standard patch system. ????
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
