{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main inclusion report for shtool ==

This is needed as a dependency of php[45]-dev, to remove the local shtool copy from those packages.  php5-dev is now in main, hence this report.

# ''Availability:'' In main, arch:all, builds fine.
# ''Rationale:'' Needed to remove local copy of shtool from php5-dev, making code audits simpler.
# ''Security:''
** History: CAN-2005-1751 and CAN-2005-1759, insecure tempfile handling, fixed upstream.  This was the vulnerability that led us to audit how many packages contained copies of shtool in the first place.  No other vulns seem to have cropped up over time.
** No security relevant binaries in the package.
# ''Quality assurance:'' This is a development tool mostly, and it "just works".  It's used by many autoconf/automake-using packages in their builds.  Upstream is FSF, and they seem responsive.  The only bug in the Debian BTS against shtool is for the aforementioned security vuln (fixed).
# ''Standards compliance:'' The package is lintian clean and FHS compliant.  It uses a standard dh_make debian/rules, and is simple to understand and maintain.
# ''Dependencies:'' Nothing outside of main.

== Reviewers ==

MartinPitt: approved
