{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for pcsc-lite ==

'''Note:''' this MainInclusionReport is for the pcsc-lite source package, but only for the libpcsclite1 and libpcsclite-dev binary packages produced by it. The pcscd should not be included in main and should receive a separate MIR and code review before main promotion.

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/pcsc-lite]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** libpcsclite-dev is build dependency of the wpasupplicant 0.6.x debian package - required for NM 0.7
** supports smart card feature for Enterprise WPA
0. ''Security:''
** no entries in mitre
** no entries in secunia
** the libpcsclite1 library would be linked into wpasupplicant, which runs as root. The daemon pcscd is not required to make wpasupplicant built and is ment to be a runtime option which is not part of this MIR. As long as the pcscd is not installed, the library basically is a NOOP.
** Network activity: It doesnt open port and it doesnt process incoming network data. It uses local configuration
** Source code review: asac did a review of the source files that compromise the library of concern here. As long as pcscd (universe) is not installed it basically does nothing.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package works out of the box
** no debconf questions asked
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:pcsc-lite|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: no bugs with severity higher than '''normal'''
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/pcsc-lite.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is actively maintained in a mature fashion.
** <nowiki>[[http://pcsclite.alioth.debian.org/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is actively maintained in a mature fashion.
** Hardware: The source package deals with smart card integration, but the binary packages required dont have any logic for that.
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  No.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant
** Packaging system is debhelper. No patch system as its closely maintained to upstream.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** All Dependencies are in main.
0. ''Background information:''
** All documented in control. Upstream name didnt change. <nowiki>[[http://pcsclite.alioth.debian.org/|Homepage]]</nowiki>

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/250245]]</nowiki>

* Signed-Off: AlexanderSack (author)
