{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for refit ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/r/refit/, available for i386 (amd64 should be done as well, but is waiting for <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=383801|gnu-efi fixes]]</nowiki>)
# ''Rationale:''
** `gptsync` utility needed for <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/intel-mac-support|intel-mac-support specification]]</nowiki>; rest of package is an EFI boot loader that may be useful in the future on Intel Macs, but that we probably won't use straight away
** gptsync-udeb binary is a dependency of partman-efi
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=refit|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=refit|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** `gptsync` runs as root within the installer; the rest of the package contains boot loader code.
** Does not open any port.
** Source code review:
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium'.
** No showstopper <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:refit|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>.
** Good <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/r/refit.html|maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki>.
** Active <nowiki>[[http://refit.sourceforge.net/|upstream]]</nowiki>.
** No critical bugs in <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=161917&atid=821764|upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:''
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Standard debhelper packaging, standard patch system (dpatch).
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
