{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for ldap-auth-client ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/l/ldap-auth-client/]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Easier LDAP client setup.
 0. ''Security:''
** ldap-auth-client is a meta package that only contains dependencies and no code, so the risk profile is extremely low
** Since, this is a new package, no historical data exist.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** This package configures /etc/ldap.conf.  The debconf code is basically the same as was used by libpam-ldap with minor fixes and updates. 
** The debconf configuration that was previously done in libpam-ldap and libnss-ldap has been consolidated in ldap-auth-config, which is part of this source package
** This package does not deal with hardware.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** This package conforms with Debian Policy.  These changes have been sent upstream and are being considered for inclusion in Debian.
** Packaging system CDBS.  This a very simple package containing dependencies.
 0. ''Dependencies:'' 
** libpam-ldap, libnss-ldap
** Are these all in main? They are in the queue.
 0. ''Background information:''
** This package along with auth-client-config is an attempt make LDAP authentication simpler in ubuntu.

=== Reviewers ===

<nowiki>[[dendrobates|RickClark]]</nowiki>

MartinPitt: `ldap-auth-config` is a noob-package; what is it good for? also, the package does not actually use `auth-client-config`, wasn't that the idea? Looks fine otherwise, but I'd like to see the final mechanism.

<nowiki>[[dendrobates|RickClark]]</nowiki> `ldap-auth-config` configures /etc/ldap.conf.  This functionality has been moved from libpam-ldap and libnss-ldap. `ldap-auth-client` depends on `libpam-ldap` and `libnss-ldap`, which in turn depend on `ldap-auth-config`.  That way it is possible to install either library and still get the debconf configuration.   Does this answer your questions?

MartinPitt: looks good now, approved
