{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is based on the gnome-system-tools package in dapper with the following modifications:

** add a patch which disables gconf and gnome libs and replaces the latter with gtk/glib only stuff
** regenerate the autoreconf patch

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/x/xubuntu-system-tools, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:'xubuntu'
** Build dependency of ...
** 
 0. ''Security:''
** No CVE entries.
** No Secunia history.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** Does not open any port.
** Source code review:
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Meets <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards.
** Standard debhelper/cdbs/dbs packaging, standard patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: I really abhor introducing such code duplication. This should really become a multibuild source package which spits out both a gtk and a gnome frontend. Can this please be discussed again?
