{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

'''Note''': when writing a report this template should be vigorously edited; as a rule of thumb, every individual point should be replaced with a description of the actual situation in the package in question.  The purpose of the report is to convey information to the reviewer, so there is no problem with varying the text in the bullet items, or with adding additional information.

Please be informative, and in particular be thorough in investigating and explaining any weaknesses and problems with the package.  The purpose of the report is to show to the reviewer that the package has been properly investigated, and to give the reviewer the information from that investigation, for their decision.

=== Requirements ===

0. ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/l/libftdi]]</nowiki>; 
  available for all supported architectures
0. ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of lirc starting with version 0.8.5.  liblircclient is in main, but it won't be a dependency of that, only of the universe package "lirc".
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=ftdi|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: (none)
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=ftdi|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: (none)
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  no
** Any daemons ? no
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  no
** Does it handle incoming network data ? no
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? no
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? none
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? no
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libftdi|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libf/libftdi.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm ?
** <nowiki>[[http://www.intra2net.com/en/developer/libftdi/]]</nowiki> is calm ?
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? Yes, FTDIChip Ltd manufacturers these devices.  They're not common for most people.
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ? No  Is it enabled to run in the build ? No
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ?
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ? debian  Patch system ? quilt Any packaging oddities ? no
0. ''Dependencies:''
** libusb-0.1-4
** libc6
** Are these all in main ? yes
0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?  None.  We've always synced it from debian, never had to patch in Ubuntu.  No bugs in Ubuntu
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ? Debian developers

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/390973]]</nowiki>

''Mario Limonciello''
