{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libk/libkarma/; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:'' 

** For having Amarok support for the Rio Karma media device, they need this library in the main repository. See https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/amarok/+bug/89591 It works perfectly with Amarok packages from Debian, but I think Ubuntu should support the Rio Karma from scratch too.
** Build dependency of Amarok --with-libkarma

 0. ''Security:''
** No security history.

 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** works out of the box

 0. ''Dependencies:''
** libtagc, libc6

 0. ''Background information''
** This package is needed in main for Amarok to be compiled with support for the DAP Rio Karma
** For filesystem access to the Rio Karma you need to compile the module OMFS (from package omfs-source)
** at the moment omfs-source 0.7.4 doesn't work with hardy kernel 2.6.24-8.8 but v0.7.6 from omfs homepage does (bug already reported to package omfs-source)
** libkarma is needed by Aramok to access the meta data of the Karma, so OMFS is neccessary for libkarma
** you can mount the Karma with pmount; I use an fstab entry

=== Reviewers ===

''This MIR should be added to the queue again when the report is complete and my comments below answered.  -iwj''

Is anything missing in this MIR? Sorry for that, it is my first one.

''Discussion in bug 89591 suggests that this isn't going to be useful without OMFS in our kernel.  Is that correct ?  Has agreement in principle been achieved for this ?  -iwj''

That is correct in principle, for full support of the Rio Karma you need OMFS. Therefore you find a package ''omfs-source' in the gutsy repository. See also: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pmount/+bug/78345

''What is a Rio Karma media device ?  From context an mp3 player ?  Is that correct ?  -iwj''

Right. It is a HDD music player which supports mp3, ogg and some other formats. See http://www.digitalnetworksna.com/shop/_templates/item_main_Rio.asp?model=261&cat=72 for more details (Hope this isn't rated as commercial :-) )

See https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libkarma/+bug/174306
