{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for mutagen ==

We will need python-mutagen as a Depends for libgpod.

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/m/mutagen/ available for all supported architectures or some subset ?
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of libgpod, as of 0.5.2
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=mutagen|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: nothing
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=mutagen|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: unrelated virus message.
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ? No.
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ? Yes, it can manipulate Ogg streams on an individual packet/page level
** Any source code review performed ?  No.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? None.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:mutagen|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: None at all.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/m/mutagen.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is OK.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.sacredchao.net/quodlibet/wiki/Development/Mutagen]]</nowiki> is OK.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.sacredchao.net/quodlibet/report]]</nowiki>: OK.
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? No.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? All good, just python bindings and some binaries.
** Packaging system is CDBS, which could be extended to patching very easily. There look to be no oddities.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Are these all in main ? Yes.
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain. All in debian/control.
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ? No, no different names.

=== Reviewers ===

''Looks good to me, so '''approved''' -iwj 16.7.07''
