{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for udev-extras ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/u/udev-extras]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** We are in the middle of deprecating hal in favor of DeviceKit-* and direct udev usage.
** keymap handling was now added to udev-extras upstream by Martin Pitt, and should be dropped from hal.
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=udev-extras|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=udev-extras|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** udev runs udev-extras' callouts as root, which is required for poking keymaps into evdev devices, configure modems, etc.; it only receives input from udev and the kernel, which is largely not controllable by users (and if so, requires physical access)
** No network activity.
** No complex data parsing; pattern matching is done by udev itself with standard udev rules.
** Martin Pitt did a shallow check of modem-modeswitch, usb-db, and v4l-id, all of which are pretty trivial programs written in a safe fashion (no malloc(), no unsafe string operations). keymap was written by Martin Pitt and is also fairly trivial. It only reads static text files shipped by udev-extras itself.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Works out of the box.
** No debconf.
** Package not yet in Debian.
** <nowiki>[[http://git.kernel.org/?p=linux/hotplug/udev-extras.git;a=summary|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** No dedicated upstream bug tracker; Scott James Remnant and Martin Pitt are upstream maintainers and will read Launchpad bugs.
** Hardware: Deals with laptop Fn keys, and some 3G modems. Testing for those relies on user feedback. MartinPitt issued a <nowiki>[[http://martinpitt.wordpress.com/2009/05/08/devicekit-update-future-handling-of-fn-key-maps/|call for testing]]</nowiki> with good results.
** Upstream has one test in "make check" which is enabled during package build.
# ''UI standards:'' Does not interact with users directly.
# ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** Standard debhelper packaging system, no patches.
# ''Dependencies:'' all in main
# ''Maintenance:''
** udev-extras will need a fair bit of maintenance, due to its nature of collecting hardware quirks, keymaps, etc. This maintenance will just move from hal and hal-info to udev-extras.
** Martin Pitt and Scott James Remnant are responsible for maintaining the package in Ubuntu.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: Bug:374844

Author: MartinPitt
