{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for euca2ools ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/e/euca2ools]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures (python).  <nowiki>[[http://open.eucalyptus.com/wiki/Euca2oolsGuide|Upstream]]</nowiki> is part of Eucalyptus.
# ''Rationale:''
** ''Why is this package needed?''  Euca2ools provides a set of command line tools for interacting with Amazon's ec2 or Eucalyptus.  Such interaction includes starting instances, uploading bundles, stopping instances ... Upstream is the Eucalyptus team, and they would expect packaging in Ubuntu for the Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud.  These tools allow a user to actually ''do something'' with their UEC or EC2 account.
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=euca2ools|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=euca2ools|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** ''Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?''  No. ''Any daemons ?'' No daemons
** ''Network activity: does it open any port ?''  The client tools interact with a REST api at a user defined URI.  ''Does it handle incoming network data ?'' No
** ''Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ?'' No, all handling of such data is done through python libraries.
** ''Any source code review performed ?'' No, explicit source code review has been done.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** ''In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?''  In order to function, the tools require that 2 environment (possibly 3) variables are set: EC2_SECRET_KEY, EC2_ACCESS_KEY, EC2_URL
** ''Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?'' No.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:euca2ools|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: 1 open, related to build.  Ubuntu packages do correctly build.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/e/euca2ools.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead ? It is fairly new.  The last source version is 20090731.
** <nowiki>[[http://open.eucalyptus.com/wiki/Euca2oolsGuide|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous.  Eucalyptus is an important package for UEC and is actively being worked with both Ubuntu and Eucalyptus developers.
** <nowiki>[[http://open.eucalyptus.com|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: There is no public upstream bug tracker.
** ''Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ?'' No direct interaction with hardware is done.
** ''Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?''  There is no included test suite.  Note, as we improve on our ec2 and UEC testing, these tools will be used, and thus will be implicitly tested.
0. ''UI standards:''
** ''User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ?'' No.  There is no support for internationalized strings.
** ''Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ?'' Not Applicable.
** ''End-user applications ship a desktop file ?'' Not Applicable
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ?
** ''Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?''  cdbs. ''Patch system ?''  currently no patches. ''Any packaging oddities ?'' No.
0. ''Dependencies''
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/source/karmic/python-boto|python-boto]]</nowiki> (Universe: <nowiki>[[MainInclusionPython-Boto|MIR]]</nowiki>)
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/source/karmic/m2crypto|python-m2crypto]]</nowiki> (Universe: <nowiki>[[MainInclusionM2crypto|MIR]]</nowiki>)
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/source/karmic/python|python]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/source/karmic/python-central|python-central]]</nowiki>
0. ''Maintenance:''
** ''How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?''  There is reasonable cause for concern about maintenance with euca2ools.  They interface with EC2, and EC2 is not a 100% static API.  There is a possibility of changes in EC2 that would break the euca2ools.  That chance is lessoned by the fact that EC2 has good reason to not break existing tools.
** ''Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?''  Eucalyptus developers will be interested in making sure euca2ools run well on Ubuntu (under UEC).  That list include Ubuntu developers and Eucalyptus team members. 
** ''Who is the package bug contact in Ubuntu?'' Soren Hansen, Scott Moser
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.
** ''What do upstream call this software ?''  euca2ools. ''Has it had different names in the past ?'' No, it is fairly young.
0. ''Internationalization:''
** ''Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext?'' Not Applicable

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/434697]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
