{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for flash-kernel ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://ports.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-ports/pool/universe/f/flash-kernel]]</nowiki>; available for armel
# ''Rationale:''
** Required for a NSLU2 install (and other future armel based installations)
** See bug: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/flash-kernel/+bug/336770
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=flash-kernel| there are no CVE entries]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=flash-kernel|The package has no Secunia history]]</nowiki>
** flash-kernel is an installer for kernel and initramfs in armel boot partitions and thus needs to run as root. It does not run any daemons.
** flash-kernel does not attach to any network and neither does open any ports.
** It processes a kernel and initramfs writing raw data to a bootloader (apex or redboot) partition.
** Any source code the source code was reviewed and the package is used in many armel default installs in debian.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:flash-kernel|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: there are no showstopper debian bugs
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/f/flash-kernel.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is active.
** debian is upstream
** Hardware: the package deals with armel hardware only.
0. ''UI standards:''
** The package has no UI, it hooks directly into kernel-img.conf (similar to grub-install)
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** It follows the FHS and is debian compliant
** There are no libraries packaged in this package (it is a simple dd frontend adding specific offsets to write to bootloader partitions)
** Packaging system: debhelper. There is no patch system and the package is packaged native.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** All dependencies and build dependencies (devio, initramfs-tools) of the package are in main already.
0. ''Maintenance:''
** The package can be synced directly from debian in its current state, we might add ubuntu specific patches later, but there are none currently.
** The package will be maintained by the ubuntu arm porting team and/or the ubuntu mobile team (which does most of the arm enablement currently)

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/339947]]</nowiki>

''OliverGrawert''
