{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for ec2-init ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/e/ec2-init|ec2-init]]</nowiki> is available for amd64, i386 (python)
# ''Rationale:''
** ec2-init is being developed by the ubuntu team to provide hooks during boot up to do ec2 (and UEC) specific things.  One such example is to re-generate ssh keys on each new instance.  Another piece of functionality is running/consuming 'user data' input that is provided to the instance via the user who started it.  This package is a core piece of functionality of the ec2 and UEC images that we produce.  The upstream is <nowiki>[[Ubuntu|https:--launchpad.net-ec2-init]]</nowiki>.
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=ec2-init|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=ec2-init|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** ''Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?''  The ec2-init init script runs as root during the boot process.  Additionally, the user who started the instance can optionally pass scripts (via --user-data) that are run at this time (as root).  There are no daemons in the package.
** ''Network activity: does it open any port ?''  No ports are listened on.  It does do http requests to the ec2 metadata service (http://169.254.169.254).  ''Does it handle incoming network data ?'' No.
** ''Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ?''  ec2-init parses user data via the python libraries.  It handles multi-part input via <nowiki>[[http://docs.python.org/library/email.parser.html|python email library]]</nowiki> and xml input via <nowiki>[[http://docs.python.org/library/xml.dom.minidom.html?highlight=minidom#module-xml.dom.minidom|python xml.dom.minidom]]</nowiki>
** ''Any source code review performed ?''  I (ScottMoser) have been working with the ec2-init code some.  Soren is the Primary developer.  No explicit source code review has taken place.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** ''In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?''  If the package is installed on non-ec2 or uec, it will cause long timeouts on boot.
** ''Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?'' No.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:ec2-init|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: Not packaged
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/S/SOURCE_PACKAGE_NAME.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> Not packaged
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ec2-init|Upstream]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead ? Upstream is not terribly active.  The package is reasonably mature.
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ec2-init|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ec2-init/+bug/431255|bug 431255]]</nowiki> is intended to be addressed shortly.
** ''Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ?'' It runs on ec2 or UEC guests.  No direct interaction with hardware.
** ''Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?''  No. ''Is it enabled to run in the build ?'' Not Applicable
 0. ''UI standards:''
** ''User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ?''.  No internationalized text is used. However, the only user-visible strings are during boot (init output).
** ''Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ?'' Not Applicable
** ''End-user applications ship a desktop file ?'' Not Applicable
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? '''Yes'''.
** ''Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?''  cdbs. ''Patch system ?''  quilt (currently no patches).  ''Any packaging oddities ?'' No.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/source/karmic/configobj|python-configobj]]</nowiki> (Universe: <nowiki>[[MainInclusionConfigobj|MIR]]</nowiki>)
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/source/karmic/cheetah|python-cheetah]]</nowiki> (Universe: <nowiki>[[MainInclusionCheetah|MIR]]</nowiki>)
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/source/karmic/python-boto|python-boto]]</nowiki> (Universe: <nowiki>[[MainInclusionPython-Boto|MIR]]</nowiki>)
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/source/karmic/python|python]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/source/karmic/procps|procps]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/source/karmic/update-motd|update-motd]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/source/karmic/python-central|python-central]]</nowiki>

 0. ''Maintenance:''
** ''How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?''  The ubuntu package maintainence needs of ec2-init are not significant.   However, the upstream is Ubuntu, and that will/does require resources.
** ''Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?''  SorenHanson and ScottMoser, and the ec2-on-ubuntu team.  ''Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ?'' Ubuntu.
** ''Who is the package bug contact in Ubuntu? '' Scott Moser, Soren Hanson, Eric Hammond
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.
** ''What do upstream call this software ?''  ec2-init.  ''Has it had different names in the past ?'' No
 0. ''Internationalization:''
** ''Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext?'' Not Applicable

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/434693]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
