{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for notify-python ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/n/notify-python; available for all supported architectures or some subset ?
# ''Rationale:''
** Dependency of `restricted-manager`.
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=notify|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: ...
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=notify|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: ...
** No root/suid/sgid binaries, no daemons, no networking.
** Source code review: Mostly just autogenerated Python binding shim, ok.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** No configuration necessary, just a library that works out of the box.
** No debconf questions.
** No important <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:notify-python|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>
** Good <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/n/notify-python.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.galago-project.org/downloads.php|Upstream]]</nowiki> exists (but this is a low-maintenance package anyway)
** <nowiki>[[http://trac.galago-project.org/query?status=new&status=assigned&status=reopened&component=notify-python&order=priority|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki> does not have any important issues (the one important bug there is fixed in Ubuntu and just was an Ubuntu specific bug)
** Does not need special hardware.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Complies to <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> 
** Packaging system cdbs, no patches
 0. ''Dependencies:'' all in main

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
