{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for the libsmbios1 package ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://linux.dell.com/libsmbios/download/libsmbios/ available for x86, amd64
# ''Rationale:''
** libsmbios is needed for proper backlight functionality on Dell laptops
** Used by the dell-backlight hal addon.
 0. ''Security:''
** No CVE entries. <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=libsmbios]]</nowiki>
** No Secunia history. <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=libsmbios]]</nowiki>
** No binaries at all.
** Does not open any port.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions.
** Active upstream.
** See <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libsmbios|Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
** See <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=libsmbios|Debian]]</nowiki> 
** There is no official bugzilla. The developers recommend sending issues to the official libsmbios-devel@lists.us.dell.com mailing list. 
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Meets <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards.
** Standard debhelper packaging
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.
 0. ''External references:''
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hal/+bug/43572|Ubuntu bug #43572]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/dell-backlight-support|Blueprint on launchpad]]</nowiki>

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
