{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sshfs-fuse ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/s/sshfs-fuse]]</nowiki>; is available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** With the support for local applications on thin clients in LTSP a way was needed to make the ltsp login manager (LDM) mount the homedir of the logged in user on the client. Since LDM uses ssh to connect to the server and already puts an ssh communication socket in place, the natural choice was to re-use this socket to establish an sshfs mount. To provide the localapps functionality out of the box as planned the ltsp-client package will have to depend on sshfs which means sshfs-fuse has to move to main and onto the Ubuntu alternate CD.

 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=sshfs-fuse|CVE entries]]</nowiki>
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=sshfs-fuse|Secunia history]]</nowiki>
** No binaries are running as root or suid/sgid, sshfs wraps around the fuse filesystem and sftp.
** Network activity: sshfs establishes a fuse network mount on top of a ssh connection. It is a client application, does not run any daemons and operates on the ssh standard ports.
** Sshfs does not process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data
** A sourcecode review was performed (the source actually consists only of three .c files), given that sshfs upstream is identical to fuse upstream no unexpected oddness was found.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In Ubuntu the package will always work out of the box without configuration (unlike debian where you ave to tinker with fuse setup first).
** The package does not ask any debconf questions.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:sshfs-fuse|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: one tagged "important" on powerpc that is rather fuse related, 8 outstanding bugs
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/s/sshfs-fuse.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is moderate.
** <nowiki>[[http://fuse.sourceforge.net/sshfs.html|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?forum_name=fuse-sshfs|Upstream Tracks bugs via mailinglist]]</nowiki>: So there is no easy way to judge severity of bugs.
** Hardware: The package does not deal with any specific hardware.
** There is no test suite in the upstream code, a simple test would be to do: sshfs user@host:/<dir> /<mountpoint>
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** It is <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** It does not provide any libraries.
** The Package uses debhelper as packaging system, it provides no additional patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** fuse, libglib
** All of these are in main (and on the CD already)
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package is clear and straightforward from the package description.
** Upstream calls this software sshfs-fuse since the beginning.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/BUGNUMBER]]</nowiki>

''Author: OliverGrawert''
