{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for freealut ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/f/freealut, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Builds-Depends of rss-glx.
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=openal|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=openal|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** Does not open any port.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box, requiring no configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions.
** Package has been in Debian since stable, where I suspect it was forked off OpenAL.
** Active <nowiki>[[http://www.openal.org|upstream]]</nowiki>.
** No upstream bug tracker, but they seem to be discussing setting one up. (as per OpenAL)
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Standard debhelper packaging, standard patch system (quilt).
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All Build-Depends and Depends in main, with the exception of OpenAL, see <nowiki>[[MainInclusionReportOpenAL]]</nowiki>.

== Reviewers ==
MartinPitt: approved
