{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libgdata ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libg/libgdata/]]</nowiki>; available for i386 and amd64 architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** This is needed for the `YouTube` plugin in totem (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/384768|bug 384768]]</nowiki>)
** evolution-data-server will use this in the future too (<nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=580021|GNOME Bug #580021]]</nowiki>)
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=libgdata|CVE entries]]</nowiki>:  None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=libgdata|Secunia history]]</nowiki>:  None
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid, and no daemons. This is just a library.
** Network activity: It connects to Google services such as `YouTube` via HTTP/HTTPS.
** It processes some XML data
** No source code review performed, but I took a quick glance through the code and it is structured just like any other GNOME library
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** There are no known situations where the package does not work out of the box without configuration.
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libgdata|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>:  None
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libg/libgdata.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/libgdata|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.gnome.org/buglist.cgi?query_format=advanced;bug_status=UNCONFIRMED;bug_status=NEW;bug_status=ASSIGNED;bug_status=REOPENED;bug_status=NEEDINFO;product=libgdata|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>:  No critical bugs or show-stoppers. Some minor bugs but mainly enhancement/feature requests
** This library does not deal with hardware
** No test-suite is included.
0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system.
** PO template is built during package build
** No desktop file, as this is not an end-user application.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Compliant with <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>.
** Packaging uses CDBS and simple-patchsys. No packaging oddities.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** cdbs debhelper gnome-pkg-tools pkg-config glib2.0 libxml, libsoup2.4 intltool
** All of these are in main.
0. ''Maintenance:''
** Expected to need little maintenance. It is actively maintained upstream and currently in sync with Debian.
** Quality to be monitored in Ubuntu by the ubuntu-desktop team, but bugs will likely be fixed by upstream developers, who are quite active.
** desktop-bugs will be the package contact for bugs in Ubuntu.
0. ''Background information:''
** The purpose of the package is clear from its debian/control file
** The software is known as '''libgdata''' upstream.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/427576]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~chrisccoulson|Chris Coulson]]</nowiki>
