{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

 0. ''Availability:''
** http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/s/scim, available for all supported architectures
 0. ''Rationale:''
** Input method is required by many Asia users, like CJK people and Indian. It's a critical issue for them because they can't input their native language without it.
** SCIM supports many laungages via scim-pinyin, scim-hangul, scim-anthy scim-tables, scim-m17n and so on.
** Although there are a few candidates for multilingual input method framework such as IIIMF or uim, there are some critical problems in it.
*** uim lacks well supported chinese input methods.
*** IIIMF lacks well supported OSS input methods, lacks comfortable GUI. Some people pointed out security issues in its fundamental design.
** See also MainInclusionReportScimAnthy
** See also MainInclusionReportScimHangul
** See also MainInclusionReportScimPinyin
** See also MainInclusionReportScimChewing
** See also MainInclusionReportScimTables
 0. ''Security:''
** No security histroy.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** SCIM is well maintained by Jame Su who is employed in Novell.
** Fedora, SUSE and Mandriva shipped with SCIM, and no critical bugs has been found in them.
** There are some binary compatibility issues related with libstdc++. Since libscim will be linked with all Gtk+ (and patched version of Qt) applications via its input method module system, and SCIM is written in C++, an application which is compiled against different version of C++ with SCIM will cause clash. This problem isn't reproduced when you use SCIM via XIM because it is a protocol based communication, not shared link.
*** http://www.scim-im.org/wiki/faq/gtk_gnome/why_firefox_mozilla_acrobat_reader_7_other_gtk_2_based_apps_can_not_be_installed_started
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** The package meets debian-policy and FHS.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.
** SCIM is just only a framework. Also some major IMEngines (language plugins for SCIM) should be included into main to realize true multilingual input. They are all in universe.
*** scim-pinyin (mainland China)
*** scim-chewing (Taiwan)
*** scim-hangul (Korea)
*** scim-anthy (Japan)
*** scim-tables (Hong Kong)
*** scim-m17n (http://www.m17n.org/m17n-lib/support_input_sum.html)

=== Reviewers ===

MartinPitt: approved
