{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for dh-di ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/d/dh-di]]</nowiki>; architecture-independent
# ''Rationale:''
** debhelper extension used by various d-i packages now that they're being converted to debhelper 7. See http://lists.debian.org/debian-boot/2009/08/msg00234.html for background.
0. ''Security:''
** Shouldn't be relevant; build tool only. I (ColinWatson) wrote it.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** No debconf questions or other configuration.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:dh-di|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/d/dh-di.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is just as much as necessary :-)
** Debian native package; no upstream.
** Does not deal with hardware.
** No test suite.
0. ''UI standards:''
** No user interface.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** debhelper 7. No patch system.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** Nothing exotic.
0. ''Maintenance:''
** I expect this package to need very little maintenance, but if it does then the installer team will take care of it, and we're set as a bug contact.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: Bug:425615

ColinWatson
