{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libdbusmenu ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libd/libdbusmenu]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures or some subset ?  All
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of indicator-messages
 0. ''Security:''
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ?  No.  No.
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ?  No.
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ?  No.
** Any source code review performed ?  Yes.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?  Noknown
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?  No.
** <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/dbusmenu|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/dbusmenu/|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: None :)
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ?  None.
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ?  Yes.  No.
 0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ?  Yes.
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ?  Yes.
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ?  NA
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** libdbus-glib
** libglib
** libgtk
** libxml
** Are these all in main ?  Yes.
 0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?  Simple.
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ?  Canonical, a few are.
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ?  libdbusmenu, dbusmenu.  No.
 0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext?  Yes, yes.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[Bug:409771]]</nowiki>

''Report Author: TedGould''
