{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for keepalived ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/k/keepalived, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:'' Part of LVS (Linux Virtual Server) support.
# ''Security:''
** No CVE entries.
** No Secunia history.
** Daemon running as root.
** Opens a port, so potential remote root compromise. However, only talks to peer nodes in the cluster, which are supposed to be trusted.
** Source code review: Quick review, no apparent gaping holes.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package does not work out of the box without configuration. It is a cluster tool. It needs to know about the rest of the cluster.
** No showstopper Debian bugs. There are a few minor that we can easily fix.
** Reasonable maintenance in Debian.
** Active upstream: similar situation as ipvsadm. The code is stable enough and it has been for a long while.
** No upstream bug tracker.
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
standards.
** Standard cdbs packaging, standard patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** `ipvsadm`: MainInclusionReportIpvsadm

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: pending QA check and functional test from Fabio<<BR>>
FabioMassimoDiNitto: looks reasonably good to me, both packaging and upstream.<<BR>>
MartinPitt: approved
