{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Describe MainInclusionReportLiblouis here.
== Main Inclusion Report for liblouis ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libl/liblouis/]]</nowiki>; Available for all architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of gnome-orca, to provide grade 2 Braille support

0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=liblouis|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: There are none at this time
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=liblouis|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: There are none at this time
** No binaries running as root or suid root, and no daemons.
** No network activity, doesn't handle incoming data.
** It processes incoming text to be translated into Braille.
** No source code review performed.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package works out of the box without configuration, as it is a shared library, with python bindings, and command-line tools.
** No debconf questions asked at all.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:liblouis|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: Bug 530608 is a showstopper, but has a pending fix in liblouis' Debian git packaging branch, and can be pulled into Ubuntu until a new Debian upload is made.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libl/liblouis.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/liblouis/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is frenetic
** <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/liblouis/issues/list|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: No critical bugs to mention.
** This package does not deal with any hardware.
** There is a test suite in the upstream package, however it doesn't appear to be enabled in the package build.
0. ''UI standards:''
** There are user visible strings for the command-line tools, however these are not internationalized.
** Package has no translatable strings.
** Since this is a shared library with command-line tools, no desktop file is needed.
0. ''Standards compliance:''
** The package is <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> compliant, and complies with  <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>, standards version 3.8.1.
** Packaging system is debhelper, no packaging oddities.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper
** autotools-dev
** pkg-config
** python-all-dev
** python-support
** texinfo
** These are all in main.
0. ''Maintenance:''
** This package will only require little maintenance, usually updating upstream releases/updating from Debian.
** I, Luke Yelavich, will be responsible for monitoring this package and bugs in Ubuntu, Debian, and upstream.
0. ''Background information:''
** The use of the package is indicated clearly in the control file.
** Upstream call this software liblouis, which has been the given name from the project's inception.
0. ''Internationalization:''
** No GUI applications.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/391446]]</nowiki>

Report author: Luke Yelavich <luke.yelavich@canonical.com>
