{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for xplanet ==
=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/x/xplanet]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** XPlanet adds extra features to the KStars package, in which every other distribution is shipping except for Kubuntu at this time.
** XPlanet is a build dependency of the KStars package which is part of the kdeedu module in KDE 4.
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=xplanet|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: '''0 results'''
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=xplanet|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: '''0 results'''
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  '''No'''
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ? '''No'''
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? '''No'''
** Any source code review performed ? '''No''' 
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? '''None'''
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? '''No'''
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:xplanet|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: '''0 showstoppers, 1 forwarded and 1 pending, both wishlist'''
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/x/xplanet.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is '''calm but steady'''
** <nowiki>[[http://xplanet.sourceforge.net/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is '''calm but steady'''
** <nowiki>[[http://xplanet.sourceforge.net/FUDforum2/index.php?t=thread&frm_id=3&S=119a85fcfe92371072b45b57153e894f|Upstream bug tracker (Forums)]]</nowiki>: '''Nothing more than support type questions'''
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? '''No'''
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  '''No'''
0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ? '''Yes''' ''(see src/getopt.c)''
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ? '''Yes'''
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ? '''No''' ''(xplanet must be called with options, ie. <code>xplanet -body odyssey -window</code>''
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? '''Yes'''
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ? '''debhelper | quilt | none'''
0. ''Dependencies:''
** quilt, debhelper (>= 7), autotools-dev, libjpeg62-dev, libpng12-dev | libpng-dev, libfreetype6-dev, libtiff4-dev, libgif-dev, libnetpbm10-dev, libpango1.0-dev, libx11-dev, libxss-dev, libxt-dev, ttf-freefont
** Are these all in main ? '''Yes'''
0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ? '''Simple package, not much maintenance outside of merge/syncs from Debian'''
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ? '''Debian. Package is synced'''
** Who is the package bug contact in Ubuntu? '''<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nixternal|Richard Johnson (nixternal)]]</nowiki>'''
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** <pre>
 Xplanet renders an image of a planet into an X window or a file. All
 of the major planets and most satellites can be drawn, and different
 map projections are also supported, including azimuthal, hemisphere,
 Lambert, Mercator, Mollweide, Peters, polyconic, and rectangular.
 .
 In order to run xplanet, you'll need at least one map file. Some maps
 are included in the xplanet-images package.
</pre>
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ? '''XPlanet, no different names'''
0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext? '''Yes'''

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/496693]]</nowiki>

''Author:'' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nixternal|Richard Johnson (nixternal)]]</nowiki>
