{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for migration-assistant ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/m/migration-assistant, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Needed to import documents and settings from other operating systems as part of the MigrationAssistance spec.
** Ubiquity needs it to be in main to support code that is going to be merged into Ubiquity.
 0. ''Security:''
** Binary runs as root as part of debian-installer, but drops to a regular user almost immediately.
** Does not open any port.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** The package asks questions at "high", but does so as part of debian-installer.
** Active upstream.
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Standard debhelper packaging, standard patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** libxml2-udeb will need to be promoted to main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: did a shallow source code review, approved
