{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for cheetah ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/c/cheetah]]</nowiki>; ''available for all supported architectures or some subset ?'' all (python)
# ''Rationale:''
** ''Why is this package needed?  What feature(s) does it add?''  Primary reason for request is that it is a dependency of c2-init. ''Does upstream expect it?''  This has not been brought up with upstream. ''Plain text description of expected use''  cheetah is used by ec2-init to provide substitution of values in template files at runtime.
** This is a runtime dependency of ec2-init (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MainInclusionEc2-Init|MIR]]</nowiki>)
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=cheetah|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: One from old version (0.9) in 2005
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=cheetah|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** ''Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?''  No, only a python library.  ''Any daemons ?'' No
** ''Network activity: does it open any port ?'' No.  ''Does it handle incoming network data ?'' No.
** ''Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ?'' No.
** ''Any source code review performed ?'' No, but per cheeta upstream site it is "is supported by every major Python web framework.".  This is mentioned as an attribute to its quality.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** ''In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?'' None.
** ''Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?'' No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=cheetah|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: 1, a request to package non-free documentation
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/c/cheetah.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm (no update since 2008-03-05)
** <nowiki>[[http://www.cheetahtemplate.org/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous.  Upstream current is version 2.2.2 released 2009-09-14.  Packaged version is 2.0.1
** <nowiki>[[http://www.cheetahtemplate.org/contribute.html|Upstream bug tracker (email list)]]</nowiki>: (mention any particularly relevant or critical)
** ''Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ?'' No interaction with hardware
** ''Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?''  Yes ''Is it enabled to run in the build ?'' No.
0. ''UI standards:''
** ''User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ?''. The library doesn't provide internationalized strings.
** ''Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ?'' Not Applicable
** ''End-user applications ship a desktop file ?'' Not Applicable
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ?
** ''Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?''  cdbs. ''Patch system ?'' simple-patchsys. ''Any packaging oddities ?'' No.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** Python
** python-support
** ''Are these all in main ?'' .  Yes
0. ''Maintenance:''
** ''How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?''
** ''Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?''  ''Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ?''
** ''Who is the package bug contact in Ubuntu?''
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** ''What do upstream call this software ?''  cheetah.  '' Has it had different names in the past ?'' No.
0. ''Internationalization:''
** ''Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext?'' Not Applicable

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/434704]]</nowiki>

=== Author ===
* Scott Moser
