{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for MTX ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/m/mtx/]]</nowiki> available for all architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerPackageReview]]</nowiki>
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=mtx]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=mtx]]</nowiki>: None
** No binaries running as suid/sgid root, no network daemon.
** No network ports or activity.
** Any source code review performed ? 

	no

 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?

	Unsupported tape drives and media changer.

** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?

	no

** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:mtx|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: 
	Package is quite old and has been superseeded by a newer release upstream
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/m/mtx.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is dead (no release since 2006)
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/mtx]]</nowiki> is calm
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=4626]]</nowiki>: (mention any particularly relevant or critical)
** Hardware: Yes, deals with tape changers if you dont know what you are doing you can risk freezing up your system.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ?
		
		yes

** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ?

		yes

** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ?

               No straightforward uses debhelper.

 0. ''Dependencies:''

  	autotools-dev

** Are these all in main ?

	Yes

=== Reviewers ===

https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mtx/+bug/184885

ChuckShort
