{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for micro-evtd ==

This report is a draft.

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://ports.ubuntu.com/pool/universe/m/micro-evtd/]]</nowiki>; available for ARM only.
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of debian-installer, needed for orion4x support
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=micro-evtd|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None known issues
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=micro-evtd|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid and no daemons ?
** No network activity
** No direct processing of binary data
** Source code review performed by Loic Miner (lool):
*** Package uses /tmp when executing custom events
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:micro-evtd|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: 0
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/m/micro-evtd.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm
** <nowiki>[[http://downloads.buffalo.nas-central.org/Users/lb_worm/micro_evtd/micro_evtd/|Upstream development]]</nowiki> is calm.
** This package enables the use of LEDs, fan control, and the internal speaker on Kuro/Linkstation boxes. A vast majority of users will not need this package.
** No test suite
0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are NOT internationalized using standard gettext system.
** No internationalization system, thus package does not builds a PO template during package build.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> complaint
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant
** Packaging system: debhelper 
** Patch system: quilt
** Any packaging oddities: Uses install to rename packages vs. dh_install. 
0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper, and quilt; all dependencies are in main
0. ''Maintenance:''
** Package is likely to be low maintenance, and fairly simple. It is actively maintained in Debian (no outstanding bugs)
** This package is solely maintained in Debian by Per Andersson.
0. ''Background information:''
** micro-evtd is a simple userpsace interface to the micro controllers on Linkstation/Kuro ARM NASes, which allow userspace apps to set LEDs, fans, or access the internal speaker
** Upstream calls this package micro-evtd
0. ''Internationalization:''
** No graphical applications

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/micro-evtd/+bug/353290]]</nowiki>
Authored by: Michael Casadevall
