{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for pyusb ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/pyusb/]]</nowiki>
# ''Rationale:''
** This package is needed by hal-cups-utils as runtime dependency 
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=pyusb|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: No entries listed
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=pyusb|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: Nothing listed
** No binaries running as root (runs only as root if caller runs as root) or suid/sgid, no daemons.
** No network activity: Does not open ports, does not handle incoming network data.
** No handling of binary or structured data.
** No source code checks done. The package is simply an interface between Python and libusb. libusb is already in main.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** No configuration required. Package does not contain any file in /etc.
** No debconf questions.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:pyusb|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: Only one bug listed, not marked as high priority, did never hit it with hal-cups-utils.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/pyusb.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki>: Gets regularly packaged in Debian, last two uploads in June and July 2008.
** <nowiki>[[http://pyusb.berlios.de/|Upstream]]</nowiki>: Low upload frequency, probably only needs change when libusb API changes.
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?atid=761063&group_id=145185&func=browse|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: No open bugs listed.
** Hardware: The package does not directly deal with hardware, it is only an interface between Python programs and libusb. The hardware access is done by libusb which is already in main.
** No test suites included, but package is very simple.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>, and Python policy compliant.
** Debian packaging straight-forward for Python library packages.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Only Python and libusb, both in main.
 0. ''Background information:''
** debian/control describes the package well. USB access is done via libusb.
** Upstream name is also "pyusb" and it seems that it was so all the time.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/253123]]</nowiki>

''Submitted by <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~till-kamppeter|Till Kamppeter]]</nowiki>''
