{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for bouncycastle ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/b/bouncycastle]]</nowiki>; available for all architectures except hppa
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of libitext-java
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=bouncycastle|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=bouncycastle|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: no records found
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid; no daemons.
** Network activity: does not open ports or handle network data directly
** Does directly process binary data, of a cryptographically-sensitive nature (PGP, S/MIME, TSP)
** No source code review has been done.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package is believed to work out-of-the-box in all cases.
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:bouncycastle|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: no bugs relevant to the supported architectures
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/b/bouncycastle.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm
** <nowiki>[[http://www.bouncycastle.org/java.html|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[http://www.bouncycastle.org/jira|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: not public
** Hardware: package is not hardware-sensitive
** Upstream includes a test suite that doesn't appear to be used in the package build.
0. ''UI standards:''
** This package is used only as a build-dependency of other libraries and should not interact with users at any point.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance: yes
** Packaging system: cdbs
** Patch system: quilt
0. ''Dependencies:''
** java-gcj-compat | java2-runtime
** libgnujaf-java
** libgnumail-java
0. ''Maintenance:''
** Package may require ongoing maintenance effort as a cryptographic library implementation.
** The package will not be actively monitored by Ubuntu developers, and will rely primarily on the Debian maintainer to provide bugfixes. The package is currently in sync with Debian.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/309411]]</nowiki>

''SteveLangasek''
