{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for onboard ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/o/onboard, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Will replace gok as our default on-screen keyboard (less buggy and smaller disk size)
** Developed as a SoC project specifically for Ubuntu
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=onboard|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=onboard|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** Does not open any port.
** Source code review: 
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions.
** Actively maintained by author (he has prepared the Ubuntu packages with guidance from motus and dhobach).
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/doc/packaging-manuals/python-policy/|Debian Python Policy]]</nowiki>
** Meets <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards.
** Standard debhelper/cdbs/dbs packaging, standard patch system.
** 'Upstream' maintained in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/products/onboard|LP bzr branch]]</nowiki>.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main, except for python-virtkey, which is also in the main promotion request queue.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
