{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libtest-cpan-meta-perl ==

test module to validate a CPAN META.yml file

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libt/libtest-cpan-meta-perl/]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures or some subset ? Architecture: all
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of libyaml-perl.
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=test-cpan-meta|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=test-cpan-meta|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ? No
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ? No
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? No
** Any source code review performed ?  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.) No
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? None
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libtest-cpan-meta-perl|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libt/libtest-cpan-meta-perl.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead ? vigorous
** <nowiki>[[http://search.cpan.org/dist/Test-CPAN-Meta/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead ?  I haven't contacted upstream.  http://search.cpan.org/~barbie/?R=D shows that the last upload was in 20th of August.  So, I believe upstream is still active.
** <nowiki>[[http://http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Test-CPAN-Meta|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: None
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? No
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ? Yes and yes.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ? debhelper Patch system ? None Any packaging oddities ? Standard perl module.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** libtest-cpan-meta-perl
*** perl    
*** libparse-cpan-meta-perl
** Are these all in main ? No
0. ''Maintenance:''
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ? Debian Perl Group. Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ?  There are some Ubuntu developers who are active within the Debian Perl Group.  I'd say both Ubuntu and Debian developers.
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** What do upstream call this software ?  Test-CPAN-Meta Has it had different names in the past ? It used to be Test-YAML-Meta.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/438552]]</nowiki>

Author: Iulian Udrea
