{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sdlpango ==

=== Requirements ===

 0. ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/s/sdlpango]]</nowiki>; 
** Available for i386, amd64, ppc and sparc. 
 0. ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of tuxtype.
** Build dependency of tuxpaint 0.9.18+ (Hardy currently has 0.9.17)
** Both packages are in main due to Edubuntu. Tuxpaint can be built without it. Tuxtype added the dependency at 1.5.14 to add support for indic languages.

 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=sdlpango|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None. There are two on sdlimage, and one hit for pango.
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=sdlpango|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None. 
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ? NO  Any daemons ? NO
** Network activity: does it open any port ? NO Does it handle incoming network data ? NO
** Any source code review performed ? NO (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.)
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? NONE?
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No debconf
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:sdlpango|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: Only one bug. Doesn't seem relevant.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/s/sdlpango.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous. Supported by the Debian SDL team. 
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/sdlpango/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm/dead? Last edits to CVS 2 years ago. Last release December 2004.
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?atid=657083&group_id=110621&func=browse|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: Nothing of interest. The patch is discussed below.
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? Doesn't deal with hardware.
** Lintian report:
** Now running lintian...
** W: sdlpango source: out-of-date-standards-version 3.7.2 (current is 3.7.3)
** E: sdlpango source: outdated-autotools-helper-file config.guess 2003-02-22
** E: sdlpango source: outdated-autotools-helper-file config.sub 2003-02-22
** Finished running lintian.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, YES <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? YES
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? YES
** Packaging system - cdbs  Patch system - quilt  Any packaging oddities ? NO
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** libsdl1.2-dev 
** debhelper
** cdbs
** libpango1.0-dev 
** quilt
** Are these all in main ? yes
 0. ''Background information:''
** Debian API is different from that upstream. Package contains api_additions.patch from Sept 06. Listed as "patch from Guillaume Cottenceau to add some missing functions." Same patch seems to be submitted upstream as <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1882228&group_id=110621&atid=657085|API extension for Frozen Bubble]]</nowiki>. The upstream submitted patch is <nowiki>[[http://zarb.org/~gc/t/SDL_Pango-0.1.2-API-adds.patch|SDL_Pango-0.1.2-API-adds.patch]]</nowiki>. The sourceforge entry claims that FreeBSD also have this patch, and it is for Frozen Bubble. <nowiki>[[http://www.freebsdsoftware.org/x11-toolkits/sdl_pango.html|FreeBSD's changelog]]</nowiki> doesn't mention the patch unless it was added to the first version. FreeBSD do have the patch as added <nowiki>[[http://www.freebsd.org/cgi/pds.cgi?ports/x11-toolkits/sdl_pango|to their source]]</nowiki>. <nowiki>[[http://distrib-coffee.ipsl.jussieu.fr/pub/linux/gentoo/gentoo-portage/media-libs/sdl-pango/sdl-pango-0.1.2.ebuild|Gentoo also seem to have the patch]]</nowiki>.
** What do upstream call this software ? SDL_Pango  Has it had different names in the past ? NO

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/198991]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. 
too''

CarolineFord
