{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for quassel ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/q/quassel]]</nowiki>; available on all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Needed for Kubuntu
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=quassel|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=quassel|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://quassel-irc.org/comment/reply/89|Security Upgrade!]]</nowiki>: Upstream reported security issue
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.  The quassel-core package runs as a daemon
** Network activity: quassel-core opens a port, we won't use quassel-core by default only the not-split-in-client-server quassel client, but it will still be available.  Handled incoming IRC data.
** Does not directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data
** Kees source code review: +1 from me on a quick overview audit (see the bug for details).
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package always works out the box
** No debconf questions
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:quassel|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: One, but already fixed in Ubuntu package
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/q/quassel.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** Upstream <nowiki>[[http://quassel-irc.org]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** Upstream bug tracker <nowiki>[[http://bugs.quassel-irc.org/projects/quassel-irc/issues?set_filter=1&tracker_id=1]]</nowiki>: busy
** Hardware: Does note deal with hardware
** No test suite in the upstream source or packaging
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant
** Packaging system cdbs, patch system is quilt
0. ''Dependencies:''
** Qt 4, KDE4
0. ''Maintenance:''
** Done by Kubuntu ninjas team, working closely with upstream
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package is clear from the package's debian/control file.
** Upstream call it Quassel
0. ''Internationalization:''
** Qt translation files

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/317892]]</nowiki>

Author: JonathanRiddell
