{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for obex-data-server ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/o/obex-data-server]]</nowiki>; for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Runtime dependency of bluez-gnome for sending files to mobile devices
** obex-data-server will become a core part of the bluetooth stack in the desktop 
 0. ''Security:''
** No security advisory found at the time being
** obex-data-server spawns a user process that listen for dbus request ons local machine.
** Network activity: does it open any port ? No,  Does it handle incoming network data ? only in local over dbus.
** The author of this MIR is not aware of any formal code review. 
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** No configuration is required from the user point of view
** No debconf question.
** obex-data-server is not packaged in debian
** <nowiki>[[http://http://tadas.dailyda.com/blog/category/obex-data-server/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is active.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.muiline.com|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>
** Hardware: No.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance : Yes
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance: No library.
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) : debhelper
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Build-Depends: 
*** debhelper
*** cdbs
*** autotools-dev
*** libopenobex1-dev
*** libbluetooth-dev
*** libglib2.0-dev
*** libdbus-glib-1-dev
*** libdbus-1-dev
** Depends: ${shlibs:Depends}, ${misc:Depends} 
** Are these all in main ? yes

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/obex-data-server/+bug/193816]]</nowiki>

BaptisteMilleMathias
