{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/s/scim-hangul, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Even though there are input methods for Korean such as nabi(XIM), imhangul(GNOME) and qimhangul(KDE), it's better to have scim-hangul for scim which will be a default input method for CJK users.
** See also MainInclusionReportscim
 0. ''Security:''
** No security histroy.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** scim-hangul is well maintained as a sub project of scim-im.org, and main developer of scim-hangul also developes nabi,  imhangul and qimhangul for Korean input methods.
** scim-hangul 0.2.1 fixes a bug on 3 beolsik and supports skim and keyboard layout config. For details, refer <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/scim-hangul/+bug/5534|Launchpad # 5534]]</nowiki>
** scim-hangul 0.2.1-1 is already in Dapper's repository, and it depends on libscim.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** The package meets debian-policy and FHS.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in universe.
** libscim
** im-switch (need a research, but good to use im-switch so users don't need to put their efforts like as recent change of nabi and imhangul.)

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
