{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for xz-utils ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/x/xz-utils/]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** needed for lzma support in KDE
** will be a new build-dep for kde4libs to support new functiionality in KDE 4.3.
0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=PRODUCT_NAME|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=PRODUCT_NAME|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** Does not open an port.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium'. 
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:xz-utils|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: None (package is in New still in Debian)
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/x/xz-utils.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is just getting started (package in New).
** <nowiki>[[http://tukaani.org/lzma/|Upstream]]</nowiki> appears slow, but steady. 
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/forum/forum.php?forum_id=708858/|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>:Doesn't appear to be one, but forums are free of bug complaints.
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? No, N/A.
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ? Yes and Yes.
0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ? N/A
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ? N/A
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ? N/A
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ? debhelper  Patch system ?  None  Any packaging oddities ? Package in Debian New is native, but fixed for Ubuntu upload.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** Build-dep: debhelper (>= 7.0.50), autotools-dev, doxygen
** Depends: No additional (just ${shlibs:Depends}).
** Are these all in main ? Yes.
0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?  Little
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ? Kubuntu team for Ubuntu.  Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ? Yes.
** Who is the package bug contact in Ubuntu? (Needs one if its a nontrivial package which does not fully maintain itself through Debian) Should maintain itself through Debian.
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** What do upstream call this software ? xz-utils Has it had different names in the past ? No, but derived from lzma utils
0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? N/A Do they support gettext? N/A

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/405623]]</nowiki>

Original author:ChristianMangold
Finished by ScottKitterman

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
