{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for opencv ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/o/opencv/]]</nowiki>; available for all supported platforms
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of kipi-plugins (provides batch Red Eyes Removal tool to KDE photo applications)
** 
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=opencv|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=opencv|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: none
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.  No daemons.
** Network activity: does not open any port. Does not handle incoming network data.
** OpenCV library does process photo/video (binary) data streams and does computer vision analysis. This data is provided by calling application (in this case KDE photo application using kipi-plugin).
** No source code review performed.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Always works out of box without configuration.
** No debconf questions.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=opencv|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: only wishlist/normal, nothing of importance
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/o/opencv.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[http://opencv.willowgarage.com/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous (1.1-pre1 available, planned for 06-2009)
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?atid=376677&group_id=22870&func=browse|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: mostly for 1.1-pre1, 1.0 is considered stable
** Hardware: OpenCV provides camera capture interface through library interface.
** There is testcase suite in the package, but it does not look that it gets executed during build.
0. ''UI standards:''
** Does not provide UI (library).
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant
** Packaging system: debhelper  Patch system: quilt
0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper (>= 5.0), quilt,  libavcodec-dev (>= 0.svn20080206), libavformat-dev, libgtk2.0-dev, libjasper-dev, libjpeg62-dev, libpng12-dev, libraw1394-dev, libtiff4-dev, zlib1g-dev, python-dev, swig, python-support (>= 0.4.1)
** Are these all in main ?
0. ''Maintenance:''
** Based on existing Debian experience, it is expected to have low maintenance. KIPI-Plugin developer is also following 1.1-pre1 development and it ensures that kipi-is compatible (no API changes for now).
** There is <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=pkg-scicomp-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org|Debian Scientific Team]]</nowiki> that is taking care of the package.
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** Upstream naming is consistent (OpenCV), while Debian packages uses shorter version (libcv-dev, libcv1...)
0. ''Internationalization:''
** No UI.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/324523]]</nowiki>

LukaRenko (Lure @ IRC, lure @ LP)
