{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for compiz-fusion-plugins-extra ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/c/compiz-fusion-plugins-extra
# ''Rationale:''
** Required for the CompositeByDefault spec
 0. ''Security:''
** No security record, no binaries running as root or suid/sgid or daemons.
** No network traffice
** No source code review performed.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package does work out of the box and does not require configuration or debconf questions.
** Debian does not have the package yet.
** Upstream is alive and kicking.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.opencompositing.org|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: Nothing critical
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Follows <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>.
** Packaging system cdbs
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** all in main
 0. ''Background information:''
** This package is required to implement the CompositeByDefault spec. It contains the extra plugins from the old beryl project. Those are now merged with compiz again. 

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
