{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for chiark-utils ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/c/chiark-utils]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures (latest version 4.1.20 still in build queue on powerpc).  We propose to promote only `chiark-utils-bin`.
# ''Rationale:''
** `chiark-utils-bin` is a runtime dependency of `autopkgtest-xenlvm`.
** It contains a trivial locking utility which avoids the need for the one from procmail(!)
** `with-lock-ex`, this locking utility, is expected to be pretty much the only part of this package used in Ubuntu.
 0. ''Security:''
** This package contains only some simple utility commands.
** No CVE entries or previous vulnerabilities; no set-id binaries; no daemons.
** Network activity: none.  These programs handle only local data.  `summer` is designed to be safe to run on unknown but quiescent filesystem structures so a failure to meet that design goal would constitute a vulnerability.
** Source code review: no separate review done.  The upstream author  and Debian maintainer are the same person as the author of this report.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works without any configuration.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:chiark-utils|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>; RC (but trivial) bugs closed in 4.1.20, currently in Debian upload queue.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/c/chiark-utils.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is sporadic but generally involves new features.
** Debian maintainer is the upstream; there is no separate bug tracker.
** Hardware: xacpi-simple depends on ACPI battery information obtained from `/proc`.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Compiles with FHS and Debian policy, except that only the `with-lock-ex` binary has a manpage.
** Library packaging: not applicable.
** Packaging is a simple by-hand (both upstream and in debian/rules).  No patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** chiark-utils-bin depends only on libc6; it also Suggests the autocomputed X11 lib dependency (for xacpi-simple).
** Build-Dependencies: libx11-dev, libnettle-dev (from `nettle`), in main.
 0. ''Background information:''
** We want this package for `/usr/bin/with-lock-ex`.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR written by Ian Jackson, who is also Debian and upstream for this package.
