{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libtest-number-delta-perl ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libt/libtest-number-delta-perl]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** New build-dependency of libcairo-perl (in main).
 0. ''Security:''
** Pure logic Perl module used in test harnesses; no plausible security exposure, none found.
** I (ColinWatson) performed a brief source code review and found nothing unreasonable.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package works out of the box with no configuration or debconf interaction.
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libtest-number-delta-perl|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libt/libtest-number-delta-perl.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki>: only one upload but it was recent (August) and the maintainer is generally active.
** <nowiki>[[http://search.cpan.org/~dagolden/Test-Number-Delta-1.03/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is reported to be quick to respond to issues, though the module is small so there are unlikely to be many.
** No upstream bug tracker.
** Package does not deal with hardware directly.
 0. ''Standards compliance:''
** Complies with the FHS and Debian Policy as far as I can see. Entirely standard Perl module package.
** debhelper, no patch system, no other strangeness.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All dependencies already in main.
 0. ''Background information:''
** Upstream call this Test::Number::Delta.

=== Reviewers ===

ColinWatson.

MartinPitt: approved
