{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libvncserver-dev ==

=== Requirements ===

 0. ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libv/libvncserver, available for all supported architectures.

 0. ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of xen-3.0.
** Promote the header files to main.
 0. ''Security:''
** 1 CVE entry <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2006-2450]]</nowiki> (the VNC auth type none bug)
** No binaries running as root or suid/gid.
** Does not open any port.
** We have not performed a source code review.  However this is a reasonably well-known piece of software.
 0. ''Qualitiy Assurance:''
** Package works out of the box (to build against).
** Package does not ask debconf questions higher than priority 'medium'
** No showstopper <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libvncserver-dev|debian bugs]]</nowiki>; some of the other binary packages have <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libvncserver|bugs]]</nowiki> but at this time we only propose to promote the source and the one binary libvncserver-dev.
** Active <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libvncserver|maintenance in debian]]</nowiki> and some <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=32584|upstream activity]]</nowiki> too.
** Does not deal hardware at all.
** Worst problem is that it provides '''static libraries only''' so in case of problems all dependent packages must be recompiled.  At this time the only dependent package in main is xen-3.0.

 0. ''Standards compilance''
** Meets FHS and Debian Policy.
** Ordinary debhelper-based debian/rules

=== Reviewers ===

Report improved a bit and then '''approved''' by <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ijackson|Ian Jackson]]</nowiki>.
