{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for powertop ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/powertop]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:'' It is a very useful tool for optimizing battery runtime of laptops, and we should encourage more widespread usage.
# ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=powertop|CVE entries]]</nowiki>
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=powertop|Secunia history]]</nowiki>
** No daemons or suid/sgidness involved.
** The program does not cross any security boundaries, and accepts very little user controllable input.
** No network activity.
** No source code review performed.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package not work out of the box without configuration.
** No debconf questions.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:powertop|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: No showstoppers, only two small issues at the time of report creation.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/powertop|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxpowertop.org/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is very active.
** No upstream bug tracker.
** Hardware: Optimized for Intel hardware, but works on all platforms in general.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Standard cdbs packaging system, no oddities.
# ''Dependencies:'' Just standard toolchain and ncurses, all in main.
# ''Background information:''
** Upstream calls this software "powertop" as well.

=== Reviewers ===

MartinPitt: approved
