{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/v/vblade]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-packages-review
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=vblade|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: no CVS entries
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=vblade|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: no Secunia records.
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ?
    vblade is a userland daemon that listens for AOE network traffic (NOT TCP/IP) and exports a block device as AOE device to AOE clients.
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ?
    Yes. See above. No open ports. AOE is not TCP/IP and it only works on local physical LAN.
** Any source code review performed ?  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.)
    Copyright file size > all code put together or thereabout. Very simple code.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?
    The package only install the daemon but does not run it via init scripts due to the very specific nature of the service. It requires understanding and configuration.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?
    No. configuration is manual.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:vblade|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: none relevant.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/v/vblade.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm mainly because the tool is so simple that just works and requires minimal maintainance.
** <nowiki>[[http://aoetools.sourceforge.net/]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ?
    No exotic hw required.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
    The package is FHS and Debian Policy compliant and doesn't have any library.
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ?
    None.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Are these all in main ?
    All deps and build-deps are in main.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/182772]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''

FabioMassimoDiNitto
