{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/g/gnome-codec-install]]</nowiki>; its python and thus available for all supported architectures. The upstream svn is at <nowiki>[[http://svn.debian.org/viewsvn/pkg-gstreamer/experimental/gnome-codec-install/]]</nowiki>
# ''Rationale:''
** Comes from debian and is used there as the default codec-installer - it is required for the <nowiki>[[FoundationsTeam-Specs-JauntyCodecInstall]]</nowiki> spec.
0. ''Security:''
** No known security issues.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? ... no configuration required.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No!
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? Isn't hardware specific.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes, it stored its python modules in the pycentral hierarchy and installs /usr/bin/gnome-codec-install.
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Its a native package that uses cdbs.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** python (>= 2.4)
** python-central (>= 0.6.7)
** gksu
** gnome-icon-theme
** python-apt (>= 0.7.5)
** python-gst0.10
** python-gtk2 (>= 2.10.1)
** synaptic (>= 0.57.8)
** Are these all in main ? Yes.
0. ''Background information:''
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ? Debian (the pkg-gstreamer team) is upstream for it. The name has not changed in the past.

=== Reviewers ===
