{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/o/openais, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of redhat-cluster-suite
** It's a new generic cluster framework with generic code and much better performances than the proprietary one from RH.
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=PRODUCT_NAME|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=PRODUCT_NAME|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** Does not open any port.
** Source code review:
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration or minimal configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'normal'.
** Not in Debian.
** Extremely active <nowiki>[[http://developer.osdl.org/dev/openais/|upstream]]</nowiki>.
** There are only 19 bugs reported upstream, most of which looks inflated in severity considering the target of this application.
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Meets <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards.
** Standard debhelper/cdbs/dbs packaging, standard patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===

FabioMassimoDiNitto: I did the packaging and i am pretty sure i didn't miss anything.
MartinPitt: approved after the fixes discussed with Fabio
