{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for lesstif2 ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/l/lesstif2]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of openjdk-6 (only lesstif2-dev and lestif2 are needed in main, lesstif-bin and lesstif-doc should stay in universe).
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=Lesstif|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: CVE-2006-4124 is marked "under review".
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=Lesstif|Secunia history]]</nowiki>:
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid, no daemons.
** Network activity: Library only package.
** No explicit source code review performed.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Library package, works out of the box.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:lesstif2|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: 
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/lesstif2|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is very calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.lesstif.org/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is very calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=8596&atid=108596|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: (mention any particularly relevant or critical)
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Packaging system: debhelper.  Patch system: quilt.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Standard build/X dependencies, all in main.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/246483]]</nowiki>

Initial MIR: Matthias Klose
