{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for gfxboot ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/g/gfxboot/, available for amd64 and i386. Other architectures not supported.
# ''Rationale:''
** Implementation of CdBootloader specification.
 0. ''Security:''
** No CVE entries.
** No Secunia history.
** Runs in the context of the boot loader (currently only syslinux).
** Source code review:
** `mkbootmsg.c`: line 1876 and further looks like a buffer overflow that can be controlled by a malicious theme; <nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=20923|bug]]</nowiki> was filed.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Packaging from <nowiki>[[http://kanotix.com/|Kanotix]]</nowiki>, who do not seem to have a bug tracking system.
** Active upstream.
** No critical bugs in <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.novell.com/|upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Standard cdbs packaging, standard patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: buffer overflows should be corrected, otherwise it's fine.
