{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/s/scim-tables, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Hong Kong people don't use <nowiki>[[MainInclusionReportScimChewing|scim-chewing]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[MainInclusionReportScimPinyin|scim-pinyin]]</nowiki> as default input method; instead, they use input method tables in <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/dapper/utils/scim-tables-zh|scim-tables-zh]]</nowiki>.
** Includes support for several Indic languages, Thai, Vietnamese, Russian etc, which are gaining popularity for these countries.
 0. ''Security:''
** No security histroy.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Well maintained upstream by James Su as part of main <nowiki>[[http://www.scim-im.org/|scim project]]</nowiki>
** Well maintained in Debian by Ming Hua <minghua@rice.edu>
** No critial bugs found in ubuntu and debian.
** Other distros like Fedora, SuSE, Mandriva ship it as default chinese IMengine for scim.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** The package meets debian-policy and FHS.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** <nowiki>[[MainInclusionReportscim|scim]]</nowiki>

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
