{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for Bacula ==

'''Note''': This package has been vigorously modified by zul and ivoks to make it suitable for main.  We beleive that it is now in good shape.

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/b/bacula/]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures 
# ''Rationale:''
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerPackageReview]]</nowiki>
** There is currently no backup package suited for server and supporting tapes in main
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=bacula]]</nowiki>:
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2007-5626|CVE-2007-5626]]</nowiki> Is a configuration issue option, fixed in proposed version through packaging
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2005-2995|CVE-2005-2995]]</nowiki> old version, not affected
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=bacula|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: 
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/advisories/27243/|27243]]</nowiki> same as CVE-2007-5626
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/advisories/16866/|16866]]</nowiki> same as CVE-2005-2995
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ?
** 2 daemons: bacula-dir and bacula-fd
** no setuid/guid
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ?
** port 9101 -> bacula-dir localhost only by default
** port 9102 -> bacula-fd localhost only by default
** Any source code review performed ?  
   no
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?
     none package works ootb by default
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?
** one critical asking which database to use
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:bacula|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: 
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=365097|365097]]</nowiki>: bacula-common: Uses the same passwords on every Debian installation. This has been fixed in the postinstall where it asks for a password to be configured.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/b/bacula.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=50727#files|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.bacula.org/my_view_page.php|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: seems normal
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bacula/|Launchpad]]</nowiki>: nothing horrendous
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ?
** can deal with tape backup, not that exotic
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>  
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ?
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ?
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** libacl1
** libc6
** libgcc1
** libstdc++6
** libwrap0
** python2.5
** zlib1g
** libmysqlclient15off
** libstdc++6
** libwrap0
** mysql-client
** postgresql-client

** Are these all in main ?
  Yes
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package is clear in the package's debian/control file. 
** Package has always been called Bacula, AFAIK

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bacula/+bug/201832]]</nowiki>

authors:
NicolasBarcet
ChuckShort
