{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for pkcs11-helper ==

=== Requirements ===

 0. ''Availability:''
** source: <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/pkcs11-helper/]]</nowiki>
** binary packages: libpkcs11-helper1, libpkcs11-helper1-dev
** available for i386 and amd64
 0. ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of ecryptfs-utils (MainInclusionReportEcryptfsUtils)
** Build dependency of openvpn. Allows openvpn to be used with smartcards. 
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=pkcs11|cve entries]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=pkcs11|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: ...
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid? '''no''', this is a library
** Any daemons? '''no''', this is a library
** Network activity: does it open any port ? '''no'''
** Does it handle incoming network data ? '''no'''
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? '''no'''
** Any source code review performed ? '''no'''
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? '''none'''
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? '''no'''
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:pkcs11-helper|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: '''none'''
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/pkcs11-helper.html|Debian activity]]</nowiki> is '''calm''' ?
** <nowiki>[[http://www.opensc-project.org/pkcs11-helper/|Upstream activity]]</nowiki> is '''calm''' ?
** <nowiki>[[http://www.opensc-project.org/pkcs11-helper/report|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: '''none'''
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? '''no'''
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  '''yes'''  Is it enabled to run in the build ?
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ?  '''yes'''
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ?
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ? '''cdbs'''
** Patch system ? '''no patches against upstream'''
** Any packaging oddities ? '''no'''
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Build-Depends: cdbs (>= 0.4.27-1), debhelper (>= 5), autotools-dev, libssl-dev, pkg-config, doxygen
** Depends: libpkcs11-helper1 (= ${binary:Version}), libssl-dev
** Are these all in main ? '''yes'''
 0. ''Background information:'' Control file says:
** Description:  library that simplifies the interaction with PKCS#11 libpkcs11-helper is a library that simplifies the interaction with PKCS#11 providers for end-user applications. libpkcs11-helper allows using multiple PKCS#11 providers at the same time,  enumerating available token certificates, or selecting a certificate directly by serialized id, handling card removal and card insert events, handling card re-insert to a different slot, supporting session expiration and much more all using a simple API. libpkcs11-helper is not designed to manage card content, since object  attributes are usually vendor specific, and 99% of application need to  access existing objects in order to perform signature and decryption.
** What do upstream call this software ?  '''pkcs11-helper''' Has it had different names in the past ? '''no'''

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: Bug:247336

* DustinKirkland
* ChuckShort
