{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for packagekit ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/packagekit]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Needed by Kubuntu for kpackagekit.  (And also probably by Ubuntu for jockey)
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=packagekit|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: ...
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=packagekit|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: ...
** Includes binaries running as root and daemons
** Network activity: does not open ports or handle incoming data, that is handled by python-apt
** Does not directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data
** No known source code review performed
** Is controlled by DBus using PolicyKit
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Always works out of the box without configuration
** No debconf questions
** Not in Debian
** <nowiki>[[http://www.packagekit.org/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[http://tinyurl.com/2s4tnt|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: busy
** Hardware: Does not deal with
** Has got a test collection for the packagekit daemon. The apt backend only has got a rudimentary test.
0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system
** .pot is built during compile
** No end user applications
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant
** Packaging system cdbs, simple-patchsys
0. ''Dependencies:''
** libnm, gtk, qt, policykit, xulrunner, update-manager, libarchive, libapt-pkg
** All in main
0. ''Maintenance:''
** Package is likely to need a fair amount of maintenance
** Sebastian Heinlein of Ubuntu is responsible for maintenance, who is the author of the python apt backend
** Only a subset of the binary packages should go into main:
*** libpackagekit-glib-dev Library for accessing PackageKit using GLib (development files)
*** libpackagekit-glib11 Library for accessing PackageKit using GLib
*** libpackagekit-qt-dev Library for accessing PackageKit using QT (development files)
*** libpackagekit-qt11 Library for accessing PackageKit using QT.
*** packagekit provides a software installation daemon
*** packagekit-backend-apt APT backend for packagekit
*** python-packagekit

** These packages should stay in Universe since they provide features which would conflict with the existing tools (codec installation), would only be of academic use or won't be mature enough:
*** packagekit-backend-smart Smart backend for packagekit
*** packagekit-backend-yum Yum backend for packagekit
*** gstreamer0.10-packagekit  GStreamer plugin to install codecs using PackageKit
*** mozilla-packagekit software installation plugin

0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package is clear from the package's debian/control file.
** Upstream calls it packagekit

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/319998]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''

Author: JonathanRiddell
