{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for dnspython ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/d/dnspython]]</nowiki>; architecture: all package
# ''Rationale:''
** Recommends: of python-xmpp
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=dnspython|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=dnspython|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: no entries found
** Package includes no suid binaries and no daemons, only a python library for use by applications.
** Network activity: no ports opened.  Library does process network traffic in the form of responses to DNS requests.
** Binary or structured data: DNS packets are processed directly by this package, without recourse to a standard C DNS library.  However, because the implementation is entirely in python, the risk of exploitability here is minimal.
** A Debian bug report indicates that the package is vulnerable to cache poisoning (CVE-2008-1447).
** No source code review has been done.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package is believed to work out-of-the-box in all cases.
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:dnspython|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: no other bugs reported.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/d/dnspython.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm
** [[http://dnspython.org] is calm
** No public upstream bug tracker
** Hardware: package is not hardware-sensitive
** Upstream build includes a test suite (13 unit tests), but the testsuite is currently not run as part of the package build.
0. ''UI standards:''
** This is a non-user-facing library; there should be no l10n concerns.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance: yes
** Packaging system: debhelper
** Patch system: none
0. ''Dependencies:''
** python
** python-central
0. ''Maintenance:''
** Package is not expected to require significant ongoing maintenance.
** The package will not be actively monitored by Ubuntu developers, and will rely primarily on the Debian maintainer to provide bugfixes.  The package is currently in sync with Debian.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/358051]]</nowiki>

''SteveLangasek''
