{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Requirements ===

0. ''Availability:'' 
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~timg-tpi/+archive/ppa/+files/wireless-crda_1.4.dsc]]</nowiki>
** binary packages needed in ''main'': '''wireless-crda'''
** available for all supported architectures.
0. ''Rationale:''
** wireless-crda is required for the kernel mac80211 to verify wireless regulatory domain settings. 
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[N-A]]</nowiki> - '''none'''
** Udev binary running as root or suid/sgid: ''/usr/sbin/crda''
** Daemons: '''none'''
** Network activity: '''no ports opened'''
** Does '''not'' handle incoming network data
** Does directly (not through a library) process binary structured data
** Source code review performed by:  Scott Remnant
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package '''works''' out of the box without configuration
** The package '''does not''' ask any debconf questions
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware? - '''no'''
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) is '''debhelper'''
** Patch system is '''dpatch'''
** '''No''' packaging oddities
0. ''Dependencies:''
** Runtime
** none
** Build
** debhelper (>= 7), pkg-config, libgcrypt11-dev, libnl-dev
** Are these all in main? - '''yes'''
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package is clear from the package's debian/control file.  '''Quoting debian/control''':
** Description:  This package provides the CRDA udev agent for wireless drivers to determine the regulatory domain channel and power settings.
** Upstream calls this software: '''wireless-crda'''
** It '''has not''' had different names in the past

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: Bug:325801

* TimGardner
