{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/m/munin]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerPackageReview
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=munin|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: No records
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=munin|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: No records
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ?
    munin-node daemon runs as root. munin web generator is a cron script that runs as root.
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ?
    Yes. munin-node opens 4949 and has some kind of ACL in the config file to allow the cron script to gather data.
** Any source code review performed ?  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.)
    no.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?
    It depends. munin-node does an attempt to autoconfig itself, but most often it needs some manual kick to gather extra data. The config is simple tho by simple symlinks.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?
    no.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:munin|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: there are several bugs of severity important that might be relevant.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/m/munin.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is very calm
** <nowiki>[[http://www.linpro.no/projects/munin/]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[http://munin.projects.linpro.no/report/1?sort=severity&asc=1]]</nowiki>: tons of bugs here.. different severities and priorities. 
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ?
    no
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance :
    Yes.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ?
    No libs.
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ?
    nothing fancy here.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All B-D are in main.
** Very few runtime depends are in universe but mostly small perl libraries.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/183713]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''

FabioMassimoDiNitto
