{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for python-numpy ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/python-numpy]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Build recommends of inkscape
** standard numeric package for python, sucessor for python-numeric and python-numarray, now in universe.
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=numpy|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=numpy|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid, no daemons.
** No network activity
** Source code review performed, while packaging the software.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package does work out of the box without configuration.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:python-numpy|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: No important bugs.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/python-numpy|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.numpy.org/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://projects.scipy.org/scipy/numpy/report/|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>
** Test suite in the upstream source and packaging. Not run in the build.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Packaging system: cdbs,  Patch system: simple-patchsys.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** All dependencies in main.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/]]</nowiki>

2008-10-20, Matthias Klose, initial report.
