{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for system-config-printer ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/s/system-config-printer, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Printer config tool proposed for Xubuntu Edgy. Default tool in upcoming FC6
 0. ''Security:''
** Relatively new python app, no known issues
** Source code review: 
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions.
** Actively maintained by author (Tim Waugh at Red Hat)
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/doc/packaging-manuals/python-policy/|Debian Python Policy]]</nowiki>
** Meets <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards.
** Standard cdbs packaging, standard patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** python-cups

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approval (but only for XFCE; the program is still a little immature and much harder to use than gnome-cups-manager)
