{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for python-smbc ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/python-smbc]]</nowiki>
# ''Rationale:''
** python-smbc are Python bindings for libsmbclient and the package was created by Tim Waugh especially for system-config-printer. It is required by the current version of system-config-printer.
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=pysmbc|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: No issues listed
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=pysmbc|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: No issues listed
** No binaries running as root nor daemons included.
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ? No, it is only for SMB client use.
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? No.
** Any source code review performed ?  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.) No.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?  Nothing known. Package has no configuration possibilities. 
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No, it does not use debconf.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:python-smbc|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: Not (yet) in Debian AFAIK.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/python-smbc.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki>: Not (yet) in Debian AFAIK.
** <nowiki>[[http://cyberelk.net/tim/software/pysmbc/|Upstream]]</nowiki> maintenance is as good as for system-config-printer, as it was made for system-config-printer.
** <nowiki>[[https://fedorahosted.org/pysmbc/|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: Nothing important
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? No.
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ? No AFAIK.
0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ? No.
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ? No.
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ? No.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ?
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ?
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ?
  
Should be compliant to all this. The packaging I have derived from the python-cups package.

0. ''Dependencies:''
** libsmbclient
** Are these all in main ? Yes.
0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ? Not much, only updating if system-config-printer requires it.
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ?
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file:  Should be OK.
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ? Upstream name is pysmbc, has never changed.
0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext? Package has no UI.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/330973]]</nowiki>

''Posted by: Till Kamppeter''
