{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for tdb ==

** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ctdb|ubuntu/ctdb at launchpad]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/source/lucid/ctdb]]</nowiki>

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/c/ctdb]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures or some subset ? only currently built for amd64, i386.
# ''Rationale:''
** Why is this package needed?  What feature(s) does it add?  Does upstream expect it?  Plain text description of expected use: The primary motivation for this request is to build samba with clustering extensions.
** Build dependency of samba (for cluster support)
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=ctdb|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=ctdb|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: none
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ? TODO. Any daemons ? yes.
** Network activity: does it open any port ? yes. Does it handle incoming network data ? yes.
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? no
** Any source code review performed ?  No
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? This package is used to cluster samba and other softwares, it requires extensive configuration to work.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? TODO
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:ctdb|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: None.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/c/ctdb.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous : 12 packages in 2009
** <nowiki>[[http://ctdb.samba.org/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is active.
** <nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.samba.org/buglist.cgi?query_format=specific&order=relevance+desc&bug_status=__open__&product=CTDB&content=]]</nowiki>: TODO.
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? no.
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ? TODO
0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ?
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ? Not applicable.
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ? Not applicable.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ?
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ?
0. ''Dependencies:''
** libc6
** libpopt-dev
** Are these all in main ? no
0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ? It's a simple package well maintained in debian.
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ?
** Who is the package bug contact in Ubuntu? (Needs one if its a nontrivial package which does not fully maintain itself through Debian)
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ?
0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext?

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/BUGNUMBER]]</nowiki>

* Michael Jeanson
