{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for Krusader ==

 0. ''Availability:'' 
** Available in <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/dapper/utils/krusader|universe]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/unstable/utils/krusader|sid]]</nowiki>, on all platforms 
# ''Rationale:'' Popular Twin panel filemanager. 
# ''Security:'' 
** Security hole in Popular URL-s, <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2005-3856|CVE-2005-3856]]</nowiki>, now fixed in  1.60.1 upload
 0. ''Quality assurance:''  
** Upstream is actively maintaining/developing, so bugs get fixed if they occur.
** Upstream supports the Debian package. 
** All current Debian bugreports can be closed when 1.70.0 stable is released (currently 1.70.0-beta2 is released).
** All current <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?pkg=krusader|Debian bugreports]]</nowiki> are minor except security issue #336169 (CVE-2005-3856)
** Krusader needs <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/unstable/libs/libqt3-mt|libqt3-mt]]</nowiki> Debian version '''>=3:3.3.5-2''' this is a general remark, many KDE applications that are using "qlistview" with 3:3.3.5-1 do crash randomly. More information in the <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=331241/|Debian bugtracker]]</nowiki> and in the <nowiki>[[http://lists.trolltech.com/qt-interest/2005-11/thread00128-0.html|Troltech mailinglist]]</nowiki>.

 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the FHS,  Debian Policy.
** Standard debhelper packaging.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

== Reviewers ==

Requires too much user setup on first run - jriddell

Solution for no user setup at all: copy a default krusaderc file in /usr/share/config , discussed on <nowiki>[[http://groups.google.com/group/krusader-devel/browse_thread/thread/467dc8a7bfab7b42/7abe983041f391ce#7abe983041f391ce|Krusader-devel]]</nowiki> a default krusaderrc is <nowiki>[[http://users.telenet.be/franks.website/downloads/misc/|available]]</nowiki>- fschoolmeesters

Made a mistake i think: dependencies: MainInclusionReportfam and MainInclusionReportlibunwind <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/dapper/utils/krusader|are not needed]]</nowiki> for Ubuntu, <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/unstable/utils/krusader|I don't know why Debian Sid set a dependency for it]]</nowiki>, so i changed it to "All in main" - fschoolmeesters 
