{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for `asterisk` ==

# ''Availability:'' Asterisk is in universe, Arch: any
# ''Rationale:'' Increasingly popular PABX replacement.  VoIP via SIP, can deal directly with POTS lines (including BRI and PRI bundles) through modules such as Zaptel <nowiki>[[MainInclusionReportZaptel]]</nowiki>.  Advanced call routing, hold features, call conferencing, etc, etc.  Many people are now using a relatively inexpensive rackmount server with a BRI coming in as a replacement for a PABX (at least $20,000 + support), with the advantage that it also does VoIP.
# ''Security:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=asterisk|Quite a number of past vulnerabilities]]</nowiki>.
** One stack smash found, but not in the default configuration, and the advisory gives a pretty glowing assment of the Asterisk team's <nowiki>[[http://lists.digium.com/pipermail/asterisk-security/2005-June/000034.html|response]]</nowiki>.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''  
** Maintained by Debian VoIP Maintainers
** Quite a few Debian bugs open, however this as much reflects its large user base with varying use cases as anything else.  No FTBFS bugs.  One as-yet-unresolved copyright issue with some codecs.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** The package meets the FHS.
 0. ''Dependencies:'' 
** (none)

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: This package is complex and vulnerability-prone enough to require someone who knows the package well and commits to maintain it for a longer term. If there is an approved Ubuntu specification that requires this package, then I will reconsider, but for now I rather want to not burn our hands with it.

* See this in launchpad https://blueprints.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/asterisk-integration or  AsteriskIntegration
