{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for DKMS ==
=== Requirements ===
## ''Availability:''  DKMS has been available in universe since Ubuntu 7.10 and is updated/supported.
## ''Rationale:'' 
## DKMS is going to be used for building different restricted modules in Ubuntu Intrepid.
## DKMS is used extensively by Dell to provide new hardware driver support on existing versions of Ubuntu, in advance of new kernel-package releases or new linux-backports-modules packages.  Dell factory installs the "gold" kernel for a release whenever possible, and uses DKMS to update single kernel modules in support of new hardware.
## ''Quality assurance:''
** DKMS works out of the box, requiring no configuration.  package does not ask any debconf questions.
** DKMS has no long-standing bugs.  Upstream maintainers are employed by Dell and paid to maintain the application.  Upstream releases infrequently and cares greatly about stability.
** no important bugs are filed anywhere.  A few low-sev bugs are filed in the Fedora bugzilla.
** the package does not enable exotic hardware per-se.  It enables the installation and tracking of kernel modules, most of which are included in kernel.org already.  DKMS provides a stop-gap mechanism by which new drivers can get updated on a user system before a new kernel-package or linux-backports-modules package is released.
  0. ''Standards compliance:''
*** FHS compliant
*** believed to be Debian Policy compliant.  License is GPLv2+.
*** Debian library packaging guide N/A
  0. ''Dependencies:'' no deps outside of main.

=== Security ===
## No security vulnerabilities filed against DKMS.
## Security of app:
*** no setuid binaries.
*** app installs in /usr/sbin as it requires root access to several file system directories such as /lib/modules/ and /boot for remaking initramfs.
*** app includes an initscript in /etc/init.d/ to check for and install module updates for new kernels, but no daemon.
*** app does not open any network ports

=== Reviewers ===

MIR Bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dkms/+bug/247394]]</nowiki>
