{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libcap2 ==

Please be informative, and in particular be thorough in investigating and explaining any weaknesses and problems with the package.  The purpose of the report is to show to the reviewer that the package has been properly investigated, and to give the reviewer the information from that investigation, for their decision.

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libc/libcap2]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of bind9
** replacement for libcap
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=libcap2|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=libcap2|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: none
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ? none
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ? no
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? no
** Any source code review performed ?  no
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? none known
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? no
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libcap2|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: 489477 - we'll want 2.10-2 or later
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libc/libcap2.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead ? calm
** <nowiki>[[http://www.eu.kernel.org/pub/linux/libs/security/linux-privs/libcap2/]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead ? calm
** <nowiki>[[http://|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: (mention any particularly relevant or critical) unknown
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? no
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ? no
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? yes
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? yes
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ? cdbs
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** cdbs, debhelper (>= 5), libattr1-dev, quilt
** Are these all in main ? yes
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ?

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/BUGNUMBER]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
