{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libdatrie ==

=== Requirements ===

 1. ''Availability:'' http://packages.debian.org/unstable/libs/libdatrie0, available in debian sid for all supported architectures
 2. ''Rationale:''
** required by new libthai (0.1.7) that is needed for enhanced (feisty) firefox thai support
 3. ''Security:''
** No CVE entries.
** No Secunia history.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid; no daemons started
** Does not open any port.
** no security audit on code done
 4. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package always works out of box as a library
** no debconf questions asked
** No open bugs in Debian: http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=libdatrie
** Debian PTS: http://packages.qa.debian.org/libdatrie
** Upstream: http://linux.thai.net/ ftp://linux.thai.net/pub/thailinux/software/libthai/
** No upstream bug tracker
 5. ''Standards compliance:''
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>; Package Policy: lintian without errors and warnings
** compliant with library packaging standard
** No patch management
 6. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.
 7. Background Information: -

=== Reviews ===

Nice quality package and should IMO be synced straight from Debian into main.
'''Approved''' by <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/people/ijackson|Ian Jackson]]</nowiki> 15.3.2007.
