{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main inclusion report for python-gdata ==

=== Requirements ===

 1. ''Availability:''
** http://packages.ubuntu.com/hardy/python/python-gdata on all supported archs.
 1. ''Rational:''
** The new version of totem that will ship with Hardy includes a youtube search plug-in.  That plugin requires python-gdata to operate properly.
 1. ''Security:''
** https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-gdata/+bugs shows no security bugs.
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/products]]</nowiki> shows no security vulnerabilities.
** Just a python modulel There are no daemons, suid programs, or programs installed to {,usr}/sbin.
 1. ''QA:''
** Only a (small) library (~84 KB)
** Will prevent large numbers of bugs about totem not working properly
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=python-gdata|Debian Bugs]]</nowiki> - very few.
 1. ''Standards Compliance''
** Earlier versions (included with <= gutsy) seemed to have issues with "import elementtree", but those appear to be fixed in Hardy
 1. ''Dependencies:''
** Will first depend on python-elementtree being included.  See MainInclusionReportPythonElementtree for status.

=== Reviewers ===
MIR Bug: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-gdata/+bug/178285

MartinPitt: python-elementtree is obsolete and should not be promoted to main. Python 2.5 ships it by default now. Thus the package needs to be fixed (preferably in Debian) to depend on `python2.5 | python-elementtree`.
