{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for irqbalance ==

=== Requirements ===

 0. ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/i/irqbalance, available for all supported architectures amd64/i386/sparc

 0. ''Rationale:''
** Needed to optimize performance on Multi-core, SMP, and Hyperthreaded systems.
  
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=irqbalance|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=irqbalance|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** Runs as root, does not open a port, on systems with only one multi-core CPU, the binary terminates after re-arranging irqs once.
** Source code review:

 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium'.
** No showstopper <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:irqbalance|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>.
** Good <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/i/irqbalance.html|maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki>.
** New irqbalance version maintained in Debian & Ubuntu by KyleMcMartin.
** Active <nowiki>[[http://www.irqbalance.org/|upstream]]</nowiki>.  

 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Meets <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards.
** Standard debhelper/cdbs/dbs packaging, standard patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
