{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for Kerneloops ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/k/kerneloops]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Requested by product management to be part of the default install along with apport.  This is the standard linux kernel crash reporter.
 
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=kerneloops|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: none reported
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=kerneloops|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: none reported
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ? No.  The desktop applet runs as the console user.
** Any daemons ? Yes. The daemon runs as root to own the dbus channel as root and to access syslog.  The only input to the daemon is via its reading of <code>/var/log/messages</code> and a non-updating read of the kernel messages via syslog(2).  The only IPC is to the applet via dbus.  The only outputs are via http POST to kerneloops.org and via a pipe to an apport script.  This conforms to the installations on other distros, including Debian where the original packaging came from.
** Network activity: It connects via HTTP to http:/submit.kerneloops.org/submitoops.php to forward the oops payload.
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ?  No
** Any source code review performed ?  JimLieb
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? None
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:kerneloops|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: None relevant
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/k/kerneloops.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is keyed to the kernel version supported by debian.
** <nowiki>[[http://kerneloops.org|Upstream]]</nowiki> tracks with upstream kernel updates
** <nowiki>[[http://|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: (mention any particularly relevant or critical)
** Hardware: None
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Yes. Is it enabled to run in the build ? Yes
0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ? Yes (fr, nl)
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ? Yes
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ? Yes
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? N/A
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  debhelper
** Patch system ? dpatch
** Any packaging oddities ? None
0. ''Dependencies:''
** Runtime: None
** Build: debhelper (>= 4), libcurl4-gnutls-dev | libcurl-dev, libnotify-dev, desktop-file-utils

0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?  This package should track the current kernel version.
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  Ubuntu to track with current Ubuntu kernels.
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package is explained in the package's debian/control file.
** What do upstream call this software ?  kerneloops
** Has it had different names in the past ? No
0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? Yes
** Do they support gettext? Yes

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/327819]]</nowiki>

JimLieb
