{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for edubuntu-addon-meta ==

<code>edubuntu-addon-meta</code> is a new source package to implement UbuntuSpec:edubuntu-addon-enhancements . It provides several metapackages that allow users to easily install various package groups. Additionally, and more importantly, provides data that <code>debian-cd</code> will use to provide a custom gnome-app-install menu for the Edubuntu Classroom Server Addon CD.

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/e/edubuntu-addon-meta/]]</nowiki>
# ''Rationale:''
** Needed for CD building changes for Edubuntu Classroom Server Addon CD
 0. ''Security:''
** No binaries are shipped, only metapackages and some .menu/.directory files.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** No debconf questions, no hardware, no bugs, and it is an Edubuntu native package so Edubuntu is maintaining it.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Complies with FHS, Debian Policy, and XDG (for .menu and .directory files)
** Packaging system is cdbs and no patches are necessary (native package)
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** The individual metapackages only depend on shipped Edubuntu apps, which are necessarily in Main. The only build dep is CDBS and debhelper.
 
=== Reviewers ===

Author: Jordan Mantha (LaserJock)
MartinPitt: approved
