{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Requirements ===
0. ''Availability:''
** <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/i/ibus-unikey]]</nowiki>;
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ibus-unikey]]</nowiki>
** Available for all supported architectures.
0. ''Rationale:''

** Ibus-Unikey is a Vietnamese input method for Ibus.
** It uses <nowiki>[[www.unikey.org|Unikey engine]]</nowiki>  which is the most popular open-source input method for Vietnamese.

0. ''Security:''

** CVE entries: 0 results
** Secunia history: 0 results 
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ? Any daemons ? '''No'''
** Network activity: does it open any port ? Does it handle incoming network data ? '''No'''
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? '''No'''
** It '''does not''' have any network activity.
** No source code review. 

0. ''Quality assurance:''

** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? '''None'''
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? '''No'''
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:ibus-unikey|Debian bugs.]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/i/ibus-unikey.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/ibus-unikey/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm but steady.
** <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu-vn.org/viewforum.php?f=85.|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>. Just questions about how to install and active the IM, some features request.
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? '''No'''
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ? '''No'''
0. UI standards:
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system? '''Yes'''
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build? '''Yes'''
** End-user applications ship a desktop file? '''No'''
0. ''Standards compliance:''

** FHS and Debian Policy compliant.
** Uses debhelper packaging system with no patching system 

0. ''Dependencies:''

** libc6 (>= 2.4), libgcc1 (>= 1:4.1.1), libgconf2-4 (>= 2.27.0), libglib2.0-0 (>= 2.18.0), libgtk2.0-0 (>= 2.12.0), libibus1 (>= 1.2.0.20090617), libstdc++6 (>= 4.4.0), ibus (>= 1.2)
** Are these all in main ? '''Yes'''

0. ''Maintenance:''
** Minimal mainenance needed
** Debian responsible for quality 
0. ''Background information:''
** What do upstream call this software ? Has it had different names in the past ? ibus-unikey, no different names 
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~arnegoetje|Arne Goetje]]</nowiki> has suggested <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/language-support-input-vi/+bug/525158/comments/1|filing the Main Inclusion Request]]</nowiki> in order to add the ibus-unikey package to the <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/lucid/language-support-input-vi|language-support-input-vi]]</nowiki> meta package.
** If it's the default input method when user install Ubuntu with Vietnamese language, they can easily to start and use it.
** It better than current m17n for Vietnamese because it support freedom when typing and suitable to a new standard of Vietnamese accent.
0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext? '''Yes'''

=== Reviewers ===
MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ibus-unikey/+bug/543158]]</nowiki>

Author: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mr.lequoctuan|Le Quoc Tuan (mr.lequoctuan)]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~le-kien-truc|Le Kien Truc (le-kien-truc)]]</nowiki>
