{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for cacao-oj6 ==

Note, this covers only the cacao source tarball included in this package; anything else is identical to openjdk-6.
=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/c/cacao-oj6]]</nowiki>; available for amd64, i386, powerpc, lpia.
# ''Rationale:''
** Will become a dependency of default-jdk on powerpc only. openjdk-6 on powerpc provides an intrepreter only, which is ok for building stuff, but you can' really work with it.
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=cacao|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: ...
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=cacao|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: ...
** No binaries, library only.
** Network activity: Not on its own.
** Cacao does process binary data (java byte code).
** Any source code review performed? No.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package does work out of the box, no debconf questions.
** Package not yet in Debian.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.cacaovm.org/|Upstream Cacao]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://server.complang.tuwien.ac.at/cgi-bin/bugzilla/buglist.cgi?query_format=specific&order=relevance+desc&bug_status=__open__&product=&content=|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: Nothing critical for powerpc.
** Doesn't deal with hardware.
** Testsuites included in the package; not run on the buildd (leaves some processes around).
 0. ''Standards compliance:''
** Not relevant, packaged "as part of" openjdk.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Same as openjdk-6, all in main.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/251907]]</nowiki>

Initial MIR: Matthias Klose
