{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for ocl-icd ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/o/ocl-icd/|available for i386 and amd64]]</nowiki>
# ''Rationale:''
** This package is needed as a dependency of nvidia-graphics-drivers-331 and of nvidia-graphics-drivers-331-updates (main), so that the open source OpenCL loader is used over the proprietary one. This helps avoiding symbols mismatches when building OpenCL applications that are also supposed to work with open graphics drivers. 
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=ocl-icd|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=ocl-icd|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/pkg/ocl-icd.html|Ubuntu CVE's]]</nowiki>: none
** It is a free OpenCL loader.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Works out of the box without configuration
** No debconf questions
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=ocl-icd|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: 3
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/o/ocl-icd.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[https://forge.imag.fr/projects/ocl-icd/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
 0. ''UI standards:''
** None. It's an OpenCL ICD (Installable Client Driver) loader.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy 3.9.5]]</nowiki> compliant
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** opencl-headers (universe) [khronos-opencl-headers] - build dependency - pending MIR: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/khronos-opencl-headers/+bug/1382091|LP: #1382091]]</nowiki>
 0. ''Maintenance:''
** Debian responsible for bugs.
 0. ''Background information:''
** This package is needed as a dependency of nvidia-graphics-drivers-331 and of nvidia-graphics-drivers-331-updates (main), so that the open source OpenCL loader is used over the proprietary one. This helps avoiding symbols mismatches when building OpenCL applications that are also supposed to work with open graphics drivers. This will also be used for fglrx in the future and, when mesa is ready, also for open source drivers.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ocl-icd/+bug/1382086|LP: #1382086]]</nowiki>

AlbertoMilone
