{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for xdelta ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/x/xdelta, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of ttf-arphic-ukai and ttf-arphic-uming.
** Looks generally useful.
 0. ''Security:''
** No CVE entries.
** No Secunia history.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** Does not open any port.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Fails on 64 bit architectures ([http://bugs.debian.org/147187 Debian bug), many other bugs.
** No maintenance in Debian.
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:''
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Meets <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards.
** Packaging: no debhelper, no patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: rejected based on the outstanding grave Debian bug.

=== Comment ===
xdelta3 is still as issue? I don't see any bug on xdelta3

http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?archive=both;package=xdelta3
