{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libmail-dkim-perl ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libm/libmail-dkim-perl/]]</nowiki>; available for all architectures (arch all).
# ''Rationale:''
** Approved spec for Intrepid '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:amavisd-dkim
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=dkim|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=dkim|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ? No Any daemons ? No
** Network activity: does it open any port ? No Does it handle incoming network data ? No (DKIM records retrieved by libnet-dns-perl)
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? No
** Any source code review performed ?  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.) No
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? None
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=libmail-dkim-perl|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libm/libmail-dkim-perl.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://dkimproxy.sourceforge.net]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Mail-DKIM]]</nowiki>: Some bugs, but no show stoppers.
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? No.
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ? Yes. Is it enabled to run in the build ? Yes.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? N/A.
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ? debhelper Patch system ? None Any packaging oddities ? No.  Standard Perl module.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** libmail-dkim-perl
** Depends: perl
*** Depends: liberror-perl
*** Depends: libdigest-sha-perl
*** Depends: libmailtools-perl
*** Depends: libnet-dns-perl
*** Depends: libcrypt-openssl-rsa-perl

** Are these all in main ? No. See the spec for other MIR: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerAmavisdDKIMSpec|amavisd-new DKIM integration]]</nowiki>.  It would be helpful, but not required for this is the Sendmail (libmilter) MIR could be processed at the same time so amavisd-new can be unsplit on the same upload as I enable DKIM - <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sendmail/+bug/243128|243128]]</nowiki>.
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** What do upstream call this software ? Mail::DKIM Has it had different names in the past ? No.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libmail-dkim-perl/+bug/243313|243313]]</nowiki>

Author: ScottKitterman
