{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libfile-temp-perl ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libf/libfile-temp-perl/]]</nowiki>; Arch all package
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of mime-tools
** Mime-tools is needed to promote amavisd-new which is one of the target packages for ubuntu-server review spec.
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=File::Temp|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=File::Temp|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ? No  Any daemons ? No
** Network activity: does it open any port ? No  Does it handle incoming network data ? No
** Any source code review performed ?  No
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? None.  It's a Perl lib
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=libfile-temp-perl|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libf/libfile-temp-perl.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm.  No open bugs, but not updated to the current release.
** <nowiki>[[http://search.cpan.org/~tjenness/File-Temp-0.20/]]</nowiki> is active ?
** <nowiki>[[http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=File-Temp]]</nowiki>: Nothing of note
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? None.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? N/A
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ? debhelper Patch system ? none Any packaging oddities ? no
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Perl
** Are these all in main ? Yes
 0. ''Background information:''
** This is also a core Perl module (in an earlier version), so a version of this code is already in Main.  The provided version is not sufficient for mime-tools
** What do upstream call this software ? File::Temp Has it had different names in the past ? No

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/181675|181675]]</nowiki>

Author: ScottKitterman
