{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libwps ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' Still in NEW, will appear in http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libw/libwps; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of openoffice.org
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=libwps|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=libwps|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: No records.
** library package; no binaries running as root or suid/sgid, no daemons, no network activity
** Quick and shallow review on the source code done.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** library package, no extra configuration, no debconf questions, doesn't deal with hardware.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libwps|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: (not yet functional, still in debian NEW)
** <nowiki>[[http://libwps.sf.net|Upstream]]</nowiki> is starting; new project.
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?atid=875975&group_id=176121&func=browse|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: No critical bugs.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** Packaging system (debhelper), no patch system
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All (build-)dependencies in main

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved (split out from oo.o)
