{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for partman-auto-raid ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/partman-auto-raid]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Support automated RAID partition using preseed.
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=partman-auto-raid|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: 0
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=partman-auto-raid|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: 0
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid: runs during the installation process.  No daemons.
** Network activity: None.
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data: No.
** Any source code review performed: No.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? The package can only be used by the installer via preseeding.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No. Only errors are printed at critical level. The RAID recipe has to be preseeded.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:partman-auto-raid|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/partman-auto-raid.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** Upstream is the Debian Install System Team.
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware ? No.
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ? No.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Only used to setup RAID partition by the installer via preseeding.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? Not a library.
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ? debhelper. No patch system. No packaging oddities.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** cdebconf-udeb, partman-auto, partman-base, partman-basicfilesystems, partman-ext3,  partman-md.
** Are these all in main ? Yes
0. ''Background information:''
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ? Upstream calls it partman-auto-raid. It was always called like that.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/273779]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
