{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for kasumi ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/k/kasumi]]</nowiki>; available for amd64 and i386
# ''Rationale:''
** When using the Anthy input method for Japanese, kasumi has the role to deal with user dictionaries. It's recommended by scim-anthy and ibus-anthy can also benefit from that. When a user is typing Japanese with Anthy, a very popular input method for Japanese, the built-in dictionary gives the user phrase suggestions, based on his input. For any phrase the standard dictionary does not know about, it will store it in a personal user dictionary. Kasumi manages those user dictionaries. This functionality is expected by Japanese users.
0. ''Security:''
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ? No
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ? No
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? No
** Any source code review performed ?  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.) No
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? None
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:kasumi|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/k/kasumi.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[http://kasumi.sourceforge.jp/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[http://kasumi.sourceforge.jp/index.php?%A5%D0%A5%B0%CA%F3%B9%F0|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>:
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? No
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ?
0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ? yes
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ? yes
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ? yes
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Debian policy compliant
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ? debhelper, dpatch
0. ''Dependencies:''
** libanthy0 (>= 9100h), libatk1.0-0 (>= 1.20.0), libc6 (>= 2.4), libcairo2 (>= 1.2.4), libfontconfig1 (>= 2.4.0), libfreetype6 (>= 2.2.1), libgcc1 (>= 1:4.1.1), libglib2.0-0 (>= 2.16.0), libgtk2.0-0 (>= 2.17.5), libpango1.0-0 (>= 1.14.0), libstdc++6 (>= 4.4.0)
** Build-Depends: debhelper (>= 5.0.0), libgtk2.0-dev, gettext, autotools-dev, dpatch, xsltproc, docbook-xsl, libanthy-dev
** Are these all in main ? yes
0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ? Should be maintained in Debian only.
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ? Ikuya Awashiro, Rolf Leggewie (Debian package maintainers)
** Who is the package bug contact in Ubuntu? (Needs one if its a nontrivial package which does not fully maintain itself through Debian) Rolf Leggewie (Debian package maintainer)
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ? kasumi
0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext? yes

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/407649]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
Arne Goetje

Rolf Leggewie: Arne asked me to put my name here. I should point out that neither Ikuya or me are DD.  Package uploads go through my sponsor and so far always in a very timely fashion.  Thanks, Mark.  I intend to maintain this and other Japanese related packages in Debian and try to work out the remaining bumps.  Upstream made a new release at the end of July.  There is already some work in the Vcs for pushing that into Debian.
