{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main inclusion report for cdrdao ==

=== Requirements ===

1. ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/c/cdrdao, compiled on all arches.

2. ''Rationale:'' Nautilus can use this to copy CDs. Also, it is the only package that supports Disc-At-Once burning. libburn is not yet mature enough.

3. ''Security:''
* Two old CANs from 2002, no other issues since then.
* One <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/advisories/15354/|Secunia advisory]]</nowiki>, never affected us since cdrdao is not installed setuid.

4. ''QA:''
* Bugs: Important bugs that need to be solved before the package will work nicely: 
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/272646|#272646]]</nowiki> (otherwise it will interact badly with out automounting stuff)
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/malone/bugs/1528|Malone #1528]]</nowiki> (expects wrong device, but it might be possible that Nautilus specifies the correct one)
** both problems are fixed with the upload of cdrdao_1.1.9-3ubuntu3

5. ''Standards compliance:''
* Standard `debhelper` packaging.
* FHS met.

6. ''Dependencies'':
* pccts (build dependency, build system)
 
=== Reviewers ===

MartinPitt: above two bugs are fixed, ok
