{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for python-smartpm ==

=== Requirements ===

 0. ''Availability:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/s/smart/]]</nowiki>
** binary packages needed in ''main'': '''python-smartpm'''
** same package for all supported architectures.
 0. ''Rationale:''
** python-smartpm is the Python libraries required by the landscape client. It does not include /usr/bin/smart (which is in smartpm-core, which will remain in universe).
 0. ''Security:''
** CVE entries - '''none'''
** Secunia history - '''none'''
** Binaries running as root or suid/sgid: '''none'''
** Daemons: '''none'''
** Network activity: '''Uses curl to fetch data'''
** Does '''not''' handle incoming network data
** Due to the nature of the it processes structured data which in this case is debian and RPM packages.
** Source code review performed by: '''none''', GustavoNiemeyer is author/maintainer of smart
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package '''works''' out of the box without configuration
** The package '''does not''' ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium'
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:smart|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: '''no release-critical bugs''', note that python-smartpm does not yet exist in Debian.
** <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/smart|Upstream]]</nowiki> is '''stable''', we are upstream
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware? - '''no'''
** Test suite: '''yes''', we have a unit test suite with fairly good coverage, not run on build
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) is '''debhelper'''
** Patch system is '''dpatch'''
** '''No''' packaging oddities
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Runtime
** python-pycurl, python-pexpect
** Build
** debhelper, python-central, python-all-dev, dpatch
** Are these all in main? - '''yes'''
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package is clear from the package's debian/control file.  '''Quoting debian/control''': An alternative package manager that works with dpkg/rpm. The Smart Package Manager project has the ambitious objective of creating smart and portable algorithms for solving adequately the problem of managing software upgrading and installation. This tool works in all major distributions (APT, APT-RPM, YUM, URPMI, etc).
** python-smartpm will be a dependency of the landscape-client package which is currently in main.
** The python library has been split out of the smartpm-core package which is in universe into this package. smartpm-core now includes a /usr/bin/smart symlink.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: Bug:268280

* DustinKirkland
