{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for thinkfinger ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/t/thinkfinger]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures, though please examine the package in my PPA <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~keybuk/+archive]]</nowiki> since it contains extra patches
# ''Rationale:''
** Shipped in new laptops by persuasive manufacturers
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=thinkfinger|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=thinkfinger|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** No binaries running as root or suid/gid
** No daemons
** Uses the `uinput` kernel module, in order to be not root, this has to be writable by the current user; HAL patch exists to do this with PK (in same PPA)
** No network connectivity
** Source code review performed by ScottJamesRemnant
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package requires PAM configuration, updated `libpam-runtime` in PPA to provide this.
** Package has no side-effect if no fingerprint reader is present, or user hasn't enrolled.
** No debconf questions, 'medium' or otherwise.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:thinkfinger|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: Nothing replicable on Ubuntu
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/t/thinkfinger.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://thinkfinger.sf.net/|Upstream]]</nowiki> believes thinkfinger is complete and is now working on `fprint` which is a different way of doing it, migration will be possible later.
** Hardware: Package uses `libusb` to communicate with the fingerprint reader (if present), includes FDI and PK policy to make that accessible by active console users.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant
** Packaging system debhelper.  No unusual packaging practices.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** libusb (main)
** libpam0g (main)

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/194458]]</nowiki>

ScottJamesRemnant
