{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for python-boto ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/python-boto]]</nowiki>; ''available for all supported architectures or some subset ?'' All.
# ''Rationale:''
** ''Why is this package needed?  What feature(s) does it add?''  python-boto provides a library interface to amazon web services.   It doesn't add anything specifically that couldn't be done otherwise, but provides a common library for multiple applications. ''Does upstream expect it?'' Upstream is unaware as far as I know.  ''Plain text description of expected use:''  python-boto is used by both euca2ools and ec2-init to interface with amazon web services (ec2 api and query the ec2 metadata service).
** This is a runtime dependency of both <nowiki>[[MainInclusionEuca2ools|euca2ools]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[MainInclusionEc2-Init|ec2-init]]</nowiki>
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=boto|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: ...
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=boto|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: ...
** ''Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?''  No, only a python library.  ''Any daemons ?'' No
** ''Network activity: does it open any port ?''  Python-boto makes outgoing http connections to the ec2 metadata service, which runs on http://169.254.169.254.   ''Does it handle incoming network data ?''  No
** ''Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ?'' No.  It uses python libraries for xml parsing.
** ''Any source code review performed ?''  I (Scott Moser) have quickly browsed through the source in looking for the cause of one bug.  Other than that I am not aware of explicity code review.  The library's fairly widespread attribute to its quality (or at very least to its usefulness).
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** ''In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?''  None that I am aware of.
** ''Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?'' No.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:python-boto|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: None
** ''<nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/python-boto.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead ?''  It is fairly active, 9 new uploads in 2009.
** ''<nowiki>[[http://boto.googlecode.com|Upstream]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead ?''  Upstream is active.
** <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/boto/issues/list|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: Nothing of significant interest to euca2ools or ec2-init.  The most concerning is <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/boto/issues/detail?id=266|266 - serious bug with XmlHandler]]</nowiki>
** ''Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ?''
** ''Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?'' Yes.  ''Is it enabled to run in the build ?'' No.  The test suite is based upon being able to connect to AWS to demonstrate its function.  This would not be suitable for the build system.
 0. ''UI standards:''
** ''User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ?'' No. 
** ''Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ?'' No.
** ''End-user applications ship a desktop file ?'' Not applicable
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ?
** ''Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?''  debhelper. ''Patch system ?'' None. ''Any packaging oddities ?'' No.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** python
** python-support
** ''Are these all in main ?'' Yes
 0. ''Maintenance:''
** ''How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?''  With fairly active debian maintenance, there shouldn't be too much need for ubuntu maintenance. 
** ''Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?''  Debian Maintainer, Scott Moser, Soren Hanson, ubuntu-on-ec2 team.  ''Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ?''.  Some Ubuntu developers.
** ''Who is the package bug contact in Ubuntu?'' Scott Moser.
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.
** ''What do upstream call this software ?''  'boto' ''Has it had different names in the past ?'' No. At least not in 2 years it has been packaged for debian.
 0. ''Internationalization:''
** ''Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext?'' Not Applicable

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/434701]]</nowiki>

=== Author ===
* Scott Moser
