{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libmailtools-perl ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libm/libmailtools-perl/]]</nowiki>; Built for all archs
# ''Rationale:''
** Needed to promote amavisd-new which is one of the target packages for ubuntu-server review spec.
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2002-1271|One ancient CVE]]</nowiki>: Not actually a problem with this package
** Secunia history only have references to the same CVE.
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ? No  Any daemons ? No
** Network activity: does it open any port ? No  Does it handle incoming network data ? No
** Any source code review performed ?  No
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? None.  It's a library.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=libmailtools-perl|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: Nothing particularly exciting.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libm/libmailtools-perl.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is reasonably active ?
** <nowiki>[[http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-module/Mail/MARKOV/]]</nowiki> is active ?
** <nowiki>[[http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=MailTools]]</nowiki>: No bugs
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? No.  No hardware
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? Yes
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ? Debhelper Patch system ? None Any packaging oddities ? No
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** libnet-perl
** libtimedate-perl
** perl (>= 5.8.1)
** Are these all in main ? Yes
 0. ''Background information:''
** What do upstream call this software ? MailTools Has it had different names in the past ? No
** Was previously in Main up to Feisty

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/180732]]</nowiki>
Author: ScottKitterman
