{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for python-dateutil ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/s/python-dateutil]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Dependency of elisa. See also: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/262805|Bug #262805]]</nowiki>

0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=python-dateutil|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: ...
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=python-dateutil|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: ...
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid nor daemons
** Network activity: None
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ?: Yes, it extracts data from a tarball shipped with the package. Tarball is: zoneinfo-2007i.tar.gz
** Any source code review performed ? This is about parsing timezones data.. Code is overall well documented. I didn't find any big quirk
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?: none
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:python-dateutil|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/python-dateutil.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[http://labix.org/python-dateutil|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** Upstream bug tracker: None found
** Hardware: Requires no specific hardware
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Yes but it's not enabled to run in the build
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ?: Yes
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ?: Yes
** Packaging system: cdbs, quilt, no packaging oddities found.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** python
** Are these all in main ? Yes
0. ''Background information:''
** This is a dependency of Storm too.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/271680]]</nowiki>

Author: PhilippeNormand
