{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for mscompress ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/m/mscompress, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** This utility is needed by the "getweb" tool coming with the "foo2zjs" printer driver package to uncompress downloaded printer firmware and color profile files. So the "foo2zjs" package depends on mscompress and is also marked as such (foo2zjs 20061224-0ubuntu3). mscompress also gives access to many other files provided by hardware manufacturers (like PPD files for PostScript printers, firmware files, ...).
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=mscompress|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=mscompress|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** Does not open any port.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box, requiring no configuration at all. It is a simple command line tool to (un)compress files.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions.
** Seems to be a finished project (nothing to do on it any more) as it was not changed upstream for a longer time, so it also does not seem to have severe bugs (<nowiki>[[ftp://ftp.penguin.cz/pub/users/mhi/mscompress/|Download place]]</nowiki>).
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>.
** Standard debhelper/cdbs/dbs packaging, standard patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
