{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for configobj ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/c/configobj]]</nowiki>; all.
# ''Rationale:''
** ''Why is this package needed?''  The primary reason for request is that this package is a dependency of ec2-init.  ''What feature(s) does it add?''  It provides a python library inteface to a config syntax.
** This is a runtime dependency of ec2-init (<nowiki>[[MainInclusionEc2-Init|MIR]]</nowiki>)
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=configobj|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=configobj|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** ''Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?'' None. ''Any daemons ?'' None.
** ''Network activity: does it open any port ?'' No.  ''Does it handle incoming network data ?'' No.
** ''Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ?'' It is a library for parsing a config syntax, it parses that itself.
** ''Any source code review performed ?'' No.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** ''In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?'' The library should work out of the box.
** ''Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?'' No.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=configobj|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: 1 minor bug open.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/c/configobj.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm (5 pkg updates in 2 years)
** <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/configobj/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is fairly active (<nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/configobj/updates/list|svn log]]</nowiki>)
** <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/configobj/issues/list|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: Not many issues raised in this fasion (ie, bug tracker mostly unused).
** ''Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ?'' No dealing with hardware
** ''Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?''  Yes. ''Is it enabled to run in the build ?'' No.
0. ''UI standards:''
** ''User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ?'' the library does not do this.  It has to be done by a user of the library.
** ''Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ?'' Not Applicable
** ''End-user applications ship a desktop file ?''  Not Applicable
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** ''<nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ?''
** ''Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?''  debhelper. ''Patch system ?''  dpatch ''Any packaging oddities ?'' No.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** python-support
** ''Are these all in main ?'' Yes
0. ''Maintenance:''
** ''How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?''  There hasn't been a significant amount of ubuntu effort previously.  The debian revision increases have primarily been due to new upstream version
** ''Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?''  The package is orphaned in debian.
** ''Who is the package bug contact in Ubuntu?'' No one is currently subscribed to <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/configobj|launchpad bugmail]]</nowiki>.
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/%7Eubuntu-branches/ubuntu/karmic/configobj/karmic/annotate/head%3A/debian/control|debian/control]]</nowiki> file.
** ''What do upstream call this software ?''  configobj. ''Has it had different names in the past ?'' No.
0. ''Internationalization:''
** ''Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext?'' Not Applicable

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/434717]]</nowiki>

=== Author ===
Scott Moser
