{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/i/italc]]</nowiki> is available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** The desired default classroom management application for Edubuntu in hardy
** iTalc provides classroom management for workstations and thin clients and is due to replace the currently shipped thin-client-manager as default classroom management application. Edubuntu targets workstation installed classrooms too now, a functionallity thin-client-manager doesnt (and doesnt aim to) fulfill. iTalc is a known and already widely used didactical tool fulfilling this requirement.
** Based on the Debian 1.0.4 package stgraber created an 1.0.6 package for which all known bugs and in Boston identified UI problems were worked out closely with upstream and included in the recent 1.0.6 upstream release. Debian recently imported 1.0.6-1 shortly after feature freeze and most of our package changes in the fomer 1.0.4 one.
** iTalc is used as default classroom management application in various educational distros like guadalinex, skolelinux and debian-edu
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=italc|CVE entries]]</nowiki>
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=italc|Secunia history]]</nowiki>
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid but the client service is started as autostart application in the users desktop. 
** Network activity: the client running in the users session runs with privileges of the logged in user and listens for inbound ssl certified connections from the master process. The keys are generated during package install in the postinst script. isd (italc session daemon) for ssl authenticated control connections listens on port 5800 and ivs iTalc vnc service for ssl authenticated vnc connections on port 5900.
** The source code is standard C++ programming, no bigger odditiess were identified in a quick review.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The master application requires the teacher to set up a classroom in an intuitive way in the gui on first start. The clients register automatically in the default xdg session startup and need no further configuration.
** The package does not ask any debconf questions at all.
** There are no <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:italc|Debian bugs]]</nowiki> for the 1.0.6 package and the one reported for 1.0.4 is fixed with our package
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/i/italc.html|Debian]]</nowiki> incorporated most of our changes (packaging changes in the last 1.0.4 package, upstream fixes with the new 1.0.6 one)
** <nowiki>[[http://italc.sourceforge.net|Upstream]]</nowiki> is frenetic and works closely with us
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?atid=724375&group_id=132465&func=browse|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>
** Hardware: iTalc doesnt deal with hardware in any way
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** The iTalc package is <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant  
** It follows the <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards
** The used packaging system is cdbs, using dpatch for patches.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** imagemagick, libjpeg62-dev, libqt4-dev, libxtst-dev, openssl, zlib1g-dev and python
** All these are in main
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package is clear from its description.
** Upstream calls it iTalc with a big T. Its called like that in the package description as well. It has always been called like that.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/197034]]</nowiki>

Author: OliverGrawert
