{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== MainInclusionReportBluezUtils ==

== Main inclusion report for Bluez-utils ==

Author: Charles Majola

=== Requirements ===

1. ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/b/bluez-utils/

2. ''Rationale:'' This package is the only one that can be used with the bluez stack that is already in the kernel to enable Bluetooth support in Ubuntu. The use of the Bluetooth protocol to connec devices is rising, therefore the demand for Distro's that support Bluetooth by default is also rising.  This package is need to enable bluetooth device support in Ubuntu.

3. ''Security:''
* One CAN Candidate Under review : http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CAN-2005-2547
* No Secunia record.

4. ''QA:''
* Installation: Command line tools for admins; documentation is provided. There is also a GUI now.
* Bugs: 
** There are 4 outstanding normal bugs and 2 oustanding minor bugs in debian, they are all more than 6 months old. Seems the debian maintainer hasn't worked on the packages for a while now.
** No bugs in Ubuntu bugzilla.
** No bugs in Malone.
** No autstanding bugs in upstream BTS
** Responsive and good upstream.
* Hardware interaction: uses a bluetooth adapter/doggle

5. ''Standards compliance:''
* Standard `debhelper` packaging.
* FHS met.
* Debian package and library policy met.

6. ''Dependencies:'' 
* bluez-libs MainInclusionReportBluezLibs
* bluez-pin MainInclusionReportBluezPin

=== Reviewers ===

MartinPitt: 
