{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/q/qtparted, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** QTParted is a Partition Magic clone writen using C++. It is based on libparted and QT toolkit.
** Espresso need qtparted for partition manipulation in kubuntu dapper livecd 
 0. ''Security:''
** No security histroy.
** Does not open any port.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** No showstopper Debian bugs.
** Good maintenance in Debian.
** Active upstream (maintained by Ark Linux).
** May destroy your hard disk but gives suitable warnings before doing so
** No critical bugs in <nowiki>[[http://qtparted.sourceforge.net/]]</nowiki>

 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Meets <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards.
** Standard debhelper/cdbs/dbs packaging, standard patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
