{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/m/migrationtools]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerPackageReview
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=migrationtools|entries]]</nowiki>: CVE-2006-0512 and CVE-2005-4683
do not affect version in hardy.
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=migrationtools|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: One entry reported.
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ?
    no daemon, binaries are "isolated" in /usr/share/migrationtools. Depending on the binary, you might need different priviletes to read /etc/passwd or other files.
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ?
    Nope.
** Any source code review performed ?  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.)
    minimal. seems ok.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?
    scripts require env vars set to work properly and those are dependent from too many external factors to have a sane default.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?
    nope.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:migrationtools|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: there are a bunch of bugs open at different level. Somebody with ldap knowledge should review them
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/m/migrationtools.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is almost dead.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.padl.com/OSS/MigrationTools.html|Upstream]]</nowiki> is unknown.
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ?
    no.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
    package is compliant to all the foobar!
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ?
    it uses cdbs and should be rejected just for that ;)
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Are these all in main ?
    all deps and build-deps are in main.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/182785]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''

FabioMassimoDiNitto
