{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for xserver-xorg-video-intel ==

=== Requirements ===

 0. ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/x/xserver-xorg-video-intel, available for amd64/i386 (hw not available on oher platforms.)

 0. ''Rationale:''
** Dependency of xserver-xorg-video-all.
** Replaces xserver-xorg-video-i810-modesetting and needed for supporting new hardware.
** Should be on the installer cd.
** Needed so discover-data can install proper drivers for new chipsets.

 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=xf86-video-intel|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=xf86-video-intel|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** Is just an X driver, does not do anything without an X server.
** Source code review:

 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Active upstream, maintained by Intel.  

 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Meets <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards.
** Standard debhelper/cdbs/dbs packaging, standard patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
