{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libpciaccess ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libp/libpciaccess]]</nowiki>; available for all architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Introduced as part of Xorg's PCI Rework.  Had been considered ''optional'' for xserver 1.3 and 1.4, but is a '''required dependency''' for <code>xserver 1.5</code>, which we'll be shipping in Intrepid.
** '''Required dependency''' for the <code>intel_reg_dumper</code> debugging tool.  Currently we disable building it due to the missing libpciaccess dependency, but upstream sometimes requests use of it by our users when upstreaming bug reports.
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=libpciaccess|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: '''None'''
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=libpciaccess|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: '''None'''
** Binaries:  Primarily a library.  Includes one binary executable <code>scanpci</code>, which does not require suid to run
** Network activity: '''Does not open ports, nor does it perform any network activity.'''
** Probes PCI devices and processes binary data retrieved from hardware
** Source code review:  I've browsed through the code, looking for obvious red flags and did not see anything, however I'm no security guru.  The malloc/memcpy routines, and linux_devmem.c could probably benefit from a closer analysis.  -- bryce
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?  '''none'''
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?  '''no'''
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libpciaccess|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: '''2 bugs''', one particular to platforms alpha, parisc, mips, and m68k, which are '''not important platforms''' for Ubuntu.  Other is is an issue that pciutils now provides /usr/share/misc/pci.ids.gz as a compressed file, and libpciaccess needs gzip support as a result; on Ubuntu intrepid though, our /usr/share/misc/pci.ids is not compressed so we're okay.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libp/libpciaccess.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is '''calm''' ?
** <nowiki>[[http://cgit.freedesktop.org/xorg/lib/libpciaccess/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is '''lightly active''' (mostly 1-3 line fixes)
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.freedesktop.org/buglist.cgi?query_format=advanced&short_desc_type=allwordssubstr&short_desc=&product=xorg&component=libpciaccess&long_desc_type=substring&long_desc=&bug_file_loc_type=allwordssubstr&bug_file_loc=&status_whiteboard_type=allwordssubstr&status_whiteboard=&keywords_type=allwords&keywords=&bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_status=REOPENED&emailassigned_to1=1&emailtype1=substring&email1=&emailassigned_to2=1&emailreporter2=1&emailqa_contact2=1&emailcc2=1&emailtype2=substring&email2=&bugidtype=include&bug_id=&chfieldfrom=&chfieldto=Now&chfieldvalue=&cmdtype=doit&order=Importance&field0-0-0=noop&type0-0-0=noop&value0-0-0=|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: '''4 bugs''' filed, none terribly important for Ubuntu
** Hardware: This package interacts with hardware by performing PCI device scans.  This is derived from existing Xorg functionality so is '''not terribly exotic'''.
** Test suite:  '''none available'''
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? '''yes'''
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? '''yes'''
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs): '''debhelper'''
** Patch system:  '''none'''
** Packaging oddities:  '''none'''
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Only debhelper, which is in main
 0. ''Background information:''
** This library has always been called libpciaccess
** libpciaccess was introduced as part of Xorg's PCI Rework, in which PCI device detection is moved from the xserver to the individual drivers.  A benefit of this change is that if a new version of the driver gains support for additional PCI ID's, then it can claim them directly, rather than requiring the xserver to be patched.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/239614]]</nowiki>

Author:  Bryce Harrington
