{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for ndesk-dbus-glib ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/n/ndesk-dbus-glib; available for all supported architectures but currently still on NEW queue
# ''Rationale:''
** Many different source packages currently have an internal copy of this. To make everything easier to maintain (updates, bugfixes, especially security updates) the stuff is packaged separate now as upstream now provides stable API/ABI guarantuees. Source packages that already contain a copy: f-spot, tomboy for main, banshee, last-exit, muine, gshare for universe. Probably other's that I missed for now. These will all be changed to build against the packaged version.
 0. ''Security:''
** No security issues known to date
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package on Debian's NEW queue
** Does always work out of the box
** <nowiki>[[http://git.ndesk.org|Upstream]]</nowiki> is active?
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> and Debian CLI Policy.
** Standard debhelper packaging
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main (mono, debhelper)

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
