{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for intel-gpu-tools ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/i/intel-gpu-tools/]]</nowiki>
# ''Rationale:''
** Want to have apport able to use these tools for collecting necessary debug information on X failures
0. ''Security:''
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ?
*** No suid/guid binaries
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ?
*** No
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ?
*** No
** Any source code review performed ?  
*** No
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?
*** There are no known situations where the package will not work out of the box without configuration
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?
*** No
** Maintenance in Debian: <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/source/sid/intel-gpu-tools|Good]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://cgit.freedesktop.org/xorg/app/intel-gpu-tools/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=intel-gpu-tools|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: 1 bug about where binaries are located
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/intel-gpu-tools/+bugs|Ubuntu bugs]]</nowiki>: no bug reports
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.freedesktop.org/buglist.cgi?query_format=advanced&short_desc_type=allwordssubstr&short_desc=intel-gpu-tools&component=Driver%2Fintel|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: 1 bug report
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ?
*** Yes, it is specific to Intel graphics chips
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ?
*** The package is a test suite for the Intel driver
0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ?
*** NA
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ?
*** NA
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ?
*** NA
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** Packaging system
*** debhelper
** Patch system
*** quilt
0. ''Dependencies:''
** Are these all in main ?
*** yes

0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ? 
*** Minimal or none
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  
*** Ubuntu-X team
0. ''Background information:''
** This package includes tools that used to be provided in the debug version of the -intel driver package, but have been broken out into their own standalone package.  Several useful benchmarks/tests have been added as well.  Since the output from these tools is necessary to debug certain severe Intel graphics bugs such as X freezes, we would like to enable apport to make use of these tools directly.  Historically we've hand held the bug reporter through the steps of installing and running the tools by hand, but this has widely been seen as a royal pain in the rear for all parties (esp. since you have to find a second machine and try to ssh into the frozen one in order to run the tools).  Having them be automatically run by apport will significantly increase our ability to troubleshoot these kind of severe problems swiftly with least hassle to the user, but in order to do that we need intel-gpu-tools in main.
0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext?
*** NA

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[Bug:462970]]</nowiki>

''Report Author: BryceHarrington''
