{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for xen-3.0 ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/x/xen-3.0, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of libvirt
** Necessary to support Xen in main
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=xen|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=xen|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** xend daemon runs as root, only listens on unix socket by default
** Does not open any port.
** Source code review:
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box with minimal configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'normal'.
** No showstopper <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:SOURCE_PACKAGE_NAME|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>.
** Good <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/x/xen-3.0.html|maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki>.
** Active <nowiki>[[http://xensource.com|upstream]]</nowiki>.
** Lots of critical bugs in <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.xensource.com/bugzilla/buglist.cgi?query_format=advanced&short_desc_type=allwordssubstr&short_desc=&long_desc_type=substring&long_desc=&bug_file_loc_type=allwordssubstr&bug_file_loc=&bug_status=UNCONFIRMED&bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_status=REOPENED&bug_severity=blocker&bug_severity=critical&emailassigned_to1=1&emailtype1=substring&email1=&emailassigned_to2=1&emailreporter2=1&emailcc2=1&emailtype2=substring&email2=&bugidtype=include&bug_id=&chfieldfrom=&chfieldto=Now&chfieldvalue=&cmdtype=doit&order=Bug+Number&field0-0-0=noop&type0-0-0=noop&value0-0-0=|upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Meets <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards.
** Standard debhelper packaging, standard dpatch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: libraries are fine to go to main, but let's keep the hypervisors and utils in universe until the kernel side and critical upstream bugs settled.
