{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for mousetweaks ==

=== Requirements ===

 0. ''Availability:''
** Mousetweaks is available <nowiki>[[http://ftp.gnome.org/pub/GNOME/sources/mousetweaks/|upstream]]</nowiki> in GNOME.
** And <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/m/mousetweaks/|this is the link to it]]</nowiki> in the Universe repository for Hardy Heron.
 0. ''Rationale:''
** mousetweaks is the package that implements the new features offered by the accessibility section in the mouse capplet of gnome-control-center.
** It also interacts with the new gnome-settings-daemon.
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=PRODUCT_NAME|CVE]]</nowiki> entries.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=PRODUCT_NAME|Secunia]]</nowiki> history.
** No binary running as root or suid/sgid.
** The mousetweaks package installs a daemon and two gnome-panel applets. (Be aware that the mousetweaks daemon only runs if the user needs (in other words activates) one of its features; see below for more details.)
** No network activity and no open ports.
** No special code review. Some build system review by SUN (Li Yuan) for Solaris compatibility.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package works out of the box without the need of extra configuration.
** No debconf questions.
** No relevant bug is known at the moment.
** <nowiki>[[http://svn.gnome.org/viewvc/mousetweaks/|Maintenance in GNOME]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** A bugtracker has been requested under <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.gnome.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=mousetweaks&component=general|bugzilla]]</nowiki>; until it has been set up, people use the former <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/mousetweaks/|launchpad bugtracker]]</nowiki>.
** The package does not use any exotic hardware; it gets its input from the keyboard and the mouse.
 0. ''Standards compliance:''
** Compliance to <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>: lintian run on the .deb gives no error and no warning; moreover, the package recently passed REVU without the need of special requirements. 
** The package does not install any library.
** Packaging system: debhelper and dpatch. No packaging oddities.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper (>= 5), autotools-dev, dpatch, intltool, libatspi-dev, libgtk2.0-dev, libglade2-dev, libgconf2-dev, libpanel-applet2-dev, libgnome2-dev, libgnomeui-dev, gnome-doc-utils, libdbus-glib-1-dev, libxfixes-dev
** The dependencies are all in main.
 0. ''Background information:''
** Mousetweaks is a package offering new mouse accessibility enhancements for the GNOME desktop. It is hosted on the GNOME SVN under the same name. Before its integration into GNOME, it was (and still partly is) hosted on <nowiki>[[https://www.launchpad.net/mousetweaks/|Launchpad]]</nowiki>. The development started as Google Summer of Code project for Ubuntu mentored by Henrik Omma.
** A debdiff against gnome-control-center will be submitted to ubuntu-main-sponsors with a mousetweaks dependency.
** Concerning the mousetweaks daemon: I should probably point out that the mousetweaks process only runs when one of the accessibility features it offers is being used. For example, turning on dwelling in the Mouse control panel starts the mousetweaks daemon (=mousetweaks process); turning dwelling off kills the process again. The same happens for the Simulated Secondary Click. (To be complete, there is a way to start mousetweaks at the command line without activating any feature; in this case, even if the user would not kill the mousetweaks process before logout, it would not automatically restart at the next login. When controlled by GUI, it is not possible to start the mousetweaks process without activating a feature; and while it is possible to do so by command line, it does not really make sense.)

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mousetweaks/+bug/190208|#190208]]</nowiki>

''FrancescoFumanti''
