{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for xsp ==
=== Requirements ===
   1. Availability: http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/x/xsp/ available for all supported arches
   2. Rationale: new build-dependency of monodoc (mono-xsp-base contains dh_installxsp which was in mono-utils before). it is also a runtime dependency for monodoc-http (which is moved to universe). I would propose to have the xsp sourcepackage and the mono-xsp-base binary package in main, everything else in universe.
   3. Security: 
*** Recent cross-site scripting vuln (CVE-2005-0509)
*** Contains a full webserver, opens port, etc.
*** Relatively young and unaudited code
   4. Quality assurance:
****** The package contains a simple webserver and apache{1,2} mod_mono backends to run ASP.NET programs.
****** Maintained by the Debian Mono Group http://pkg-mono.alioth.debian.org
****** Some outstanding bugs in Debian BTS <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=xsp]]</nowiki>. Most of them are fixed with our version in universe and will be fixed soon in Debian. 
****** Almost no open upstream bugs <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ximian.com/buglist.cgi?product=Mono+Tasks&product=Mono%3A+Class+Libraries&product=Mono%3A+Compilers&product=Mono%3A+Debugger&product=Mono%3A+Doctools&product=Mono%3A+Runtime&product=Mono%3A+Tools&bug_status=UNCONFIRMED&bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_status=REOPENED&email1=&emailtype1=substring&emailassigned_to1=1&email2=&emailtype2=substring&emailreporter2=1&changedin=&chfieldfrom=&chfieldto=Now&chfieldvalue=&short_desc=xsp&short_desc_type=substring&long_desc=&long_desc_type=substring&bug_file_loc=&bug_file_loc_type=substring&keywords=&keywords_type=anywords&op_sys_details=&op_sys_details_type=substring&version_details=&version_details_type=substring&cmdtype=doit&order=%27Importance%27&form_name=query|here]]</nowiki>
   5. Standards compliance:
****** The package meets the FHS, Debian Policy and CLIPolicy
   6. Dependencies:
****** Depends only on main stuff (mono, cli-common)

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: I'd rather avoid bringing all of this webserver stuff into main, especially for Dapper. It sounds ok in six months, when the code matured a bit and we only have 18 monts of support. Can the debhelper script be moved back into mono-utils, or can mono-xsp-base get its own source package with only safe stuff?
