{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for ebook-tools ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe//e/ebook-tools/]]</nowiki>; available for i386 and amd64
# ''Rationale:''
** ebook-tools is needed to compile kdegraphics, expecially okular, with support for ebooks in epub format. Upstream is advertising that okular is supporting epub ebooks, so this should be supported in Ubuntu, too. Seems that epub is popular, because we got many complains about this missing feature.
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=PRODUCT_NAME|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: No entries found.
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=PRODUCT_NAME|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: No entries found.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid. No daemons.
** No Network activity.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration. 
** Package does not ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium'. 
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:ebook-tools|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: No reports found.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/e/ebook-tools.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead ?
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/ebook-tools/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Package complies with the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>.
** Packaging system cdbs. Patch system quilt.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper, cmake, cdbs, libxml2-dev, libzip-dev, quilt
** They are all in main.
0. ''Maintenance:''
** The package needs little maintenance.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ebook-tools/+bug/432775]]</nowiki>

ChristianMangold
