{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/s/snort]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerPackageReview
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=snort|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: this is a nightmare...
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=snort|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: another nightmare on elm street.
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ?
    yes. there is a daemon running.
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ?
    Given the nature of the package...
** Any source code review performed ?  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.)
    no.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?
    afaict it works out of the box. it seems to have sane defaults. Can't test all the options in my environment.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?
    yes depending on how the config autodetection goes.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:snort|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: several bugs are there at different severities. Most worring is the SIG11 and endian issues.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/s/snort.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[http://www.snort.org/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ?
    none.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>.
    Package looks FHS compliant. Tons of lintian errors some of which are a bit annoying and bad debconf usage.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ?
    Interesting way of shipping libraries.... at best.
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ?
    debhelper. patches are inline (diff.gz). Package is complex and requires deep understanding.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Build-deps on gs-common and libprelude-dev that are in universe.
** Depends on libprelude2 that is in universe.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/182806]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''

FabioMassimoDiNitto
