{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/s/screen-resolution-extra]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Necessary for setting up dual-head in gnome-control-center when Option Virtual must be set (which is most of the time)
** Probably temporary - upstream has plans to eliminate the need for Option Virtual, but is a ways away from fixing it currently
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=screen-resolution-extra|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: '''none'''
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=screen-resolution-extra|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: '''none'''
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  '''No''' Any daemons ?  '''No'''
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  '''No'''  Does it handle incoming network data ? '''No'''
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ?  '''No'''
** Any source code review performed ?  Yes, I've been reviewing the source code on an ongoing basis during entire development.  It's a small script and quite easily reviewed.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?  '''None'''
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?   '''No'''
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:screen-resolution-extra|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: Ubuntu-only package
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/s/screen-resolution-extra.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead ?  '''N/A'''
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~x-kit|Upstream]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead ?  '''vigorous'''
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~x-kit|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: '''None'''
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ?   '''No'''
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  '''No'''
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ?  '''Yes'''
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? '''Yes'''
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ? '''cdbs''' Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ?  '''Maintained in Ubuntu/Bzr; no patch system necessary so far'''
0. ''Dependencies:''
** Python >= 2.4 (in main)
** x-kit
0. ''Background information:''
** Extension for the GNOME screen resolution applet.  Enables adding Option Virtual to xorg.conf if the user selects a multi-screen layout that would require it.
** What do upstream call this software ?  '''screen-resolution-extra''' Has it had different names in the past ? '''No'''

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/262778]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
* Bryce Harrington
