{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for lksctp-tools ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/l/lksctp-tools]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Needed as a build-dependency of erlang in main, adding SCTP protocol support.  Disabling SCTP at build-time would introduce a regression in the erlang language's runtime capabilities, which may or may not be needed by other packages.
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=lksctp|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: all reported CVEs refer to vulnerabilities in the kernel implementation of SCTP, not in the lksctp-tools userspace.
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=lksctp|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: no records found.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid; no daemons.
** Network activity: this package includes both client and server implementations of SCTP, and as such may be used to open ports and process incoming data; but it does not do so by default.
** It does not process binary directly except for network traffic.
** No source code review has been done.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package provides its functionality out of the box in all cases without configuration.
** Package asks no debconf questions.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:lksctp-tools|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: no bugs open.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/l/lksctp-tools.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm
** <nowiki>[[http://lksctp.sourceforge.net/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=26529&atid=387570|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: upstream is effective at addressing reported bugs
** Hardware: package is not hardware-related.
** Source package includes a test suite which is built at build time, but not run.
0. ''UI standards:''
** No localization of the tools, which are commandline-only.
** Includes no end-user applications and no .desktop files.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Packaging system: cdbs with simple-patchsys
0. ''Dependencies:''
** eglibc
0. ''Maintenance:''
** Package is not expected to require significant maintenance.
** Package is in sync between Ubuntu and Debian; the Debian maintainer is active in Ubuntu as well.
** There is currently no package contact for the package in Ubuntu.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/455208]]</nowiki>

''SteveLangasek''
