{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for kdesudo ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/k/kdesudo]]</nowiki>; (soon) available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** More reliable than kdesu and follows sudo policy
** Long explanation: kdesu runs all programmes through kdesu_stub so sudoers has no effect other than through kdesu_stub.  kdesu has a bug where it asks for a password without needing it because it tests for needing a password by starting an instance of sudo, then starting a second one to actually pass the password.  If that happens twice it thinks it needs a password when it doesn't.  
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=kdesudo|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=kdesudo|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: none
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid, but of course it has the power to make anything root through sudo
** Network activity: none
** Source code has been reviewed by Jonathan Riddell and AnthonyMercatante.  Source code is simple and easy to review. MartinPitt checked for some standard traps.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package always works out of the box without configuration
** Package asks no debconf questions
** Not in Debian
** <nowiki>[[http://ksudo.sourceforge.net/kdesudo/|Old Upstream]]</nowiki> has not moved for some time.  Project has been adopted by Kubuntu developers <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/kdesudo|kdesudo]]</nowiki>.
** No bugs https://bugs.launchpad.net/kdesudo/ (old upstream had no bug tracker)
** Package does not deal with hardware
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ?
** Packaging system cdbs,  Patch system is simple-patchsys, no packaging oddities
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** kdelibs, in main
** sudo, in main
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package is clear from the package's debian/control file
** Upstream call it kdesudo and always have

=== Reviewers ===

Report Author: Jonathan Riddell

MartinPitt: approved
