{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libpam-mount ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libp/libpam-mount, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Part of edubuntu-network-auth-server spec, needed home directory mounting with ldap network authentication
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerPackageReview
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=libpam-mount|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No recent entries in <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=libpam-mount|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** Does not open any port.
** Source code review:
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** No showstopper <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libpam-mount|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>.
** Good maintenance <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libp/libpam-mount.html|in Debian]]</nowiki>.
** Active <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/pam-mount|upstream]]</nowiki>.
** No critical bugs <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=41452&atid=430593|upstream]]</nowiki>
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Meets <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards.
** Standard debhelper/cdbs/dbs packaging, standard patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Depends and B-D on libhx that's in universe. Uses libxml-writer-perl in universe.
 
=== Reviewers ===
MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/183713]]</nowiki>

ogra

FabioMassimoDiNitto
