{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for drbd8-utils ==

DRBD is a block device which is designed to build high availability clusters. This is done by mirroring a whole block device via (a dedicated) network. You could see it as a network raid-1.

drbd8 source builds two binaries; drbd8-utils and drbd8-source. With the inclusion of drbd8 kernel patch, drbd8-source is obsolete and shouldn't be built.

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/d/drbd8]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Selected at UDS Boston as part of the https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-packages-review spec as a package to add to ubuntu-server for competitive reasons.
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=drbd|CVE]]</nowiki> history
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=drbd&w=0|Secunia]]</nowiki> history
** No binaries running as suid/sgid
** The daemon runs as root
** It opens one TCP port; by default it's 7788. It handles incoming and outgoing data.
** No source code review performed
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Due the nature of package, it doesn't work out of the box and requires configuration. Example configuration is provided after installation.
** No debconf
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=drbd8|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: No showstoppers.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/d/drbd8.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[http://www.drbd.org|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.drbd.org|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>
** This package handles disk partitions and if misconfigured, can cause total loss of data
 0. ''Standards compliance:''
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant
** Uses debhelper, no patching system
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Depends on debconf and libc6, both in main
 0. ''Background information:''
** Major version number is integrated in the name of the software. DRBD7 is former and unsupported generation, while DRBD8 is latest. drbd8.0.x is stable, and drbd8.2.x is development version.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/drbd/+bug/189230]]</nowiki>

Author:  AnteKaramatic ChuckShort
