{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libspe2 ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libs/libspe2]]</nowiki>; available (intentionally) only for powerpc
# ''Rationale:''
** Needed for support of PPU/SPU multiprocessing on PS3 and Cell platforms.
 0. ''Security:''
** No CVE or Secunia history.
** The user must be root or in the spu group. No privilege escalation is performed.
** The library performs no network activity.
** I (ColinWatson) have checked quickly over the source code for obvious badness. I see nothing especially scary, and its use is very constrained and hardware-specific.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package appears to work out of the box and requires no configuration. It does not use debconf. The initscripts package already takes care of mounting the spufs virtual filesystem.
** libspe2 was packaged specifically for Ubuntu and has no Debian maintainer.
** <nowiki>[[http://patchwork.ozlabs.org/cbe-oss-dev/|Upstream]]</nowiki> appears to be vigorous and competent.
** I do not know of an upstream bug tracker.
** The package is used on Play``Station 3 systems and other systems containing the Cell Broadband Engine to interact with its processing elements. It is specific to the powerpc architecture.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** The package complies with the FHS, Debian Policy, and library packaging standards as best as I can see (it installs a file into `/usr/spu`, but as I understand it that is a cross-compilation standard).
** The one oddity I see is that it ought to use `binfmt-support` instead of custom registration code. I will convert it when I have time.
** It uses standard debhelper packaging and a quilt patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** None outside main.
 0. ''Background information:''
** http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/library/pa-libspe2/ and similar Cell-specific documents may help explain what libspe2 does.

=== Reviewers ===

ColinWatson.

MartinPitt: approved
