{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main inclusion report for ocfs2-tools ==

Author: Martin Pitt

=== Requirements ===

1. ''Availability:'' Ubuntu universe, compiled on all arches.

2. ''Rationale:'' In the server world there is a great demand for integrated and out of the box clustering solutions. It is less interesting for Desktop users.

3. ''Security:''
* No CANs.
* No Secunia record.
* The package is very young and not even stable, so there is no real security history.
* The client binaries are run by root with root privileges, thus no privilege escalation potential in them.
* I am not aware of any security review of the code.
* Daemon runs in kernel space, and is not shipped in this package; however, it cannot actually be used without these tools, so if this package is in main, we automatically support the daemon, too.
* Since it is necessary to have open ports for the daemon, any bug can potentially lead to remote root privilege escalation.

4. ''QA:''
* Installation: appropriately easy, nice GUI in `ocfs2monitor`
* Bugs: 
** package not present in Debian
** no bugs in Malone so far
** <nowiki>[[http://oss.oracle.com/bugzilla/buglist.cgi?product=OCFS2|upstream bugzilla]]</nowiki> has a lot of critical and major open issues
* Maturity: <nowiki>[[http://oss.oracle.com/projects/ocfs2/|upstream homepage]]</nowiki> classifies it as "very much a work in progress" and "BETA software. It should absolutely NOT be run on production systems. If you are looking to run OCFS on a production system, check out OCFS version 1". This makes it questionable whether we can support it appropriately. The stuff has a high potential to mess up your file system and break our box all over the place.
* Hardware interaction: needs a couple of connected hosts, nothing special in that area.

5. ''Standards compliance:''
* Standard `debhelper` packaging.
* FHS met.
* Debian package and library policy met.

=== Reviewers ===

MartinPitt: It is not apparently frightening security-wise, but QA supportability is highly questionable. If there is a stable release soon and we will get dedicated upstream support for this (JeffWaugh and MarkShuttleworth are negotiating), then I accept it. If not, I'm reluctant. My proposal is to wait with main inclusion until above two conditions are met.

CategoryArchive
