{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for min12xxw ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/m/min12xxw/, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=17218
** There are only 2 foomatic drivers out of the foomatic tree. This is one of them.
 0. ''Security:''
** No CVE entries.
** No Secunia history.
** User defined input, runs as user cupsys, so potential privilege escalation on security bugs.
** Does not open any port.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** No Debian bugs.
** Good maintenance in Debian. Package is brand new.
** Active upstream.
** No critical bugs in http://www.hinterbergen.de/mala/min12xxw/
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support. It's just a printer driver.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Standard debhelper pkg. no extra patches at the moment.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===

FabioMassimoDiNitto [approved]
MartinPitt: approved
