{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for gmime2.4 ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/g/gmime]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Build/binary dependency of totem-pl-parser (replaces libcamel)
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=gmime|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=gmime|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** Simple parsing library, no network activity or permanent presence
** Shallow source code review performed: well used memory allocation, no sprintf or other insecure constructs, properly uses glib higher level APIs
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** No configuration required to work.
** No debconf.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:gmime2.4|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: Only one bug, a FTBFS.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/g/gmime2.4.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://spruce.sourceforge.net/gmime/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.gnome.org/browse.cgi?product=gmime|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: 5 reports which are very old.
** Does not deal with particular hardware.
** Upstream source contains a test suite, built and run as part of build process
0. ''UI standards:''
** No UI.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** Packaging system (debhelper).  Patch system (quilt) - two small patches
0. ''Dependencies:''
** libc6, libglib2.0-0, zlib1g (all in main)
0. ''Maintenance:''
** Package is synched from Debian, no significant Ubuntu work required.
** Desktop team will maintain package in Ubuntu (added to http://people.ubuntu.com/~seb128/versions.html for tracking)
0. ''Background information:''
** Upstream is called gmime.
0. ''Internationalization:''
** Error messages are translated using gettext.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/405178]]</nowiki>

Author: RobertAncell
