{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libnumber-compare-perl ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libn/libnumber-compare-perl/|libnumber-compare-perl]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures or some subset ? All
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of spamassassin (spec'ed for Intrepid): 
** ClamavSpamassassinInMain
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=Number%3A%3ACompare|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=Number%3A%3ACompare&w=0|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  No Any daemons ? No
** Network activity: does it open any port ? No  Does it handle incoming network data ? No
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? No
** Any source code review performed ?  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.) No
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? None
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?repeatmerged=no&src=libnumber-compare-perl|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: (mention any that are particularly relevant, and any showstoppers) None
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libn/libnumber-compare-perl.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://search.cpan.org/dist/Number-Compare/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm maybe dead, although the package only contains one relatively simple Perl module.  Only one release dating back to 25 October 2002, but <nowiki>[[http://search.cpan.org/~rclamp/|Richard Clamp]]</nowiki>, the developer, is active in the Perl community and maintains other Perl libraries.
** <nowiki>[[http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Number-Compare|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: (mention any particularly relevant or critical) No bugs.
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? No
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Yes Is it enabled to run in the build ? Yes
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> Yes, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? Yes
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ? debhelper  Patch system ?  None Any packaging oddities ? Has a tarball inside a tarball.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Perl
** Are these all in main ? Yes
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** What do upstream call this software ?  Number::Compare Has it had different names in the past ? No

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libnumber-compare-perl/+bug/261869|261869]]</nowiki>

''Author <nowiki>[[Asommer]]</nowiki>; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
