{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/pcsc-lite, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of gnupg2
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=pcsc|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=pcsc|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** Installs a daemon running as root which communicates with normal users, thus crossing security boundary.
** Does not open any port.
** Source code review:
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'normal'.
** No showstopper <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:pcsc-lite|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>.
** Good <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/pcsc-lite.html|maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki>.
** Active <nowiki>[[http://pcsclite.alioth.debian.org/|upstream]]</nowiki>.
** No critical bugs in <nowiki>[[http://alioth.debian.org/tracker/?group_id=30105&atid=410085|upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>
** Deals with exotic hardware which is nontrivial to support (smart card readers).
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Meets <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards.
** Standard debhelper packaging, standard patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: I'm not really happy with this package, as long as we do not have a maintainer with the required hardware. Also, gnupg does not depend on any smart card library at all; can it be built without that stuff?
