{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for kvkbd ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/k/kvkbd]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Currently KDE does not contain an on-screen virtual keyboard for accessibility purposes.
** Will fulfill any accessibility purposes which require the use of an on screen keyboard within Kubuntu.
 0. ''Security:''
** No security issues for this application have ever been reported.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** No noticeable issues at this time.
 0. ''Standards compliance:''
** This package complies with all standards.
**** ''Packaging System:'' cdbs
**** ''Patch System:'' cdbs simple-patchsys
**** ''Packaging oddities:'' none reported. Current 0.4 release requires <code>make -f Makefile.cvs</code> since no configure script was included.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Main
**** debhelper (>= 5)
**** cdbs
**** libxtst-dev
**** kdelibs4-dev
**** automake1.10
**** libqt3-compat-headers
 0. ''Background information:''
** A virtual keyboard for KDE to be used as an accessibility application. Contains a systray and dockwidget, resizeable, contains a number/cursor pad layer, dynamic language selection, resizable fonts, and button repeating functions/macros.
** Supports the following dcop commands - <code>hide</code>, <code>show</code>, and <code>toggle</code>.

=== Reviewers ===
'''Author:''' <nowiki>[[RichardJohnson|Richard Johnson]]</nowiki> (nixternal)

'''Ian Jackson:''' this package seems to be FTBFS for me:
<pre>
 ian@anarres:/work/Main-inclusion/build/kvkbd-0.4.5 $ dpkg-checkbuilddeps 
 ian@anarres:/work/Main-inclusion/build/kvkbd-0.4.5 $ debian/rules build
 test -x debian/rules
 make -f Makefile.cvs
 make[1]: Entering directory `/work/Main-inclusion/build/kvkbd-0.4.5'
 This Makefile is only for the CVS repository
 This will be deleted before making the distribution

 make[2]: Entering directory `/work/Main-inclusion/build/kvkbd-0.4.5'
 ./admin/cvs.sh: 651: --version: not found
* ** AUTOCONF NOT FOUND!.
* ** KDE requires autoconf 2.53 or newer
 make[2]: *** [cvs] Error 1
 make[2]: Leaving directory `/work/Main-inclusion/build/kvkbd-0.4.5'
 make[1]: *** [all] Error 2
 make[1]: Leaving directory `/work/Main-inclusion/build/kvkbd-0.4.5'
 make: *** [makebuilddir/kvkbd] Error 2
 ian@anarres:/work/Main-inclusion/build/kvkbd-0.4.5 $ 
</pre>

 -iwj 17.8.2007

* I have just uploaded kvkbd_0.4.5-0ubuntu2 with ''autoconf'' as a build-dep so it should work for you now Ian. Thanks! -- nixternal 
'''Martin Pitt:''' "available for all supported architectures" is an obvious lie, given that I just freed it out of binary NEW ten seconds ago. The package looks good, but it should get tested a bit before we put it into main.

Package has been tested by Jonathan and Henrik before, approved.
