{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for wv ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/w/wv, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Optional build dependency of beagle
** Adds support for indexing word documents
 0. ''Security:''
** One <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=wv|CVE entry]]</nowiki>, fixed in 2004.
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=wv|Secunia history]]</nowiki>, but fixed in 2004.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** Does not open any port.
** Source code review:
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions.
** No showstopper <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:wv|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>.
** Orphaned in <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/w/wv.html|Debian]]</nowiki> because the maintainer <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=379466|doesn't want the package anymore]]</nowiki>.
** Active <nowiki>[[http://wvware.sourceforge.net/|upstream]]</nowiki>.
** No critical bugs in <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.abisource.com/buglist.cgi?query_format=specific&order=relevance+desc&bug_status=__open__&product=wv&content=|upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Meets <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards.
** Standard debhelper packaging.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: we already have wv2 in main (used solely by koffice). To avoid duplication, either koffice should move to wv, or beagle should use wv2. Update: Cannot be done, entirely different libraries, thus: Approved.
