{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main inclusion report for qdbm ==

=== Requirements ===

1. ''Availability:'' `http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/q/qdbm`, compiled on all arches.

2. ''Rationale:'' New build dependency of `bogofilter`. However, it should be easy to disable the qdbm backend.

3. ''Security:''
* Very young package, so didn't get much testing and review probably.
* No CANs.
* No Secunia record.
* `qdbm-cgi`: May be exposed directly to public web frontends, thus any bugs in qdbm can potentially compromise the web server. Likewise, malicious mails in bogofilter can potentially exploit bugs to get user privileges.

4. ''QA:''
* Installation: Mostly libraries and language bindings, some shell tools in `qdbm-util` which should work out of the box.
* Bugs: no Debian bugs.
* No special hardware interaction.

5. ''Standards compliance:''
* Standard `debhelper` packaging.
* FHS met.
* Meets library policy.
* Meets Debian Policy.
* Source package: Build dependency to `autotools-dev` without any versions, which may cause trouble in the future.

=== Reviewers ===

MartinPitt: If it is easy to disable the qdbm backend in bogofilter, it should be done; otherwise I can live with the packages.
