{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for software-store ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/s/software-store]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures (written in python)
# ''Rationale:''
** This package is needed for the the SoftwareStore spec and it is replacing add/remove
0. ''Security:''
** It uses aptdaemon (that is covered by a seperate MIR) for the backend to install/remove software. It does run as the regular user. 
** Network activity: it does fetch png images from screenshots.debian.net (that needs to be replaced before the release with screenshots.ubuntu.com) that are outside of our control and displays them via webkit
** Any source code review performed ? The code is written by Canonical, all code merges have been reviewed
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? The package works out of the box, it does need a initial "update-software-store" run. this is performed automatically via postinst and a trigger
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:SOURCE_PACKAGE_NAME|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: (mention any that are particularly relevant, and any showstoppers): The package is not available in debian
** <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/software-store|Upstream]]</nowiki> is Canonical
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/software-store|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: all bugs of priority HIGH are problematic for the release
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? No
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ? No, each component has some tests though
0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ? Many
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ? Yes
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ? Yes
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes
** Packaging system: debhelper 7, no patch system
0. ''Dependencies:''
** aptdaemon
** python-xapian
** policykit-1
** python-webkit
** python-apt
** (some more that do not look particular relevant)
** all but aptdaemon are in main
0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?  A lot
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  Canonical
** Who is the package bug contact in Ubuntu? Currently Matthew Paul Thomas and Michael Vogt
0. ''Background information:''
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ? Upstream calls it SoftwareStore, it was known as AppCenter before
0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext? Gettext is supported, translated is currently not that much.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/430201]]</nowiki>

''Michael Vogt''
