{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for aptdaemon ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/a/aptdaemon]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures (written in python)
# ''Rationale:''
** Why is this package needed? Its the backend of software-store. It conceptual similar to packagekit but it does support debconf and configuration file prompting.
 0. ''Security:''
** The aptdaemon runs as root and communicates via dbus/policykit. It supports installing/removing software, adding sources.list entries and adding gpg keys. Its a dbus wrapper around python-apt/libapt. 
** The policykit default policy is "auth_admin" for "allow_any" and "allow_inactive" and "auth_admin_keep" for "allow_active"
** Network activity: It does fetch data from the net via python-apt/libapt
** Any source code review performed ? Yes, but this code is written by a contributor
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
** The package is not in Debian yet
** <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/aptdaemon|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/aptdaemon|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/aptdaemon|Ubuntu bugs]]</nowiki>
** Parts of the source are covered by doctests
 0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ? Some
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ? Yes
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ? No
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes
** Packaging system cdbs, no patch system
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** python-apt
** python-gobject
** policykit-1
** all in main
 0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?  Initially a lot to ensure we have all the bugs fixed (the code is all async, that makes it tricky), later hopefully less.
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  Sebastian Heinlein and Michael Vogt, both Ubuntu developers.
** Who is the package bug contact in Ubuntu? Michael Vogt
 0. ''Background information:''
** Upstream calls this software aptdaemon and it was always called like that

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/430201]]</nowiki>

''Michael Vogt''
