{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for openjdk-6 ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/o/openjdk-6]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures, availably for sparc, zero build available for powerpc, not available for ia64 and hppa.
# ''Rationale:''
** Will be used as a java 1.5 compatible runtime / build dependency instead of the currently used gij/gcj.
** The goal is to demote gcj, probably not yet for intrepid, because it is still the only alternative for some community ports, and a build dependency for many java packages (building -gcj packages).
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=OpenJDK|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: ...
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=OpenJDK|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: ...
** No binaries running as root, no daemons.
** Network activity: Java runtime and standard library; offers complete network functionality.
** Includes libraries to process binary formats, although links to system libraries (doesn't use the included copies of these libraries).
** Source code review performed: Extensive review of licenses, working with the code for some months now.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration. The priorities of the alternatives have the highest value, so unless the user doesn't configure the alternatives on his own, the package needs no configuration. Java alternatives can be configured using update-java-alternatives.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:openjdk-6|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: Doesn't exist yet.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/openjdk-6|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> Not yet included.
** <nowiki>[[http://openjdk.java.net/|Upstream OpenJDK]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://icedtea.classpath.org/wiki/Main_Page|IcedTea]]</nowiki> are alive.
** No write access to the general Sun Java bug tracker, bug reports are currently submitted to the <nowiki>[[http://icedtea.classpath.org/bugzilla|IcedTea bug tracker]]</nowiki>.
** Hardware: On the i386 architecture, OpenJDK requires at least a 586 CPU.
** Test suite (jtreg) is included in the upstream source, the packaging depends on the mauve testsuite as well. Both testsuites are run during the build (takes over 24h on powerpc).
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Packaging system: debhelper.  Patch system: Taken from IcedTea.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Build dependencies not yet in main: lesstif2-dev, mauve.
** Dependencies not yet in main: rhino, libaccess-bridge-java, ca-certificates-java, 
** Recommends not yet in main: tzdata-java

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/246349]]</nowiki>

Initial MIR: Matthias Klose
