{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for dblatex ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/d/dblatex; arch: all
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of cdbs
** Generally useful for documentation writers
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=dblatex|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=dblatex|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** This package just consists of XML and LaTeX modules and documents and a wrapper script. It does not have any s[ug]idness, daemons, or network activity.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Not an end user application, and works out of the box without configuration.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:dblatex|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: only one open bug which is wontfix, the rest is fixed
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/dblatex|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is good.
** <nowiki>[[http://dblatex.sourceforge.net|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm, but active enough for this project.
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=72607&atid=535062|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki> has very few open bugs, none of them serious
** Does not need any particular hardware
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** compliant to <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Standard debhelper/dpatch packaging system.
 0. ''Dependencies:'' all in main

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
