{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for gmyth ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy/+source/gmyth/0.7~svn916-0ubuntu1]]</nowiki>; available for archs.
# ''Rationale:''
** Totem can now build with MythTV recordings support using this package.  Ideally for people just wanting to briefly use the machine for MythTV recordings, they won't need to install the full MythTV frontend.
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=gmyth|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: ...
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=gmyth|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: ...
** No binaries run as root.  No daemons are provided.  There is a utilities package, but it is optional.
** Network activity: Doesn't open ports.  Receives data from a MythTV backend.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? If your backend doesn't have UPnP activated.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Should be.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? Should be.
** Packaging system? cdbs  Patch system? no  Any packaging oddities? Built the .orig.tar.gz from svn.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** libc6, libcurl3-gnutls, libglib2.0-0, libkrb53, libmysqlclient15off, libxml2, 
** Are these all in main ? Yes
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** What do upstream call this software ? gmyth.  Has it had different names in the past ? No.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/187582]]</nowiki>

Author: ''Mario Limonciello''
