{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for mono-addins ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/m/mono-addins]]</nowiki>; architecture-independent (all).
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of tomboy.
** f-spot links against a bundled version of this library. Promoting it to main will allow f-spot to link against a separate mono-addins package (in fact, Debian is preparing to do just that).
 0. ''Security:''
** No security history.
** No network activity.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?
** No debconf questions are asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:mono-addins|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: none filed.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/m/mono-addins.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is regular.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.mono-project.com/Mono.Addins|Upstream]]</nowiki>: two stable versions released. Actively maintained in SVN.
** <nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.novell.com/buglist.cgi?query_format=advanced&short_desc_type=allwordssubstr&short_desc=&long_desc_type=fulltext&long_desc=&classification=Mono&product=Mono%3A+Class+Libraries+&component=Mono.Addins&version=1.0&version=1.1&version=1.2&version=1.2.0&version=1.2.1&version=1.2.2&version=1.2.3&version=1.2.4&version=1.2.5&version=1.2.6&version=SVN&version=unspecified&target_milestone=---&bug_file_loc_type=allwordssubstr&bug_file_loc=&status_whiteboard_type=allwordssubstr&status_whiteboard=&keywords_type=anywords&keywords=&bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_status=NEEDINFO&bug_status=REOPENED&emailassigned_to1=1&emailtype1=substring&email1=&emailassigned_to2=1&emailreporter2=1&emailqa_contact2=1&emailcc2=1&emailtype2=substring&email2=&bugidtype=include&bug_id=&votes=&chfieldfrom=&chfieldto=Now&chfieldvalue=&cmdtype=doit&order=Reuse+same+sort+as+last+time&field0-0-0=noop&type0-0-0=noop&value0-0-0=|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: three bugs, none of which are critical; one is reportedly fixed in SVN. 
** Hardware: This package does not deal with hardware.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance? - Yes.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance? - Not applicable to Mono libraries.
** Packaging system: debhelper.
** Patch system: dpatch.
** No packaging oddities.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** cli-common, libc6, mono, gnome-sharp2, gtk-sharp2.
** All of these are in main.
 0. ''Background information:''
** debian/control provides sufficient information about the general purpose and context of the package.
** Upstream name: Mono.Addins. It had no different names in the past.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mono-addins/+bug/175654]]</nowiki>

''Author of this report: Matvey Kozhev <sikon@lucidfox.org>''
