{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libcommons-collections-java ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libc/libcommons-collections-java]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** The ''Apache Commons'' Java libraries are basic library blocks used in lots of Java software.
** The Collections component is a dependency of libcommons-dbcp-java (see MainInclusionReportLibCommonsDbcpJava), required by tomcat6 (see MainInclusionReportTomcat6).
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=commons-collections|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=commons-collections|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: empty
** No binaries running as root, this package just provides Java libraries.
** Network activity: commons-collections does not open any port or handle incoming network data in itself.
** It does not directly process binary or structured data.
** No source code review. Fortify scanned it as part of its <nowiki>[[https://opensource.fortify.com/teamserver/welcome.fhtml|Java Open Review project]]</nowiki> and they found it to be defect-free. 
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package is known to work out of the box without configuration.
** It does not ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium'.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libcommons-collections-java|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: none.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libc/libcommons-collections-java.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://commons.apache.org/collections/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is dead on the 2.x line (vigorous development is done in the 3.x line).
** <nowiki>[[http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/COLLECTIONS|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: no critical bugs.
** Hardware: the package does not deal with hardware.
** There is a junit test suite in the upstream source, but it is not enabled in the Debian build.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> compliant, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant (in particular the <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/doc/packaging-manuals/java-policy/x105.html|Java library]]</nowiki> subpolicy).
** Packaging system is CDBS, patches are directly included in diff.gz without a patch system.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** Build dependencies (debhelper, cdbs, ant, java-gcj-compat-dev) are all in main.
** No specific runtime dependencies.
0. ''Background information:''
** General purpose and context of the package is clear from the package's debian/control file.
** Upstream calls this software the Apache Commons Collections component.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/260385]]</nowiki>

ThierryCarrez
