{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libmsn ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libm/libmsn/]]</nowiki>; available and builds for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of kdenetwork. Kopete needs it in KDE 4.2 onward for its MSN chat protocol plugin
0. ''Security:''
** Not in any CVE tracker, no known holes.
** No binaries are running as root or suid/sgid; no daemons
** Would have network activity inasmuch as it handles network traffic for MSN chats, which includes receiving incoming files over chat.
** Handles network data for MSN chat
** Allows p2p file transfers between MSN chat users.
** No review has been performed
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In no situation does the package not work out of the box without configuration
** The package does not ask any debconf questions
** No bugs in the Debian bug tracker, still in Debian NEW queue
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/libmsn|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm
** Hardware: This package does not deal with exotic hardware
** libmsn has a test suite that is not built or run by default
0. ''UI standards:''
** Does not provide a UI
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant
** Uses debhelper, no patch system or any packaging oddities
0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper (>= 6.0.7), cmake, libssl-dev
** All of these are in main
0. ''Maintenance:''
** This is a simple package requiring little work
** Pau Garcia i Quiles <pgquiles@elpauer.org> is marked as the maintainer. He is a Debian developer
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package is clear from the package's debian/control file.
** Upstream has always called with this software "libmsn", as far as I can see.
** Implements a cleanly reverse-engineered chat protocol.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/308060]]</nowiki>

[Author] Jonathan Thomas (LP ~echidnaman)
