{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for strigi ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/s/strigiapplet/; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Requirement of KubuntuGutsyPlan
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=strigi|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=strigi|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: none
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.  Uses Strigi daemon from package strigi to run when user logs in to desktop.
** Network activity: does not open any port.  Does not handle incoming network data.
** Code review preformed when moving from kde playground to kdesupport http://lists.kde.org/?t=117260214900005&r=1&w=2
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In no situation does the package not work out of the box without configuration (although we are still to work out the exact daemon autostart mechanism, to be agreed with Gnome packagers so it doesn't get in their way).
** The package asks no debconf questions higher than priority 'medium'
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:strigiapplet|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: none, all resolved
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/s/strigiapplet.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is suitably active, by the debian-qt-kde team
** <nowiki>[[http://www.vandenoever.info/software/strigi/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is very active (due to strigi inclusion in KDE 4)
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=80013&atid=558446|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: calm
** Hardware: This package does not deal with hardware
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** Packaging system cdbs,  Patch system simple-patchsys.mk, No packaging oddities
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** strigi daemon, kde 3
** [MainInclusionReportStrigi strigi] not in main
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package is clear from the package's debian/control file.
** Upstream call this software strigi, it was previously part of Kat.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
