{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage x264 ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/x/x264]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of ffmpeg
** 
 0. ''Security:''
** no <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=x264|CVE entries]]</nowiki>:
** no <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=x264|Secunia history]]</nowiki>:
** no binaries running as root or suid/sgid. no daemons, it's a library after all.
** No Network activity: does not open any port.
** Handles untrusted data, since it is a encoder library for creating  H.264 data.
** No source code review performed yet.  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.)
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** No configuration needed 
** no debconf configuration
** Package is maintained by the Debian/Ubuntu packaging team in git: http://git.debian.org/?p=pkg-multimedia/x264.git
** <nowiki>[[http://www.videolan.org/developers/x264.html|Upstream]]</nowiki> is alive and acting
** no upstream bug tracker, upstream is accepting bugs via email
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant
** standard debhelper packaging
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** gpac (in universe, but upstream intends to drop that wrapper anyway. If accepted, we would drop this dependency)
** ffms2 (small c++ wrapper around libavformat, but does additionally indexing which greatly helps seeking)
 0. ''Background information:''
** it is an mpeg4 encoder program and binary. 

=== Reviewers ===
