{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Main Inclusion Report for Displayconfig-Gtk ===

 1. Availability: The package is in Ubuntu universe, and builds for the architecture it is designed to work on.

 2. Rationale:  The xserver-xorg-video-psb is required for the Poulsbo mobile graphics chip, which is currently the primary target for the Ubuntu Mobile Edition (UME) effort.  The chipset this driver is designed for is anticipated to be very widely deployed for Ubuntu mobile uses, thus making this driver of critical importance.

 3. Security:  
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=poulsbo|CVE]]</nowiki> entries.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=poulsbo|Secunia]]</nowiki> history.
** No entries at http://people.ubuntu.com/~pitti/ubuntu-cve/unfixed.html
** No entries at http://people.ubuntu.com/~pitti/ubuntu-cve/unchecked.html
** No executables are installed.
** Nothing installed to /etc/init.d/*.  No daemon programs installed.
** Connects to X Server using standard X driver calls
** Does not open any ports other than to X server.
    - Reviewed all grepped instances of 'sock', 'serial', 'host', 'port', 'connect', 'open', 'stream', 'service'

 4. Quality assurance:
** Package works out of the box with no configuration required.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions
** Upstream is actively improving the package.  The main developers are employed or contracted by Intel and are working towards achieving a formal 1.0 release.
** There are no long-term outstanding bugs which affect the usability of the program to a major degree.  
** There are no known bugs.
** xserver-xorg-video-psb covers a class of hardware that is not yet covered by existing drivers, but that promises to become commonplace in the future.

 5. Standards compliance: The package meets common packaging standards
** FHS
** Debian Policy
** Debian library packaging guide standards.
** The source packaging uses standard debhelper build rules, modeled on -intel driver

 6. Dependencies:
** All dependencies are in main

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
