{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for Amavisd-new ==

The amavisd-new source package historically buildt two binaries, amavisd-new and amavisd-new-milter.  Only the amavisd-new binary is needed in Main for the spec.  Since the milter is considered unsupported by the Debian Maintainer, if this is otherwise approved, a new revision will be uploaded that builds only amavisd-new and not the milter.  The milter unique build-dep and depends are not included.

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/a/amavisd-new/]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Selected at UDS Boston as part of the https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-packages-review spec as a package to add to ubuntu-server for competitive reasons.
** Amavisd-new is the upstream recommended approach for integrating anti-virus and spam filtering into Postfix and so bringing this into main gives a common, supported package for this (and also brings some helpful functionality of it's own).
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=amavisd-new]]</nowiki>:
*** Only http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2004-1096 filed in 2004 on a package amavisd-new depends on.
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=amavisd-new|Secunia history]]</nowiki>:
*** http://secunia.com/advisories/25578/
*** http://secunia.com/advisories/25315/
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ? No  Any daemons ?  Yes.  Both the amavisd-new and amavisd-new-milter packages run as daemons under the user amavis
** Network activity: does it open any port ? Yes.  It listens on port 10024 by default. Does it handle incoming network data ?  Yes, although it's normally run after queue with Postfix and Postfix talks to the outside world.
** Any source code review performed ?  No.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?  It requires integration with Postfix to be functional.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=amavisd-new|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: No showstoppers.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/a/amavisd-new.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous ?
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ijs.si/software/amavisd/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead ?

** No Upstream bug tracker that's public.
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? None
 0. ''Standards compliance:''
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes.  Some minor binaries without manpages, but that's it.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? N/A
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ? debhelper Patch system ? dpatch Any packaging oddities ?  The milter package will have to be stripped out, ensuring a large diff with Debian.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** With the exception of libmilter-dev (which goes away when amavisd-new-milter is removed), the build-deps and depends are all now in Main.
 0. ''Background information:''
** What do upstream call this software ? amavisd-new Has it had different names in the past ? It derives from amavis and it's many spinoffs such as amavisd.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/amavisd-new/+bug/183418]]</nowiki>

Author:  ScottKitterman
