{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for Rasmol ==

Rasmol is a commonly used molecular visualization program used by chemists and molecular biologists.

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/r/rasmol and is available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Common application in for teaching chemistry and biochemistry
** Part of UbuntuSpec:edubuntu-on-two-cds
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=rasmol|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=rasmol|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** No suid/sgid, daemons, or network activity. Just a generic user app
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Rasmol doesn't need any configuration or debconf. It just works.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:rasmol|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: only 1 bug (normal) open
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/r/rasmol.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is fairly light. The package doesn't change very much.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.openrasmol.org|Upstream]]</nowiki> is pretty calm. The app has more or less stayed the same for a long time but it is maintained with bug fixes and minor feature enhancements.
** There is no upstream bug tracker.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Rasmol appears to be <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>,  and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Packaging uses debhelper with no patch system (two minor changes are done in .diff.gz)
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in Main

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
