{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for java-access-bridge ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/j/java-access-bridge]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Dependency of openjdk-6-jre
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=java-access-bridge|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=java-access-bridge|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** No binaries, no daemons.
** No network activity.
** Source code review: Quick check.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:java-access-bridge|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: Just one (missing openjdk-6 dependency).
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/java-access-bridge|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm (openjdk-6 is not yet part of unstable).
** <nowiki>[[http://ftp.gnome.org/pub/GNOME/sources/java-access-bridge]]</nowiki> is doing regular releases.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.gnome.org/buglist.cgi?query=java-access-bridge|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: No critical reports.
** No test suite in the upstream source.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Package is compliant to <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>.
** Packaging system: debhelper.  Patch system: None.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** openjdk-6-jre (universe).
** Needs to be migrated to main at the same time as openjdk-6.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/246351]]</nowiki>

Initial MIR: Matthias Klose
