{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/i/iscsitarget/]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerPackageReview
 0. ''Security:''
** No recent <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=iscsitarget|CVE]]</nowiki> entries.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=iscsitarget|Secunia]]</nowiki> entries.
** No binaries run as suid/sgid.
** The daemon runs as root.
** Default port is 3260, listens for incoming and outgoing connections.
** No source code review.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Due to the nature of the package it does not work out of the box, it requires manual intervention. However an example configuration file is provided.
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:iscsitarget|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: #461753 (debian does not build against 2.6.24, however our version does.)
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/i/iscsitarget.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://iscsitarget.sourceforge.net/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?atid=650593&group_id=108475&func=browse|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>. However it is a dumping ground for experimental patches.
** Deals with iscsi enabled hardware.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant.
** Uses debhelper with no additional patches. Uses module-assitant to build the kernel modules. 
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Depends on debhelper, libssl-dev and bzip2. All in main.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/BUGNUMBER]]</nowiki>

''ChuckShort''
