{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for elisa ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/e/elisa]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/e/elisa-plugins-good]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/e/elisa-plugins-bad]]</nowiki>; Architecture: all.
# ''Rationale:'' Relatively small, but appealing media center solution for GNOME which we would like to support.
# ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=elisa|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=elisa|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.  No daemons. Just a normal user session application.
** No network activity, does not open any port.
** Any source code review performed ? No, but it's all Python, so it should be reasonably robust against common security vulnerabilities.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Works out of the box without configuration if you keep your media files in your home directory. Otherwise you have to add the paths to it to the configuration file once. It's well documented.
** No debconf.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:elisa|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: None at the time of report writing.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/elisa|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is adequate. One of the maintainers, Loic Minier, has volunteered to maintain the package in Ubuntu, too (together with some community members).
** <nowiki>[[http://elisa.fluendo.com/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[https://code.fluendo.com/elisa/trac/report/1|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: They keep up quite well (given its popularity), no open showstoppers.
** Does not deal with any exotic hardware.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>, Python policy compliant.
** Standard cdbs packaging system, simple-patchsys, python-central, no packaging oddities.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** pigment-python, MIR pending.
** All others are in main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/186647]]</nowiki>
