{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for rhino ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/r/rhino]]</nowiki>; available for all architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency and dependency of openjdk-6.
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=rhino|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: 4, last one from 2007.
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=rhino|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: 
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid, no daemons.
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ?
** No source code review performed.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** package does work out of the box without configuration.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:rhino|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: None.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/rhino|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.mozilla.org/rhino/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is ongoing.
** <nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/buglist.cgi?query_format=advanced&short_desc_type=allwordssubstr&short_desc=&product=Rhino&long_desc_type=substring&long_desc=&bug_file_loc_type=allwordssubstr&bug_file_loc=&status_whiteboard_type=allwordssubstr&status_whiteboard=&keywords_type=allwords&keywords=&resolution=DUPLICATE&resolution=---&emailassigned_to1=1&emailtype1=exact&email1=&emailassigned_to2=1&emailreporter2=1&emailqa_contact2=1&emailtype2=exact&email2=&bugidtype=include&bug_id=&votes=&chfieldfrom=&chfieldto=Now&chfieldvalue=&cmdtype=doit&order=Reuse+same+sort+as+last+time&field0-0-0=noop&type0-0-0=noop&value0-0-0=|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: No critical reports.
** Test suite is included in the upstream source or packaging, not enabled for the build.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Packaging system: cdbs. Patch system: simple patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** java build deps, all in main.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/246484]]</nowiki>

Initial MIR: Matthias Klose
