{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

= Main Inclusion Report for freeradius = 

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/f/freeradius/]]</nowiki>; available for all arches
# ''Rationale:''
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerPackageReview]]</nowiki>
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=freeradius|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None against current version.
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=freeradius|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None against current version.
** No binaries running as suid/sgid root, freeradius daemon is started but can run as a separate user.
** Network activity: Opens a port (1812/1813) and handles incoming network activity.
** Any source code review performed ? 
       No
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Freeradius needs to be custom configured to the site. So if its configured wrong it will not work properly.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? no
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:freeradius|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: 

	http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=459978 (Could be confusing for users)
	
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/f/freeradius.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm, (vigorous before August 2007).
** <nowiki>[[http://www.freeradius.org]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.freeradius.org/]]</nowiki> is active and a lot of bugs are taken care of.
** Hardware: Works with various hardware vendors that requires an authentication server.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? 
            Yes
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ?
            Yes
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) 

	Uses debhelper and dpatch.
	
 0. ''Dependencies:''
	All build dependencies are in main.
 0. ''Background information:''

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/freeradius/+bug/185727]]</nowiki>
ChuckShort
