{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for avahi-utils ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/a/avahi/, available for all supported architectures. The source is already in main.
# ''Rationale:''
** Used by the dnssd CUPS backend (in the cupsys package) to discover network printers (and CUPS print queues on Mac OS X boxes) via mDNS/DNS-SD/Zeroconf/Bonjour. The tool used for this is avahi-browse.
 0. ''Security:''
** All <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=avahi|CVE entries]]</nowiki> refer to old versions of Avahi, nothing refers to avahi-browse.
** All <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=avahi|Secunia entries]]</nowiki> refer to old versions of Avahi, nothing refers to avahi-browse.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** Does not open any port.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box, requiring no special configuration. If it is installed, the CUPS backend discovers its presence and uses it. The user will simply see more discovered network printers (for example the HP Color LaserJet 2600n) and the CUPS queues shared by Mac OS X boxes and he can easily set up these printers on his local machine with system-config-printer.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions.
** Active <nowiki>[[http://avahi.org/|upstream]]</nowiki>.
** No critical bugs in <nowiki>[[http://avahi.org/report/1|upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>.
** Standard debhelper/cdbs/dbs packaging, standard patch system.
** Source is already in main, so packaging is already accepted.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
