{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/plasmoid-quickaccess/]]</nowiki>; Should build for all archs unless there's a transient dependency wait, etc.
# ''Rationale:'' 
** Used to implement this spec: https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuIntrepidDesktopDefaults
 0. ''Security:''
** No known security holes
** No binaries run as root or suid/sgid.  No daemons
** No network activity
** Uses KDE libs for binary previews
** No source code review
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? None that I know of.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No.
** No Debian bugs
** Package not in Debian
** <nowiki>[[http://www.kde-look.org/content/show.php/QuickAccess?content=84128|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** No upstream bug tracker
** Does not deal with hardware.
** No test suite available
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Should have <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance.
** Uses cdbs.  Currently does not have any Kubuntu-specific patches.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper, cdbs, cmake, quilt, libplasma-dev, libkonq5-dev
** All of these are in main.
 0. ''Background information:''
** This is a small applet designed for usage in the panel to provide quick access to the most commonly-used folders. This makes it nice for quick file browsing.
** Upstream calls this "QuickAccess", and this is it's only name.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/255183]]</nowiki>

[Author] Jonathan Thomas (LP ~echidnaman)
