{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==
Libtommath was used as embedded code for clamav, but in the new version 0.95 is used as a dependency.

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libt/libtommath/]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of clamav
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=libtommath|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: ...
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=libtommath|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: ...
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ? No
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ? No
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? No
** Any source code review performed ?  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.) No, it's already in main as embedded code.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? All
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libtommath|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: (mention any that are particularly relevant, and any showstoppers)
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libt/libtommath.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm ?
** <nowiki>[[http://math.libtomcrypt.com/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm ?
** <nowiki>[[http://|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: (mention any particularly relevant or critical)
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? No
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ?
 0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ?
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ?
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ?
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? Yes
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ? Packaged using debhelper. No changes to the source.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper 
** libtool
** texlive-latex-recommended
** libtiff-tools
** ghostscript
** Are these all in main ? All except libtiff-tools.  It was in Main through Hardy and would need to be repromoted.
 0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?  (Simple packages may largely take care of themselves; complex packages will need dedicated developers paying attention to them.) Is a simple package wihtout needed much attention
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ? Debian developers
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ? Libtom Math
 0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext? it doesn't have GUI

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libtommath/+bug/350069]]</nowiki>

Authors: nxvl and ScottK
