{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for partman-dmraid ==

=== Requirements ===

 0. ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/partman-dmraid]]</nowiki>; 
available for all supported architectures amd64/i386/powerpc/sparc
 0. ''Rationale:''
** This package allows the integration of the dmraid package into the debian-installer, to allow users to install Ubuntu onto fakeraid disk configurations.
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=partman-dmraid|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=partman-dmraid|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** Runs as root within the Debian Installer.
** Does not open any ports.
** Source code review:
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without any configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions higher than priority medium.
** No showstopper <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:partman-dmraid|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>.
** Good <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/partman-dmraid.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki>. 
** Active <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/devel/debian-installer|Upstream]]</nowiki> (i.e Debian) 
** Does not deal with exotic hardware that we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>.
** Meets <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards.
** Normal design for a partman component.
** Standard debhelper packaging.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main except for dmraid-udeb, which is part of the dmraid source package, and needs to be promoted for partman-dmraid to be promoted.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/191564

Author: LukeYelavich
