{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for pigment-python ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/pigment-python]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:'' Dependency of [MainInclusionReports/Elisa elisa].
# ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=pigment|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=pigment|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid, no daemons. Just a Python module used by Elisa, thus running in the user's session.
** No network activity.
** No source code review performed.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Library, users do not interact with it directly.
** No debconf questions.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:pigment-python|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: None at the time of writing this report.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/pigment-python.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous (also for the old package name <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/pigment.html|pigment]]</nowiki>).
** <nowiki>[[http://elisa.fluendo.com|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[https://code.fluendo.com/elisa/trac/report/1|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: They keep up quite well (given its popularity), no open showstoppers.
** Does not deal with any exotic hardware.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>, Python policy compliant.
** Standard cdbs packaging system, simple-patchsys, python-central, no packaging oddities.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** pigment, MIR pending.
** All others in main.

=== Reviewers ===

MartinPitt 

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/186647]]</nowiki>
