{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for moodle ==

# ''Availability:'' The package is available in <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/m/moodle|Ubuntu Universe]]</nowiki> (1.8.2-1ubuntu2) and is an arch-independent package.
# ''Rationale:'' The package is an often requested application for Edubuntu and is needed to provide a complete educational platform.
# ''Security:''
** No binaries running as root or suid and no daemons. This is a fairly typical PHP web app.
** Moodle includes an apache.conf file that opens up only localhost:80
** No unfixed <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=moodle|CVE]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/product/14721/|SECUNIA]]</nowiki> reports for the current Ubuntu version (1.8.2). See also the Debian <nowiki>[[http://security-tracker.debian.net/tracker/source-package/moodle|security tracker]]</nowiki> page.
** Lots of vulnerabilities in the past. (36 old <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=moodle|CVEs]]</nowiki> total)
** Upstream has set up a <nowiki>[[http://security.moodle.org/|Moodle Security Center]]</nowiki>
 0. ''Quality assurance:''  
** Needs manual setup via own web interface after install
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:moodle|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: Eight major bugs and ten Normal in <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=moodle|Debian]]</nowiki> and 0 bugs in <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/moodle/|Ubuntu]]</nowiki>.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/m/moodle.html|Debian]]</nowiki>: is active/calm
** <nowiki>[[http://www.moodle.org|Upstream]]</nowiki>: is fairly vigorous
** There are 17 debconf questions with high or critical priority. They are related to setting up the database (both MySQL and PostgreSQL are supported).
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** The package meets the FHS and Debian Policy.
** It uses debhelper and dpatch
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in Main
 0. ''Background:''
** Moodle is a very popular (their website alone has 200,000 users) education course management system. It allows teachers to create a virtual classroom with course content, forums, quizzes, chat, etc.

== Reviews ==
MartinPitt:
* Horrible database setup code and too many debconf questions
* horrible security history
* However, this is an explicit goal, and we want to cover the maintenance costs, so approved.
