{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for mkelfimage ==

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/m/mkelfimage]]</nowiki>; available for amd64, i386 and ia64 only.
# ''Rationale:''
** `mkelfimage` is needed to create ELF images that are free of traditional BIOS calls. This is necessary to support thin clients that boot using LinuxBIOS and is expected to replace current tools in LTSP for Gutsy.
 
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=mkelfimage|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=mkelfimage|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: none
** This package dos not include any daemon or suid/sgid binary.
** This package does not access the networking stack.
** Does not cross any security boundary, thus harmless.
** Source code review: nothing standing out.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** This package works out of the box.
** This package does not ask any debconf question.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:mkelfimage|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: no bug currently open.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/m/mkelfimage.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is active.
** Upstream maintenance was dead but has recently been taken over by the LinuxBIOS mailing list.
** Upstream has no bug tracker.
** This package deals with a growing number of network-bootable hardware running on LinuxBIOS.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** FHS compliant.
** Debian Policy compliant.
** Packaged using CDBS.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** libc6.
 0. ''Background information:''
** Upstream used to call this mkelfImage.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
