{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libpam-krb5 ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libp/libpam-krb5, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerPackageReview
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=pam_krb5|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: 2 very old entries
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=pam-krb5|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: same as CVE
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
    It's a pam lib.
** Does not open any port.
** Source code review:
    no.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
    Needs configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'normal'.
    no.
** No showstopper <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libpam-krb5|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>.
** Calm <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libp/libpam-krb5.html|maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki>.
** Active <nowiki>[[http://www.eyrie.org/~eagle/software/pam-krb5/|upstream]]</nowiki>.
 0. ''Standards compliance:''
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>   
    Yes.
** Meets <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards.
    Yes.
** Standard debhelper/cdbs/dbs packaging, standard patch system.
    debhelper, no patches.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** B-D all in main.
** libpam-krb5 depends on krb5-config which is in universe.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/183725]]</nowiki>

Others (see wiki change history)

FabioMassimoDiNitto
