{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nettle - available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of udev 103-0ubuntu6 (used for watershed)
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=nettle|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=nettle|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** Does not open any port.
** Source code review: I have used this package in my own programs and found it clean and reasonable.  It's written by Niels Moeller, of lsh fame.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions.
** No <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:nettle|Debian bugs]]</nowiki> worth mentioning.
** Good <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/n/nettle.html|maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki>.
** Active <nowiki>[[http://www.lysator.liu.se/~nisse/nettle/|upstream]]</nowiki>, whose <nowiki>[[http://www.lysator.liu.se/~nisse/archive/|archive]]</nowiki> shows last new upstream version was 2006-11-28 (version 1.15).
** No upstream bug tracker; <nowiki>[[http://lists.lysator.liu.se/pipermail/nettle-bugs/|bugs list archive]]</nowiki> shows just spam.
** Does not deal with hardware.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> just fine.
** Meets <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards just fine.
** Standard debhelper packaging, no patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper (=> 4.0.0), libgmp3-dev, m4: All in main.

=== Reviewers ===

Reviewed and approved by Ian Jackson.
