{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

 0. ''Availability:''
** http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/s/skim, available for all supported architectures
 0. ''Rationale:''
** Input method is required by CJK people. It's a critical issue for them because they can't input their native language without it.
** SCIM supports many laungages via scim-pinyin, scim-hangul, scim-anthy scim-tables, scim-m17n and so on,and skim is kde fronted for SCIM
** Although there are a few candidates for multilingual input method framework such as IIIMF or uim, there are some critical problems in it.
*** uim lacks well supported chinese input methods.
*** IIIMF lacks well supported OSS input methods, lacks comfortable GUI. Some people pointed out security issues in its fundamental design.
** See also MainInclusionReportScimAnthy
** See also MainInclusionReportScimHangul
** See also MainInclusionReportScimPinyin
** See also MainInclusionReportScimChewing
 0. ''Security:''
** No security histroy.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** SKIM is well maintained by LiuCougar.
** SUSE and Mandriva shipped with SKIM, and no critical bugs has been found in them.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** The package meets debian-policy and FHS.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** SCIM is just only a framework. Also some major IMEngines (language plugins for SCIM) should be included into main to realize true multilingual input. They are all in universe.
*** scim-pinyin (Chinese)
*** scim-chewing (Traditional Chinese )
*** scim-hangul (Korean)
*** scim-anthy (Japanese)
*** scim-m17n (http://www.m17n.org/m17n-lib/support_input_sum.html)

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
