{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for network-console ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/n/network-console, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Useful for installation on slow serial console hardware: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/sparc64-installer
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=network-console|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=network-console|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** Runs as root since it's part of the installer.
** Configures and starts `sshd`, thereby opening port 22 in the installer; queues installation of `openssh-server`, thereby opening port 22 after installation.
** Source code review:
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Asks for a password at debconf priority 'critical', and includes installer workflow at priority 'critical'.
** No showstopper <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:network-console|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>.
** Good <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/n/network-console.html|maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki>.
** Native Debian package.
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:''
** Not required to meet FHS or Debian Policy as it is part of the installer. Meets normal conventions for udebs.
** Standard debhelper packaging; no patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''

** `openssh-server-udeb` binary needs to be promoted; source already in main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
