{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for python-virtinst ==

'''Note''': when writing a report this template should be vigorously edited; as a rule of thumb, every individual point should be replaced with a description of the actual situation in the package in question.  The purpose of the report is to convey information to the reviewer, so there is no problem with varying the text in the bullet items, or with adding additional information.

Please be informative, and in particular be thorough in investigating and explaining any weaknesses and problems with the package.  The purpose of the report is to show to the reviewer that the package has been properly investigated, and to give the reviewer the information from that investigation, for their decision.

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/v/virtinst/virtinst_0.300.2-0ubuntu3.dsc]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Runtime dependency of virt-manager
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=python-virtinst|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=python-virtinst|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ?: No
** Network activity: does not open any port or handle incoming network data
** Does NOT directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data 
** Any source code review performed: no
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?: should not
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?: No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:python-virtinst|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/v/virtinst.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[http://hg.et.redhat.com/virt/applications/virtinst--devel|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.redhat.com/buglist.cgi?component=python-virtinst&bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_status=NEEDINFO&bug_status=MODIFIED&short_desc_type=allwordssubstr&short_desc=&long_desc_type=allwordssubstr&long_desc=|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: No critical bugs
** Hardware: No specific hw needed
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ?: No
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance: compliant
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance: compliant
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ?: debhelper, cdbs
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** python-libxml2
** python-urlgrabber -> see MainInclusionPythonUrlGrabber
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package is clear in the package's debian/control file. 
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ?: always been called python-virtinst

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/virtinst/+bug/213576]]</nowiki>
Report author: NicolasBarcet
Reviewer:
