{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libs/libsocket6-perl/]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of spamassassin (spec'ed for Intrepid): 
** ClamavSpamassassinInMain
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=Socket6|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=socket6&w=0|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ? No Any daemons ? No
** Network activity: does it open any port ? No Does it handle incoming network data ? No the module provides a way to find information about a system's IPv6 address.
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? Socket6 can process IPv6 addresses in binary format.
** Any source code review performed ?  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.) No
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? None
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=libsocket6-perl|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: Only one bug and it has more to do with libio-socket-inet6-perl then libsocket6-perl.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libs/libsocket6-perl.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm.  The Debian Maintainer is also responsible for other <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=omote@debian.org|related packages]]</nowiki>.
** <nowiki>[[http://search.cpan.org/dist/Socket6/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is quite calm, the module doesn't have that many functions. The library is able to gather all necessary information about a hosts IPv6 address.
** <nowiki>[[http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Socket6|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: (mention any particularly relevant or critical) None, only two bugs pertaining to a previous release.
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? No
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ? Yes Is it enabled to run in the build ? No
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, Yes <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Needs Hoemepage field and it could be bumped to 3.8.0.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? Yes
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ? debhelper Patch system ? None  Any packaging oddities ? Uses dbs, and has a tarball inside a tarball.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** perl
** Are these all in main ? Yes
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** What do upstream call this software ? Socket6 Has it had different names in the past ? No

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libsocket6-perl/+bug/247144]]</nowiki>

''Author <nowiki>[[Asommer]]</nowiki>; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
