{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for tomcat6 ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/t/tomcat6]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Apache Tomcat 6 is a long-wanted feature in Ubuntu and is a necessary step in our effort to make Ubuntu and Ubuntu Server an adequate enterprise Java platform.
** This is a new feature scheduled for the 8.10 release, see approved <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/tomcat6|blueprint]]</nowiki> for reference.
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=tomcat|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: Apache Tomcat in general has a rather long security history, though Tomcat 6.0 security design is better than the horrible 3.x / 4.x series. Released in October 2006, the Tomcat 6.0 line was hit by 16 CVEs. Most of them are information leaks (source code access, directory traversals) and cross-site-scripting issues in the provided example webapps.
** Upstream reactivity: Like with most ASF packages, security issues are taken seriously and treated in an appropriate manner.
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/product/13828/|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: Secunia lists 10 advisories on its Tomcat 6.x page. The most critical ones were "Moderately Critical".
** The Tomcat 6 daemon runs as the tomcat6 user. No suid/sgid binaries.
** Network activity: Tomcat 6 opens several network ports. By default it opens an HTTP Connector port (8080) and an AJP Connector port (8009). It handles remote requests from untrusted clients.
** Tomcat 6 does not directly process binary data. It just processes AJP/HTTP client requests.
** No source code review performed. Fortify scans the latest Tomcat as part of its <nowiki>[[https://opensource.fortify.com/teamserver/welcome.fhtml|Java Open Review project]]</nowiki> and they found 1.615 estimated defects/KLOC (and 0 confirmed defects).
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package is known to work out of the box without configuration in all situations.
** The package does not ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium'.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:tomcat6|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: none (but the Debian package only builds libservlet2.5-java).
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/t/tomcat6.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is very calm. No answer so far to my new packaging proposals.
** <nowiki>[[http://tomcat.apache.org|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous and responsive. As an example, security fixes for the Tomcat 4.1 line (released in 2003) will be shipped until at least June 2009.
** <nowiki>[[https://issues.apache.org/bugzilla/query.cgi?product=Tomcat%206|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: most bugs filed are enhancement requests, no showstoppers.
** Hardware: this package does not deal with hardware.
** There is a small test suite in the upstream source, it is not enabled to run in the build at the moment.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** The new Tomcat 6 packaging conforms to <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>. It is also compliant to  <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>, in particular the <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/doc/packaging-manuals/java-policy/x105.html|Java library]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://webapps-common.alioth.debian.org/draft/html/ch-issues.html#s-issues-fhs|webapps]]</nowiki> subpolicies.
** The package uses the debhelper packaging system, together with quilt as the patch system.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** Build dependencies (default-jdk, ant, ant-optional, debhelper, quilt, libecj-java) are all in main.
** Runtime dependencies: adduser, libecj-java are already in main. jsvc, libcommons-dbcp-java and libcommons-pool-java still are in universe. libcommons-dbcp-java depends on libcommons-collections-java which also sits in universe. MIRs for the corresponding source packages (MainInclusionReportCommonsDaemon, MainInclusionReportLibCommonsDbcpJava, MainInclusionReportCommonsPool, MainInclusionReportLibCommonsCollectionsJava) have been filed.
0. ''Background information:''
** General purpose and context of the package (Servlet/JSP container) is clear from the package's debian/control file.
** Upstream calls this software "Apache Tomcat 6.0".

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/260382]]</nowiki>

ThierryCarrez
