{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/g/gnupg2/, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of kdepim for S/MIME support
 0. ''Security:''
** 1 CVE entry http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2006-3082, more for gnupg 1
** No Secunia history (although gnupg 1 has a fair number http://secunia.com/search/?search=gnupg)
** Currently installs suid root, but that should not be necessary since kernel 2.6.8 (mlock()).
** Does not open any port.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'normal'.
** No showstopper Debian bugs.
** Good maintenance in Debian (smurf!).
** Active upstream, "I consider gpgsm and gpg-agent as stable."
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
** Was in main for Hoary
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Standard debhelper packaging, standard patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: will be approved after suid-root is dropped.
