{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for pyicu ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/pyicu]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Python provides no native unicode collation facilities.  There is a library 'libicu' that provides several unicode algorithms, including collation.  It's in main and on the installer CD (used by openoffice for example).  But the python wrapper is only in universe.
** The installer program Ubiquity would like to use collation for sorting the list of languages and translated country names.  So it would be nice to have this in main/on-the-CD.
0. ''Security:''
** The pyicu package itself is not referenced in security trackers, though the icu library is.  But icu is already in main.
** No binaries or daemons
** No network activity
** It doesn't directly process structured data (though it does process structured unicode data via libicu)
** Any source code review performed ?  '''I performed only a glancing look at the code.'''  It seems to just be python wrapping code.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?  '''None that I know of.'''  It works for me fine, modulo some API that gave NotImplemented exceptions for bits of libicu that weren't covered by the bindings.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?  '''No debconf questions.'''
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:pyicu|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: '''None open'''
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/pyicu.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> '''is calm'''
** <nowiki>[[http://pyicu.osafoundation.org/|Upstream]]</nowiki> '''is calm''' ?
** <nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.osafoundation.org/buglist.cgi?product=PyICU|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: '''No bugs open'''
** Hardware: '''Doesn't deal with hardware'''
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  '''yes'''  Is it enabled to run in the build ?  '''yes, but disabled by default by Ubuntu to avoid a false-positive with python2.6'''
0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ?  '''N/A'''
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ?  '''N/A'''
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ? '''N/A'''
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ?   '''seems up to date, policy 3.8.1'''
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ? '''debhelper'''  Patch system ? '''dpatch''' Any packaging oddities ?  '''no'''
0. ''Dependencies:''
** libc6 (>= 2.4), libgcc1 (>= 1:4.1.1), libicu40 (>= 4.0-1), libstdc++6 (>= 4.1.1), python (<< 2.7), python (>= 2.5), python-support (>= 0.90.0)
** The only odd one there is libicu40, which is the library that it wraps.
** Are these all in main ? '''yes'''
0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?  (Simple packages may largely take care of themselves; complex packages will need dedicated developers paying attention to them.)  '''should be none for ubuntu'''
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ?  '''Debian: Debian Python Modules Team and Bernd Zeimetz'''
0. ''Background information:''
** Description from control file:
<pre>
Description: Python extension wrapping the ICU C++ API
 ICU is a C++ and C library that provides robust and full-featured
 Unicode and locale support. This package provides an extension for
 Python which wraps the ICU C++ API.
</pre>
** What do upstream call this software ? '''PyICU''' Has it had different names in the past ?  '''Not that I can tell'''
0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext?  '''N/A'''

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/400292]]</nowiki>
Author: <nowiki>[[mterry]]</nowiki>
