{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for liblqr ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libl/liblqr/]]</nowiki>; available for all build architectures (i386, amd64, lpia, armel, powerpc, sparc) 
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of digkam (in main) and gimp-plugin-registry 
** Liquid rescale library is currently used by digikam, which include its own copy of source in case if library is not present on the system
** Therefore, we have code duplication in Ubuntu archive and we should rather depend on shared package already available in Ubuntu
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=liblqr|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=liblqr|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: none
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid - only provides library for other programs.
** Network activity: none
** Library is used to process image data (content aware resize of photos).
** Very limited code review done: 
*** debug messages are to stdout (printf), but properly #ifdef's for debug/verbose build
*** progress messages (only 4) not localized
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works without any configuration.
** Package does not ask any questions.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:liblqr|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libl/liblqr.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm
** <nowiki>[[http://liblqr.wikidot.com/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm (stable product).
** <nowiki>[[http://liblqr.wikidot.com/forum/c-24184/bug-reports|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: no open reports
** Hardware: no interface to HW
** There is no automated test suite in upstream packages.
 0. ''UI standards:''
** It has 4 non-localized progress messages which are sent to library caller.
** Digikam does not use this messages anyhow, so they are not presented to the user.
** No end-user applications (no desktop file)
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Compliant with <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Uses debhelper for packaging, maintained in git.debian.org. No patches.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper (>= 5.0.62), autotools-dev, xsltproc, docbook-xsl, docbook-xml, pkg-config, libglib2.0-dev (>= 2.0.0)
** All dependencies are already in main.
 0. ''Maintenance:''
** Almost no maintenance needed - packaging is in debian, code is stable (do not expect many new releases), no bugs in upstream, debian or ubuntu.
** No Ubuntu contact needed, as Debian is doing the core maintenance, but I have subscribed to bug mail, as I looks at digikam anyhow.
 0. ''Background information:''
** n/a
 0. ''Internationalization:''
** n/a

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/493508]]</nowiki>

LukaRenko (Lure @ IRC, lure @ LP)
