{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for usb-creator ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' bzr+ssh://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-installer/usb-creator/trunk/, http://launchpad.net/usb-creator ; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Required for completion of <nowiki>[[USBInstallationImages]]</nowiki>.
0. ''Security:''
** This is a new program and does not have a security record yet.
** The binary currently needs to run as root.
** It does not listen on any ports.
** It does not directly process any binary data.
** There has not been a source code review yet.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package does not require special configuration.
** The package does not make use of debconf.
** The package is not in Debian yet.
** The installer team is upstream for this package.
** The package works with physical CDs and USB drives, however it lets HAL handle most of the details.
** The package currently lacks a test suite.
0. ''Standards compliance:''
** It mounts ISO files in /tmp, but as far as I can gather that's OK by the FHS.
** It should comply with Debian Policy.
** It uses cdbs.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** This is a standard pygtk application with all the dependencies in main (python-gtk2, python-glade2, python-dbus, parted, syslinux).
0. ''Background information:''
** This is an application to take Ubuntu CDs and ISO files and write them to a USB stick, making modifications to the resulting image so it can boot properly.
** It's been called usb-creator since its inception.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/268137]]</nowiki>

''EvanDandrea''
