{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for ttf-sazanami ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/t/ttf-sazanami]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** As stated by the debian maintainers of ttf-kochi (which is currently in main) in the ttf-kochi changelog file, ttf-kochi will not be maintained any further and should be replaced by ttf-sazanami.
# ''Security:'' n/a (these are fonts, not programs)
# ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? none
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? no
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:ttf-sazanami|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: no relevant bugs
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/t/ttf-sazanami.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.jp/projects/efont/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.jp/tracker/index.php?group_id=640&atid=2489&func=browse|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: nothing critical
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? no
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ? no and no.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** Packaging system: debhelper;  Patch system: none;  Any packaging oddities: no.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** defoma, x-ttcidfont-conf, xserver-xorg | xfs | xfs-xtt, fontconfig
** Are these all in main? yes
 0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ? very little
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ? GOTO Masanori, Hideki Yamane (Debian developers)

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/299296]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''

Arne Goetje
