{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libxml-twig-perl ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libx/libxml-twig-perl; Arch: all
# ''Rationale:'' Build dependency of libnet-dbus-perl.
# ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=sax|CVE entries]]</nowiki>
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=sax|Secunia history]]</nowiki>
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid, no daemons
** No network operations.
** Any source code review performed? OK, only Perl.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package is a library and does not need any configuration.
** No debconf questions.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libxml-twig-perl|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: Only serious one is the FTBFS bug which is dubious and does not happen on the reporter's amd64 Feisty system.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libxml-twig-perl|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is appropriate.
** Does not need any particular hardware.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Standard cdbs packaging and patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:'' `libxml-xpath-perl`, `libxml-sax-machines-perl`, `libxml-handler-yawriter-perl`, `libunicode-map8-perl-dfsg`: MIRs filed

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt:  approved
