{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/k/kexec-tools; available for all supported architectures or some subset ? Currently ftbfs on ppc. Will fix.
# ''Rationale:''
** Required for crashdump spec
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=kexec-tools|entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=kexec-tools|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ? No
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ? No
** Any source code review performed ? Have done some work with code, seems clean, but does touch kernel memory, so it's pretty scary by nature.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? N/A
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:kexec-tools|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: No major bugs
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/k/kexec-tools.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> calm
** Upstream: No known upstream. Maintained by distros
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? No
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? Yes
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ? Uses debhelper and dpatch. Nothing odd about the build system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Build: debhelper (>= 4.0.0), dpatch, gnu-efi (>=3.0a-4) [ia64]
** Binary: libc6
** Are these all in main ? Yes
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ? Same name. No other aliases.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
