{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for mime-tools ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/m/mime-tools/libmime-perl]]</nowiki>; Arch all package
# ''Rationale:''
** Needed to promote amavisd-new which is one of the target packages for ubuntu-server review spec.
** 
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=Mime::Tools|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=Mime::Tools|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/advisories/13051/|one]]</nowiki> old advisory
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ? No Any daemons ? No
** Network activity: does it open any port ? No Does it handle incoming network data ? No
** Any source code review performed ?  No
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? No.  Perl library
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=mime-tools|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: Nothing significant
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/m/mime-tools.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous 
** <nowiki>[[http://search.cpan.org/~doneill/MIME-tools-5.425/]]</nowiki> is fvigorous
** <nowiki>[[http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=MIME-tools]]</nowiki>: The only bug marked critical actually looks invalid, so nothing of interest
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? None
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ?  Mostly.  Binary package name is not policy compliant, but has been judged by the Maintainer to be more trouble than it's worth to fix.  See <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=297765|Bug 297765]]</nowiki> for details.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? N/A
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ? debhelper  Patch system ? None  Any packaging oddities ? No
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** 

*** libconvert-binhex-perl
*** libio-stringy-perl (>= 1.211)
*** libmailtools-perl (>= 1.11)
*** perl (>= 5.8.4-2.3)
*** libfile-temp-perl (>= 0.17)
** Are these all in main ?  No.  MIR pending for libfile-temp-perl and approved for libconvert-binhex-perl, and libmailtools-perl.
 0. ''Background information:''
** Currently FTBFS in Hardy due to sbuild issue with using virtual packages to satisfy versioned depends.  Once that's fixed, will sync 5.425-1 from Debian
** What do upstream call this software ? MIME::Tools  Has it had different names in the past ? No

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/181686]]</nowiki>

Author: ScottKitterman
