{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for cmake ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/c/cmake, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of cdrkit
 0. ''Security:''
** One <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=cmake|CVE entry]]</nowiki> (from 2005; untrusted search path vulnerability).
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=cmake|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** Does not open any port.
** Source code review:
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'normal'.
** No showstopper <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:cmake|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>.
** Good <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/c/cmake.html|maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki>.
** Active <nowiki>[[http://cmake.org|upstream]]</nowiki>.
** Some critical bugs in <nowiki>[[http://www.cmake.org/Bug/query.php?projects=2&versions=&components=&status%5B%5D=1&status%5B%5D=2&status%5B%5D=3&status%5B%5D=4&order=severity.sort_order&sort=desc&savedqueryname=&op=doquery&savedqueryoverride=0|bug tracker]]</nowiki>, but those does not seem to be critical for us.
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Standard debhelper/cdbs/dbs packaging, standard patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
