{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libvigraimpex ==
=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libv/libvigraimpex]]</nowiki>; needs build on lpia
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of openoffice.org, openoffice.org-l10n
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=libvigraimpex|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: no entries
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=libvigraimpex|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: no entries
** No suid binaries. No daemons.
** No network access.
** Any source code review performed ? No
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? None, its a library
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libvigraimpex|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: library name transition bug
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libv/libvigraimpex.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead ? calm
** <nowiki>[[http://kogs-www.informatik.uni-hamburg.de/~koethe/vigra|Upstream]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead ? calm
** <nowiki>[[https://mailhost.informatik.uni-hamburg.de/mailman/listinfo/vigra|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: (mention any particularly relevant or critical) no bug tracker but has mailing list
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? no
 0. ''Standards compliance:''
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? yes
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? yes
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ? debhelper, no, no
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** libc6, libgcc1, libjpeg62, libjpeg62-dev, libpng12-0, libpng12-dev, libstdc++6, libtiff4, libtiff4-dev, zlib1g, fftw3, fftw3-dev
** Are these all in main ? yes
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain. It is.
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ? vigra, not that i know of

=== Reviewers ===

ChrisCheney: author

'''Approved''' for Ubuntu main by Ian Jackson, despite reservations.  I'm not wholly happy about this; it's not clear to me why OpenOffice.org upstream have chosen to use a 500kloc computer vision library for what looks like routine image conversion tasks.  The lack of a vulnerability history for this code is likely to be more related to its obscurity than quality, even though I've had a quick look at the code and it doesn't look terrible.  Realistically I don't think we have any choice but to include this.
