{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for tasksel ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/t/tasksel, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/revive-tasksel|revive-tasksel specification]]</nowiki>
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=tasksel|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=tasksel|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** Run as root during installation. May be invoked later as root to install/remove tasks. Uses debconf for user interaction.
** No binaries running suid/sgid.
** Does not open any port.
** Source code review: [NOT DONE YET]
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'normal' in its maintainer scripts. The tasksel program asks one debconf question at priority 'high' as part of its normal operation; per <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/revive-tasksel|revive-tasksel]]</nowiki>, this will be suppressed in the non-server CD case where only one interesting task is available.
** No showstopper <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:tasksel|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>.
** Good <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/t/tasksel.html|maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki>. (Native Debian package; part of the Debian installer.)
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Standard debhelper packaging.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
