{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for system-cleaner ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/s/system-cleaner]]</nowiki>; it is an "Architecture: all" package, and so available for all architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** system-cleaner removes cruft from and adds configuration tweaks to from a user's system. As such, it would be useful for a large part of the user base.
0. ''Security:''
** system-cleaner is a brand new program, and has had no security problems reported yet.
** system-cleaner is invoked from a menu via gksu to run as root.
** There are no setuid/setgid binaries, and no daemons.
** system-cleaner accesses the network only via python-apt / apt. It does not process the data directly itself.
** system-cleaner does not directly process binary or structured data, except for /etc/fstab.
** Michael Vogt and James Westby have done light code reviews when sponsoring uploads to universe.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** system-cleaner works out of the box without configuration.
** system-clenaer has no debconf questions.
** system-cleaner is not yet included in Debian (due to Debian's lenny freeze).
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/system-cleaner]]</nowiki> shows bugs being worked on and solved actively, with the exception of the missing icon bug (to everyone's relief I'm not drawing one myself).
** system-cleaner does not deal with hardware.
** system-cleaner upstream code has a unit test suite that has almost 100% statement coverage, but it is not run in the build.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** system-cleaner conforms to the FHS and Debian and Ubuntu Policy Manuals, to the best of my knowledge.
** system-cleaner uses CDBS for packaging. I am not aware of any oddities.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** python
** python-apt
** python-fstab
** python-gtk2
** python-glade2
** All of these are in main, except for python-fstab. Since python-fstab is useless in main without system-cleaner, I have not filed a separate MIR for it. python-fstab is a Python library for reading and writing fstab files, which I wrote so that system-cleaner can use it. It is packaged separate so that it may be useful for other programs.
0. ''Maintenance:''
** Because system-cleaner removes packages, and because the packaging system is necessarily complicated and sometimes surprising in the interactions between different packages, it is possible that we will find situations in which system-cleaner does the wrong thing. For example, if its heuristic for what is a cruft package is wrong, it might suggest to remove the wrong package. Other than that, I do not expect much maintenance for intrepid. On the whole, system-cleaner is pretty simple.
** LarsWirzenius is responsible for monitoring the quality of the package and fixing its bugs. I work for Canonical, and I am a Debian developer, too (meaning, I will upload it to Debian after lenny is released).
0. ''Background information:''
** system-cleaner is the implementation of the CleanupCruft spec.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/279554]]</nowiki>

Author of report: LarsWirzenius
