{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for aoetools ==

=== Requirements ===

0. ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/a/aoetools]]</nowiki>
** Available for all supported architectures or some subset ?
** '''yes'''
0. ''Rationale:''
** Why is this package needed?  What feature(s) does it add?  Does upstream expect it?  Plain text description of expected use
** '''Eucalyptus and consequently the Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud uses the in-kernel AOE driver.  These user space utilities are very useful on systems using AOE, and should generally be installed on UEC nodes, to enable EBS functionality.'''
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=aoetools|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: '''none'''
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=aoetools|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: '''none'''
** Any binaries running suid/sgid ?
** '''none'''
** Any daemons ?
** '''yes'''
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ?
** '''This is already handled by the in-kernel AOE driver; this package just adds some configuration/debugging utilities'''
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ?
** '''no'''
** Any source code review performed ?  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.)
** '''no'''
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?
** '''It always requires configuration to work.'''
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?
** '''no'''
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:aoetools|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: (mention any that are particularly relevant, and any showstoppers)
** '''1 bug, no showstoppers'''
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/a/aoetools.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead ?
** '''calm'''
** <nowiki>[[http://aoetools.sf.net|Upstream]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead ?
** '''calm'''
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ?
** '''no'''
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ?
** '''no'''
0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ?
** '''no'''
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ?
** '''no'''
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ?
** '''n/a'''
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ?
** '''yes'''
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ?
** '''debhelper''', '''quilt''', '''no'''
0. ''Dependencies:''
** Are these all in main ?
** '''lsb-base''', '''yes'''
0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?  (Simple packages may largely take care of themselves; complex packages will need dedicated developers paying attention to them.)
** '''very, very, very little'''
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ?
** '''Canonical Ubuntu Server Team'''
** Who is the package bug contact in Ubuntu? (Needs one if its a nontrivial package which does not fully maintain itself through Debian)
** '''Canonical Ubuntu Server Team'''
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** '''Userspace configuration and debugging helper utilities for ATA-over-Ethernet network attached storage'''
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ?
** '''aoetools''', '''no'''
0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext?
** '''n/a'''

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: Bug:496780

* DustinKirkland
