{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://ports.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-ports/pool/universe/r/redboot-tools]]</nowiki>; available for all arches
# ''Rationale:''
** Two configuration utilities for the redboot bootloader used by the flash-kernel package, needed to make installs on the babbage imx51 architecture work.
0. ''Security:''
** There are two different binaries in the package, one is fconfig (to adjust redboot specific configuration in fis flash directories) and one is fis (manipulate fis directories in flash or images)
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=fis|fis CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=fis|fconfig CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=fis|Secunia history for fis]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=fis|Secunia history for fconfig]]</nowiki>: None
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** No daemons.
** No network usage
** Manipulates fis partitions and directories on raw redboot partitions in flash as well as the redboot config partition/directory contents
** Source code review performed during package creation by the mobile team.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** No config files
** No debconf questions asked
** No Debian package.
** Upstream for this package has been taken over by us.
** No upstream bug tracker beyonf LP for the packages.
** Hardware: imxXX series SoCs. Currently only the imx51 is supported.
    - The currently only supported target is the imx51-babbage board; but there may be addition targets added
** No test suite.
0. ''UI standards:''
** No user-visible UI; both binaries included are commandline tools.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance
** Packaging system: debhelper
** Patch system: none
0. ''Dependencies:''
** none
0. ''Maintenance:''
** This is a low maintenance package; it will only have to be touched if bugs are found by our users.
** The Ubuntu Mobile Team is responsible for this package; they are Ubuntu developers.
0. ''Background information:''
** None.
0. ''Internationalization:''
** No GUI apps.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/redboot-tools/+bug/353246]]</nowiki>
