{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for pywebkitgtk ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/pywebkitgtk]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Needed for ubiquity on the live CD for the UbuntuSpec:ubiquity-slideshow specification.
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=pywebkitgtk|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=pywebkitgtk|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.  No daemons.
** Network activity: the underlying webkit library does network communication.
** Likewise, it does not directly process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data.
** No known source code review.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Being Python bindings to a library, the package works out of the box without configuration.
** The package does not ask any debconf questions.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:pywebkitgtk|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>:
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/pywebkitgtk.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is very active.
** <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/pywebkitgtk/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is very active.
** <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/pywebkitgtk/issues/list|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>.
** This package does not deal with hardware.
** There is a test suite, but it does not run on build.
 0. ''UI standards:''
** The Webkit GTK code uses gettext.
** As this is not an end-user application, it does not ship a desktop file.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** It is <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** It uses debhelper and dpatch.  There are a few patches, but nothing odd.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** PyGTK, Webkit, and all the other dependencies are in main.
 0. ''Maintenance:''
** Since we are syncing this package from Debian, minimal maintenance should be needed.
** The Debian and Ubuntu GNOME maintainers are responsible for this package.
 0. ''Background information:''
** The purpose of this application is to provide a Python API for the GTK WebKit code.
** The upstream name for this software is pywebkitgtk.
 0. ''Internationalization:''
** Graphical applications built with the widgets this package provide are translatable.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/400179]]</nowiki>

EvanDandrea
