{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for ubuntu-system-service ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/u/ubuntu-system-service]]</nowiki>; it is available on all plattforms we support.
# ''Rationale:''
** Runtime dependency of gnome-control-center to support setting systemwide proxy preferences. 
** Its a new package written from scratch
0. ''Security:''
** No security record yet as it is a new pacakge
** The system-service-d binary runs as root as a system dbus service. It uses policykit and the auth_admin priv for settings global proxy settings.
** Network activity: It does not open any ports
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? No
** Any source code review performed ? The code is new and written from scratch. No review yet
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? Never
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
** <nowiki>[[http://|Upstream]]</nowiki> is frenetic/vigorous/calm/dead ? Is alive and kicking
** <nowiki>[[http://|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: is launchpad, no bugs yet, but the package is very new
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? no
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ? There is a testsuit, it is not complete and not run during build.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ? cdbs
0. ''Dependencies:'' 
** python-dbus
** policykit
** Are these all in main ? yes
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ? No

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/259770]]</nowiki>

Author: ''Michael Vogt''
