{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for ipodslave ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/i/ipodslave/, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** iPods are increasinly used on the desktop and should be available by default. 
** Allows the expected result when the ipod icon is click on from the desktop ( to be able to transfer music to and from the iPod )
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=ipodslave|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=ipodslave|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** Does not open any port.
** Source code review:
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'normal'.
** No Debian Bugs in BTS
** Active <nowiki>[[http://kpod.sourceforge.net/ipodslave/|upstream]]</nowiki> and actively contributed to by SuSE
** No critical bugs in upstream bug tracker
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support. ( iPods are the industry standard MP3 players )
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> standards.
** Standard cdbs packaging
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
