{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for v86d ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/v/v86d]]</nowiki>; Available for i386 and amd64
# ''Rationale:''
** uvesafb is taking over as the preferred vesa framebuffer, over vesafb. uvesafb needs v86d for x86 userspace emulation.
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=v86d|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=v86d|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ?
** v86d is only meant to be called by the kernel via uvesafb, so is run as root. It is not suid or sgid.
** Network activity: None
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? No
** Any source code review performed ? Minimum
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? Is not enabled by default. Requires addition of kernel command line param.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:v86d|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: No serious bugs
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/v/v86d.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki>: New package
** <nowiki>[[http://dev.gentoo.org/~spock/projects/uvesafb|Upstream]]</nowiki>: alive
** Hardware: Deals with x86 BIOS emulation calls. Does not deal with true hardware directly.
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ? No.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ? debhelper, no patch system. Nothing odd in packaging.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper
** Are these all in main ? Yes
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ? v86d, no different names.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/v86d/+bug/246480]]</nowiki>

''Ben Collins''
