{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for r-base ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/r/r-base]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** r-base adds backend support for R in the new KDE Education module package, Cantor
** r-base is a build dependency of the Cantor package which is part of the kdeedu module in KDE 4.
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=r-base|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: '''0 results'''
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=r-base|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: '''0 results'''
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ? '''No'''
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ? '''No'''
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? '''No'''
** Any source code review performed ? '''No'''
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? '''None'''
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? '''No'''
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:r-base|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: '''0 bugs, all listed on bug page are resolved'''
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/r/r-base.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is '''calm but steady'''
** <nowiki>[[http://www.r-project.org/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is '''calm but steady'''
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.r-project.org/cgi-bin/R|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: '''None'''
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it? '''No'''
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging? '''Yes'''  Is it enabled to run in the build? '''??'''
0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system? '''Yes'''
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build? '''Yes'''
** End-user applications ship a desktop file? '''No'''
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance? '''Yes'''
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ? '''debhelper | simple-patchsys | none'''
0. ''Dependencies:''
** gcc (>= 4:4.1.0), g++ (>= 4:4.1.0), gfortran (>= 4:4.1.0), libblas-dev, liblapack-dev (>= 3.1.1), tcl8.5-dev, tk8.5-dev, bison, groff-base, libncurses5-dev, libreadline-dev, debhelper (>= 7.2.3), texi2html, texinfo (>= 4.1-2), libbz2-dev, libpcre3-dev, xdg-utils, zlib1g-dev, libpng12-dev, libjpeg62-dev, libx11-dev, libxt-dev, x11proto-core-dev, libpango1.0-dev, libcairo2-dev, libtiff4-dev, xvfb, xauth, xfonts-base, texlive-base, texlive-latex-base, texlive-generic-recommended, texlive-fonts-recommended, texlive-extra-utils, texlive-latex-recommended, texlive-latex-extra, texinfo, texi2html, openjdk-6-jdk [!arm !hppa !kfreebsd-i386 !kfreebsd-amd64 !hurd-i386]
** Are these all in main ? '''Yes'''
0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ? '''Advanced package, however it is well maintained in both Debian and Ubuntu by Dirk Eddelbuettel'''
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ? '''Dirk Eddelbuettel - Debian Developer'''
** Who is the package bug contact in Ubuntu? '''Nobody - MOTU Science is notified of reports at this time'''
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** <pre>
 R is a system for statistical computation and graphics.  It consists
 of a language plus a run-time environment with graphics, a debugger,
 access to certain system functions, and the ability to run programs
 stored in script files.
 .
 The design of R has been heavily influenced by two existing languages:
 Becker, Chambers & Wilks' S and Sussman's Scheme.  Whereas the
 resulting language is very similar in appearance to S, the underlying
 implementation and semantics are derived from Scheme.
 .
 The core of R is an interpreted computer language which allows
 branching and looping as well as modular programming using functions.
 Most of the user-visible functions in R are written in R.  It is
 possible for the user to interface to procedures written in the
 C, C++, or FORTRAN languages for efficiency, and many of R's core
 functions do so.  The R distribution contains functionality for a
 large number of statistical procedures and underlying applied math
 computations.  There is also a large set of functions which provide
 a flexible graphical environment for creating various kinds of data
 presentations.
 .
 Additionally, over thousand extension "packages" are available from
 CRAN, the Comprehensive R Archive Network, many also as Debian packages,
 named 'r-cran-<name>'.
 .
 This package is a metapackage which eases the transition from the
 pre-1.5.0 package setup with its larger r-base package. Once installed, it
 can be safely removed and apt-get will automatically upgrade its components
 during future upgrades.  Providing this packages gives a way to users to
 then only install r-base-core (but not, say, r-base-latex) if they so desire.
</pre>
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ? '''R, no different names'''
0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext? '''Yes'''

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/497158]]</nowiki>

Author: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nixternal|Richard Johnson (nixternal)]]</nowiki>
