{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for gwibber ==
=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/g/gwibber]]</nowiki>; available for all platforms (arch: all).
# ''Rationale:''
** gwibber is a microblogging client for GNOME. Now days, with the growing success of twitter and other social network like facebook, it seems logical to include it by default. It's the case of next UNE lucid version (cf https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-lucid-une-applications)
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=gwibber|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: '''none'''
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=gwibber|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: '''none'''
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ? '''No'''  Any daemons ?  '''gwibber-daemon''', started by first gwibber launch as a service. This daemon is to trigger tweets for instance. 
** Network activity: does it open any port ? '''No'''  Does it handle incoming network data ? '''No''' Only connect regularly though http/https
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? '''No'''
** Any source code review performed ?  '''Partial''': only for network related.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the pahttp://paste.ubuntu.com/378558/ckage not work out of the box without configuration ? None known
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?  '''No debconf question'''
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:gwibber|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: No showstoppers bug
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/g/gwibber.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/gwibber|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/gwibber/+bugs?start=75|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki> No critical bug as of today (a lot of bugs are just wishlist)
** Hardware: The package doesn't deal with hardware
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ? '''Minimal test suite in tests/__init__.py'''. Not run in the build.
0. ''UI standards:''
** Widgets internationalized and using gettext system.
** Translatable strings builds a PO template during package build.
** startup desktop file and menu one
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant (most of file in pyshared
** Packaging system is cdbs. Patch system is simple-patchsys. No packaging odditie apart from a long debian/rules for cdbs usage.
0. ''Dependencies:''
*** python-dbus
*** python-gtk2
*** python-gconf
*** python-notify 
*** python-egenix-mxdatetime
*** python-simplejson
*** python-webkit
*** librsvg2-2
*** librsvg2-common
*** python-imaging
*** python-xdg
*** '''python-mako''': not in main. Need a MIR
*** python-gtkspell
*** python-wnck
*** python-desktopcouch-records
*** python-pycurl
*** python (>= 2.6)
*** python-central (>= 0.6.11)
** '''Others are in main'''
0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need: average maintenance. Lots of refactoring in last version. No common sync/merge to debian in debian/changelog
** Ubuntu-desktop team will certainly maintain it (ken, I'm watching you!).
0. ''Background information:''
** The package is descriptive enough in debian/control.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: 
Report author: ''didrocks''
