{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for spamassassin ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/s/spamassassin/|spamassassin]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures or some subset ? All
# ''Rationale:''
** Spec'ed for Intrepid: 
** ClamavSpamassassinInMain
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=spamassassin|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: Doesn't have any during 2008 so far, the CVEs are for past versions.
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=spamassassin|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: All relate to earlier versions as well.
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ? No Any daemons ? Yes, spamd a deamonized version of spamassassin with the aim of improving performance.
** Network activity: does it open any port ? It has the option to listen on a port, 783 by default. Does it handle incoming network data ? It has the option, but by default only allows local connections.
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? Yes
** Any source code review performed ?  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.) No
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? Default config does not enable spamd.  You have to modify /etc/defaults/spamassassin.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?repeatmerged=no&src=spamassassin|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: (mention any that are particularly relevant, and any showstoppers) None
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/s/spamassassin.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://spamassassin.apache.org/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm, seem to release a couple of times a year.
** <nowiki>[[https://issues.apache.org/SpamAssassin/index.cgi|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: (mention any particularly relevant or critical) None
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? No
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Yes Is it enabled to run in the build ? No
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> Yes, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? Yes
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ? debhelper Patch system ?  dpatch Any packaging oddities ? No
0. ''Dependencies:''
** libssl-dev
** libhtml-parser-perl 
** libdigest-sha1-perl
** libnet-dns-perl 
** Are these all in main ? Yes or MIR filed.
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** What do upstream call this software ? spamassassin Has it had different names in the past ? No

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/spamassassin/+bug/261968|261968]]</nowiki>

''Author <nowiki>[[Asommer]]</nowiki>; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
