{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/g/gnokii, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** libgnokii3 is a build dependency of kdepim
 0. ''Security:''
** No CVE entries.
** No Secunia history.
** 1 security issue repoted by FreeBSD in 2002 http://security.freebsd.org/advisories/FreeBSD-SN-02:03.asc
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** Does not open any port.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'normal'.
** No showstopper Debian bugs, but lots of important and worrysome ones.
** Good maintenance in Debian.
** Active upstream.
** No critical bugs in <nowiki>[[http://savannah.nongnu.org/bugs/?group=gnokii|upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>
** Requires special hardware (Nokia phones) with proprietary protocol.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Meets <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards.
** Standard debhelper packaging
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: I'm not really happy about it. I'd prefer removing support for it from KDEpim unless users really want to see it.
