{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for webkit-sharp ==

'''Note:''' this MainInclusionReport is for the webkit-sharp source package, but only for the libwebkit1.0-cil binary package produced by it. monodoc-webkit-manual should not be included in main and should receive a separate MIR and code review before main promotion.

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/w/webkit-sharp/]]</nowiki>; available for all Mono-supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** libwebkit1.0-cil is (build) dependency of the mono-tools 1.9-2 Debian source package, and for all future browser-using Mono packages in Debian.
** Including webkit-sharp allows a greater number of apps (such as mono-tools) to be synced rather than merged.
** Packages using gecko-sharp2 cannot be synced due to required changes to environment on a per-application basis. gecko-sharp2 has in fact been removed from Debian.
0. ''Security:''
** no entries in mitre
** no entries in secunia
** Network activity: This is a language binding for a web browser engine. Network activity will only be initiated by applications using the binding.
** Source code review: The package doesn't contain any of its own source code per se - the code is generated and compiled based on XML metadata. Any security problems are likely to be with the generator tool (gtk-sharp2-gapi package, already in Main)
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package works out of the box
** no debconf questions asked
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:webkit-sharp|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: no bugs
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/w/webkit-sharp.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is actively maintained in a mature fashion.
** <nowiki>[[http://pkg-mono.alioth.debian.org/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is actively maintained in a mature fashion.
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  A sample app is included in the orig.tar.gz, but not placed in a binary package.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** <nowiki>[[http://pkg-mono.alioth.debian.org/cli-policy/|Debian CLI Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** Packaging system is debhelper 7. Patch system is dpatch (default choice for Mono packages).
0. ''Dependencies:''
** All Dependencies are in main.
0. ''Background information:''
** All documented in control. Upstream name didnt change. <nowiki>[[http://anonsvn.mono-project.com/viewvc/trunk/webkit-sharp/|SVN Repo]]</nowiki> (no individual website)

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/262719]]</nowiki>

* Signed-Off: directhex (author)
