{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/w/wpasupplicant, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Required for WPA support.
** Without wpasupplicant, nobody will be able to connect to WPA-enabled networks (the default setup of new wireless access point). It will still require manual intervention in /etc, but at least it's possible to get networking up and running. 
 0. ''Security:''
** No CVE entries.
** No Secunia history.
** /usr/sbin/wpa_supplicant runs as root (it needs to communicate with the kernel)
** Does not open any port.
** Source code review:
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package needs some editing of /etc/default files, but works automatically after that.
** No showstopper Debian bugs.
** .
** Active upstream.
** No critical bugs in <nowiki>[[http://hostap.epitest.fi/bugz/|upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Standard debhelper packaging, standard patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
