{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libmail-spf-perl ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/m/mail-spf-perl/]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of spamassassin (spec'ed for Intrepid):
** ClamavSpamassassinInMain
** spf-tools-perl isn't needed for Spamassassin dependency and should stay in Universe.
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=Mail::SPF|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=mail-spf-perl&w=0|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ? No Any daemons ? Yes (spfd is provided, but doesn't run by default - no init in the package).
** Network activity: does it open any port ? Yes Does it handle incoming network data ? No (network data handled by libnet-dns-perl).
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? No
** Any source code review performed ?  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.) No
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? None
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=mail-spf-perl|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: No bugs found for mail-spf-perl, libmail-spf-perl, or spf-tools-perl.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/m/mail-spf-perl.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm. Debian maintainer is the upstream and responsive on bugs.
** <nowiki>[[http://search.cpan.org/dist/Mail-SPF/]]</nowiki> is calm.  New release about once a year (the library is feature complete, so releases are based on bug). 
** <nowiki>[[http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Mail-SPF|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: No critical bugs.
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? No
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ? Yes  Is it enabled to run in the build ? Yes
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes, Standards-Version can be incremented to 3.8.0.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ? Yes
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  debhelper Patch system ? None  Any packaging oddities ? No
0. ''Dependencies:''
** perl 
** libmodule-build-perl   
** liberror-perl
** liburi-perl 

** libnet-dns-perl 
** libnetaddr-ip-perl 
** libversion-perl
** libnet-dns-resolver-programmable-perl 

** Are these all in main ? No
** MainInclusionReportLibnetIpPerl
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
** What do upstream call this software ?  Mail-SPF (Mail::SPF) Has it had different names in the past ? No

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mail-spf-perl/+bug/243802|243802]]</nowiki>

''Author: <nowiki>[[Asommer]]</nowiki>; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
