{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for goocanvas ==
=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/g/goocanvas]]</nowiki>; available for i386 and amd64.
# ''Rationale:''
** libgoocanvas-dev is a dependency of gir-repository which has already been promoted in main. But new gir-repository is waiting for this depend (the old have have only been copied when promoted to main), this is not a new dependency.
** gir-repository is a depend of clutter-1.0 which is waiting for an update too (https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/clutter-1.0/+bug/425339).
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=goocanvas|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: '''none'''
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=goocanvas|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: '''none'''
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ? '''No'''  Any daemons ?  '''No'''
** Network activity: does it open any port ? '''No'''  Does it handle incoming network data ? '''No'''
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ? '''No'''
** Any source code review performed ?  '''No'''
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? None known
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?  '''No debconf question'''
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:goocanvas|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: No showstoppers bug
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/g/goocanvas.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm ?
** <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/GooCanvas|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.gnome.org/browse.cgi?product=goocanvas|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki> No critical bug as of today.
** Hardware: The package doesn't deal with hardware
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ? '''There is a demo folder, but no testsuite'''. So, not run in the build.
0. ''UI standards:''
** Widgets internationalized and using gettext system.
** Translatable strings builds a PO template during package build.
** No desktop file.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant ?
** Packaging system is cdbs. Patch system is dpatch. No packaging odditie.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** libgoocanvas-dev:
*** libgoocanvas3 (see below)
*** libgtk2.0-dev
** libgoocanvas-common
*** No dep
** libgoocanvas3
*** libatk1.0-0
*** libc6
*** libcairo2
*** libfontconfig1
*** libfreetype6
*** libglib2.0-0
*** libgtk2.0-0
*** libpango1.0-0
*** zlib1g
*** libgoocanvas-common (see above)
** '''Are these are in main'''
0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need : average lib package, need equal testing has libcairo.
** Quality responsabe: ose Carlos Garcia Sogo, Debian developers.
** Maintainers of clutter/cairo should take this package responsability. (Mainly the mobile team)
0. ''Background information:''
** The package is descriptive enough in debian/control.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/428793]]</nowiki>

Report author: ''didrocks''
