{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for bbswitch ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/b/bbswitch/|available for i386 and amd64]]</nowiki>
# ''Rationale:''
** This package is needed as a dependency of nvidia-prime 0.5 (main), required by HWE team to improve enablement of systems with hybrid graphics (Intel/Nvidia). 
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=bbswitch|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=bbswitch|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/pkg/bbswitch.html|Ubuntu CVE's]]</nowiki>: none
** It is only a kernel module calling acpi methods.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Works out of the box without configuration
** No debconf questions
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=bbswitch|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: 3
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/b/bbswitch.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[http://bumblebee-project.org/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
0. ''UI standards:''
** None. It's a kernel module.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy 3.9.4]]</nowiki> compliant
0. ''Dependencies:''
** dkms (main) [bbswitch-dkms]
** module-assistant (main) [bbswitch-source]
0. ''Maintenance:''
** Same maintainance as any other kernel module (should ACPI calls change in the kernel).
** Debian responsible for bugs.
** tseliot is available to fix the module to build against changes in the kernel API.
0. ''Background information:''
** This package is a dependency of nvidia-prime (0.5) which is going to be uploaded by Canonical's HWE team as part of an effort to improve user experience on systems with hybrid graphics (Intel/Nvidia) using the proprietary drivers. This work allows users to switch off the discrete GPU in order to save power and provides an easy way to switch between GPUs using the Nvidia control panel.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bbswitch/+bug/1255583|LP: #1255583]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''

AlbertoMilone
