{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for nvclock ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/n/nvclock]]</nowiki>; available for all archs, although hardware-specific and only relevant for systems with nVidia chipsets
# ''Rationale:''
** provides a version of the <code>smartdimmer</code> software, currently in main, which supports a wider range of hardware
** the <code>smartdimmer</code> package is Ubuntu-specific; the nvclock package is present in Debian, so is actively maintained, unlike the smartdimmer package which has not been uploaded since 2007.
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=nvclock|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: CVE-2007-3531, temporary file symlink attack
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=nvclock|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: none
** no suid binaries and no daemons; however, the smartdimmer command will be invoked by hal in response to hotkey events, so it must be guarded against certain kinds of security vulnerabilities (e.g., symlink attacks)
** Network activity: none 
** Does not process user data
** No source code review has been done
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package should work out-of-the-box with no configuration on all supported hardware.
** Package asks no debconf questions.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:nvclock|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: One severity: important bug in the <code>nvclock-gtk</code> binary package, which is not needed in main
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/n/nvclock.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm
** <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxhardware.org/nvclock/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm
** No upstream bug tracker.
** Hardware: package is specific to nvidia video hardware.  This presents some challenges for maintenance because of the difficulty of regression-testing.
** No upstream test suite (probably not meaningful to have one)
 0. ''UI standards:''
** No user-visible strings in the default usage.  The commandline tools are not localized.
** A desktop file is provided for the nvclock front-ends in the source package, but this is not shipped in the binary packages.  The binary packages in question (<code>nvclock-gtk</code> and <code>nvclock-qt</code>) are not needed in main and should not be seeded.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance: yes
** Packaging system: debhelper.  Patch system: dpatch.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** libqt3-mt-dev
** libgtk2.0-dev
** libglib2.0-dev
 0. ''Maintenance:''
** Package is not expected to require significant ongoing maintenance.
** The package will not be actively monitored by Ubuntu developers, and we will rely primarily on the Debian maintainer to provide bugfixes.  The addition of the <code>smartdimmer</code> binary package represents a delta from Debian, but this is not a notable regression since the smartdimmer package we currently have in main is effectively abandonware.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/347813]]</nowiki>

''SteveLangasek''
