{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for grub2 ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/g/grub2]]</nowiki>; this package is available for amd64, i386, and powerpc architectures and is an architecture-specific bootloader (though it may be ported to other architectures later).  It should also be made available for lpia.  This request involves only i386/amd64/lpia; there is no plan to use grub on the powerpc port at present.
# ''Rationale:''
** The <code>grub-common</code> package (built from the grub2 source) is a requirement to support installing grub on XFS filesystems.
** grub2 is being evaluated for a future transition of the default bootloader, and will be optionally available for installation as the bootloader in jaunty.  It's not too early to bring it under the security support/maintenance umbrella.
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=grub|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: no known CVEs against GRUB2, vs. one against GRUB legacy.  (Since this is a bootloader, security exposure is limited to problems with boot password handling.)
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=grub|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: no entries found.
** Network activity: because grub2 supports multiboot and can bootstrap from the network, there is some network exposure but this should not be remotely exploitable.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** While there are no cases in which the package should not work out of the box, due to the hardware-sensitive nature of the package this is still something of an open question that <nowiki>[[FoundationsTeam-Specs-Grub2ByDefault]]</nowiki> seeks to answer by making it an install-time option.
** Installing the <code>grub-pc</code> binary package also does not automatically take over the boot block from grub; this is a good thing since rewriting the MBR is in general a risky operation, and we should be conservative here in the early stages of the transition.
** There is a high-priority debconf question when installing the <code>grub-pc</code> package on a system that previously had <code>grub</code> installed.  This is not a transition that will take place automatically for jaunty.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:grub2|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>:
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/500631|kernel fails in postinst with grub2: no such file /sbin/update-grub]]</nowiki> - only an issue on systems upgraded from old versions of Ubuntu; out of scope for the current plans, but needs to be addressed before grub2 becomes default
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/g/grub2.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[http://www.gnu.org/software/grub/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm
 0. ''UI standards:''
** The GRUB2 bootloader supports internationalization - unlike the current GRUB1 bootloader.
** Translations are not included as standard .po files and there is no .pot file in the source package; it's unknown what form these translations take 
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Package complies with the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Packaging system: cdbs, using simple-patchsys
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** glibc, libncurses, debconf, liblzo2-2, os-prober, base-files: all in main
 0. ''Maintenance:''
** Regardless of whether this package is included in main now, a good deal of work needs to be put into it to make it suitable for transitioning to it as a default bootloader.
** The package is actively maintained in Debian.  The Ubuntu Foundations Team (initially, SteveLangasek) will be responsible for monitoring the package in Ubuntu and responding to bugs.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/331305]]</nowiki>

SteveLangasek
