{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for elfutils ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/e/elfutils]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of bug-buddy (libelf-dev)
** Appears to duplicate some functionality from libelf (libelfg0, libelfg0-dev), with which libelf-dev conflicts; main inclusion should consider whether libelf can be dropped from main in exchange
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://nvd.nist.gov/nvd.cfm?cvename=CVE-2005-1704|CVE-2005-1704]]</nowiki> (shared with binutils and gdb); no DSA or USN was issued for this package.
** No daemons or setuid programs.
** No network interaction.
** Source code has not been audited.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** No debconf interaction.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:elfutils|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: two open bugs, related to portability to architectures not supported by Ubuntu.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/elfutils|Ubuntu bugs]]</nowiki>: no open bugs
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/e/elfutils|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm but active.
** <nowiki>[[ftp://sourceware.org/pub/systemtap/elfutils/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm.
** This package has no hardware interaction requirements.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Complies with both the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> in its library packaging.
** Packaging system: straightforward debhelper packaging, based on historic dh-make templates.  Includes patches to upstream source without use of a patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** no external dependencies outside of glibc

=== Reviewers ===

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
