{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for Nvu ==

# ''Availability:'' Currently FTFBS due to X issues. The package is available in ubuntu universe
# ''Rationale:'' The package is required for the Edubuntu desktop
# ''Security:'' 
** Contains and uses old and vulnerable Mozilla code copy <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=306822|#306822]]</nowiki>; ideally it would build-dep on `mozilla-firefox-dev`, if that is really not possible, then `mozilla-dev`.
** debs contain ./usr/lib/nvu-1.0PR/libnspr4.so, must be changed to link against libnspr4 package
 0. ''Quality assurance:''  
** Needs no setup after install
** 1 HIG bug in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/malone/bugs/1165|Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
** 1 policy and a number of less important bugs in <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/nvu|Debbugs]]</nowiki>. 
** There is a new upstream version  (1.0) not yet in Debian. We might want to pull this in.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets FHS and Debian Policy.
** Due to the included Mozilla copy, the tarball is huge, it should be repacked.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** all in main

== Reviewers ==
MartinPitt: security issues need to be solved before approval; Update: nvu does not build with `mozilla-dev`, with the 1.7.11 sources, nor with Mozilla CVS HEAD sources, so this is hopeless. Rejected.
