{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/m/mouseemu, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** UbuntuSpec:intel-mac-support requires this for handling of middle- and right-click on systems with single-button mice. Hitherto (on powerpc) this has been handled by means of a sysctl, but this is not available on x86 systems and its time had come anyway. This package implements a userspace replacement for that sysctl.
** The plan is to install this package by default on Macintosh systems, both Intel and Power``PC. By way of risk reduction, I do not propose to install it automatically on upgrades.
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=mouseemu|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=mouseemu|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** mouseemu runs as root, as a daemon.
** Does not open any port.
** Source code review:
** No dynamic memory allocations.
** No unsafe `sprintf` operations.
** Does not open untrusted files.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** ColinWatson has taken steps to make it use defaults that match those previously set for the mac_hid sysctl.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions.
** No showstopper <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:mouseemu|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>. (At the time of writing, there are two open normal bugs, <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/304734|#304734]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/407725|#407725]]</nowiki>, both of which are fixed in the Ubuntu package.)
** Good <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/m/mouseemu.html|maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki>.
** The original upstream maintainer <nowiki>[[http://www.geekounet.org/powerbook/|cannot maintain it any more]]</nowiki>.
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
** The worst that can happen if this goes wrong is that your keyboard and mouse stop working. mouseemu tries to defend against this happening due to crashes using a monitor parent process. The code that handles individual events is quite simple, and the patched source is about 20KB; the only bug with these symptoms that I (ColinWatson) have found so far happened immediately on startup on affected systems, and is now fixed. I have not found any crash-type bugs to date.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Standard debhelper packaging, standard dpatch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved, but needs init script LSBification
