{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for Jack-Audio-Connection-Kit (JACK) ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/j/jack-audio-connection-kit]]</nowiki>; Available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Many bugs have been filed against various source packages currently in Main (xine, alsa-plugins, portaudio, pulseaudio) requesting that the JACK bridge/plugin/output/etc. be turned on or compiled into the package - this is not possible without the inclusion of Jack in Main.  See bugs: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-plugins/+bug/197957|197957]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-plugins/+bug/84900|84900]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-plugins/+bug/152487|152487]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-plugins/+bug/109659|109659]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-plugins/+bug/360590|360590]]</nowiki>. This may not be a complete list, and duplicates of most of these have been triaged.
** The libffado drivers for firewire soundcards ( http://www.ffado.org ) are only supported by the Jack driver.  This makes these common, pro, semi-pro, and hobbyist audio cards inaccessible for most applications without the previous audio server bridges/plugins/outputs to jack available.  Owners of these cards must recompile major audio drivers in order to get even basic playback working.
** Jack is an audio server designed specifically for professional, reliable audio signals.  This is not a duplicate server clogging up the "audio mess", which some people believe exists in Linux; it is a specialty tool for musicians, audio engineers, and anyone using Linux for professional audio. (In fact if anything, allowing the aforementioned bugs to get fixed would clean up a large chunk of the "audio mess" which some believe exists.  It would at least stop a large segment of people from griping so loudly about and attempting to remove PulseAudio.)
** shrinking the Ubuntu source package delta to Debian's
** enabling the JACK backend for PulseAudio to improve the experience of people who want PA<->JACK functionality
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=jack|CVE entries]]</nowiki> known.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=jack|Secunia history]]</nowiki> known
** Only binaries in ''jackd'', none of which are suid/sgid.  Note: realtime capabilities are nowadays granted to users/groups though PAM, /etc/security/limits.conf
** jackd is a daemon but is not automatically started on startup
** jackd does not listen for network connections itself. That functionality requires the manual installation of a separately available 'netjack' driver.
** No source code review is performed that we know of.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situation does the package not work out of the box without configuration?
** Jack needs some audio output device to connect to in order to start. This might fail if such a device is not available, or if another process is keeping a device occupied that does not support multiple concurrent connections.
** Some configuration may be required for optimal performance (i.e. low latency) depending on the audio card used.  <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToJACKConfiguration|Configuration instruction]]</nowiki> are available at help.ubuntu.com.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium'?
** No. Specifically, Jack's postinst maintainer script asks if a PAM configuration file to enable realtime priority should be written, and its postrm maintainer script cleans it accordingly.
** Debian bugs:  <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=jack-audio-connection-kit|normal bugs have patches]]</nowiki> 
** Maintenance in Debian: <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/j/jack.html|Is calm]]</nowiki>
** Upstream: <nowiki>[[http://jackaudio.org|Is vigorous]]</nowiki>
** Upstream bug tracker: <nowiki>[[http://trac.jackaudio.org/report/1/|nothing particularly relevant or critical there either it seems]]</nowiki>
** Hardware: '''This package deals well with most commonly available consumer, semi- and professional audio cards.'''
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging? '''No'''
** Is it enabled to run in the build? '''N/A'''
 0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ? '''Yes'''
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ? '''Yes'''
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ? '''Yes'''
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ?  '''compliant'''
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ?  '''compliant'''
** Packaging system ?  '''debhelper 7 with cdbs'''  Patch system ?  '''cdbs'''  Any packaging oddities ?
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Build-wise: cdbs, type-handling, debhelper (>= 7.0.0), patchutils, dh-buildinfo, libasound2-dev [!kfreebsd-i386 !kfreebsd-amd64 !hurd-i386], libsndfile1-dev, doxygen, automake, libtool, libreadline-dev, libraw1394-dev [!kfreebsd-i386 !kfreebsd-amd64 !hurd-i386], libsamplerate-dev, po-debconf
** Are these all in main ? '''Yes, all dependencies are in the ''Main'' repositories except:'''
** libffado-dev, which is awaiting a promotion (already approved) based on component-mismatch
 0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?  (Simple packages may largely take care of themselves; complex packages will need dedicated developers paying attention to them.) '''Little maintenance should be required'''

** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ? '''Upstream developers along with Debian and Ubuntu developers (the latter being the ubuntu-audio-dev Launchpad team)'''

** Who is the package bug contact in Ubuntu? (Needs one if its a nontrivial package which does not fully maintain itself through Debian) '''<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntustudio-dev|Ubuntu Studio developers]]</nowiki>'''
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain. '''JACK is a sound server that handles real-time, low latency audio (and MIDI) allowing connections to a number of different applications to an audio device, as well as allowing them to share audio between themselves.'''
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ? '''JACK, Jack Audio Connection Kit or simply jackd'''
 0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext? '''GUI is not included with JACK'''

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/jack-audio-connection-kit/+bug/510481|510481]]</nowiki>

Author: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~slavender|Scott Lavender]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
Contributor: Arnout 'raboof' Engelen
Contributor: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~crimsun|Daniel T Chen]]</nowiki>
