{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for device-tree-compiler ==

Note, the actual name of this package is '''dtc''', but there's already another program in Debian that uses this source/binary package name. To avoid possible conflicts, the name of this package was de-acronymed.

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' Just uploaded to NEW, for powerpc only.
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of linux-source-2.6.20 for PS3 kernel.
 0. ''Security:''
** No known security issues.
** No suid/sgid binaries.
** No cron jobs.
** No network daemons or network connections used by the two programs included.
** No source code review.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration? '''None'''
** Does the package does ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium'? '''No debconf usage'''
** Package is not in Debian.
** <nowiki>[[http://dtc.ozlabs.org/]]</nowiki>: Upstream is active in development (GIT).
** No upstream bug tracking.
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it? '''Not directly, no.'''
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? '''Package is compliant'''
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance? '''No libraries in package'''
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ? '''Uses debhelper, nothing odd, very simple'''
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Build: '''flex''', '''debhelper'''
** No other deps for installation.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
