{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for splix ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/s/splix, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Provides reliable high-quality printing support for all recent cheap Samsung laser printers, both bw and color models. Due to being cheap and having fully integrated horizontal paper trays Samsung laser printers are very common.
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=splix|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=splix|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** Does not open any port.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box, requiring no configuration different to other printer drivers. Simply plug the printer, start the printer setup tool of your choice and choose the "splix" driver (should be default, as this one is the recommended driver for the supported printers).
** Package does not ask any debconf questions.
** Active <nowiki>[[http://splix.ap2c.org/|upstream]]</nowiki>. On the upstream home page is also a list of models reported to work which is regularly updated, additional user support via Openprinting (http://www.openprinting.org/, http://forums.freestandards.org/list.php?31).
** No critical bugs in <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=175815&atid=874746|upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>, PPD files meet Adobe standard (test by running them through "cupstestppd" passes).
** Standard debhelper/cdbs/dbs packaging, standard patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
