{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for gupnp-igd ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/g/gupnp-igd]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Dependency of farsight2 and libnice
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=gupnp-igd|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=gupnp-igd|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ? No
** Network activity: does it open any port?  Does it handle incoming network data?  Yes, by definition, it enables applications like empathy take advantage of upnp
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data? No
** Any source code review performed? No
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration? None known
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium'? No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:gupnp-igd|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: No bugs
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/g/gupnp-igd.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm
** <nowiki>[[http://gupnp.org/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm
** <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.openedhand.com/|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: Nothing critical
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? Not directly
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ? Included but not run in our package
0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ? No strings
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ? No strings
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ? None needed
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ? cdbs
# ''Dependencies:'' all in main
# ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?  Maintained in debian
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  Maintained in debian
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain.
0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext? No strings

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/388898]]</nowiki>

Report Author: KenVanDine 
