{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Promoting a package into main ==

=== Scope ===

babl is a gegl dependency, which is needed for gimp 2.6 as the engine of new gimp version. Gimp is obviously in main and a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MainInclusiongegl|MIR has been written for gegl]]</nowiki>.

=== Requirements ===

The package must fulfil the following requirements:

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/b/babl]]</nowiki>; available for i386 and amd64 
# ''Rationale:'' There must be a certain level of demand for the package, for example:
** New build dependency for gegl which is a dependency of Gimp 2.5 and so... 2.6, part of default installation
** The package is a new build dependency or dependency of a package that we already support.
0. ''Security:''
** No CVE entries 
** No secunia history
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid. No daemon either. 
** Doesn't open any port 
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package does not need configuration file (only ldconfig is called on configure) 
** No debconf call. 
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:babl|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: no showstopper.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/b/babl.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous (relatively new package)
** <nowiki>[[http://gegl.org/babl/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous (subteam of gegl)
** No Upstream bug tracker (may be the same as <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.gnome.org/buglist.cgi?product=GEGL&bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_status=REOPENED&bug_status=UNCONFIRMED&bug_status=NEEDINFO|gegl upstream buttracker]]</nowiki>)
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ?
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant
** Packaging system used is '''cdbs'''.  No patch system.
0. ''Dependencies:''
*** libbabl-0.0-0: libc6
*** libbabl-0.0-0-dev: libbabl-0.0-0 ('''included in this MIR''')
*** libbabl-0.0-0-doc: no dependency
0. ''Maintenance:''
** It is a young project, with a simple package, but upstream seems to be reactive as this a new vital part of gimp. 
** This package may be managed by the desktop team as a dependency of gimp.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/279565]]</nowiki>

** DidierRoche (didrocks)
