{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

# ''Availability:'' The package is in Universe and compiled on all architectures
# ''Rationale:'' KOffice is the office suite from KDE.  Krita is its bitmap drawing application.  Kubuntu does not currently come with a drawing application so we would like to include Krita.
# ''Security:'' http://www.koffice.org/security/  security issues have been promptly handled and are mostly caused by XPDF in KWord.  Krita has had no security issues.
# ''Quality assurance:''
** KOffice is well maintained by core KDE developers.  Krita has been has a lot of work over the last year.
** No reported bugs in Debian or Ubuntu, 1 critical bug in KDE <nowiki>[[http://bugs.kde.org/buglist.cgi?product=krita&bug_status=UNCONFIRMED&bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_status=REOPENED|bugs.kde.org]]</nowiki>
# ''Standards compliance:'' The package meets FHS and debian-policy.
# ''Dependencies:'' build-dep on wv2 <nowiki>[[MainInclusionWV2]]</nowiki>, depends on latex-xft-fonts <nowiki>[[MainInclusionReportLatexXFTFonts]]</nowiki>

== Reviewers ==
MartinPitt: ok security-wise; however, what about QA issues? You said yourself that KOffice is still very unstable, so can we really support it quality-wise?

<nowiki>[[JStaniek]]</nowiki>: regarding stability, Kexi (database creator, MS Access replacement) is developed by an external company and is very stable. It's worth having by default. See also my discussion on the topic at KubuntuKofficeByDefault.
