{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/n/nut]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerPackageReview
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=nut|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=PRODUCT_NAME|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: none
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ?
    Restricted to the bare minimum. There are 3 daemons (upsd: data server ; upsmon: events notification and actions ; drivers) and a set of utils. Only 1 upsmon instances (on 2) run as root for being able to shutdown the system. Note that <nowiki>[[http://svn.debian.org/wsvn/nut/trunk/docs/ideas.txt?op=file&rev=0&sc=0|a solution exists to completely avoid root privileges]]</nowiki> (search for "Completely unprivileged upsmon").
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ?
    Yes. it's a client/server based set of tools. The port (3493) is IANA and /etc/servoces registered.
** High level source code review performed by JamieStrandboge
** confirmed that upsd and the ups drivers drop privileges in default installation.  They do so in a sane way
** upsmon is privilege separated in default installation, with the parent reading a single character from the child via a pipe. privilege separation and dropping of privileges done in a sane way
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nut/+bug/182790|bug #182790]]</nowiki> has information on further securing nut
** since the nut tools run with minimal privileges, and has a good security history, there are no huge concerns. That said, a thorough audit for format string vulnerabilities might prove enlightening. The following functions all take a 'fmt' as an argument: upslog_with_errno(), upslogx(), upsdebug_with_errno(), upsdebugx(), vfatal(), fatal_with_errno(), fatalx(). Performing the following will show how many places to start to look to verify 'fmt' is not user-manipulable (there are a lot): <pre>
for i in vupslog upslog_with_errno upslogx upsdebug_with_errno upsdebugx vfatal fatal_with_errno fatalx; do echo $i ; grep -r -c $i ./* | grep -v ':0' | grep '\.c:'; done
</pre>

 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?
    Requires manual configuration as the external hw is not always autodetectable. Upstream <nowiki>[[https://alioth.debian.org/pm/task.php?group_project_id=42&group_id=30602&func=browse|has planned improvements]]</nowiki> on that side.
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?
    yes but only if upgrading from versions < 2.2.0 for the core package and < 2.0.1 for the nut-cgi package.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:nut|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: Several bugs at different severities.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/n/nut.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is very calm
** <nowiki>[[http://random.networkupstools.org/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is active
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ?
    Yes. It deals with external UPS'es. Not extremely exotic. And a must have feature for servers.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>.
     Package looks FHS compliant, lintian complains on a bunch of things and the nut-dev package doesn't provide shared libraries (only static, but it's planned upstream).
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ?
    dpatch (on some versions). 
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Are these all in main ?
    Build-deps and Depends are all in main.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/182790]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''

FabioMassimoDiNitto
ArnaudQuette
JamieStrandboge
