{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libspectre ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libs/libspectre]]</nowiki>; available for amd64/i386, needs-porting for lpia
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of evince 2.23.5 - Needed for Postscript rendering 
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=libspecrte|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: ...
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=libspectre|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: ...
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid and no daemons.
** Network activity: None
** It doesn't parse any binary file format; it does parse Postscript which is ASCII
** No source code review performed yet.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** No known situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration.
** There are no debconf questions.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libspectre|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: 2 open, both marked fixed-upstream
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libs/libspectre.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm
** <nowiki>[[http://libspectre.freedesktop.org/wiki/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.freedesktop.org/buglist.cgi?quicksearch=libspectre|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>
** This package does not deal with hardware
** There a test suite in the upstream source or packaging and it is enabled to run in the build.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ?
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance ?
** Packaging system: cdbs 
** Patch system: simple-patchsys.
** Any packaging oddities: none
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** libgs8, libc6
** All dependencies are in main
 0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package are clear from the package's debian/control file..
** Upstream has called this software libspectre, and it has always had the same name in its past.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/BUGNUMBER]]</nowiki>

Author: Michael Casadevall <sonicmctails@gmail.com>
