{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for gnome-orca ==

=== Background ===

Orca is maintained by an active team at Sun Microsystems. It has been selected by the Gnome project as a replacement for gnopernicus in Gnome 2.16.

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' in universe: https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/gnome-orca, builds on all architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** We need a screen reader. This one is better than gnopernicus and will replace it in Gnome. 
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=gnome-orca|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=gnome-orca|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** Orca listens on port 20433 as an http server to take speech input from other applications like Fire``Vox and for it's own health check (see below).
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Active <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/Orca/|upstream]]</nowiki>.
** When Orca is run for the first time it asks 4-5 questions (in both text and voice) which are answered with y/n, which completes the setup. This is an improvement on Gnopernicus which only has a GUI-based setup (a catch 22 for blind people).
** Stability is very important in this kind of application because if any part of the stack goes down the user loses the ability to interact with the computer. Orca includes a small deamon that checks that all is well and restarts orca and gnome-speech if required.
** Bugs: It's a fairly new package under active development so there will be some bugs, but these a quickly dealt with by the active team. The new features make up for the lack of maturity. See <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.gnome.org/buglist.cgi?query=product:orca+|bug list]]</nowiki>.
** Hardware: Orca sends raw text to either gnome-speech (in main) or speech-dispatcher (universe). These in turn output to the audio hardware or braille display. 
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in Main
 0. ''Recommends:''
** brltty (in main)

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
