{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for fortunes-ubuntu-server ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/f/fortunes-ubuntu-server/]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** This package is just a data set to be used by fortune-mod and a one line script dropped in /etc/update-motd so that a tip is displayed at login on Ubuntu Server edition.  Rules for tip inclusion are defined at: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/server-tips]]</nowiki>
0. ''Security:''
** This is a brand new package which mainly contains data...
** No history
** No daemons
** No binary (on script)
** No network
** Does not process data
** pam_motd compatible script provided courtesy of DustinKirkland
** Fortune wrapper script for Locale support provided courtesy of DaveWalker
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?  None
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ? No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:SOURCE_PACKAGE_NAME|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: Not available in debian
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/S/SOURCE_PACKAGE_NAME.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki>: Not available in debian
** <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-server-tips]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-server-tips/+bugs]]</nowiki>: Nothing particular
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ? '''No'''
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ?  '''Not relevant'''
0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ? '''YES'''
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ? '''YES'''
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ? '''Not relevant'''
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? '''YES'''
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ? '''Debhelper'''  Patch system ? '''Not Relevant''' Any packaging oddities ? '''None'''
0. ''Dependencies:''
** fortune-mod
** Are these all in main ? '''YES'''
0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?  (Simple packages may largely take care of themselves; complex packages will need dedicated developers paying attention to them.) '''Maintenance of tips is quite straight forward'''
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ? '''Dave Walker'''  Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ? '''YES'''
** Who is the package bug contact in Ubuntu? (Needs one if its a nontrivial package which does not fully maintain itself through Debian) '''Dave Walker'''
0. ''Background information:''
** The general purpose and context of the package should be clear from the package's debian/control file.  If it isn't then please explain. '''It is.'''
** What do upstream call this software ? '''ubuntu-server-tips''' Has it had different names in the past ? '''no'''
0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext? '''Not relevant (tips are translated though)'''

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/423667]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''

Report Writer: NicolasBarcet
