{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for gtk2-engines-qtcurve ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/g/gtk2-engines-qtcurve]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:'' 
** gtk-qt-engine is quite buggy as it is, and with Qt 4.5 it fights with the Qt-Gtk theming abilities of QGtkStyle causing crashes in gnome-appearance-properties We want to replace this with the less-buggy QtCurve theming engine by default for our default Gtk theme.
 0. ''Security:''
** No known security flaws
** No binaries running at all
** No network interaction at all
** It doesn't directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data
** No source code review performed, though it should be pretty good since it's just a widget theme  (The approver will do a quick and shallow check.)
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In no situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration
** The package does not ask any debconf questions
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:gtk2-engines-qtcurve|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: (mention any that are particularly relevant, and any showstoppers)
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/g/gtk2-engines-qtcurve.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm
** <nowiki>[[http://http://www.kde-look.org/content/show.php?content=40492|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** No upstream bugtracker, issues are handled generally through email or kde-look comments page
** Does not deal with hardware at all
** No test suite
 0. ''UI standards:''
** No user interface
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant
** Packaging system is debhelper, no patch system or packaging oddities
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** libgtk2.0-dev
** cmake
** All in main
 0. ''Maintenance:''
** This is a low-maintenance package.
** Kubuntu is responsible for caring for packaging bugs. Debian's packaging is a bit behind at the moment but once they catch up we would merge regularly too.
 0. ''Background information:''
** This is just a simple GTK+ widget theme
** Upstream calls this QtCurve.
 0. ''Internationalization:''
** No need for translation, no UI

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/342379]]</nowiki>

[Author] Jonathan Thomas (LP ~echidnaman)
