{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

# ''Availability:'' Available in universe, Arch: any
# ''Rationale:'' used by TLD's, people running authoritative name servers; fast, secure alternative to BIND9
# ''Security:'' 
** No CANs
** Binaries in /usr/sbin/
** Run as daemon
** Input data received from Internet (DNS Queries, AXFR)
 0. ''Quality assurance:''  
** upstream is active, responsive, uses bugzilla
** no grave bugs in upstream
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** The package meets the FHS.
 0. ''Dependencies:'' 
** all in main

=== Reviewers ===

<nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/people/~ijackson|Ian Jackson]]</nowiki> writes:

** This report is lacking many references.  For example, there is not even a reference to upstream's main website!  Mention of the upstream bugzilla should be accompanied by a URL.  Reference should be made to the announcements from root server operators, to substantiate your claims.  etc.
** Many of the bullet points from the MainInclusionReportTemplate have been just removed.  The information requested by those bullet points should form  part of the report; if the question is inapplicable in some way the reason should be explained.
** No consideration is given to whether this ought to replace BIND9 in main or supplement it, and if it should supplement it, what recursive server to use instead.
** No mention is made of the possible confusion with the IRIX daemon of the same name.
** Overall, this report is astonishingly short.  It does not present a convincing case that the proponent has thoroughly researched the situation and reported all of their findings (both positive and negative) in the report.

Therefore, while I am a priori sympathetic to the idea of including nsd in main, and not a great fan of BIND (8 or 9), I'm afraid that at this time the inclusion request is '''Rejected pending rework''' of the report.  -iwj 28.2.2007
