{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for ipvsadm ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/i/ipvsadm, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:'' LVS support, dependency of `keepalived` and part of UbuntuClusters
# ''Security:''
** No CVE entries.
** No Secunia history.
** Daemon running as root.
** Probably opens port, so potential remote root compromise. However, only talks to peer nodes in the cluster, which are supposed to be trusted.
** Source code review: not done.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** No showstopper Debian bugs.
** Pretty much abandoned in Debian, no upload for 1.3 years. All Debian bugs have been fixed in ubuntu upload.
** Upstream didn't release updates since Oct 2004 because the userland is stable and in sync with kernel modules.
** No upstream bug tracker.
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> standards.
** Standard cdbs packaging.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: pending QA and functional test from Fabio. <<BR>>
FabioMassimoDiNitto: fixed all the pending stuff from Debian. Green light from me.<<BR>>
MartinPitt: approved
