{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for tslib ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/t/tslib]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of directfb.
** tslib-bin can stay in universe.
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=tslib|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=tslib|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: None
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid, no daemons. Library package, some test binaries.
** No network activity.
** Source code review performed; looks ok for promotion.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:tslib|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: None.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/tslib|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm.
** <nowiki>[[http://tslib.berlios.de/|Upstream]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[http://developer.berlios.de/projects/tslib/|project page]]</nowiki> is calm.
** The project has turned off the bug tracker.
** Hardware: Does this package deals with touch screen hardware.
** There is a tests directory in the upstream source, not run during the build.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant
** Packaging system: debhelper. Patch system: dpatch
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Nothing special, all in main.

=== Reviewers ===

Initial MIR: Matthias Klose

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/255275]]</nowiki>
