{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for mlocate ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/m/mlocate]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Improved (faster) replacement for `slocate`
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2008-February/025065.html
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=mlocate|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=mlocate|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: none
** `mlocate` ships a version of `updatedb` that, as usual, runs as root from a daily cron job. The database it creates is owned by group `mlocate` and mode 0640 so that ordinary users cannot read it; `/usr/bin/mlocate` is setgid `mlocate`. This is essentially the same scheme as is used by `slocate`.
** `mlocate` does not perform any network operations.
** I (ColinWatson) performed a review of the code segments run with escalated privilege. I was impressed; the codebase is modern, well-written, well-commented, and was designed to entirely avoid the obvious attacks I could think of that involved passing it a malicious database. Its memory handling largely eschews traditional C support in favour of GNU obstacks, and completely avoids the usual dangerous string-handling functions. While I did not audit it exhaustively, its error handling seems reasonably complete and paranoid. Its build system is standard (though non-recursive) Autotools, using Autoconf, Automake, and Gnulib. It comes with a moderately-sized test suite.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** `mlocate` works out of the box without requiring configuration, although it does require a `cron.daily` run before it is useful (<nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/456151|Debian bug #456151]]</nowiki>).
** `mlocate` does not use debconf and asks no questions.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:mlocate|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: one mentioned above, some trivial, none particularly serious
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/m/mlocate.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm but competent
** <nowiki>[[http://carolina.mff.cuni.cz/~trmac/blog/mlocate/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm; eight releases from late 2005 to mid-2007.
** No upstream bug tracker. The author advertises his address `@redhat.com` for reporting bugs.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Complies with the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>.
** Packaged using debhelper, with no patch system. Nothing particularly unusual.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** adduser, libc6.
 0. ''Background information:''
** This package's purpose is to be a drop-in replacement for `slocate` and GNU `locate`, with better performance in the daily cron update by merging into an existing database rather than constructing a new one from scratch. The intention of the author of this main inclusion report is that it should replace `slocate` in standard Ubuntu installations, and thereby allow `locate(1)` to keep working for old-school Unix users while reducing system load for those who don't care. This should be a happier compromise than the present situation.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/191775]]</nowiki>

ColinWatson (MIR author)
