{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for wpasupplicant ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/w/wpasupplicant, available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Dependency of network-manager (>= 0.6.0)
 0. ''Security:''
** No current CVE entries.  Single one in history:
*** http://www.cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2005-0470
** Secunia history as CVE history:
*** http://secunia.com/advisories/14313/
** Binaries running as root:
*** `wpa_supplicant` as needs to change interface WEP keys.
** No suid/sgid binaries.
** Does not open any port.
** Source code review: no apparent gaping holes
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Requires configuration, however NetworkManager (which depends on it) automatically provides that configuration.
** No showstopper Debian bugs.
** Good maintenance in Debian, maintainer is ubuntu-core-dev member.
** Active upstream.
** No (what we would define as) critical bugs (upstream has stricter standards) in <nowiki>[[http://hostap.epitest.fi/bugz/|upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Meets <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards.
** Standard debhelper/cdbs/dbs packaging, standard patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===

* ScottJamesRemnant
* MartinPitt: approved
