{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/n/numlockx]]</nowiki>; available for all supported archictecutres
# ''Rationale:''.
** LTSP upstream supports turning on an off the numlock by calling numlockx
** numlockx is an extremely minimal tool to switch the numlock on and off, it's written by a LTSP developer.
0. ''Security:''
** No current <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=numlockx|CVE]]</nowiki> entries.
** No current <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=numlockx|Secunia]]</nowiki> history.
** No source code review taken.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** No debconf questions are asked.
** Upstream isn't really active as the tool does what it's supposed to do with no possible improvement.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:numlockx|Debian bugs]]</nowiki> nothing critical.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/n/numlockx.html|Package in Debian]]</nowiki> has been orphaned but I'm (Stéphane Graber) fine with maintaining it for Ubuntu.
** There's no bug tracker that I could find for that tool.
** Package installs /etc/X11/Xsession.d/55numlockx which enables numlock by default, though as LTSP doesn't use /etc/X11/Xsession.d on the thin cleint, that won't affect us. If that's causing a problem for other users (though it shouldn't be installed outside LTSP environment), it could be removed or at least turned off by default.
** No special hardware is required.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** numlockx uses CDBS for it's packaging.
** Packaging seems up to date (3.8.1), last updated by the Debian QA team
0. ''Dependencies:''
** No build dependency outside main
** No dependency outside main

numlockx is the tool used by LTSP to switch the numlock on/off. This option has been available for a while in LTSP but wasn't working for Ubuntu as numlockx isn't installed by default. Having numlockx in main will make it possible to depend on it and then support that feature.

=== Reviewers ===

 MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/numlockx/+bug/XXXXXX]]</nowiki>

''StéphaneGraber''
