{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libkdcraw ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libk/libkdcraw ; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of new digikam 0.9.2 and next release of kipi-plugins (expected in June) will also depend on it.
** This code was part of digikam 0.9.1 (which is in main archive), but was moved out in separate package in order to allow sharing with other KDE applications.
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=dcraw|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: No issues reported.
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=dcraw|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: No issues reported.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.  
** No daemons.
** Does not perform any network activity (open ports, incoming data...).
** Quick code review done:
*** Includes source code of dcraw 8.60 
***** dcraw 8.39 is already in main, therefore reviewed
***** dcraw 8.60 is last version with free license (see <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/86480|#86480]]</nowiki>)
*** The rest of the code is just simple C++ class wrapper around dcraw binary
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works without configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=libkdcraw|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: 1 (packaging issue for future versions on kdcraw binary)
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libk/libkdcraw.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is hard to evaluate since the package is new.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.digikam.org|Upstream]]</nowiki> is very active and supportive, two Kubuntu developers are also upstream contributers.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.kde.org|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: none
** Hardware: does not work with HW, but parses raw images from digital cameras.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Compliant with <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>.
** Compliant with <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki>.
** Uses cdbs packaging system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All dependencies are already in main.
 0. ''Background information:''
** In past, digikam has included own copy of 'dcraw' binary in order to maintain compatibility (due to regular changes of command line options). 
** Since RAW photo support was also needed by kipi-plugins, it was decided that this wrapper C++ class (with own dcraw binary) should be moved in separate library.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
