{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for gtkglext ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/g/gtkglext]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of gtk-vnc (<nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+source/gtk-vnc/0.3.6-2|0.3.6-2 update]]</nowiki>)
 0. ''Security:''
** No CVE entries
** No Secunia history
** This is a library, no binaries, no daemons
** No open port, no handling of incoming network data
** No direct binary/structured data processing
** No source code review performed
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Works out of the box without configuration
** No debconf questions
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gtkglext|Launchpad bugs]]</nowiki>: only one bug, looks more like a Compiz bug than a gtkglext one
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:gtkglext|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: nothing really relevant to current version
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/g/gtkglext.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm
** <nowiki>[[http://www.k-3d.org/gtkglext/Main_Page|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm. New maintainers <nowiki>[[http://www.mail-archive.com/gtkglext-list@gnome.org/msg00435.html|took over]]</nowiki> the project in Nov 2007.
** There is discussion of integrating gtkglext features into Gtk+ (see <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=119189|Gtk+ Bugzilla]]</nowiki>)
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=54333&atid=473434|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: very few bugreports, nothing critical
** The package does not directly deal with hardware
** No test suite in the upstream source or packaging
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>-compliant
** <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>-compliant
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant
** Packaging system : debhelper with dpatch. No packaging oddities
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** Build-Depends are all in Main
** Depends are all in Main
 0. ''Background information:''
** Purpose and context of the package is clear from the package's debian/control file.
** Upstream calls the package GtkGLExt - OpenGL Extension to GTK+. No known aliases.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gtkglext/+bug/237109]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''

ThierryCarrez
