{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for python-distutils-extra ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' available for all supported architectures in universe, archs: any
# ''Rationale:''
** Will be a build dependency of software-properties, update-manager and python-apt, since it allows to easily handle gettext integration, gnome help documents and themed icons with Python's distutils
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=python-distuils-extra|CVE entries]]</nowiki>.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=python-distuils-extra|Secunia history]]</nowiki>.
** No binaries at all.
** Does not open any port.
** Source code review: 
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** Package does not ask any debconf questions.
** Active <nowiki>[[http://bzr.glatzor.de/python-distutils-extra|upstream]]</nowiki>.
** Uses <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/python-distutils-extra/|Launchpad]]</nowiki>
** No critical bugs in <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/feisty/+source/python-distutils-extra/+bugs|upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>
** Does not deal with any hardware.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> (should be checked)
** Meets <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards. (should be checked)
** Standard debhelper/cdbs/dbs packaging, standard patch system.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
