{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for nvidia-modprobe ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/multiverse/n/nvidia-modprobe/|available for i386 and amd64]]</nowiki>
# ''Rationale:''
** This package is needed as a dependency of nvidia-graphics-drivers-* and of nvidia-graphics-drivers-*-updates (main), so that applications making use of CUDA or Nvidia's OpenCL ICD can load the nvidia-uvm driver without requiring root access. 
 0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=nvidia-modprobe|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[https://secunia.com/search/?search=nvidia-modprobe|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/pkg/nvidia-modprobe.html|Ubuntu CVE's]]</nowiki>: none
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Works out of the box without configuration
** No debconf questions
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=nvidia-modprobe|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[https://packages.qa.debian.org/n/nvidia-modprobe.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[ftp:--download.nvidia.com-XFree86-nvidia-modprobe-|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
 0. ''UI standards:''
** None.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy 3.9.6]]</nowiki> compliant
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** libc6 (main)
 0. ''Maintenance:''
** Debian responsible for bugs.
 0. ''Background information:''
** From <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-331/+bug/1361207|LP: #1361207]]</nowiki>: nvidia-modprobe allows non-root users to load NVIDIA kernel modules and it creates the respective device entries. This is important for CUDA users as they would otherwise have to run a workaround script to load the kernel modules and create the device entries. This is documented here:
http://developer.download.nvidia.com/compute/cuda/6_5/rel/docs/CUDA_Getting_Started_Linux.pdf -> 4.8 Verification

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-modprobe/+bug/1421209|LP: #1421209]]</nowiki>
