{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for librelp ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libr/librelp]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency of rsyslog -- see <nowiki>[[MainInclusionReport-rsyslog]]</nowiki> for more context on this library.  librelp was created in part to serve rsyslog's needs.
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=librelp|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: None, but see rsyslog's CVEs
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=librelp|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: ...
** Any binaries running as root or suid/sgid ?  Any daemons ?  No, just a library
** Network activity: does it open any port ?  Does it handle incoming network data ?  Yes, very much so.  Handles incoming data on a given port or writes data to a port.
** Does it directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data ?  Structured data, yes, but in its own format: <nowiki>[[http://www.librelp.com/relp.html]]</nowiki>
** Any source code review performed ?  Not by me, mterry
** Will not be enabled by default.  This library is an optional part of rsyslog, pulled in by rsyslog-relp.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ? None that I know of
** Does the package ask any debconf questions higher than priority 'medium' ?  No
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:librelp|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: None!
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libr/librelp.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is calm.  Just basic packaging of upstream releases.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.librelp.com/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm.  Very infrequent releases (like, a couple a year)
** Upstream bug tracker: None?!  Presumably one could use rsyslog's tracker.  Still, it's a bit odd.  There is a <nowiki>[[http://lists.adiscon.net/mailman/listinfo/relp|mailing list]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://kb.monitorware.com/forum-f27.html|forums]]</nowiki>, both with next-to-no traffic.
** Hardware: Does this package deal with hardware and if so how exotic is it ?  Doesn't deal with hardware.
** Is there a test suite in the upstream source or packaging ?  Is it enabled to run in the build ?  No test suite.
0. ''UI standards:''
** User-visible strings are internationalized using standard gettext system ?  No.
** Package with translatable strings builds a PO template during package build ? N/A
** End-user applications ship a desktop file ? No, not an end-user app
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance ? Yes, in a trivial way.  Just puts a library in /usr/lib.
** Packaging system (debhelper/cdbs/dbs) ?  Patch system ?  Any packaging oddities ?  Debhelper, but no patch system.  Very simple packaging.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** librelp0: libc6 (>= 2.4)
** librelp-dev: librelp0 (= 0.1.3-1)
** Are these all in main ?  Yeah, no problems there, very self-contained.
0. ''Maintenance:''
** How much maintenance is this package likely to need ?  Not much, a simple package, with no foreseeable Ubuntu special sauce
** Who is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs ?  Are they Ubuntu or Debian developers ?  Debian: Michael Biebl.  Same maintainer as rsyslog.
0. ''Background information:''
** The Description from debian/control:
  <pre>
Description: Reliable Event Logging Protocol (RELP) library
 RELP provides reliable event logging over the network.
 .
 RELP (and hence) librelp assures that no message is lost, not even when
 connections break and a peer becomes unavailable. The current version of
 RELP has a minimal window of opportunity for message duplication after a
 session has been broken due to network problems. In this case, a few messages
 may be duplicated (a problem that also exists with plain tcp syslog). Future
 versions of RELP will address this shortcoming.
 .
 Please note that RELP is a general-purpose, extensible logging protocol. Even
 though it was designed to solve the urgent need of rsyslog-to-rsyslog
 communication, RELP supports many more applications. Extensible command verbs
 provide ample opportunity to extend the protocol without affecting existing
 applications.
  </pre>
** What do upstream call this software ?  Has it had different names in the past ?  No different names, just 'librelp'.
0. ''Internationalization:''
** Are graphical applications translatable? Do they support gettext?  Nope.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/388606]]</nowiki>

Report author: <nowiki>[[mterry]]</nowiki>
