{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Maintainer Contacts ==

Ubuntu is quite a large project, and it can be difficult for new developers to figure out whom to talk to when they encounter a problem.

This page is aimed at new Ubuntu developers who already have a general familiarity with the technical details of package maintenance. It is '''not''' intended for users looking for help with a package; please use `ubuntu-users@lists.ubuntu.com` or the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs|bug tracking system]]</nowiki> for that instead.

=== Package maintainers ===

The first port of call for problems with a package should be its maintainer. Unfortunately, this is not always straightforward to find in Ubuntu! Since we inherit our archive from Debian's, we also inherit the Maintainer fields in their packages, and that is not in general a contact address for the person responsible for the package in Ubuntu (although it remains a useful next-upstream contact).

On <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|Launchpad]]</nowiki>, the "Bug contacts" section of the page for each source package (`https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/SOURCEPACKAGE`) shows who receives bug mail for that package. This may include the maintainer and/or people who are just interested. To tell the difference, you can follow the link on each person's name and check whether they're in the `ubuntu-core-dev` or `ubuntu-dev` teams as appropriate (`ubuntu-core-dev` people can upload anything, while `ubuntu-dev` can only upload to the `universe` and `multiverse` components). This isn't foolproof, but it's usually pretty close.

If a package has been modified in the Ubuntu archive (its version number will contain `ubuntu`), the `debian/changelog` file in its source will list the person responsible for the modifications at the end of each entry with a version number containing `ubuntu`. If it is clear from that file that somebody is consistently making substantive Ubuntu changes (more than just "Resynchronise with Debian"), then that person is probably a good contact; at the very least they will know whom you should talk to next.

If a package has not been modified in the Ubuntu archive, it's possible that nobody is responsible for it in Ubuntu, because we've never had a need to touch it since importing it from Debian. In that case, you may just need to talk to the Debian maintainer (diplomatically!). If the package is part of a set of obviously related packages, check those as well.

=== Teams ===

Some large and difficult sets of packages are maintained by teams of people, and some teams are generally responsible for particular aspects of the distribution that cut across the whole archive (such as laptop support or translations). If you have a problem in an area that touches upon a team's responsibility, then contact them. The full list of teams is here:

  <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/teams/]]</nowiki>

=== General contact addresses ===

Most Ubuntu developers use `#ubuntu-devel` on `irc.freenode.net`, and you can ask there for help with whom to contact about a package if you're stuck. (Note that this is not a user support channel.) Please be patient, as the person you need to contact may be in a wildly different timezone; on the other hand, please be persistent if necessary to get some kind of answer! Consider this as a similar process to calling across the office to ask if anyone knows about the package.

If you prefer mail, `ubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com` is the equivalent. Naturally, the latency is often higher this way, but people who don't leave their IRC clients permanently connected are more likely to see your question.
