{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for sourcepackage ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/f/firefox-3.0]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** will become default browser in hardy and go on CD
 0. ''Security:''
** Upstream and extended support by vendors in place
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** works out of the box
** no debconf questions asked
** ubuntu-mozillateam takes care for maintenance (no debian upstream)
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** should be standards compliance, except that we don't do the useless split of chrome/ to /usr/share/ as we don't ship an arch all package.
** Packaging system: cdbs + quilt
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** all dependencies are in main
 0. ''Background information:''
** this package replaces the old firefox package featurewise and will eventually also technically replace/conflict on it. The name firefox-3.0 was choosen to ease the transition and to provide preview releases.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/187089]]</nowiki>

''The author of this report should put their name here; reviewers will add comments etc. too''
