{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== What I do in the UBUNUTU community: ===

* I spend a lot of time in bug hunting, e.g. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~majestyx | Launchpad]]</nowiki>
* With UBUNTU Deutschland e.V. I joined in the preparations to the German LoCo event <nowiki>[[http://ubucon.de/ | "UBUCON"]]</nowiki>
* The "LinuxTag Berlin" is also a project I put a lot of effort in. <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtag.org|LinuxTag Berlin]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[http://chemnitzer.linux-tage.de | CLT]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.blit.org | BLIT]]</nowiki>
* For some time now, I support "UBUNTU Release Parties" in Berlin, technically and giving talks on themes around UBUNTU. <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-berlin.de/ | Release Party's]]</nowiki>

------
 I read the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> and sign him whit my <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/%7Emajestyx/+sshkeys|PGP-Key]]</nowiki>. 

==== How I came to UBUNTU: ====

In the Year 2006 I got my first UBUNTU distribution installed (6.04). As the CD was in the desktop PC a "hit & run" Linux installed whithout problems. If I remember correctly my hardware was approximately 20/24 months old. That time I decided to switch from KDE to GNOME desktop, and the rest is History. With many bottles of club-mate and shirty buddies ;-) i learned: how to use *NIX Systems. (thanks a million over again) Now we use Debian server in our company. Contributing to UBUNTU has become my way to say "Thank's all" in the Open Source Community. UBUNTU is one of the steps Linux step out from the neerd sphere, into the "real world".

==== More Informations about Bug squad and Participation: ====

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bugsquad|bugsquad(ing)]]</nowiki> :-) 
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/processes/newmember|*What is UBUNTERO]]</nowiki>

=== Link to my Launchpad Profile ===

yet another overview about my hunts by UBUNTU Bugs you can find in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~majestyx|Launchpad]]</nowiki>

==== Description of my contributions to Ubuntu and Open Source Society ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''''Projekt Name'''''
| '''''Soft- / Hardware'''''
| '''''Short Description'''''
|-
| Early Thinks: exchanging the graphics card
| 7.10 / NVIDIA Gforce 7xxx
| Take a look in the Hardware Database before you buy a new GC! I have found the NVIDIA Gforce 7 Chipset works fine. After the HW install found „x-config“ the New GC. you install the driver, test it. - thats it. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MajestyxGCARD|1]]</nowiki>
|-
| 3 Networks for Sierra Leone. (Freetown)
| Nearly 100 PCs whit UBUNTU and Edubuntu are ready for a second adoption in Freetown.
| more infos at the project page <nowiki>[[http://linuxwiki.de/ProjektSL|2]]</nowiki>
|-
| FSFE
| Talks about Free and Open Source, especially for Education
| <nowiki>[[http://www.fsfe.org/projects/education/eduteam.de.html|German Page EDU Task Force]]</nowiki>
|-
| Linux Install Party(s) to Promote UBUNTU
| Take a Mobile Network an go to the User
| Please, look forward on this Wiki site: <nowiki>[[http://linuxwiki.de/ProjektSL/installclien|LinuxWiki]]</nowiki>
|-
| to conveyance UBUNTU in Germany
| UBUNTU e. V. Germany
| <nowiki>[[http://verein.ubuntu-de.org/|Webside]]</nowiki>
|-
| The Social and Free from the Software, spoken in UU.de
| Social in Ubuntuusers.de
| <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/LocoTeam/Social|Social in UU.de]]</nowiki>
|-
| UBUNTU in-migration Scout
| my Brain
| going "on the road" to help Newbees to migration
|}

==== Plans and ideas for Ubuntu in the near and far future ====

* From the ProjektSL we look forward to collect more Desktop PC an Servers (up to 2GB RAM, If you have some, mail me :-) )  *We like to planning Install) Party's in Sierra Leone. May by next Year (2010) we go to SL by attorney <nowiki>[[http://www.yoow.info/|YOOW]]</nowiki>.
* Whit the FSFE-Edu Team we go to schools to ''"teach the teachers"'': to work whit Open Source, teaching whit and over Open Source...
* On my Next Gen. Working <nowiki>[[http://www.buero20.org/|B2.0]]</nowiki> we plan OpenSource Events (cycle  period) In this environment i will promote UBUNTU too.

Last but not least, i will install many new PC whit UBUNTU (in case of an emergency, also whit KDE ;-) ) And i still many times whit the German UBUNTU e.V. on UBUNTU exhibition(s) and the Social Themes.

==== Humanity towards others ====

(to tinker with the idea of doing UBUNTU.) i am, '''because''' you are

I promote Free Software, and especially UBUNTU, while i believe that Free Software can only exist in a Free Society. And for a Free Society is Free Software grassroots. Read more about this on my German <nowiki>[[http://cacn.de/|Blog.]]</nowiki> But, it is not easy for normal people to switch. this is the UBUNTU task! I advocacy this...

* freedom and peace for all kids all over the world. There's so much you can take.

humanity and weapons - ''''oh' NO''''

==== Links ====

* [1] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MajestyxGCARD
* [2] http://linuxwiki.de/ProjektSL
* [3] http://verein.ubuntu-de.org/
* [4] http://counter.li.org/person/#392016 (Majestyx)
* [5] http://young-critics.net
* [6] http://fsfe.org/
* [7] http://www.linux-community.de/Community/Blogs (One more Blog - in German Lang.)
 
----

Footnotes:

Copyleft: Creative Commons, feel free to make it „better“
