{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page is inteded to be a collection of tips howto make Ubuntu faster for the end user and what can be done to speed up Ubuntu on the development level.

== Prelink ==

Ubuntu has prelink support integrated, but currently it's not enabled by default, a small howto can be found here:
http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1971

== Init ==

=== Bootcharts ===

Can be found here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BootCharting

=== Initng ===

Adopt Initng: http://initng.thinktux.net/
A total replacement of init, the services system. In heavy development but usable. Often requires some knowledge about services from the user, to fix eventual small issues. Has *potential* to reduce boot time by 50% or more.

=== Readahead ===

Some way of reading files before they are used, at boot. Knoppix benchmarks showed that for their system, boot times were reduced significantly for clients with 512M RAM or more.

=== Start gdm/kdm sooner ===

Start gdm/kdm before all services are started so it looks as if Ubuntu boots faster.

== Compilation ==

=== GCC Flags ===

What are the default flags?
Investigate CFLAGS="-fvisibility=hidden -fvisibility-inlines=hidden".

=== Binutils Flags ===

Ubuntu is already compile with LDFLAGS="-Wl,-O1".
Investigate LDFLAGS="-Wl,--as-needed".

== Kernel ==

Investigate Con Kolivas kernel patches: http://members.optusnet.com.au/ckolivas/kernel/

== Filesystems ==

Investigate <nowiki>[[Reiser4]]</nowiki>. Enable noatime,notail for reiserfs3.

== Packages ==

=== Binutils ===

Include -Bdirect patch: http://sourceware.org/ml/binutils/2005-10/msg00436.html

=== Fontconfig ===

Fontconfig cvs has a lot of performance improvements, I don't know if they are stable though.
