{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

My name is Vadim Nevorotin, I'm a system administrator from Saint-Petersburg, Russia. I've used Ubuntu for several years and now try to help with promotion of this OS.

== Summary of contributions to Ubuntu ==

I'm a member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ru|Ubuntu Russian LoCo]]</nowiki> and I'm in charge of several different tasks:

** I'm a leader of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ru-wiki|Russian LoCo Wiki Team]]</nowiki> taking care of http://help.ubuntu.ru.
** I'm a global moderator of official russian ubuntu forum http://forum.ubuntu.ru
** I'm also a member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ru-web|Russian LoCo Web Team]]</nowiki> and help to develop russian sites.
** I'm a member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-ru|Ubuntu Russian Translators team]]</nowiki> and help to translate some applications on launchpad.

I also try to help users with Ubuntu:

** On <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu.ru|Russian Ubuntu Forum]]</nowiki>
** I've edited or written a lot of documentations on http://help.ubuntu.ru.
** On other different russian sites.

I'm an author of Ubuntu Russian Guide http://help.ubuntu.ru/manual. This project was started before the official Ubuntu Manual and I'm planning to continue my work on it. Now I'm trying to complete the Lucid version of this guide.
 
** <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.ru/manual/введение|Main page of the project]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-russian-guide|Ubuntu Russian Guide on Launchpad]]</nowiki>

I'm also an active bugreporter, translator and so on.

== Current plans ==

Now I'm planning to finish <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ru-wiki/ubuntu-russian-guide/lucid-guide|Russian Lucid Guide]]</nowiki> and to help with some ubuntu.ru tasks.

== Contacts ==

** Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~malamut
** Jabber and mail: malamut@ubuntu.ru
** Russian Ubuntu Forum profile: http://forum.ubuntu.ru/index.php?action=profile;u=20962
** Official Ubuntu Forum Profile: http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=537901

== Testimonials ==

** Vadim is one of the key members in Russian Ubuntu LoCo Team. He did a lot of contribution into LoCo work, our on-line resources and helped many Ubuntu newcomers by means of his great Guide and personal answers at forum. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dmitry-agafonov]]</nowiki>   * Vadim Nevorotin as a leader of <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.ru|Ubuntu Russian Wiki]]</nowiki> team, make a big contributions to represent a knowlege of Ubuntu specific tecnologies in Russian comunity.  -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:po-sergey]]</nowiki> ----
CategoryHomepage
