{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



From <nowiki>[[MalaysianTeam-Activities-2008]]</nowiki>

==== 2nd Meetup Agenda: ====

- FOSS.MY 2008 <<BR>>
- Agenda from 1st meetup <<BR>>
- Misc <<BR>>

=== Attendance ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#e8c476; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;">
| Name
| IRC Nick
| Launchpad
|-
| 1.
| <nowiki>[[fenris]]</nowiki>
| e-jat
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~fenris]]</nowiki>
|-
| 2.
| Sweemeng
| Sweemeng
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~sweester]]</nowiki>
|-
| 3.
| <nowiki>[[KatieKitty]]</nowiki>
| KatieKitty
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~katiekitty]]</nowiki>
|-
| 4.
| Black
| Black
| -
|-
| 5.
| <nowiki>[[FirdausAziz]]</nowiki>
| BuffaloSoldier
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~firdaus]]</nowiki>
|-
| 6.
| wariola
| wariola
| -
|-
| 7.
| cawanpink
| cawanpink
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~nuhaa]]</nowiki>
|-
| 8.
| <nowiki>[[EricYeoh]]</nowiki>
| msian_tux_lover
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~msiantuxlover]]</nowiki>
|-
| 9.
| norly
| norly
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~n0rly]]</nowiki>
|-
| 10.
| yondie
| yondie
| -
|-
| 11.
| blackorga
| blackorga
| -
|-
| 12.
| z4w3p
| z4w3p
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~z4w3p]]</nowiki>
|}

==== Minutes: ====

'''Things activities/to do @ foss.my 2008:''' <<BR>>
-Install fest <<BR>>
-OpenOffice short briefing <<BR>>
-Demo <<BR>>
-Cd/iso distribution <<BR>>
-SME ( Subject Matter Expert) <<BR>>
-Things to be prepare before foss.my: 
* machine (demo and install fest) 
* lcd projector 
* banner 
* ubuntu brochure 
* OpenOffice brochure 
* fullcircle 
* e-maj 

'''Subject Matter Expert''' <<BR>>
We do need volunteer for belows SME: (Please update the wiki with your name@nickname) <<BR>> 
-OpenOffice <<BR>>
-Multimedia <<BR>>
-Database <<BR>>
-Network <<BR>>
-Apps Server <<BR>>
-Joomla <<BR>>
-Drupal <<BR>>
-Packaging <<BR>>
-Hardening <<BR>>
-GNOME <<BR>>
-KDE <<BR>>

==== Subject Matter Expert List ====
Please fill up the wiki page with your expertise and your namenick@name:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#e8c476; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;">
| Name@Nickname
| Expertise
| Requested Materials During FOSS.MY
|-
| 1.
| <nowiki>[[KatieKitty]]</nowiki>
| Gaming in Linux, QEMU & Its Front Ends, WUBI, Distro in USB
| PC, Internet Connection (LAN), 2GB USB Thumbdrive, Ubuntu Live CD
|-
| 2.
| shima (said she would come to help out)
| OpenOffice
| APIIT provide laptop for demo
|-
| 3.
| -
| -
| -
|}

==== July Meetup Minutes (feedback): ====

* Discuss on how to organize install feast event in Malaysia - '''FOSS.MY 2008'''
* More Public Awareness programs ( focus on IPT ) - '''FOSS.MY 2008'''
* Introduce Ubuntu on Orphanage House - '''Installation Acer Aspire'''
* Approaching other sponsors for ubuntu community - '''On going'''
* Discussion on joining Events at MMU - Software Freedom Day (September) - '''Not Achieve'''
* Will also join any other open source / related Events - '''FOSS.MY 2008'''
* Discuss on how to approach and focus on IPT students - '''Kolej ShahPutra, Kuantan'''
* Other media promotions. Forum, IRC, Newspaper, magazine and so on. - '''FOSS.MY 2008'''
* BuffaloSoldier '''Highlight:''' Short Term Target to achieve by the end of this year: '''(on going)'''
** To get ubuntu-my as Official LoCo Team
** To have more official ubuntu members from Malaysia. Currently we have 4 so make it at least double like 8 or more.
* Melayubuntu suggesting e-maj as more practical approach to malay readers. Trying to follow how Japan tech mags are written with full of useful informations. - '''Printed @ FOSS.MY 2008'''
* To improve Ubuntu-my Objective on wiki. - '''Done'''
* Request on Ubuntu-my t-shirt reprint. Tajul & nick are willing to handle it. Agreed on first 100 prints. - '''Done by wariola for MyGOSSCON 2008 & FOSS.MY 2008'''
* Eric says ubuntu.com.my website is empty and not enough links (to planet, forums, wiki and so on) - '''Fixed'''
* Will have scheduled and maturely discussed events - '''Listed at Ubuntu-My Website'''
* Problem with Session ID on forums.ubuntu.com.my - '''Fixed'''
* Will we invite canonical to Malaysia? - '''Plan will invite them on FOSS.MY 2009'''
* To have a list of vendors or opensource consultants to help with ubuntu solutions for companies.
