{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:20%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 1em 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">
|}

=== Introduction ===

Welcome to the wiki page for the '''Ubuntu Malaysia Local Community''' (LoCo) '''Team'''. Started on July 2005, the Malaysian Team has been approved as official LoCo Team since 2009 and we have already grown to over 200 members. We aim to provide free community support to users of any of the Ubuntu flavours as well as advocating the use of Ubuntu to individuals and organizations a like.

The LoCo is meant for anyone residing in Malaysia who uses or is interested in Ubuntu. Everyone is welcome to join and contribute to the group regardless if you're a Linux newbie or a well-known expert in the field.

=== Goals ===

* To spread the Ubuntu's spirit to everyone in Malaysia
* Be the central point for all Ubuntu users to discuss, get together and meet up
* To give the local support, provide supplies and information to Malaysian users
* To organize events and represent Ubuntu at local conferences in Malaysia
* To be involved in Ubuntu projects such as packaging, localization and documentation
* Strengthen the Ubuntu brand in Malaysia in businesses, education and government

=== Sub Teams ===

In order for Ubuntu Malaysia LoCo Team to move forward, we have created different sub teams to handle different tasks in the LoCo. These sub teams are:

* <nowiki>[[Teams-Committee|Committee]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Teams-Marketing|Marketing]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Teams-Translations|Translations]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Teams-WebDevelopment|Web Development]]</nowiki>

=== Sub Pages ===

<<BR>>
----
CategoryLoCoTeams
