{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Overview ==

This is the home page for Launchpad Malayalam Translators team.

Our aim is to maintain the guidelines for the existing and prospective members of the team to carry out the Malayalam translations of Ubuntu operating system and its related software.
Our project page is at-<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lp-l10n-ml|Launchpad Malayalam Translators]]</nowiki>

== Prerequisites for joining the team ==
The prospective members are requested to make sure that you fulfill the following criteria before joining in-
# You should sign the Ubuntu Code Of Conduct(CoC), prior to joining the team.
# You should have made at least one suggestion for Malayalam Translations in Launchpad.
# You should have a personal wiki page on <nowiki>[[http:wiki.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu wiki]]</nowiki>.
    e.g.<nowiki>[[http:wiki.ubuntu.com-saji89|saji89's wiki page]]</nowiki>.
1. You should have a Launchpad Karma >0.

== How to Participate ==

Joining the Launchpad Malayalam Translators team allows you to commit and make malayalam translations. If you are not a member, your contributions will need to be approved by a member. The procedure for joining is as follows.

# Sign up for a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|Launchpad account]]</nowiki>.
# Make your e-mail address visible on your Launchpad homepage so that we can get in touch with you. If we cannot contact you, you cannot join.
# Apply to join the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lp-l10n-ml|Launchpad Malayalam Translators team]]</nowiki>
# Sign up to the '''lp-l10n-ml@lists.launchpad.net''' mailing list
# An Administrator would then add you.
# You should send a mail to the mailing-list introducing yourself to other group-members.

The team is moderated, meaning that you need to be approved by an Administrator before you are allowed to join. Membership is dependent upon:

* Adequate command of the Malayalam language to qualify as a translator.
* Ability to contribute constructively and work as a team under the leadership of the Administrators.
* Following the established guidelines and directions.
* Remaining contactable via the mailing list.

Don't let these requirements scare you off, though. Provided you have decent Malayalam language skills, you will likely be admitted.

== Communication ==

Our primary communications channel is our '''lp-l10n-ml@lists.launchpad.net''' mailing list.

== Upstream Translation Teams ==

There is an upstream translation team called the SMC. The Motto of SMC team is '''"എന്റെ കമ്പ്യൂട്ടറിനു് എന്റെ ഭാഷ"''' . In order to avoid the duplication of effort we'll be working closely with the SMC team. The administrators of this team will carryout the necessary communications with the SMC team.
Members of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lp-l10n-ml|Launchpad Malayalam Translators]]</nowiki> are also encouraged to join the SMC team, for the greater good of Malayalam localization of opensource software.

=== Useful Links ===
* The <nowiki>[[http://wiki.smc.org.in|Swathanthra Malayalam Computing]]</nowiki> group
* The Mailing list of smc is at-<nowiki>[[http://lists.smc.org.in/listinfo.cgi/discuss-smc.org.in]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryHomepage
