{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Ubuntu-my LoCo Websites Specification ==

As ubuntu-my is growing bigger, we need to properly manage our LoCo websites in order to keep it updated and upgraded from time to time. Currently, we have 4 different websites which is:

1. <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.com.my]]</nowiki> - Official Ubuntu Malaysia LoCo website.
2. <nowiki>[[http://forums.ubuntu.com.my]]</nowiki> - Ubuntu Malaysia Forum.
3. <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com.my]]</nowiki> - Ubuntu Malaysia Wiki
4. <nowiki>[[http://planet.ubuntu.com.my]]</nowiki> - Ubuntu Malaysia Blog Aggregator.

In order to properly manage and maintain these website and keep the code clean and healthy, we have decided to put the website source code on launchpad bzr and will be maintained by the web development team. Everyone can check the code at:

<nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-my-locosite]]</nowiki>

=== Initial Development ===

As this new website is in the beginning phase, we need anybody who can code in php to create their own version of the sites and upload it to their branch. Whenever your code is completed and tested locally, you can ask for your code to be reviewed by the team and promoted to the main development trunk. This code will be used at Ubuntu Malaysia's LoCo site.

=== Basic Requirements ===

Your initial code should basically fits these requirements:

1. Forum should be able to backup old forum data and upgrade to your forum version. So, we won't loose any useful post archive. You can create scripts or whatsoever method to do so. 

2. Wiki should also be able to backup old wiki data and upgrade to your wiki version. (same as 1)

3. Main website should at least match ubuntu.com site with Malaysian identity. All pages should be in Malay or dwi-language (people can choose Malay/English) however the default should be Malay. because English reader can simply go to ubuntu.com instead

* * You can ask webteam about the information regarding current website data information.

=== Extra Specification ===

As we need improvements in the new website, it would be great if we can have:
1. Launchpad OpenID integration with the websites.
2. Single Login for forum, wiki, website.
3. Useful event calendar on main website.
4. Integrated LoCo mailing-list archive on the main website.
5. Social Networking enabled site where we can create sub groups, sub teams, communicate and chat with each others, share photos and show that this community is really happening.
6. Useful LoCo download stuff.

=== Current Branches ===

You can add your branch to be reviewed under this section.

1. <nowiki>[[https://code.edge.launchpad.net/~apogee/ubuntu-my-locosite/trunk|apogee initial branch]]</nowiki> - by <nowiki>[[ApOgEE]]</nowiki>

=== Suggestions ===

You can add your suggestion to improve the websites under this section.

1. <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-my/2009-October/002498.html|ubuntu-my portal]]</nowiki> - by <nowiki>[[fenris]]</nowiki>
