{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


From <nowiki>[[MalaysianTeam-Activities-2008]]</nowiki>

==== FOSS.MY 2008 Activities: ====

Suggested by <nowiki>[[fenris]]</nowiki><<BR>>
 - Install fest (Installation , Updating , Update Source)<<BR>>
 - Where to get help? - Forums , IRC , Docs <<BR>>
 - Important Command in Terminal (Basic CLI) <<BR>>
 - CD & ISO Distribution <<BR>>
 - Demo <<BR>>

----
Suggested by <nowiki>[[ApOgEE]]</nowiki><<BR>>
 - Sharing cool Ubuntu stuff session. To share your cool tools and application that you use in Ubuntu. Suggesting, what more can you do with your Ubuntu. (eg: mac4lin, encrypted IM, encrypted VOIP, video editing and so on...)<<BR>>
 - Make some leaflet about how to do daily computing in Ubuntu for beginner or starter. Can be taken from blogs or howto pages. Then photocopy the leaflet and distribute.<<BR>>
  -Suggested howto:<<BR>>
1. Email and Internet surfing in Ubuntu.<<BR>>
2. IM and IRC in Ubuntu.<<BR>>
3. Skype in Ubuntu.<<BR>>
4. Editing Photo using GIMP<<BR>>
5. Opening, Editing and Creating documents using OpenOffice.org<<BR>>
6. Listening to music and mp3s <<BR>>
7. Watching videos, VCD and DVD in Ubuntu<<BR>>
8. How to get help and support in using Ubuntu.<<BR>>
9. Accessing windows shared folder<<BR>>
10. Add your suggestion here!!...

----
Suggested by <nowiki>[[nazroll]]</nowiki><<BR>>
 - Setup a LAMP (Linux + Apache + MySQL + PHP) stack in Ubuntu <<BR>>
 - Setup a self compiled (not from the default Ubuntu packages) LAMP stack in Ubuntu <<BR>> 
 - Setup Google AppEngine SDK in Ubuntu <<BR>>
 - Other stuff? Give your suggestions!
