{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About Me ==
* Member of the English (United Kingdom) translation team.
* Author of <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-l10n-eng/2006-August/000058.html|GreaseMonkey script]]</nowiki> to streamline translation of English into English.

== My notes on installing Ubuntu Dapper 6.06 ==
Good:
* The livecd boots up, detects the network, firefox works, totem works etc.
* Not many questions are asked when installing.
* The questions are easy to answer.
* The installer seems to guess keyboard layout and English language variant based on selected timezone.
* bittorrent is included by default.
* When logging in for the first time, am notified of packages that need to be upgraded.
* I am notified that I need to reboot after upgrading the kernel, but I am not forced to do so.
* Simple graphical tool to add/remove common packages.  Option to switch to more complicated graphical tool to install other packages.
* User switching works.

Bad:
* The livecd uses a US keyboard layout.
* The livecd boots slowly.
* The livecd hung if I tried to do anything while installing, e.g. clicking on the Examples folder, or opening a terminal window.
 The mouse still moved, but I couldn't switch windows.  I could switch to a virtual terminal, but no commands could be run.
* After telling the installer my timezone, the wrong time is still displayed at the top of the screen.
* The installer doesn't seem to care if I want my user account to be called "root".
* The summary page of the installer doesn't say how big the partitions are.
* After the reboot, a 386 kernel is used.  Surely the installer can guess whether to install a 686 or k7 kernel.
 The 386 kernel does not have SMP enabled, so only one CPU is being used.
 Nothing notifies me that I need to install a different kernel.
* No gvim in default install.
* The binary nvidia kernel driver is in the kernel, but the binary nvidia Xorg driver is not installed.
 Nothing notifies me that I need to install this.
 The kernel is tainted for no reason.
