{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About Me ==
My name is Manpreet Singh Dhillon and I am an Open Source lover and user from Punjab(India). I dropped my formal studies after High School and has been in farming since then. But I am using Ubuntu and other open source softwares since my school days and I never stopped learning Linux and networking. Apart from messing with Linux my other interests include reading books and playing football.

=== Open Source & Ubuntu ===
I first come to know about Open Source and Linux in general in 2006 when my cousin gave me a magazine about computers which had some interesting articles about Linux. So I after reading those articles just got my hands on Ubuntu Dapper CD and started installing it without any knowledge and formatted all my HDD.I was amazed at the concept of free software. Well, after that I never looked back and whenever a new release is out, I grab it.

=== Contributions ===
Well to be honest I think this section is much of a show-off :) . Anyway I don't have any active contribution to Linux or Ubuntu in general but I do try to answer some question on Ubuntu forum and I tend to ask a lot also. Apart from that I managed to convince some 10-12 friends to use Ubuntu over Windows and I am proud that they like it and are still using it.
As some people say girls are less tech savvy but I managed to bring two girls to use Ubuntu full time. My own girlfriend use Ubuntu 10.10 and that without dual-boot, means no paid software/os. And we may not be the first couple to use Linux but I don't think so many couples use Ubuntu/Linux as their only OS ;) .
