{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Neskie Manuel ==

My name is Neskie Manuel.  I am Secwepemc from what is known as BC.  I would call it Secwepemc'ulucw.  I am working on finishing my Physics degree.  I am not a fluent speaker in Secwepemctsín, but am working on getting Ubuntu translated into my mother tongue.  I'm also trying to finish up a Physics degree which I'll probably use to go into teaching at some point, but right now I have other plans.

I got into Linux a few years ago when I bought my first laptop a Dell Insprion 6400.  After the first day of using my computer I hated Windows, it had all this commercial software asking for money to get the full version.   I decided I'd install Ubuntu because it was based on Debian, and it seemed to make sensible improvements to the Debian system.

== Current Ubuntu Activities ==

* Manage Ubuntu Secwepemc Team on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-shs|Launchpad]]</nowiki>.
* Package fonts needed for display of special characters <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/unstable/main/ttf-lg-aboriginal|ttf-lg-aboriginal]]</nowiki>.  They are now part of Debian but will be <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/220771|synced with Intrepid]]</nowiki>
* Updating the UbuntuSecwepemcTranslators Wiki Site.
* Submitting indigenous orthographies from this <nowiki>[[http://www.languagegeek.com/alllangs/listoflangs.html|list of languages]]</nowiki> into fontconfig. These can be broken down into roman, cherokee, and syllabic orthographies.
* Advocating it's use among the Aboriginal/First Nations/Indigenous peoples of Canada.
* Uploading NMU packages to the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-shs/+archive|Ubuntu Secwepemc Translators PPA]]</nowiki> to test before submitting patches to Ubuntu.

== Future Ubuntu Plans ==

* Get Mi'kmaw, Ojibway, Cree, and Inuktitut interested in using Ubuntu and doing localizing work.
* Create Locales for each of these languages using <nowiki>[[http://firstvoices.ca|First Voices]]</nowiki> website for info
* Create XKB maps for Indigenous Languages of North America based upon <nowiki>[[http://www.languagegeek.com/keyboard_general/all_keyboards.html|Languagegeek.com keyboard maps]]</nowiki>.

== Skills ==

* Packaging Debian/Ubuntu.
* Patching systems: cdbs and quilt.
* Using Launchpad for submitting bugs, using the PPA
* Programming Langauges: C, Python, PHP, regexp
* Editor of choice: Vim

== Contact ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Email''':
| neskiem@gmail.com
|-
| '''OpenPGP key''':
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0x7C0F7509D04135935FC11C03E5BE42BD6BDB66EB&op=index|6BDB66EB]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Launchpad''':
| https://launchpad.net/~neskiem
|}
