{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">
| '''Contacts: '''<<BR>>
|-
| '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~mantas|mantas]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''GPG Key''':
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0x4F8FC1075CD1817554E154914416452C43535BD5&op=index|43535BD5]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''mantiena''' (mantiena-baltix) on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''E-Mail''':
| 
|-
| '''Jabber ID''':
| same like E-Mail
|-
| '''GSM''':
| +37061453085
|-
| '''Sourceforge''':
| <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/people/viewprofile.php?user_id=439618|mantas]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Mantas Kriaučiūnas ===

** Main programmer and maintainer of <nowiki>[[Baltix]]</nowiki> (Ubuntu derivative, Desktop and Server variants) and Educational software collection (Ubuntu-based operating system + software for Windows in one DVD for Lithuanian schools/universities (contains Science/Research, Education, Creativity/Games, Office, Internet, Programing, System tools and other software, see http://mokslui.akl.lt and http://launchpad.net/all-ways for more info).
** Programmer : C, C++, Python, Java, SQL, also have some shell and Ruby programing knowledge
** Developer of the Baltix, Ubuntu, Debian, Morphix and maybe some other open source projects ;)
** Collaborator in many distros like Ubuntu, Debian, (G/K)noppix and Morphix (and more)
** Active translator of free software into Lithuanian language.
** Lecturer and consultant.
** Board Member of non-profit public organization "Open Source for Lithuania" ("Atviras Kodas Lietuvai", see http://akl.lt/en )

=== Interests ===

** Live systems
** Installation systems
** Hardware detection and databases
** Branding and distros derivatives
** Ubuntu (and other Debian-based), also distros for Baltic states.

=== Summary of contributions to Ubuntu ===
** Lots of activities in bug reporting and bug tracking.
** Translating Ubuntu and writing documentation about Ubuntu in Lithuanian language.
** Patching and collaborating with Ubuntu developers (through Launchpad, IRC and mailing lists).

=== Contributions to Ubuntu and Debian projects ===

** Actively working in Debian community since 2001 and in Ubuntu community since it's first release at the end of 2004.
** Lots of bugreports (eg. http://launchpad.net/bugs/89746, http://launchpad.net/bugs/45852 , https://launchpad.net/bugs/128693 , look at http://launchpad.net/~mantas/+reportedbugs and <nowiki>[[http://www.google.lt/search?q=mantas%40akl.lt+site%3Abugs.debian.org|Debian bugs]]</nowiki> for more)
** Reviewing others work in Ubuntu (eg. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/abiword/+bug/202174/comments/83|AbiWord 2.6 packaging]]</nowiki>)
** Translations of Ubuntu (see https://translations.launchpad.net/~mantas/), GNOME, Debian and other free software
** Patches (eg. http://launchpad.net/bugs/31323 , http://launchpad.net/bugs/80359 , http://launchpad.net/bugs/238224 , <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kino/+bug/152392/comments/16|Kino packaging]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://changelogs.ubuntu.com/changelogs/pool/main/c/cheese/cheese_2.21.5-0ubuntu1/changelog|Cheese]]</nowiki>, http://bugs.debian.org/301095),
** Parts of book about Ubuntu (<nowiki>[[http://lt.wikibooks.org/wiki/Ubuntu/Diegimas_iš_Live_CD|Ubuntu installation manual]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://lt.wikibooks.org/wiki/Ubuntu|Free Book about Ubuntu]]</nowiki>)
** Member of MOTU Science, Derivative, Launchpad Beta Testers, Lithuanian LoCo, Ubuntu Lithuanian Translators and Ubuntu Backports Testing teams, see https://launchpad.net/~mantas/+participation
** Maintaining some unofficial free software packages for Ubuntu (like PcmanFM and Jabbin, see https://launchpad.net/~lxde/+archive or http://sf.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=166861 )
** Was maintaining some official Debian packages (eg. mozilla-locale-lt)
** Improved parts of Ubuntu graphical installer's base (it was named Ubuntu-express these days, see https://launchpad.net/~mantas/+projects )
** Writing custom software for Ubuntu and Debian, e.g. https://launchpad.net/live-installer
** Consulting public and business organizations, also private people about Ubuntu, Debian, OpenOffice.org and other free software.
** Organizing various local events, installfests and conferences about Ubuntu, Debian and other free-software, also about open standards, see http://akl.lt/en/projects and <nowiki>[[http://www.akl.lt/projektai/?doc=InstallFest.html|In Lithuanian language]]</nowiki> for more info)

=== Resume ===

Main my jobs are:
** consultation and teaching of public, educational and business organizations, also private people about Ubuntu, Debian, OpenOffice.org and other free software, helping to migrate desktop and server computers from non-free software to free sofware.
** developing customized operating systems with Linux kernel. 
I have experience with patching, packaging (.deb or .rpm packages), backporting and maintaining open source software.

=== Future plans ===

** Continue active collaboration with Ubuntu, Debian and other free software projects and local (Lithuanian) teams.
** Include all possible improvements from Baltix to Ubuntu and Debian
** Continue to organize and participate in various local events, installfests and conferences about free-software and open standards.

=== Testimonials ===

* I strongly recommend this person, because he is full time open source hacker and main developer of Baltix distribution, made on top of Ubuntu. During Baltix development most of bug fixes and enhancements returns back to Ubuntu.  – MantasZimnickas

* Mantas has been a regular contributor on #launchpad, and has shown passion and integrity in working on Baltix. - SteveAlexander  

* By bugging constantly about the status of cd-recording development, he hurried up some of the fixes and improvements into various cd-recording GUI's - MarioDanic

* Mantas has been around for a long time, helping with bug triage, reporting, and management. - MartinPitt

----
CategoryHomepage
