{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== What is Ubuntu Kylin ? ==

The objective of the Ubuntu Kylin project is to create a variant of Ubuntu that is more suitable for previous Windows users all over the world. We are committed to provide you with a simpler and more enjoyable experience out-of-the-box. For instance, by providing UKUI Desktop Environment which provide a ‘familiar Windows-style layout’ to windows. Ubuntu Kylin has been a formal member of the Ubuntu family, since Ubuntu Kylin 13.04. 

== What's new in Ubuntu Kylin 23.10 ==

=== Kernel ===

Kernel 6.5:  

* MIDI 2.0 support.  

* Enhanced support for Rust.  

* Support for ACPI on RISC-V.  

* Enhancements for the Loongarch architecture.  

* Support for Intel's “Topology Aware Register and PM Capsule Interface”; It provides better power management features.

=== Desktop Environment ===

Ubuntu Kylin 23.10 still using UKUI 3 series and bases it on resolving issues.
 

=== Feature Apps ===

'''Ubuntu Kylin Software Center'''

Ubuntu Kylin Software Store includes Ubuntu Kylin Software Center, Ubuntu Kylin Developer Platform and Ubuntu Kylin Repository. Its interface is simple but with powerful function and it supports both Ubuntu and Ubuntu Kylin Repositories. It is especially convenient for quick installation of Chinese characteristic software developed by Ubuntu Kylin team.

'''Kylin Assistant(youker assistant)'''

Kylin Assistant, a system management and configuration tool developed for Linux users, could show system information, cleanup system garbage and beautify system. It makes your desktop more smooth, more user-friendly and enriched with personality. 

'''Kylin Video'''

Kylin Video utilizes MPV and MPlayer as background play engine. Its GUI front end is written by Gt5. Plus, it supports both x86 and ARM platform. As a powerful video player, Kylin Video supports most of the audio and video formats. Functions of shortcut keys/ preview/ screenshot/ sound settings/ subtitles and so on are provided. Users can even customize settings as they like.

'''Burner'''

Burner is customized according to Brasero, supporting X86 and Arm platforms, modifying the interface according to user's habits, simplifying and optimizing the burn and burn process. For the common optical drive, it is suitable for fast recording and recording, supporting CD, DVD-R and DVD+R format CDs. At the same time, it provides user friendly graphical interface, which is convenient for daily file recording and improves work efficiency.

== Upgrade Ubuntu Kylin from 23.04 to 23.10 ==

=== Back up your user data ===
The upgrade should preserve your user data, but it is always better to be prepared for the unexpected. For example, you could lose power during the upgrade.

=== Ensure your current installation is updated ===
$ sudo apt update && sudo apt dist-upgrade

=== Upgrade ===
$ sudo update-manager -c

== Support ==

* Website: http://www.ubuntukylin.com
* Project page: http://www.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin
* Bug tracker: http://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin
* IRC channel: <nowiki>[[https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntukylin-devel|irc.freenode.net #ubuntukylin-devel]]</nowiki>
* Mailing list: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntukylin-devel | ubuntukylin-devel]]</nowiki>
* Chinese QQ Group: 
** Developers: 125729037
** Users 1: 262012757
** Users 2: 306929327
** Users 3: 75642661
** Users 4: 398104181
** Users 5: 8010855 
* Weibo: http://weibo.com/u/3265288504
* Business Email: contact@ubuntukylin.com

== Download ==

The Release ISO can be downloaded from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntukylin/daily-live | here]]</nowiki>.

== Thanks ==
Thanks to Mauro, sil2100 and others who involving in the development of Ubuntu Kylin, the success of Ubuntu Kylin 18.04 would the result of our joint efforts.
If you want to be a contributor of Ubuntu Kylin,see: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuKylin/NewContributorGuide and https://developer.ubuntukylin.com.
