{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Mantas Zimnickas ===

* '''Email/Jabber''':  * '''Launchpad''': <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~sirex]]</nowiki>
* '''Blog''': <nowiki>[[http://sirex.lt/|sirex.lt]]</nowiki>

=== Membership ===

* Member and leader of LithuanianTeam (https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-lt)
* Member of UbuntuLithuanianTranslators (https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-lt)
* Member of AKL (http://www.akl.lt/)

=== Contributions to Ubuntu ===

My contributions to Ubuntu mostly related with support on forums, IRC, articles, tutorials and news writings on ubuntu.lt web site or my blog, administration and keeping an eye on most Lithuanian Ubuntu related resources and all kinds of organizational activity (release parties, meetings, ...).

Currently I'm administering these resources:
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.lt/|ubuntu.lt web site, including forum and wiki]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-lt|ubuntu-lt mailing list]]</nowiki>
* IRC: #ubuntu-lt on Freenode
* <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/pages/Ubuntult/99285012892|Ubuntu.lt page at Facebook]]</nowiki>

Numbers of my activity online:
* 54 news stories on ubuntu.lt
* 1232 <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.lt/forum/memberlist.php?mode=&sk=d&sd=d#memberlist|ubuntu.lt forum posts]]</nowiki>

My contributions by date:

* 2006-07-22 First time attended to one firsts Lithuanian Ubuntu community meeting:
** Photos: http://www.facebook.com/album.php?aid=91267&id=99285012892
* Was one of organizers of Gutsy Release Party in Vilnius: http://www.ubuntu.lt/node/268
* Organized IRC meeting of LithuanianTeam: <nowiki>[[LithuanianTeam-Susitikimai-2008-03-07]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubucon.lt/|Ubucon'08]]</nowiki> - Conference, Hardy Release Party and InstallFest. I was one of organizers.
** http://sirex.lt/node/52
** <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/event.php?eid=14254884446|facebook event]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://toostis.com/event/1749|photos on toostis.com]]</nowiki>
* 2008-07- Helped to get LithuanianTeam approved.
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LithuanianTeam/ApprovalApplication
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LithuanianTeam/ApprovalApplication?action=AttachFile&do=view&target=LithuanianTeam+approval+first+attempt|IRC logs (first attempt)]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LithuanianTeam/ApprovalApplication?action=AttachFile&do=view&target=LithuanianTeam+approval+logs|IRC logs]]</nowiki>
* Organized IRC meeting of LithuanianTeam: <nowiki>[[LithuanianTeam-Susitikimai-2009-02-15]]</nowiki>
** After this meeting I was elected as LithuanianTeam leader.
* Organized IRC meeting of LithuanianTeam: <nowiki>[[LithuanianTeam-Susitikimai-2009-02-22]]</nowiki>
* Organized IRC meeting of LithuanianTeam: <nowiki>[[LithuanianTeam-Susitikimai-2009-03-26]]</nowiki>
* Was one of organizers of Jaunty Release Party in Vilnius: http://www.ubuntu.lt/node/352
** Photos: http://www.facebook.com/album.php?aid=117967&id=99285012892
* Organized IRC meeting of LithuanianTeam: <nowiki>[[LithuanianTeam-Susitikimai-2009-05-27]]</nowiki>
* Organized IRC meeting of LithuanianTeam: <nowiki>[[LithuanianTeam-Susitikimai-2009-07-03]]</nowiki>
* Was one of organizers of Jaunty Release Party in Vilnius: http://www.ubuntu.lt/node/423
** Photos: http://www.facebook.com/album.php?aid=121942&id=99285012892
* Organized IRC meeting of LithuanianTeam: <nowiki>[[LithuanianTeam-Susitikimai-2010-03-29]]</nowiki>
* 2009-07-15 – 2009-10-30 a lot of effort to finally get officially approved Lithuanian Ubuntu mirror: http://www.ubuntu.lt/node/428
* Moved old ubuntu.lt web site to new AKL server, all data migrated to Drupal, phpBB and MediaWiki. Changed ubuntu.lt design and etc.: https://code.launchpad.net/~sirex/ubuntu.lt/main
* Participation in meetings and helping with translations to Lithuanian language Ubuntu Manual (these activities in our country are lead by <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~komsas|Paulius Sladkevičius]]</nowiki>).
* Organized Ubuntu t-shirts, printed ~50 units: http://www.ubuntu.lt/node/481
** http://www.ubuntu.lt/forum/viewtopic.php?f=4&t=5240
** http://www.ubuntu.lt/forum/viewtopic.php?f=4&t=5335
* Organized Lucid Release Party in Vilnius
** Announcement: http://www.ubuntu.lt/node/486
** Photos: http://www.facebook.com/album.php?aid=166679&id=99285012892
* 2010-05-22 helped to organize OpenCamp: http://www.ubuntu.lt/node/522
* 2010-05-22 I was elected to board of <nowiki>[[http://www.akl.lt/en|AKL (Open Source for Lithuania)]]</nowiki>

=== Future plans ===

* Re-approve Lithuanian Ubuntu LoCo
* Organize future Ubuntu release parties
* Drive Lithuanian Ubuntu LoCo

=== "Ubuntu Member" recomendations ===

* Since the Lithuanian Ubuntu community has taken its first steps, Mantas was one the most active members of the community. His organizational and communication skills, envolvement in local projects made a huge impact on spreading Ubuntu in Lithuania. Since I stepped down from managing Lithuanian LoCo, Mantas took over my role and made a lot of positive changes in organizing community work, events and support for new users. If there is anyone in Lithuania who deserves to be recognized by global Ubuntu community and become an Ubuntu Member, for sure it is Mantas. - TomasŽeimys (Ubuntu Member till 28th May 2010)

----
CategoryHomepage
