{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Stuff ==

=== LinuxTag (2008-05-30) ===

Unfortunately, I forgot to announce that I would be present at the Ubuntu Community exhibition stand at the LinuxTag in Berlin.
I really enjoyed it so far, especially helping people solving their problems with Ubuntu and meeting many of the great brains behind free software. Also, I was able to gather some cool information, e.g. how the d-bus works (thanks to Aaron Siego), and am aware now, that KDE 4.1 will have wobbly windows and therefore be finally usable (yay!)  ;-).

=== Sabre (2008-03-07) ===

I'm a proud Sabre developer now! For those who have never heard of Sabre: It's a cool bash script which is pausing amarok and sets your status in konversation and kopete (guess who implemented it ;-P) as away for you when you leave your computer. The whole thing is realized over bluetooth: Sabre (in fact hcitool) looks for your bluetooth device every ten seconds and changes your status when it can't find the bluetooth device of your choice anymore. There's still some work to be done and I guess I'm going to have a lot of fun with programming on it.
Of course there's a launchpad site available: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/sabre/]]</nowiki>

== Manuel Proemel ==
That's just me.
Since you have probably never heard of me, I'm just going to mention some of the most (or last?!) important details.
I'm living in Berlin, I really like sitting in front of a PC and playing guitar. Moreover I'm doing judo for many years.
The first programming language I learned was Python, followed by Java, C and C++, now I am dealing with getting used to php5 (for a project a friend asked me to join).

----
CategoryHomepage
