{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Marcin Juszkiewicz, apply for MOTU.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Marcin Juszkiewicz
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~hrw/
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarcinJuszkiewicz
|-
| Website
| http://marcin.juszkiewicz.com.pl/
|-
| !LinkedIn
| http://pl.linkedin.com/in/marcinjuszkiewicz/
|}

== Who I am ==

* Debian user since 2000 year (m68k, x86, amd64)
* !OpenEmbedded developer since 2004 (arm, x86, mipsel)
* !OpenZaurus developer since 2004
* !OpenZaurus release manager 2006-2007
* Ångstrom developer since 2006 (arm, x86)
* Maemo developer since 2007 (Nokia 770/n810/n900)
* Linaro developer since 2010
* Ubuntu user since 2010 (amd64, x86, armel)
* Ubuntu developer since 2011 (armel/armhf cross compiler with PPU rights)

I am working with embedded ARM devices since 2004 when I bought my first LinuxPDA (Sharp Zaurus SL-5500). Since then I was one of main developers of !OpenEmbedded build system, contributed a lot to !OpenZaurus distribution (released last few releases, maintained security and bugfix updates repository for them), did lot of UI tweaking for OPIE applications.

Experience with building software and packaging is one of my strong skills.

== My Ubuntu story ==

Started using Debian in 2000 on my Amiga. Then moved to x86 land and stayed with it. Maintained "rox-filer" outside of Debian for nearly two years (then ended using it and someone other took it). Packaged "tex-skak" for friend and got it into Debian (gave maintainership for someone else).

I am using Ubuntu since April 2010 due to my move to Canonical. Before I used it only in virtual machines or on external servers - mostly for checking does !OpenEmbedded and Poky Linux build systems works properly under new Ubuntu releases.

Around May 2011 I got PPU permissions for my packages containing armel/armhf cross compiler which I maintain since June 2010. During last two years I had my fingers in many packages from main and universe mostly during ARM porting jams organized weekly by Linaro Developer Platform team (which I am part of).

=== My involvement ===

As Linaro developer I am working on cross compilation support in Ubuntu. Most of my work is related to toolchain components (binutils, eglibc, gcc, linux). Due to fact that I am working on ARM related things I apply for access to whole 'universe' archive.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

==== Blueprints ====

* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:-ubuntu-+spec-arm-m-cross-compilers | Cross compilers for Maverick]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:-ubuntu-+spec-other-linaro-n-cross-compilers | Cross compilers for Natty]]</nowiki>

I do not want to list Linaro related blueprints here as (due to monthly cycle) we have lot of them.

==== Bugs which I was working on ====

===== GCC 4.[456] changes =====

* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-585439 | replace dh_movefiles with dh_install]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-587851 | merge cross build into "binary" target]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-588788 | fix "control" target for cross builds]]</nowiki>
* [[Launchpad:ubuntu/+bug/590696 | [PR43847] fix wrong use of objdump during cross build]]
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-593187 | -source build-dep not needed when building cross-compilers]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-593274 | Cross-compilers fail to build twice in a row]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-593281 | Cross-compiler packages miss libgcc dbg packages breaking xdeb]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-594534 | Fix installing of libstdc++-pic for cross builds]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-594547 | fix building for sysroot other then -]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-597020 | Merge rules for cross builds into normal one]]</nowiki>
* [[Launchpad:ubuntu/+bug/600927 | [cross] cross-gcc-4.4 package should provide $triplet-gcc, g++ etc. symlinks]]
* [[Launchpad:ubuntu/+bug/600930 | [cross] Provide cross gcc-defaults package]]
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-603497 | allow building intermediate stages for gcc]]</nowiki>
* [[Launchpad:ubuntu/+bug/613401 | [cross] no gcc-4.4-arm-linux-gnueabi-base package]]
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-613404 | sync rules.conf with gcc-4.5]]</nowiki>
* [[Launchpad:ubuntu/+bug/628855 | [cross] create libgcc1 and gcc-*-base packages for stage2 build]]
* [[Launchpad:ubuntu/+bug/640298 | [cross] gcc-4.5-armel-cross_1.35 fails to build due to genchanges warnings]]
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-646729 | Packages built with modified gcc fail to install]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-676454 | switch to gcc-4.5 and symlinks for default versions ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-711523 | dbgsym packages generated during build, but not uploaded ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-739151 | dpkg-cross does not do sensible things with multi-arch: same packages ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-816852 | Build of cross compiler is broken in 4.6.1-5 ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-862436 | cross packages depend on wrong gcc-*-base ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-863101 | add ability to build cross compiler ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-868924 | hardening_patches not enabled for cross builds ]]</nowiki>
* [[Launchpad:ubuntu/+bug/887111 | [cross] Set usr_lib properly for armel cross build ]]

===== other cross toolchain related =====

* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-598389 | Cross build needs rpath with xdeb]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-603087 | Allow to build just linux-libc-dev]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-603498 | allow building intermediate stages for eglibc]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-608650 | provide packaging rules in gcc-4.5-source package]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-608674 | provide packaging rules in linux-source binary package]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-608745 | provide packaging rules in binutils-source binary package]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-609162 | provide packaging rules in eglibc-source binary package]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-612580 | provide unpatches sources in binutils-source package]]</nowiki>
* [[Launchpad:ubuntu/+bug/612629 | [cross] dpkg-genchanges: error: package binutils-arm-linux-gnueabi has priority optional in control file but extra in files list]]
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-612631 | provide unpatches sources in eglibc-source package]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-684625 | libc6 is compiled for armv5 instead of armv7a]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-686530 | Build gold for cross]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-688497 | binutils-multiarch trying to overwrite '-usr-bin-ld.bfd', which is also in package binutils 2.21-1ubuntu2]]</nowiki>

===== FTFBS fixes =====

* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:-openjdk-+bug-600278 | OpenJDK Armel FTFBS]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:debian-+bug-791321 | raxml version 7.2.6-1 failed to build on armel ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:debian-+bug-823709 | gtk-gnutella version 0.97-1 failed to build on armel ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-745870 | svgalib version 1:1.4.3-30build1 failed to build on armel ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-745876 | sea-defender version 0.9-1 failed to build on armel ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-745883 | regina-normal version 4.6-1.1ubuntu3 failed to build on armel]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-745884 | lxc version 0.7.4-0ubuntu1 failed to build on armel ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-745887 | mozart version 1.4.0-6 failed to build on armel ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-749155 | ace version 5.7.7-4 failed to build on i386 and armel ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-770858 | zfs-fuse version 0.6.9-1build1 failed to build on armel  ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-791292 | zfs-fuse version 0.6.9-1build1 failed to build on armel ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-791312 | monav version 0.3-3 failed to build on armel ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-791326 | gnu-smalltalk version 3.2.4-1 failed to build on armel ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-809721 | opendrim-lmp-bios version 1.0.0-0ubuntu2 failed to build on armel ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-809760 | unison2.27.57 version 2.27.57-4 failed to build on armel ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-809761 | oss4 version 4.2-build2004-1ubuntu1 failed to build on armel ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-823714 | xen version 4.1.1-1ubuntu1 failed to build on armel ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-823716 | tcc version 0.9.25-10 failed to build on armel ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-833880 | mush version 7.2.5unoff2-25.1ubuntu1 failed to build in oneiric ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-833884 | mythbuntu-control-centre version 0.63-0ubuntu1 failed to build in oneiric ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-833889 | lo-menubar version 0.1.0-0ubuntu2 failed to build in oneiric ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-833892 | mythbuntu-log-grabber version 0.9-0ubuntu1 failed to build in oneiric ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-833901 | martian version 0.12-0ubuntu1 failed to build in oneiric ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-835743 | simple-ccsm version 0.8.2-0ubuntu1 failed to build in oneiric ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-835763 | python-ldap-doc version 2.3-2.1 failed to build in oneiric ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-835765 | van.testing version 3.0.0-0ubuntu1 failed to build in oneiric ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-935400 | qutecom version 2.2.1+dfsg1-3 FTBFS on armhf in precise ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-935450 | stressapptest version 1.0.3-2ubuntu2 FTBFS on armhf in precise ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-944709 | xf86-video-msm ftfbs on armhf ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-935280 | linphone version 3.3.2-4.1 FTBFS on armhf in precise  ]]</nowiki>

===== Sync/merge requests =====

* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-736154 | Merge dpkg-cross 2.6.2 (universe) from Debian unstable (main) ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-794053 | Sync regina-normal 4.6-4 (universe) from Debian unstable (main) ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-817513 | Merge dpkg-cross 2.6.5 from Debian ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-832692 | Sync gtk-gnutella 0.97-2 (universe) from Debian sid (main) ]]</nowiki>

===== other =====

* [[Launchpad:ubuntu/+bug/608449 | [apport] lspci returns error on devices that don't have pci adapters (arm)]]
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-671027 | Add Efika MX Smartbook-Smarttop support into flash-kernel]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-675442 | Byobu shows wrong cpu frequency on ARM ]]</nowiki>
* [[Launchpad:ubuntu/+bug/934433 | [FFe] Multi-Arch version of elfutils wanted for Precise ]]

==== sponsored packages ====

<nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=*&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=*Juszkiewicz*&sponsoree_search=name | list of packages which were sponsored for me]]</nowiki>

==== PPA ====

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~linaro-maintainers/+archive/toolchain/ | Linaro toolchain backport PPA]]</nowiki>

=== Areas of work ===

* Packages already present in Ubuntu: native/cross compilers. Working with Emdebian team on getting cross toolchain packages in Debian.
* Fixing packages which FTFBS on ARM platforms.

Working with Ubuntu/ARM members, Linaro, Debian and Emdebian developers.

=== Things I could do better ===

* triaging and fixing FTFBS
* improving cross compilation support

== Plans for the future ==

=== General ===

* getting to moment when whole 'main' will be cross buildable

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

----

== Comments ==

''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

Marcin is fun to work with, he seriously cares about packages he had sponsored and is very responsive to bugs. His coding and packaging is good and he surely qualifies for becoming a universe maintainer (beyond the packageset he is already allowed to upload (i.e. the gcc crosscompilers he maintains)) -- '''ogra'''

Marcin has been fixing quite a few packages across Universe and Main during the Linaro FTBFS Jams. He'd be even more effective in his work if he uploaded the changes themselves. Also others would be relieved of having to sponsor so many fixes on his behalf :) - ''' janimo '''

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
Marcin does great work fixing bugs, ARM-related bugs seem to be his speciality. He'd be a great MOTU.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lo-menubar/+bug/833889
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/simple-ccsm/+bug/835743

=== Loïc Minier ===
==== General feedback ====
Marcin worked hard on very subtle and complex packaging problems: cross toolchains.  He kept improving them and still takes care of having up-to-date packages.  I think he's ready to take care of these packages and similar ones all by himself in the archive.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I've sponsored cross-toolchain packages and fixes to the toolchain packages themselves for Marcin.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
