{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Galleon ==

<nowiki>[[http://galleon.sourceforge.net | Galleon]]</nowiki> is perhaps one of the coolest programs ever.  It essentially creates a Tivo Desktop Software program for the Linux Environment.  The biggest feature is one that most Linux users with a Tivo needs: offering the ability to transfer programs "to" the Tivo or "from" the Tivo.

The following instructions first appeared within the following forum posting:

  http://www.tivocommunity.com/tivo-vb/showthread.php?p=5601926&&#post5601926

''As stated above, I've installed the Medibuntu repository and installed Java.  As long as this is a fresh installation, and no changes have been made to Java, than this should solve a LOT of the issues previously encountered.''

'''Step #1:''' Download the latest zip file for Linux <nowiki>[[https://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=126291&package_id=138205&release_id=639619 | here]]</nowiki>

'''Step #2:''' Unzip the galleon archive to a temp directory
''Note:'' I recommend creating a /galleon/ directory of some kind within your /home/ directory as it could help keeping everything together.

'''Step #3:''' Edit the Makefile.  Specfically, comment out the ''chkconfig'' line in the "install: section" and add the following instead

<pre>
## chkconfig --add galleon
  update-rc.d galleon defaults
</pre>

'''Note:''' If you plan on uninstalling Galleon at some point, replace the chkconfig line in the uninstall: section as well:

<pre>
## chkconfig --remove galleon
   update-rc.d -f galleon remove
</pre>

'''Step #4:''' Make Install

<pre>
  % sudo make install
  install -d /usr/share/galleon
  install -d /var/cache/galleon
  install -d /etc/galleon
  install -d /usr/lib/galleon
  install -d /var/log/galleon
  install -d /var/lib/galleon/hme
  install -d /var/lib/galleon/data
  cp -rf bin media /usr/share/galleon
  cp -f Makefile COPYING *.txt /usr/share/galleon
  cp -f conf/*.* /etc/galleon
  cp -rf lib/* /usr/lib/galleon
  cp -rf apps skins /var/lib/galleon
  cp -rf conf/templates /var/lib/galleon
  chmod a+rwx /usr/share/galleon/bin/run.sh
  chmod a+rwx /usr/share/galleon/bin/gui.sh
  chmod a+rwx /usr/share/galleon/bin/galleon
  chmod a+rwx /usr/share/galleon/bin/wrapper*
  chmod +rw /etc/galleon/configure.xml
  ln -sf /var/lib/galleon/apps /usr/share/galleon/apps
  ln -sf /etc/galleon /usr/share/galleon/conf
  ln -sf /var/lib/galleon/data /usr/share/galleon/data
  ln -sf /var/lib/galleon/hme /usr/share/galleon/hme
  ln -sf /usr/lib/galleon /usr/share/galleon/lib
  ln -sf /var/log/galleon /usr/share/galleon/logs
  ln -sf /var/lib/galleon/skins /usr/share/galleon/skins
  ln -sf /var/lib/galleon/templates /etc/galleon/templates
  ln -sf /usr/share/galleon/bin/galleon /etc/init.d/galleon
  update-rc.d galleon defaults
   Adding system startup for /etc/init.d/galleon ...
     /etc/rc0.d/K20galleon -> ../init.d/galleon
     /etc/rc1.d/K20galleon -> ../init.d/galleon
     /etc/rc6.d/K20galleon -> ../init.d/galleon
     /etc/rc2.d/S20galleon -> ../init.d/galleon
     /etc/rc3.d/S20galleon -> ../init.d/galleon
     /etc/rc4.d/S20galleon -> ../init.d/galleon
     /etc/rc5.d/S20galleon -> ../init.d/galleon
</pre>

'''Step #5:''' Open the following Galleon script:

<pre>
   % vi /usr/share/galleon/bin/galleon
</pre>

Comment out the following line:

<pre>
## . /etc/rc.d/init.d/functions
</pre>

'''Step #6:''' Start the Galleon Server:

<pre>
   sudo ./usr/share/galleon start
</pre>

'''Step #7:''' Start the Galleon GUI

<pre>
   sudo ./gui.sh
</pre>
