{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Marcelo Henrique Cerri, apply for upload rights for the linux kernel package(s).'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Marcelo Henrique Cerri
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~mhcerri
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarceloCerri/
|}

== Who I am ==

I have joined Canonical in July 2016 and I'm currently part of the Canonical kernel team, working mainly on the development of custom kernels but also helping with some of the tasks of the stable kernel team.

== My Ubuntu story ==

I started using Linux around the year 2001 and my first contact with Ubuntu was in 2005 with the physical medias distributed by Canonical for 4.10. Ubuntu really caught my attention at that moment, specially considering how user-friendly it was compared to other distros I had tried so far. After that I used Ubuntu as my main distro for several years.

=== My involvement ===
As noted above, my current involvement covers both custom kernels and a bit of stable kernel maintenance. This involves the following:

* Bootstrapping new kernels.
* Handling bug fixes and re-spins for custom kernels.
* Backporting upstream features to custom kernels.
* Eventually, fixing upstream issues that also affect Ubuntu kernels.
* Reviewing and applying patches from kernel-team mailing list.
* Reviewing and applying upstream stable patch sets.
* Crank turning (prepare the kernel trees, close the versions and building the deb source packages) for all the main kernels and their derivatives and backports.
* Automated Tests (ADT) management and bugs investigation.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

The following URL contains the activities I've been involved regarding bugs fixing and also doing releases:

    https://bugs.launchpad.net/~mhcerri

I've also been getting in contact with upstream whenever required. For example, whenever I fix a bug that also affects upstream.

As my main focus is custom kernel development and I also help with the stable team activities, there are several Linux related packages that I have uploaded into Ubuntu repositories. As I do not have upload rights yet, I always need to find sponsors for these packages.

In summary, I'm proud of being part of the kernel team and being able to contribute to the quality, security and cadence of the Ubuntu kernels.

=== Sponsoring ===

Here is a list of sponsored packages:

http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=*marcelo*cerri*&sponsoree_search=name

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA256

=== Kamal Mostafa (~kamal) ===
==== General feedback ====
I have worked closely with Marcelo on multiple occasions over the past year,
having served as his mentor on the Kernel Team and as his sponsor for many
kernel package uploads.  Marcelo is very diligent and careful in his work, and
I have certainly come to expect that his packages will be completely proper.

Marcelo is the primary architect and maintainer of our linux-azure kernels,
demonstrating that he has very strong understanding of Ubuntu kernels and
Ubuntu packaging issues.

I have full confidence in Marcelo and offer my endorsement for his Linux
kernel upload rights without reservation.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1
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=UD88
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Seth Forshee (~sforshee) ===

==== General feedback ====

I've worked with Marcello regularly during his time at Canonical and have sponsored a number of his uploads. I have found that he takes great care in his work, values constructive feedback, and knows to ask questions when necessary. His work on our cloud kernels has demonstrated a very good knowledge of issues around packaging Ubuntu kernels.

I enthusiastically recommend Marcello for kernel upload rights.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=rTkp
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Stefan Bader (smb) ===

==== General Feedback ====

I reviewed and sponsored a number of kernel uploads for Marcelo and
cannot remember any of those not being carefully prepared. I have
trust in him considering the results of his uploads carefully and
in case of anything being unclear to reach out to other people.

I am +1 for adding Marcelo to the kernel PPU list.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v2
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=2DjA
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
