{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

* Debian user since 2000 year (m68k, x86, amd64, armel)
* !OpenEmbedded developer since 2004 (arm, x86, mipsel)
* !OpenZaurus developer 2004-2007
* !OpenZaurus release manager 2006-2007
* Ångstrom developer since 2006 (arm, x86)
* Maemo developer 2007-2010 (Nokia 770/n810/n900)
* Linaro developer since 2010
* Ubuntu user since 2010 (amd64, x86, armel)
* Ubuntu developer since 2011 (amd64, x86, armel)

I am working with embedded ARM devices since 2004 when I bought my first LinuxPDA (Sharp Zaurus SL-5500). Since then I was one of main developers of !OpenEmbedded build system, contributed a lot to !OpenZaurus distribution (released last few releases, maintained security and bugfix updates repository for them), did lot of UI tweaking for OPIE applications.

Experience with building software and packaging is one of my strong skills.

== My Ubuntu story ==

Started using Debian in 2000 on my Amiga. Then moved to x86 land and stayed with it. Maintained "rox-filer" outside of Debian for nearly two years (then ended using it and someone other took it). Packaged "tex-skak" for friend and got it into Debian (gave maintainership for someone else).

I am using Ubuntu since April 2010 due to my move to Canonical. Before I used it only in virtual machines or on external servers - mostly for checking does !OpenEmbedded and Poky Linux build systems works properly under new Ubuntu releases.

=== Ubuntu status ===

* user since 2010 (amd64, x86, armel)
* officially developer since UDS-O
* maverick on EfikaMX (armel netbook), current development version on desktop, laptop and ARM boards (pandaboard, mx53loco)
* area of interest: cross compiler and toolchain

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~hrw
|-
| IRC
| hrw
|-
| Jabber
| hrw@jabber.org
|-
| Email
| marcin@juszkiewicz.com.pl
|-
| Website
| http://marcin.juszkiewicz.com.pl/
|}
