{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Marcin Juszkiewicz, apply for upload rights for those packages:'''

* armel-cross-toolchain-base
* gcc-4.4-armel-cross
* gcc-4.5-armel-cross
* gcc-4.6-armel-cross
* gcc-defaults-armel-cross
* armhf-cross-toolchain-base
* gcc-4.4-armhf-cross
* gcc-4.5-armhf-cross
* gcc-4.6-armhf-cross
* gcc-defaults-armhf-cross

Armel ones are in repository, armhf ones provide same features but for different target. There are no code differences between them.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Marcin Juszkiewicz
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~hrw/
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarcinJuszkiewicz
|-
| Website
| http://marcin.juszkiewicz.com.pl/
|-
| !LinkedIn
| http://pl.linkedin.com/in/marcinjuszkiewicz/
|}

== Who I am ==

* Debian user since 2000 year (m68k, x86, amd64)
* !OpenEmbedded developer since 2004 (arm, x86, mipsel)
* !OpenZaurus developer since 2004
* !OpenZaurus release manager 2006-2007
* Ångstrom developer since 2006 (arm, x86)
* Maemo developer since 2007 (Nokia 770/n810/n900)
* Linaro developer since 2010
* Ubuntu user since 2010 (amd64, x86, armel)

I am working with embedded ARM devices since 2004 when I bought my first LinuxPDA (Sharp Zaurus SL-5500). Since then I was one of main developers of !OpenEmbedded build system, contributed a lot to !OpenZaurus distribution (released last few releases, maintained security and bugfix updates repository for them), did lot of UI tweaking for OPIE applications.

Experience with building software and packaging is one of my strong skills.

== My Ubuntu story ==

Started using Debian in 2000 on my Amiga. Then moved to x86 land and stayed with it. Maintained "rox-filer" outside of Debian for nearly two years (then ended using it and someone other took it). Packaged "tex-skak" for friend and got it into Debian (gave maintainership for someone else).

I am using Ubuntu since April 2010 due to my move to Canonical. Before I used it only in virtual machines or on external servers - mostly for checking does !OpenEmbedded and Poky Linux build systems works properly under new Ubuntu releases.

=== My involvement ===

As Linaro developer I am working on cross compilation support in Ubuntu. Most of my work is related to toolchain components (binutils, eglibc, gcc, linux). Due to fact that I am working on ARM related things I apply for access to whole 'universe' archive.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

Blueprints:

* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:-ubuntu-+spec-arm-m-cross-compilers | Cross compilers for Maverick]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:-ubuntu-+spec-other-linaro-n-cross-compilers | Cross compilers for Natty]]</nowiki>

Bugs which I was working on:

* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-585439 | replace dh_movefiles with dh_install]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-587851 | merge cross build into "binary" target]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-588788 | fix "control" target for cross builds]]</nowiki>
* [[Launchpad:ubuntu/+bug/590696 | [PR43847] fix wrong use of objdump during cross build]]
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-593281 | Cross-compiler packages miss libgcc dbg packages breaking xdeb]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-593274 | Cross-compilers fail to build twice in a row]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-593187 | -source build-dep not needed when building cross-compilers]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-594534 | Fix installing of libstdc++-pic for cross builds]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-594547 | fix building for sysroot other then -]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-597020 | Merge rules for cross builds into normal one]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-598389 | Cross build needs rpath with xdeb]]</nowiki>
* [[Launchpad:ubuntu/+bug/600927 | [cross] cross-gcc-4.4 package should provide $triplet-gcc, g++ etc. symlinks]]
* [[Launchpad:ubuntu/+bug/600930 | [cross] Provide cross gcc-defaults package]]
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-603087 | Allow to build just linux-libc-dev]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-603497 | allow building intermediate stages for gcc]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-603498 | allow building intermediate stages for eglibc]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-608650 | provide packaging rules in gcc-4.5-source package]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-608674 | provide packaging rules in linux-source binary package]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-608745 | provide packaging rules in binutils-source binary package]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-609162 | provide packaging rules in eglibc-source binary package]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-612580 | provide unpatches sources in binutils-source package]]</nowiki>
* [[Launchpad:ubuntu/+bug/612629 | [cross] dpkg-genchanges: error: package binutils-arm-linux-gnueabi has priority optional in control file but extra in files list]]
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-612631 | provide unpatches sources in eglibc-source package]]</nowiki>
* [[Launchpad:ubuntu/+bug/613401 | [cross] no gcc-4.4-arm-linux-gnueabi-base package]]
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-613404 | sync rules.conf with gcc-4.5]]</nowiki>
* [[Launchpad:ubuntu/+bug/628855 | [cross] create libgcc1 and gcc-*-base packages for stage2 build]]
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:-openjdk-+bug-600278 | OpenJDK Armel FTFBS]]</nowiki>
* [[Launchpad:ubuntu/+bug/640298 | [cross] gcc-4.5-armel-cross_1.35 fails to build due to genchanges warnings]]
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-646729 | Packages built with modified gcc fail to install]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-671027 | Add Efika MX Smartbook-Smarttop support]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-688497 | binutils-multiarch trying to overwrite '-usr-bin-ld.bfd', which is also in package binutils 2.21-1ubuntu2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-686530 | Build gold for cross]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-684625 | libc6 is compiled for armv5 instead of armv7a]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-675442 | Shows wrong cpu frequency on ARM ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-739151 | dpkg-cross does not do sensible things with multi-arch: same packages ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-736154 | Merge dpkg-cross 2.6.2 (universe) from Debian unstable (main) ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-711523 | dbgsym packages generated during build, but not uploaded ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-676454 | switch to gcc-4.5 and symlinks for default versions ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-745876 | sea-defender version 0.9-1 failed to build on armel ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Launchpad:ubuntu-+bug-745870 | svgalib version 1:1.4.3-30build1 failed to build on armel ]]</nowiki>

PPA:

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~linaro-maintainers/+archive/toolchain/ | Linaro toolchain backport PPA]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~hrw/+archive/my-own-packages | few packages which I plan to upload to Ubuntu]]</nowiki>

=== Areas of work ===

* Packages already present in Ubuntu: gcc-4.4, gcc-4.5, linux, eglibc, binutils, armel-cross-toolchain-base, gcc-4.4-armel-cross, gcc-4.5-armel-cross, gcc-defaults-armel-cross. Recently started working with Emdebian team on getting my cross toolchain packages working in Debian.
* Efika MX Smartbook related packages

Worked directly with maintainers of affected packages:

* Matthias Klose
* Andy Whitcroft
* Steve Langasek
* Oliver Grawert

Working also with Ubuntu/ARM members, Linaro, and Emdebian developers.

=== Things I could do better ===

* triaging and fixing FTFBS
* improving cross compilation support

== Plans for the future ==

=== General ===

* getting to moment when whole 'main' will be cross buildable

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

Too complicated descriptions of how to became Ubuntu developer/member. It looks like you can be UD but not UM etc.

----

== Comments ==

''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Loïc Minier ===
I've sponsored some debdiffs from Marcin.  Either on random small issues he was fixing, or on his own packages.

As I knew Marcin came from an OpenEmbedded background, I was impressed by how fast he grasped Debian-style packaging.  He faced some though problems when building cross-compiler packages over the maverick and natty cycles, often entangling complex and uncommon debian/rules and situations.

He worked very hard until he killed each issue, and managed to deliver the UDS-specified functionality as expected.

Sometimes, I fixed up minor things; often style issues rather than serious problems.  Overall, I think Marcin is starting to develop a Debian packaging culture, and feels more and more confortable touching packages.

=== Steve Langasek ===
For the past six months Marcin has been wrangling the ARM cross-toolchain packages in maverick and natty, by far some of the trickiest bits of packaging we have in the archive, and he's given us the first ever set of official cross-toolchain packages in a form that's not only usable, but maintainable and reusable.  There are still many fine details of Debian packaging that he's unfamiliar with, but he accepts feedback graciously and learns from mistakes.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUniverseContributorApplication]]</nowiki>
