{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Medibuntu Repository ==

 https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu

Apt-get Installations

 > sudo aptitude install ubuntu-restricted-extras w32codecs ffmpeg vlc mozilla-plugin-vlc mplayer miro hpodder audacity vim-full skype nautilus-open-terminal community-themes filezilla mplayer revelation gthumb powertop htop gnome-do gnome-do-plugins thunderbird lightning-extension mail-notification elisa emerald gtweakui startupmanager

Flash and other non-free viewers and codecs.
w32codecs
ffmpeg
vlc - best media player ever + mozilla-plugin-vlc
mplayer - media player.
miro - GUI podcatcher
hpodder - cmd line podcatcher
audacity - audio editing tool
vim-full
skype
nautilus-open-terminal - Open terminal on desktop with a right click.
community-themes : A set of nice themes from Ubuntu 8.10.
filezilla - GTK ftp/sftp program.
revelation - Great password vault.
gthumb - an image viewer and browser for GNOME, supports videos too
powertop - Program to analyze power consumption on Intel-based laptops. Possibly can offer an hour or so of extra battery life.
htop - great process monitor
gnome-do & gnome-do-plugins
an intelligent launcher tool that makes performing common tasks on your computer simple and efficient
nautilus-dropbox - Dropbox online storage application.
wine
recordmydesktop
Thunderbird (what can I say, I'm switching from Windows and Evolution hasn't won me over)
emerald: a window decorator
startupmanager: manage grub interface and issu splash screen
pysdm: storage device manager
For 64-bit users install the following packages so your system can run 32-bit applications

 % sudo apt-get install lib32z1 lib32ncurses5 lib32bz2-1.0
Other Programs:

Picasa
Google Desktop Search
Elisa
Quickstart Backup
Google Gadgets
