{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

There was a great thread going Planet Ubuntu regarding what does one install whenever they are installing a fresh version.  I thought it might be a good idea to track their ideas for both myself, and others here.

== Medibuntu Repository ==

 https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu

== Apt-get Installations ==

<pre>
 > sudo aptitude install ubuntu-restricted-extras w32codecs ffmpeg vlc mozilla-plugin-vlc mplayer miro hpodder audacity vim-full skype nautilus-open-terminal community-themes filezilla mplayer revelation gthumb powertop htop gnome-do gnome-do-plugins thunderbird lightning-extension mail-notification elisa emerald gtweakui startupmanager pysdm
</pre>

* ubuntu-restricted-extras
** Flash and other non-free viewers and codecs.
* w32codecs
* ffmpeg
* vlc - best media player ever + mozilla-plugin-vlc
* mplayer - media player.
* miro - GUI podcatcher
* hpodder - cmd line podcatcher
* audacity - audio editing tool
* vim-full
* skype
* nautilus-open-terminal - Open terminal on desktop with a right click.
* community-themes : A set of nice themes from Ubuntu 8.10.
* filezilla - GTK ftp/sftp program.
* revelation - Great password vault. 
* gthumb - an image viewer and browser for GNOME, supports videos too
* powertop - Program to analyze power consumption on Intel-based laptops. Possibly can offer an hour or so of extra battery life.
* htop - great process monitor
* <nowiki>[[http://do.davebsd.com/wiki/index.php?title=Main_Page | gnome-do & gnome-do-plugins]]</nowiki>
** ''an intelligent launcher tool that makes performing common tasks on your computer simple and efficient''
* nautilus-dropbox - Dropbox online storage application.
* wine
* recordmydesktop
* Thunderbird (what can I say, I'm switching from Windows and Evolution hasn't won me over)
* emerald: a window decorator
* startupmanager: manage grub interface and issu splash screen
* pysdm: storage device manager

For 64-bit users install the following packages so your system can run 32-bit applications

<pre>
 % sudo apt-get install lib32z1 lib32ncurses5 lib32bz2-1.0
</pre>

Other Programs:

* Picasa
* Google Desktop Search
* Elisa

* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/quickstart-back-up-restore-and-set-up-ubuntu-quickly-and-easily.html | Quickstart Backup]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/howto-install-google-gadgets-in-ubuntu-810-intrepid-ibex.html | Google Gadgets]]</nowiki>
