{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:45%; background:#F1F1DD; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Contents'''
|-
| 
|}
== About Ma_Po ==

My name is Marconi Poveda, I'm from Nicaragua and actually living in Managua. I'm co-founder, official and CC member of the Nicaragua Ubuntu LoCo Team. Computer Engineer by profession, Ubuntero by choise.

=== Contact Information ===

* Email: marconipoveda84 at gmail dot com
* Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~marconipoveda84
* IRC: Ma_Po at irc.freenode.net
* Blog: http://marconipoveda.blogspot.com

== My involvement in Ubuntu ==

I use Ubuntu since Dapper and began spreading the Free Software Philosophy since 2004. Three years later I met great guys (<nowiki>[[http://loegg.wordpress.com|leogg]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://igordevlog.blogspot.com|igorgue]]</nowiki>) who were inlvolved with Free Software too and decided to start the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.org.ni/|Nicaraguan Ubuntu LoCo Team]]</nowiki> and two months later (April 3, 2007 at 7.30am Local Time) we became the first Central American approved LoCo. then my main efforts have been in improving the local team and helping <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-centroamerica|other teams in the region]]</nowiki> to get things started.

I've participated in the organization of <nowiki>[[NicaraguanTeam-Eventos|+20 events]]</nowiki> in the last twelve months, including the award-winning <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/teams/centralandsouthamerica/Nicaragua|SFD Nicaragua 2007]]</nowiki> event (<nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/Competition2007/Winners#head-d3d0c0cb65d1b322f499dd916f07db8dfee887cf|Best SFD event worldwide]]</nowiki>) and the <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtour.org/|Linux Tour]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxjournal.com/node/1005788|one of the biggest Linux events in Central America]]</nowiki>.

I've also represented Ubuntu in meetings and events with other LUGs and in <nowiki>[[NicaraguanTeam-Prensa|interviews]]</nowiki> on local newspapers, radio and TV stations.

=== Team participation ===

* Ubuntu Nicaragua LoCo Team
* Ubuntu Central American Team
* Ubuntu Latin America

=== Future plans ===

* Continue my work with the Ubuntu-ni LoCo Team
* Have all the Central American teams approved by the end of 2008
* Hopefully find some time to learn packaging :)

== My work outside the Ubuntu community ==

I'm pretty active in other FOSS communities, both in Nicaragua and internationally.

* Board member of <nowiki>[[http://www.linux.org.ni|GUL-NIC]]</nowiki> (Nicaraguan LUG, composed by four local LUGs)
* Former board member of the <nowiki>[[http://www.redslcan.org.ni|Nicaraguan FOSS Network]]</nowiki>
* Founding member of the Ubuntu Central American Team
* Founding member of the Central American Free Software Initiative
* International coordinator of <nowiki>[[http://installfest.info/|FLISOL 2008]]</nowiki> - Latin America's biggest installfest
