{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== MarcoSilva ==

=== About Me ===

Im 21 years old, born in South Africa, now living in Portugal.

I'm a Student of Engenharia de Redes de Comunicação e Informação ( Computer Networks ) at Instituto Superior Técnico - Pólo Tagus Park (Oeiras, Portugal).

I've started using Linux about 4 years ago and started using Ubuntu since Warty. Been using Feisty Fawn since Herd2 ( Its looking very good ).

knowledge about C, Java, PHP. Starting my way on Python and Django.

=== Contact ===

Email: igama _AT_ ubuntu.com

IRC : iGama @ Freenode or Ptnet

jabber : igama _AT_ igamahq.org

Blog : www.formatds.org

=== Work about Ubuntu ===

Most of my work regarding Ubuntu is for the Portuguese LoCo Team.

I've translated do Portuguese the [www.ubuntuguide.org UbuntuGuide] and created a <nowiki>[[http://www.guiaubuntupt.org|Portuguese Wiki]]</nowiki> with how-to's, tips and information about Ubuntu.

I'm at about 3 portuguese forums where i help about Ubuntu daily.

In university, people some times refer to me has the "Ubuntu Guy" (lol). I help new users to Linux and Ubuntu and try to convert them to Ubuntu.

For the LoCo team also, I help in the translations at Launchpad when I can, translated the "Highway to freedom" poster to Portuguese to print it.

=== Testimonials ===

Feel free to say what you think about me :)

==== mWm ====

Marco is one of the pioneers boosting the Ubuntu Project to Portugal, developing, translating [Ubuntu itself and guides], and started some kind of community with the building of a Wiki, the Guiaubuntupt.org where everything is explained in portuguese and everything is up to date. As a student from IST Tagus Park too, I can see dozens of new students changing to Ubuntu and accessing the guiaubuntupt.org as a result of Marco's and others hard work to maintain it and to show new users how to get, use, manage and create on Ubuntu. That means that he can manage and co-ordinate a group and a project like guiaubuntupt.org

Keep it up!

==== Sofia Flores aka Gifty ====

He's my university buddy and he use to help everybody with Ubuntu tips. He's a really cool guy and he knows a lot of Ubuntu! :) Cheers Marco! :D

==== Diogo Santos ====

Marco is one of the most active members of the portuguese Ubuntu scene.
Marco has developed and localized documentation that is used by a great number of users, and is an active member of Portuguese loco team.
Marco also finds time to assist many users in the un-official Ubuntu channel in the PTnet IRC network.
He is known by is dedication and his effords to help users, and help users help them selfs.
I can't stress enough the importance of his effords to our community.
He is also a very nice guy! It's nice to have someone like him in the community, and that's my personal opinion, as well as the opinion I belive most Portuguese Ubuntu users that I know, have of him.

My name is Diogo Santos, and I'm the founder of the #Ubuntu in irc.ptnet.org, member of the Board of the General Assembly of the Portuguese Nacional Association for Free Software (<nowiki>[[http://www.ansol.org/|ANSOL]]</nowiki>), a Ubuntu user since ''Hoary Hedgehog'' and Free Software advocate.

==== Marco aka Kmos ====

iGama is always active, he never got lazy to help people to work with Ubuntu. If someone use another distro, he keeps more attention and help is easy things so the user can install Ubuntu. I think most of the people at #Ubuntu at PTnet come from iGama, his friends, people he helped and never installed Windows again. I admire him, he's a nice person..
