{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== About me ==
* Hello World!
* I'm Mariot Tsitoara, 19 years old and a big fan of Ubuntu.
* I'm studying computer science (Software engineering) at the National School of Informatics of Madagascar.
* I use GNU/Linux since 2008 but my preferred distribution is Ubuntu because I love its philosophy and it's very easy to contribute.
* By the way, I also love C++ and wandering around in libraries!
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mariot.tsitoara|mariot.tsitoara]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''GPG Key'''
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0xE87AE8DC1105F9251C0E67308E59A75D30F57233&op=index|30F57233]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1323251|mariot.tsitoara]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| mariot on freenode
|-
| '''Email''':
| mariot.tsitoara@gmail.com
|}
----
== Team Memberships ==
* I use Launchpad since 2010-11-15 and I'm a Malagasy and French translator.
 {*} I'm a member of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-mg|Ubuntu Malagasy Translators]]</nowiki> team. We're trying to provide a complete Malagasy translation of Ubuntu.
 {*} I'm also a member of <nowiki>[[http://l10n.gnome.org/teams/mg|Malagasy Gnome Translators]]</nowiki>
* Since this year, I'm also a member of Linux and Free Software Club of my city. Our goal is to share free softwares and contribute to the development of open source Operating Systems.
* All translations I have done through Launchpad can be found <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/~mariot.tsitoara|here]]</nowiki>
----
== Projects ==
* My short-term goal is to provide a complete Malagasy translation of Ubuntu.
* I'm planning to contribute to the making of Ubuntu when my programming skills would be good enough
* For far future, I want to make of Ubuntu the most popular Operating System in Madagascar.
----
== Contributions to the Ubuntu Community ==
* I'm a Ubuntu translator
* By being a member of a Linux and Free Software Club, I'm used to share and promote free softwares and Ubuntu is one of them
* I organized an Ubuntu Install Party in my city and held a lecture about Ubuntu and its installation.
