{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hello, I'm Marion from Austria. My nickname is Webbutterfly.
I run my own IT-Consulting company, specializing in hardware, operating systems and design. I'm a qualified linux-administrator but now mainly concentrate on the Ubuntu-distribution and offer support in this area.

Founder of the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-austria.at:|Ubuntu-Austria-Group]]</nowiki>

Launchpad <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-austria:|Ubuntu-Austria-Team]]</nowiki>

Launchpad <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~marion-webbutterfly:|Marion Schroefl]]</nowiki>

----

Hello, ich bin Marion aus Österreich, doch besser bekannt als Webbutterfly.
Ich besitze eine kleine Firma, die sich mit IT-Consulting beschäftigt. Spezialisiert hab ich mich auf Hardware, 
Betriebssysteme und Design.
Als qualifizierte Linux-Adminstratorin liegt mein Hauptaugenmerk bei der Distribution von Ubuntu. Hier unterstütze ich User in verschiedenen Foren, biete aber auch kommerziellen Support an.

Gründerin der <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-austria.at|Ubuntu-Austria-Group]]</nowiki>

Launchpad <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-austria:|Ubuntu-Austria-Team]]</nowiki>

Launchpad <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~marion-webbutterfly:|Marion Schroefl]]</nowiki>

=== Kontakt ===
* Email: marion@webbutterfly.com
* Homepage: <nowiki>[[http://www.webbutterfly.com/]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryHomepage
