{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== MarioAGuerra ==

=== Who I am ===

I'm Mario A. Guerra. I live in San José, Costa Rica and I work at NIC-CR.

I've known about Linux since 1993 or the like (kernel 0.99-5), when installing Linux meant to buy a couple of floppy boxes.

I've worked with Redhat/Fedora, Mandrake, Debian, SuSe, also with FreeBSD.  I'm a system administrator and have installed quite a good number of Linux servers in the University of Costa Rica and NIC-CR. Recently I've been acquainted with both brands of Ubuntu. Since then I've installed several Ubuntu boxes, two of them my home computer and my office one (one have Hardy, the other, Jaunty). I've installed several Ubuntu servers.

=== Interests ===

* I'm part of the Costarican LoCo team.
* I made an Ubuntu workshop for sysadmins. They liked the product and received the two-CD package made by Canonical.
* I'm member of ubuntu-cr and ubuntu-es lists.
* I've contributed a little with the Spanish version of Ubuntuguide, http://www.guia-ubuntu.org/, mainly with the Shorewall how-to.
* In the future, I'm going to help with both the English and Spanish documentation.

=== Contacts ===

* Work e-mail: mguerra@nic.cr
* Home e-mail: guerramarioalberto@gmail.com
* Website: http://www.guerra.co.cr/
* GPG key id: 0x907C105A
