{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Register Now for Ubuntu Live'''

Three days in Portland--July 22-24--will be the center of the Ubuntu world, as Ubuntu Live convenes at the Oregon Convention Center. Co-sponsored by O'Reilly Media and Ubuntu parent company Canonical Ltd., this inaugural conference will provide a meeting place for Ubuntu users, contributors, and partners, as well as the Ubuntu-curious. In three days, you'll learn how Ubuntu can make a critical difference in your business or project, as you meet and mingle with the global open source community at the largest Ubuntu gathering yet.

Register before June 4 and you'll save $150. It's quick and easy, at http://www.ubuntulive.com/pub/w/60/register.html

Sunday and Monday will be jam-packed with topic-focused sessions and big-picture keynotes from Ubuntu movers and shakers such as: <<BR>>

MŒrten Mickos (CEO, MySQL)<<BR>>
Mark Shuttleworth (founder of the Ubuntu project and cosmonaut)<<BR>>
Bradley Taylor (founder of Rails Machine) <<BR>>
Jim Zemlin (executive director, Free Standards Group). 

Sessions will provide hands-on techniques, best practices, and bold visions for the future, along with the knowledge you need to explore and use the powerful features of Ubuntu and related applications. Who could resist speakers and topics like these:<<BR>>

"Ubuntu on Rails," Hampton Catlin, Unspace Interactive, Toronto<<BR>>
"Thin Clients, PHAT Results," Jon "maddog" Hall, Executive Director of Linux International<<BR>>
"Clonezilla: It's Better than Ghost," Kristian Hermansen, security researcher/developer, Cisco Systems <<BR>>
"Ubuntu for the Masses: How To Use Free Software and Old Computers To Save the World (Sorta), Jeff Robinson, Free Geek <<BR>>
"Open Source CRM for Linux--and Humans," Lila Tretikov, SugarCRM

Tuesday's expert-led tutorials--in-depth, hands-on, three-hour sessions (for which there is an additional fee)-- will coincide with OSCON, the O'Reilly open source conference taking place at the same time and venue, so you can profit from even greater exposure to the open source community. Here are just a couple to tempt you:

"Asterisk Love Ubuntu," Federico Musto, Chief Cook and Bottlewasher, Dog Hunter, Inc.<<BR>>
"Bash & Dash--Shell Scripting for Power Users," Carl Albing, Cray Inc.<<BR>>
"Distributed Version Control: A Hands-On How-To with Bazaar" <<BR>>
"IT Infrastructure Management in Ubuntu"

This is just the beginning, as more speakers, sessions and tutorials are being added daily. To get schedule and speaker updates, sign up for the conference newsletter at http://www.ubuntulive.com

There'll also be an eye-opening Exhibit Hall showcasing open source products and services, plus a lively "hallway track" supplying plenty of opportunity to socialize, share and spark conversations with colleagues and new friends. Ubuntu Live will emphasize the spirit of Ubuntu Ð "I am what I am because of who we all are," acknowledging the interconnectedness of the work and accessibility for all users.

We hope to see you in Portland this summer!

The Ubuntu Live Conference Team

P.S. Save $150 when you register today at www.ubuntulive.com. Sign up for the conference newsletter, for updates on speakers, sessions, and events as they are confirmed. 
http://www.ubuntulive.com/pub/w/60/register.html
