{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablebgcolor="#ead7b0" tablewidth="40%" tablestyle="margin: 0pt 0pt 1em 1em; float: right; font-size: 0.9em;"style="padding: 0.5em;">'''Contents:'''<<BR>>
|}

This was the first meeting of the entire Marketing Team, and I think several important points were raised and resolved.

== Agenda ==
* What are the Marketing Team's objectives?

 Jenda: Are we happy with what the current wiki says? If anyone wants to propose a new set of objectives, please get them ready for this meeting or the next.

* How can we unify the team and achieve Community Council approval?

 Jenda: I think this is a formality. We'll see how unifying goes tonight, and we will only speak to the CC once we  have a team up and running.

 Jenda: I need you people's confirmation of the following step in this process. I'd like to email every person on the LP and wiki member lists, and remove all those who do not respond within... two weeks? a month? We currently have over 70 people on the LP list, and not 15 of them ever show up - which I think is worse than having no list at all. To avoid this for the times to come, I've set launchpad to give 30 day memberships the first time - which are given to anyone at all - and year long memberships to all who show at least some participation during those 30 days.

* Where does SpreadUbuntu stand and what still needs to be done?

 Jenda: We need layout proposals, I'll try to get as far as we are on the structure as I can by then.

* Where does Ubuntu Magazine stand?

* How can we work with Ubuntu Weekly News and The Fridge?

* How do we interact with Canonical, who is our contact point?

* How can we work with LoCoTeam teams to improve press coverage in non-English language media?

 Jenda: Do we need more than to create all artwork in text-editable form, such as svg? Now of course only those LoCo's that seek us out will have access - however, it shouldn't be that hard to mail the LoCo contact mailing list.

* Decide how this affects the Marketing wiki pages.

 Jenda: I suggest we keep all our wikis in /MarketingTeam/* and a TOC in /MarketingTeam

* Mailing list moderator(s) required to take strain from Jane Silber.

 Jenda: If we decide on project leaders, I believe each of them should be a moderator.

== Summary ==

* What are the Marketing Team's objectives?

We decided to move this discussion into a slower paced mailing list one almost unanimously.

* How can we unify the team and achieve Community Council approval?

 Community Council Approval is far away and not important for the immediate workings of the Team. We discussed, instead, the means of communication for the team. We have decided '''not''' to use any forums at all, to focus around launchpad using three levels of communication: '''IRC, mailing list, wiki''', where the mailing list is considered most formal and official. Whenever an important decision is reached, the thread should be summarized in <nowiki>[[MarketingTeam-Highlights| -Highlights]]</nowiki>.

 We will do our best to make it accessible to new users - through the wiki and potentially spreadubuntu. We will try to get a sticky on the ubuntuforums.org to point to the wiki. MatthewRevell will write an easy guide to join the list.

 The Launchpad Team will be pruned brutally, the member list on the wiki will be removed and merged with the former.

* Where does SpreadUbuntu stand and what still needs to be done?

I (JendaVancura) have been chosen as the project leader for Spreadubuntu and I gave this graphical site layout proposal: http://crashhosting.com/Spreadubuntu-060628-jenda.odg Right now, we're gathering graphical site designs to choose the best ideas and get a first-version site running. I will soon update the wiki as to the goals of the project. MathewRevell, Bilange, Mindspin and JohnLambrechts have all offered to help with the design.

* Where does Ubuntu Magazine stand?

SaraVasquez is the appointed leader of the project, and most info on it is available at UbuntuMagazine. The project will have its own meeting soon.

* New project: Media Relations

The Media Relations project will soon be launched under the leadership of MathewRevell. Read more at the temporary wiki: PressTeam

* How can we work with Ubuntu Weekly News and The Fridge?

Left largely undecided for the Magazine at the current state: different target audience, but leeching is possible. The Marketing Team will give regular reports to the UWN (Assigned to JendaVancura for now).

* How do we interact with Canonical, who is our contact point?

I (JendaVancura) have been chosen to act as the contact point of the MarketingTeam, and it will be largely my responsibility to communicate with Canonical, where JaneSilber will be our main contact and perhaps the new Marketing person (see http://www.ubuntu.com/employment)

* How can we work with LoCoTeam teams to improve press coverage in non-English language media?

We will provide the necessary DIY material in easily translatable and potentially translated forms. We will ring the LoCo contact mailing list once a bit of DIY is up to inform them. The translations and use of our resources will be their responsibility from there - for now.

* Decide how this affects the Marketing wiki pages.

We will keep a simple MarketingTeam/* structure.

* Mailing list moderator(s) required to take strain from Jane Silber.

The project leaders will take the task of administrating the mailing list - SaraVasquez, MatthewRevell and JendaVancura. JendaVancura will ask JaneSilber to switch us over.

== Who's who after this meeting ==

SaraVasquez - Ubuntu Magazine project leader.

MatthewRevell - Media Relations project leader.

JendaVancura - Spreadubuntu project leader and MarketingTeam contact person.

== Logs ==

(to be added)
