{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Mark Stone ===

Email: 
==== Who ====

Mark is a freelance writer and open source consultant. He has been using Linux
as his main desktop operating system since 1994, and has been using Ubuntu for
about a year and a half.

Mark has a long history with open source, having worked as <nowiki>[[http://www.oreilly.com|O'Reilly]]</nowiki>'s Executive
Editor for Open Source in the late 90s, having been part of <nowiki>[[http://www.vasoftware.com|VA Linux]]</nowiki>'s notorious
IPO (without much personal gain), and having served on the executive management team
behind such sites as <nowiki>[[http://slashdot.org|Slashdot]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://sf.net|SourceForge]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://freshmeat.net|Freshmeat]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[http://www.linux.com|Linux.com]]</nowiki>.

==== Where ====

Mark lives in the Sierra Nevada Mountains in Northern California. He has lived in
Northern California off and on since 1986.

==== What ====

At present Mark is working on a book on Ubuntu for the desktop, to be published 
by <nowiki>[[http://www.manning.com|Manning Press]]</nowiki>. Draft material of the book can be found
at MarksUbuntuBook on this wiki.

...

----
CategoryHomepage
