{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Situation ===

The release of Hardy Heron is currently <nowiki>[[HardyReleaseSchedule|scheduled]]</nowiki> for April 24th. This good news needs to be spread!

=== Mission ===

The Ubuntu Marketing Team will promote the release of Hardy Heron.

=== Execution ===

 1. The team will assist members of the Ubuntu developer team in preparing the release notes and announcement.
 2. The team will coordinate the translation of the official Canonical press release.
  2. Cody, Nick, and Martin will provide approved Ubuntu Members of loco teams with the press release to translate.
  3. Cody, Nick, and Martin will maintain a list of individuals who have received the press release and what language they are translating in annex A.
  4. After the embargo is lifted, the marketing team with the help of LoCo teams will publish and spread the press release.
 3. The team will promote and encourage bloggers, website maintainers, etc. at large to display the Ubuntu Hardy release countdown widget.
 4. The news team will cover the development and release of Hardy Heron in the UWN.

=== Services & Support ===

 1. The ubuntu wiki (http://wiki.ubuntu.com)
 2. E-mail
 3. Team IRC Chat room (#ubuntu-marketing on irc.freenode.net)

=== Command & Signals ===

 1. Nick Ali and Martin Albisetti will lead this campaign.
 2. Cody Somerville will assist Nick and Martin in running this campaign.
 3. Cody, Nick, and Martin will be responsible for approving individuals who received the embargoed Canonical press release.
  2. This effort will be lead by Nick.
 

=== Annex A ===

This annex describes who has been granted access to the Ubuntu 8.04 Hardy Heron press release from Canonical.

==== Translators ====

The following individuals have received the press release for translating. 

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Full name'''
| '''IRC Nick'''
| '''LP ID'''
| ''' LoCo Team'''
| '''Language'''
| '''Status'''
|-
| Nick Ali
| boredandblogging
| nali
| ???
| ???
| In progress
|-
| Martin Albisetti
| beuno
| ""
| Argentina
| Spanish
| In progress
|-
| Cody Somerville
| cody-somerville
| ""
| Canada
| French Canadian
| In progress
|-
| Jonathan Carter
| highvoltage
| jonathan
| S. African
| Afrikaans
| In progress
|-
| ???
| ???
| ???
| ???
| German
| In progress
|-
| Szilveszter Farkas
| phanatic
| ""
| Hungarian
| ""
| In progress
|-
| Paolo Naldini
| Hattory
| ""
| Italian
| ""
| Completed
|-
| Siegfried Gevatter
| RainCT
| ""
| Catalan
| Catalan
| In progress
|-
| Timo Jyrinki
| Mirv
| timo-jyrinki
| Finland
| Finnish
| Completed
|-
| André Gondim
| Andre_Gondim
| andregondim
| Brazil
| pt_BR
| In Progress
|-
| Mark Van den Borre
| ???
| markvdb
| Netherlands
| Dutch
| In Progress
|-
| Russell John
| ???
| bangladesh
| Bangladesh
| Bengali
| In Progress
|-
| Sławek Czerkas
| _RAM
| ???
| Polish
| ""
| In Progress
|-
| Daniel Nylander
| yeager
| yeager
| Swedish
| ""
| In Progress
|-
| Mehdi Hassanpour
| mehdi2
| mehdi
| Iranian
| Farsi
| In Progress
|-
| Sri Ramadoss M
| ???
| amachu
| ???
| Tamil
| In Progress
|-
| Andi Darmawan
| Belutz
| belutz
| Indonesian
| Indonesian
| In Progress
|-
| Soren Hansen
| soren
| shawarma
| Danish
| Danish
| In Progress
|}

==== Proof Readers ====

The following individuals are authorized to receive the translated material on or after April 21st for proof reading. 

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Full name'''
| '''IRC Nick'''
| '''LP ID'''
| ''' LoCo Team'''
| '''Language'''
| '''Status'''
|-
| Josep Sànchez
| papapep
| papapep
| Catalan
| Catalan
| April 21st
|}

If for any reason the embargo is broken, please contact Cody Somerville or another member of the Marketing Team immediately. You may call him toll free during working hours (Atlantic time) with the 1-877 number provided in the e-mail you received.  
