{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



The Ubuntu Marketing Team consists Ubuntu users who volunteer to promote <nowiki>[[DigitalFreedom|digital freedom]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[DigitalRights|digital rights]]</nowiki>, and Ubuntu. Anyone is welcome to join and contribute. 

All in accordance with the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/codeofconduct/2.0|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>

== Mission ==

The Marketing Team strives to create the building blocks needed by the Ubuntu Community to spread Ubuntu throughout the world.

Our objectives are:
* The Ubuntu Marketing Team will act as a central marketing resource for the Ubuntu Community.
* Provide resources to assist and encourage LoCos in marketing their activities to the wider community.
* Gather the hard work that LoCo teams are already doing.

== Goals ==
To address people needs and to get their attention we should define what we are aiming at. Some of the goals we should have as part of our marketing effort can be defined as:
* Those who doesn't know and care. Our goal is to make them want to try it.
* The ones who are interested, but feel the obstacle is too great.
* Those who have installed it: We make them want to keep it.
* Dualbooters: We inspire them to use Ubuntu more than the other one.
* Regular users: We inspire them to spread the word.
* Inspired users: We educate them on how they can contribute to the actual software, translations, etc.

== Join Us ==

To join the ''Ubuntu Marketing Team'':
* '''Launchpad:''' https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-marketing
* '''IRC channel:''' <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net?channels=ubuntu-marketing|#ubuntu-marketing on irc.freenode.net]]</nowiki>
* '''Mailing list:''' <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-marketing|Subscribe here]]</nowiki> Mail us here: ubuntu-marketing@lists.ubuntu.com

If you are interested in participating in this team, please scroll down to read more. 

== Getting Involved ==

The marketing team is always looking for more people to help out. We have huge plans to bring the wonder of Ubuntu to the world and the more people helping to do that the faster we can make progress. Please read through the pages linked to from this page to get an idea of what we are currently working on. 

See Also: ActivismHowTo

== Original Thread ==

* http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=73132

'''All Subpages:''' ---
CategoryUbuntuTeams CategoryMarketing CategoryMarketing
