{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

2008-07-05

<pre>
(04:00:29 PM) owh: #startmeeting
(04:00:30 PM) MootBot: Meeting started at 16:01. The chair is owh.
(04:00:30 PM) MootBot: Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
(04:00:44 PM) owh: Hello and welcome to the Ubuntu Marketing monthly meeting. The agenda for today is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam/Meetings/Agendas/2008-07-05
(04:00:57 PM) owh: Our first point of discussion are the minutes for last month's meeting: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam/Meetings/Minutes/2008-06-07
(04:01:06 PM) owh: Is everyone happy with that?
(04:01:24 PM) pep: jupp
(04:01:42 PM) owh: Can I have a person to second that?
(04:01:48 PM) Flannel: I'll second
(04:01:53 PM) owh: [AGREED] Meeting minutes for 2008-06-07 accepted as is.
(04:01:53 PM) MootBot: AGREED received:  Meeting minutes for 2008-06-07 accepted as is.
(04:02:12 PM) owh: First action item from last month:  hubuntu and pep to investigate spreadubuntu.com and report to the list.
(04:02:24 PM) pep: Yes.
(04:02:37 PM) owh: Give us an update if you will.
(04:03:17 PM) pep: We have advanced, everything is viewable here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam/SpreadUbuntu
(04:03:37 PM) Rafik left the room (quit: Remote closed the connection).
(04:03:39 PM) pep: There is the wiki, the mailing list archive, and the discussions held.
(04:03:58 PM) Flannel: We've been in contact with the old chairpersons from the various projects that were related to spreadubuntu
(04:03:59 PM) pep: In short: we are taking the project back, called SU, composed of a diy and a Site part.
(04:04:28 PM) pep: Yes, old involved have been contacted.
(04:04:44 PM) owh: What kind of reception did you receive?
(04:04:48 PM) pep: From the old team, we got one web developer motivate d to help so that's good news
(04:04:56 PM) pep: we got very positive reception
(04:05:12 PM) pep: as well as permission to delete the two old projects on launchpad end start again from scratch
(04:05:18 PM) pep: This is in process
(04:05:32 PM) Flannel: The new design is roughly: We have the DIY site (diy.spreadubuntu.com) that will be the repository of materials for various teams and people in general,
(04:05:34 PM) pep: projects are awaiting deletion from LP staff.
(04:05:51 PM) bbyever: I found a bazr branch with stuff related to SU
(04:05:52 PM) owh: Are there things that the Ubuntu Marketing team can provide to assist?
(04:05:55 PM) Flannel: and then the spreadubuntu.com site will be an "about" sort of site, explaining about Ubuntu, and linux, and things like that
(04:05:58 PM) bbyever: bzr
(04:06:10 PM) bbyever: here: https://code.edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-marketing/+branches?field.lifecycle=ALL&field.lifecycle-empty-marker=1&field.sort_by=by+project+name&field.sort_by-empty-marker=1
(04:06:17 PM) pep: bbyever: yes, it is old code, when Su was supposed to be written for wordpress.
(04:06:23 PM) pep: as well as for another cms
(04:06:29 PM) bbyever: pep: is it any use?
(04:06:34 PM) Flannel: bbyever: Theres actually a few old branches of varying completion
(04:06:57 PM) pep: no, I talked with the main contributor Dan Buch (who wrote almost everything) and he thought like me: delete and start again
(04:07:08 PM) owh: Was there any indication on why the project was abandoned?
(04:07:15 PM) Flannel: bbyever: We're taking bits an pieces of each, mostly design related.  The code itself will depend on what we decide to actually use
(04:07:26 PM) Flannel: owh: Lack of interest, attrition, etc.
(04:07:30 PM) bbyever: Flannel, pep: ok
(04:07:33 PM) Flannel: Or rather, lack of time for the people interested
(04:07:49 PM) owh: Are there any questions from the floor about pep and Flannel's summary?
(04:07:52 PM) pep: Yes, I suppose interest to develop just fell.
(04:08:24 PM) owh: On to the next item.
(04:08:37 PM) Flannel: owh: As per your "What can Marketing do"  The "spreadubuntu.com" section will be put together by the marketing team.  We're hoping to reach out to new users, etc.
(04:09:07 PM) Flannel: owh: So, it'll be a lot of writing content targetting "regular people"
(04:09:30 PM) owh: Cool. I'll volunteer for that when the time comes ;-)
(04:09:35 PM) owh: Moving on. We'll skip the hubuntu booking, since we're here :)
(04:09:50 PM) pep: Flannel: that's talking about the "Site" part right?
(04:10:04 PM) owh: [Topic] Summarise list discussion about team structure proposals
(04:10:05 PM) MootBot: New Topic:  Summarise list discussion about team structure proposals
(04:10:05 PM) Flannel: pep: Thats the spreadubuntu part, not the diy part, yeah.
(04:10:06 PM) pep: ah yes, srry
(04:10:15 PM) pep: (still asleep)
(04:10:47 PM) owh: I've not seen any proposals to the list beyond the one that JV provided. Is this now a moot point?
(04:11:19 PM) Flannel: owh: I don't believe theres been any follow up on that either.  The parties involved may have lost interest
(04:11:23 PM) pep: I don't believe the need for a restructuring so urgent personally...
(04:11:36 PM) pep: +1 Flannel
(04:12:01 PM) owh: Any counter opinions, since we had a rather large discussion about it last meeting and on the list?
(04:12:20 PM) pep: I don't understand why nobody showed up tonight since it seemed to worry many people...
(04:12:27 PM) Flannel: owh: I believe that renders the next agenda topic moot as well.
(04:12:34 PM) Flannel: Or at least, if it is the case
(04:12:53 PM) owh: [Idea] No requirement to change the team structure. No need for a leader. Continue as a collective.
(04:12:53 PM) MootBot: IDEA received:  No requirement to change the team structure. No need for a leader. Continue as a collective.
(04:13:03 PM) owh: Does that cover it?
(04:13:04 PM) pep: Good for me.
(04:13:08 PM) bbyever: +1
(04:13:13 PM) Flannel: +1
(04:13:24 PM) owh: [Agreed] No requirement to change the team structure. No need for a leader. Continue as a collective.
(04:13:25 PM) MootBot: AGREED received:  No requirement to change the team structure. No need for a leader. Continue as a collective.
(04:13:32 PM) owh: We can skip the voting.
(04:13:46 PM) owh: Right, onto bbyever's topic.
(04:13:56 PM) owh: [Topic] Decide what projects will be taken into action and actually start them.
(04:13:56 PM) MootBot: New Topic:  Decide what projects will be taken into action and actually start them.
(04:14:14 PM) owh: bbyever: Over to you.
(04:14:33 PM) bbyever: thanks
(04:14:52 PM) bbyever: ﻿well, there are many projects started, but i've only seen focus in SU... will we all concentrate on SU right now, or will the others also be taken into action
(04:15:30 PM) owh: Which other projects are you talking about?
(04:15:33 PM) Flannel: I don't see a reason why others wouldn't be considered.  We just only have one (SU) currently to my knowledge
(04:15:47 PM) bbyever: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam/Projects
(04:15:53 PM) pep: Well any projects are still viable
(04:16:06 PM) pep: people just need to *do* them
(04:16:40 PM) Flannel: bbyever: The firefox menu bar seemed to be met with some enthusiasm, but I believe Mr Botscharow has had his freetime reduced
(04:16:59 PM) pep: wow, my name is in there o.O
(04:17:10 PM) owh: The plug-in can be simply created using a custom google search IIRC.
(04:17:20 PM) pep: Concerning diy: I believe the project is active, interested people should join the team on launchpad and the mailing list, I actually wanted to wait for the 2 old projects to be deleted and the new one to be created in launchpad to announce it to the list.
(04:17:21 PM) Flannel: bbyever: A lot of the Projects listed on that page are old.  That doesn't mean they need to be removed, or stopped, merely that no one currently is championing them
(04:17:43 PM) owh: I started one, but google refused to do a custom search with anything other than my private google gmail address.
(04:17:46 PM) bbyever: ok, so maybe we should update the page to reflect actual activity?
(04:18:12 PM) pep: well apart from the projects statuses, it reflects it ok...
(04:18:23 PM) Flannel: bbyever: It may be pertinent to change their status, or have a deferred section for projects.  An Active table and an inactive table.
(04:18:38 PM) bbyever: ok
(04:18:39 PM) owh: What about the discussions we had last month. Nothing in that is actually directly doing what we said we would be doing.
(04:18:59 PM) Flannel: owh: The spreadubuntu project is.
(04:19:02 PM) pep: yes
(04:19:05 PM) ***owh hunts for a suitable copy/paste.
(04:19:07 PM) pep: I think it is too...
(04:19:11 PM) Flannel: owh: I assume you're referring to helping the LoCos etc do their thing?
(04:19:21 PM) owh: Yup
(04:19:34 PM) Flannel: owh: The DIY section of the spreadubuntu project does just that.
(04:19:44 PM) owh: Ah, you're sneeky :)
(04:19:51 PM) owh: I forgot :)
(04:20:09 PM) owh: Fine. So, where does this leave bbyever's topic?
(04:20:26 PM) bbyever: i had something else...
(04:20:36 PM) pep: well we're not al concentrating on SU
(04:20:42 PM) owh: A new topic bbyever?
(04:20:46 PM) Flannel: I think we should update the statuses of those projects to reflect their current activity.
(04:20:53 PM) pep: Yeah
(04:20:55 PM) bbyever: no, just like a sub point in my topic
(04:21:02 PM) owh: Cool Flannel. Any volunteers?
(04:21:07 PM) owh: bbyever: Bring it on :)
(04:21:12 PM) Flannel: They shouldn't be removed, because they have good ideas, and hopefully can be seen to fruition.
(04:21:29 PM) bbyever: ﻿i thought maybe it would be better in terms of organization, to assign (or update the current assignments of projects) to people who are interested in helping out
(04:21:36 PM) owh: What about adding a column that points to a progress report Flannel?
(04:21:59 PM) pep: The question is if people are active in our team, a part from SU working group. Maybe if they see that this SU is active, it will motivate others to start off other projects again, we are enough to do several once imo...
(04:22:04 PM) owh: bbyever: Well, when someone actively takes up such a role, that would be when that changes, would it not?
(04:22:16 PM) pep: ones*
(04:22:26 PM) Flannel: owh: I think the Status table covers that.  Also, each subsection (each Project) should include a checklist/todo list
(04:22:38 PM) bbyever: ok
(04:23:53 PM) owh: Flannel: How do you want to "encourage" that?
(04:23:58 PM) Flannel: I agree with pep.  Activity begets activity
(04:24:02 PM) pep: yes
(04:24:38 PM) owh: Flannel: I mean, the "check list/todo".
(04:24:45 PM) Flannel: owh: We should probably write up a quick "How to Start a Project" paragraph for that page
(04:25:00 PM) owh: That's what I was looking for :)
(04:25:06 PM) owh: You volunteering?
(04:25:15 PM) Flannel: I don't mind heading it up, sure.
(04:25:41 PM) owh: [Idea] Flannel to write a "How to Start a Project" paragraph for the UM/Projects page.
(04:25:42 PM) MootBot: IDEA received:  Flannel to write a "How to Start a Project" paragraph for the UM/Projects page.
(04:25:45 PM) owh: Happy with that?
(04:25:52 PM) Flannel: +1
(04:25:57 PM) pep: As soon as SU is ready, in a couple of days imo... somebody could write an encouraging email to the list... taking example on SU to encourage other projects of the marketing team..
(04:26:02 PM) pep: +1
(04:26:05 PM) owh: [Agreed] Flannel to write a "How to Start a Project" paragraph for the UM/Projects page.
(04:26:06 PM) MootBot: AGREED received:  Flannel to write a "How to Start a Project" paragraph for the UM/Projects page.
(04:26:30 PM) owh: Does that leave anything that's open?
(04:26:33 PM) pep: don't forget to mail i tto the list too... not sure that many check out the wiki very often
(04:26:37 PM) Flannel: pep: We'll work that out on our own
(04:26:38 PM) leoquant left the room (quit: "Arise, shine, for  your light has dawned").
(04:26:58 PM) owh: That's more of an SU update really isn't it?
(04:27:12 PM) owh: bbyever: Are you happy with the outcome of that?
(04:27:12 PM) Flannel: yeah, and the SU project will take care of it
(04:27:14 PM) pep: yeah, I suppose... even if it covers the same role in a way
(04:27:22 PM) bbyever: yep
(04:27:38 PM) owh: [Topic] Other Issues
(04:27:38 PM) MootBot: New Topic:  Other Issues
(04:27:57 PM) owh: Any one got anything they wish to air?
(04:28:36 PM) owh: I'll add one. We should be actively providing status updates to the list to encourage activity.
(04:28:45 PM) bbyever: +1
(04:28:50 PM) pep: I find that we're not using the wiki enough too...
(04:28:53 PM) owh: Perhaps once a week, a single paragraph of what we did.
(04:29:04 PM) Flannel: Once a week is probably too frequent
(04:29:07 PM) owh: pep: You mean to document things?
(04:29:28 PM) bbyever: once every 2 weeks would be fine imho
(04:30:04 PM) owh: Is this going to be a personal update, or a project update?
(04:30:09 PM) pep: I mean in general for workflow and organization... task lists, todos, project descriptions, etc... I have the feeling it could be used better... but the source is probably a motivation/interest lack...
(04:30:18 PM) Flannel: It'll move at a different pace for most projects.  Whoever chairs said projects should have a good feel for how frequently they should be updating
(04:30:29 PM) pep: or just report substantial updates in a project...
(04:30:43 PM) owh: pep: To do that, you need to create infrastructure and put policies in place, otherwise it will not happen.
(04:30:51 PM) Flannel: yeah, a bunch of reports of "nothing much happened" isnt going to spur activity
(04:30:52 PM) bbyever: owh: i'd say project update
(04:31:09 PM) owh: Flannel: Can you add that to the paragraph you're writing?
(04:31:20 PM) Flannel: owh: I'll be sure to include it
(04:31:39 PM) Flannel: and pep, I'll mention keeping your wiki updated too
(04:31:53 PM) owh: So, is there anything else exciting happening in the UM sphere?
(04:32:25 PM) owh: [Idea] Projects should provide regular updates to the UM list.
(04:32:26 PM) MootBot: IDEA received:  Projects should provide regular updates to the UM list.
(04:32:29 PM) pep: Ok (I hope to be working alot with the wiki in an effective way for SU)
(04:32:55 PM) pep: I can't think of anything else...
(04:33:00 PM) owh: Everyone cool with that idea?
(04:33:05 PM) laga left the room.
(04:33:12 PM) pep: +1
(04:33:17 PM) bbyever: +1
(04:33:20 PM) owh: [Agreed] Projects should provide regular updates to the UM list.
(04:33:21 PM) MootBot: AGREED received:  Projects should provide regular updates to the UM list.
(04:33:40 PM) owh: [Topic] Next meeting, time and place.
(04:33:41 PM) MootBot: New Topic:  Next meeting, time and place.
(04:33:53 PM) nand left the room (quit: "Bye!").
(04:34:02 PM) bbyever: could i say something else
(04:34:03 PM) Flannel: First Saturday of next month is the second
(04:34:32 PM) owh: Other than that I'll be on a stage MC-ing a few hours later, it's good for me :)
(04:34:46 PM) owh: bbyever: Of course.
(04:35:16 PM) owh: [Idea] Next meeting: 2 August 21:00 UTC
(04:35:18 PM) MootBot: IDEA received:  Next meeting: 2 August 21:00 UTC
(04:35:26 PM) bbyever: ﻿someone posted something about an ubuntu desktop course, which seemed interesting to me. i investigated and it seems the project is inactive... i was wondering if we could take it into the markeitng team and revive it, what do you think?
(04:35:33 PM) pep: +1, no reason for change....
(04:35:51 PM) owh: [Agreed] Next meeting: 2 August 21:00 UTC
(04:35:52 PM) MootBot: AGREED received:  Next meeting: 2 August 21:00 UTC
(04:35:58 PM) pep: sure bbyever, you are welcome to take up the lead of this project if it really is inactive!
(04:36:02 PM) Flannel: bbyever: What is an "Ubuntu Desktop Course"?
(04:36:19 PM) bbyever: let me find the link...
(04:36:29 PM) pep: it seems close enough to a marketing activity to me... :)
(04:37:03 PM) bbyever: https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-desktop-course
(04:37:16 PM) owh: Remember, the idea is not for us to start writing marketing materials, but to coordinate other people's efforts so everyone benefits.
(04:37:39 PM) owh: Uh, that's not right.
(04:37:45 PM) owh: Carry on :)
(04:38:00 PM) Flannel: Just in passing, I'd like to mention that Global Bug Jam is coming up on August 8-10, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GlobalBugJam  You might want to touch base with your LoCos and see if you can participate
(04:38:47 PM) owh: bbyever: Perhaps, rather than "take ownership", join the group and start helping?
(04:38:53 PM) bbyever: well sent a mail to Torsten Spindler asking about the activity of the project and he hasnt replyed..
(04:39:02 PM) bbyever: that was like 5 days ago
(04:39:17 PM) bbyever: i also sent a mail to their list and havent recived a reply
(04:39:33 PM) owh: What about other contributors?
(04:39:34 PM) pep: mhh..; give him another two days and contact another main contributor...
(04:40:06 PM) pep: how about you report us about this project for next meeting, or on the list as soon as you know more?
(04:40:12 PM) bbyever: there hasnt been any activity in 9 weeks
(04:40:13 PM) owh: bbyever: Remember, some people may be doing completely different things and may not be "Ubuntu" 24/7
(04:40:17 PM) Flannel: bbyever: He was on IRC a week ago
(04:40:29 PM) owh: bbyever: That's not a dead project, just slow :)
(04:40:37 PM) bbyever: ok, i'll try to contact more people in the project and i'll report back ehre
(04:40:40 PM) bbyever: here*
(04:40:42 PM) pep: yeah... looks not completely dead to me to...
(04:40:50 PM) owh: [Idea] bbyever to report back on the Ubuntu Desktop Course
(04:40:50 PM) MootBot: IDEA received:  bbyever to report back on the Ubuntu Desktop Course
(04:41:15 PM) owh: Also, note that there is a set of ubuntu course material flying around.
(04:41:33 PM) owh: bbyever: You happy with reporting back next month?
(04:41:37 PM) bbyever: yep
(04:41:44 PM) owh: [Action] bbyever to report back on the Ubuntu Desktop Course
(04:41:45 PM) MootBot: ACTION received:  bbyever to report back on the Ubuntu Desktop Course
(04:42:03 PM) owh: As we say in holland: Een Maal, Andermaal verkocht.
(04:42:13 PM) owh: That is, going once, going twice, sold :)
(04:42:28 PM) owh: Thanks in advance to bbyever for being our scribe today.
(04:42:39 PM) bbyever: np
(04:42:45 PM) owh: Thank you all for attending today.
(04:42:51 PM) owh: #endmeeting
(04:42:51 PM) MootBot: Meeting finished at 16:44.`
</pre>
