{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== MarkRamm ==

=== Contact Info ===

Mark Ramm-Christensen

Location: Ann Arbor, MI, USA

Email: mramm at humantech.com or mark.mchristensen at gmail.com

=== Interests ===

* I am the IT Manager at Humantech, and I'm slowly working on moving our servers over to Ubuntu.

=== Ubuntu Goals ===

* I plan to use Ubuntu whenever possible in the articles I write. 
* I'm trying to get the new Hoary release working under VMWare (requires a patch for the VMWare tools), and publishing a how-to on it.  
* I'm working through the Debian New Maintainers guide, trying to get the hang of packaging.
* I'm interested in working on Ubuntu documentation projects, so contact me if you know of a project that needs a helping hand. 
* I'm planning to try to put together an easy to install easy to administer set of packages for small buisnesses to use as an alternative to Microsoft Small Buisness Server. 

=== Completed Goals ===

* I did a presentation at PenguiCon on Ubuntu, worked at the install-fest for the con, and handed out quite a few Ubuntu CD's.
* I did a presentation on Ubuntu Linux at the Washtenaw Linux Users group in March.
* I used Ubuntu Linux for all the screen shots in my ZABBIX Article the March issue of Linux Magazine. 

=== Time Available ===

* Evenings and weekends mostly ;)
----
CategoryHomepage
