{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="background:#F1F1ED; margin: 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">14 Sept, 2006: '''Please see MarketingTeam/Projects/UbuntuSurveys for the surveys. This is the planning page. Thankyou :)'''
|}

== Scope ==

=== Objective ===

The Marketing Team needs data. Without it, we can't do our job properly.

Our priority is to find out:

# Who our potential customers and users are, what they need and how we can recruit them.
# Who our current customers and users are, what they need and how we can retain them.
# Who our previous customers and users are, what they needed that Ubuntu didn't have and how we can get them back.

Once we know the above, we can decide where to focus our efforts (targeting).

=== Purpose ===

The data gathered will be directly useful for both us, the Marketing Team and other teams within the greater Ubuntu initiative.

Also the survey itself acts as a promotional tool and represents an opportunity to raise awareness and educate the participants.

=== Customers versus users ===

The word "customer" doesn't always sit well in the free software world. It's a useful way to describe the people we deal with, though, and we shouldn't shy away from it.

'''Example:''' in medium-sized business, the IT Director might be our customer, whereas the company's staff would be the users.

=== Tasks ===

We need to collect both Quantitative and Qualitative data from people, however the emphasis should be on Qualitative. These people fall into three seperate catagories:

* Potential Users

* Current Users

* Previous Users

The above catagories will require questions to be different, and even the method of carrying out the survey will vary in approach. Regardless, neither survey should be forced upon the targeted population.

Potential Users should be asked non-Ubuntu related questions. These people may or may not know what Ubuntu is, and some of them possibly do not even know what Linux is, however they should have some basic idea about computers and their operation. Questions in this section should be along the lines of "What are you looking for in a music playing program", 

Current Users are the people who use Ubuntu already, or who have used Ubuntu in the past. Questions aimed at these people should be directly Ubuntu related and should focus on preferences and opinions about the system such as configuration defaults, package choices and so forth. "Do you like the choice of default browser included in Ubuntu" would be an example of a question for this section.

Previous Users are people who have tried to use Ubuntu but churned to something else.  This will be a valuable but (hopefully) small and difficult to find group.  Understanding why they left is very important to discovering ways to make Ubuntu better.

=== Process ===

There are probably countless ways that we could obtain subjective data from people.

The method of data collection to be used for the task must involve direct communication with participants. One of the more convenient methods for doing this is via surveys. Surveys are not ''the'' most effective method for obtaining data, however if done correctly can be low-cost and low-effort compared to other techniques.

=== Results ===

When the data from the surveys has been collected, it will be analysed and presented in a report to teams that are interested parties and other appropriate teams. The results of the surveys will be purely for suggesting changes and to act as a reference.

== Question Ideas ==

Before this process can continue any further, there needs to be decision on what questions to include in each targetted survey. 

As you think of suggestions for questions, please add them to the following tables. Please try to give a reason why each question is relevant. Questions ''must'' be things that can be realistically acted upon.

=== Common Questions ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="background:#F1F1ED; margin: 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">25 Aug, 2006: '''Questions are no longer being collected. A sincere Thankyou to everyone who contributed ideas :)'''
|}

I have added an improved table of questions where we can add suggestions and comments to the questions at: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam/Projects/SurveyQuestionIdeas/QuestionDiscussion|QuestionDiscussion]]</nowiki>
(mindspin)

Questions that are relevant to ''both'' Potential and Current user groups.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''''Question'''''
| '''''Response Type'''''
| '''''Reason'''''
|-
| Most preferred colour
| 
| Can help in decisions re: colour schemes - useful for art team
|-
| What other software do you use daily?
| Free text
| Helps determine most common software needs amongst all users
|-
| What other software do you use weekly?
| Free text
| 
|-
| What is your primary sfotware category?
| Multiple Choice
| Helps determine the different software needs between groups (if there's any)
|-
| What kind of computer you use
| Multiple Choice
| PC or Lap-top, it would help to determine if Ubuntu needs more polishing in laptop or pc mode
|-
| From which manufacturer you bought you computer?
| Multiple Choice
| Ubuntu developers might improve out-of-the-box compatibillity
|-
| Age Range
| Multiple Choice
| Usefull to determine software needs, preferences and other things by age
|-
| Level of Education
| Multiple Choice
| Preferences and needs changes between education levels
|-
| How is your using time of the computer distributed?
| Work % Websurf % Gaming %
| Would help determine which erea is the more demanded, also wothing for software cross-reference
|-
| What is your preferred format for documentation
| Multiple Choice
| Determine where the docteam can best focus its efforts
|-
| Have you heard about DRM?
| Yes, No
| 
|-
| Do you agree with DRM systems?
| Multiple Choice
| 
|}

=== Potential Users of *Ubuntu ===

Questions that are relevant to ''only'' Potential users

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''''Question'''''
| '''''Response Type'''''
| '''''Reason'''''
|-
| What operating system(s) do you currently mostly use?
| Multiple Choice
| It has to include a "What an OS is?" answer
|-
| Computer literacy - do you consider yourself to be experienced user?
| Multiple Choice
|-
| What annoys you about your current operating system?
| Multiple Choice + Free Text
| These are the points against which Ubuntu can be differentiated
|-
| Have you heard about Linux/*Ubuntu?
| Yes/No
| 
|-
| How you heard about Linux/*Ubuntu?
| Multiple Choice
| friend, family, club, (media?), (Internet?) article, advertising, group,  business organisation...
|-
| Use/Awareness of Open Source: Do you use any Open Source programs already?
| Multiple Choice
| OS, Apps
|-
| What concerns you about running Linux or other Free Software?
| Multiple Choice + Free Text
| Identify the (mis)conceptions so they can be addressed
|-
| Would you use free software?
| 
| Help to ascertain current perceptions of FOSS
|-
| What are your priorities when choosing software?
| Multiple Choice or Ranking
| Helps direct marketing focus - should we discuss ethics, cost, usability, etc.
|-
| Have you ever installed an operating system before?
| Yes/No
| 
|-
| What is your current web browser?
| Multiple Choice
| Helps determine whether prospective users are already using F/OSS programs on a regular basis
|-
| What is your current email program?
| Multiple Choice
| 
|-
| What is your current word processing program?
| Multiple Choice
| 
|-
| Are you satisfied (happy) with your current system?
| Multiple Choice
| 
|-
| What major problems have presented in your system in the last year?
| Multiple Choice
| Would help to determine which points Ubuntu have to solve before becoming an option
|-
| Which type of peripherial you use the most
| Multiple Choise (Rank)
| Will help to focus on peripherials compatibility
|-
| Do you have a Network?
| Yes, No, I don't know
| 
|}

=== Current Users of *Ubuntu ===

Questions that are relevant ''only'' to Current users.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''''Question'''''
| '''''Response Type'''''
| '''''Reason'''''
|-
| How you heard about *Ubuntu?
| Multiple Choice
| friend, family, club, (media?), (Internet?) article, advertising, group,  business organisation...
|-
| What prompted you to begin using *Ubuntu?
| Multiple Choice
| curiosity ethical financial convenience security
|-
| Favourite web browser
| 
| May help decide if Firefox is still best browser to have as default
|-
| Favourite mail (also News?) client
| 
| I think most users prefer Mozilla Thunerbird over Evolution, which is the default now
|-
| who installed or set up *Ubuntu on your PC/s?
| Multiple Choice
| OEM, friend, LUG
|-
| If you installed it, comments please?
| 
| 
|-
| What are the first three things you change with a new Ubuntu install?
| Free Text
| Ascertain where the needs of the community do not fit in with our preset install
|-
| What software do you need in Ubuntu?
| Free Text
| Ascertain where the gaps are
|-
| The name of the first five programs you install in a clean install
| Free Text
| Would help to determine if the CD has all the usefull programs
|-
| The name of five programs you don't use (or remove) in a clean install
| Free Text
| Would help to determine if the CD has all the usefull programs complements the previous question
|-
| In what area you think Ubuntu is more user friendly?
| Multiple Choice
| It will help determine the strong points in Ubuntu (maybe for mrketing porpouses)
|-
| In what area you think Ubuntu is less userfriendly?
| Multiple Choice
| It will help determine weak points in Ubuntu for the newcomers
|-
| Is your Ubuntu Machine in a mix Network (Mac OSX, Windows, Linux, etc)?
| Multiple Choice (Yes, No, I don't know)
| 
|-
| What type of problems you have with your Ubuntu box in the mix Network?
| Multiple Choice
| This would help determine network compatibility with different OS's
|-
| How usefull you find the wiki page for finding answers?
| Multiple Choice
| 
|-
| How usefull you find the forums for finding answers?
| Multiple Choice
| 
|-
| How usefull you find the Ubuntu guide page for finding answers?
| Multiple Choice
| 
|-
| Are you interested in how-to's integration?
| Multiple Choice
| Putting a bunch of How-To's into the help program?
|-
| How have you collaborated with Ubuntu?
| Multiple Choice
| I haven't, Bug track, etc
|-
| Which desktop enviroment you use?
| Multiple choice
| KDE, GDM, etc
|}

=== Previous Users of *Ubuntu ===

Questions that are relevant ''only'' to Previous users.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''''Question'''''
| '''''Response Type'''''
| '''''Reason'''''
|-
| Why did you stop using Ubuntu?
| Free Text
| Determine what we can do better
|-
| What software do you need in Ubuntu?
| Free Text
| Ascertain where the gaps are
|-
| What pice of hardware wasn't detected i the installation?
| Multiple Choice
| 
|-
| Did you encounter office apps compatibility problems?
| Yes, completly incompatible. Yes, a bit incompatible. etc
| 
|-
| Was gaming a big issue for you to quit using Ubuntu?
| Multiple choice
| 
|-
| Who installed Ubuntu in you machine?
| Multiple Choice
| 
|-
| Did you use any of the following guides to help you getting to know how Ubuntu works?
| Multiple choice
| wiki, forums, ubuntuguide.org, etc
|-
| Have you used any other Linux distribution before?
| Multiple choice
| No, Mandriva, SuSe, Knoppix, etc
|-
| Would you use Ubuntu if it suits all your needs?
| Multiple choice
| 
|-
| In what area you think Ubuntu is more user friendly?
| Multiple Choice
| 
|-
| In what area you think Ubuntu is less userfriendly?
| Multiple Choice
| 
|-
| What did you like most about Ubuntu?
| Multiple Choice
| 
|-
| What did you (dis)like least about Ubuntu?
| Multiple choice (same choices as above)
| 
|-
| Why did you try Ubuntu?
| Multple choice with text field for other responses
| 
|}

=== Construction and Implementation of Surveys ===

Once enough questions have been gathered, they will be voted upon by the Marketing Team and other interested parties. The most popular/useful questions will then be collated into the two surveys.

Methods for getting the surveys to and from participants is yet to be discussed or decided upon.

The project needs 1,057 surveys from current forum members to get a 95% confidence level with a 3% confidence interval, from current population of members in Ubuntu Forums (110,621). For the Previous Users survey the project needs 1,037 surveys to get the same results, if we supposed that the 36,520 non active forum members have deleted Ubuntu from their HD. For the Potential Users survey the project need 1,070 surveys for a population above 10 million users to get the same results. Which would make a grand total of 3,164 surveys for the project to be statistically The project needs 1,057 surveys from current forum members to get a 95% confidence level with a 3% confidence interval, from current population of members in Ubuntu Forums (110,621). For the Previous Users survey the project needs 1,037 surveys to get the same results, if we supposed that the 36,520 non active forum members have deleted Ubuntu from their HD. For the Potential Users susignificant.

== Timeline ==

* 31st July 2006 -- Initiated Process

* 25th August 2006 -- Deadline for question submission - questions submitted after this time might not make it to the surveys.

* 1st Sept 2006 -- Hope to have survey drafts drawn up

* 8th Sept 2006 -- Hope to have finalised surveys ready for setup/distribution

* 16th Sept 2006 -- <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/|Software Freedom Day]]</nowiki> and central date for the implementation of the Surveys

** Surveys do not necissarily have to be done on this date, but it is more or less the 'official' date for them to be done

* 16th Oct 2006 -- Deadline for survey returns.

* ? -- Draft Reports

* ? -- Final Reports (hopefully before edgy+1 is out)

== Discussion ==
You can add suggestions and comments to the questions at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam/Projects/SurveyQuestionIdeas/QuestionDiscussion|QuestionDiscussion]]</nowiki>(mindspin)

I would like to  add questions for companies/small business users. I'll add them under <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam/Projects/SurveyQuestionIdeas/QuestionDiscussion|QuestionDiscussion]]</nowiki>  (mindspin)
* It's been decided that this will be a seperate project/initiative as it will be alot more time and effort intensive (MelissaDraper)

I wrote a blueprint that is related to this some time ago, it may be a bit difficult to realize tought: <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/user-feedback-app|"Send Feedback" Feature]]</nowiki> --RainCT

Added idea (<nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/23631/|Ubuntu Brainstorm idea #23631]]</nowiki>) to raise awareness/support for this user research project. (<nowiki>[[ScottRippon]]</nowiki> Feb 10, 2010)

=== Continuance ===

If the project goes to plan, It would probably be beneficial to repeat it on a regular basis - possibly repeat the process annually. 

It is important to consider doing this, as the Open Source world, by nature, moves pretty darn fast. Things change from year-to-year -- Opinions change with exposure and education and the standard that needs to be met by any project, ''never'' stops evolving.

=== Resources ===

* The <nowiki>[[http://popcon.ubuntu.com/|Popularity Contest]]</nowiki> will provide some data for "What is your favourite <application>?" style questions. -- DavidSymons

* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntucounter.geekosophical.net|The Ubuntu Counter Project]]</nowiki> will be able to provide data regarding versions and variants. -- MelissaDraper

* The <nowiki>[[UbuntuCensusSurvey|Ubuntu Census Survey]]</nowiki> may provide a lot basic questions that you can base your surveys on.  -- AndreasLloyd
