{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


==== Who is This For ====

This is a set of guidelines written by and for the Ubuntu community. They exist to help us archieve our three main goals, which are:

'''1- Raise awareness of Ubuntu.

2- Get everyone to try Ubuntu.

3- Improve Ubuntu's brand image.'''

If these are things you would like to se happen, then you have come to the right place.

==== Why Have Marketing Guidelines ====
 
The mCoC is a pledge of communication and cooperation between everyone working on Ubuntu marketing. It's also a guide which can be helpful to anyone at any level, from planning websites to talking with friends about Ubuntu.  

We believe that only with strong roots Ubuntu can fully blossom. Joining the mCoC proposal means acknowledging the necessity of maintaining a quality standard all across our big community to project a consistent and strong brand image and archive our goals. 

The mCoC includes all the things which we think are important to take into account when promoting Ubuntu. Anyone who loves Ubuntu can modify it, so you can correct existing points or add new things.

=== Marketing Code of Conduct ===

'''1. Focus on making people try Ubuntu.'''<<BR>>
Don't try to make people leave their operating systems but on the contrary make sure everyone knows it's not a choice between their current system and Ubuntu. Encourage everyone to try Ubuntu. After trying it the choice is theirs.

'''2. Be assertive. Take initiative.'''<<BR>>
If you come up with a good idea, you still need to nurture it until it takes off. Don't just post ideas expecting somebody else will bring them to completion. If you don't work on your own ideas the chances are nobody else will.

'''3. Be respectful and never badmouth other operating systems.''' <<BR>>
The people you're addressing will have Windows or OS X; never let them feel bad about their decision and never label people with names with bad connotations. Let people know the advantages of Ubuntu and let them draw their own conclusions.

'''4. Don't give every listener the same treatment.'''<<BR>>
Ubuntu faces a unique – and welcome – challenge in appealing to a range of users. But these different users expect
different things. Choose a few unique selling points that suit your audience and stick with them. Keep some arguments in reserve for when they start asking questions. And finally let Ubuntu surprise them in a positive way.

'''5. Never oversell and never cover up weaknesses.''' <<BR>>
Disappointed people speak louder than happy people. If people feel Ubuntu is too good to be true they probably never try it, don't oversell and always explain all your claims. 

'''6. Let people know the advantages of FLOSS.'''  <<BR>>
Being free (libre) and open source is what sets us apart from proprietary operating systems. It is important to let people know about it but while many will care about the philosophy, everyone will care about the advantages it confers. End users want to know about the tangible benefits of FLOSS. Always remember to emphasize on them.

'''7. Be open to the Community.''' <<BR>>
Communication and cooperation are fundamental requirements for Ubuntu Marketing to work, when signing the mCoC you acknowledge this need and consent to be contacted by people working to promote Ubuntu.

----

<nowiki>[[marketing-list|You can register to the advocates contact list here.]]</nowiki> 

If you Admin an Ubuntu Website or promote Ubuntu through Social Networks please take a look at the following extra points.

<<BR>>

==== For Websites and Social Networks Administrators ====

'''8.  Pay attention to your audience.'''<<BR>>
Study how your users react to different topics; most sites will give you tools to measure feedback. Stick to the topics that have proven to produce the best results (the most comments, the best reactions etc.).

'''9. Your site's name and info must make clear the content it issues.'''<<BR>>
luvUbuntu can be a great name for a site oriented to average users, ubuntuGeek not so much. Choose a name that reflects the kind of content issued in the site. If your site's name can't be changed you will probably have to change the tone of your site to fit the users it attracts.

'''10. When possible use the latest Ubuntu's recommended Artwork'''<<BR>>
The brandmark is the most recognisable feature of any brand identity. A successful visual identity has to be consistent and recognizable. It's recommended that all sites follow certain patterns regarding design and to keep their designs updated. You can always find the latest artwork and guides for your site in <nowiki>[[http://www.canonical.com/files/ubuntu_brandmark_guidelines_v2.pdf|Ubuntu's Brandmark Guideline]]</nowiki>.

----

<nowiki>[[marketing-list|Register your site to the list of Ubuntu Websites and Social networks here.]]</nowiki> 

<<BR>>
