{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I'm an avid computer user. I think of myself as a jack of all trades master of none. I try to dabble with as much stuff as possible, without really sitting down and learning a whole lot about most of what I'm working with. I'm currently a student at <nowiki>[[http://www.bucknell.edu|Bucknell University]]</nowiki> in Lewisburg, PA, studying Chemical Engineering. I work as a student employee with technical support, assisting students with their own computer troubles. I have no definite plans on what I will be doing in the future, but I have the rest of my life to figure that one out.

In regards to computers, I run my own webserver off of <nowiki>[[http://www.freebsd.org|FreeBSD]]</nowiki> and play around with various types of Linux distros. I currently am using Ubuntu to run a <nowiki>[[http://www.hula-project.org|Hula]]</nowiki> mail server, but also like Gentoo and Fedora. I am also a long standing member at <nowiki>[[http://www.pro-networks.org|PROnetworks]]</nowiki>, a large support community for various technical issues, with the current primary focus being Microsoft's Windows Vista. I don't really do any software development as I'm not that advanced in programming, although I have written several things in Java, and am currently looking into Visual Basic and C++.
