{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Meetings, activities and status ==

Our meetings happen in the #ubuntu-marketing channel on the FreeNode IRC network.

== 2009 ==
'''Our project is now in beta'''.

=== Meeting Q2 ===
We are holding a meeting on Thursday 18th of June. See the header for your time zone :-)

==== Agenda ====
* SpreadUbuntu: a little intro
* Defining SpreadUbuntu:
** Do-It-Yourself Marketing repository site?
** Campaign epicenter for Ubuntu Marketing?
** Advocacy site?
** A combination?
* Drupal6 move before the 9.10 release
** Our site runs on Drupal5 right now. We must fix that!
** Most modules we use (besides copyright/licenses) are already available
** Using the Ubuntu-Drupal code as the base should ease our work
** LP-Drupal integration will help us deliver the best possible user experience
** We need hands-on cooperation for development of the site!
** A roadmap to get the spreadubuntu.com and spreadubuntu.org domains
** Canonical Hosting with community code review in advance?
* Include the Global Ubuntu community:
** Create a Global marketing materials recollection system
** Something that ALL LoCos want to and can use 

=== Meeting Q1 ===
Assistants: AliTabuger7, huayra, michelleribeiro, popey, shahriar86, trmanco
<nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2009/01/31/%23ubuntu-marketing.html|Minutes from meeting 2009-01-31]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2009/02/01/%23ubuntu-marketing.html|a continuation 2009-02-01]]</nowiki>. We talked about:

==== General about the site ====
* Localization of the site and material. We have decided to go for the Rosetta based approach since it gives the advantage of using the Ubuntu translation community.
* Moving to Drupal6, it's pros and cons. Is there a point on doing SU a Drupal module?

==== Introducing the project and overview of our plans ====
* Introducing ourselves and the SpreadUbuntu Project: As a site with 2 parts
** A Do-It-Yourself marketing material repository for the guerrilla marketeer
** And a Community site playing a strengthening role into becoming a UbuntuSpreader while you are still excited about Ubuntu
* SpreadUbuntu needs to go back to the spring of its inspiration:
** Use the SpreadFirefox site (the one that is <nowiki>[[http://www.spreadfirefox.com/node/3575|in the works]]</nowiki>) as our inspiration. Go something like '''Welcome to Spread Ubuntu - Home of the Ubuntu Marketing Community'''
** Use this as a opportunity to move to Drupal6 and finally integrate our site to Launchpad. See <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.ec/|this link]]</nowiki> for an example of that integration.
** We have a <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.ec/su/drupal6/|testing site for this]]</nowiki>. If you want to contribute and need access (to the server and the drupal instance) contact <nowiki>[[mailto:huayra@ubuntu.com|me directly]]</nowiki>
* Our aim should be to make the DIY site the official www.ubuntu.com before the release of the Karmic Koala

==== Welcoming new contributors ====
* We need to be better at welcoming new contributors by making it clear that there are several way to contribute:
** As a marketing person
** Marketing side works on development of the marketing platform, campaigns and marketing content quality
** As a technical person
** Technical part of SU concentrate on DIY, Launchpad integration and concentrate on automatizing the platform as much as possible
** General non-tech, non-marketing-fancy, advocating person
** Our community is infite if we let it be so. Let's just empower our UbuntuSpreaders with a platform and they will bring Ubuntu to every single corner of the world where our community exists.
** And then we all must aim towards this: '''cooperate, exchange ideas, implement them together creating thus a real marketing community based on a technical platform'''.
* Make proper use of our wiki and make it simple to access: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SpreadUbuntu
** Make changes that our wiki shows people the project needs and make it obvious for people where they can help our project out on the spot!
** Restructure our project in order to ease the time used from hearing about it and getting excited to actually contributing

==== Marketing ====
* Work on campaigns to promote Ubuntu and the site. Campaigns should concentrate on festivities and also be as much as possible connected with the Ubuntu release cycle
* Implement an event section (or use one that exists already like the one from the Fridge)
* Upload <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.ec/ruben/su/|this compilated material]]</nowiki> to the site
* SpreadUbuntu spreading in <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/group/spreadubuntu|identi.ca]]</nowiki> and other social sites
 
==== Technical Changes ====
* Adapt the site for campaign use (maybe adding tags or a campaign filed to the material pages and then sorting them somehow out?)
* Contact the Canonical SysAdmins for a Rfc regarding the www.spreadubuntu.com and www.spreadubuntu.org domains and hosting

== 2008 ==
For details on the project and its releases this far see <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/spreadubuntu|our Launchpad Page]]</nowiki>

=== September 2008 ===
* <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2008/09/14/%23ubuntu-marketing.html|Minutes from meeting 2008-09-14]]</nowiki>: Defined some goals:
** <nowiki>[[http://imagebin.ca/view/WyEp6x.html|How will the SU architecture be like?]]</nowiki> <- Flannel gave us a nice image to visualize it :-)
** SU should have a working prototype by the time Intrepid comes around (October 30th). (I will announce the availability of the site in Planet Ubuntu by that time - <nowiki>[[huayra]]</nowiki>)
** AliTabuger7 has joined our team and is going to work in the Drupal 5 Theme
** <nowiki>[[huayra]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[ShahriarTariq]]</nowiki> will work with the DB population and document compilation
** Flannel is working with the structure and design of the DB and the python "farther backend"

=== July 2008 ===
Some conversations we have had until this point:

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam/Meetings/IRCLogs/2008-06-07|Marketing Team meeting]]</nowiki> discussing the team and defining the idea of SU as one of the main goals for the whole team
* <nowiki>[[http://pastebin.ubuntu.com/20582/|Elaborating on admin policy, viral marketing and a SU logo (mainly English, but some Spanish too)]]</nowiki> - pep, meisok and hubuntu
* <nowiki>[[http://pastebin.ubuntu.com/20565/|Elaborating on the DIY website and how it relates to the DIY part of SU]]</nowiki> - Flannel and owh
* <nowiki>[[http://pastebin.ubuntu.com/20586/|Discussion at #ubuntu-marketing on the team setup and elaborating some more in the DIY idea for SU]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://pastebin.ubuntu.com/20590/|Clarifying the issue for the Spanish Speaking colaboration project and making plans for the SU DIY site and how it will work. '''mainly Spanish''']]</nowiki> - Asked Beuno,part of the DIY website team, what it was and why it failed to materialize.
