{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

To create a campaign of liberally licensed videos, preferably available in a free format (ogg theora), to appeal to and educate the general public about <nowiki>[[DigitalFreedom|digital freedom]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[DigitalRights|digital rights]]</nowiki> and subsequently, GNU/Linux, <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FreeSoftware|Free Software]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FreeFormats|Free Formats]]</nowiki>, and Ubuntu. 

This could be as a part of a greater marketing site with a section for other materials like images, posters, leaflets, flyers, etc. 

Similar to <nowiki>[[http://www.firefoxflicks.com/|Firefox Flicks]]</nowiki>, this would be an ongoing campaign to create videos dedicated to the listed above. Videos could be short, long, more just promotional, or educational about the free software philosophy and open source software model. The target audience is anyone and everyone, from individuals to businesses. 

== Planning ==
=== Phase 0 ===
* Planning/Organizing
* Set up website

=== Phase 1 ===
A Call to Video Producers

Promote: 
* Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter
* Digg/Reddit

=== Phase 2 ===
????

=== Phase 3 ===
Profit!

== Goals ==
* Educate the general public
** What is Free Software? 
** Alternative Names
** Concept
* Appeal to the general public
** Examples
** Price
* Concern the general public
** Freedom

== Acceptable Licenses ==
* <nowiki>[[http://sam.zoy.org/wtfpl/|WTFPL]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://creativecommons.org/license/|Creative Commons]]</nowiki>
