{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Marketing Team meetings are an important means of keeping the team in touch. Marketing Team meetings are open to anyone and everyone interested in improving the existing, and shaping the future of Ubuntu Marketing.

== Schedule ==

The Ubuntu Marketig Team meetings are held on '''every first Saturday of the month''' in <code>#ubuntu-meeting</code> at '''irc.freenode.net''' - 21:00UTC. Other meetings may be scheduled as they are needed and ideas are welcome at anytime in the channel, on the mailing list, or on the agenda. Agendas and minutes will be uploaded to the <nowiki>[[Minutes|Minutes]]</nowiki> wiki page.

A Google Calendar is maintained for meetings and events.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/render?cid=2gg6969iejppqpqnm2odvjihng%40group.calendar.google.com|Google Calendar (Subscribe)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/embed?src=2gg6969iejppqpqnm2odvjihng%40group.calendar.google.com|HTML]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/feeds/2gg6969iejppqpqnm2odvjihng%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic|XML (feed)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/ical/2gg6969iejppqpqnm2odvjihng%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics|iCal]]</nowiki>

== Upcoming Meetings ==
* See <nowiki>[[..-|main page]]</nowiki>

=== Sub & Related Team Meetings ===
* <nowiki>[[GamingTeam-Meetings|Gaming Team]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamMeeting|LoCo Teams]]</nowiki>

== Records ==
* <nowiki>[[Minutes|Minutes]]</nowiki> -- Meeting Minutes Archive
* <nowiki>[[IRCLogs|IRC]]</nowiki> -- Meeting IRC log Archive

----
CategoryMarketing
