{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== MarkusHubig ==

I've now setted up a little repository to publish my fixed/backported/updated warty packages. Of course I don't give any warrantys or support, they may totaly break your computer or just eat you cat, but feel free to mail me (ubuntu@pot.ath.cx) ...

Currently my warty repository contains:

* Firefox 1.0  backported from Hoary.
* The mozilla-firefox-gnome-support package backported from Hoary.
* Firefox 1.0 language packages, backported from Hoary.
* Warty PSI packages fresh from Jan Niehusmann amd with a fix for the notification applet behavior.
* Mutt backported from Hoary and patched to fix the tailing delimiter problem. Man this beast now also has header cache support! SPEEEED!
* XCA a a nice GUI for handling X509 certificates, RSA keys, PKCS#10 Requests and RSA keys.

To use my repository add the following lines to your <code>/etc/apt/sources.list</code> file.

<pre>
deb http://www.stud.uni-karlsruhe.de/~ut8g/ubuntu warty-updates main universe
deb-src http://www.stud.uni-karlsruhe.de/~ut8g/ubuntu warty-updates main universe 
</pre>

From MatthiasUrlichs Mon Nov 8 20:50:32 +0000 2004
From: Matthias Urlichs
Date: Mon, 08 Nov 2004 20:50:32 +0000
Subject: ... moved ...
Message-ID: <20041108205032+0000@www.ubuntulinux.org>

I just took the liberty of reparenting this page to UserPages. I hope I didn't step on your toes but it really was misplaced, hanging off [obsoleted by HoaryHedgehog / HoaryGoals]/DesktopSeed.

From MarkusHubig Mon Nov 22 14:55:27 +0000 2004
From: Markus Hubig
Date: Mon, 22 Nov 2004 14:55:27 +0000
Subject: ... moved ...
Message-ID: <20041122145527+0000@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

Of course thats no problem. Thanks!
----
CategoryHomepage
