{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#fff9f7; border: 1px solid #ffd164; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em; -moz-border-radius: 1em;text-align:center;">
| ~+'''Martin Webster'''+~
|-
| '''Location:'''
| Leicester {uk}
|-
| '''Blog:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://www.leadershipthoughts.com/]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Launchpad:'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/martinwebster]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''PGP Key:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0x6A3D82926655A5D9]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu User#'''
| 31329
|-
| ~+'''COMMUNICATIONS'''+~
|-
| '''E-Mail:'''
| 
|-
| '''IRC:'''
| martinwebster on irc.freenode.net
|-
| '''AIM'''
| MartinJWebster
|-
| '''Jabber'''
| martinwebster@xmpp.org.uk
|}

=== Ubuntu Community Contribution ===

My aim is to help get Ubuntu to work great on as many different makes and models of <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Laptop|laptops]]</nowiki> as possible. I can test Ubuntu on the following laptops:

* HP Mini 5102
* HP Compaq nx6125
* Toshiba Satellite L300-1AP

=== About Me ===

My name is Martin Webster and I am Systems Support Manager at <nowiki>[[http://www.leics.gov.uk/|Leicestershire County Council]]</nowiki>. I run the applications support teams that manage the corporate information systems.

My professional interests include project and programme management, business administration, and Strategic Information Systems Planning (SISP.) I’m a chartered member of the <nowiki>[[http://www.bcs.org/|British Computer Society]]</nowiki> and a registered mentor with the <nowiki>[[http://www.theiet.org/|Institution of Engineering and Technology]]</nowiki>.

I spend my leisure time learning, collecting and listening to music, and being the proud parent of teenage twins. Other interests include watercolour and acrylic painting. I have a 2-year old Golden Retriever.

----
CategoryHomepage
