{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''I, Martin Pitt, apply for upload rights for package(s) cockpit{,-machines,-podman}.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Martin Pitt
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~pitti
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| -
|}

I am applying because:

* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored. I initially tried sponsoring in https://launchpad.net/bugs/2099668 but this apparently isn't working so well. Cockpit releases every two weeks, and our users expect and appreciate the latest versions in backports.

== Who I am ==
I have been an <nowiki>[[https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit/graphs/contributors|upstream maintainer]]</nowiki> of <nowiki>[[https://cockpit-project.org/|Cockpit]]</nowiki> since 2017, as full-time Red Hat employee. I also <nowiki>[[https://tracker.debian.org/pkg/cockpit|maintain the Debian package]]</nowiki>.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I have been a Canonical employee between 2004 and 2016, and been a Ubuntu core dev until a few weeks ago. My latter membership expired, and I finally let it as I haven't actually uploaded anything to Ubuntu main in years -- I still had a lot of leftover privileges (core-dev, archive admin, etc.) which today are just unused by me, and thus an unnecessary risk.

However, I didn't realize then that I would also lose upload rights for Cockpit. I don't often need to upload it to the development series other than requesting the occasional manual sync, but I do upload backports every two weeks after the upstream release and Debian upload. I would like to be able to upload backports again as by now Cockpit users on Ubuntu are expecting them. Recent examples are <nowiki>[[https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit/issues/21675|#21675]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit/issues/21483|#21483]]</nowiki>

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work ===

On <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cockpit/+changelog]]</nowiki> you can see that I uploaded a lot of Ubuntu backports over the years.

=== Areas of work ===
I am subscribed to <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cockpit/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=OPINION&field.status%3Alist=INVALID&field.status%3Alist=WONTFIX&field.status%3Alist=EXPIRED&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&field.status%3Alist=INPROGRESS&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status%3Alist=FIXRELEASED&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.tag=&field.tags_combinator=ANY&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.upstream_target=&field.has_cve.used=&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.affects_me.used=&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_branches.used=&field.has_branches=on&field.has_no_branches.used=&field.has_no_branches=on&field.has_blueprints.used=&field.has_blueprints=on&field.has_no_blueprints.used=&field.has_no_blueprints=on|Ubuntu bug reports]]</nowiki> and groom them.

However, we actually receive most bug reports directly upstream, and ironically (as this is primarily a Fedora/RHEL project) many or even most of them come from Ubuntu users. Ubuntu is a first-class citizen in our CI and support, and all our upstream PRs are <nowiki>[[https://github.com/cockpit-project/bots/blob/main/lib/testmap.py|being tested]]</nowiki> there -- currently 22.04 LTS, 24.04 LTS, and 24.10 as latest stable.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== KenVanDine ===
Oh hey, I know this dude! Martin taught me much of what I know about debian packaging. Having had a tremendous amount of experience over the years, proven reliable and responsible, I am happy to provide my endorsement!

=== Simon Quigley ===

I'm sure Martin has sponsored more uploads for me than I have for him. This is an obvious "no-brainer." He obviously has every single necessary technical skill we would be looking for a PPU uploader to possess, ten times over. While our time didn't intersect much (I joined Ubuntu in 2016), this has my absolute support.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:tsimonq2]]</nowiki> 
=== Sebastien Bacher ===

Martin has been a pillar of Ubuntu for over a decade and showed he can be trusted with about anything in the archive. He has also been working upstream on cockpit for 8 years and doing the Debian and Ubuntu packaging during that period. A strong +1 for me to this PPU without any doubt.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
