{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Martin Wimpress, apply for upload rights, as requested by the DMB, for the following packages which I help maintain as part of the <nowiki>[[https://alioth.debian.org/projects/pkg-mate/|pkg-mate team in Debian]]</nowiki>:'''

* atril
* caja
* caja-actions
* caja-dropbox
* caja-extensions
* engrampa
* eom
* gnome-main-menu
* libmatekbd
* libmateweather
* marco
* mate-accountsdialog
* mate-applets
* mate-backgrounds
* mate-common
* mate-control-center
* mate-desktop
* mate-desktop-environment
* mate-dock-applet
* mate-icon-theme
* mate-icon-theme-faenza
* mate-indicator-applet
* mate-media
* mate-menu
* mate-menus
* mate-netbook
* mate-netspeed
* mate-notification-daemon
* mate-optimus
* mate-panel
* mate-polkit
* mate-power-manager
* mate-screensaver
* mate-sensors-applet
* mate-session-manager
* mate-settings-daemon
* mate-system-monitor
* mate-terminal
* mate-themes
* mate-tweak
* mate-user-guide
* mate-user-share
* mate-utils
* mozo
* plank
* pluma
* python-caja
* synapse
* topmenu-gtk

The above are in addition to the following packages for which I have previously been granted PPU.

* deja-dup-caja
* folder-color-caja
* grub2-themes-ubuntu-mate
* ubuntu-mate-artwork
* ubuntu-mate-meta
* ubuntu-mate-settings
* ubuntu-mate-welcome

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Martin Wimpress
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~flexiondotorg
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MartinWimpress
|-
| '''Ubuntu MATE on LP'''
| https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-mate
|-
| '''Ubuntu MATE Dev on LP'''
| https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-mate-dev
|}

== Who I am ==

Passionate Open Source advocate, Linux enthusiast and Podcaster. Lives in Hampshire, England, with his wife and daughter. Project lead for Ubuntu MATE. MATE Destop developer and community manager. Ubuntu community contributor. Debian maintainer. Arch Linux Trusted User.

== My Ubuntu story ==

I used Ubuntu exclusively as my workstation OS from late 2004 until early 2012, when I switched to Arch Linux. I am a MATE Desktop developer and community manager. In 2014 I co-founded <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-mate.org|Ubuntu MATE]]</nowiki> and am currenly the project lead. Ubuntu MATE became and official flavour for 15.04. Since starting work on Ubuntu MATE I have contributed several many merge proposals and patches to Ubuntu and maintain MATE in Debian.

I have helped my family and friends switch to Ubuntu over the years. Many of them are elderly or not technically minded and do not wish to have to relearn how to use their computers. Some were still running Ubuntu 10.04 LTS for this very reason. One of my personal motivations for creating Ubuntu MATE was to make an OS that they can upgrade to and retain a familiar user interface.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

* <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-mate.org|Ubuntu MATE]]</nowiki> - Principle developer and community manager.
* Ubuntu MATE is available pre-installed on computers from <nowiki>[[https://www.entroware.com|Entroware]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-pi-flavour-maker.org|Ubuntu Pi Flavour Maker]]</nowiki> - Principle developer.
* Core member of the <nowiki>[[https://mate-desktop.org/team/|MATE Desktop]]</nowiki> team.
* GSoC 2014 mentor for openSUSE. openSUSE are the MATE Desktop GSoC organiser.
* <nowiki>[[https://www.archlinux.org/trustedusers/#flexiondotorg|Arch Linux Trusted User]]</nowiki> maintaining many packages in the <nowiki>[[https://www.archlinux.org/packages/?sort=&q=&maintainer=flexiondotorg&flagged=|official Arch Linux repositores]]</nowiki>.
* Member of the <nowiki>[[https://alioth.debian.org/projects/pkg-mate/|Debian packaging team for MATE]]</nowiki>. I did the bulk of the MATE 1.10 and MATE 1.12 packaging for Debian and those packages sync directly to Ubuntu, unchanged.
* Maintained numerous PPAs for Ubuntu over the years.
* Co-presenter of the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntupodcast.org|Ubuntu Podcast]]</nowiki>
* Volunteered to assist the Ubuntu Release Team with several alpha/beta releases.

=== Sponsored Uploads ===

* Adam Conrad sponsored <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=Adam+Conrad&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Martin+Wimpress&sponsoree_search=name|2 uploads]]</nowiki>
* Colin Watson sponsored <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=Colin+Watson&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Martin+Wimpress&sponsoree_search=name|2 uploads]]</nowiki>
* Daniel Holbach sponsored <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=Daniel+Holbach&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Martin+Wimpress&sponsoree_search=name|38 uploads]]</nowiki>
* Didier Roche sponsored <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=Didier+Roche&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Martin+Wimpress&sponsoree_search=name|16 uploads]]</nowiki>
* Iain Lane sponsored <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=Iain%20Lane&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Martin+Wimpress&sponsoree_search=name|6 uploads]]</nowiki>
* Martin Pitt sponsored <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=Martin+Pitt&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Martin+Wimpress&sponsoree_search=name|2 uploads]]</nowiki>
* Sebastien Bacher sponsored <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=Sebastien+Bacher&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Martin+Wimpress&sponsoree_search=name|2 uploads]]</nowiki>

=== Things I could do better ===

* I try do as much Ubuntu MATE advocacy as possible, but time is always limited. I'd really like to attend more conferences to give presentations about Ubuntu MATE, MATE and Ubuntu Pi Flavour Maker.
* I have been driving improvements in accessibility for MATE and as a result MATE is well respected among the <nowiki>[[http://sonargnulinux.com/|Sonar GNU/Linux]]</nowiki> team who will soon be releasing a MATE version of Sonar.

== Plans for the future ==

* Experiment with 3rd party docks and launchers to refine the Ubuntu MATE user experience.
* Experiment with bringing MATE (or Ubuntu MATE) to Snappy.
* Migrate Ubuntu Pi Flavour Maker to the linux-raspi2 kernel.
* Become a fully fledged Debian Maintainer.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

* Documentation can be very out of date, incomplete or entirely absent.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Mathieu Trudel-Lapierre ===
==== General feedback ====

I sponsored some <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=Mathieu+Trudel-Lapierre&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Martin+Wimpress&sponsoree_search=name|18 uploads]]</nowiki> from Martin, and though there has been some little nitpicks here and there, Martin is both very attentive to criticism and adjusts his work, and he always seeks to improve. I've noticed a lot of improvement in the quality of the packages he prepared for Ubuntu MATE to the point that they are just obvious uploads. Martin knows well to ask questions and doesn't hesitate to ask them when he's unsure of something in packaging. I fully endorse him for PPU rights to the listed packages, and invite him to extend his work to more universe packages.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=Mathieu+Trudel-Lapierre&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Martin+Wimpress&sponsoree_search=name]]</nowiki>
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-mate-artwork/16.04.0
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-mate-welcome/16.04.0
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-mate-meta/1.122

I've also reviewed a few merges from Martin, one of which on ubuntu-cdimage which broke all images due to a small typo we both failed to notice; the change was otherwise done just fine.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

Martin should keep working on his handling of bugs and how he uses them to list new uploads that he needs sponsored. It's usually not so useful to file new "meta" bugs that are just "update package to version XYZ", when it will already close other bugs, just to have a place to keep a debdiff. He should also make more use of the whole Ubuntu community by adding his uploads to sponsor to the sponsoring overview (subscribing ubuntu-sponsors or otherwise) rather than asking specific people directly, so as not to incur delays on his work if we're too busy.

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
Martin does a great job overall, works with upstreams, pays attention to details and is happy to go the extra mile. I'm very happy he's applying for upload rights - he'll be a great addition to the team. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dholbach]]</nowiki> 

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
