{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mcielen]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''OpenPGP Keys''':
| 096B6D8D,   59D15A4E
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''Blizzkid''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''Blog''':
| <nowiki>[[http://martijn.sudo-s.net|martijn.sudo-s.net]]</nowiki>
|}

I'm a 30-year young Linux SysAdmin, using Ubuntu since it's very first release. Lately I heavily specialised in all kind of web services in Ubuntu (Apache - MySQL - Bind), and very recently started looking at high-availability.

=== Contributions to the Ubuntu Community ===

==== Ubuntu Belgium LoCo Team ====

 {*} Distribute Ubuntu CDs as a  local support point

 {*} Offer support to people in my area asking for it

==== General Ubuntu Ecosystem ====
 
 {*} Bug reporter

 {*} Provide (local) irc support in #ubuntu and #ubuntu-be when possible

 {*} Early release adopter

  {*} Uses alpha releases on production machines to make sure releases perform (speed, usability, etc.) under a normal load

 {*} Member of

  {*} Belgian Local Community Team

  {*} Launchpad Beta Testers

  {*} Mactel Support Community

  {*} Ubuntu Smokers

  {*} Ubuntu Wine Team

==== Various ====

 {*} Translator for "Billreminder"

 {*} Teaching a 25-sessions class of Ubuntu Server at 2nd year sysadmin course (Syntra Mechelen)

 {*} Co-organizer of <nowiki>[[http://loadays.org|LOAD]]</nowiki> (Linux Open Administration Days)

==== Future ====

I plan to continue to be involved in Ubuntu and FLOSS. I feel that Ubuntu is the distro best suited to revolutionise the desktop experience. I have given out many Ubuntu CDs to different people, and supported them when needed. I plan to continue this and help keep fresh minds coming into FLOSS and Ubuntu.

==== Testimonials ====
Devos Frederik  =  Martijn Cielen is a very good Ubuntu teacher ,I learned alot from him in class.

Kristof Van Rompaey = I have learned alot about Ubuntu from Martijn Cielen. 

Evert Dirkx = I think Martijn is very passionate about Ubuntu and other open source technologies. His enthousiasm is contagious and altough his approach is very DIY, he offers new views and is always prepared to help.

Litrick Kalonji = Martijn is a very skilled and expirienced ubuntu and other open source technologies user / sysadmin. He is very good in explaining the concepts of ubuntu desktop / server. He is also very competent in troubleshooting and configuring ubuntu.

Jan Van Waeyenbergh = Martijn has a praktical approach to ubuntu , with a lot of DIY's . He is very enthusiastic about the daily use of ubuntu. server/desktop
