{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Being a long-standing user of mutt, and using Evo for everything else except email, I have given evo mail a try for about 20 minutes until I returned back to mutt.

Those were the points which are inefficient for me:

* no simple keyboard shortcuts without ctrl/alt/shift; pressing single letters currently searches through the folder listing, which is much less common for me than pressing 'r' for reply, 'd' for delete, 'm' for creating a new mail, etc.
* no hard to use shortucts with *two* modifiers, please! ctrl+shift+something for common operations like "reply to all" or "move to folder" is unbearable
* changing keyboard shortcuts is not possible

These three would be addressed by the possibility of defining custom keybindings for all existing menu entries, without requiring keybindings to use modifier keys.

* I need three delete commands: delete as spam (into learnspam), delete completely (no need to archive), archive (into 'ham') folder; these are my most common operations, thus using ctrl+shift+v and typing a folder name is not an option

Since this depends on the personal workflow of mail, a general feature
for this would be to support recording macros and binding them to a
key shortcut.

Alternatively, if macro support is too broad: Allow me to change the
"Junk" folder in the account preferences (I need to use a proper
folder on the remote imap, not the magic "Junk" folder), then I can
use Delete and Ctrl+J. With that, I just need to be able to define an
'archive' folder in the account preferences and move mail into this
with a shortcut.

* missing shortcut for 'go to next mail folder with unread mail'; I don't always want to read all mail in a folder with pressing 'space' to get to the next one
* no way to reorder folders; I don't want them in alphabetical order, but ordered by priority
* changed column width only applies to the current folder; it should (optionally?) use it for all folders
* bug: "empty trash" does not work
* bug: hangs indefinitely with spinning on 100% cpu
* bug: forgets location of my maildir root (~/.mail) whenever I change the mail account prefs, seems to be due to using a hidden directory
