{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Improvements to the desktop ==

=== Key experiences ===
* Writing a letter/document and print it out.
* Maintain your appointments, contacts, and TODO lists and share them with others.
* Send a batch of files to a friend (which is surprisingly hard to do ATM; most people send you giant email attachments, etc.)

=== Usability ===
* Handling of CDs: Audio CDs, DVDs, and blank CDs/DVDs are fairly ok: the right app (Sound Juicer/Totem/nautilus-cd-burner) pops up automatically, and you get them back by clicking on the drive icon on the desktop. What bothers me still is:

** You do not see the drive icons when the desktop is covered with apps. My personal solution for this is to use the drivemount applet, which I find incredibly useful. We should consider installing this by default and maybe tweaking it a bit (not showing fixed drives by default, maybe).

** It is not discoverable how to re-burn an already written {CD,DVD}-RW. The nautilus window should have a button in the toolbar which switches to n-cd-burner.

* Session saving/restoring: We do not do it by default, and it is not discoverable how to do it (I run 'gnome-session-save' ATM). It works reasonably well under metacity for Gnome programs, but non-Gnome programs like firefox and pidgin land on the wrong workspace (i. e. always on the first). It is a bit frustrating to always move windows around after logging in.

* There is no way to label/rename partitions. This is very useful for telling apart different USB sticks, USB HD partitions, etc. It should be as easy as renaming a file (renaming the drive icon, and ask for password for internal drives, or hide the option for non-admins).

* We have no application to format a drive/partition, optionally with encryption.

=== Inconsistencies ===

* After logging in, Firefox always complains that it exited unexpectedly and asks me what to do (restore/start new session).  Heck, I just shut down my computer, which is not unexpected at all.  No other program does that.

* Most Gnome programs behave sanely wrt. stealing focus nowadays; however, one notable exception which drives me up the wall is pidgin, which *always* pops up a new message window right into the foreground. This often causes me to continue to type shell commands, vim keys, or even passwords into the ICQ window.

=== Technological improvements ===

* Faster booting: it still takes an awful lot of time from grub to a working desktop (over two minutes here). Moving towards a more dynamic and event-driven boot sequence with upstart scripts may help a lot here.

* Rewrite update-notifier to be a more general event-notifier, with the possibility to add new events as plugins. Right now, stuff like the avahi ".local net" warning, apport crash notifications, firefox update notes, or "reboot your system" are hardcoded into u-n, which is inflexible and ugly. Also, e. g. restricted-manager's popup notes could use this architecture.

=== Top "non-trivial" bugs ===

* Provide the one and only way to temporarily inhibit automounting in hal, and drop the evil hacks in ubiquity (killing g-v-m/the KDE counterpart) and gparted (temporarily installing an FDI, and leaving it behind on crashes).

* Make it easier to install -dbgsym packages by adding proper dependencies. (Important for both upstream and Ubuntu developers)

== Things I would like to work on in Hardy ==

* Complete redesign of the restricted-manager code. The initial design was never meant to get all the features and extensions bolted on that we use it for nowadays: non-module related handlers, KDE frontend, notifications, cooperation with compiz settings, etc. The current code makes it a pain to add new features or fix bugs.
* Find/tweak/create a backup solution that doesn't suck and is adequate for home users, as well as flexible enough for dudes like us. (feature: encryption, for not trusting the target medium/server)
* Work on standard `cdbs` rules to avoid file duplicates for downsizing CDs.
* Do a large-scale bug triaging sprint over Utopia packages (hal/g-v-m), work with upstream to solve the tricky bits, so that we improve hardware support.
* Push our Ubuntu specific Gnome i18n changes upstream (langpack support for .desktop files, etc.), including adding the .desktop file spec additions to freedesktop upstream.
* Improve the robustness and quality of apport retracer output.

== Things I would like to work on in Future releases ==

* Improve synchronization between Evolutions, cellphones, PDAs, etc. (everything that speaks SyncML for now).
* Start a desktop application for a decision tree based guided bug filing.  We started discussing this on last UDS (UbuntuSpec:smart-bugreporting-tool) and I do not expect to get it done by Hardy, but we should start on it.

== Interesting articles about Ubuntu usability ==
* http://architectfantasy.com/?p=1
* http://architectfantasy.com/?p=25
