{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Martin485
Martin Hummel

Hi,

I'm a newly enthuastic Kubuntu user. 47 years old, married, two children, living in Germany, Baverian near Regensburg.
I studied physics and working now for different software projects and system integrator at an automotive supplier.
Here I worked in different scientific projects eg. autonomous vehicle driving with radar and camera based sensors, so my skills are mathematical and algorithm based.
My experience with Linux goes back til the beginnings of the 90th, when I had a dual boot with DLD Linux and a Kernel far beyond 2.
Meanwhile I have tried out SUSE and Mandrake.
Since january I built up a computer running Linux (Kubuntu) only, with a rest of the main stream op running in a VMWare image.   
My experience with Kubuntu is very positive, so I want to give back some contributions.

Contact information
Name: Martin Hummel 

Nationality: German

Email:  martin_hummel@yahoo.de 

Work and Studies

For the ubuntu project - nothing (newbie)
Programming language - C / C++ (moderately)
Matlab/Simulink, UML
Software project management, configuration + requirement management
documentation, reviews, software integration, integration tests.
Algorithm development, modelling. 

Feel free to contact me for introduction to active work for the (K)Ubuntu project.
