{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== How to Join ==

Membership is open to everyone. You do not have to become an official member to join in the teams activities, but we encourage everyone from new Ubuntu users to old Unix gurus to join. To officially join the Maryland LoCo Team, do the following:

# <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Read the Ubuntu Code of Conduct (CoC)]]</nowiki>. Your signature is not mandatory. 
# Visit the team's <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-maryland|Launchpad page]]</nowiki> and click on the "Join This Team" button. ''Note that you'll need a launchpad account to join the team.''
# Add your name to the <nowiki>[[#MembersList|members list]]</nowiki> below.

== How to Participate ==

* Register on Launchpad and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-maryland|join the team]]</nowiki>!
* Join us at the <nowiki>[[http://maryland.ubuntuforums.org|Ubuntu forums]]</nowiki> and introduce yourself.
* Sign up for the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-md|mailing list]]</nowiki>
* Show up for our bi-weekly <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam-Meetings|meetings]]</nowiki> in person and on IRC.
* Donate your time and/or expertise to team <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam-Events|events]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam-Projects|projects]]</nowiki>.
* Get your FOSS/Ubuntu-related blog aggregated on the <nowiki>[[http://planet.ubuntu-maryland.org/|Maryland Team's Planet]]</nowiki>. See <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam-MDPlanetGuideLines|the guidelines]]</nowiki> for more information.
* Contribute your ideas to the <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam-IdeaPool|idea pool]]</nowiki>.

=== Ubuntu Code of Conduct ===

The following is a quote from the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct page]]</nowiki>:

 Ubuntu is an African concept of 'humanity towards others'. It is 'the belief in a universal bond of sharing that connects all humanity'. The same ideas are central to the way the Ubuntu community collaborates. Members of the Ubuntu community need to work together effectively, and this code of conduct lays down the "ground rules" for our cooperation.

 We chose the name Ubuntu for our distribution because we think it captures perfectly the spirit of the sharing and cooperation that is at the heart of the open source movement. In the Free Software world, we collaborate freely on a volunteer basis to build software for everyone's benefit. We improve on the work of others, which we have been given freely, and then share our improvements on the same basis.

 That collaboration depends on good relationships between developers. To this end, we've agreed on the following code of conduct to help define the ways that we think collaboration and cooperation should work.

==== How to Sign ====

Although signing the Code of Conduct is not mandatory, you are encouraged to do so. If you would like to sign the CoC, follow the instructions on the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/codeofconduct/|the Launchpad Code of Conduct page]]</nowiki>. If you are new to OpenPGP, also <nowiki>[[GnuPrivacyGuardHowto|see this page for detailed help]]</nowiki>.

== Members List ==

Please feel free to add yourself to the members listing below. Please use your personal wiki page to provide contact information and any additional information you would like others to know about you. Don't forget to include your city or town as this helps us keep track of where our members are located. Maybe you'll even find a new Ubuntu-loving neighbor! 

==== How to Add Yourself ====

# Copy the following line: `|| Your Name || Your Position (if any) || Your City or Town || Your WikiName || Signed CoC ||`
# Fill out your information: Name, City or Town, WikiName, and whether or not you've signed the Ubuntu Code of Conduct (a "Yes" or "No"). 
# Then <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarylandTeam/Members/MembersList?action=edit|click here to edit the list]]</nowiki> and place your entry in a new row in the appropriate position. Please keep this list in alphabetical order.
# If you are still unsure of how to add yourself, please send your information to <nowiki>[[JoshRhoderick|Josh]]</nowiki> and he will gladly add you to the list.

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarylandTeam/Members/MembersList?action=edit|Edit this list]]</nowiki>
