{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== The Ubuntu Maryland Presentations Team ==

The Presentations Team creates and presents informational and promotional material advocating the use of Ubuntu as well as other FOSS and open formats. The Presentations Team is open to any Ubuntu Maryland team member. (For more information on how to join the Ubuntu Maryland LoCo Team, <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam/Members|please see this page]]</nowiki>.) 

=== TODO ===

Use this list to keep track of team TODOs. When an item is completed, it may be removed from the list. The list should remain sorted by deadline in which the items with the most urgent deadlines appear first. If an item has no specific deadline, it should be marked with '''ASAP'''. These items have a lower priority and are placed at the bottom of the list. The '''Assigned To''' field may contain the WikiName of one member or multiple members separated by a comma. 

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarylandTeam/PresentationsTeam/TODO?action=edit|Edit TODOs]]</nowiki>

=== Team Pages ===
==== Presentations Outlines ====
* <nowiki>[[/LinuxAdvocacy|Linux Advocacy]]</nowiki>: This presentation provides an overview of the home computing landscape with information on Windows and Mac pain points and the benefits of Linux, Ubuntu, and FOSS.

=== Members ===

The following list includes only members of the Presentations Team. If you would like to see a full LoCo team membership list, please see the <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam/Members|Members page]]</nowiki>.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 90%;" rowstyle="background-color:#F7F7F7;">  '''Name'''
| '''Role/Position'''
| '''WikiName'''
|-
| Joel Leininger
| Presentations Team Leader
| <nowiki>[[parma2]]</nowiki>
|-
| Josh Rhoderick
| 
| JoshRhoderick
|}

=== Links ===

You may use the space below for helpful links to internal and external team resources.
