{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

 

* '''Location''': Randallstown Co-Op Senior Center
* '''Project Completion Date''': February, 2008
* '''Project Coordinator''': Ron Swift

=== Summary ===

This senior living facility on Old Court Road in Randallstown, MD has
approximately 400 residents. We purchased two computer systems from the
Howard County library and added Ubuntu Gutsy and wireless usb devices. A
Dell printer was obtained from a local company free of charge. We had to
add new ink cartridges which the Co-op facility reimbursed us. The
facility provided two workstation desks and the units were set up in
their library in February 2008.

We initially provided a one hour overview on the new systems to the
facilities board of directors. We also agreed to provide three two hour
training sessions for interested residents at no charge.
Over the next several weeks we completed the training sessions for a
total of 21 residents. The training sessions covered:

# Computer Operating Systems Overview
# Introducing Ubuntu
# Exploring the Ubuntu Desktop
# Using the Internet
# Introduction to GMAIL
# OpenOffice Application Overview

=== Outcome ===

The feedback from the training and the systems in general has been quite
positive. They have inquired about additional training but I was
informed that the facility corporate management has now decided to
provide computer training to all facilities. The Randallstown Co-Op followed
up with a thank you letter, linked below.

<nowiki>[[attachment:randallstown-coop-thanks.pdf|View the Randallstown Co-Op thank you letter.]]</nowiki>
