{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Date''': Saturday April 25, 2009
* '''Time''': 12 pm
* '''Location''': <nowiki>[[http://fuddruckers.com/|Fuddruckers]]</nowiki> 6486 Dobbin Way, Columbia, MD 21045 <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?q=6486+Dobbin+Way,+Columbia,+MD+21045&ie=UTF8&oe=utf-8&client=firefox-a&ll=39.194763,-76.819882&spn=0.007001,0.013797&t=h&z=16|Google Maps]]</nowiki>

=== Additional Information ===
Join us to celebrate the release of the Jaunty Jackalope!

We are going to try to have some home made CDs to hand out.

Bring a 1GB or larger flash drive and we'll set you up with a LiveUSB version of Jaunty Jackalope! (Time and power/battery life permitting)

Another first for this meeting! I [ChuckFrain] will be going to Microcenter to do some shopping Thursday evening. If you want I can purchase a 2gb or 4gb flash drive for you and preload it with your choice of Ubuntu, Kubuntu or Xubuntu live images or copy various ISOs to the disk for you. Considering the prices listed on their site currently (April 17th) the 2gb will cost you $8 and the 4 gb will be $10. Those prices reflect the original price+tax+I-don't-want-to-deal-with-coins charge. Send me an email with the size drive you want, the live image you want loaded on and/or the images you wish to have copied.

The above offer assumes I can get the ISOs and make the copies in time. I will be grabbing the Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Xubuntu and server images first in 32bit then 64bit. If you order a flash drive I can only promise best effort to get the images done. Drop an email to jaunty@ubuntu-maryland.org by 4pm Thursday April 23rd.

=== Advertising ===

* <nowiki>[[http://calug.org/|Columbia Area Linux Users Group]]</nowiki> Mailing List
* <nowiki>[[http://www.baltolug.org/|Baltimore Area Linux Users Group]]</nowiki> Mailing List

=== Attendee List ===
Add yourself to the list below if you would like to attend the release party. If you plan on bringing guests, please add the number in the "Guests" column, otherwise leave it blank. Please update the "Total Attending" as well.

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarylandTeam/Events/ReleaseParties/Jaunty/AttendeesList?action=edit|Edit this list]]</nowiki>
