{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



==== IMPORTANT NOTICE ====

The Ubuntu Maryland team is looking for new members to revive the group. If interested in helping to lead the team, please contact Ron Swift.

==== Welcome ====

Welcome to the Ubuntu Maryland Local Community Team's wiki. We are a group of Ubuntu and Linux enthusiasts from all walks of life who volunteer to promote the use of Ubuntu, open source software, and the spirit of humanity and freedom that Ubuntu represents. Together we can help Maryland live up to its nickname of "The Free State." If you're a fellow Marylander, please consider <nowiki>[[Members|joining us]]</nowiki>. This is a great time to get on board! 

==== Get Connected ====

* Register on Launchpad and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-maryland|join the team]]</nowiki>!
* Join us at the <nowiki>[[http://maryland.ubuntuforums.org|Ubuntu forums]]</nowiki> and introduce yourself.
* Sign up for the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-md|mailing list]]</nowiki>
* Show up for our <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam-Meetings|meetings]]</nowiki> in person and on IRC.
* Read team members blogs on the <nowiki>[[http://planet.ubuntu-maryland.org/|Maryland Team's Planet]]</nowiki>. See <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam-MDPlanetGuideLines|the guidelines]]</nowiki> to get your blog aggregated.

==== Get Involved ====

* Become a <nowiki>[[Members|member]]</nowiki>.
* Join us in person and on IRC at team <nowiki>[[Meetings|meetings]]</nowiki>.
* Spend time with us and help out at team <nowiki>[[Events|events]]</nowiki>.
* Lend your support to team <nowiki>[[Projects|projects]]</nowiki>.

=== Upcoming Meetings and Events ===

==== Meetings ====
  ~-<nowiki>[[MarylandTeam-Meetings|View All Meetings]]</nowiki>-~

==== Events ====
  ~-<nowiki>[[MarylandTeam-Events|View All Events]]</nowiki>-~

==== Projects ====
  ~-<nowiki>[[MarylandTeam-Projects|View All Projects]]</nowiki>-~
