{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Maryland Local Community Team ==
The Ubuntu Maryland Loco Team was re-activated in March 2013 under new leadership. We appreciate all of the individuals that have helped the team in the past.

As of May 5, 2014, we had 165 registered team members from throughout the State of Maryland in the US. We meet on IRC the first Monday of the month and meet in person at the Community College of Baltimore County Catonsville campus on the fourth Saturday of the month. Most of our activity is reported on our website, http://ubuntu-maryland.org

We average about 10 persons who attend the monthly meetings and 3 to 5 persons on the IRC chats. The biggest event that we hosted over the past year was our Open House on April 26, 2014 where we celebrated the release of Trusty Tahr, Ubuntu 14.04 LTS. There were 23 persons who attended and we assisted 11 persons with testing and installing Ubuntu on their laptops.

From our previous application for approval several years ago it was stated that Maryland has a long history of standing up against great odds. During the American Revolution, Maryland was the home to one of the war's most esteemed unit of regular soldiers dubbed as the "Old Line" by General Washington. Later, Maryland earned the nickname of the "Free State" due to its stubborn resistance to Federal prohibition laws. The Ubuntu Maryland Local Community Team will continue Maryland's long tradition of promoting freedom by supporting the use of Ubuntu, as well as other free and open source software.

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''': (''list the date of application'')
* '''Team Contact''': <nowiki>[[rswift-swiftstaffing|Ron Swift]]</nowiki> <rswift@swiftstaffing.com>
* '''Membership''': 165 as of 5 May 2014
* '''Mailing List''': https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-md
* '''IRC''': #ubuntu-us-md on ''irc.freenode.net''
* '''Launchpad''': <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-maryland]]</nowiki>
* '''Forums''': <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=224]]</nowiki>

=== Roadmap ===

* '''Expand the Team's Reach'''
** ''Statewide team meetings'': Although Maryland is not a particularly large state, we want to ensure that our team has a state-wide availability by providing remote video access to our meetings.
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=560828|View Forum Discussion]]</nowiki>
** '''Participate in Ubuntu documentation projects''': We are talking with the Ubuntu Manual Project about our assisting them with updating and expanding their desktop manual.
* '''Provide Technical Support''': We have discussed the possibility of providing limited technical support to Ubuntu users in Maryland, although the idea is still in its early stages.
* '''Team Bug-Squashing Day''': We plan to provide our LoCo team with the opportunity to help Ubuntu by hosting a regularly-scheduled team bug-squashing day.
** '''Continue to Regularly Host Events''':
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarylandTeam/Events|Upcoming and Previous Events]]</nowiki>

=== Experience ===

==== Team Events ====

 
==== Team Meetings ====

 