{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Meeting Details ==

* '''Date:''' Thursday, November 15, 2007
* '''Location:''' The <nowiki>[[http://www.hclibrary.org/locations/central.php|Howard County Library's Central Branch]]</nowiki> in Columbia, MD.
* '''Time:''' 7:30pm - 9:00pm

=== Agenda ===

No, that time is not a misprint. This weeks meeting will be at 7:30pm on
Thursday evening. We'll be at the Howard County Central Library as normal.

We have two major topics to discuss this week.

First is meeting time and day. Due to other obligations, the library had
to move our start time back to 7:30pm. We can discuss options as to
moving to another day and schedule the two hours that we had before at
the same location. Another option is to move to a different location
within the library system that has free time on the same evening.

The second item on deck is the presentation to the CMUG Windows group on
the 21st. Joel has the presentation from John so we should have a run
through to work on.

We also have 10 of the GX100's from the library to offer. So if anyone
is interested in them the cost is a $25 tax-deductible donation to the
'Friends of Howard County Library' organization. Please email me in
advance to insure they are available at meeting time for you to take home.
