{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Date''': Every Saturday
* '''Time''': 8:00pm

=== Additional Information ===

Want to contribute back to the free and open source software (FOSS) community? Saturday night at 8 is the time to do it!

Come chat with us on IRC and Mumble, have a good time, and all the while help out the FOSS community. We talk the latest in tech, Linux, and news and generally have a great time.

While chatting, we should spend this time to...

* Contribute code to your favorite FOSS project
* Confirm, triage, and gather more information for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|Launchpad]]</nowiki> bugs
* Improve the community documentation on the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Wiki]]</nowiki> or another FOSS project
* If you're not very technical, your ideas can still be very valuable over at the <nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Brainstorm]]</nowiki>

=== Communication ===

IRC: #umbclinux on irc.oftc.net

Mumble: umbclug.gotdns.com:64738

IRC is a realtime Internet chat. See <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat|the IRC wiki page]]</nowiki> for information about clients and how to connect.

<nowiki>[[http://mumble.sourceforge.net/|Mumble]]</nowiki> is a voice chat program similar to Ventrilo and TeamSpeak. Mumble 1.1.8 is in the Ubuntu and Fedora repositories as 'mumble'. I'm not sure about others (let Craig Younkins know!). Clients are also available for Windows and Mac OS at the <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/mumble/files/|sourceforge download page]]</nowiki>. Just make sure you grab 1.1.8 and not the 1.2 beta as they are not compatible with each other. After it's installed, there is a nice setup wizard for audio. You should probably enable 'echo cancellation' and bind a key for push-to-talk (like super/windows). When you connect to the server using the information below, you'll get a warning that the SSL certificate is self-signed. This is normal, and you can go ahead and click OK.
