{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Meeting Details ==

* '''Date:''' May 7, 2008
* '''Location:''' IRC: #ubuntu-maryland on freenode.
* '''Time:''' 8:00pm - 9:00pm ''(Meeting may end earlier, but no later)''
* '''Moderator:''' TBD

=== Agenda ===
The following is a tentative agenda for the meeting. The moderator will move the conversation from topic to topic. Each agenda item is followed by an ''estimated'' amount of time to be spent on the topic. The meeting will end with an open discussion which will allow all members to ask questions or discuss anything they wish. The agenda may change as the meeting approaches.

* Ideas for our next event ''(30min)''
** Loco usability testing (planning will be post-UDS, but I think we should discuss interest and weekend dates in June for when to run a pilot)@sig@
* Open discussion ''(open)''
 
=== IRC Log ===
