{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== GPG Keysigning Party Procedure ==
NSA Museum Trip GPG KeySigning
August 2, 2008
Presented By
CALug
Ubuntu Maryland LoCo
== GPG Key Signing Event ==
=== What Is It? ===
A key signing party is a get-together of people who use a public key encryption system such as GnuPG/PGP with the purpose of allowing those people to sign each others keys. 

=== How will it be organized? ===
* All participants will email their key(s) to be signed to 'keysigning@ubuntu-maryland.org' with the subject line "NSA Museum"
* The deadline for emailing keys will be Sunday July 27th. 
* By July 29th a signed text file with all the key ids and their fingerprints will be emailed to the participants along with the MD5 sum of the file. The MD5 will also be available on the Ubuntu-Maryland event page.
* Confirm that your key id is correct in the list and print it out.
* Reply with any corrections by 5pm July 31st. If an updated list is needed it will be sent by 11:59pm July 31st.
* An event keyring will be mailed to all participants July 31st and MD5 posted

=== What do you do at the event? ===
* We will have a printout of the MD5 sums for the list and keyring to confirm against.
* We will have each attendee confirm their key is correct by reading the keyid and stating that the fingerprint on the list is correct.
* We will line up in order of the list and have the line double back on itself to check IDs. You will mark your own list after checking the id of the other participants.
* Once done, store your checked list in a safe place. 

=== What do you do after the event? ===
* Retrieve the public keys. This can be from the event keyring or public keyservers.
* Sign the keys of those you verified at the event. 
* *If you have any post event confirmation you perform, do that then sign
* Email the signed keys to their owners. 
* Import signed keys as they are sent back to you and publish as desired.

=== What do you need to bring? ===
* List of key fingerprints that you printed out.
* You need to bring at least one government issued photo ID. A passport, drivers license, state id are the most common.
* Pen/Pencil to check off your list with.
* (Optional) Your key fingerprint on slips of paper.

== More Information ==

http://www.keysigning.org

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Key_signing_party

http://cryptnet.net ( http://linkpot.net/sway/ )

https://www.biglumber.com
