{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Global Bug Jam 09 ==

The Maryland Ubuntu Team will be participating in the Ubuntu Global Bug Jam on the weekend of February 20-22, 2009. 

We will be descending on the <nowiki>[[http://hclibrary.org/index.php?page=66|Howard County Library Miller Branch]]</nowiki> on February 21st. The address is <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?q=9421+Frederick+Rd+Ellicott+City,+MD+21042&oe=utf-8&client=firefox-a&hl=en&ie=UTF8&ll=39.273627,-76.838121&spn=0.006977,0.013819&t=h&z=16&iwloc=addr|9421 Frederick Rd Ellicott City, MD 21042]]</nowiki>. We will have the room from 9am until 1pm. 

At 9:30am ChuckFrain will be giving <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RunningBugJam?action=AttachFile&do=view&target=bug_report_triage_feb09.odp|a presentation]]</nowiki> on how to report and triage bugs using Launchpad. After that we will work on getting bugs straightened out in the system:)

We will be working from the computer lab at the branch. There are computers there already to work from or you can bring in your own laptop and take advantage of the free wireless. Please take a moment to signup for a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net|Launchpad]]</nowiki> account so you can jump right in with the reporting and triaging. If you want to participate in the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/5-A-Day|5-A-Day]]</nowiki> program you may want to add that to your machine as well.

Otherwise it's going to be a fun day of hanging out and geeking out. See you there!
