{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Meeting Details ==

* '''Date:''' Wednesday, August 1, 2007
* '''Location:''' IRC: #ubuntu-maryland on freenode.
* '''Time:''' 7:00pm - 9:00pm ''(meeting may end earlier, but no later)''

=== Agenda ===

* Update on Software Freedom Day activities planning
* Discussion on <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam/OperationsTeams|OpsTeam]]</nowiki> leadership

=== IRC Log ===

<pre>
<rhoderickj>	There has to be more than 30 Ubuntu users/enthusiasts in Maryland. We just have to find a way to reach them.
<Biovore>	oO
<parma_>	easily.
<parma_>	more than 30, I mean.
<rhoderickj>	The other day I was walking through the grocery store wearing my Ubuntu shirt and someone stopped me and asked if I used Ubuntu, I told him I did and that he should join the LoCo team. I don't think he knew what I was talking about. lol.
<rhoderickj>	I got the impression he was questioning himself, "What teams? Ubuntu has teams? Is it the same Ubuntu I'm thinking of?"
<chuckf>	Well at least there are people who know what to look for
<Biovore>	yeah.. thats a problem.. Or people don't really care to get that involved..
<chuckf>	Biovore, I think that that's the problem is getting people to participate
<parma_>	In a big enough population, we can get enough to roll up their sleeves.
<parma_>	Building the population is first.
<parma_>	but that's doable, I think.
<rhoderickj>	It seems that roughly half of our members participate regularly. I imagine that ratio isn't too bad actually.
<chuckf>	It is doable, it's getting people to make a different choice that's difficult
<chuckf>	About half do participate, but from the meetings it doesn't always seem to be the same half either
<parma_>	I don't think there have been enough yet to draw any conclusions.
<parma_>	For instance, I've missed two out of, I think 4
<parma_>	but that shouldn't be an indicator long term
<JulianC>	This group is still in a relatively early stage (even though we've done quite a bit already). Is the current goal more participating members or more exposure in the community?
<chuckf>	I'm not blaming, it's just the short term observations
<chuckf>	JulianC, it's both
<parma_>	I'
<chuckf>	one will hopefully follow the other
<rhoderickj>	Julian, did you join yet?
<parma_>	that's what I was going to say,
<Biovore>	well people who are most into this kinda of stuff are college students.. Should push at the colleges
<rhoderickj>	Biovore: Agreed.
<Biovore>	I know at capitol-college they have there own dedicated ubuntu/debian mirror..
<parma_>	I think there are a number of populations that I'd consider "low hanging fruit"
<parma_>	College kids would be one of them
<parma_>	The over 50 crowd is another.
<Biovore>	well Today's college student's could be tomarrows leader..
<JulianC>	Haven't joined on Launchpad yet. I'm still trying to figure out how involved I can be.
<chuckf>	I think the college kids have to find a way to use Ubuntu in their daily work
<chuckf>	And their daily play
<chuckf>	JulianC, You can join on the launchpad team to show your support
<JulianC>	A lot of major universities already have LUGs, but the smaller colleges usually don't have such a group.
<parma_>	We had a couple of high school kids at one of our meetings, but they weren't there last time.
<chuckf>	I know when I was involved with the UMBC LUG years ago it was a small crowd
<rhoderickj>	JulianC: You've attended at least one meeting, and you've attended an install fest. I think that's enough to join. :) Just because you join doesn't mean you
<Biovore>	yeah.. capitol-college is the same way..
<rhoderickj>	JulianC: ...doesn't mean you'll have to show up all the time or bust your hump. 
<parma_>	So, do we have an agenda tonite?
<chuckf>	The agenda is Install Fest and SFD
<chuckf>	Are there any ideas on SFD for presentations?
<Biovore>	what kind of stuff would people be intressed in..
<parma_>	which audience, specifically?
<Biovore>	^ better question..
<parma_>	non-linux users? or each other?
<Biovore>	lamens probably..
<chuckf>	Well I'm thinking non-linux users at this point
<chuckf>	as it will be at the library
<Biovore>	yeah.. basics of unix and understanding whats going on..
<parma_>	and this would be during an install fest?
<rhoderickj>	Are we sure that we want to try to do both simultaneously?
<chuckf>	I don't even think 'basics of unix' I'm thinking of demoing apps
<rhoderickj>	Judging by the last install fest, chaos is expected, and I don't think the atmosphere is very good for a presentations
<parma_>	I wasn't at the last fest. What's the noise level?
<chuckf>	rhoderickj, I'd like to have a section for the curious to observe
<Biovore>	eye candy then?
<Biovore>	beryl - compfusion stuff?
<rhoderickj>	Oh, so you're thinking of something simple? Like a demo station?
<chuckf>	that type of thing, yes
<chuckf>	or stations with different things
<JulianC>	I've seen this model work with great success.
<parma_>	but during the install fest, no?
<chuckf>	parma_, yes, during the install fest. One side installs, one demos
<parma_>	ok. same room?
<Biovore>	well maybe needs some propoganda on why you should use free software.. people don't really get this yet..
<Biovore>	why is it good/better then windows and other propriatary OSes
<chuckf>	parma_, perhaps. We may be able to annex some extra space
<parma_>	I'm asking these logistical questions because the ambient noise level will dictate the type of
<JulianC>	Or provide some really good real-world examples of common use of open source software.
<parma_>	presentation.
<JulianC>	The venue for that day is perfect for this.
<chuckf>	Biovore, I agree with the propaganda angle
<parma_>	For instance, a speaker with an overhead vs. many small setups that people browse.
<rhoderickj>	parma_: I think you had a good point at the last meeting. We should focus at first on open formats and explain the fundamental differences between proprietary and open source file formats, etc.
<chuckf>	parma_, I
<chuckf>	m thinking overhead is a bit overkill for my thinking unless it's a running slide show
<Biovore>	show case open office?
<parma_>	clearly the presentation needs to mesh with the venue. But, for instance, Josh, we can't effectively
<chuckf>	that's one idea, but keep in mind that the library is already a showcase to some degree
<parma_>	explain file formats at little stations.
<JulianC>	I have not yet visited the East Columbia Library. Do we know how much space we will have to work with?
<parma_>	Otoh, a stand up presentation won't be very effective with 30 people trying to install OSs right in the middle of it.
<Biovore>	yeah.. its more about short quick illistrations..
<rhoderickj>	parma_: That's what I was thinking. I believe they need to be separate.
<chuckf>	I was hoping to get there today but couldn't make it
<parma_>	How much time do we have on that day?
<chuckf>	I think I schedule from 1 hour after opening to one hour before close so we have set up time
<chuckf>	the schedule is for the public, we have the entire day
<parma_>	Wow. That sounds like a marathon.
<parma_>	Maybe we can do both.
<chuckf>	well it's open from 10-5 if I recall correctly
<parma_>	Well that's 5 hours.
<parma_>	How long did the last fest take?
<JulianC>	9-6 on Saturdays.
<rhoderickj>	I think the last one was 5 or 6 hours
<chuckf>	we got there 9:30ish and left at 4
<rhoderickj>	We didn't get there early enough to set up though
<chuckf>	'kicking' people out the door about 3
<parma_>	Get any new recruits there?
<chuckf>	there were some new faces
<Biovore>	<--
<parma_>	Good deal.
<Biovore>	I found out you all existed there..
<parma_>	We are EVERYWHERE.
<parma_>	We shall assimilate you.
<Biovore>	I ussualy hang out in #kubuntu and answer questions.. been doing that since dapper..
<rhoderickj>	lol
<chuckf>	one of those 'K' users
<Biovore>	yup
* Biovore like QT4
<chuckf>	we'll keep you anyway
<rhoderickj>	Aye.
<Biovore>	like a mutated fish hehe..
<Biovore>	:-P
<chuckf>	hehe
<parma_>	So, Chuck, did you say that two rooms might be available?
<chuckf>	well I'm not sure if we'll be able to get more or not
<chuckf>	it depends on the turnout and what else may be going on there that weekend
<parma_>	How did it come to be located there?
<chuckf>	However Amy, Luis, and the culture there are open to the Ubuntu ideas
<chuckf>	They had the room
<parma_>	If we don't have a separate space, I'd recommend against a "presentation" during the install fest.
<rhoderickj>	Personally, I don't think we should do an install fest for SFD.
<chuckf>	presentation as in demos or overhead presentation
<rhoderickj>	I think we should go pure informational
<rhoderickj>	And give away CDs of course
<parma_>	what's informational mean?
<chuckf>	I'm not sure that we can change the install fest at this point
<parma_>	except we have those machines from the library, right?
<chuckf>	I think it's in the library publication
<chuckf>	we do have those, yes
<parma_>	The problem I see with demos is that you don't reach many people at a time.
<JulianC>	If we're going to be doing demos, which systems would we use?
<parma_>	Presentations are way more efficient.
<parma_>	overhead, I mean.
<rhoderickj>	Informational = Presentations/demos/etc.
<parma_>	I see.
<parma_>	Well, I think we can do both, just not in the same room
<chuckf>	Well I just saw this on the calendar:
<chuckf>	http://host.evanced.info/hclibrary/lib/eventsignup.asp?ID=15049&rts=&disptype=&ret=eventcalendar.asp&pointer=&returnToSearch=&SignupType=&num=0&ad=&dt=mo&mo=9/1/2007&df=calendar&EventType=ALL&Lib=1&AgeGroup=ALL&LangType=0&WindowMode=&noheader=&lad=
<parma_>	ok, that's greek in xchat.
<rhoderickj>	As much as I enjoy an install fest, it completely monopolizes our time and energy. I think we'd have more success with hosting an open room with multiple demo stations and free CDs with presentations.
<chuckf>	it's a link
<chuckf>	http://tinyurl.com/37en5z
<parma_>	I'm with Josh on this, although I recognize the preexisting problem.
<chuckf>	forgot I had tinyurl
<rhoderickj>	Hmm... So they've already announced an install fest?
<rhoderickj>	Is that what I'm seeing? :)
<chuckf>	yes
<chuckf>	because that is what we decided at the June meeting when the ad had to be in the next day
<rhoderickj>	Okay, then I suggest we do one of two things: 1) Either abandon presentations in any real sense; or 2) Break up the team into two separate groups with two separate rooms and do both simultaenously
<rhoderickj>	I just don't think they'll play well together
<chuckf>	I'll see about a second room
* dsmith_ (n=dsmith@c-76-114-154-224.hsd1.md.comcast.net) has joined #ubuntu-maryland
<rhoderickj>	Unless we did installs from, say, 10 - 2, and presentations from 2 - 3 or something
<chuckf>	rhoderickj, i like that idea
<parma_>	Yes, that
* dsmith_ has quit (Remote closed the connection)
<parma_>	would work.
* dsmith_ (n=dsmith@c-76-114-154-224.hsd1.md.comcast.net) has joined #ubuntu-maryland
<chuckf>	and maybe install 10-2:30 then 3-5 presentations
<JulianC>	Maybe a few installees might allow their systems to serve as a demo machine for a few minutes after a successful install.
<rhoderickj>	chuckf: That sounds good.
<chuckf>	gives us a little break as well
<JulianC>	That would require more successful installs, though.
<parma_>	Again, though, demos only reach 2 or 3 at a time.
<chuckf>	parma_, if we go with this plan, we can do group demos
<rhoderickj>	parma_: Unless you have a digital projector :)
<parma_>	how are group demos done?
<chuckf>	rhoderickj, I think we can get one from the library
<rhoderickj>	chuckf: If not, I'm sure we can rent one for the day
<chuckf>	well I'm thinking maybe a lightening talk situation
<parma_>	huh?
<chuckf>	each speaker gets 10-15 minutes to do a presetation on a topic
<parma_>	oh, I see.
<chuckf>	unless we have something/someone that wants to go longer
<parma_>	I think we need to pick our target audience.
<parma_>	That way we can tailor the presentation
<chuckf>	I'm thinking the general user
<parma_>	potential windows refugee?
<chuckf>	the idea of Ubuntu is 'Linux for Humans'
<rhoderickj>	parma_: You have a good point about the audience. We could end up preaching to the choir... or scaring the hell out of newbies.
<chuckf>	parma_, that type, yes
<chuckf>	and those that might want to dig a little deeper, give them a tease
<chuckf>	but I don't want a presentation on the TCP stack
<parma_>	yep
<parma_>	We can pull this off, I think.
<chuckf>	I know we can if we get the audience
<parma_>	I'm thinking 45 mins, with overhead screen AND HANDOUT.
<parma_>	Must have handout to take with them
<JulianC>	Personalization of the desktop might be a good demo.
<parma_>	Otherwise too much to digest in one sitting.
<Biovore>	yeah
<Biovore>	kiba-dock maybe..
<chuckf>	45 minutes total? I'm thinking let the talks go for 2 hours and announce the schedule
<JulianC>	It's a computing task that users at all levels of expertise do at some point.
<parma_>	Way too long for new people to digest.
<chuckf>	people can come for what they want, and drop in and out of otheres
<rhoderickj>	chuckf: Do you really think we can get that many presentations together in a few weeks?
<parma_>	Well, again, depends on the target aud.
<chuckf>	well we don't have to announce the entire schedule for a few weeks
<rhoderickj>	Besides, I admit it: I'm terrified of public speaking and you'd have to pull my teeth to get me to do it. :) Do you think we'll have enough volunteer speakers for this?
<parma_>	And, nothing says we can't repeat the same thing a couple of times.
<chuckf>	parma_, true
<parma_>	I speak in front of people all the time.
<chuckf>	rhoderickj, I'll be up there
<chuckf>	for at least one
<JulianC>	At the last install fest, people were there for an average of 2-3 hours, right?
<rhoderickj>	parma_: I can tell by the way you speak at the meetings. You're a great public speaker.
<rhoderickj>	Chuck too
<chuckf>	and I'm like you, I don't like it, but it's for the 'greater good' :)
<chuckf>	besides, a group like this is friendly
<parma_>	Get people in the room, and we can do this.
<rhoderickj>	parma_: Would you like to be the OpsTeam leader for the Presentations team?
<parma_>	Already volunteered at last mtg.
<rhoderickj>	Right on. I was just making sure that I didn't dream that.
<rhoderickj>	:)
<parma_>	Never suggest solutions unless you're willing to be volunteered.
<parma_>	Learned that in the marines!
<chuckf>	that's true
<chuckf>	I'm also working some local lugs and previous lug speakers for volunteers as well
<rhoderickj>	lol
<parma_>	The presentations team should talk specifics offline between now and the next in-your-face meeting
<rhoderickj>	Agreed.
<parma_>	maybe we can do another irc chat
<chuckf>	that's easy enough
<rhoderickj>	Same for the install fest team
<rhoderickj>	I think we really need to break up the responsibility by the opsteams so we each know our responsibilities
<rhoderickj>	err... that was a recursive statement but you get the point
<chuckf>	yeah
<parma_>	Hey chuck, did you ever catch up with Mr Hastings for his email address?
<parma_>	He had some good points I'd like to take advantage of.
<chuckf>	I sent him an email the other day, have not heard back
<parma_>	Hmmm.
<parma_>	Windows pain points, for example.
<chuckf>	I'll send a follow up tonight
<chuckf>	one thing that I don't want to focus on is the 'windows is evil' mantra
<parma_>	Nah. Not necessary.
<chuckf>	I understand the pain points, but hopefully you get my evil line
<parma_>	Of course. Besides, it's Microsoft that's evil, not windows!
<chuckf>	unless you were told that you're running a pirated copy :)
<chuckf>	after paying for it
<parma_>	I consider it low hanging fruit to introduce people to an OS that doesn't require them to by McAfee, for instance
<chuckf>	that is a plus
<parma_>	Surf without spyware
<parma_>	All kinds of advantages
<parma_>	AND FREE
* CraigYounkins (n=xxx@c-69-138-194-105.hsd1.md.comcast.net) has joined #ubuntu-maryland
<CraigYounkins>	<_<
<chuckf>	the Free should be focused on
<parma_>	For newbies, free as in beer is more important than free as in speech.
<chuckf>	CraigYounkins, arent you hacking out in vegas?
<JulianC>	But we have to make sure that they know it's free as in kittens.
<CraigYounkins>	chuckf: Er... well. <_< I lost track of my days. i fly out Friday
<JulianC>	But the maintenance is easier.
<CraigYounkins>	sorry about that.
<parma_>	Later on, the free as in speech begins to matter more.
<chuckf>	true
<chuckf>	CraigYounkins, that's right you're doing defcon, not blackhat
<rhoderickj>	Also, it's important to point out the package system. I think that's one Linux's greatest advantages. No searching for apps via the internet; and the apps you DO find are reputable because they're packaged by MOTUs for Ubuntu.
<parma_>	right-on.
<parma_>	That isn't even on people's radar screen.
<chuckf>	rhoderickj, that is important and maybe we can demo installing a new package
<chuckf>	from 'find the app in synaptic to installing and demoing
<CraigYounkins>	chuckf: The hat I wear is many colors.
<rhoderickj>	chuckf: good idea.
<parma_>	They don't know they miss it, because it's unheard-of.
<parma_>	but they'll WANT it.
<chuckf>	they will
<chuckf>	So what else do we need to cover?
<rhoderickj>	Do we have leaders yet for the Marketing Team and Install Fest team?
<rhoderickj>	Craig: I nominate you for install fest. You rock.
<CraigYounkins>	lol thanks, I nominate myself too :P
<parma_>	Second
<chuckf>	cool, it's passed then
<rhoderickj>	What about marketing?
<parma_>	And in writing too.
<rhoderickj>	:)
<CraigYounkins>	the one thing I need help with is physically managing the GX100 machines the library is giving us
<chuckf>	CraigYounkins, do you know if John wants to co-chair with you on this?
<CraigYounkins>	probably does. and he's quite welcome to!
<JulianC>	How many GX100s again? I forgot the quantity.
<rhoderickj>	If any team has two leaders, it should definitely be the install fest team
<chuckf>	if John wants it I suggest we give it to him as he did a lot for us
<CraigYounkins>	we never got an exact could JulianC, it was about 60 or so.
<rhoderickj>	agreed
<parma_>	What's the matter with the GX100s?
<CraigYounkins>	well, i'm working out an imaging system for them
<CraigYounkins>	first problem is i think i've got a bad one.
<chuckf>	CraigYounkins, what kind of help do you need?
<CraigYounkins>	second, we need to get them out of the library to store them
<chuckf>	I thought luis could store those, not the monitors
<CraigYounkins>	i really have no idea. i need contact info for him... i don't think i have it.
<chuckf>	CraigYounkins, If i dont' email you with it by the end of the night, ping me
<CraigYounkins>	OK.
<CraigYounkins>	are we registered for SFD
<chuckf>	yes
<chuckf>	last week
<rhoderickj>	By the way, I want to remind everyone to USE THE WIKI. Especially the opsteam pages. That's what it's there for. It's a great organizational tool to keep us up on our TODO list.
<CraigYounkins>	great, we are getting free crap?
<chuckf>	rhoderickj, good point
<chuckf>	CraigYounkins, I don't know
<chuckf>	CraigYounkins, If it shows up, then yes
<Biovore>	hmm free crap..
<parma_>	worth every penny
<parma_>	What's next?
<rhoderickj>	Install fest photos are up: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarylandTeam/Events/InstallFests/2007July21
<CraigYounkins>	heh, just looking at those
<chuckf>	you got the info I take it?
<parma_>	Cool
<CraigYounkins>	chuckf: Give a few of us forum admin power please.
<rhoderickj>	chuckf: Yeah, I got it. Thanks.
<rhoderickj>	I second Craig's notion. 
<chuckf>	CraigYounkins, I'm waiting on info
<CraigYounkins>	lol Josh you make this a constant democracy. it's great.
<rhoderickj>	ha. I'm not saying it formally... that's how I talk. Online anyway. :)
<CraigYounkins>	what about a lead for Marketing
<rhoderickj>	I don't think we have enough folk here to decide on a marketing leader
<CraigYounkins>	obviously, that team will be working closely with mine.
<rhoderickj>	I'd take the job myself but I'm already leading the Web team and I don't think two teams should have the same leader
<chuckf>	it will, yes
<CraigYounkins>	good deal
<CraigYounkins>	what about going to the East library branch?
<chuckf>	rhoderickj, if you want the task, feel free to take it
<CraigYounkins>	Will we have enough space, power, etc?
<rhoderickj>	chuckf: Maybe I will for now.
<chuckf>	CraigYounkins, I'm going this week
<rhoderickj>	chuckf: Regardless of who's leading, I'll do whatever's necessary to help out.
<parma_>	That's the spirit.
<CraigYounkins>	yeah i guess i should get down there
<chuckf>	rhoderickj, I'm not pushing you to do it, but as it is vacant and if you want a name tonight, it's you
<parma_>	Second!
<CraigYounkins>	i dunno i kind of agree with Josh
<parma_>	Nothing needs to be permanent
<CraigYounkins>	two teams with the same leader defeats the purpose of separate teams..
<chuckf>	CraigYounkins, we can always name someone new next week if they step up
<rhoderickj>	I'll be the ACTING leader, until someone else takes the position.
<parma_>	exactly
<CraigYounkins>	lol OK
<chuckf>	CraigYounkins, no, because the volunteers may be different
<parma_>	Ok, in the next couple of days, I'm going to post on the wiki (if I can figure out how) an outline
<parma_>	for presenting to windows refugees
<parma_>	We can flesh out the topics as we go and develop
<rhoderickj>	parma_: Sounds good. Don't be afraid to contact me if you need any help wikifying your stuff. 
<chuckf>	parma_, remember that there may already be wiki pages on that topic in the rest of the site
<parma_>	Yeah. I'm sure I'm going to flail about some.
<dsmith_>	whats going on
<parma_>	Good point Chuck
<chuckf>	hi dsmith_
<dsmith_>	MN state bridge collapsed :(
<chuckf>	if the efforts are already out there, don't duplicate them is my motto
<rhoderickj>	I have more work to do on the opsteam wikis. I've already found a bunch of helpful links for each team and I'll be posting them in the next few days.
<CraigYounkins>	Josh thank you for all your work on the wiki. I stink at 'em and really appreciate your work
<rhoderickj>	CraigYounkins: You're welcome. I'm glad to help.
<dsmith_>	hi chuck
<dsmith_>	and everyone else
<CraigYounkins>	hi
<rhoderickj>	hi
<parma_>	hi
<rhoderickj>	Do we have anything else to discuss?
<JulianC>	Logo?
<rhoderickj>	Yeah, that's a good point. In case anyone didn't catch it, there's a thread in the forums about a team logo
<CraigYounkins>	we... need a logo?
<rhoderickj>	No, we don't need one.
<dsmith_>	dont make this too complicated
<dsmith_>	KISS
<rhoderickj>	It's really a way to build espirit
<chuckf>	well if someone comes up with one or more, great
* dsmith_ wonders how long it was before Apple had a logo
<chuckf>	I like the idea of a logo, but like so much else I'm not stressed over it
<rhoderickj>	Take a look at the thread in the forums if you're interested in what's already been discussed logo-wise
<parma_>	I'm graphically challenged.
<CraigYounkins>	yeah i think we have bigger things to worry about
<rhoderickj>	Yes, I don't think anyone considers a logo to be a priority
<CraigYounkins>	we really need to start advertising *now*
<chuckf>	And if my brother gets some time he said that he'll try to whip something up
<rhoderickj>	I was going to give it a go just to learn GIMP
<chuckf>	however don't hold your breath for that one
<JulianC>	I looked for the standard logos...
<CraigYounkins>	we have a month and a half 'till this install fest... chuck please send me an email about the place and anything different that we'll need this time. tables, chairs?
<CraigYounkins>	after you visit it i mean
<CraigYounkins>	you did explicitly reserve the place didn't ya?
<chuckf>	CraigYounkins, I'll let you know, and it's on the library's calendar
<chuckf>	http://tinyurl.com/37en5z
<CraigYounkins>	Start Time: 10:00 PM
<CraigYounkins>	End Time: 5:00 AM
<CraigYounkins>	GG
<parma_>	Whoops!
<parma_>	Sorry, I can't make it after all.
<CraigYounkins>	lol
<chuckf>	it's a nighttime campout thing
<chuckf>	!
<parma_>	Need my beauty sleep
<chuckf>	parma_, yeah, we'll miss you but we'll be happy you slept
<CraigYounkins>	uh... huh...
<chuckf>	:)
<parma_>	he he
<rhoderickj>	Dude, who brought the doughnuts last time?
* chuckf did
<rhoderickj>	Nice!
<chuckf>	the krispy kremes
<rhoderickj>	Thanks for that. They were awesome. I hope we see more doughnuts at the next event.
<rhoderickj>	;)
<chuckf>	JulianC brought the holes
<CraigYounkins>	we'll have to decide if we're doing food for everyone or just us.
<rhoderickj>	Oh, I didn't see any holes.
<chuckf>	rhoderickj, I plan to get them again
<rhoderickj>	How do you do the emote thing?
<dsmith_>	10 pm to 5 am?
<JulianC>	I would go more with snacks.
<chuckf>	CraigYounkins, I'm thinking of doing the same pizza type thing if the crowd's the same size
<JulianC>	Many installees will likely not be there all day.
<rhoderickj>	Pizza worked out well
<CraigYounkins>	chuckf: Well, i'm hoping it will be quite a bit bigger, especially if we are giving away these computers!
<chuckf>	rhoderickj, emote thing?
<dsmith_>	wow..
* chuckf like this emote thing?
<parma_>	Website says $50 each
<rhoderickj>	chuckf: yes, that thing
<dsmith_>	talk about late night partying
<CraigYounkins>	 / me
<parma_>	wtf?
Usage: ME <action>, sends the action to the current channel (actions are written in the 3rd person, like /me jumps)
<chuckf>	rhoderickj, type /me whatever
* rhoderickj drools
<rhoderickj>	Oh, okay
<rhoderickj>	Now I am empowered
<dsmith_>	heh
* rhoderickj is empowered.
<chuckf>	parma_, that's not my choice, it's a library thing
<dsmith_>	reminds me of college
<CraigYounkins>	um so are we gonna get the time fixed?
<rhoderickj>	CraigYounkins, are we giving away the computers at the install fest?
<chuckf>	parma_, I'll see how firm that price it
<chuckf>	s/it/is
<chuckf>	CraigYounkins, yeah
<rhoderickj>	It's going to be a busy day
<chuckf>	and fun
</pre>
