{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Date''': Friday, October 19, 2007
* '''Time''': 7:00pm - 10:00pm
* '''Location''': <nowiki>[[http://www.redrobin.com/home/locate.aspx?id=75&dist=2.9|Red Robin]]</nowiki>, Columbia Crossing, 8640 Snowden River Pkwy, Columbia MD 21045 <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&geocode=&q=8640+Snowden+River+Pkwy&sll=37.0625,-95.677068&sspn=44.60973,82.96875&ie=UTF8&z=16&iwloc=addr&om=1|(Google Map)]]</nowiki>
* '''Links/Discussion''': 
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=540015|Forums: Gutsy Release Party]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam/Meetings/2007September5|IRC Meeting (last half)]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[GutsyReleaseParties|Official Wiki Listing]]</nowiki>

=== Additional Information ===
We will be celebrating the release of Ubuntu Gutsy Gibbon at the Red Robin in Columbia. If you plan on attending, please add yourself to the attendee list below including the number of guests you plan to bring. 

As I have been asked twice, I want to state here that your meal and drink tab will not be covered by the team. 

=== Advertising ===
There will be no advertising for this event.

=== Attendee List ===
Add yourself to the list below if you would like to attend the release party. If you plan on bringing guests, please add the number in the "Guests" column, otherwise leave it blank. Please update the "Total Attending" as well.

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarylandTeam/Events/ReleaseParties/Gutsy/AttendeesList?action=edit|Edit this list]]</nowiki>
