{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Do you have an idea for an event, project, improvement, or team-related activity? Our teams thrives on your ideas! Please add your ideas to the table below. To do this, add an entry to the "New Ideas" list below. As your idea is acted upon, it will move through the subsequent stages of "Under Consideration" and then "Approved" or "Deferred". Discussion about proposed ideas will take place either in the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=224|community forum]]</nowiki>, at <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam/Meetings|meetings]]</nowiki> (both in-person and IRC), or both. The final decision will be made via a poll in the forum.

=== New Ideas ===

New ideas are those that have not yet been discussed.

* '''Idea''': Give your idea a short but descriptive name
* '''Description''': A single sentence that describes your idea. More discussion will be available in the forums.
* '''Originator''': Sign this with your WikiName.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:95%;" rowstyle="background-color: #F8F8F8;"> '''Idea'''
| '''Description'''
| '''Originator'''
|-
| Bug Triage Day
| The team spends a day triaging bugs.
| JoshRhoderick
|-
| Team Calendar
| Create an official team calendar (using Google Calendar?)
| JoshRhoderick
|-
| Team E-mail Addresses
| Allow team-members to get `ubuntu-maryland.org` addresses via Gmail.
| JoshRhoderick
|}

=== Ideas Under Consideration ===

The following idea(s) are currently being discussed, but no decision has yet been made.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:95%;" rowstyle="background-color: #F8F8F8;"> '''Idea'''
| '''Description'''
| '''Originator'''
| '''Discussion'''
|-
| ''No ideas currently under consideration''
|}

=== Approved Ideas ===

When an idea has been approved, it will be become either an <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam/Events|event]]</nowiki>, a <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam/Projects|project]]</nowiki>, or something else altogether. It will then be given its own wiki page and this page's link will appear in the "Link" field.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:95%;" rowstyle="background-color: #F8F8F8;"> '''Idea'''
| '''Description'''
| '''Originator'''
| '''Link'''
|-
| ''No ideas currently approved''
|}

=== Deferred Ideas ===

When an idea has been deferred, it means that it may or may not be acted upon. These ideas were likely to be determined unsuitable or unfeasible. This list is kept so that members can develop an understanding of what types of ideas are deferred. If any relevant forum discussions exist on these topics, a link can be found in the "Discussion" field.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:95%;" rowstyle="background-color: #F8F8F8;"> '''Idea'''
| '''Description'''
| '''Originator'''
| '''Discussion'''
|-
| ''No ideas currently deferred''
|}
