{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Meeting Details ==

* '''Date:''' Wednesday, February 6, 2007
* '''Location:''' IRC: #ubuntu-maryland on freenode.
* '''Time:''' 7:00pm - 9:00pm ''(meeting may end earlier, but no later)''

=== Agenda ===
* Ubuntu Maryland's web site discussion
* Install fest planning
** Flyer discussion

=== IRC Log ===
Started talking in ubuntu-us-md on Wednesday 02/06/2008 06:49:18 PM

-> phr0ze has joined ubuntu-us-md

phr0ze	hi all

cyounkins	pdragon isn't here eitther

phr0ze	ohh well.

-> istarex has joined ubuntu-us-md

istarex	Is this the MD Loco team meeting?

cyounkins	indeed!

phr0ze	yes

istarex	so, installfest

cyounkins	Yep, i'm handling that 

phr0ze	Yes, it'll be great

istarex	is there any way I can help?

phr0ze	Are you able to attend?

istarex	probably

istarex	it's a Saturday right?

cyounkins	Yes.

phr0ze	Thats great. The more people who help, the better.

cyounkins	You can help by assisting people, donating hardware for the day, and putting up flyers

istarex	I can do some of that stuff

phr0ze	We usually need someone to bring monitors, there are never enough.

cyounkins	as far as hardware, we can always use mice, keyboards, switches, power strips, and KVMs

cyounkins	we can borrow monitors from their facilities

cyounkins	but they do help greatly

phr0ze	last time we only got 4 at that place. it was tight. We had more KVMs than monitors

istarex	I live in Western MD (Frederick area), so if anybody out here needs a ride, I can give it

phr0ze	Wow, we have several frederick people. Perhaps one of them would appreciate it.

cyounkins	You might want to see about carpooling with Josh. he lives in frederick

phr0ze	I have a suggestion for this install fest

cyounkins	let's hear it

phr0ze	It seems it's too much to handle 4 computers on one KVM. Most of them sit IDLE for a long time.

phr0ze	Lets limit 2 per

cyounkins	I've got to post on the forum about the presentation on laptops.... </random thought>

cyounkins	hmm.. okay. we can do that

cyounkins	it would be easier if we didn't run into problems with every single computer

phr0ze	We can always start putting spill overs on the 4 kvms, but only if we have to.

cyounkins	where on Earth is Josh and Chuck...

phr0ze	I have no idea. I bet they show up at 8

phr0ze	

phr0ze	Any other suggestions for the install fesT?

cyounkins	none from me...

istarex	beer? 

cyounkins	heh

phr0ze	yeah, that would be nice

istarex	Alright, here's a question for you guys

istarex	other than hosting installfests, what does a LoCo team do?

cyounkins	our aim is to promote Ubuntu in our community

cyounkins	we're working on presentations at senior centers (one has happened)

cyounkins	other than that, we have done very little as a team

phr0ze	We are always looking for ideas.

phr0ze	chuck is on his way

-> chuckf has joined ubuntu-us-md

chuckf	howdy

phr0ze	Hey Chuck

chuckf	sorry, I lost track of the days

phr0ze	I lost track of the time. No biggie.

chuckf	so what's going on?

phr0ze	Not much. istarex is in Frederick and offered to possibly give others in the area a ride to the install fest

cyounkins	*sigh*

phr0ze	Craig gave up already.

chuckf	on this chat?

phr0ze	hehe.

cyounkins	i'm tired. i pulled an all nighter monday night, and I have a lot of work. and i'm a litle fed up with this team

phr0ze	He has been here since 6:45

chuckf	ah,

chuckf	unfortunatly I didn't remember this chat until John just im'd me

chuckf	sorry that you had to pull the all nighter

phr0ze	Perhaps we should discontinue the scheduled chat meetings and have impromptu chat meetings as needed.

chuckf	that works for me

chuckf	I know that most of these mettings are poorly attended anyway

phr0ze	I think these were designed to include Josh and other distance members in some meetings.

chuckf	that was the intent

phr0ze	But they dont seem to be working. I think we should try to plan a Fredrick meeting

phr0ze	I am willing to go to one if someone else can drive.

cyounkins	i'd like to see a Frederick meeting as well

chuckf	I can go, but unfortunatly it's wouldn't be convient to give you a ride out there from columbia

phr0ze	I attend another group that meets at a TGI fridays and it works out well. Fridays doesn't mind if its a week night. We can call to be sure they are willing.

-> rhoderickj has joined ubuntu-us-md

phr0ze	I can meet you.

phr0ze	Josh!

rhoderickj	Hey

rhoderickj	Sorry for being so late

phr0ze	We weren't talking about you, I swear

chuckf	hiya josh

rhoderickj	lol

chuckf	well if you wanted to come down to Olney I can give you a ride from my place

cyounkins	hey...

phr0ze	I can do that.

phr0ze	Craig, can you go to Olney to meet for a carpool?

phr0ze	Josh, we are trying to plan a meeting local to you

rhoderickj	To me? Why?

chuckf	to see what kind of turnout is there

phr0ze	There are several frederick members. It would help build support

cyounkins	you're sweating details, we don't have a location

rhoderickj	Oh, okay. I think that would be a good idea.

rhoderickj	Let me check with the library

rhoderickj	I'll call them tomorrow

phr0ze	heh. Like I said, my other group meets at a Fridays. I would think theirs would be willing

phr0ze	I'll call them if you all like.

rhoderickj	Look here: http://www.fcpl.org/information/meetingrooms/index.htm

chuckf	that works for me

rhoderickj	I recommend that we try for the C. Burr Artz branch first

rhoderickj	If that fails, then the Urbana branch will do

chuckf	well do we want to do the friday's first to get an idea of the turnout?

rhoderickj	When were you trying to set this up for?

rhoderickj	Yeah, that's fine with me

phr0ze	The library rooms do have openings here and there. So with a good lead it should be easy to get a room.

chuckf	either place works for me

rhoderickj	Did you guys discuss the flyer?

chuckf	looking at the google map, we might want to meet up in cooksville and carpool from there

cyounkins	John, will you explain your idea for the second type of flyer?

rhoderickj	You don't have to repeat yourself. I'll read the log.

cyounkins	it's not in the log 

chuckf	although here or there it's not a huge difference in distance

phr0ze	Called Fridays in Frederick.

phr0ze	The manager named Jeff said Mon-Wed is best and to call a week or two in advance but it will be fine.

chuckf	the second wednesday of the month is bad for me, but otherwise I'm pretty flexible

rhoderickj	We might want to set up our web site before the Frederick meeting... so we can use it as a tool to promote it. 

phr0ze	The idea for the second flyer is to nat talk so much about ubuntu features, but appeal with the lower cost devices these manufacturers are making with linux on them.

phr0ze	Such as the EEE PC and the Walmart PC

phr0ze	We definately need to advertise that meeting because there are probably locals which haven't considered joining due to distance.

chuckf	that is a factor

rhoderickj	phr0ze: Exactly. I think having the web site will make it much easier.

phr0ze	We should post a few messages on boards. And have a link to the website Josh suggested.

chuckf	and we can utilize a wiki page for the time being if needed

rhoderickj	Yes, I can post to the Frederick News Post forums (I already post there, they know me). And I can post to the Gazette.

rhoderickj	I can also post a craigslist listing, although I don't know if it would do much good

phr0ze	it wouldn't hurt. I can put it in my sig perhaps in a few forums.

rhoderickj	Oh, and I still have contacts at Hood College, so I can speak with them and ask if they'll let the comp. sci. club know

phr0ze	That would be great

chuckf	well it won't hurt to put something on craigs list

cyounkins	can we set a datee?

phr0ze	I'd say we could conduct a real meeting at fridays in a group of 8 or less. However, a groupd larger than 8 would be more of a social gathering. We need to decide if we care.

phr0ze	And we need to tell people to RSVP.

chuckf	well I think basing it as a social gathering to begin with would be a better idea

cyounkins	brb

phr0ze	It would if the goal is to build members.

chuckf	and just kind of get a feel for what people want as a regular meeting, then book the library if we get enough positive feedback

rhoderickj	So this would sort of be just a social gathering of Ubuntu users, enthusiasts, and people who are curious?

phr0ze	sounds good.

phr0ze	sure

rhoderickj	okay, great

phr0ze	If there is large enough interest, someone local to frederick can coordinate meetings. If not, we could maybe meet there quarterly or less.

chuckf	so if we have 8 people vs 25 we can kind of change things as it flows

phr0ze	yeah. Hopefully we'll have an idea of the size before we call fridays.

phr0ze	She should have taken the deal

rhoderickj	Yeah, I could probably run the local meetings if there were enough interest, but I'm often big on ambition and short on time and energy

phr0ze	me too. A lot of us are.

chuckf	I could probably make regular meetings out there

phr0ze	Lets make the decision after the meeting turn out. This time we should collect email addresses

chuckf	we'll do a signin sheet

rhoderickj	Right. Like Craig said, we should set a date

rhoderickj	We can iron out the details as we get closer to it. All we need right now is a date and venue.

phr0ze	Ok. Someone pick a Mon Tue or Wed. And make sure Josh can get to it.

rhoderickj	After the install fest?

phr0ze	I dont care. More or less, what ever we feel we can get interest for.

phr0ze	Wed are best for me.

rhoderickj	March 26?

rhoderickj	That would be the fourth Wed in march

cyounkins	back

rhoderickj	Three weeks after the install fest

chuckf	I'm thinking before the install fest would be better

chuckf	if we get interested people we can say, come out on the 8th

phr0ze	The Wed of.

chuckf	so how does the 27th sound?

phr0ze	so its fresh in minds

rhoderickj	Good point

rhoderickj	Feb 27?

chuckf	that give a week and a half to plan

chuckf	yeah, feb 27

phr0ze	Yeah, why not.

cyounkins	i'm good

rhoderickj	Okay, that's fine with me

rhoderickj	7pm?

phr0ze	Josh try to hit those ad spots this week

chuckf	that should work

chuckf	depending on traffic and such, but it shouldn't be too bad by then

phr0ze	How long will it take to get there Chuck?

rhoderickj	Okay

rhoderickj	It takes me about 40 min to get from Frederick to Columbia

chuckf	I'm thinking it's about 40 minutes from here, but I'll check with peg to confirm that

phr0ze	I'm concerned about the traffic at 6PM

rhoderickj	It shouldn't be too bad, but we could push it back to 8pm to be safe

chuckf	accoding to google maps it's about 50 minutes

phr0ze	Well, if we leave at 6, we should be good. If we're late, we'll count on Josh to shake hands

rhoderickj	Yeah, no worries. I don't think you'll have too much trouble with the traffic. The worst of it is coming up 270 -- where I'm coming from work.

rhoderickj	70 west is usually not too bad

rhoderickj	until you pass the 270/15 intersection

rhoderickj	and you won't be goign any farther than that to go to Friday's

phr0ze	This sounds like a great plan. 7PM at Fridays.

chuckf	well the 270 is the way that we'll be coming from olney

rhoderickj	You might want to shoot up to 70 and go west

rhoderickj	But, either way, I'm coming up 270... I work in Rockville, so I don't have much of a choice.

phr0ze	Craig, I can drive us to Chucks

cyounkins	how far away do you live from me?

chuckf	we could do the 70 route possibly

rhoderickj	Where are you two coming from?

chuckf	craig and john are in columbia

cyounkins	yeah, pretty close too

phr0ze	I guess we would have room for 1 other passenger either in Olney or Columbia.

rhoderickj	In the wiki, should I set this up as an event or a meeting?

chuckf	I do have a two door cavalier, so the back seat will be tight for two long legged people

phr0ze	Shotgun

chuckf	event

chuckf	hehe

rhoderickj	lol

cyounkins	dammit.

phr0ze	Meeting

chuckf	meeting sure

phr0ze	Meetings should be defined as a member thing and events should be more of a public thing

rhoderickj	So, meeting or event?

cyounkins	meeting

rhoderickj	Okay.

chuckf	meeting

rhoderickj	Oh Craig, dude, thanks for the guilt trip in my inbox

rhoderickj	

phr0ze	Craig is good at that

chuckf	and with so few words too

phr0ze	I plan to bring my info for key signing too

rhoderickj	

rhoderickj	I'll make a note of that in the wiki

phr0ze	Thanks.

chuckf	that could be a standing thing I think

phr0ze	Yeah, but we should remind people for things like this

chuckf	for anyone who wants to do keysignings at an event they should feel free to bring thier info

phr0ze	Are we allowed to print ubuntu business cards?

chuckf	if you are an ubuntu member, yes

chuckf	to use the logo

phr0ze	hmm. Ok. I thought we could as part of this Ubuntu MD thing

chuckf	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BusinessCards

chuckf	I think we can do a generic team card without logos

phr0ze	I'll look at the process of becoming a member. I just wanted something specifically for these meetings

chuckf	well if we do just a text card I don't see a problem with that

chuckf	I thought you wanted a business card with your info on it

phr0ze	No biggie. I may be able to swing the membership.

chuckf	if there's a CC meeting between now and then

phr0ze	ohh. man that sux.

chuckf	but we can do generic cards for the team

phr0ze	Well. I'm going to sign off now. I'm glad this meeting picked up some momentum.

chuckf	take care John and I'll see you in a few weeks

phr0ze	Later all.

<- phr0ze has left ubuntu-us-md

chuckf	anyone else got anything?

cyounkins	nay.. i've got work...

rhoderickj	I was just putting up the wiki page

rhoderickj	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarylandTeam/Meetings/2008February27

chuckf	good luck with that craig

chuckf	can you put a signup area on there as well josh?

rhoderickj	Yep

rhoderickj	Craig, we'll have to start an e-mail convo about the web site

cyounkins	yeah we will

rhoderickj	Better yet. Forum thread.

chuckf	do you want to get the basic ideas out between the two of you then do the forum thing?

cyounkins	We'll figure it out later... i don't have the time right now

rhoderickj	Yeah, we'll talk about it soon

rhoderickj	I'll post a forum thread once the real discussion has begun... if there is any.

rhoderickj	I have a feeling it won't be too difficult

rhoderickj	Anyway, I'll talk with you guys later. Sorry again for showing up so late.

chuckf	np

rhoderickj	Oh, Craig, will you send me the log or post it on the wiki?

cyounkins	yeah I'll post it the wiki now

rhoderickj	Okay, thanks. Take care!

cyounkins	see ya!

<- rhoderickj has left ubuntu-us-md

chuckf	okay craig, I'm outta here too

chuckf	good luck with your work

cyounkins	thanks

cyounkins	see ya

<- chuckf has disconnected ("Quitting this place")
