{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Global Bug Jam 08 ==

The Maryland Ubuntu Team will be participating in the Ubuntu Global Bug Jam on the weekend of August 8-10 2008. 

We will be descending on the <nowiki>[[http://cci.cs.loyola.edu|Loyola College Center for Community Informatics]]</nowiki> on August 9th. The address is <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?ie=UTF8&oe=utf-8&client=firefox-a&q=8890+McGaw+Rd,+Columbia,+MD+21045,+USA&ll=39.19295,-76.821513&spn=0.01234,0.026565&z=15&iwloc=addr|8890 McGaw Rd Columbia, MD 21045]]</nowiki>. We will have the room from 9am until 3pm. 

At 9:30am ChuckFrain will be giving a presentation on how to report and triage bugs using Launchpad. After that we will work on getting bugs straightened out in the system:)

To take full advantage of the day please bring a laptop with a wireless connection. We will set up a wired network if needed but the wireless is preferred. Also take a moment to signup for a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net|Launchpad]]</nowiki> so you can jump right in with the reporting and triaging. If you want to participate in the 5-A-Day program you may want to add that to your machine as well.

Otherwise it's going to be a fun day of hanging out and geeking out. See you there!
