{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Meeting Schedule ===

The Maryland LoCo Team meets every fourth Saturday of the month at the <nowiki>[[http://www.ccbcmd.edu/|Community College Baltimore County]]</nowiki> in Catonsville, MD. The team also meets on IRC the first Monday of the month in the `#ubuntu-us-md` channel on <nowiki>[[http://www.freenode.net|freenode.]]</nowiki> from 8:00pm - 9:00pm. Meeting dates and times may change, however, so check the meeting's individual wiki page from the schedule below.

<<BR>>
== Meeting Schedules ==

==== Upcoming ====
 ~-<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarylandTeam/Meetings/UpcomingMeetings?action=edit|Edit this list]]</nowiki>-~
 
==== Previous ====
 ~-<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarylandTeam/Meetings/PreviousMeetings?action=edit|Edit this list]]</nowiki>-~
 
== General Meeting Information ==

=== Who May Attend ===

There are no requirements to attend team meetings. It is beneficial to have some knowledge of Ubuntu and Linux, but such knowledge is not necessary. Our meetings are attended by people of varying ages and professions. All are welcome. Feel free to bring your laptop with you.

=== Meeting Locations ===

==== In-Person Meetings ====

 If you're unfamiliar with Community College of Baltimore County (CCBC), see <nowiki>[[http://www.ccbcmd.edu/|their web site]]</nowiki> for a map of the Catonsville campus and driving directions. The meetings are typically held in the linux lab in the HTEC building room H-220B. Use parking lot 5.  

==== Internet Relay Chat Meetings ====

 Meetings held on Internet Relay Chat (IRC) are in the `#ubuntu-us-md` channel on <nowiki>[[http://www.freenode.net|freenode.]]</nowiki> If you need assistance getting started with IRC or freenode, take a look at the <nowiki>[[InternetRelayChat|community documentation for IRC]]</nowiki> and the <nowiki>[[http://freenode.net/faq.shtml|freenode FAQ]]</nowiki>. Please remember that, unless otherwise specified, IRC logs will be published on the wiki. 

=== Topics of Discussion ===

Topics vary from meeting to meeting but our focus is on Ubuntu-specific topics rather than Linux in general. Meetings often involve discussions on group activities, proposed changes, and preparation for upcoming events. In addition to Ubuntu, our team is also active in the free software community, so our discussion may also be relevant to topics related to free software in general. Each meeting will have an agenda that will be made available at least a week prior to the meeting on our <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-maryland.org|website]]</nowiki> and a message will be sent to the mailing list. You can find the agendas listed in the '''Upcoming Meetings''' and '''Previous Meetings''' sections on this page. You are invited to contribute to the agenda by contacting ronswift. IRC logs and meeting minutes (when available), will be posted to their respective meeting pages shortly after the conclusion of each meeting.
