{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== The Ubuntu Maryland Web Team ==

The Web Team's mission is to manage the Maryland LoCo Team's presence on the Internet through both the team wiki and the team website. The team's primary tasks include the creation, management, and updating of web content. The Ubuntu Maryland Web Team is open to any Ubuntu Maryland team member. (For more information on how to join the Ubuntu Maryland LoCo Team, <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam-Members|please see this page]]</nowiki>.) No prior Web design or wiki experience is necessary to join the team. To learn more about how you can help, contact the operations team leader.  

=== TODO ===

Use this list to keep track of team TODOs. When an item is completed, it may be removed from the list. The list should remain sorted by deadline in which the items with the most urgent deadlines appear first. If an item has no specific deadline, it should be marked with '''ASAP'''. These items have a lower priority and are placed at the bottom of the list. The '''Assigned To''' field may contain the WikiName of one member or multiple members separated by a comma. 

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarylandTeam/WebTeam/TODO?action=edit|Edit TODOs]]</nowiki>

=== Team Pages ===

* <nowiki>[[WikiStyleGuide|Wiki Style Guide]]</nowiki> ''(In-Progress)'' Contains guidelines for the team wiki's organizational structure and best practices for page creation and maintenance.

=== Members ===

The following list includes only members of the Web Team. If you would like to see a full LoCo team membership list, please see the <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam-Members|Members page]]</nowiki>.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 90%;" rowstyle="background-color:#F7F7F7;">  '''Name'''
| '''Role/Position'''
| '''WikiName'''
|-
| Josh Rhoderick
| Web Team Leader
| JoshRhoderick
|-
| Craig Younkins
| Insubordinate Subordinate
| aboutblank
|}

=== Links ===

You may use the space below for helpful links to internal and external team resources.

==== Wiki Editing ====

* <nowiki>[[http://moinmoin.wikiwikiweb.de/|MoinMoin]]</nowiki> The Ubuntu wiki uses the MoinMoin wiki engine
* <nowiki>[[http://moinmoin.wikiwikiweb.de/HelpContents|MoinMoin Help Contents]]</nowiki> Get help on editing wiki pages

==== Quick Links for Included Pages ====

* <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam-Meetings-UpcomingMeetings]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam-Meetings-PreviousMeetings]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam-Events-UpcomingEvents]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam-Events-PreviousEvents]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam-Members-MembersList]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam-Header]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam-Sidebar]]</nowiki>
