{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Date''': Saturday, March 8, 2008
* '''Time''': 10:00am - 2:30pm
* '''Location''': Loyola College Center for Community Informatics, 8890 Mc``Gaw Rd., Columbia, MD 21045 (<nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&geocode=&q=8890+McGaw+Rd,+Columbia,+MD+21045&sll=37.0625,-95.677068&sspn=47.349227,82.265625&ie=UTF8&z=16&iwloc=addr&om=1|Google Map]]</nowiki>)
* '''Discussion''': 
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=680280|Official Forum Thread]]</nowiki>

=== Advertising and Promotional Materials ===

We manage our advertising using a custom Google map. This map keeps track of all of the brick-and-mortar locations friendly to group advertising flyers. This map may change as events are nearing, as it will be modified to reflect the current status of advertising attempts. See the <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam/Events/InstallFests/AdvertisingLocations|Advertising Locations]]</nowiki>  page for information on how to advertise on online venues.

* <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam/Events/InstallFests/AdvertisingLocations|Advertising Locations]]</nowiki> (General information on event advertising)
* <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps/ms?ie=UTF8&hl=en&msa=0&msid=106017942038319463394.000437bef4cedc41199d2&z=12|View the Google Map]]</nowiki>

==== Flyers, Handouts, etc. ====

* Flyer #1: <nowiki>[[attachment:InstallFest-2008March08.odt|ODT]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[attachment:InstallFest-2008March08.pdf|PDF]]</nowiki>
* Data Sheet: <nowiki>[[attachment:MarylandTeam/Events/InstallFests/InstallFestDataSheet.odt|ODT]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[attachment:MarylandTeam/Events/InstallFests/InstallFestDataSheet.pdf|PDF]]</nowiki>
* Release Agreement: <nowiki>[[attachment:MarylandTeam/Events/InstallFests/InstallFestReleaseForm.odt|ODT]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[attachment:MarylandTeam/Events/InstallFests/InstallFestReleaseForm.pdf|PDF]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[attachment:MarylandTeam/Events/InstallFests/CDStand.tar.gz|CD Stands for LiveCD Display]]</nowiki>

=== TODO ===
* Make flyers or other promotional material
* Post the flyers around the state. If you've found a community billboard that's friendly to Ubuntu, make a note of it on the <nowiki>[[MarylandTeam/Events/InstallFests/AdvertisingLocations|Advertising Locations]]</nowiki> page.
* Post updated hardware and equipment list to the wiki (See above "Available Hardware").
* Make sure our equipment and supplies are ready.
* Find or create a legal waiver.
* Find or create a simple user manual with information on where to find assistance.
* Look into the possibility of creating a presentation for new Ubuntu users. This can be shown at the install fest and also installed onto individual systems for review later.
