{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==

'''Scheduled Time:''' 7:00 PM EST Thursday, October  29^th^, 2009  <<BR>>
'''Scheduled Location:''' Democracy Center, 45 Mount Auburn Street, Harvard Square, Cambridge, MA, 02138<<BR>>
'''Join On Freenode IRC Channel''' <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-ubuntu-us-ma|#ubuntu-us-ma]]</nowiki> <<BR>>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''Meeting Chair:''' Martin Owens (doctormo) <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' Nobody <<BR>>

== Present ==

The following team members were present during this meeting:

'''Physically Present:''' <<BR>>

* Martin Owens (doctormo), Programmer

'''Virtually Present:'''  <<BR>>

* James Gray (jamespgray), Ubuntu User via IRC.

== Agenda Items ==

The following agenda items were proposed for this meeting:

* Introductions (everyone)
* Review of last month's <nowiki>[[..-..-..-ActionItems|Action Items]]</nowiki>
* Review of Grassroots Technology Conference (doctormo)
* Additional planning for 9.10 release party.
* Evenings for Advocacy, how that's going.
* Open Floor (everyone)

== Action Items ==

See progress <nowiki>[[..-..-..-ActionItems|for Action Items here]]</nowiki>

== Proceedings ==

==== Group Introduction ====

* Everyone went around the room and recited their name and profession, recorded in the section above.

==== Open Floor (All) ====

== Conclusion ==

* There is lots to do.
