{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==

'''Date:''' Saturday February 23^rd^ 2008 <<BR>>
'''When:''' 10:00 am to 5:00 pm EST <<BR>>
'''Where:''' Wiesner Building, E15 (in other terms, "the lower atrium of the Media Lab")<<BR>><nowiki>[[[http:whereis.mit.edu/map-jpg?selection=E15&Buildings=go|map]]</nowiki>] 
20 Ames Street<<BR>>
Cambridge, MA 02139<<BR>>

'''Press Releases:''' <<BR>>

=== Agenda ===

** 08:30-10:00: setup
** 10:00-12:30: Ubuntu demonstrations, installs and tours.
** 12:30-13:30: lunch! Food will probably be pizza and will be ordered at 11:30
** 13:30-17:00: Continued demonstrations, installs and game sessions.
** 14:00-14:30: KDE 4 Presentation
** 17:00-17:30: cleanup

=== Attending ===

'' Please sign here if you'll be attending. Add any guests/friends/family you'll be bringing either as a separate name or as a comment next to your name.''

=== Volunteers ===

''Please sign up here if you wish to volunteer to help out at the installation festival, not just geeks are required. We would like all volunteers to wear some form of Ubuntu apparel and Mike will have t-shirts available for anyone who hasn't already got one. We'll also be making up some ID badges so everyone who is officially helping will be known and registered such that we can avoid problems since we have to deal with liability etc.''

If you can come early to help setup the event, please add "Setup" after your name. If you can stay late, add "teardown". About 5 people will be sufficient for each crew. Plan to arrive by 8:30 for setup and stay until 17:30 (5:30pm) for teardown.

'''Martin Owens''', Event Co-Ordinator, Setup/Teardown<<BR>>
'''Mike Rushton''', Technology Co-Ordinator<<BR>>
'''Sarah Abbott''', Personal Relations<<BR>>
'''Steve Pomeroy''', Venue Host, Setup/Teardown<<BR>>
'''Bill Ricker''', extra gear (and Non-Ubu disk collection), ?Setup/Teardown?<<BR>>
'''Aaron Havilnad''', Layout, Setup/Teardown<<BR>>
'''Jeffrey Finkelstein''', Volunteer<<BR>>
'''Samuel Baldwin''', Volunteer, Teardown<<BR>>
'''Nathan Eckenrode''', Vapid Smoozing and General EyeCandy<<BR>>
'''Andrew Bullock''', Volunteer, MAYBE Setup/Teardown Info Packets<<BR>>
'''Brian Fallik''', Assistant to Personal Relations<<BR>>
'''Cam Cope''', Misc. Volunteer, Demonstrator (will bring desktop), Setup<<BR>>
'''Caleb Marcus''', Volunteer geek, possible setup<<BR>>
'''Danny Piccirillo''', General Volunteer<<BR>>
'''Jason Normand''', perhapse set up probably teardown <<BR>>
'''Yuriy Kozlov''', Volunteer, Kubuntu guy, probably teardown<<BR>>
'''Hasith Vidanamadura''', Volunteer geek, possible setup<<BR>>

=== Want to be there but can't ===
'''Rebecca Prigot'''<<BR>>
'''Jonathan Prigot''' (picking up Rebecca Prigot)
== Post Mortem ==
