{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Gutsy Gathering ==

'''What:''' Release party for Ubuntu 7.10 Gutsy Gibbon

'''When:''' Thursday, October 18, 2007 at 19:00 (that's 7:00PM) 

'''Where:''' <nowiki>[[http://www.globebarandcafe.com/|The Globe Bar and Cafe]]</nowiki> @ 565 Boylston St, Boston, MA 02116

'''Who:''' ''YOU!'' There will also be other Ubunteros, developers, geeks, fans, delicious foods, and tasty beers

=== Answers to All Your Questions ===

Finger foods will be available (feel free to donate a few bucks).  Servers will be around for dinner from the menu, and drinks so bring plenty of cash.

'''How do I get there?'''

 <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?li=d&hl=en&f=d&iwstate1=dir:to&daddr=565+Boylston+St,+Boston,+MA+02116+(Globe+Bar+%26+Grill+The)&geocode=10513131117123980618,42.350347,-71.076425&iwloc=1&dq=Globe+Bar+%26+Cafe+565+Boylston+St.&cid=42350347,-71076425,11329487433722808856|Google Maps]]</nowiki> to ''565 Boylston St, Boston, MA.'' The nearest T stop is the ''<nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?li=d&hl=en&f=d&iwstate1=dir:to&daddr=565+Boylston+St,+Boston,+MA+02116+(Globe+Bar+%26+Grill+The)&geocode=10513131117123980618,42.350347,-71.076425&iwloc=1&dq=Globe+Bar+%26+Cafe+565+Boylston+St.&cid=42350347,-71076425,11329487433722808856|Copley Square]]</nowiki>'' stop on the Green Line. 

 We will be on the mezzanine, just go all the way back past the bar and bathrooms and up the stairs.

'''What if I get lost on the way?'''

'''I don't run Ubuntu yet. Should I come?'''

 Sure. Bring a laptop. You can try not get beer spilled on it and we can try to set you up with GutsyGibbon.

'''I still have friends who don't use Ubuntu. Can they come?'''

 Sure. Tell them to bring their laptop. See above.

=== RSVP ===

If you are planning on attending, please add your name to the list below. We need a head count so we can reserve a big enough table.

* Martin Owens (<nowiki>[[DoctorMO]]</nowiki>)
* Mike Rushton (<nowiki>[[Leftyfb]]</nowiki>)
* Sara Abbott ("deviousdragen")
* T-Burn (avila)
* George Noon (GeorgeNoon)
* John Dong (JohnDong) (on a best-effort, if-not-busy basis!)
* Jason M Normand
* Peter Connor (?)
* Jonathan M. Prigot
* Rebecca Prigot
* Aaron Haviland (around 9:15)
* Samuel Baldwin (Shardz)

If you are embarrassed that all your Windows friends will find out about your Ubuntu habit you can RSVP in secret by emailing Martin Owens at doctormo@gmail.com.

See you there!
