{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam <<BR>>
'''Meeting Log(s):''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam/Meetings/IRCLogs/2008-02-21 <<BR>>
'''Meeting Chair:''' Martin Owens <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' Sarah <<BR>>

== Members Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:
'''Physically:''' Martin, Mike, Sarah, Jason N., Aaron, Brian Falik
'''Virtually:'''

== Agenda Items ==
The following topics were proposed for this meeting:

=== InstallFest ===
* Schedule

=== Ubuntu for Schools ===
See: http://docs.google.com/Doc?id=ajdqhbdzgsdj_969f33r6zc9
Also: <nowiki>[[../../../Events/Informational/FreeSoftwareForSchools|Planning]]</nowiki>
* What needs to be done
** Fix the outline to better appeal to the Schools' interests
* Timeline
** Outline Complete
** Everything Complete
** Practice date? 
** Presentation Date
* Consider talking about
** OLPC
** Other FOSS programs
** SchoolTool
** OpenOffice.org
* What should be seen? 
** Demo? 
** Hands on?
** OO.o Impress or GDocs presentation? 
** some combination of the above? 
* Location
** Things to consider:
** Audience size
** Presentation style (see: "What should be seen?")
** Possibilities:
** @NNHS
*** Little Theater: Seats approximately 200, seating along all fours walls
*** Lasker Auditorium: Seats a lot of people, big stage
*** Film Lecture Hall: Seats approximately 100
** Newton Free Library
*** 150-200
** Ed Center? 
** Other options? 
* Who can help? 
** Speaker/Presenter(s): Steve, 
** Panel for Q&A: Steve, Danny, Caleb
** Work on outline: Danny

=== Misc. ===
* Agenda/Responsibilities
* <nowiki>[[../../../Donate|Donations]]</nowiki>
** Who should be contacted for hardware/money donations? 

== Minutes ==

=== Installfest ===
* "Installfest" name must be changed to something that's less of a turn-off (in the future) : Exploration Ubuntu? Other ideas?
* Xavier posted fliers over MIT campus
* Check table availability
* Floorplan is difficult because of a circular table shortage
* Necessary Items
** LCD's
** Tables
** Sample computers that don't have all kinds of extra flashy stuff to show add/remove programs
** Gigabit ethernet & switch, router (Mike)
** PXE server with gigabit card??
* KDE presentation by Yuiry 
* Intro (?) presentations by Cam
* Play screencasts with sound 
* Sign printing by Xavier
* Food & Beverages
** Forks, Napkins, Cake by Devious
** Plates by Xavier
* The next installfest will be after the next release due to scheduling difficulty with holidays

=== Ubuntu for Schools ===
* What's schools would like to know
** Dpic needs to talk to Michael Selva (IT teacher
** "Find out their needs" A list of their needs, what do you need now, what do you got to continue to use
** Newton schools are looking to use various things, such as Drupal, School Tools(?)
* Also State regulations and mandated filtration
* no parenting teacher schools
* There is an online service for filtering
* Educational material for online schools
* Library data base program...
* Are we in a position to help schools use ubuntu? 
** Drupal, Newton schools, school tool for new student information systems
** Education wiki for ubuntu should be around
** Edubuntu is a thin client system
* 1 to 1 learning platform from age 6 -12
* Presentation by Cam for possible programs for student services, network management, A few good websites
* Focus on Newton North, or something that isn't our wiki, or something that uses drupal, to show it off... Cam needs ideas for "test machines for another presentation he's going to have"
* Dpic is having a presentation "outline on google docs" In contact with the student advisory committee"
* Meeting on Tuesday
* Technical teams feel pressure when ideas come from outside
* Plan to have a "test lab" a trial of this thing out, so people can see how it works
* need list of names or successful educational stories on our wiki or names we would like to contact that we could help

=== Case Badges ===
* Set up group buy website because the wiki was quite the challenge last time

== Action Items ==
Mike (lefty): Switch, router, for Installfest

Yuiry: KDE presentation for Installfest

Cam: Intro. Presentations for installfest, Presentation for Newton Schools 

Xavier: Plates, sign printing "Help Area" "Demos" "Sign In Here" for Installfest

Devious: Forks, Napkins, Cake for Installfest

== Conclusion ==
* Installfest this Saturday!
* The next installfest will be after the Hardy release
