{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''Note: Please do not be confused with <nowiki>[[MassachusettsTeam/Projects/Donate| donating]]</nowiki>, but consider doing so to support us'''

== Upgrade to Ubuntu ==

If have a computer you would like one of us install Ubuntu on, you may send it in to one of us to do it for you. 

If you are unsure or concerned about switching, curious about Ubuntu, or using it, please see: <nowiki>[[../../Information/WhyUbuntu|Why Ubuntu?]]</nowiki>

=== We Can: ===
* Move your old files and bookmarks to Ubuntu
** Let us know about files you want to make sure to keep 
** We're not doing this as a business so we can't refund you or compensate for lost files or damages :(
* If you insist, we can set up a dual-boot, which will allow you to choose between starting Ubuntu or another operating system when you turn on your computer.
* Ubuntu 7.04 Feisty Fawn is officially supported for x86 machines (most home desktop machines) and is also available for PowerPC.

=== Interested?: ===
* We're not doing this for the money although we do appreciate donations :)
** Pay what you want- $20, $10, $5, or nothing at all!
* Feel free to contact us regarding any questions or concerns

=== Upgrade! ===
When you are ready to upgrade, contact us through one of the options listed below. 

==== Project Contacts ====
* <nowiki>[[https://answers.edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-ma/|Launchpad]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=260|Forum]]</nowiki>
