{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{{{#!irc
16:55:04 <Spitty>	hello folks
16:55:39 <GoatTuber>	hey
16:55:58 <Spitty>	we're starting at 5, right?
16:56:18 <GoatTuber>	I believe so
16:57:48 <yuriy>	hi Spitty, GoatTuber
16:58:08 <Spitty>	hey yuriy
16:59:59 Join	mgomeztccs has joined this channel (n=mark@pool-68-160-155-135.bos.east.verizon.net).
17:00:17 <GoatTuber>	heya
17:00:52 <mgomeztccs>	good afternoon
17:01:17 <Spitty>	hey
17:01:29 <yuriy>	hi mgomeztccs
17:01:42 <mgomeztccs>	hello
17:03:32 <thornomad>	i am here as well.
17:05:10 <yuriy>	5/12...
17:05:15 <Spitty>	should we get started, or are we going to wait for some latecomers?
17:06:23 <yuriy>	let's get started
17:07:32 <GoatTuber>	I'm still at work throwing together a report, so I'll be back and forth between here and coding
17:07:44 <thornomad>	get going
17:08:03 <yuriy>	hi, i'm Yuriy, I am student at brandeis university.  I'm trying to get this MA team together, I'm glad those who are here showed up.
17:08:04 <thornomad>	that's my vote
17:08:23 <yuriy>	i think everybody introduced themselves already on the forums or on the ml, but go ahead and itroduce yourself if you like
17:08:31 <thornomad>	hi yuriy. i live in worcester, work for a hospital.  i like linux
17:08:43 <jdhoreotg>	heh
17:08:53 <Spitty>	I'm Ryan, I'm currently a senior in high school in Arlington, and I think that the more people using linux, the better
17:09:10 <mgomeztccs>	i am a teacher at a small christian school.  i am trying to set up edubuntu in our school
17:09:11 <jdhoreotg>	hi everybody, i'm JD, i live in NYC, work for a telecom company...and i'm addicted to linux
17:09:22 <jdhoreotg>	Spitty, i disagree with you there
17:09:41 Mode	ChanServ gives channel operator privileges to jdhoreotg.
17:09:43 <Spitty>	well, the more people that are given the option, the better
17:10:06 <jdhoreotg>	true, but i think the more people switch, Linux will suffer from the same security flaws as Windows
17:10:10 <yuriy>	hey jdhoreotg
17:10:11 <GoatTuber>	I think it goes... the more educated people are about Linux the better
17:10:16 <yuriy>	jdhoreotg: if you are wondering, getting our own channel is on the agenda ;)
17:10:25 <jdhoreotg>	it's ok
17:10:33 <jdhoreotg>	feel free to chill here as long as you'd like
17:11:37 <yuriy>	ok so technical points
17:11:48 <GoatTuber>	I'm Dan, I live in Lynn, work in Boston, and 3/5 of the configured PCs in my house run Ubuntu
17:11:49 <yuriy>	do we need our own IRC channel and/or forum?
17:12:09 <jdhoreotg>	i think so since it seems to be a pretty decent sized group
17:12:29 <Spitty>	where would the forum be hosted?
17:12:36 <yuriy>	Spitty: ubuntuforums.org
17:12:41 <Spitty>	cool
17:12:46 <thornomad>	how many do we have ?  I agree it would be nice. but don't like to get too spread out. hard to monitor everything i have my toe in
17:12:51 <yuriy>	Spitty: like the NY and NJ teams have
17:12:59 <yuriy>	thornomad: 12 people
17:13:35 <yuriy>	I think an IRC channel is good, or at least, why not, but I don't really see the need for separate forums for every state
17:13:49 	 * yuriy forgot to ask ravtux to show up
17:13:54 <jdhoreotg>	heh
17:14:18 <Spitty>	if nothing else, a subforum would let people know that we're out there, but i understand the concerns about spreading out
17:14:23 <thornomad>	i would agree with that. i like the state unity bit but between the mailing list and an IRC should be pretty easy to keep state stuff hapenning
17:14:45 <GoatTuber>	sounds about right
17:15:03 Join	MichaelSelva has joined this channel (n=Babbel@c-24-61-46-171.hsd1.ma.comcast.net).
17:15:13 <yuriy>	hi MichaelSelva
17:15:17 <MichaelSelva>	hello
17:15:20 <Spitty>	welcome to the party
17:15:30 <MichaelSelva>	Thanks!
17:16:26 <MichaelSelva>	Using BABBEL irc client for first time, never used freenode before, so please bear with me if I'm a little slow in responding.
17:16:51 <GoatTuber>	ugh, I just wrote 161 lines of code with only 3 comments... talk about a rush job
17:17:05 <jdhoreotg>	Babbel kind of sucks IMO, MichaelSelva
17:17:13 <yuriy>	GoatTuber: 3 > 0 :)
17:17:35 <MichaelSelva>	I google'd "irc client Mac OS" and this was the first one I found that runs on Intel Macs
17:17:41 <jdhoreotg>	ahh
17:17:52 <MichaelSelva>	I'm open to any recommendations
17:18:01 <jdhoreotg>	Colloquy, X-Chat Aqua, or a client called iRC are all better than Babbel
17:18:11 <mgomeztccs>	i'm using colloquy. its pretty nice'
17:18:11 <jdhoreotg>	i prefer Colloquy and iRC personally
17:18:29 <yuriy>	ok so everybody agrees on getting #ubuntu-us-ma ?  I'd like to hear more opinions about a forum
17:18:43 <MichaelSelva>	Are Linux clients more robust / easier to use?  I'm running EDUBUNTU Linux within Parallels on the Mac.
17:19:09 <GoatTuber>	#ubuntu-us-ma sounds good... no preference for forums though
17:19:11 <jdhoreotg>	i'd stick with an OSx client
17:19:17 <thornomad>	I think it can't hurt to have another IRC channel.  I think there are too many forums as it is.
17:19:27 <yuriy>	robust?
17:19:30 <GoatTuber>	I agree
17:20:00 <MichaelSelva>	Eventually I want to switch my school computer lab over to Linux, so I'd be interested in exploring irc clients within that environment eventually.  But for now I'm primarily Mac-based
17:20:23 <yuriy>	konversation is nice, dunno about gnome stuff
17:20:37 <Spitty>	i think we should have a seperate IRC channel, but no forum yet- is there another way to notify people on the forums of our existence?
17:20:38 <MichaelSelva>	Is anyone else on this chat working at a school?
17:20:47 <mgomeztccs>	i am
17:20:54 <MichaelSelva>	Where?
17:21:23 <yuriy>	jdhoreotg: you the resident irc expert?
17:21:30 <jdhoreotg>	yep
17:21:50 <mgomeztccs>	lunenburg, ma
17:22:05 <yuriy>	jdhoreotg: what do we need to do to get a designated channel?
17:22:13 <jdhoreotg>	nothing
17:22:15 <C_J_Pro>	O_o
17:22:17 <yuriy>	just join it?
17:22:29 <jdhoreotg>	all you need is about 5 minutes of time and a decent knowledge of IRC
17:22:57 <C_J_Pro>	Here are the commands:
17:23:03 	 * yuriy doesn't have the latter, iffy on the former :D
17:23:04 <MichaelSelva>	mgomeztccs: I am the computer teacher / tech specialist / computer guy at a K-5 parochial school in Watertown, MA.  New gig, just started in November.
17:23:06 <GoatTuber>	I don't work for a school, but I'm working with a teacher over at the Bunker Hill elementary school on setting up an Edubuntu thin client network
17:23:07 <C_J_Pro>	/join #ubuntu-ns-****
17:23:24 <yuriy>	C_J_Pro: heh that i can do
17:23:29 <C_J_Pro>	/cs register #ubuntu-ns-**** Description
17:23:31 <jdhoreotg>	then to register it, the command is: /chanserv register #ubuntu-us-ma password
17:23:42 <C_J_Pro>	It's password?
17:23:47 <C_J_Pro>	It's one or the other
17:23:48 <jdhoreotg>	but you have to join the channel first
17:23:53 <jdhoreotg>	it's password
17:24:00 <C_J_Pro>	Password is optional
17:24:03 <MichaelSelva>	GoatTuber: One of the things I wanted to suggest today is a "barn-raising" team for installing Edubuntu in schools.
17:24:11 <C_J_Pro>	So just /cs register #ubuntu-us-ma
17:24:26 <yuriy>	jdhoreotg, C_J_Pro: thanks. i'll look up docs and learn irc commands better when i get a chance
17:24:37 <jdhoreotg>	good plan
17:24:49 <C_J_Pro>	Now, to the school.  I got a Windows XP machine to hassle with
17:24:58 <MichaelSelva>	What I mean is that an experienced edubuntu-er teams up with a novice to set up a network, and then the novice becomes the experienced person who helps the next novice, and so on . . .
17:25:05 <yuriy>	MichaelSelva: ok let's get to that
17:25:07 <yuriy>	GOALS
17:25:45 Mode	jdhoreotg gives channel operator privileges to you.
17:25:58 <C_J_Pro>	...
17:26:04 Join	thornomad_ has joined this channel (n=thornoma@81.sub-75-194-65.myvzw.com).
17:26:10 <yuriy>	i think getting ed/ubuntu into schools should be a big point
17:26:18 <jdhoreotg>	his meeting, he gets ops until the meeting is over
17:26:31 <GoatTuber>	yuriy: definately
17:27:04 <yuriy>	MichaelSelva: did you have any details in mind?
17:27:08 <thornomad_>	schools or community centers or something like that.  would be terrific
17:28:33 <Spitty>	yeah.  maybe we could help out local LUG's with install-fests, or even hold our own
17:28:53 <GoatTuber>	most schools already have small networks set up, and old boxes sitting around collecting dust. Setting up a decent server would be a small investment, then the number of thin clients they could toss on it gives more students a chance to use a machine rather than huddling around one or idly waiting by
17:29:50 <MichaelSelva>	Well, for starters, I have a computer lab with 11 Windoze XP workstations, which I am eager to transform into an edubuntu network.  Once it is up & running I could make it available for site visits from prospective edubuntu users, or training sessions, or meetings of the local ubutu users group, etc.
17:30:00 <mgomeztccs>	that's a great idea
17:30:12 <GoatTuber>	the school by Bunker Hill has 6 whole computers for classes of 30+ students
17:30:21 <Spitty>	yeah, that's really excellent
17:30:23 <mgomeztccs>	also, some sort of network for taking donated computers would be good.  a lot of us are in the tech industry
17:30:34 <GoatTuber>	MichaelSelva: that would be great
17:30:40 <Spitty>	I know MIT has a structure for that
17:30:41 <MichaelSelva>	Is there a central clearing house for inquiries about edubuntu, where we could contact interested schools?
17:30:43 <thornomad_>	yea, that would be neat.  I haven't experimented with edubuntu (except to install it for my brother) but the thin client concept sounds pretty awesome
17:30:47 <yuriy>	mgomeztccs: yes, great idea as well
17:30:51 	 * yuriy has some lying around
17:31:26 Join	claydoh has joined this channel (n=claydoh@66-252-58-230.dyn-adsl.midmaine.net).
17:31:30 <yuriy>	MichaelSelva: that's something I think we would have to organize
17:31:56 <Spitty>	MIT has something called the "used computer factory" where people donate computers, and they then repair them and donate them to people without PCs
17:32:00 <yuriy>	and really that's my main concern, how to approach schools with such things?
17:32:00 <MichaelSelva>	In addition to the 11 workstations in my computer lab, my school has a couple of dozen machines sitting around collecting dust, but they could probably function fine as thin clients.
17:32:14 <Spitty>	i'm pretty sure most of them so out as windows PCs, though
17:32:35 <Spitty>	yuriy: we'd need a very polished marketing campaign to be taken seriously
17:32:48 <yuriy>	Spitty: indeed.
17:33:01 <GoatTuber>	Spitty: weird, I have a couple old Solaris boxes MIT donated to me before they fired me =)
17:33:10 <Spitty>	and I don't think we could present ourselves as a total replacement for existing windows networks- at least, not at first
17:33:11 <MichaelSelva>	I belong to a group called MassCUE (Massachusetts Computer Using Educators), which has a monthly newsletter: a good place to run a classified ad or announcement once we are ready to do stuff with schools.
17:33:24 <mgomeztccs>	i think we would have to start by having one school do it and show what can be done
17:33:44 <yuriy>	MichaelSelva: interesting.
17:33:45 <Spitty>	something else we can use is local cable access TV stations
17:33:50 <mgomeztccs>	having some kind of curriculum to go with it would be a big sell too
17:34:19 <yuriy>	mgomeztccs: sounds like MichaelSelva and you are starting on that? the one school to show that is
17:34:26 <MichaelSelva>	My understanding is that you can install edubuntu on a windoze machine in "dual boot" mode, so you can switch back & forth between the two OSes as needed.
17:34:36 <Spitty>	yeah
17:34:48 <mgomeztccs>	MichaelSelva:  does that work with a thin-client setup?
17:35:07 <yuriy>	MichaelSelva: not with thin-clients, but with complete machines that'd work
17:35:08 <MichaelSelva>	Another potential venue is public libraries, which never seem to have enough computers.
17:35:39 <GoatTuber>	mgomeztccs: as far as I know, you'd have to do that through the BIOS. Just set it to network boot before the HD
17:35:47 <yuriy>	Spitty: do you know local LUGs? are they listed somewhere?
17:35:52 <Spitty>	something that would be very cool to have is a video documenting the installation of the Edubuntu boxes
17:36:01 <mgomeztccs>	GoatTuber:  i mean, the thin-clients tend to be bare-bones.
17:36:11 <Spitty>	yuriy, I do not, but I'm sure there's a list floating about somewhere on the web
17:36:15 <MichaelSelva>	Newbie question: what is a LUG?  Local user group?
17:36:22 <GoatTuber>	tend to be, but it's not mandatory
17:36:34 <mgomeztccs>	gotcha
17:36:45 <yuriy>	GoatTuber: but that's the general idea and advantage of a thinclient
17:36:49 <mgomeztccs>	MichaelSelva:  linux user group?
17:37:04 <mgomeztccs>	GoatTuber: and that's what schools tend to have lying around
17:37:32 <GoatTuber>	Indeed. I'm not saying it's a great idea... it's just doable
17:37:39 <Spitty>	mgomeztccs has it.  a LUG is a linux user group that promotes linux in a given geographical area
17:37:49 <MichaelSelva>	In my school, I am planning a mix of dual boot and thin client machines.
17:37:50 <mgomeztccs>	GoatTuber:  and probably preferable
17:37:54 <Spitty>	often centered around colleges
17:38:12 <GoatTuber>	having to switch the BIOS to dual boot is almost as bad as MS's boot manager
17:38:13 <MichaelSelva>	spitty: thanks for the clarification on LUGs
17:38:29 	 * yuriy just found out someone esle in my class uses kubuntu
17:40:01 <GoatTuber>	has anyone booted Linux from a USB drive?
17:40:07 <thornomad_>	i think that you would need to locate a "pilot program" .. a school that was willing to be a test subject.  then setup a network there.  get the benefits lined up (lots of machines for a low per-machine cost) and go from there.
17:40:12 <yuriy>	ok 1. schools/libraries (MichaelSelva, mgomeztccs keep us posted and ask if you need any help!)  2. help LUGs with 
17:40:18 <GoatTuber>	that could be good for giving demos
17:40:26 <yuriy>	2. help LUGs with installfests
17:40:34 <yuriy>	2a. TODO: find LUGs
17:40:43 <MichaelSelva>	what is installfest?
17:41:10 <Spitty>	a bunch of people get together and install linux for people who wouldn't otherwise be able to do it
17:41:16 <yuriy>	MichaelSelva: an event where people can bring computers where linux users can help them get set up
17:41:21 <mgomeztccs>	i couldn't go with a full-fledged lab as we already have one with brand new macs.  but i'd like to put computers in all the classrooms using edubuntu.
17:41:50 <Spitty>	there's a list of LUGs in MA here: http://lugww.counter.li.org/groups.cms?&cc=US&rc=MA but there's only two
17:41:52 <yuriy>	GoatTuber: yeah linux can run of a USB drive
17:42:03 <yuriy>	but a live-cd is just as good for demos
17:42:08 <Spitty>	one in worcester, and one in boston
17:42:08 <mgomeztccs>	thornomad_:  curriculum would be good to go with it.  projects kids can do using open office or tux paint or scribus.
17:43:21 <MichaelSelva>	Don't forget KTURTLE!  I teach logo to students in grades 1-5, and kturtle appears to be a very good version of logo.
17:43:33 <mgomeztccs>	lots of possibilities
17:43:35 <yuriy>	what's logo?
17:43:49 <MichaelSelva>	It comes as part of standard edubuntu install.
17:43:50 <mgomeztccs>	but its important not just to give them computers but give them something to do with them
17:43:58 <GoatTuber>	yuriy: I've showed people the live-cd on their computers, and I've shown it to people already installed on my laptop. The live cd shows them "here's what you start with", but the laptop shows them what they can do with it.
17:44:29 <GoatTuber>	showed?
17:44:31 <GoatTuber>	shown*
17:45:18 <MichaelSelva>	LOGO is a progarmming language invented around 30 years ago by some MIT folks as a tool for introducing computer programming to youngsters.  Best known for "turtle graphics" capability - intricate geometric designs based on a very small vocabulary of commands to a virtual "turtle" on screen.
17:45:41 <yuriy>	mgomeztccs: trying to remember how we used computers in elementary school... i guess a curriculum as you describe would be needed, yes
17:45:55 <yuriy>	but not as relevant to say a middle school or higher
17:46:23 <mgomeztccs>	yuriy:  we have curriculum for kindergarten through 12th grade.  elementary comes in once a week to work on a project that integrates with another part of their curriculum.
17:46:45 <Spitty>	in my high school, computers are mainly used to do research, write papers, or some other similar mundane stuff
17:47:26 <mgomeztccs>	our students develop websites (using Joomla CMS) create and edit videos, and learn microsoft office.
17:47:35 <MichaelSelva>	Same with my school - activities in my lab are collaboration between myself & the regular teachers.  Typical assignment: use Web to research a topic, then use Word or Powerpoint to write up results.
17:48:06 <yuriy>	mgomeztccs: interesting.
17:48:36 <yuriy>	i guess we had the occasional MS Office class in middle school, but in high school we had one course on keyboarding, and everything else assumed you know how to use a computer/office applications
17:49:03 <Spitty>	i think open office more than fills the place of MS office
17:49:05 <yuriy>	and the keyboarding (typing) course is OS agnostic i would hope
17:49:09 <mgomeztccs>	we contracted with school technology programs (schooltechnologyprograms.com)
17:49:21 <Spitty>	especially considering that most schools are running office 97 or so
17:49:23 <mgomeztccs>	Open office would be a great replacement and save schools $
17:49:30 <Spitty>	exactly
17:50:09 <MichaelSelva>	We have several packaged keyboard tutorials (Type to Learn), and by the 5th grade most of our students can use keyboard efficiently, even if they aren't quite "touch typists" yet.
17:50:26 <thornomad_>	yea i think a curriculum would be neat, but that's a lot of work.  i did a curriculum for a short eight week in school theatre program and it took forever.  i think our first point should be that kids need computers; second: schools need computers.  third: edubuntu is cheap and better.
17:50:30 <MichaelSelva>	Another plus of edubuntu: comes with its own typing tutorial.
17:50:52 <yuriy>	mgomeztccs: a little confused what schooltechnologyprograms do. are we looking to basically try to do the same thing ourselves?
17:51:20 <mgomeztccs>	yuriy:  maybe eventually
17:51:31 <mgomeztccs>	whoops, gotta put my daughters in the tub, be right back
17:51:47 <MichaelSelva>	Curriculum is not a problem for schools.  there is LOTS and LOTS of stuff in the public domain for teaching basics of computer operation, as well as specifics of word, excel, and other office apps.
17:52:04 <GoatTuber>	I've tried a couple of the typing packages, they seemd rather... half finished
17:52:30 <thornomad_>	MichaelSelva: I agree.  bring them computers and let them do the curriculum.  with mcas and all that other nonsense they know what they think they need to teach.  we can give them a better platform to teach it on
17:53:03 <yuriy>	ok so sounds like we have a general idea what we want to do as far as schools go.  we should start putting together some sort of todo list, but that's for a later meeting.
17:53:09 <yuriy>	any other major goal points?
17:53:26 <MichaelSelva>	a "live" meeting would be nice
17:53:38 <mgomeztccs>	definitely
17:53:45 <yuriy>	MichaelSelva: specifics of word/excel, but what about OO.o?
17:53:59 <yuriy>	MichaelSelva, mgomeztccs: yes, let's plan one
17:54:02 <MichaelSelva>	what is 00.0?
17:54:09 <yuriy>	OpenOffice.org
17:54:10 <mgomeztccs>	open office.org
17:54:45 <yuriy>	ok i want to decide the forum question first
17:55:01 <MichaelSelva>	can use tutorials designed for em-ess word & excel for open office, much of the command structure & interface is identical
17:55:51 Quit	thornomad has left this server (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out)).
17:56:06 <yuriy>	on one hand every team seems to be getting their own, on the other hand i don't really understand why
17:56:36 <mgomeztccs>	do we have a separate website?  I thought i saw one
17:57:00 <yuriy>	mgomeztccs: wiki page: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam
17:57:26 <GoatTuber>	there's the wiki, thinkpad, and something on cafelinux...
17:57:35 <yuriy>	thinkpad?
17:57:37 <mgomeztccs>	http://www.cafelinux.org/nuubuntuteam/
17:57:45 <GoatTuber>	no, I'm a tard
17:57:47 <GoatTuber>	I forget
17:58:08 <GoatTuber>	launchpad
17:58:09 <GoatTuber>	heh
17:58:31 <yuriy>	yes we're a team on launchpad
17:58:33 <GoatTuber>	I just did an xubuntu install on a 233MHz Thinkpad with 64MB RAM
17:58:55 <yuriy>	GoatTuber: work well?
17:58:57 <GoatTuber>	so I still had "Thinkpad" stuck in my head
17:59:17 <GoatTuber>	let's just say it worked
17:59:42 <Spitty>	heh, define "worked"
17:59:59 <GoatTuber>	well, like that slogan, it "just works"
18:00:07 <GoatTuber>	it doesn't say how long it takes to get there
18:00:12 <Spitty>	hahaha
18:01:09 <GoatTuber>	we then ripped out the old sticks and threw in two new 128MB sticks, then he through regular Ubuntu on it
18:01:36 <GoatTuber>	threw* (jesus my grammer is bad today)
18:01:49 	 * yuriy scrolls up. ok i guess no one particularly wanting a forum.
18:02:21 <MichaelSelva>	the "sticky thread" for boston area works fine for me
18:02:40 <yuriy>	Spitty: you were concerned about getting word out we exist on the forums? what do you mean exactly? announce it to NU team? US teams?
18:03:04 <GoatTuber>	so, now he's running straight ubuntu and tooling around with it a bit. It takes about 3 minutes to boot up, and then it does its thing. I suggested switching back to xfce to cut down on some overhead
18:03:12 <Spitty>	I wasn't aware of the sticky thread (or I possibly forgot.)   As long as people can find out that we're out there, I'm happy
18:03:20 <mgomeztccs>	MichaelSelva: if we get bigger and more involved that might get to be a pretty big thread
18:04:30 <yuriy>	i think that any communication that shouldn't be on the mailing list would be stuff that should have a wider audience than our own forum anyway
18:05:24 <GoatTuber>	I think we generally want to avoid creating yet another forum. I say if the thread ends up being inadequate, then we expand to a new forum.
18:05:37 <Spitty>	i agree with that
18:05:45 <MichaelSelva>	I second goattuber's motion.
18:06:04 <mgomeztccs>	sounds good
18:06:09 <yuriy>	it's not really just the thread. we have the NU team forum. I think stuff that gets posted to forums should generally have a wider audience than just us anyway
18:06:25 <GoatTuber>	indeed
18:06:32 <yuriy>	ok
18:06:38 <yuriy>	in person meeting
18:06:52 <GoatTuber>	I think maybe MA specific events could be posted in the thread
18:07:18 <Spitty>	this kind of brings up the question- where is it easy for everyone to get to?
18:07:47 <yuriy>	for most people probably somewhere in/around boston
18:07:53 <GoatTuber>	I work right around the corner from Faneuil Hall/Quincy Market
18:07:57 <MichaelSelva>	I'd like to "nominate" Stella's Pizza on  Mount Auburn Street in Watertown as the site for a live meet.  Food is great, easy accesss by car or bus, 2 miles from Harvard Sq red line.
18:08:20 <Spitty>	that's on the 71 and 73, right?
18:08:43 <Spitty>	(buses)
18:08:49 <MichaelSelva>	AND . . . if we want to do more than eat, my school / computer lab is two blocks away, and I have several extra machines to experiment with.
18:09:36 <MichaelSelva>	Correct!  The 71 and 73 both originate @ Harv Square, then they split off with one going to Watertown the other to Belmont.
18:09:49 <yuriy>	sounds good to me.. although, 2 mi walk from red line?
18:09:53 <Spitty>	that's really easy for me- how about other people?
18:10:03 <Spitty>	take the 71 or the 73 from harvard square
18:10:07 <yuriy>	what's 71 and 73? buses?
18:10:09 <mgomeztccs>	i'm okay with that.  when?
18:10:10 <Spitty>	yeah
18:10:20 <MichaelSelva>	Wednesday is best day for me.
18:10:26 <GoatTuber>	if it's during the week, I'd have to take the train back to Revere and grab my car, then drive in
18:10:42 <mgomeztccs>	sorry, but wednesday's really bad for me
18:10:50 <GoatTuber>	so anything before 8pm would be impossible
18:11:13 <Spitty>	weekend, maybe?
18:11:16 <yuriy>	weekends or anytime week after next works for me
18:11:28 <GoatTuber>	weekends are good for me
18:11:38 <yuriy>	weekdays are very busy lately (just spent two entire nights working on 1 assignment :O)
18:11:39 <mgomeztccs>	saturdays would be best for me
18:12:25 <MichaelSelva>	Sunday afternoons  would be a possibility for me, but I'm not sure if I have access to school during weekend.  Pizza parlor is open 7 days / week.
18:12:57 <Spitty>	saturday is fine with me
18:13:50 <MichaelSelva>	how about sat the 31st?
18:14:12 <mgomeztccs>	crap, our school has a banquet that night
18:14:25 <MichaelSelva>	afternoon?
18:14:44 <mgomeztccs>	that may be doable.  i live in Fitchburg, so i'd need time to get back home
18:14:59 <Spitty>	that works well for me
18:15:03 <mgomeztccs>	sorry my schedule is so picky :(
18:15:59 <MichaelSelva>	How about If we meet for lunch @ pizza parlor around 12, and then, time permitting, a visit to computer lab.
18:16:08 <yuriy>	anytime 3/31 to 4/11 is good for me.
18:16:10 <mgomeztccs>	that sounds good.
18:16:15 <Spitty>	fine by me
18:16:23 <Spitty>	what's the name of the pizza place again?
18:16:44 <GoatTuber>	I'll be late, you can count on it
18:17:15 <MichaelSelva>	OK, I will be happy to serve as the official "host" for this gathering.  I'll send an email to the list with exact location, bus routes, google map, etc.
18:17:18 <yuriy>	sat 3/31 12pm at Stella's Pizza on  Mount Auburn Street in Watertown
18:17:30 <mgomeztccs>	excellent
18:17:37 <MichaelSelva>	the deal is done.  I look forward to meeting all of you in person.
18:17:41 <yuriy>	so it's accessible by car right? since it's over break i'll be driving
18:17:51 <mgomeztccs>	gotta go, daughters in tub crying.  look forward to meeting everyone
18:17:54 <MichaelSelva>	yes, and parking is very cheap
18:18:28 <yuriy>	ok thanks all for showing up and see you in two weeks
18:18:36 <yuriy>	meeting adjourned :D
18:18:36 <MichaelSelva>	meters are 25 cents an hour, or you can park for free if you park a little further away!
18:18:50 Quit	mgomeztccs has left this server.
18:18:51 <MichaelSelva>	thank you yuriy for organizing this chat! 1
18:18:53 <yuriy>	oh and sorry it was kind of long
18:19:10 <GoatTuber>	if I get time, I'll work on my logo idea
18:19:34 <Spitty>	no worries, thanks yuriy for the hard work
18:20:08 <MichaelSelva>	and thanks to everyone else esp for advice on irc clients
18:20:23 <GoatTuber>	thinking about having Tux standing inside the Ubuntu ring wearing a feather or two, dumping a "Windows" crate
18:20:53 <Spitty>	heh, if only I had artistic talent
18:21:00 <MichaelSelva>	I think I'll wear my tuxedo to our meeting
18:21:11 <GoatTuber>	and if only I didn't have a million projects
18:21:14 <yuriy>	lol
18:21:32 <GoatTuber>	and distractions... by the way I'm up to 5 whole comments
18:21:44 <Spitty>	ok folks, nice meeting you all, i've got to run
18:22:07 Quit	Spitty has left this server ("Leaving").
18:22:11 <MichaelSelva>	ten-four, over & out
18:22:44 Quit	MichaelSelva has left this server ("Babbel v070113.19 Mac OS X Edition (Intel) - http://www.babbelirc.com").
18:23:55 <GoatTuber>	ok, I gotta integrate this report and push it to production, I'm off
18:24:10 Part	GoatTuber has left this channel.
}}}
