{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

'''Scheduled Time:''' 7:00 PM EST Thursday, Month  Day, 2008  <<BR>>
'''Scheduled Location:''' <nowiki>[[http://www.vanu.com/?page_id=62|Vanu Inc.]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://www.media.mit.edu/contact/1cc.html|MIT Media Labs]]</nowiki> <<BR>>

'''Meeting Log:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam/Meetings/IRCLogs/ <<BR>>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''Meeting Chair:''' Martin Owen <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' Sarah Abbot <<BR>>

== Agenda Items ==
The following agenda items were proposed for this meeting:
* Agenda Item 
* Agenda Item

== Present ==
The following team members were present during this meeting:

'''Physically Present:''' <<BR>>
'''Virtually Present:'''  <<BR>>

== Proceedings ==
Meeting Minutes

== Conclusion ==
Meeting Summary

== Action Items ==
Acquired responsibilities
