{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu MA LoCo Meeting Minutes Thursday January 24, 2008 7:00PM ==

'''Meeting Chair:''' Martin Owens <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' Sara Abbott <<BR>>

'''Physically Present Members:'''  Martin, Aaron, Joe, Mike, Sara, Nathan, Theresa, Steve, Brad, Randy, David, Yuri, Mako<<BR>>
'''Virtually Present Members:'' <<BR>>

===== Upcoming Installfest =====
* Where? <nowiki>[[http://media.mit.edu/|MIT Media Lab]]</nowiki>
* When? February 23rd, 9am-5pm
* Intend to focus for a smaller group
* PR
**** Brad has access to advertising in periodicals (Blast Magazine, Boston Globe)
**** Suggest snow/ice safety when carrying computer equipment in advertisements
* Food & Beverages?  -- To be discussed at a later date
* Equipment
**** Please bring spare power strips but be sure to label them with your name if you would like them back
**** Brad has volunteered a gigabit switch
* Entertainment? <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=628868|Live Band]]</nowiki> -- Decided to be too distracting and will detract from the desired learning environment
* Installfest planning meeting at MIT JANUARY 31st. @ 7:00pm Will have IRC contact for those who can't attend

===== Packaging Jam and/or Bug Jam =====
* Can/Shall we host one? -- A bootstrapping jam. Everyone teaches, Everyone Learns.
* What are our resources?
**** New maintainer's guide
**** How to become master of the Universe
* David has volunteered to lead this event
* Plan for the first to be in March

===== Public Relations =====
* Local Support Application
**** Client, Client, Server Help Application (through Jabber?)
**** Development volunteers needed
**** Goal is to solve users problems remotely while teaching them how to use Ubuntu
**** Concern: Data Loss liability
* Designate a PR Coordinator -- Nate
* More PR events (Monthly)
* Hand out more fliers & CD's 
* Promote social networking website groups (facebook, myspace, etc.)
* Keysigning party -- coupled with installfest, head count beforehand in case organization is necessary for large numbers of people
* Newton High School Talk & Librarians -- Mako contributed many points
**** Previously spoke at K-12 Free software convention stressing
******* "this is why [Ubuntu] will work " 
******* "this is why it should be done" 
******* "open the floor to particular questions" 
**** Need tactical solutions for their system
**** Too many people will make it harder to communicate how powerful the Ubuntu message
**** "You should have a conversation with them, not a 'presentation' really."
**** Listeners will be interested in what their systems can't do already and how [Ubuntu] can be integrated into what they have already i.e. If you've already bought Windows licenses, stating Ubuntu will save on the cost of Windows Licenses will not be effective

===== Sales =====
* Case Badges: Second Round in February
**** People are asking for them!
**** Evaluate demand for kubuntu case badges
**** $100 of group money for case badges is going to be allocated for more case badges   -- This needs clarification, please?
**** We won't order more casebadges, until we have money in hand -- a group buy 
**** Wear of them, isn't very good. Was [enough] resin used? Clear nail polish could help
* T-shirts
***** New shirts! Samples (<nowiki>[[Leftyfb| Mike]]</nowiki>) -- Lowell High School is no longer able to print them
***** Order from our original distributor, with the screens already made
***** <nowiki>[[Leftyfb| Mike]]</nowiki> will create a wiki page, so we can collaborate at a later date
***** boutique/bleach/tie-dye party for ubuntu shirts
* Ubuntu CD's: Making More and Money to do it -- Request from Cannonical

===== Toolbox =====
* Designate someone to be responsible for the <nowiki>[[MassachusettsTeam/Toolbox/|tool box]]</nowiki> -- Brad
* More ways for people to help -- task delegation? -- This point no longer required addressing

===== Launchpad Users Clean Up =====
* Allow only 'real' names? 
**** People have been signing up for launch pad and not participating in the group
**** We want members to feel they are a  part of something to encourage them to be involved
**** Tags or points to quantify and recognize activity to encourage attendance and pro-activity -- Karma Page, Theresa's Responsibility
**** Encourage an expired members availability. If You want to stay in the group renew membership by clicking an emailed link
* Define Moderation Practices

===== IRC =====
* Continuous logging of the ubuntu-us-ma channel?
**** Public logging that will not be search engine indexed
**** Link Logging/Chat Logging Bot -- Xavier
* Additional channel only for meetings?

===== Mailing List Etiquette =====
* Do we want to adopt certain policies? Will this discourage new users?
* Bottom or Top Posting? Is it so important?
**** Email List etiquette wiki page?
* Should we have a no-policy policy? Or a "no whining about how people email the list" policy?
**** If something happens on the mailing list, that you want to call someone out on, please do so in public to the list. It's not fair to be emailed by 16 people in one day over the same point. If you think what you're going to say is too harsh, then don't.
**** No hidden agenda's!

== Proceedings ==

* ''Meeting called to order at 19:00'', by Meeting Chair, '''Martin Owens'''''
* '''''2008-01-24''' meeting minutes were amended and approved'''''
