{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==

'''Scheduled Time:''' 7:00 PM EST Thursday, April  30^th^, 2009  <<BR>>
'''Scheduled Location:''' <nowiki>[[http://www.tech-center-enlightentcity.tv/contactus.html|SETC]]</nowiki><<BR>>
'''Join On Freenode IRC Channel''' <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-ubuntu-us-ma|#ubuntu-us-ma]]</nowiki> <<BR>>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''Meeting Chair:''' Martin Owens (doctormo) <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' Michael Terry (mterry) <<BR>>

== Agenda Items ==

The following agenda items were proposed for this meeting:

* Introductions (everyone)
* Review of last month's <nowiki>[[..-..-..-ActionItems|Action Items]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu Learning group, update (doctormo)
* Technical Plan for Community Centers (leftyfb)
* Website, problems with it (leftyfb)
* Reporting about the Anime convention (mterry)
* Star Trek Event (felicia)

* Open Floor (everyone)

== Present ==

The following team members were present during this meeting:

'''Physically Present:''' <<BR>>

* Michael Terry (mterry), A Canonical OEM Developer
* Martin Owens (doctormo), Group Leader
* Felicia, User from Cape Cod
* Mike Rushton, leftyfb, system admin, gadget geek
* Sara Abbot, makes cake, is leftyfb's bf
* Doc Kinne (kinnerc), works with astronomical databases, has big plans to take over the world
* Randy Cole, Programming and Systems Administration

'''Virtually Present:'''  <<BR>>

* Aaron (guinea-pig)
* Lizzie (|izzie)
* Bill (BillN1VUX)

== Action Items ==

See progress <nowiki>[[..-..-..-ActionItems|for Action Items here]]</nowiki>

* Martin to confirm location of Meeting Location for next month.
* MTerry to investigate the Wainwright Bank's community rooms.
* MTerry to email mailing list about anime convention.
* Martin to order pizza for next meeting.
* Mike to investigate "Boston Linuxfest"
** To contact StrataCenter at MIT as a location
** To get together a team of people to see if the event is possible.
** To contact potential sponsors -> Items handed of to team.

== Proceedings ==

* we're looking for new meeting location
* this place (tech center) is ok, but a little busy
* doc dislikes varied venues (different places to meet)
* we're looking for a solid long term place
* mterry will look into wainwright room
* they let out community rooms
* 'wainwright bank' that is
* other locations?  no...
* party review?
* release party was midling awesome
* would have been nice to have more, we needed more organization time
* try to organize 2 months in advance
* need more advertising
* looking into press releases
* how to get to press?  we suck at that
* cake: was awesome
* as were strawberry jackalopes
* We got jaunty cds, yay
* thanks to sean for schwag
* thanks to mterry for sending out notices to lists
* topic: ubuntu learning group
* what is it?
* mike notes we should order pizza for these thigs
* ulg: create learning tools/plans to technical teachers
* ulg: conglomeration of people from community, like forums, user help
* ulg: egalitarian
* ulg: lets anyone in world organize classrooms, virtual or no
* ulg: may conflict with canonical paid-for training
* ulg: cautious of annoying canonical?
* ulg: canonical's stuff is non-commercial (NC)
* ulg: so we can't use it
* ulg: we need to charge small nominal fee
* ulg: why charge?
* ulg: experience is that charging small fee means people are committed
* ulg: makes people think there is value in class
* ulg: can we work around it?  (order pizza, charge for that plus)
* ulg: martin says no, cc is pretty clear
* ulg: maybe canonical did it to prevent competition
* ulg: point is, we need a better license or a new thing
* ulg: 'thing' being training materials
* ulg: teaching right now is seat-of-pants, would help to have formal advice
* ulg: questions?
* felicia: martin doing curriculum?
* martin: yar
* martin: more people should be involved
* doc: can download material, but can't use it for us?
* martin; can't use it in schools, colleges, community center where we charge
* martin: can't give back in launchpad, it doesn't accept NC
* doc: sys admin curriculum: are we looking to redo their work?
* martin: sys admin stuff is new, not related.  it's safe for commercial
* martin: is showing the wiki page for ulg
* wiki.ubuntu.com/Learning
* martin: we just need to recreate their stuff from scratch
* martin: licensing discussion on may 9th  (it's on the wiki page above)
* doc lives and breathes UTC
* OK, topic change
* technical plans for technical center
* mike: I'm talking about what?
* mike: evergrowing technical plans
* martin: some student wiped his comp with ubuntu accidentally
* center was not happy
* martin: being able to roll out images good
* mike: not getting into imaging, something about installers instead
* martin: can we install dual boot?
* mike: we're not doing windows
* mike: can't do network install of windows
* mike: not doing imaging of windows either
* mike: b/c that means licensing
* mike: not here to help windows
* mike: can install ubuntu over network, which lets us dual boot
* mike: can fix student thing if here
* martin: can we do in-place update of ubuntu?
* mike: we should fresh installs, not updates
* mike: just backup files to server
* martin: we need to be advanced about how we delete these machines
* mike: config is up to center
* mike: they've already got a fab thing
* One minute break
* do dum do
* hmmm hmm
* la la la
* 'fab thing' is some user call fab
* mike: we're not touching windows unless we break it
* randy came in a while ago, btw
* Hi liz, this is mterry being secretary
* lizzie: hiya, yes, i scrolled back.
* martin back, we're back on the clock
* now we're backseat secretary-ing
* martin: too much info better than less
* mike: we could set up ldap
* (back on tech center)
* mike: to get a pixie(?) server, custom packages, ldap, possibly nfs home dir.
* mike: hmm, but we want each login to have own login
* mike: is thinking about these hard problems so we don't have to, mterry is glad
* mike: has backup script
* martin: topic: web site
* mike: great idea, w00t, but don't remove info at all
* mike: martin removed mailing list archives
* martin is surprised we had one
* mike: how does a user get to mailing list?
* mike: no way to sign up from web site
* mike: been removed from wiki too
* martin and doc think he's on crack, it's right there
* mike: too hard for me to find, too hard for users
* martin: meh
* martin: stuff is on wiki, that's good
* martin: mailing list isn't quite for public
* mike: i thought we wanted mailing list to be for everyone
* martin: no, it's internal chatter
* mike: is in the disagreement box
* martin: mailing list is too crappy for users
* mike & doc: eh, all mailing lists are like that, it's the expectation of users
* martin: has issues with interface to mailing list
* martin: mailman sucks
* mike: everyone knows it
* martin: techies do, not normals
* mike: list lets people lurk
* martin: that's cool, but prefers 2 mailing lists
* martin: one for chatter, one for announcements
* doc: likes announcements
* mike: also ok with announcements
* mike: wants prominent links to lists
* mike: likes how it was on wiki, is resistant to change
* martin: wiki has links that weren't good for website, so moved this to web site
* mike: liked flow of wiki
* mike: like contact us
* PLAN: put mailing list link on 'contact us'
* mike: if info not on web site, don't remove from wiki
* martin agrees
* mike: likes all info on the 'team contact' page
* martin and mike hug and make up
* mike: this page looks like a list of 'important people' in loco (in scare quotes)
* martin: these people are barely involved
* mike: like put me there
* martin: you are there
* mike: wants a more user friendly list of contacts for loco
* mike: my contact info looks businessy, wants a page for people to see where they can get all contact info for loco
* doc: "small weasels"
* I'm not sure what that meant
* mike: community updates page is cryptic
* mike: who made this page?  for the love of god
* mike: this page should have like, when was last meeting, last release
* martin: no problems with changes to page
* martin: i'm weird and british
* martin: accepts help for wording
* mike: i know what normals want
* mike: refuses to touch bzr to change page
* martin: that's how you do it!
* mike: i just want to tell you to do it
* martin: volunteers to push his suggestions?  anyone?  beuler?
* mike: use a CMS, not bzr
* martin: meh :)
* mike: web site is inadequate, illogical
* martin: then modify it, but you're not willing to do work, or write suggestions down
* martin: it's hard to take your position and do someting with it
* martin suggests lizzie
* |izzie: are you asking me to redesign?
* martin: she already found lots of stuff
* martin is redirecting mike's energy to lizze
* lizzie, yeah, expect a communique from mike
* new topic: anime convention
* so anime is good kind of geek, we have manga
* its' on teh 22nd of may to 24th
* we have manga to distrbiute
* they have flyer table to drop them on
* anyone want to go?
* martin is willing to go with partner
* no takers...
* mterry: out of town
* mike is washing hair
* PLAN: let's put it in calander for next year
* PLAN: let's throw it on mailing list too for this year
* |izzie: what is manga?
* if we can get other people
* manga is a japanese-style comic book
* new topic: star treck
* felicia: natick, 7PM, 7 nights a week
* felicia: date to go: send to mailing list, see if we get complaints
* |izzie: are you scratching 3D?
* felicia: jordon's imax
* |izzie: yes
* martin: proposes monday
* mike says no monday or tuesday
* mike: sylar for the win
* martin makes some reference that only doc gets
* martin: talking about hot fuzz now
* martin: and shaun of the dead
* doc: waiting for sylar to kill someone with finger
* martin: is talking about startrek sg1?  what a reference
* martin: new topic: open board
* sara bought stuff from staples
* sara got such a good deal
* sara bought generic raffle tickets
* sara can give out at install fests
* sara: we've wanted to do something with these
* martin: anyone want to do install fest?
* mike: i think we need them
* mike: for ourselves
* mike: has long been on installfest wagon
* mike: good for people off the streets
* mike: not amazing, but pretty good events
* mike: fun for us
* martin: we're not doing them b/c we don't have someone to run them
* mike: who has run in past?
* martin: me, steve and mike
* martin: we're all too busy now
* mike: would love to see a big thing
* mike: bought bostonlinuxfest.org
* martin: would cost a large amount
* mike: hmm, doubt it, we could get sponsors
* martin: takes so long, too much organnization
* martin: loves work of art gallery in brookline, two girls there are awesome at organizing
* martin: they are too busy to help us
* sara: what about gnu peeps?
* martin: talking about the fsf
* mike: scratch that, not blu
* martin: blu like helping themselves, we're about advocacy
* mike: they aren't welcoming
* blu means boston linux user group
* BillN1VUX: BLU is accepting of BSD , BLU means Boston Linux Unix
* randy suggess blue is like a lecture series, followed by social hour
* BillN1VUX: so yeah it's not UbuAdvocacy and not FSF pure either
* BillN1VUX: the meeting are, yes
* mike: ohio linux fest is great
* BillN1VUX: with Q*A before too
* martin: fsf can help us organize stuff
* martin: does canonical have help for this?
* mterry doesn't know
* BillN1VUX: BLU installfests are clinical, no demo, no music, no games, no cake
* BillN1VUX: and i am youngest not oldest ... not quite but ...
* Deviousdragen> that works for them however
* install fest should be like mardi gras
* guinea-pig> whoa, what's all the talk about?
* BillN1VUX> Yes, diversity is good
* beads for installing computer
* we're in a meeting, i'm taking notes
* can we get expo center, we want that size for an install fest
* martin: this requires way too much organization
* randy: do it in university gym?
* mike: bigger than that
* mike: like ohio linux fest
* mike: wants to be like them
* BillN1VUX> we tried linux world in New expo ctr, it was last in boston :-(
* martin: need like a year to plan
* mike: i've got domain name!
* doc: tell me about ohio
* mike: sponsors, like all the major foss companies
* doc: demonstrations, classes
* mike: if annual, people might hold announcements til expo
* martin: wants it to be 'boston foss fest'
* Deviousdragen> if anyone has dos 6 he would love it for next week...if anyone had it culd bring it to him. but if not sorry for the interruption
* mike: likes boston linux fest
* Deviousdragen: ok
* Deviousdragen> i like boston linux fest
* Deviousdragen> i know and have heard of a linux, i don
mike: linux isn't limiting, we can have other things
* Deviousdragen> i dont heard of a foss
* guinea-pig> i don't like the word fest.  i thought we were moving away from that?
* martin: you're misusing linux word
* mike: i'm ok with that
* doc: foss is more accurate, bad marketing
* mike: don't listen to guinea-pig
* Deviousdragen> no intallfest we moved away from because it made it sound like you HAVE TO INSTALL, but it was meerly a suggestion
* mike: mocks 'exploration ubuntu'
* felicia: normal people even know what install fest is
* felicia: i didn't know foss, but knew linux
* guinea-pig> i don't believe people think there's anything festive about installing
* mike: wants Sugar people there
* Deviousdragen> no i am friends with a lot of normal peiople and it was a long explanation and them cringing at the thought
* guinea-pig: we're doing it wrong then
* guinea-pig: :)
* guinea-pig> actually, i agree, there isn't anything festive about installing
* guinea-pig> it's using that's festive
* |izzie> there is about installing ubuntu
* |izzie> compare to other os's
* guinea-pig> compare to other os's ... it's pretty much the same
mike: linux and install fest are known, good marketing terms
* guinea-pig> anyway, i'm jumping in the middle of the discussion here
* guinea-pig> what are we actually talking about?
* guinea-pig: about running a fest
* guinea-pig just arrived home from work
* guinea-pig: and what's involved
* Deviousdragen> we were hoping to draw people in with a new name was the problem...which didnt happpen...
* guinea-pig> doctormo: we've done them before... have we forgotten?
* doc: i don't know much, but...  let's not shove whole watermellon down throats, let's cut it into smaller pieces
* |izzie> ubuntu fest ?
* guinea-pig> freedom fest
* doc: BarCamp Boston 4 was nice, 300 people, 
* BillN1VUX mocks 'exploration ubuntu' too
* Deviousdragen> free festival
* doc: The scheduling fell apart after dinner on saturday, think the good weather had something to do with it.
* randy was there too
* doc: was at mit
* guinea-pig> also, are we talking about whether or not we are doing one, or have we moved on to more specific details?
* doc: expo center too big, we could do mit though
* guinea-pig: just what's involved, can we even do it with our time/resources
* mike: we don't have resources, but let's get sponsors
* martin: we need organization skills
* guinea-pig> we need resources?
* doc: to deal with bay side, we need to show legitimacy with running events
* guinea-pig: need to organize and get space
* doc: could get stata center at mit that though
* doc: start small
* Deviousdragen> we cant even get a place to hold meetings or installfests
* guinea-pig> we've done small. expo center seems like too big a jump in size
* doc: stop injecting reality sara
* doc: it's not fair
* guinea-pig> who is doc?
* guinea-pig> oh, i thought it was a thing
* BillN1VUX> my lappie is in a dock
* BillN1VUX> i work on a pier, however.
* now we're back on meeting space
* because sara made us sad
* |izzie> tsk tsk tsk
* guinea-pig> err, was there an outcome of the fest discussion?
* mike: we need a space where we can just say, 'we need last thursday, indefinitely'
* guinea-pig: nope!
* guinea-pig> doctormo: why not?!
* guinea-pig: We're not a focused group
* guinea-pig> argh
* martin: agrees with doc that we should start small like mit for fest
* mike: should i try to get sponsors first?
* Deviousdragen> perhaps we could span to a differnt college because mit already knows linux.....
* guinea-pig> Deviousdragen: seconded
* martin: it's not for the college, jsut a meeting place
* mike: everyone uses term 'linux fest', works so well, people know it
* Deviousdragen> i don't spend much time outside at these events but most of the people i talked to out there said they already run it...
* guinea-pig> i thought she was referring to fests?
* Deviousdragen> i mean to fest at
* yeah, that's what martin meant, bad notes
* Deviousdragen> but check out the place mike terry suggested, a bank...with free rooms
* guinea-pig> i admit, when 'exploration ubuntu' was first proposed, i thought it was not the best...
* martin tries to stick mike with organizing job
* guinea-pig> but it leaves it open to much more than just installing
* mike: what should event be?
* mike: install fest, or a big linux fest like event with shops and sponsors
* Deviousdragen wishes the ibprofine will kick in and the fresh air will make my stumic from making me feel ill
* mike: will look at stata center
* martin: can we book room, cost, etc?
* mike: ok, is interested in spearheading
* mike is impressed with look of stata center
* mike like shiny things
* Deviousdragen> mike likes to spend too much money also...
* mike: is it big?
* doc: small expo size
* doc: conference size, convention size
* doc: large common area, 5/6 smaller classrooms
* Deviousdragen> parking?
* mike: will contact ohio peeps
* mike: parking sucks
* guinea-pig> in ohio?
* doc: "are you insane?  also, there is a parking garage"
* guinea-pig> i don't care about parking in ohio :P
* guinea-pig: ohio peeps run big linux fest
* guinea-pig> ah
* martin: need space, media organization
* martin: what is our loco goign to bring to table?  cds, table we're manning?
* mike isn't listening
* mike: we'll be there as a vendor and a spearheader
* martin: that's what i'm saying
* martin: might want to have mike focus on spear, others do vending
* doc: this is more than mike job
* doc; this is whole loco
* doc: meetings are just this from now on, if we do this
* mike: no...
* doc: yes!
* doc: need committee, need to assign tasks
* martin: :(
* doc: has been through this before
* mike: again, will ask ohio peeps about what is involved
* doc: could contact my old friends that did this before too
* guinea-pig> whatever you're planning sounds like it's much bigger than an installfest
* guinea-pig> it sounds like a con
* guinea-pig: sort of
* guinea-pig> at least on that scale and style, even if not subject matter
* mterry: why are we doing this?
* mike: cause i want to
* mike: install fests not good b/c of marketing
* mike: this could be as big as other linux fests
* guinea-pig> because *you* want to, or because the loco wants to?
* mterry: if this takes over loco, we need loco buy in
* mterry: this is bigger than mike pet project
* guinea-pig> definitely
* mike: let's investigate, but not commit anything then come back
* mike: this helps loco because we can be a big part of a thing, good recognition
* mike: these things are announced in papers
* doc: boston won't have papers in a year :)
* guinea-pig> as for a timeline... i'd wager something of this scale should be at least 6 months out if not a year
* mike: install fests too small
* guinea-pig: yeah, at least a year
* mike: wants loco to be part of something big
* guinea-pig> perhaps contact some people who run cons in the area, for advice, and see if they want to help?
* guinea-pig: yeah, ohio and doc's peeps
* mike: wants to do this, if loco isn't helping, would try to get others, represent loco alone
* martin: organization is biggests challenge
* guinea-pig> but also local con organisers, as they might have contacts... and if interested can help in person, too
* felicia: must master small first
* mike: this would bring us stuff we don't have right now, adverts, recognition, partnerships
* guinea-pig> what do our previous events count as?
* guinea-pig: small?
* guinea-pig: but have we mastered them?  :)
* guinea-pig> i wouldn't say we've mastered them, but we could've done a lot worse.
* martin: we need to do more digging
* guinea-pig> i think we did well enough to try a little bigger. but not full-sized con
* mike: is real excited
* mike: will look into it, but doesn't have time
* martin: would only have time if he dropped rest of life
* mike: "no one wants to go to wilmington"
* guinea-pig> just a thought
* sara; is there shriner's in boston, good size building?
* mike: how's stata compared to shriner's?
* mike: shriner's is good
* guinea-pig> is this a loco meeting, or a event-specific meeting? i think they need to be seperated, once we've determined we're going to do an event
* sara: we can sell ubuntu cookies
* mike: no matt demonstrating ubuntu gaming
* martin: not a problem
* doc: you're both saying you don't have time
* guinea-pig> nobody has time
* guinea-pig> but nobody has to do everything
* guinea-pig> unless everyone else does nothing
* doc: but you're thinking you're going to do everything
* doc: but that's now how this works
* doc: we need a buy-in committee, and split load
* guinea-pig> divide and conqour
* mike: yar, i have time to contact other people and talk about it
* doc: you have to delegate
* martin: we don't have enough people in group
* mike: we'd get help outside of group
* mike: it's a linux fest
* mike: might even draw interest in oru group
* guinea-pig> organise, people, please.
* mike: the event would be related to our core focus: advocacy, etc
* mike: surprised a boston linux fest hasn't been organized yet
* martin: again, you investigate, send a message to list, other boston lists that are relevant, invite people to a crack committee
* mike: spark interest first
* martin: yar
* martin: special non-loco meetings
* martin: see if we have enough peeps
* mike: our loco, fsf, blu
* mike: enough people to do it
* martin: is that all?
* martin: i call the meeting
* anthrocite_> barcamp from last weekend venue info was: http://wiki.barcampboston.org/index.php?title=2009_Venue

==== Open Floor (All) ====

== Conclusion ==

* There is lots to do.
