{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==

'''Scheduled Time:''' 7:00 PM EST Thursday, August  28, 2008  <<BR>>
'''Scheduled Location:''' <nowiki>[[http://www.media.mit.edu/contact/1cc.html|MIT Media Labs]]</nowiki>

'''Meeting Log:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam/Meetings/IRCLogs/2008-08-28

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''Meeting Chair:''' Martin Owen <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' Sarah Abbot <<BR>>

== Agenda Items ==
The following agenda items were proposed for this meeting:
* Agenda Item 
* Agenda Item

== Present ==
The following team members were present during this meeting:

'''Physically Present:''' <<BR>>
'''Virtually Present:'''  <<BR>>

== Summary ==
We talked a bit about the PI-Con and few other rough thoughts/ideas. One thing we did talk a bit about was how we might relate to the small "Mom & Pop" computer shops that are still out in the world.  The idea came from one that I talked with saying that he dealt with (among other things) moving programs/data to new computers for people.  The obvious idea is that its easier with Ubuntu, but I also thought of the old computers being donated to SETC.  

Utlimately, this might give us an "in" to either talk/work with owners/staff on some salesmanship of Ubuntu and/or training.  As well as perhaps possibility to advertise the install-fest.  

Anyways, this kind of gives four things to do. 
Talk to Mel (that's his name right?).  
Find "mom & pop" places in the greater Boston area.  
Create a package/message for them.
Go out and talk to them.  :-)
So, what can anyone reading this do to help (if they want)?   For #1, M & M, I didn't think about this until the way home.  If we're talking in SETC's name, we should check with him.  Can we do that tomorrow?  Sorry for not emailing until now.  

For #2, the plan is to get a big list going, and divide & conquer.  Map it out to do as much as we can as easily as we can.  So if anyone knows one, please let me know; include an address or phone is possible.  Also, if anyone wants to put on a marketing/salesman hat, and wants to go around to some, let me know.  

For #3, one thing corporate USA has taught me is a consistent image/message.  If anyone has source files for posters and/pamphlets, let me know.  Also (equally important), if anyone has verbaige for press releases, presentations and/or speeches, can they send them to me?  We can compile a package for everyone to review before going out to the "mom & pop's".  

And like I hinted at above, please pick apart the plan.  With the motivation to make it better I hope. :-)  

== Action Items ==
Acquired responsibilities
