{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Help & Support ==
Need help? There are many <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/support|Official Support Resources]]</nowiki> for Ubuntu including Official and Community Documentation, Forums, IRC Channels, and more all available online. <<BR>>

== Why Free & Open Source? ==
Learn about open source from <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FreeSoftware|here]]</nowiki>.

== Why Ubuntu? ==
There are so many great reasons to switch to Ubuntu. It's stable, safe, and open source! For more go to <nowiki>[[WhyUbuntu|Why Ubuntu?]]</nowiki>

== Get Ubuntu ==
If you feel capable of installing Ubuntu yourself, you may go to <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu.com]]</nowiki> to download it yourself or see the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/|Community Documentation]]</nowiki> for more guidance. 

If you would like to have one of us help you install Ubuntu for you, come to our next <nowiki>[[..-Events-InstallFests|InstallFest]]</nowiki> or, if it's urgent, try out our <nowiki>[[..-Projects-Exchange|Exchange Program]]</nowiki>.

=== Install Ubuntu ===
To install Ubuntu on your current machine, you can go to <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu.com]]</nowiki> to find a few different ways to <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu|Get Ubuntu]]</nowiki>. 
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download|Download Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/purchase|Buy Ubuntu on a CD]]</nowiki>

=== Purchase Pre-installed ===
If you would like to purchase a new machine with Ubuntu pre-installed you can buy from any of the following places. 

==== Online ====
If you are purchasing a new computer, these places offer Ubuntu pre-installed: 
* ZaReason - http://www.zareason.com/
* System76 - http://www.system76.com/
* Dell - http://www.dell.com/open

==== Locally ====

== Videos ==
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuclips.org/|Ubuntu Clips]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Screencasts]]</nowiki>

== Activism ==
Take action and get involved with current issues and make a difference. See: <nowiki>[[Activism|Activism]]</nowiki>
