{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Basic Events Guide ==

All types of events should be listed here, what we mean by them, what they involve.  List any other ideas you have here.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| '''Type'''
| '''Tried'''
| '''Description'''
|-
| Meeting
| Organisational
| Yes
| Official meetings allow all members the chance to colaberate on future events, projects and ideas; The meeting is held with the loco leader leading the meeting and minuets are kept of all activities.
|-
| Installfest
| Promotion
| Yes
| Volunteers attempt to help any member of the public install and fix problems with the ubuntu system installed ont heir computer.
|-
| Promotion
| Promotional
| Yes
| This is any event which is perormed by members in order to increase awareness of ubuntu or an ubuntu event. this can include flyers, posters or any other get together (i.e protest)
|-
| Computer Gamefest
| Promotion
| Sort of
| Group of people and members of the public get together to play network games on linux.
|-
| DevMA
| Educational
| Yes
| Event to teach any aspects of development, package management and administration know how. (every week)
|-
| Ubuntu for Begginers
| Educational
| Yes
| Volunteers will organise demonstrations and learning guides for using ubuntu. (every week)
|}

== Special Events ==

=== Anime Boston ===
What: Anime and costumes

When: Annually.  Next is April 2-4, 2010.

Where: Hynes Convention Center in Boston

Cost: <nowiki>[[https://registration.animeboston.com/|$30-$50]]</nowiki>

What we can do:
* Leave Ubunchu manga.  Print them out and attach CDs.  Last time we did this, 100 copies went in a few hours.  This requires someone to attend and drop them off for us (it costs money for them to place them for us).
* Get a table.  This would likely require money.  We could demo Ubuntu, give out manga and CDs.

Past experiences: Went very well.  People loved the manga.

=== Pi-Con ===
What: board game, video game, sci-fi, and math nerds

When: Annually.  Next is August 21-23, 2009.

Where: <nowiki>[[http://www.pi-con.org/directions.php|1 Bright Meadow Blvd]]</nowiki>, Enfield, CT

Cost: <nowiki>[[http://www.pi-con.org/registration.php|$40-$50]]</nowiki>

What we can do:
* Bring Ubunchu manga.  CDs.

Past experiences: Never been

=== Arisia ===
What: <nowiki>[[http://arisia.org/|Sci-Fi Con]]</nowiki>

=== Fan Experience ===
What: <nowiki>[[http://www.nefanx.com/|Sci-Fi Con]]</nowiki>
