{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Team meetings are organized for members to discuss plans, ideas, goals, projects, funding, concerns, etc. regarding the Ubuntu community. MA LoCo Team meetings are held on the last Thursday of every month in Boston. Meetings may also be scheduled to plan for specific <nowiki>[[MassachusettsTeam-Events|Events]]</nowiki> as needed. Alternatively, you may join us at any meeting through IRC in <nowiki>[[http://java.freenode.net//index.php?channel=ubuntu-us-ma|#ubuntu-us-ma]]</nowiki>. Agendas and minutes will be uploaded to the <nowiki>[[Minutes|Minutes]]</nowiki> wiki page.

The Ubuntu MA Team maintains a public <nowiki>[[http://google.com/calendar|Google Calendar]]</nowiki> for scheduling meetings and events.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/embed?src=8fjaig5v8cbm8ohol0tmkf0pvg%40group.calendar.google.com|HTML]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/feeds/8fjaig5v8cbm8ohol0tmkf0pvg%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic|XML]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/ical/8fjaig5v8cbm8ohol0tmkf0pvg%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics|iCal]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/render?cid=8fjaig5v8cbm8ohol0tmkf0pvg%40group.calendar.google.com|Google Calendar (Subscribe)]]</nowiki>

== Upcoming Meetings ==

* See <nowiki>[[..-|main page]]</nowiki>

=== Parent & Related Team Meetings ===
* <nowiki>[[USTeams-Meetings|USTeams]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[MarketingTeam-Meetings|Marketing Team]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamMeeting|LoCo Teams]]</nowiki>

== Records ==
* <nowiki>[[Minutes|Minutes]]</nowiki> -- Meeting Minutes Archive
* <nowiki>[[IRCLogs|IRC]]</nowiki>. -- Meeting IRC log Archive
