{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents WIP'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Massimiliano Pellizzer, apply for the
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel-uploaders|Ubuntu Kernel Uploaders]]</nowiki> team
membership, to get upload rights for the linux-* packages.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name
| '''Massimiliano Pellizzer'''
|-
| Launchpad Page
| '''https://launchpad.net/~mpellizzer'''
|-
| Wiki Page
| '''https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassimilianoPellizzer'''
|}

== Who I am ==

My name is Massimiliano Pellizzer, and I have been a member of the Ubuntu Kernel Team
since July 2024.

I have a master's degree in Computer Science and Engineering from Politecnico of Milan. 

== My Ubuntu story ==

Ubuntu user since Ubuntu 7.04 "Feisty Fawn". Back then I bought the book "Hacking: The art of exploitation" and it was bundled with an Ubuntu 7.04 LiveCD. Since then Ubuntu has been my distro of choice. 

=== My involvement ===

I've been involved in:
* Hardware Enablement: worked IBM Power and IBM Z mainframes, as well as on NXP S32 SoC.
* Kernel Security: triaged and patched hundreds of CVEs across multiple series
* DKMS Packages: fixed DKMS packages on multiple series (both in SRU and development series)

==== Summary ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #dd4814; text-align: center; color: white;"> Sponsor
| Count
|-
| Manuel Diewald
| 13
|-
| Kuba Pawlak
| 13
|-
| Mehmet Basaran
| 7
|-
| Noah Wager
| 7
|-
| Stefan Bader
| 6
|-
| Philip Cox
| 4
|-
| Magali Lemes do Sacramento
| 4
|-
| Agathe Porte
| 3
|-
| Timo Aaltonen
| 2
|-
| Total
| 53
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #dd4814; text-align: center; color: white;"> Date
| Sponsor
| Sponsoree
| Package
| Version
| Distribution
|-
| 2025-04-22 13:28
| Manuel Diewald
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-riscv
| 6.8.0-59.61.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-04-22 14:01
| Manuel Diewald
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-meta-riscv
| 6.8.0-59.61.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-04-24 13:47
| Mehmet Basaran
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-azure
| 5.4.0-1151.158
| focal
|-
| 2025-04-24 14:08
| Mehmet Basaran
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-meta-azure
| 5.4.0.1151.145
| focal
|-
| 2025-04-24 14:11
| Mehmet Basaran
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-signed-azure
| 5.4.0-1151.158
| focal
|-
| 2025-04-24 14:16
| Mehmet Basaran
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-restricted-modules-azure
| 5.4.0-1151.158
| focal
|-
| 2025-04-25 09:18
| Kuba Pawlak
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-riscv-6.8
| 6.8.0-59.61.1~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-04-25 09:41
| Kuba Pawlak
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-meta-riscv-6.8
| 6.8.0.59.61.1~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-04-28 07:33
| Stefan Bader
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-kvm
| 5.15.0-1080.85
| jammy
|-
| 2025-04-28 08:01
| Stefan Bader
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.15.0.1080.76
| jammy
|-
| 2025-04-28 08:03
| Stefan Bader
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.15.0-1080.85
| jammy
|-
| 2025-04-28 09:57
| Stefan Bader
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-ibm
| 5.15.0-1076.79
| jammy
|-
| 2025-04-28 11:42
| Stefan Bader
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-meta-ibm
| 5.15.0.1076.72
| jammy
|-
| 2025-04-28 11:45
| Stefan Bader
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-signed-ibm
| 5.15.0-1076.79
| jammy
|-
| 2025-04-30 12:13
| Mehmet Basaran
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-ibm-5.15
| 5.15.0-1076.79~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-04-30 12:47
| Mehmet Basaran
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-meta-ibm-5.15
| 5.15.0.1076.79~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-04-30 12:48
| Mehmet Basaran
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-signed-ibm-5.15
| 5.15.0-1076.79~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-05-01 17:35
| Timo Aaltonen
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-meta-riscv
| 6.11.0-25.25.1
| oracular
|-
| 2025-05-01 17:35
| Timo Aaltonen
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-riscv
| 6.11.0-25.25.1
| oracular
|-
| 2025-05-01 17:36
| Kuba Pawlak
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-ibm
| 5.15.0-1075.78
| jammy
|-
| 2025-05-01 17:36
| Kuba Pawlak
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-meta-ibm
| 5.15.0.1075.71
| jammy
|-
| 2025-05-01 17:36
| Kuba Pawlak
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-signed-ibm
| 5.15.0-1075.78
| jammy
|-
| 2025-05-05 14:35
| Manuel Diewald
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-azure
| 5.4.0-1150.157
| focal
|-
| 2025-05-05 14:35
| Manuel Diewald
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-meta-azure
| 5.4.0.1150.144
| focal
|-
| 2025-05-05 14:35
| Manuel Diewald
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-signed-azure
| 5.4.0-1150.157
| focal
|-
| 2025-05-21 21:26
| Agathe Porte
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-kvm
| 5.15.0-1081.86
| jammy
|-
| 2025-05-21 21:29
| Agathe Porte
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.15.0.1081.77
| jammy
|-
| 2025-05-21 21:30
| Agathe Porte
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.15.0-1081.86
| jammy
|-
| 2025-05-30 16:04
| Kuba Pawlak
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-aws-6.8
| 6.8.0-1030.32~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-05-30 16:08
| Kuba Pawlak
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-meta-aws-6.8
| 6.8.0-1030.32~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-05-30 16:10
| Kuba Pawlak
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-signed-aws-6.8
| 6.8.0-1030.32~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-05-30 16:12
| Kuba Pawlak
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-restricted-modules-aws-6.8
| 6.8.0-1030.32~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-06-23 09:47
| Manuel Diewald
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-aws-6.8
| 6.8.0-1031.33~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-06-23 11:28
| Manuel Diewald
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-meta-aws-6.8
| 6.8.0-1031.33~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-06-23 11:29
| Manuel Diewald
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-signed-aws-6.8
| 6.8.0-1031.33~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-06-23 11:31
| Manuel Diewald
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-restricted-modules-aws-6.8
| 6.8.0-1031.33~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-07-01 09:49
| Noah Wager
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1029.29~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-07-01 12:55
| Noah Wager
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-meta-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1029.29~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-07-01 12:58
| Noah Wager
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-signed-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1029.29~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-07-01 12:59
| Noah Wager
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-restricted-modules-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1029.29~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-07-25 15:15
| Philip Cox
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1032.32~22.04.2
| jammy
|-
| 2025-07-25 16:02
| Philip Cox
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-meta-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1032.32~22.04.2
| jammy
|-
| 2025-07-25 16:03
| Philip Cox
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-signed-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1032.32~22.04.2
| jammy
|-
| 2025-07-25 16:04
| Philip Cox
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-restricted-modules-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1032.32~22.04.2
| jammy
|-
| 2025-08-18 12:25
| Noah Wager
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1030.30~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-08-18 12:25
| Noah Wager
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-meta-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1030.30~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-08-18 12:25
| Noah Wager
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-signed-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1030.30~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-09-05 12:37
| Manuel Diewald
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1035.35~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-09-05 14:18
| Manuel Diewald
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-meta-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1035.35~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-09-05 14:20
| Manuel Diewald
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-signed-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1035.35~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-09-05 14:20
| Manuel Diewald
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-restricted-modules-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1035.35~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-09-23 08:00
| Kuba Pawlak
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1038.38~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-09-23 08:39
| Kuba Pawlak
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-meta-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1038.38~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-09-23 08:43
| Kuba Pawlak
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-signed-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1038.38~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-09-23 08:43
| Kuba Pawlak
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-restricted-modules-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1038.38~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-09-26 10:02
| Magali Lemes do Sacramento
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1039.39~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-09-26 11:39
| Magali Lemes do Sacramento
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-meta-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1039.39~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-09-26 11:39
| Magali Lemes do Sacramento
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-signed-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1039.39~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-09-26 11:40
| Magali Lemes do Sacramento
| Massimiliano Pellizzer
| linux-restricted-modules-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1039.39~22.04.1
| jammy
|}

Aside from these public kernels, I've also cranked private kernels:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #dd4814; text-align: center; color: white;"> Sponsor
| Count
|-
| Jacob Martin
| 2
|-
| Magali Lemes do Sacramento
| 1
|-
| Total
| 3
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #dd4814; text-align: center; color: white;"> Sponsor
| Package
| Version
| Distribution
|-
| Magali Lemes do Sacramento
| linux-aws-fips
| 5.4.0-1135.145+fips1
| focal
|-
| Jacob Martin
| linux-aws-fips
| 5.15.0-1079.86+fips1
| jammy
|-
| Jacob Martin
| linux-fips
| 5.15.0-134.145+fips1
| jammy
|}

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==

''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

<pre>

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Mehmet Basaran ===
==== General feedback ====

Mass joined the team slightly after I have joined. Although, I haven't worked closely with Mass, it was impossible to not notice his work in the mailing lists. Whether it is backporting or reviews, he has been flawless there.

To be frank, he should have received upload rights long ago. This must be a rare case where Mass was assigned a small number of kernels if any.

I have sponsored 7 packages officially.

All of his packages they were prepared flawlessly regardless of the edge cases.

Yes, he has my full endorsement. With upload rights, he will be able to work even better and more independently.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=hP+Z
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

</pre>

<pre>

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Noah Wager (nwager) ===
==== General feedback ====

I have sponsored 7 of Mass's cranks and they had no issues. Mass has more than proven his effectiveness in the kernel team, from cranking to mailing list and beyond. I fully endorse his Upload Rights application.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=85xV
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

</pre>

<pre>

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Kuba Pawlak (kuba-t-pawlak) ===
==== General feedback ====

I have reviewed some kernel packages that Massimiliano prepared and all of them
were of good quality and could be uploaded to the archive as is. I trust Mass
to continue to prepare kernel packages with care and attention to detail
and give my +1.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=bgkN
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

</pre>

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Manuel Diewald (diewald) ===
==== General feedback ====
Massimiliano prepared the kernels that I have reviewed correctly and with care. Recently, he was granted DKMS upload rights which makes me very confident that he has the necessary skills and knowledge that is required in the kernel SRU process. I trust Massimiliano to continue to create kernel packages with diligence and to ask for feedback when appropriate. I am in favor of Massimiliano's application for kernel package upload rights. +1
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=svVt
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
