{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is a temporary page for the planning of the Free Software for Schools presentation. 
NPS TAC (Newton Public Schools Technology Advisory Committee) - http://www.npstac.org/

== Outline ==
 See: http://docs.google.com/Doc?id=ajdqhbdzgsdj_969f33r6zc9

== Volunteers ==
* Speaker/Presenter(s): Steve,
* Panel for Q&A: Steve, Danny, Caleb,
* Work on outline: Danny, 

== Motivations ==
* Money
* Better technology
* Digital Freedom

=== Mission ===
We should be appealing to the school mission. 
* NPS - The Newton Public Schools are committed to meeting the learning needs of all students. We strive to increase student achievement and to provide students with the knowledge and skills they will need to become productive citizens in our community and in society. NPS will meet this high standard of excellence by ensuring that the K-12 curriculum offers a coherent course of study, yet remains flexible enough to allow for differentiation according to children's needs; by respecting teachers' judgments in making sound instructional decisions for their students; and by insisting that the school system's core value of respect for human differences permeates our work.
* TAC - The Department of Information Technology is committed to providing the necessary technological tools and resources to support the instructional, library media, and administrative needs of the school system. Our mission is to provide staff and students with a robust technology infrastructure, timely assistance, high quality professional development, and effective leadership.

== Deadlines ==
* Outline Complete
* Everything Complete
* Practice date
* Presentation Date

== Locations ==
* Things to consider:
** Audience size
** Presentation style
* Possibilities:
** @NNHS
** Little Theater: Seats approximately 200, seating along all fours walls
** Lasker Auditorium: Seats a lot of people, big stage
** Film Lecture Hall: Seats approximately 100
** Newton Free Library
** 150-200
** Ed Center? 
** Other options?

== Audience ==
* NPS (Newton Public Schools)
** Administration
** Superintendent - Dr. Jeffrey M. Young
** Deputy Superintendent - Dr. Brenda Keegan
** Assistant Superintendent for Business and Finance - Sandra Guryan
** Assistant Superintendent for Human Resources - Dr. Paul Stein
** Chief of Operations - Michael Cronin
** Superintendent for Curriculum and Instruction - Dr. Carolyn D. Wyatt
** Interim Co-Directors for Pupil Services - Stephanie Powers, Mozelle Berkowitz
** School Committee
** Geoff Epstein
** Reenie Murphy
** Claire Sokoloff
** Susie Heyman
** Kurt Kusiak
** Jonathan Yeo
** Marc Laredo
** Anne Larner
** Dori Zaleznik
** TAC (Technology Advisory Committee)
** Director of Information Technology - Shelley Chamberlain
** Manager of Information Systems - Bob Rainville
** Coordinator of Instructional Technology - Steve Silverman
** Coordinator of Libraries & Media Services - Chris Swerling
** Department Secretary - Susan Luchette
** Help Desk Coordinator - Nancy Coxall
** Network and Server Support - Joe LaMarca, Samuel Mayanja, John Saia
** Database Team - Kevin Dolan, Brian McCarthy, Jack Polnar, Tony Sbordone
** Tech Assist Team - Marcia Finnegan, John McLaughlin, Chris Mills
** Web Facilitator - Marc Richmond
** Technology Aide - Susan Lum
** City
** Mayor - David B. Cohen
** Chief Administrative Officer - Sanford M. Pooler
** Chief Budget Officer - Susan R. Burstein
** Director of Policy & Communication - Jeremy Solomon
** Citizen Assistance Officer - Maureen L. Grimaldi
** Scheduler/Executive Assistant - Mary Morgan
** Information Technology Department Director - Ann Cornaro
* NNHS (Newton North High School)
** Principal - Jen Price
** Assistant Principals - Susan Ostrer, Richard Ballou
** Career and Technology Education - Diana Robbins
** Chris Murphey
** Kevin McGrath
** PTSO (Parent Teacher Student Organization)
** Co-presidents - Mark Wadness,  Laurie Mokriski, Nancy Bernheimer
* NSHS (Newton South High School)
** Principal - Brian L. Salzer
** Assistant Principals - Mary Scott, Purnima Vadhera
** Computer Department - Eileen Kestenbaum, Francis Williams Jr.
** Technology Education Department - Matthew Briggs, Tim Stephen
** PTSO
** Co-Presidents - Julie Sall, Liz Richardson, Nancy Leipzig, Sue Schy
** School Council Co-Chairs - Jim Ostrow, Deb Hirsch
* Bigelow Middle School
** Principal - 
** Assistant Principal - 
** Instructional Technology Specialist, Missy Costello
** Assistant - Karen Davison
** PTO
** Co-presidents - Anne W Swager, Linda Wolyniec
** School Council - Laurie A Panariti
* Brown Middle School
** Principal - John Jordan
** Assistant Principals - Jennifer Truslow - Dr. Ruthe L'Esperance, Mark Nardelli
* F.A. Day Middle School
** Principal - Gina Healy
** Assistant Principals - Sheryl Bono, Michael Harding, Susan Bornstein
** PTO
** Co-Presidents - Marion Golin, Suzanne Barrow, Benita Danzing
* Oak Hill Middle School
** Principal - Hank Van Putten
** Assistant Principal - Ken Yee, Lisa Sjostrom, Dorothy Olson
** PTO
** Co-Presidents - Christopher Hill, Meg Hollender, Kathleen Sanders
* Elementary Schools? 
* Interested staff, parents, and students

Total: 100+

== Resources ==
* http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/FLOSS_Concept_Booklet
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_open_source_and_closed_source
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_Windows_and_Linux
* http://www.gnu.org/software/reliability.html
* http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/schools.html
* http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/your-freedom-needs-free-software.html
* http://edge-op.org/grouch/schools.html
