{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==

'''Scheduled Time:''' 7:00 PM EST Thursday, June 26^th^, 2008  <<BR>>
'''Scheduled Location:''' <nowiki>[[http://whereis.mit.edu/map-jpg?mapterms=e15&mapsearch=go|MIT Media Lab]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
'''Google Steet View:''' <nowiki>[[http://tinyurl.com/2mmxuj|here]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
'''Meeting Log:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam/Meetings/IRCLogs/2008-06-26 <<BR>>

'''Meeting Chair:''' Martin Owen <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes recorded by:''' everyone on IRC <<BR>>

== Agenda Items ==

* Basic Organisation: Rejection of comity thinking (Martin)
* New website, design and function (Martin)
** Website events management
** Website tied into launchpad
* Summer Exploration Ubuntu (Mike)
* Bugfest in the autumn (Yuiry?)
* Open floor

== Present ==
The following team members were present during this meeting:

'''Physically Present:''' <<BR>>
'''Virtually Present:'''  <<BR>>

== Proceedings ==
Meeting Minutes

== Conclusion ==
Meeting Summary

== Action Items ==
Acquired responsibilities
