{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==

'''Scheduled Time:''' 7:00 PM EST Thursday, May  28^th^, 2009  <<BR>>
'''Scheduled Location:''' <nowiki>[[http://www.tech-center-enlightentcity.tv/ | South End Technology Center (SETC)]]</nowiki>

'''Join On Freenode IRC Channel''' <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-ubuntu-us-ma|#ubuntu-us-ma]]</nowiki> <<BR>>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''Meeting Chair:''' Mike Rushton (leftyfb) <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' All <<BR>>

== Agenda Items ==

The following agenda items were proposed for this meeting:

* Introductions (everyone)
* Review of last month's <nowiki>[[..-..-..-ActionItems|Action Items]]</nowiki>
* Installfest! (Cam Cope)
* Status Report on ASC for Monthly Meeting (kinnerc)
* Open Floor (everyone)

== Present ==

The following team members were present during this meeting:

'''Physically Present:''' <<BR>>

* Mike Rushton (leftyfb), Systems Admin.
* Sara Abbot (deviousdgn), Cake Maker.
* Doc Kinne (kinnerc), Astronomical Technologist.
* Cam Cope (maccam94), Student/Computer Techie
* Dylan (n0yd)

'''Virtually Present:'''  <<BR>>

== Action Items ==

See progress <nowiki>[[..-..-..-ActionItems|for Action Items here]]</nowiki>

== Proceedings ==

==== Group Introduction (leftyfb) ====

* Everyone went around the room and recited their name and profession, recorded in the section above.

==== Installfest ====

* Initial Discussion
* Location searching
* Add ideas here

==== Monthly Meeting Report ====
* Report on possibility of ASC for meeting.
* Any other possibilities on the horizon?
* Needs for a Meeting Place in descending order.

==== Open Floor (All) ====

== Conclusion ==

* There is lots to do.
