{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''What:''' Release party for Ubuntu 9.04 Jaunty Jackalope

'''Where:''' <nowiki>[[http://www.globebarandcafe.com|Globe Bar & Grill]]</nowiki><<BR>>
565 Boylston St<<BR>>
Boston, MA 02116<<BR>>
(617) 778-6993<<BR>>

'''When:''' April 23^rd^, 2009 7pm till we pass out

'''Who:''' ''YOU!'' There will also be other Ubunteros, developers, geeks, fans, delicious foods, and tasty beers

'''Pictures from the previous release party:''' <nowiki>[[http://gallery.ubuntu-ma.us/?g2_itemId=1011|Intrepid Ibex Release Party]]</nowiki>

=== Answers to All Your Questions ===

Finger foods will be available (feel free to donate a few bucks).  Servers will be around for dinner from the menu, and drinks so bring plenty of cash.

'''How do I get there?'''

<nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?f=l&hl=en&geocode=&q=globe+bar+%26+grill&near=Boston,+MA&ie=UTF8&ll=42.352201,-71.072037&spn=0.00712,0.023518&z=16&iwloc=A|Google maps]]</nowiki>( <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?f=l&hl=en&geocode=&q=globe+bar+%26+grill&near=Boston,+MA&ie=UTF8&layer=c&cbll=42.350392,-71.076285&cbp=1,338.3034672193804,,0,4.4306358145804365&ll=42.353787,-71.07429&spn=0.00712,0.023518&z=16|Street View]]</nowiki> ) to ''565 Boylston St, Boston, MA.'' The nearest T stop is the ''<nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&geocode=&q=copley+square&sll=42.359686,-71.058884&sspn=0.056954,0.188141&ie=UTF8&ll=42.351,-71.076661&spn=0.00178,0.005879&z=18&layer=c&cbll=42.350111,-71.077241&cbp=1,341.39817346982886,,1,-0.6247690603780892|Copley Square]]</nowiki>'' stop on the Green Line. 

 We will be on the mezzanine, just go all the way back past the bar and bathrooms and up the stairs.

'''I don't run Ubuntu yet. Should I come?'''

 Sure. Bring a laptop. You can try not get beer spilled on it and we can try to set you up with JauntyJackalope.

'''I still have friends who don't use Ubuntu. Can they come?'''

 Sure. Tell them to bring their laptop. See above.

=== RSVP ===

If you are planning on attending, please add your name to the list below. Feel free to come anyway, we are just looking for an estimate.

* Martin Owens
* Mike Rushton
* Sara Abbott
* James Gray
* Rio
* Beck Prigot

If you are embarrassed that all your Windows friends will find out about your Ubuntu habit you can RSVP in secret by emailing Martin Owens at doctormo@gmail.com.

See you there!
