{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Description ==

We want to provide the opportunity to learn more about our operating system to people who are new to ubuntu and Linux. Below are details of any and all such events and where they're going to take place.

== About Ubuntu ==

Ubuntu is a fully functional, free operating system alternative to Mac OSX and Microsoft Windows. Based upon the community ideas of Free and Open Source Software the project hopes to make available the best technology for all desktop users currently available in the Linux world without the traditional difficulties of installation or use.

As well as the thousands of installable applications by default an ubuntu installation comes with a full Office suite, photo management, email program and much more.

== Reoccurring ==
 
* '''What:''' Help spread the word on ubuntu by training the Boston community on using ubuntu and computers in general. We also help clean up donated computers and install ubuntu on them. These are provided back to the community at little or no cost to people who need them.

* '''Where:''' <nowiki>[[http://www.tech-center-enlightentcity.tv/contactus.html|South End Technical Center]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://tinyurl.com/3y9qox|Map]]</nowiki>
* '''When:''' Every Tuesday 7:00pm - 9:00pm EST
* '''Who:''' Class instructors: Martin Owens, Mike Ruston, Others
