{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Planning ==
=== Put your ideas in this section ===

* '''Location'''
** Tentatively at the MIT Media Lab in July (2nd weekend?)

* '''Advertising'''
** drascus321:
** Brochure style fliers that have directions, contact info, event itinerary; basically you can fit more in a brochure.
** putting an Ad into a local newspaper like a pennysaver type paper or the local Cambridge Chronicle this is generally pretty cheap in local papers.
** Doc Kinne:
*** Print Advertising - minimal and needs to be sent in by 16 June, latest!
*** Explore possibility of advertising on print media web sites. Will not need as large a lead time.
*** Flyers - Need to be designed and distributed in two waves. Wave one: Week of 16 June. Wave two: Week of 30 June.
*** Mention on Blogs, especially Blogs that are fed to sites like Ubuntu Planet.

* '''Event Operations'''
** drascus321:
** We need something else outside to coax people inside. The banner is good but people seem to miss it, maybe have some team members outside coaxing people in. We need some Ubuntu cheerleaders.
** Music

** feliciaAtcapestr:
** volunteers to coordinate goodie bags and SWAG

** Doc Kinne: Again, I'm going to make a plea that we keep focused and of reasonable size, especially if this is the first one of these we've done in a while.
** I'm not exactly disagreeing, but I think "reasonable size" is up to interpretation. We've had a couple of these events before, with decent success. The keys to making the event successful, which I haven't seen us focus very hard on in the past, are Advertising and Timing. We need to get the word out, and we need to give people enough time to find out about it. We need to effectively advertise our location, the time of the event, where to park/how to get there, introduce what Ubuntu is, and do it multiple times, in different places to the word around. I think we can easily get 30 people to come, I think we got that many with just our advertising efforts in the past. We should aim higher.

* '''Schedule'''
** Doc Kinne:
** Priorities and Timeline:
*** Date of Installfest - decision deadline: 5 June. I thought we were thinking either 11 July or 18 July.
*** Site of Installfest - decision deadline: 12 June.
* '''Presentations'''

* '''Demos'''
** drascus321:
** Demo and tutorial stations
*** Graphic Arts: (Gimp, Inkscape, Scribus) and maybe someone knowledgeable that can demo this stuff and offer tutorials
*** Gaming: Several networked PC's that people can play some versus games at
*** Install Station: a spot with people set up and ready to do installations
*** More?

----

== Introduction ==

=== Plans ===

'''Date: July 2009'''  <<BR>>
'''Time: 10AM - 5PM'''  <<BR>>

'''Location: Up for discussion'''  <<BR>>

==== Details ====

=== Summary ===

=== Photos ===
