{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
25^th^ of October 2007 at <nowiki>[[http://www.vanu.com/?page_id=62|Vanu Inc.]]</nowiki> near the Kendall/MIT T stop.

'''Team Page:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam <<BR>>
'''Meeting Log(s):''' http://people.ubuntu.com/~fabbione/irclogs/Location_of_Log.html <<BR>>

'''Meeting Chair:''' Martin Owens <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' Sara Abbott <<BR>>

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:

===== Members Present =====

* Brian D
* Theresa
* Steve
* John
* Bill
* Jason
* Brian DeLacy
* Martin Owens
* Mike R
* Sara Abbott

== Agenda Items ==
The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:
* Ubuntu Installfest Postmortem
* CD Count (bring any that you have including Feisty or Gutsy)
* The ubuntu gutsy party
* The $50 to cover the party food - thanks to all those who donated
* Funding, financial report and what we should do with the money.
** Fund t-shirt production, discuss options and if we think we can make money from it for other things.
* Gutsy Installation Experiences
* Group Buying and what kind of things we want to see.
* Boston Developers Summit, events, drinks and friendships.
** Maybe the team should work on specs for Hardy?  If anybody present has some feature they want in Hardy, the team could help them draft up a spec to bring up at UDS. -- YuriyKozlov  * Educational projects -- YuriyKozlov  * Exchange program -- YuriyKozlov  * Michael Selva is looking for upwards of 50 (yes, fifty) Ubuntu CDs to give out at a public event (Tech Open House for education) next Wednesday.  Feisty is fine, Gutsy would be divine.  I cannot attend in person tonight, but if Steve Pomeroy is willing to keep them under lock & key for me at the Media Lab, I could come over there at his convenience to pick them up. 
* M Selva is also looking for MEDIA contacts, especially reporters & editors from IT and Linux-related magazines.  Please reply to ms@ssaes.org if you know someone, I'd like to invite them to the aforementioned Open House to see Ubuntu and to meet the SABDFL.   Thanks! -- MichaelSelva  * Open to floor etcetera.

NOTE : ''Please add these 5 characters at the end of your comments @``SIG@ so we get an automatic timestamp with your user name on it. It will be expanded when you save the changes, so don't worry when you don't see the timestamp and username in the preview.''

== Proceedings ==

* ''Meeting called to order at 19:30'', by Meeting Chair, '''Martin Owens'''''
* '''''2007-10-23''' meeting minutes were amended and approved'''''

== Positive(s) ==
Brian's article is good...
Steve's help finding cables we need...
Great Space…had an elevator and ramps
More on wiki postmortem

== Negitive(s) ==
* We need to link the install-fest on wiki better.
* It is hard to find notes from last install-fest on front page hard to locate things. 
* Need to mention that people might need to bring their monitors and proper cords to the install-fest on wiki about the install-fest. “If there is a big turn out with machines, people might have to bring monitors...”

== Wiki Links needed ==
* Direct Photo Gallery link on main page… should have links for banner “photo gallery, gallery”
* Perhaps a random picture on every wiki page…(Mike said he might work on this)

=Next Install-fest= 
* January 12th, 2008 Would be 
=Do we want to keep that?= 
* MIT thing is that week....IAP Whole month of January since odd things are happening.
Super bowl weekend is in february...so end of January might be better.  January 26th...
Week or 2 after the release...

== Western Meetings? ==
* Meeting in Worcester is fine with us, we are waiting to hear back from the Westerners to set up a meeting in the West.

Theresa volunteered for a talking with WPI people to see if they have a group of ubuntu people. Or a ubuntu club, perhaps get them involved with our group.

We have no gutsy cd's yet...However, we have droves of the Fiesty Fawn.
200-32 bit
50-64 bit
We have 200 coming (which arrived Oct 26th, 2007)

Party Food at the Globe was help funded by Money from the Ubuntu-Massachusetts badges excess money.

Massachusetts e-mail address is what we have...

If it gets over a certain amount....shouldn't keep the money too high. 
If we open a bank account under someone's name, we would have to deal with taxes, and other sorts of issues.

The vocational school in Lowell, is going to be giving us a shirt 1.78

FOSS Camp is Saturday at the Kendall hotel at the says “MIT HILTON” Developers summit... A talk about the group...and what we do.

Bar camp style is the FOSS camp...KENDALL HOTEL
Blank board with a time slot and room number.... “un-conference” We can perhaps speak...dunno...you say the time and the room...and people sign up to join the section

“Created a page...to manage projects”
“group-buy” case badge project...
