{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==

'''Scheduled Time:''' 7:00 PM EST Thursday, August  27^th^, 2009  <<BR>>
'''Scheduled Location:''' <nowiki>[[http://www.tech-center-enlightentcity.tv/ | South End Technology Center (SETC)]]</nowiki>
'''Join On Freenode IRC Channel''' <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-ubuntu-us-ma|#ubuntu-us-ma]]</nowiki> <<BR>>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''Meeting Chair:''' Martin Owens (doctormo) <<BR>>
'''Meeting Minutes by:''' Unknown<<BR>>

== Present ==

The following team members were present during this meeting:

'''Physically Present:''' <<BR>>

* Martin Owens (doctormo), Programmer
* Mike Terry (mterry), Canonical Programmer
* Timothy Konick (tim)
* Doc Keen (doc)

'''Virtually Present:'''  <<BR>>

* Felicia
* Bill (BillN1VUX)
* Elizabeth (|izzie)

== Agenda Items ==

The following agenda items were proposed for this meeting:

* Introductions (everyone)
* Review of last month's <nowiki>[[..-..-..-ActionItems|Action Items]]</nowiki>
* PiCon report (doctormo or Jonathan)
* Games event report (leftyfb)
* Open Floor (everyone)

== Action Items ==

See progress <nowiki>[[..-..-..-ActionItems|for Action Items here]]</nowiki>

== Proceedings ==

 Martin's talking about PiCon
 Jonathon manned the table
<mterry> And set it up and was awesome
<felicia_> i wish i was there!
<mterry> 3 days of PiCon
 We had a table in dealer's room, a bit out of the way
 Gave out CDs, roved around, talked about Ubuntu
 Most people were aware of Ubuntu
 People would agree, tell their friends that it was good
 We offered to do live installs 
 and did, on at least one windows xp netbook
 gave out about 50 cds
 We need a new banner, or find old one
 Advised to go to arisia
<felicia_> how much space did they use in the room?
 feliciaATcapestr felicia_
<mterry> felicia_, a table about 6ftx4ft
 against a wall near the door
<felicia_> trying to figure out how to share a room at Arisia
<mterry> we had 2 laptops, a netbook, and a printer
 for printing signs, posters, comic
<felicia_> sounds good
<mterry> yeah, we're talking about who exactly will drive arisia
 feliciaATcapestr felicia_
 felicia_ is offering space, rick said he'd go
 but martin is concerned that we need someone to 'organize' it
 Back to PiCon, lots of authors that used Ubuntu
 or had at least heard of it
<felicia_> i need a serious team, all my effort will have to be on my own stuff Ican only offer space
 feliciaATcapestr felicia_
<mterry> felicia_, right
 Compared to last PiCon, lots more had heard of Ubuntu
 Someone else at the table, I don't know him (Dreads)
<felicia_> ripe for conversion!
 Out of agenda argument with some random guy
 martin: mike's report on gaming event
 martin: we'll defer that, since mike's not here, hasn't written about it
 That's all on the agenda.../.
 light this month
 open floor
 feliciaATcapestr felicia_
 felicia_, anything you wanted to say?
<BillN1VUX> felicia_ feliciaATcapestr mterry -- if we need an Arisian in charge for planning, not Felicia and not Martin, it could be me. 
 BillN1VUX beantown
<mterry> BillN1VUX, wait one sec, tim's talking
 tim: we should talk to people that haven't heard about linux
 BillN1VUX, but good!  i'll raise it in a sec
 tim: need people that will appreciate it, take interest, but we might be better served by a broader scope
 mterry: specific ideas?
 tim: getting it out more, more in your face, where you don't expect to see it, not just gaming conferences, not just geeky places
 martin: they're not as direct as you might think
 martin: some locos think we should only be in computer conferences
 tim: yeah, we don't need that
 martin: so we're already 2 steps out of core
 so yeah, bill said he could do arisia
 martin: i'm very interested in that
<|izzie> present
<mterry> mterry: do we need to give him instructions/advice then?
 martin: the job is just being the guy in charge, communicates costs, advertises to rest of community, mans the desk, someone who won't quit halfway through
 Hi, |izzie
 BillN1VUX, so I guess, you're saying you don't mind manning the desk and all that?
 martin is whining about WinCE is terrible
<BillN1VUX> i volunteer to plan, and help execute, not spend the *whole* event in Felicias room
<mterry> BillN1VUX, martin: we don't need someone to man it indefinitely, just someone to organize the manning
<BillN1VUX> right
<mterry> BillN1VUX, So there can be gaps or what not, but ideally you'd get someone else that's going (martin said he would be willing) to help man in specified hours
 tim is talking about communicating with other locos now
 martin: that's a topic for the ubuntu us loco team
 martin: says most us locos aren't that interested
<BillN1VUX> since Felicia can lock her own door, gaps are far less problematic than other events !
<mterry> BillN1VUX, that's good.  So I guess we're good to go with arisia, just keep the mailing list in the loop, contact mailing list for who wants to help with manning hours, for example
 BillN1VUX, martin will reply and say he can help
 BillN1VUX, martin: and maybe ask for posters and art from martin (on the mailing list)
 Doc just entered the room
 Martin is overviewing the meeting for doc's benefit
<BillN1VUX> definitely want contributions from the list
<mterry> BillN1VUX, thanks, btw!
<BillN1VUX> for DPic or all - did we have anime booklet at Pi-Con ? can we at Arisia?
<mterry> BillN1VUX, I think martin said he printed one out, but didn't sound like a lot of them for picon
 BillN1VUX, martin says he can get more done ahead of time.  costs about $1 each
 BillN1VUX, if we want that to happen for arisia
 BillN1VUX, let him know if you want chapter 1 or 2, etc.  how many
 BillN1VUX, maybe email the list to see if there's interest in a group pay or something, and how many would be needed?
<BillN1VUX> is that the Staples price or the Gnomon price?  
<mterry> BillN1VUX, martin: staples price
<DPic> arisia is in januaryy, right? 
<mterry> martin: once you convince them to not do first page as single color, etc
 martin: yes (DPic)
<DPic> i can get them printed for really cheap at my school next month
 i think we should print a ton of chapter 1
 leftovers can be used for anime boston
 and we can get a solid number of just how many people will take
<mterry> martin: can you print/cut/staple em?  what would be cost per booklet?
 DPic, ^
<DPic> no cutting necessary, but i can cut and staple them too yes
<mterry> DPic, cool
<DPic> i had to go to my school to staple them lasst time because staples didn't have the right...stapler
<mterry> mterry says how many do we think we need for arisia
 martin: at anime boston, we gave 250 very quick
 martin: says 1000  :)  we can use them over multiple events
<DPic> i agree
<mterry> DPic, depends on price I guess  :)
<-- feliciaATcapestr has quit (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))
<mterry> martin: depends how much we can fundraise
<DPic> i'll throw in $35
<mterry> DPic, do you have an idea of per unit cost with school printer
 [ACTION ITEM] dpic to find out per unit cost
 [ACTION ITEM] BillN1VUX to send email to list about arisia
 doc: now that year is ramping up, he's going to talk to ASC admin to see facilities
 (this is about a new meeting place in boston common)
 [ACTION ITEM] doc to get that conversionation started, will email martin about it
 and/or mailing lists
 [ACTION ITEM] martin to do ldap logins for setc
 mterry: i thought you did that
 martin: nope, i failed
 doc: even martin's human
 martin: i'm talking to mccormick action group and the old colony youth center
 martin: about their computer la
 b
 martin: will keep mailing list up to date
 martin: but it's not driven by me, waiting on them
<DPic> oh and i never heard back from system76 about sponsoring us at anime boston
<mterry> martin: try them again and try zereason (sp?)_
<felicia_> sorry my connection is off and on...
 felicia_ feliciaATcapestr
 so bill is my kinda liasion, the inside man, since I've never done a convention, or manned a Ubuntu booth
<mterry> felicia_ that's why we take notes!
<felicia_> sounds great
<mterry> [ACTION ITEM] dpic to try again about anime boston
 martin: we also don't have an organizer for anime boston, but I presume.... DPIC wants to do it
 martin is delegating today
<DPic> ah, actually i was gonna ask about that
 i could also become a volunteer or paid staff for anime boston in orger to promote ubuntu to the people running the event
 but then i wouldn't be able to man our booth
 the shifts last 2 hours each tops
<mterry> DPic, what like an inside man convincing them to use ubuntu for con stuff?
<DPic> so i'll still be able to help out at the booth
 yeah
 i heard windows errors during the AMV contest which is oen of the main events
<mterry> DPic, organizing and manning can be separate (see above with BillN1VUX and arisia)
 DPic, so yeah, go for it if ya like
<DPic> cool
<mterry> DPic, But also see above for good organizer ideas about what to do, like try to get people to sign up for manning
<felicia_> danny, your going deep undercover to work this from the inside!
<mterry> martin asks doc if there's anything he's got on his plate to do?
 doc says he's busy, but next thing is just ASC room
 doc's been doing web work, planning for a slashdotting at work
 event rundown:
 desktop education for setc every tuesday
 wednesday: sysadmin classes for 3 more weeks
 loco meeting next month, as usual
 (maybe at asc if things are awesome)
 that's it until jan's arisia
 doc: so if I'm correct, what's with 9.10?
 martin: no release party scheduled
 felicia_ feliciaATcapestr
 martin: jason was interested in being involved, as did felicia_
 martin: we need it to start being organized. (thought it was on agenda)
<BillN1VUX> sounds like i should give dpic the brain dump i gave martin on print-buying
<mterry> BillN1VUX, martin says "write it as a course :)"
 mterry: what do we need to do organize release party
 martin: location, time, food, advertizing
 no one's looked into it
 martin is pressuring me to do it
<BillN1VUX> martin can hire a courseware editor :-)
<mterry> martin: "martin is a courseware editor"
<BillN1VUX> the expert on release party arzsara and mike
 are*
<mterry> martin: we don't really like the same place as previous release parties
 martin: we want something more day-ish
 martin: maybe saturday/sunday?
 martin: as a day event, not an evening event
 martin: most locos have much bigger events
 mterry: yeah, i don't want do to that (organize it)
 martin: well we need someone or it's not going to happen this time
 doc: can't believe it's been 6 mths
 doc's talking about being from ithica
<BillN1VUX> media lab should be back in town ?
<mterry> martin: do we have a contact there?
 martin: maybe we shoiuld get in contact with maco
 mako
<BillN1VUX> my sympathy to Doc, i overcame being born in grad school there
<mterry> [ACTION ITEM] martin contact mako
 doc: I liked it, but wasn't going to do astronomy there without phd
 martin tries to close meeting
<BillN1VUX> astronomy without phd is largely amateur ...
<mterry> doc: 9.10 question was answered partially, but what about features?
<-- MikeC_ has quit ("Ex-Chat")
<mterry> mterry: we just passed FeatureFreeze
 mterry: Software Store is being worked on
 martin: how about calling it More Programs
 martin: hadn't heard about it
 now we're talking about the name
 talking about how it plans to let people buy software
 doc says doing so well could be revolutionary
 doc open source could become economically viable if we make it easy to buy open source software
 martin and doc talking about making money as an indy dev
 and how it's nigh impossible
 martin: i want to earn money doing open source development
<DPic> sorry to change subject again but i'm rewriting my message to system76-- does anybody have some new creative ideas for what we can offer at anime boston? 
<mterry> martin: making a big deal about their hardware and where they can buy it isn't enough?
 martin: it's already non-zero-sum, it's just if they think it's worth it
<DPic> alrighty
<mterry> mterry: i'm talking about 'quickly'
 it's an app that makes it easier to write apps for ubuntu
 martin: calling meeting
 martin: talking about 'facepam' --logging in via your face with camera
<BillN1VUX> not to be confused with facepalm
<DPic> would we like any sort of sys76 partnership for arisia as well ?
<felicia_> will they upgrade us to a suite?
<DPic> huh? i don't know what that means but i have no idea what they're willing to do. i'm wondering if i should ask
<felicia_> system 76, the computer manufacturer...they have an ubuntu connection? yes
 Maybe they'd like a room to fill with laptops, and the loco does it thing with our software their hardware
 could it be simple like that?
<BillN1VUX> possible, but they'd probably not mind keeping budget low for arisia ... reg cost and printing
<DPic> i just sent an email to the list
 a draft message to sytem76
 please review! 
<BillN1VUX> the small nu ber of suites on retail floor are HARD to get, and on other 
 floors you have to host an open party
 (i use a regular room for a closed party)
 DPic: i just sent you edited log of print-buyer 101 brain dump previously inflicted upon docmo
<DPic> yeah i'm looking it over now
 BillN1VUX, so should i not have the copies printed at my school? 
<BillN1VUX> if your school can and will work for free, hey great
<DPic> not free, but cheap
<BillN1VUX> i was responding to DocMO's poster / flyer blead 
<DPic> i'll get a quote
 yeah
<BillN1VUX> school will likely underbid gnomon ! and better quality than staples ?
 re which i was hoping we could work together for.
<DPic> the quality will probably be the same, but i don't think staples was bad
<BillN1VUX> on which i was hoping we could work together .
<DPic> huh?
<BillN1VUX> staples isn't bad,  just less consistent ... since not fulltime printers
 swap trailing FOR for leading ON

==== Group Introduction ====

* Everyone went around the room and recited their name and profession, recorded in the section above.

==== Open Floor (All) ====

== Conclusion ==

* There is lots to do.
