{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Audio support in Ubuntu ==

=== Agenda ===

* mixing different audio sources (multiple source/multiple sink)

* Handling dynamic hardware changes (plugin speakers, new devices)

* pro audio / games (low latency)

* terminal clients (remote sound)

* desktop sound

=== Existing solutions ===

* esound, current solution for warty. gnome/gstreamer talking to esound, esound using alsa/oss-emulation as backend

* alsa (dmix), existing applications can use it, doesn't need to have an interface to a sound daemon.

* polypaudio: replacement for esound, currently maintained, same idea, better implementation.

* jackd: has an approach for realtime capabilities, although not in a secure way, non-standard setup for kernel.

=== Realtime Audio ===

* Two camps, one promoting no/low latency solution (jackd), other "camp" more security concerned.

* For realtime requirements, either provide a special kernel in universe which can be installed for those requirements, or realtime audio should be encouraged as a dedicated distro, derived from Hoary.

=== Hoary goals ===

* go with polypaudio, gnome goes this way as well.

* evaluate running the sound daemon as one user process, not necessarily as the user logged in (one instance serving all users).

=== Assignments ===

No assignments made.

CategoryArchive
