{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

During the weekend of the 11th and 12th of december many PyGTK hackers and contributors will attend a mega-BOF in Mataró.
On this page we will outline a loose schedule to use during the weekend.
If you want to show or discuss a particular subject, don't hesitate to add it to the list of topics.

=== Topics ===

* PyGTK today and tomorrow -- where we are today and where we want to go
* Marketing PyGTK -- spreading the love
* Gazpacho -- killer application from outer space
* nautilus-python -- yet to be released nautilus integration work
* QA -- build systems and tools to improve the quality of your pygtk application
* pygtk-extras -- *HIGH* level python wrapping for Gtk+
* Implementing widgets / objects in python -- what's missing?
* Decorator syntax -- should pygtk use it to define gobject signals & properties?

=== Draft Agenda ===

Any time not scheduled below is available for hacking, discussions, etc.  Talks are arbitrarily assigned an hour, but may be shorter.  If anyone else wants to give a short presentation, please let Johan or John know.

Saturday

* 10:30-11:00 -- Demos: nautilus-python, Wing IDE, etc. (Johan, John, others?)
* 11:00-12:00 -- Introduction: where pygtk is today, what are its problems, and where is it going (Johan)
* 14:00-15:00 -- Gazpacho (Lorenzo)

Sunday

* 10:00-11:00 -- Implementing widgets (John)
* 13:00-14:00 -- Frameworks; pygtk-extras and data aware applications (Johan, John, others)

=== Attendees ===

* Christian Reis
* Guilherme Salgado
* Johan Dahlin
* Lorenzo Gil
* Xavier Ordoquy
* Rafael Villar Burke
* John Ehresman
* Martijn van de Streek (maybe)
* Iñigo Serna
* MatthiasUrlichs 
* Ian Lawrence
* (Add your name here)

=== Times and Place ===

TBD, 11-12/12.

CategoryArchive 
