{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

mime types and related application is a pain with linux.
Since freedesktop (http://www.freedesktop.org), thinks seems to be better. However, independent mime management still exists in Ubuntu :
For instance, promoted programs like Firefox (https://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=7023), uses a configuration different from gnome.

== What is the current state ? ==

2 packages coexist that manage mime types:
* mime-support 
** provides /usr/sbin/update-mime
** handle /etc/mailcap and /etc/mime.types
** I think it's used by firefox
* shared-mime-info
** provides /usr/bin/update-mime-database
** handle freedesktop specification
** Used by gnome

== What to do ? ==

* Find programs that use mime-support and force them to use shared-mime-info.
* Suppress mime-support and make shared-mime-info handle /etc/mailcap and /etc/mime.types for compatibility.

== mime-support ==

==== Summary ====

* /etc/mail.type store relation between file extensions and mimetypes. Lines use the form: typemime extensions
* /etc/mailcap and $HOME/.mailcap store relation between mimetypes and program that handle them. Lines use the form: mimetype ; application %s.
See update-mime(8) and <nowiki>[[http://archive.ncsa.uiuc.edu/SDG/Software/XMosaic/rfc1524.txt|RFC 1524]]</nowiki> for details

==== Questions ====

* why is there mime type without extension?
* freedesktop mime specification are-they enough to build /etc/mailcap?

== To Do ==

* search wich software use /etc/mailcap and /etc/mime.type
* tweak /usr/bin/update-mime-database in order to build /etc/mime.type
** Infos already exists in /usr/share/mime/globs and /usr/local/share/mime/globs
* Changing a "preferred application" in Gnome should change the application launched for at least the main mime type

CategoryArchive
