{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== ŐRY Máté (aka. maat, hunmaat) ===

I'm one of the core members of Hungarian local community. Among other activities I translate Ubuntu, develop the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.hu|website]]</nowiki> and build the community.

==== Contact ====

* Email:  * Personal home page: http://maat.orgo2002.hu/hu (Hungarian)
** some posts translated to English: http://maat.orgo2002.hu/en
* IRC: hunmaat @ irc.freenode.net (#ubuntu-hu, #ubuntu-hu-web); hunmaat @ IRCNet
* Jabber: orymate at gmail, Skype: hunmaat
* Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/orymate|orymate]]</nowiki>

==== Contributions to Ubuntu ====

* I proof and write rough translations on translation weekends.
* …regularly translate some other packages from Ubuntu main.

* …have written a specification about using Ubuntu or an Ubuntu remix in Hungarian secondary schools. (Unsuccessful.)
* …file and comment bug reports, I also fix ubuntu-hu-web related ones.

* …have written a lot of documentations to the former (wiki-based) Hungarian Ubuntu Linux Community site.
* …obtained a party tent for free for Hungarian Ubuntu Community to the Hegyalja Festival 2008. :)

* I’m one of ubuntu.hu's main web developers, Drupal and accessibility ‘expert’.

* …one of the organizers of Hungarian Ubuntu Conference 2006.
* …frequently on #ubuntu-hu (building community, supporting)
* …frequent participant of translation weekends and community events.
* …the Hungarian distributor of System76’s Ubuntu stickers. :)

==== Open Source ====

* I help GaborKelemen translating GNOME before its releases.
* …contribute to Drupal (modules, translation, documentation, web page).
* …file bugs to GNOME bugzilla.

==== About me ====

I’m a 18-year-old student from Hungary. I installed my first Linux distro (Mandrake) in summer 2002. Then I used SuSE before changing to Debian. Since Hoary (5.04) I use Ubuntu, and I'm satisfied with it.

My name is ''Őry Máté'' /IPA: øːri maːteː/ in <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hungarian_language#Name_order|Hungarian (eastern) name order]]</nowiki>, which is ''Máté Őry'' (or lazily ''Mate Ory'') in the ‘western’ fashion. Please, do '''not''' call me '''Ory''', it’s my family name. 

----
CategoryHomepage
