{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== About Me ==
A GNU/Linux user since 2007, I installed Ubuntu 7.10 (''Gutsy Gibbon'') as a replacement for Windows Vista. At first, this was not intentional, as I accidentally deleted my Windows Vista partition. Nothing short of a baptism by fire, I had no choice but to learn how to use the command line. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Paultag|Paul Tagliamonte]]</nowiki> has given me considerable amounts of his help and time as I've settled into using GNU/Linux. Without much of his help, I'd probably have broken my machine. 

After brief stints with Debian, Mandrake and Fedora I've come back to using Ubuntu. Recently I've been dabbling with BASH as a means of learning how to script and program. Even more recently, I've taken a more active approach in the Ubuntu community involving myself in <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/foo/test?highlight=(CategoryLoCoTeams)|LoCo Ohio Team]]</nowiki> and shameless promotion of all that is GNU/Linux and Ubuntu. 

== Contact ==
   '''EMail''': andymathay@gmail.com

   '''IRC''' : mathay on irc.freenode.net 

== Links ==
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~andymathay|Launchpad]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.kubuntu.org/|Kubuntu]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.kde.org/|KDE]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/foo/test?highlight=(CategoryLoCoTeams)|Ohio LoCo Team]]</nowiki>
