{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


==== Introduction ====
Greetings, fellow Ubunteros. The Ubuntu operating system has presented a great opportunity for advocates of Free Software. Ubuntu is an operating system that is easy to promote because it is stable, easy to use, and Canonical keeps a focus on Free Software. And, the Ubuntu organizations allow us to work together and organize our efforts, with the most modern technical tools. I am in the process of firing up the New Hampshire efforts. If you are in the area and want to contribute your efforts to Free Software, then I would like to hear from you! Let's help our communities get the benefits of Free Software, so we can empower computer users, get the best operating system out there, and lower the cost of computing in our communities.

=== Most Active Ubuntu Project Participation ===

==== New Hampshire LoCo Team ====
* Migrated the team IRC channel to #ubuntu-us-nh and configured required channel bots.
* Administered #ubuntu-us-nh IRC channel with OPS duties.
* Updated the team website: updated links, added state-flag icons, corrected outdated web references, and rewrote homepage introduction.
* Organized the Hardy Release Party in Manchester.
* Group attendance at "Linux Advocacy at Libraries" presentation.
* Organized and chaired the primary team organizational meeting.
* Organized advocacy table at the Nor-Eastern convention, with attendance by LoCo team.
* Organized advocacy table at Portland convention, with attendance by NH and ME LoCo teams.
* Organized a four-part technical film series for general public at major computer center.
* Organized advocacy table at New England computing trade show, with attendance by LoCo team.
* Implemented Ogg Vorbis streaming service, with Ubuntu, at Portsmouth radio station.
* Organized advocacy table at computer trade show, with attendance by LoCo team.
* Organized advocacy table at Parent-Teacher Conference in Rochester, with attendance by LoCo team.

==== Tennessee LoCo Team ====
* Rallied the team when activity level was low and encouraged participation.  Filled-in administratively while team lead was MIA.
* Migrated the team IRC channel to #ubuntu-us-tn and configured required channel bots.
* Administered #ubuntu-us-tn IRC channel with OPS duties.
* Administered team membership list when members were being automatically expired and were unable to reapply.
* Updated the team website: updated links, added state-flag icons, corrected outdated web references, and rewrote homepage introduction.
* Created the team Whiteboard wiki for "brainstorming" ideas and encouraged team participation.
* Sponsored the Gutsy Release Party in Nashville.
* Distributed Linux information and Ubuntu LiveCDs to several Nashville churches.  Spoke with their office staff about Nashville LUG and the Ubuntu LoCo team.
* Presented speech to a general Microsoft-focused PC interest club, on Free Software and the Ubuntu operating system. 

==== Hardware Testing ====
* Member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~hardware-testing|Hardware Testing]]</nowiki> Team.
* Participated in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/hwtest|Hardware Test]]</nowiki> Project.
* Put together [initial sound troubleshooting https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/156930] steps in Launchpad.
* Communicated to hardware vendors and came up with ideas for hardware certification.
* Encouraged local community members to make only Ubuntu pre-installed and supported hardware purchases.

==== Ubuntu Software Integration ====
* Encouraged commercial Linux gaming by running a popular website promoting commercially developed titles.
* Communicated with the lead developers of Mumble and Speex and with the Ubuntu MOTU Team, in packaging Mumble for the 08.04 release.
* Communicated with the lead developer of Ur-Quan Masters and with Ubuntu MOTU Team, specifically EmmetHikory, in correcting packaging issues.
* Communicated with the lead developer of Secret Maryo Chronicals and with Ubuntu MOTO team in creating initial packaging.

==== Edubuntu Advocacy ====
* Attended the Open Minds Conference to discuss Edubuntu solutions and other Free Software solutions.
* Attended the National School Boards Association T+L Conference to discuss Edubuntu solutions and other Free Software solutions.
* Attended the League of Innovators Technology and Education conference to discuss Edubuntu solutions and other Free Software solutions.
* Presented on topics of Ubuntu and of Free Software to regional schools.
* Initiated correspondence with metropolitan schools technical teachers and administrators.

==== Ubuntu Students ====
* Founded Ubuntu Students, a team to empower students promoting Ubuntu in their schools.
* Created the team IRC channel in #ubuntu-students configured required channel bots.
* Administered team membership list.
* Created the team Whiteboard wiki for "brainstorming" ideas and encouraged team participation.
* Created the Ubuntu Students <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ububtu.students.poster.project|Poster Project]]</nowiki> as a Launchpad project with specifications.
* Lead weekly team meetings in IRC, where members would cooperatively generate new team content.
* Encouraged team participation to 45-50 Vanderbilt University students on 10/31/2007, with two hour speech presentation.

=== Contact ===
{*} matthew-t-craig at ubuntu com

{*} You are encouraged to contact me for collaboration efforts, whether you have a project where you would like my help or you see a project of mine where you would like to help.  I am always interested in getting involved with new collaborations.

=== Testimonials ===
I like what I see from Matt.  He has been very active in his LoCo and quite concerned about making sure that the team is heading in the right direction, even if he is not the leader of the team.  It would be a great addition to the Ubuntu Members list to add Matt.  --AaronToponce, Thu Nov 29 2007 09:41

I met Matt at Linux Fest northwest a couple years ago, and he has continuously initiated teams and projects, and been a driving force in the Ubuntu students project. He is very active in his loco and was in the LUG in Tennessee (before he moved). Matthew is a great addition to the Ubuntu members, and has displayed much needed enthusiasm, and follow through with projects.  --PaulBartell, Wed, Aug 13 2008 08:53 PST
