{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''I, Matthew Fischer, apply for upload rights for package ubuntu-touch-customization-hooks.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Matthew Fischer
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~mfisch|launchpad.net/~mfisch]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/MattFischer|MattFischer]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==
I work at Canonical and am currently working on developing mechanisms for OEMs and carriers to customize Ubuntu Touch images. That is the purpose of me applying for this package.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I've been using Ubuntu for a few years now and now I get paid to work on it!

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

Since I became a MOTU I've done a few uploads:

* account-plugin-fitbit
* mousetweaks
* workrave

And two new debian packages (one is not yet synchronized to Ubuntu):
 
* dateutils
* unyaffs

I also have lots of sponsored stuff, mainly desktop packages, check out my <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MattFischer|main wiki page]]</nowiki> for an updated list.

=== Areas of work ===
I am an Ubuntu Member and MOTU. I've also been active as a member of the Bug Squad and during my day job work on Ubuntu Touch. Right now I am focused on the ubuntu-touch-customization-hooks package. That package is specific to Ubuntu Touch as it allows us to create customization tarballs for OEMs and carriers. These tarballs contain things like custom wallpapers, sample pictures, ringtones, etc. This package is not used by the desktop or server and probably never will be.

=== Things I could do better ===

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
Keep doing MOTU work and get more packages into Debian and Ubuntu. Update packages that I like to use (like workrave). Learn more about the core dev processes and about debian processes too.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
I'd like Ubuntu to provide more documentation to developers, specifically for the Ubuntu Touch project. I've been bugging people on IRC and writing (or encouraging writing) blog posts to spread developer knowledge.
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

Matt has been working closely with Ubuntu Engineering to help define and implement the customization process for 3rd parties, which not only includes commercial OEMs but potential remixes and spins of Ubuntu Touch. Granting PPU access for this package will help our team (Commercial Engineering) be more efficient in delivering Touch to our partners. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:achiang]]</nowiki> 
I found Matt knowledgable, thorough and careful while working with him on the Premium team. I am certain he will have the right attitude and do a good job when working on packages going into the Ubuntu archives. -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jani]]</nowiki> 
----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Loïc Minier ===
==== General feedback ====

I've sponsored some Ubuntu Touch customization related changes for Matt and read some of this merge proposals for code going into Ubuntu Touch.

Matt feels responsive and reliable; he's committed to following processes and delivering good quality changes, while remaining pragmatic.

Matt also writes readable upstream code and tests his changes.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

I've mainly sponsored /custom handling for Matt, but we've exchanged on various things, notably upstart jobs, read-only images etc.  In all cases, Matt paid attention from big picture down to details of our conversations and successfully applied changes suggested by others or found in other packages to solve his problems.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

Matt will benefit from added experience on diverse and weirder / more complex packages to grow his toolbox of Debian/Ubuntu packaging.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
