{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Matt Sachtler ==
=== Contact Info ===

Email: 
Websites: <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuisms.com|Ubuntuisms]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://matt.ubuntuisms.com|Clixby]]</nowiki>

=== Personal Info ===

I'm a sophomore at the <nowiki>[[http://www.uiuc.edu|University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign]]</nowiki>, studying Computer Engineering. Currently I have no idea exactly what I want to do with my life when I get out of here, but I plan on enjoying myself until then. I'd like to consider myself an avid Ubuntu user, and I do my best to spread the word to anybody I can, whether it be by word of mouth or through my <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuisms.com|blog]]</nowiki>. 

I'm a member of the local ACM chapter's <nowiki>[[https://www-s.acm.uiuc.edu/wiki/space/lug|Linux User's Group]]</nowiki>, as well as IEEE, and UIUC's Engineering Outreach Society; a group of about a dozen people who regularly visit local elementary schools in the Urbana area to do science/engineering projects with 3rd and 4th grade students.

=== Matt's Ubuntu ===
I have two systems running Ubuntu; one is a laptop, which runs Feisty Fawn. The other is a custom-built system running Ubuntu 6.10 (Edgy Eft), designed to be a <nowiki>[[http://www.mythtv.org|MythTV]]</nowiki> backend/frontend, and the heart and soul of an entertainment center. I've dubbed them "silk" and "javelin", respectively, after characters from David Eddings' <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Belgariad|The Belgariad]]</nowiki> fantasy series.

My good friend Derrick and I have recently launched a blog to share their Ubuntu experiences with the world. It can be found here: <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuisms.com|Ubuntuisms]]</nowiki>. The two of us contribute to <nowiki>[[http://www.confabuler.com|Confabuler]]</nowiki>, another blog, as well as our own personal blogs: <nowiki>[[http://matt.ubuntuisms.com|Matt's]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://derrick.ubuntuisms.com|Derrick's]]</nowiki>

 