{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== MatthewSmith ==

=== About Me ===
I'm 29 and live in San Diego, CA (USA).  I'm a mechanical engineer.  My personal site is here <nowiki>[[http://mattsmith.hostmatrix.org|here]]</nowiki>.  I also maintain a <nowiki>[[http://mattsmith.hostmatrix.org/zx5078cl/|site]]</nowiki> that instructs how to install Linux on my particular laptop.  It's linked to by Linux-laptop.net so I get a fair amount of traffic.

=== How to Contact Me ===
You can reach me at gizmosmith@gmail.com.

=== Supporting Ubuntu ===
I think that the Ubuntu/Kubuntu combo is the best thing that ever happened to linux given my frustration with other distributions.  I can program but not well enough to be helpful to the project so I donate money, spread the word and answer any questions I can about the project.

=== Laptop-Project Notes ===
I'd like to participate in the laptop program. While I already have one laptop, I wouldn't mind another since I really want to get one for my wife and install Ubuntu on it but I can't afford it. I'd help any way I could - since she's just need it for a half hour at a time, there'd be plenty of time for me to do debugging stuff. I also just want to help this marvelous project out :)
----
CategoryHomepage
