{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~butler-matthew|butler-matthew]]</nowiki>
|-
| <|1(> '''IRC''':
| '''camelinahat''' (''freenode'')
|-
| '''Location''':
| <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cape_Breton_Island|Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia, Canada]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Website''':
| http://dyal.tumblr.com/
|}

== About Me ==
Hey! I'm a (soon-to-be) 30-something System Administrator/Programmer for an ISP is Nova Scotia, Canada. I've worked in the Tech-Support industry in the past and in my spare-time I love programming in C#, Java, and recently Vala. Lately spending a lot of time working on web-apps at work in PHP and !JavaScript.
<<BR>><<BR>>
Having experience in programming and beta-testing in the past I'm comfortable in what makes a good vs bad bug report and am excited to be part of BugSquad for Ubuntu. Though I have much to learn about the bug triage area. I look forward to being able to contribute back to the community with as much as I use Ubuntu throughout work and home life. I am also very comfortable with writing and reviewing documentation, as professionally I've had to write documentation and walk-thrus for support staff. I hope to be able to contribute as well to the Ubuntu Wikis.
<<BR>><<BR>>
My local timezone is <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UTC-4|AST (UTC-4)]]</nowiki>. My availability can range from 13:00 UTC - 02:00 UTC, and unfortunately may be around anytime intermittently through there on most days. Unfortunately I fear this leaves me as a poor candidate for the Mentorship program, though I am hopeful. I'm currently interested in all areas of bugs, and may find a specialization as I become more accustomed to the bugs, bug reports and triage process.
<<BR>>
- Matt

== Future Goals ==
* Become comfortable with bug Triaging
* Join the <nowiki>[[5-a-day|5-a-day team]]</nowiki>
* One day help contribute code to resolve bugs
* Progress to <nowiki>[[UbuntuBugControl|Bug Control]]</nowiki> member
* <nowiki>[[BugSquad-AdoptPackage|Adopt a package]]</nowiki> such as Evolution.
* Contribute Documentation to Wiki(s)

== Useful Links ==
* BugSquad
* <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToTriage|How to Triage]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[BugSquad-KnowledgeBase|BugSquad Knowledge Base]]</nowiki>
* BeginnersTeam
* <nowiki>[[BeginnersTeam-FocusGroups-Docs]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryHomepage
