{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~daubers|daubers]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''daubers''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''Jabber''':
| daubers@jabber.org
|-
| '''Blog''':
| http://daubers.co.uk/
|-
| '''Twitter''':
| http://twitter.com/daubers
|-
| '''Identica''':
| http://identi.ca/daubers
|}
=== About Me ===

I'm an Engineer for a company based outside Reading that develop Linux based storage platforms for the video editing market. In my spare time, I attempt to play (read murder) the banjo, play board games and fiddle with electronics.

=== Things I do for Ubuntu ===

==== Community ====

* I'm an active member of the Ubuntu-UK LoCo
* I have started trying to improve community support in the UK loco by helping draft some guidelines and investigating what drives people to help with support - More info at <nowiki>[[http://daubers.co.uk/2010/04/10/improving-community-support/|My Blog]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://daubers.co.uk/2010/05/25/what-drives-you-to-support-others/|here]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/SupportMeetingAgenda|here]]</nowiki>
* I have chaired UK LoCo meetings
* Presented a talk at OggCamp on improving the way we provide support - Outcome <nowiki>[[[[http:--daubers.co.uk-2010-05-25-what-drives-you-to-support-others-|here]]</nowiki>
* Started forming a support oriented team for the UK LoCo - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/SupportMeetingAgenda|here]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/MeetingNotes/20100826|Follow on from initial meeting here]]</nowiki>
* I attempt to give helpful support and advice in the #ubuntu-uk irc channel
==== Development ====

* I tend to run late Alphas / Early Betas at home on my non-critical machines and report issues as appropriate

 
==== Support ====
* I've contributed <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~daubers|bug reports]]</nowiki>
* I help out with queries on the UK LoCo mailing list where appropriate
 
=== External Stuff ===
* I have supplied (very poor) patches to a couple of projects

=== Room for Improvement ===
* I am attempting to become fluent in a single programming language (rather than be passable in a few)
* Need to consult more with other projects and do more research into any problems I'm attempting to solve
* Have not yet conquered world. More effort required.
* Want to learn howto paint/draw with watercolours.
=== Testimonials ===

 daubers is always helpful and enthusiastic in the #ubuntu-uk channel, and in real life too. He is very knowledgeable about high end storage systems and willing to share what he knows with others. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:alanbell]]</nowiki> 
 daubers is a friendly, helpful person to have around in #ubuntu-uk, and has recently been working hard on setting up a new system for offering community support in the UK LoCo. -- <nowiki>[[dutchie]]</nowiki> ----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUKTeamProfile]]</nowiki>
