{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Huge Ubuntu Fan! ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Launchpad ID'''
| 
| matthewrohaly
|-
| '''GPG'''
| 
| 4DAA6623
|-
| '''E-Mail'''
| 
| matthewrohaly@gmail.com
|-
| '''Twitter'''
| 
| matthewrohaly
|-
| '''Freenode IRC ID'''
| 
| matthewrohaly
|}

I've been using Ubuntu ever since 6.06. 

I have signed and read the Ubuntu Code of Conduct

This month it will mark my 6th month helping and supporting, translating and correcting Ubuntu.

=== What I've Done So Far ===
 I contribute to the translation team for Engish CA and am working towards the French Translation team.

I will soon start to be in the IRC to give some of my knowledge and help others. I do believe in Libre, Open software that anyone can use, and modify to their hearts content, and I wish to help Ubuntu with that and localization. I see Ubuntu becoming used more and more as people become aware of how easy it is to use, and the amazing benefits of open-source, free software. 

I also think that the Netbook edition and Unity become more popular with netbooks and tablets that could use a boost from a lighter OS. 

=== Contact ===

I love this community and hope to be accepted into the Ubuntu Member team. You can contact me or look me up on my Launchpad page at launchpad.net/~matthewrohaly
----
CategoryHomepage
