{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Who? ===
Matti Viljanen, a 24-years-old student originally from <nowiki>[[http://www.lavia.fi/|Lavia]]</nowiki>, but now I live in <nowiki>[[http://www.pori.fi|Pori]]</nowiki>, Finland. Wanna see my face? Go <nowiki>[[http://irc-galleria.net/view.php?nick=ViljasenMatti|here]]</nowiki>.

=== Why? ===
Because I realize the importance of open source applications and the potential of GNU/Linux. I've also fed up with Microsoft (and its argue with EU) - the only way things are ever to work is from users to users (read: open source).

=== With what? ===
I have a ~10M/1M ADSL connection at the time. It's sure enough to get some ISOs! I have a few computers:
* Acer Aspire 2920
* Acer Ferrari 3400
* Desktop computer with AMD Phenom X4, AMD 780 chipset, 8GiB RAM, 500GB HDD

=== How to contact? ===
Feel free to email to viljanen dot matti at gmail dot com.

=== Current plans? ===
I'm currently studying in <nowiki>[[http://www.tp.spt.fi|Satakunta Polytechnic, Pori]]</nowiki>, but I'm spending my exchange student year in <nowiki>[[http://www.itcarlow.ie/|IT Carlow]]</nowiki>, Ireland. I'm most interested in programming. My current field of intest is both <nowiki>[[http://qt.nokia.com|Qt]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://maemo.nokia.com/|Nokia MIDs]]</nowiki>. I currently own N810 and I'll buy N900 as soon as it comes out of the oven!

I also like to test upcoming Ubuntu releases. When I get the mood, I translate a bunch of strings in Finnish in Rosetta.

=== Future plans? ===
The presence seems to be my future for the next year - studying, that is.

=== Pages releated to Acer Ferrari 3400 ===
LaptopTestingTeam/AcerFerrari3400 - Wiki name tells it all. in both 64-bit and 32-bit flavors. Whoa, I really should update the page to cover 9.04/9.10..!

==== Open bugs ====
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/437195|#437195]]</nowiki>: [Acer Aspire 2920] late resume failure
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/428054|#428054]]</nowiki>: xrandr backlight property control missing (when using KMS?)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/kdebase/+bug/41651|#41651]]</nowiki> "Recent" files bug in kate (Yes, filed 2006-04-26. See also <nowiki>[[http://bugs.kde.org/show_bug.cgi?id=123958|KDE #123958]]</nowiki>)

==== Closed bugs ====
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/acpi/+bug/41648|#41648]]</nowiki> - Suspend, standby and hibernate were not functioning.
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/products/rosetta/+bug/40018|#41648]]</nowiki> - Special keys were not functioning (mute, volume, program quick keys...)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/39892|#39892]]</nowiki> - Cannot "safely remove" tho USB sticks
