{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Basic Stuff ==

'''Note:''' ''any similarity between my page, JeffreyElkner 's, and  MacoMorgan 's is purely a coincidence.''

'''Name:''' Matthew Gallagher

'''Location:''' Arlington, VA

'''Email:''' mattva01@gmail.com

'''IRC:''' mattva01 @ irc.freenode.net 

'''AIM:''' mattcmptr

'''Linux User #:''' 454612

'''Ubuntu User #:''' 17480

'''Launchpad:''' https://launchpad.net/~mattva01

'''Current OS's:''' Feisty/Windows XP dual boot as my home machine, and a Feisty webserver there as well.  JeffreyElkner and I administer an Edubuntu lab that can also boot gutsy locally. 

Except for AIM, My handle for pretty much the entire internet is either mattva01 or mgallagh.

== Other Stuff ==

I'm a high school student at Yorktown High School in Arlington, Virginia.  I've been using GNU/Linux since  2004, and actively involved in the Ubuntu Community  since 2006.

== Education ==

High School :) 

== Ubuntu Stuff ==
I started using Ubuntu off and on as a hobby OS in late 2005 ('Breezy') while I was living in Prague,Czech Republic. After I came to Arlington  and Yorktown High School, Jeffrey Elkner got me involved in the Ubuntu community here. Currently I administer his lab at Yorktown and provide support for his lab at HB-Woodlawn. Many of the labs that Jeff has setup I have been involved with in one way or another.

I am active in the Cando Project and am currently working on packaging it for Ubuntu.  

== Community Involvement ==

I'm currently a member  of the DC Ubuntu LoCo Team and co-leader of the YHSLUG.  I've helped setup Edubuntu/Ubuntu
labs in the following locations in the DC metro area:

## Yorktown High School, Arlington, VA - in the CS lab (http://linus.yhspatriot.net/cs).
## HB-Woodlawn Program, Arlington, VA - CS lab.
## W-L High School, Arlington, VA - CS lab. (minor help)
## Arlington Career Center, Arlington, VA - Software development lab for CanDo project.  
## Ethiopian Community Service & Development Council, Washington, DC (http://www.jirs.org/jirs/jirs0005zg.html).

== PGP Key ==

<pre>
-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
Version: SKS 1.0.10
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=kJnS
-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
</pre>

== Projects ==

** CanDo: http://cando.schooltool.org - The CanDo competency tracking application.
** SchoolTool: http://schooltool.org - The SchoolTool school information system.
** EdubuntuAptMirror
** Gasp - Packages can be installed by adding  this line to your sources.list
** Gridworld : Same thing but change python-gasp to apjava and after it is installed just go to Applications>Other>Install Gridworld.Then in eclipse just click import>exiting java project> gridworld.

For hardy:
<pre>
deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/mattva01/ubuntu hardy main restricted universe multiverse
</pre>
For gutsy:
<pre>
deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/mattva01/ubuntu gutsy main restricted universe multiverse
</pre>
Then run these commands:
<pre>
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install python-gasp
</pre>

Latest bzr branch of gasp:
<pre>
bzr branch http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~gasp-dev/gasp-code/gasp-0.2-unstable
</pre>

== Cool and Useful Stuff ==

=== IRC weblog Links ===

** #edubuntu irc logs are located here: http://people.ubuntu.com/~fabbione/irclogs/
** #schooltool irc logs are located here: http://source.schooltool.org/irclogs/index.html

----
CategoryHomepage
