{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Mattia Rizzolo, apply for MOTU.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Mattia Rizzolo
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mapreri]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[MattiaRizzolo|Mattia Rizzolo]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==
I'm an Italian guy, currently 21 and attending Computer Engineering courses at the <nowiki>[[http://polimi.it|Polytechnic University of Milan]]</nowiki>

== My Ubuntu story ==
I got in touch with Ubuntu in  the 2009 and an year later I started to help people in my loco (through the forum, ML, IRC,...). I chose to help the spreading of Ubuntu helping the translation of Full Circle Magazine (I currently coordinate the translation as an admin of the team). Later I chose to help with bugs, with translating to find a way to help Ubuntu growing. During the 2013 spring I applied to the LoCo membership, during the autumn to the Ubuntu membership, obtaining both.<<BR>>
I started to contribute to Ubuntu development in the 2013 summer, during the Saucy cycle, without any precise goal but I tried to get experience in most of the development processes, through merges, syncs, fixes and SRUs, without focusing on a specific area of development.  Then I slowly shifted towards Debian, where I became DD in fall 2015, but I still contribute stuff to Ubuntu (both directly and indirectly, e.g. I push hard to include any possible delta from ubuntu when uploading something to Debian, if there is anything to include).

=== My involvement ===
In Ubuntu I'm not involved in any particular team, I'm doing general QA activities, such as merges, small fixes and so.<<BR>>
I maintain a handful packages in Debian.  I'm a DD involved in the Reproducible Builds team, and member of the multimedia team and the DPMT (and others…)

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

I meticulously collected all my work (until I became DD) <nowiki>[[..-Packaging|here]]</nowiki>.

See also
* https://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=mattia
* https://launchpad.net/~mapreri/+related-packages
* https://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsoree=Mattia+Rizzolo&sponsoree_search=name

IMHO cool things I did in Ubuntu are:

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1246886|LP#1246886]]</nowiki> - a lighttpd merge (cumunication failure, though)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1281283|LP#1281283]]</nowiki> - a liferea merge (had to edit a lot of patches manually)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1285299|LP#1285299]]</nowiki> - a varnich merge (where I managed to incorporate <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1014793|LP#1014793]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1284095|LP#1284095]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1283459|LP#1283459]]</nowiki> - a xscreensaver merge (where I manage to reduce the ubuntu delta, but I caused <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1319433|LP#1319433]]</nowiki>)

Please take a look at <nowiki>[[..-Packaging|this page]]</nowiki>, maybe you can note that the harder work is for Debian, because of ↓.

=== Areas of work ===
I started everything with <nowiki>[[AndreaColangelo|Andrea Colangelo]]</nowiki>, a "guy" from my !LoCo, DD and MOTU. Under his suggestion I took a look at merges and QA aspects, and I liked them.<<BR>>
I aim to reduce the delta beetween Debian and Ubuntu, so if I note a delta that can be applied to Debian I submit it (look at <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/707882|#707882]]</nowiki>, for example). So I think I'll work mainly in this direction, without taking a defined subset of packages, at least in the foreseeable future.

=== Things I could do better ===

Currently I have troubles at managing bugs, since I can't set importance, nominate series, etc without asking somebody else.<<BR>>
That's annoying for me, but this is something I'd be able to do once I became MOTU.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
# Do my best on the sponsors-queue to keep it clean by reviewing and sponsoring patches.
# Decrease the delta between Debian and Ubuntu. The mother is always the mother, we have to take care of her!
# Anything I'll can do to make Ubuntu better!

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
I think the are a lot of devs that not forward adequately (as in: not even try) patches to debian and/or upstream.  Really, this bothers me a lot.

----

== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----

== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Gianfranco Costamagna ===
==== General feedback ====
I actually sponsored "only" four packages for Mattia, but I have in fact sponsored many more, because usually we upload fixes in Debian, and sync the changes in Ubuntu (e.g. as we did for pbuilder).
I never ever had to touch a package he gave me, and I know him because we work closely since a few months,
in Debian and Ubuntu.
I sponsored many packages for him (in Debian), and since he became DD and I became MOTU, I switched by sponsoring his packages here too. He is a good guy, providing excellent packages, never disappeared after an upload, and makes sure he finishes a transition when he starts one.
I'm sure Ubuntu will gain a lot from him having direct upload privileges because I strongly believe he has both social and technical skills to become an excellent Ubuntu Developer.
<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:costamagnagianfranco]]</nowiki> 
=== Graham Inggs ===
==== General feedback ====
I have sponsored 19 syncs for Mattia, mostly of packages he has uploaded to Debian (NMUs, Team Uploads, etc.).
I have also sponsored 3 merges, one SRU and one plain bug fix.  I do not recall there being any problems with any of the uploads.  I trust Mattia and I believe he should be made a MOTU now.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I first worked with Mattia on the deprecation of python-support.  There were also some uploads for inkscape (Mattia maintains it in Debian) where he kept reducing the Ubuntu delta until it became sync-able.
<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ginggs]]</nowiki> ----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
