{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


'''''"First they ignore you. Then they laugh at you. Then they fight you. Then you win"'''''
* <nowiki>[[http://www.faqs.org/docs/jargon/G/GandhiCon.html|GandhiCon on Jargon File]]</nowiki>

== You want to contact me? ==
Try any of these:
* AIM: <code>mhzchile</code>
* Skype: <code>mhz.chile</code>
* '''irc.freenode.net''', '''<code>#edubuntu</code>''' and '''<code>#moin</code>''': I am '''mhz'''
* e-Mail: '''mhz AT ubuntu DOT com'''

== Projects I am daily working for ==

Basically, nowadays I have much less time to volunteer, so I have focused mainly on 2 things:

* Answer questions about Edubuntu from spanish speakers.
* Evangelise about Ubuntu and its flavors, and also about MoinMoin wiki whenever there is someone to pay attention.

Also, some of the Ubuntu only related stuff I tried to do:
* OBSOLETE? EdubuntuStudyPackages -> Educational content via '''apt-get install'em'''
* EdubuntuSoftwareList (now merged into EdubuntuInstalledApplications) -> this needs a lot of cross curricular crossing

----

Related pages:
<<FullSearch>>

----

== Some experience ==
I have worked as a teacher, as a translator (into Spanish), as a basic  IT support guy. I have helped design some web systems for education. I have been a ''bridge'' between tech guys and sales people in order to fulfill many different clients needs. For all that, the '''faithful Tux''' has always been my partner on every adventure.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Navigation'''
|}
