{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hi you all, Edubuntu People!

I am truly sorry I will not be able to be at this meeting.

However, I can sum up what I have been doing since last time meeting:
== Community ==
* IMHO, very interesting stuff

=== mhz is an Ubuntu Memeber!!! ===
* Finally, during yesterday's CC meeting my membership was completed, educool!! (though I now feel that it means more responsibility to others)

=== Spanish speakers IRC channel ===
* A guy from Peru (P3L|cano) had already registered #edubuntu-es, I talked to him (thx ogra for pointing me he was loged in) and kindly agreed to give Seveas and I (or is it 'me'.. grammar!) admin access to the channel.

* So far, I'd say that only 3 to 4 guys are visiting the channel.

* Considering we have not 'promoted' this channel I feel very optimistic. Once we start EdubuntuTour (at least in Chile. Colombia may be up for it too soon, as well as Venezuela) more people will show up and so, we need to be ready.

* 2 guys have mentioned their concern regarding too many 'spliting' in lists or IRC. Actually, I also think spliting is no good, Spanish speakers all understand and use same language so why having or trying to create more localized ML or Channels? Personally, I have seen US people splitting for Ubuntu stuff, and I hope that doesn't hapen to Edubuntu. We need to stick together!

=== Localization / Local efforts ===
* Maybe, a localized ML could be interesting regarding Edubuntu LoCo teams coordination for EdubuntuFestDay

* I have slowly started EdubuntuChile but thatis all written in English, which leads me to next point...

* I sent an email to this ML asking for your opinions about how should we deal with Translations of edubuntu wiki pages. I only got replies from 2 or 3 people. I dont mind that much but it would be very good -IF we are a multilanguage team- to have clear policy about it.
Also, if the EdubuntuTour idea motivates newcomers, will we use (have access to Canonical hosting) same /data dir but in diff language or in different URL, such as edubuntu-cl.org or something alike?

=== Edubuntu Talks ===
* Next wed., I'll give a talk about Edubuntu to 10 teachers and 40 parents. The teachers work for diff schools, so I hope soon enough, I'll give talks in those schools, too. I have prepared some nice invitations for everyone to modify as they need.

=== EdubuntuChile team ===
* I have created the EdubuntuChile team in LP. Feel free to join!

== Edubuntu Marketing / Artwork ==
* Not too much really.

* Pablo and his friends are all in university and this week are having their final exams of the year so I'll only see them next week to have our first committed artwork meeting. So far, they feel enthusiastic about collaborating, we'll see.

* With Pablo, we'll work on 3 EdubuntuThemes for GNOME for Dapper and a proposal for edubuntu Cd's again :)  (i hope they do get shipped this time)

* The invitations aforementioned can be accessed from EdubuntuInvitationArtwork

* As soon as I can, I'll upload a proposal for EdubuntuLoCoTeams biz cards (Will we actually have those LoCo teams?)

* Also, I am working on a draft for an EdubuntuLeafLet but it looks real ugly, so I'll wait for Pablo's help to make it look better.

=== EdubuntuWindowMaker ===
* Testing some 'rasolution' looks with backgrounds and screen sizes.
Most of the PC's I have seen in Chilean schools have 14 inches monitors and only support upto 800x600.

* So far, I have seen just one guy showing enthusiastic about an edubuntu themed WindowMaker. This guy shwed up during first day of opening #edubunt-es so it was kind of cool news, but I have seen no work or proposal from him, just enthusiasm.

== Edubuntu complementary Development ==
* I whish I had something good to tell you here... I have done nothing yet.

=== EdubuntuStudyContent ===
* If you feel courius join the LP team with same name

* You can visit EdubuntuStudyContent (formerly known as EdubuntuStudyPackages)

* If there is interest on this, we do need to knwo about "packaging" and define some specs.

Well, that's all folfs!

== Comments? ==
/!\ Remeber to please add @SIG``@ at the end of your comment line so we see your timestamp (don't use the `` characters, of course)
