{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''This is the progress of the things I have been working on since last meeting...''

== Art Work (official development) ==
=== Progress over past week ===
Pablo and his gang have finished their end-of-the-year exams so they have some time to help me with the 3 proposals for GNOME desktop themes.

We had our first "official" meeting yesterday evening and we'll have a summary of the proposal near January 16th, 2006. If the EdubuntuCommunity likes the proposals, we'll start working on the actual design and get the themes done according to DapperReleaseSchedule.

== Management and or Community ==

=== Edubuntu Chile ===
==== Progress over past week ====
We had one of the most important meetings for us with a well-known company that works with over 1000 schoos in Chile. We asked for financing for EdubuntuChileanTour. We have to wait for 4 days before we know if they'll help us.

==== Edubuntu Training ====
I am analizing different courses that can be used to design EdubuntuTraining for School IT Admins and Teachers.

=== Edubuntu Talks ===
Today, at 19:40 local time, our first "getting-feedback" talk to parents and teachers (about 30-40 people)

Invitations were delivered and people seemed to like them (http://wiki.edubuntu.org/EdubuntuInvitationArtwork)

=== Artwork (community development) ===
=== Edubuntu WindowMaker ===
==== Progress over past week ====
I worked on resizing and slightly customized Gartoon icons for 64x64.
==== Progress over past week ====
ogra mentioned some very good points to consider before I continue with this idea, so I'll have to find out and analyze if I go on or move to XFCE4.

=== Still needing community opinion on... ===
==== wiki/content Transaltion ====
How are going to do it? DefaultEnglishPage/TranslatedPageIntoAnyLanguage  or   edubuntu.ubuntu-cl.org/AlreadyTranslatedPageIntoAnyLanguage  ?

==== EdubuntuStudyContent ====
Are we going to consider SCORM ?

We have a set of file for English classes (for diff applications)...
* what names will we use to package them? 

* how will they be present in / so applications get aware these files are available?

----
