{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Edubuntu is a complete Linux-based operating system, result of a joint effort between a highly committed group of volunteers and the continuous support of Canonical Ltd., the company behind Ubuntu, the most popular Gnu/Linux distribution in the last 12, 6 and 3 months (according to www.distrowatch.com).

Edubuntu is aimed to help build an easy-to-admin computer lab environment for schools, providing software to:

   1. Reduce the costs of implementing a computer lab
   2. Reduce times of both preventing and correcting system administration
   3. Adapt the software to fit different educational needs and infrastructure 

When we say Edubuntu is a system, we are indeed talking about a set of over 90 applications shipped with Edubuntu so they become integrated inside the educational curriculum at different academic levels, ages and skills.

Edubuntu is also an educational system shipping with over 90 applications, aiming to integrate within the educational curriculum at different academic levels, ages and skills.

Edubuntu is constantly being developed by a community of people of different countries and social-economical realities, such as England, Germany, Australia, France, Italy, South Africa and Chile, among others.

All software available for Edubuntu is free to use, copy, modify and redistribute. But Edubuntu is not only a system for Schools, it can also be used just like any other O.S, as it is shipped with software for Office, Multimedia and Games.

The team behind Edubuntu has made the following public commitment to its users:

*** Edubuntu will always be free of charge, and there is no extra fee for the "enterprise edition", we make our very best work available to everyone on the same Free terms.
*** Edubuntu includes the very best in translations and accessibility infrastructure that the Free Software community has to offer, to make Edubuntu usable by as many people as possible.
*** Edubuntu is released regularly and predictably; a new release is made every six months. You can use the current stable release or the current development release. Each release is supported with security updates for at least 18 months.
*** Edubuntu is entirely committed to the principles of free and open source software development; we encourage people to use free and open source software, improve it and pass it on. 

Edubuntu can be installed in 2 ways:

   1. As a desktop computer
   2. As an OS for a server-client environment 

Edubuntu can be used on architectures such as Intel x86 computers (IBM-compatible PC), AMD 64 (Hammer) and Power Pc. 
