{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
* '''Add your feedback like this w/o the bold, and then use the @``SIG@ at the end of your line, look at the first post for reference'''
* '''Any serious issue should be still <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+filebug|submitted as a bug]]</nowiki>!'''

== Feedback ==
* overall so far, this is excellent - quotable quote for those that say KDE is too heavy "no, it isn't" :) - running on c.2005 X41 Tablet (w/SSD replacement drive) it flies. And to those who say Linux isn't user-friendly, I can only assume you meant Gnome :) <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:putt1ck]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>
* KPackageKit when experiencing issues trying to download, e.g. DNS failure or dropped connection, forgets what changes you requested - pretty sure it didn't use to and it is definitely annoying :P <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:putt1ck]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>
* Having the option to install consumer non-libre apps is definitely a pragmatic good move forward <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:putt1ck]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>
* Wouldn't it be useful if there was a way to configure a wireless connection during the install (or if there is make it more obvious to me!) so the updates and stuff could be downloaded by those without cable connections? <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:putt1ck]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>
* For each new release (since Timelord?) users have been told to report packaging bugs to the PPA and other bugs upstream... Speaking as someone who has been using Kubuntu daily since Dapper I have *no idea* how to even guess whether a bug is a packaging bug or upstream. This means I don't report bugs at all on Kubuntu stuff, while I report loads on other projects. Can we please have even just a couple of sentances with the standard release speil letting us know how to spot packaging bugs, or at least a link to something longer? Thanks!
* System Settings > Input Devices > Keyboard > !NumLock on KDE Startup set to "Turn on" does not work -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dave-stfu]]</nowiki>  * Dolphin (samba) has issues with smb:// locations (No write access, Input/output error) -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dave-stfu]]</nowiki>  * Installing Maverick Beta ISO image on 2 laptops, very seriously pissed off to see that it is OK on a "normal screen" laptop but automagically selects the "netbook" mode when installing on smaller screen EeePC. Kubuntu netbook mode is immature, ugly useless crap and should *never* be automagically selected without user specifically asking for it. Furthermore it won't automatically use correct language and keyboard layout where "normal desktop mode" will, and it spits a bunch of errors at startup. Please do *not* automagically select netbook mode in final release, everybody I know and his brother hates it! <<DateTime>>
* A 2nd thought about the "netbook" mode (after having tried it again). Sorry folks but it *really* is "ugly useless crap" and always will be. "Ubuntu Netbook" edition *can* be of some use because it's nice and works well, and because Gnome wastes much more screen space than KDE does, so a netbook edition makes sense for small screens. OTOH KDE wastes very little screen space, and "very small" netbooks are gone, every netbook now has at least a 10" 1024x600, smaller 7" or 8" are a thing of the past. So the very development of a "KDE netbook flavour" makes very little sense, but if you add the points that its present status is both being ugly, buggy, and very hardly usable, it would be a pure nonsense to have the final version of Kubuntu Maverick to "automagically" select it at install time, whatever the target machine can be. Trust a 10+ years intensive KDE user and professional sysadmin. Ugh. <<DateTime>>
* Me again. Even worse: Upgrading a "standard" Kubuntu Lucid on an EeePc to Maverick Beta turns it into the most-hated "netbook mode", and manually reverting to "desktop" mode leaves me with an "almost correct" display where, however, fonts look ugly, and even applying the exact same font settings as for another "control" OK machine doesn't solve the issue: I'm left with ugly fonts after upgrade of a previously "good-looking" Kubuntu Lucid EeePC :-( <<DateTime>>
* Add feedback here -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:claydoh]]</nowiki> 