{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== General Information ==

<nowiki>[[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/336|"Maverick Meerkat"]]</nowiki> is the code name for Ubuntu 10.10, released on 10 October 2010. See the <nowiki>[[MaverickReleaseSchedule|Maverick release schedule]]</nowiki>.

See also <nowiki>[[UDS-M|the Ubuntu Developer Summit for Maverick]]</nowiki>, which took place from May 10th to 14th, 2010 at the Dolce La Hulpe Hotel and Resort in Brussels, Belgium.

If you want to see what the developers have cooking for Maverick, feel free to take a look through the <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick|Maverick Meerkat blueprint page]]</nowiki> or the <nowiki>[[TechnicalOverview|Maverick Meerkat Technical Overview]]</nowiki>.

<<BR>>
For more information on the final Ubuntu 10.10 release:
** <nowiki>[[ReleaseNotes|Maverick Release Notes]]</nowiki>
** instructions for <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MaverickUpgrades|upgrading to Maverick]]</nowiki>
** Ubuntu 10.10 release announcement <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2010-October/000139.html|October 10, 2010]]</nowiki>

== Bugs in Maverick ==

The developers of Ubuntu work hard to create as bug free a release as possible. But it should come as no surprise that bugs do creep in from time to time and need to be fixed. Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help fix bugs and improve future releases. Please report bugs per the instructions on ReportingBugs.

If you want to help out with bugs, the <nowiki>[[BugSquad|Ubuntu Bug Squad]]</nowiki> is always looking for help.

== More Information ==

The next release after Maverick is codenamed NattyNarwhal; the <nowiki>[[Releases]]</nowiki> page contains a list of all Ubuntu releases.

You can find out more about Ubuntu on the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu website]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu wiki]]</nowiki>.

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, please take a look at the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate|Get Involved]]</nowiki> page.

To have future Ubuntu development announcements emailed to you, please go to the <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-announce|ubuntu-devel-announce]]</nowiki> page and subscribe with your email address.

To have future Ubuntu package updates emailed to you, please go to the <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/maverick-changes|maverick-changes]]</nowiki> page and subscribe with your email address.

More Kubuntu information can also be found at <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Maverick|Kubuntuguide]]</nowiki>.

----
CategoryMarketing
--------------------------------------------------------------
No Brasil para Obter CD  Gratuitos do Xubuntu basta mandar um email para:
mauriciogravacoes@hotmail.com
