{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background: white; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

Kubuntu will release version 10.10, the Maverick Meerkat, in October 2010.
With this, the second Alpha pre-release, we are introducing some new and interesting things in preparation for the next official version of Kubuntu. Read below for some of the highlights.
For more information of what is planned and being worked on, please read the information available on
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.kubuntu.org/Kubuntu/Todo | this page]]</nowiki>.

'''NOTE:''' ''This is an alpha (pre-) release. Pre-release versions of Maverick are '''__NOT__''' encouraged for anyone needing a stable system or for anyone who is not comfortable running into occasional, even frequent, breakage. Pre-release versions '''__ARE__''' recommended for Kubuntu developers and those who want to help in testing, reporting, and fixing bugs.' Please do not use this in a production environment with data  or workflows that you cannot do without.''

== Getting Alpha 3 ==
Alpha releases can be downloaded from the following URL:
* http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/maverick/alpha-3/
It is always best to <nowiki>[[HowToMD5SUM|check your cd image]]</nowiki> before  you install!
The md5sums can be found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/maverick/alpha-3/MD5SUMS|here]]</nowiki>.

== What's New In Alpha 3 ==

* Dragon continues on as the default video player

* Message Indicator support is enabled by default for Kopete and Quassel

* The KDE Platform was updated to the  latest 4.5 release candidate. 4.5 Final is set to be released on August 10.

* Qt was updated to the current 4.7 beta release.

== Known Issues ==

KDM login manager times out when starting from the Kubuntu live image. Following the prompts from the Failsafe X system should start the session (Bug:613574) 

== Feedback ==
We want to hear what you think about this third Alpha Release of Kubuntu 10.10. We want to know if it Rocks, if it is just OK, or it is flat out wrong. No matter the feedback, as long as it is in line with the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> we would like to hear it.

So what are you waiting for; head on over to the <nowiki>[[MaverickMeerkat-Alpha3-Kubuntu-Feedback|Feedback Page]]</nowiki> and let us know!
