{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Maverick Meerkat is coming, scheduled for release in October 2010. To celebrate the new release the community is planning release parties which mainly take place in the period of '''10.10.10'''.

For every Ubuntu release we like to organise parties all over the world. At these parties everyone is welcome and we get together to celebrate, meet new friends and often introduce people new to Ubuntu to our community and our Operating System. Release parties are not only a great way to meet people but they are a lot of fun!

If ''you want to organize a release party'':

* '''Learn more'''. Read <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-RunningReleaseParty|this guide]]</nowiki> to how to run a party. Many of the release parties are organised by <nowiki>[[LoCoTeams|Ubuntu LoCo Teams]]</nowiki>. Check with your <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamList|local team]]</nowiki> to see if you can work together on a party.
* '''Get advice'''. <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-event-planners|Join the ubuntu-event-planners mailing list]]</nowiki> where you can find other event organisers to get help and advice from.
* '''Let everyone know'''. Announce your party on the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/loco-contacts|loco-contacts mailing list]]</nowiki>  to spread the word!

If ''you have a release party scheduled'', be sure to:

* '''Add it to the Lo``Co Directory'''. <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/add/|Add your party to the LoCo directory]]</nowiki>.
* '''Spread the word'''. Blog about it, advertise it, tell your friends, tell local media, tell podcasts and otherwise promote it.
* '''Stay in touch'''. Join the IRC channel `#ubuntu-release-party` on irc.freenode.net
* '''Add picture tags'''. If you post photos to Flickr, please tag them with '''`ubuntu`''', '''`release`''', '''`party`''', '''`2010`''', '''`10.10`''', '''`10.10.10`''' and '''`Maverick`'''. <nowiki>[[http://www.jonobacon.org/|Jono Bacon]]</nowiki> the Ubuntu Community Manager is wanting to put together a collage of release party group photos, so take a group photo of your party people and email <code>jono AT ubuntu DOT com</code> with a link to the photo online and the subject '''"Maverick Release Party Photo"''' -- ensure that you specify which LoCo Team party it is at.
