{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

Estas notas de publicación para Ubuntu 10.10 (Maverick Meerkat) proporcionan una visión general de la versión, y documentan problemas conocidos con Ubuntu 10.10 y sus variantes. 

== Visión general de la versión ==

=== Centro de software de Ubuntu ===

El Centro de Software de Ubuntu muestra ahora las secciones «Destacados» y «Qué hay nuevo», un histórico de las instalaciones y desinstalaciones de paquetes, y facilita la búsqueda de complementos para aplicaciones. Además ofrece la opción de comprar el Reproductor de DVD de Fluendo, así como más programas que están por llegar.

=== Tipografía Ubuntu ===

La <nowiki>[[http://font.ubuntu.com/|familia de tipografías Ubuntu]]</nowiki> es una nueva tipografía usada en los menús de la interfaz de usuario, los elementos visuales y los títulos en Ubuntu y Kubuntu. Incluye caracteres latinos, cirílicos y griegos en Ubuntu 10.10 con los estilos regular, negrita, cursiva y negrita-cursiva.  Estas tipografías admiten además el <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indian_rupee_sign|símbolo de la Rupia India]]</nowiki>, lo que hace que Ubuntu 10.10 sea el primer sistema operativo en incluir de serie el soporte para el símbolo monetario más reciente del mundo: listo para ser usado por <nowiki>[[http://www.kdedevelopers.org/node/4331|mil millones de indios]]</nowiki>.

Diseñado para ser legible en la pantalla así como <nowiki>[[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/537|estéticamente hermosa]]</nowiki>, la tipografía apareció por primera vez en el diseño del nuevo logotipo de Ubuntu 10.04. Continuará ampliándose con soporte para caracteres arábigos, hebreos y monoespaciados en futuras versiones de Ubuntu bajo las directrices del diseñador de tipografías <nowiki>[[http://www.daltonmaag.com|Dalton Maag]]</nowiki> y el <nowiki>[[http://design.canonical.com|equipo de diseño de Canonical]]</nowiki>.

=== Instalador ===

El instalador Ubiquity ha sido rediseñado para ser más fácil de usar así como de instalar controladores y descargar actualizaciones durante la instalación.

=== Ubuntu Desktop Edition ===

La plataforma base <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org|GNOME]]</nowiki> ha sido actualizada a la actual <nowiki>[[http://library.gnome.org/misc/release-notes/2.32/|versión 2.32]]</nowiki>, incluyendo las nuevas API <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/dconf|dconf y gsettings]]</nowiki>. 

<nowiki>[[http://projects.gnome.org/evolution/|Evolution]]</nowiki> ha sido actualizado a la versión 2.30, que funciona mucho más rápida que la versión incluida en Ubuntu 10.04 LTS.

<nowiki>[[http://yorba.org/shotwell/|Shotwell]]</nowiki> ha sustituido a <nowiki>[[http://f-spot.org/|F-Spot]]</nowiki> como gestor de fotografías predeterminado.

<nowiki>[[http://gwibber.com/|Gwibber]]</nowiki> ha sido actualizado para soportar los recientes cambios en el sistema de autenticación de Twitter, además de cambiar el almacenamiento interno para mejorar el rendimiento.

El <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/indicator-sound|menú de sonido]]</nowiki> ha sido mejorado para incluir controles del reproductor de música.

Ubuntu One ha mejorado su integración con el escritorio gracias a nuevos procesos de registro e ingreso, mejoras en Nautilus para la gestión de preferencias de sincronización de carpetas, más velocidad de sincronización de archivos y la capacidad de compartir enlaces a música de la Tienda de Música de Ubuntu One.

=== Ubuntu Netbook Edition ===

La nueva <nowiki>[[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/383|interfaz Unity]]</nowiki> es ahora la predeterminada en Ubuntu Netbook Edition. Incluye lugares desde los que lanzar aplicaciones y explorar archivos, búsqueda semántica mediante el uso de zeitgeist, optimización del espacio vertical con una barra de menús global y maximización predeterminada de las aplicaciones.

También hay un lanzador para mantener y tratar con las aplicaciones usadas con más frecuencia. Todos los favoritos de Ubuntu Edición Netbook 10.04, así como los elementos del panel de GNOME y los atajos de escritorio, se muestran automáticamente en el lanzador cuando se ejecuta Unity por primera vez.

La hora se muestra en el panel usando un módulo nuevo, `indicator-datetime`, que todavía no dispone de una opción gráfica para mostrar la fecha. Ésta se proporcionará en Ubuntu 11.04.

La aplicación predeterminada de gestión de fotografías ha pasado a ser <nowiki>[[http://yorba.org/shotwell/|Shotwell]]</nowiki> y Ubuntu Edición Netbook también dispone de todos los beneficios de la Edición de Escritorio. Evolution dispone ahora de un modo especial más apropiado para el tamaño de la pantalla de un netbook.

Dispone de una lista del hardware necesario <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopExperienceTeam/UnityHardwareRequirements|aquí]]</nowiki>.

=== Ubuntu Server Edition ===

Hemos añadido una nueva versión de Eucalyptus (la 2.0) que soluciona numerosos fallos, aporta más estabilidad y mejora la gestión de usuarios.

Las imágenes de Ubuntu Cloud ahora pueden ejecutarse fácilmente fuera del entorno de una instancia EC2 o UEC. Esto le permitirá verificar rápida y fácilmente el funcionamiento de cloud-init u otras características de la imagen sin tener que arrancar una instancia nueva. Hay más información disponible en el <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEC/Images|wiki]]</nowiki> de Ubuntu. 

Además, Canonical ha lanzado el programa ''Ubuntu Server on Cloud 10''. Todo el mundo podrá probar Ubuntu 10.10 Edición Servidor en Amazon EC2 gratuitamente durante una hora. Los visitantes de las páginas de descarga podrán elegir ahora la experiencia de facilidad y velocidad de la computación pública en la nube y Ubuntu. Para acceder a un enlace directo a la versión de prueba, diríjase a http://10.cloud.ubuntu.com

=== Kubuntu ===

Kubuntu 10.10 incorpora el software más reciente de <nowiki>[[http://www.kde.org|KDE]]</nowiki>. La plataforma, los espacios de trabajo y las aplicaciones de KDE han sido <nowiki>[[http://www.kde.org/announcements/announce-4.5.1.php|actualizados a la versión 4.5.1]]</nowiki>.

Para la versión 10.10, Kubuntu ha combinado las imágenes Desktop y Netbook en una sola imagen que proporciona tanto el escritorio Plasma como los espacios de trabajo para netbooks de Plasma. Al iniciar una sesión se lanzarán los espacios de trabajo apropiados para su máquina, aunque puede cambiarlos en las preferencias del sistema.

Plasma para netbooks incorpora ahora el menú global de forma predeterminada.

El navegador web predeterminado ahora es Rekonq, un navegador de KDE basado en Qt Webkit.

Bluedevil, La nueva aplicación de bluetooth para KDE, se instala ahora de forma predeterminada.

Pulseaudio es el servidor de sonido predeterminado para coincidir con otras variantes de Ubuntu.

Las actualizaciones por KPackageKit ofrecen ahora un motor más rápido y una nueva interfaz de usuario con una vista basada en aplicaciones. Además posee nuevas características como una herramienta de copia y restauración de la lista de paquetes instalados.

Ubiquity, el instalador de Kubuntu, ofrece ahora la instalación de paquetes restringidos durante la instalación del sistema operativo. La instalación empieza después del particionado ofreciendo una experiencia más veloz.

Qapt-batch sustituye ahora a install-package como utilidad de actualización e instalación masiva.

<nowiki>[[http://qt.nokia.com/products/|Qt]]</nowiki> ha sido actualizada a la actual versión <nowiki>[[http://labs.qt.nokia.com/2010/09/21/qt-4-7-0-now-available/|4.7]]</nowiki> y Qt Webkit a la versión 2.0.

Kubuntu Mobile Tech Preview es una nueva variante con un espacio de trabajo apropiado para teléfonos móviles inteligentes.

Para más información, consulte la <nowiki>[[https://wiki.kubuntu.org/MaverickMeerkat/FinalDraft/Kubuntu|página de publicación]]</nowiki> de Kubuntu.

=== Xubuntu ===

<nowiki>[[http://www.xfce.org/|Xfce4]]</nowiki> ha sido actualizado a la actual versión <nowiki>[[http://www.xfce.org/documentation/changelogs/4.6.2|4.6.2]]</nowiki>. Esta corrige muchos de los fallos y actualiza los programas usados en Xubuntu.

Nuevas aplicaciones predeterminadas: Parole (el reproductor multimedia de Xfce4) sustituye al Reproductor de películas Totem, Xfburn (la herramienta de grabación de CD/DVD de Xfce4) sustituye a Brasero y xfce4-taskmanager (el gestor de procesos de Xfce4) sustituye al Gestor de tareas de GNOME. Consulte las <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-MaverickMeerkat-|notas de publicación de Xubuntu]]</nowiki>.

=== Edubuntu ===

Edubuntu ofrece ahora una instalación más sencilla que nunca para los usuarios de LTSP y de netbooks. Incorpora además Gnome Nanny, una herramienta para restringir el acceso de los usuarios al equipo en momentos concretos y además proporciona un filtrado básico de contenidos.

Ubuntu Netbook Remix ha sido sustituido ahora por la interfaz Unity. LTSP se ha actualizado a la versión 5.2.4 y el editor de menús de Edubuntu se ha mejorado para corregir defectos existentes en la versión anterior.

Edubuntu incluye ahora además nuevos fondos de pantalla y el soporte de idiomas se ha ampliado hasta cubrir 143 idiomas.

Durante este ciclo de publicación, Edubuntu también ha cambiado su sitio web y ahora está presente en las redes sociales más populares.

=== Ubuntu Studio ===

Ubuntu Studio ha actualizado varias de sus aplicaciones e incorpora los cambios llevados a cabo en Ubuntu. Ahora hay una mejor integración entre Pulse``Audio y JACK - al arrancar JACK ya no se suspenderá Pulse``Audio automáticamente. Ahora es posible usar JACK y Pulse``Audio al mismo tiempo si usan distintas interfaces de sonido; si intentan usar la misma intefaz de osnido, JACK tendrá prioridad. Además, ahora las conexiones de red se pueden configurar con gnome-network-admin.

=== Mythbuntu ===

En esta versión, Mythbuntu se ha actualizado a <nowiki>[[http://www.mythtv.org/|MythTV 0.23.1]]</nowiki>. También hay una nueva utilidad de copias de seguridad y restauración. 

=== Núcleo Linux 2.6.35 ===

RC incluye el núcleo 2.6.35-22.33, basado en el <nowiki>[[http://kernel.org|núcleo]]</nowiki> estable 2.6.35.4 original.

Este núcleo incluye nuevos parches en el subsistema de entrada para mejorar la capacidad multitouch, soporte mejorado para Intel Sandybridge lo que incluye soporte para LOM de 82579, corrección de errores en App``Armor, restaura algunos parches de desactivación de KMS, y actualizaciones de seguridad genéricas (<nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/2010/CVE-2010-3081.html|CVE-2010-3081]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/2010/CVE-2010-3301.html|CVE-2010-3301]]</nowiki>). Con la versión 10.10, además, hemos suspendido el soporte de procesadores i586 y anteriores, así como de los procesadores i686 sin soporte de cmov.

Este núcleo además incluye nuevas <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/Roadmap/KernelHardening|mejoras de seguridad]]</nowiki>. Un detalle principal es el cambio en el comportamiento predeterminado de <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/Roadmap/KernelHardening#ptrace|PTRACE]]</nowiki>, usado por gdb, strace, ltrace, etc. El comportamiento en la versión 10.10 es que sólo se puede usar PTRACE en los procesos hijos, debido al valor predeterminado «1» en `/proc/sys/kernel/ptrace_scope`. Este valor puede no resultar apropiado en algunos sistemas de desarrollo o servidores que sólo tengan cuentas de administración. Si no desea usar «sudo» con PTRACE, cambie este valor a «0», y consulte `/etc/sysctl.d/10-ptrace.conf` para más información.

Habrá una actualización del núcleo un poco después de publicarse la versión final. 
<<BR>>
<<BR>>
<<BR>>
== Instalación ==

=== Visión general ===

El instalador gráfico ha sufrido un sustancial rediseño visual. Ahora hace el menor número de preguntas posible (idioma y particionado) antes de empezar a copiar los archivos desde el CD, y hace el resto de las preguntas mientras se están copiando los archivos al disco duro.

Ahora se puede usar el nuevo sistema de archivos <nowiki>[[https://btrfs.wiki.kernel.org/index.php/Main_Page|btrfs]]</nowiki> durante la instalación mediante particionamiento manual, siempre que `/boot` use otro sistema de archivos.

=== Descarga de la versión ===

Los enlaces siguientes le dirigirán a un lugar de descarga cerca de usted:

 http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/download (Ubuntu Desktop Edition, Server y Netbook) <<BR>>

También puede encontrar otras imágenes ISO y torrents en:
 http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/releases/10.10/ (Ubuntu Server para UEC y EC2) <<BR>>
 http://releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/10.10/ (Kubuntu) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/10.10/ (Xubuntu) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/releases/10.10/ (Edubuntu DVD) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/10.10/ (Ubuntu Studio) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-netbook/ports/releases/10.10/ (Ubuntu ARM) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/mythbuntu/releases/10.10/ (Mythbuntu) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu-mobile/releases/10.10/ (Kubuntu Mobile Preview) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu-mobile/ports/releases/10.10/ (Kubuntu Mobile Preview ARM) <<BR>>

=== System Requirements ===

The minimum memory requirement for Ubuntu 10.10 is 256 MB of memory. Note that some of your system's memory may be unavailable due to being used by the graphics card. If your computer has only the minimum amount of memory, the installation process will take longer than normal, but will complete successfully, and the system will perform adequately once installed.

Systems with less memory may be able to select "Install Ubuntu" from the boot menu to run just the installer, rather than the whole desktop, or may be able to use the alternate install CD.
<<BR>>
<<BR>>
<<BR>>
== Upgrading ==

Complete instructions are available <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading|online]]</nowiki>.

=== From Ubuntu 10.04 LTS ===

To upgrade from Ubuntu 10.04 LTS on a desktop system, press Alt+F2 and type in "update-manager -d" (without the quotes) into the command box. Update Manager should open up and tell you: New distribution release '10.10' is available. Click Upgrade and follow the on-screen instructions.

To upgrade from Ubuntu 10.04 LTS on a server system: install the <code>update-manager-core</code> package if it is not already installed; edit <code>/etc/update-manager/release-upgrades</code> and set <code>Prompt=normal</code>; launch the upgrade tool with the command <code>sudo do-release-upgrade -d</code>; and follow the on-screen instructions.  

=== From Kubuntu 10.04 LTS ===

To upgrade from Kubuntu 10.04 LTS follow the instructions at https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MaverickUpgrades/Kubuntu

=== From Other Ubuntu Releases ===

Users of other Ubuntu releases need to upgrade first to 10.04LTS, and then to 10.10. 

== Known Issues ==

=== Boot, installation, upgrade and post-install ===

* '''At end of installation, when the system goes to reboot, the CD-ROM is ejected and throws up lots of errors: "end_request: I/O error, dev sr0, sector 437628"'''. Pressing Enter will reboot and resume normally. These errors are harmless and can be ignored. (Bug:539027)

* '''In dual boot installs, after using Windows applications that use the <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flexnet|FlexNet Publisher]]</nowiki>, as a license manager, such software will overwrite GRUB, effectively breaking the boot process.''' This has been fixed for applications including Adobe Photoshop (CS4), Dell Datasafe backup, Autocad 2009,Adobe Flash Builder 4,UtraISO. If you have this problem with a new application, see the bug report to add its signature to prevent future problems (Bug:441941) 

* '''The Wubi Windows installer was reported to be unable to open Windows' boot configuration data store in some (but not all) cases.'''  Investigation of the problems are ongoing (Bug:613288)

* '''You cannot upgrade if wubi is installed to a partition other than Windows.''' (Bug:610898,Bug:653134)

* '''Lenovo S10-3 systems don't boot.''' Temporary workaround: add "intel_idle.max_cstate=0" as a kernel paremeter at boot (Bug:634702). A fix already exists that will be available only at release time (Bug:647071).

* '''Macbook's with EFI will not be able to boot the 64bit (amd64) version of Ubuntu 10.10 live cd.''' The i386 CDs will work. (Bug:633983)

* '''When the XHCI module is loaded for USB 3.0 operation the system cannot suspend.''' Manually unloading XHCI will allow suspend to complete normally.  To avoid future suspend problems, the workaround is to add <code>SUSPEND_MODULES="xhci-hcd"</code> to <code>/etc/pm/config.d/unload_module</code> then the system can suspend normally. (Bug #522998)

* '''Hibernation may be unavailable with automatic partitioning.''' The default partitioning recipe in the installer will in some cases allocate a swap partition that is smaller than the physical memory in the system.  This will prevent the use of hibernation (suspend-to-disk) because the system image will not fit in the swap partition.  If you intend to use hibernation with your system, you should ensure that the swap partition's size is at least as large as the system's physical RAM. (Bug:345126)

* '''I/O error after CD is ejected at end of install.'''  In some cases, ejecting the CD at the end of installation will leave errors on the screen such as:

<pre>
end_request: I/O error, dev sr0, sector 437628
</pre>

these error messages indicate that the system is still trying to access some files on the CD, and are harmless except that they obscure the message asking the user to press Enter to reboot.  You can safely remove the CD from the tray and press Enter at this point to reboot to your new Ubuntu system. (Bug:539027)

* '''Upstart jobs cannot be run in a chroot.''' Upstart jobs cannot be started in a chroot because upstart acts as a service supervisor, and processes within the chroot are unable to communicate with the upstart running outside of the chroot (Bug:430224).  This will cause some packages that have been converted to use upstart jobs instead of init scripts to fail to upgrade within a chroot.  Users are advised to configure their chroots with /sbin/initctl pointing to /bin/true, with the following commands run within the chroot:

<pre>
dpkg-divert --local --rename --add /sbin/initctl
ln -s /bin/true /sbin/initctl
</pre>

* '''The version of upstart included since Ubuntu 9.10 no longer uses the configuration files in the /etc/event.d directory, looking to /etc/init instead.''' No automatic migration of changes to /etc/event.d is possible. If you have modified any settings in this directory, you will need to reapply them to /etc/init in the new configuration format by hand. (Bug:402759)

=== File Systems ===

* '''Performance regressions with ext4 under certain workloads.'''  The default file system for installations of Ubuntu 10.10 is `ext4`, the latest version in the popular series of Linux extended file systems.  `ext4` includes a number of performance tuning changes relative to previous versions such as `ext3`, the file system used by default up to Ubuntu 9.04.  These generally produce improvements, but some particular workloads are known to be significantly slower when using `ext4` than when using `ext3`.  If you have performance-sensitive applications, we recommend that you run benchmarks using multiple file systems in your environment and select the most appropriate.

* '''Use of degraded RAID 1 array may cause data loss in exceptional cases.'''  If each member of a RAID 1 array is separately brought up in degraded mode across subsequent runs of the array with no reassembly in between, there is a risk that the disks will be reported as in sync when they are not, resulting in data loss due to inconsistencies between the data that has been written to each member. This is an unlikely occurrence during normal operations, but admins of systems using RAID 1 arrays should take care during maintenance to avoid this situation. (Bug:557429)

* '''Avahi will always start even if a .local domain is present.'''  The <code>avahi-daemon</code> package, which implements the mDNS "zeroconf" standard, formerly included a check to avoid running when a conflicting <code>.local</code> DNS domain is present, as it was reported that some ISPs advertise such a <code>.local</code> domain on their networks, leaving Ubuntu hosts unable to see names advertised on the local network (Bug:327362).  In Ubuntu 9.10, <code>avahi-daemon</code> is started regardless.  It is possible that this may cause other problems.  If your network is configured this way, you can disable mDNS using the following command:

<pre>
sudo stop avahi-daemon
sudo sed -e '/^start/,+1s/^/#/' /etc/init/avahi-daemon.conf
</pre>

** '''NSS resolution breaks with LDAP over SSL in Ubuntu Server.'''  Upgrading systems configured to use LDAP via SSL as the first service in the NSS stack (in /etc/nsswitch.conf) leads to broken NSS resolution afterwards such that `setuid` applications like `sudo` would stop working.  To work around this, switch to the libnss-ldapd package instead of libnss-ldap before the upgrade, or use nscd. (Bug:423252)

* '''Cryptsetup is not by default compatible with the version in 10.04LTS.'''  An encrypted disk set up under 10.04LTS will fail to properly mount under maverick. This is because, as documented in the <code>/usr/share/doc/cryptsetup/NEWS.Debian.gz</code>, defaults have changed. So to mount a disk which was created in 10.04LTS with cryptsetup, in 10.10 you must specify the cipher as such: <code>cryptsetup -c aes-cbc-plain create h /dev/sdb1</code>  (Bug:622762)

=== Graphics and Display ===

* '''Connected DisplayPort monitors may prevent booting when using the nouveau video driver.''' (Bug:655795)

* '''External monitor connected via DisplayPort is not recognized when using the nouveau driver.''' (Bug:655800)

* '''Image distortion (vsync) on some AMD ATI cards with the proprietary drivers'''. (Bug:303697)

* '''The new Xorg 1.9 available in Maverick is not compatible with nVidia based chipsets that use the (nvidia-96) and (nvidia-173) drivers.''' (Bug:626974)
 
* '''The logo will not display during but when using the Nvidia proprietary driver.''' (Bug:653274)

* '''The wrong display port is chosen during install of Apple iMacs (Core i5).''' If you plug a second screen on the mini display port, you can install ubuntu normally using this 2nd screen. (Bug:542660)

* '''Non-mirrored dual-screen setups may provide incorrect display on secondary monitor.''' (Bug:619663)

=== Networking & WiFi ===

* '''802.11n support for the iwlagn driver has been temporarily disabled.''' Intel is actively working to get this properly fixed up in the firmware. This workaround should be reverted once updated firmware is available. (Bug:630748)

* '''"Additional drivers" proposes b43, but the installation fails with "Not supported low-power chip"'''. This affects some Dell Mini 9 models and potentially any system with BCM4312 adapters.(Bug:655111)

* '''Ubuntu 10.10 does not  support the XDMCP protocol for remote graphical logins.''' Users who require XDMCP support will need to install another display manager, such  as wdm or xdm, for this functionality (Bug:408417).

* '''New drivers preventing "sleep" problem for RTL8111/8168B gigabit network adapter (usually onboard) are missing.''' (Bug:573259)

=== Input devices ===

* '''Some fingerprint readers normally supported by fprint are not fully supported yet.''' Installing fprint from the latest PPA may work (Bug:640083, Bug:657017, Bug:657031). See <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libfprint|the current bug list for libfprint0]]</nowiki> to see if your device is affected and possible workarounds.
 

=== Common Desktop ===

* '''When running on battery, clicking on the battery icon permanently says "Battery life (estimating...)".''' This affects some HP, Compaq, Dell and System76 systems (Bug:629258).

* '''Resizing windows with the Ambiance theme by grabbing window borders is difficult.''' This can be mitigated by switching to the Dust or Clear Looks theme (Bug:160311).

* '''Several panel applets may be displayed twice or overlap.''' (Bug:439448).

=== Common Desktop Applications ===

* '''It is not possible to create Ubuntu 10.04 USB disks from the Startup Disk Creator in Ubuntu 10.10 due to a backwards incompatibility in the syslinux program.'''

* '''Adobe Air is not available for 64-bit.'''

* '''GDM does not support XDMCP.''' The version of <code>gdm</code> included in Ubuntu 10.10 does not support the XDMCP protocol for remote graphical logins.  Users who require XDMCP support will need to install another display manager, such as <code>wdm</code> or <code>xdm</code>, for this functionality. (Bug:408417)

* '''When uploading a file to a website, the file browse window doesn't show a preview when an image is selected.''' This only happens on some websites, when Flash is installed. It appears such websites replace the Nautilus "Browse" dialog with a Flash version (Bug:613886).

* '''The Gwibber micro-blogging client no longer permits synching of account details across computers.'''  The client was switched to SQLite for back end  storage and to make it faster, but means that syncing of account details across computers is no longer supported.

* '''The Cheese webcam application has video recording related performance regressions.''' (Bug:610600)

=== Ubuntu Server Edition ===

* '''As a security improvement, libvirt in Maverick runs kvm with limited rights.''' This disables the possibility of displaying a local SDL window (Bug:615077). Users are advised to use the VNC support instead.

* '''If you configure apache to use a password-protected SSL key, you cannot specify the key passphrase at boot-time.''' To work around this, Apache needs to be started manually after boot (Bug:582963)

* '''libdbi 0.8.3 has a known ABI incompatibility with earlier versions of libdbi that have been distributed with past versions of Ubuntu and Debian.''' As such, any third-party software linked against libdbi.so.0 may give unexpected results if they utilize the 'dbi_error_flag' enum. Recompiling these applications will resolve this issue. (Bug:625882)

* '''Previous libvirt versions would probe a qemu disk to determine its format and did not require that the format be declared in the XML.''' This is considered a security problem in most deployments and newer versions of libvirt will default to the 'raw' format when the format is not specified in the XML. As a result, non-raw disks without a specified disk format will no longer be available in existing virtual machines. The libvirt-migrate-qemu-disks tool is provided to aid in transitioning virtual machine definitions to the new required format. In essence, it will check all domains for affected virtual machines, probe the affected disks and update the domain definition accordingly. This command will be run automatically on upgrade. For new virtual machines using non-raw images, the disk format must be specified in the domain XML provided to libvirt, otherwise the disk will not be available to the virtual machine. See <code>man 1 libvirt-migrate-qemu-disks</code> for details. Users who require the old behavior can adjust the 'allow_disk_format_probing' option in /etc/libvirt/qemu.conf.

=== Ubuntu Netbook Edition ===
* '''UNE needs graphical driver acceleration to be able to run.'''  Otherwise, you should be warned about missing them and will be logout and proposed to run standard ubuntu desktop session.

* '''The targeted netbooks were intel GPU graphic mainly and was heavily tested on nvidia as well.'''  You can encounter visual glitch or unity (the interface) not working on some ATI cards.

* '''Newly installed UNE 10.10 does not have a guest session.''' (Bug:657371)

* '''Certain applications such as Firefox and Shotwell do not use the global menu.  Certain applications such as Glade may not be functioning properly with the global menu.'''

=== ARM ===

* '''A separate page has been made available with release notes for the developer-oriented Ubuntu 10.10 armel port.  Please see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/MaverickReleaseNotes]]</nowiki> for information about issues affecting installation on ARM.'''

* '''Users upgrading beagle (armel omap) from lucid (10.04 LTS) to maverick (10.10) can run out of free space if USB drive is 4G or less.'''

* '''On the current preinstalled images a bug exists that will grow the swap file to occupy the full free space of your SD card if you select to use an encrypted home dir.''' There is currently no workaround but to not select this option, a fix for this issue is in progress. (Bug:646421)

* '''Cannot suspend Ubuntu ARM images for pandaboards(OMAP4).''' Due to current hardware limitations it is not possible to use suspend on the Ubuntu ARM images for pandaboards (OMAP4) even though the suspend option is shown in the logout menu.of Ubuntu Netbook on the Marvell Dove development platform, there is a known bug where the installer icon fails to show up. The installer can be started by opening the Terminal application, and typing 'ubiquity' at the prompt to start the installation. (Bug:628029)

* '''Session are always started in full screen mode, and maximum windows have not frames.''' On the ARM preinstalled images there is a minimal desktop session you can select from GDM. Due to a bug in the tool maximus windows in this session have no frames and are always started in full screen mode. (Bug:631696)

=== Kubuntu ===

* '''[i945GME] KDE Desktop effects not active by default.''' It can be turned on in System Settings -> Desktop Effects (Bug:628930)

* '''The Global Menu may not show gtk applications' menus.''' You will need to install the package ''appmenu-gtk''.

* '''Updates not downloaded during install when selected and internet is available during install''' the can be downloaded after install through the normal update method (Bug: 634664)

* '''Ubiquity not removed after OEM install''' This makes the favourites in Plasma Netbook show the installer after the user setup (Bug: 651086)

* '''KDevelop crashes''' Fix will be released soon, or use the new Beta packages http://www.kubuntu.org/news/kdevelop-41-rc-and-koffice-23-beta-1-packaged or update to KDE Platform 4.5.2 http://www.kubuntu.org/news/kde-sc-4.5.2 (Bug: 656195)

=== Mythbuntu ===

* '''On KMS hardware, the background might not be stable during installation.'''

* '''No way to currently configure the backend until after installation.'''

=== Edubuntu ===

* '''During an upgrade, Edubuntu will prompt the user whether they would like to use GDM or KDM. GDM should be be chosen to maintain current configuration.''' (Bug 650615)

=== Ubuntu One ===
* '''In certain specific circumstances, the Nautilus file manager may crash while trying to search folders sync'd by the Ubuntu One sync daemon.''' (Bug:617656)

=== Others ===

'''For a listing of more known issues, please refer to the Maverick Meerkat <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+bugs|bug tracker]]</nowiki> in Launchpad.'''
