{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:appselection-foundations-n-robust-python-packaging
* '''Created''': BarryWarsaw
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

== Robust Python Packaging ==

Topics:
* cx freeze
* symlinks
* packaging

=== cx freeze ===
* freezing critical tools that would break on upgrade
* bigger rollback problem w/upgrades; solve that and it takes this one with it?
* critical python apps to freeze?
** release upgrader - how big will it be frozen?
  
=== symlinks ===
* wanted to get rid of symlink craziness
* last cycle worked on implementation for multiple version of Python to exist (will be in Python 3.2)
* ship 2.6 and 2.7? then backport PEP from 3.2
* can we get some testing done that would, e.g., show us that there are too many issues with 2.7 (and thus not worry about it) 
* backport effort: implementation should be fairly straight-forward, however tests and documentation will be non-trivial; would be off by default, enabled by a switch.  lookup uses the 3.2 rules (__pycache__ first).
* need to test universe
* ACTION: mvo - add a auto upgrade test profile that installs all/most of the python (including universe) and tries to upgrade it and import all modules from 2.6, 2.7 (or whatever is available in maverick)
* can't get rid of symlinks until extensions issue is addressed?
** not touch symlinks at package installation time, but okay to ship them with a binary package

=== packaging ===
* XXX
 
 
=== Python 3 ===
* keep python 2 and 3 stacks separate
* get infrastructure into squeeze but modify packages in sq+1
* okay to run 2to3 at build time only
* keep source packages shared b/w 2 and 3 as long as we can, but split them if upstream stops shipping py2 versions

----
CategorySpec
