{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
* '''Add your feedback like this w/o the bold, and then use the @``SIG@ at the end of your line, look at the first post for reference'''
* '''Any serious issue should be still <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+filebug|submitted as a bug]]</nowiki>!'''

== Feedback ==
* Add feedback here -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:claydoh]]</nowiki>  * kubuntu desktop AMD64 CD image does not work (at least if booted from usb boot drive created with it). It does not fully load as a liveCD (stops at the end of the slideshow), nor is it installed correctly from the .iso into a virtual machine. The LiveCD in virtualbox reports: This kernel requires an x86-64 CPU, but only detected an i686 CPU. Unable to boot - please use a kernel appropriate for your CPU. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:valorie-zimmerman]]</nowiki>  * System Settings > Input Devices > Keyboard > !NumLock on KDE Startup set to "Turn on" does not work always -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dave-stfu]]</nowiki>  * Switching from one external monitor to a different external monitor still does not work (broken starting with Karmic), see bug #476357.
* Cannot write to SMB/CIFS share in Dolphin (Win Server, path like "smb://server/share") -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dave-stfu]]</nowiki>  * Proprietary NVidia drivers don't work. Use this in your xorg.conf (!ServerFlags section) to get them work nevertheless: Option "IgnoreABI" "true" -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dave-stfu]]</nowiki> 