{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Contact Information ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name:'''
| Maxim Derkach
|-
| '''My Blog:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://brutalblog.wordpress.com|WebLog Link]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Launchpad:'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~m-derkach|Launchpad Link]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki:'''
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaximDerkach|Wiki Link]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''OpenPGP key:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0x953B5BE7&op=index|OpenPGP Link]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Email:'''
| 
|-
| '''IRC:'''
| clarke8 on irc.freenode.net
|}

=== About me ===
I'm currently living in the scientific center Academgorodok  in Novosibirsk, Russian Federation, am a 3rd year Student of the Novosibirsk State University (Department of Foreign Languages). So I am a professional translator. After dealing with plenty of Linux distributions (including Debian) and BSD, only Ubuntu made it possible for me to completely abandon proprietary OS. As a translator I do my best to help people, who don't speak English to know more about Ubuntu and about the life of community. I don't just translate, I try to adopt the documentation, news etc. for Russian readers.  I am full of enthusiasm to help to spread Ubuntu widely.

=== Ubuntu related work ===
* I translate Ubuntu Weekly Newsletters into Russian to help people in our country who does not speak English to get latest news and events of Ubuntu community:
 1. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue74/Ru|Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter #74]]</nowiki>
 2. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue75/Ru|Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter #75]]</nowiki>
 3. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue76/Ru|Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter #76]]</nowiki>
 4. <nowiki>[[http://ubunturu.blogspot.com/2008/02/ubuntu-77.html|Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter #77]]</nowiki>
 5. <nowiki>[[http://ubunturu.blogspot.com/2008/02/ubuntu-77.html|Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter #78]]</nowiki>
 6. <nowiki>[[http://ubunturu.blogspot.com/2008/02/ubuntu-79.html|Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter #79]]</nowiki>
 7. <nowiki>[[http://ubunturu.blogspot.com/2008/03/ubuntu-80.html|Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter #80]]</nowiki>

* The active member and the founder of students' Ubuntu-Club in Novosibirsk State University
* In interview with local radio station I was talking about Open Source and the advantages of using Ubuntu instead of proprietary systems. 
* Many Ubuntu-related articles are already translated from English or from German into Russian, see examples:
 1. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaximDerkach/BezopasnostUbuntu|Безопасность в Ubuntu]]</nowiki> (Security system of Ubuntu Desktop         and Server); <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/Sicherheits_1x1|original article]]</nowiki>
 2. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaximDerkach/WasistUbuntuRus|Что такое Ubuntu]]</nowiki> (Ubuntu philosophy); <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/Was_ist_Ubuntu|original article]]</nowiki>

* About 250 Ubuntu/Edubuntu CDs burned are spread to friends, classmates and school pupils. Even my mother and and one her colleague now work with Ubuntu.

* Ubuntu- meetings are held every second saturday, where people can come with their laptops and obtain assistance in installing Ubuntu, drivers etc., or just get an Ubuntu CD.
* I organized two presentations of Ubuntu in local schools so far. With the help of my friends from Students' Ubuntu-Club of course. 

=== Ubuntu Goals ===
* My short term goals
**** To keep Ubuntu Weekly Newsletters translated into Russian in reasonable time (successful so far)
**** To organize Ubuntu presentations in other two schools of our district to show pupils and teachers that Ubuntu is a very safe and easy operation system for using in schools

* My long term goals
**** To translate Ubuntu Weekly Newsletters into German every week
**** To do my best to help Ubuntu to become the OS, which will unite people from different parts of the world

----
=== Testimonials ===

I have worked with Maxim since he started translating the UWN into Russian.  I'm impressed with his dedication and the amount of work he produces.  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CraigAEddy|Craig A. Eddy - Tyche]]</nowiki>

Name: Chris Jones (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~cmsj/|Launchpad]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ChrisJones2|Wiki]]</nowiki>). Any <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/terminator/|Terminator]]</nowiki> user gets a cheer from me. There's no denying excellent taste!

...

----
