{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Initial proposal ==

When people have windows on there screen many like to place ther chat or other object to the right or left.... then adjust many things to get all the other windows to fit in the screen well together.... having a "Maximize to available area" button or feature would be nice.
Perhaps a Shift and then click on Maximize or Center click on MAximize would be a way the we don't have to break the gui setup with yet another confusing button in the upper right corner.
I think this would be a great usibility feature in compiz.

=== Blueprint ===
<nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/max-to-area/|Link to the Launchpad Blueprint]]</nowiki>

== Discussion ==

This is very interesting for me. I don't use maximize anymore: Instead, I use full-screen mode when I want to maximize space for one application. This is more space efficient than Maximize, since it hides of the various panels and the title bar. (Compiz has a plugin in the "extra" package, called Extra WM Actions I think, which allows binding a key to toggle full-screen mode.)

However, this means that the Maximize button is now useless (for me), and I'd like to have it do something smarter than just "fill the screen". Initially I thought about what OS X does, which I think is an application-decided "optimal size", so it's not easy to do. Then I though about setting a "default" size for each program (manually), and having the maximize button toggle between that fixed size and the normal re-sizable mode. But this proposal seems even better: push the existing windows towards the size, and fill the remaining space. -- [BogdanButnaru]
