{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Mazal ==

=== Personal info: ===

Real name: Wikus van Dyk<<BR>>
Country: South-Africa<<BR>>
Region: Gauteng<<BR>>
Town: Cullinan<<BR>>
Loco : Ubuntu-za; <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-za.org]]</nowiki><<BR>>
IRC server: irc.freenode.net<<BR>>
IRC channels: #ubuntu-za , #minetest , #minetest-technic<<BR>>
IRC username: mazal<<BR>>

=== Description & History ===

==== Job ====

I work in an IT environment. Main task is user support at ground level. I also am responsible to install all hardware on our network , as well as all OS and applications. I have a network of just over 300 pc's and 350 users that I support. The work environment is a Microsoft one , unfortunately.

==== Hobbies ====

===== Computers =====

My primary hobby is working and playing on my computer. I started working on pc's for the first time in 1986 on
a XT home pc running DOS. Got hooked on it and was into computers ever since.
I enjoy to learn new things and do a little bit of everything that I find interesting.
At home I have a mixed environment of both Ubuntu and MS machines. I run desktop pc's and a basic file server
as well. My favourite OS is Kubuntu though and prefer that wherever possible.

===== Gaming =====

I love gaming and have been doing it since 1985. My first gaming machine was a Commodore 64. Since then I have
gamed on all pc platforms from the first XT's until I7 era. I am also a very huge fan of Playstation.
I have had from PS1 to PS3.
I mostly play FPS and Racing games , but also enjoy RTS and action adventure.
Recently I discovered minetest , a free alternative to mincraft and really enjoy that a lot. Minetest is
available for linux and I can highly recommend it.

===== Sport =====
I used to be a avid cricketer. But also did rugby , tennis , athletics , squash and golf.
But age caught up to me and the occasional round of golf is all that is left.

==== History on Linux and Ubuntu ====

My first time ever working with Linux was back in 2002. I started to use Red Hat 8 for my file server at home.
That soon changed to Fedora. I stuck with Fedora on my server at home but didn't use Linux on my desktop
pc's.

It wasn't until 2007 that I started to look into using linux on my desktop pc. I started with
Ubuntu Ultimate Edition. I quickly saw that Ubuntu has the apps and ability to run as a fully functional
desktop OS. After a year I decied I want to learn more about Ubuntu and want to start from a clean install
and learn how to install the apps I need. I left Ubuntu Ultimate and Ubuntu 8.04 was the start for me on
a fresh install on a standard Ubuntu distro.

I learned how to install the OS , configure it and install the apps I need.
I also learned how to setup a basic ubuntu server with file sharing and LAMP. I use that on daily basis
both at home and at work. I never looked back and Ubuntu is still my OS of choice for my work desktop and
my basic servers at home and at work. Ubuntu , the OS of champions !!

=== Current Projects ===

* Learn more about wiki formatting
* Learn more about trello

=== Links ===

* <nowiki>[[pad|Mazal's scratch pad]]</nowiki>
