{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


----
CategoryHomepage

=== Basic Information ===
'''Name:'''  Sean !McGowan

'''Location:'''  Leesburg, VA 

'''Hometown:'''  Herndon, VA

'''Timezone:'''  Eastern Time Zone

'''Education:''' University of Mary Washington, B.S. Mathematics

'''Employment:'''  The Boeing Company, Software Engineer

'''email:'''

* wondershot@verizon.net

'''Current Distro:'''  Lucid

'''Launchpad:'''  https://launchpad.net/~wondershot

'''IRC Nick:''' mcgo or mcgowa

'''IRC Channels:'''
* #ubuntu
* #ubuntu-bugs
=== About Me ===
I began using GNU/Linux in January 2009, looking for something more similar to the Solaris UNIX environment that I operate in at work.  After dabbling with a few distros, I settled on Ubuntu because it did the things I needed to do (web, finances, office suite) the best with the least amount of effort.  In other words, it just worked.  Since then I have joined <nowiki>[[http://novalug.org/|the NOVA LUG]]</nowiki> where I have attempted to help when possible, and learn from the amazing amount of talent that exists in this area.

I have experience in C/C++ (rusty), Java (limited), and Perl (This is predominantly what I do at work).

=== Goals ===
I am looking to broaden my skill set, and help out with the FOSS movement.  I would like to take on more of a developer's role, and am looking to gain experience in this area.

=== Availability ===

My time is currently limited, and it is impossible to know what times I will be online; however, chances are higher during the following:

* M-F after UTC 2230
* Saturday and Sunday random times throughout the day
