{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I am Pierre Pavard, I am an operator on #ubuntu-fr* (McPeter).
I wrote different wiki pages on http://doc.ubuntu-fr.org.

I use Ubuntu in my professional life and i try to promote it with my client and family.

I also contribute on : <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-fr-webteam|ubuntu-fr-webteam]]</nowiki>.

I am IRC administrator on #ubuntu-fr* on Libera : <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-fr-irc-admins|ubuntu-fr-irc]]</nowiki>.

Launchpad Profile : https://launchpad.net/~mcpeter

Ubuntu-fr Profile : http://doc.ubuntu-fr.org/utilisateurs/mcpeter

== My website : ==
* http://www.ubuntu-fr-secours.org/ (coming soon - mirror doc for ubuntu-fr.org)
* http://sources-list.ubuntu-fr-secours.org/ (sources.list generator - avalaible in shell)
* http://paste.ubuntu-fr-secours.org/ (pastebin Fr - feature : pastebin files)
* http://screencast.ubuntu-fr-secours.org/ (screencast project)

== Ubuntu version : ==
* Jammy Jellyfish LTS (22.04) [actual - Laptop][actual - Desktop - ESM][actual - Personal Server - ESM]
* Focal Fossa LTS (20.04) [actual - Laptop][actual - Personal Server - ESM]
* Bionic Beaver LTS (18.04) [actual - Virtualbox - Desktop (support)][actual - Personal Server - ESM]
* Xenial Xerus LTS (16.04) [actual - Virtualbox - Desktop (support)]
* Wily Werewolf (15.10) 
* Trusty Tahr LTS (14.04) 
* Saucy Salamander (13.10)
* Raring Ringtail (13.04)
* Precise Pangolin LTS (12.04)
* Oneiric Ocelot (11.10)
* Natty Narwhal (11.04)
* Maverick Meerkat (10.10) 
* Lucid Lynx LTS (10.04) 
* Karmic Koala (9.10)
* Jaunty Jackalope (9.04)
* Intrepid Ibex (8.10)
* Hardy Heron LTS (8.04) 
* Gutsy Gibbon (7.10)
* Feisty fawn (7.04)
* Dapper Drake LTS (6.06)

== Activity : ==
* Administrator IRC on #ubuntu-fr* channel <nowiki>[[https://doc.ubuntu-fr.org/groupes/ubuntu-fr-irc|Ubuntu-fr groupe IRC]]</nowiki>
* Moderator Telegram on Ubuntu-fr* channel
* Follow and check french documentation
* Member of locoteam <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-fr.org/association|Association Ubuntu-fr]]</nowiki> / <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-fr-asso|Association ubuntu-fr team on launchpad]]</nowiki> (2011-2025)
* Member of the Board of Directors ubuntu-fr organisation, Vice president (2013-2014-2015)
* Regional Delegate of Centre-Val de Loire for ubuntu-fr organisation (2016-2025)

== Participation : ==
* Volonteer on Ubuntu Party Paris
** Ubuntu-Party 9.10 from Paris 
*** Install and help
** Ubuntu-Party 10.04 from Paris (29-30 May 2010)
*** Install and help staff
*** I developed a management software installer .. many of the participants liked
*** Next step, i share it ... the first version is too horrible to share it :)
** Ubuntu-Party 10.10 from Paris (5-6-7 November 2010)
*** Install and help staff
** Ubuntu-Party 11.04 from Paris (27-28-29 May 2011)
*** Install and help staff
*** Make badges' design for Volonteers
*** Make visit cards
** Ubuntu-Party 11.10 from Paris (11-12-13 November 2011)
*** Staff Installers
*** Make badges' design for Volonteers
** Ubuntu-Party 12.04 from Paris (12-13 May 2012)
*** Staff Installers
*** Make badges' design for Volonteers
** Ubuntu-Party 12.10 from Paris (17-18 November 2012)
*** Staff Installers
*** Make badges' design for Volonteers
** Ubuntu-Party 13.04 from Paris (1-2 June 2013)
*** Staff Installers
*** Make badges' design for Volonteers
** Ubuntu-Party 13.10 from Paris (16-17 November 2013)
*** Staff Installers
*** Make badges' design for Volonteers
** Ubuntu-Party 14.04 from Paris (24-25 May 2014)
*** Staff Installers
** Ubuntu-Party 14.10 from Paris (15-16 November 2014)
*** Staff Installers
** Ubuntu-Party 15.04 from Paris (30-31 May 2015)
*** Staff Installers
** Ubuntu-Party 15.10 from Paris (28-29 November 2015)
*** Staff Installers
** Ubuntu-Party 17.10 from Paris (25-26 November 2017)
*** Staff Installers
** Ubuntu-Party 18.04 from Paris (26-27 May 2018)
*** Staff Installers
** Ubuntu-Party 18.10 from Paris (8-9 December 2018)
*** Staff Installers
** Ubuntu-Party 19.04 from Paris (18-19 May 2019)
*** Staff Installers

* Stand Ubuntu-fr (Salon Angevin du Multimédia)
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-party.org/ubuntu-au-salon-angevin-2010/|SAM]]</nowiki> (27-28 Mars 2010)
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-party.org/2011-04-16-salon-angevin-du-multimedia/|SAM]]</nowiki> (16-17 Avril 2011)
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-party.org/2012-04-31-salon-angevin-du-multimedia/|SAM]]</nowiki> (31 Mars - 1 Avril 2012)

* UP Organizer
** Ubuntu Party à la Riche(37520) (23/01/2016)
** Ubuntu Party à la Riche(37520) (25/02/2017)
** Ubuntu Party à la riche(37520) (17/02/2018)

== Testimonials ==

* <nowiki>[[DidierRoche]]</nowiki>: Pierre is a key team member of the IRC moderation team, which provides an amazing work on #ubuntu-fr* (over 290 people standing on the chan). Futhermore, his awesome work on mirrors of <nowiki>[[www.ubuntu-fr.org|ubuntu-fr website]]</nowiki> shows clearly his technical skills, and as part as the webteam developer of ubuntu-fr, he will integrate his work to the ubuntu-fr plateform. That's why I strongly recommend him as a member.

* <nowiki>[[CoevoetNicolas]]</nowiki>: Pierre help a lot of users for years now, on #ubuntu-fr* channels, he spend lot of time to moderate and give support on #ubuntu-fr* channels. He also use his skill in php/xhtml/css for the http://ubuntu-fr.org website and community. Great job Pierre !

* <nowiki>[[JonathanMarsaud]]</nowiki>: Pierre is one of the #ubuntu-Fr veterans, in helper and moderator role. He makes a very good job and he is involved in LoCo Team Ubuntu-Fr: on IRC, on the development of the ubuntu-fr.org site, and in its personal projects related to Ubuntu like ubuntu-fr-secours.org. For all this time he spent to contribute and his involvment, I strongly recommend him as an Ubuntu Member too.

* <nowiki>[[VetselPatrice]]</nowiki> : Pierre is always present and active. He's doing a fantastic job on irc. And he is also member of the web ubuntu-fr team where is working hard on php/css. I support his membership.

* <nowiki>[[ChristopheSauthier]]</nowiki> : I am really happy that we have Pierre in the French community. His skills and his huge involvment are making of him a real asset in our LoCo, in both our IRC team and our new web development team. A great +1 for me. Continue the great work !
