{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Name: ''George Karavasilev'' (https://launchpad.net/~kokoto-java)
=== Summary ===
* Signed the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kokoto-java/+codesofconduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> and the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~contributor-agreement-canonical|Canonical Contributor Agreement]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu member since 2nd of May 2013
* Designer for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~freyja-dev|Freja team]]</nowiki> and as such designer for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/unity-tweak-tool|Unity Tweak Tool]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/synaptic|Synaptic Package Manager]]</nowiki>
* Designer for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/kazam|Kazam Screencaster]]</nowiki>
* Designer for <nowiki>[[http://www.smuxi.org/main|Smuxi - IRC Client]]</nowiki>
* Designer for some apps of folks in the community
* Designer for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/qreator|Qreator]]</nowiki>
* Helped with the design of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/checkbox|System Testing tool for ubuntu (Checkbox-QT)]]</nowiki> ... redesigned it :P (the design never got implemented though)
* Helped with some aspects of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/software-center|Ubuntu Software Centre]]</nowiki> design
* Writer for <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk|OMG! Ubuntu!]]</nowiki>
* Helped a bit with some icon design for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/onehundredscopes|One Hundred Scopes]]</nowiki>
* Answered a <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/users/9951/me4oslav?tab=answers|few questions on AskUbuntu]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu advocacy in my country - Bulgaria
=== Activities ===
** Designed a lot of the interface for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/unity-tweak-tool|Unity Tweak Tool]]</nowiki> (wireframes and stored locally, install the tool to see the design :>)
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FreyjaDev/SynapticNext|Redesigned Synaptic's interface]]</nowiki> (the design is being gladed and should land in Synaptic soon-ish)
* Collaborated with <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mpt|mpt]]</nowiki> (mostly with him) to come up with <nowiki>[[https://gomockingbird.com/mockingbird/#685kytd/NnxpDm|this concept]]</nowiki> about the new Kazam's User Interface, which I constantly improve
* Fixed a bunch of minor bugs in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/kazam|Kazam]]</nowiki>
* Redesigning <nowiki>[[https://live.gnome.org/Smuxi/Design|Smuxi's user interface]]</nowiki> (the design is almost complete)
* Helped with the design of the apps of some folks in the Ubuntu community ... don't make me said names and apps, they are WAY too much to keep track on
* Participated psysically in UDS-R in Copenhagen
* Changed the <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~kokoto-java/checkbox/new-QT-home-screen/+merge/114021|home screen of System Testing]]</nowiki> and come up with a <nowiki>[[https://picasaweb.google.com/100530892038948253747/CheckboxQT|a new design]]</nowiki> for the rest of the tool
* Had various talks with <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mpt|mpt]]</nowiki> regarding the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SoftwareCenter|Ubuntu Software Centre design specifications]]</nowiki> regarding stuff like pegination instead of scrollbars, tile view instead of list view for search results etc... I also created ''a lot'' of sketches about the Software Centre Design
* Have written <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/author/me4oslav|quite a bunch articles]]</nowiki> for <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk|OMG! Ubuntu!]]</nowiki>
* Collaborated with <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~dpm|David Planella]]</nowiki> to come up with this <nowiki>[[https://gomockingbird.com/mockingbird/#685kytd/NnxpDm|this concept]]</nowiki> about Qreator User Interface
=== Future Plans ===
* Continue to work on the design of Unity Tweak Tool, Synaptic Kazam, Smuxi and Qreator 
* Continue to work for Freyja as designer and as such design more beautiful apps
* Continue to help community folks with their applications design
* Continue to contribute to Ubuntu more and more, especially with design stuff
* Get more involved with Canonical Design and Desktop Experience Team
=== Testimonials ===
Having worked alongside Georgi on a number of open-source projects and endeavours I can only admire the enthusiasm and sheer effort that he puts into his work. His determination to help embetter numerous projects is admirable and is a great asset for any team. ~<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/snwh|snwh]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~snwh|(Launchpad)]]</nowiki>

A person who is very enthusiatic about design and perfection. He helped me with the redesign of NSTrain. Enjoyed working with him on that project. I have personally also seen him assist various other community projects like Kazam with new designs. ~<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Nekhelesh%20Ramananthan|nik90]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nik90|(Launchpad)]]</nowiki>

Even though I've not worked on a project with me4oslav, apart from translating Unity Tweak Tool, I know he is a hugely skilled guy. He is one of the most competent designers whose work I'm aware of, and I know Georgi and his skill will be a great asset to any team. ~tomslominski <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~tomslominski|(Launchpad)]]</nowiki>

I've greatly enjoyed watching George and Sam inject some fresh enthusiasm around design, working with developers in the community to improve the interface and visual branding of their applications.  Ubuntu has long been in need of a stronger community of designers, and the work and collaboration from these two guys has been exactly the kind of thing we need more of.  I fully endorse George's bid for Ubuntu Membership. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki> 
I have had great pleasure working with George during the design and development of unity-tweak-tool. He is very enthusiastic (occasionally, even over-enthusiastic :) ) towards Ubuntu and open source projects in general and contributes to the projects in his own style. I hope the Membership Board reviews his application favorably. -- <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/jokerdino|jokerdino]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~barneedhar|(Launchpad)]]</nowiki>

me4oslav is awesome, I recommend he be dipped in Ubuntu Membership Sauce. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jderose]]</nowiki> 
''If you know me and my work feel free to write a testimonial here. :=)''
