{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Savvas Radević, apply for universe-contributor.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Savvas Radević
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~medigeek
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/medigeek
|}

== Who I am ==
In a phrase? A medical student with quite an open-source mind!

I'm an active computer hobbyist that has achieved a level from mere beginner to a truly active problem-solver that can overcome most problems and accomplish most (if not all) of day's computer work by using GNU/Linux and open source software.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I have been an Ubuntu user since early 6.06 Dapper Drake ( and still have the CD covers! :) ). I've started my contributions through IRC helping at #ubuntu, then started experimenting with different various contributions.

=== My involvement ===
* Bug reporting/triaging
* Patches/debdiffs/packaging
* Helping out in IRC channels and/or forums

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
1. Community
** <nowiki>[[CypriotTeam]]</nowiki> - Cypriot Local Community Team
** Co-founder, LoCo Team contact
** Contributing in Artwork, Wiki pages, Mailing list administration
** New website design (<nowiki>[[http://savvas.radevic.com/previews/ubuntu-cy-site/|preview]]</nowiki>)
** Actively participating and helping in: Ubuntu-cy (Cyprus), Ubuntu-gr (Greece)

2. Projects
** <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/timekpr|timekpr]]</nowiki> - Keep control of computer usage <<BR>>
   Development, Package maintenance, Artwork, Bug squasher

** "Junk" projects:
** <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/surl|surl]]</nowiki> (url shortening command)
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1056099|launchpad-ppa-fix]]</nowiki> (Updates the old PPA urls in sources.list and sources.list.d/*.list. Also gets the GPG keys of detected PPA repositories)
** <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~medigeek/+junk/packages2sqlite|packages2sqlite]]</nowiki> (Creates an sqlite3 database out of apt's Packages.bz2 from the repositories)

3. Launchpad
 Mostly active in:
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~medigeek/+reportedbugs|Bug reporting]]</nowiki>, confirming, debugging and providing useful information
** ubuntu+1 release testing (alpha/beta/release candidate)

 Team Participation:
** Mostly active in: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~cypriotteam|Cypriot Ubuntu LoCo Team]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~timekpr-maintainers|timekpr-maintainers]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~smc-packagers/+archive/ppa|smc-packagers]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~luckybackup-maintainers/+archive/ppa|luckybackup-maintainers]]</nowiki> (in some I'm alone, but always expecting new members!)
** Other: https://launchpad.net/~medigeek/+participation

=== Areas of work ===
* Initially began working with bug reporting and some minor bug triaging.
* I got into the packaging/patch-uploading hype quite recently, during jaunty alpha development.
* Provided various patches and fixes during python 2.6 transition and boost (1.34) -> boost1.35
* Minor contributions for unicode support in gdebi-kde and software-properties-kde

=== Things I could do better ===
* Learn a bit more about programming (I'm somehow limited by the rather enormous books for medicine).

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
* I hate that there's no fine QoS software GUI to fine-tune my applications so that I don't get kicked out of IRC - I don't plan to fix it though, not that hardcore. :)

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''
=== Daniel Holbach ===
==== General feedback ====
I uploaded around 5 patches of Savvas and they were all of good quality. He seems to have found his way into the Ubuntu developer community quickly and he'd be a fine addition to the Contributing Developers.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ensymble/+bug/340783
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fonttools/+bug/340816
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gdesklets/+bug/83922
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/capisuite/+bug/336344

==== Areas of Improvement ====
More patches

=== ScottKitterman ===
==== General feedback ====
savvas appeared out of no where and started helping out with stuff.  I sponsored a boot1.35 upload for him: https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/boost1.35/1.35.0-8ubuntu4 - We did a cgal upload together: https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cgal/3.3.1-4ubuntu1 - he helped out with luabind, noticing that a newer upstream release would solve a FTBFS with the newer boost that I was stuck on: https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/luabind/0.7.dfsg.1-0ubuntu1 .  My general feedback is very positive.  Technically he's capable and he's learning how we do things.  i definitely recommend him for universe contributor.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

My recollections are all positive.  Mostly just him showing up with solutions to problems I was trying to get sorted in the release.  I recall him being easy to work with and quite open to feedback.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
He's somewhat new and still learning, so just keep learning.  
----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUniverseContributorApplication]]</nowiki>
