{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==
This is meant to be an idea pool for the redesign of the <nowiki>[[UbuntuMediaCenterTeam|Ubuntu Media Center]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntumediacenter.org|website]]</nowiki>. This is primarily a task for the <nowiki>[[MediaCenter/MarketingStrikeForce|Marketing Strike Force]]</nowiki>, but all team input is very welcome.

== Components ==
 1. '''Wordpress'''
** Used to post news.
** Functions as a light CMS for serving static content (About, Downloads, Screenshots, etc.).
 2. '''D''''''okuWiki'''
** Used to house documentation, howtos, user-generated content, and information for developers.
 3. '''PunBB'''
** Serves as the discussion forum.

== Navigation ==
A top navigation shall be used. This will allow easier integration with the wiki and forum. A side navigation would limit the width of PunBB and D''''''okuWiki and this is unacceptable.

==== Navigation Hierarchy ====
'''Home''': brief description of UMC, widgets for recent news and releases

'''About''': full description of UMC; its purpose, goals, history, etc.
 '''Screenshots'''

 '''Members''': List of members

'''News''': main Wordpress blog page with news and announcements
 '''Archive''': Wordpress Archives page

 '''Categories''': Wordpress categorized archives page

'''Download''': static page with links to releases
 '''Release''': Each Release with ChangeLog

'''Development''': static page with links to Launchpad team, source code repositories, how to get started contributing, etc.
 '''Coding Standards''': describe the expected appearance and formatting of contributed code

'''Contact''': Details about mailing lists, IRC, etc.

'''Forums''': Link PunBB

'''Wiki''': Link D''''''okuWiki

==== Forum Hierarchy ====
TODO: determine non-artwork related forums

This is the hierarchy of the forums and their sections. Presumably, this will be offered in French and English.

'''Brainstorming''' (open section where people can dump ideas and concepts)

'''Design'''
 - Logo <<BR>>
 - icons  <<BR>>
 - background <<BR>>
 - main menu  <<BR>>
 - standard menu  <<BR>>
 - players and playlists  <<BR>>
 - configuration  <<BR>>
 - usplash theme

'''Ergonomy'''
 - general concept <<BR>>
 - tree by sections <<BR>>
 - main menu <<BR>>
 - standard menu <<BR>>
 - players/playlist <<BR>>
 - configuration <<BR>>
 - boot process (from usplash to elisa)

'''Animation'''
 - main menu <<BR>>
 - standard menu <<BR>>
 - transition between players and standard menu <<BR>>
 - photos slideshow <<BR>>
 - boot process (from usplash to elisa) 

==== Wiki Hierarchy ====
TODO

== Authentication ==
Each component mentioned above will have it's own authentication backend. Perhaps it can be unified in the future.

== Appearance ==
==== Colors ====
We should follow the palette described at <nowiki>[[Media_Center_Artwork]]</nowiki>. This will likely involve a primarily green color scheme.

==== Logo ====
To be determined. See <nowiki>[[Media_Center_Artwork]]</nowiki>.
----
CategoryUbuntuMediaCenter
