{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This a is quick summary of the UMC team weekly meeting, that took
place on Wed. July 11th, 2007 on Freenode in #elisa.

=== Elisa ===
4 days until GUADEC

Very close to the 0.3 milestone

=== Artwork ===
Marco is working on a tribal theme

hbons is working on the Tango theme

Le Kwer did a tango styled theme too.. it's on SVN already

=== Mailing List ===
thanks to Fluendo guys (philn ;-), we now have a "real" list.

info and archives: http://lists.ubuntumediacenter.com/mailman/listinfo/umc-dev

still no news from Jono Bacon and the Ubuntu guys :-(

=== Packages ===
once more, thanks to lool, elisa, pigment, coherence and pylouie have entered the Debian archive

=== LIRC ===
Matthew Bodkin, from InnovationOne, has joined us to help on the LIRC

lirc 0.8.2 is in Gutsy

=== Raw Log ===
<pre>
Uzuul: so meeting time
superm1: umc meeting is right now?
superm1: in ubuntu-meeting?
Uzuul: as usual, point 1) elisa
Uzuul: superm1: no, there ;-)
superm1: oh :) okay, well ping me afterword and we can chat a bit
Uzuul: 4 days left to GUADEC... ^_^
superm1: i'll be on for the next 5-6 hrs
philn: we are not far from 0.3 milestone completion: https://core.fluendo.com/elisa/trac/milestone/0.3.0?by=owner
philn: mainly UI issues remaining.. but it's quite usable now :)
Uzuul: yeah, 85 %... well done guys ;-)
philn: yep.. i'm not far from switching my home mediacenter from 0.1.7 to 0.3 ;)
Uzuul: a good sign!
Uzuul: when do you think the 100 % will be reached? approx. date obviously...
philn: we also have a prototype of the DVD player
philn: using Fluendo plugins
philn: i'd say.. friday?
philn: but that doesn't mean a release on friday
philn: we'll release 0.3 before end of july.. if everything goes fine
Uzuul: just in time for pre GUADEC polishing...
philn: yep
Uzuul: anything to add?
philn: elisa, pigment have been uploaded to Debian, thanks to lool and Uzuul :)
Uzuul: philn: addressed in point 5) ;-)
philn: ha, my bad :p
philn: well i guess that's it
Uzuul: philn: and thanks only goes to lool btw ;-)
Uzuul: so, point 2) artwork
Uzuul: there is a new member (Marco) working on an Ubuntu tribal theme.
Uzuul: there is now 2 more elisa theme, with hbons Tango one.
Uzuul: though these won't be (at least for now) the official
Uzuul: UMC theme, I'm sure elisa guys will appreciate more skins ;-)
philn: Le__Kwer did a tango styled theme too.. it's on SVN already
Uzuul: even if both are in early development shape...
Uzuul: cool, the more choice, the better!
philn: yes
Kaleo: for clarity sake, Le__Kwer's tango theme is icons from the tango project that are here for test purposes
Kaleo: (and it looks good!)
Uzuul: well, I hope next time Le__Kwer will be there for arguing on artwork...
Uzuul: so, point 3) mailing list
Uzuul: thanks to Fluendo guys (philn ;-), we now have a "real" list.
Uzuul: info and archives: http://lists.ubuntumediacenter.com/mailman/listinfo/umc-dev
Uzuul: still no news from Jono Bacon and the Ubuntu guys :-(
philn: yeps... seems to work fine so far
superm1: We had a heck of a time getting a list for ubuntu-mythtv, it took us mar 23 until last week, so its a slow process :)
philn: they could have warned us..
Uzuul: yep! and that's not much helping the communities to grow quickly...
superm1: from what jono and sabdfl told me, launchpad will have support in ~6 months
Uzuul: anyway, this will happen one day, but until that, we have something to rely on. Thanks again philn and Fluendo.
superm1: for any team to easily make one
Uzuul: that will be nice!
Uzuul: well, point 4) MSF
Uzuul: orion2012: there?
philn: the design forum is in place.. but as i asked on the ml, it doesn't seem to be "semi-private".. and couldn't find the poll features ;)
Uzuul: seems not yet (was/is on a job meeting)
Uzuul: philn: I've just seen your post.
Uzuul: I can't argue on it. orion2012 will post on the ml...
philn: ok.. no problem
Uzuul: I also don't know if orion2012 has done something on the UWN interview side?!
philn: in anycase, the sooner everything is set, the sooner designers can stop working on their corner and submit work on the mailing list
Uzuul: sure. that's still the top prio of the MSF
Uzuul: we talked about an UWN interview with both umc and elisa guys
philn: got no news
Uzuul: we'll discuss this on the ml if you're ok? (how, when, ...)
philn: ok
Uzuul: so 5) packages
philn: elisa in Debian \o/
Uzuul: once more, thanks to lool, elisa, pigment, coherence and pylouie have entered the Debian archive.
Uzuul: either in experimental and / or unstable
Uzuul: i've still to do pylirc though
Uzuul: iirc, i've seen the ubuntu sync request for elisa passing by this week
philn: yes
Uzuul: so, things are (slowly) on the way
philn: next point?
Uzuul: 6) LIRC
Uzuul: Matthew Bodkin, from InnovationOne, has joined us to help on the LIRC
Uzuul: namespace. For the recall, this new namespace will allow elisa / umc to
Uzuul: distribute only one lircrc (keymapping for elisa <-> lirc) file to
Uzuul: support *all* remote controls without the need of edition / configuration...
superm1: Also, i have a few words to throw in for lirc related to getting the modules into the kernel
philn: great, welcome Matthew
Uzuul: superm1: I'm re reading your mail. you seem to mention some mainline integration work?
superm1: I didn't want to step on the toes for those who are pushing into kernel.org, but in the interim i'm going to assemble a patch
superm1: for the ubuntu build
superm1: similar to what i prepared previously on the bug that you commented on
superm1: and until its in kernel.org, i'll be maintaining that
philn: good news!
superm1: so that there will be module availability
Uzuul: superm1: cool, thanks. you should also step up on the lirc ml for talking a bit...
superm1: Also, I packaged lirc 0.8.2
superm1: its in gutsy now
superm1: so the lirc.hwdb is there
superm1: /usr/share/lirc is where I opted to place it
Uzuul: right choice
Tartopom: heuuu
Tartopom: for the new forum
superm1: depending on how much additional help you will need on the lirc namespace work, I might be able to help a bit with that as well
Tartopom: It's work in my house (sorry for my english ...)
Uzuul: superm1: thanks a lot. this is how i see inter project collab. work (the sane competition ;-)
superm1: hehe
Uzuul: for info, superm1 is leading mythbuntu ^_^
philn: ahhh ;) good to know
Uzuul: Tartopom: you can go on now ;-)
Tartopom: ;)
Tartopom: so here is the new beta forum : http://forum.ubuntumediacenter.org/test-forum/forum/
Tartopom: and it's works fine :p
Tartopom: you can post a new topic or make a poll
philn: ok.. can posts be restricted for some sections?
superm1: Tartopom, how come you guys don't look to make a forum section on the existing ubuntuforums ?
Uzuul: ah, right. the migration was from punbb to smf
superm1: as long as the lead developers of a project approach them with a request, they are pretty good about making the subsections
Uzuul: superm1: well, it's a legacy from the very first umc effort, and is needed for polling.
superm1: ah ok.
philn: superm1: yes but we need a semi-private+polling forum
Uzuul: but you have a point (orion2012: any args?)
Tartopom: philn: yes the design section is only available for agreed people ;)
Tartopom: I don't know if you see it btw :p
MacSlow: hi Uzuul
Uzuul: hi MacSlow
Uzuul: well, point 7) other things
Uzuul: Seb Gripon just told me that he won't be able to take the lead of the Distro SF :-(
philn: Tartopom: ok, cool.. i created an account on the punbb forum.. do i need to re-create it in that one?
Uzuul: so somebody is needed to drive the Distro creation process
Tartopom: philn: yes because all the old punBB accounts migrated to the new but it's not automatic
Tartopom: philn: we don't know yet if SMF will remplaced PunBB or not..
lekastor38: when the distro process should start ?
Tartopom: Uzuul: I'm most interested by the distro than the software umc but i have not the skills.. and I'm in the MSF ^^
Uzuul: superm1: have you made some doc on the distro derivation process for MC needs? that would help in bootstraping people on our side
Uzuul: Tartopom: nothing stops from being in several SF ;-)
superm1: Uzuul, there are several ways to go about it
Tartopom: Uzuul: I have a life :p
superm1: I haven't written any docs on the matter, but you should join #ubuntu-derivative
lekastor38: uzuul, i saw some times ago a link on ubuntu docs, on how to derivate...
superm1: when some folks are in there
Tartopom: Uzuul: a little bit :p
Uzuul: lekastor38: I've tracked the various ubuntu wiki docs on the umc distro wiki page.
superm1: Uzuul, I can point you guys at the scripts we use
lekastor38: as, i told you some times ago, uzuul, i am interested to work on distro too
superm1: if you would like see the process that we are using
superm1: to build disks and such
philn: we should vote for that leader via the new forum+poll ;)
Uzuul: the hard part is to select the right set (minimum) of software and have a build process with some people to work on...
Uzuul: philn: yeah, are you applying? ;-p
philn: Uzuul: i'd like to have a life too ;)
superm1: Uzuul, you will probably want to talk a bit with joejaxx about how he chose software for ubuntu studio and fluxbuntu
Uzuul: superm1: yep, I'm interesting in
superm1: Uzuul, after the meeting i'll point you at some of it and try to explain what we do
superm1: and a few points i've picked up
Uzuul: philn: a what? ;-)
Uzuul: superm1: thanks
Uzuul: well, anything to add guys?
philn: hmm all set here ;)
Uzuul: the various part of the project are going well. Elisa is... more pretty than ever, and in time for its (her?) GUADEC rendez-vous ;-)
Uzuul: so meeting closed. thanks to all the attendees
</pre>
