{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


This is summary of the UMC team weekly meeting, that took
place on Wed. September 5th, 2007 on Freenode in #elisa.

=== Elisa ===

* Experimental mouse support has landed in SVN (great for touch screen equipped people)
* Plugins repository implementation has started today. No UI in Elisa will be done before the next release.
* Internet radio and TV are now working in a SVN branch that should get merged soon; in clear: mms:// streams and shoutcast radios are now accessible from Elisa!!

=== Artwork ===

No news.

=== Mailing list ===

Still no news from Jono Bacon and the Ubuntu guys 8-(

=== Marketing Strike Force ===

No news.

=== Packaging ===

* Debian experimental now has Elisa and Pigment 0.3.1 thanks to Loïc Minier.
* Ubuntu Gutsy has them too thanks to Sebastien Bacher. Apparently there are some missing dependencies that we'll look after.

=== LIRC ===

* Loïc Dardant contacted Denis Gautherot to package glirc from the latest source code available in the bazaar branch.
* Loïc et Ouattara Aziz started to port the LIRC configuration GTK interface to an Elisa plugin. Stay tuned!

=== Raw Log ===
<pre>
21:03 < Kaleo> so let's start
21:03 < Kaleo> 1) Elisa
21:03 < dloic> in the right order :)
21:04 < Kaleo> :)
21:04 < Kaleo> mouse support is landing as we speak
21:04 < Kaleo> meaning that touch screen equipped people will be happy
21:04 < Kaleo> which is great for advanced remote controls
21:05 < stefg> actually I'm just looking for a channel to sent pathological trolls in #ubuntu to :-)
21:05 < Kaleo> internet TV and Radio is now working in a separate branch which should be merged soon
21:05 < dloic> very nice
21:06 < philn_> means that mms:// streams and shoutcast radios are now accessible from elisa
21:06 -!- stefg [n=stefg@e179145199.adsl.alicedsl.de] has left #elisa []
21:07 < Kaleo> dloic and _wattazoum_ started a plugin for LIRC config
21:08 < Kaleo> it needs some work but it's a good start
21:08 < Kaleo> thank you guys
21:08 < dloic> thanks to you
21:08 < philn_> plugins repository implementation has been started today
21:08 < dloic> philn_: does what you do provide UI to configure plugin ?
21:09 < philn_> no elisa ui yet
21:09 < dloic> but is it a finality ?
21:09 < philn_> only server part has been started
21:09 < philn_> sure
21:09 -!- AlexCONRAD_ [n=Alex@ppp-76.net11.magic.fr] has joined #elisa
21:10 < dloic> because with wattazoum we have the idea to create a plugin for it
21:10 < Kaleo> absolutely
21:10 < philn_> see use-cases: https://code.fluendo.com/elisa/trac/wiki/PluginManagement/UseCases
21:10 -!- AlexCONRAD [n=Alex@ppp-76.net11.magic.fr] has quit [Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer)]
21:11 < dloic> philn_: ok, so if you do it..
21:12 < philn_> the elisa ui for plugins management?
21:12 < philn_> it's step 4.. i'm at 3 right now: https://code.fluendo.com/elisa/trac/wiki/PluginManagement
21:12 < dloic> yes, but it's a finality
21:13 < dloic> i don't want to take your job if you've planned it :)
21:13 < Kaleo> it's not planned for before the 26th of september, right philn_ ?
21:13 < Kaleo> (which is next release)
21:13 < philn_> no
21:14 < Kaleo> is that all for Elisa?
21:14 < Kaleo> quite enough though ;)
21:15 -!- Irssi: #elisa: Total of 26 nicks [1 ops, 0 halfops, 0 voices, 25 normal]
21:15 < Kaleo> Next point 2) artwork
21:16 < Kaleo> nothing on Christophe's side I believe
21:16 < _wattazoum_> philn_: https://code.fluendo.com/elisa/trac/wiki/PluginManagement/UseCases#browsing-installed-plugins-from-elisa , are you going to make the configure part too ?
21:16 < Kaleo> anybody else?
21:16 < philn_> _wattazoum_: step 4.. after 0.3.2 release
21:17 < _wattazoum_> philn_ : oki
21:18 < _wattazoum_> nothing about point 2 ?
21:18 < philn_> don't think so
21:18 < dloic> graphists are in holidays :)
21:18 < _wattazoum_> :-)
21:18 < Kaleo> ok
21:18 < Kaleo> 3) Mailing list from Ubuntu
21:18 < Kaleo> nothing.
21:19 < dloic> .........;
21:19 < Kaleo> 4) Marketing strike force
21:19 < Kaleo> Any news from Jeremy?
21:19 < dloic> not for me
21:19 < Kaleo> hmmm
21:19 < dloic> maybe uzuul
21:20 < philn_> give me root password on that machine, i'll setup that bloody forum+poll :)
21:20 < dloic> i don't know who have this f*** pass
21:21 < Kaleo> ...
21:21 < Kaleo> 5) packaging
21:21 < Kaleo> Good news!
21:21 < Kaleo> Elisa & Pigment 0.3.1 are in Debian experimental
21:21 < philn_> lool: ?
21:22 < _wattazoum_> houra ! :-)
21:22 < dloic> does it mean that elisa will be in gutsy ???
21:23 < philn_> should be in unstable soon i guess, then gutsy sync will follow no?
21:23 < dloic> but there is a freeze for universe package no ?
21:23 < dloic> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GutsyReleaseSchedule
21:23 < Kaleo> dloic: the freeze is past
21:23 < Kaleo> we have to push for a UVF
21:24 < dloic> it mean a repoitory ?
21:24 < Kaleo> but that does not change much for UMC-livecd
21:25 < dloic> repository *
21:25 < dloic> what is a UVF ?
21:25 < philn_> another sigle
21:26 < Kaleo> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FreezeExceptionProcess#head-b30a20fcdbd4ca2a1716a2c8b94dd8dc2ab2d71c
21:26 < dloic> ok, thanls ;)
21:26 < dloic> thanks *
21:29 < _wattazoum_> oki, who will take care of pushing for UVF ?
21:29 < philn_> i'm not sure it'd be good to be in gutsy, without at least the UI to configure media locations
21:30 < dloic> agree with you
21:30 < _wattazoum_> same for me
21:30 < Kaleo> philn_: better than 0.1.7 no ?
21:30 < _wattazoum_> sure, Kaleo go a point here
21:30 < _wattazoum_> got*
21:30 -!- RealNitro__ [n=jens@ip-83-134-133-158.dsl.scarlet.be] has joined #elisa
21:31 < philn_> yes, sure.. but not ready to be by default in ubuntu imho
21:31 < _wattazoum_> since there is already version 1.7 on feisty ...
21:31 < _wattazoum_> 0.1.7
21:31 < dloic> we can wait for the next, and only produced live cd
21:31 < dloic> and open a repository
21:32 < Kaleo> philn_: 0.1.7 is already in Ubuntu
21:32 < dloic> umc is not ready for me
21:32 < dloic> so it's not bad if 0.3.1 is not in gutsy
21:32 < dloic> just my opinion
21:33 < philn_> oh, 0.3.1 is in gutsy too http://packages.ubuntu.com/gutsy/gnome/elisa
21:33 < _wattazoum_> will not be by default , but should be made available
21:33 < dloic> philn_: yes but there is problem with dependances no ?
21:33 < _wattazoum_> juste like this
21:34 < philn_> dloic: no, that seems to be lool's package synced..
21:34 < Kaleo> philn_: awesome news!
21:34 < dloic> philn_: oh
21:35 < _wattazoum_>   python-coherence
21:35 < _wattazoum_> Package not available
21:35 < Kaleo> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/elisa/+bug/132408
21:35 < Kaleo> Sebastien Bacher synced it from Debian
21:35 < Kaleo> Thanks to him!
21:36 < _wattazoum_> but some dependancies are missing though :-/
21:37 < Kaleo> who would like to take care of that?
21:37 -!- thansen|laptop [n=thansen@19.243.sfcn.org] has joined #elisa
21:37 < dloic> not me, I don't know packaging, sorry
21:38 < _wattazoum_> what's the deal ? Just to ask on REVU for an upload of the elisa packqge ?
21:39 < _wattazoum_> or open a bug on Launchpad, asking for a dependancy fix ?
21:39 < Kaleo> yes
21:39 < Kaleo> against the right packages
21:40 < _wattazoum_> to get it quick , we need to have some contacts inside MOTU
21:42 < philn_> maybe uzuul should do that
21:42 < _wattazoum_> I think too
21:43 < _wattazoum_> In french we say : "les absents ont toujours tort " :-p
21:43 < _wattazoum_> let's put him on this ;-)
21:43 < dloic> :)
21:44 < Kaleo> ok
21:44 < Kaleo> last point
21:44 < Kaleo> 6) LIRC
21:44 < Kaleo> uzuul said that there was not much this time
21:45 < dloic> some work done this week
21:45 < Kaleo> ah
21:45 < Kaleo> cool
21:45 < Kaleo> go ahead!
21:45 < dloic> thanks to uzuul ;)
21:45 < dloic> just confirm the convert function of the script for lirc nns
21:45 < dloic> separation of mouse/keybord-remote key
21:46 -!- RealNitro_ [n=jens@ip-83-134-130-145.dsl.scarlet.be] has quit [Read error: 110 (Connection timed out)]
21:46 < dloic> i've alos contacted Denis Gautherot to package glirc
21:46 < dloic> from latest source in bzr
21:46 -!- RealNitro [n=jens@ip-83-134-132-139.dsl.scarlet.be] has joined #elisa
21:46 < dloic> unluckly he is on holidays for two week
21:47 < Kaleo> ok
21:47 < Kaleo> that's cool
21:47 < dloic> also start a new plugin for elisa/lirc
21:47 < dloic> to create graphically .lircrc
21:47 < dloic> just press button on the remote
21:49 -!- RealNitro__ [n=jens@ip-83-134-133-158.dsl.scarlet.be] has quit [Connection timed out]
21:49 < dloic> that's all
21:49 < dloic> and the conversion of the lircselectremote, thanks to Kaleo
21:50 < dloic> no news for others parts ?
21:51 < Kaleo> hmmm
21:51 < Kaleo> I do not think so
21:52 -!- lool- [n=ubuntu@levallois.dooz.org] has joined #elisa
21:53 < Kaleo> hi lool- 
21:53 < Kaleo> you missed it again
21:53 < Kaleo> I declare the meeting closed.
21:53 < Kaleo> :)
</pre>
