{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


This page sums up the state of the art on the Linux Media Center subject.

This will allow the Ubuntu Media Center Team to have a clear vision for the software choice.

== Functional analysis ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| Supported features
|-
| Name
| Type
| TV
| Movies
| Music
| Pictures
| Games
| Effects
| Additional plugins
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.fluendo.com/elisa/index.php|Elisa]]</nowiki>
| Software
| Planned features
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.entertainer-project.com/|Entertainer]]</nowiki>
| Software
| Planned features
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| No
| Yes
| Planned features
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://freevo.sourceforge.net|Freevo]]</nowiki>
| Software
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes (p)
| No
| Yes
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.geexbox.org|GeeXboX]]</nowiki>
| Distro
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
| 
| 
| Yes
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.mysettopbox.tv/knoppmyth.html|KnoppMyth]]</nowiki>
| Distro
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes (p)
| 
| Yes
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://linuxmce.com|LinuxMCE]]</nowiki>
| Distro
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| 
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.mymediasystem.com|My Media System]]</nowiki>
| Software
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| yes
| 
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.mythbuntu.org/Mythbuntu|Mythbuntu]]</nowiki>
| Distro
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes (p)
| 
| Yes
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.mythtv.org|MythTV]]</nowiki>
| Software
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes (p)
| 
| Yes
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://sofa.sourceforge.net/|Sofa Gnome MC]]</nowiki>
| Software
| No
| Yes
| Yes
| 
| 
| 
| No
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.cadsoft.de/vdr/|VDR]]</nowiki>
| Software
| Yes
| Yes(p)
| Yes(p)
| Yes(p)
| 
| 
| Yes
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://xbmc.org/wiki/?title=Linux_port_project|XBMC]]</nowiki>
| Software+Distro
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
| yes
| yes
| yes
|}

Nb : (p) means the feature is available with an additional plugin.

== Detailed analysis ==

=== Elisa ===

=> Based upon <nowiki>[[http://www.gstreamer.net/|GStreamer]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.python.org/|Python]]</nowiki>

* shares a lot of common aims with UMC,
* openGL 3D User Interface, and many effects available,
* not yet <nowiki>[[http://elisa.fluendo.com/features/|feature]]</nowiki> complete, but moving quickly,
* well tied in / consistent framework (not a patchwork of many apps),
* focused on usability and expandability (ie for both users and developers),
* supported by an important and expert player in the FLOSS A/V systems (<nowiki>[[http://www.fluendo.com/|Fluendo]]</nowiki>),
* UPNP support (through <nowiki>[[https://coherence.beebits.net/|Coherence]]</nowiki>),
* DAAP support,
* has contacted us to work on the rewrite (<nowiki>[[https://core.fluendo.com/elisa/trac/wiki/Rewrite-1/DevelopersDocumentation|architecture]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://core.fluendo.com/elisa/trac/wiki/NavigationTree|UI]]</nowiki>) and to propose resources,
* applies advanced computer engineering principles (UML, design patterns, Object Oriented language),
* is the origin why ArnaudQuette <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntumediacenter.org/viewtopic.php?id=63|(re)launched the UMC project]]</nowiki>: the most promising Media Center out there!

=== Entertainer ===

Very similar to Elisa, based upon <nowiki>[[http://www.gstreamer.net/|GStreamer]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.python.org/|Python]]</nowiki>. Not as many features or as much integration yet.

Fundamental technical difference: Based on <nowiki>[[http://www.clutter-project.org/|Clutter]]</nowiki>, a very similar project to Fluendo's <nowiki>[[https://code.fluendo.com/pigment/trac|Pigment]]</nowiki> which Elisa is based upon. There is an <nowiki>[[http://www.taimila.com/?q=node/14|interesting blog entry]]</nowiki> as to why.

They are <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/entertainer/+spec/plugin-architecture|working on a component/plugin infrastructure]]</nowiki> to accelerate development.

=== Freevo ===

=> Based upon <nowiki>[[http://xinehq.de/|Xine]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.mplayerhq.hu/|Mplayer]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.libsdl.org/|SDL]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.python.org/|Python]]</nowiki>

* is a well known MC software,
* old fashioned UI (Windows MCE like),
* features complete,

=== GeeXboX ===

=> Based upon <nowiki>[[http://www.mplayerhq.hu/|Mplayer]]</nowiki> for v0.x and v1.x, upon <nowiki>[[http://freevo.sourceforge.net|Freevo]]</nowiki> starting from v2.x

* Embedded Linux distribution which boots in short time, no x-server,
* Runs on very old configurations (pentium-class x86 computer...),
* Supports LIRC,
* Configurable before installation, with the use of generator software to create a customized iso image (LIRC, TV standard, Language,...),
* Releases prior to v2.x rely only on Mplayer, but neither TV recording nor EPG,
* Starting from v2.x, GeeXboX will be based on <nowiki>[[http://freevo.sourceforge.net|Freevo]]</nowiki> software for a new LiveCD/distro.

=== KnoppMyth ===

=> Based upon <nowiki>[[http://www.mythtv.org|MythTV]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.knoppix.org/|Knoppix]]</nowiki>

* A Linux distribution attempting to simplify the installation process of MythTV.

=== LinuxMCE ===

=> Based upon <nowiki>[[http://plutohome.com/index.php/|PLuto]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://xinehq.de/|Xine]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.mythtv.org/|Mythtv]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.asterisk.org/|Asterisk]]</nowiki> and  '''C++'''

* LinuxMCE is more than just a Media Center. It can manage your whole house (Pluto part). So that's also a problem cause the installer comes with all its stuff (to manage the whole house) and, at the end, you're lost in all those functionalities ( and the software becomes unusable ).

* shares a lot of common aims with UMC,
* is more a patchwork / glue tiding various apps together. This is both pros and a cons,
 
* See http://plutohome.com/support/index.php?section=mainDownload&package=0 to have an overview of every package installed by LinuxMCE. The dependencies are hell ! To me the most interesting things is the '''Pluto Core Programs''' section. If Pluto is the software we choose, we should get in touch with their developers to get help developing a lighter version and to use the maximum of Ubuntu capabilities, not to have drivers packages installed by Pluto.

=== My Media System (MMS) ===

=> Based upon <nowiki>[[http://xinehq.de/|Xine]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.mplayerhq.hu/|Mplayer]]</nowiki>, '''C++'''

* also have a kind of plug in approach. It wraps existing players and supports LIRC. However, it doesn't do a special job apart being an interface to existing players. I didn't find a way to select set up the player. It's easy installable and testable. I propose you do.

=== MythBuntu ===

=> Based upon <nowiki>[[http://www.mythtv.org|MythTV]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu]]</nowiki>

* A project like UMC, with MythTV <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/mythbuntu|the MythBuntu project]]</nowiki>,
* More a "big" script than a new distro

=== MythTV ===

=> Based upon <nowiki>[[http://xinehq.de/|Xine]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.mplayerhq.hu/|Mplayer]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.mysql.com/|Mysql]]</nowiki> and '''C++'''

* Is a well known MC software,
* Old fashioned UI (Windows MCE like),
* Features complete,
* Has a nice web interface to let you select programs to record remotely or configure mythTV software,
* Heavy software, outrageously difficult to configure for a newby,
* Can have backend and frontend software on different machines,
* Supports for multiple tuner cards and multiple simultaneous recordings,
* Wraps existing players (you can choose what player you want, Mplayer, Xine, Ogle, ...) and supports LIRC,
* Provides UPNP support.

=== VDR ===

=> Based upon <nowiki>[[http://www.mplayerhq.hu/|Mplayer]]</nowiki> and '''C++'''

* VDR is primarily a (dvb) Digital TV Recorder -- it is meant to be used with a remote like a Tivo,
* There are not that many features included (this is as designed). However, what VDR does, it does incredibly well. Stability and ease of use are second to none (including commercial digital video recorders),
* The plugin system is fairly nice and there are plugins for images, music, DVD, etc.
* Installation is often not straight-forward or easy. There are some live-CD distros based on VDR that try to overcome this.

=== XBMC ===

* <nowiki>[[http://xbmc.org/wiki/?title=Linux_port_project|Linux port]]</nowiki> of the <nowiki>[[http://xbmc.org|XBMC project]]</nowiki>,
* <nowiki>[[http://xbmc.org/wiki/?title=XBMC_Features_and_Supported_Formats/Codecs]]</nowiki>

== Notes ==

* non <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FOSS|FLOSS]]</nowiki> software have been discarded:
** <nowiki>[[http://www.sagetv.com/|SageTV]]</nowiki>

== Useful external links ==

* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Media_center|WikiPedia]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.homemedia.fr/articles-tests-guides/65-6-logiciels-Media-center-testes-lequel-choisir-0.html|Media Center test]]</nowiki> (french)
* <nowiki>[[http://wattazoum.fr/spip.php?article56|A spec definition of a Media Center]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://wattazoum.fr/spip.php?article94|Want to test Xbox Media Center on Linux ?[fr]]</nowiki>]

----
CategoryUbuntuMediaCenter
