{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''':
* '''Created''':  by OuattaraAziz
* '''Contributors''': OuattaraAziz, UbuntuMediaCenterTeam
* '''Packages affected''':
* '''See also''': UbuntuMediaCenter

=== Summary ===

This specs concerns developers that want to make a Player module for UbuntuMediaCenter. We'll define here the interface that a player module should implement.

=== Rationale ===

=== Use Cases ===

* Paul wants to make a Ubuntu Media Center player module using VLC. He wants to know how he should map the vlc functions to be UMC compliant. He refers to that page, writes a single files mapping the VLC functions to the define Specs, and there goes his plug in.

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

==== Summary ====

==== Rationale ====

Please see UbuntuMediaCenter to get informations about the infrastructure of Ubuntu Media Center (Kernel + modules). The definition of that spec is mandatory to have an easy player module development for UMC.

==== Scope and Use Cases ====

* In which case will a player need to do something ?
** When receiving a message from a controller ( Play, Stop, Pause ... ) . So there should be a corresponding API for the player.
** When used by the UI ( to set view size, full screen, ... ) . So a corresponding API will be defined.

==== Implementation Plan ====

=== Implementation ===

=== Outstanding Issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

* OuattaraAziz :
** Is there an existing project to define a player specs ?
** Players can be of different kinds : WebMedia Player, Video Player, Audio Player, Picture Player. Defining a Spec for each kind will be needed .
** We should also define a way for a player module to expose its capabilities (type, codecs supported, file supported)

----
CategorySpec CategoryUbuntuMediaCenter
