{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/media-converter

=== Summary ===

A Media Converter able to convert video and audio files to popular formats, pre-packaged with Ubuntu. Currently, there are no media converters available in the default repository. Including a feature such as this will help to promote Ubuntu usage.

=== Rationale ===

Anybody who is in possession of music, videos, movie, or other media files will generally want to convert some of these files some time or another.

=== Use cases ===

Bob is dual-booting Ubuntu and Vista.  He wants to convert a .flv video he downloaded from Youtube to .mp4 so he can play it on his iPod.  He realizes that the Ubuntu repository doesn't have a converter, so he is forced to restart his computer into Vista, wasting valuable time so he can convert a video.

=== Design ===

A list of several formats to include are:
* .3pg
* .acc
* .avi
* .divx
* .dpg
* .flv
* .mov
* .mp3
* .mp4
* .mpeg
* .ogg
* .rm/.ram
* .swf
* .wav
* .wmv

=== Implementation ===

Perhaps making a Linux version of MediaCoder, which has WINE support for Linux would be sufficient.

=== User comments ===

----
CategorySpec
