{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


This is summary of the UMC team weekly meeting, that took
place on Wed. August 30th, 2007 on Freenode in #elisa.

=== Elisa ===

Planning the next release (0.3.2) that is due for the 26th of september:
* <nowiki>[[https://code.fluendo.com/elisa/trac/wiki/PluginManagement|plugin management system]]</nowiki>: easy browsing and installation of plugins
* personal video recorder (<nowiki>[[https://code.fluendo.com/elisa/trac/wiki/RoadMap/Television|PVR]]</nowiki>) infrastructure work
* easing creation of user interface oriented plugins

=== Artwork ===

New theme by Christophe: https://code.fluendo.com/elisa/trac/wiki/chris_theme
It needs to be experimented and it is likely to be kept as is for UMC. All comments welcome!

=== Mailing list ===

Still no news from Jono Bacon and the Ubuntu guys :-(

=== Marketing Strike Force ===

Jeremy is back but not yet active. A project to federate blogs (Planet Elisa) about Elisa is under discussion.

=== Packaging ===

Unofficial ubuntu packages are online (http://elisa.fluendo.com/2007/08/29/updated-feisty-packages/)
Debian package is stuck: Pigment is still in the NEW queue.
Elisa update to 0.3 is close to the update.

=== LIRC ===

HAL progress (needed to autodetect USB remotes):
https://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?thread_name=ec33acbd0708111422m3f732b6aj5c2dd04235684d27%40mail.gmail.com&forum_name=lirc-list

Gutsy's GTK UI to configure remotes:
philn_: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Install_Lirc_Gutsy

Some work done on the kernel integration:
https://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?thread_name=703B8592-38BE-47A0-A4AC-4063787558D8%40wilsonet.com&forum_name=lirc-list

Kudos guys for all the work!

=== Raw Log ===
<pre>
Kaleo_: So, let's start
Kaleo_: point 1) artwork
Kaleo_: As you may have seen Christophe posted a complete theme
dloic: sorry but the first point ins't elisa ???
Kaleo_: sorry
philn_: yes
Kaleo_: yes
Kaleo_: Elisa
Kaleo_: let's do it again :)
Kaleo a quitté le salon (quit: Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer))
Kaleo_: 1) Elisa
Kaleo_: last week was spent planning the next release and starting to implement the features decided
Kaleo_: one important of them being the plugin management system
Kaleo_: that philn is in charge of
dloic: which is the role of this plugin ?
philn_: being able to install additional plugins from elisa
stalker`: dloic:  it's a meta plugin :)
Kaleo_: exactly
philn philn_ 
dloic: philn_: not to manage installed plugins ?
Kaleo_: it has to be dead easy to see available plugins
philn_: and setup a community repository for external contributions
philn_: dloic: that, also
dloic: dloic: yep, stupid question, sorry
Kaleo_: more details are available there: https://code.fluendo.com/elisa/trac/wiki/PluginManagement
dloic: basically add/remove/configure ?
dloic: ok
philn_: current plugins will be splitted to various sets depending on criteria we need to define
Kaleo_: second important point is the beginning of a player infrastructure necessary for the PVR
Linediconsine: What is PVR?
Kaleo_: lightyear is working on it and information for those interested is available there: https://code.fluendo.com/elisa/trac/wiki/RoadMap/Television
Kaleo_: personal video recorder
lightyear: yep
Kaleo_: watching tv, recording tv
Kaleo_: from various sources
lightyear: <- ask this guy...
Kaleo_: a third important part of the release will be to lower the entry barrier to write Elisa plugins that need user interface bits
dloic: interface with pigment ?
Kaleo_: pigment yes
Kaleo_: but this infrastructure work should help for any toolkit
lightyear: aah, stalker`: did you get the changes on the exif-ticket?
lightyear: but. psst.
stalker`: lightyear: what changes?
Kaleo_: anything else, lightyear, philn?
lightyear: sorry.
dloic: Kaleo_: interesting point because I have a plugin to "translate"
Kaleo_: dloic: translate?
Kaleo_: from gtk?
lightyear: dloic, what do you mean?
dloic: yes, from gtk
Kaleo_: interesting
philn_: Kaleo_: i18n, memory usage...?
dloic: the plugin to choose the right remote control (writtent with wattazzoum)
lightyear: btw. Kaleo_, did you say somethiing about translation?
philn_: mouse support in pigment?
dloic: (not really translation, i mean convert)
philn_: pigment win32 ?
dloic: I need something like a treeview, but we have some idea to do this with pigment
Kaleo [n=kaleo@55.Red-88-18-103.staticIP.rima-tde.net] est entré dans le salon
dloic: why this silence ?
Kaleo: oh my god, I'm sorry
Kaleo: my connection keeps going
Kaleo: so, point 2) artwork
Kaleo: Christophe Dumas completed the new theme
Linediconsine: we need to convert it in green again ?
Uzuul [n=arno@vig38-2-81-56-113-154.fbx.proxad.net] est entré dans le salon
dloic: what do you think ?
Kaleo: well, it is quite different: first it is fully SVG
Kaleo: and the style is different
Uzuul: hey guys. just taking a small break from all my house financial stuffs...
dloic: Uzuul: hi
Kaleo: Uzuul: I could need some help
lightyear: hi Uzuul
Uzuul: thanks to Kaleo for leading tonight ;-)
Kaleo: Uzuul: badly
philn_: hi Uzuul
Linediconsine: W Uzuul :D
Kaleo: we were discussing about the theme Christophe did
Tartopom: hi Uzuul :p
Uzuul: good work (the chris theme)
Kaleo: question from Linediconsine: "we need to convert it in green again ?"
Kaleo: I like it :)
Uzuul: any ptr underhand?
Kaleo: yes,
Kaleo: https://code.fluendo.com/elisa/trac/wiki/chris_theme
Linediconsine: mmh.. ptr ? I doesnt undestand....
Uzuul: pointer
Uzuul: yeah, that rocks ^_^
Kaleo: I'd say that we should go with it
dloic: as said in the ml, i like the variation for each icon (thematic reminder)
Kaleo: it's good stuff :)
Linediconsine: good work and is in svg ! good !
Kaleo: Christophe is looking for constructive criticism, so do not hesitate to send your remarks
Uzuul: I'm not sure the green'ification is needed since there are various colors for icons, not only blue...
Uzuul: we'll have to see what I looks like with a green background
Linediconsine: not all in blue ... imho
Kaleo: ok, we have to experiment
Linediconsine: k
Kaleo: followup by mail then
Kaleo: 3) ubuntu mailing list
Kaleo: no news I believe
dloic: ...
Kaleo: ok
Kaleo: 4) Marketing strike force
Uzuul: Jeremy told me he will get back on last monday
Kaleo: in the meantime it was pretty quiet
Kaleo: there is a plan of setting up a planet Elisa
Uzuul: and will follow on the MSF tasks (forum migration with polling mod, web update, ...)
Kaleo: so that developers can tell what is the new hot stuff
Kaleo: such as cool plugins :)
Uzuul: yup, point taken (by you ;-)
Uzuul: or distro (...) progres
Kaleo: 5) packaging
Kaleo: good news! Debian packaging is in progress
Kaleo: unofficial ubuntu packages are online since today
Uzuul: lool: any update
Linediconsine: wow good !
Linediconsine: :)
philn_: pigment's still blocked in NEW queue :(
philn_: so until it's accepted elisa package can't be uploaded
philn_: if i understood correctly
Kaleo: wait and see I guess
Kaleo: 6) LIRC
Kaleo: Uzuul: your go :)
Uzuul: yup, I'll talk a bit about that
Uzuul: I've posted about HAL progress (for the recall, it's needed to autodetect USB remotes):
philn_: i've seen that in gutsy there's a gtk UI to configure remotes
Uzuul: https://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?thread_name=ec33acbd0708111422m3f732b6aj5c2dd04235684d27%40mail.gmail.com&forum_name=lirc-list
philn philn_ 
dloic: philn_: have you some link ?
Uzuul: as mentioned, the work done here will help a lot for the configless
Kaleo_ a quitté le salon (quit: Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))
Uzuul: (ie autoconfiguration and startup of LIRC upon plugging a USB remote=
Uzuul: s/=/)
philn_: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Install_Lirc_Gutsy
philn philn_ 
dloic: philn_: thanks
Uzuul: philn_: from Mario (superm1)
philn_: yes the mythbuntu guy, right?
Uzuul: right
dloic: happy to see that different guy work on the same things...
philn_: seems like good stuff
Uzuul: there is also some work on the kernel integration:
Uzuul: https://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?thread_name=703B8592-38BE-47A0-A4AC-4063787558D8%40wilsonet.com&forum_name=lirc-list
Uzuul: dloic: that was the point when we got in touch with m1... and the same for linuxMCE (no follow up though)
Uzuul: dloic: you've got the hand for applets...
dloic: Uzuul: hum
dloic: dloic: yes
Kaleo: :)
dloic: the applet work, just to publish it
Kaleo: dloic: well, if you do quickly, we'll quickly have fun with it and help :)
dloic: Kaleo: I will do my best
Kaleo: dloic: nice
dloic: for this and the elisa plugin
Kaleo: anything we are missing for the meeting?
dloic: Uzuul: the separation of mouse/keyboard has been done
dloic: would you the html file ?
Uzuul: dloic: yup
dloic: ok
Uzuul: any pointer dloic?
dloic: no, i must see some point with wattazoum when he can
Uzuul: that can be appended to the meeting log. To others, we are talking about the namespace stats, separating the mouse and keyboard keys.
lool: Damn missing the meeting agian
Uzuul: this will allow me to finalise my post about the new LIRC namespace step 1
Uzuul: hey lool
Kaleo: ok
jeddy3 est désormais connu sous le nom de jeddy3|Zzz
Uzuul: lool: anything to add about elisa packages update?
lool: Uzuul: Hey; update is: packages are mostly ready, only waiting for pigment to get out of NEW since a week or so
Uzuul: lool: excellent ^_^
lool: I only need to tweak the deps of elisa a little before the upload, but the current packages are usable for me
Kaleo: nice
lool: Both packages are in the pkg-gstreamer SVN since last week, binary packages of pigment can be dled from http://people.dooz.org/~lool/debian/pigment/0.3.1-1/sid-pbuilder/
lool: pigment is on the first page of http://ftp-master.debian.org/new.html so hopefully will get in soon
Kaleo: thank you
Kaleo: Actually, thanks to all of you for the meeting
</pre>
