{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This a is quick summary of the first UMC team meeting, that took place on wed. Jun 13th, on IRC #elisa.

The full (and raw) IRC log is available here: http://arnaud.quette.free.fr/UMC/%23elisa-2007-06-13-21h00.log

I've either made update or comments on some of the below information.

=== Elisa ===
in time for guadec, everything's rolling, and 2 "classic" themes are planned.

(from philn) the architecture is ok, AFAIK, we are doing some small adjustments I'm working on a new  plugin/component registry which will boost elisa startup substantially the docs are not very up-to-date these days

=== Artwork ===
Christophe Dumas has made several excellent UI propositions, for various aspects:
* general layout (style for the various menus/views) https://core.fluendo.com/elisa/trac/wiki/themeSelection
* ideas for the top menu layout (including some effects) https://core.fluendo.com/elisa/trac/wiki/HomeMockup

For the recall, a vote on the mailing list is needed on the 2nd point (HomeMockup)! philn will post some screencasts to help us deciding ;-)

Elisa 0.3 will also feature 2 "classic" themes: the same theme with green *and* blue color palette variation. This will allow both the Elisa and UMC teams to have a specific theme at no cost. Note: Classic theme are in  act the new ones, as presented in the above HomeMockup page.

(philn) A 0.1 style frontend may be available if lionel has enough free time.

=== Mailing List ===
ping'ed Jono 3 days ago... nothing. gotta catch him on irc...

Update: I got news from Corey Burger just after the meeting. He will talk to Jono Bacon about the ml and push  he creation. Seems Jono is very busy too.

=== Website and Marketing SF ===
there is some work underway on the ml.

Update: Jeremy Teale has created a Strike Force page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MediaCenter/MarketingStrikeForce

People already acting, or planning to, in the website and external communication areas are welcome to expose  ideas and actions on the ml using the [MSF] subject prefix.

=== Packages ===
(uzuul) well, hum, packagers on holidays :( gotta reload myself a bit more, and find time to finish the  cleanups to upload to d.o... no update on lool side.

=== LIRC ===
lirc 0.8.2 released
work on a config GUI can start. we can limit to USB devices + autodetection first. somebody seems interested on the ml. if somebody is interested in working on that subject, mail back.

Update: Loic Dardant has posted an excellent summary on the lirc progress since.

lirc 0.8.3 will however be needed for the new "standardised" namespace

=== Various Ideas ===

* "UMC Desktop integration"
 wattazoum submitted this idea.
 the main idea is to be able to use UMC / Elisa as the default/prefered player, whatever your desktop is (Gnome, KDE, Xfce, ...). this implies some systray icon, background mode, elisa shortcuts, ... wattazoum will create a launchpad + wiki spec to detail this idea.

* "democracy" like -interaction
 lightyear mentioned the idea to create a democracy (http://www.getdemocracy.com/) like plugin this is just the birth of an idea in fact, and will be later discussed

* weather plugin
 lightyear made some mokups of the new weather plugin (aka WeatherNG): https://core.fluendo.com/elisa/trac/wiki/Rewrite-1/WeatherNG_Mockup

 I've asked to lightyear if he will consider a "wii style" (http://fr.wii.com/movies/forecastchannel_video/) weather plugin. This will be discussed later on on the ml 
