{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/umc/+spec/umcconfigplugin 
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

The UbuntuMediaCenter will use Elisa and we need a plugin to ease the configuration of this software. The specification for this plugin will be discussed here. 

=== Rationale ===

Currently, the configuration of Elisa is done by editing a text file. We can't let the end user have to do this. Same problems occur for UMC plugins (text-editing configuration). So we need to create a plugin that will be use as a GUI to configure UMC and its plugins.

=== Use Cases ===

* Tom wants to know which kind of plugins he can install on UMC. He use the UMC Config GUI to browse the plugin list from a repository, download one of them and click on "Activate" to activate the plugin.

* Elisa wants to add a new media directory in UMC . She use UMC Config Gui to browse from her file system and add it .

 Comment (ArnaudQuette): the media dirs should be autodetected using xdg-user-dirs and an amaroK/picasa/... like method (view a full FS, and disable the activated dirs...)

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

==== Functionalities ====

* Plugin Browser
** The plugin should in a first time be able to show all installed plugins on UMC
** Second step will be to propose the (de)activation of each plugin.
** Third step : to propose the installation of plugins (that means those plugins are "remotely" get by using an abstraction to the Package Management System (apt, rpm, ...))

* Generic Plugin Config GUI
** Each plugin implementing a certain interface will automatically activate a default config GUI
** This so told Interface should allow plugins to self describe their options (name, type, [possible values])
** According to the type, [possibleValues] of the option UMC Config Plugin will design a corresponding Entry (comboboxes, checkBoxes, TextEntries ... )
   Question (ArnaudQuette): file format (xml?)
** This will be achieved by the existence of a "config.xml" file that will describe the config options specification. TODO: define a XSL or DTD for this file. 
   A plugin can contains multiple component (see base plugin of elisa ) and each component can have options in the configuration file. So we need to specify "sections" in this xml spec file. One (optional) section per component . 
 
=== Implementation ===

==== UI Changes ====

* The plugin should implement a MVC pattern so that it will be used inside and outside UMC

==== Code Changes ====

==== Migration ====

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Outstanding Issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
