{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is summary of the UMC team weekly meeting, that took
place on Wed. August 1st, 2007 on Freenode in #elisa.

=== Elisa ===

Status: The Elisa team is stress-testing Elisa and fixing the last
bugs before the release on August, 3rd.

=== Artwork ===

No news.

=== mailing list ===

Still no news from Jono Bacon and the Ubuntu guys :-(

=== Marketing Strike Force ===

From ArnaudQuette, some new members have been welcomed, but no news
from Jeremy on the other (and more important subjects) :-(

=== packages ===

From ArnaudQuette, pylirc has entered Debian Sid but not yet Gutsy. He
will ask for the sync soon.

Coherence 0.4 was released this week. Packages will be updated soon too.

=== LIRC ===

ArnaudQuette made a status report, see http://pastebin.com/d3bff0d04
dloic and wattazoum started to implement a daemon to update the
lircd.conf file on-demand.

An Elisa plugin has been started to select the remote. A gtk view is
available so far, the Pigment one should come later on, when all
necessary widgets will be ok. The Elisa team will provide support to
dloic and wattazoum to achieve this goal.

=== other things ===

Nothing, move along!

=== Derivative distribution ===

ArnaudQuette has been quite busy these days and didn't have time to do
more work since last meeting. He's alone on this task and would
appreciate to have some buddies here :)

=== Raw Log ===
<pre>
21:00 < Uzuul> well, after the excellent meeting last week, let's start a new one.
21:00 < dloic> let's go!!!!!!!!!!!
21:00 < Uzuul> 1) elisa
21:00 <     Uzuul> philn and Kaleo...
21:00 < Uzuul> any news on 0.3.x and so on?
21:00 <     philn> we are heavily testing elisa and stress testing it
21:01 <     philn> still have some pigment related crashes.. but it's been worked on ;)
21:01 <     philn> we should be in time for the release, friday
21:02 < yyoyo> hi.
21:02 < Uzuul> yes, and then, deserved holidays for the braves ;-)
21:02 < Uzuul> hi yyoyo
21:02 <     philn> yep ;)
21:03 < Uzuul> you should maybe call to test on the MLs...
21:03 < dev> hi folks
21:03 < Uzuul> hi dev
21:04 <     Uzuul> philn: anything to add?
21:05 <     philn> hmm no
21:05 < Uzuul> argh, f***ing firefox. just crashed when I most need it!!!
21:06 < Uzuul> so point 2) artwork
21:06 < Uzuul> nothing new this week
21:06 < dloic> no usplash
21:06 < dloic> and no new wfrom conversion to green
21:06 < dloic> ?
21:07 < Uzuul> well, now that you're talking about that: Marco isn't there, and I've not seen any update from him (though I've again been a bit away...)
21:07 < Uzuul> so jump to 4) MSF
21:08 < Uzuul> some new members welcomed
21:08 < Uzuul> but no news from Jeremy on the other (and more important subjects) :-(
21:08 < dloic> (no news from the mailing...?)
21:08 < dloic> maybe in holidays ?
21:08 < Uzuul> the jump should be explicit enough ;-)
21:09 -!- yyoyo [i=yoyo@nat/fluendo/x-6090ed3575094885] has left #elisa ["Ex-Chat"]
21:09 < Uzuul> 5) packages
21:09 < Uzuul> pylirc has entered Debian Sid but not yet Gutsy
21:09 -!- yyoyo [i=yoyo@nat/fluendo/x-6090ed3575094885] has joined #elisa
21:09 <     philn> cool!
21:09 < dloic> but very soon no ?
21:10 < dloic> there is a synchronisation right ?
21:10 < Uzuul> it should!
21:10 < Uzuul> let me check a thing
21:10 -!- hbons [n=hbons@cc1054955-a.groni1.gr.home.nl] has quit [Read error: 110 (Connection timed out)]
21:11 < Uzuul> well, I'll find the bug asking for the sync later on, and will update it...
21:12 < Uzuul> coherence is still not sync too
21:13 < dloic> right
21:13  * Uzuul is now wondering if he has bugged for pylirc
21:13 < dloic> we have time
21:13 < dloic> no ?
21:13 < Uzuul> yes, we have (and are in) time, as told last week
21:14 < dloic> very good
21:14 < Uzuul> I don't want (nor can't assume personally) any pressure on an official release. Simply on an UMC release
21:15 < dloic> yes totally
21:15 -!- lightyear [n=lightyea@90.163.20.64] has joined #elisa
21:15 <     philn> btw Coherence 0.4 was released yesterday
21:16 <     Uzuul> philn: thanks for this info. I'll check for the Debian update
21:17 < Uzuul> so point 6) LIRC
21:17 < Uzuul> I've made a status report on LIRC (sf is still outdated):
21:17 < Uzuul> http://pastebin.com/d3bff0d04
21:17 < dev> Uzuul: thx, I wanted to ask what I need to do :-)
21:17 < dloic> some good new here
21:18 < dloic> if wattazoum wants to present the work done
21:18 < _wattazoum_> please do
21:18 < _wattazoum_> ^^
21:19 < dloic> lol
21:19 < dloic> so
21:19 < dloic> We've implemented the solution to change "on the demand" the lircd.conf file
21:19 < dloic> But there are some problems
21:19 < dloic> We've also started the elisa plugins
21:20 < dloic> first step in gtk, to have an alpha version, and after we nedd some help to do the same with pigment
21:20 <     philn> ah, nice 
21:20 < dloic> also push glirc (applet for irexec) on launchpad
21:20 < Uzuul> dev: the official process is to fill a bug such as that one: http://bugs.debian.org/432909. otherwise, simply announce it on the MLs or ping us (lool or /me)
21:20 < dev> Uzuul: ok
21:21 < Uzuul> dloic: about the daemon
21:21 <     dloic> philn: for example can we do a tree with pigment ?
21:21 < dloic> Uzuul: yes ?
21:21 <     dloic> philn: is to documentaion up to date ?
21:21 < Uzuul> I thinkg I've seen a mention to using SIG. isn't there a problem having the elisa user emiting to the lirc daemon?
21:21 <     philn> dloic: i guess yes... and not yet
21:22 < dloic> Uzuul: right
21:22 <     philn> Uzuul: i don't think so
21:22 < dloic> Uzuul: elisa communicate with a demaon, started a the boot level
21:22 < dloic> the communicate with a socket (define a port, for the moment 2700)
21:22 < Uzuul> which daemon? lircd?
21:23 < dloic> and it's the demaon that send the sighup signal t lircd (after change the lircd,conf file)
21:23 < dloic> no a deamon that we've done with wattazoum (in python)
21:23 < dloic> the test are probant
21:23 < Uzuul> wooch, guys. you've burnt some neurons there ;-)
21:23 < dloic> but i've posted a mail for users test and some feedback
21:23 < dloic> Uzuul: wattazoum is very good worker
21:24 < Uzuul> why not using the sudoers mechanism, already (ab)used on *buntu?
21:24 < dloic> We've a nicxe team
21:24 < dloic> Uzuul: it's not a good way for user, tu use the sudo in elisa
21:24 < _wattazoum_> Uzuul:  because UMC isn't meant only for admins ...
21:24 < dloic> Uzuul: and with wattazoum we think that this deamon can be use for some others jobs
21:24 -!- wallan [n=allan@158.223.162.104] has left #elisa []
21:25 < dloic> It's a link to root privileges for elis, that the end users don't see
21:25 < Uzuul> I don't think that having yet another daemon just to handle such a small task, is that good.
21:25 < dloic> Uzuul: but we can use it for some other jobs, don't wich for the moment, but..
21:26 < Uzuul> there should be a smarter solution, still making the task easy for the user.
21:26 < _wattazoum_> Uzuul:  how do you mean to be able to restart the computer from UMC ?
21:26 < dloic> Uzuul: but there user don't see the demaon
21:27 < dloic> _wattazoum_: right
21:27 -!- carlos [n=carlos@canonical/launchpad/carlos] has joined #elisa
21:27 < Uzuul> _wattazoum_: that's the kind of point I'm trying to think in // on (not had time to til now)
21:27 < dloic> stop the computer with the remote, nice isnt it ?
21:28 < _wattazoum_> well, if there is another solution apart a daemon, I will take it ^^
21:28 < Uzuul> _wattazoum_: you got a point
21:29 < Uzuul> I was seing something started as root, keeping a root handle to do the job and dropping the rest for an elisa user...
21:29 < dloic> other idea ?
21:29 < dloic> what ?
21:29 < Uzuul> but it still blury, and having the shutdown task is a good enough argument for me ;-)
21:29 < dloic> Uzuul: :)
21:30 < dloic> But 'm sure there are other needs, dont know which :)
21:30 < _wattazoum_> those needs will show up soon :)
21:30 < Uzuul> dloic: for an example, see there: http://svn.debian.org/wsvn/nut/trunk/docs/ideas.txt?op=file&rev=0&sc=0 § "Completely unprivileged upsmon"
21:31 < dloic> Uzuul: I will read it after the meeting
21:32 < _wattazoum_> Uzuul:  has it been implemented ?
21:32 < Uzuul> well, the point is that the work is well progressing on the clean Remote Control support in UMC / Elisa ^_^
21:32 -!- Tartopom [n=Tartopom@ip-5.net-81-220-107.nantes.rev.numericable.fr] has joined #elisa
21:32 < _wattazoum_> seems to be a nice idea ,, but the time frame is quite short
21:32 < dloic> Uzuul: right, and I've started to separate the KEY and BTN keys in the analisys
21:32 < Uzuul> _wattazoum_: never got enough interest (limited to linux / bsd, so implies a fallback for other OSs...)
21:33 < Uzuul> _wattazoum_: the present solution suits me fine for a first round.
21:33 < dloic> Uzuul: right
21:33 < _wattazoum_> oki, so that's fine ^^
21:33 < Uzuul> the FLOSS success is due to extreme iterative developments...
21:33 < dloic> Uzuul: right, so it's a first version
21:34 < Uzuul> _wattazoum_, dloic: keep us tuned on these points
21:34 < dloic> we need a fisrt version to do the iterative dev ;)
21:34 < dloic> Uzuul: no problem
21:34 < Uzuul> anything to add on point 6?
21:34 < dloic> euh
21:34 < dloic> not for me
21:34 < _wattazoum_> some point about the hwdb file
21:35 < dloic> oups
21:35 < _wattazoum_> some controllers don't have the conf file inside
21:35 < dloic> it's why I've the idea to do a second file
21:35 < _wattazoum_> but we need this conf file path
21:35 < Uzuul> _wattazoum_: can you elaborate?
21:35 < dloic> second file : name in the hwdb name - file lircd.conf
21:36 < _wattazoum_> the format of the hwdb file is (description;driver;lirc driver;HW_DEFAULT;lircd_conf)
21:36 < _wattazoum_> but some times there is no lircd_conf specified
21:37 < _wattazoum_> so for those remote, we can't know where to look for the conf file
21:37 < dloic> for homebrews for example
21:37 < Uzuul> _wattazoum_: that's a bug. every remote *must* have its file. it's otherwise to be considered as unsupported
21:37 < _wattazoum_> clearly
21:37 < Uzuul> while waiting to integrate the proper file
21:37 < dloic> but i think i's because there is no specified remote no ?
21:38 < _wattazoum_> so this need to be fixed
21:38 < dloic> it's just for the controller
21:38 < dloic> not for the remote supported
21:38 < dloic> no ?
21:38 < _wattazoum_> ('Home-brew (16x50 UART compatible serial port)', 'serial', 'lirc_dev lirc_serial', 'hw_default', '')
21:38 < dloic> so you can have the remote that you want with homebrew
21:38 < dloic> you see what I mean ?
21:38 < _wattazoum_> this is an example
21:39 < _wattazoum_> yep but where is the conf file then ?
21:39 < _wattazoum_> ('Creative iNFRA CDROM', 'creative_infracd', 'none', 'hw_creative_infracd', 'creative/lircd.conf.infracd')
21:39 < dloic> it depends on the remote no ?
21:39 < dloic> Arnaud ?
21:39 < _wattazoum_> this other example show where to find it
21:40 < _wattazoum_> "creative/lircd.conf.infracd"
21:40 < Uzuul> I must admit that I've not tried such a setup, and I can't argue on it.
21:40 < Uzuul> but imo, _wattazoum_ is right
21:40 < dloic> So we will see this point with Christoph
21:40 < _wattazoum_> oki
21:40 < dloic> maybe, I'm not sure
21:41 < Uzuul> a 2 step selection (the first, standard, for selection home brew, and then require a 2 step for the remote)
21:41 < Uzuul> would so do the job.
21:41 < dloic> yes it's what I mean
21:41 < Uzuul> as you told, mail on the ML, and Chris or other will light us
21:42 < Uzuul> so point 7) other things
21:42 < Uzuul> nothing new?!
21:42 < dloic> I've tested th live cd
21:42 < Uzuul> point 8) distro ;-)
21:42 < Kaleo> *the* point :)
21:42 < Uzuul> no news from me :-(
21:42 < dloic> right ;) "error on device hdb, read aerro on...."
21:43 < dloic> don't work,
21:43 < Uzuul> as told, busy with the house
21:43 < _wattazoum_> Uzuul:  i'll be impossible to do the config plugin using Pigment (the widget there aren't meant for that
21:43 < dloic> block after the usplash
21:43 <     dloic> _wattazoum_: mybe philn wan help us fo this point, after the gtk step
21:43 <     philn> me, or other elisa team members ;)
21:43 < Uzuul> dloic: some help would be needed there, since I don't think I'll have time before... well some time
21:44 <     dloic> philn: right
21:44 < _wattazoum_> yep , it's just to warn people that the config plugin will be using GTK
21:44 < dloic> Uzuul: for the cd ? see with mario no ?
21:45 <     philn> _wattazoum_: hmm you mean it will work only with the gtk frontend for now?
21:45 <     dloic> philn: right
21:45 < Uzuul> dloic: Mario is leading the Mythbuntu effort, and has kindly bootstrapped me on the live cd he has done, while we were talking about lirc (kernel integration) and some other points...
21:45 <     philn> dloic: where's the code? 
21:45 < _wattazou> philn:  it might even be a quite separated application
21:45 < Uzuul> I'm currently alone to work on the distro :-(
21:45 < dloic> Uzuul: ok, maybe if I've time, but for the moment lirc is my priority
21:46 <     philn> _wattazoum_: hmm i don't really like that idea
21:46 < _wattazou> philn:  me neither
21:46 <     dloic> philn: but can we port gtk to pigment ?
21:46 < Uzuul> dloic: sure, I'll also rely upon you for the nns (ping me btw)
21:46 < _wattazou> philn:  but pygment can't do the job as for now
21:46 <     philn> dloic: you can make a pigment view for your plugin, for sure
21:46 < dloic> Uzuul: ok, but I know for the moment you're busy
21:47 <     philn> have you guys understood the MVC pattern we use in Elisa ? ;)
21:47 < _wattazou> philn:  but we need ComboBoxes, CheckBoxes ... and so on
21:47 <     dloic> philn: I hope ;)
21:47 < _wattazou> philn:  we did understand
21:47 <     philn> yes, that's the matter of the view.. widgets are needed in pigment for that 
21:48 <     dloic> philn: so is there a solution ?
21:48 <     philn> and there are already some, AFAIK.. but not much tested/used
21:48 <     philn> look at pypgmtools.widgets
21:48 < Uzuul> well, guys, if you have nothing to add for the meeting, I'll close it there and get back on my house things...
21:48 < Kaleo> they need some love indeed
21:48 < dloic> we will look for pyg.. tools
21:48 < _wattazoum_> lol, Uzuul
21:49 < Kaleo> Uzuul: have a good night, and thank you
21:49 < _wattazoum_> I won't be here for 2 weeks
21:49 < dloic> Uzuul: bye and good luck for the real life :)
21:49 < Uzuul> thanks guys. a last point to Kaleo: can you handle the meeting minutes this week plz
21:49 < _wattazoum_> so we'll do the best to deliver LIRC plugin
21:49 <     philn> yes good luck with the house, and stuff ;)
21:50 < dloic> _wattazoum_: right, if we learn to use pigment, i think the rest will be ok
21:50 < Uzuul> in fact, Kaleo or any other for the minutes?
21:50 < dloic> Uzuul: bad english for me :)
21:51 <     philn> i can do it if noone volunteers ;)
21:51 < _wattazou> so philn : I'll also need the detail documentation about the elisa.conf file, I didn't find the right one on the TRAC ... do you have one ?
21:52 <     Uzuul> philn (or others): ok, thx
21:52 < Uzuul>  see you and thanks to all ^_^
21:52 < _wattazoum_> see you
21:52 < _wattazoum_> Uzuul:
21:52 <     philn> _wattazoum_: have you seen the online API doc?
21:52 < _wattazoum_> ^^
21:52 -!- Uzuul [n=arno@vig38-2-81-56-113-154.fbx.proxad.net] has quit ["Ex-Chat"]
21:52 < _wattazoum_> nope , an URL ?
21:53 <     philn> https://core.fluendo.com/elisa/trac/chrome/site/api/index.html
21:53 <     dloic> philn: have you an other link like this for pigment ?
21:54 <     philn> there's a ref doc.. but not yet for the python bindings part
21:54 < dloic> so just to ask people ?
21:54 <     philn> yes, sum up your questions in a mail to elisa@ mailing list
21:55 <     philn> me or someone else will reply, hopefully ;)
21:55 <     dloic> philn: right, do yu think to dev a gtk step is a good idea if we know what we want ?
21:55 <     philn> https://core.fluendo.com/pigment/trac/chrome/site/doc/reference/index.html
21:56 <     philn> dloic: yes, it's a good start.. but long term we need everything integrated in elisa with pigment support
21:56 <     dloic> philn: totally agree with you
21:56 < dloic> but i've an idea, maybe we can use same things as the menu in elisa for the treeview
21:57 < dloic> at bottom categorie of remote, if you coose one, you can see the remote in this cat
21:57 < _wattazou> philn:  nice doc (API)
21:57 <     philn> dloic: yes that's what we started to configure the theme and screen aspect ratio within the services menu
21:57 <     philn> _wattazoum_: thank loicm actually
21:57 < _wattazou> philn:  do you have something else on elisa.conf ?
21:57 < dloic> _wattazoum_: what do you think for my proposition wattazoum ?
21:58 <     dloic> philn: yeah, it can be a good idea, and it's the same ui for elisa and plugins
21:58 <     philn> well config options read/write is really easy.. print component.config
21:58 < dloic> well well well
21:58 <     philn> component.config[option] = value
21:58 < dloic> _wattazoum_: ?
21:58 < _wattazoum_> dloic:  well, I have thought about it too , but we'll very soon be stopped (or obliged to developpe the widget ourselves
21:59 <     philn> i really need to go now.. send me a link to your code repository, i'll review the code
21:59 < _wattazou> philn:  wich one ?
21:59 < dloic> _wattazoum_: Idon't think. maybe my explanations are a bit "mal formulées"
21:59 <     philn> the code of the elisa plugin you started
21:59 < _wattazoum_> oki dloic , we'll speak about it
21:59 <     dloic> philn: when we have something a bit more beautiful
21:59 <     philn> dloic: ok, no problem
22:00 <     philn> see you guys.. :)
22:00 < _wattazoum_> see you :)
22:00 <     dloic> philn: see you !
22:01 < _wattazoum_> leaving too ^
22:01 < _wattazoum_> ^_^
</pre>
