{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== People and skills ==

Write down your name and useful skills for the project

* Arnaud Quette (Uzuul) : Development (not in python yet), packaging, organization, ideas, ...
* Benjamin Guillet (Tartopom) : (X)HTML, CSS, Python in the future, a lot of ideas.
* Cédric Dufouil (Sleg) : multimedia C/C++ developer (Software Engineer).
* Gilles Offre (polux) : Some C, documentation, english->french translation, ideas.
* Jason Simanek : artwork, design, (X)HTML, CSS, (I can work around php/asp/ColdFusion and use includes), organizing information is fun 
* Jonathan Delrot (Vertige) : artwork, use inkscape, design, ideas...
* Loïc Dardant (dloic) : Development (object and non-object), web competences (php,...) management, ideas
* Oumar Aziz Ouattara (wattazoum) : Java/J2EE Developpers, UML, Project Management and Specifications, Languages (French,English,Japanese), want that project to be a very big move for Linux.
* Sébastien Gripon (kritchek): C++ conception and development (object in general), planification, and a lot of ideas too !
* Florian Boucault (Kaleo): Development (mainly C, C++ and Python these days), Elisa team member.
* XioNoX : French translation, testing, ideas.
* Jeremy Teale (jteale/orion2012): Development (Python), documentation, and packaging
* Bryan Haskins (Toxicity999): Tons of ideas, Documentation, Plenty o' media to play with in testing.
* Mirco Müller (MacSlow): Graphics/UI-development (C, C++, Python), currently a Fluendo intern, experienced with working on and with Pigment
* Denis Gautherot (lekastor38) : Conception and Development (C, C++, starting learning python and php), lot of ideas, tests, documentation, french/english translations, SIP and TCP/IP skills. Want to make this project a credible and popular alternative of proprietary ones.
* Mathieu Fontaine (Spidou) : Development : Java, Ruby, GTK2, (Python if necessary, I'll learn :P) | WebSite : (X)HTML/CSS, PHP, Ruby On Rails | Translations: English to French.
* Stojance Dimitrovski (sdimitrovski) : Mono (C#, Boo...), some Python (some more), testing, ideas, documentation. Translations: English-Macedonian. Want to make this project a good alternative to other closed-source media centers.
* Bhavani Shankar (bhavi) : Programming in C++, C#, JAVA,J2SE, JAVA scripting,JSP,Perl,Python,Web Design,HTML,XHTML,XML,Cryptography,Applied Cryptography,Network Security,Linux Kernel Programming and OS architecture, Solaris 10 and OPEN SOLARIS KERNEL ARCHITECTURE,Hacking,reverse enginnering,Learning Maya 8... Translations: English to Hindi,English to Kannada,documentation, Lots of ideas on project implementation,marketing and distribution.Want to make this project a credible and popular alternative of Windows XP MCE.
* Loye Young (LoyeYoung) : I hold a doctorate in law and practiced law for 8 years before getting into finance and technology, I'm not afraid of lawyers. I can host a repository on my servers (in the USA) to provide software that others won't. I build systems. I sell systems. I can write so that people understand. 
* Rostislav "zbrox" Raykov (RostislavRaykov) : I've participated and done much work on the GNOME translation. I can translate the software to Bulgarian, I can also help with testing and giving feedback on usability, and of course bug reports.
* Adam Sunderland (Iterion) : Development/Design : Python (learning), Ruby, C++, PHP, JAVA/J2EE.  OOP Design, Spec development, Project Management.  Also, English to Japanese translation is a possibility (As I have been learning for some time now).
* William Crandell (Tekcronic) : I program in HTML/DHTML (Learning XHTML / XML) also I have experience in PHP, C++, and Python I have an overall understanding and need to familiarize myself with IDE's.
* William Wolf : I have experience with C/C++, Python, Perl, php and others.  Also have some experience with debian package creation and management, and am willing to do lots of testing where I can.  I'm Very excited about this project.
* Ionut Bizau (smalltalk): Python, C/C++, .NET, ... ideas)
* Rik Goldman: Documentation, tech writing, testing. licheghoulmann at gmail.
* TommyB: Python, C/C++ 
