{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

=== Starting logfile irclogs/ubuntu-meeting.log
=== ubuntulog [i=ubuntulo@ubuntu/bot/ubuntulog] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== Topic for #ubuntu-meeting: Current meeting: Ubuntu Development Team | Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 05 Sep 22:00 UTC: Community Council | 07 Sep 21:00 UTC: Kubuntu
=== Topic (#ubuntu-meeting): set by Ubugtu at Thu Aug 31 16:49:58 2006
(heno/#ubuntu-meeting) Done
(heno/#ubuntu-meeting) * Orca - It's great to see it on the live CD! I've done some testing and have helped several blind users with testing with advice and a HOWTO
(heno/#ubuntu-meeting) * Dicussions with Orca upstream on better ways of integrating it with the Ubuntu desktop (so that it doesn't get in people's way)
(heno/#ubuntu-meeting) * onBoard - Met Chris for va status meeting yesterday. We are hoping to get this through universe and into main during the next few days. Advice appreciated.
(heno/#ubuntu-meeting) * Finally got rolling with some desktop bug triage today
(heno/#ubuntu-meeting) * Other: Preparing the release of the OpenCD v4
(heno/#ubuntu-meeting) To do
(heno/#ubuntu-meeting) * Make final decision on Orca placement within the Gnome menu structure. If a few annoyances are not addressed (from Orca) we may leave out the menu item (this is not as bad as it sounds because blind users often prefer to launch things from the command prompt anyway)
(heno/#ubuntu-meeting) * Get onBoard into main and on the CD
(heno/#ubuntu-meeting) * theOpenCD release foo
(heno/#ubuntu-meeting) * More bug triage
(heno/#ubuntu-meeting) seb128: can you give me qa-team powers?
(dholbach/#ubuntu-meeting) heno: i can do
(seb128/#ubuntu-meeting) hum, I've to look at that
(Kamion/#ubuntu-meeting) I think pitti comes back on Monday, which will make main promotions easier
(heno/#ubuntu-meeting) dholbach: thanks
(seb128/#ubuntu-meeting) dholbach job usually
(seb128/#ubuntu-meeting) ok, dholbach on it, all fine then
(fabbione/#ubuntu-meeting) (FYI: the logs should be back again. thanks feenode for your amazing amount of netsplit)
(heno/#ubuntu-meeting) ok, just so I can set bug priorities
(fabbione/#ubuntu-meeting) have fun guys
05:20	Kamion	fabbione: thanks. (you're on holiday so I don't need an update from you, right?)
05:21	ogra	fabbione, go back to your little one
05:21	fabbione	Kamion: yes i will be in vac also next week
05:21	fabbione	ogra: yup...
05:21	Kamion	heno: oh, I was to send a mail to seb128 about sudo-admin-atspi, wasn't I?
05:21	ogra	:)
05:21	fabbione	thanks guys
05:21	fabbione	take care
05:21	ogra	you too
05:21	heno	Kamion: I sent one
05:21	Kamion	heno: I'll do that straight after the meeting if you haven't
05:21	Kamion	ok, good
05:21	doko	fabbione: please could you check a newer OOo build for sparc today/tomorrow?
05:21	Kamion	seb128: does that stuff look applyable?
05:22	seb128	Kamion: I've not looked at it yet, but will do after meeting or tomorrow
05:22	Kamion	heno: is there anything left of livecd-access other than my gfxboot stufff?
05:22	Kamion	-f
05:22	Kamion	seb128: thanks
05:22	seb128	np
05:22	heno	Kamion: in a sense the Orca and onBoard inclusion ties into that
05:23	heno	as does the At-spi/sudo stuff
05:23	Kamion	right, I mean anything not mentioned yet
05:23	heno	and the gksudo grabbing focus thing
05:23	heno	^
05:23	Kamion	there is ubiquity-casper work there, right?
05:23	heno	Yes, just changing a few commands like, gnopernicus -> orca
05:24	heno	and gok -> onboard
05:24	Kamion	please https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/casper/+bug/50319
05:24	Ubugtu	Malone bug 50319 in casper "Accessibility options are not preserved on installs" [Untriaged,Unconfirmed]  
05:24	Kamion	er, s/please/plus/
05:24	heno	It would also be nice to get the defaults copied to the HD install
05:24	heno	right
05:24	Kamion	yes, can you make sure there's a casper bug filed about that?
05:24	Kamion	and subscribe me to it
05:24	heno	yep, cool
05:25	Kamion	ok, thanks heno
05:25	Kamion	Riddell: ?
05:25	Riddell	done:
05:25	Riddell	    distro sprint
05:25	Riddell	    processing e-mail backlog gathered during feature period
05:25	Riddell	    knot 2 testing
05:25	Riddell	    artwork packaging
05:25	Riddell	blocked:
05:25	Riddell	    ruby
05:25	Riddell	    kubuntu-accessibility: needs changes in casper by mithrandir
05:25	Riddell	todo:
05:25	Riddell	    updates to kubuntu-power-management
05:25	Riddell	    gather up list of priority bugs for edgy (and fix them)
05:25	Riddell	    KDE 4 packages
05:26	Kamion	Riddell: "langpacks-desktopfiles-kde - some packages need to be rebuilt" - has that been done?
05:26	Mithrandir	Riddell: if you want to speed up the kubuntu-accessibility stuff, give me a casper branch to merge from.
05:27	Riddell	Kamion: no, missed knot freeze, I can do it afterwards
05:27	Kamion	Riddell: ok
05:27	Riddell	Mithrandir: ok, I can do that
05:27	Mithrandir	Riddell: thanks, sorry for not acting on it earlier.
05:27	Kamion	Riddell: mdz's notes say "needs integration from colin (gfxboot)" for kubuntu-accessibility, but I think we covered that at the sprint
05:28	Riddell	Kamion: yes, that is fine
05:28	Kamion	all right
05:28	Kamion	kwwii: ?
05:28	kwwii	In addition to fixing parts of the work already included (kdm, power-manager icons,, etc.) I whipped up an amarok theme (thingking about using a totally different one though).
05:28	kwwii	Started to play with the different versions of the gradients. people like purple! (some like the yellow/orange more than others).
05:28	kwwii	In the end all of this is linked together, as the same colors are used in many different pieces of the artwork. Working on moving the entire theme to a blue-purple gradient and see peoples reactions.
05:29	kwwii	Andreas Lloyd will be at my home tomorrow, anthropologizing me :-)
05:29	Kamion	have fun ;-)
05:29	ogra	heh
05:29	kwwii	Will start making the guidance hardware database interface pics this week
05:29	Kamion	kwwii: "icons - maybe start during sprint, finish and upload before feature freeze" - is that still on track?
05:29	ogra	send greetings :)
05:29	kwwii	Kamion: we dropped that idea from edgy, moved more to edgy+1 (the new icons will come in kde4)
05:29	kwwii	The only really oustanding issue is the usplash...depending on what is possible we will make one soon
05:30	kwwii	guess I should update that spec
05:30	Riddell	kwwiis icons are included in my updates to kubuntu-power-management too
05:30	Kamion	kwwii: oh, ok; yes, please mark the spec as deferred and send mail to me/mdz about it
05:30	fschoep	kwwii: I contacted Matthew Garrett on usplash, but I don't have a definitive answer to what artwork to provide yet
05:30	kwwii	Kamion: cool, I talked to matt about this at the sprint...will do :-)
05:31	sladen	fschoep: the capabilities may not be set in stone yet
05:31	kwwii	fschoep: I think that we will end up with the old system again
05:31	Kamion	mjg59: ^--
05:31	kwwii	fschoep: perhaps removing the text or such, but I am not holding my breath for the new features
05:31	Seveas	fschoep, sladen: I have it working on 1024x768 with 256 colors for i386/amd64
=== neutrinomass [n=pandis@ppp39-173.adsl.forthnet.gr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:31	fschoep	OK, but my screen does only 800x600 (example)
05:31	Seveas	I need to borrow someones mac to implement ppc bits
05:32	Keybuk	mjg59 seemed confident about usplash at the weekend
05:32	Keybuk	though he was mostly distracted by compiz :)
05:32	kwwii	well, if there is improvements, it only makes things easier for the artists
05:32	Seveas	Keybuk, he still is (talked to him yesterday) -- the code just needs to be written
05:32	Keybuk	SMOP
05:32	Kamion	minor tweaks are ok after feature freeze, just not major reworks :-)
05:33	Seveas	Keybuk, (if interested, I've published my changes in a branch on lp)
05:33	ogra	right, its *edgy* :)
05:33	Kamion	ok, let's move detailed usplash discussion to -devel; thanks kwwii
05:33	Kamion	doko: ?
05:33	Keybuk	Kamion: I think we have to accept some uplash rework anyway, simply because of how other specs effect it (b-m-i)
05:33	Keybuk	uh, b-m-l ... b-m-i is a local airline
05:33	doko	- this week
05:33	doko	  - openoffice.org - OOo 2.0.4 rc1 builds, gstreamer support, i386 currently
05:33	doko	    doesn't work on amd64, ia32-libs updates,
05:33	doko	    start adding compat packages for dapper-proposed.
05:33	doko	  - openoffice.org-hyphenation: license status for the various languages is
05:33	doko	    clarified; will need to split the patterns in a free and a non-free part.
05:33	doko	  - edgy-toolchain: final classpath-0.92 backport uploaded to edgy
05:33	doko	  - upgraded amd64 server to edgy (but still OOo shows build failures, although
05:34	doko	    it builds in the data center :-/).
05:34	doko	- this week / next week:
05:34	doko	  - python2.5
05:34	doko	  - OOo
05:34	doko	  - knot-2 testing / upgrade amd64 workstation; need to get local OOo builds
05:34	doko	    going.
05:34	Kamion	mdz says:
05:34	Kamion	matthias
05:34	Kamion	        notes lost due to resume failure
05:34	Kamion	(well, damn)
05:34	ogra	Keybuk, and b-m-l is ?
05:34	Keybuk	ogra: boot-message-logging
05:34	ogra	ah
05:34	ogra	thanks
05:34	doko	Kamion: ?
05:34	Kamion	doko: (the notes I have from mdz's conversations with everyone at the sprint - apparently he lost yours)
05:35	ogra	doko, mdz lost the notes from your face to face talk in wiesbaden
05:35	doko	argh!
05:35	doko	he didn't tell me
05:35	Kamion	doko: so, I'm just trying to get a grip on the status of your specs hre
05:35	Kamion	here
05:36	Kamion	edgy-toolchain-roadmap> is there anything left? we shouldn't be doing much more toolchain work at this point
05:36	Kamion	edgyplusone-toolchain-roadmap I'm assuming is a special case and will start happening after FF
05:36	doko	we updated them at the sprint. should be up to date.
05:36	Kamion	ooo-langpacks is unknown? openoffice-spellchecking is not started?
05:36	doko	edgy-toolchain-roadmap: libc/libstdc++ ABI issues on powerpc and sparc; need to get jbailey
=== tschaboo [n=tschaboo@81-223-127-162.stpeter.xdsl-line.inode.at] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:37	Kamion	packaging-hints I suppose can drift
05:37	doko	edgyplusone-toolchain-roadmap: yes, we did want to open edgy+1 for the toolchain in the near future
05:37	Kamion	python-roadmap looks mostly done, although I've noticed the odd issue - are you going to do another pass to make sure all the stragglers are cleaned up?
05:37	Kamion	generally speaking I've been rejecting new packages that don't meet python-roadmap
05:37	Keybuk	me also
05:37	doko	ooo-langpacks: bounty for haggai
05:38	Kamion	I don't know if we'll actually open edgy+1, but the toolchain can always be staged somewhere
05:38	Kamion	when was that communicated to haggai
05:38	doko	python-roadmap: you'll get an update of syncs (without changelogs) for some more packages (and zope)
05:38	Kamion	?
05:38	Keybuk	Kamion: "PPA" :p
05:38	Kamion	ok (grumble :-))
05:38	doko	Kamion: did talk with mdz at the sprint and with haggai this week
05:39	Kamion	python2.5 you covered; let me/mdz know if that needs to be deferred
05:39	doko	openoffice-spellchecking: yes, these are the hypenation patterns
05:39	Kamion	likewise for ooo-langpacks
05:39	doko	python2.5: will do. won't become the default, but will rebuild the library packages to build the 2.5 extensions as well
05:40	doko	ooo-langpacks won't be ready for ff, but for the OOo 2.0.4 release (which is mid September)
05:40	Kamion	ok, I think that's covered it, then
05:41	Kamion	hmm, we'll have to discuss that as a FF exception nearer the time, if you haven't done so with mdz already
05:41	Kamion	ok, thanks doko
05:41	Kamion	mvo_: ?
05:41	mvo_	Did:
05:41	mvo_	* dev-meeting Wiesbaden
05:41	mvo_	* gnome-app-install upload with caching support (startup speedups), bugfixes
05:41	mvo_	* cdrom based dist-upgrades spec: implementation in dist-upgrader started, basic support ready and uploaded
05:41	mvo_	* notification-daemon: backport sizing problem fix, fixed (in edgy): sizing and shape problem for downward arrows, added experimental "composition" branch that makes notifications transparent
05:41	mvo_	* misc (bash cmd-not-found, some apt rdepends, language-selector, looked over apts breaks support, hplip upgrade problem, realplayer upload)
05:41	mvo_	* bug triage
05:41	mvo_	Blocked:
05:41	mvo_	* review of the "AlwaysEnableUniverseMultiverse" spec
05:41	mvo_	Will do:
05:41	mvo_	* more work on the cdrom based dist-ugprades spec, finish update-notifier support and get in touch with kamion about the best way to integrate it onto the CD
05:41	mvo_	* go over the outstanding apt issues/bugs
05:41	mvo_	* add "mark manually installed" button to synaptic (control the auto-installed information)
05:41	Kamion	oh, that's another one for my to-do
05:41	Kamion	  cdrom-based-dist-upgrades: Add upgrader to CD images.
05:42	mvo_	:)
05:42	Kamion	so most of your specs are "beta available"; is there a substantial amount more to be done on any of them?
05:42	mvo_	Kamion: I opened a bug and asked for advice about the place to put it in the build-scripts, if I get feedback there I should be able to add it myself
05:43	Kamion	mvo_: ok, noted, I'll get back to you on that
05:43	mvo_	the recommends-supports needs some more work to make it possible to turn it only on for selected packages/package-ranges (e.g. only meta-package or only main)
05:43	mvo_	the dependency-removal needs better support in aptitude and synaptic to be perfect
05:43	Kamion	recommends-supports> that sounds like it might be worse to have in an incomplete state than not at all; send me/mdz mail if it needs to be deferred
05:44	mvo_	but it is in good shape and I think I can get some more done within the week
05:44	Kamion	dependency-removal can stay in there in partial form, I imagine
05:44	mvo_	Kamion: it is complete, it is just not enabled by default yet. I talked with mdz about enabling it only for partial packages by default
05:45	Kamion	ah, so at least people can do --with-recommends explicitly, ok
05:45	mvo_	yes
05:45	Kamion	anything left to do on the popcon specs?
05:46	mvo_	beside advocating to get more people to enable it, no :)
05:46	ogra	btw, ltsp has a popcon mode included for thin clients ;)
05:46	mvo_	someone should blog about that great popcon thing
05:46	Kamion	I imagine those can be marked Implemented then
05:46	mvo_	ok
05:46	dholbach	mvo_: didn't you just create a new blog? :)
05:46	ogra	he did ????
=== mvo_ blushes
05:47	ogra	he needs a hackergochi !
05:47	mvo_	dholbach: *shhhsssss*
05:47	Kamion	command-not-found I've seen activity on today
05:47	Kamion	apt-ddtp - that had some Soyuz work done, is it mostly complete?
05:48	mvo_	Kamion: command-not-found is in the archive, if it gets installed it should work out of the box, its a matter of fine tuning the database now
05:48	mvo_	apt-ddtp is complete as well (modulo bugs and automatic imports/export of the translations, that is currently a manual process, I do the uploads)
05:49	Kamion	ok, we have six more people to go and 12 minutes to do that in, eek
05:49	Kamion	thanks mvo
05:49	mvo_	thanks Kamion
05:49	Kamion	ogra: ?
05:49	ogra	* this-week:
05:49	ogra	- thinclient-local-devices - finished, hunting last bugs, included in knot2
05:49	ogra	- student-control-panel-completion - pete savage has nearly done the complete spec implementation (three cheers for him !!!), need to review the code
05:49	ogra	- ltsp-login-and-session-handling - good progress, ldm side done, the 20 line server bit needs packaging
05:49	ogra	- ltsp-dhcpd-autogeneration - slow progress ready for knot 3
05:49	mvo_	ogra: you have 2 minutes :P
05:49	ogra	- fully-automatic-swap-server - reassigned to rodarvus
05:49	ogra	- knot 2 preparation
05:49	ogra	* next-week:
05:49	ogra	- implement ltsp-dhcpd-autogeneration
05:49	ogra	- finish ltsp-login-and-session-handling
05:49	ogra	- finish ltsp-dhcpd-autogeneration
05:49	ogra	- merge remaining debian changes into ltsp
05:49	ogra	- fix gnome-session fade and logout handling on thin clients (and see if the latter is appropriate to backport to dapper)
05:49	ogra	- look into gnome-screensaver GL hacks supression
05:49	ogra	* other specs:
05:49	ogra	- ltsp-daily-image-tarballs - mdz requested i should do a meeting with infinity before feature freeze to run it on the livefs build machines (to be scheduled)
05:49	ogra	- ltsp-convergence: (no progress, multi distro meeting sept. 14th-19th)
05:49	ogra	- ltsp-netboot-enhancement: (no further progress debian patches applied locally)
05:50	ogra	mvo_, done :P
05:50	rodarvus	dude, you have a lot to do next week :D
05:50	ogra	right
05:50	ogra	well, the gnome-screensaver stuff is a bugfix ...
05:50	Kamion	I've made a note about the meeting with infinity; perhaps you could mail him and cc me, if you haven't already
05:50	ogra	but likely intrusive
05:50	Kamion	implement *and* finish ltsp-dhcpd-autogeneration? :-)
05:50	Riddell	and up to 45MB to remove from the edubuntu CDs
05:50	ogra	Kamion, i havent yet, wanted to meet up next week some day
05:51	Kamion	ltsp-login-and-session-handling is currently marked Not Started; I'll move it to good progress
05:51	ogra	Kamion, right, now that i have a CD thats easier ;)
05:51	ogra	thanks
05:51	ogra	i think i'm done tomorrow ... its quite trivial
05:52	Kamion	ok, spec status looks manageable then, thanks
05:52	ogra	Riddell, i dont care for the live cds yet ... its not what we ship, so its not highest prio for me
05:52	Kamion	rodarvus: ?
05:52	rodarvus	Done:
05:52	rodarvus	* Return from developers Sprint, recovering from X incident
05:52	rodarvus	* Ubuntu OLPC headhunting (two positions, ping me if you know someone)
05:52	rodarvus	* work on fully-automatic-swap-server
05:52	rodarvus	* Ubuntu OLPC administrativia
05:52	rodarvus	Todo:
05:52	rodarvus	* X security updates are possibly needed, need to check those with pitti
05:52	rodarvus	* finish fully-automatic-swap-server (hopefully today)
05:52	rodarvus	* more headhunting
05:52	rodarvus	* Lots of documentation and administrativia for Ubuntu OLPC
05:52	rodarvus	* Some X.Org uploads (driver updates, last aiglx modifications)
05:52	rodarvus	* X "current status" email, describing whats done, whats missing, and what would be nice to have for edgy+1 (so someone can pick up from here)
05:53	Kamion	sounds good. We'll give you more specs next time round ;-)
05:53	ogra	haha
05:53	rodarvus	as my weekly report tries to mention, I won't be able to give X much attention from now on (this is being repeted for the last few weeks :) ). Help on stuff that needs fixing before edgy is released is appreciated
05:54	ogra	Kamion, i tried that .. and then he got X :)
05:54	mvo_	rodarvus: we enable composite by default now, would it make sense to run a xcompmgr by default then too if we detect DRI?
=== Adri2000 [n=Adri2000@unaffiliated/adri2000] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:54	Kamion	we're in a much better position now with respect to X/Debian merging than we were in edgy
05:54	ogra	yep
05:54	rodarvus	I'll have my hands quite full with OLPC stuff from now on
05:54	ogra	kudos rodarvus
05:54	Mithrandir	Kamion: s/edgy/dapper/?
05:54	Kamion	er, yes, dapper
05:54	Mithrandir	rodarvus: can we discuss more about how to do X for the rest of the cycle in #u-x afterwards?
=== imbrandon [n=brandon@ubuntu/member/pdpc.active.imbrandon] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== dholbach hugs rodarvus
05:55	rodarvus	Mithrandir, sure, would be great
05:55	rodarvus	thanks guys :)
05:55	Kamion	mvo_: feels like edgy+1, but is a discussion for elsewhere anyway
05:55	Kamion	thanks rodarvus
05:55	Kamion	Keybuk: ?
05:55	Keybuk	Done:
05:55	Keybuk	* OMGWTFBBQ
05:55	Keybuk	* ReplacementInit: in the archive, working on full compatibility for sysvinit so that we can replace that package with only elmo noticing
05:55	Keybuk	* BootMessageLogging: stalled pending completion of RI (which implements it)
05:55	Keybuk	To do:
05:55	rodarvus	mvo_, I don't think xcompmgr is necessary, is it?
05:55	Keybuk	* Figure out what I'm doing to the console that kills X
05:55	Keybuk	* Split sysvinit into sysvinit and sysvutils (pidof, killall5, last, etc.)
05:55	Keybuk	* Upload upstart that c/r sysvinit
05:56	Riddell	lots of sladenporn from the BBQ, but no keybuk porn
05:56	Keybuk	Riddell: hmm?
05:56	Riddell	later :)
=== ogra guesses Keybuk sat in a cornet munching some food and hacking on upstart ;)
05:56	Kamion	Keybuk: c/r sysvinit and depends: sysvutils, I guess
05:56	ogra	*corner
05:56	rodarvus	mvo_, we'd need to update it to latest version and promote to main too (we can talk about this later if you want, though)
05:57	Keybuk	Kamion: the latter has to be an essential package anyway, but yes
05:57	mvo_	rodarvus: I would like to talk about that at some point (maybe tomorrow, I will leave in ~30min)
05:57	Kamion	ok, looking good. what's the probability that we have to defer replacement-init at this point?
05:57	rodarvus	sure, lets do it tomorrow
05:57	Keybuk	Kamion: at this point, I'm really happy with it, so I don't think we'll need to at all
05:58	Keybuk	the main blocker now is just a code review from martin
05:58	Kamion	excellent
05:58	Keybuk	I've completely implemented runlevel compatibility
05:58	Kamion	I'll do some code review early next week as well; remind me
05:59	Keybuk	so "telinit 4" works for the freaks, and they can grovel in utmp for the runlevel, etc.
05:59	ogra	pitto will have a hard week next week
05:59	ogra	*pitti
05:59	Kamion	thanks Keybuk, we'd better move on
05:59	Kamion	seb128: ?
05:59	seb128	This week:
05:59	seb128	* played with aiglx, compiz, etc
05:59	seb128	* packaged goocanvas, pygoocanvas, looked at uslab (contributor work on the new panel applet from Novel)
05:59	seb128	* bug triage, bug triage, bug triage
05:59	seb128	* some GNOME updates and desktop bugs fixed
05:59	seb128	.
05:59	seb128	Next week:
05:59	seb128	* keep bug triaging
05:59	seb128	* GNOME 2.16.0
=== Kamion finds himself at a loss for what to do with no specs whose status he can check up on ;)
06:01	seb128	hehe :)
06:01	Kamion	how are desktop bugs holding?
06:01	seb128	we are slightly catching up I think
06:02	seb128	but there is still lot of them, we could use some extra hand
06:02	dholbach	we're barely able to stem the tide
06:02	Kamion	I know the feeling
06:02	Kamion	ok, well if anyone reading has spare time ...
06:02	Kamion	thanks seb128
06:03	Kamion	sfllaw: here? (worth another try)
06:03	Kamion	Mithrandir: ?
06:03	Mithrandir	sane-installer-keyboard: needs d-i upload, will do post-knot, as well as testing
06:03	Mithrandir	live-cd-write-as-you-go:  no progress, will rescue
06:03	Mithrandir	livecd-sessions: defer
06:03	Mithrandir	misc: knot-2 release preparations - almost there now.
06:03	Mithrandir	next week: live-cd-write-as-you-go: get it implemented, get the kde accessibility stuff implemented
06:03	Kamion	Mithrandir: sane-installer-keyboard needs a ubiquity patch too
06:04	Mithrandir	Kamion: yeah, I know.
06:04	Mithrandir	I'm a bit too good at keeping statuses in my head rather than in launchpad.
06:04	Kamion	live-cd-write-as-you-go> depends on how much work it is; if it won't make it by FF, better defer it concentrate on finishing up everything else
06:04	sfllaw	Kamion: Yeah, I'm here.  I'm ill.
06:04	Kamion	s/concentrate/and concentrate/
06:04	sfllaw	Just woke up.  Had a bad night.
06:05	Kamion	oh, but live-cd-write-as-you-go was a fallback from livecd-sessions, hmm
06:05	Mithrandir	Kamion: yeah.  I have to have something to do after FF too, if not fix bugs, then what? ;-P
06:05	Kamion	Mithrandir: please mark livecd-sessions deferred in LP if you haven't already
06:05	Kamion	Mithrandir: by definition, not features :)
06:05	Mithrandir	Kamion: will do (haven't yet)
06:05	Kamion	(and send mail to me/mdz about the deferral)
06:06	Mithrandir	willdo
06:06	Kamion	thanks for your good work on knot-2
06:06	Mithrandir	I hope the freeze has been less painful for people this time around.
06:06	Kamion	sfllaw: ok, you're excused then, get well soon
06:07	rodarvus	Mithrandir, knot-2 was really great compared to knot-1. congratulations
06:07	Mithrandir	rodarvus: it's not out yet. :-)
=== cyphase [n=cyphase@adsl-75-41-112-68.dsl.pltn13.sbcglobal.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:07	Kamion	Mithrandir: also 50319 and copying accessibility defaults; let me know if you need me to take over either/both of those
06:07	rodarvus	Mithrandir, will it take another 5 days? :)
06:07	Kamion	50319 is at least half mine anyway
06:07	ogra	rodarvus, its not even fully tested
=== BenC raises his hand
06:08	Mithrandir	rodarvus: don't jinx it
06:08	Kamion	BenC: yep, I think it's your turn now
06:08	BenC	libata: Defered for edgy+1. UUID parts implemented for edgy (some bootloaders still need attention, but not as pressing an issue).
06:08	BenC	kernel crash dumps: kexec-tools uploaded, need to add script for dropping to shell in initramfs and capturing the crash info.
06:08	BenC	The rest of the kernel: Coming along well. Unfortunately, I was not able to get the big shiny new kernel update done in time for Knot-2, but it will be there for people to update to.
06:08	BenC	Work last week: kernel bugs
06:08	BenC	Work next week: them kernel bugs still
06:08	BenC	.
06:08	BenC	Have done a lot of work getting dapper bugs tested on edgy. Will continue this so that we can see what bugs are still affecting us, and which are fixed simply because edgy kernel is newer. Bugs that are still present across dapper/edgy will be pushed upstream. If bugs are fixed by edgy, will attempt to backport fixes for dapper.
06:08	BenC	just want to make sure I wasn't forgotten like week before last :)
06:08	Mithrandir	Kamion: I'll grab 50319
06:08	Kamion	we should really get at least yaboot done before FF
06:09	BenC	yeah, I have work-in-progress in yabooyt
06:09	BenC	which will transfer easily to silo
06:09	Kamion	good - I ran out of time for it :(
06:10	Kamion	BenC: is the above all that's left from linux-kernel-crash-dumps?
06:10	ogra	lets not do a 4 month cycle again !
06:10	Kamion	amen
06:11	BenC	Kamion: now that I figured out why my kexec-tools upload wasn't getting accepted, all that's needed is that script for initramfs...should be rather simple
06:11	Kamion	BenC: ok, I'll mark it good progress then
06:12	Kamion	right, and I think we're done
06:12	Kamion	any other business before we close?
06:12	ogra	only 12mins over :)
06:13	Kamion	ok, let's move anything else to #ubuntu-devel
06:13	Kamion	thank you all for your time; adjourned
06:13	ogra	thanks Kamion
=== Keybuk [n=scott@quest.netsplit.com] has left #ubuntu-meeting [""]
=== welshbyte [n=welshbyt@cpc3-cwma2-0-0-cust276.swan.cable.ntl.com] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
06:13	fschoep	OK, thanks Kamion, everyone.
06:13	doko	thanks
06:14	seb128	thank you

</pre>
