{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-12-10-16.00.html

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** ACTION: gaughen or jamespage or smoser: get all server blueprints represented at /topic-t-servercloud-overview.html (smoser, 16:04)
* T Development Opening
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, May 31st at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:01] <smoser> * gaughen file bug with status.u.c to get ubuntu server topic tracking in there (carry over)
[16:02] <smoser> gaughen, is that http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-t/group/topic-t-servercloud-overview.html ?
[16:02] <jamespage> we appear to still be missing quite a few bp's - I'm not sure whether its status of what
[16:02] <smoser> I think it is, so if no one objects i'm calling that one done. if someone does object, bother me later. moving on.
[16:03] <smoser> missing bps ?
[16:03] <smoser> oh, yeah, we do.
[16:03] <smoser> hm..
[16:03] <smoser> well, i'll carry that over then.
[16:04] <smoser> #ACTION gaughen or jamespage or smoser: get all server blueprints represented at /topic-t-servercloud-overview.html
[16:04] <meetingology> ACTION: gaughen or jamespage or smoser: get all server blueprints represented at /topic-t-servercloud-overview.html
[16:04] <smoser>  * everyone look at grep-merges output and merge/sync as much and early as possible
[16:04] <smoser> if you've been doing the above, please continue. if you've not, please start looking atmerges.
[16:05] <smoser> merges are a good way to get started with ubuntu development and someone (smoser) can help you if you want to get started and need to find osmething that would make a good target for that.
[16:06] <smoser>   * jamespage to send email on server seed [carry over)
[16:06] <jamespage> done
[16:06] <smoser> that looks to me to be done at done at https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2013-December/037849.html
[16:06] <smoser> #topic Trusty Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Trusty Development
[16:06] <smoser> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/ReleaseSchedule
[16:06] <smoser> we do have an alpha1 coming up on the 19th
[16:07] <smoser> and we're planning on alpha1 cloud images.
[16:07] <smoser> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-t-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
[16:07] <smoser> #subtopic Release Bugs
[16:07] <smoser> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-t-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
[16:08] <smoser> i dont really want to walk through stuff there.
[16:10] <smoser> please just take a look at those bugs and if you *should* be working on them, do , and if you want to help out, pleease feel free for that.
[16:10] <smoser> #subtopic Blueprints
[16:10] <smoser> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-t/group/topic-t-servercloud-overview.html
[16:10] <smoser> as pointed out, we need to get that list updated.
[16:10] <smoser> jamespage and I and gaughen went through the list last week, and go tmost into reasonable order.
[16:11] <hallyn_> we might want https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/core-1311-cgroup-manager tracked there
[16:11] <smoser> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/?searchtext=servercloud-1311
[16:12] <smoser> please follow up with gaughen to get that done, hallyn.
[16:13] <caribou> did someone had a chance to congratulate hallyn_ on making lwn.net's first page with that topic ?
[16:13] <smoser> :). lets hold that to the open discussion.
[16:13] <caribou> smoser: sorry, I coudln't resist
[16:13] <smoser> so for blueprints, the work item there is that you should work on your blueprints and the material they reference.
[16:14] <smoser> jamespage, or i or gaughen or jcastro maybe will make sure they get into that pretty tracker
[16:14] <smoser> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:14] <smoser> caribou, now its your turn to talk.
[16:14] <caribou> smoser: nothing on my end, thank you
[16:14] <smoser> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
[16:15] <smoser> psivaa,
[16:15] <psivaa> smoser: no updates from us
[16:15] <smoser> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:15] <smb> Nothing exiting from here. Finally completed the Xen MRE updates, starting with security, maybe return with more MRE. Xen from libvirt in Trusty currently broken. Looking at zul's ppa of 1.2.0 still seems to come up blank. ;) Started to look on bug 1258631.
[16:15] <ubottu> bug 1258631 in linux (Ubuntu Trusty) "instances fails to register GPT partition entries on virtio devices" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1258631
[16:15] <smoser> yeah, thanks for that smb
[16:16] <smoser> also, sforeshee did a bit of investigation for me on viability of a "server" kernel
[16:17] <utlemming> smoser: is there a bug for tracking that investigation?
[16:17] <smoser> the end goal would b to have a cloud image and default 'server' kernel that were the same. and that would give us a cloud image that "just worked" on most server hardware also.
[16:18] <smoser> this would likely cost us some size in the cloud image, but would make us more functional.
[16:18] <smoser> investigation continues.
[16:18] <smoser> utlemming, there isn't a bug. i can forward you (and anyone else) what sforeshee sent me on it.
[16:18] <smoser> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
[16:18] <rbasak> Nothing to report. Any questions for me?
[16:19] <smoser> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:20] <smoser> #subtopic congratulations to the super rock star hallyn_
[16:20] <hallyn_> sigh
[16:20] <smoser> https://lwn.net/Articles/575672/
[16:20]  * rharper claps
[16:20] <hallyn_> all right all right
[16:20] <smoser> hallyn_, why can't you just use systemd ?
[16:20]  * smoser ducks
[16:20] <hallyn_> smoser won't let me
[16:20] <smoser> touche
[16:21] <smoser> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:21] <smoser> anyone have any thing here?
[16:21] <smoser> #topic Announce next meeting date and time
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date and time
[16:23] <smoser> the next meeting will be held in this same place exactly 603403 seconds from now.
[16:24] <caribou> smoser: is that octal or decimal ?
[16:24] <rbasak> caribou: base 10.
[16:24] <caribou> rbasak: roger that
[16:24] <smoser> hmm..
[16:24] <smoser> $ echo "next meeting is in: $(($(date +%s --utc --date="Dec 17 16:00") - $(date +%s))) seconds"
[16:24] <smoser> next meeting is in: 603313 seconds
[16:25] <smoser> caribou, feel free to fix that to do binary if you'd like.
[16:25] <smoser> next meeting:
[16:25] <smoser> Tue Dec 17 16:00:00 EST 2013
[16:25] <rbasak> caribou: http://i.stack.imgur.com/ldNco.png :)
[16:25] <smoser> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[16:25] <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Dec 10 16:25:38 2013 UTC.
[16:25] <meetingology> Minutes (wiki):        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-12-10-16.00.moin.txt
[16:25] <meetingology> Minutes (html):        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-12-10-16.00.html
[16:26] <smoser> rbasak, nice.
</pre>
