{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Please take responsibility for an item if you are adding it, thus we can turn to you when the item crops up. :)

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Open Discussion.
** Please discuss my comment to a user response on your mailserver wiki page - "choose webmail for main" - I put a "me too" to this subject and provided some additional information. I will join discussion if I can. Horde Ingo has the best web interface sieve support, usable by a sieve novice, only by clicking together some rules. The whole Horde Groupware Webmail Edition, which includes this package, is additional a very good choice providing a mature and up-to-date Groupware / Webmailer. (comment by <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mpathy|Markus Majer]]</nowiki> (mpathy) with reference to <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-MailServer]]</nowiki>)
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== High Availability Team =====

RoAkSoAx reported that the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ha|ubuntu-ha team]]</nowiki> had been created in Launchpad as well as a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuHighAvailabilityTeam|wiki page]]</nowiki> for the team and an IRC channel (#ubuntu-ha) on Freenode. The first task of the team is to focus on <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ha/+packagebugs|triaging bugs]]</nowiki> for the packages related to High Availability. He also found a few how-tos on the Ubuntu Help wiki dealing with creating highly available services. Most of the content is relatively accurate.

===== Features for karmic =====

mathiaz reminded to register blueprints for topics that should be discussed at UDS. dendrobates suggested that their names should start with server-karmic-community- so that he doesn't miss them and can schedule them.

===== a webmail in main =====

There was some discussion about including a webmail in main. This topic has already been covered for the last LTS. A session at UDS should be dedicated to this topic again.

===== Merges =====

mathiaz reminded that the karmic repositories are opened. The Ubuntu development team is now focusing on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/Merging|merging]]</nowiki> packages from Debian. <nowiki>[[https://merges.ubuntu.com/|Merge-o-Matic]]</nowiki> is the central place to get started. kirkland reminded that merging packages is a good way to gain experience for MOTU membership via the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SponsorshipProcess|sponsorship process]]</nowiki>.

RoAkSoAx asked about a list of merges related to the server team. mathiaz said he would prepared such a list.

===== evolution mapi plugin =====

Pres-Gas asked about the evolution mapi plugin. mathiaz said that testers are looked for in order to test the plugin in an Exchange environment. Bugs should be filed in launchpad so that seb128 or jelmer can look at them.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, May 12th at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:06] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[16:06] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:06. The chair is mathiaz.
[16:06] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:06] <nealmcb> <o>
[16:06] <mathiaz> today's agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:06] <mathiaz> last week minutes:
[16:06] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20090428
[16:07] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] High Availability Team
[16:07] <MootBot> New Topic:  High Availability Team
[16:07] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: how is this going?
[16:07] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: IIUC the ubuntu-ha team has been created
[16:07] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, well the team has been created: https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ha
[16:07] <RoAkSoAx> we've setup a wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuHighAvailabilityTeam and #ubuntu-ha
[16:08] <nijaba> o/
[16:08] <RoAkSoAx> many people have join, however they seem not to be participating in the mailing list yet
[16:08] <RoAkSoAx> here's a list of packages that we'll work on: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-ha/+packagebugs
[16:09] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: great - that seems like a very good start
[16:09] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: you may wanna send an email to ubuntu-ha@ to explain what is the goal for the next few weeks
[16:10] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, yes, I already send an email for some feedback on clustering tools, but nobody has answered yet, i guess i'll resend it
[16:10] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx:  ie trying to get a handle on the bugs related to the ubuntu-ha packages
[16:10] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, regarding on our goals, we are working on it with ivoks
[16:10] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: great - start small
[16:11] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: once you get things rolling you can think about greater things
[16:11] <RoAkSoAx> indeed, step by step
[16:12] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: great - it seems that you're getting started
[16:12] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: and already have the first task (bug triaging) figured out
[16:12] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: it seems to be in good hands :)
[16:13] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: anything else related to the ubuntu ha team?
[16:13] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, yes, and I requested motu mentoring and ivoks is my mentor... so we are gonna work together on packaging
[16:13] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, and that's about it
[16:13] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: great - once you've get a handle on the bugs, you'll have a better picture of what can be fixed in the packages
[16:14] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: ivoks will be able to sponsor most of the fixes in the packages
[16:14] <RoAkSoAx> awesome
[16:14] <mathiaz> great - let's move on
[16:14] <mathiaz> another related item: wiki pages
[16:14] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: ^^?
[16:15] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: did you get a chance to review the Ubuntu community wiki pages?
[16:15] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, yes I've identified some howto's such as setting up HA NFS server, HA Apache servers
[16:15] <RoAkSoAx> I just identified 4 howto's related to HA
[16:16] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: great - did you have time to review them?
[16:16] <ivoks> sorry for being late
[16:17] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, yes, one is old, the others are kinda good, but personally, if there's a plan to include them in the server guide somday, i think we'll first consider howto's on how to setup the HA tools rather than services
[16:17] <RoAkSoAx> but they look good
[16:18] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: ok - seems like this topic could be a discussion for the ubuntu-ha@ mailing list
[16:18] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, k
[16:18] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: which documentation could be useful and gather the ideas under the Ideas section on the wiki page
[16:19] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: may be someone will have time to write a wiki page about it
[16:19] <mathiaz> ok - anything else related to the Ubuntu HA team?
[16:19] <mathiaz> ivoks: ^^?
[16:20] <ivoks> nothing much, we just started
[16:20] <mathiaz> ivoks: agreed - and it seems that there is already a plan in place (bug triaging)
[16:20] <mathiaz> it looks good then :)
[16:20] <mathiaz> let's move on
[16:20] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Features for karmic
[16:20] <MootBot> New Topic:  Features for karmic
[16:21] <mathiaz> we're in full swing for UDS preparation
[16:21] <mathiaz> if you have ideas that needs to be discussed register a blueprint in LP
[16:21] <mathiaz> Its name should start with server-karmic-
[16:21] <mathiaz> and should be proposed for the Karmic sprint
[16:22] <pschulz01> o/
[16:22] <mathiaz> pschulz01: sure - ?
[16:22] <nealmcb>  I was curious who put up the webmail item in the open discussion item of our agenda.  I tracked it down and added some attributions to the wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting  But I guess the poster (mpathy) isn't around....
[16:23] <dendrobates> mathiaz: could we name them server-karmic-community-*
[16:23] <mathiaz> nealmcb: right - it's a leftover from last week
[16:23] <ivoks> er...
[16:23] <ivoks> dendrobates: that sounds... wierd
[16:23] <pschulz01> I'm going through the dovecot-postfix install.. but are there any plans for a postfix-mailman ?
[16:23] <dendrobates> mathiaz: I've alreadyt reviewed the others and don't want to miss any community ones.
[16:24] <mathiaz> dendrobates: ah ok.
[16:24] <ScottK> Last time we looked at webmail in Main (Hardy, IIRC) there wasn't a 'good' webmail package that the security team was willing to have in Main.
[16:24] <pschulz01> (or is there a prefered alternative list management software?)
[16:24] <dendrobates> ivoks: I'm fine with any naming scheme that lets me find them.
[16:24] <ivoks> dendrobates: hehe ok
[16:25] <mathiaz> dendrobates: right - it's hard to figure out the new ones from the one you've already reviewed and rejected?
[16:26] <mathiaz> ScottK: right - IIRC there is a blueprint about that
[16:26] <mathiaz> so the webmail discussion should probably be taking place during UDS
[16:26] <dendrobates> I haven't rejected any.
[16:26] <pschulz01> otherwise I'll put together a blueprint.
[16:26] <dendrobates> mathiaz: and yes.
[16:26] <mathiaz> meanwhile additional research can be done
[16:27] <mathiaz> with the results added to the wiki page
[16:27] <ivoks> i was planing on webmail inside general mail related discussion
[16:27] <mathiaz> pschulz01: ^^ it seems that your proposal would fit in this topic
[16:27] <nealmcb> ScottK: do you recall any specific security feedback on horde ingo that you can pass on to mpathy?
[16:28] <mathiaz> ivoks: right - make sure a blueprint is created for that
[16:28] <ivoks> horde, as squirrelmail are... well, ugly
[16:28] <ivoks> :)
[16:28] <ScottK> nealmcb: I don't recall what packages we discussed.  It was quite a while ago.
[16:28] <pschulz01> mathiaz: Agreed
[16:28] <ivoks> mathiaz: i will
[16:28] <pschulz01> ivoks: +1
[16:28] <zul> whoa...squrrelmail there is a flashback
[16:28] <mathiaz> dendrobates: when will a draft of the schedule be available?
[16:29] <dendrobates> mathiaz: at some point, yes.  I'll find out when.
[16:29] <mathiaz> dendrobates: IIRC last time we got the first draft way too late
[16:29] <mathiaz> and lack time to get prepared
[16:30] <mathiaz> dendrobates: or is there a least of accepted blueprints?
[16:30] <nealmcb> ScottK: do you remember where the hardy webmail conversation took place?
[16:30] <mathiaz> dendrobates: so that the list of topics to be discussed is known (even if we don't know when)?
[16:30] <ScottK> nealmcb: It was in the server team room when we were doing the big discussion about lists of packages to add to Main.
[16:31] <nealmcb> so at uds
[16:31] <ivoks> in boston?
[16:31] <ScottK> Yes
[16:31] <ivoks> yes, we concluded that roundcube was too insecure
[16:31] <ivoks> kees said that :)
[16:31] <ScottK> Recent events have not caused me to revise that opinion.
[16:31] <mathiaz> IIRC there was a wiki page covering this discussion
[16:32] <mathiaz> anyway we can research things in preparation for a UDS discussion
[16:32] <ScottK> Just whoever is researching should have a good argumenat why the security team shouldn't faint at the prosepect.
[16:33]  * jdstrand is poised to faint
[16:34]  * nealmcb gets out the smelling salts
[16:34] <ivoks> all webmails are security problems
[16:34] <mathiaz> allright - anything else related to blueprints and UDS preparation?
[16:34] <ivoks> err... make that 'all php webmails are security problems'
[16:34] <nealmcb> ivoks: is the word "webmail" necessary there?
[16:34] <ivoks> nealmcb: not really
[16:34] <Pres-Gas> alpine web version?
[16:35] <mathiaz> nope - let's move on
[16:35] <mathiaz> and defer the php security discussion to another forum
[16:35] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Merges
[16:35] <MootBot> New Topic:  Merges
[16:35] <mathiaz> Now that the karmic repostories are open for general consumption, we're focusing on merges
[16:36] <mathiaz> Merge-O-Matic is your friend
[16:36] <mathiaz> https://merges.ubuntu.com/
[16:36] <kirkland> merge, merge, merge if you want to make MOTU ;-)
[16:37] <RoAkSoAx> where can we find a list of merges related only to the server team?
[16:37] <mathiaz> there are lists of outstanding packages for all the components
[16:37] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: I'll work on this one again
[16:37] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, ok cool :)
[16:37] <ivoks> RoAkSoAx did a good job with drbd merge
[16:37] <mathiaz> If you don't have upload privileges, prepare a merge and use the sponsorship process
[16:37] <kirkland> i owe RoAkSoAx a review of QEMU
[16:38] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SponsorshipProcess
[16:38] <RoAkSoAx> indeed
[16:38] <ivoks> kirkland: bug number? i'm his mentor :)
[16:38] <kirkland> ivoks: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qemu/+bug/371879
[16:38] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 371879 in qemu "Please merge qemu 0.10.3-1 (universe) from Debian unstable" [Undecided,Confirmed]
[16:38] <kirkland> ivoks: be my guest :-)
[16:38] <ivoks> tnx
[16:39] <mathiaz> As kirkland just mentionned, merging is a good way to get packaging experience to get MOTU status
[16:40] <mathiaz> There is also an overview of what merging is about: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/Merging
[16:40] <mathiaz> And there should be some wiki pages having practical examples of merging packages
[16:41] <mathiaz> IIRC there were a couple of sessions given about Mergin package during the previous Ubuntu Developers Week.
[16:41] <mathiaz> Any question related to the merging process?
[16:43] <mathiaz> nope - let's move on then
[16:43] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open discussion
[16:43] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open discussion
[16:43] <mathiaz> Anything else to add?
[16:44] <Pres-Gas> o/
[16:44] <mathiaz> Pres-Gas: sure - ?
[16:46] <Pres-Gas> I thought I saw meeting minutes regarding the openchange mapi plugins...has then I did not see anything more after release.  Is the server team the go-to on that now or another team?
[16:46] <Pres-Gas> I would love to help out.
[16:46]  * Pres-Gas is quickly looking for those minutes...
[16:46] <mathiaz> Pres-Gas: are you refering to the mapi plugins for evolution?
[16:47] <ivoks> i couldn't test openchange mapi in evolution cause of environment... it was firewalled or something...
[16:47]  * pschulz01 thinks it wass about 6 weeks ago.
[16:47] <Pres-Gas> mathiaz: evolution-mapi
[16:47] <Pres-Gas> http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&ct=res&cd=3&url=http%3A%2F%2Fubuntuserver.wordpress.com%2F2009%2F03%2F10%2Fserver-team-20090310-meeting-minutes%2F&ei=bF8ASo38C-qElAfbwbDlBw&usg=AFQjCNHXrSllChNHE6y_EDItBnOt-H8RnA
[16:47] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&ct=res&cd=3&url=http%3A%2F%2Fubuntuserver.wordpress.com%2F2009%2F03%2F10%2Fserver-team-20090310-meeting-minutes%2F&ei=bF8ASo38C-qElAfbwbDlBw&usg=AFQjCNHXrSllChNHE6y_EDItBnOt-H8RnA
[16:47] <Pres-Gas> ahhhh
[16:47] <Pres-Gas> sorry
[16:48] <Pres-Gas> http://osdir.com/ml/ubuntu-server/2009-03/msg00030.html
[16:48] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://osdir.com/ml/ubuntu-server/2009-03/msg00030.html
[16:48] <Pres-Gas> Better
[16:48] <mathiaz> Pres-Gas: right - we were looking for testers
=== _neversfelde is now known as neversfelde
[16:48] <mathiaz> Pres-Gas: seb128 is looking after the evolution package
[16:49] <Pres-Gas> ivoks, I may have an environment suitable for testing.  Exchange 2007 ADS on server 2008
[16:49] <mathiaz> Pres-Gas: however he doesn't have access to an exchange environement
[16:49] <mathiaz> Pres-Gas: thus we were looking for testers that have access to such an environement
[16:50] <james_w> Pres-Gas: jelmer packages evolution-mapi, samba4, openchange etc., so you could email him if you want to help out on that side
[16:50] <mathiaz> Pres-Gas: If you have access to such an environemnt testing new versions of the plugin would be helpful
[16:51] <Pres-Gas> Hmmm...I think I saw seb128's page in launchpad.  I may be able to get access to a test account in our environment...I will talk to my resources and get with those people.
[16:51] <Pres-Gas> I do support at a University and we have gotten a number of contacts regarding this
[16:51] <mathiaz> Pres-Gas: great - if you can get a test account and conduct some testing of the development version of the plugin that would be helpful
[16:52] <Pres-Gas> I will get with jelmer and seb128
[16:53] <mathiaz> Pres-Gas: great
[16:53] <mathiaz> anything else?
[16:53] <Pres-Gas> Thanks, I was not sure if it was appropriate...it is the server team and I only saw one mention of it in the minutes
[16:56] <mathiaz> all right - if there isn't anything else, time to wrap up
[16:56] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:56] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:56] <mathiaz> next week, same time, same place?
[16:56] <ivoks> +
[16:56] <sommer> +1 :_)
[16:58] <mathiaz> great - so see you all in one week, same place, same time
[16:59] <mathiaz> in the mean time have fun with merging packages from debian into karmic
[16:59] <mathiaz> see you all
[16:59] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
</pre>
