{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

TZ UTC +1
<pre>
11:00	ajmitch	hi
11:00	crimsun	'lo
=== ajmitch hopes sistpoty wakes up in time
11:00	dholbach	hello :)
11:01	ajmitch	everyone can look at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Council/Meetings while we wait :)
11:01	dholbach	we'd have quorum :)
11:01	ajmitch	sistpoty went to bed about 5 hours ago, saying he'd try & be here :)
11:02	dholbach	ok, while we wait for sistpoty to run us through his items on the agenda... why doesn't one of us present the things we decided or looked at together until now.
11:02	ajmitch	aha!
11:02	ajmitch	welcome, sistpoty
11:02	dholbach	hello sistpoty
11:02	sistpoty	hi
11:02	gpocentek	hi sistpoty
11:02	dholbach	sistpoty: I was just saying: ok, while we wait for sistpoty to run us through his items on the agenda... why doesn't one of us present the things we decided or looked at together until now. :-)
=== sistpoty needs coffee
11:03	sistpoty	hehe
11:03	dholbach	Ok... as some  of you might have gathered from lists or specs already: we decoupled the MOTU membership process from meetings completely.
11:03	ajmitch	so we've agreed so far on quorum (3), public list, what else?
11:03	ajmitch	yay
11:03	dholbach	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Hopeful/Recruitment describes the process for that
11:04	dholbach	it will all happen on a public mailing list, called motu-council@lists.ubuntu.com (which is not created yet, but I'm pestering the sysadmins)
11:04	ajmitch	ok, thanks
11:04	dholbach	we further thought that there should be no incentive in subscribing to yet another mailing list. We'll try to keep only applications and administrative discussions on motu-council@ but do everything else on ubuntu-motu@
11:05	dholbach	so it's up to you if you subscribe or not - you're not likely to miss anything
11:05	ajmitch	another list will just be a drop in the bucket
11:06	crimsun	right, I think that's a good idea (maintains the "one-stop" MOTU feel and transparency)
11:06	dholbach	Probably, but it's nice to have MOTU discussions in one place.
11:07	dholbach	The MOTU Council was formed to have a body that is capable of making decisions, we thought that with five members in the team, a quorum of 3, a simple majority and a timeout of 48h would make sense.
11:07	ajmitch	less bureaucracy is good
11:07	dholbach	We documented that on http://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Council and http://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Council/Meetings already
11:07	ajmitch	the timeout avoids waiting around for consensus or reply from everyone
11:07	dholbach	Are there any questions up until now?
11:08	crimsun	no questions from me.
11:08	sistpoty	nope
11:08	gpocentek	ok for me
11:08	dholbach	Ok super - why don't we kick off the meeting? :)
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(newpackages)]]</nowiki><pre>
11:08	dholbach	new packages policy for MOTUs (sistpoty, as deferred from MOTU-Meeting)
11:08	sistpoty	is someone doing the minutes?
11:09	crimsun	I'll do minutes.
11:09	sistpoty	cool thanks crimsun
11:09	dholbach	we should get the https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam involved :)
11:09	sistpoty	:)
11:09	dholbach	sistpoty: your floor
11:09	sistpoty	ok, new packages policy: we've discussed this on the motu meeting already... so I'll just give a short sum up
11:09	sistpoty	currently motu's need to go through revu and need 2 reviews for a new package
11:10	sistpoty	I think it would be better to drop that requirement and just make it a recommendation instead
11:10	dholbach	What about NEW packages from MOTU Hopefuls?
11:11	ajmitch	keep the 2 ACKs on REVU for them
11:11	dholbach	Wasn't the proposal to make it 1 successful review?
11:11	dholbach	Oh ok.
11:11	ajmitch	do you think that dropping it to 1 would be good?
11:11	gpocentek	I'd prefer to keep the 2 acks
11:11	dholbach	I think I remember people discussing it.
11:12	gpocentek	I often miss something when I review
11:12	crimsun	I agree w/ keeping the 2 ACKs for new source packages from non-ubuntu-dev members.
11:12	sistpoty	iirc we discussed this on motu-ml, and quite a few ppl. didn't like to get down on 1 vote
11:13	ajmitch	saying that MOTUs don't need to go through REVU is probably just acknowledging what already happens
11:13	dholbach	Ok, fine with me.
=== ajmitch has uploaded a few packages without getting reviews
11:13	sistpoty	other opinions?
11:14	dholbach	Me too... it was often part of my job to get things done - or I just asked seb128 to give it a quick review.
11:14	gpocentek	same for me (for xubuntu packages)
11:14	dholbach	I personally think that new MOTUs will often be happy enough to still get a review.
11:14	Amaranth	i thought the whole point of being a MOTU was not having to go through the review process :)
11:15	ajmitch	Amaranth: it is, but for people who are newly made MOTUs, they can still benefit from reviewing
11:15	sistpoty	as I brought up the proposal, +1 from me
11:15	ajmitch	eg I don't think I'd expect a new MOTU to go & package up FDS without getting some help ;)
11:15	ajmitch	+1 from here
11:15	sistpoty	ok, great... let's move on then ;)
11:15	crimsun	+1 for dropping the 2 ACK requirement for new source packages for ubuntu-dev members
11:16	dholbach	+1 from me also
11:16	gpocentek	and +1 from me
11:16	dholbach	nice... consensus on the first MOTU Council decision
</pre><pre>
11:16	ajmitch	alright, exceptions for new packages during feature freeze..
11:16	ajmitch	:)
=== dholbach brings on the champagne
11:16	sistpoty	:)
11:17	dholbach	What was the Universe FF intended to be in the first place?
11:17	ajmitch	no new packages
11:17	ajmitch	there are people who have packages 'almost done' on revu that don't want to miss out
11:17	ajmitch	& then there's packages like glassfish & beryl which are being pushed by others
11:18	dholbach	Ok. In past releases the Technical Board was of the opinion that NEW packages were seldom of any harm, since they couldn't break existing functionality.
11:18	ajmitch	the intent of universe FF was that we have time to focus on bugfixing, rather than packaging & reviewing
11:18	sistpoty	well, it takes resources to review them, which were spent better with qa
11:19	dholbach	I think that it should be responsibility of the motu-uvf team to ack such requests (if we'd allow them in), which requirements should they ask for?
11:19	dholbach	I think it's pretty hard to draw a line there.
11:19	ajmitch	how's the motu-uvf team going with requests?
11:19	cjwatson	I'd recommend simple-to-review and high-importance as starting points for metrics, personally
11:19	dholbach	We're on top of things.
11:20	cjwatson	if you're making exceptions they need to be worthwhile ...
11:20	ajmitch	hi cjwatson
11:20	cjwatson	hi
11:20	cjwatson	practice in main is to be pretty liberal near the start of a given freeze and gradually tighten up
11:20	ajmitch	true, I've got some packages here that are worthwhile, but they wouldn't be easy to review
11:21	dholbach	Ok, so the proposal is "after 2 ACKs on REVU, the uvf team checks if the NEW package is worthwhile or not."?
11:21	crimsun	I'd like to request that we consider FF exception requests up until beta freeze (~Mar 15). I know of Ardour2, at least, which is going through a fairly lengthy beta 11.1 -> beta 12 -> RC testing period.
11:22	ajmitch	so a 3 week final window for new packages with some scrutiny?
11:22	dholbach	Although it'll mean more work for the uvf team (and me), I can see the point in the request.
11:23	ajmitch	dholbach: 'worthwhile' is fairly subjective, I hope it doesn't just end up pushing out FF by 3 weeks
11:24	dholbach	ajmitch: I know it is... if you can propose different requirements....?
11:24	sistpoty	I guess the first thing would be that the package has already been given two acks (in case it's from a hopeful)
11:25	sistpoty	not that ppl. will come and want a review alongside with an FF exception from motu-uvf
11:25	dholbach	Yeah - we definitely should make that clear.
11:26	ajmitch	the uvf team shouldn't need to look at the packaging itself
11:26	dholbach	Are there objections regarding that "worthwhile" might be too subjective?
11:26	sistpoty	fine with me
11:26	dholbach	(I personally think that it can be a problem in every approval process.)
11:26	ajmitch	no, I think we can leave it up to the uvf team to decide
11:27	sistpoty	uvf-team will certainly find a way ;)
11:27	crimsun	right, I concur with delegating that to motu-uvf
11:27	gpocentek	fine with me as well
11:27	sistpoty	+1 here
11:27	dholbach	Ok, let's cast our votes for "Until Beta Freeze the motu-uvf team will consider NEW packages after they went through successful reviews and decide if they're worthwhile to have or not."
11:28	dholbach	+1 from me too
11:28	crimsun	+1
11:28	ajmitch	+1
11:28	gpocentek	+1
11:28	dholbach	that's a majority :)
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(hardfreeze)]]</nowiki><pre>
11:28	dholbach	deciding on a 'hard freeze' for universe in the last week of the feisty cycle (ajmitch)
11:28	ajmitch	we did this for edgy, and very few people uploaded any fixes in the last week
11:29	dholbach	Mithrandir: Are you there? This might require your input.
11:29	ajmitch	this is where every universe upload needed to be ACKed
11:30	dholbach	as the release managers want to have somebody who ACKed the upload (somebody who's responsible for Universe), we maybe should think about broadening the UVF team to have no delays, but a direct ACK or NACK
11:30	sistpoty	yep, I remember dapper, where we crushed bugs until the final minute
11:31	ajmitch	the uvf team is going to be busy
11:31	cjwatson	one concern about very late uploads is that they can end up clogging up the buildds for urgent uploads to main. It's only a problem for big packages of course
11:31	dholbach	I don't know if we have the technical requirements (in soyuz) to lock main and to leave Universe/Multiverse just open
=== ajmitch remembers the fun of motu-uvf for edgy
11:31	cjwatson	dholbach: no, although the archive team can fake that by manual work if necessary
11:32	cjwatson	(and we generally do during freezes)
11:32	dholbach	cjwatson: ok, thanks
</pre><pre>
11:33	dholbach	so we'll have to play along the hard freeze - what do you think about broadening the uvf team and probably making the process less strict, like "ping on IRC, point to debdiff, get ACK and tell release managers that it's ok"?
11:34	crimsun	I'm fine w/ expanding motu-uvf members
=== ajmitch also
11:34	sistpoty	+1 here as well
11:34	crimsun	would it require a certain number of ACKs? unanimous?
11:34	ajmitch	unanimous would take too much
11:34	dholbach	I personally think that one should be enough
11:34	ajmitch	just 1
11:34	gpocentek	/me agrees
11:34	crimsun	right, I concur
11:35	dholbach	what about keeping the hard freeze process light?
11:35	ajmitch	so stick with the freeze, but make it easy?
11:35	dholbach	or shall we do the file-a-bug-with-a-diffstat-and-diff--dance for that too?
11:35	ajmitch	no need to file a bug
11:35	gpocentek	I think IRC is fine
11:35	sistpoty	I'd prefer the easy model
11:35	ajmitch	since all uploads should be fixing a bug anyway
11:36	crimsun	URL to debdiff on IRC should suffice IMO
11:36	ajmitch	iirc crimsun attached the relevant changelog entry to bugs for edgy
11:36	ajmitch	which was a real help when I was asked whether to ACK/NAK
11:36	dholbach	Ok cool, I think we all agreed on that now.
11:36	ajmitch	how many more in motu-uvf?
11:36	ajmitch	1 or 2?
11:37	dholbach	we're 3 atm
11:37	dholbach	5 would be nice to have, I think
11:37	crimsun	+1 for expanding motu-uvf to 5
11:37	dholbach	+1 for 5 too
11:38	sistpoty	+-0... I'm happy with 4 or 5 equally
11:38	ajmitch	ok, +1 on keeping the freeze process as we said & +1 on motu-uvf to 5
11:38	gpocentek	+1 for 5
11:38	dholbach	anybody here who'd like to step up for the task?
11:38	crimsun	I'm happy to join motu-uvf for this cycle
=== ajmitch doesn't mind either way
11:39	dholbach	thanks crimsun, thanks ajmitch
11:39	dholbach	I'll add you to the team
11:39	crimsun	ok, thanks
11:39	ajmitch	k
11:39	dholbach	(thanks for keeping the voting process slim this time around)
=== ajmitch wants to get to bed early :)
11:40	dholbach	welcome to the team
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(cleanup)]]</nowiki><pre>
11:40	dholbach	ok... "motu team cleanup"
11:40	sistpoty	everybode read the mail?
11:40	dholbach	the ubuntu-dev and motu teams clash a bit and references to the LP 'motu' team should be purged
11:40	ajmitch	yep
11:41	dholbach	imho it'd be better to have a universe-bugs team and make sure that LP sends universebugs to that team by default
11:41	ajmitch	this also relates to the issues with lp creating people on uploads
11:41	dholbach	(but that's not on the agenda for now)
11:41	dholbach	ajmitch: how so?
11:41	ajmitch	since ubuntu-motu@l.u.c is a registered address for motumedia
11:41	ajmitch	& we wanted it as a contact address, but not bug address, for motu :)
11:41	ajmitch	(rather impossible at the moment)
11:42	ajmitch	but I think reducing the number of teams would be good
11:42	dholbach	ok
11:42	Mithrandir	dholbach: universe is your domain, as you know.  I'd recommend on concentrating on bug-fixing and not new shiny, but for package splits and such, NEW processing will obviously need to happen.
11:43	Mithrandir	dholbach: note that the archive admins are not likely to have much time for source NEW at least in the later stages of the release.
11:43	dholbach	Mithrandir: right... thanks
11:44	dholbach	I'd propose to ask the LP folks to purge the 'motu' team and (in another step) get a 'universe-bugs' team and fix the bug routing that way.
11:45	ajmitch	mdz's suggestion was to keep motu, & empty out ubuntu-dev, I think
11:45	sistpoty	yep... ubuntu-dev would then be (only) core-dev + motu
11:45	ajmitch	making universe-bugs would be good
11:46	dholbach	I'm happy with that too - we'd just need to make TB the owner and un-administrator everybody, right?
11:46	Mithrandir	dholbach: "your" as in "you lot's", not you personally, naturally. :-)
11:46	Mithrandir	(sorry about that not being clear. ;-)
11:47	ajmitch	but he's the face of MOTU, of course it's his :)
11:48	ajmitch	dholbach: yep, I don't think anyone would need to be kicked out, just added
11:48	sistpoty	and the expiry dates set
11:48	dholbach	ok... so who's in favour of what?
11:49	ajmitch	+1 for turning motu over to TB, and adding universe-bugs
11:49	sistpoty	+1 here for ajmitch's proposal
11:49	dholbach	+1 from me too - although universe-bugs needs more discussion
11:50	gpocentek	+& for me as well
11:50	crimsun	in terms of work required, does it require less work to keep ubuntu-dev and drop motu?
11:50	gpocentek	+1 even
11:50	ajmitch	crimsun: it's mainly for clarity
11:50	ajmitch	but it would take less work to drop motu
11:51	dholbach	maybe it's also discoverability
11:51	crimsun	it makes more sense [to me]  to drop motu, keep ubuntu-dev, and consider universe-bugs
11:52	dholbach	To be honest, I can live with both proposals.
11:52	crimsun	that would prevent adding work to TB and also maintains the current structure (which seems to make sense [to me] )
11:52	sistpoty	well, I wouldn't want that someone creates motu after we dropped it tbh. though the whole discussion seems more of an aesthetical nature to me
11:53	sistpoty	who's in favor for dropping motu?
11:54	sistpoty	-1 from me, though only a very weak -1
11:54	crimsun	we should use the existing vote, I think: (+4 for purging ubuntu-dev and using motu)
=== ajmitch wonders if it will affect bzr branches or not
11:55	sistpoty	ok, anyone volunteering to do the cleanup?
11:55	ajmitch	I don't think it should so long as the ubuntu-dev team still exists in a fashion
11:56	sistpoty	if nobody volunteers, I'll do some clicking later today ;)
=== ajmitch guesses sistpoty just volunteered :)
11:57	sistpoty	ok
11:57	sistpoty	let's move on, shall we?
11:57	ajmitch	yep
11:57	crimsun	right.
</pre><pre>
11:57	ajmitch	I added the next item, but dholbach replied on the wiki saying it was already agreed on?
11:58	ajmitch	aha
11:58	ajmitch	for daniel..
11:58	ajmitch	I added the next item, but dholbach replied on the wiki saying it was already agreed on?
11:58	dholbach_	sorry, something grabbed my keyboard input and I couldn't type anything any more
11:58	ajmitch	np
11:58	dholbach_	we can go through the discussion again, but I recall a decision was made on the topic already.
11:59	Amaranth	dholbach: running compiz? :)
12:00	ajmitch	generally we'd know if someone was active, but what if they'd been idle for ~2 months?
12:00	ajmitch	I guess letting them expire is fine, as long as they know how to ask to reapply
12:00	dholbach	I propose we prod people every half a year (if they have not been sufficiently visible), and ask them. They can always re-apply.
12:01	dholbach	(and we should keep the hurdle low.)
12:01	dholbach	Amaranth: no
=== ajmitch would hate for someone to automatically expire & noone renews their membership until they were deactivated :)
12:01	ajmitch	will the TB get notification of upcoming expirys?
12:02	sistpoty	I guess it might make sense to contact them first and ask if they plan to do some work in the future. maybe we can thus even reactivate lost motu's ;)
12:02	ajmitch	yeah
12:02	dholbach	I like that idea too.
12:03	dholbach	and in the same mail we should point out that it's no problem to be "deactivated" for a while, as it helps us to understand where we stand, and that it's also no problem to re-apply
12:04	gpocentek	this sounds good to me
12:04	ajmitch	ok
12:04	sistpoty	yep
12:04	crimsun	+1 for daniel's proposal
12:04	sistpoty	+1
12:04	dholbach	nice
12:04	dholbach	Ok, I volunteer to go through the list - who wants to assist me?
=== ajmitch can
=== gpocentek raise his hand
12:05	dholbach	ajmitch now has the new responsibility of the uvf team :)
12:05	dholbach	thanks gpocentek :)
12:05	gpocentek	:)
12:05	ajmitch	hehe ok
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(nextmeeting)]]</nowiki><pre>
12:05	dholbach	next meeting
12:05	dholbach	sistpoty: did you mean the MOTU meeting or the MC meeting?
12:06	sistpoty	MOTU meeting
12:06	sabdfl	hi all
12:06	dholbach	heya sabdfl
12:06	sistpoty	hi sabdfl
12:06	dholbach	sabdfl: we're on the last agenda point already :)
12:06	sabdfl	just wanted to say well done and welcome aboard as a council
12:07	ajmitch	hi sabdfl
12:07	ajmitch	thanks
12:07	sistpoty	thx sabdfl
12:07	dholbach	thanks :)
12:07	dholbach	sistpoty: shouldn't we do that on the list?
12:07	dholbach	what about the next MC meeting - shall we try "every 2 weeks"?
12:08	ajmitch	well, we suggested every 3 weeks for a MOTU meeting
12:08	dholbach	ok maybe we should have a rolling rhythm - so we have a MOTU* meeting every 1,5 weeks
=== gpocentek has to go
12:09	gpocentek	I'm already late... I'll read the logs when I'm back
12:09	ajmitch	gpocentek: ok, thanks for helping :)
12:09	dholbach	see you gpocentek - thanks for being with us in the meeting
12:09	sistpoty	cya gpocentek
12:09	crimsun	thanks gauvain
12:10	ajmitch	dholbach: sounds fair, the MotuProcessesSpec also says 3 weeks for MC
12:10	sistpoty	fine with me
12:10	ajmitch	I think we chose that because of a 3 week MOTU cycle
12:10	dholbach	that'd be Tuesday 6th of March for the next MOTU meeting if I counted correctly
12:10	ajmitch	yep
12:10	dholbach	any time suggestions?
12:10	dholbach	crimsun: maybe you suggest one this time :)
12:11	ajmitch	I think if we get it regularly on the calendar, it'll help
12:11	dholbach	I
12:11	sistpoty	maybe with rotating times?
12:11	crimsun	(waiting on Evolution...)
12:11	ajmitch	sistpoty: yep :)
12:11	dholbach	just try to decide on a time this time - we can see how it works out and then maybe decide on a rolling rhythm
12:11	ajmitch	sistpoty: so that you can have your 2AM meeting :)
12:11	sistpoty	hehe
12:11	dholbach	I'm happy to mail ubuntu-motu@ and fridge-devel@, once we decided.
12:12	Amaranth	this meeting started at 4am for me
12:12	dholbach	Amaranth: that's why I suggested for crimsun to pick the time :)
12:12	crimsun	how is 20:00 UTC?
12:13	dholbach	works for me
=== ajmitch can probably make that
12:13	sistpoty	fine with me
12:13	dholbach	alrighty.... Mar, 6th, 20:00 UTC MOTU meeting
12:13	dholbach	thanks everybody for a very good first MOTU meeting
12:14	dholbach	MOTU Council meeting
12:14	ajmitch	well we still have 2 fixed items
12:14	ajmitch	I put the todo lists in the fixed item area, and agreeing on a MC meeting time
12:15	dholbach	Mar 16th would be 3 weeks from now on
12:16	dholbach	shall we make that 10:00 UTC again?
12:16	crimsun	sure
12:16	ajmitch	fine by me, crimsun?
12:16	crimsun	(I can manage 5 AM ok :)
12:17	sistpoty	well... middle of the night, but ok *g*
=== ajmitch wonders if crimsun actually sleeps :)
12:17	ajmitch	hah
</pre><pre>
12:18	ajmitch	seems that we have silent consensus, so TODO lists?
12:18	dholbach	Ok, agreed on that. Let's add some quick suggestions to the TODO list.
12:18	ajmitch	MOTU/TODO redirects currently
12:18	ajmitch	we want people to be doing bugfixing, laserjock gave some good suggestions
12:19	dholbach	we should have a separate page for that - what do you think?
12:19	sistpoty	yep
12:19	dholbach	* review Universe/Multiverse bugs with patches attached (add link here)
12:19	dholbach	* review Debian RC fixes
12:20	dholbach	* look at UnmetDeps list (maybe file bugs again)
12:20	ajmitch	ah yes
=== ajmitch was going to do a mass bugfile for unmet deps
12:20	dholbach	(* ask for rebuild test - ask for transitions that have not happened yet -> ubuntu-devel-discuss@)
12:20	sistpoty	* packagtes that FTBFS (list from lucas)
=== ajmitch adds to tomorrow's TODO
12:21	dholbach	* generally fix universe/multiverse bugs
12:21	dholbach	* tag bugs as 'bitesize' and 'packaging'
12:22	dholbach	that's all I can think of for now
12:22	dholbach	if you want, I'll set up that page now.
12:22	sistpoty	that would be great dholbach
12:22	ajmitch	thanks
12:22	dholbach	excellent
12:23	sistpoty	but now we're done :)
12:23	ajmitch	excellent :)
12:23	crimsun	thanks everyone!
12:23	dholbach	crimsun: can you send me the minutes before you send them off? I'd like to have a MOTU/Council/Meetings... page that quickly lists our decisions
12:23	sistpoty	thanks for the first meeting :)
=== ajmitch would say it's time for a beer, but it's probably time for sleep instead
12:23	crimsun	dholbach: already made that page
12:24	dholbach	crimsun: that way we could add the link to the wiki page and send the mail to the TB as well and fulfil our reporting duty
12:24	dholbach	WOW :)
=== dholbach hugs crimsun
12:24	ajmitch	maybe whoever gets to UDS can have a beer together ;)
12:24	dholbach	thanks guys
12:24	ajmitch	thanks daniel!
</pre>
