{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== SRU for ebox =====

ACTION: sommer to prepare new ebox debdiffs

===== ACL by default =====

ivoks found an old <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ACL-OnByDefault|wiki page]]</nowiki> dealing with enabling ACL by default. He will use this page to track acl support in relevant packages.

===== Screen profiles =====

nealmcb suggested the following text to be used for the screen factoid:

<pre>
Screen is a window manager for terminal sessions, also good for use over ssh etc.  See https://launchpad.net/screen-profiles for status bars, clocks, notifiers (reboot-required, updates-Havailable) etc.
</pre>

kirland explained that the first time screen is launched the user will be able to select a profile. The default is the one shipped in the screen package. Once the profile has been selected the helper won't be launched anymore. Other bugs have been fixed and testing is welcomed. Feedback should be sent to the ubuntu-server mailing list or file bugs against the screen-profile package in LP.

ACTION: nealmcb to update the screen factoids

===== EtcUnderRevisionControl status =====

Koon reported that bugs had been filed against the etckeeper package. Some of them are already fixed while others require more work. Help is welcomed.

===== Encrypted private/home with filename encryption available =====

ACTION: kirkland to make a call for testing filename encryption via a blog post

===== Update ServerGuide for Jaunty =====

sommer has updated several sections of the Ubuntu Server guide. They've been marked as '''Done''' in the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JauntyServerGuide|wiki page]]</nowiki>. Help in reviewing them is welcomed.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, February 10th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:00] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[16:00] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:00. The chair is mathiaz.
[16:00] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:01] <mathiaz> Today's agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:01] <mathiaz> last week minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20090127
[16:01] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] SRU for ebox
[16:01] <MootBot> New Topic:  SRU for ebox
[16:01] <mathiaz> sommer: what's the state of this?
[16:02] <sommer> mathiaz: I guess updated intrepid packages still need to be uploaded?
[16:02] <sommer> mathiaz: should be able to do that this evening
[16:03] <mathiaz> sommer: IIUC new debdiff should be prepared
[16:03] <mathiaz> sommer: and the relevant bugs updated
[16:03] <mathiaz> sommer: once that has been done, the pkg can be sponsored.
[16:04] <sommer> mathiaz: roger that
[16:04] <mathiaz> [ACTION] sommer to prepare new ebox debdiffs
[16:04] <MootBot> ACTION received:  sommer to prepare new ebox debdiffs
[16:04] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] ACL by default
[16:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  ACL by default
[16:05] <ivoks> that's me
[16:05] <mathiaz> ivoks: ^^ - did you create a wiki page to track of the work required to move things forward?
[16:05] <ivoks> so, i've found an old wiki page that has this topic covered
[16:05] <ivoks> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ACL-OnByDefault
[16:06] <ivoks> it's from the desktop point of view, but i added not-only-desktop packages (zip, tar, cpio)
[16:06] <ivoks> so, once acl is implemented in package, i'll remove it from the list
[16:07] <mathiaz> ivoks: great. Thanks for tracking the state of ACL in packages.
[16:07] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] DRBD in jaunty
[16:07] <MootBot> New Topic:  DRBD in jaunty
[16:07] <mathiaz> I've published a call for testing on the server blog
[16:07] <ivoks> oh, nice
[16:08] <ivoks> wiki is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases/UbuntuServer-drbd
[16:08] <mathiaz> http://ubuntuserver.wordpress.com/2009/01/29/call-for-testing-drbd-83-in-jaunty/
[16:08] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://ubuntuserver.wordpress.com/2009/01/29/call-for-testing-drbd-83-in-jaunty/
[16:08] <ivoks> i've tried creating howto to be as easier as possible to follow
[16:08] <mathiaz> This has been picked up by one of the upstream dev:
[16:08] <mathiaz> http://fghaas.wordpress.com/2009/02/02/ubuntu-users-please-test-drbd-83-for-jaunty/
[16:08] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://fghaas.wordpress.com/2009/02/02/ubuntu-users-please-test-drbd-83-for-jaunty/
[16:09] <mathiaz> so I'll relay the call for testing in the upstream community
[16:09] <mathiaz> ivoks: thanks - the wiki page is rather extensive
[16:09] <ivoks> i could post a message to their users mailing list
[16:10] <mathiaz> ivoks: thanks for taking the time to write this up
[16:10] <ivoks> np
[16:10] <mathiaz> ivoks: do you know if there is a drbd page on help.ubuntu.com/community/
[16:10] <mathiaz> ivoks: ?
[16:10] <ivoks> i don't think so
[16:10] <mathiaz> ivoks: ok
[16:11] <mathiaz> let's move if there isn't anything else to report on drbd
[16:11] <ivoks> this howto could be used for that
[16:11] <ivoks> nope, that's all
[16:11] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Screen profiles
[16:11] <MootBot> New Topic:  Screen profiles
[16:11] <mathiaz> kirkland: what's new on this front?
[16:11] <nealmcb> HOw about this: Screen is a window manager for terminal sessions, also good for use over ssh etc.  See https://launchpad.net/screen-profiles for status bars, clocks, notifiers (reboot-required, updates-Havailable) etc.
[16:12] <kirkland> nealmcb: +1
[16:12] <nealmcb> (drop that "H"...)
[16:12] <kirkland> nealmcb: sounds find for a 2 liner
[16:12] <kirkland> mathiaz: a few things ...
[16:12] <kirkland> mathiaz: a couple of uploads
[16:12] <mathiaz> nealmcb: works for me.
[16:12] <nealmcb> it's tough given how cool it is to use just two lines
[16:12] <kirkland> mathiaz: in main, now brought in by screen itself
[16:12] <mathiaz> nealmcb: could you take care of updating the factoids?
[16:12] <nealmcb> yup
[16:12] <kirkland> mathiaz: it provides a new "screen" wrapper script which divert's screen's itself
[16:13] <kirkland> mathiaz: which will ask you to select your profile of choice
[16:13] <mathiaz> [ACTION] nealmcb to update the screen factoids
[16:13] <MootBot> ACTION received:  nealmcb to update the screen factoids
[16:13] <kirkland> mathiaz: and then launches with the same args
[16:13] <kirkland> mathiaz: this was per ivoks' suggestion?
[16:13] <kirkland> mathiaz: easy to implement
[16:13] <kirkland> mathiaz: haven't gotten much feedback yet on the divert (yet)
[16:13] <kirkland> mathiaz: i expect more people will rejoice/complain very soon :-)
[16:14] <kirkland> mathiaz: there have been a few bugs
[16:14] <ivoks> kirkland: it's crucial that 'default' should be 'preselected', so that users don't just hit enter and find them selvs in something that's not what they expected :)
[16:14] <kirkland> mathiaz: closing those out as quickly as possible
[16:14] <kirkland> ivoks: default is "plain"
[16:14] <ivoks> great
[16:14] <kirkland> ivoks: if they just hit enter, they end up with screen's shipped default
[16:14] <kirkland> ivoks: and should never be bothered about it again
[16:14] <ivoks> that's great
[16:14] <kirkland> ivoks: changable later by select-screen-profile
[16:14] <ivoks> of course
[16:14] <kirkland> mathiaz: i think that's it for now?
[16:15] <kirkland> mathiaz: i'm working on an ec2 bill-meter for it :-)
[16:15] <nijaba> what about upgrades?
[16:15] <kirkland> mathiaz: nearly done
[16:15] <kirkland> nijaba: upgrades?
[16:15] <nijaba> 8.10 with screen update to jaunty?
[16:15] <ivoks> nijaba: don't change what people expect... rule #1 :)
[16:16] <ivoks> if they used plain screen untill now, let them use it in new version
[16:16] <kirkland> nijaba: well, the new screen package will recommend and install screen-profiles
[16:16] <nijaba> ivoks: I just want to make sure the case is correctly handled
[16:16] <ivoks> ... or that - even better
[16:16] <kirkland> nijaba: the first time they call screen there after, they will see:
[16:16] <kirkland> Select a screen profile:
[16:16] <kirkland>  1. plain
[16:16] <kirkland>  2. ubuntu-dark
[16:16] <kirkland>  3. ubuntu-light
[16:16] <kirkland> Choose:  1-3 [1]:
[16:16] <ivoks> kirkland: imho, that's superb!
[16:16] <kirkland> nijaba: we should verify that, i think
[16:16] <nijaba> kirkland: ok, same behaviour then
[16:17]  * kirkland high-fives ivoks   o/*\o
[16:17] <kirkland> nijaba: oui
[16:17] <kirkland> oh, there's also new support for disabling our keybindings
[16:17] <mathiaz> ok - seems that we're well done on the screen-profiles front
[16:17] <nxvl> and what about the customed screen profiles
[16:17] <kirkland> or choosing another set, should we provide one
[16:17] <nxvl> i mean if someone already modified his profile with his own changes
[16:17] <kirkland> .screenrc no longer contains a line that says "source ..."
[16:18] <kirkland> that broke people who's home or .screenrc was sync'd to other machines, perhaps without screen-profiles
[16:18] <kirkland> so now .screenrc is empty
[16:18] <kirkland> and the screen wrapper calls the real screen with the -c option, which identifies the the .screenrc-profile file (if it exists)
[16:19] <kirkland> the last thing that file does is sources your ~/.screenrc
[16:19] <kirkland> so anything you put in there will override anything above it
[16:19] <kirkland> that should be the expected/desired behavior, i believe
[16:19] <kirkland> btw, i've gotten good feedback on the dark theme
[16:19] <kirkland> seems most people prefer that
[16:19] <nijaba> lool will be happy :)
[16:19] <kirkland> that have spoken up :-)
[16:20] <kirkland> lool and i have reviewed a good bit of this
[16:20] <kirkland> he has one more important recommendation about the dpkg-divert
[16:20] <nealmcb> kirkland: but dark screens make reflections more visible....
[16:20] <kirkland> i'm still working that out
[16:20] <mathiaz> ok  let's move on
[16:20] <kirkland> cool, thanks
[16:21] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] EtcUnderRevisionControl status
[16:21] <MootBot> New Topic:  EtcUnderRevisionControl status
[16:21] <mathiaz> Koon: ^^
[16:21] <Koon> So I've converted the spec info a set of bugs. Some of them are in good shape (see my branch), some of them aren't... and I might not have enough time for this to land in Jaunty before FF
[16:21] <Koon> into, even
[16:21] <Koon> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/etc-under-revision-control
[16:21] <mathiaz> Koon: are bugs files against the etckeeper package?
[16:21] <Koon> anyone that wants to help is welcome to look at those bugs
[16:21] <Koon> not only. There is one bzr bug, but it's almost done
[16:21] <mathiaz> Koon: did you use the mentoring option?
[16:22] <Koon> they are all linked on the blueprint page
[16:22] <Koon> no, but I should
[16:22] <ScottK> Did anyone get an opinion from upstream on this?
[16:22] <Koon> ScottK: yes.
[16:22] <ScottK> Last I read they thougth bzr support was not ready.
[16:22] <Koon> ScottK: you read a long time ago then
[16:22] <ScottK> OK.
[16:22] <nxvl> ScottK: we had some bzr developers in the session at UDS
[16:23] <Koon> Jelmer has been integrating bzr support into etckeeper, and Joey is verfy much happy with it
[16:23] <ScottK> It seems an odd divergence to make a vcs used almost nowhere outside of Ubuntu development the default, but whatever.
[16:23] <Koon> He just prefers git because he is a git user, but he is very happy with us doing advanced bzr-based features
[16:24] <Koon> ScottK: it will make sense when we deliver features that will only be available for bzr
[16:24] <Koon> (integrating permissions/ownership differences directly into the diff output, for example)
[16:24] <mathiaz> ScottK: there is support for other vcs - so users can switch to their preferred vcs system easily
[16:24] <Koon> I agree that at this point it doesn't make alot of sense to change default VCS
[16:25] <ScottK> I think default should be based on what users use, not developers.
[16:25] <ScottK> But we can move on.
[16:25] <mathiaz> ok.
[16:26] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Encrypted private/home with filename encryption available
[16:26] <MootBot> New Topic:  Encrypted private/home with filename encryption available
[16:26] <mathiaz> kirkland: ^^?
[16:26] <kirkland> mathiaz: worked with evand on it yesterday
[16:26] <kirkland> mathiaz: had to work through a number of kinks
[16:26] <mathiaz> I think you made a call for testing on your blog?
[16:26] <soren> ScottK: Very few users use VCS, fwiw.
[16:26] <ScottK> soren: True and most of the that do use svn.
[16:26] <kirkland> mathiaz: what he uploaded yesterday should be in the next round of iso's
[16:26] <soren> ScottK: And windows.
[16:26] <kirkland> mathiaz: i haven't blogged about it yet
[16:27] <kirkland> mathiaz: i need to test the iso myself first
[16:27] <kirkland> mathiaz: i expect a call for testing to cooincide with the alpha4 release
[16:27] <mathiaz> kirkland: ok - great.
[16:27] <mathiaz> [ACTION] kirkland to make a call for testing filename encryption via a blog post.
[16:27] <MootBot> ACTION received:  kirkland to make a call for testing filename encryption via a blog post.
[16:28] <ScottK> You might even get slangasek to include it in the release notes for Alpha 4.
[16:28] <kirkland> ScottK: cool, will do, thanks
=== MTecknology is now known as mtbot
[16:28] <mathiaz> ok. anything else to report on private encrypted directories?
[16:29] <kirkland> mathiaz: don't thinks so
=== mtbot is now known as MTecknology
[16:29] <mathiaz> ok. That's all I had from last week minutes
[16:30] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Update ServerGuide for Jaunty
[16:30] <MootBot> New Topic:  Update ServerGuide for Jaunty
[16:30] <mathiaz> sommer: how is this progressing?
[16:30] <sommer> mathiaz: coming along, I think most of the major new additions are done
[16:31] <ScottK> sommer: Did you catch the scrollback on the TLS cert issue we've been discussing?
[16:31] <sommer> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JauntyServerGuide
[16:31] <sommer> ScottK: not all of it, but it's on my list
[16:31] <ScottK> OK
[16:31] <ScottK> I can confirm that the current docs don't work.
[16:31] <mathiaz> sommer: do the sections marked as Done need to be review?
[16:32] <sommer> mathiaz: ya a reviews would be great
[16:32] <slangasek> kirkland, ScottK: yes, please write it and I will happily not revert it ;)
[16:32] <kirkland> slangasek: ;-)
[16:33] <ScottK> slangasek: Do you have a link for the draft?
[16:33] <slangasek> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JauntyJackalope/TechnicalOverview
[16:33] <ScottK> THanks.
[16:33]  * ScottK does some unrelated editing ...
[16:34] <mathiaz> sommer: looks good to me.
[16:34] <mathiaz> anything else to add on the documentation front?
[16:34] <sommer> mathiaz: don't think so at this point
[16:35] <mathiaz> sommer: great. Thanks for working on this!
[16:35] <sommer> np :)
[16:36] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[16:36] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[16:36] <mathiaz> anything else to add?
[16:36] <ScottK> mathiaz: Did you see my blog on DNSSEC, dkim-mitler, and unbound?
[16:36] <nijaba> Ubuntu Server Survey results have been sent to the participants
[16:36] <nijaba> a press release about it should be out this week
[16:36] <nealmcb> ScottK link?
[16:36] <ScottK> mathiaz: I'm not sure if it's worth republishing in the Server Team blog or not. http://www.kitterman.org/ScottK/2009/01/getting_ready_for_dnssec_one_s.html
[16:37] <mathiaz> ScottK: I saw it.
[16:37] <ScottK> I'm not sure how much readership outside planet.ubuntu.com the Server Team blog has.
[16:38] <mathiaz> ScottK: I don't know either.
[16:38] <nealmcb> ScottK way cool - thanks!   yeah - big headaches there
[16:38] <ScottK> We did manage to kill off  a libdb version recently.
[16:38] <mathiaz> Any ideas to increase that is welcomed!
[16:39] <ScottK> If someone would merge openldap from Experimental, then maybe 4.2 coud die too.
[16:39]  * ScottK isn't going to touch it.
[16:39] <ScottK> If that got done we'd have a shot at shipping Jaunty with just 4.6 and 4.7.
[16:40] <mathiaz> ScottK: from experimental?
[16:40] <nealmcb> I think republishing that blog on the server blog is a good idea.  quality content drives interest....
[16:40] <ScottK> mathiaz: Yeah.  Because of the Lenny freeze the latest is in Debian experimental.
[16:40] <ScottK> At least that's how I understand it.
[16:42] <ScottK> mathiaz: Just in case copyright weenies care to know, you have my permission to republish that article on the server team blog.
[16:42] <mathiaz> ScottK: hm - I don't see a new openldap package in experimental
[16:42] <ScottK> Odd.  Let me look into it.
[16:43]  * ivoks needs to go... take care
[16:44] <ScottK> mathiaz: OK.  Sorry about that.  Merge from experimental/package new upstream release then.
[16:45] <mathiaz> nealmcb: right - I'm not so interested to just cut-n-paste other  posts on the ubuntu server blog
[16:45] <mathiaz> I'd rather have original content.
[16:45] <mathiaz> we've discussing that with Koon and kirkland
[16:45]  * ScottK notes that if he had posting rights to said blog he'd have posted it there.
[16:45] <nealmcb> mathiaz: I'm saying that having something, even just a link to scott's post, would be good for interest level in server blog
[16:46] <kirkland> we've also been talking about making it more of a "server planet"
[16:46] <mathiaz> nealmcb: true - a feed could be easily added to the server blog
[16:46] <kirkland> aggregating interesting server-related material, from perhaps ScottK's blog, and others
[16:46] <mathiaz> ScottK: it would be easy to give you authoring access to the ubuntu server blog
[16:46] <nijaba> mathiaz: what about a bi weekly list of interesting post about Ubuntu Server on your blog?
[16:46] <ScottK> mathiaz: OK.  I'm interested.
[16:47] <ScottK> Last time I asked I was told it was Canonical only.  I'm glad to hear this has changed.
[16:47] <mathiaz> nijaba: another option.
[16:48] <mathiaz> kirkland has been proposing to use a planet-like system instaed.
[16:48] <Koon> gtg, sorry
[16:49] <nijaba> a dedicated to server aggregation?
[16:49] <nijaba> sounds like a good idea
[16:50] <mathiaz> nijaba: yes. So that anyone could publish on their own blog and we'd aggregate everything related to ubuntu-server to a blog
[16:52] <mathiaz> ok - anything else to add?
[16:53] <ScottK> mathiaz: Are you willing to look into openldap?  If so vorian and I can look at the other DB 4.2 users.
[16:54] <mathiaz> ScottK: yes - I'll look into updating to 2.4.13 which means we have to move to db 4.6
[16:54] <ScottK> Excellent.
[16:54] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] # Agree on next meeting date and time.
[16:54] <MootBot> New Topic:  # Agree on next meeting date and time.
[16:54] <mathiaz> next week, same time, same place?
[16:55] <sommer> o//
[16:55] <nijaba> +1
[16:57] <nealmcb> sommer: one person, one vote....
[16:57] <sommer> :)
[16:57] <mathiaz> ok - see you all next week
[16:58] <nealmcb> :)
[16:58] <mathiaz> same time same place
[16:58] <mathiaz> happy iso testing for Alpha4 due this week!
[16:58] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
</pre>
