{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
UTC
{{{
=== ubottu changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Current meeting: QA Team | Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 12 Jun 13:00 UTC: Desktop Team | 13 Jun 15:00 UTC: Ubuntu-ni Translation Sprint | 13 Jun 20:00 UTC: MOTU | 17 Jun 15:00 UTC:  Server Team
[18:01]  * stgraber waves
[18:01] <sbeattie> [Hey
[18:02] <pedro_> bdmurray: around?
[18:03] <bdmurray> pedro_: yep
[18:03] <pedro_> great, let's get started then
[18:03] <pedro_> Welcome to the QA Team Meeting
[18:03] <pedro_> heno is not around today, he's at London IIRC
[18:04] <pedro_> Today's agenda : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings
[18:04]  * mgunes missed the last meeting due to the time shift
[18:04] <pedro_> we still don't have bot, right?
[18:05] <stgraber> mgunes: that and we were in #ubuntu-testing as #ubuntu-meeting was used for another meeting
[18:05] <stgraber> pedro_: try #startmeeting
[18:05] <pedro_> #startmeeting
[18:05] <MootBot> Meeting started at 12:07. The chair is pedro_.
[18:05] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[18:05] <pedro_> oh it's working , nice
[18:05] <stgraber> so we have it :)
[18:05] <mgunes> stgraber, I noticed the shift minutes to the previous start time, so I really was out of luck ;)
[18:05] <mgunes> sorry about that
[18:05] <pedro_> [TOPIC] Hardy 8.04.1 SRU Verifications
[18:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  Hardy 8.04.1 SRU Verifications
[18:06] <pedro_> I've been looking to the SRU list http://people.ubuntu.com/~ubuntu-archive/pending-sru.html
[18:06] <pedro_> and we have still a lot of verifications to do
[18:06] <pedro_> some of them are pretty old (more than 30 days)
[18:07] <pedro_> like the grub-installer ; bug 217348
[18:07] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 217348 in wubi "Incorrect disk order detection generates wrong menu.lst" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/217348
[18:07] <bdmurray> Are there 8.04.1 dailies now?
[18:08] <mgunes> bdmurray, yes
[18:08] <stgraber> http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/hardy/
[18:08] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/hardy/
[18:08] <slangasek> currently only oversized ones, and alternate-only at the moment
[18:10] <nxvl> mgunes: hiQ!
[18:12] <pedro_> Ok so, the process need to be speed up a bit in order to have those fixes included in 8.04.1
[18:12] <sbeattie> some of the ones sitting with long times are a little more difficult to test I think
[18:12] <ogasawara> does there currently exist a document instructing reporters how then can enable -proposed and test possible fixes?
[18:13] <mgunes> nxvl, hello
[18:13] <stgraber> we have that on the wiki IIRC, give me a second
[18:13] <mgunes> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/EnableProposed
[18:13] <stgraber> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/EnableProposed ?
[18:13] <pedro_> yeah i was blogged
[18:13] <ogasawara> perfect
[18:13] <pedro_> s/i/it
[18:13] <stgraber> argh, mgunes was faster :)
[18:14] <sbeattie> pedro_: I've been hacking on laserjock's script that he posted to give an alternate view of outstanding sru's
[18:14] <sbeattie> sample output here: http://www.nxnw.org/~steve/tmp/sru_todo2.html
[18:14] <pedro_> [LINK] http://www.nxnw.org/~steve/tmp/sru_todo2.html
[18:14] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://www.nxnw.org/~steve/tmp/sru_todo2.html
[18:15] <sbeattie> I wanted to be able to see the bug descriptions all in one place, and go through and try to highlight which ones are difficult to test and get attention paid to them
[18:15] <bdmurray> sbeattie: ooh, that rocks!
[18:15] <pedro_> that's pretty cool ;-)
[18:16] <ogasawara> very cool
[18:16] <mgunes> sbeattie, any objections to publicizing this page (for testers on the forums, etc.)?
[18:16] <sbeattie> that list is supposed to be what's in main, but there's some universe packages mingling there
[18:17] <pedro_> sbeattie: [wishlist] could you add a sort method? like one sorting for age (oldest to newest one) :-)
[18:17] <sbeattie> mgunes: hold off a bit, I'd like to get in a location other than my home server.
[18:17] <mgunes> sbeattie, alright
[18:17] <sbeattie> pedro_: ooh, good idea.
[18:18] <pedro_> you can always move it to people.ubuntu.com ;-)
[18:19] <sbeattie> Jordan/laserjock has a location on ubuntuwire that I had hoped he would integrate it into
[18:19] <pedro_> rock on
[18:19] <pedro_> ok let's assign to us some of the SRU's
[18:19] <pedro_> any takers for bug 221501 ?
[18:19] <sbeattie> pedro_: I also want to have it highlight bugs that it can't find testcases for.
[18:19] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 221501 in kickseed "grub-installer failing on Hardy kickseed when "bootloader --md5pass" is set" [Medium,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/221501
[18:21] <sbeattie> pedro_: I'll take it
[18:21] <pedro_> sbeattie: great, thanks you!
[18:21] <pedro_> i can take bug 217348
[18:21] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 217348 in wubi "Incorrect disk order detection generates wrong menu.lst" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/217348
[18:22] <mgunes> I've neglected to start a forum thread (in the development section) in which to post instructions and guide people towards doing some verification (I'm in the process of moving house so really been busy with that)
[18:22] <pedro_> anybody for bug 218549 ?
[18:22] <mgunes> now that I'm this late, I'll perhaps highlight the oldest pending SRUs
[18:22] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 218549 in rescue "Choosing "Reboot" in rescue menu jumps to main menu" [Medium,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/218549
[18:22] <sbeattie> mgunes: oh good, I meant to do that as well, but am happy if you can do that.
[18:23] <mgunes> sbeattie, I'll do it within the next few hours
[18:23] <pedro_> mgunes: indeed you may also want to highlight some of the universe ones, there's a couple older than 40 days there :-(
[18:23] <pedro_> that'd be neat
[18:23] <mgunes> pedro_, will do
[18:23] <sbeattie> mgunes: another idea heno had was to have a "Help ubuntu by playing games" post/blog to test for regressions in the gnome-games update in -proposed
[18:24] <pedro_> mgunes: rock on , thanks
[18:24] <sbeattie> as a way to get people interested in testing pending packages.
[18:25] <mgunes> sbeattie, I wasn't aware of that one; perhaps worth doing a separate post
[18:25] <sbeattie> mgunes: yeah, as a seperate item.
[18:25]  * mgunes takes note
[18:28] <sbeattie> pedro_: I can take bug 218549 asuming it's reproducable on the alternative isos.
[18:28] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 218549 in rescue "Choosing "Reboot" in rescue menu jumps to main menu" [Medium,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/218549
[18:28] <bdmurray> I think that is alternate only actually
[18:29] <bdmurray> Live CDs don't have the rescue menu
[18:30] <sbeattie> okay. then I'll it.
[18:30] <pedro_> sbeattie: ok thanks again
[18:30] <pedro_> well everybody feel free to take any bugs also from that list and verified them
[18:30] <pedro_> universe need help also so if you have a couple of free minutes a good idea is to help them also
[18:31] <pedro_> [TOPIC] Intrepid QA Schedule
[18:31] <MootBot> New Topic:  Intrepid QA Schedule
[18:31] <pedro_> bdmurray: ^
[18:32] <bdmurray> So I've fully updated https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/IntrepidSchedule and wanted to make sure it looks sane to everyone before e-mailing it out
[18:32] <bdmurray> I also put an explanation as to waht focus areas mean at the bottom of the page
[18:34] <bdmurray> Barring any objections I'll send an e-mail about it this week
[18:35] <pedro_> looks good to me
[18:35] <pedro_> did you introduced another change besides the 8.04.1 ISO Testing task?
[18:35] <davmor2_laptop> +1
[18:36] <bdmurray> The string-fix bit is new and test case review which we talked about
[18:36] <mgunes> +1
[18:36] <bdmurray> ogasawara: is the kernel ready for Alpha 1?
[18:37] <davmor2_laptop> evolution isn't
[18:38] <sbeattie> bdmurray: what's testcase review?
[18:38] <ogasawara> bdmurray: I think the Intrepid kernel is still having some build issues
[18:38] <bdmurray> sbeattie: finalization of ISO test cases
=== asac_ is now known as asac
[18:38] <bdmurray> hmm, I'll add that to the bottom
[18:39] <sbeattie> thanks
[18:39] <bdmurray> thank you for pointing that out
[18:40] <bdmurray> ogasawara: I'll leave the solicit kernel testing for this week on there anywya
[18:41] <bdmurray> Okay, well that's all I had.
[18:42] <pedro_> ok, any other business ?
[18:43] <stgraber> nope
[18:43] <mgunes> I have a late spec that I'm not sure I can get approval for, now that I've missed the spec deadline.. but probably need heno around to discuss that
[18:43] <mgunes> I'll post to the list.
[18:43] <pedro_> mgunes: yep that's best
[18:44] <pedro_> ok
[18:44] <stgraber> mgunes: shouldn't be a problem, I still have to spec two of the QA website things. Just ping heno
[18:44] <pedro_> #endmeeting
[18:44] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 12:46.
[18:44] <pedro_> thanks everybody!
[18:44] <mgunes> stgraber, cool, will do :)
[18:45] <mgunes> thanks, see you all}}}
