{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 25 Jun at 16:00 &mdash; 16:31 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-06-25-16.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:00.

==== Saucy Development ====
The discussion about "Saucy Development" started at 16:01.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/ReleaseSchedule 
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:02)
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-s-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server 
* '''Blueprints''' (16:09)
** ''LINK:'' http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-saucy/group/topic-saucy-servercloud-overview.html 
** ''LINK:'' http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-s/group/topic-s-servercloud-overview.html 
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting/IRCCommands is updated
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-juju-charm-testing 
** ''ACTION:'' Daviey set priority on s-cycle BPs
** ''ACTION:'' Daviey follow up on missing BPs from overview s-topic

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:21.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)" started at 16:22.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)" started at 16:23.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)" started at 16:26.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:28.

==== Announce next meeting date and time ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date and time" started at 16:30.

=== Action items ===

* Daviey set priority on s-cycle BPs
* Daviey follow up on missing BPs from overview s-topic

=== Action items, by person ===

* Daviey
** Daviey set priority on s-cycle BPs
** Daviey follow up on missing BPs from overview s-topic

=== People present (lines said) ===

* arosales (65)
* jamespage (17)
* smoser (5)
* ubottu (5)
* plars (4)
* meetingology (4)
* roaksoax (2)
* meetingology` (1)
* adam_g_ (1)
* Daviey (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:00 <arosales> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jun 25 16:00:39 2013 UTC.  The chair is arosales. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:00 <meetingology> 

 16:00 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 16:00 <Daviey> o/

 16:00 <arosales> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:01 <arosales> looks like not actions from past meeting

 16:01 <arosales> #topic Saucy Development

 16:01 <arosales> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/ReleaseSchedule

 16:01 <arosales> A1 June 27th

 16:01 <arosales> smoser, jamespage is server opting in?

 16:02 <jamespage> nope

 16:02 <arosales> ok

 16:02 <arosales> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:02 <arosales> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-s-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server

 16:02 <smoser> no opt in.

 16:02 <arosales> jamespage, would you or smoser like to guide us through this section?

 16:02 <adam_g_> o/

 16:02 <jamespage> sure

 16:02 <arosales> jamespage, thanks.

 16:02 <jamespage> smoser: bug 1180867

 16:02 <ubottu> bug 1180867 in cloud-init (Ubuntu Raring) "cloud-config merging not forward or backward compatible" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1180867

 16:03 <smoser> hm..

 16:03 <jamespage> dosaboy, bug 962046

 16:03 <ubottu> bug 962046 in python-boto (Ubuntu Raring) "EC2 metadata retrieval fails with spaces in a resource name" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/962046

 16:03 <smoser> that is uploaded to raring

 16:04 <smoser> in the sru review queue

 16:04 <smoser> (the cloud-init bug)

 16:04 <jamespage> bug 1031680 and bug 1162139 need some love if anyone has time

 16:04 <ubottu> bug 1031680 in nagios-plugins (Ubuntu Raring) "check_apt always report 0 critical updates" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1031680

 16:04 <ubottu> bug 1162139 in mysql-5.5 (Ubuntu Raring) "mysql-5.5 still built using GCC-4.4, should be built with the default GCC" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1162139

 16:04 <jamespage> smoser, ack

 16:04 <jamespage> bug 1180084 needs to be applied into raring

 16:04 <ubottu> bug 1180084 in nova (Ubuntu Raring) "nova-conductor should be in main" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1180084

 16:05 <jamespage> anyone know if we can do seed changes post release?

 16:05 <roaksoax> jamespage: we did it for MAAS

 16:05 <roaksoax> a few packages were promoted to main

 16:05 <jamespage> roaksoax, OK

 16:06 <jamespage> I don't think any other release bugs warrant discussion - alot are SRU's in Fix Committed state

 16:06 <jamespage> so anyone with spare time - verification would be great!

 16:06 <jamespage> arosales, back to you

 16:07 <arosales> jamespage thank you sir

 16:09 <arosales> sorry for the delay

 16:09 <arosales> #subtopic Blueprints

 16:10 <arosales> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-saucy/group/topic-saucy-servercloud-overview.html

 16:10 <arosales> how are BPs looking . . .

 16:10 <arosales> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-s/group/topic-s-servercloud-overview.html

 16:10 <arosales> this one works a little better

 16:10 * arosales will udpate the IRC commands

 16:11 <jamespage> trend line needs a reset

 16:11 <jamespage> arosales, did you get to the bottom of my missing BP's?

 16:11 <arosales> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting/IRCCommands is updated

 16:16 <arosales> so BPs updated

 16:16 <arosales> lets take a look at essential ones

 16:17 <arosales> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-juju-charm-testing

 16:17 <arosales> that is in progress

 16:17 <arosales> testing harness and plugin made

 16:18 * arosales needs to update BP .. .

 16:18 <arosales> actually that is the only essential BP

 16:19 <arosales> actually looks like we need to set priority on all our BPs

 16:19 <jamespage> agreed

 16:19 <arosales> can we make that a goal for this week?

 16:19 <jamespage> Daviey, ^^ only you can do that

 16:19 <arosales> #action Daviey set priority on s-cycle BPs

 16:19 * meetingology` Daviey set priority on s-cycle BPs

 16:20 <arosales> previous action didn't take

 16:20 <arosales> #action Daviey follow up on missing BPs from overview s-topic

 16:20 * meetingology Daviey follow up on missing BPs from overview s-topic

 16:20 <arosales> ok

 16:20 <arosales> any other BPs folks would like to discuss?

 16:21 <arosales> overall we look to be in the red on status, but I suspect that is due to BPs not being updated

 16:21 <arosales> ok, sounds like there is no other BPs that needs discussion

 16:21 <arosales> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:21 <arosales> OSCON is the only upcoming one for the juju team

 16:21 <arosales> any others

 16:22 <arosales> btw OSCON is end of July

 16:22 <arosales> ok so moving on

 16:22 <arosales> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)

 16:22 <plars> hi

 16:22 <plars> nothing major from me

 16:23 <plars> psivaa was able to help narrow down the kernel problem causing floodlight failures

 16:23 <plars> and jsalisbury found which change it was I think, so we should have a fix for that soon

 16:23 <arosales> plars, good to hear root cause on floodlight failures

 16:23 <arosales> plars, thanks for the update

 16:23 <arosales> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

 16:24 <arosales> smb: Hello are you available?

 16:26 <arosales> any questions for kernel we need to follow up on?

 16:26 <arosales> for the kernel team that is :-)

 16:26 <arosales> I take it that we are ok there

 16:26 <arosales> next topic

 16:26 <arosales> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)

 16:26 * arosales doesn't see rbask atm

 16:27 <arosales> on the ARM front from Juju we are trying to testing juju-core on ARM for saucy

 16:27 <arosales> any other ARM related topics

 16:27 <jamespage> better get that compiler working for ARM then :-)

 16:28 <arosales> jamespage noted, and dave cheney is working on that bit of work

 16:28 <arosales> #topic Open Discussion

 16:28 <arosales> any other topics to discuss?

 16:29 <arosales> I think we have been saying for a bit now to get BPs udpated

 16:29 <arosales> so lets make a good push this week to get BPs udpated and priority sets so we can see the development picture next week.

 16:30 <arosales> with that we'll close this meeting

 16:30 <arosales> #topic Announce next meeting date and time

 16:30 <arosales> NEXT MEETING: Tuesday 2013-07-02 at 1600 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting

 16:31 <arosales> jamespage, plars, Daviey, adam_g_ , roaksoax , smoser thanks for jonining this week!

 16:31 <arosales> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
