{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Open Discussion.
* Ubuntu "easy server" for the home user, xivulon (wubi developer) will join us to talk about a few of his ideas (item added by DustinKirkland)
* Updating the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ServerFaq|Server FAQ]]</nowiki> 
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== iscsi in intrepid =====

mathiaz reported that iscsi in intrepid does not support connecting to more than one target at the same time. The issue is a mismatch between the kernel and the user space version. kirkland prepared a fix by using the latest version from upstream. The release team decided to not include it in the release and to get it fixed via a Stable Release Update. A section covering this issue will also be added to the Release Notes.

===== Server FAQ =====

nijaba noticed that the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ServerFaq|Server FAQ]]</nowiki> was outdated. He asked for help to start updating the page. sommer offered his help and will start by listing the questions that the FAQ should answer.

ACTION: sommer and nijaba to review the list of questions to be included in the Server FAQ.

===== Ubuntu "easy server" for the home user =====

xivulon presented his thoughts on creating a dumbed down web interface for home users. He created a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZeroConfServer|wiki page]]</nowiki> to present his ideas. nealmcb pointed to <nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/68/|an idea in brainstorm]]</nowiki> covering a similar topic. mathiaz mentioned the <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-flavors|Server Flavor]]</nowiki> spec written by ScottK. More discussion will probably take place during UDS.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Due to the time change it was decided to move the meeting one hour back to 16:00 UTC.

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, November 4th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[15:03] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:02. The chair is mathiaz.
[15:03] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[15:03] <mathiaz> Today's agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[15:03] <mathiaz> last week's minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20081021
[15:04] <mathiaz> I don't see any outstanding actions from last weeks meeting.
[15:04] <nealmcb> o/
[15:04] <mathiaz> someone wants to add something wrt to the topics from last week meeting?
[15:05] <mathiaz> seems like not. let's move on
[15:05] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Final blockers.
[15:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  Final blockers.
[15:05] <mathiaz> So we're testing the -server iso candidates for Final.
[15:06] <mathiaz> Anyone came accross a bug that should be noted in the release notes?
[15:06] <nijaba> mathiaz: not sure what's the status on iscsi
[15:06] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] iscsi in intrepid
[15:06] <MootBot> New Topic:  iscsi in intrepid
[15:07] <mathiaz> so we've decided to not update iscsi for release
[15:07] <mathiaz> intrepid will ship with an iscsi that doesn't support more than one iscsi target
[15:08] <mathiaz> everything is tracked in bug 289470
[15:08] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 289470 in open-iscsi "open-iscsi user-space does not match kernel module version" [Critical,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/289470
[15:09] <mathiaz> there will be a note added to the release notes
[15:10] <mathiaz> nijaba: do you have other questions?
[15:10] <nijaba> mathiaz: nope, that's pretty clear
[15:10] <mathiaz> so the plan is to fix iscsi in an SRU
[15:11] <mathiaz> anything else to mention with regards to potential blockers for release?
[15:12] <mathiaz> seems like not.
[15:12] <mathiaz> so release!
[15:12] <sommer> yay
[15:13] <mathiaz> well - let's do some testing first :D
[15:13] <mathiaz> kirkland: around?
[15:14] <mathiaz> hm. well
[15:14] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Server FAQ
[15:14] <MootBot> New Topic:  Server FAQ
[15:14] <mathiaz> nijaba: ^^?
[15:15] <nijaba> yes, I have noticed that the server FAQ on help.u.c is quite outdated
[15:15] <mathiaz> https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ServerFaq
[15:15] <nijaba> I was wondering if someone would enjoy helping me updtaing it
[15:16] <sommer> sure
[15:17] <mathiaz> nijaba: do you think about updating the list of questions?
[15:17] <nijaba> sommer: I think we should start listing what are the appropriate questions
[15:17] <mathiaz> nijaba: or just updating the answer
[15:17] <nijaba> and then work on the answers
[15:17] <sommer> nijaba: ya, some of those are pretty old
[15:17] <nijaba> anyone is welcome to add questions
[15:17] <kirkland> mathiaz: sorry, my connectivity is been intermittent this morning
[15:18] <nealmcb> do you see two faqs, a new one for hardy?
[15:18] <nijaba> nealmcb: nope, only one for server
[15:18] <nealmcb> and cover both dapper and hardy?
[15:19] <nijaba> yep
[15:19] <nealmcb> yeah it makes sense to have it all on one page
[15:20] <mathiaz> it seems that most questions are fairly generic and not tied to a specific release
[15:20] <nijaba> so action for next week: prepare questions
[15:20] <mathiaz> who would like to do that?
[15:20] <mathiaz> nijaba: sommer ?
[15:21] <sommer> sure, I can put a list together
[15:21] <nijaba> anyone is welcome, but sommer and I seem to have commited to it.  I think we can just go ahead and add at the bottom of the cirrent page
[15:22] <mathiaz> [ACTION] sommer and nijaba to review the list of questions to be included in the Server FAQ
[15:22] <MootBot> ACTION received:  sommer and nijaba to review the list of questions to be included in the Server FAQ
[15:22] <mathiaz> nijaba: anything else?
[15:22] <nijaba> not on this subject
[15:23] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Ubuntu "easy server" for the home user
[15:23] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu "easy server" for the home user
[15:23] <mathiaz> kirkland: ^^?
[15:23] <mathiaz> xivulon: ^^?
[15:23] <kirkland> mathiaz: this is from a user who pinged me privately
[15:24] <kirkland> xivulon: are you around?
[15:24] <kirkland> mathiaz: evidently not ....
[15:24] <mathiaz> ok.
[15:24] <kirkland> mathiaz: sorry.
[15:25] <mathiaz> kirkland: do you want to postpone it to next week?
[15:25] <kirkland> mathiaz: he claimed to have some ideas as to making the server easier to use for the home user
[15:25] <nijaba> might be a DST issue ?
[15:25] <kirkland> mathiaz: yes, let's postpone one week
[15:25] <mathiaz> ok
[15:26] <persia> I spoke with him about that for a bit at the last UDS : he has a bunch of ideas on the topic.
[15:26] <mathiaz> persia: will he attend UDS?
[15:26] <nealmcb> some of the history of this topic is at http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/68/
[15:26]  * persia tries to find the jaunty registration page
[15:27] <nealmcb> Idea  #68: GUI configuration front end for common services
[15:27] <persia> mathiaz, He's registered at https://launchpad.net/sprints/uds-jaunty so I suspect so.
[15:27]  * nealmcb wonders if ubottu should help with brainstorms like with bugs
[15:28] <mathiaz> persia: great.
[15:28] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[15:28] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[15:28] <mathiaz> anything to add?
[15:29] <nijaba> is there an Ibex tshirt?
[15:29] <mathiaz> nijaba: don't know
[15:30] <mathiaz> nijaba: you plan to make one?
[15:30] <nijaba> mathiaz: you should go ask Kat, this is so IMPORTANT ;)
[15:31]  * kirkland notes that the 'Frozen Bubble' joke at the last server meeting made the news
[15:31]  * zul keeps quiet
[15:31] <kirkland> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue114#Server Team Meeting October 21st, 2008
[15:32] <kirkland> well that didn't paste well
[15:32] <Koon> kirkland: Frozen Bubble is *not* a joke, that's serious
[15:32] <persia> You all do know that Frozen Bubble is blamed for delaying Sarge, and Sarge delays were oft discussed in the post "There will be an Ubuntu" discussions, right?
[15:33] <kirkland> persia: yes, kees has told the story
[15:33] <persia> Do take care with the level of your addictions : it's free to start, and makes you feel good, but ...
[15:34] <nealmcb> persia: thanks for finally shedding some light on this :)
[15:34] <nijaba> persia: smoker do know about addictions ;)
[15:36] <xivulon> hi guys just back
[15:36] <mathiaz> Is there any action to take wrt to Frozen Bubble?
[15:36] <xivulon> still in time? was in another meeting
[15:37] <mathiaz> xivulon: sure
[15:38] <xivulon> the other day I was discussing with kirkland and superm1 whether there was any interest in a ubuntu-home-server
[15:39] <xivulon> basically a dumbed down web interface for home users, possibly on the back of ubuntu-easy-business-server
[15:40] <xivulon> I had drafted a very basic spec some time ago' on the subject (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZeroConfServer)
[15:41] <xivulon> but then was taken by wubi development and have dropped the idea
[15:41] <nealmcb> xivulon: have you seen  http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/68/   Idea  #68: GUI configuration front end for common services
[15:42] <xivulon> not yet
[15:43] <nealmcb> there has been strong interest expressed in this sort of thing for a long time, and ebox and Augeas are helping us close in on it, but still it is taking a long time....
[15:43] <mathiaz> xivulon: there is also a spec written by ScottK - https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-flavors
[15:43] <xivulon> yes something like that, my idea was to do it as simple as possible
[15:43] <xivulon> for instance home users do not need groups
[15:44] <xivulon> all permissions should be set directly for users
[15:44] <xivulon> and there are other services of interest to home users that are not necessarily relevant for businesses
[15:44] <mathiaz> xivulon: like nealmcb said, the topics has already been discussed in former UDS.
[15:44] <mathiaz> xivulon: as it seems you're coming the next one, we'll probably have some time to sit down and discuss this topic a bit
[15:45] <nealmcb> xivulon: thanks for the zeroconfserver spec - I'll look at it and agree that a very simple interface for the home would also be great
[15:45] <nealmcb> of course sometimes UI simplicity is hard to achieve :)
[15:45] <mathiaz> xivulon: writting a spec is a good step
[15:46] <xivulon> basic concept is to provide a simple interface for common tasks, advanced users can also tweak /etc settings
[15:46] <mathiaz> xivulon: I'd focus on the user cases and specify who is the target user
[15:46] <xivulon> the interface should not "break down" if more advanced configrations are used
[15:46] <Koon> xivulon: that's the tricky part.
[15:47] <mathiaz> xivulon: agreed. These concerns have already been raised and no perfect solution haven't been found yet.
[15:47] <xivulon> I will revamp the spec a bit, was a couple of years ago' and just a quick draft
[15:47] <xivulon> we will then take it from there
[15:47] <mathiaz> xivulon: sounds like a good plan to me.
[15:47] <nealmcb> I'd think that home users would far rather move on to something like ebox than editing in /etc....
[15:48] <nealmcb> but do look at augeas....
[15:48] <mathiaz> allright - anything else on this subject?
[15:48] <mathiaz> xivulon: ?
[15:48] <raphink> nealmcb: is augeas already used in ebox?
[15:49] <nealmcb> xivulon: thanks again - I'm glad to have more folks thinking about this!
[15:49] <nealmcb> raphink: not yet as far as I know, but there have been discussions
[15:49] <raphink> nealmcb: ok thanks
[15:49] <nealmcb> are ebox folks coming to uds?
[15:50] <mathiaz> nealmcb: I don't know
=== ubottu changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Current meeting: Server Team Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 28 Oct 17:00: Kernel Team | 28 Oct 19:00: EMEA Membership Board | 29 Oct 17:00: QA Team | 29 Oct 22:00: Platform Team | 30 Oct 12:00: Ubuntu Mobile Team
[15:50] <mathiaz> allright - anything else to add?
[15:51] <mathiaz> We're testing the final isos - help is welcome - #ubuntu-testing is the place to hang out.
[15:52] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[15:52] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[15:52] <mathiaz> next week, same place, same time?
[15:52] <nijaba> 16UTC to adapt to DST?
[15:52] <nijaba> DST will be effective in the US at that time IIUC
[15:53] <sommer> yay for DST
[15:53] <mathiaz> nijaba: seems like a good idea
[15:54] <mathiaz> so next week, 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting?
[15:54] <nijaba> +1
[15:54] <Koon> +1
[15:55] <Koon> +0 rather, I don't really mind either way
[15:55] <sommer> +1 for me
[15:55] <mathiaz> well - let's switch to 16:00 UTC so that the meeting doesn't move.
[15:55] <mathiaz> dendrobates: hi :)
[15:55] <dendrobates> stupid time change.
[15:55] <mathiaz> dendrobates: you wanted to add something?
[15:56] <dendrobates> nope
[15:56] <mathiaz> ok great
=== lieb is now known as lieb_
[15:56] <mathiaz> see you all next week, same place at 16:00UTC
[15:56] <persia> Note that the meeting does change for some people if you change the time.  For some people it even moves from the not unreasonable 1am to the very awkward 3am.
=== lieb_ is now known as lieb_commute
[15:57] <persia> (because of recent corresponding opposite DST correction)
[15:57] <mathiaz> persia: hm... are you refering to the australians?
[15:57] <persia> For 3am, yes.
[15:57] <persia> For me, you're just moving it from 0:00 to 1:00, but I mostly just watch, without that much to add.
[15:58] <mathiaz> persia: hm - right. However I haven't seen many australians active in the server team meeting for the last 3/4 months now
[15:58] <persia> Well, it was 1:00 even then :)
[15:58] <persia> Anyway, I'm just providing information, rather than saying it's a bad time.
[15:59] <mathiaz> ok.
[15:59] <mathiaz> so let's go back to iso testing
[15:59] <nealmcb> will dst really change next week?  I thought it was delayed
[15:59] <kirkland> o/
[16:00] <mathiaz> nealmcb: according to timeanddate.com yes
[16:00] <nealmcb> hmm - I guess not - ok
[16:00] <mathiaz> ok - happy iso testing!
[16:00] <mathiaz> see ya all next week!
[16:00] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
[16:00] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 11:00.
</pre>
