{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
11:01	elkbuntu	while we wait to start.. the agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamMeeting
=== AdamBagnall [n=adam@cpc3-rdng4-0-0-cust150.winn.cable.ntl.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:02	ajmitch	hi
=== pirast [n=martin@p508B2258.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:02	jono	right should we start?
11:03	newz2000	hi
=== seele [i=seele@nayuki.caffeine.nu] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:03	jono	hi newz2000
11:03	nixternal	i take it you made it there newz2000 ;)
11:03	newz2000	just. :)
11:03	jono	everyone got the agenda up?
11:03	jono	ok, show of hands, who is here for the loco meeting?
=== newz2000 is here
=== JoeyStanford raises his hand.
11:03	Gnomonic	Aye
11:03	kjcole	Aye (or I)
11:03	nixternal	o/
11:04	elkbuntu	me me me me :)
11:04	AdamBagnall	o/
11:04	matt_good	yup
=== jono raises a finger sheepishly
11:04	jono	:P
11:04	jono	cool
11:04	nixternal	which finger?
11:04	jono	:P
=== dthacke1 (generally known as dthacker raises his hand)
11:04	nixternal	not the chicago wave is it?
11:04	elkbuntu	a CoC friendly one
11:04	looksaus	jono, manners!
11:04	jono	right, lots to get through
11:04	nixternal	haha
11:04	jono	firstly, docs
11:04	nixternal	well, isn't it the same as the backwards v?
11:04	jono	it was the docs day today, and not a huge amount got done
=== Plug
=== ajmitch is here for meeting, sort of
11:05	jono	any thoughts on why?
11:05	Plug	I perused the docs, found I really didn't have anything to add
=== dthacke1 agrees with Plug
11:05	elkbuntu	because it wasnt well enough known
11:05	jono	right
11:05	looksaus	err, I made quite an addition I think
11:05	jono	I suspect there was not enough knowledge of it
11:05	jono	which we could with improving
11:05	ajmitch	this is the first I heard of it being a docs day
11:05	jono	maybe a fridge post will solve this issue
11:05	elkbuntu	yep
11:06	jono	also, I think everyone has something to contribute,  but many are not sure of what
11:06	jono	so I figured we could discuss the main docs
11:06	jono	I would say a critical one is the FAQ at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoFAQ
11:06	jono	I would love to turn this into the all seeing all dancing FAQ
11:06	jono	we also had a good start on the planet howto and the maps howto
11:06	elkbuntu	we dont know what you want to know, without that elusive mind-reading skill
11:07	jono	heh
11:07	Plug	FAQs need the questions to actually be asked
11:07	Plug	if there are questions, writing answers is relatively easy! :)
11:07	dthacke1	jono: do you have a list of unanswered questions?
11:07	JoeyStanford	I have a small bit to add to most of the material but have not found the time yet.  Given my week this week, I may not get to it until Mountain View.
=== yama [n=yama@ubuntu/member/yama] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:07	looksaus	if you have unanswered questions, they should go there too
11:07	jono	well, imagine the kind of stuff people ask, or stuff that people actually ask, and then update the FAQ
=== stelis [n=se@82-71-4-26.dsl.in-addr.zen.co.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== LoudMouthMan [n=nik@82-68-164-22.dsl.in-addr.zen.co.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:08	jono	the FAQ is not just about the questions we actually get, but also about questions we may get
11:08	elkbuntu	maybe we need a 'questions list', where people can ask things
11:08	jono	so, yeah, no urgency, but everyone keep it in the back of your head, if everyone adds a few questions, we get one fat mother of a FAQ :)
11:08	LoudMouthMan	Evning all, sorry jono .. i was distracted with the AA page
11:08	jono	no worries
11:09	Plug	tbh, I actually think its quite comprehensive at the moment
11:09	jono	Plug, its getting good, but if anyone thinks something is missing, feel free to add it :)
=== john [n=john@pool-72-75-83-238.washdc.east.verizon.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:09	jono	I also added the Knowledge Base to the main LoCo site
11:09	JoeyStanford	fwiw, my own personal view was that I was going to add the items that came up when I started the CoLoCo.
11:09	jono	if anyone wants to write some docs and add it to the Knowledge Base, that would be great
11:10	jono	JoeyStanford, cool
=== glennji [n=glennji@host-84-9-237-242.bulldogdsl.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:10	jono	I think docs are pretty central to the project, and I am looking to add some additional docs when I get time
11:11	jono	any other thoughts re. docs?
11:11	jono	anything people want to see? or feel are missing?
11:11	looksaus	target audience docs
11:11	jono	looksaus, what do you mean?
11:11	looksaus	branding hints
11:12	JoeyStanford	It would be helpful to have the setup information along with tips to help new LoCo's start.  Information about event planning for existing LoCo's.  I'd also like to see a section about sponsorship...e.g. in our case System 76 is a corp sponsor.
11:12	jono	branding for?
11:12	looksaus	hints on which subgroups to focus on first
11:12	jono	JoeyStanford, this is all good stuff
11:12	Plug	A big unaddressed issue, to my mind, is "why to do it"
11:12	jono	Plug, another great point
11:12	Plug	what the group gets out of it, how it relates to other LUGs etc
11:12	newz2000	Plug: good question
11:12	jono	how about we have a page of things that need documenting?
11:13	jono	like a TODO of things that need going in the docs?
11:13	JoeyStanford	Plug, very good point. I think the answers to that one question will be the same in many cases but also very different for different areas.
11:13	dthacke1	I'd like to know what interaction to have with a huge regional group, like the 2 or 3 US ones
11:13	jono	dthacke1, another great point
11:13	jono	ok one sec
11:13	jono	right I will create https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamDocsToDo
=== Ju [n=Ju@cpe-76-168-15-151.socal.res.rr.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:13	Ju	Hi all
11:14	jono	right could you folks add your ideas to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamDocsToDo
11:14	jono	we can use that as a source for things to document :)
11:15	jono	I think docs are part of the key to LoCo world domination :)
11:15	elkbuntu	lol, indeed
11:15	looksaus	jono, with target audience docs, I tried to say
11:15	JoeyStanford	A question that was raised our Edgy release party was Plug's: Why do we all like this LoCo concept.  I added some of our concept to the minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColoradoTeam/EdgyMeetingMinutes
11:15	jono	looksaus, right :)
11:15	looksaus	which groups to target primarily
11:15	looksaus	like :
11:15	jono	looksaus, sounds great, and important for the docs too :)
11:15	looksaus	technical users
11:15	looksaus	AND
11:15	kjcole	I know it's bad form to change page names, but perhaps the sort of restructuring of wiki pages into sub-page structure might be worth considering...
11:15	looksaus	so called 80% users
11:16	jono	JoeyStanford, Plug looksaus dthacke1 - ok are you guys ok to add topics to that page and we can then work on them?
11:16	john	I have been getting errors involving roxen3 and mysql.  This comes up with apt-get. I can find absolutely no explanation about this browser, roxen3. is this the place to get  help?
11:16	Plug	jono: sure
11:16	dthacke1	yes
11:16	LoudMouthMan	much as I love reading log files at a later date, should we be adding some syntax like [NOTE]  to things like https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamDocsToDo just to make searching this text at a later date easier. or [AGREED]  for some point..
11:16	Gnomonic	looksaus: What is a 80% user?
11:16	jono	john, nope, head to #ubuntu
11:16	jono	awesome
11:16	JoeyStanford	Jono, yes sir.  Might take until Sunday but it'll be done.
11:16	looksaus	Gnomonic, a user that does very casual things with his comp:
11:16	jono	awesome
11:16	jono	lets move to the next topic then :)
11:17	jono	working with other groups
11:17	LoudMouthMan	[topic]
11:17	Plug	(side note: the fact that ever change I make gets emailled to ajmitch/danielholbach/nixternal feel s abit offputting ;)
11:17	newz2000	Plug: they likely ignore the e-mails
11:17	ajmitch	Plug: sorry :)
11:17	jono	Plug, :P
11:17	Plug	oh, I don't doubt that
11:17	jono	at LinuxWorld there was some discussion with ubuntu-uk with who LoudMouthMan is one of the core members, about how we can better work with LUGs and other user groups
11:17	jono	naturally we don't want LoCo teams to overthrow other groups, and we need to work with other groups effectively
=== doko_ [n=doko@dslb-088-073-093-229.pools.arcor-ip.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:18	Plug	A primary answer is 'Canonical $stuff distribution' (shipit, etc)
11:18	Plug	it gives the LUGs an instant reason to exist
11:18	jono	Plug, good point
11:18	looksaus	why would you want to do that?
11:18	Plug	erm, s/LUG/LoCo/
11:18	jono	well, we determined that LUGs are general support groups, and LoCo teams are really teams to help advocate and promote Ubuntu
11:18	dthacke1	We plan on doing more outreach than the current LUG, which only does monthly meetings
11:19	LoudMouthMan	Yes, president Popey is concerned that we dont splinter or fraction the LUG users, ive added it to the UKteam approval as Ensuring Ubuntu compliments and Enhances a Linux User group
11:19	Plug	but it also affirms a stereotype 'ubuntu is only popular cos canonical send it to people for free' :)
11:19	looksaus	jono, I see this _very_ differently
11:19	jono	looksaus, how so?
11:19	looksaus	as lugs cater to a technical group
11:19	looksaus	geeks and nerds
11:19	newz2000	ah
11:19	looksaus	and there is a group that is absolutely not like this
11:19	Plug	our (national) LoCo covers the area of many LUGs
11:19	jono	looksaus, so your team caters for non-geeks?
11:19	LoudMouthMan	but a lug is not exlcusively one specific catering subset..
=== dthacke1 does agree with looksaus
11:20	JoeyStanford	I've documented our answer to this question on the CoLoCo page:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColoradoTeam
11:20	looksaus	yes
11:20	looksaus	lugs are _not_ end user support
11:20	Plug	looksaus: some are
11:20	looksaus	if you want to break outside the geek public
11:20	jono	looksaus, ok thats cool, there is nothing wrong with being different, we just need to be sure we don't tread on toes
11:20	looksaus	you _don't_ go to a lug
11:20	elkbuntu	the function of LUGs is as varied as the function of LoCos
11:20	jono	elkbuntu, exactly
11:20	jono	looksaus, LUGs are very varied, many do support many don't
11:20	jono	when I toured the UK LUGs earlier this year they were hugely different
11:21	LoudMouthMan	ooh neat .. we used Enhance as well. thats great.. Enhance is a feature!
11:21	looksaus	my point is that you need to break loose
11:21	looksaus	from the technical people who gather in a lug
11:21	jono	now, LoudMouthMan made some great notes about working with other groups from the ubuntu-uk meeting
11:21	yama	there are fears in some LUGs that Ubuntu is trying to take over. This should be avoided
11:21	kjcole	Our LoCo "leans towards" Ubuntu, but try to throw in a good word for other distros every once in a while.  Our focus is on reaching the non-geeky, particularly in K-12 schools, libraries, and small community groups.
11:21	jono	I would love to see some of those notes in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoWorkingWithOtherGroups
11:21	jono	LoudMouthMan, are you ok to merge some of that in, maybe with the help of popey ?
11:21	elkbuntu	yama, crap, they're on to us...!
11:21	nixternal	Plug: just on your side note, the reason we get those emails, and i look at everyone, is to assist with the admin of the wiki, so if someone defaces a page, i can see it right away, or others, and fix it
11:21	Plug	I liken the LoCo here to a virtual collection of the Ubuntu promoting focused users from all the national LUG
11:21	Plug	s
11:21	JoeyStanford	These are all good comments.  We've been thru this as part of the justification to setup the CoLoCo....so I refer everyone back to our team page.
11:22	jono	yama, yeah, we need to be careful of that
11:22	Plug	each LUG has a bunch of people who dont care about Ubuntu, and a bunch that are only ever going to be users
11:22	Plug	(which is fine)
11:22	jono	JoeyStanford, cool, so you have some good thoughts on this subject?
11:22	JoeyStanford	I have *LOTS* of thoughts.
=== JoeyStanford smiles.
11:22	jono	JoeyStanford, good good :)
11:22	LoudMouthMan	a better thought might be this : the other distros will mobilise their own communities.. this concerns LUGS more. however LUGS ar the assimilationof all distros into one common interest. hence Ubuntu LOCO teams can set the prescendence for working with them.
11:22	jono	JoeyStanford, if you can contribute to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoWorkingWithOtherGroups as well, that would be great
11:22	JoeyStanford	This was the primary topic ...the primary deciding aspect of setting up Colorado.  We explored it in depdth.
11:23	JoeyStanford	in depth even.
11:23	Plug	I generalise that 'LUGs are meatspace'
11:23	LoudMouthMan	and I spotted that comment Jono.. i was hopping other team members would edit for me.. namely (president)Pope
11:23	jono	it seems most loco teams are interested in advocacy and promotion too - less about support and less about physical meetings
11:23	Plug	our LoCo can't do that, and probably shouldn't.
11:23	looksaus	Plug, meatspace?
11:23	jono	LoudMouthMan, ok, lets persuade him :)
11:23	Plug	looksaus: "the real world"
11:23	Plug	where people are made of meat, not 1s and 0s :P
11:23	looksaus	heh
11:23	jono	:)
11:23	LoudMouthMan	well i was going to ask him directly thursday if it had stayed empty .. hes got the best fix on a LUGmaster concern here
11:24	jono	LoudMouthMan, I think he can offer some sane and realistic guidence for that page :)
11:24	jono	I think that the issue of group relations is something we *all* need to take care with - we don't want to make LUGs feel like we are overtaking them
11:24	looksaus	if you want end users with little skills to help each other, you will need one distro for them to center around
11:25	jono	it seems most LoCo teams though have a definitive and different direction to a LUG
11:25	Plug	"LUGs are dying"
11:25	elkbuntu	jono, Plug is probably equally qualified for it, given his experience
11:25	LoudMouthMan	jono  : i agree
11:25	jono	elkbuntu, awesome
11:25	Plug	you need far less handholding to install Linux these days
11:25	jono	Plug, would you be happy to add content to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoWorkingWithOtherGroups
11:25	Plug	sure, looking now
11:25	jono	Plug, not much to look at :P
11:25	LoudMouthMan	Plug your not wrong .. they are dying but I dont feel thats a justification
11:26	jono	awesome, just some things for us to think about
11:26	elkbuntu	no reason why we cannot help change that
11:26	looksaus	if you want to break outside a technical public
11:26	LoudMouthMan	I know Dobbo and I spoke about it 3yrs ago thats why we started BCF and FSB meetings.
11:26	looksaus	you want to stay away from most lugs...
11:26	Plug	I was just saying that you need to expect some animosity from the 'old school' :)
11:26	looksaus	you want to attract a different kind of people
11:26	JoeyStanford	In Colorado, those LUG statements do not apply as greatly. LUGs are a backbone, albeit not as strong as they once were.
11:26	jono	looksaus, we don't want to just break outside a technical public, but whatever your views, we are computer fans and so are they, so there are issues there
11:27	nixternal	see, what I have been doing with the local LUGs, is just providing information/insite into the Ubuntu community..nothing more and nothing less. when i goto a LUG meeting, it is all about Linux, unless an Ubuntu topic comes up..
11:27	LoudMouthMan	theres a phrase I see on IRC quite a lot when talking about bringing new of fresh people into Ubuntu.
11:27	looksaus	ah, k, sorry to have misunderstood
11:27	jono	looksaus, we want to target non users, I am just saying we don't want to inflame negative relations with other groups :)
11:27	jono	looksaus, :)
11:27	JoeyStanford	Nixternal: Same here.
11:27	LoudMouthMan	people say " I dont care " when refering to those below a set technical standard or understanding
11:27	nixternal	i provide them with CDs when they ask..a LUG is for Linux in general, and some tend to get annoyed when you bring reteric into their community
11:27	jono	I recommend we get that page filled out, and then we can schedule a meeting about this wide and interesting subject
11:27	LoudMouthMan	I think it fits the Coc to start showing that Care is a feature.
11:28	jono	everyone ok to move on?
11:28	elkbuntu	yep
11:28	jono	or any other comments?
11:28	nixternal	although Plug probably would have the best LUG insite, seeing as he is from the home of the larget LUG i believe
11:28	looksaus	well, I can say that lugs out here are absolutely not negative towards us
11:28	Plug	We're not that large! :P
11:28	LoudMouthMan	possibly we approach the other Distro guys ... Jon Fautley, Ted Heager ( others ? ) and discuss LUG energising.
11:28	looksaus	au contraire
11:28	LoudMouthMan	great so .. Plug can you start the content for us please?
11:28	JoeyStanford	The primary separation between LUGs and LoCo's is Ubuntu in my mind.  LUGs do Linux and related.  LoCo's do Ubuntu.  We tend to have more distro specific information, translated, and with that comes a greater ability to perform outreach, training, and even support.
11:29	nixternal	Plug: there is a guy I know that is moving there in a couple of months, and one of his reasons was the LUG ;)
11:29	Plug	it seems that any group with one or two driving people with passion, will succeed
11:29	jono	evidently there are lots of thoughts here, and scope for future discussion
11:29	Plug	The trick is finding those people
11:29	nixternal	that there is jono
11:29	jono	I think what is important is that we have some solid guidance on that page for LoCos who are unsure of how to move forward
11:29	LoudMouthMan	if only there was a pdcast that could talk about LUG energising ?
11:29	jono	nixternal, awww shucks :)
11:30	LoudMouthMan	nevermind... next !
11:30	jono	LoudMouthMan, shut your face :P
11:30	elkbuntu	lol
=== glennji giggles at loudmouthman's sarcasm
11:30	jono	so, we ready to rock onto the next topic?
11:30	looksaus	yup...
11:30	newz2000	[TOPIC]
11:30	dthacke1	next!
11:30	elkbuntu	i think so
11:30	LoudMouthMan	thanks newz
=== jono hugs LoudMouthMan in a manly "did you see the bears game" way
11:30	jono	right, education
=== LoudMouthMan raises....... an eyebrow
11:30	elkbuntu	get a room you two
11:31	newz2000	[TOPIC]
11:31	LoudMouthMan	ooh good my other favourite topic.
11:31	nixternal	wooohoooo DA BEARS!!!
11:31	jono	many of you will have seen Richard Weiderman's post to loco-contacts about education
11:31	jono	a bit of background
11:31	LoudMouthMan	um no .. but lets assume i did .. man I must join more mail lists
11:31	jono	Richard works for Canonical as Education Manager and he is keen to reach out to loco teams to help our teams get some success with education
11:32	jono	the idea is that those teams who are interested in education would be great having an education lead
11:32	jono	that is, a person who is happy to coordinate the education efforts of the team
11:32	jono	this gives richard a point of contact for helping the team
11:32	LoudMouthMan	ahh okay .. so my notes to post about sending these spare Edubuntu CDs to local Mps and Nursery Franchise owners would be useful ? I had a cover letter and all set out.
11:32	Plug	I reposted your missive to our list and had two people say "I'd like to help, what do I do", and really didn't have much more I could tell them other than "read the wiki page & sign up".
11:32	jono	our Colorado friends kicked it off
11:32	jono	sure
11:32	nixternal	yes, and I have been working on local educational contacts, and it is nice as there is an Educucational/School admin in the Chicago group, so he is making it easier for me...it seems there may be some great interest in Open Source in the school systems around here
11:32	jono	those who want to figure out some edu contacts, add them to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamEducation
11:33	jono	nixternal, awesome! :)
11:33	dthacke1	NebraskaTeam is starting with local schools.  Those will be our first presentations, when we get contacts made.
11:33	jono	this is great
11:34	jono	one thing I would like to work on in the future is for each team to have certain contacts (in addition to the normal main contact), and education contact is a great idea
11:34	jono	it will make it easier for interested parties to talk to each other
11:34	jono	also, Richard has his foot in the Edubuntu camp, so we have some great opportunities there too
=== dthacke1 notes that this is why we need more than three team members....
11:34	LoudMouthMan	issues will arise as to how Education is handled as a govt department for each loco team so it will be useful to spot where common ground exists in creating awareness.
11:34	jono	so if you could all talk to your groups to figure out an edu contact, that would be great
11:35	kjcole	The DC LoCo has Edubuntu labs in four local high schools, and five affordable housing project labs (which are often used by the younger kids).
11:35	jono	dthacke1, heh
11:35	jono	kjcole, wow, send me a fridge article about that with photos and I will get it posted :)
11:35	nixternal	DC LoCo guys, I might be out in your area soon visiting my daughter, if I find time, I would like to maybe get together and see how you all are rocking it out there
11:36	dthacke1	kjcole, are you done with that HOWTO yet ;)
11:36	jono	heh
=== nixternal misses DC so much
=== jono slaps dthacke1 :P
11:36	nixternal	lol
11:36	JoeyStanford	In CoLoCo's case, I gave the Edu person a title (Team Lead) and requested two, a primary and a backup, because we all know people get busy. :-)
11:36	newz2000	do you mean the "howto: world domination"?
11:37	jono	this is an important point
11:37	jono	if anyone has any success stories, do let me know so we can promote them on the fridge
11:37	kjcole	jono Will try to send you something.  For the moment you can poke around on our not-so-well maintained page: http://dc.ubuntu-us.org/
11:37	jono	we need the world to know our LoCo teams kick ass
11:37	JoeyStanford	I also used the incentive.... "Being the LoCo Team Lead for Education is a great addition to your wiki page to help you become a full Ubuntu Member"
11:37	jono	kjcole, cool
11:37	jono	JoeyStanford, :)
11:37	jono	so yeah, if everyone could look at arranging an edu contact that would be cool
11:38	LoudMouthMan	jono .. what do we do to promot Fridge stories to local media , for instance in the uk informing linux user & dev chappies!
11:38	looksaus	jono, what exactly is expected from an edu contact?
11:38	jono	again, it would be cool to dedicate a loco meeting to education sometime, so we can have a good full discussion
11:38	nixternal	jono: you don't want peoples names and numbers up there im guessing?
11:38	Gnomonic	Sorry, gotta leave, will read the logs tomorrow. Good night (or whatever applies to your timezone)
=== Gnomonic [n=gnomonic@cpe.atm2-0-101334.0x50a67d26.bynxx14.customer.tele.dk] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
11:38	nixternal	at least those contacts might not want their info up there
11:38	jono	LoudMouthMan, what do you mean?
11:38	looksaus	actively working towards the education sector?
11:38	jono	looksaus, the aim is to work with the sector to help ubuntu get used
11:38	nixternal	unless of course it is already public
11:38	jono	and often advocacy with schools and colleges
11:38	looksaus	ok, maybe it would be useful to give some examples there
11:39	looksaus	testimonials
11:39	JoeyStanford	LoudMouthMan, Excellent Question.
11:39	LoudMouthMan	well im off topic a little here .. but id like to ensure that a regular press cycle occurs to maintain press and media awareness of Ubuntu and Locoteam activities.
11:39	jono	nixternal, sure, we don't want to show private details, but stats are good where possible
11:39	looksaus	a richer "job description" if you want
11:39	jono	looksaus, good idea, I think some case studies would be useful there
11:39	LoudMouthMan	so if we use the fridge to post excellent news then we should drop a copy to the media some how
11:39	jono	LoudMouthMan, exactly
11:39	jono	LoudMouthMan, this is part of my aim to get regular stories
11:39	JoeyStanford	Jono, we need LMM's topic as a todo.  How to release press releases to local media.
11:39	jono	maintaining a cycle needs people though
11:40	jono	JoeyStanford, yes, could you add it?
11:40	JoeyStanford	Free advertising you know :-)
11:40	jono	it may be good to have an agenda item in the future about publicising your events too
11:40	JoeyStanford	rgr
11:40	jono	rgr?
11:40	LoudMouthMan	sure .. but I was thinking about it . i'll keep on top of asking people for news and stories and puting them to the fridge .. well for UKteam at least
11:40	nixternal	rgr == roger == 10-4
11:40	glennji	"Roger"?
11:40	nixternal	;)
11:40	jono	LoudMouthMan, cool
11:41	jono	maybe each loco could have a press contact?
11:41	jono	someone to flow out press info and act as a contact for journalists?
11:41	jono	nixternal, ahh!
11:41	elkbuntu	i think thats sort of the general contact's job
11:41	elkbuntu	other teams may disagree
11:41	looksaus	elkbuntu, agree
11:41	jono	elkbuntu, possibly, but some lead contacts may not want to be press contact
11:42	LoudMouthMan	well let them have the choice .. some roles fill naturually .
11:42	jono	this sounds like a mailing list discussion to get ideas
11:42	jono	sure
11:42	dthacke1	I'd do it as gc, until the job got too big, the split a press contact
11:42	jono	not everyone will want these roles
11:42	elkbuntu	fair enough
11:42	jono	ok
11:42	jono	move on?
11:43	looksaus	maybe it's not as much about the roles, but about defining what someone with that responsibility is to do
11:43	JoeyStanford	(page updated)
11:43	LoudMouthMan	im happy to talk ... ( yeah yeah ) but id look to some one with media experience ( jono , know anyone ? ) to motivate.. but anyway
11:43	LoudMouthMan	[TOPIC]
11:43	jono	JoeyStanford, thanks :)
11:43	newz2000	:D
=== LoudMouthMan considers it all a learning experience.
11:43	jono	looksaus, and its looking at what people are good at
11:43	jono	LoudMouthMan, indeed
11:43	jono	ok further ideas
11:44	jono	I think we need to think of events and campaigns for the LoCo community as a whole
11:44	jono	elkbuntu had the idea of a recruitment drive
11:44	jono	which I think is a great idea
11:44	elkbuntu	yeah, and that should get some questions asked, for sure
11:44	Plug	Advertised where?
11:44	elkbuntu	for the faqs
11:44	newz2000	Plug: Ubuntu forums?
11:44	elkbuntu	Plug, blogs and fridge woudl help ;)
11:44	LoudMouthMan	okay well ive mentioned for the UK we have children in need coming up , so engaging with defined charaties Locally and Internatinally will be useful
=== elkbuntu erases the winkey before someone notices
11:45	looksaus	elkbuntu, curiuous about this recruitment drive
11:45	looksaus	idea
11:45	jono	yeah
11:45	LoudMouthMan	id like to see if we cant get a sponsored install/hack fest day . for Children In Need.
11:45	jono	is anyone aware of an events ideas wiki page?
11:45	Plug	Right, I wondered if you meant "outside of that"
11:45	jono	ok lets first talk about recruitment
11:45	Plug	we're about to launch a NZ-package-wallpaper-contest with three goals
11:45	elkbuntu	looksaus, we spend a day pimpin locos, guiding people to the locos for their areas they may not have thought existed, etc
11:46	LoudMouthMan	things that drag TV Cameras out to watch things occur that are positive is useful
11:46	Plug	1. get a wallpaper package 2. get certified 3. get people to know the LoCo exists, and get involved with it
11:46	LoudMouthMan	man that was vague!
11:46	JoeyStanford	I'm still a firm believer that while having documentation readily available on the internet is GOOD, it may not be of any benefit to someone who doesn't speak English.  Having the LoCo's  help create non-English docs is a big deal methinks.
11:46	jono	I think it makes sense to have a recruitment day, and this could involve day long meetings on our loco IRC channels, fridge and forums posts and IRC events such as getting to know each other sessions
11:46	dthacke1	is looking for other places to recruit besides the local LUG for reasons previously discussed
=== JoeyStanford appologizes for injecting an off topic comment.
11:46	jono	JoeyStanford, great idea - we could identify key docs and get them translated
11:47	newz2000	JoeyStanford: Good point, do you loco teams search google and others for key phrases to see where they go?
11:47	newz2000	(in your own language)
11:47	jono	well should we make a recruitment day our first event?
11:47	LoudMouthMan	JoeyStanford , in fact everyone .. whose heard of the BNI ?
11:47	elkbuntu	jono, second considering today was docs day :
11:47	jono	hehe
11:47	jono	elkbuntu, smartarse :P
11:47	JoeyStanford	Newz, in my case it's English but I'm also on a translation team so I have some experience working with non-English speaking folks :-)
11:48	elkbuntu	i'd rather be a smartarse than a dumbarse ;P
=== LoudMouthMan only speaks one langauge .. but he does it quite loudly
11:48	jono	elkbuntu, oi!
11:48	glennji	LoudMouthMan, not me.
=== nixternal lets it be known that im both
11:48	jono	LoudMouthMan, :P
=== elkbuntu runs and hides behind someone
11:48	jono	so maybe we have a LoCo Open Day
11:48	JoeyStanford	newz, from my experience, you are correct.  Google or Clusty.
11:49	LoudMouthMan	okay well if were looking for other areas to promote and recruit then locate your local BNI Chapter ( Business Network international ) and see if you drop in for a breakfast.
11:49	jono	where each of the loco team IRC channels has events, maybe physical events where possible and other things
11:49	elkbuntu	jono, agreed, i would assume lots of useful documenting would be done on the day, and calling it 'recruitment drive' sounds way too ominous
11:49	JoeyStanford	newz, coupled with altavista babelfish ;-)
11:49	Plug	...and get it Slashdotted...
11:49	AdamBagnall	and dugg
11:49	glennji	jono, speaking as a "newbie" in the country AND ubuntu AND loco, I'd really like an Open Day.
11:49	LoudMouthMan	Plug, surely we need to be Dugg ?
11:49	looksaus	a nice recruitment activity I did in Belgium (well, the Dutch speaking 60%) was to use all my sources to find at least one person in every >50k inhabitants
11:49	elkbuntu	Plug, if you know someone/s who can arrange that, do so
11:49	Plug	pass, I don't do digg :P
11:49	jono	elkbuntu, ok, I think it would make sense to have a team of us working to get all LoCo's up and running with an Open Day
11:50	yama	"Recruitment drive? You mean Canonical is hiring???"
=== yama prpares his CV :p
11:50	Plug	yama: good point
11:50	newz2000	yama: www.ubuntu.com/employment
11:50	jono	I think just saying "lets do an Open Day" is not enough to get all LoCo teams involved
11:50	elkbuntu	jono, you know i'll be there
11:50	jono	elkbuntu, cool :)
11:50	Plug	"Whats in it for them"?
11:50	elkbuntu	this is going to take a few weeks of plotting
11:50	jono	right, well I will send out a mail about the open day
=== JoeyStanford pokes Jono to let him know he has a further comment on LoCo Support when there is a break.
11:50	jono	yes, luckily we can talk at the UDS
11:50	elkbuntu	yes, indeed
11:50	elkbuntu	who here will be at UDS?
11:51	jono	JoeyStanford, sorry?
11:51	JoeyStanford	jono: I have a topic change when you are ready
=== JoeyStanford will be at UDS.
11:51	jono	JoeyStanford, oh np, we will finish this up first
=== looksaus too
11:51	jono	awesome, should we have a open day meeting?
11:51	jono	we can organise it when we are there
11:51	ajmitch	elkbuntu: you know I will be :)
11:52	elkbuntu	ajmitch, well yeah, i was hoping to find out things i didnt already know
11:52	elkbuntu	jono, yes, agreed
11:52	jono	cool, so people happy to make the open day our first major event?
11:53	elkbuntu	heck yes
11:53	JoeyStanford	Question for the Group: Has anyone developed a "what's in it for me?" list (besides the small bit my team did) for recruitment?
11:53	jono	JoeyStanford, no, and that should go in the docs where possible
11:53	elkbuntu	JoeyStanford, hmm? 'warm fuzzy feeling' doesnt cut it for some?
11:53	elkbuntu	;)
=== JoeyStanford pokes the Elk.
11:53	jono	we could do with some art for things like that
11:53	Plug	solves "Get involved or fuck off"
11:53	elkbuntu	Plug, rofl
11:53	JoeyStanford	hehe.. Yeah it comes up a lot here.
11:54	jono	maybe some standard posters for "reasons to be cheerful" :)
11:54	JoeyStanford	Not just why Ubuntu but why a LoCo
11:54	JoeyStanford	I'll add it to the Todo list
11:54	jono	:)
11:54	elkbuntu	rock on, JoeyStanford :)
11:54	jono	nice work JoeyStanford :)
11:54	jono	ok, any other ideas to bring up right now?
11:55	JoeyStanford	me me me
11:55	newz2000	jono: I added two things to the agenda
11:55	newz2000	we can talk about them later if you like
11:55	jono	newz2000, my only concern is time, we are nearly out
11:55	jono	newz2000, as per the first item, I have been working on that
11:56	jono	newz2000, sorry for the delay, been swamped
11:56	jono	newz2000, and I got your mail for the second one too
11:56	jono	newz2000, there is a session at UDS about standardising resources
11:56	newz2000	no prob, its good to be able to say you're workign on it
11:56	jono	newz2000, can I suggest we keep those items for the next meeting?
11:56	newz2000	That is just fine for me.
11:57	jono	newz2000, awesome
11:57	jono	so, next item folks?
11:57	LoudMouthMan	yep
11:57	jono	Emil? are you here?
11:57	elkbuntu	what is his irc nick?
11:58	jono	no idea
=== dthacke1 .oO(crickets....)
11:58	jono	anyone know who Emil is?
11:58	elkbuntu	scouring for info now
11:58	newz2000	opi according to launchpad
11:59	jono	not here?
11:59	elkbuntu	-NickServ-           Last Seen: 5 hours 12 minutes 29 seconds ago
11:59	newz2000	opi :No such nick/channel
11:59	jono	just pinging
11:59	jono	erk
11:59	jono	ok, well we can't discuss that without him
11:59	jono	so we will defer that too
11:59	jono	just before we finish...
11:59	Plug	which makes it time for lunch :P
11:59	jono	if everyone could look at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamsUDSMVSpecs
12:00	jono	these are the specs I have added for the UDS that are LoCo related
12:00	jono	I am still working on filling them out
12:00	jono	if anyone has any thoughts or comments, at them to the pages so we can cover them at the sessions
12:00	jono	I will be blogging about it soon to drum up interest in the issues
12:00	Plug	I've told ajmitch he must attend all of these. :P
12:00	jono	and final, final thing, how is this time for everyone for a meeting?
12:00	jono	Plug, :P
12:00	looksaus	jono, do you prefer additions as comments to these pages?
12:01	jono	looksaus, yes please
12:01	looksaus	ok
12:01	jono	I should outline that on the page really
12:01	LoudMouthMan	okay well i can see a few items in that which Popey would find interesting
12:01	dthacke1	jono, time is not bad.  
12:01	newz2000	jono: I'm here
12:01	jono	looksaus, well, they can be visible, but identify the comment with your name
12:01	newz2000	dthacke1: we're in the same timezone :)
12:01	looksaus	k
12:01	jono	we are still finding out feet with meeting times, so lets see what people think
12:02	jono	well, I think we are done folks
12:02	elkbuntu	:)
=== JoeyStanford definately likes this time. :-)
12:02	dthacke1	newz2000: hi neighbor, can I borrow a cup of Edgy CD's?
12:02	jono	you are doing an awesome job with our community, I am really proud of everyone :)
12:02	jono	lets keep kicking arse in new and different ways :)
12:02	LoudMouthMan	hmm better hire octopuses then .. they can kick arse 8 ways !
12:02	elkbuntu	we have you to thank though, jono.
12:02	JoeyStanford	+1
12:02	jono	I think if we continue to grow the project, get our docs written, we can do some awesome stuff :)
12:02	looksaus	+1
12:03	LoudMouthMan	but cheers Jono
12:03	jono	:)
12:03	kjcole	I'll try to remember to keep up with this (I got away from all the on-line stuff for a while)...  Later all
12:03	newz2000	dthacke1: just burned my first last night!
12:03	jono	nice one, thanks folks :)
=== MatthewV [n=MatthewV@202.183.115.122] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== JoeyStanford is now known as Rinchen
12:05	newz2000	dthacke1: where is the nebraska team based?
12:05	newz2000	(where in Nebraska that is)
12:05	Rinchen	Good question, I can smell and Colorado and Nebraska shindig
12:05	dthacke1	Omaha for now,  I need more help, so I'm going to start recruiting out west.
12:05	jono	later all!
</pre>
