{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=06&day=24&year=2013&hour=16&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Jun 24th 2013 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* sbeattie
* mdeslaur

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Christian Kuersteiner (ckuerste) provided a debdiff for quantal for ruby-openid (LP: #1190179). Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Actions
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: community
** finish SDK work items and goals for June deliverables
** continue phablet image testing
** monthly planning
** pending update
** tyhicks
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor
*** likely will have !ContentPicker work this week
*** dbus patches for final inclusion in Ubuntu
*** dbus policy changes
** jjohansen
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor
*** apparmor v3 backport for phablet kernels
*** review dbus patches from tyhicks
*** couple 2.8 bugs to handoff to sarnold
*** IPC syntax email
*** June work items
** sarnold
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor
*** patch reviews
*** !AppArmor 2.8.2 release
*** pending update
** chrisccoulson
** weekly role: happy place
*** pending updates: firefox, thunderbird, chromium-browser
*** oxide
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** None

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-06-24-16.31.html
