{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** kirkland JamesPage RoAkSoax to help zul testing 10.04.2 ISOs
** zul to send e-mail to ubuntu-server ML requesting help for testing 10.04.2 ISOs
* Natty Development
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
** Upcoming
*** <nowiki>[[http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/|SCALE9x]]</nowiki> - Feb 25 - 27, Los Angeles (ClintByrum attending, DustinKirkland <nowiki>[[http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale9x/presentations/byobu-gnu-screen-human-beings|presenting]]</nowiki>)
*** <nowiki>[[http://www.ukuug.org/events/spring2011/|UKUUG Spring Conference]]</nowiki> -  22-24 March, ttx attending, talking OpenStack (and Ubuntu Server).
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
* Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time
** Tuesday, March 1 2011 16:00 UTC

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, April 14th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:02] <kirkland> #startmeeting
[16:02] <Laney> cjwatson: can you approve my DMB ML subscription too?
[16:02] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:02. The chair is kirkland.
[16:02] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:03] <smoser> o/
[16:03] <kirkland> howdy all
[16:03] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:03] <smb> evening
[16:03] <cjwatson> Laney: no, I passed the keys for that to persia
[16:03] <Daviey> o/
[16:03] <kirkland>  * zul to send e-mail to ubuntu-server ML requesting help for testing 10.04.2 ISOs
[16:03] <jamespage> o/
[16:03] <hggdh> sorry for the delay, latests natty updates killed my laptop
[16:04] <kirkland> hggdh: no worries, just getting started now
[16:04] <zul> not done...it had to be kind of adhoc
[16:04] <kirkland> zul: ?
[16:04] <kirkland> zul: okay, no point in carrying though
[16:04] <kirkland> zul: as 10.04.2 is out
[16:04] <kirkland> zul: unless you want to get a headstart on asking for 10.04.3 testing?  :-)
[16:04] <zul> meh
[16:04] <Daviey> lol
[16:05] <kirkland> hrm
[16:05] <kirkland> looks like RoAkSoAx has not updated the agenda ....
[16:05]  * kirkland will need to wing it
[16:05] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Natty Development
[16:05] <kirkland> robbiew: ?
[16:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  Natty Development
[16:06] <robbiew> burn downs look good...bug count is fine
[16:06] <robbiew> forge ahead
[16:06] <robbiew> ;)
[16:06] <SpamapS> FF on Thursday right?
[16:06] <robbiew> yup
[16:06] <robbiew> if you think you need an FFE...talk to skaet
[16:06] <SpamapS> What features have we added this go 'round? I think we've done a lot in universe
[16:07] <Daviey> We are actually looking pretty good on upstream versions we care about i think
[16:07] <hggdh> warwarning to the adventurous: current ISO will not install
[16:07] <Daviey> The two i was watching was libvirt and multipath-tools
[16:07] <robbiew> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/ReleaseStatus/Natty
[16:07] <Daviey> hallyn is cracking them out.
[16:07] <hallyn> yup
[16:07]  * zul is doing a couple of merges today
[16:08]  * SpamapS may attempt to finish an erlang merge today or tomorrow
[16:08] <zul> php5/apache/mysql
[16:08] <SpamapS> zul: want to review/sponsor that for me tomorrow?
[16:08] <kirkland> cool
[16:08] <zul> SpamapS: sure
[16:08] <kirkland> anything else related to natty, or FeatureFreeze?
[16:09] <zul> i have a couple of reviews that people want me to do on the list as well
[16:09] <Daviey> Hmm
[16:09] <Daviey> Currently daily, is not good.
[16:09] <Daviey> cjwatson is on the case AIUI.
[16:09] <hggdh> bug 723148
[16:09] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 723148 in debian-installer (Ubuntu) "Natty server ISO images fail to install" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/723148
[16:09] <Daviey> thassim
[16:10] <Daviey> for us, i think we can consider it transitional
[16:10] <hggdh> yes, should (I hope) be resolved today
[16:10] <kirkland> cool
[16:10] <kirkland> so moving along ...
[16:11] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:11] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:11] <kirkland> repeating last week:
[16:11] <kirkland> SCALE9x - Feb 25 - 27, Los Angeles (ClintByrum attending, DustinKirkland presenting)
[16:11] <kirkland> UKUUG Spring Conference - 22-24 March, ttx attending, talking OpenStack (and Ubuntu Server).
[16:11] <kirkland> anything else new to mention?
[16:11] <kirkland> perhaps UDS-O in Budapest?
[16:11] <SpamapS> I had a talk accepted at the MySQL UC in April.. but thats eons away
[16:11] <zul> oooh about what?
[16:11] <SpamapS> "Run Drizzle on Your Narwhal"
[16:11] <kirkland> May 9-13
[16:11] <kirkland> Sp4rKy: that's cool
[16:12] <kirkland> okay
[16:12] <SpamapS> < 3 months to figure out O .. which should be the alpha for server-P ;)
[16:12] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:12] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:12] <kirkland> hggdh: howdy, sir
[16:13] <hggdh> last two weeks have been sort of weird, with kernel SRU tests, and 10.04.2 (also tests)
[16:13] <hggdh> so not much on the front
[16:13] <hggdh> except that Hudson -- er, Jenkins -- is cranking pretty good
[16:13] <RoAkSoAx> hggdh: you putting together the test-rig today for euca/powernap thingy?
[16:14] <kirkland> hggdh: great to hear about Hudkins
[16:14] <hggdh> RoAkSoAx: I will try, but I am not sure I can install anything there, no ISO will install
[16:14] <SpamapS> hggdh: jhunt and I want to add some automated tests to the list for testing upstart job interaction.. I think we'll have to wait for UDS to fully spec it out tho
[16:14] <SpamapS> Hudkins.. lol
[16:14] <jamespage> nice
[16:14] <hggdh> SpamapS: this would be marvelous. I think, right now, my official laptop is dead on an upstart issue
[16:14] <Daviey> hggdh, please don't touch the two boxes with short m names without pinging me.
[16:15] <RoAkSoAx> hggdh: no worries, just let me know whenever its ready. I'm pretty sure what are the issues if they are powernap's side
[16:15] <hggdh> RoAkSoAx: fantastic, and willco
[16:15] <kirkland> hggdh: anything else?
[16:15] <hggdh> kirkland: no, this is it
[16:15] <kirkland> thanks
[16:15] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:16] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:16] <kirkland> smb: howdy, sir
[16:16] <smb> kirkland, Hello sir
[16:16] <smb> Well actually not much newish from my side
[16:16] <kirkland> smb: anything worth mentioning?
[16:16] <kirkland> or, does anyone have questions for the kernel team?
[16:16] <smb> Currently trying to check up on some xfs regression
[16:17] <smb> Otherwise the things from last week wait for confirmation or me getting back to them
[16:17] <hallyn> xfs regressions?  is there a bug#?
[16:17] <smb> bug 692848
[16:17] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 692848 in linux (Ubuntu) "Regression between 2.6.32-27 and 2.6.32-26 xfsdump SGI_FS_BULKSTAT errno = 22" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/692848
[16:18] <smb> possibly affects older releases as well
[16:18] <smb> but I failed on re-creating the failure
[16:18] <hallyn> thx
[16:18] <smb> so it is a bit hard to say
[16:18] <SpamapS> smb: did we give up on reproducing the NFS issue?
[16:19] <smb> SpamapS, Which of the many?
[16:19] <SpamapS> bug 661294
[16:19] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 661294 in linux (Ubuntu) "System lock-up when receiving large files (big data amount) from NFS server" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/661294
[16:19] <smb> We had failures on receiving large files, sending large files and I think other as well.
[16:19] <SpamapS> bug does seem a bit stalled as those affected have worked around it by bandwidth limiting their connections
[16:19] <smb> SpamapS, I think I asked in that bug about experience on a test kernel
[16:20] <SpamapS> Oh right :)
[16:20] <SpamapS> ok .. carry on.
[16:20] <kirkland> smb: cool, thanks, anything else?
[16:20]  * smb is done. :)
[16:20] <kirkland> thanks
[16:20] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[16:20] <kirkland> doesn't look like sommer is around
[16:20] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[16:20] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[16:21] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[16:21] <kirkland> anything here?
[16:21] <kim0> hey
[16:21] <kirkland> kim0: howdy
[16:21] <kim0> We've got two new contributing members
[16:21] <Daviey> \o/
[16:21] <kim0> following the JEos
[16:21] <SpamapS> \o/
[16:21] <kirkland> kim0: cool
[16:21] <Daviey> kim0, names?
[16:21] <kim0> QA needs
[16:22] <kim0> um, I forwarded to robbiew and marjo
[16:22] <kim0> I can get the names later
[16:22]  * Daviey drinks the jeos
[16:22] <kim0> hehe
[16:22] <Daviey> kim0, Oh aye, thanks!
[16:22] <kim0> also we've kickstarted a project
[16:22] <kim0> for migrating UEC images
[16:22] <kim0> across AWS regions
[16:22] <kim0> that's being driven by a community member
[16:22] <Daviey> kim0, were they are result of you blogging?
[16:22] <kim0> let me get a quick link
[16:23] <kim0> yes
[16:23] <Daviey> super
[16:23] <Daviey> So blogging seems more successful than the mailing list, perhaps
[16:23] <kim0> https://code.launchpad.net/~abd4lla/ec2-migrate-ebs-ami/ec2-migrate-ebs-ami
[16:23] <kim0> I'm shuffling "https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEC/Images#preview" as we speak
[16:24] <kim0> to make it easier on the eye
[16:24] <smoser> kim0, woot!
[16:24] <kim0> that's mostly it
[16:24] <kim0> smoser: let me know if it looks better now .. still needs more polish though
[16:24] <smoser> well, it certainliy could'nt look worse, now could it
[16:24] <kim0> tried grouping by what the user wants to do
[16:24] <kim0> public cloud
[16:24] <kim0> private cloud
[16:24] <kim0> local hypervisor
[16:24] <kim0> make your own images
[16:25] <kim0> and split too advanced usage
[16:25] <kim0> on their own pages
[16:25] <kim0> let me know if you think it needs siginificant restructuring
[16:25] <kim0> otherwise .. I'll polish it some more
[16:25] <kirkland> sweet
[16:25] <kim0> for instance that huge graphic needs to be resized :)
[16:25] <kirkland> kim0: anything else?
[16:25] <kim0> nope thnx
[16:26] <kirkland> cool
[16:26] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[16:26] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[16:26] <kirkland> let's have it
[16:26] <Daviey> nothing here
[16:26] <SpamapS> Keep on rockin in the free world :)
[16:27]  * RoAkSoAx wondering if anyone has any solutions for dual external monitors
[16:27] <kirkland> sweet
[16:27] <kirkland> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[16:27] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[16:28] <kirkland>     Tuesday, March 1 2011 16:00 UTC
[16:28] <kirkland> #endmeeting
[16:28] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 10:28.
[16:28] <smb> kirkland, efficient driving :)
[16:28] <SpamapS> kirkland: thanks!
[16:28] <kirkland> smb: heh

</pre>
