{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Full Log ===

 21:02:43 <Pendulum> #startmeeting

 21:02:43 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Jan 18 21:02:43 2012 UTC.  The chair is Pendulum. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 21:02:43 <meetingology> 

 21:02:43 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 21:03:10 <AlanBell> o/

 21:03:10 <Pendulum> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Accessibility/Team/MeetingAgenda

 21:03:30 <Pendulum> charlie doesn't seem to be in channel :-/

 21:04:33 <Pendulum> so who else is here for the meeting?

 21:05:07 <paul_h> me, though really just to see where everything's at...

 21:05:17 * TheMuso raises his hand.

 21:05:32 * Pendulum pokes at maco

 21:05:50 <maco> what i do

 21:05:57 <Pendulum> are you around for meeting?

 21:06:11 <maco> i guess i can keep one eye here

 21:06:16 * maco counts eyes

 21:06:56 <Pendulum> okay, so small meeting today...

 21:07:17 <Pendulum> #topic Progress on Accessibility Team Community Goals Blueprint

 21:07:24 <Pendulum> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-p-accessibility-team-community-goals

 21:07:54 <AlanBell> oh, lots of TODO there

 21:08:05 <Pendulum> yeah, although, I think some of it is probably in progress

 21:08:29 <Pendulum> I've started trying to find some better expertise for LD concerns

 21:08:31 <Pendulum> it's slow going

 21:08:35 <Pendulum> I'm going to keep working

 21:09:00 <Pendulum> we may not have a great LD persona by the end of this cycle because I have had more trouble finding resources

 21:09:09 <Pendulum> but that really should be in progress

 21:09:32 <Pendulum> I haven't been blogging bitesized bugs because I've been having issues finding out what the bitesized bugs are

 21:09:55 <AlanBell> the Simon persona one is basically done

 21:10:10 <TheMuso> Yeah, bytesized bugs for a11y are not as easy to find as one thinks, and usually they require knowledge of the underlying framework to fix.

 21:10:16 <AlanBell> just needs finishing and publishing

 21:10:53 <Pendulum> TheMuso: are label type bugs more likely to be bitesized?

 21:10:59 <TheMuso> My only work item there is not time critical, if anything its an end of cycle job.

 21:11:20 <TheMuso> Pendulum: Possibly, but again, knowledge of how labels get associated with widgets requires knowledge of atk.

 21:13:33 <Pendulum> so this blueprint probably needs to be updated for more accurate status, but we're in progress on most things

 21:14:09 <Pendulum> maco: do you know what's going on with workrave?

 21:14:30 <maco> its been backported

 21:14:39 <maco> though i cant claim credit. someone else was faster.

 21:14:55 <Pendulum> but it's done, so that's a better status :)

 21:15:00 <maco> yep

 21:15:31 <Pendulum> AlanBell: installer documentation? how's that going?

 21:15:43 <maco> TheMuso: in things that arent as ...."unusual"... as ubiquity, being able to click about in Glade should be enough for those

 21:16:16 <AlanBell> Pendulum: not done, but I will do it

 21:16:36 <TheMuso> maco: Assuming they use glade/gtkui files, yes.

 21:16:51 <Pendulum> right, so that's where that blueprint is

 21:17:23 <Pendulum> #topic Review Progress of Community Accessibility Testing Blueprint

 21:18:43 <Pendulum> charlie-tca isn't here to give us his update so I will chase him down through e-mail

 21:19:27 <Pendulum> I've been working with Charline (Canonical Usability specialist) and Dan (the Launchpad Usability specialist) to try to learn how to do usability testing

 21:19:41 <TheMuso> Cool.

 21:19:43 <TheMuso> '/c

 21:20:49 <Pendulum> It's going a little slower than I'd like to learn, plus I've had some health stuff, so I'm going to have to put actual usability testing off to next cycle, but hopefully by the end of this cycle I'll have a good understanding of how to do it and hopefully have some people lined up so I can do some early in next cycle

 21:21:27 * TheMuso nods.

 21:21:59 <Pendulum> At some point I'm hopefully going to be able to observe over skype or google hangout or something as Charline does some usability testing :)

 21:22:18 <Pendulum> I'm waiting to find out what's going on with trying to do classes in Ubuntu Classroom. As soon as I find out when Charlie can do them, I'll schedule them!

 21:23:08 <Pendulum> if anyone else wants to do accessibility classes, please let me know and I can schedule you in (Classroom is available for classes any time that there isn't already something scheduled, which gives  alot of time where things could happen)

 21:24:51 <Pendulum> And I think my last item off this blueprint is test cases. I need to learn how to do that. If anyone has a suggestion for who I ask (other than charlie), let me know :-)

 21:25:09 <paul_h> could I please have a link to the community testing blueprint? trying to bookmark all the a11 blueprints we have

 21:25:19 <Pendulum> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-p-accessibility-team-testing

 21:25:39 <Pendulum> paul_h: sorry, I meant to link that at the beginning of this section

 21:25:57 <paul_h> thanks

 21:26:44 <Pendulum> TheMuso: is there any progress on your items from this blueprint? (the documenting your expectations when you test and the published progress reports)

 21:27:49 <TheMuso> Pendulum: No, as I have my hands full with the pollish spec. Once we hit feature freeze, I will see about getting that documented.

 21:27:57 <Pendulum> TheMuso: great, thanks :)

 21:28:07 <TheMuso> Its even more of a pain atm because we continually are getting a little bit of breakage/changes in vbehavior from GTK, so I need to keep on top of them.

 21:28:18 <Pendulum> *nods*

 21:29:03 <Pendulum> maco: any word on the tutorial for how to develop that you were going to work on with Rodrigo?

 21:29:36 <maco> nope

 21:29:44 <maco> forgot about that...

 21:29:49 <maco> that was rodrigo moya right?

 21:30:51 <Pendulum> maco: blueprint just says Rodrigo

 21:31:09 <maco> note to future self: use surnames

 21:31:17 <TheMuso> WHom has since left Canonical.

 21:31:20 <maco> i think its moya from gnome

 21:31:30 <maco> i thought he was a gnome person

 21:31:35 <TheMuso> He is.

 21:33:11 <Pendulum> right, so this is something that may need to be rethought a little?

 21:33:32 <maco> yeah

 21:35:21 <Pendulum> So I will follow-up with Charlie on everything else and see what the plan is for this blueprint as I suspect it's the one that needs to be worked on the most

 21:35:40 <Pendulum> #action Pendulum to follow up with charlie-tca on blueprint items

 21:35:40 * meetingology Pendulum to follow up with charlie-tca on blueprint items

 21:35:59 <Pendulum> does anyone else have anything from this particular blueprint to discuss?

 21:36:59 <TheMuso> No.

 21:39:00 <Pendulum> okay, moving on

 21:39:18 <Pendulum> #topic Update on Accessibility Polish Blueprint

 21:39:29 <Pendulum> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-p-accessibility-polish

 21:39:44 <Pendulum> TheMuso: do you want to talk about your progress on this one?

 21:39:54 <TheMuso> Sure.

 21:40:31 <TheMuso> A lot of the work items marked INPROGRESS for me in that blueprint are actually done, pending cod emerge by D.

 21:40:42 <TheMuso> Pending code merge by DX that is.

 21:40:50 <Pendulum> yay!

 21:41:09 <TheMuso> I am currently hammering away at getting Orca to speak more informatin about the state of apps when navigating the unity launcher.

 21:41:35 <TheMuso> As well as getting magnification set up with Unity 2D and compiz, which works, but I am having some issues with ubiquity and compiz. I need to talk to Didrocks about how to solve that.

 21:42:06 <TheMuso> Then I hope to move onto doing further widget a11y checks in ubiquity itself.

 21:42:41 <TheMuso> Which is not something that needs doing by feature freeze, which is good.

 21:43:14 <paul_h> TheMuso: can I ask what is the status of the notification system, which doesn't currently work with orca?

 21:43:20 <TheMuso> I also still need to get the dash text entry field fully accessible.

 21:43:42 <TheMuso> paul_h: You will notice on that blueprint that there is a work item to fix that. It is in progress, but the code itself is done, pending a code merge by DX.

 21:43:52 <TheMuso> So I have it working locally.

 21:44:41 <paul_h> TheMuso: great, sorry, trying to read up as quick as possible, what about the menus often not working with Orca?

 21:44:50 <AlanBell> any thoughts on the overlay of shortcut information on long hold of the super key?

 21:44:59 <TheMuso> I also hope to find some time to bang on some upstrea GTK bugs. Atm the file chooser doesn't work at all, and crashes with a11y enabled sometimes...

 21:45:21 <TheMuso> AlanBell: No, that may have to be something for next cycle. We will just have to document/point users to a document with the shortcuts for now.

 21:45:55 <TheMuso> paul_h: I have an idea as to how to fix that, but it requires some code refactor, which is about a day's work.

 21:47:15 <TheMuso> I will probably bang on that on a weekend or something, since I haven't allocated time for it, particularly since the code refactor is large, and may not be allowed in post feature freeze.

 21:47:56 <paul_h> TheMuso: okay, my other main thing is the state of accessible login and the sound alerts both on the live CD to indicate the try it/install screen and on an installed system when light dm is ready for login info to be typed

 21:48:41 <TheMuso> paul_h: THe login screen sound and accessibility are in the works to be fixed. Whats wrong with the live CD sound?

 21:49:19 <paul_h> TheMuso: well it doesn't play, at least it didn't when I did my install

 21:50:23 <TheMuso> paul_h: Ok, probably more of a problem with sound then.

 21:50:33 <TheMuso> I.e volume level.

 21:51:47 <paul_h> well it's a minor thing, my accessible install of oneiric actually went very well. hope nothing gets broken for the next release

 21:52:07 <TheMuso> Thats what I am trying to avoid...

 21:52:43 * Pendulum starts crossing things :)

 21:54:25 <Pendulum> TheMuso: is that your update?

 21:55:26 <TheMuso> Pretty much.

 21:55:36 <Pendulum> As far as my action item on this blueprint goes, there is an upstream bug about putting the mouse customization back into the accessibility settings, however, I haven't seen any real progress on it and no one seems to be expecting any progress

 21:55:39 <TheMuso> If anybody has further queries about anything specific on that blueprint, feel free to ask.

 21:56:00 <Pendulum> or, at least, there doesn't seem to be a move to get it done quickly

 21:56:02 <paul_h> TheMuso: just wondering how many of the technical fixes will make it into oneiric updates?

 21:56:45 <TheMuso> paul_h: Depends on which ones you are thinking about. Most of them like the menu bug are not SRU worthy, as they are so invasive. The notifications bugfix is probably something I could push into oneiric-updates though.

 21:57:01 <TheMuso> That reminds me, I still need to push orca 3.2.2 into oneiric-updates too.

 21:57:25 <AlanBell> it would be nice to get a new release of onboard too

 21:57:37 <TheMuso> Bug the onboard guys about that...

 21:57:45 <AlanBell> yeah, will do

 21:57:54 <paul_h> TheMuso: okay, if the notifications fix could make it into oneiric I would cry for joy...

 21:58:46 <TheMuso> I'll see what I can do, need to get it into precise first though as per policy.

 21:59:38 <paul_h> TheMuso: failing that, point me to the source packages to manuyally build...

 21:59:54 <TheMuso> paul_h: The code is not yet in the vcs tree for the source package yet...

 22:00:20 <TheMuso> It requires a fix to orca as well.

 22:00:35 <TheMuso> I'll push it upstrea once the notification display software is fixed.

 22:00:57 <paul_h> okay. I'm done on this blueprint

 22:01:22 <Pendulum> AlanBell: any update on your items?

 22:02:29 <AlanBell> yes, I am investigating focus tracking, the code compiles and there were some updates to it yesterday

 22:02:59 <AlanBell> I am going to try and get it working and find out how to get it in a PPA I think

 22:03:37 <AlanBell> and I forgot about the gnome control centre one, will have a look at that in a sec

 22:05:01 <Pendulum> okay, so that looks like that's in for this blueprint

 22:05:11 <Pendulum> #topic Any Other Business

 22:05:20 <Pendulum> Does anyone else have anything they want to bring up at this meeting?

 22:06:00 <paul_h> not me, thanks Pendulum TheMuso for your responses

 22:07:30 <Pendulum> okay, I guess that's it

 22:07:38 <Pendulum> Thank you everyone for coming!

 22:07:44 <Pendulum> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
