{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** ALL: please check the SRU tracker https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/SRUTracker and help out with verification
** robbiew to review /ServerTeam wiki
** SpamapS to email a concrete proposal for addressing SRU verification backlog
** Kernel team to follow up on EC2 status
** Kernel team to follow up on bug #https://launchpad.net/bugs/661294
* Natty Development
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

* ALL: please check the SRU tracker http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/sru-tracker-bugs.html for 'needs-verification' bugs
* robbiew to review ServerTeam wiki
* SpamapS to email a concrete proposal for addressing SRU verification backlog
* Kernel team to follow up on bug 661294
* SpamapS to setup trend line for server team natty work items
* JamesPage to arrange URL for Hudson CI Server

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====

** ALL: please check the SRU tracker https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/SRUTracker and help out with verification: Discussion around what the Server Team should be doing with SRU's. Focus in the short term was on SRU's that need verification.  For future reference URL is http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/sru-tracker-bugs.html.
** robbiew to review /ServerTeam wiki: Carried forward.
** SpamapS to email a concrete proposal for addressing SRU verification backlog: Carried forward but will be sent this week.
** Kernel team to follow up on EC2 status: solution for bug 669496 but requires more testing. Will be followed up outside of this meeting.
** Kernel team to follow up on bug #https://launchpad.net/bugs/661294: No resolution yet; kernel team to continue progressing this bug.

===== Natty Development =====

* Work items are now relatively well defined for Natty so SpamapS will setup the trendlines for the server team work items.  Note that this does not set work items in stone and they can still be added and removed.
** [ACTION] SpamapS to setup trend line for server team natty work items

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====

* bug 676245 is current blocking testing and is required for Alpha 1.
* Hudson now up-and-running on ec2; automated server ISO tests now running against new ISO images for Natty.
** Hudson URL - http://204.236.234.12:8080/
*** [ACTION] JamesPage to arrange URL for Hudson CI Server
** QA Dashboard (to be updated automatically) http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/qadashboard/qadashboard.html

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) =====
 
* Covered in actions from previous meeting; nothing further to discuss.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer) =====

* No sommer so no updates or questions.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0) =====

* kim0 has started showcasing Ubuntu Cloud stuff; request for suggestions on cool things to demo.
* Request for "low hanging fruit" (as in fixes/features/QA) for Cloud work to help engage the community.
 
===== Open Discussion =====

* Nothing further to discuss.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, December 7th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-meeting
[10:07:06] <kirkland> o/
[10:07:07] <jj-afk> \o
[10:07:19] <JamesPage> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[10:07:31] <JamesPage> ALL: please check the SRU tracker https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/SRUTracker and help out with verification
[10:07:39] <ttx> o/
[10:08:02] <JamesPage> so hows that going for everyone?
[10:08:20] <hggdh> \life is good, and Hudson kicks
[10:08:32] <zul> hi
[10:08:44] <Daviey> JamesPage: pretty good!
[10:09:25] <hallyn_> JamesPage: well, so i'm still not 100% clear on what we do with those
[10:10:06] <hallyn_> do we set up an environment to test the fix in, so we can comment 'fix works'?
[10:10:27] <zul> umm...that page is really really old
[10:10:43] <JamesPage> zul: do you have a more up-to-date view...
[10:10:54] <hallyn_> robbiew had given us one
[10:11:02] <hallyn_> i wonder if i pasted the wrong link two weeks ago into the action
[10:11:07] <zul> JamesPage: http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/sru-tracker-bugs.html
[10:11:20] <hallyn_> i thought that one was old too
[10:11:41] <zul> hallyn_: nope thats the latest and greatest as of this morning
[10:11:59] <JamesPage> Is the concern the size of the 'unassigned bugs' list?
[10:12:03] <SpamapS> o/
[10:12:15] <SpamapS> this time stinks for me btw.
[10:12:56] <SpamapS> JamesPage: the concern is actually the verification needed bugs
[10:13:26] <JamesPage> SpamapS: right - I think that answers the question
[10:13:50] <hallyn_> does it?
[10:14:21] <JamesPage> So its about testing SRU's which are in -proposed and need to be verified (only four at the moment)
[10:14:38] <robbiew> the verification needed bugs list is short, right?
[10:14:46] <SpamapS> JamesPage: 4 is a lot IMO.. those are bugs that are fixed and just need to be checked out.
[10:14:49] <hallyn_> ok. presumably we really ought to lean on the bug submitter to test?
[10:14:58] <Daviey> I think this requires a whole agenda item.... "SRU: What it means to us ":)
[10:15:04] <hallyn_> but, failing that, we set up a hardy image or whatever and d oit?
[10:15:26] <hggdh> d oit?
[10:15:28] <SpamapS> hallyn_: no the idea is to have somebody who is not the submitter test
[10:15:42] <Daviey> hallyn_: The release / QA team are currently discussing a best pratice for verification
[10:15:56] <zul> SpamapS: compared to the unassigned bugs and assigned bugs 4 is not alot
[10:16:00] <SpamapS> hggdh: its french for "get 'er done"
[10:16:03] <Daviey> it is bad form for the bug raiser and fixer to verify their own work.
[10:16:15] <hallyn_> hggdh: my space key seems to have a longer travel depth than other keys
[10:16:30] <hggdh> heh
[10:17:02] <JamesPage> OK before we get to bogged down in this
[10:17:05] <hallyn_> Daviey: ok
[10:17:29] <JamesPage> The immediate focus is to verify the 'needs-verification' bugs
[10:17:49] <JamesPage> SpamapS: we carried this over from last weeks meeting as you where due to submit a proposal
[10:18:10] <JamesPage> I suggest we carry again until this is agreed and try to put some immediate focus on the current list.
[10:18:17] <Daviey> +1
[10:18:33] <SpamapS> Agreed, I'll send the proposal ASAP as well.
[10:18:51] <JamesPage> [ACTION] ALL: please check the SRU tracker http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/sru-tracker-bugs.html for 'needs-verification' bugs
[10:19:07] <JamesPage> robbiew to review /ServerTeam wiki
[10:19:26] <hggdh> +1 -- it might be a good thing to go on over the unassigned list and (perhaps) clean it up
[10:20:03] <SpamapS> hggdh: I think its probably time to start marking dapper bugs Won't Fix
[10:20:31] <hggdh> SpamapS: it might. But we need a clear ack from management
[10:20:43] <robbiew> yeah....that's a todo for this week...the f*$#ing wiki!!! lol
[10:20:48] <SpamapS> I thought in the final year it was "security only" ?
[10:20:52] <JamesPage> ok carried forward
[10:20:58] <zul> SpamapS: desktop i think
[10:21:08] <JamesPage> [ACTION] robbiew to review ServerTeam wiki
[10:21:08] * SpamapS has no idea where or even if thats written down
[10:21:16] <Daviey> defacto :)
[10:21:36] <JamesPage> SpamapS to email a concrete proposal for addressing SRU verification backlog
[10:21:52] <SpamapS> JamesPage: right, same thing, carry to next week
[10:21:58] * SpamapS will send it RSN
[10:22:08] <JamesPage> [ACTION] SpamapS to email a concrete proposal for addressing SRU verification backlog
[10:22:22] <JamesPage> Next: Kernel team to follow up on EC2 status
[10:23:20] <Daviey> smb / jjohansen ?
[10:23:43] <jjohansen> have done some testing with Bug #669496
[10:23:47] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 669496 in linux (Ubuntu) "natty fails ec2 boot on i386 or t1.micro" [Critical,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/669496
[10:24:00] <jjohansen> and we may have a solution, but it needs more testing first
[10:24:34] <Daviey> \o/
[10:25:00] <jjohansen> iscsi target has a newer version being built in dkms so we are planning to drop it for the kernel proper
[10:25:02] <Daviey> jjohansen: Is the kernel team testing that, or is it smoser ?
[10:25:37] <jjohansen> Daviey: I have been playing with it, and once we verify we will hand over to smoser to test
[10:25:45] <Daviey> rocking
[10:26:01] <jjohansen> I just don't trust my results from yesterday :)
[10:26:03] <Daviey> jjohansen: Is it likely to be resolved before thursday (if your fix works) ?
[10:26:34] <jjohansen> hrmmm, maybe
[10:26:43] <smoser> oh hey.
[10:27:02] <jjohansen> that is we can submit the fix (assuming I get the same results)
[10:27:14] <jjohansen> but it maybe to late for the kernel already
[10:27:33] <Daviey> just wondering if we are likely to see the fix in Alpha 1 release.
[10:27:38] <smoser> jjohansen, i'll bother you outside of meeting, i had accepted there would be no i386 amis for alpha1
[10:27:43] <jjohansen> generally kernel fixes need to be in a week before other stuff
[10:28:00] <smoser> but i surely would be grateful if it happened to work
[10:28:42] <jjohansen> well I booted a couple i386 amis last night
[10:28:59] <Daviey> \o/
[10:29:04] <JamesPage> OK so anything else for the Kernel team on ec2 status for natty?
[10:29:07] <smoser> if it is low risk to other things, i would say go for it.
[10:29:48] <jjohansen> smoser: well its sort of low risk, it involves turning off pv-on-hvm
[10:30:03] <smoser> yuck
[10:30:09] <jjohansen> yeah
[10:30:55] <JamesPage> Next ACTION to review: Kernel team to follow up on bug 661294
[10:30:56] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 661294 in linux (Ubuntu) "System lock-up when receiving large files (big data amount) from NFS server" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/661294
[10:31:29] <jjohansen> smb: was looking into this, and I don't believe their is any resolution yet
[10:31:44] <jjohansen> at least I don't see anything in my notes from him
[10:31:48] <smb> waiting on feedback
[10:32:09] <jjohansen> oh, \o/
[10:32:13] <jjohansen> morning smb :)
[10:32:27] <smb> still on phone typing one handed
[10:32:44] <jjohansen> I was just about to say, found it "no usable feedback"
[10:32:47] <SpamapS> smb: eyes on the road!
[10:32:57] <ttx> tmi
[10:33:36] <Daviey> !
[10:33:45] <JamesPage> Do we want to carry this one to next week?
[10:33:55] <SpamapS> sounds like it
[10:34:15] <JamesPage> [ACTION] Kernel team to follow up on bug 661294
[10:34:16] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 661294 in linux (Ubuntu) "System lock-up when receiving large files (big data amount) from NFS server" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/661294
[10:34:30] <JamesPage> Moving on....
[10:34:33] <JamesPage> [TOPIC] Natty Development
[10:35:09] * SpamapS hears crickets
[10:35:25] <hallyn_> i sure do wish firefox plugins work, but other than that natty is treating me well :)
[10:35:59] <SpamapS> I think its about time we set the trend line here: http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-server.html
[10:36:12] <SpamapS> Unless anybody has some giant new stuff they expect to land in their BP's soon?
[10:36:23] <jjohansen> hallyn_: what video card because X keeps dying on me
[10:36:27] <SpamapS> I'll go ahead and do that as I have commit access to the wi tracker.
[10:36:34] <hallyn_> i do need to make my bp work items lists more precise
[10:36:51] <hallyn_> jjohansen: oh, nvidia is a fail for me right now. non-accelerated nouveau
[10:37:29] <ttx> SpamapS: who needs a trends line set when there is... inverted burndown charts !
[10:37:31] <jjohansen> ah, I'm using an intel igp - can't even make it to the desktop :(
[10:37:52] <SpamapS> hallyn_: I think its actually better to keep them coarse and just try to get a gross estimate of the work so you can plan accordingly. Precision at this stage can sometimes lock us into a course of action that doesn't make sense.
[10:38:03] <JamesPage> Daviey, zul, kirkland, smoser - are you guys happy with the state of your wi's before we do this?
[10:38:17] <SpamapS> ttx: I don't think anybody else liked those except you and me. ;)
[10:38:41] <hallyn_> SpamapS: hm, i guess i'm just not comfortable with work items in a bunch of blueprints instead of just one :)
[10:38:49] <ttx> SpamapS: We are the only true admirers of real art. Like the bp lp api.
[10:38:51] <SpamapS> JamesPage: its entirely changable too, so no big deal if people add more later.
[10:38:53] <kirkland> JamesPage: meh, happy enough
[10:39:00] <SpamapS> but it seems like we have a decent number.. 360
[10:39:06] <smoser> well, my blueprints correctly show my poor progress
[10:39:07] <zul> doesnt matter either way to me
[10:39:38] <Daviey> JamesPage: I can't see a problem with starting now
[10:39:42] <SpamapS> ttx: indeed
[10:39:45] <JamesPage> [ACTION] SpamapS to setup trend line for server team natty work items
[10:39:48] <JamesPage> done
[10:39:48] <SpamapS> BP's are getting an API btw.
[10:39:54] <SpamapS> if any of you missed that
[10:39:59] <hallyn_> i did. yay
[10:40:01] <robbiew> fwiw, I'd rather have coarse WIs than none at all
[10:40:06] <ttx> SpamapS: Christmas is early, maybe Dec 8.
[10:40:21] <Daviey> ttx: My calendar says otherwise!
[10:40:39] <ttx> Daviey: I use a metric calendar.
[10:40:46] <robbiew> ttx: could you guys get us sortable/customizable bug columns while you're at it
[10:40:48] <robbiew> :)
[10:40:58] <JamesPage> OK so if we are done with Natty development lets move onto....
[10:41:07] <JamesPage> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[10:41:11] <hggdh> k
[10:41:25] <ttx> robbiew: that migth be asking too much. It's already a miracle to get the Api while BP are still planned to be merged with bugs, long-term :)
[10:41:35] <hggdh> I have a blocker -- https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/676245
[10:41:41] <Daviey> :(
[10:41:47] <Daviey> smb / jjohansen ^^ ?
[10:41:55] <Daviey> (That is blocking our test rig)
[10:42:05] <hggdh> Tim is working on it, but we need it for alpha1 testing
[10:42:06] <hallyn_> bug 676245
[10:42:08] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 676245 in linux (Ubuntu Natty) "Broadcom NetXtreme II BCM5709 -- no network found on ISO install" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/676245
[10:42:16] <jjohansen> hggdh: oh, not nice
[10:42:29] <jjohansen> I know its being looked at
[10:42:33] <smb> And the first time we probably hear of it?
[10:42:46] <jjohansen> actually tim was talking about it this morning
[10:42:47] <smb> I think JFo was mentioning that a bit ago on kernel
[10:42:55] <jjohansen> yeah
[10:43:43] <smb> Cannot say much there. Just finished a phone call
[10:43:52] <JFo> yep :)
[10:44:32] <jjohansen> I don't think there is much to say beyond tim assigned
[10:45:16] <hggdh> yes, I am just raising up the issue -- we have not been able to test either Euca or openstack
[10:45:29] <hggdh> on Natty
[10:45:41] <jjohansen> :(
[10:45:58] <hggdh> apart from that -- thanks to JamesPage, Hudson is up & running on AWS
[10:46:19] <hggdh> so if you want to add slave machines to it... Welcome! and ping James or me to add you as an user
[10:46:33] <JamesPage> hggdh - we also have a first set of ISO install test results - not to bad
[10:46:56] <hggdh> indeed -- only 4 failures, and I will be looking at them in a few
[10:47:12] <JamesPage> ping me afterwards - I took a look at some of them today.
[10:47:31] <JamesPage> hggdh: anything else from the QA team?
[10:47:34] <zul> where is the url for the hudson server anyways?
[10:47:42] <hggdh> I also added the ISO server results to the QA dashboard (WIP):
[10:47:58] <JamesPage> You can access it here : http://204.236.234.12:8080/
[10:48:11] <hggdh> http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/qadashboard/qadashboard.html
[10:48:18] <hggdh> the page is not yet updated, BTW
[10:48:18] * Daviey actions JamesPage to arrange a URL for it. :)
[10:48:25] <Daviey> subdomain
[10:48:40] <JamesPage> Daviey: agreed
[10:48:56] <hggdh> for the record, this Hudson server is *temporarily* on AWS, we intend to move it later on
[10:48:57] <JamesPage> [ACTION] JamesPage to arrange URL for Hudson CI Server
[10:49:20] <hggdh> and that's it, right now, from QA
[10:49:29] <JamesPage> Excellent
[10:49:39] <JamesPage> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[10:50:23] <Daviey> I think they've already done a dandy job of telling us quite a bit
[10:50:25] <jjohansen> hrmm, I don't have any updates beyond what has already been covered
[10:50:59] <smb> jjohansen, Did we ask about iscsitarget?
[10:51:18] <jjohansen> Ah, well I mentioned it in the wrong place but yeah
[10:51:36] <jjohansen> hrmm, though I made it more a statement than a request
[10:52:26] <JamesPage> Anything else from the QA team
[10:53:05] <JamesPage> /QA/Kernel/
[10:53:14] <smb> jjohansen, If the statement was "I don't think you still need that" and nobody ran screaming it is ok. :)
[10:53:31] <JamesPage> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[10:53:41] <Daviey> no sommer :(
[10:53:41] <JamesPage> sommer around today?
[10:53:50] <jjohansen> smb: well more we are removing it because there is a newer dkms, and no one ran screaming :)
[10:54:00] <JamesPage> anyone spoken to sommer since UDS?
[10:54:04] <Daviey> jjohansen: We'll scream if it breaks :P
[10:54:28] <jjohansen> Daviey: I know you will
[10:54:35] <smb> Sounded like everybody was using the dkms version anyway
[10:54:47] <smb> So there would be no change
[10:54:51] <Daviey> groovy
[10:55:03] <zul> iscsitarget is already using dkms isnt it?
[10:55:23] <SpamapS> JamesPage: no, but I believe he was starting a new job so he may not have had as much time to be on IRC or work on Ubuntu
[10:55:23] <smb> zul, Yes as far as we know
[10:55:52] <smb> I think its just the same as once with drbd
[10:56:16] <JamesPage> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
[10:56:21] <kim0> hey everyone o/
[10:56:27] <JamesPage> o/
[10:56:31] <kim0> I just started showcasing Ubuntu Cloud stuff through a screencast series. If anyone has suggestions on cool things to demo that set apart Ubuntu server and Cloud, please throw me an email. I need to create a list of things to showcase, so flood me :)
[10:56:40] <kim0> Other than that, I'm interested in identifying "things the community can help with" as it related to cloud for now
[10:56:43] <kim0> I'm thinking perhaps UEC QA scenarios might be a good one ? I know the Fedora community helps with lots of the testing, is it a good idea to start doing the same. Who would be interested to push this forward. Can we setup a public UEC testing environment?
[10:57:07] <kim0> So if anyone working on a cloud related BP can identify "low hanging fruit" (as in fixes/features/QA) to engage more community involvment, please shoot me an email. I need to create a list, and start beating the drum. Your help is needed, so again flood me :)
[10:57:08] <Daviey> kim0: last question, probably no at the moment
[10:57:39] <kim0> any thoughts on low hanging fruit .. are most welcome
[10:57:40] <Daviey> kim0: How are the cloud community meetings going?
[10:57:49] <kim0> Daviey: the QA ones ?
[10:58:03] <Daviey> kim0: the meeting you were driving :)
[10:58:08] <kim0> The first one was good
[10:58:11] <kim0> not too busy though
[10:58:18] <kim0> but we did make use of the full hour
[10:58:25] <kim0> it's weekly
[10:58:26] <Daviey> great!
[10:58:29] <kim0> so another one is tomorrow
[10:58:34] <kim0> I'll try to put some training
[10:58:34] <Daviey> kim0: Plug it here :)
[10:58:36] <kim0> stuff in there
[10:58:50] <kim0> Is it better to use #ubuntu-cloud or here
[10:59:04] <kim0> anyway .. that should be all for me
[10:59:08] <SpamapS> those meetings are at 7am pacific time btw
[10:59:18] <SpamapS> I'm not saying it because I can't make it..
[10:59:31] <SpamapS> but because the mecca of all web 2.0 / cloud technology.. san francisco .. can't make it
[10:59:39] * kim0 nods 
[10:59:45] <kim0> prolly needs a time change
[11:00:19] <JamesPage> Any other questions for kim0
[11:00:21] <JamesPage> ?
[11:00:43] <Daviey> none here
[11:00:48] <JamesPage> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[11:01:00] <JamesPage> Any items for general discussion?
[11:01:02] <Daviey> none here
[11:01:17] <SpamapS> nay say they
[11:01:31] <Daviey> Can we go home now? :)
[11:01:42] <JamesPage> Almost[TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[11:01:43] <kim0> haha :)
[11:01:50] <JamesPage> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[11:01:52] <JamesPage> :-)
[11:01:55] * bjf is drumming his fingers
[11:01:58] <JamesPage> Tuesday 2010-12-07 at 1600 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting
[11:02:12] <JamesPage> #endmeeting
Meeting ended.
</pre>
