{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
UTC -4
{{{
(12:05:17 PM) heno: #startmeeting
(12:05:17 PM) stgraber: uhm, I was wrong, now we do :)
(12:05:17 PM) MootBot: Meeting started at 18:05. The chair is heno.
(12:05:17 PM) MootBot: Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
(12:05:18 PM) stgraber: hi bdmurray
(12:05:31 PM) heno: just one topic today: 8.04
(12:06:28 PM) heno: we have been testing kvm and wubi for some critical issues in #ubuntu-testing
(12:07:00 PM) heno: It looks like we should have candidate images some time this evening
(12:07:35 PM) heno: that will be a bit tight for full validation by Thursday but it should work
(12:07:49 PM) heno: provided there are no more surprises
(12:08:10 PM) liw: until the candidate images are out, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/ISO/FixValidation is a good todo list, right?
(12:08:32 PM) heno: the kvm issue has not been pinned down completely, but the bug has been confirmed to live in kvm
(12:08:35 PM) davmor2: heno: I'll not be able to download till tomorrow so I'll hit wubi and M-a first then start picking up the tests not being hit.
(12:08:59 PM) heno: which is less bad than a kernel bug would be as we can SRU a kvm fix
(12:09:09 PM) heno: liw: indeed
(12:09:13 PM) stgraber: heno: with enough caffeine that shouldn't be a problem validating all of them by thursday :)
(12:09:52 PM) stgraber: heno: should the priority of the kvm bug changed from critical to high then ?
(12:10:07 PM) heno: I wonder if any items should be moved from the RC to the Final table?
(12:10:24 PM) heno: stgraber: IMO yes
(12:11:52 PM) heno: pedro_, ogasawara_, bdmurray: can you look at Testing/ISO/FixValidation to see if we should move some entries from RC to final?
(12:12:01 PM) ogasawara_: heno: sure
(12:12:04 PM) davmor2: heno: I recon we should be done by lunch time thursday latest
(12:12:19 PM) heno: in fact should we just move all those that haven't been tested (most)?
(12:12:20 PM) pedro_: heno: sure no problem
(12:12:52 PM) liw: davmor2, lunch time in what time zone? :)
(12:13:11 PM) davmor2: utc
(12:13:40 PM) heno: I expect Steve aims to release Thursday morning PST
(12:13:56 PM) pedro_: heno: yes, i've moved the gtk-sharp crash to final , but i think that the others ones can be moved too in order to have a real test on them, ill do it
(12:13:59 PM) heno: or PDT, whatever it is now :)
(12:14:38 PM) heno: how many of those have test cases?
(12:14:54 PM) liw: heno, that's US west coast time?
(12:15:03 PM) heno: liw: yes
(12:15:15 PM) bdmurray: liw: yeah! US west coast!
(12:15:34 PM) johnc4511 is now known as johnc4510
(12:15:42 PM) heno: team OR spirit :)
(12:15:55 PM) pedro_: most of them have a good description so it should be easy to test them
(12:16:01 PM) liw: so that's maybe around utc late afternoon or early evening, I guess
(12:16:23 PM) heno: pedro_: ok, cool
(12:16:59 PM) heno: does anyone have other topics, relating to 8.04 or otherwise?
(12:17:04 PM) davmor2: liw: tends to be that the us is available for chat around 4-ish so hopefully 3-4 hours after we finish every test
(12:18:43 PM) heno: ... seems not
(12:18:54 PM) heno: ok, let's get get back to testing
(12:19:04 PM) davmor2: :D
(12:19:14 PM) heno: the Fix validation list is a good place to start
(12:19:41 PM) heno: as is setting up VMs and such that will be useful in the testing crunch
(12:19:58 PM) heno: syncing CDs also
(12:20:06 PM) heno: #endmeeting
(12:20:07 PM) MootBot: Meeting finished at 18:20.
(12:20:15 PM) heno: thanks all!
}}
