{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the Kernel Team Meeting, started on 21 August 2007, 15H00 - 16H00 ( Etc/GMT).

== Attendance ==

* BenC
* rtg
* amitk_
* zul

== Agenda ==

* Team status
* Distro-qa bugs
* Open discussion

== Minutes ==
* Community Patches.
** BenC noted that the can start once kyle is finished with the repo.

* libata patches from Edward Amsden.
** rtg wanted to know if these patches were duplicates for the ICH8 stuff that just went in. BenC & AmitK_ confirmed that it wasn't duplicates.

== Any Other Business ==
* None reported.

== IRC Logs ==

<pre>
05:15	BenC	yeah, I think we cancel for today :)
05:15	BenC	unless anyone has some stuff they want to talk about
05:15	zul	nope
05:15	rtg	BenC: we  have some community patches that need review.
05:15	BenC	amitk_, kylem, rtg: anything?
05:16	zul	rtg: er mine?
05:16	amitk_	nope
05:16	rtg	zul: Yours and others.
05:16	BenC	rtg: yeah, we need to start on those as soon as kyle is finished with the repo
05:17	zul	rtg: mine just fixes a bunch of bugs
05:17	rtg	zul: I know, but I still have to look at 'em.
05:18	rtg	BenC: how about these libata patches from Edward Amsden?
05:19	BenC	rtg: they looked like cherry picks from mainline at first glance...is that correct?
05:20	rtg	BenC: yep, I just wanted to make sure they weren't duplicates for the ICH8 stuff that just went in.
05:20	rtg	I'm a little confused about all of the ata/piix variations.
05:22	BenC	I think the other stuff was poulsbo
05:22	BenC	this isn't the same thing is it?
05:23	rtg	BenC: I don't know, thats why I'm asking you :)
05:23	amitk_	I haven't heard of more poulsbo patches after I committed the libata poulsbo support patch
05:24	BenC	sounds like they aren't
05:26	amitk_	definitely aren't. They are bugfixes for ICHx chipsets not recognizing ATA/SATA drivers
05:27	BenC	ok, anything else to discuss?
05:29	BenC	alright, meeting adjourned :)
05:29	BenC	I really need to read up on the meeting bot
</pre>
