{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Agenda ==

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
1. gnuoy move meeting to openstack-meeting channel
* State of Development for next Charm Release
* High Priority Bugs
* Openstack talk submissions for ODS
* What does the chair of this meeting do after the meeting?
* workload status messages, max 20 chars and proper case?
* Openstack Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/OpenStackCharmsChairActions

=== Minutes ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====

The meeting location and time was discussed.  It's desired to move the meeting to #openstack-meeting, but finding a slot has been difficult.  gnuoy proposed to try to book openstack-meeting-4 biweekly-even on a Monday (which is 17.00UTC).

gnuoy action to book openstack-meeting-4 on a Monday.

==== State of Development for next Charm Release ====

* Keystone v3 support in the dashboard has landed
* Apparmor for nova-compute is close.
* Designate and designate bind should land this week.
* Barbican is very close, but has a bug upstream
* There are a number of deploy from source reviews ready for review, which should cover the bulk of getting DFS into shape.
* Charmhelpers syncs "as-a-module" are progressing to help with the licensing change as part of the move of charms to official openstack project status.
* All charm interfaces and layers are now in Git/Gerrit
* Feature freeze is Thursday 14th July (next week).

==== High Priority Bugs ====

Nothing came up

==== Openstack talk submissions for ODS ====

General discussion about importance of getting talks into ODS.  Key points:

* talk about things openstack-ish that are really interesting to the general community
* deploying openstack talks
* talks on testing are good.

Also discussion around a charm school at ODS.

cargonza took an action to coordinate the logistics for a charm school.

==== What does the chair of this meeting do after the meeting? ====

With the proposed move to #openstack-meeting gnuoy proposed that the process that the chair should follow should be reviewed.  i.e. how the agenda is raised, the meeting notified to potential participants, the agenda circulated, and post-meeting processes.

action: gnuoy & jamespage to review the chair's post meeting process and amend as required

==== workload status messages, max 20 chars and proper case? ====

Rough summary: the status messages could be enforced to 20 chars + Proper case.  Currently OpenStack charms can generate very long status messages which result in users having to scroll their (narrow?) terminals, or have ugly wraps in the status screen.

No action was raised, but all authors are asked to consider a 20 char limit & case when writing status message.

==== Openstack Events ====

Nothing new here, but see ODS above.

==== Open Discussion ====

* email thread about hosting third party OS charms.  See logs below for general discussion.

jamespage took an action to: "document procedure for setup of sub-charm group ownership for SDN/storage vendors etc..."

==== Announce next meeting date, time and chair ====

Same time, same place (maybe) and thedac is set to chair.

Note that the meeting may move to #openstack-meeting. gnuoy to advise if this happens.

==== Meeting Actions ====

** gnuoy action to book openstack-meeting-4 on a Monday.
** cargonza took an action to coordinate the logistics for a charm school.
** gnuoy & jamespage to review the chair's post meeting process and amend as required
** jamespage took an action to: "document procedure for setup of sub-charm group ownership for SDN/storage vendors etc..."

  

=== Log ===
<pre>
=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: openstack-charms-meeting, 06 Jul at 17:00 &mdash; 17:52 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-07-06-17.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 17:01.

** ''ACTION:'' gnuoy to try to book first slot from http://paste.ubuntu.com/18635394/

==== State of Development for next Charm Release ====
The discussion about "State of Development for next Charm Release" started at 17:07.

==== Release Bugs ====
The discussion about "Release Bugs" started at 17:14.

==== Openstack Events ====
The discussion about "Openstack Events" started at 17:19.

==== Openstack talk submissions for ODS ====
The discussion about "Openstack talk submissions for ODS" started at 17:21.

** ''ACTION:'' cargonza to sync with sales team re charm school at ODS Barcelona

==== What does the chair of this meeting do after the meeting? ====
The discussion about "What does the chair of this meeting do after the meeting?" started at 17:27.

** ''ACTION:'' gnuoy & jamespage to review the chair's post meeting process and amend as required.

==== workload status messages, max 20 chars and proper case? ====
The discussion about "workload status messages, max 20 chars and proper case?" started at 17:32.

==== Openstack Events ====
The discussion about "Openstack Events" started at 17:42.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 17:43.

** ''ACTION:'' jamespage document procedure for setup of sub-charm group ownership for SDN/storage vendors etc...
** ''ACTION:'' Announce next meeting date, time and chair

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* cargonza
** cargonza to sync with sales team re charm school at ODS Barcelona
* gnuoy
** gnuoy to try to book first slot from http://paste.ubuntu.com/18635394/
** gnuoy & jamespage to review the chair's post meeting process and amend as required.
* **UNASSIGNED**
** jamespage document procedure for setup of sub-charm group ownership for SDN/storage vendors etc...
** Announce next meeting date, time and chair

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* tinwood (80)
* gnuoy (78)
* jamespage_shadow (23)
* thedac (17)
* coreycb (15)
* meetingology (8)
* cargonza (2)

=== Full Log ===

 17:00 <tinwood> #startmeeting openstack-charms-meeting

 17:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Jul  6 17:00:48 2016 UTC.  The chair is tinwood. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 17:00 <meetingology> 

 17:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 17:00 <tinwood> welcome all!

 17:01 <gnuoy> thanks

 17:01 <tinwood> The first topic is:

 17:01 <tinwood> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 17:01 <tinwood> Looking at the last minutes, gnuoy, it's about moving this meeting!?

 17:01 <gnuoy> sure, I've done a subtopic for each action in the past

 17:02 <gnuoy> but I'm guessing you're looking at me for moving this meeting...

 17:02 <tinwood> Not sure I follow.

 17:02 <gnuoy> #subtopic gnuoy to move this meeting

 17:02 <gnuoy> ^ that sort of thing

 17:02 <gnuoy> anyway

 17:02 <gnuoy> I have a gerrit request up for scheduling the meeting

 17:03 <gnuoy> but we can't have this slot

 17:03 <tinwood> (Still new at this) I guess I have to do that?

 17:03 <gnuoy> we can have: http://paste.ubuntu.com/18635394/

 17:03 <tinwood> And those map to times, I'm guessing.

 17:04 <gnuoy> tinwood, good point they are all 17:00 UTC

 17:04 <gnuoy> so, I propose openstack-meeting-4 biweekly-even

 17:04 <gnuoy> on a Monday

 17:05 <thedac> works for me

 17:05 <gnuoy> biweekly means we can have another meeting if we need for apac

 17:05 <tinwood> We'd have to move our charms catchup?

 17:05 <gnuoy> 1 week in USA friendly time, one week in apac friendly

 17:05 <tinwood> Or is that earlier? (UTC vs BST).

 17:06 <gnuoy> not everyone would attend both

 17:06 <thedac> tinwood:  that is one hour earlier

 17:06 <tinwood> Sounds okay then.

 17:06 <gnuoy> this meeting is 17:00 UTC

 17:06 <tinwood> Yes, I like those slots

 17:06 <coreycb> that time sounds good to me

 17:06 <gnuoy> ok, I will book that first slot, thanks

 17:06 <tinwood> Okay, sounds like an action - is that okay for you to do gnuoy as you're running with it.

 17:07 <gnuoy> yep

 17:07 <tinwood> #action gnuoy to try to book first slot from http://paste.ubuntu.com/18635394/

 17:07 * meetingology gnuoy to try to book first slot from http://paste.ubuntu.com/18635394/

 17:07 <tinwood> thanks gnuoy

 17:07 <tinwood> #topic State of Development for next Charm Release

 17:08 <tinwood> Any comments on this topic, please?

 17:08 <gnuoy> Keystone v3 support in the dashboard has landed

 17:08 <tinwood> \o/

 17:08 <thedac> Apparmor for nova-compute is close. I am fighting an amulet race condition at the moment.

 17:09 <gnuoy> A few caveats though. The dashboard now has to have a db relation if you want to use keystone v3

 17:09 <gnuoy> Designate and designate bind should land this week.

 17:09 <tinwood> barbican is very close, but has a bug upstream :(

 17:09 <coreycb> I have a number of deploy from source reviews ready for review, which should cover the bulk of getting DFS into shape.  the corresponding c-h changes have landed for the current reviews.

 17:10 <gnuoy> \o/

 17:10 <gnuoy> coreycb, hopefully you should get your charmhelper syncs for free

 17:10 <gnuoy> with jamespages ch sync for licensing changes

 17:10 <tinwood> So it looks like it's all heading in the right direction.

 17:11 <gnuoy> one more thing

 17:11 <tinwood> Any more before we move on?

 17:11 <gnuoy> all interfaces and layers are in Git/Gerrit now

 17:11 <gnuoy> ^ Repoint reviews if you need to!

 17:11 <coreycb> gnuoy, very nice

 17:11 <gnuoy> jamespages work but am happy to take the credit

 17:12 <coreycb> :)

 17:12 <tinwood> Oh, at the feature freeze day is next week.

 17:12 <gnuoy> yea! good point

 17:12 <thedac> coreycb++

 17:13 <gnuoy> Thursday next week to be precise

 17:13 <tinwood> So anything that has to make the release needs to be done by next Thursday.

 17:13 <coreycb> tinwood, feature-wise, at least

 17:13 <tinwood> yes

 17:14 <tinwood> next:

 17:14 <tinwood> #topic Release Bugs

 17:14 <tinwood> gnuoy, would you have your link handy?

 17:15 <tinwood> I'm guessing: #link https://goo.gl/HJjORI

 17:15 <gnuoy> yep

 17:15 <tinwood> Yes, there are 32 bugs on the list.

 17:16 <gnuoy> ...and we still seem to making little progress

 17:16 <gnuoy> that seems to be like 32 too many

 17:16 <tinwood> Do they need to be shifted by 16.07?

 17:17 <tinwood> bearing in mind some of them are quite 'old'.

 17:17 <gnuoy> I'm not sure, I think James does something about retargeting bus

 17:17 <gnuoy> * bugs

 17:17 <jamespage_shadow> so long as our run rate on bugs is stable, I think we're ok - we need to focus on high priority bugs first

 17:17 <jamespage_shadow> (of coursE)

 17:18 <jamespage_shadow> I would encourage you all to take some time over the next week and spend an hour on the bug queue

 17:18 <jamespage_shadow> please :-)

 17:18 <jamespage_shadow> I'll be focussing on reviews, landing and bugs in the next 8 days in the runup to final freeze

 17:18 <tinwood> okay, that sounds like a good plan.

 17:19 <tinwood> #topic Openstack Events

 17:19 <tinwood> I noticed an email that said there was a week to go for submitting talk abstracts for ODS?  Did I read that right?

 17:20 <gnuoy> tinwood, I think your looking at an out of data agends

 17:20 <gnuoy> * agenda

 17:20 <gnuoy> I have next agenda item as "Openstack talk submissions for ODS

 17:20 <gnuoy> "

 17:20 <gnuoy> ...

 17:20 <tinwood> indeed. sorry.

 17:20 <gnuoy> np, they were adds

 17:21 <tinwood> #topic Openstack talk submissions for ODS

 17:21 <gnuoy> So, hands up if you've submitted one!

 17:21 * gnuoy keeps his hand down

 17:21 * tinwood knows nothing :(

 17:21 <coreycb> I plan to submit one, not sure what yet though

 17:21 <tinwood> aparently ONE talk has been submitted so far.

 17:22 <tinwood> according to the email I saw.

 17:22 <thedac> gnuoy: we talked about a Openstack charms development talk we could co-author

 17:22 <gnuoy> yes, agreed

 17:23 <tinwood> I'd love to collaborate as I enjoy talking.

 17:23 <tinwood> but not if you've already got a partner!

 17:23 <thedac> sounds good we can discuss offline

 17:23 <gnuoy> and lets talk to markbaker about getting a charm school workshop as well

 17:24 <jamespage_shadow> some general guidance - talk about things openstack-ish that are really interesting to the general community

 17:24 <jamespage_shadow> we're (almost) and openstack project, so this is a great change to let the world know about us!

 17:24 <jamespage_shadow> deploying openstack talks +1000

 17:25 <jamespage_shadow> beisner, testing stuff good as well - maybe some s390-ish?

 17:25 <tinwood> Anything else on ODS?

 17:25 <tinwood> Any actions?

 17:26 <cargonza> wrt to charm school, I need to sync with the sales team to field the attendance...

 17:26 <tinwood> #action cargonza to sync with sales team re charm school at ODS Barcelona

 17:26 * meetingology cargonza to sync with sales team re charm school at ODS Barcelona

 17:26 <cargonza> I'll coordinate logistics with the admins (ie. rooms, av, etc.)

 17:26 <gnuoy> awesome

 17:27 <tinwood> excellent.

 17:27 <tinwood> Okay, next topic looks a bit strange.

 17:27 <tinwood> #topic What does the chair of this meeting do after the meeting?

 17:27 <gnuoy> ok, this one is mine

 17:28 <gnuoy> The chair of this meeting doesn't always seem to be following the actions outlined in the wiki

 17:28 <coreycb> drinks a beer and goes to bed?

 17:28 * tinwood lol

 17:28 <gnuoy> So, can we review the process and amend accordingly

 17:29 <tinwood> My first time so ..

 17:29 <gnuoy> tinwood, I think thats an action for jamespage and I

 17:29 <jamespage_shadow> agreed -

 17:29 <jamespage_shadow> once we move under #openstack for meetings we get automated minutes; but I'd like for us to announce the meeting prior to it happening

 17:30 <jamespage_shadow> and summarize on the openstack-dev ML afterwards

 17:30 <tinwood> #action gnuoy & jamespage to review the chair's post meeting process and amend as required.

 17:30 * meetingology gnuoy & jamespage to review the chair's post meeting process and amend as required.

 17:30 <jamespage_shadow> which is not as documented on the ubuntu wiki, but that's where we came from , not where we want to be

 17:30 <jamespage_shadow> lets get that sorted out between now and next week

 17:31 <gnuoy> tinwood, sorry, I meant previous chairs not you

 17:31 <gnuoy> what I really meant was:

 17:31 <tinwood> okay, that sounds good.  I'm hoping one of you is a chair for the first openstack-meetings meeting.

 17:31 <gnuoy> We have a process documented and I don;t think its clear to everyone so lets review that

 17:32 <tinwood> Right, so there's an action for that.  okay to move on?

 17:32 <gnuoy> sounds good to me

 17:32 <tinwood> #topic workload status messages, max 20 chars and proper case?

 17:32 <gnuoy> ok, so, thats me as weel

 17:32 <gnuoy> * well

 17:32 <tinwood> I think I'm guilty here.

 17:33 * thedac hides

 17:33 <gnuoy> There was a suggestion that we are consistent accross all charms and use proper caps and limit them to 20 chars

 17:33 <tinwood> When you say 'Proper Caps', what do you mean?

 17:33 <gnuoy> I'm not convinced tbh. I think we'll loose valuable info

 17:33 <gnuoy> Like this

 17:33 <gnuoy> rather than

 17:33 <gnuoy> like this

 17:34 <tinwood> Okay, that's good.

 17:34 <tinwood> What's the driver?

 17:34 <tinwood> for 20 chars only?

 17:34 <thedac> I agree a max 20 chars will lose valuable information

 17:34 <gnuoy> I think its useful to say: all these interfaces are missing...

 17:34 <gnuoy> thats more that 20chars right there

 17:35 <coreycb> that is fairly limiting, 20 chars

 17:35 <coreycb> perhaps the requester will negotiate

 17:35 <tinwood> Unless it's "'mysql', 'hsm', is miss..."

 17:36 <jamespage_shadow> okies - so I think working some examples might be useful

 17:36 <jamespage_shadow> then we can review appropriately and see what works well

 17:36 <coreycb> jamespage, +1

 17:36 <tinwood> It sounds like we need to pull together all of the workload statuses we set, put them down somewhere, and review it?  Or is that too much?

 17:37 <coreycb> or gnuoy ^

 17:37 <gnuoy> Maybe aim for nice caps and succint message but not limit chars

 17:37 <gnuoy> coreycb, haha that was jamespage

 17:37 <coreycb> lol

 17:37 <coreycb> tinwood, I think that's a good idea

 17:38 <coreycb> at least a subset of the common messages

 17:38 <tinwood> This sounds like an action.  Who's not here today?

 17:39 <tinwood> Seriously, do we need this as a minuted action?

 17:39 <gnuoy> tinwood, I don't think so. Maybe lets all keep in mind the formatting of thos stauses

 17:39 <gnuoy> * those

 17:40 <tinwood> Can I ask where the '20' came from?

 17:40 <gnuoy> it was a suggestion floating around for people with limited terminal width

 17:40 <thedac> --format yaml FTW

 17:41 <gnuoy> haha yeah

 17:42 <tinwood> okay, so no action, but try to keep them short and snappy.  assess_status() is a repeat offender as it concatenates missing interfaces ... a lot.

 17:42 <tinwood> #topic Openstack Events

 17:42 <tinwood> We may have covered this, but any more events?

 17:42 <gnuoy> Well ODS but I think we've covered that

 17:43 <tinwood> Ok, moving on to:

 17:43 <tinwood> #topic Open Discussion

 17:43 <tinwood> The floor is yours.

 17:44 <gnuoy> I have nothing to openly discuss :-)

 17:44 * tinwood chuckles

 17:44 <thedac> Do we want to discuss the email thread about hosting third party OS charms?

 17:44 <tinwood> fire away.

 17:44 <thedac> congress and charm partner charms

 17:45 <thedac> Should all charms go upstream or is there a selection criteria?

 17:45 <gnuoy> there are no 3rd party os charms

 17:46 <jamespage_shadow> as a project, openstack charms should be embracing anyone who wants to charm their part of openstack

 17:46 <thedac> agreed. I am aksing if the charm partner SDN charms should also be in this category

 17:46 <jamespage_shadow> publication of such charms to the juju charm store is dependent on them meeting the criteria as set out by the juju charm team

 17:47 <jamespage_shadow> thedac, +1 absoluletey

 17:47 <jamespage_shadow> thedac, plumgrid already asked, onos want to be

 17:47 <jamespage_shadow> I think the model of charms-core + charms-<group>-core will work well here

 17:47 <thedac> ok, so if we could document the procedure that would be helpful

 17:47 <jamespage_shadow> sure - I'll put something in the charm-guide

 17:48 <thedac> great

 17:48 <jamespage_shadow> #action jamespage document procedure for setup of sub-charm group ownership for SDN/storage vendors etc...

 17:48 * meetingology jamespage document procedure for setup of sub-charm group ownership for SDN/storage vendors etc...

 17:48 <tinwood> jamespage, beat me to it.

 17:49 <gnuoy> thanks jamespage

 17:49 <tinwood> Anything more for Open Discussion?

 17:49 <gnuoy> not from me

 17:49 <gnuoy> or from jamespage

 17:49 <thedac> I am good

 17:49 <coreycb> I'm good as well

 17:49 <tinwood> Great.

 17:50 <tinwood> #action Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 17:50 * meetingology Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 17:50 <tinwood> So the chair rotates; who's up for it next?

 17:50 <gnuoy> tinwood, it's in the wiki, one sec

 17:50 <gnuoy> tinwood, thedac is the winner

 17:50 <tinwood> \o/

 17:51 <tinwood> At the moment, we're assuming next Wednesday at 17.00UTC here again?

 17:51 <gnuoy> tinwood, yes, I hope its elsewhere but will post a redirect here if needs be

 17:51 <thedac> ok

 17:52 <tinwood> okay, then.  With no further ado, thanks everybody and ...

 17:52 <tinwood> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
</pre>
