{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
TZ UTC-5
<pre>
(07:02:02 AM) dholbach: ok, let's get started
(07:02:05 AM) dholbach: #startmeeting
(07:02:06 AM) MootBot: Meeting started at 12:02. The chair is dholbach.
(07:02:06 AM) MootBot: Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
(07:02:14 AM) dholbach: we have an agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Meetings
(07:02:25 AM) dholbach: first up is persia
(07:02:29 AM) dholbach: [TOPIC] REVU Day scheduling: Should REVU Days be held on the 4th and 11th of February, or should we stop sooner so as to provide time for the archive admins to process NEW? Also, any suggestions for a last push? It would be unfortunate to have a package be all ready on REVU and not make the archive due to too few reviewers
(07:02:30 AM) MootBot: New Topic:  REVU Day scheduling: Should REVU Days be held on the 4th and 11th of February, or should we stop sooner so as to provide time for the archive admins to process NEW? Also, any suggestions for a last push? It would be unfortunate to have a package be all ready on REVU and not make the archive due to too few reviewers
(07:02:34 AM) persia: In the Gutsy cycle, there was some confusion about whether the deadline for new packages meant the last date on which a package could be uploaded to NEW without a freeze exception, or the last day the archive admins would process a package without a freeze exception.
(07:02:37 AM) persia: My memory of earlier discussions this cycle was that we had agreed that FeatureFreeze was the last day the archive admins would be expected to process source NEW without a freeze exception.
(07:02:41 AM) persia: Based on that understanding, I wonder if we oughtn't have 27 January be the last REVU day, perhaps with some specific packages for which a MOTU has explicit interest, or are needed for a Feature goal receiving attention thereafter, but no scheduled general REVU days.
(07:02:45 AM) persia: Also, there are a fair number of packages still in their final REVU cycles.  If anyone has any ideas about how to best grab those we want for hardy in time for FeatureFreeze, please share.
(07:03:34 AM) dholbach: persia: What do you suggest as deadline?
(07:03:37 AM) soren: FF is the 16th, if memory serve?
(07:03:40 AM) soren: serves?
(07:03:43 AM) dholbach: soren: 14th
(07:03:56 AM) dholbach: Happy Valentines Day :)
(07:03:57 AM) soren: Ok. I think 27th is too conservative.
(07:04:11 AM) persia: 14th I think.  I'm not sure we should impose a deadline, but from informal discussions I understood the archive admins wanted a couple weeks.
(07:04:13 AM) soren: Feb 4th should be plenty of time for NEW processing.
(07:05:04 AM) dholbach: I think 4th should be fine, especially given that exceptions can still be granted by motu-uvf (motu-ff? :))
(07:05:20 AM) TheMuso: 4th sounds good.
(07:05:30 AM) persia: 4th is fine with me.
(07:05:48 AM) dholbach: [AGREED] Feb 4th is deadline for uploading NEW packages.
(07:05:48 AM) MootBot: AGREED received:  Feb 4th is deadline for uploading NEW packages.
(07:05:54 AM) persia: Err.  No.
(07:06:05 AM) persia: February 4th is the last regularly scheduled REVU day.
(07:06:06 AM) lionel: 4th looks good. Maybe ask a confirmation to archive admin?
(07:06:21 AM) soren: 13:05:20 < soren> pitti: How does Feb 4th sounds as a (soft) deadline for submitting new packages? That leaves 10 days for NEW processing before FF.
(07:06:24 AM) soren: 13:05:59 < pitti> soren: sounds ok (although the current policy already accounts for processing the backlog)
(07:06:31 AM) lionel: soren :)
(07:07:09 AM) dholbach: ok... persia: what would you like to see as a deadline?
(07:07:18 AM) soren: 4th as a soft deadline is probably sensible. That still leaves time to work out the last few issues that might be raised, and if there's "urgent" stuff, it can still make it.
(07:07:32 AM) persia: dholbach: I don't think the deadline is ours to propose, but rather an archive-admin decision.
(07:07:58 AM) dholbach: Opinions?
(07:08:33 AM) ***sistpoty|work agrees with persia
(07:08:52 AM) soren: Well, the deadline we propse it the deadline before which people should submit their stuff if they expect it to be reviewed before FF.
(07:09:04 AM) soren: It's not exactly the deadline for uploading the packages.
(07:09:29 AM) sistpoty|work: soren: so you want rather a "we won't review packages uploaded after <T>" deadline?
(07:09:40 AM) sistpoty|work: (newly uploaded packages even)
(07:09:45 AM) persia: soren: Ah.  I thought you were talking about deadline for upload to the archive.  For upload to REVU, I think 3rd Feb (for inclusion in 4th Feb REVU day) is perfectly sensible.
(07:09:57 AM) dholbach: I'm happy to have the last REVU day on Feb 4th and our "soft deadline" shortly afterwards
(07:10:13 AM) dholbach: to guarantee the archive admins have enough time
(07:10:16 AM) soren: sistpoty|work: Something like that, yes :)
(07:10:20 AM) persia: Also, I think any MOTU interested in a specific package should be free to ignore that deadline for further review, as long as it doesn't annoy the archive-admins.
(07:10:31 AM) sistpoty|work: soren: sounds good :)
(07:10:41 AM) dholbach: OK... what do we agree on now?
(07:11:20 AM) ***persia thinks we agree that packages not submitted for the 4th February REVU day do not have a guarantee of review for inclusion in hardy.
(07:11:20 AM) sistpoty|work: how big is the revu backlog atm?
(07:11:35 AM) dholbach: persia: that's good enough
(07:11:51 AM) persia: sistpoty|work: Only two or three packages that didn't get hit in the last REVU day, and about 25-30 that will be part of the next.
(07:11:58 AM) dholbach: [AGREED] packages not submitted for the 4th February REVU day do not have a guarantee of review for inclusion in hardy
(07:11:58 AM) MootBot: AGREED received:  packages not submitted for the 4th February REVU day do not have a guarantee of review for inclusion in hardy
(07:12:12 AM) sistpoty|work: persia: ah, ok
(07:12:51 AM) dholbach: regarding "Also, there are a fair number of packages still in their final REVU cycles.  If anyone has any ideas about how to best grab those we want for hardy in time for FeatureFreeze, please share." - do you think it'd help to have blog entries with a list of those packages to raise interest?
(07:12:55 AM) persia: Anyone have any ideas about how to encourage more reviewers for the next three REVU days?  Lots of packages are close, but it needs more eyes.
(07:13:29 AM) TheMuso: Unfortunately, I won't be around for the january 27th day
(07:13:44 AM) TheMuso: But will do my best to attempt to help with the others
(07:13:47 AM) persia: dholbach: Depends on the goal.  If the goal is to advertise packages interesting to the blogger, sure.  If the goal is to list things, I think the blogger reviewing everything would be more useful.
(07:14:58 AM) dholbach: we can also post the list of packages that are 'nearly there' to ubuntu-motu@ and ubuntu-devel@
(07:15:10 AM) dholbach: there are a lot of people who don't scan REVU regularly
(07:15:32 AM) persia: That sounds sane.  I'll post a list of packages needing review at the start of the next REVU day.
(07:15:35 AM) persia: Any other ideas?
(07:16:48 AM) ***pochu waves
(07:16:54 AM) dholbach: that's a great start
(07:17:42 AM) ***persia cedes the topic, based on discussion having come to a close
(07:17:45 AM) dholbach: you're right... a blog might probably not adress the right people
(07:19:10 AM) dholbach: ok... sorry I was distracted by another question
(07:19:19 AM) dholbach: moving on
(07:19:21 AM) dholbach: [TOPIC] Other business
(07:19:22 AM) MootBot: New Topic:  Other business
(07:19:26 AM) dholbach: is there any other business?
(07:19:40 AM) dholbach: going once
(07:19:49 AM) dholbach: twice
(07:19:57 AM) dholbach: [TOPIC] agree on date and time of next meeting
(07:19:57 AM) MootBot: New Topic:  agree on date and time of next meeting
(07:20:05 AM) ***persia proposes 2008 February 1st 20:00 UTC
(07:20:46 AM) dholbach: any opinions on date and time?
(07:20:52 AM) ***dholbach will probably not make it
(07:21:27 AM) dholbach: DktrKranz: any opinion on date and time of the next MOTU meeting? (2008 February 1st 20:00 UTC :-))
(07:21:53 AM) DktrKranz: Sounds good for me
(07:22:08 AM) DktrKranz: (and proably will attend ...)
(07:22:19 AM) dholbach: ok... in absence of andbody complaining.... :-)
(07:22:33 AM) dholbach: [AGREED] Next MOTU Meeting is going to be 2008 February 1st 20:00 UTC
(07:22:33 AM) MootBot: AGREED received:  Next MOTU Meeting is going to be 2008 February 1st 20:00 UTC
(07:22:50 AM) dholbach: Meeting adjourned - thanks a lot everybody! :)
(07:23:00 AM) dholbach: #endmeeting
(07:23:00 AM) MootBot: Meeting finished at 12:23.
</pre>
