{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting Meeting, 23 Jul at 16:02 &mdash; 16:36 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-07-23-16.02.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== review previous actions ====
The discussion about "review previous actions" started at 16:02.

** ''ACTION:'' rbasak to land delta report to lp:ubuntu-reports, Daviey to deploy

==== Saucy Development ====
The discussion about "Saucy Development" started at 16:04.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/ReleaseSchedule 
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:07)
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-s-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server 
* '''Blueprints''' (16:13)
** ''LINK:'' http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-s/group/topic-s-servercloud-overview.html 
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-mongodb 
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-juju-2-delivery 
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-ceph reappears
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-openstack-charms 
** ''ACTION:'' arosales to review Juju blueprints
** ''ACTION:'' arosales to review juju related blueprints with owners after OSCON

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:25.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)" started at 16:27.

** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1203694 and https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1203211

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)" started at 16:29.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)" started at 16:31.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:33.

** ''LINK:'' http://uds.ubuntu.com/ 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/quantum/+bug/1203766 

==== Announce next meeting date and time ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date and time" started at 16:35.

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items ===

* rbasak to land delta report to lp:ubuntu-reports, Daviey to deploy
* arosales to review Juju blueprints
* arosales to review juju related blueprints with owners after OSCON

=== Action items, by person ===

* arosales
** arosales to review Juju blueprints
** arosales to review juju related blueprints with owners after OSCON
* rbasak
** rbasak to land delta report to lp:ubuntu-reports, Daviey to deploy

=== People present (lines said) ===

* jamespage (120)
* zul (9)
* arosales (8)
* plars (7)
* ubottu (7)
* smb (7)
* hallyn (7)
* rbasak (6)
* meetingology (6)
* yolanda (5)
* roaksoax (5)
* adam_g (3)
* matsubara (1)

=== Full Log ===

<pre>
 16:02 <jamespage> #startmeeting

 16:02 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jul 23 16:02:00 2013 UTC.  The chair is jamespage. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:02 <meetingology> 

 16:02 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 16:02 <jamespage> #topic review previous actions

 16:02 <jamespage> rbasak to land delta report to lp:ubuntu-reports, Daviey to deploy

 16:02 <jamespage> rbasak, Daviey- hows that going?

 16:03 <jamespage> zul:

 16:03 <jamespage> zul has willfully volunteered to review and document what is blocking server related saucy-proposed migration excuses, with joy.

 16:03 <jamespage> I think thats all sorted now right

 16:03 <jamespage> ?

 16:03 <zul> bah

 16:03 <zul> almost apache2 again i think

 16:03 <zul> rbasak:  ^^^

 16:04 <jamespage> anyone actually here?

 16:04 <jamespage> lol

 16:04 <jamespage> anyway

 16:04 <jamespage> #action rbasak to land delta report to lp:ubuntu-reports, Daviey to deploy

 16:04 * meetingology rbasak to land delta report to lp:ubuntu-reports, Daviey to deploy

 16:04 <hallyn> my bot is...

 16:04 <jamespage> carried forward in their absence

 16:04 <jamespage> #topic Saucy Development

 16:05 <jamespage> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/ReleaseSchedule

 16:05 <jamespage> Debian Import Freeze is on the 25th July - manual syncs after that point will be required

 16:05 <jamespage> alpha2 same week - we will be opting out again

 16:06 <jamespage> also worth noting that 12.04.3 is just under a month away

 16:06 <jamespage> the QA team now have some dkms auto-testing setup

 16:06 <jamespage> openvswitch and iscsitarget are going to need some attention in the next two weeks.

 16:06 <hallyn> ?

 16:06 <jamespage> (as are lots more I guess)

 16:07 <jamespage> hallyn, hardware enablement kernels

 16:07 <rbasak> Oops, sorry. ubuntu-reports is almost ready for an MP. apache2 is done. I'm preparing a merge with an upgrade path bug and SSL passphrase prompting fixed.

 16:07 <jamespage> 12.04.3 will get rarings 3.8 kernel

 16:07 <jamespage> rbasak, marvellous!

 16:07 <hallyn> jamespage: gotcha

 16:07 <jamespage> next

 16:07 <jamespage> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:07 <jamespage> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-s-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server

 16:08 <jamespage> I still need to look at asm4 transitions

 16:08 <jamespage> and quantum service respawns

 16:09 * jamespage berates himself again

 16:09 <yolanda> lua5.2 is pending from review

 16:09 <jamespage> ack

 16:09 <hallyn> there's a yucky memleak in libvirt i need to look into

 16:09 <yolanda> rrdtool and rubyluabridge

 16:09 <rbasak> bug 1202653 should be targetted for Saucy. It's in hand though - I just want to fix SSL certificate prompting at the same time, write a dep8 test for that, and in any case proposed migration will be blocked as it's seeded in alpha-2 opt-in flavours.

 16:09 <jamespage> zul: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nova/+bug/1199791

 16:09 <ubottu> bug 1202653 in apache2 (Ubuntu) "apache2 2.4.4-6ubuntu4 failed to upgrade: Cannot load /usr/lib/apache2/modules/libphp5.so into server: undefined symbol: unixd_config" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1202653

 16:09 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1199791 in nova (Ubuntu Saucy) "nova-compute-xcp misses nova-compute.conf" [High,Triaged]

 16:09 <jamespage> rbasak, done

 16:09 <zul> in progrress

 16:09 <rbasak> thanks

 16:09 <jamespage> zul, great - thanks

 16:10 <jamespage> looks like adam_g's cheetah fixup is almost done

 16:11 <adam_g> yup, should make its way out today

 16:12 <jamespage> rbasak, whats the latest on bug 1031680?

 16:12 <ubottu> bug 1031680 in nagios-plugins (Ubuntu Raring) "check_apt always report 0 critical updates" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1031680

 16:13 <jamespage> and that covers release bugs....

 16:13 <jamespage> #subtopic Blueprints

 16:13 <rbasak> No progress.

 16:13 <jamespage> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-s/group/topic-s-servercloud-overview.html

 16:13 <jamespage> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-mongodb

 16:13 <jamespage> use of libv8 in the mongodb shell is causing some security concerns re supportability

 16:13 <jamespage> which is understandable

 16:14 <jamespage> looking at a shell disabled variant of the package - but I suspect thats worse than useless

 16:14 <jamespage> so we might be inthe position where mongodb is not suitable for main inclusion

 16:14 <jamespage> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-juju-2-delivery

 16:14 <jamespage> juju2 release going much smoother now

 16:14 <jamespage> two in the last week

 16:15 <jamespage> (one for OSCON)

 16:15 <jamespage> local provider has also landed if no-one noticed - works well (thanks thumper)

 16:15 <jamespage> roaksoax, https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-openstack-charms-ha-v2

 16:15 <jamespage> whats happening with HA stack for saucy? I know we have had a few conversations?

 16:16 <jamespage> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-ceph reappears

 16:16 <jamespage> utlemming, https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-webscale

 16:16 <jamespage> utlemming, are you likely to have capacity to work on this blueprint this release? its already a carry over from raring

 16:17 <jamespage> zul: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-openstack-qa

 16:17 <jamespage> needs some updates

 16:18 <zul> jamespage:  ack

 16:18 <jamespage> quite a few activities need to be worked on still this cycle there - might be work allocating out and postponing anything we know we won't get to this cycle

 16:18 <jamespage> adam_g, ^^

 16:19 <hallyn> s/work/worth/ ?

 16:19 <adam_g> agree

 16:19 <jamespage> hallyn, yes

 16:19 <roaksoax> jamespage: sorry i'm supper lagged

 16:19 <hallyn> k

 16:19 <jamespage> roaksoax, ack

 16:19 <jamespage> roaksoax, wanna update now?

 16:19 * jamespage gives roaksoax a few to respond

 16:20 <jamespage> zul: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-openstack-havana

 16:20 <jamespage> lots of things actually done there I think

 16:20 <jamespage> good point to catchup now that havana2 is landing everywhere

 16:20 <zul> ill upate it today

 16:21 <jamespage> arosales, quite a few juju related ones with minimal progress - do you want to go through those now?

 16:21 <jamespage> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-openstack-charms

 16:21 <jamespage> adam_g, roaksoax and I have been working on the python redux of the openstack charms

 16:22 <jamespage> looking quite good now - hopefully we should have a full set of initial versions this week

 16:22 <adam_g> im hoping to have all of the bash -> python rewrites ready for testing this week

 16:22 <jamespage> \o/

 16:23 <jamespage> OK - anyone got any other BP related stuff they wanted to raise/query?

 16:23 <jamespage> ....

 16:23 <jamespage> ...

 16:23 <jamespage> ..

 16:23 <yolanda> mine of server banners is stuck, working on other issues

 16:23 <jamespage> .

 16:24 <jamespage> yolanda, is that just pending sponsorship or are you getting blocked?

 16:24 <arosales> jamespage, sorry I was in another window

 16:24 <yolanda> jamespage, i stopped working on that for a while, working on syncs and merges, and now in charms

 16:24 <jamespage> yolanda, OK

 16:25 <jamespage> arosales, juju blueprints?

 16:25 <yolanda> i got some of them uploaded, bind9 is pending on review

 16:25 <arosales> jamespage, a couple of the owners are at OSCON so I can take an action to review juju related ones this week

 16:25 <arosales> #action arosales to review Juju blueprints

 16:25 * meetingology arosales to review Juju blueprints

 16:25 <jamespage> #action arosales to review juju related blueprints with owners after OSCON

 16:25 * meetingology arosales to review juju related blueprints with owners after OSCON

 16:25 <jamespage> ooops

 16:25 <jamespage> oh well - we will remember twice now!

 16:25 <jamespage> lets move on

 16:25 <jamespage> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:26 <jamespage> something called OSCON I think

 16:26 <jamespage> anyone going?

 16:26 <hallyn> i'm guessing if they are, they are there already

 16:26 <jamespage> lol

 16:26 <jamespage> yes

 16:26 <jamespage> any other events folk want to raise now?

 16:26 <arosales> m_3 and jcastro @ OSCON

 16:26 <arosales> giveing a Charm School talk as we chat here

 16:27 <jamespage> excellent - hope its packed....

 16:27 <jamespage> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)

 16:27 <jamespage> plars, floor is yours

 16:27 <plars> hi, a couple of bugs are affecting server testing at the moment

 16:27 <plars> both on the virtual host part

 16:27 <plars> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1203694 and https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1203211

 16:28 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1203211 in linux (Ubuntu) "duplicate for #1203694 Modprobe doesn't recognize any parameters on 3.10.0-4" [Critical,Fix committed]

 16:28 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1203211 in linux (Ubuntu) "Modprobe doesn't recognize any parameters on 3.10.0-4" [Critical,Fix committed]

 16:28 <smb> should be fixed by -5 in proposed

 16:28 <plars> bot seem to be well on their way though :)

 16:28 <plars> ack

 16:28 <rbasak> AIUI the release team are working on landing -5.

 16:28 <jamespage> excellent

 16:28 <plars> sounds good

 16:28 <plars> that's it from me

 16:28 <jamespage> thanks plars

 16:28 <jamespage> anyone got anything else qa related while we are here? matsubara maybe?

 16:29 <jamespage> ....

 16:29 <jamespage> ...

 16:29 <jamespage> ..

 16:29 <jamespage> .

 16:29 <matsubara> not really

 16:29 <jamespage> ack

 16:29 <jamespage> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

 16:29 <smb> There seem also to be some problem with qemu and vmvga crashing the host which apw is working on.

 16:30 <smb> The bug number slipped my brain though

 16:30 <smb> ah

 16:30 <smb> bug 1204005

 16:30 <ubottu> bug 1204005 in linux (Ubuntu) "[saucy] kvm host hangs of guest boot with 3.10.0-5" [Critical,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1204005

 16:31 <smb> Apart from that I cannot think of anything hot right now (exccept the weather)

 16:31 <smb> Are there questions?

 16:31 <jamespage> smb, thanks

 16:31 <jamespage> sound like a no for questions...

 16:31 <jamespage> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)

 16:32 <rbasak> Nothing new to report. Any questions for me?

 16:32 <jamespage> not from me

 16:32 <jamespage> anyone else?

 16:33 <jamespage> OK

 16:33 <jamespage> #topic Open Discussion

 16:33 <jamespage> anything anyone wants to raise?

 16:33 <arosales> UDS fastly approaching

 16:33 <jamespage> discuss or otherwise argue about?

 16:33 <arosales> http://uds.ubuntu.com/

 16:33 <zul> yeah i raised this

 16:33 <roaksoax> jamespage: basically, I'm currently updating the cluster stack, which means the removal of 'redhat-cluster' from the archives. All cluster will be based on pacemaker+corosync2.0, gfs2 + dlm (a new package that needs to be uploaded)

 16:33 <roaksoax> for distributed storage

 16:33 <roaksoax> /filesystem

 16:33 <jamespage> roaksoax, man - that is some lag - thanks for the update

 16:34 <zul> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/quantum/+bug/1203766

 16:34 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1203766 in quantum (Ubuntu) "Please remove from Ubuntu Archive" [Undecided,New]

 16:34 <roaksoax> and all packages that used to depend on redhat-cluster related dependencies need to be update

 16:34 <arosales> ah sorry for the dup zul

 16:34 <jamespage> good point about UDS _ only a month away

 16:34 <jamespage> good point to recheck on progress for saucy so far

 16:34 <zul> that should be interesting

 16:35 <jamespage> just to be clear - quantum is now called neutron if anyone missed that

 16:35 <jamespage> its not another new core project in openstack

 16:35 <jamespage> :-)

 16:35 <jamespage> anyway

 16:35 <jamespage> #topic Announce next meeting date and time

 16:36 <jamespage> Tuesday 30th July - 1600 GMT

 16:36 <jamespage> see you then

 16:36 <jamespage> #endmeeting

</pre>

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
