{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Log ====
TZ UTC-4
<pre>
(10:01:33 AM) Keybuk: ok
(10:01:35 AM) Keybuk: let's begin
(10:01:38 AM) tedg: Good $(time of day in your timezone) everyone.
(10:01:41 AM) mvo: hey everybody! I will be on vacation next week, if there is anything urgent, please call my landline (or mobile)
(10:01:53 AM) MacSlow: ok
(10:02:04 AM) Keybuk: I'll also be on holiday next week, anything urgent, please talk to pitti or mdz
(10:02:11 AM) seb128: tomorrow and monday are local and national holidaus
(10:02:15 AM) seb128: holidays
(10:02:19 AM) pitti: mine too
(10:02:23 AM) pedro_: tomorrow is also holiday here
(10:02:26 AM) seb128: Keybuk: no catchup calls then I expect?
(10:02:34 AM) kwwii: fri and mon here as well
(10:02:35 AM) pitti: we're all slackers :)
(10:03:00 AM) tedg left the room.
(10:03:07 AM) ***Riddell working tomorrow
(10:03:15 AM) Keybuk: Riddell: oh?
(10:03:17 AM) MacSlow: indeed... but I skip those very likely... got some catchup to do due to cebit and gtk+-hackfest :/
(10:03:23 AM) seele: tomorrow is a holiday?
(10:03:38 AM) tedg [n=ted@pool-71-106-27-36.lsanca.dsl-w.verizon.net] entered the room.
(10:03:47 AM) Riddell: Keybuk: I took jan 2nd off
(10:04:03 AM) ***MacSlow should not have started the hardy-upgrade of his desktop an hour ago
(10:04:42 AM) MacSlow: if I suddenly vanish you can guess why :)
(10:04:56 AM) Keybuk: lol
(10:04:58 AM) Keybuk: ok, onwards
(10:05:05 AM) Keybuk: seb128: I turned one of your activity report notes into an agenda item
(10:05:09 AM) Keybuk: (seb128) There is still quite some desktop glitches and annoyance but no real stopper, help to fix desktop milestoned bugs is welcome
(10:05:24 AM) Keybuk: bugs are important :-)
(10:05:36 AM) Keybuk: we're actually in pretty good shape as a team, but we could always do better
(10:05:41 AM) Keybuk: who'd like to volunteer to help out?
(10:05:48 AM) MacSlow: I assume not working effects-profile-recognition is one of them
(10:06:06 AM) MacSlow: but I'm on that whole issue anyway
(10:06:24 AM) pitti: well, shouldn't we all? :)
(10:06:49 AM) pitti: I still have quite a bunch of bugs 'in progress', but I'm happy to help out with important ones
(10:06:54 AM) Keybuk: pitti: kwwii isn't great at udev issues
(10:07:01 AM) MacSlow: kwwii, btw... were you able to work on the second (scale) icon?
(10:07:06 AM) Keybuk: and I've stolen MacSlow for other duties
(10:07:09 AM) seb128: Keybuk: speaking about udev... ;-)
(10:07:19 AM) kwwii: MacSlow: yeah, I'll get that to you soon, still not quite happy with it
(10:07:20 AM) seb128: anyway
(10:07:23 AM) Keybuk: but otherwise I'm happy if you want to assign bugs to people seb128 and nag them about it
(10:07:26 AM) MacSlow: kwwii, ok
(10:07:54 AM) Keybuk: seb128: it's damned hard to fix that bug - I've fixed it for people doing gutsy->hardy
(10:08:02 AM) Keybuk: but for people who actually got hit during an upgrade through hardy, it's hard to fix
(10:08:03 AM) kwwii: udev is certainly not my forte :-)
(10:08:05 AM) seb128: Keybuk: ok
(10:08:06 AM) Keybuk: since the vital information gets lost
(10:08:14 AM) Keybuk: (and I've fixed it for fresh hardy installs)
(10:08:37 AM) seb128: if people want to look to the desktop bugs issue I've noted, I use the desktop-bugs team as assignee and milestone those ubuntu-8.04
(10:08:59 AM) mvo: I will post upgrade issue bugs and milestone them for 8.04
(10:09:00 AM) Keybuk: seb128: are there any that you think particular people would be good at?
(10:09:34 AM) pitti: seb128: feel free to assing some to me if you want help with them (and which I can actually help with :) )
(10:09:41 AM) seb128: Keybuk: there is some compiz integration issue where mvo or MacSlow could help I guess, and pitti is likely good for gvfs, hal, etc issues ;-)
(10:09:58 AM) seb128: pitti: ok, noted, thanks
(10:10:02 AM) Keybuk: seb128: wrt to Compiz, I am hopeful that I'll have approval today for a short-term contract with one of the upstream guys
(10:10:08 AM) Keybuk: similar to what we've done with Gicmo
(10:10:11 AM) pitti: right, I'm currently concentrating on hal issues since there are still quite some hw specific issues I'd like to see fixed
(10:10:12 AM) seb128: Keybuk: ah, that's good news
(10:10:15 AM) pitti: seb128: gvfs sounds good to me
(10:10:56 AM) seb128: pitti: we already have gicmo helping on gvfs so there is not too much to do but I might ping you on some of the remaining integration bit with nautilus, gvm, etc
(10:11:12 AM) seb128: well, there is lot to do
(10:11:14 AM) MacSlow: btw... having a new/default use also be part of group "disk", what package would that end up in?
(10:11:21 AM) pitti: seb128: (like the floppy b0rkage)
(10:11:21 AM) Keybuk: MacSlow: they shouldn't be
(10:11:25 AM) seb128: but having gicmo is already good help there ;-)
(10:11:31 AM) pitti: MacSlow: argh, ho
(10:11:33 AM) pitti: no, I mean
(10:11:36 AM) Keybuk: MacSlow: disk is a scary group
(10:11:41 AM) pitti: disk == root
(10:11:59 AM) MacSlow: but then /dev/raw1394 needs some other ownership
(10:12:21 AM) MacSlow: because without that firewire-capture from a DV-cam in kino does not work
(10:12:24 AM) pitti: MacSlow: no, it shouldn't be accessible for users
(10:12:31 AM) pitti: we had that discussion years ago
(10:12:36 AM) MacSlow: I see
(10:12:37 AM) Keybuk: MacSlow: no, the kernel's ieee1394 subsystem needs a kicking
(10:12:48 AM) MacSlow: ok well
(10:12:50 AM) pitti: /dev/video1394 should be fixed to do what app devs want
(10:12:52 AM) Keybuk: firewire devices can execute code on the host processor
(10:13:05 AM) Keybuk: so raw access to all firewire devices as any user means you have root
(10:13:35 AM) Keybuk: anyway, topic
(10:13:48 AM) Keybuk: ACTION: seb128 to hand out desktop team bugs to people as necessary
(10:13:55 AM) Keybuk: ACTION: Keybuk to get contract for compiz bugs sorted
(10:14:07 AM) Keybuk: ACTION: pitti, mvo, tedg to assist with desktop bugs
(10:14:29 AM) ***seb128 likes those action items ;-)
(10:14:57 AM) mvo: I will do my best - I'm also looking into upgrade issues currently
(10:14:59 AM) pitti: seb128: bug fix slave at your service!
(10:15:00 AM) ***pitti salutes
(10:15:09 AM) ***seb128 hugs mvo pitti
(10:15:19 AM) Keybuk: ok, next one
(10:15:19 AM) Keybuk: #
(10:15:19 AM) Keybuk: (seb128) There has been some discussion about menus, non-consistent labeling (using the application name or not in the title) and system, preferences going over the bottom panel on a 1027x768 screen (maybe we should consider moving things to the applications, system tools category, we tried to not list it because it's confusing but you quickly get one anyway when installing extra softwares)
(10:16:19 AM) pitti: seb128: I dont' quite understand how system-tools moving helps with preferences
(10:16:21 AM) pitti: they are in admin
(10:16:26 AM) pitti: and preferences >> admin
(10:17:04 AM) pitti: I do agree, though, that the prefs menu is horrible
(10:17:08 AM) pitti: takes ages to find something there
(10:17:16 AM) seb128: pitti: well, there is different issues there
(10:17:22 AM) seb128: - inconsistant labelling
(10:17:45 AM) seb128: - system tools which comes back quickly, not sure if that's worth trying to mask it in the default installation
(10:18:13 AM) seb128: - and preferences which has too many items (that one has been discussed several times at UDS without any obvious solution)
(10:18:22 AM) seb128: about the first one
(10:18:33 AM) mrevell-lunch is now known as mrevell
(10:18:36 AM) seb128: I know it's late now, but it worth trying to fix the consistency now?
(10:18:48 AM) pitti: ah, you mean apps -> system tools, not gnome-system-tools, sorry
(10:19:01 AM) Keybuk: there's been a long thread about this on devel-discuss recently
(10:19:02 AM) seb128: I know we had jane reviewing those before dapper and we did some cleanup by then
(10:19:05 AM) Keybuk: did that come to any useful conclusions?
(10:19:26 AM) seb128: Keybuk: not really no
(10:19:40 AM) Mithrand1r is now known as Mithrandir
(10:19:57 AM) seb128: the discussion was not really focussed
(10:20:03 AM) seb128: rather lot of ideas from different users
(10:20:27 AM) seb128: nothing new nor really useful though
(10:20:55 AM) Keybuk: do you have any ideas? :)
(10:21:11 AM) seb128: as said there is different points there
(10:21:21 AM) seb128: let's tackle the first one which should be easy
(10:21:28 AM) mvo: is your suggestion to break the UI freeze and relabel them?
(10:21:35 AM) seb128: do we want to have a review and fix labels to be consistent now?
(10:21:38 AM) seb128: or is it late?
(10:21:59 AM) seb128: mvo: yes, we have things like "transmission" which give no indication of what the thing is doing
(10:22:06 AM) pitti: tricky for translations, but since we can clean them up step by step, it would be nice to do it
(10:22:25 AM) Keybuk: translators also have some grace this time in the form of 8.04.1
(10:22:28 AM) pitti: I don't think that the default install is that bad, maybe three or four things which really need improvement?
(10:22:40 AM) seb128: pitti: right
(10:22:59 AM) seb128: one of the issues users had is "Video Player" against "Rhythmbox Music Player"
(10:23:00 AM) pitti: seb128: indeed, transmission is the only one which really sticks out
(10:23:06 AM) seb128: ie, some items have software names, some other don't
(10:23:26 AM) pitti: seb128: tools doesn't have any app names, but at least consistently
(10:23:32 AM) pitti: and they don't really have names
(10:23:40 AM) pitti: but within a menu it should be consistent, yes
(10:24:03 AM) pitti: seb128: the vnc viewer thingy, that's vino or so, right?
(10:24:10 AM) pitti: it shuold get a name, too, perhaps?
(10:24:14 AM) seb128: vinagre
(10:24:21 AM) pitti: that, and transmission, and the net menu would be fine
(10:24:35 AM) kwwii: did someone say viagra?
(10:24:57 AM) pitti: seb128: system tools> could we add the gnome system monitor and thus make it a little less hilarious?
(10:25:13 AM) pitti: then there are at least two things inside, and I don't think we can permanently ban the menu anyway
(10:25:16 AM) Keybuk: pitti: isn't that under System->Admin at the moment?
(10:25:24 AM) ***pitti has 4 items in apps -> system tools
(10:25:25 AM) seb128: pitti: well, that was my second point, either we still try to mask it in the default install or not
(10:25:37 AM) pitti: Keybuk: no, AFAIK it's just an applet you can add?
(10:25:41 AM) cjwatson_ is now known as cjwatson
(10:25:41 AM) seb128: I think it's pointless
(10:25:45 AM) pitti: seb128: I agree
(10:25:54 AM) seb128: as soon as you install vmware, virt-manager, etc you get it back anyway
(10:26:03 AM) seb128: and it looks stupid because there is only one or two items there
(10:26:07 AM) pitti: and I don't really see where else to put hwtest
(10:26:20 AM) pitti: and gnome-system-monitor is really useful IMHO
(10:26:28 AM) seb128: ok
(10:26:29 AM) seb128: so
(10:26:42 AM) pitti: if nothing else, it gives you some system/ram info for bug reports
(10:26:47 AM) pitti: but you can kill runaway processes, etc.
(10:26:48 AM) seb128: - let's fix the labelling of the menu items which are not right and warn translators about the change
(10:26:57 AM) seb128: - and let's use applications, system tools again
(10:27:02 AM) seb128: anybody against that?
(10:27:09 AM) pitti: deal
(10:27:09 AM) MacSlow: nope
(10:27:12 AM) Keybuk: seems fine to me
(10:27:29 AM) seb128: ok, preferences menu having too many items is not something we will fix this cycle
(10:27:44 AM) seb128: we should consider switching to gnome-control-center shell or something at some point
(10:27:48 AM) seb128: but that's later material
(10:27:56 AM) MacSlow: seb128, indeed
(10:27:58 AM) pitti: it's a small point, but we could remove the network manager editor
(10:27:59 AM) mvo: ok
(10:28:21 AM) seb128: pitti: yeah, I want to have the menu fitting on 1024x768, so I'll make sure we drop one item from the list or move it somewhere else
(10:28:40 AM) pitti: ah, if one is enough, then IMHO we should kill nm-editor
(10:28:44 AM) seb128: Keybuk: we are done with this one, thanks, you can move to next item ;-)
(10:28:46 AM) pitti: you can get the same from the nm-applet
(10:28:57 AM) pitti: and it's ominous enough anyway
(10:29:01 AM) seb128: pitti: right, asac didn't disagree to that and I milestoned the bug
(10:29:06 AM) Keybuk: ok :)
(10:29:10 AM) Keybuk: sounds like you're agreed
(10:29:11 AM) Keybuk: (pitti) solving bug #198808; in essence: do we rather (potentially) break suspend/resume on some machines which worked with gusty, or don't fix it for a lot of current popular and any future hardware?
(10:29:11 AM) MacSlow left the room (quit: Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer)).
(10:29:11 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 198808 in hal "[Hardy] HAL breaks pm-utils quirks and resuming" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/198808
(10:29:35 AM) seb128: pitti: I'm not sure to understand why we change the behaviour over upstream
(10:29:45 AM) tedg: Yeah, that one is odd.  Did you find out why the logic was reversed?
(10:29:47 AM) seb128: but I think it would make relation with upstream, etc easier to no diverge
(10:30:50 AM) Keybuk: pitti: what does the patch do?
(10:31:08 AM) pitti: right, I'm currently discussing this with mjg59, but I'm still not 100% clear why we need this silly patch
(10:31:08 AM) pitti: in short, hal has a patch which effectively reverses the default quirks we use for suspend/resume
(10:31:08 AM) pitti: i. e. if we don't have an explicit FDI rule for a particular laptop, upstream assumes 'no quirks'
(10:31:08 AM) pitti: while our patch from mjg59 assumes 'all quirks'
(10:31:10 AM) pitti: but a lot of machines break if you actually use 'all quirks'
(10:31:12 AM) pitti: the rationale, as given by mjg59, was to maintain behavioural compatibility to what acpi-support did in previous releases
(10:31:15 AM) pitti: seb128: exactly my point
(10:31:29 AM) pitti: since with that, we break current and future models
(10:31:48 AM) pitti: -[ "$HAL_PROP_POWER_MANAGEMENT_QUIRK_DPMS_ON" = "true" ] && QUIRKS="$QUIRKS --quirk-dpms-on"
(10:31:51 AM) pitti: +[ "$HAL_PROP_POWER_MANAGEMENT_QUIRK_DPMS_ON" != "false" ] && QUIRKS="$QUIRKS --quirk-dpms-on"
(10:31:55 AM) Keybuk: pitti: do we have any data on whether things are better with or without the patch?
(10:32:00 AM) pitti: ^ like that, for all existing quirks
(10:32:18 AM) pitti: i. e. if $VAR is empty, it defaults to 'use quirk'
(10:32:28 AM) pitti: Keybuk: I don't at least
(10:32:35 AM) seb128: well, the rest of the world is improving quirks
(10:32:44 AM) seb128: I really think we should work in this direction with them
(10:32:55 AM) pitti: I wish this would have come to me much earlier
(10:32:55 AM) Keybuk: pitti: does your laptop work without the patch? :)
(10:33:17 AM) pitti: then I would have reverted it immediately and sorted out the remaining problematic models with positive quirks
(10:33:33 AM) pitti: Keybuk: haven't even tried yet (discussion started yesterday, too much CD testing to do, sorry)
(10:33:41 AM) tedg: The only thing is I think we should leave it in for LTS and then change it early in Intrepid.
(10:34:03 AM) seb128: I don't think we should
(10:34:20 AM) tedg: It's a pretty big change for lots of folks.
(10:34:21 AM) seb128: other distros are using the upstream things and are not known to be buggier than ubuntu afaik
(10:34:30 AM) pitti: TBH I think that patch was an absolutely wrong idea in the first place
(10:34:41 AM) pitti: but it wasn't documented, so I never investigated until I saw that bug
(10:35:01 AM) pitti: and it already causes lots of bugs with hardware we have today
(10:35:05 AM) Keybuk: err
(10:35:10 AM) pitti: so it's a bit like 'damned if yuo do, damned if you don't"
(10:35:12 AM) Keybuk: removing that patch makes suspend and resume work for me again
(10:35:18 AM) Keybuk: (they've been broken for a while in hardy)
(10:35:30 AM) Keybuk: like, actually, *really* well
(10:35:47 AM) Keybuk: I'd be inclined to remove the patch for 8.04 and put it back for 8.04.1 if things really go bad
(10:35:52 AM) pitti: Keybuk: with the patch it works on mine, except that STD causes the VTs to break
(10:35:54 AM) Keybuk: (or work with upstream to fix the things broken)
(10:36:07 AM) pitti: Keybuk: I'd rather stuff new FDIs into -updates TBH
(10:36:13 AM) Keybuk: pitti: with patch on mine, compiz crashes on resume, keyboard often fails, and VTs don't switch
(10:36:14 AM) pitti: for particular modesl
(10:36:19 AM) seb128: I would be in favor of dropping it now
(10:36:27 AM) Keybuk: without the patch, I just did 5 cycles without problem
(10:36:28 AM) seb128: we still have some weeks until 8.04
(10:36:37 AM) seb128: and we can revert if we get really bad feedback
(10:36:48 AM) MacSlow [n=mirco@unaffiliated/macslow] entered the room.
(10:36:56 AM) MacSlow: re
(10:37:05 AM) pitti: I feel the same actually
(10:37:12 AM) MacSlow: sorry... that upgrade didn't work out as planned
(10:37:29 AM) pitti: but really, that patch is a PITA to maintain (not the patch itself, of course, but the consequences)
(10:37:36 AM) pitti: MacSlow: n-m restarting? :-)
(10:37:49 AM) Keybuk: agree; without the patch, putting quirks back where needed is a simple matter of FDI
(10:38:02 AM) pitti: ^ and absolutely appropriate for SRU, too
(10:38:12 AM) pitti: since it selects precise HW models
(10:38:20 AM) pitti: and hal-info is no code at all
(10:38:37 AM) pitti: but there is no chance we can revert the patch post-release
(10:38:44 AM) Keybuk: ACTION: pitti to remove the patch and keep an eye on incoming bugs to identify needed quirks
(10:38:49 AM) pitti: since then we'd break stable installs
(10:38:50 AM) MacSlow: partly... and using a trackpoint-mouse for more than two weeks did strange things to my hand-eye coordination using a normal mouse... thus hitting the reboot button although I "aimed" for the cancel-button
(10:39:01 AM) ***pitti bounces
(10:39:10 AM) Keybuk: MacSlow: so not a _software_ bug then? :)
(10:39:21 AM) pitti: chuckle
(10:39:22 AM) Keybuk: though I'm sure mpt would say one button should be bigger
(10:39:24 AM) pitti: HW usability bug
(10:39:27 AM) MacSlow: pebkac
(10:39:33 AM) MacSlow: indeed
(10:39:58 AM) Keybuk: ok
(10:39:59 AM) Keybuk: next item
(10:40:02 AM) Keybuk: http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/
(10:40:05 AM) mvo: MacSlow: no other issues during the upgrade? that is good
(10:40:22 AM) MacSlow: hm... gtk-window-decorator looks odd
(10:40:29 AM) Keybuk: seb128: bug #191451 seems to have your name against it for no easily discernible reason
(10:40:29 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 191451 in m17n-db "Bad default choices for Vietnamese installation" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/191451
(10:40:47 AM) MacSlow: but I don't want to rule out me using nvidia's 169.12 driver here on my desktop box
(10:40:50 AM) seb128: Keybuk: it has a gtk task
(10:41:02 AM) Keybuk: seb128: is there something there you can do?
(10:41:10 AM) Keybuk: seb128: it says Declined for Hardy
(10:41:31 AM) seb128: Keybuk: I'm waiting for a reply to my mail
(10:41:42 AM) Keybuk: ok
(10:41:47 AM) seb128: Keybuk: the guy mailed me with explanations about the change
(10:41:54 AM) seb128: that's basically a one liner change to gtk
(10:41:58 AM) ***Keybuk sets it to Incomplete
(10:42:11 AM) Keybuk: seb128, Riddell: bug #159712
(10:42:12 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 159712 in serpentine "kde menu entry for 'Serpentine Audio CD Creator' has no icon" [Wishlist,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/159712
(10:42:15 AM) seb128: I just want to know if that makes sense for debian so we can get it there and sync or if that's just a quick hack for hardy
(10:42:47 AM) seb128: Keybuk: this bug should not be on the list and serpentine is universe now anyway
(10:42:55 AM) Keybuk: ok
(10:43:03 AM) Keybuk: can you unsubscribe the sponsors team
(10:43:04 AM) seb128: Keybuk: it's supperseded by bug #199277
(10:43:05 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 199277 in serpentine "[needs-merge] serpentine_0.9-2 from Debian unstable" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/199277
(10:43:37 AM) seb128: Keybuk: done, and I've subscribed the universe sponsors
(10:43:53 AM) Keybuk: mvo: bug #104553 - this doesn't seem to have an attached patch?
(10:43:54 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 104553 in fontconfig "upgrade failed when fontconfig cache dirs are newer than system date" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/104553
(10:44:25 AM) mvo: Keybuk: it has a patch, but the patch is more a hack - I would rather want to see it fixed in fontconfig
(10:44:32 AM) Keybuk: ok, not suitable for sponsoring then
(10:44:36 AM) mvo: it is claimed to be fixed there, but I haven't managed to reproduce it yet
(10:44:42 AM) Keybuk: can you unsubscribe the team, and turn off the patch checkbox for the patch
(10:44:44 AM) mvo: (even with a old version)
(10:45:16 AM) Keybuk: mvo: bug #87914 has a patch :-)
(10:45:16 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 87914 in update-manager "Progress bar refers to "1 minutes" or "1 hours"" [Low,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/87914
(10:45:51 AM) mvo: Keybuk: tricky to write a good ngettext() thing for this, I don't think the patch is quite there yet
(10:46:05 AM) Keybuk: ok, unsubscribe the sponsors team and uncheck the patch checkbox
(10:46:11 AM) mvo: will do
(10:46:30 AM) Keybuk: (with anything on Daniel's list, if it can't be fixed by an immediate upload - it should not be on the list
(10:46:38 AM) Keybuk: the entire point is that these are known good patches that just need uploading
(10:46:44 AM) MacSlow: mvo, sofar only gtk-window-decorator gives my issues here
(10:46:53 AM) Keybuk: if the patch isn't right, always unsubscribe the team and unmark it as a patch
(10:47:03 AM) Keybuk: that way someone else won't upload it later)
(10:48:00 AM) Keybuk: ok
(10:48:00 AM) Keybuk: qa bug list
(10:48:01 AM) Keybuk: http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogasawara/qa-hardy-list-archive/sort-by-package/desktop-buglist.html
(10:48:46 AM) Keybuk: doesn't look like there's anything new there to me
(10:49:03 AM) pitti: has it actually been updated since two weeks ago?
(10:49:08 AM) Keybuk: it claims to be updated
(10:49:16 AM) pedro_: yes it's updated
(10:49:18 AM) Keybuk: the status are all correct fwict
(10:49:19 AM) mvo: I think I read it in the activity report that it got updated
(10:49:22 AM) pedro_: now there's less than last weeks
(10:50:07 AM) Keybuk: pedro_: it'd be nice if it were obvious which were newly added
(10:50:11 AM) Keybuk: (or if none were)
(10:50:40 AM) Keybuk: ok
(10:50:48 AM) Keybuk: anything from activity reports need discussing?
(10:50:50 AM) Keybuk: or any other business?
(10:51:02 AM) ***pitti hides an Easter egg
(10:51:11 AM) pedro_: Keybuk: ok i'll talk with leann about it
(10:51:20 AM) ***kwwii goes back to work on gdm
(10:51:36 AM) MacSlow: kwwii, btw... the new gdm-theme is nice
(10:51:59 AM) ***Keybuk heard kwwii's laugh of despair from here
(10:52:00 AM) kwwii: MacSlow: thanks
(10:52:04 AM) kwwii: lol
(10:52:29 AM) MacSlow: Keybuk, kwwii: why... was the current gdm-theme any "battle"? :)
(10:52:53 AM) pitti: Keybuk: enjoy your holiday next week!
(10:52:55 AM) Keybuk: MacSlow: I was up until 2am last night "discussing" it with Mark
(10:53:12 AM) MacSlow: Keybuk, sweet
(10:53:32 AM) dholbach_ is now known as dholbach
(10:53:37 AM) Keybuk: MacSlow: not so much
(10:53:54 AM) MacSlow: Keybuk, kwwii: the "light from below"-look is cool there
(10:54:20 AM) kwwii: MacSlow: well, wait and see what we end up with, then tell me you love it :p
(10:54:29 AM) seb128: speaking about themes, what gtk is going to be used in hardy?
(10:54:34 AM) Keybuk: seb128: ubuntu-looks
(10:54:35 AM) seb128: gtk one
(10:54:36 AM) kwwii: seb128: ubuntulooks
(10:54:37 AM) seb128: bah
(10:54:38 AM) MacSlow: okyday... I'll hold my breath
(10:55:07 AM) MacSlow: kwwii, but it's murrine-based still, right?
(10:55:11 AM) kwwii: seb128: we will look into changing it for +1 again
(10:55:23 AM) kwwii: MacSlow: actually ubuntulooks is a fork of an older version of clearlooks
(10:57:10 AM) Keybuk: ok
(10:57:12 AM) Keybuk: thanks all
</pre>
