{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Ubuntu VM builder =====

soren is working on a bug in parted. Once the fix is uploaded he plans to write up a blog post detailing the new vm-builder.

nijaba started to write a tutorial about vm-builder. It's based on the JeOS tutorial. A <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/JeOSVMBuilder|draft]]</nowiki> is available.

ACTION: soren to write a blog post about vm-builder once it's available in the archive

ACTION: nijaba to write a tutorial on vm-builder - https://help.ubuntu.com/community/JeOSVMBuilder

ACTION: sommer to update the virtualization section of the server guide with references to the new ubuntu-vm-builder

===== Review ServerGuide for Intrepid =====

jdstrand made a review of the firewall and ufw section of the Ubuntu Server Guide. sommer reminded that the String Freeze for the Documentation Team is October, the 2nd. mathiaz added that <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserInterfaceFreeze|UIFreeze]]</nowiki> is in effect. Reviewing the server guide and making sure that the command lines, configuration files and other examples are up-to-date with regard to the changes in Intrepid is very welcomed.

ACTION: mathiaz to review the ldap section of the server guide

ACTION: kirkland to review the RAID section of the server guide

===== Boot Support for Degraded RAID =====

kirland stated that most of the bugs have been fixed. More widespread testing is welcomed. The last thing to implement is to add a debconf question in the installer asking for what behavior is wanted (BOOT_DEGRADED=true|false).

ACTION: kirkland to write another blog post asking for raid testing

ACTION: kirkland to add a question to the installer about the default behavior

===== Ubuntu Manpage Repository =====

kirkland announced officially the existence of the <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Manpage Repository]]</nowiki>. Initial response has been great so far. He asked for help for a couple of tasks: adding support for the online repository to the man command and improving the search engine. These tasks will added to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuManpageRepository|wiki page]]</nowiki> tracking the progress of this project.

===== Encrypted ~/Private Directory in Each User's Home =====

cjwatson added a debconf question to the alternate installer. mathiaz raised the question whether this was useful in the server install. Further discussion about this issue was deferred.

nxvl asked about end users upgrading from hardy. mathiaz replied that the default install in intrepid won't have a Private/ directory setup by default so upgrades from hardy shouldn't setup Private/ directory either.

===== Tomcat6 server stack support =====

Koon stated that the two remaining issues in Java dependencies had been fixed, bringing the total dep count from 87 packages down to a more reasonable 27 packages. There are still a couple of deps that could be removed (gcj recommends) but that should rather be in intrepid+1.

Koon started to look into the tomcat5.5 package. He's focusing on porting relevant bug fixes from the tomcat6 package.

ACTION: mathiaz to review Koon patch wrt to FF exception.

===== landscape-client in Ubuntu =====

dendrobates announced that landscape-client had been uploaded to the archive. It should be included in the next alpha. The output of landscape-sysinfo will be included in motd.

ACTION:  mathiaz to write a blog post about landscape in intrepid.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, September 16th at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:02] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[16:02] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:02. The chair is mathiaz.
[16:02] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:02]  * mathiaz woahhh
[16:03] <soren> Wow.
[16:03] <mathiaz> Today's agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:03]  * nijaba cheers at mootbot's return
[16:03] <mathiaz> Last week meeting minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20080902
[16:03] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Ubuntu VM builder
[16:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu VM builder
[16:04] <soren> That would be me.
[16:04] <mathiaz> soren: status ?
[16:04] <soren> As you may have noticed, I never posted my blog entry about it.
[16:04] <soren> That's because of a parted bug that would bite a *lot* of users of it, so I wanted to wait until I could get that fixed.
[16:05] <mathiaz> soren: ok
[16:05] <soren> The alpha freeze delayed that a bit, but I'll be uploading a fix today, and when that's built, I'll submit my blog post.
[16:05] <mathiaz> nijaba: still on track to write the tutorial ?
[16:05] <nijaba> mathiaz: some progress
[16:05] <soren> I've been spending some time since last meeting ironing out some of the regressions from the old ubuntu-vm-builder, and it's going quite well, I think.
[16:05] <nijaba> mathiaz: can been monitored at https://help.ubuntu.com/community/JeOSVMBuilder
[16:06] <mathiaz> nijaba: is that based on the JeOS tutorial you wrote last year ?
[16:06] <nijaba> mathiaz: it is a rewrite to show how to use vmbuilder instead
[16:06] <mathiaz> nijaba: great
[16:07] <mathiaz> sommer: are you waiting for soren's post to update the Ubuntu Doc guide ?
[16:07] <sommer> mathiaz: not really, just didn't have as much time last week
[16:07] <mathiaz> [ACTION] soren to write a blog post about vm-builder once it's available in the archive
[16:07] <MootBot> ACTION received:  soren to write a blog post about vm-builder once it's available in the archive
[16:07] <sommer> mathiaz: should get that updated this week, or once the new package is in the repos
[16:08] <mathiaz> [ACTION] nijaba to write a tutorial on vm-builder - https://help.ubuntu.com/community/JeOSVMBuilder
[16:08] <MootBot> ACTION received:  nijaba to write a tutorial on vm-builder - https://help.ubuntu.com/community/JeOSVMBuilder
[16:08] <soren> Oh, the vm-builder is in the archive.
[16:08] <mathiaz> sommer: great
[16:08] <soren> It's the parted fix that needs to be uploaded.
[16:08] <mathiaz> [ACTION] sommer to update the virtualization section of the server guide with references to the new ubuntu-vm-builder
[16:08] <MootBot> ACTION received:  sommer to update the virtualization section of the server guide with references to the new ubuntu-vm-builder
[16:08] <sommer> soren: yep, sorry I just wasn't sure last week what package to use
[16:09] <soren> sommer: Ah, yes. I remember something about that. It's all sorted now, right?
[16:09] <mathiaz> The new package is called vm-builder
[16:09] <sommer> soren: should be good to go
[16:09] <mathiaz> and the source package name is actually python-vm-builder
[16:10] <mathiaz> soren: is there anything else to report wrt to vm-builder ?
[16:12] <soren> Nope.
[16:12] <mathiaz> ok. Let's move on
[16:12] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Review ServerGuide for Intrepid
[16:12] <soren> Well, lots of cool details, but nothing I want to spend meeting time on.
[16:12] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ServerGuide for Intrepid
[16:12]  * soren shuts up now
[16:12] <mathiaz> soren: sure - we'll get all the juicy details in your blog post
[16:13] <mathiaz> sommer: did you get reviews ?
[16:13] <mathiaz> I haven't had time to review the openldap guide.
[16:13] <sommer> jdstrand reviewd the ufw section, other than that nope
[16:13] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz to review the ldap section of the server guide
[16:13] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to review the ldap section of the server guide
[16:13] <jdstrand> it looked great. thanks sommer!
[16:13] <mathiaz> kirkland: still planning to review the RAID section ?
[16:13] <kirkland> mathiaz: yes, definitely
[16:13] <mathiaz> [ACTION] kirkland to review the RAID section of the server guide
[16:13] <MootBot> ACTION received:  kirkland to review the RAID section of the server guide
[16:14] <mathiaz> sommer: when is the deadline ?
[16:14] <mathiaz> sommer: IIRC there is a string freeze at some point
[16:14] <sommer> mathiaz: october 2nd
[16:14] <sommer> about 3 weeks
[16:14] <mathiaz> ok - this week's freeze is UI freeze
[16:15] <mathiaz> sommer: anything else to add to the Server Guide ?
[16:15] <nxvl> mathiaz: are we affected by UI freeze?
[16:15] <sommer> nope, I think that's all the news
[16:16] <mathiaz> sommer: great - thanks for all the work
[16:16] <sommer> :)
[16:16] <kirkland> sommer: yeah, thanks a lot
[16:16] <mathiaz> We're mainly looking for reviewers now
[16:16] <mathiaz> nxvl: yes - but to a lesser extend than the desktop team
[16:16] <nxvl> oh ok
[16:17] <mathiaz> nxvl: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserInterfaceFreeze
[16:17] <mathiaz> nxvl: ^^ that's the definition of UIFreeze
[16:17] <mathiaz> nxvl: it's mainly oriented towards desktop
[16:18] <mathiaz> nxvl: but we could probably adapt it to server applications.
[16:18] <nxvl> yeah, that's what i thougt, just making sure
[16:18] <nxvl> :D
[16:18] <mathiaz> nxvl: now is a good time to review the server guide and make sure that command line are correct
[16:18] <mathiaz> nxvl: they should not change until release, unless we ask for it as we're in UIFreeze
[16:19] <mathiaz> That's all from last week minutes
[16:19] <mathiaz> is there anything else to add ?
[16:19] <nxvl> to the las week minutes?
[16:20] <mathiaz> nxvl: yes
[16:20] <nxvl> then no
[16:20] <nxvl> :D
[16:21] <mathiaz> ok - let's move on then
[16:21] <mathiaz> Review progress made on the specification listed on the Roadmap
[16:21] <mathiaz> the Roadmap: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Roadmap
[16:22] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Boot Support for Degraded RAID
[16:22] <MootBot> New Topic:  Boot Support for Degraded RAID
[16:22] <mathiaz> kirkland: anything new there ?
[16:22] <kirkland> mathiaz: funny you should ask :-)
[16:22] <kirkland> mathiaz: i just installed a new VM with the ubuntu-server ISO that was just built a few minutes ago
[16:22] <kirkland> mathiaz: i'm testing a minor fix to grub-installer
[16:23] <kirkland> mathiaz: i think this should be code-complete at this point
[16:23] <kirkland> mathiaz: and fairly thoroughly tested
[16:23] <kirkland> mathiaz: the next thing to test would be crazy combinations and layers
[16:23] <kirkland> mathiaz: of lvm + crypt + raid
[16:23] <mathiaz> kirkland: ok - sounds like testing is the next step for this topic.
[16:23] <kirkland> mathiaz: jumble the order of those, and retest
[16:24] <kirkland> mathiaz: yeah, i'm going to write another blog entry calling for testing
[16:24] <mathiaz> kirkland: did you blog about it ?
[16:24] <kirkland> mathiaz: unfortunately, this subject requires very thick skin
[16:24] <kirkland> mathiaz: lots of people are very negatively vocal about it
[16:24] <mathiaz> kirkland: right - the bug is no longer useful
[16:24] <kirkland> mathiaz: rarely much technical topics to argue...  just griping mostly
[16:24] <kirkland> mathiaz: anyway, i'll blog again
[16:25] <mathiaz> kirkland: I think we should blog about it and ask for testing
[16:25] <kirkland> mathiaz: there's one more little thing that i think would be worth asking
[16:25] <mathiaz> kirkland: also document it in the release notes for the next alpha and bet
[16:25] <mathiaz> kirkland: beta
[16:25] <kirkland> mathiaz: there should be a debconf question posted in the installer, asking for what behavior you want, BOOT_DEGRADED=true|false
[16:25] <kirkland> mathiaz: i will do that...  there was a known issue in Alpha5, so i didn't add it to the release notes
[16:25] <mathiaz> kirkland: have you discussed that with the installer team ?
[16:26] <kirkland> mathiaz: yes
[16:26] <kirkland> mathiaz: i owe cjwatson that code
[16:26] <kirkland> mathiaz: he suggested adding it fairly close to (or even in) partman
[16:26] <mathiaz> kirkland: does it require a FF exception ?
[16:26] <kirkland> mathiaz: the "easy" solution is just to make that debconf question "high" in the mdadm package
[16:27] <kirkland> mathiaz: but that would make that question prompt sometime *much* later, after the partitioning has been accomplished
[16:27] <kirkland> mathiaz: probably would require an FFe...  I'll try to do it today
[16:27] <kirkland> mathiaz: it's not much code
[16:27] <mathiaz> kirkland: right - seems like partman is the best place to ask for it.
[16:27] <kirkland> mathiaz: right, i have a local partman-md branch
[16:27] <kirkland> mathiaz: i've done the code, haven't tested it
[16:27] <mathiaz> [ACTION] kirkland to write another blog post asking for raid testing
[16:27] <MootBot> ACTION received:  kirkland to write another blog post asking for raid testing
[16:28] <kirkland> sounds good
[16:28] <mathiaz> [ACTION] kirkland to add a question to the installer about the default behavior
[16:28] <MootBot> ACTION received:  kirkland to add a question to the installer about the default behavior
[16:28] <mathiaz> anything else on RAID ?
[16:28] <kirkland> mathiaz: fyi, my tests of the current server iso just succeeded!!!!
[16:29] <kirkland> mathiaz: blog post can happen immediately
[16:29] <kirkland> mathiaz: I don't think so
[16:29] <mathiaz> kirkland: awesome. Thanks for the work.
[16:29] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] UFW Package Integration
[16:29] <MootBot> New Topic:  UFW Package Integration
[16:29] <kirkland> mathiaz: you bet :-)
[16:29] <mathiaz> jdstrand: ^^ ?
[16:29] <mathiaz> jdstrand: I ran into some issue when doing alpha5 testing
[16:30] <jdstrand> bug?
[16:30]  * mathiaz looking for the bug
[16:30] <jdstrand> it's likely one I am working on _right now_
[16:30] <mathiaz> jdstrand: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer/+bug/265097
[16:30] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 265097 in debian-installer "openssh-server fails to install when preseeded with pkgsel/include" [Undecided,New]
[16:31] <jdstrand> mathiaz: that's a dup of one I have fixed and will be uploading today
[16:31] <mathiaz> jdstrand: ok
[16:32] <mathiaz> jdstrand: anything else ?
[16:32] <jdstrand> nope, just bug fixing. I may be able to get case-insensitivity matching for app rules, but might not
[16:32] <jdstrand> (thanks to didrocks)
[16:33] <mathiaz> jdstrand: awesome.
[16:33] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Manpage Repository
[16:33] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu Manpage Repository
[16:33] <mathiaz> kirkland: ^^ ?
[16:33] <kirkland> mathiaz: \o/
[16:34] <kirkland> mathiaz: big thanks to lamont jones for rolling it out to production, as well as to kees, jdstrand, and cjwatson for reviewing the code along the way
[16:34] <kirkland> mathiaz: i've gotten an enormous amount of positive feedback, as well as constructive criticism
[16:34] <didrocks> jdstrand: you're welcome (again) :)
[16:34] <kirkland> mathiaz: i'm encouraging people to file bugs against the Launchpad project
[16:34] <kirkland> mathiaz: I'm fixing those as I can (this is a night/weekends/after-hours project)
[16:35] <kirkland> mathiaz: i'm going to ask lamont to roll out a batch of updates later this week
[16:35] <kirkland> mathiaz: i could use help, if anyone else is interested :-)
[16:35] <mathiaz> kirkland: IIRC you've also blogged about it, right ?
[16:35] <mathiaz> kirkland: what kind of help ?
[16:35] <nijaba> kirkland: what language did you use?
[16:35] <kirkland> mathiaz: yes, and it got picked up by Digg, so the traffic has been overwhelming
[16:36] <kirkland> mathiaz: 1) man should be patched to optionally fall back and pull missing manpages from the web archive (that will need to be C code)
[16:36] <kirkland> nijaba: HTML, CSS, Javascript, Shell, Perl, and Python :-)
[16:36] <nijaba> kirkland: 618 diggs now
[16:36] <mathiaz> kirkland: are these tasks recorded somewhere ? in LP bugs ? or a wiki page ?
[16:37] <kirkland> mathiaz: 2) the search.py search engine could be improved...  right now, exact title matches only
[16:37] <kirkland> mathiaz: i have a wiki page, i will add to-do tasks to it
[16:37] <Koon> kirkland: I agree with Bryce comment on the ML: at first glance, I thought it was empty.
[16:37] <kirkland> Koon: yes, i'm going to make a nice front page
[16:37] <kirkland> Koon: lesson learned, i should have done that ahead of time
[16:37] <Koon> otherwise it rocks !
[16:38] <kirkland> also, the doc team would like a reverse proxy, serving all of this via help.ubuntu.com/manuals
[16:38] <kirkland> there have been some negative criticism about hosting at manpages.ubuntu.com
[16:38] <mathiaz> kirkland: all of this seems great
[16:39] <kirkland> mathiaz: thanks
[16:39] <kirkland> mathiaz: it's been on my little home server so long, and i couldn't really tell anyone about it there
=== asac_ is now known as asac
[16:39] <kirkland> mathiaz: now that it's production hosted, we can get feedback and improve it
[16:39] <mathiaz> kirkland: excellent.
[16:39] <kirkland> mathiaz: i have a bit to say about Encrypted Private
[16:39] <mathiaz> let's move on.
[16:39] <kirkland> mathiaz: if there's a spot for it here
[16:40] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Encrypted ~/Private Directory in Each User's Home
[16:40] <MootBot> New Topic:  Encrypted ~/Private Directory in Each User's Home
[16:40] <kirkland> mathiaz: cjwatson added a debconf question to the alternate installer
[16:40] <kirkland> mathiaz: i know you raised a question about the appropriateness on the Server CD
[16:40] <kirkland> mathiaz: we can discuss that here, or elsewhere, at your discretion
[16:40] <mathiaz> kirkland: we can discuss that later
[16:40] <nxvl> kirkland: did you already thought about how the hardy -> intrepid upgrade will be on that topic?
[16:40] <kirkland> mathiaz: okay
[16:41] <kirkland> nxvl: yeah, so i wrote some code that would attempt to migrate data from a non-encrypted directory to an encrypted one
[16:41] <kirkland> nxvl: as well as back
[16:41] <kirkland> nxvl: it used rsync
[16:41] <kirkland> nxvl: however, i found many corner cases where things could go wrong, and there could be data lost
[16:41] <mathiaz> nxvl: we've just started to test upgrades
[16:42] <kirkland> nxvl: ie, if data were being written to the source, unecrypted directory while doing the encryption migration
[16:42] <kirkland> nxvl: so instead, i added a check to ecryptfs-setup-private
[16:42] <mathiaz> nxvl: what do you mean by upgrade testing ?
[16:43] <kirkland> nxvl: that requires that ~/.Private and ~/Private be empty in order to proceed
[16:43] <kirkland> nxvl: it'll tell the user that they should move this data out of the way, or do their own migration after the fact
[16:44] <kirkland> anyway, that's it from me on this, mathiaz
[16:44] <nxvl> mathiaz: as in, i have hardy, without ~/Private encrypted directory, the i upgrade to intrepid, will i get an ecrypted dir or will i we supposed to configure it by hand
[16:45] <nxvl> kirkland: souind fair
[16:45] <nxvl> sounds*
[16:45] <mathiaz> nxvl: good point - I don't think that intrepid will have a Private directory by default on new install.
[16:45] <mathiaz> kirkland: ^^ ? Am I wrong ?
[16:45] <kirkland> mathiaz: right, the default answer to that question is "No"
[16:45] <kirkland> mathiaz: that's what's highlighted in the debconf question in the alternate installer
[16:46] <kirkland> mathiaz: I haven't seen Ubiquity and the graphic installer
[16:46] <kirkland> mathiaz: i don't know if the quesiton is there too or not
[16:46] <mathiaz> nxvl: so I don't think we should add a Private directory on upgrade if a new install won't have it.
[16:47] <mathiaz> all right - let's move on.
[16:47] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Tomcat6 server stack support
[16:47] <MootBot> New Topic:  Tomcat6 server stack support
[16:47] <mathiaz> Koon: ^^ ?
[16:47] <nxvl> mathiaz: oh! ok, i just saying that in some point, if we are going to have it by default we need to think on that
[16:47] <Koon> The two remaining issues in Java dependencies were fixed yesterday, bringing the total dep count from 87 packages down to a more reasonable 27 packages.
[16:48] <mathiaz> nxvl: agreed.
[16:48] <Koon> zul seeded the packages yesterday and they made it to the server CD  daily build
[16:48] <Koon> resulting in a net increase of about +20Mb in size
[16:48] <mathiaz> Koon: excellent. So the next step is to add a task ?
[16:49] <Koon> there are still a couple of deps that could be removed (gcj recommends) but that should rather be in intrepid+1
[16:49] <Koon> mathiaz: yes
[16:50] <Koon> basically the tomcat6 task would install tomcat6, tomcat6-examples tomcat6-docs and tomcat6-admin
[16:50] <mathiaz> Koon: are we going to get oversized cd with tomcat6 now in -ship ?
[16:50] <Koon> mathiaz: CDs are at 637 Mb with them in
[16:51] <mathiaz> Koon: right - I've added landscape-client this morning and that will bring in additional package.
[16:51] <mathiaz> Koon: so we may have to look into the recommends as we're approaching the limit.
[16:51] <Koon> do you know if we can skip recommends in the CD ?
[16:51] <mathiaz> Koon: I'm not sure. I don't think so.
[16:52] <mathiaz> Koon: but we can blacklist packages.
[16:52] <mathiaz> Koon: I don't mean that we'll have to trim tomcat6. We just need to be aware of this issue and try to see where we may be able to gain space.
[16:52] <persia> Skipping recommends on the CD is technically possible, but it can cause a confusing package state when handling support later, as you have two different possible "default package selection"s
[16:52] <mathiaz> Koon: as we're approaching the limit.
[16:53] <Koon> mathiaz: basically we can remove the *gcj* packages. they get pulled in through a libecj-java -> libecj-java-gcj recommend that doko wants to keep in that cycle
[16:53] <mathiaz> Koon: ok. We'll see what happens in the next -server iso builds.
[16:54] <mathiaz> Koon: if they're oversized we'll have to look into that issue.
[16:54] <Koon> in related news, I've started fixing the tomcat5.5 packages
[16:55] <Koon> mainly backporting fixes I've implemented in the tomcat6 packages.
[16:55] <mathiaz> Koon: are you in contact with the debian maintainer team ?
[16:55] <Koon> mathiaz: I'll send them the patches
[16:55] <mathiaz> Koon: are these bug fixes ?
[16:55] <dendrobates> mathiaz: we need to review all packages that are on the iso to see what does not belong.
[16:56] <Koon> mathiaz: it's mostly adaptations to the new java virtuals names
[16:56] <mathiaz> Koon: would you need FF exceptions ?
[16:56] <mathiaz> dendrobates: yes. We can do that this week.
[16:56] <Koon> mathiaz: I don't think so. That fixes bugs like "tomcat 5.5 won't install"
[16:56] <Koon> and security issues
[16:56] <mathiaz> Koon: ok.
[16:57] <Koon> mathiaz: I'll make you review them so that you can tell me if there is a risk
[16:57] <mathiaz> Koon: ok.
[16:57] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz to review Koon patch wrt to FF exceptio
[16:57] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to review Koon patch wrt to FF exceptio
[16:58] <mathiaz> Koon: anything else on the topic of Tomcat ?
[16:58] <Koon> mathiaz: no.
[16:58] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[16:58] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[16:58] <mathiaz> Anyone wants to add something ?
[16:59] <kirkland> mathiaz: i have one....
[16:59] <dendrobates> mathiaz: landscape-client has been uploaded.
[16:59] <kirkland> mathiaz: anyone who has an intrepid system, run:
[17:00] <kirkland> service --status-all
[17:00] <kirkland> that'll show you what init scripts have a status action, and which ones don't ;-)
[17:00] <kirkland> very revealing, since we now have a real "service" script!
[17:00] <Koon>  * Loading kernel modules...
[17:00] <sommer> cool
[17:01] <Koon> * Loading manual drivers...                                             [ OK ]
[17:01] <Koon> ??
[17:01] <Koon> this one probably has a broken status action  :)
[17:01] <kirkland> Koon: looks like a bug in that script ;-)
[17:01] <kirkland> yeah, revealing
[17:02]  * kirkland yields the floor to dendrobates for landscape-client
[17:02] <mathiaz> kirkland: Koon: LP is your friend then
[17:02] <nealmcb> :)
[17:03] <dendrobates> landscape-client will be on the next alpha
[17:03] <dendrobates> landscape-sysinfo output will be included in motd.
[17:04] <dendrobates> Comments, and fixes are very welcome.
[17:04] <dendrobates> as well as new modules.
[17:04] <mathiaz> dendrobates: ok - I'll write up a blog post about this.
[17:04] <dendrobates> thx.
[17:05] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz to write a blog post about landscape in intrepid.
[17:05] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to write a blog post about landscape in intrepid.
=== tuxlinux_ is now known as tuxlinux
[17:05] <mathiaz> anything else ?
[17:06]  * nijaba thinks that's it...
[17:06] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[17:06] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[17:07] <mathiaz> Next week, same time, same place ?
[17:07] <nijaba> +1
[17:07] <sommer> o//
[17:07] <nijaba> err...  I won't be there.  I'll be at VMworld
[17:08] <dendrobates> +i
[17:08] <mathiaz> all right - see you all next week, same time, same place
[17:08] <soren> o/
[17:08] <mathiaz> keep up the good work
[17:08] <nijaba> warning: i is not initialized
[17:08] <kirkland> +e^(-pi*i)
[17:08] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
</pre>
