{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** (jgrimm) email jamepage -> checkin with old iscsitarget users on relevancy with new kernels
** (jgrimm) email to ubuntu-devel about powerpc arch future. 
* Development Release
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZestyZapus/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-z-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
** Active work that may need wider communication
* Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads (caribou)
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)
** https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
* Upcoming Call For Papers
** https://lwn.net/Calendar/Monthly/cfp/
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair

=== Minutes ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:03.

** ''ACTION:'' jgrimm: send jamespage email about iscsitarget
*** Not Done
** ''ACTION:'' (jgrimm) email to ubuntu-devel about powerpc arch future
*** Drop. Techboard leading discussion already. 
*** ''LINK:'' https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2016/11/08/%23ubuntu-meeting-2.txt 

==== Zesty Development ====
The discussion about "Zesty Development" started at 16:07.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZestyZapus/ReleaseSchedule 
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-z-server-core 
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZestyZapus/DraftReleaseSchedule 
** xnox: we should not create separate /boot partition for LVM+GRUB
*** ''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/bugs/1639801
*** ''LINK:'' http://blog.surgut.co.uk/2016/11/boot-less-lvm-rootfs-in-zesty.html
*** Followup with ppc64el; suggest #ubuntu-powerpc for those with knowledge

* '''Release Bugs''' (16:14)
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-z-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 

==== Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads (caribou)" started at 16:16.
  
** caribou: SRUs in play: rabbitmq, ifupdown, oslo.messaging, nvme driver/linux, libvirt, qemu
** others: bind9, dovecot, libvirt, postfix

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)" started at 16:23.

** More cloud-init integration tests. Improving qemu migration tests along with cpaelzer help
** ''LINK:'' https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/ 

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)" started at 16:24.

** No report

==== Upcoming Call For Papers ====
The discussion about "Upcoming Call For Papers" started at 16:25.

** ''LINK:'' https://lwn.net/Calendar/Monthly/cfp/ 
** 

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:26.

** Ubuntu Online Summit this week.  
** ''LINK:'' http://summit.ubuntu.com/
** FYI! nacc and rbasak present git based merge workflow 
** ''LINK:'' http://summit.ubuntu.com/uos-1611/meeting/22710/git-based-merge-workflow/ 

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:29.

** smoser: Cloud-init SRU progress
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/systemd/+bug/1636912 
** ''LINK:'' http://pad.ubuntu.com/tMdgYGEvgL <-- has more info

==== Announce next meeting date, time and chair ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date, time and chair" started at 16:35.

** Next up will probably be cpaelzer (as beisner and thedac have standing conflict)

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, November 22 at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>

 16:02 <jgrimm> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:02 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Nov 15 16:02:56 2016 UTC.  The chair is jgrimm. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:02 <meetingology> 

 16:02 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:03 <jgrimm> no worries, light turnout today it looks like

 16:03 <jgrimm> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:03 <jgrimm> (jgrimm) email jamepage -> checkin with old iscsitarget users on relevancy with new kernels

 16:04 <jgrimm> not done. :/   will get that sent out today so this action can finally go away

 16:04 <jgrimm> (jgrimm) email to ubuntu-devel about powerpc arch future.

 16:04 <jgrimm> i held off on doing this ^^  as the tech board has picked this up

 16:05 <smoser> o/

 16:05 <jgrimm> and is in the process of talking to powerpc interested parties to see whether they'll pick up and own burden of the work (as debian is dropping the arch)

 16:06 <jgrimm> so i'm going to treat that one as done, except to watch what happens at the TB

 16:06 <jgrimm> #link https://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2016/11/08/%23ubuntu-meeting-2.txt

 16:07 <jgrimm> if interested ^^

 16:07 <jgrimm> #topic Zesty Development

 16:07 <jgrimm> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZestyZapus/ReleaseSchedule

 16:08 <jgrimm> thank you for everyone that updated the blueprint and snagged workitems already

 16:08 <jgrimm> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-z-server-core

 16:08 <jgrimm> is there anything anyone wants to discuss with zesty?

 16:08 <rharper> jgrimm: that Zesty link doesn't get to a schedule for me

 16:08 <jgrimm> oh

 16:09 <powersj> don't think the page has been created yet

 16:09 <rharper> yeah, odd

 16:09 <powersj> most of the zesty pages were not up when I updated links

 16:09 <rharper> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZestyZapus/DraftReleaseSchedule

 16:09 <jgrimm> yeah, i assumed it would be updated by now

 16:09 <jgrimm> thanks rharper

 16:09 <jgrimm> anyway, back to discussion, anything?

 16:10 <rharper> nothing for me

 16:10 <jgrimm> a good number of merges being worked, happy to see that

 16:10 <jgrimm> and i know cpaelzer has worked out plans around libvirt & qemu merges

 16:11 <rharper> jgrimm: oh, the /boot work is being done by foundations (xnox has the task)  ; in particular, /boot isn't needed for lvm installs

 16:11 <jgrimm> rharper, cool, we can just track it then

 16:11 <rharper> bug 1639801

 16:11 <ubottu> bug 1639801 in partman-auto-lvm (Ubuntu) "we should not create separate /boot partition for LVM+GRUB" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1639801

 16:11 <rharper> yeah

 16:11 <jgrimm> thanks!!

 16:12 <xnox> rharper, done, celebrated on http://blog.surgut.co.uk/2016/11/boot-less-lvm-rootfs-in-zesty.html

 16:12 <xnox> please +1 on google plus too

 16:12 <rharper> xnox: \o/

 16:12 <jgrimm> xnox, nice!! \o/

 16:12 <xnox> rharper, info if ppc64el can boot off LVM is needed though. I am suspecting that it might be possible to enable ppc64el as well.

 16:12 <xnox> i doubt that arm* with u-boot can do it, generically on all boards.

 16:12 <rharper> i think if they can multipath, they should be able to lvm

 16:13 <jgrimm> xnox, maybe engage folks  that hang out on #ubuntu-powerpc?

 16:13 <rharper> we can certainly poke IBM for petiteboot changes if needed (it's linux anyhow)

 16:13 <xnox> well, multipath is "pick any, and use readonly" they look the same.

 16:13 <xnox> jgrimm, oooh, that's a thought.

 16:13 <smoser> xnox, well, ppc64el boots via either grub2 or petitboot

 16:13 <jgrimm> ibmers hanging out there that should know

 16:13 <smoser> grub2 probably does work, id' be surprised if it had arch specific errors.

 16:13 <smoser> petitboot i dont know.

 16:14 <jgrimm> anything else?

 16:14 <jgrimm> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:14 <jgrimm> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-z-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:15 <jgrimm> a couple new ones on that list that i haven't read yet

 16:15 <cpaelzer> late o/ (needed all screens for a huge three way diff - sorry)

 16:15 <cpaelzer> thanks jgrimm for covering me

 16:16 <jgrimm> looks like they have owners, so i'll leave them alone

 16:16 <jgrimm> no worres cpaelzer

 16:16 <jgrimm> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads (caribou)

 16:17 <jgrimm> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads (caribou)

 16:17 <caribou> Active SRU list :

 16:17 <caribou> LP: #1447715 - dhclient -6: Can't bind to dhcp address: Cannot assign requested address

 16:17 <caribou> - Series to SRU : xenial

 16:17 <caribou> LP: #1515278 - [SRU] rabbit queues should expire when unused

 16:17 <caribou> - Series to SRU : trusty

 16:17 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1447715 in ifupdown (Ubuntu Xenial) "dhclient -6: Can't bind to dhcp address: Cannot assign requested address" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1447715

 16:17 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1515278 in oslo.messaging (Ubuntu Trusty) "[SRU] rabbit queues should expire when unused" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1515278

 16:17 <caribou> LP: #1640275 - move nvme driver to linux-image

 16:17 <caribou> - Series to SRU : trusty

 16:17 <caribou> LP: #1640382 - Segfault event notifier because of race condition

 16:17 <caribou> - Series to SRU : trusty

 16:17 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1640275 in linux (Ubuntu Trusty) "move nvme driver to linux-image" [Undecided,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1640275

 16:17 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1640382 in qemu (Ubuntu Trusty) "Segfault event notifier because of race condition" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1640382

 16:17 <caribou> LP: #1640676 - libvirt 1.2.12 live-migration corrupts some instances

 16:17 <caribou> - Series to SRU : trusty

 16:17 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1640676 in libvirt (Ubuntu Trusty) "libvirt 1.2.12 live-migration corrupts some instances" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1640676

 16:17 <caribou> these are the current SRU we have ongoing

 16:17 <jgrimm> thanks caribou.  i'll give a bit for folks to digest and/or ask questions

 16:17 <caribou> anything from the server team we should be aware of ?

 16:18 <cpaelzer> caribou: does that mean you or the STS Team in general are looking into fixing 1640676?

 16:18 <caribou> cpaelzer: I would say yes, but let me confirm

 16:19 <jgrimm> nacc, rbasak, cpaelzer: any SRUs in process that STS should be aware of?

 16:20 <nacc> i will have one for bind9 i think

 16:20 <cpaelzer> bug 1633220 in proposed waiting for the reporter to check

 16:20 <ubottu> bug 1633220 in dovecot (Ubuntu Yakkety) "Dovecot panics when sieve filter outputs much data" [High,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1633220

 16:20 <nacc> LP: #1536181

 16:20 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1536181 in bind9 (Ubuntu Yakkety) "bind9-resolvconf service doesn't work" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1536181

 16:20 <nacc> I just imported it last night to use the drive-by process

 16:20 <cpaelzer> bug 1640805 waiting for spnsoring into Trusty

 16:20 <ubottu> bug 1640805 in sssd (Ubuntu) "SSSD authentication fails after upgrade to 1.11.8-0ubuntu0.2" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1640805

 16:21 <caribou> cpaelzer: I'll come back to you on LP: #1640676

 16:21 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1640676 in libvirt (Ubuntu Trusty) "libvirt 1.2.12 live-migration corrupts some instances" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1640676

 16:21 <jgrimm> I need to get back to this one, fixed in debian, so will see if it can be SRU'd: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/postfix/+bug/1595096

 16:21 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1595096 in postfix (Ubuntu Xenial) "cannot create multi postfix instance by postmulti command" [Undecided,New]

 16:21 <cpaelzer> caribou: I might be EOD in a bit but happy to read whatever you find on it tomorrow morning in my log then - thank you

 16:21 <jgrimm> anyone else?

 16:22 <caribou> cpaelzer: sure, no worry

 16:22 <jgrimm> moving along, thanks folks

 16:23 <jgrimm> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)

 16:23 <powersj> Continued work on cloud-init integration, have actual tests running on our jenkins. Will add more tests for more modules this week.  Otherwise a bit of work with cpaelzer on qemu/libvirt live migration and "hardening" of jenkins jobs some are a little fragile

 16:23 <cpaelzer> and work on the s390x node

 16:23 <jgrimm> #link https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/

 16:23 <powersj> ah yes cpaelzer thank you!

 16:24 <powersj> although tests don't seem happy there, so we will talk thursday

 16:24 <jgrimm> questions for powersj?

 16:24 <jgrimm> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)

 16:25 <jgrimm> moving on

 16:25 <jgrimm> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers

 16:25 <jgrimm> #link https://lwn.net/Calendar/Monthly/cfp/

 16:26 <jgrimm> nothing

 16:26 <jgrimm> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:27 <jgrimm> #link http://summit.ubuntu.com/

 16:27 <jgrimm> ^^ going on now

 16:27 <jgrimm> of possible interest to folks is the git-based workflow session by nacc & rbasak

 16:28 <jgrimm> #link http://summit.ubuntu.com/uos-1611/meeting/22710/git-based-merge-workflow/

 16:28 <powersj> that is in 90mins?

 16:28 <nacc> yeah

 16:28 <powersj> sweet

 16:28 <jgrimm> Yes, 1800 UTC

 16:29 <rharper> date -d "18:00 UTC"

 16:29 <jgrimm> #topic Open Discussion

 16:29 <jgrimm> cloud-init SRU status?

 16:29 <jgrimm> smoser, ^^

 16:30 <smoser> jgrimm, i pinged slangasek .. hoping to talk to him today

 16:30 <jgrimm> pinged meaning its ready to go? or needing to discuss yet?

 16:30 <smoser> rharper and i think that it shoudl be fine, but wanted to see what issues slangasek saw, or what he wnated me to do.

 16:31 <rharper> it's ready

 16:31 <jgrimm> ok good, that one's hot.

 16:31 <jgrimm> other open discussion?

 16:31 <smoser> i'm fairly sure we do not regress anything. the only thing would be a system with cloud-init and systemd-networkd which probably didnt work that well already.

 16:32 <rharper> powersj: I propose we look at figuring out some systemcd unit ordering tests; smoser and I have a few scenarios that we can describe

 16:32 <jgrimm> smoser, but that sounds like a follow-up bug then?

 16:32 <rharper> jgrimm: the bug is already open

 16:32 <jgrimm> ok, good.

 16:32 <rharper> there is an upstream issue with networkd and dbus

 16:32 <jgrimm> ack, i know that one

 16:32 <rharper> we might see if pitti wants to branch that separate issue off from cloud-init related

 16:32 <powersj> rharper: will you send me bug # so I can get context

 16:33 <rharper> it turns out that networkd wasn't fully baked w.r.t running super early (ie before dbus.service )

 16:33 <rharper> powersj: yes, on sec

 16:33 <rharper> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/systemd/+bug/1636912

 16:33 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1636912 in systemd (Ubuntu Xenial) "systemd-networkd runs too late for cloud-init.service (net)" [High,Triaged]

 16:33 <smoser> http://pad.ubuntu.com/tMdgYGEvgL <-- has more ifno

 16:33 <powersj> thank you

 16:33 <rharper> there's quite a bit in there

 16:33 <rharper> but the last update from pitti I think captures what remains

 16:34 <jgrimm> thanks folks

 16:34 <jgrimm> any other discussion

 16:35 <jgrimm> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 16:36 <jgrimm> same time/channel.  as beisner has a standing conflict will move on to next

 16:36 <jgrimm> will be thedac or possibly cpaelzer

 16:37 <jgrimm> as its possible thedac has the same conflict as beisner

 16:37 <beisner> thanks jgrimm

 16:37 <jgrimm> np sir

 16:37 <jgrimm> #endmeeting

</pre>
