{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* topic Xenial Development
* topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
* topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) 
* topic Upcoming Call For Papers
* topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
* topic Open Discussion
* topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair

=== Minutes ===
=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 23 Feb at 16:05 &mdash; 16:28 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-02-23-16.05.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:05.

* No progress on "smoser fix bug 1543025" but no need to carry it as an action point

==== Xenial Development ====
The discussion about "Xenial Development" started at 16:07.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule 
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:15)
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 
** ''ACTION:'' rbasak (et al) catch up on traige

** Feature freeze was last thursday.  Get your FFE's filed. 
** cloud-init needs an FFE

==== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)" started at 16:19.

** Nothing to report.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)" started at 16:20.

** Problem with amd64 and i386 Xenial server ISO images since the 19th due to a conflict installing libpam-systemd  229-1ubuntu2 and systemd 229-1ubuntu4. Should be fixed now for next ISO build. 

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)" started at 16:21.

** Nothing to report. 

==== Upcoming Call For Papers ====
The discussion about "Upcoming Call For Papers" started at 16:22.

** ''LINK:'' http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.linux.kernel.mm/144414 

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:25.

** Nothing to report. 

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:25.

** No discussion. 

==== Announce next meeting date, time and chair ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date, time and chair" started at 16:26.

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* jgrimm (47)
* cpaelzer (8)
* rharper (6)
* smoser (5)
* meetingology (4)
* ubottu (2)
* matsubara (2)
* caribou (1)
* smb (1)

===== Meeting Actions =====

* rbasak (et al) catch up on traige
* smoser FFE for cloud-init

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, March 1st  at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
16:05] <jgrimm> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:05] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Feb 23 16:05:10 2016 UTC.  The chair is jgrimm. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:05] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:05] <jgrimm> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:05] <rharper> jgrimm: I did let him know last week
[16:06] <jgrimm> rharper, indeed, i talked to him too.  but he's coming off of a vacation so easy to forget. :)
[16:06] <jgrimm> smoser fix bug 1543025
[16:06] <ubottu> bug 1543025 in cloud-init (Ubuntu Xenial) "Wrong UTC zoneinfo in cloud-images" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1543025
[16:06] <jgrimm> ^^  only action point from last week
[16:07] <smoser> yeah. fun. i need to fix.
[16:07] <jgrimm> smoser, anything to report on this one?
[16:07] <smoser> no.
[16:07] <jgrimm> no worries. been a busy busy busy last 2 weeks
[16:07] <jgrimm> #topic Xenial Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Xenial Development
[16:07] <jgrimm> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule
[16:08] <cpaelzer> FYI - we are successfully at DPDK 2.2.0-0ubuntu1 in xenial now - time to push the MIR again now
[16:08] <jgrimm> And FeatureFreeze hit last week.. thanks for all the teamwork and digging in that everyone did
[16:09] <jgrimm> Anyone want to talk about any FFE or other items related to FeatureFreeze?
[16:09] <cpaelzer> jgrimm: rbasak is not here but we might define an action for next weeks agenda to parse our open bugs if anything is super-critical before Xenial GA
[16:09] <jgrimm> cpaelzer, agreed
[16:10] <rharper> jgrimm: did we file/update FFE for docker ?
[16:10] <jgrimm> rharper, i don't think we need one
[16:10] <rharper> oh
[16:10] <rharper> hrm, ok
[16:10] <jgrimm> as have standing MRE
[16:10] <rharper> interesting
[16:10] <jgrimm> though it was agreed we need to update it
[16:11] <rharper> ok
[16:11] <cpaelzer> jgrimm: updated about the way it is now handled?
[16:12] <jgrimm> cpaelzer, there was an agreement in 14.04 timeframe for an MRE for docker.io. but that agreement said the situation should be reexamined in the 16.04 timeframe
[16:12] <cpaelzer> ok, thanks
[16:12] <jgrimm> np
[16:13] <jgrimm> smoser, do you have FFEs to file yet?  i saw squid, lxd, etc..
[16:13] <smoser> i have to file cloud-init still :-(
[16:13] <jgrimm> ok, that's what i was thinking of too
[16:13] <smoser> squid derailed me. https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/squid3/+bug/1547640
[16:13] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1547640 in squid3 (Ubuntu Xenial) "proxy tries ipv6 and gets 503 when no ipv6 routes" [High,In progress]
[16:14] <jgrimm> totally understand.  I'm very impressed andreas figured out what triggered it
[16:14] <smoser> i uploaded those to wily and trusty proposed. *big* thanks to Paul Gear who pointed out the fix.
[16:14] <jgrimm> \o/
[16:15] <jgrimm> #subtopic Release Bugs
[16:15] <jgrimm> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:16] <jgrimm> as cpaelzer noted.. we need to move to bug smashing mode next
[16:16] <cpaelzer> yeah, the list itself has nothing "new" other to the squid which smoser worked on
[16:17] <cpaelzer> ... in the server list
[16:17] <cpaelzer> there should be some more dpdk issues that I filed, I need to ask rbasak how I need to tag them when triaging
[16:18] <jgrimm> indeed.  and we've put off triaging over the last couple weeks, so that needs to happen by next week imo
[16:18] <jgrimm> #action rbasak (et al) catch up on traige
[16:18] <meetingology> ACTION: rbasak (et al) catch up on traige
[16:18] <jgrimm> since he is out today. :)
[16:18] <jgrimm> moving on..
[16:19] <jgrimm> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:19] <caribou> I'm good, sprinting this week
[16:19] <jgrimm> nice
[16:20] <jgrimm> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
[16:20] <matsubara> amd64 and i386 Xenial server ISO images were last published on the 19th due to a conflict installing libpam-systemd  229-1ubuntu2 and systemd 229-1ubuntu4. ISO image is built from an rsync'ed mirror archive which had some old version which caused the failure. cjwatson explained the issue in #ubuntu-devel and ISO publication should be back to normal in the next ISO build.
[16:20] <matsubara> that's all from me jgrimm
[16:20] <jgrimm> matsubara, thanks!
[16:20] <jgrimm> any questions from others?
[16:21] <jgrimm> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
[16:21] <smb> Cannot think of anything to report.
[16:21] <jgrimm> smb, ok thanks
[16:22] <jgrimm> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Upcoming Call For Papers
[16:23] <jgrimm> #link http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.linux.kernel.mm/144414
[16:24] <jgrimm> ^^ annual Linux Storage, Filesystem and Memory Management Summit
[16:24] <jgrimm> that's all i see for a while on the LWN calendar at least
[16:25] <jgrimm> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:25] <jgrimm> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:25] <cpaelzer> I'm in the process of consuming the remaining beer from last server team event this week :-P
[16:25] <jgrimm> :)
[16:26] <jgrimm> anyone?
[16:26] <jgrimm> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
[16:27] <jgrimm> 2016-03-01 at 1600 UTC.. nacc remains chair
[16:28] <jgrimm> that's all folks. thanks
[16:28] <jgrimm> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[16:28] <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Feb 23 16:28:14 2016 UTC.
[16:28] <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-02-23-16.05.moin.txt

</pre>
