{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu Open Week - The Ubuntu Bug Sqad - Tue, Nov 28, 2006 ===
see also <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekedgy/BugsquadTeam2|Thursday Session]]</nowiki>.
<pre>
09:05	sfllaw	Good afternoon.
09:06	sfllaw	Welcome to my talk about the Ubuntu BugSquad.
09:06	sfllaw	For the purposes of clarity, please limit discussions to #ubuntu-classroom-chat.  If you want to ask a question, just write "sfllaw: I have a question about..." in #ubuntu-classroom-chat and I'll answer it at the approriate juncture.
09:06	sfllaw	Thanks!
09:06	sfllaw	---------------------------------------
09:06	sfllaw	Ubuntu is one of the most popular GNU/Linux distributions out there.  And it also has one of the smallest development teams for its size.
09:06	sfllaw	The secret to this is huge community involvement.  We have hundreds of people who help with packaging, translations, technical writing, and bug management.
09:07	sfllaw	And boy do we have a lot of bugs.  About 300 to 400 new bug reports get filed every day from users, from stable releases like Dapper to bleeding edge stuff from Feisty.
09:07	sfllaw	The first people to look at these reports are the BugSquad.  We do a very important task, drinking from this firehose.  And that's to make sure that the reports that remain in the bug tracking system are useful.
09:07	sfllaw	You can find our bug tracking system at https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bugs
09:07	sfllaw	Right now, it holds over 20000 open bug reports, spread across the entire distribution.  That includes main, restricted, universe, and multiverse.
09:07	sfllaw	That's a lot of bugs.  The source of these reports can be found here: http://tinyurl.com/yf4hq9
09:07	sfllaw	These are untriaged reports: ones which have never had a human eye look at them.  It's likely that they are missing information, duplicate another report, are filed against the wrong package, etc.  Or, if you're lucky, they're perfect.
09:07	sfllaw	:)
09:08	sfllaw	To triage a bug report, you need to do a few things.
09:08	sfllaw	First you have to determine if it's actually a bug.  The easiest ones have crash reports in them.  Let's go find one.
09:08	sfllaw	To start, we go to http://launchpad.net  Click on "The Ubuntu distribution"
09:08	sfllaw	In the search box, let's look for a popular package.  Bash is a good one to try, so let's ask for that.
09:09	sfllaw	Click on 'Source Package "bash" in Ubuntu' to be taken to its package page.
09:09	sfllaw	This shows you Bash within the context of the Ubuntu distribution.  Bash also has another page, a product page, which we won't look at right now.
09:09	sfllaw	In the left sidebar, you should see a "Bugs" link.  Click on that and you'll be taken to the bug tracker.  This will list all the bugs inside bash right now.
09:09	sfllaw	There are quite a few untriaged bugs, but they are intermixed with triaged ones.  Let's narrow down our search to only show untriaged ones.  Start by clicking the "Advanced search" link.
09:09	sfllaw	You want to make sure that:
09:09	sfllaw	  Status = Unconfirmed only
09:09	sfllaw	  Importance = Undecided only
09:09	sfllaw	  Assignee = Nobody
09:10	sfllaw	Click the "Search" button.
09:10	sfllaw	You should end up at http://tinyurl.com/yawhpj which gives you a nice list of bugs to look at.
09:10	sfllaw	Bug 57413 looks like a promising crash.  Click on its description and it will open up.  You can also get to this bug by going to http://launchpad.net/bugs/57413
09:10	sfllaw	You see that the bug reporter has included his crash dump, which was caught by apport, our automated crash profiler.  But Longer hasn't really given us enough information to solve the problem.
09:11	sfllaw	Here's the minimum information for a complete bug report:
09:11	sfllaw	  1. Version of the software.  Is it in Dapper, Edgy, Feisty?  What about a specific version number?
09:11	sfllaw	  2. Steps to reproduce the bug.
09:11	sfllaw	  3. What was expected to happen.
09:11	sfllaw	  4. What actually happened.
09:11	sfllaw	Since this bug is incomplete, we'll want to ask for more information.  You do that by taking responsibility for the bug and having a conversation with the reporter.
09:11	sfllaw	Implicitly, we know the answers to 3 and 4, because Bash crashed unexpectedly.
09:12	sfllaw	And the crash report has the version of bash buried inside (3.1-5ubuntu1).
09:12	sfllaw	Still, we need to ask for reproduction steps.
09:12	sfllaw	If you're logged in, you can click on the "bash (Ubuntu)" task table up near the top.  This allows you to modify the state of the bug.
09:12	sfllaw	There are some fields there:
09:12	sfllaw	  Package: this is the source package of the bug.  Bash is correct for this one.
09:12	sfllaw	  Status: change this to Needs Info.  This means other people won't try to triage this bug.
09:12	sfllaw	  Assigned to: Me.  You're claiming responsibility for having a conversation with the reporter.
09:12	sfllaw	  Comment on this change: Here we should ask the reporter for more information.
09:12	sfllaw	  E-mail me about changes to this bug report: Yes.  This will subscribe you to any new comments about this report.
09:13	sfllaw	shawarma points out that apport, which generated this crash dump, wasn't in Dapper.
09:13	sfllaw	So it must be an Edgy bug.
09:13	sfllaw	But apport also tells you the difference between an Edgy bug and a Feisty bug.
09:14	sfllaw	at2000 asks: who should modify these fields?
09:14	pitti	(in the DistroRelease: field)
09:14	sfllaw	You, as the triager, get to set these fields.
09:15	at2000	so someone officially in the BugSqad team?
09:15	sfllaw	Yes.  In fact, you get to set them before you join BugSquad.
09:15	sfllaw	Although it's good form to be know how to change them properly before you start doing so.  :)
09:16	sfllaw	But that's why you're here!
09:16	sfllaw	So...
09:16	sfllaw	You've set the proper meta-data on the bug and have taken responsibility.
09:16	sfllaw	In the comment, we would ask for the version of Bash:
09:16	sfllaw	  "Hi Longer.  Could you please describe the precise steps you performed to crash bash?  Thanks."
09:16	sfllaw	Click "Save Changes" and you're done.
09:16	sfllaw	When you get an e-mail from Longer responding to your question with the appropriate steps, the bug can be considered complete.  You've got information on how to reproduce it and there's even a handy log file for a developer to look at.
09:17	sfllaw	We can now pass this on to the development team to fix.
09:17	sfllaw	Click "bash (Ubuntu)" again and change:
09:17	sfllaw	  Status = Confirmed
09:17	sfllaw	  Assigned to = Nobody
09:17	sfllaw	Click "Save Changes".
09:18	sfllaw	rulus asks: where ends the task of the Bug Squad team? here?
09:18	sfllaw	The BugSquad team actually works on all parts of bugs.
09:18	sfllaw	However, the job of a triager ends here.
09:18	sfllaw	Basically, it's like the first response you get at a hospital.
09:19	sfllaw	You want to manage the huge flow of incoming bugs so that people fixing them aren't overwhelmed.
09:20	sfllaw	La_PaRCa asks: is it part of the triager work to mark duplicates?
09:20	sfllaw	Yes, it is.
09:20	sfllaw	I'm going to get to that later.
09:20	sfllaw	Let's say you encounter a bug report that isn't a bug at all.
09:21	sfllaw	Perhaps it is a user asking for help on installing software.  Like a request to be taught how to use synaptic.
09:21	sfllaw	Or perhaps it is a user asking for a new feature to be implemented.
09:22	sfllaw	You can distinguish between features and bugs this way.
09:22	sfllaw	A feature request is a wish for new functionality that the program isn't expected to do.
09:23	sfllaw	Whereas a bug is where the program fails in some way.  It obviously should be doing something more correct.
09:23	sfllaw	You can respond to these by:
09:23	sfllaw	Setting Status = Rejected
09:23	sfllaw	And writing them a nice note in the comment explaining why it was not a valid bug.
09:24	sfllaw	You can get templates of these nice notes at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/Responses
09:24	sfllaw	But you are welcome to put in your own personal touches.  Just remember to be friendly and polite, not terse.
09:24	sfllaw	Smiffeh asks: should you build up some serious experience with triaging before you apply to join the bugsquad?
09:25	sfllaw	No, you don't have to.  You can start in BugSquad right now.
09:25	sfllaw	Acceptance is automatic and we'd love to teach you the ropes.
09:25	sfllaw	Bourlotieris asks: I have a question about how do you join the Bugsquad team
09:26	sfllaw	You can join by:
09:26	sfllaw	- Joining the #ubuntu-bugs channel
09:26	sfllaw	- Getting a Launchpad account
09:26	sfllaw	- Applying to enter at https://launchpad.net/people/bugsquad
09:27	sfllaw	Grishkin asks: Is there a special ubuntu team for making new bugs?
09:27	sfllaw	In order to report a bug, you don't need anything but a Launchpad account.
09:27	sfllaw	See https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs for how to file a bug report
09:28	sfllaw	davmor2 asks: do you need any technical or programing skills to join the bug squad
09:28	sfllaw	It helps, but you don't have to.
09:29	sfllaw	Even if you understand nothing about computers, there are some bugs that you can help out with.
09:29	sfllaw	They may be more difficult to find, but we are working on making it simpler.
09:29	sfllaw	For instance, you can verify that "yes, there is a typo in this documentation".
09:29	sfllaw	And you can try to reproduce bugs.
09:29	sfllaw	And gather debugging information that users haven't yet provided.
09:30	sfllaw	Another way to help out if you don't have a lot of technical knowledge, but enough to understand how a program _should_ work, is to look for duplicates.
09:30	davmor2	sfllaw: that was where I was assuming you may need some skills knowing what to ask for
09:31	sfllaw	In order to gather debugging information, you will want to read the http://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebugginProcedures page.
09:31	sfllaw	It describes various procedures for various packages.
09:31	sfllaw	We add documentation to that all the time.
09:31	sfllaw	And we'd love it if other people helped add to it as well.
09:31	rulus	it's https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingProcedures
09:32	sfllaw	Curse my poor speeling.
09:32	sfllaw	Moving on...
09:32	sfllaw	A large class of reports are duplicates.  These are filed by people who did not look or could not find a bug report identical to their problem.  So they filed a new one.  But looking through the bug tracking system, we can spot quite a few if we take some time.
09:32	sfllaw	For instance, let's look at the Totem's list of bugs: https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/totem/+bugs
09:32	sfllaw	There's a bug about screen blanking while watching movies, http://launchpad.net/bugs/66257
09:32	sfllaw	It has one bug marked as duplicate.  You can find a list of duplicates in the left sidebar.  That one is http://launchpad.net/bugs/73029
09:33	sfllaw	If someone filed a new bug that was exactly the same as this one, you could click on the "Mark as Duplicate" link in the left sidebar, and enter "66257" as the bug number.
09:33	sfllaw	You can find new bugs by looking at the big list of untriaged bugs.
09:33	sfllaw	Or you can join #ubuntu-bugs and listen as Ubugtu rattles off new bugs every few minutes.
09:33	sfllaw	It says things like this:
09:34	sfllaw	New bug: #73643 in gaim (main) "Gaim crashes while getting roomlist" [Undecided,Unconfirmed]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/73643
09:34	sfllaw	This tells you that a new bug has been filed for the gaim source package.
09:34	sfllaw	Gaim lives in main.
09:34	sfllaw	And provides a description of what's wrong.
09:34	sfllaw	Plus a handy URL to the bug.
09:35	sfllaw	samge1 asks: should trivial bugs (like a typo) be submitted as a  bug or is it better fix them right away somehow (like a new suggestion for a translation)?
09:35	sfllaw	It is best to file a bug report and point to a fix.
09:36	sfllaw	This fix could be a new translation in Rosetta, or a patch attached to the bug report.
09:36	sfllaw	This way, your fix doesn't get lost if it is a priority.
09:36	sfllaw	If you are a developer, you are encouraged to use bugs to manage your fixes, even if you can uploda packages into Ubuntu.
09:36	sfllaw	That way, you don't forget what's on your TODO list.
09:38	sfllaw	finalbeta asks: What bugs should we report, I've reported hardware bugs (none got fixed), small software bugs (none get fixed), I've reported +-30 bugs in the last few months and only one crasher got fixed. Yet it will take 6 months before the fix will show up (in the next release). What bugs are the ubuntu people capable of handling?, should we just go upstream whenever possible? In short I mean, I should not bother reporting fglrx / a
09:38	sfllaw	It is worth reporting bugs both to Ubuntu and to upstream.
09:38	sfllaw	In fact, our bug tracking system has the capability to track upstream bugs.
09:39	sfllaw	Ubuntu developers don't have a lot of resources, so we prefer to let upstream authors fix bugs unless they are critical.
09:39	sfllaw	But we use the bug tracking system to monitor upstream bugs.  If an upstream has fixed something major, we will often backport that fix.
09:40	sfllaw	The goal of a triager is to reduce the clutter in the bug tracking system.
09:40	sfllaw	You shouldn't be closing old bugs, as they might still be useful and relevant.
09:40	sfllaw	But new bugs coming in should be examined for duplicates.
09:41	sfllaw	This reduces the clutter in the bug tracking system.  You want to choose the definitive bug with the most complete information, and make all the other duplicates refer to it.  If information is scattered around, you can edit the description of the definitive bug.
09:41	sfllaw	The description of a bug is mutable, so that you can summarize the discussion held in the comments.
09:41	sfllaw	This is really useful because difficult bugs may have pages and pages of comments.
09:42	sfllaw	Any bug can have its description edited, and a good summary saves people a lot of time sifting through the conversation.
09:42	sfllaw	To change the description, click the "Edit Description/Tags" link in the sidebar.  Try to clean up the description with a good summary of: Version, Reproduction steps, Expected result, Actual result, and a Diagnosis of the problem.
09:42	sfllaw	You should also make sure the Summary is something useful, so people browsing for duplicates can find a relevant bug easily.
09:42	sfllaw	Bad descriptions are: "Program crashes."
09:42	sfllaw	Good descriptions are: "Program crashes with 'Error 12: Can't find my brain on line 382.'"
09:42	sfllaw	A good description is easily searchable using keywords people would think of.
09:43	sfllaw	And error messages are good because they are often unique to the problem.
09:43	sfllaw	Click "Change" after updating the text.
09:43	sfllaw	a7p asks: what about #27810 - should this one be closed? Who does it if it should be done?
09:44	sfllaw	This is a good example of how Ubuntu bugs can be tied to upstream bugs.
09:44	sfllaw	If you look at the task table, you'll see three different lines.
09:45	sfllaw	libaio (Ubuntu)
09:45	sfllaw	upstart (Ubuntu)
09:45	sfllaw	libaio (Debian)
09:45	sfllaw	So the first two have to do with Ubuntu packages.
09:45	sfllaw	And the third has to do with Debian ones.
09:45	sfllaw	If I were going through this bug doing triage right now, I'd do the following things.
09:45	sfllaw	- Realize that it has nothing to do with upstart, and reject it.
09:46	sfllaw	  To do this, I click on the upstart (Ubuntu) task and set its status to Rejected.
09:46	sfllaw	  Like so.
09:47	sfllaw	- Notice that Fabio claims that this isn't a problem in Ubuntu because the brokenness was never imported.
09:47	sfllaw	- Test to make sure I cannot reproduce the problem.
09:47	sfllaw	  If everything works properly, I set libaio (Ubuntu)'s status to Rejected.
09:48	sfllaw	In order to add upstream tasks, you will note two links under the task table:
09:48	sfllaw	"Also affects: +Upstream... +Distribution..."
09:48	sfllaw	If a bug affects another distribution like Fedora, Guadalinux, or Debian, with its own packages, use the +Distribution link.
09:49	sfllaw	If a bug is caused by an upstream program's misbehaviour and is not a packaging bug, use the +Upstream link.
09:50	sfllaw	You will have to file the bug in the other bug tracker, but then you can paste that bug's URL in to the "Request fix in a..." page, which will link the bugs together.
09:50	sfllaw	Every day, the status of this bug will be updated with the upstream's status.
09:50	sfllaw	Plus, you can search for bugs which have been fixed by upstream.
09:50	sfllaw	davmor2 asks:  What is your description of security?  would it be the root password problem a while ago
09:51	sfllaw	A security bug is one that allows local or remote users to access data or privileges that they shouldn't normally be able to.
09:51	sfllaw	This definition is a bit flexible and up the discretion of the security team.
09:51	pitti	breezy's user password exposure definitively falls into this category
09:51	sfllaw	If you file a security bug, only the people subscribed to it will be able to see it.
09:52	sfllaw	rulus asks: how do you know it also affexts upstream?
09:52	pitti	sfllaw's definition is pretty good; I'd extend it to 'or allows a local/remote user to bring down a service'
09:52	keescook	the wiki page SecurityUpdateProcedures has some examples of what can qualify, too.
09:53	sfllaw	It's easy to tell whether a bug is caused by us.
09:54	sfllaw	if a package doesn't install, the description is incorrect, or something doesn't show up in a menu, then it's probably Ubuntu's fault.
09:54	sfllaw	If a program crashes or misbehaves, it's probably an upstream problem.  Especially if Google tells you that people using other distributions have the same problem.
09:55	sfllaw	It is usually a good idea to Google for your bug to see if:
09:55	sfllaw	- You can find other people with your problem.  Often, these things will show up on newsgroups or forums (like the Ubuntu Forums)
09:55	sfllaw	- You can find a bug in our bug tracking system already.
09:56	sfllaw	- You can find a bug in someone else's bug tracking system (like Debian, Fedora, OpenSuSE, etc.)
09:56	sfllaw	davmor2 asks:  does this mean you need to be running bugzilla too in order to cross reference?
09:56	sfllaw	You don't have to sign up for other people's Bugzilla if you don't want to.
09:56	sfllaw	You can concentrate on whatever packages you like.
09:57	sfllaw	But if you want to pitch in for a few days to help with Firefox bugs, you should probably sign up for the Firefox Bugzilla, so you can report bugs to them.
09:57	sfllaw	It makes a lot of sense to concentrate on a set of packages.  You can quickly become a local expert in some software.
09:58	sfllaw	davmor2 asks:  I have reported a lot of bugs which have been marked as duplicates due to me not being able to find anything similar is there a way to better search for a bug?
09:58	davmor2	sfllaw: I meant more to cross reference an ubuntu bug with a redhat bug
09:59	sfllaw	To cross-reference with Red Hat, you should have a Red Hat bugzilla account to file bugs into their system.
09:59	sfllaw	If the bug already exists, linking them together is free.
09:59	sfllaw	But to be polite, you should comment in the Fedora bug with the URL to the Ubuntu one.
09:59	sfllaw	That way, our distributions can work together to fix things.
09:59	sfllaw	For your other question about duplicates...
09:59	rasman	I had a problem with a new ATI card, how would I report a bug like that?  How would it be addressed?
10:00	davmor2	makes sense more devs that way
10:00	sfllaw	I've found the best way is to use Google.
10:01	sfllaw	But to be sure, I often browse all open bugs for a particular package and look for potential descriptions to match.
10:01	sfllaw	If you spend lots of time on a package, you will remember things that are similar.
10:01	sfllaw	Sadly, search in Launchpad is not as good as it could be.
10:01	sfllaw	We're running short on time.
10:01	sfllaw	For more information, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HelpingWithBugs which describes how to help with bugs and how to join the BugSquad.
10:01	sfllaw	We hang out in the #ubuntu-bugs IRC channel on irc.freenode.net.
10:01	sfllaw	You can find help and encouragement (and hugs) there all the time.
10:01	sfllaw	Finally, I want to point out that we have an *UbuntuHugDay* scheduled for tomorrow.  If you want to start helping with bugs, that would be a great time to pitch in.
10:02	sfllaw	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuHugDay
10:02	sfllaw	Thanks everybody!
10:02	sfllaw	We're out of time so I'll field questions in #ubuntu-bugs.
</pre>
