{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Attendance ==

* heno
* dholbach
* mikepedersen
* krister
* halim61
* hittsjunk

== Agenda ==

<code>07:07	heno	I haven't made a real agenda, but we are focusing on Feisty bugs</code>

== Minutes ==

'''<nowiki>[[#Braille|Topic: Braille (discussion of bug 80892 https://launchpad.net/bugs/80892)]]</nowiki>'''

'''<nowiki>[[#FirefoxEtc|Topic: Firefox, at-poke and Accerciser]]</nowiki>'''
== Log ==

TZ UTC+6
<pre>
07:00	heno	Hello everyone
07:01	heno	I think we are still waiting for a few people
07:01	dholbach	Hello everybody
07:02	heno	Mike Pedersen (Orca team and Sun) emailed me saying he would join
07:03	dholbach	yeah, he mailed me too - I mailed the Karlsruhe Accessibility list too
07:03	heno	Anyone from the Karlsruhe or Rugen team here today?
=== heno really needs to learn some German now
07:04	dholbach	hehe :-)
07:05	heno	OK, perhaps we'll start with introductions
07:05	heno	I'm Henrik Omma, Ubuntu accessibility coordinator
07:05	dholbach	hi mikepedersen
07:06	mikepedersen	Hi, sorry to be late.
07:06	heno	mikepedersen: just doing introductions
07:07	heno	I haven't made a real agenda, but we are focusing on Feisty bugs
07:07	heno	see: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Accessibility/Testing/Bugs
07:08	dholbach	I'm Daniel Holbach, I mainly work on GNOME and with lots of teams of the Development Community, the Accessibility team among them.
07:08	mikepedersen	I'm the orca usability engineer at Sun
07:08	heno	I think it's a bit too early for TheMuso (in .au), but we can perhaps catch him a bit later
07:09	heno	He maintains a few of the packages in question
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(Braille)]]</nowiki><pre>
07:09	mikepedersen	Braille still has me filled with much sadness.
07:09	mikepedersen	It still doesn't talk to orca at all.
07:09	heno	are your issues listed on the wiki page above?
07:10	heno	we really should get one or two braille displays for our dev team
07:10	mikepedersen	they are listed in a couple of the bugs which I believe are listed.  Today's firefox is giving me trouble so I don't have the page up right now
07:11	heno	I can only test it with the braille monitor
07:11	halim61	Which version of brlltty are using?
07:11	mikepedersen	Does Luke have a display?
07:11	heno	yes
07:11	dholbach	halim61: 3.7.2
07:11	mikepedersen	3.7.2 is what is in feisty.
07:12	dholbach	heno: maybe the guys doing certification should have one.
07:12	heno	dholbach: or Scott, who can actually read braille
07:12	dholbach	Oh, I didn't know that.
07:12	krister	Hi folks, sorry i'm late
07:12	dholbach	hi krister
07:13	dholbach	halim61: is there a newer version you think we should have?
07:13	heno	mikepedersen: how can we try to track this further?
07:13	mikepedersen	Does Luke have a display?
07:13	heno	is it a brltty->orca problem?
07:13	heno	mikepedersen: yes he does
07:13	heno	not sure what model
07:14	dholbach	krister: we did introtudctions and heno pointed us to a list of most important bugs he compiled: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Accessibility/Testing/Bugs
07:14	krister	I have a braille voyager that's powered by usb, does that help?
07:14	mikepedersen	the same configureation worked fine on edgy I think it is a side effect of the current problem of USB displays trying to start twice aat boot.
07:14	heno	krister: yes, are you running feisty?
07:15	heno	ugh, the link to that bug is wrong
07:15	krister	Yes, and my display also started twice. I solved that by simply removing the brltty script, because it turned out there was another brltty-dist script that did the same.
07:16	dholbach	krister: which script was that?
07:16	mikepedersen	If I remove the brltty script in /etc/init.d brltty keeps trying to start over and over again.
07:17	mikepedersen	Henrik, this is the bug you closed a few weeks ago that really isn't fully fixed.
07:17	mikepedersen	sorry I don't have the number in front of me.
07:17	krister	In my system there was one brltty script and a brltty-dist script both in /etc/init.d i removed the one called brltty, since it was an old script and now my display starts only once or so i think.
07:18	heno	https://bugs.beta.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/brltty/+bug/83939
07:18	Ubugtu	Malone bug 83939 in brltty "brltty starts twice on boot" [Undecided,Unconfirmed]
07:18	heno	That's still open
07:18	heno	I'll change the status though
07:19	heno	ok, original bug 80892
07:19	Ubugtu	Malone bug 80892 in linux-source-2.6.20 "USB braille display no longer starts with brltty" [Medium,Fix released]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/80892
07:19	krister	I don't know, but if there are people here having braille displays, you could check if there are more scripts in /etc/init.d that are called something with "brltty".
07:20	dholbach	krister: that suggests that a newly installed brltty should work nicely (with the new configuration file), so i understand correctly?
07:21	mikepedersen	in init.d I only have the brltty script
07:21	krister	The new configuration file?
07:21	heno	That might actually be missing
07:22	heno	when updating I saw this error:
07:22	heno	cp: cannot stat '/etc/udev/rules.d/85-brltty.rules'
07:22	heno	mvo, mvo_ ^ :)
07:22	heno	update bug
07:22	dholbach	krister: you said there was a brltty.dist and brltty file - that situation happens, when dpkg wants to install a new version of a conffile, but you made local changes - I interpreted "removed the one called brltty, since it was an old script" as that situation
07:23	krister	Yup, i did and that solved the problem.
07:23	dholbach	ok, good.
07:23	krister	Should one perhaps rename brltty-dist to brltty?
07:24	dholbach	brltty-dist only exists, if you do local changes to that file (before the update) and then not let dpkg overwrite your old file with the new one
07:24	mikepedersen	Krister, are you able to get Orca to talk to brlapi?
07:25	hittsjunk	I had orca using brltty last week with no problems.
07:25	krister	I'm an idiot when it comes to programming and programming terms, in other words sorry, i didn't understand the question.:-)
07:25	mikepedersen	WHen you run orca do you get braille?
07:26	hittsjunk	yes
07:26	krister	Loud and clear. i have braille as well.
07:26	mikepedersen	are you using an USB display
07:26	hittsjunk	I use a serial display.
07:26	krister	Yes sir.
07:26	heno	mikepedersen: do you have an upgrade or a fresh feisty install in this case? (I think you said Herd 4)
07:27	mikepedersen	This laptop has been upgraded several times over the last month.  It is now current as of today.
07:27	mikepedersen	I'm currently downloading a new live cd though.
07:28	dholbach	It'd be interesting to know which Accessibility bugs you see as big showstoppers at the moment.
07:29	mikepedersen	Krister, an interesting test would be to put back the brltty script, let brltty try to start twice and see if orca still shows braille.  This would confirm what I'm seeing with orca.
07:29	heno	mikepedersen: can we follow this up later with Luke? Possibly by phone or skype?
07:29	mikepedersen	sure,
07:30	mikepedersen	send me a note off-line and we can set something up.
07:30	halim61	Does the current feisty gnomespeech include viavoice support?
07:30	hittsjunk	The problems with at-spi 1.17.1 are causing me to most trouble now.
07:30	dholbach	halim61: sorry for my ignorance, but is viavoice one of the proprietary options?
07:30	heno	dholbach: yes
07:30	mikepedersen	Kenny, a fix for this was checked in to svn last night.
07:30	dholbach	halim61: it'll be hard to get support for that in :-(
07:31	halim61	There is a dummy package available to support opensource apps.
07:31	heno	we've not really looked at building with support for those yet
07:31	dholbach	and at-spi 1.17.2 should hit the archive (after the freeze probably)
07:31	hittsjunk	I saw that haven't upgraded yet.  They relased 1.17.2 today.
07:31	dholbach	yeah, I updated the package
07:31	heno	has anyone tested the braille setup script?
07:32	dholbach	halim61: oh - could you mail a link to that to  ubuntu-accessibility-devel AT lists DOT ubuntu DOT com ?
07:32	heno	is that working at this point and is it at all useful?
07:33	mikepedersen	I haven't tried it.  SHould it work with a bluetooth display?
07:33	hittsjunk	Will it work with a serial display?
07:33	heno	should in theory work with both
07:33	krister	mikepedersen: i will try what you suggested and see if braille starts again or not with Orca.
07:34	heno	but you'll need to know what keys to press first
07:34	halim61	Yes I can but I must first subcribe to the list.
07:34	heno	might be worth reading the script in fact
07:34	mikepedersen	and those keys are?
07:34	dholbach	halim61: I can moderate the mail, if you don't want to be on the list - no problem.
07:35	heno	"Device type (b/s/u/x): "
07:35	heno	where b is bluetooth, s is serial, u is usb
07:35	heno	(x is exit)
07:36	mikepedersen	does the bluetooth display have to be paired first or will this be part of the setup?
07:36	heno	see /sbin/brltty-settup on a feisty system
07:37	heno	mikepedersen: that should be done in the setup
07:37	heno	id does: /lib/brltty/brltty.sh -b auto -d "bluetooth:$b_address"
07:39	mikepedersen	OK I just tried this I just need to enter the ID of the device I think
07:40	heno	right
07:40	heno	Anyway, this is very bleeding edge and could use some testing
07:40	mikepedersen	I'll test it today.
07:41	heno	We are trying to move the boundaries and sometimes we break stuff :)
07:41	heno	We shipped a broken GOK by default for two releases :-/
07:41	krister	Can i put in something for the wish list or is it off-topic?
07:41	heno	krister: go ahead
07:43	halim61	dholbach: you have mail
07:43	dholbach	halim61: gracias
07:43	krister	I'm somewhat of a fanatic when it comes to freedom of choice, that's why i am so interested in Linux. Now Evo is a very good email client, but i want to know if something could be done with Sylpheed-claws-gtk2? It seems like everything exept the folder- and message list tables are accessible...
07:44	krister	I can navigate in the program, but can't read msgs and lists.
07:44	halim61	hmm I am waiting for thunderbird support
07:45	heno	hm, we will have to focus on a few apps, which probably means evo and thunderbird
07:45	hittsjunk	I came late, sorry if this has already been discussed.  Are there plans for Firefox3 packages?
07:45	heno	krister: for sylpheed you should probably contact upstream directly
07:46	krister	Upstream?
07:46	dholbach	halim61: thanks again - I passed it on
07:46	heno	hittsjunk: I've spoken to the mozilla team about it
07:46	heno	krister: the authors of sylpheed
07:46	halim61	DHolbach: thanks.
07:46	heno	hittsjunk: no clear date yet though
07:46	robert_____	custom forms would be great if it worked with FK better :-/
07:47	robert_____	(sorry guys, wrong window)
</pre><pre>
07:47	heno	the focus is inevitably on Feisty (= Firefox2) ATM
07:48	hittsjunk	Firefox 2 is only usable with firevox
07:48	krister	heno: will do. Just wondered if this was something that the orca guys should check. Not so good at knowing whom to contact when. Still anewbie after 3 yrs of Linux.:-)
07:49	heno	krister: you can ask on the Orca list, but my guess is that it's a sylpheed problem
07:49	mikepedersen	Krister, we looked at it quite a while ago.  If you could get the developers to test with access tools this would show them a lot of the problems.
07:49	heno	have you tried running at-poke with it?
07:50	heno	exactly
07:50	mikepedersen	Blind people can't run atpoke because it is by design not an accessible application
07:50	heno	which is outrageous
07:50	hittsjunk	Exerciser is supposed to be an accessible replacement.  I haven't tried it yet.
07:50	heno	there is a new alternative out now though
=== heno looks it up
07:51	mikepedersen	it does sound pretty good though.
07:51	mikepedersen	it is not a stand-alone app yet though.
07:51	heno	http://live.gnome.org/Accerciser
07:53	heno	dholbach: any chance we could make a .deb of that? ^
07:53	dholbach	I'll take a look at it.
07:53	heno	doesn't even need to be in the repos for feisty
07:53	heno	just somewhere people can grab it and test
07:54	dholbach	better to have it in the repos :)
07:54	heno	I spend 20-30 minutes trying to build it but gave up
07:54	mikepedersen	it hasn't yet been extracted into its own package yet I think it is still just part of LSR.
07:54	heno	dholbach: of course, yes :)
07:55	mikepedersen	I could be wrong about that though I'm just going by the release note.
07:55	heno	mikepedersen: ok, but we do have LSR in Universe right?
07:55	mikepedersen	think so
07:56	heno	yeah, found it
07:56	heno	launchpad drives me mad sometimes going in circles :-[
07:57	heno	https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lsr
07:58	mikepedersen	it'll be nicer whhen it is its own package though so we can just run it when orca is running.
07:59	heno	mikepedersen: is it possible to run orca and lsr at the same time?
07:59	hittsjunk	No, youcan only run one at a time.
07:59	mikepedersen	I'm pretty sure you'd get lots and lots of conflicts with the keyuboard, speech, and braille
08:02	mikepedersen	remember though that orca already provides several ways to print out the application hierarchy.
08:03	mikepedersen	many people find this pretty useful for debugging an app as well.  I do however think that the accsersiser way looks pretty cool
08:05	mikepedersen	Henrik, do you have much more you want to cover?
08:06	krister	Is navigating the calendar in Evo considered a bug? It can be somewhat tricky finding ones way around in the different views and yet the calendar is said to be accessible.
08:06	heno	mikepedersen: no, I think we just need to follow up on some individual issues
08:06	mikepedersen	the only view I know of that really dosn't work to well is the month view.
08:06	mikepedersen	feel free to contact me about the braille stuff.
08:07	heno	krister: if it doesn't work as expected then that's a bug. If it's expected not to be accessible then that is *also* a bug
08:07	krister	Ok, i have tried the week view and the month view and i think i've got an incling of a hint on what is wrong though i'm no hacker.
08:07	heno	please file those, at least on stuff in main
08:08	mikepedersen	if you want, email me first and I can try to explain the evolution navigation model as it is a bit strange.
08:08	heno	krister: try filing a bug in the gnome bug tracker
08:08	heno	so the actual evo authors will read it
08:09	heno	We should generally be filing more accessibility bugs, and tagging them
08:09	krister	Ok i'll email you or could you please send me a little note about it to krister AT kristersplace DOT ws?
08:09	heno	so we can quantify what the issues are
08:09	mikepedersen	OK
08:09	heno	ok, thanks everyone!
</pre>
----
CategoryAccessibilityTeam
