{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

10:05	mjg59	Keybuk: Shall we get on with it?
10:05	zul	afternoon
10:05	Keybuk	yup
10:05	mjg59	Ok
10:05	Keybuk	no reply, let's get on with it
10:05	mjg59	So, core-dev members?
10:06	mjg59	Looks like Guavin and Hobbsee
=== tseng waves
10:06	Gloubiboulga	yes
=== Gloubiboulga is Gauvain Pocentek
10:06	ogra	seems Hobbsse didnt wake up in time
10:06	Keybuk	Gloubiboulga: you first then
10:06	mjg59	Gloubiboulga: Ok, let's go with you
10:06	mjg59	Gloubiboulga: Brief introduction?
10:06	Keybuk	(if somebody can ping hobbsse, please do so)
10:06	Gloubiboulga	ok, here is my wiki page : http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Gauvain
=== jjesse [n=jjesse@64.186.55.234] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:06	Gloubiboulga	(LP account linked on it)
=== pygi [n=pygi@89-172-201-45.adsl.net.t-com.hr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:07	Gloubiboulga	My point with becoming an core-dev is to be able to work on xubuntu
10:07	Gloubiboulga	i've already worked on it when I became a MOTU, but all the packages are in main now
10:07	mjg59	Gloubiboulga: How many Xubuntu core-devs are there right now?
10:08	ogra	one
=== janimo raises one hand
10:08	Gloubiboulga	mjg59, one: janimo
10:08	mjg59	Gloubiboulga: Ok, so that's a pretty good argument :)
10:08	Gloubiboulga	hehe
10:08	janimo	we'll hopefully grow by 100% tonight
10:08	mjg59	janimo: How would you rate Gloubiboulga's contributions?
10:08	janimo	great
10:08	janimo	he has helped a lot
10:09	janimo	and having him work on main packages would helpe even more
10:09	mjg59	Gloubiboulga: You mention in your wiki page that you think xubuntu is lacking in some areas. How would you improve those?
10:10	Gloubiboulga	mjg59, in two ways: 1. coding (ourself and working with upstream), 2. using already exinstant tools in ubuntu
10:10	mjg59	How close is your relationship with upstream?
10:10	Gloubiboulga	2. is not always easy, since we try to avoid gnome libs
10:11	ogra	Gloubiboulga, how do you plan to avoid code duplication in the future ? there were some issues in the past ...
10:11	Gloubiboulga	I have not a strong relationship with upstream, since Jani did all the job until now :)
10:11	Gloubiboulga	ogra, cdbs multibuild is the key IMO
10:11	ogra	patching the gnome deps out of the apps ?
10:12	Gloubiboulga	several apps could be build with and without gnome deps
10:12	mjg59	Gloubiboulga: How familiar are you with building multiple binaries without using cdbs?
10:12	mdz	mjg59,keybuk: morning
10:12	Gloubiboulga	ogra, we'd like to avoid this as much as possible
10:12	janimo	ogra, that pacthing out is fairly routine. We have yet to come up with the CDBS magic
10:12	Gloubiboulga	mjg59, I've worked on the goffice and gnumeric multibuild
10:12	Gloubiboulga	(plain debhelper)
10:13	mjg59	Gloubiboulga: Ok, cool
10:13	Gloubiboulga	getting the same result with CDBS is still a problem
10:14	Gloubiboulga	but I'm sure we'll find solutions (working with jbailey maybe?)
10:14	mjg59	Gloubiboulga: So while there's some desire to avoid Xubuntu turning into something that's effectively identical to gnome, presumably you're keen on supporting the same basic infrastructure? (Stuff like hal, for instance)
10:14	dholbach	I'm happy with Gloubiboulga's work on goffice and gnumeric - there were some issues, he worked hard on getting them fixed, did the merges with Debian and talked to the Debian maintainer to get the patch merged back (as it was not trivial)
10:14	pitti	Gloubiboulga: it's not a problem (it's not more effort than with plain debhelper), but not as convenient as it could be
10:15	Gloubiboulga	mjg59, sure, Xubuntu is ubuntu based, we don't forget that
10:15	janimo	mjg59: we already depend on hal for PM and removable volumes
10:16	janimo	and soon laptop keys I hope
10:16	Gloubiboulga	pitti, we wan't something that can easily maintainable, since gnome packagers will work on the same packages too
10:16	mjg59	Ok, I think I'm done
10:16	mjg59	Keybuk, mdz: ?
10:16	janimo	and it's ok with being almost identical to gnome as far as looks and some features go, if we can get there with less resource usage
10:17	seb128	Gloubiboulga: cdbs is easy to maintain ;)
10:17	Keybuk	Gloubiboulga: what kind of integration with things like network manager, gnome power manager, etc. do you plan for XFCE?
10:17	Keybuk	we're increasingly using these in Ubuntu
10:17	pitti	Gloubiboulga: let's talk about this in a separate discussion, I'm sure we can figure something out
10:17	Gloubiboulga	seb128, sure, but with lots and lots of hacks for the multibuilds, it might be a little harder ;)
10:17	seb128	Gloubiboulga: not that many hack, it's shorted than the debhelper variant
10:18	seb128	anyway, that's not really the topic now ;)
10:19	Gloubiboulga	Keybuk, well, that's part of the "avoid duplication" spec. gnome power management for example could be easily used in xubuntu
10:19	ogra	the problem will rather be maintaining the patches than the build system i guess :)
10:19	janimo	Keybuk: I have looked at both and would use them if we can get them build gnome-less. They both dep on libgnomeui which needs all the rest of gnome libs
10:19	Keybuk	doesn't that break their GNOME functionality?
=== airjump [n=MZ@p508ADF40.dip.t-dialin.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:20	seb128	Gloubiboulga: it's using gconf, isn't that an issue for you?
10:20	janimo	Keybuk: some apps only depend on gnome libs because of legacy code. Some uses are of course valid
10:20	mdz	gconf is fairly light as the issues go
10:20	Gloubiboulga	seb128, no, we have gconf too on xubuntu
10:20	janimo	seb128: we consider gconf ok for now, compared to the rest of the libs
10:20	janimo	it is used by gdm anyway
10:21	seb128	ok, I though you were discussing with mvo some time ago about getting update tools working without gconf or something like that
10:21	seb128	no, gdm doesn't use gconf
10:21	seb128	but it should, the gdm.conf is not fun to maintain :p
10:21	janimo	Keybuk: I try to bring this up on gnome-devel, there's an ongoing thread which touches on libgnomeui in particluar
10:21	janimo	seb128: yes update-manager work w/o gconf
10:22	janimo	that was an issue because of the gnome python bindings, which even if you only use gconf-python brings all the libs since the bindings are monolithic
10:22	seb128	right
=== ogra didnt intend to turn Gloubiboulgas application in a packaging discussion with his question, sorry
10:22	mdz	heh
10:22	janimo	seb128: gdm uses gconf via keyring or some other dependency then
10:23	janimo	for gdm-setup
10:23	Gloubiboulga	hi mdz
10:23	airjump	hello
10:23	seb128	janimo: I doubt of it
10:24	Keybuk	mdz: any questions?
=== abattoir__ [n=abattoir@59.92.42.68] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:24	seb128	janimo: let's have a look on that later, but gdm doesn't use the keyring nor gconf and they got ride of some of the libgnome* functions they were using
10:24	janimo	seb128: hmm, something used gconf in dapper, via gdm. Looks like not keyring then
10:24	mjg59	seb128: janimo: Can we leave this until later?
10:25	janimo	seb128: I know I sent the patch for getting rid of libgnome*
10:25	janimo	mjg59: sure soryy
10:25	seb128	mjg59: that's just what I said
10:25	mjg59	No problem :)
10:25	mjg59	mdz: Going once...
10:26	mjg59	mdz: Twice...
10:26	mdz	mjg59: stand by
10:26	airjump	bye
=== airjump [n=MZ@p508ADF40.dip.t-dialin.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
=== jjesse [n=jjesse@64.186.55.234] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
10:29	mdz	mjg59: ok
10:29	mjg59	mdz: Any questions?
10:30	mdz	mjg59: settled out of band
10:30	mjg59	Ok. Votes?
10:30	Keybuk	+1
10:30	mdz	+1
10:31	ogra	Gloubiboulga, congrats !
10:31	Gloubiboulga	thanks :)
10:31	Toadstool	Gloubiboulga: yay!!! congrats' :)
10:31	dholbach	congratulations Gloubiboulga!
10:31	janimo	Gloubiboulga: \o/
10:31	imbrandon	Gloubiboulga: congrats ;)
10:31	Gloubiboulga	dholbach, janimo, thanks for the support
10:31	pitti	Gloubiboulga: welcome!
10:31	Keybuk	Hobbsee hasn't woken up, so we'll move onto ubuntu-dev candidates
10:31	Gloubiboulga	thanks pitti, Toadstool, imbrandon
10:32	Gloubiboulga	and ogra!
10:32	mjg59	Various ubuntu-dev candidates on the list
10:32	mjg59	Any of you here?
=== imbrandon is here
=== bddebian [n=bdefrees@mail.ottens.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:32	Keybuk	ttyfscker, azeem, imbrandon, tepsipakki, "Juliano Bastos"
10:33	imbrandon	...
10:33	Keybuk	azeem: you first then
10:33	bddebian	azeem++\
10:33	mjg59	azeem: Brief introduction to yourself?
10:33	azeem	I am Michael Banck, my wiki page is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichaelBanck.  I am a Debian Developer for a couple of years now and Ubuntu Member for some time as well.
=== ogra cheers loud for azeem
10:33	azeem	I've been helping people in #ubuntu-motu mostly, and coordinated chemistry-related UbuntuScience packages with Jordan Mantha in Debian.  I have also tried to better the Debian<->Ubuntu relationship where possible.
10:33	azeem	I am applying for ubuntu-dev to integrate the opensync framework (together with lifeless) and maintain the various chemistry packages in universe (together with UbuntuScience).
10:33	Keybuk	azeem: your wiki page claims you do not plan to do any generic MOTU work at this point ?
10:33	azeem	.
10:34	azeem	Keybuk: I'm pretty occupied with my PhD right now
10:34	mjg59	azeem: So you're mostly planning on focusing on a specific small area?
10:35	Keybuk	azeem: have you done much work with the MOTU to date?
10:35	ogra	azeem is around since a very long time in -motu and was helping a lot of newcomers with basic packaging ...
10:35	mdz	azeem: a similar set of packages to what you work with in Debian?
10:36	azeem	mdz: well, not the Hurd stuff, for starters
10:36	ogra	(very long time == nearly as long as the channel exists)
10:36	bddebian	haha
10:37	azeem	mjg59: I'm trying to concentrate on opensync and MotuScience for now, yes
10:37	ogra	i think dholbach can confirm that ...
10:37	mjg59	azeem: Sounds good to me
10:37	mdz	azeem: what motivated you to apply for official status at this time after having participated in the development community for some time now?
10:37	dholbach	azeem has been around for a long time, although i didn't work with him (which as ogra told me might be due to different sleeping patterns).
10:37	azeem	Keybuk: I fixed about a handful of MotuScience Malone bugs on the Debian side coordinating with LaserJock
=== LaserJock [n=LaserJoc@ubuntu/member/laserjock] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:38	dholbach	ogra:  :-)
=== ogra thiks azeem's sleeping patterns match his own pretty much ;)
10:38	azeem	mdz: we've now got the opensync stuff in Debian/Ubuntu, and I'd like to be able to push/merge/sync them on both sides if one freezes
10:39	Keybuk	azeem: lifeless is already a member of ubuntu-dev, no?
10:39	azeem	Keybuk: yes
10:41	Keybuk	to be honest, at the moment, my concern is that you won't have the time to do much work in ubuntu-dev
10:41	Keybuk	and that may mean you don't keep up with other changes that are necesseary
10:41	bddebian	Any less than half the people that have "abandoned" us?
10:41	azeem	Keybuk: what kind of changes?
10:43	Keybuk	any; policy changes in packaging, server policy, configuration policy, etc.
10:43	azeem	ah, ok
=== ogra thinks even an azeem with limited time would be helpful for motu
=== LaserJock raises his hand
10:44	bddebian	Keybuk: Seriously, any less than the rest of us MOTU's?
10:45	LaserJock	azeem has been very instrumental in my packaging (he is sponsoring my packages in Debian) and has done a great job of working on the Debian/Ubuntu relationship, especially for science packages
10:46	Keybuk	mjg59, mdz: any questions?
10:46	LaserJock	he clearly knows what he's doing, has helped out quite a bit in #ubuntu-motu and while he isn't as active as crimsun or bddebian perhaps, it seems to me he keeps up as well as most MOTUs with what's going on in Ubuntu development
10:46	lucas	I think that it's easy to get tired while doing MOTU work. People with limited time resources are probably much less likely to burn out. Also, it scales well, so it's not a problem to have many people dedicating only a small amount of time.
10:47	mdz	azeem: in which ways do you feel that the relationship between Debian developers and Ubuntu developers could be improved?
10:47	azeem	mdz: by mediating where possible
10:47	Keybuk	azeem: could you give an example?
10:47	azeem	e.g., yesterday, there was another mob in #debian.de when they again found out they have "accounts" on launchpad
10:48	azeem	so siretart and me tried to cool them down
10:48	azeem	and I subsequently talked to the people in #launchpad whether anything could be done to make the "not affiliated with canonical or ubuntu" more explicit for those kind of people pages on launchpad
10:50	mdz	azeem: do you think that that concern affects launchpad more than other directories of open source contributors?
10:51	azeem	mdz: I think that pages like "https://launchpad.net/people/panthera/+packages" are somewhat misleading, yes
=== Hobbsee [n=Hobbsee@ubuntu/member/hobbsee] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:52	azeem	personally, I don't think it is problem, but I can see how some people who are not Ubuntu-friendly in the first place react strongly to them
10:52	Hobbsee	morning all, did i miss the meeting?
10:52	ogra	nope
10:52	Hobbsee	oh yay :)
10:52	raphink	Hobbsee: the meeting is going on now
=== ^robertj [n=rcaskey@cai17.music.uga.edu] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:52	azeem	most of the time, it is due to missing or false information, and I am trying to set the record straight where possible
10:52	mdz	azeem: it's essentially just parsing a Packages file, though
10:53	mjg59	mdz: It does seem to suggest that the developer uploaded that package to Ubuntu, which isn't entirely accurate
10:53	Hobbsee	raphink: cool, okay. we got some current logs here?  (more current than fabbione's)
10:53	azeem	mdz: I understand
10:53	azeem	mdz: but "panthera" never created an account on launchpad
10:53	mjg59	But I think that's outside the scope of this section of the meeting
10:53	azeem	right
10:53	mdz	azeem: what sort of response did you receive from the launchpad team?
10:54	azeem	kiko agreed that this might be misleading and suggested some better wording
10:55	azeem	e.g. saying that this is not a real account, I think
10:55	mdz	I think that qualifying it according to the source of informaiton would probably be sufficient
10:56	mdz	if that page indicated that it was documenting package maintenance in Debian unstable, that would be an improvement
10:57	mjg59	mdz: Is launchpad considered part of the domain that the tech board have influence over?
10:57	raphink	hi mjg59
10:57	raphink	oops
10:57	raphink	sorry
10:57	mdz	mjg59: sometimes
10:57	mjg59	mdz: Heh
10:58	mjg59	mdz: My feeling is that we're not going to get much further on this topic without involving the launchpad guys, which is probably a conversation for a later date
10:58	ogra	if you look at the package itself its even worse ... https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/breezy/+source/acroread/7.0.1-0.0.ubuntu1 he's listed as maintainer and creator ... which would also indicate that he uploaded it to ubuntu
10:59	ogra	(indeed that happens through teh sync ... but people might not know this)
10:59	siretart	ogra: https://launchpad.net/people/panthera/+packages does as well suggest that he uploaded it to ubuntu (at least for me)
=== imbrandon notes the maintainer spec should take care of that for edgy and edgy+
10:59	mdz	mjg59: one worth having, certainly
=== viper550 [n=main@d57-121-167.home.cgocable.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:59	ogra	siretart, yes. thats what we discussed before
10:59	mdz	moving on then?
11:00	mjg59	I think we're done for questioning?
11:00	mdz	I am
11:00	Hobbsee	(sorry for my lateness - 6am meetings are nasty)
11:00	mdz	Keybuk: anything else?
=== gnomefreak [n=ThunderS@ubuntu/member/gnomefreak] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:01	mdz	ok, votes
11:02	mjg59	+1 for me
11:02	mdz	+1
11:03	Keybuk	0 from me, given limited time
11:03	ogra	welcome azeem !!
11:03	ogra	finally :)
11:03	imbrandon	congrats azeem
11:03	azeem	\o/
11:03	LaserJock	\o/
11:03	siretart	welcome azeem :)
11:03	pygi	\o/
11:03	raphink	:)
11:03	raphink	yeah
11:03	raphink	congrats azeem
11:03	mjg59	Ok
11:04	mjg59	imbrandon: You next?
11:04	mjg59	(and then back to Hobbsee, unless I've missed someone)
11:04	mdz	azeem: welcome
11:04	imbrandon	Hello , My name is Brandon Holtsclaw, and my wiki is http://wiki.ubuntu.com/imbrandon , I am an avid Kubuntu user and developer hopeful ( thus I'm here today ) . My goals are simplistic , basicly ( starting with the universe ) help do my part to bring Kubuntu to the level of polish that Ubuntu is ( Specificly in the default settings area for k* apps and eventualy kubuntu-default-settings in main ) I have Packaged , merged ,
11:04	imbrandon	ubuntu Dev's and many Diffrent MOTU's also the Ubuntu BugSquad plus Upstream KDE ( specificly Konversation the Team ) Such as Riddell,Hobbsee,Crimsun,dholbach,jpatrick,bddebian and quite a few more I'm probably forgetting as I'm just waking up. My experince and goals are listed on my wiki. Sorry I dont have a better intro , I'm workin with 4.5 hours sleep comming here heh.
11:04	mjg59	And let's see if we can speed this up, I'd like to be elsewhere :)
11:04	imbrandon	ouch that dident paste well
11:04	azeem	mdz: thanks
11:04	Hobbsee	mjg59: okay, i'm going to be afk for about 15 mins then.  I support imbrandon's work, having uploaded some of his packages, in the past couple of weeks
11:04	azeem	mjg59: didn't you bring your wine?
11:04	mjg59	imbrandon: Who have you worked with in getting your stuff uploaded?
11:04	mdz	imbrandon: who has been sponsoring your uploads to date?
11:05	mjg59	azeem: May have been in the pub already
11:05	Hobbsee	mjg59: mdz : me for one :)
11:05	imbrandon	hobsee crimsun , bdebian ummm
11:05	viper550	I bet he didn't bring Wine because he doesn't use Windows apps! *rimshot*
11:05	raphink	imbrandon has been very active on #ubuntu-motu
11:05	crimsun	I've sponsored several. He learns quickly and has an increasingly improved grasp of troubleshooting packaging.
11:05	imbrandon	ajmitch has reviewd a few in my early stages i dont think he has sponsored any yet
11:05	imbrandon	Riddell ....
11:06	mjg59	crimsun: So you'd be happy with him being able to upload packages directly?
11:06	Riddell	yep, I support imbrandon too, he's done a bunch of merges and bugfixes for KDE packages
11:06	Toadstool	yeah, imbrandon has done a really good work so far
11:06	imbrandon	sorry its early but those are the main ppl i poke most of the time becouse they are generaly in the same timeframe as me
11:06	crimsun	mjg59: definitely.
11:06	bddebian	+1 imbrandon
11:07	tseng	++ from me as well. he's been doing consistant work for awhile no
=== val314159 [n=chatzill@user-0ccsqmg.cable.mindspring.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:07	tseng	*now
11:07	mjg59	imbrandon: what would you plan on doing as an motu?
11:08	imbrandon	for the most part make sure the misc packages for K* fit into the rest of the desktop better
11:08	imbrandon	and that transitions are done smooth and timely
11:08	imbrandon	( i also work with a select few packages in main a tad )
11:08	imbrandon	mostly all kde types
11:08	mjg59	Ok
=== allee [n=ach@allee.exgal.mpe.mpg.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:09	mdz	bddebian, tseng: do you have any specific feedback on code contributions or interaction with the MOTU team?
11:09	tseng	mdz: I don't have feeback on specific uploads off the top of my head
11:10	tseng	I can say he has been a positive influence in MOTU
11:10	bddebian	Aye.  I have sponsored a few uploads for him
11:10	tseng	you can tell who is sticking around, helping out, and fixing things.
11:11	imbrandon	also my wiki documents my plans for universe better than i explained here
11:11	imbrandon	as i'm a bit tired still ( just woke up 5 minutes prior to the meeting )
11:11	raphink	ouch
11:12	imbrandon	heh yea not my normal timeframe ;) hehe
11:13	mdz	imbrandon: what was the motivation behind buntudot.org?
11:13	imbrandon	at first it was becouse the fridge was stale
11:13	imbrandon	and we ( the community ) wanted a universal news source
11:13	imbrandon	since the fridge has been rejuvinated and soon buntudot.org will point to the fridge
11:14	imbrandon	and our teams are in the works of merging
11:14	mdz	imbrandon: what was your experience in working with the fridge team to revive it?
11:14	imbrandon	with the guidance of sabdfl and janes
11:14	imbrandon	me and whiprush are actualy the ones that came up wioth the plan
11:14	imbrandon	so its kinda our baby
11:14	imbrandon	( as far as bringing our two teams into one )
11:15	imbrandon	and makeing a "one community" , we discussed it with the members of our two teams via the fridge-devel list
11:15	imbrandon	and mark gave the blessing
11:15	imbrandon	all thats lacking now is the tech bits getting worked out
11:17	mdz	mjg59,Keybuk: anything else?
11:17	Hobbsee	mdz: i'm back
11:18	Hobbsee	mdz: & applying for core-dev
11:18	mjg59	Hobbsee: Not quite yet
11:18	Keybuk	nothing from me
11:18	mjg59	I think I'm done
11:18	mjg59	votes?
11:18	Keybuk	+1
11:18	Hobbsee	oh crud, i'm a little early.  sorry, misread.  still incredibly tired.
11:18	mdz	+1
11:19	ogra	welcome imbrandon
11:19	Hobbsee	congratulations imbrandon
11:19	imbrandon	;)
11:19	mjg59	+1
11:19	mjg59	Ok
11:19	gnomefreak	congrats imbrandon ;)
11:19	imbrandon	thanks \o/
11:19	mjg59	Any more ubuntu-dev?
11:19	Keybuk	ttyfscker, tepsipakki, "Juliano Bastos"
11:20	Keybuk	none of those appear to be here
11:20	mjg59	Ok
11:20	mjg59	Hobbsee: Intro?
11:20	ogra	Hobbsee !!
11:20	Hobbsee	mjg59: what do you want from me?  most of you saw me last meeting
11:20	Hobbsee	i got motu at last meeting, now i'm applying for main
=== Hobbsee is still on her plan to take over kubuntu
11:20	Keybuk	Hobbsee: I'm curious as to why you wish to jump to main so quickly
11:21	Hobbsee	Keybuk: because a lot of kde stuff is in main, and it's very hard to get uploaders for it.  
11:21	Keybuk	you've only had upload rights to universe for two weeks, and I'm not convinced that's enough time for us to make a decision
11:21	Hobbsee	Keybuk: i was very lucky to even get 4 uploads to main in yesterday, with people to sponsor them.
11:21	Keybuk	who are the Kubuntu team members who are also core-dev ?
11:22	Hobbsee	ah, raphink, tonio_, riddell
11:22	mjg59	Ideally the ones who are core-dev /before/ this meeting
11:22	ogra	heh
11:22	Hobbsee	crimsun, infinity, pitti, riddell, and a few other people have uploaded my core things.  oh, zul too.
11:22	raphink	yep
11:22	ogra	Keybuk, did you count her uploads on edgy-changes ?
11:22	Hobbsee	ogra: how high's that number now?  do i want to know?  :P
11:23	raphink	Hobbsee has been doing an amazing work lately
11:23	raphink	uploading quite a log
11:23	raphink	and working hard on bugs
11:23	tseng	I sort of agree with Keybuk, even though Hobbsee is great imo
11:23	pitti	right, I uploaded one merge and one update AFAI can recall
11:23	tseng	not a fantastic precedent
11:23	pitti	they were okay
11:23	raphink	although she hasn't been a MOTU for long
11:23	tseng	to jump to main in 2 weeks
11:24	Hobbsee	Ideally, i would have gone for MOTU earlier, but because of a number of circumstances, i didnt.
11:24	Keybuk	tseng: we've done it before, if there's a particular need
11:24	Hobbsee	which would put me in the right place for applying to main today.
11:24	Keybuk	Hobbsee: why didn't you apply for main at the last TB meeting as well?
11:24	Hobbsee	Keybuk: tried to.  they wouldnt let me - and i wanted to test out how the actual uploading worked before applying for it.
11:24	Hobbsee	Keybuk: i can modify packages and all that fine - but the actual uploading bit i didnt trust myself to do in main until i'd done a few in universe.
11:25	Hobbsee	heh.  a few.  i think i did more than a few :P
11:25	imbrandon	more than a few
11:25	ogra	plenty
11:25	imbrandon	heh
11:25	pygi	:)
11:25	raphink	hehe
11:25	imbrandon	-changes is more like -hobsee lately ( but thats a good thing )
11:25	Hobbsee	hahahaa
11:25	Keybuk	mdz, mjg59: I'll let you ask some questions ... :)
11:26	Hobbsee	uh oh, sound's scary.  i'm still not terribly awake yet.
11:26	raphink	:)
11:26	mjg59	Hobbsee: So, given that you'd be able to upload core bits of infrastructure and cause everything to break, why should we trust you? :)
11:27	mdz	Hobbsee: what stirred your interest in contributing to Ubuntu in the first place?
11:27	Hobbsee	future plans are to organise kubuntu, become kubuntu community manager officially, etc.  and keep working on the distro, making it better of course, with sane defaults.  Also important is getting a fast turnaorund time for important bugfixes, which me having core would help with
=== dinda [n=dinda@cpe-72-181-93-86.houston.res.rr.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:27	Hobbsee	mjg59: because i've yet to upload anything cracked in any of my packages yet, including most that were done before i was a MOTU.
11:28	Hobbsee	mdz: got sick of windows and it's constant crashing.  got to compiling, thought "hey, this is fun", and got more and more interested in the way things were being done - and saw how much was still needing to be done
11:28	mdz	Hobbsee: is your primary interest in -core-dev a practical one, avoiding sponsorship?  or are you interested in broader development work?
11:28	Hobbsee	mdz: did some cd testing, bugwork, etc for a while, then moved into packaging
11:29	Hobbsee	mdz: can you define broader development work please?
11:29	ogra	writing the killer app for kubuntu indeed ;)
11:29	Hobbsee	mdz: well, obviously, it's partly a practical one.  it's very difficult to get kde sutff uploaded to main, because most devs wont upload kde stuff unless it's really simple.
11:29	mdz	Hobbsee: contributions across a broader range of packages or subsystems, interest in furthering the core goals of Ubuntu
11:29	Hobbsee	mainly because they dont know the code base, etc
11:30	Keybuk	Hobbsee: are the other kubuntu team members not helpful?
11:30	Hobbsee	Keybuk: they are, when they're around.  and im' in a shocking timezone for such things.
11:30	Keybuk	is the lack of desire to sponsor uploads within the kubuntu team a problem that needs addressing?
11:30	Keybuk	I wasn't aware sponsored uploads were timezone-dependant?
11:30	Hobbsee	mdz: right.  did you ever read last meeting's log, where i covered some of this?
=== ..[topic/#ubuntu-meeting:Ubugtu] : Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 02 Aug 20:00 UTC: Edubuntu | 03 Aug 07:00 UTC: Ubuntu Development Team | 09 Aug 12:00 UTC: Edubuntu | 10 Aug 15:00 UTC: Ubuntu Development Team | 15 Aug 20:00 UTC: Technical Board | 16 Aug 20:00 UTC: Edubuntu
11:31	Hobbsee	Keybuk: they have to actually be awake and here at the time i want an upload....
11:31	Keybuk	do they not have e-mail?
=== pitti has to admit that he is uncomfortable with sponsoring KDE uploads
11:31	Hobbsee	pitti is one of many
11:31	mdz	Hobbsee: last meeting of which group?
11:31	pitti	mainly because I cannot/do not want to test them
11:31	Hobbsee	Keybuk: they do.  email gets lots
11:31	ogra	mdz, TB
11:31	Keybuk	pitti: also myself ... I simply don't know C++ well enough to read patches
11:31	Hobbsee	mdz: TB, where i went for MOTU
11:31	pitti	so I only sponsor trivial patches
11:32	mdz	Hobbsee: no, I don't usually have time to catch up on IRC logs in detail after travel
11:32	Hobbsee	effectively what i'm doing now is my own uploads - the guys dont have time to test all kde patches, as they dont have the system there
11:33	Hobbsee	mdz: right. okay, i'll give you the short version then.  basically, i'm very organisational, so i'm looking at organising kubuntu to make it work a lot better, getting our developers trained, whatever their level, so that they can contribute, and to take some of the load off Riddell, who does an awesome job, but is still one man, and runs out of time
11:33	raphink	sounds nice
11:33	Hobbsee	Keybuk: most of the kubuntu team members arent in core - or motu, for that matter.
11:34	Hobbsee	Keybuk: we've still got quite a new development team, apart from Riddell, and a few others.
11:34	Keybuk	Hobbsee: in a handful of sentences, could you describe how shlibs work and what they're used for
11:35	Hobbsee	Keybuk: not really at this time of morning, but generally, yes.  means that if you have foo-dev as a build-dep then foo will be installed as a dep of the package
11:35	Hobbsee	so you dotn have to hardcode it into debian/control
11:36	Keybuk	when developing a library package, how would you make sure it works with this system?
11:36	Hobbsee	Keybuk: havent tried yet, that's something i'd ask for help on.
11:37	mdz	Hobbsee: for the most part, your contributions have taken the form of merges and syncs, more so than direct packaging/code contributions.  How would membership in -core-dev simplify that process, apart from avoiding the delay involved in sponsored uploads?
11:37	Hobbsee	even with core, i'm not out to upload anything and everything - i still dont know everything, there's still stuff i'd need help for.  but i'm not about to upload crackful stuff that i dont understand.  this isnt a "you are signing all rights away to asking questions"
11:38	Hobbsee	mdz: true. that's changing.  the last patches to amarok/kopete/libdvdread have been mostly patches, not merges and syncs
11:38	mdz	Hobbsee: it is, though, us signing away the requirement that questions be asked at all ;-)
11:38	Hobbsee	mdz: well, yes.  but i'm not irresponsible enough to never ask a question about something i dont know :P
11:39	raphink	true
11:40	Hobbsee	mdz: probably looking to commit more upstream stuff in the future, when i know how to code more.  but my focus at the moment is fixing a lot of the major bugs in kubuntu
=== Hobbsee checks for anything that she didnt answer before
11:41	Keybuk	mdz, mjg59: any further questions?
11:41	mjg59	I think I'm good
11:41	Keybuk	votes?
11:42	mdz	Hobbsee: -core-dev should be seen as a confirmation of a sustained, trustworthy contribution to the core infrastructure of Ubuntu, more so than as a convenience of process and upload privileges.  what do you see as your role in bringing Ubuntu (and/or Kubuntu) forward in pursuit of its goals which corresponds to -core-dev membership?
11:42	Hobbsee	gah.  i should copy and paste from last week, i think.
=== val314159_ [n=chatzill@user-0ccsqmg.cable.mindspring.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:43	mdz	you'd be welcome, if the content would be helpful in context
11:44	Hobbsee	mdz: kubuntu has a rather shocking history for getting bugs fixed very slowly - it took over a month to fix a bug in the screensaver, since a patch was in kde bugs
11:44	Hobbsee	ack, dont think that made sense.
11:45	Hobbsee	mdz: mainly we have a problem of not enough people who can look at fixes, see if they're any good, and commit them if they do.  and the ones that can then have to get upload rights, so that means by getting sponsorship from Riddell
11:45	pitti	Hobbsee: if it was supposed to mean 'better QA', it did make sense :)
=== Hobbsee is sure her brain is going out the window here.
11:46	mdz	Riddell isn't the only member of -core-dev who can sponsor Kubuntu-related uploads, though
11:47	Hobbsee	mdz: there's a difference between "can" and "willing to".  \sh has been quite busy, too
11:47	pitti	after this talk I would consider it ok to do 'half-blind' sponsoring
11:47	pitti	i. e. just look at debdiffs for 'doesn't look totally crackful' and otherwise just upload
11:47	Hobbsee	pitti: even that would be helpful, as long as it actually happened
11:48	crimsun	I've sponsored several of Hobbsee's and found them to be "within scale" -- they're localised and broken out for quick verification. Furthermore, though I still build and test locally, I know she has already done that before pinging me.
11:49	mdz	Hobbsee: raphink is a -core-dev member with a focus on kubuntu contributions as well; there doesn't seem to be a shortage of folks to vet uploads
11:49	Hobbsee	mdz: true.  when he's around.
11:49	mdz	Hobbsee: no one can be around ALL of the time ;-)
11:50	Hobbsee	mdz: well, of course not.  did i say that?  :P
11:50	Keybuk	I don't believe it's necessary for them to be around; you should be able to request a sponsored upload by e-mail
11:50	lucas	I'm not sure I understand how sponsorship requests are processed for kubuntu. don't you have a mailing list where you could request sponsored uploads when you need one ? so the first one to catch it wins it ?
11:51	Hobbsee	lucas: no, it's primarily irc based - if you're not on irc, then you're very much out of the loop
11:51	Keybuk	this, by the sounds of it. is something that needs to be addressed
11:51	Hobbsee	lucas: the way it currently works is to just ping a motu who is around, or a core dev who is around, and ask them to upload.
11:51	pitti	lucas: we don't have a ML, primarily because I'd reckon that few people would actually use it
11:52	mdz	if sponsorship is problematic, that's a problem that we should address directly, rather than by liberal application of upload privileges
11:52	imbrandon	Keybuk: +1 on needs to be addressed ( kubuntu-devel@ ? )
11:52	Hobbsee	Keybuk: it is.  like i say, there's lots of good stuff in kubuntu, but there's also a heck of a lot that needs fixing
11:52	bddebian	That same can be said for Universe :-)
11:52	Hobbsee	mdz: how do you propose that to work?  very few people from the ubuntu side will take on kubuntu packages, as you've already seen.
11:52	lucas	maybe a "ready to sponsor" team could be created on LP, and people would file bugs against it to get their packages sponsored.
11:52	lucas	similar to sync requests
11:53	Toadstool	well, for Universe, I used to use LP and assign bugs to motu-reviewers
11:53	Keybuk	we can discuss that afterwards
11:53	pitti	lucas: true, and with a script similar to request_sync this could be made fairly easy
11:53	Hobbsee	lucas: i believe motu reviewers works like that.  i think i eventually got a couple of uploads sponsored like that - but it's quite slow, and i never know if it's been done.
11:53	mdz	Hobbsee: I acknowledge that, but surely it isn't practical to expect all Kubuntu contributors to become core developers in order to avoid the issue
11:53	Hobbsee	mdz: of course.  just some of them
=== Hobbsee notes that kubuntu is very much the bastard child, unfortunately.
11:54	Keybuk	I don't agree that Kubuntu is a bastard child at all
11:54	Keybuk	why do you say that?
11:55	Keybuk	your problem seems to be a failing of its own development team, rather than of a lack of external support
11:55	Hobbsee	Keybuk: what i said above - we're getting people, they're getting better, but it's still very hard....well, yeah.
11:56	Hobbsee	+1 to Keybuk, and i'm sure my brain's gone.
11:56	Keybuk	mdz: any further questions ?
11:56	mdz	Keybuk: we need to move on I think
11:56	Keybuk	we do, we're already 2 hours in
11:57	Keybuk	mjg59 has had to go
11:57	Hobbsee	i need to go as well
11:57	Hobbsee	need to be at uni on time today.
11:57	mdz	ok then
11:57	Hobbsee	well, i needed to leave half an hour ago, but that's beside the point :P
11:58	Keybuk	-1 from me, I'm afraid;  Hobbsee: you've been an excellent contributor so far, and are certainly invaluable.  I just don't believe you've _yet_ gained the experience for main upload rights, I have no doubt that you will though
11:58	Keybuk	it appears you have a problem gaining sponsorship, and I think that's something we should address directly, rather than working around it by granting main upload rights to everyone
11:58	Hobbsee	Keybuk: fair enough.  this issue does need to be addressed though.
11:58	tseng	Hobbsee: I hope you are not discouraged to reapply in a few months
11:59	ogra	yeah
11:59	mdz	Hobbsee: I appreciate and value you contributions, but I'd very much prefer to address the sponsorship issue directly rather than using it as justification for -core-dev
11:59	Hobbsee	Keybuk: propose a solution later, rather than just saying "it doesnt work and needs fixing".
=== pitti hugs Hobbsee and encourages her to continue her good work
=== ogra is convinced Hobbsee will make a great main dev
11:59	Hobbsee	mdz: ditto
11:59	bddebian	Hobbsee: Yeah, unlike me :-)
11:59	Keybuk	indeed, please do continue your excellent work
11:59	mdz	s/you/your/
=== raphink is convinced, too
=== Hobbsee will make sure to bug you lot for main uploads first :P
12:00	Keybuk	shall we address the sponsorship problem now?
12:00	Keybuk	Riddell: ping?
12:00	mdz	I'd be glad to consider that situation explicitly, either at a future meeting or ad hoc
12:00	bddebian	I'd like to hear it but I have to go
12:00	Hobbsee	Keybuk: if you have to.  i really do have to be at uni on time today, otherwise it's not going to be worth living around here :P
12:00	Keybuk	pitti: you've been doing some main sponsorship, would you like to own the problem and work on a solution?
12:00	ogra	Keybuk, haven't we still that darn avahi thing on the agenda ?
12:00	pitti	Keybuk: yep
12:01	ogra	we're at 2h
12:01	Keybuk	Hobbsee: that's ok, this is a problem we can address out of band :)  have fun!
12:01	Riddell	pong
12:01	mdz	it's crucial that we have a healthy and maintainable system for vetting uploads through mentoring and sponsorship
12:01	imbrandon	i have to run but let me put my 0.2 cents in on the sponsorship before i run, I doo think we either need a ML just for that ( kubuntu-devel@ ? ) or a way to track sponsorship req in LP
12:01	Keybuk	Riddell: could you work with pitti with a focus on ensuring kubuntu uploads don't have a sponsorship bottleneck
12:01	mdz	I think there's work to be done in formalizing the sponsorship process in Ubuntu
12:01	mdz	and this is evidence of that
12:02	Keybuk	they're more problematic as they rely on both a completely different framework *and* development language than Ubuntu/Xubuntu/Edubuntu which limits the number of people who can do it
12:02	mdz	I think we can take this up on ubuntu-devel
12:02	Keybuk	agree
12:02	imbrandon	and mostly becouse alot of us are in diffrent timezones for the few that do use our framework etc
12:02	seb128	that's probably not kubuntu specific though
12:02	mdz	Keybuk: would you start the thread sometime this week?
12:02	ogra	right, universe in general could need it as well
12:03	LaserJock	ogra: ++
12:03	Hobbsee	ogra: there are more people around, so the chances of getting something uploaded is higher
12:03	LaserJock	but the problem remains that most sponsorship is a crap shoot depending on who is on IRC, etc.
12:03	seb128	Hobbsee: you have to find somebody interested by the package you work on, which is not always easy
12:04	ogra	Hobbsee, sure, but there are still often uploaders missing
12:04	mdz	LaserJock: it shouldn't be, and if that's the current situation, we should address that
12:04	imbrandon	mdz yes that is the case unfortunately although alot better than the kubuntu main
12:05	Hobbsee	seb128: ogra:  i dont deny it, i just said it was slightly easier
=== Hobbsee finally turns her phone on. all these messages from Riddell :P
12:05	LaserJock	mdz: we do have a motu-reviewers LP team but I'm not sure how successful it has been
12:05	imbrandon	lol
12:05	mdz	Hobbsee: I would very much appreciate your input on improving the review process for sponsored uploads, though it needs to happen out of band and involve a wider audience
12:05	ogra	agreed ... main is harder indeed
12:05	mdz	this meeting is running long and we need to move on
12:06	mdz	avahi is next on the agenda
12:06	imbrandon	ok i have to run everyone , thanks again , see yall in a few hours
12:06	Keybuk	that was mjg59's item, and I'm not sure what he wanted to explicitly discuss
12:06	mdz	this seems to be revisiting an issue that was decided by easy consensus ages ago
12:06	Keybuk	I think that pitti's recent summary to ubuntu-devel is perfect
12:07	pitti	https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2006-July/019680.html
12:07	pitti	^ my 2 cents
12:07	pitti	I think for edgy the plan should be settled and not ripped apart again
12:07	Hobbsee	mdz: looks like a kubuntu meeting :P
12:08	mdz	I support pitti's proposal as well
12:08	pitti	I do see the need to re-discuss and reformulate our 'no open ports' policy
=== mezcalero is the upstream avahi dev, btw. if you have any questions ...
12:08	pitti	i. e. the thread convinced me that our current strictness is not really appropriate
12:08	Keybuk	pitti: does that need to be discussed today?
12:08	mdz	yes, it isn't a simple matter of system calls
12:09	pitti	Keybuk: no, not at all
12:09	pitti	maybe at the next dev summit, or another TB which isn't that long
12:09	mdz	I think that the way forward for avahi is fairly clear; it is a young technology and we would like to experiment with it, but throwing the doors wide would be premature at this point
12:09	pitti	mdz++
12:09	mdz	we'll make it easy to opt in, and take it from there on a more considered basis
12:09	pitti	yesterday I talked to Lennart, and he seems to basically agree, too
12:10	mdz	is there anyone present who has more comments or questions to offer regarding avahi?
12:10	mezcalero	pitti: hmm, agree to what?
12:10	pitti	once it matured a bit and saw some reviews, we should reconsider enabling it by default
12:10	pitti	mezcalero: opt-in for edgy, let it mature a bit, enable by default in a later release
12:10	mezcalero	the underlying technology of avahi is not exactly "new". it has been around in macosx for quite a while now.
12:11	mdz	pitti: indeed, we should consider it in context with the other systems we enable by default, not treat it differently because "that's the way it works"
12:11	pitti	right, but the package is still quite new
12:11	mezcalero	pitti: you're misquoting me there
12:11	pitti	mezcalero: sorry if I did
pitti: i am not a fried of opt-in for avahi
12:11	mezcalero	s/fried/friend/
12:12	Keybuk	mezcalero: right, but the implementation is new ... our current policy is to prevent attack by bugs in software with an open port
12:12	pitti	mezcalero: I'm fully aware that it is not ideal
12:12	pitti	mezcalero: and I do see the advantages of having it on by default
12:12	mezcalero	Keybuk: i know your policy. but i don't like it. ;-)
12:13	pitti	but people need to get used to that feature, and we have to develop and review the applications that use it, too
12:13	pitti	mezcalero: ok, sorry for the misunderstanding then
=== Hirion [n=hirion@draugr.de] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
12:14	Riddell	pitti: does this apply to CUPS discovery too?
12:14	mezcalero	i guess it is an undeniable truth that avahi has been around for a year only
12:14	pitti	so, I'd propose an edgy+1 spec to clean up our service discovery stuff (avahi, dhcp, cups) and make a consistent policy out of it, with considering the apps that make use of these features
12:15	pitti	the latter part does not seem easy at all to me
12:15	mdz	my feeling is that the functionality is compelling enough to justify a thorough review of the security model and software, but not that we should change the policy out of hand
12:15	pitti	(especially with regard to cups browsing and such)
12:15	pitti	Riddell: I don't see why not
12:15	mdz	pitti: it would go well in hand with a new initiative to use this system for automatic integration of standard local network services ;-)
12:16	ogra	ltsp could majorly benefit from avahi in many areas ...
12:17	pitti	ok, so it seems that the ubuntu devs basically all agree, and mezcalero at least won't kill us instantly (and I'm not denying his concerns either, but we have to look at our release schedule)
12:17	mdz	at this point, I'm not prepared to take an explicit decision on changing our security policy to accomodate avahi
12:17	mdz	so if that's the issue on the table, there's little to discuss from my part
12:17	pitti	mdz: I didn't propose to
12:18	pitti	mdz: the current edgy way is to provide an easy way to turn it on and decorate it with a reasonable warning
12:18	Keybuk	pitti: what is the concern for having avahi opt-in?
12:18	Keybuk	I haven't actually seen one
12:18	pitti	Keybuk: I didn't see such a concern
12:18	pitti	Keybuk: i. e. you mean someone argued that even providing an opt-in is too much?
12:18	pitti	(IOW, that we shouldn't use it at all?)
12:18	Keybuk	you spoke of mezcalero's concerns about having it opt-in
12:18	Keybuk	no, concerns that it's opt-in not enabled-by-default
12:19	pitti	Keybuk: well, it defeats the 'zero'conf idea a bit
12:19	mezcalero	pitti: i wonder how this "opt-in" will look like? a checkbox during installation? a checkbox in some obscure configuration menu well hidden? what will be the text on the checkbox?
12:19	pitti	seb128: ^ that's one for you, I think
12:19	seb128	atm we have a checkbox to network-admin
12:20	mezcalero	seb128: what does that checkbox do?
12:20	seb128	but I admit it's not easily discoverable
12:20	pitti	TBH I think that having such an user-educated opt-in is not bad at all, as long as it's discoverable
12:20	mdz	it's "a bit"conf rather than "zero"conf
12:20	Riddell	mezcalero: I added a tickbox to the KDE zeroconf KControl module
12:20	seb128	mezcalero: enable avahi
12:20	mezcalero	seb128: and what does the checkbox text say? i am just wondering how you explain what it enables near the checkbox.
12:20	Riddell	mezcalero: it shows a scary warning message and sets avahi to run
12:20	seb128	mezcalero: the idea is to have it installed by default but not started, it starts when the box is checked
12:20	pitti	seb128: hm, 'avahi' is a bit too abstract
12:21	mezcalero	but who on earth knows what avahi is?
12:21	Riddell	I have "Enable Zeroconf network browsing"
12:21	mezcalero	"avahi" is a term that only very people know what it is
12:21	gnomefreak	server installed by default with kubuntu?
12:21	pitti	but so is zeroconf
12:21	Riddell	gnomefreak: yes, but off
12:21	mezcalero	and what is "zeroconf"?
12:21	gnomefreak	yes
12:21	seb128	the box is "Scan for available services and advertise local services on the network"
12:21	mezcalero	especially since there is this irritating debian package "zeroconf" which complicates everything further
12:22	mdz	seb128: accurate, if verbose
12:22	mezcalero	seb128: and you expect people now what a "service" is?
12:22	seb128	mezcalero: better suggestions are welcome :)
12:22	Keybuk	can we take the UI discussion out of the meeting, please
12:22	mdz	Keybuk: I'm inclined to back pitti's proposal and consider this in depth for a future release
12:22	mezcalero	my point is that zeroconf/avahi ist just too complicated to explain. so in the end nooone will ever enable it becvause noone knows what it is
12:22	Keybuk	unless there's something you would like the TB to decide on, this would be more suitable for #ubuntu-devel
12:23	mezcalero	such a checkbox is pretty much worthless, it's like not making it available at all
12:23	Keybuk	mdz: myself also, I fully back pitti's proposal
12:23	seb128	mezcalero: I'm sure the documentation team will find a way to advertise it to the user guide
12:23	mdz	Keybuk: then we have a consensus
12:23	mezcalero	seb128: who reads users guides? ;-)
12:23	seb128	and make clear what effects it has on some applications like rhythmbox
12:23	Keybuk	ok, that was the last agenda item
12:23	Keybuk	do we have any other business for the TB?
12:23	seb128	mezcalero: users?
12:23	mdz	mezcalero: I acknowledge that the model requires a change in our thinking, but it's something we need to consider more thoroughly and target for a release
12:24	ogra	mezcalero, at least a checkbox is easier to check than installing a package ...
=== gnomefreak [n=ThunderS@ubuntu/member/gnomefreak] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
12:24	pitti	TBH, my mother wouldn't find it, but then again, my mother isn't interested/capable in avahi services either
12:24	mezcalero	ogra: i doubt that
12:24	mdz	I don't think that enabling it by default for edgy is practical
12:24	pitti	if we enable it in 3 months for edgy+1, that should be good
12:24	mezcalero	ogra: think of a normal user. he wants to use that shiny new "zeroconf" tech. would would you do in his case. look for a package or look in the network config tool?
12:24	mdz	I think that concludes the agenda
12:25	mdz	is there any other business to be raised?
12:25	pitti	and collect some experience in the meantime
12:25	mezcalero	s/would/what/
12:25	seb128	mezcalero: read the user guide section about it :p
12:25	seb128	mezcalero: which explains what box to click on
12:25	Keybuk	mdz: it appears not
12:25	mdz	ok, adjourned then
12:26	mdz	thanks to all for the endurance ;-)
=== pitti falls into bed, good night everyone!

</pre>
