{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

   03:32 janimo       hi
   03:34 Gloubiboulga hello janimo
   03:34 janimo       hi Gauvain
   === Hobbsee [n=Hobbsee@ubuntu/member/hobbsee] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:35 janimo       Gloubiboulga: how's xkb progressing?
   03:35 janimo       there's a separate bug on it in LP
   03:36 janimo       maybe you can take a look at that too if you think it's worth it and you got familiar with the code
   03:36 Gloubiboulga still working on it, it should be ready soon
   03:36 janimo       you forgot '(TM)' ;)
   03:36 Gloubiboulga about the variant not displayed ?
   03:36 janimo       yes
   03:36 Gloubiboulga I'll look at this
   03:36 janimo       is that much work?
   03:36 Gloubiboulga don't think so
   03:36 janimo       I mean bug or feature req?
   03:36 Gloubiboulga it's more a feature request
   03:37 Gloubiboulga but if I can add it i will
   03:37 janimo       then  we should just defer it
   03:37 janimo       it is not as important as the layout addition from ui
   03:37 Gloubiboulga I agree :)
   03:37 janimo       so we just bugfix :)
   03:38 janimo       there are a few minor UI bugs on the various plugins, most will probably be deferred as well
   03:38 janimo       I'll concentrate on xfdesktop/gamin bugs instead
   03:38 Gloubiboulga I've not reported it yet, but there's a little bug with clearlooks too
   03:38 janimo       and other bad interactions with gnome volume manager
   03:39 janimo       the engine/theme itself or in the context of xubuntu?
   03:39 janimo       I'll be looking at the xfrun you confirmed today as well
   03:39 Gloubiboulga is there a clearlooks theme ?
   03:40 janimo       Gloubiboulga: clearlooks gtkrc I think
   03:40 janimo       /usr/share/themes/Clearlooks/
   03:40 Gloubiboulga I think it's a theme issue, the colors in the systemload plugin are not displayed
   03:40 janimo       uses the clearlooks engince
   03:40 Gloubiboulga everything is blue
   03:40 janimo       means the system is not loaded :)
   03:40 Gloubiboulga I have the colors with the other themes
   03:40 janimo       ever
   03:41 Gloubiboulga :)
   03:41 janimo       possibly a plugin bug, as clearlooks is better tested I guess
   03:41 janimo       or just a misinteraction between the plugin and this specific theme?
   03:41 Gloubiboulga maybe, it's not a major bug anyway
   03:42 Gloubiboulga misinteraction between the plugin and this specific theme I guess
   === zul [n=chuck@ubuntu/member/zul] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:43 janimo       right one of the plugin bugs. goodies are not all well maintained. I'd say we remove the ones with visual glitches from default install
   03:43 janimo       and just have them on CD
   03:43 janimo       most are geeky anyway (ssyload, cpugraph, wavelan)
   03:43 janimo       what do you say?
   03:43 janimo       it makes the plugin choser dialog less overwhelming too
   03:44 Gloubiboulga It's a minor issue, it doesn't eat a lot of space, I think we can keep the plugins installedd
   03:44 janimo       anyway most should be in main soon
   03:44 janimo       right spacewise they're fine
   03:45 janimo       just most of them don;t yet even have a logo and all have the mouse instead in the chooser
   03:45 janimo       anyway minor issue
   03:45 janimo       most important plugins are all here and working
   03:45 Gloubiboulga yep
   03:47 janimo       we have about 30 bugs reported
   03:48 janimo       and a few unreported in LP but in xfce bugzilla which affect us
   03:49 janimo       of the LP ones, an xfdesktop crasher and print not working from mousepad (or in xfce generally) look the most serious
   03:49 janimo       I'll ask on the list for printing testers
   03:50 Gloubiboulga these bugs has been reported on the Xfce bugzilla too or are xubuntu specific ?
   03:50 janimo       oh and the requirement to get xubuntu-system-tools on the CD, but I am not sure that will happen :(
   03:50 janimo       Gloubiboulga: mostly xubuntu ones, although the xfdesktop g-v-m interaction affects upstream as well
   03:50 Gloubiboulga xubuntu-system-tools is really missing :/
   03:51 janimo       Gloubiboulga: yep, sad that it's not in main
   03:52 janimo       and the plugin bugreports may be in their upstream bugzilla, but their maintenance depdns much on the plugin affected
   03:52 janimo       battery and weather the ones with most reports seem orphaned
   === Hirion [n=hirion@draugr.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:53 Gloubiboulga and the battery plugin is really buggy
   03:53 Gloubiboulga the weather plugin has only a config bug iirc
   03:53 Kamion       I'll promote the other ones with approved main inclusion reports later on today - I need to go out now though
   03:54 janimo       Gloubiboulga: battery worked for me when I used it
   03:55 Gloubiboulga It worked for me too since I don't have batteries :)
   03:55 Gloubiboulga I can't even try to reproduce the bugs
   03:55 janimo       see, most users don't so only a fraction of them is affected :)
   03:56 janimo       I wish gnome-power-manager did not use gnome_session. We could use it then
   === licio [n=licio@ubuntu/member/licio] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:56 janimo       put it in autostart and there, no need for 30 gnome libs
   03:57 janimo       something to talk about for edgy, since the battery plugin is not cutting it. Although last week it has been rewritten with HAL support by one of the xfce devs
   03:57 janimo       it may be better than what we have now
   03:57 Gloubiboulga indeed
   03:58 janimo       anyway, as out main target is old desktops and thin clients battery is not such a big issue.
   03:58 janimo       xfce users on modern hw tend to launch various gnome goodness anyway
   03:58 Gloubiboulga I know that the Xfce devs doen't want to provide too many tools, but keyboard/battery are really usefull and should be part of Xfce imo
   03:58 janimo       g-p-m is just ok for them
   03:59 janimo       I agree, if maintained they'd be a good candidate for core plugins
   03:59 janimo       in-panel
   03:59 Gloubiboulga yes
   03:59 janimo       so maybe you make xkb that good ;)
   03:59 Gloubiboulga I try :)
   === ..[topic/#ubuntu-meeting:Ubugtu] : Current meeting: Xubuntu | Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 18 May 14:00 UTC: Ubuntu Development Team | 22 May 21:00 UTC: Kubuntu | 23 May 20:00 UTC: Technical Board | 24 May 13:30 UTC: Xubuntu | 24 May 20:00 UTC: Edubuntu
   04:00 janimo       anything else to discuss?
   04:01 janimo       any questions?
   04:01 Gloubiboulga no
   04:02 Gloubiboulga my plan is 1. finish the xkb plugin, 2. dive into bugs
   04:02 Gloubiboulga and test installs...
   04:02 janimo       ok, thanks
   04:02 janimo       mine is : dive into bugs :)
   04:03 Gloubiboulga good luck with that :)
   04:03 Gloubiboulga will you upload new svn snapshot ?
   04:03 janimo       and update xubuntu-system-tools to have latest pactehs of g-s-t
   04:03 janimo       new snapshot of what? genrally xfce stuff?
   04:03 Gloubiboulga yes
   04:04 janimo       I think so, since some bugs are fixed upstream, and rather than handpicking them I'd rather upload
   04:04 janimo       there's a crasher in xfwm4 , thunar has quite some fixes too
   04:04 janimo       the other packages are mostly ok, I'll only touch xfdeskto, that has the most issues with removable media and icons generally
   04:05 Gloubiboulga ok
   04:05 Gloubiboulga xfrun is really buggy too
   04:05 janimo       what else does it do?
   04:06 Gloubiboulga it never stops :)
   04:06 janimo       oh?
   04:06 Gloubiboulga when you run an app with it it still runs in background
   04:06 janimo       you mean it is in the background?
   04:06 Gloubiboulga yep
   04:06 janimo       that's a feature not a bug :)
   04:06 Gloubiboulga oops
   04:06 janimo       really it's in the background and when you laucnh it it contacts that daemon using dbus
   04:06 Gloubiboulga ok then :)
   04:07 janimo       so lauch is fast instead of >1second
   04:07 janimo       I worked hard on this feature ;)
   04:07 Gloubiboulga sorry...
   04:07 janimo       don;t you call it a bug!
   04:07 janimo       :)
   04:07 janimo       but the pwd thing I'll need to fix
   === Gloubiboulga apologizes
   04:07 janimo       it is really more responsive than 4.2
   04:08 janimo       np,, I agree it is suspect to be in the background
   04:08 Gloubiboulga I don't use it a lot, since I have the verve plugin installed
   04:08 janimo       Gloubiboulga: which reminds me I need to update it to 0.3.1
   04:08 Kamion       can I just remind that we are deep-freezing on Monday?
   04:08 janimo       it has some fixes as well
   04:09 Kamion       new upstreams are getting increasingly less appropriate :)
   === Hobbsee [n=Hobbsee@ubuntu/member/hobbsee] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Bye!]
   04:09 janimo       Kamion: yup I heard something along those lines :)
   04:09 janimo       Kamion: no new upstream but bugfixes still good right?
   04:10 janimo       or even those restricted to crahser and dataloss bugs starting Monday?
   04:10 Kamion       absolutely critical only
   === mhz [n=mhz@201.236.56.94] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:10 Kamion       from Monday
   04:10 janimo       Kamion: ok, busy weekend then :)
   04:10 Kamion       and at the moment, I would very much recommend bug fixes only
   04:10 janimo       right, that is the case now.
   === luzi [n=luzi@dhcp-203-89-vpn.unizh.ch] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:14 janimo       ok, nothing else I guess.
   04:15 janimo       if so bye everybo^W Gauvain
   04:15 Gloubiboulga see you Jani

</pre>
