{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 27 Sep at 16:00 &mdash; 16:32 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-09-27-16.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:00.

** ''ACTION:'' (jgrimm) Add a url for server release bugs to irc commands for meetings
** ''ACTION:'' (jamespage) checkin with old iscsitarget users on relevancy with new kernels
** ''ACTION:'' (powersj) to put together iso testing signup sheet

==== Yakkety Development ====
The discussion about "Yakkety Development" started at 16:06.

** '''Release Bugs''' (16:08)
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

==== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)" started at 16:15.

** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-y-server-core 
** ''ACTION:'' caribou to take a pass on https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-y-server-core

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)" started at 16:18.

** ''LINK:'' https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/ 

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)" started at 16:21.

==== Upcoming Call For Papers ====
The discussion about "Upcoming Call For Papers" started at 16:22.

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:23.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:25.

** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-z-server-core 

==== Assign daily bug triage for week (powersj, rbasak, nacc, cpaelzer) ====
The discussion about "Assign daily bug triage for week (powersj, rbasak, nacc, cpaelzer)" started at 16:29.

** ''LINK:'' https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/ 

==== Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak) ====
The discussion about "Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak)" started at 16:30.

=== Action items, by person ===

* jamespage
** jamespage checking with old iscsitarget  users on relevancy with new kernels
* jgrimm
** jgrimm  Add a url for server release bugs to irc commands for meetings
* powersj
** powersj to put together iso testing signup sheet

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* caribou
** caribou to take a pass on https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-y-server-core

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* coreycb (66)
* jgrimm (35)
* cpaelzer (11)
* powersj (8)
* caribou (4)
* ubottu (4)
* meetingology (4)
* smoser (3)
* greyback (3)
* nacc (2)
* ogra_ (2)

=== Full Log ===

 16:00 <coreycb> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Sep 27 16:00:22 2016 UTC.  The chair is coreycb. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:00 <meetingology> 

 16:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:00 <coreycb> hi all

 16:00 <coreycb> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:01 <coreycb> jgrimm, Add a url for server release bugs to irc commands for meetings

 16:01 <coreycb> jgrimm, do you have that handy?

 16:01 <coreycb> it used to be there, I think

 16:01 <jgrimm> ok, i spent some time thinking what i want to do there.  i'll leave as is, but look at fixing up the rls-y report if needed, and probably add back the rls-x url for weekly review

 16:02 <jgrimm> coreycb, this was really just a reminder for myself to figure out how to make this a more productive irc meeting.

 16:02 <jgrimm> please change my action to clean up rls-x and add back to agenda

 16:03 <coreycb> jgrimm, ok, will do.  fyi looking at the irc commands I don't see a bug link there.

 16:03 <jgrimm> i started poking people on the rls-x bugs that are sort of stuck in limbo or stale state this morning.

 16:03 <jgrimm> i need to add back the rls-y url then

 16:03 <coreycb> ok

 16:03 <jgrimm> fair to leave the current action then too

 16:03 <coreycb> jamespage, any news on this action item? checkin with old iscsitarget users on relevancy with new kernels

 16:03 <coreycb> greyback, ok

 16:03 <coreycb> whoa, jgrimm ^

 16:04 <jgrimm> hehe

 16:04 <greyback> np

 16:04 <coreycb> greyback, sorry

 16:04 <coreycb> powersj, any news on this action item? to put together iso testing signup sheet

 16:04 * greyback got an invite to this meeting, but no idea why. jibel?

 16:04 <ogra_> greyback, see warthogs ML

 16:04 <powersj> coreycb, done

 16:04 <jgrimm> coreycb, powersj is at a QA sprint this week

 16:05 <jgrimm> may not be available atm

 16:05 <ogra_> greyback, (and wrong channel anyway :P )

 16:05 <jgrimm> but he did accomplish that task

 16:05 <coreycb> powersj, awesome, I'll take it off the list

 16:05 <greyback> ogra_: tnx (heh, true too!)

 16:05 <cpaelzer> more participation at any price

 16:06 <coreycb> jgrimm, he responded so fast I don't think you saw it

 16:06 <jgrimm> coreycb, indeed!!!

 16:06 <coreycb> :)

 16:06 <coreycb> ok moving on

 16:06 <coreycb> #topic Yakkety Development

 16:06 <coreycb> we're in final beta freeze, 2 days from kernel freeze

 16:07 <coreycb> one week and 2 days until final freeze (Oct 6)

 16:07 <coreycb> and release is Oct 13th

 16:07 <jgrimm> yeah, hopefully final beta will release today

 16:08 <coreycb> also, next week is openstack's final release

 16:08 <coreycb> for Newton

 16:08 <coreycb> so that works out, a week before Yakkety

 16:08 <coreycb> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:08 <jgrimm> so on the  subject of final freeze, if there are bugs that we really really need to get in for server..  i want to be aware of them.   hit me on #ubuntu-server or email

 16:09 <coreycb> ok anything else for bugs?  I have no links to share.

 16:09 <jgrimm> the rls-y report is actually very clean

 16:09 <coreycb> er wait there's this: http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:09 <jgrimm> coreycb, thanks

 16:10 <coreycb> jgrimm, I added that link to the irc commands

 16:10 <coreycb> jgrimm, action item done for next week!

 16:10 <jgrimm> smoser is working on this one yet for FF -> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-initramfs-tools/+bug/1493188

 16:10 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1493188 in cloud-utils (Ubuntu Xenial) ""overlayfs" no longer exists" [Medium,Confirmed]

 16:10 <jgrimm> coreycb, :)

 16:11 <smoser> and i need to verify and makr so on the 'overlayroot' piece of that

 16:11 <smoser> and upload the cloud-utils piece (mount-image-callback)

 16:11 <smoser> both will happen today.

 16:11 <jgrimm> thanks smoser

 16:12 <coreycb> not many bugs for ubuntu-server in that list.  bug 1616107 is listed under ubuntu-server but it looks like the kernel team is working on it.

 16:12 <ubottu> bug 1616107 in linux (Ubuntu Xenial) "Kernel oops + system freeze on network-bridge shutdown" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1616107

 16:12 <jgrimm> coreycb, correct.  i screened the list this morning. you can move on

 16:12 <cpaelzer> Y-dev as well - fyi @ rharper: bug 1628101 was a red herring and not due to bug 1626070

 16:12 <ubottu> Error: Could not gather data from Launchpad for bug #1628101 (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1628101). The error has been logged

 16:12 <ubottu> bug 1626070 in qemu (Ubuntu) "Removal of former release machine types breaks VMs using them" [Critical,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1626070

 16:13 <cpaelzer> once read enough of it you realize it is by breaking your local system with a manually built qemu

 16:13 <nacc> hrm, odd, just hit a git-clone failure (not /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates on a fresh yakkety image (might be another bug :)

 16:13 <nacc> definitely worked last week :/

 16:14 <jgrimm> thanks cpaelzer

 16:15 <coreycb> ok thanks, test test test and report bugs for yakkety

 16:15 <coreycb> let's move on

 16:15 <coreycb> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

 16:15 <caribou> coreycb: nothing particular to bring up, thanks!

 16:15 <coreycb> caribou, ok thanks!

 16:15 <coreycb> anything for caribou ?

 16:15 <jgrimm> yes

 16:16 <jgrimm> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-y-server-core

 16:16 <jgrimm> caribou, anything to update there ^^ or i can copy forward to z blueprint

 16:16 <caribou> jgrimm: well, two of them are completed, so I'll mark them as such

 16:17 <caribou> jgrimm: hmm, maybe even three of them, I think that the only one that needs to be carried forward is the secureboot one

 16:17 <caribou> jgrimm: I'll do a pass after the meeting & confirm to you

 16:18 <jgrimm> thanks caribou!!

 16:18 <jgrimm> coreycb, that is all

 16:18 <coreycb> #action caribou to take a pass on https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-y-server-core

 16:18 * meetingology caribou to take a pass on https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-y-server-core

 16:18 <coreycb> thanks caribou

 16:18 <coreycb> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)

 16:19 <powersj> Lots of work on server ISO testing and triage. Yesterday's and today's dailies appear to be passing tests finally. Added i386 slave to server team Jenkins. Currently at QA sprint for the week, I was monitoring the server ISO, but we now have working dailies :)

 16:19 <coreycb> #link https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/

 16:19 <coreycb> \o/

 16:20 <coreycb> thanks powersj

 16:20 <coreycb> anything for powersj ?

 16:21 <coreycb> ok let's move on

 16:21 <coreycb> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)

 16:21 <coreycb> smb, sforshee, arges, hi, anyone around?

 16:22 <coreycb> they must be occupied, so let's move on

 16:22 <coreycb> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers

 16:23 <jgrimm> none from me

 16:23 <coreycb> ok none here either

 16:23 <coreycb> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:23 <coreycb> any events upcoming?

 16:25 <coreycb> #topic Open Discussion

 16:25 <coreycb> does anyone have anything they'd like to bring up?

 16:26 <jgrimm> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-z-server-core

 16:26 <jgrimm> I opened a z blueprint to start putting placeholder workitems against ^^

 16:26 <jgrimm> feel free to add to it as needed

 16:26 <cpaelzer> any deadline once it shall feel complete associated?

 16:27 <jgrimm> will use in the past, as just a common work area

 16:27 <jgrimm> but i'd like to do better about getting a jump on merges in early 17.04 cycle

 16:29 <coreycb> jgrimm, ok thanks

 16:29 <coreycb> #topic Assign daily bug triage for week (powersj, rbasak, nacc, cpaelzer)

 16:29 <powersj> I think we are good here

 16:29 <coreycb> I'm not sure what to do here

 16:29 <coreycb> ok

 16:29 <cpaelzer> assignment for the week is ok

 16:30 <cpaelzer> we covered those who are ou

 16:30 <cpaelzer> t

 16:30 <powersj> just kick nacc and cpaelzer to do their stuff :P

 16:30 <cpaelzer> except anybody want to take another bug to work on?

 16:30 <coreycb> nacc, cpaelzer: do your stuff

 16:30 <cpaelzer> any hands raising?

 16:30 <powersj> \o/

 16:30 <jgrimm> i've updated spreadsheet for my items already

 16:30 <cpaelzer> ok

 16:30 <cpaelzer> then we are good for the week

 16:30 <coreycb> cpaelzer, thanks

 16:30 <coreycb> #topic Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak)

 16:31 <coreycb> looks like rbasak isn't online

 16:31 <powersj> he is out

 16:31 <powersj> quick sidebar: thought we were going to remove these two topics

 16:31 <jgrimm> oops. mey previous comment was for this ^^  spreadsheet updated

 16:31 <jgrimm> powersj, definitely the triage

 16:31 <powersj> ok

 16:31 <coreycb> ok do we want to cover anything here or should we skip this?

 16:32 <jgrimm> coreycb, skip along

 16:32 <coreycb> alright

 16:32 <coreycb> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 16:32 <coreycb> Same time same place next week

 16:32 <coreycb> Thanks everyone!

 16:32 <coreycb> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
