{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary ===
* The Ohio US ``Lo``Co``Team is welcomed as official ``Lo``Co``Team
The following candidates were approved as members, welcome aboard!
* Stéphane Graber
* Emilio Pozuelo
* Belinda Lopez
* Jeremy Austin Bardo

=== Log ===
TZ UTC-5
<pre>
(06:06:41 PM) sabdfl: so who's running the show?
(06:06:58 PM) mc44: you :)
(06:06:58 PM) sabdfl: any other CC members here?
(06:06:59 PM) gnomefreak: evening sabdfl
(06:07:07 PM) gnomefreak: sabdfl: who are they?
(06:07:26 PM) sabdfl: Seveas: agenda is looking great these days
(06:07:28 PM) sabdfl: crisp and clean!
(06:07:29 PM) gnomefreak: still the same members? because elmo mako and seveas seem to be away
(06:07:39 PM) pochu: gnomefreak: https://launchpad.net/~communitycouncil
(06:07:56 PM) sabdfl: we have the LP folks working on a poll system that we can use for the expansion of the CC
(06:08:03 PM) sabdfl: hi elmo
(06:08:10 PM) elmo: hi, sorry I'm late
(06:08:17 PM) gnomefreak: pochu: nope cjwatson had his last half meeting last meeting i think
(06:08:42 PM) pochu: gnomefreak: oh, then the LP team is out-of-date :)
(06:11:05 PM) MikeB-: The Ohio team is here, but have not seen Belinda of the Ubuntu Women Project
(06:11:15 PM) dinda: I'm here - dinda
(06:11:15 PM) sabdfl: colin has been very patient waiting for me to sort out the nominations + voting but i don't expect him to be here
(06:11:19 PM) pleia2: O
(06:11:19 PM) dinda: so is Pleia2
(06:11:21 PM) sabdfl: hey dinda
(06:11:23 PM) pleia2: I'm here too
(06:11:27 PM) sabdfl: should we get things going?
(06:11:40 PM) SD-Plissken: sure
(06:11:46 PM) elmo: is mako around?
(06:11:49 PM) gnomefreak: sabdfl: if you think 2 is good were ready
(06:12:29 PM) sabdfl: edzachary
(06:13:11 PM) sabdfl: i've msg'd him, he'll join us if he can
(06:13:18 PM) sabdfl: elmo, happy to go with just us?
(06:13:36 PM) elmo: sabdfl: *shrug* if you like, sure
(06:13:45 PM) dinda: I think we got almost everything for the UW project cleared up now
(06:14:36 PM) dinda: Good to hear that Vid is still around, if on the mend
(06:14:59 PM) pleia2: yes, the absense had us pretty concerned
(06:15:08 PM) PriceChild left the room.
(06:15:17 PM) sabdfl: many of our groups have gone through a lurch like that
(06:15:26 PM) sabdfl: where we realise we need to expand the team watching things
(06:15:33 PM) sabdfl: glad this went smoothly
(06:15:43 PM) sabdfl: and hope vidya's on the mend
(06:15:51 PM) sabdfl: dinda: you said there were some loose ends?
(06:15:59 PM) dinda: we're still in need of more admins and perhaps some channel ops
(06:16:18 PM) dinda: final thing was to ask if the UW wiki can be linked ot the main wiki
(06:16:40 PM) dinda: right now it's separate and I'm afraid we are duplicating effort in some areas
(06:17:15 PM) elmo: dinda: there's no way that I'm aware of to have searches span two distinct moin wikis
(06:17:22 PM) dinda: Elkbuntu mentioned that perhaps it can be linked like the kubuntu or edubuntu ones
(06:17:35 PM) dinda: ah
(06:17:46 PM) elmo: dinda: the kubuntu and edubuntu wikis are in fact the ubuntu wiki with a different theme
(06:18:25 PM) sabdfl: would be perfectly possible to do the same for the U-W wiki
(06:18:25 PM) dinda: hmmm, then we may pursue merging the UW one back into the main wiki. . .
(06:18:37 PM) sabdfl: but dinda the downside is a really really noisy RecentChanges page, iirc
(06:18:55 PM) sabdfl: being in the main wiki is best, imo, if language isn't an issue
(06:19:22 PM) dinda: pleia2 - any thoughts?
(06:19:31 PM) pleia2: I think we should work on moving back to the main wiki
(06:20:04 PM) sabdfl: in terms of additional admins, you will need to cultivate that interest internally
(06:20:15 PM) sabdfl: is there anything specific the CC can help with?
(06:20:31 PM) pleia2: I don't think so, we're coming along with that, just not quite there yet
(06:20:54 PM) gnomefreak: dinda: if you join #ubuntu-ops or talk to seveas or nalioth im sure the /ops/ part of it can be worked out
(06:20:54 PM) sabdfl: ok. well done on negotiating the latest bump in the road, i think you are on your way now
(06:20:55 PM) dinda: yip -we came b/c of the note in the agenda - thought we were done last time ;)
(06:21:19 PM) sabdfl: ah. way I readit, i thought you'd PUT the note in the agenda!
(06:21:25 PM) sabdfl: np
(06:21:30 PM) sabdfl: should we move on?
(06:21:36 PM) dinda: thanks
(06:21:49 PM) sabdfl: is stephen stalcuphere?
(06:22:03 PM) Vorian: sabdfl, hello
(06:22:21 PM) Vorian: you ready for the ohio team?
(06:22:27 PM) Vorian: Hello from the ohio team!  Here is our application page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/ApprovalApplication. You can find all our links on our wiki home page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam.
(06:22:35 PM) sabdfl: hey Vorian
(06:22:43 PM) sabdfl: starting an underground movement over there?
(06:22:50 PM) Vorian: :)
(06:22:58 PM) Vorian: doing our best.
(06:23:07 PM) sabdfl: :-)
(06:23:32 PM) sabdfl: what are buckeyes?
(06:23:47 PM) skippy: nuts from a Buckeye tree
(06:23:53 PM) Vorian: ohio state university
(06:23:59 PM) skippy: or, chocolate covered peanut butter balls.  yummy!
(06:24:16 PM) meatballhat: the chocolate + PB versions are better ;-)
(06:24:21 PM) SD-Plissken: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ohio_Buckeye
(06:24:52 PM) sabdfl: that's funny, skippy is a kind of peanut butter where i come from
(06:24:59 PM) Vorian: lol
(06:25:00 PM) sabdfl: tagline: yippy for skippy!
(06:25:01 PM) gnomefreak: here too
(06:25:07 PM) skippy: same here, sabdfl.  I'm _extra_ smooth.  ;)
(06:25:08 PM) PWill: haha
(06:25:12 PM) sabdfl: i think skippy is a bot
(06:25:18 PM) sabdfl: lurks in various channels
(06:25:22 PM) sabdfl: listening for nut references
(06:25:25 PM) sabdfl: very cunning
(06:25:30 PM) skippy: I've been discovered!
(06:25:44 PM) sabdfl: ok, ohio, seriously
(06:26:07 PM) SD-Plissken: wait a sec sabdfl is a peanut butter and jelly fan.. no way..
(06:26:18 PM) Vorian: I'll repost the links :)
(06:26:32 PM) sabdfl: totally
(06:26:33 PM) MikeB-: its Peanut Butter Jelly Time
(06:26:41 PM) Vorian: our application page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/ApprovalApplication. You can find all our links on our wiki home page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam.
(06:26:42 PM) Moniker42: MikeB-, noooo
(06:26:45 PM) ***beuno cheers for the ohio team, Vorian and meatballhat have put a lot of work into it
(06:27:22 PM) Vorian: we would also like sabdfl to consider visiting the Ohio Linuxfest this September :)
(06:27:34 PM) sabdfl: it's become quite a legendary event
(06:27:35 PM) skippy: formal invitation is forthcoming from the appropriate channels.
(06:27:42 PM) elkbuntu: i have to go now, but *cheer* for dinda for when you get to her :)
(06:27:44 PM) ***ausimage was waiting for him to invite sabdfl
(06:27:52 PM) sabdfl: september's not good for me though! but separate issue
(06:27:53 PM) Brady_M_at_work: Vorian: sorry for getting here late.
(06:27:59 PM) sabdfl: vorian, how spread out is the ohio team?
(06:28:01 PM) PWill: skippy and I are both on the Ohio Linux Fest team, and others on the team have also thought that would be a good idea, sabdfl
(06:28:11 PM) sabdfl: is it mostly columbus, or is it quite spread across the state?
(06:28:20 PM) Vorian: 4 metro areas, no more than an hour and a half apart each
(06:28:24 PM) sabdfl: night fernando
(06:28:33 PM) sabdfl: is it a very big state?
(06:28:34 PM) Vorian: sabdfl, I live in a rural area of Ohio
(06:28:44 PM) MikeB-: PWill: is it still connected to the Ham Radio Fest?
(06:28:44 PM) Vorian: Not that big
(06:28:46 PM) jacobmp92: sabdfl: not too big
(06:28:59 PM) ausimage: the top is too wide, though ;)
(06:29:01 PM) Vorian: Very populace however.
(06:29:27 PM) sabdfl: ok
(06:29:41 PM) sabdfl: we'll i' +1 on the application, i can see the team is very well organised
(06:29:58 PM) skippy: MikeB-, Ohio Linux Fest is not connected to the HamFest.
(06:30:04 PM) elmo: yeah, +1 from me too - impressive growth too, to be nearly 90 members in what 3-4 months?
(06:30:06 PM) Vorian: thanks sabdfl :)
(06:30:15 PM) Vorian: thanks elmo :)
(06:30:27 PM) MikeB-:  the Loco app looks great, and the Ohio team has been very active on the forums
(06:30:30 PM) Zelut: Ohio is setting a big example for the other US Teams, even us established teams!
(06:30:39 PM) Vorian: elmo, yes, ubuntuforums have been a great engine for our growth
(06:30:52 PM) ***Zelut gives Vorian a playful glare for making the other teams look so small :)
(06:30:54 PM) theidiotthatisme: Ubuntuforums allowed me to discover the Ohio Team, and so far I've been loving it :-)
(06:31:15 PM) MikeB-: theidiotthatisme: great to hear, Woot!
(06:32:24 PM) sabdfl: yes, it's interesting how the ohio team seems to make very good use of the forums
(06:32:32 PM) sabdfl: vorian, did you start out in the community in the forums?
(06:32:53 PM) Vorian: sabdfl, launchpad was first
(06:33:13 PM) Vorian: the forums shortly after our formation
(06:33:20 PM) sabdfl: nice
(06:33:23 PM) meatballhat: I'm hesitant to cheer too much, having just been member-ized, but the Ohio LoCo Team is easily the most positive volunteer organization I've ever been a part of :D
(06:33:25 PM) PWill: sabdfl: Within about a month, we got http://ohio.ubuntu-us.org/
(06:33:28 PM) sabdfl: Vorian: what's your top LP gripe?
(06:33:30 PM) jacobmp92: the forums were the biggest source of mebers, including me :)
(06:33:42 PM) Vorian: sabdfl, its a bit slow sometimes
(06:33:59 PM) sabdfl: hmm... we're trying to figure out how to avoid having to use ssl all the time
(06:34:07 PM) Vorian: other than that, i wish it were open source :)
(06:34:10 PM) sabdfl: are you in the beta group?
(06:34:28 PM) Vorian: sabdfl, not now... :)
(06:34:44 PM) PriceChild: I could help you apply for the launchpad beta later Vorian.
(06:34:52 PM) Vorian: ty PriceChild :)
(06:34:57 PM) sabdfl: cool
(06:35:03 PM) sabdfl: ok, well done ohio!
(06:35:05 PM) sabdfl: next?
(06:35:06 PM) Vorian: I would love to help
(06:35:13 PM) ***pochu congratulates the Ohio Team :)
(06:35:19 PM) meatballhat: yay!
(06:35:27 PM) Vorian: thanks sabdfl!
(06:35:30 PM) ***ausimage congrats to Vorian and Ohio
(06:35:39 PM) nixternal: Ohio! </drew carey voice>
(06:35:57 PM) SD-Plissken: Congrats Vorian and the Ohio team.
(06:35:26 PM) sabdfl: 5 member candidates
(06:35:44 PM) sabdfl: should we take it from the top?
(06:35:49 PM) sabdfl: stgraber: ping, you're up!
(06:35:53 PM) stgraber: yep, thank you
(06:35:55 PM) stgraber: Good evening everyone. I'm Stéphane Graber, I use Linux for 6-7 years (I can't remember precisely) and Ubuntu since Warty Warthog. I'm a student in the CPLN in Neuchâtel. I'm currently testing Feisty's betas and reporting bugs when I can, I'm also testing a bit the Launchpad beta. I recently started learning python (I'm more a perl or PHP developer) and did a small Pastebin client that's now in Feisty's universe (pastebinit).
(06:35:56 PM) ***Zelut laughs at nixternal 
(06:36:01 PM) stgraber: I'm also involved in local activities which includes helping new linux users in general (as we are some Debian/Ubuntu users we usually propose Ubuntu as a first distribution) and the Phoenix project (more information on my wiki page).
(06:36:05 PM) stgraber: My wiki page is : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/stgraber
(06:36:08 PM) stgraber: As I think I'm now quite involved in pushing Ubuntu to a top distribution I'd really like to become a Ubuntu Member.
(06:37:06 PM) sabdfl: stgraber: i think i'm just around the corner from you now
(06:38:17 PM) sabdfl: nice wiki page
(06:38:22 PM) stgraber: thank you
(06:38:29 PM) MikeB-: stgraber: very nice wiki
(06:38:33 PM) stgraber: I copied a little bit nixternal's one :)
(06:38:35 PM) sabdfl: stgraber: have you proposed the swiss-french patch to cjwatson so it will be in feisty?
(06:38:42 PM) nixternal: haha
(06:38:53 PM) mako: sorry i'm late everyone
(06:38:54 PM) nixternal: oi mako
(06:39:00 PM) sabdfl: hey mako
(06:39:02 PM) stgraber: sabdfl: this keyboard issue is fixed in feisty
(06:39:04 PM) stgraber: hi mako
(06:39:18 PM) sabdfl: mako: we're on the first of 5 membership applications
(06:39:39 PM) stgraber: sabdfl: In fact I proposed the patch but it was too late for Edgy and then it's fixed in Feisty
(06:39:50 PM) gnomefreak: hi mako
(06:40:24 PM) sabdfl: i'm+1 on stgraber - he's been interested since early days and is quite an active participate: https://bugs.beta.launchpad.net/~stgraber/+subscribedbugs
(06:40:35 PM) sabdfl: (drop the beta for those folks not in the beta program)
(06:42:04 PM) stgraber: thank you sabdfl
(06:42:18 PM) elmo: +1
(06:42:38 PM) ***mako is catching up still a bit
(06:43:01 PM) stgraber: mako: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/stgraber if you want to have a look
(06:43:15 PM) sabdfl: stgraber: snowing over there too?
(06:43:30 PM) stgraber: no, that's quite a problem in fact
(06:43:34 PM) stgraber: not enough snow this winter
(06:43:35 PM) mako: stgraber: that's what i'm looking at
(06:43:48 PM) sabdfl: stgraber: https://bugs.beta.launchpad.net/banshee/+bug/62842
(06:43:48 PM) mako: alright, +1 from me too
Ubugtu: Malone bug 62842 in rhythmbox "daap with itunes 7 doesn't work correctly" [Low,Confirmed]
(06:43:58 PM) doko_ left the room (quit: Read error: 110 (Connection timed out)).
(06:44:01 PM) sabdfl: i see you're interested in quite a few bugs that are linked to upstreams
(06:44:12 PM) sabdfl: do you have any ideas about how we can improve the way we work with upstreams?
(06:44:49 PM) stgraber: Having a responsable for each package or group of package who will do the communication part with upstream
(06:45:06 PM) stgraber: but maybe someone else than the packager or maintainer
(06:45:21 PM) sabdfl: right - someone primarily to "build a bridge" between the communities
(06:45:26 PM) sabdfl: i agree very strongly
(06:45:30 PM) stgraber: yes, that's the idea
(06:45:38 PM) sabdfl: ok
(06:45:42 PM) sabdfl: welcome aboard!
(06:45:49 PM) ***pochu hugs stgraber :)
(06:45:49 PM) MikeB-: stgraber: an Dev-Upstream Team, good idea
(06:45:51 PM) stgraber: thank you very much everyone
(06:46:17 PM) MikeB-: stgraber: grats
(06:46:22 PM) stgraber: MikeB-: thx
(06:46:08 PM) sabdfl: pochu: spotlight on you!
(06:46:13 PM) pochu: well :)
(06:46:19 PM) pochu: Hello everybody :) I'm Emilio Pozuelo, aka pochu. This is my wiki page ---> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EmilioPozuelo . As you can see there, I'm a bugfighter :) I like to triage bugs, and am learning packaging, so I fix some (not very difficult) bugs. Also, I'm an ISO testing team member, and I'm helping heno with the team.
(06:46:30 PM) pochu: I'm also a SpanishTeam admin (but just since one week or so). We are having a little problems in the team, but jono is helping us, so I hope we can solve them the best way for the team :) And a Spanish Translators member (which was one of my first contributions to the Ubuntu community, because I didn't know too much about bug triaging and packaging).
(06:47:22 PM) sabdfl: pochu: do the spanish ubuntu + kubuntu translation teams work well together?
(06:47:58 PM) pochu: sabdfl: yeah, the team was owned by carlos till today, when he has step down to the oldest member of the team
(06:48:35 PM) pochu: sabdfl: there is just one spanish translators team -> https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-es
(06:48:45 PM) seb128: I can confirm that pochu is doing some good job on bug triage
(06:48:49 PM) sabdfl: pochu: 58 bugs in compiz! just as well we ducked on compiz-by-default, you think?
(06:49:09 PM) gnomefreak: he shows up often in my email from bugs :)
(06:49:27 PM) sabdfl: https://bugs.beta.launchpad.net/~pochu/+assignedbugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&field.status%3Alist=Fix+Released&field.owner=&field.status_upstream=&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch.used=&field.tag=upload&search=Search
(06:49:28 PM) ***Adri2000 agrees with seb128 :)
(06:49:32 PM) sabdfl: erk
(06:49:35 PM) sabdfl: horribl url!
(06:49:39 PM) sabdfl: unnecessarily so
(06:49:45 PM) pochu: hehe
(06:49:46 PM) sabdfl: nonetheless, looks like very good work
(06:49:58 PM) sabdfl: pochu, are you en-route to becoming motu too?
(06:50:00 PM) seb128: sabdfl: look at the subscribed list rather
(06:50:14 PM) sabdfl: is development and bug triage your primary focus?
(06:50:20 PM) pochu: sabdfl: yeah, I would like, but first I want to learn more packaging, since I'm still a little newbie :)
(06:50:32 PM) pochu: sabdfl: yes, they are :)
(06:51:03 PM) sabdfl: ok, cool for +1 for membership from me, and look forward to seeing you in launchpad.net/~motu
(06:51:47 PM) mako: yes, absoultely, it looks great.. +1 from me too
(06:51:48 PM) pochu: sabdfl: that link is about bugs I've fixed with an upload :)
(06:51:59 PM) elmo: +1
(06:52:37 PM) mako: wonderful
(06:52:42 PM) gnomefreak: pochu: congrats
(06:52:45 PM) mako: pochu: welcome
(06:52:52 PM) MikeB-: pochu: congrats
(06:52:52 PM) pochu: thanks everybody :)
(06:52:57 PM) sabdfl: welcome aboard, pochu!
(06:52:59 PM) mako: pochu: thanks for your work on ubuntu so far :)
(06:53:00 PM) ***pochu hugs the channel :)
(06:53:06 PM) DktrKranz: we were late :(
(06:53:13 PM) seb128: pochu: congrat
(06:53:14 PM) DktrKranz: anyway, congrats pochu :)
(06:53:23 PM) beuno: congrats pochu!
(06:52:50 PM) mako: dinda: you're next
(06:52:58 PM) dinda: I?m Belinda/Dinda Lopez from Galveston, Texas.  I?ve been following the project for over a year become increasingly active over the past six months. I went to the UDS Paris event to see if the project to investigate if the project had some real legs under it and try to find out what this whole open source thing is about. My wiki is: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BelindaLopez
(06:53:30 PM) dinda: My main interests were in the areas of training and education but that soon led to other events, more research and falling into the Ubuntu Women?s project.  I?ve also helped organize the Houston Loco Team and am trying to help with the Texas Team bringing together the Dallas, Houston and Austin folks under one umbrella.
(06:53:32 PM) sabdfl: i'll vouch for dinda, who has made a great contribution in a number of areas, most recently U-W
(06:53:45 PM) dinda: Thanks sabdfl!
(06:54:16 PM) dinda: others left cheers on my wiki page
(06:54:44 PM) pleia2: yes, dinda has done extensive work with U-W these past few months, we have really appreciated her efforts
(06:54:50 PM) mako: dinda: so we saw you recently on opening up the ubuntu women team
(06:54:54 PM) mako: dinda: how ha that been going?
(06:55:12 PM) dinda: It's going really well, lots of new folks interested in helping
(06:55:20 PM) dinda: and several leading new projects
(06:55:35 PM) pleia2: dinda: many of which you're spearheading
(06:55:38 PM) dinda: we're working on a membership drive around International Women's Day on March 8
(06:55:43 PM) pleia2: which is excellent :)
(06:56:10 PM) mako: great, i love the testimonials on your wiki page :)
(06:56:28 PM) dinda: the pilot event was great - but cold!
(06:56:43 PM) mako: wonderful :)
(06:56:58 PM) sabdfl: dinda: what's Sakai?
(06:57:00 PM) dinda: so I hope Spain will have much better weather :)
(06:57:07 PM) dinda: Sakai is like Moodle
(06:57:07 PM) elmo: dinda: it will
(06:57:09 PM) alex_muntada: pochu: enhorabuena!
(06:57:23 PM) dinda: several Universities are developing it open source
(06:57:28 PM) sabdfl: elmo's been down there to "network" ;-)
(06:57:40 PM) sabdfl: (i.e. soak up the sun, i think ;-))
(06:57:46 PM) pochu: alex_muntada: gracias ^_^
(06:57:56 PM) dinda: there is never enuff sun. . .or sangria  ;)
(06:58:03 PM) sabdfl: very positive +1 for me for dinda
(06:58:19 PM) elmo: yeah, likewise
(06:59:15 PM) mako: yes, +1 from for dinda
(06:59:21 PM) dinda: thanks all!
(06:59:26 PM) pleia2: congrats dinda!
(06:59:30 PM) mako: it's been nice to see you so many times in so many places aro8und the world :)
(06:59:37 PM) MikeB-: dinda: congrats
(06:59:46 PM) atoponce: dinda: congrats
(06:59:47 PM) gnomefreak: dinda: congrats
(06:59:51 PM) dinda: yip - I see you folks more than my family :)
(06:59:56 PM) mako: and i'm excited about the progress on u-w and looking forward to your day in march
(06:59:56 PM) pochu: dinda: congrats :)
(07:00:02 PM) stgraber: dinda: grats
(07:00:08 PM) Vorian: congrats dinda :)
(07:00:10 PM) dinda: we'll be getting the word out now
(07:00:25 PM) mako: i'll try to drop by any of the irc events
(07:00:40 PM) sabdfl: welcome, dinda!
(07:00:48 PM) dinda: Thanks Mark
(07:01:13 PM) dinda: I'm really looking forward to the next few months - I've already learned so much
(07:01:32 PM) sabdfl: i suspect you have much to teach too
(07:01:40 PM) sabdfl: ausimage: you're up!
(07:01:41 PM) ausimage: I am Jeremy Austin-Bardo and an advocate of Ubuntu and Linux. I am the admin for ubuntu-scribes and a supportive member of the NewYorkTeam loco. I also give feedback on bugs and features in Ubuntu and Ubuntu distro+1.
(07:01:47 PM) ausimage: Read my wiki page, http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Ausimage  for details.
(07:01:56 PM) sabdfl: tell us about ubuntu-scribes?
(07:02:01 PM) atoponce: i'm here to cheer for ausimage. the scribes team is a great idea, and his involvement helps centralize irc meeting minutes through MootBot, which is already in this channel.  cool stuff!  cool guy!
(07:02:24 PM) ***PriceChild would love a small demo of mootboot
(07:02:31 PM) ausimage: Ahh the Scribes.. We are here to help enhance and augment the meeting process mostly in IRC
(07:02:32 PM) gnomefreak: we (ubuntu-mozillateam) are using the bot for meetins :)
(07:02:42 PM) mako: ausimage: did we meet last week at ubucon?
(07:02:49 PM) ausimage: no
(07:03:08 PM) mako: ah, too bad
(07:03:11 PM) ausimage: could not get there unfortunately
(07:03:23 PM) gnomefreak: PriceChild: join here on monday march 6th at 18:00UTC and it will be in use
(07:03:23 PM) ausimage: You will have to come Upstate mako
(07:03:42 PM) mako: ausimage: i live in boston, it might even be closer :)
(07:03:44 PM) sabdfl: what's MootBot?
(07:04:07 PM) Seeker`_: sabdfl: The bot that I have written to try to make recording of meetings easier
(07:04:08 PM) ausimage: Ah Mootbot is Seeker`_ contribution to ScribesTeam
(07:04:14 PM) mako: i have to say, the scribes project is coolest projects in ubuntu i've run across in a while :)
(07:04:17 PM) Seeker`_: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam/MootBot
(07:04:22 PM) gnomefreak: sabdfl: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam/MootBot
(07:04:26 PM) ausimage: he AndrewWilliams have really made it great
(07:04:26 PM) gnomefreak: oops late
(07:04:32 PM) mako: as someone who had scribe duties as part of my job for a while, i can appreciate the time and energy that goes into it :)
(07:04:39 PM) dinda: scribes is awesome
(07:04:44 PM) ausimage: I know ...
(07:04:48 PM) ***Vorian cheers for ausimage. He has done a ton of work that no one will ever know about, but all will appreciate.  He is an unsung hero.
(07:04:56 PM) Seeker`_: ausimage is very hard working, and he has put a lot of time and effort into starting this team
(07:05:02 PM) Seeker`_: and he is always coming up with new ideas
(07:05:22 PM) ausimage: Yeah I am now involving myself in NewYorkTeam as well
(07:05:28 PM) dinda: since Seveas isn't here - Is anyone doing the LP account updates?
(07:05:43 PM) elmo: I can do that
(07:05:53 PM) mako: elmo: thanks :)
(07:06:12 PM) sabdfl: oh, that bot rocks!
(07:06:22 PM) gnomefreak: it is pretty cool
(07:06:29 PM) atoponce: yeah. the features are really really cool
(07:06:41 PM) Moniker42: voting :)
(07:06:55 PM) sabdfl: 1 from me for ausimage. this sort of work is phenomenal "glue" to help communities stay together even as they grow
(07:07:15 PM) ausimage: say sabdfl how is blog post for the ScribesTeam coming
(07:07:16 PM) sabdfl: sorry, that was a +1 not just a plain 1 :-)
(07:07:44 PM) ausimage: sure not more than that ??? ;)
(07:07:45 PM) sabdfl: ah, i promised to blog about your work, didn't i? can you mail me some url's to examples of the work?
(07:08:04 PM) ausimage: ah sure your addie??
(07:08:32 PM) Moniker42: you can get +2s? ;)
(07:08:55 PM) ***ausimage thought is was worth a shot ;)
(07:09:30 PM) ***ausimage thinks there should be a 'pimp my profile' contest :)
(07:09:55 PM) ***Moniker42 looks for sabdfl's blog, wonders why the first link for "sabdfl" on google is to the wikipedia page on Guido van Rossum...
(07:10:19 PM) sabdfl: mark AT ubuntu DOT com will reach me
(07:10:31 PM) ausimage: I will put on the to do list :)
(07:10:34 PM) Monk-e: Moniker42: because Guido is my first name! ^^ ;)
(07:10:44 PM) ***Seeker`_ wonders if he should apply for membership next time round
(07:10:56 PM) ***ausimage thinks so
(07:11:06 PM) elmo: +1
(07:11:08 PM) ***Vorian cheers for Seeker`_ 
(07:11:15 PM) ausimage: thanks elmo
(07:12:16 PM) mako: yes, this all looks fantastic
(07:12:29 PM) mako: i learned a lot about a couple teams i'd only heard about too
(07:12:33 PM) mako: ausimage: thanks for all your work
(07:12:34 PM) mako: +1 from me
(07:12:40 PM) Vorian: congrats ausimage! :)
(07:12:46 PM) ausimage: YEAH YEAH YEAH :D
(07:12:48 PM) sabdfl: welcome aboard!
(07:12:51 PM) Seeker`_: well done ausimage
(07:12:57 PM) ausimage: thank you all
(07:12:57 PM) mako: yes welcome!
(07:12:58 PM) irvin: \o/
(07:13:12 PM) MikeB-: ausimage: congrats
(07:13:12 PM) ***pochu hugs ausimage :-)
(07:13:16 PM) ***beuno cheers for ausimage!  congrats!
(07:13:16 PM) ausimage: Anyone interested in Scribes drop by
(07:13:02 PM) sabdfl: SO!
(07:13:11 PM) sabdfl: s|g: you're on
(07:13:15 PM) s|g: I'm a sysadmin and web developer from Hungary. I've been using OSS for a long time now (first distro was Debian Boo). I've tried many linux distros (Slackware, Gentoo, SuSE etc.), and BSDs, and since Warty do I use Ubuntu, and I'm very satisfied with it so far.
(07:13:15 PM) s|g: I'm translator of many OSS projects (gimp, openoffice.org, icewm, drupal etc), and now I'm the leader of the Hungarian Ubuntu Translation Team.
(07:13:25 PM) s|g: I'm founder and contributor of many Hungarian OSS communities (gimp.hu, drupal.hu, Hungarian BSD Association). I spoke at Open Source conferences in Hungary about various topics (Hungarian Ubuntu Conference, Linux Conference, Fsf Roadshow).
(07:13:33 PM) s|g: In the future I'd like to contribute more: helping in community building and developing and translating and writing Ubuntu documentation and HOWTOs
(07:13:33 PM) s|g: The person here to support me is Szilveszter Farkas (phanatic).
(07:13:33 PM) s|g: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GaborSuveg
(07:15:04 PM) elmo: s|g: are the hungarian ubuntu translation team using launchpad/rosetta?
(07:15:07 PM) phanatic: s|g has been a valuable member of the hungarian community for more than a year now... and his contributions to foss in hungary is pretty significant
(07:15:27 PM) s|g: elmo: yes.
(07:15:49 PM) mako: that's kind of funny that you brought a phanatic to support you
(07:15:59 PM) phanatic: mako: :))
(07:16:02 PM) sabdfl: phanatical support!
(07:16:06 PM) sabdfl: sounds like rackspace
(07:16:07 PM) s|g: ;)
(07:16:08 PM) mako: sabdfl: in fact :)
(07:16:30 PM) sabdfl: s|g: is your primary focus advocacy?
(07:16:38 PM) phanatic: he's really one of our best men :)
(07:16:46 PM) elmo: s|g: ok - just noticing that you haven't been using rosetta yourself much lately/yet... (not that it's in any way a requirement of course, just interesting to me that someone so  involved in translations hasn't used it much so far)
(07:16:52 PM) elmo: mako: phanboy was busy
(07:17:01 PM) s|g: sabdfl: yes
(07:17:52 PM) s|g: elmo: yes. im love better locale translating, but all is committed into ubuntu
(07:17:57 PM) mako: the website forums, etc is is impressive
(07:18:07 PM) mako: s|g: which parts can you take credit for?
(07:18:23 PM) sabdfl: there seems to be a really strong community in Hungary - any particular driver for that?
(07:18:49 PM) s|g: mako: first i/we want to build the ubuntu.hu
(07:19:19 PM) phanatic: sabdfl: you mean a person by 'driver'?
(07:21:27 PM) pleia2 left the room.
(07:21:55 PM) mako: s|g: what came second?
(07:22:16 PM) mako: i've seen a lot of great stuff on the webiste, i'm just tryin to figure out what your role was
(07:22:31 PM) s|g: help within forum
(07:22:55 PM) phanatic: now he's responsible for our drupal-based site (which is under heavy development)
(07:22:57 PM) mako: s|g: do you have a user page within the forum?
(07:22:57 PM) s|g: mako: we reorganize .hu website, clean all howto, wiki etc.
(07:23:04 PM) mako: ah, ok
(07:23:07 PM) mako: where is that site?
(07:23:45 PM) phanatic: http://barack.fsf.hu:11080/ -- only the theme is in its place
(07:23:45 PM) s|g: mako: can i give you access.
(07:24:07 PM) mako: phanatic: it looks nice
(07:24:13 PM) mako: s|g: i don't know, can you?
(07:24:32 PM) phanatic: mako: actually it needs some tricks
(07:24:36 PM) s|g: mako: this is the tableless ubuntu skin
(07:24:45 PM) mako: yes
(07:25:10 PM) s|g: mako: with this url you cant login into drupal. you need put line into host file ;)
(07:25:16 PM) mako: ah, ok
(07:25:19 PM) mako: that's a bit much
(07:25:24 PM) mako: you can tell me
(07:25:28 PM) phanatic: because the dns entry still doesn't point to this site, and cookies screw up :)
(07:25:47 PM) phanatic: so it's a bit complicated as of now
(07:25:50 PM) mako: i'm just trying to figure out which parts you've contributed to the website so far
(07:26:04 PM) s|g: we finished with virtual machine in this weekend
(07:26:04 PM) mako: you say that a bunch of your work has been on ubuntu.hu
(07:26:22 PM) mako: and just looking to see examples of things you've done on ubuntu .hu to date
(07:26:23 PM) s|g: drupal part, skining
(07:26:25 PM) mako: it doesn't have to be the new stuff
(07:26:51 PM) mako: have you written content for hte existing site? there is lots of stuff up there
(07:27:05 PM) s|g: we would integrate the i18n part into new site
(07:27:09 PM) mako: have you participated in the forums?
(07:27:31 PM) mako: can you post a link to a page about your account activity in the forums?
(07:27:32 PM) s|g: in forums in hungarian yes
(07:27:45 PM) mako: it's ok if it's in hungarian
(07:27:47 PM) mako: i'd just like to see
(07:28:08 PM) sabdfl: s|g: it's normal for us to want to be able to judge the extent of someone's contribution, and the time over which they have been a participant
(07:28:57 PM) mako: s|g: usually people put links not only to their teams, but to example of their work on the team
(07:29:00 PM) sabdfl: it's clear to me that you've made a huge FLOSS contribution in .hu and elsewhere
(07:29:17 PM) sabdfl: i'm also trying trying to see the specific ubuntu work you've contributed
(07:29:38 PM) s|g: organize ubuntu conferece
(07:29:49 PM) s|g: making ubuntu flyer to this conference
(07:30:15 PM) sabdfl: i did hear good things about that conf
(07:30:15 PM) s|g: speak from graphics application on this conference

(07:30:33 PM) mako: sure, so did i
(07:30:51 PM) s|g: and speak it in a local tv
(07:31:36 PM) ryanakca left the room (quit: Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer)).
(07:31:57 PM) s|g: http://www.flickr.com/photos/gsuveg/279014007/
(07:32:04 PM) s|g: it is the flyer
(07:32:19 PM) s|g: http://www.flickr.com/photos/gsuveg/279014120/ page 2
(07:32:26 PM) sabdfl: nice logo!
(07:33:17 PM) mako: yes, that's the type of documentation that i'm looking for
(07:33:57 PM) mako: s|g: i think i would be most comfortable if you took some time between now and the next meeting ot make a complete list of those types of contributions and to support them with links like this
(07:34:42 PM) mako: s|g: i have every reason to believe that you've made significant and sustained contributions to ubuntu, but your wiki page isn't linking to documentation to support that yet (imho)
(07:34:45 PM) s|g: mako: ok
(07:35:07 PM) mako: s|g: you should email with jono and have him let you konw what he thinks before the next meeting
(07:35:16 PM) mako: phanatic: you don't need to come back, your support and testimonial should be enough
(07:35:31 PM) sabdfl: mako: you are such a bad cop! but i concur :-)
(07:35:34 PM) s|g: mako: ok
(07:35:37 PM) mako: s|g: i'm sure that once you get the site online and everything, it will be really easy
(07:35:38 PM) phanatic: mako: okay, thanks
(07:35:45 PM) sabdfl: s|g: please come back once that wiki page is clearer
(07:35:51 PM) mako: s|g: sorry we didn't get to do it today :(
(07:35:54 PM) mako: s|g: next time thought! :)
(07:35:59 PM) sabdfl: i've no doubt too that you are making a great contribution
(07:36:36 PM) mako:  did we just fall off the end of the agenda?
(07:37:03 PM) pochu: I think yes :)
(07:37:16 PM) mako: alright then
(07:37:25 PM) mako: i'm late for another meeting so i'll jet if that's alright
(07:37:35 PM) mako: sorry again that i was late..
(07:37:39 PM) sabdfl: thanks mako!
(07:37:43 PM) pochu: mako: np :)
(07:37:49 PM) mako: was there a decision you need a vote from me on at te beginning?
(07:37:49 PM) sabdfl: and thanks to everyone here
(07:37:55 PM) mako: if so, someone needs to send me a log so i can look over it
(07:38:03 PM) sabdfl: ohio team got +1'd
(07:38:10 PM) ***mako nods
(07:38:15 PM) sabdfl: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam
(07:38:17 PM) mako: i doubt i'll find that controversial :)
(07:38:20 PM) sabdfl: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/ApprovalApplication
(07:38:22 PM) ausimage: mako MeetingLoges
(07:38:29 PM) Moniker42: what's the best language to learn to make a contribution to the ubuntu project? python?
(07:38:31 PM) mako: ausimage: yes yes :)
(07:38:49 PM) mako: Vorian: was here from ohio?
(07:38:56 PM) sabdfl: very much so :-)
(07:39:00 PM) Monk-e: sabdfl: does C++ count?
(07:39:01 PM) Vorian: hi mako
(07:39:08 PM) sabdfl: Monk-e: of course!
(07:39:13 PM) mako: Vorian: what does buckeye mean?
(07:39:16 PM) mako: i've always wondered that

(07:39:28 PM) Vorian: its a nut from the buckeye tree
(07:39:34 PM) sabdfl: mako: read the logs :-)
(07:39:41 PM) Vorian: but the mascot for ohio state university :)
(07:39:42 PM) sabdfl: you'll enjoy that part
(07:39:46 PM) Vorian: lol
(07:39:55 PM) sabdfl: ok, thanks all and good night
(07:40:10 PM) mako: sabdfl: great :)
</pre>
