{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=12&day=01&year=2014&hour=16&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Dec 1st 2014 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* jjohansen

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Stefan Bader (smb) provided debdiffs for precise-utopic for xen. Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** shortish week
** weekly role: happy place
** click-reviewers-tools updates
** embargoed issues
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: triage
** pending updates
** sbeattie
** pie-on-amd64
** !AppArmor reviews
** mutt update
** tyhicks
** !AppArmor cache code a library - APIs are cleaned up, globals all pulled up, should just need to move stuff around
** Bug:1362469 - AppArmor unrequested reply protection generates unallowable denials 
** jjohansen (given outside of meeting):
** !AppArmor upstreaming and coordination with kernel team
** sarnold
** reviewing macaroons for internal team
** !AppArmor patch review
** MIR reviews
** chrisccoulson
** mozilla updates
** make sure that mozilla's default search engine change doesn't affect Ubuntu
** oxide pending work
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-12-01-16.34.moin.txt
