{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=04&day=14&year=2014&hour=&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Apr 14th 2014 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Thanks to Patrik Lundin (patrik-lundin) provided debdiffs for lucid-precise for OpenAFS (LP: #1305807). Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** short week
** weekly role: triage
** scopes confinement
** install testing
** updates
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: community
** short week next week
** updates
** sbeattie
** !AppArmor
*** finish review of jjohansen's patches
*** finish up tests
** tyhicks
** !AppArmor
*** iterate on aa.py patches
*** address feedback in dbus-daemon AA upstream bug
*** back to kdbus
** jjohansen
** backport kernels (signal and ptrace for mako, manta, flo and goldfish. Possibly grouper after that)
** Bug fixing: Bug:1306804, two refcount bugs, and a pivot_root bug
** update patches on the list
** sarnold
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor patch review
** chrisccoulson
** chromium update
** Google hangouts with Oxide (ppapi support)
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-04-14-16.34.html
