{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** smoser to check with Odd_Bloke on status of high priority bug <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1461242|LP: #1461242]]</nowiki>
* Wily Development
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Upcoming Call For Papers
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting: =====
* coreycb talked to Odd_Bloke and he's going to put some focus on high priority bug <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1461242|LP: #1461242]]</nowiki>

===== Wily Development =====
* Erratum in the log, we are still in alpha1, alpha2 is due the 30th of July

===== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) =====
* caribou completed rsyslog merge, looking for a sponsor now.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) =====
* smb proposed to think about integration of numad into ubuntu and its beneficits for libvirt/memory centric processes.

===== Upcoming Call For Papers =====
* ODS call for papers closed
* Container.camp still opened
* IT Cloud Conference still opened

===== Upcoming Call For Papers =====
* Sprint will occur the first week of august, details yet to come

===== Meeting Actions =====
* smoser to check with Odd_Bloke on status of high priority bug 1461242
* Think about numad integration

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, Jul 29st at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.
Chair will be smoser

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:13] <kickinz1> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:14] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jul 21 16:13:59 2015 UTC.  The chair is kickinz1. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:14] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:14] <kickinz1> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:14] <kickinz1> SO there was an action:
[16:14] <kickinz1> smoser to check with Odd_Bloke on status of high priority bug 1461242
[16:15] <kickinz1> But I'm unsure we can have some progress on it.
[16:15] <coreycb> kickinz1, I talked to Odd_Bloke and he's going to put some focus on it
[16:16] <kickinz1> Ok, I was pinging him. Thanks
[16:16] <kickinz1> #topic Wily Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Wily Development
[16:16] <kickinz1> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseSchedule
[16:17] <kickinz1> We are in Alpha2 and feature freeze is the 20th of August
[16:17] <kickinz1> #subtopic Release Bugs
[16:18] <smoser> bah. sorry.
[16:18] <kickinz1> Any news on those opend bugs?
[16:18] <kickinz1> s/opend/opened/
[16:19] <kickinz1> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:19] <kickinz1> So going on in 5s
[16:19] <kickinz1> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:19] <caribou> completed rsyslog merge, now needs a sponsor
[16:19] <caribou> aside from that I'm all good
[16:20] <kickinz1> Thanks caribou, you have some sponsor ideas?
[16:20] <caribou> kickinz1: I'll ping in #ubuntu-devel soon
[16:20] <kickinz1> OK
[16:21] <kickinz1> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
[16:21] <matsubara> kickinz1, hi, nothing new to report
[16:21] <kickinz1> Thanks matsubara
[16:21] <kickinz1> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
[16:21] <smb> Nothing to report but a topic that probably thinking about. Primarily this would affect libvirt (standalone or via virt-manager) which currently does not allow automatic NUMA placement.
[16:21] <smb> To have this support we would need numad but that is not yet in Debian nor in Ub
[16:21] <smb> untu (there is an ITP for Debian).
[16:21] <smb> So long term the question is whether we want this supported. Unlikely something
[16:21] <smb> that can or will be decided here in this meeting but maybe could be taken into c
[16:21] <smb> onsideration for future planning.
[16:21] <smb> If I understood the descriptions about numad correctly this would possibly not only be interesting for libvirt/qemu but also for any long running process that i
[16:21] <smb> s memory centric.
[16:22] <kickinz1> Thanks smb
[16:23] <kickinz1> Anything else?
[16:23] <smb> nope I am done
[16:23] <kickinz1> Thanks smb
[16:23] <kickinz1> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Upcoming Call For Papers
[16:24] <kickinz1> I think the call for ODS is closed since some days no? Any other call for papers still occuring?
[16:25] <kickinz1> There are Container.camp and IT Cloud Computing Conference call for papers still opened.
[16:26] <kickinz1> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:26] <kickinz1> There will be a sprint in August, maybe we have some news?
[16:28] <kickinz1> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:28] <kickinz1> Anything to add?
[16:28] <kickinz1> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
[16:30] <kickinz1> smoser will chair next meeting, same channel the 28th of July at 16:00 UTC
[16:30] <kickinz1> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[16:30] <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Jul 21 16:30:33 2015 UTC.
[16:30] <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2015/ubuntu-meeting.2015-07-21-16.13.moin.txt
</pre>
