{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
09:37	mdz	(FYI: I haven't been able to reach any other tech board members, so we don't have a quorum)
09:39	asac	mdz: you think they still might pop up or is the meeting officially cancelled?
09:40	mdz	asac: Scott is definitely not available, and I have heard nothing from sabdfl or mjg59
09:40	asac	mdz: ok, then I think I will sign off now :)
09:40	mdz	asac: apologies for the inconvenience
09:40	asac	mdz: no problems ... every 2 weeks? thats fine.
09:41	mdz	asac: by the next meeting, you'll have some Ubuntu uploads under your belt, so that will be good anyway
09:41	asac	k
09:49	sabdfl	evening all
09:50	ajmitch	hi
09:51	sabdfl	asac: ping
09:52	asac	sabdfl: pong
09:53	sabdfl	asac: if we can get some time from mdz, perhaps we could handle your -core-dev application now?
09:53	asac	sure ...
09:53	mdz	I have only 6 minutes before an important conference call
09:54	sabdfl	asac, do you have a few sentences prepared?
09:54	asac	shall I go ahead and provide some infos on me?
09:54	sabdfl	go for it
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(asac)]]</nowiki><pre>
09:54	asac	Hi all!
09:54	asac	I applied to become (core-)dev team member as I think it is important for my work on mozilla applications to be able to upload to main and to be able to do proper bug triage with full control on all bugs related to firefox et al.
09:54	asac	I did setup a tiny wiki page to introduce myself on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlexanderSack
09:54	asac	If joining the team so quickly - taking kind of a shortcut - is against all common procedures, I would offer to cancel my application. I /can/ go the standard community way after all.
09:54	asac	Obviously, I prefer to get all privileges I need and start to work on my main duties right away ;).
09:54	asac	What do you think? Any questions?
09:55	sabdfl	i am quite happy with the idea of giving someone a fast-track for a defined set of packages
09:55	mdz	note, I sent mail just now with information about joining the QA team (which is sufficient for bug triage)
09:55	sabdfl	i think mdz is less so
09:56	sabdfl	i would actually like us to support htis in the LP upload security model, though we don't yet do so
09:56	asac	as my current task fill me quite well I doubt that I will come to upload other packages that are not mozilla related.
09:56	mdz	asac: in general, we are happy to fast-track developers with substantial Debian experience, with only limited Ubuntu experience, because of the similar skills involved
09:56	sabdfl	asac: would you be willing to commit to just uploading the moz* set until a more general -core-dev approval was reasonable?
09:57	asac	so there is no danger that I will touch anything else for the time being.
09:57	sabdfl	i would be self-enforced, since there is no restriction on main uploads beyond membership in -core-dev
09:57	mdz	asac: did Colin review the application process with you?
09:57	sabdfl	i think it would be good for debian/ubuntu relations too
09:57	asac	sabdfl: sure ... as I said ... I won't touch other packages
09:58	asac	mdz: he gave me some hints today ... e.g. that i should upload an initial package and prepare a wiki page.
09:58	mdz	right, it's usually best to have done at least some uploads which have been peer-reviewed by an existing developer
09:58	asac	mdz: but no thorough review.
09:58	mjg59	Apologies for the insane lateness
09:59	sabdfl	mjg59: how do you feel about giving permission for someone to upload just a restricted set of packages to main?
09:59	asac	i did an initial upload of enigmail today (sponsored by martin)
09:59	sabdfl	upside is he's a DD with lots of experience
09:59	asac	mjg59: hi
09:59	sabdfl	tricky part is he's #canonical now and we don't as a rule fast-track them
09:59	mdz	asac: is martin here?
09:59	mjg59	sabdfl: My personal feeling is that anyone with the ability to upload to main can distrupt pretty much anyone else who can upload to main
10:00	asac	mdz: he left for dinner already
10:00	asac	unfortunately
10:00	sabdfl	mjg59: right, we don't have the ability to restrict to package sets except voluntarily
10:00	sabdfl	and an upload can disrupt a release or milestone easily
10:00	mjg59	And therefore, unless the set of packages is a very carefully chosen subset, the decision process should be pretty much identical
10:01	sabdfl	moz* is carefully chosen but totally critical and potentially disruptive :-)
10:01	mjg59	More socially, introducing new processes for someone who is on-staff is likely to engender some feeling of ill-balance
10:01	sabdfl	i'm ok deferring the approval for now
=== ogra wonders if the ability to maintain a non easy and big package shouldnt suffice for -core-dev ....
10:01	sabdfl	for that very reason
10:01	sabdfl	ogra: we have unique processes
10:01	sabdfl	it's familiar packaging, but new protocols, conventions, tla's
10:02	sabdfl	someone could easily just make a mistake
10:02	mdz	even where the target is a specific set of packages, I think it's important to have confirmation of work that has been done through a sponsor
10:02	sabdfl	even experienced DD's need to show some insight and interest in the ubuntu community
10:02	sabdfl	before getting +1 on MOTU and -core-dev
10:02	sabdfl	so i think it would be wrong to fast-track a #canonical person
10:02	mjg59	With hindsight, I regret the fact that I never worked through MOTU
10:03	sabdfl	mjg59: i don't think MOTU existed when you first got involved ;-)
10:03	mdz	and that we should be careful not to show a bias for people employed by Canonical, except insofar as it's supported by fact (e.g., time and inclination to contribute)
10:03	sabdfl	right
10:03	mjg59	So while I'm clearly in favour of better support for our Mozilla packages
10:03	sabdfl	ok, asac, do you mind continuing to bounce things through other -core-dev, and getting going with dholbach &co afap
10:04	mjg59	My feeling is that having it sponsored in the normal way is a better bet
10:04	sabdfl	agreed
10:04	asac	as I said ... going the long way is fine with me.
10:04	sabdfl	shouldn't be too long, you get to do this 9-5 :-)
10:05	sabdfl	tada. fastest TBmeeting EVA
10:05	mjg59	sabdfl: Not /strictly/ true
10:05	ogra	not true ...
10:05	ogra	:)
10:05	mjg59	We've had one take < 5 minutes
10:05	sabdfl	bugger
10:05	asac	bye and thanks for the time.
</pre>
