{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 10 May at 16:00 &mdash; 16:18 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-05-10-16.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Agenda ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
*** None
* Development Release
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak)
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Upcoming Call For Papers
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:00.

** No actions from previous meeting.

==== Development Release ====
The discussion about "Development Release" started at 16:00.

* '''Release Bugs''' (16:01)
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 
** rbasak noted that nacc's git importer will be online sometime this week, and merges will then be able to progress more easily.

==== Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak) ====
The discussion about "Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak)" started at 16:02.

** rbasak has triaged some bugs, tagging some "bitesize", and advised prospective Ubuntu developers to take a look at these.

==== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)" started at 16:05.

** Squid, Samba and MySQL bugs noted; all are in progress. Nothing else in particular to bring up.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team" started at 16:06.

** No questions to or from the QA team
** jgrimm noted that the Canonical Server Team currently have an open QA position and invited applications and recommendations.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)" started at 16:07.

** No questions to/from the kernel team

==== Upcoming Call For Papers ====
The discussion about "Upcoming Call For Papers" started at 16:10.

** No upcoming CfPs of note

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:11.

** No upcoming events of note

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:11.

** hallyn noted that the libvirt merge will be landing soon.
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-y-server-core 

==== Announce next meeting date, time and chair ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date, time and chair" started at 16:18.

** The next meeting will be at Tue 17 May 16:00:00 UTC 2016. jamespage will chair.

=== People present (lines said) ===

* rbasak (47)
* jgrimm (10)
* cpaelzer (8)
* hallyn (5)
* teward (4)
* meetingology (3)
* caribou (2)
* smoser (1)
* smb (1)
* ubottu (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:00 <rbasak> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue May 10 16:00:04 2016 UTC.  The chair is rbasak. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:00 <meetingology> 

 16:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:00 <rbasak> Hi all.

 16:00 <cpaelzer> o/

 16:00 <rbasak> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:00 <caribou> o/

 16:00 <rbasak> #info No actions from previous meeting.

 16:00 <rbasak> #topic Development Release

 16:01 <rbasak> So, it's Yakkety time. At this time in the cycle we want to be working on syncs and merges. nacc's git importer should be online soon (this week) so I've been putting off looking at merges until then.

 16:01 <rbasak> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:01 <rbasak> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:02 <rbasak> I guess it's pretty early to be looking at release bugs right now. The only one listed there is a gcc fix that I know the Foundations team are working on.

 16:02 <rbasak> #topic Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak)

 16:02 <smoser> o/

 16:02 <rbasak> I noticed that others have been triaging bugs - thank you.

 16:02 <jgrimm> o/

 16:03 <teward> o/  (late)

 16:03 <rbasak> I triaged a few bugs that I think are pretty straightforward and good for any prospective Ubuntu devs. I tagged them "bitesize". If you are looking to get upload rights in the future then please take a look at this - I've been deliberately setting them aside.

 16:03 <cpaelzer> FYI - if one has more than a spare minute it is really way more effective to triage "all of a package", since that drops repro time a lot and you often find dups easier

 16:04 <rbasak> I've been keeping a close eye on bugs that affect Xenial. There's one squid3 upgrade issue that infinity is looking at for us. MySQL has a few bugs that upstream are working on for me; we intend an SRU this month. I'm not aware of any other major issues.

 16:04 <rbasak> Are there any bugs that people would like to point out?

 16:05 <rbasak> I suppose that's the following topic, actually.

 16:05 <rbasak> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

 16:05 <caribou> nothing particular to bring up

 16:05 <cpaelzer> rbasak: 1578576 is hot as well, but mdeslaur is on it

 16:05 <cpaelzer> bug 1578576

 16:06 <ubottu> bug 1578576 in samba (Ubuntu Xenial) "ntlm_auth --helper-protocol=squid-2.5-ntlmssp report segfault" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1578576

 16:06 <rbasak> #info Squid, Samba and MySQL bugs noted; all are in progress. Nothing else in particular to bring up.

 16:06 <rbasak> Thanks cpaelzer

 16:06 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team

 16:06 <rbasak> Any questions to/from the QA team?

 16:07 <jgrimm> rbasak, well we don't have a QA rep at the moment.  there is a Canonical job posting if any one is interested, or friends to recommend

 16:07 <rbasak> Thanks jgrimm!

 16:07 <rbasak> #info No questions to or from the QA team

 16:07 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)

 16:07 <smb> Nothing noteworthy from our side so far. Are there any questions?

 16:08 <jgrimm> libvirt update planned for yakkety?

 16:08 <hallyn> today i think

 16:08 <hallyn> just looking over the changelog

 16:08 <jgrimm> cool

 16:08 <jgrimm> just making people aware in case there is fall out

 16:09 <cpaelzer> hallyn: didn't you say you were blocked on a dh_ tihng - is that already solved?

 16:09 <hallyn> i did - but today i can't get upgrades to fail,

 16:09 <hallyn> so it does seem fixed somewhere.  i don't know where

 16:09 <hallyn> (not in init-system-helpers, no update there)

 16:09 <cpaelzer> hallyn: " today i can't get upgrades to fail," sounds great .-)

 16:10 <rbasak> Sounds good ;)

 16:10 <rbasak> Thanks smb for representing the kernel team

 16:10 <rbasak> #info No questions to/from the kernel team

 16:10 <rbasak> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers

 16:10 <rbasak> Anything here worth mentioning?

 16:11 <rbasak> #info No upcoming CfPs of note

 16:11 <rbasak> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:11 <rbasak> Any of these?

 16:11 <rbasak> #info No upcoming events of note

 16:11 <rbasak> #topic Open Discussion

 16:12 <jgrimm> i created a y blueprint for server .. blank slate atm

 16:12 <rbasak> I have one thing to mention. Last cycle I landed some stuff quite late. Although I followed process, it surprised some other teams.

 16:12 <rbasak> jgrimm: do you have a link, please?

 16:12 <jgrimm> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-y-server-core

 16:13 <rbasak> So, my thought is: perhaps at the meeting we can have a topic to consider what we need to communicate with other teams, eg. stuff landing that might impact people.

 16:13 <rbasak> Then we could take actions to make that communication. As a way of not forgetting.

 16:13 <jgrimm> rbasak, that works for me

 16:14 <rbasak> #link #topic Open Discussion

 16:14 <rbasak> Uh

 16:14 <rbasak> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-y-server-core

 16:14 <cpaelzer> rbasak: we should consider anything passing a TBD pre-FF date as being a candidate for that list/communication

 16:15 <rbasak> cpaelzer: that's a good point - the closer we are (or past) FF we really need to be communicating this. But I don't see any reason to exclude communication even now in the cycle - just that the bar for required announcements would be higher and go down as the cycle progresses.

 16:15 <cpaelzer> rbasak: yeah, ack on that

 16:16 <jgrimm> rbasak, agreed

 16:16 <rbasak> OK. Agenda already edited :)

 16:16 <rbasak> Anything else for Open Discussion?

 16:16 <teward> jgrimm: the blueprint isn't blank anymore, I've added a work item for the nginx merge from Debian that I need to get done this cycle.  No bug filed yet... it's a messy merge, might end up reapplying the Ubuntu delta, basing on a clean Debian version of the package

 16:16 <jgrimm> teward, thank you

 16:17 <rbasak> Thanks teward

 16:17 <teward> rbasak: only what I just told jgrimm - nginx merge will be messy, I may give a call out for 'installation/upgrade' testing in the future when it's 'ready' for such tests, I expect bugs as a result as well too post-merge

 16:17 <teward> yep

 16:18 <rbasak> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 16:18 <rbasak> The next meeting will be at Tue 17 May 16:00:00 UTC 2016. jamespage will chair.

 16:18 <rbasak> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
