{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''TIME: UTC-5''
<pre>
(03:59:00 PM) mdz: good evening
(04:06:53 PM) mdz: ok, time to get started

(04:07:11 PM) mdz: dholbach: would you start us off?
(04:07:14 PM) dholbach: Done
(04:07:14 PM) dholbach:  * bug triage
(04:07:14 PM) dholbach:  * bughelper action
(04:07:14 PM) dholbach:  * bughelper meeting
(04:07:14 PM) dholbach:  * art builder fixes
(04:07:17 PM) dholbach: Todo:
(04:07:19 PM) dholbach:  * GNOME 2.18.0
(04:07:21 PM) dholbach:  * distro sprint
(04:07:23 PM) dholbach:  * improve art builder
(04:07:25 PM) dholbach:  * bug triage
(04:07:44 PM) mdz: I've added a bughelper agenda item for the sprint
(04:07:55 PM) mdz: it would be good to familiarize more folks with it
(04:07:57 PM) dholbach: ahh nice
(04:08:12 PM) dholbach: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugHelper/Dev/Meetings - for those of you who didn't make it to the meeting
(04:08:15 PM) cjwatson: it has been saving a substantial amount of my time, so definitely
(04:08:18 PM) mdz: dholbach: 2.18.0 already?
(04:08:39 PM) dholbach: of course not
(04:08:44 PM) dholbach: 2.17.90
(04:08:47 PM) ogra: g-p-m is still behind upstream :(
(04:08:47 PM) cjwatson: beta 1 is tomorrow
(04:08:51 PM) cjwatson: er, tarballs
(04:09:06 PM) dholbach: (and also done: worked with art people on documentation and examples packages)
(04:09:03 PM) mdz: dholbach: ok, thanks

(04:09:07 PM) mdz: tkamppeter: next?
(04:10:57 PM) tkamppeter: Done
(04:10:57 PM) tkamppeter:  * Documentation correction on new printer driver package SpliX (Samsung laser printers)
(04:10:57 PM) tkamppeter:  * Packaged and submitted printer drivers: epsonepl (Epson EPL "L" series, bug #34647), m2300w (Minolta magicolor W series), pxljr (Vast quality improvement for HP Color LaserJet 35xx/36xx)
(04:10:57 PM) tkamppeter:  * Updated foo2zjs printer driver package: Now there is also support for the HP LaserJet M1005 MFP, Konica Minolta magicolor 2490MF and 2530 DL
(04:10:58 PM) tkamppeter:  * Updated foomatic-db: Marked more drivers obsolete, removed Foomatic data which already comes with driver packages, so less occurences of the problem described in bug #59324
 Ubugtu: Malone bug 34647 in foomatic-db "ijs_server_epsonepl not found" [Medium,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/34647
 Ubugtu: Malone bug 59324 in foomatic-db "Cups filters are not bundled with Ubuntu altough the PPD are present" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/59324
(04:11:01 PM) tkamppeter:  * Updated gs-esp: Replace static binary by one using the libgs-esp library, saving 4.7 MB on installed system, package splitting to allow installation on X-less server
(04:11:05 PM) tkamppeter:  * Answered to bug reports
(04:11:08 PM) tkamppeter: To do
(04:11:12 PM) tkamppeter:  * Prepare Ubuntu for new FHS standard for printer driver and PPD file directories, to prepare for installation of distribution-independent driver packages (LSB 3.2). See http://lists.freestandards.org/pipermail/printing-architecture/2006/001512.html
(04:11:48 PM) cjwatson: tkamppeter: have you been catching up on those extra hours as agreed? I don't have e-mail about when you were doing that
(04:13:14 PM) tkamppeter: Yes, I think at least a part of the extra hours I ave done with my last actions.
(04:13:45 PM) cjwatson: ok, please do let me know which days were involved though, as requested earlier - it's difficult to keep track otherwise
(04:14:01 PM) tkamppeter: OK.
(04:14:03 PM) mdz: tkamppeter: yes, please sync up with colin after the meeting
(04:14:05 PM) mdz: tkamppeter: thank you
(04:14:06 PM) cjwatson: thanks

(04:14:09 PM) mdz: seb128: next
(04:14:34 PM) seb128: Done:
(04:14:34 PM) seb128: • bug triage, bug triage, bug triage
(04:14:34 PM) seb128: • compiz update
(04:14:34 PM) seb128: • bunch of GNOME updates
(04:14:34 PM) seb128: • easy-codec-installation: gstreamer part done (snapshots from CVS uploaded, plugin packages updates to use the new dh_gstscancodecs, libgimme-codec uploaded and accepted, new totem has code to use libgimme-codec)
(04:14:37 PM) seb128: • tracked font bug from customer
(04:14:39 PM) seb128: .
(04:14:41 PM) seb128: Next week:
(04:14:43 PM) seb128: • Distro Team Sprint
(04:14:45 PM) seb128: • GNOME 2.17.90
(04:15:18 PM) cjwatson: seb128: how much is left from easy-codec-installation?
(04:15:25 PM) iwj: seb128: easy-codec-installation> So what's left ?  Can we test/demo now ?
(04:15:45 PM) seb128: cjwatson: libgimme-codec only display a message at the moment
(04:15:58 PM) seb128: I've to check if gnome-app-install is ready with iwj or mvo
(04:16:03 PM) iwj: seb128: Yep.
(04:16:05 PM) Mithrandir: the libgimme-codec binaries need to be accepted as well, they're not yet.
(04:16:08 PM) seb128: and make libgimme-codec call it
(04:16:10 PM) iwj: Although it hasn't really been tested in-situ.
(04:16:27 PM) seb128: "not much" left
(04:16:34 PM) iwj: I suggest turning it on ASAP so we can debug it together at the sprint.
(04:16:40 PM) mdz: iwj: agreed
(04:16:42 PM) seb128: iwj: will do that tomorrow
(04:16:49 PM) iwj: Excellent, Friday breakage :-).
(04:16:59 PM) seb128: friday before travelling
(04:17:02 PM) seb128: that's better than friday :p
(04:17:28 PM) cjwatson: Mithrandir: they are now
(04:17:35 PM) Mithrandir: cjwatson: oh, ok.  Goodie.
(04:17:46 PM) mdz: ok

(04:17:49 PM) mdz: thanks seb128
(04:17:52 PM) mdz: ogra: next?
(04:18:09 PM) ogra: * last week:
(04:18:09 PM) ogra:  - ltsp-manager -> python-ltsp (backend class) nearly done
(04:18:09 PM) ogra:  - more edubuntu-network-auth-server work
(04:18:09 PM) ogra:  - edgy-plusone-thinclient-sound waits for pulse promotion and libasound2-plugins split
(04:18:09 PM) ogra:  - some edulinux server preparations
(04:18:09 PM) ogra: * next week:
(04:18:11 PM) ogra:  - finish ltsp-manager spec (python-ltsp and gui)
(04:18:13 PM) ogra:  - finish edgy-plusone-thinclient-sound
(04:18:15 PM) ogra:  - sprint: edubuntu-on-two-cds, edubuntu-network-auth-server, edubuntu-network-auth-client
(04:18:17 PM) ogra: * approved specs:
(04:18:19 PM) ogra:  - ltsp-fat-clients -no further work
(04:18:21 PM) ogra:  - edubuntu-network-auth-server - slow progress
(04:18:23 PM) ogra:  - edubuntu-network-auth-client - not started
(04:18:25 PM) ogra:  - edgy-plusone-thinclient-sound - ltsp side implemented, alsa plugins missing
(04:18:28 PM) ogra:  - ltsp-management-gui - good progess on python modules
(04:18:29 PM) ogra:  - student-control-panel-upgrade - front/backend split done by cbx33
(04:18:31 PM) ogra:  - edubuntu-on-two-cds - not started (planned for the sprint)
(04:18:33 PM) ogra:  - ltsp-persistent-home - ... sbalneav (planned to talk to pitti)
(04:18:34 PM) mdz: ogra: feedback from herd 2?
(04:18:57 PM) ogra: not much ... i must admit i wasnt around very constant the last 7 days
(04:19:16 PM) ogra: sbalneav is just installing it afaik
(04:19:23 PM) mdz: ogra: have you been following the testing on the forums that heno arranged?
(04:19:26 PM) ogra: apart from that i was the only tester
(04:19:49 PM) heno: there have been some volunteers for edubuntu
(04:19:54 PM) ogra: yes, but there wasnt much for herd2 yet ... i expect more with herd3, some ppl expressed interest
(04:20:03 PM) cbx33: sorry ogra, i will be installing next....herd3
(04:20:17 PM) mdz: ogra: ok, there are at least some threads about edubuntu
(04:20:18 PM) cjwatson: you probably want to upgrade ubiquity if you're testing the herd2 live CD anyway
(04:20:23 PM) ogra: cbx33, its fine, just go on with SCP
(04:20:29 PM) heno: some people said they are happy to test any flavour and we should spread those out
(04:20:40 PM) cjwatson: there was an embarrassing little bug that broke it if you had any unpartitioned space on the disk
(04:20:46 PM) cbx33: ogra I kinda need it for the book ;)
(04:20:52 PM) mdz: ogra: checking that forum should be a regular part of each milestone, to get more feedback
(04:20:53 PM) cbx33: am emailing you abotu that now :p
(04:21:08 PM) mdz: ogra: do you have an account already?
(04:21:13 PM) ogra: there is a big carnival party in essen next month, they want to test edubuntu teher
(04:21:18 PM) ogra: mdz, indeed
(04:21:38 PM) ogra: (the party is driven by the german LoCo)
(04:22:08 PM) mdz: ogra: is that nearby?  will you be there?
(04:22:45 PM) ogra: sadly its quite a ride and i'll be in italy by the end of the month as well ... not sure yet, but juliux is there
(04:22:51 PM) mdz: ok
(04:22:52 PM) mdz: thanks ogra
(04:22:55 PM) ogra: he's as good as me in promoting edubntu

(04:22:55 PM) mdz: Mithrandir: next?
(04:22:59 PM) Mithrandir: network-roaming: gnome network-manager bits done, waiting for knetworkmanager
(04:23:03 PM) Mithrandir: changelog-closes-bugs: to be done at sprint
(04:23:05 PM) Mithrandir: grub2: given over/to be given over to iwj at the sprint
(04:23:08 PM) Mithrandir: misc: lots of archive admin: source NEW is under control, SRUs need a bit more time, working on getting a better process for universe SRUs with the MOTUs
(04:23:10 PM) Mithrandir: next week: sprint
(04:23:10 PM) mdz: Mithrandir: seeded network-manager?
(04:23:22 PM) Mithrandir: mdz: not yet.
(04:23:28 PM) mdz: Mithrandir: what remains before that can be done?
(04:23:42 PM) Riddell: Mithrandir: knetworkmanager is in
(04:23:47 PM) Mithrandir: Riddell: ok, good.
(04:23:49 PM) Mithrandir: nothing, then
(04:24:16 PM) mdz: Mithrandir: tomorrow is breakage day ;-)
(04:24:20 PM) Mithrandir: hooray!
(04:24:30 PM) Mithrandir: I'll do it tomorrow morning, then
(04:24:37 PM) mdz: Mithrandir: any notable issues with herd 2 which we can aim to improve next time?
(04:25:03 PM) Mithrandir: we need another colin to maintain ubiquity since it seems there are a bunch of problems there. :-(
(04:25:35 PM) mdz: cjwatson: do you concur?
(04:26:03 PM) cjwatson: I'd love another me for all kinds of reasons
(04:26:05 PM) mdz: cjwatson: we can get that ball rolling very quickly if necessary
(04:26:11 PM) mdz: well, not another you, but someone for ubiquity
(04:26:14 PM) Mithrandir: apart from that, it was a decent snapshot, herd 3 is going to be fun, I suspect.
(04:26:47 PM) cjwatson: I want to continue working on ubiquity, but I cannot disagree that another pair of hands would be a great help
(04:27:01 PM) mdz: cjwatson: please add a note to the sprint agenda to discuss it in person
(04:27:05 PM) cjwatson: ok
(04:27:07 PM) mdz: Mithrandir: thanks

(04:27:10 PM) mdz: doko: next
(04:27:22 PM) doko: this week:
(04:27:22 PM) doko:  - update to python 2.5; all packages converted/updated/new upstreams
(04:27:22 PM) doko:    and built for main, to a large part for universe as well.
(04:27:22 PM) doko:    python2.4 will be kept in main for zope2.x and zope3.
(04:27:22 PM) doko:  - use hunspell instead of myspell in main (OOo, firefox).
(04:27:22 PM) doko:  - other: OOo updates, looking at the fc gcj backport, eclipse
(04:27:24 PM) doko:    linux-distro meeting, printing packages reviews, twisted updates,
(04:27:26 PM) doko:    sun-java updates.
(04:27:30 PM) doko:  - will be offline tomorrow (meet a python upstream guy in Potsdam
(04:27:32 PM) doko:    for a packaging/2.5 chat).
(04:27:34 PM) doko: next week:
(04:27:36 PM) doko:  - distro sprint
(04:28:04 PM) mdz: doko: python2.5 seemed to go smoothly. so the -central/-support infrastructure is working well?
(04:28:39 PM) doko: mdz: yes, most problems were hardcoded versions in debian/* and 64bit fixes
(04:28:12 PM) cjwatson: doko: tomorrow morning, yes? as agreed earlier
(04:28:44 PM) doko: cjwatson: yes
(04:28:56 PM) doko: will be back around lunch
(04:29:00 PM) mdz: doko: good to hear
(04:29:16 PM) mdz: doko: does the hunspell change allow us to drop anything from the CD or default install?
(04:29:28 PM) mdz: (or language-support)
(04:29:34 PM) cjwatson: I've suggested that the next priority for feisty-python-roadmap is debug builds
(04:29:50 PM) cjwatson: though that's not as straightforward as it might first appear
(04:29:54 PM) doko: yes, libmyspell*; but not yet from main (the dictionaries b-d on libmyspell-dev)
(04:30:15 PM) mdz: excellent
(04:30:28 PM) doko: cjwatson: yes, that's one thing I have in mind for tomorrow's talk
(04:30:30 PM) mdz: doko: let pitti know so that he can update -support
(04:30:42 PM) cjwatson: doko: right
(04:31:01 PM) doko: mdz: -support update?
(04:31:19 PM) mdz: doko: language-support-en depends on myspell dictionaries
(04:31:29 PM) mdz: shouldn't that be changed?
(04:31:53 PM) doko: mdz: no, hunspell is the next version of myspell; the dictionaries do have the same format
(04:31:55 PM) mdz: oh, hunspell uses myspell dictionaries
(04:32:06 PM) mdz: ok
(04:32:15 PM) mdz: doko: thanks

(04:32:23 PM) mdz: iwj: next
(04:33:18 PM) iwj: automated-testing-deployment: The meat of the new code is written and needs testing.  Currently blocked on the Xen in feisty.
(04:33:21 PM) iwj: gnome-app-install-codecs: The g-a-i part is now deployed (thanks mvo).  AIUI seb is working on the higher layers, and then we can test it.  This tangle will probably need debugging and we should do that at the sprint.
(04:33:25 PM) iwj: winmodem-support: Had a good conversation with mjg59 after last week's meeting; no change since then.  I need to acquire an AMR (ac97-based) modem card I think.
(04:33:28 PM) iwj: consistent-login-screen: No progress recently.  However I have been invited by mdz to a conference call on the 30th of January about xgl, compiz, and consistent-login-screen.
(04:33:32 PM) iwj: also done: gs-esp crash bug (manifested on sparc) for fabbione.  I wish the upstream gs zoo would hurry up and get themselves re-unified.
(04:33:35 PM) iwj: also done: started writing down a spec for dpkg triggers; this will fix various O(n^2) performance problems in upgrades, but we have to discuss and agree with Debian so this should start now rather than doing the design work at the feisty+1 UDS.
(04:33:49 PM) cjwatson: triggers++
(04:34:07 PM) mdz: iwj: what's the issue with Xen?
(04:34:45 PM) iwj: Xen> Well, two things: one is that the xen-3.0-utils are uninstallable due to a problem with libvncserver-dev.
(04:34:51 PM) iwj: I think I've managed to unblock that now.
(04:35:10 PM) iwj: And the other is that the kernel and new hypervisor are still in progress AIUI.
(04:35:23 PM) doko: iwj: do we keep gs-esp 8.15 for feisty?
(04:35:28 PM) mdz: can it not be deployed on an Edgy host?
(04:35:29 PM) tkamppeter: iwj, Mike Sweet has already set up a roadmap about the unification of the GhostScripts, several weeks ago.
(04:35:54 PM) iwj: doko: I'm tempted to reprioritise the alternatives to make the default be gs-gpl.
(04:35:58 PM) iwj: And keep gs-esp for the moment.
(04:36:16 PM) tkamppeter: He wants to close ESP with a last bugfix release 8.15.4 and then he wants to start merging on his Subversion repository.
(04:36:16 PM) iwj: tkamppeter: Oh, good.  Do you have some references for that ?  It would be very nice.
(04:36:33 PM) iwj: tkamppeter: Excellent.
(04:36:39 PM) cjwatson: iwj: kernel> unlikely to reach 2.6.20 though
(04:36:42 PM) mdz: sounds like we should stay with -esp for feisty and plan to switch after
(04:36:51 PM) doko: tkamppeter: will you make the gs/gs-x11 split for gs-gpl as well?
(04:36:56 PM) tkamppeter: The upstream GS folks have already given write access to me and to mike.
(04:37:07 PM) iwj: mdz: we have gs-esp 8.15 but gs-gpl 8.54, so it's not clear that sticking with gs-esp as default is the right thing now.
(04:37:38 PM) tkamppeter: Unfortunately, we talked about that only in private mail, so there is nothing on the web about that.
(04:37:57 PM) iwj: tkamppeter: Aha.
(04:38:01 PM) mdz: iwj: but there are many changes in gs-esp relative to -gpl which would be lost, no?
(04:38:33 PM) iwj: mdz: Well, the same changes are often pushed into both trees, generally with the gs-gpl getting them after gs-afpl.
(04:38:41 PM) tkamppeter: If you simply use the current GPL GhostScript as default, you will loose a lot of the built-in printer drivers, or you do a patch nightmare as distros did formerly.
(04:38:49 PM) iwj: And (cough) not all of the gs-esp changes are always entirely correct.
(04:38:59 PM) iwj: tkamppeter: OK.  I'll take your advice.
(04:39:22 PM) mdz: ok
(04:39:26 PM) mdz: iwj: thanks

(04:39:29 PM) mdz: kylem: next
(04:39:37 PM) kylem: Done:
(04:39:37 PM) kylem:   * dapper-proposed security updates uploaded
(04:39:37 PM) kylem:   * Security updates for dapper
(04:39:37 PM) kylem:   * Investigated sparc64-ssl-accelerator
(04:39:37 PM) kylem: In Progress:
(04:39:40 PM) kylem:   * Trying to play catch-up with my bugs folder
(04:39:42 PM) kylem:   * More Security updates for edgy & dapper
(04:39:45 PM) kylem:   * MODULE_FIRMWARE annotations for feisty
(04:39:47 PM) kylem:   * Cataloguing Intel hardware
(04:39:50 PM) kylem:   * Sorting out necessities for FeistySprint
(04:39:52 PM) kylem: Todo:
(04:39:55 PM) kylem:   * Talk to Dave about Niagara MAU
(04:39:58 PM) kylem:   * Find fix for mpt fusion RAID devices for dapper
(04:40:25 PM) doko: kylem: please fix the atheros driver for the sprint ;)
(04:40:34 PM) kylem: doko, should be in the lrm upload ben will do tomorrow.
(04:40:57 PM) mdz: kylem: how are kernel bugs being handled at the moment?
(04:40:58 PM) iwj: mdz: automated-testing-deployment, edgy> If there's not a working xen in feisty by after the sprint then yes, I'll do that.
(04:41:25 PM) mdz: kylem: are bugs reported against 2.6.17 being rechecked with 2.6.20?
(04:41:40 PM) mdz: kylem: is there a list of kernel regressions from edgy to current feisty?
(04:41:57 PM) kylem: mdz, mostly yes, i mostly just poll through the list of dapper/edgy bugs a few times a day.
(04:42:21 PM) mdz: kylem: how is it done? do you add a linux-source-2.6.20 task to the bug and ask the reporter to test?
(04:42:32 PM) kylem: mdz, not that i'm aware of, ben's mostly had me focusing on looking after dapper/edgy.
(04:42:47 PM) mdz: kylem: it's a rather long list and we ought to be rigorous about tracking progress across kernel versions
(04:42:51 PM) kylem: mdz, most of the bugs have already had the -2.6.20 (or .19 in most cases) added, so i just follow up.
(04:43:16 PM) kylem: yeah, i have a bookmarks folder high priority bugs (mostly hw feature regressions)
(04:43:31 PM) kylem: i've been thinking using a wiki page on wiki.c.c for tracking them instead.
(04:43:51 PM) kylem: esp when they come from support
(04:44:03 PM) mdz: kylem: either tags or milestone targets would be better than a wiki page
(04:44:33 PM) mdz: kylem: maybe a good subject for discussion at the sprint with BjornT, how best to track those
(04:44:51 PM) dholbach: kylem: if you have an idea, how automated searches (bughelper) might fit in there, let's talk about that
(04:44:54 PM) kylem: mdz, ok. yeah, definitely something we should discuss, there's *a lot* of bugs, it's extremely difficult to stay on top of eerything.
(04:45:12 PM) mdz: kylem: ok, thanks
(04:45:13 PM) kylem: dholbach, ok

(04:45:14 PM) mdz: fabbione: next
(04:45:20 PM) fabbione: Done:
(04:45:21 PM) fabbione: * -support/-certification: tracked bunch of bugs around.
(04:45:21 PM) fabbione: * sparc64-64-bit-apps: fixed glibc sparc64 libpthread linking moved to -updates.
(04:45:21 PM) fabbione: * tracked X bugs with seb and simon
(04:45:21 PM) fabbione: * sparc64-niagara-ssl-accel: delegation in progress.
(04:45:22 PM) fabbione: * integrity-check: to be delegated.
(04:45:24 PM) fabbione: Todo:
(04:45:26 PM) fabbione: * Oslo
(04:46:02 PM) mdz: fabbione: is there a tag where I can see the bugs from certification?
(04:46:07 PM) fabbione: (i just got 3 more bugs from certification to look at)
(04:46:24 PM) fabbione: mdz: i gave you the url to the team.. we subscribe the team to all bugs
(04:46:36 PM) fabbione: i don't think we are using a specific tag for them
(04:46:45 PM) mdz: fabbione: I overlooked the URL, I see it now, thanks
(04:46:46 PM) Mithrandir: but you also mark all of the bugs private so they're useless for me as an RM.
(04:46:52 PM) fabbione: mdz: no problem
(04:47:06 PM) mdz: fabbione: only 3 bugs there currently
(04:47:10 PM) fabbione: Mithrandir: we do subscribe people that need to know
(04:47:19 PM) jbailey: Mithrandir: The bugs need to be private as they might contain customer data.
(04:47:20 PM) fabbione: mdz: yes.. opened 10/20 minutes ago.. still to look at them
(04:47:39 PM) cjwatson: if they're high priority, it's appropriate for the RM to be aware of them, I think
(04:47:52 PM) jbailey: I'm not fussed about people within Canonical. =)
(04:47:54 PM) mdz: fabbione: they should only be private if they do/will contain customer data
(04:48:05 PM) mdz: certification bugs especially should not be private
(04:48:10 PM) Mithrandir: jbailey: I'm just pointing out that private bugs which I don't have access to will not show up on my radar and therefore won't be considered when doing release management.
(04:48:17 PM) sfllaw: mdz: What about pre-release hardware?
(04:48:17 PM) fabbione: mdz: certification hw is not all public
(04:48:27 PM) fabbione: mdz: but i agree that we can make some of them open
(04:49:00 PM) sfllaw: jbailey: Are there NDAs involved with certification?
(04:49:08 PM) mdz: sfllaw: if the code is public, then surely the bugs can be as well
(04:49:25 PM) fabbione: mdz: not if found on some hw...
(04:49:27 PM) Mithrandir: I also think that on principle, we should try to make all bugs public.  Of course not those containing confidential customer data, but it's often trivial to anonymise the data anyway.
(04:49:33 PM) jbailey: sfllaw: I don't know.  All that's handled before the boxes get here.  I'd be surprised if there wasn't, though.
(04:49:38 PM) mdz: I'm not aware of any hardware where it needs to be a secret that we have it
(04:49:52 PM) jbailey: sfllaw: Best to refer the question to Maria.
(04:50:07 PM) kylem: it's going to come up in the future
(04:50:09 PM) sfllaw: mdz: Wasn't that whole SFO thing hush-hush?  I know we were told to keep quiet about it in Montreal.
(04:50:23 PM) kylem: but we should probably discuss that seperately
(04:50:27 PM) mdz: sfllaw: that's a customer matter.
(04:50:29 PM) fabbione: exaclty
(04:50:29 PM) sfllaw: kylem: Agreed.
(04:50:38 PM) fabbione: let's discuss about it offline
(04:50:40 PM) Mithrandir: put it on the Oslo agenda?
(04:50:42 PM) mdz: sfllaw: if Ubuntu fails to install on a Dell PC in the certification lab, that bug needs to be public.
(04:51:02 PM) fabbione: Mithrandir, cjwatson; one of my tasks is to keep you informed on these bugs and their status.. so don't worry too much
(04:51:13 PM) fabbione: Mithrandir: good idea
(04:51:34 PM) mdz: the people with the answers we need won't be there
(04:51:37 PM) mdz: I'll follow up on this
(04:51:43 PM) cjwatson: fabbione: this is pointing out a flaw in the existing process, not worrying
(04:51:44 PM) Mithrandir: fabbione: I need to have them show up on my radar.  Having you tell me about them in any way which is not malone means it does not show up on my radar.  I can't keep lists of bugs in different places.
(04:51:48 PM) cjwatson: please take it as such
(04:52:11 PM) mdz: jbailey: you, Maria, Marc, Fabio...anyone else who should be in that conversation?
(04:52:44 PM) mdz: fabbione: thanks for the update

(04:52:46 PM) mdz: sfllaw: next
(04:52:56 PM) fabbione: cjwatson: yes.. i do understand what you mean.. it was not to tear apart RM request.. but to talk about it next week
(04:53:04 PM) sfllaw: Done
(04:53:04 PM) sfllaw:  * Interns have started
(04:53:04 PM) sfllaw:  * Hug Day
(04:53:04 PM) sfllaw:  * SRUs: tzdata, glibc
(04:53:04 PM) sfllaw: To do
(04:53:06 PM) sfllaw:  * Assign some work to interns
(04:53:09 PM) sfllaw:  * Talk about ISO testing with lifeless in Oslo
(04:53:11 PM) sfllaw:  * Talk about support escalation with fabionne
(04:53:14 PM) sfllaw:  * SRU: gnome-vfs2, gnome-system-tools
(04:53:16 PM) sfllaw:  * Bug triage
(04:53:19 PM) sfllaw: Bug stats:
(04:53:21 PM) sfllaw:  * Open (20919) +48 over last week
(04:53:24 PM) sfllaw:  * Critical (23) +3 over last week
(04:53:26 PM) sfllaw:  * Unconfirmed (10581) -50 over last week
(04:53:29 PM) sfllaw:  * Unassigned (15888) +78 over last week
(04:53:31 PM) sfllaw:  * All bugs ever reported (71790) +1290 over last week
(04:53:41 PM) seb128: 1290 bugs a week, utch
(04:53:45 PM) cjwatson: whoa, I assume that's the result of herd 2
(04:53:48 PM) cjwatson: but ouch
(04:53:59 PM) sfllaw: I have a funny twitch in my shoulder now.  :)
(04:54:25 PM) mdz: now seems like a good time to introduce bdmurray :-)
(04:54:41 PM) dholbach: hello bdmurray - please save us! :-)
(04:54:49 PM) sfllaw: bdmurray: Good thing you're on Ubuntu QA.
(04:54:56 PM) sfllaw: bdmurray: Welcome again.
(04:55:10 PM) mdz: Brian is joining the team at Canonical to help us handle bugs
(04:55:14 PM) bdmurray: Thanks, I'm glad there isn't any pressure.
(04:55:17 PM) seb128: Rock on!
(04:55:26 PM) seb128: bdmurray: welcome on board ;)
(04:55:30 PM) kylem: awesome! welcome bdmurray!
(04:55:35 PM) dholbach: bdmurray: welcome! :-)
(04:55:51 PM) cjwatson: bdmurray: good to have you on board
(04:55:54 PM) mdz: he will be at the sprint next week for introductions and training
(04:56:08 PM) mdz: he reports to Colin
(04:56:38 PM) mdz: and while we're on the subject, I bring your attention to kwwii as well
* **ogra waves to kwwii 
(04:56:56 PM) Riddell: kwwii of bling
(04:57:01 PM) mdz: who is joining Scott's team to take responsibility for artwork
(04:57:10 PM) mdz: he'll also be at the sprint, though many of you already know him
(04:57:12 PM) sfllaw: kwwii: Welcome back!
(04:57:23 PM) fabbione: kwwii: sushi dude!
(04:57:25 PM) kylem: welcome!
(04:57:27 PM) ogra: kwwii, does that mean for edubuntu and and ubuntu as well ?
(04:57:32 PM) kwwii: see lot's of you (again) soon
(04:57:59 PM) kwwii: ogra: yeah, I guess so, although I am sure I'll find out more soon
(04:58:07 PM) ogra: great
(04:58:18 PM) seb128: I knew he was a GNOME dude :p
(04:58:21 PM) kwwii: lol
(04:58:27 PM) kwwii: I installed gnome twice today
(04:58:31 PM) ogra: yeah, we all knew it
(04:58:41 PM) Mithrandir: kwwii: does this mean I can whine at you about not having any updated artwork yet? :-)  FF is getting closer.
(04:58:52 PM) mdz: ok, group hugs can wait until next week.  time to move on
(04:58:53 PM) mdz: sfllaw: thanks

(04:58:55 PM) mdz: Riddell: next
(04:59:02 PM) Riddell: done: most of KDE 3.5.6 packaged, waiting on upstream release to upload
(04:59:02 PM) Riddell:       network-roaming: knetworkmanager patched for static config
(04:59:02 PM) Riddell:       kubuntu-update-manager: UI done, but blocked on getting embedded konsole to work with forkpty, mvo work on that looking promising
(04:59:05 PM) Riddell:       kubuntu-feisty-adept-changes: changes needed for update-manager done but needs testing, thanks to praetor), main/universe notification in (thanks to manchicken)
(04:59:08 PM) Riddell: todo:
(04:59:11 PM) Riddell:       finish KDE 3.5.6
(04:59:13 PM) Riddell:       kubuntu-update-manager main target for oslo
(05:00:22 PM) mdz: Riddell: you have a few other specs on your list
(05:00:44 PM) mdz: kubuntu-feisty-kde4-plan and kubuntu-feisty-ubiquity are high priority
(05:01:16 PM) Riddell: kde4 plan is waiting on the next KDE 4 release, it's expected in january but it's not timetabled
(05:01:44 PM) Riddell: ubiquity is waiting to see what will be done in gtk side, partitioner, migration assitant, slideshow
(05:01:47 PM) cjwatson: kubuntu-feisty-ubiquity has made decent progress
(05:02:07 PM) cjwatson: there's trivial stuff there that could be done in advance of gtk though
(05:02:37 PM) cjwatson: hmm, although not really all that much of importance, on a quick review
(05:02:53 PM) cjwatson: kwwii: we need to talk next week about ubiquity-slideshow
(05:03:19 PM) kwwii: cjwatson: great
(05:03:33 PM) mdz: Riddell: ok, plenty of opportunity to talk about it at the sprint
(05:03:35 PM) mdz: Riddell: thanks

(05:03:37 PM) mdz: heno: next
(05:03:43 PM) heno: * bughelper - ducumentation and feature brainstorming
(05:03:43 PM) heno: * ubiquity triage - not much this week
(05:03:43 PM) heno: * accessibility - gnome-mag got a few upgrades (thanks Daniel!), new espeak and gnome-speech driver released upstream, worked on Karlsruhe presentation
(05:03:43 PM) heno: * ISO testing forum - Testing hs continued in the forums after Herd 2. Trying to bring some more structure to it.
(05:03:44 PM) heno: * launchpad - Steve requested that we try using the beta UI and give feedback
(05:05:07 PM) mdz: heno: not much ubiquity because there weren't many reports, or because you were working on other things?
(05:05:11 PM) mdz: if the former, that'd be great news given herd 2
(05:05:29 PM) cjwatson: there were quite a few, but practically every new one was the partitioner bug I mentioned
(05:05:39 PM) cjwatson: I've been hoovering up most of those with the aid of bughelper
(05:05:40 PM) cyphase left the room (quit: Remote closed the connection).
(05:05:48 PM) heno: because I was working on other things and cjwatson took all the low hanging fruit :)
(05:05:59 PM) heno: so I have to raise my game
(05:06:12 PM) cjwatson: I needed to review most of those anyway to ensure that I wasn't missing some other property of that bug
(05:06:47 PM) mdz: sounds good
(05:07:01 PM) heno: the forum testers did actually run into them quite often
(05:07:10 PM) cjwatson: about the only other thing was that the popcon checkbox doesn't actually work
(05:07:12 PM) mdz: heno: I added an agenda item for the sprint to talk about how to crunch the forum feedback and filter bugs into launchpad, etc.
(05:07:27 PM) heno: mdz: sounds good
(05:07:50 PM) mdz: heno: thanks
(05:08:01 PM) heno: I'm reading up on text data mining now :)
(05:08:07 PM) mdz: heno: maybe send something to distro-team about beta and how we can/should use it
(05:08:25 PM) mdz: cjwatson: you're up, and then we're done
(05:08:27 PM) heno: bughelper you mean?
(05:08:33 PM) cjwatson: setup-console-under-usplash: Investigated kernel font setting code and concluded that the situation is hopeless as far as getting this to work reliably under X/usplash is concerned. Backed out that part of the previous changes. I've scheduled an item for the sprint to thrash out another idea, namely doing it in the initramfs.
(05:08:35 PM) mdz: heno: beta
(05:08:39 PM) cjwatson: intel-mac-support: Picked up hardware and started work. Making fairly decent progress. Almost ready to test partitioner/bootloader changes and beat on Ubiquity. Need to fix mouseemu, which seems to just block all mouse input.
(05:09:01 PM) cjwatson: hoping to find some time somewhere at the sprint to go through the lagging ubiquity work
(05:09:16 PM) mdz: heno: is there anything other than "use it"?  under what circumstances?  any caveats?
(05:09:42 PM) cjwatson: aside from that, promising recruitment progress on a couple of fronts
(05:09:48 PM) mdz: indeed
(05:10:21 PM) mdz: cjwatson: anything else?
(05:10:29 PM) cjwatson: that's it
(05:10:37 PM) mdz: ok, that's a wrap
(05:10:49 PM) iwj: Only 6 minutes over.  Well done everyone :-).
(05:10:54 PM) mdz: look for sprint agenda updates over the next few days
(05:11:02 PM) mdz: and I'll see you next week
</pre>
