{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Log ====
TZ UTC-5
<pre>
(01:57:36 AM) cjwatson: good morning
(01:59:01 AM) ***ogra yawns
(01:59:17 AM) asac: hi
(01:59:24 AM) TheMuso: Now you guys know how I felt the last couple of weeks. :)
(01:59:36 AM) doko: good morning (although I have to leave in 10min)
(01:59:39 AM) cjwatson: doko: ping?
(01:59:42 AM) cjwatson: aha
(01:59:46 AM) cjwatson: oh, and of course you're on vacation
(01:59:53 AM) slangasek: TheMuso: you had a nasty sinus cold the last couple of weeks?  My condolences :)
(02:00:01 AM) cjwatson: right, let's get started then
(02:00:16 AM) cjwatson: first off, congratulations to TheMuso for making ubuntu-core-dev last night
(02:00:27 AM) ***ogra applauds
(02:00:28 AM) ***asac hugs TheMuso 
(02:00:37 AM) cjwatson: this and others brings ubuntu-core-dev past the 50 mark
(02:00:44 AM) ogra: yay
(02:00:49 AM) evand: congrats!
(02:00:52 AM) TheMuso: Is that 50 active core-devs?
(02:00:54 AM) slangasek: \o/
(02:01:03 AM) ArneGoetje: congrats!
(02:01:07 AM) bryce: congrats TheMuso
(02:01:11 AM) TheMuso: Thanks folks.
(02:01:12 AM) cjwatson: TheMuso: I'm not sure I'd go THAT fra
(02:01:13 AM) cjwatson: far
(02:01:30 AM) ***TheMuso scores. :p
(02:02:09 AM) cjwatson: looking down the list, I think maybe 45 or so are what I'd call active
(02:02:27 AM) TheMuso: Was just wondering, I didn't mean for people to check.
(02:03:30 AM) cjwatson: so, feature freeze
(02:03:47 AM) ogra: gah, he said the bad word
(02:04:20 AM) cjwatson: we have one day to go, and it's time to look down the list and figure out what's done, what should get an exception for some reason, and what we should defer
(02:04:50 AM) ArneGoetje: exception until when?
(02:05:25 AM) calc: april 17?
(02:05:28 AM) calc: ;-)
(02:05:35 AM) TheMuso: lol
(02:05:35 AM) ogra: only for openoffice
(02:06:00 AM) cjwatson: exceptions are usually for where there's a clear plan to completion (and usually a fixed end date), low risk, and usually not for too long since they eat into time available for other work
(02:06:02 AM) ***evand had been thinking FF was Friday.  Argh.
(02:06:16 AM) cjwatson: evand: last thing Thursday, in my book
(02:06:32 AM) evand: cjwatson: you're correct, I had been running off of false memory rather than checking the wiki.
(02:06:32 AM) ogra: valentine freeze
(02:06:39 AM) ogra: easy menmonic
(02:06:44 AM) evand: heh
(02:07:38 AM) cjwatson: let's run down the roster; I hope folks have a summary prepared
(02:07:42 AM) cjwatson: asac: you first
(02:07:48 AM) doko_: cjwatson: please me first
(02:08:16 AM) asac: cjwatson: ffox transition as main browser should be done by that time. last upstream version not :)
(02:08:43 AM) asac: network-manager started to prepare 0.6.6 (0.6.6 RC1 has been released yesterday) ... so I assume we want an exception for that as well
(02:09:19 AM) cjwatson: oh, sorry
(02:09:21 AM) cjwatson: doko_: yes, go ahead
(02:09:33 AM) ***asac holds back
(02:10:18 AM) doko_: toolchain: completed (outstanding is gfortran transition for universe; do we want to propose that for MOTU)?
(02:10:43 AM) doko_: dist-compiler-flags: uploaded, first breakage fixed.
(02:11:06 AM) cjwatson: happy for universe transitions to extend past feature freeze if MOTU are happy with the scope of the work
(02:11:15 AM) doko_: robust-python-upgrades: will probably not upload tomorrow, but on Friday/Saturday
(02:11:54 AM) doko_: java-for-main: still based on gcj, discussions about openjdk are going on
(02:14:02 AM) cjwatson: slangasek: are you ok with the python upgrade work stretching out an extra day or two?
(02:14:24 AM) slangasek: yes, I'm comfortable with that
(02:15:24 AM) doko_: thanks
(02:15:29 AM) cjwatson: doko_: ok, go :-)
(02:15:32 AM) doko_: sorry, have to leave
(02:15:36 AM) asac: bye doko_
(02:16:01 AM) asac: ok i think i should continue?
(02:16:05 AM) cjwatson: argh, the problem with this time is that it intersects with my mirror update ;-)
(02:16:12 AM) cjwatson: asac: yes please
(02:16:43 AM) asac: ok ... so network-manager might see a new upstrewam version after FF (upstream plans to release by end of Feb), but its merely a bug-fix release
(02:16:50 AM) cjwatson: I think we knew in advance that we probably wouldn't have fx3 final by FF
(02:17:28 AM) asac: and our network-manager already carries a load of cherry-picks that would go into 0.6.6
(02:17:29 AM) cjwatson: oh, new upstream in the 0.6 series?
(02:17:43 AM) asac: yeah ... unexpected. appeared after some mailing list discussion
(02:17:47 AM) doko_ left the room (quit: Remote closed the connection).
(02:18:23 AM) asac: ubufox: we will have an ubufox for firefox 3 in time for FF (its completed). If we want to get a shiny new system-extension integration we need a FF exception. sorry, but firefox code didn't have the required bits to work on this seriously until recently.
(02:18:58 AM) asac: but its in-house development ... if that matters
(02:18:59 AM) cjwatson: system-extension => teaching firefox how to install extensions that are packaged as .debs
(02:19:04 AM) asac: right
(02:19:11 AM) asac: you will see what i mean with the beta 3 upload
(02:19:16 AM) cjwatson: it would be a regression from gutsy if we didn't have that
(02:19:18 AM) asac: you can now search for extensions in the addons-dialog
(02:19:24 AM) cjwatson: we marketed that quite strongly
(02:19:39 AM) asac: cjwatson: read what i said: we will have ubufox with the same featurees for FF
(02:19:52 AM) asac: e.g. you can now click on the lnk that opens package manager
(02:20:02 AM) cjwatson: oh, what does "shiny new" indicate then?
(02:20:18 AM) asac: cjwatson: that our package search is directly integrated in their addons search
(02:20:48 AM) slangasek: and how far along is that effort today?
(02:21:40 AM) asac: this depends heavily on my over all work load
(02:22:00 AM) asac: http://people.ubuntu.com/~asac/Add-ons.png
(02:22:08 AM) asac: http://people.ubuntu.com/~asac/AddonsResults.png
(02:23:49 AM) asac: i think it will take a week of work if nothing else pops up and some upstream code changes
(02:24:08 AM) asac: to make our extensions display in the same list
(02:24:41 AM) cjwatson: as opposed to in the separate "Ubuntu Addons" tab?
(02:25:02 AM) asac: no ... as opposed to a link in the bottom that opens the package manager (like what we have in ffox 2)
(02:25:17 AM) cjwatson: ah, right
(02:25:18 AM) asac: the other option is to display the package manager in a separate tab
(02:25:34 AM) asac: i evaluated that as well, but the amount of work should be more or less the same
(02:26:21 AM) asac: -> http://people.ubuntu.com/~asac/AddonsEmbedded.png (thats the gnome-app-install as a plugin prototype)
(02:27:14 AM) cjwatson: my experience with using xembed for things has generally not been great in the long run, so that wouldn't be my favoured option
(02:27:26 AM) ***evand chuckles over gparted
(02:28:14 AM) asac: yeah ... the right way is to integrate our search results in the main search io
(02:28:17 AM) asac: imo
(02:28:46 AM) cjwatson: asac: how are things looking for you for the bug-fix part of the cycle? obviously my main concern is that further feature work eats into your time for stabilisation
(02:28:58 AM) cjwatson: so it depends on our comfort level with that
(02:29:41 AM) slangasek: it sounds to me like it would be better to postpone these UI enhancements, given that there's a fair amount of work left to be done and you're likely to have your hands full with ff3 and NM, without also having to worry about fixing bugs in the new UI
(02:30:12 AM) slangasek: but perhaps I misjudge, and updates to newer FF3 upstream releases will be a walk in the park :-)
(02:30:18 AM) asac: i agree to some degree. my priority is: fix xulrunner + NM issues
(02:30:25 AM) asac: only then do these UI enhancements to ubufox
(02:30:41 AM) asac: slangasek: updates won't be a problem
(02:31:02 AM) asac: the main problem is that epiphany upstream refuses to work on anything mozilla related nowadays so i have to do all the upstream work to fix the major blockers
(02:31:15 AM) cjwatson: how are the rest of the xulrunner issues looking?
(02:31:31 AM) cjwatson: I gather OOo is nearly there
(02:31:56 AM) asac: cjwatson: xulrunner looks decent imo
(02:32:37 AM) asac: our packaging rocks for ffox 3 and xulrunner ... only thing that might cause work is that upstream has not yet committed to freeze api/abi ... so there might be respins needed
(02:33:31 AM) cjwatson: do we have a means of detecting ABI changes, or are we reliant on people reporting breakage?
(02:34:35 AM) asac: breakage for now ... but we see breakage early due to ffox/xul split
(02:35:19 AM) cjwatson: ok, I think we're going to have to move on, let's come back to ubufox UI changes if we get a chance later
(02:35:25 AM) cjwatson: thanks for the details
(02:35:27 AM) cjwatson: ArneGoetje: you're up
(02:35:30 AM) asac: thanks
(02:35:44 AM) ArneGoetje: langpack-o-matic is ready for merge and testing
(02:36:17 AM) ArneGoetje: I disabled the package split for zh-cn and zh-tw though...
(02:36:43 AM) ArneGoetje: that means the installer won't need to be changed for now
(02:37:14 AM) ArneGoetje: I will ping pitti later to let him take a look
(02:37:25 AM) cjwatson: ok, has pitti looked at any of it so far?
(02:37:53 AM) ArneGoetje: seems not... he let me do the testing on my machine... :)
(02:38:03 AM) cjwatson: heh
(02:38:08 AM) ArneGoetje: however, locally it works.
(02:38:29 AM) cjwatson: ok, that really ought to go into the archive today
(02:38:58 AM) ArneGoetje: ok
(02:39:45 AM) cjwatson: similarly with cjk-unifonts work?
(02:40:14 AM) ArneGoetje: I didn't have time however to pursue on the language-selector changes and the font-selector though... so for language-selector would probably need an exception. font-selector maybe needs to be deferred...
(02:40:31 AM) ArneGoetje: cjk-unifonts is almost ready for upload.
(02:40:33 AM) cjwatson: font-selector was a bit of a late addition anyway, nice though it would be
(02:41:05 AM) ArneGoetje: I'm currently fixing some bitmaps in the uming font and will then do the packaging
(02:41:23 AM) cjwatson: the language-selector work seems needed in order to take full advantage of the language pack changes
(02:41:30 AM) ArneGoetje: I expect to upload the new package tonight
(02:41:35 AM) cjwatson: which I think is something we want so we have flexibility later
(02:41:46 AM) ArneGoetje: yes
(02:41:49 AM) cjwatson: how much more is to be done there?
(02:42:09 AM) ArneGoetje: I'm not sure... need to consult with mvo
(02:42:55 AM) ArneGoetje: (he wrote the code, I'm just a coding newbie)
(02:44:31 AM) cjwatson: ok, I'll grab mvo later on today and find out what's happening there, if you don't beat me to it
(02:44:47 AM) cjwatson: ArneGoetje: thanks
(02:44:49 AM) cjwatson: bryce: ?
(02:44:54 AM) bryce: ok
(02:44:54 AM) ArneGoetje: ok, I will ask him too
(02:45:09 AM) bryce: * autoconfigure-monitor-frequency:   100% done.
(02:45:09 AM) bryce: * multi-monitor-config:              75% done.
(02:45:09 AM) bryce: * x-testing-infrastructure:          25% done.  Not FF-critical
(02:45:09 AM) bryce: * monitor-settings-database-online:  Postponed to Hardy+1
(02:45:09 AM) bryce: * hardy-console:                     Reassigned
(02:45:16 AM) bryce: multi-monitor-config (aka Xrandr GUI) is coming along well, but will need a few more days until it's ready for upload.  Relatively recent screenshot:  http://bryceharrington.org/files/screenrez_9.png
(02:45:16 AM) bryce: Part 1 was extending libxrandr; this is done.  I talked to Keith Packard about taking it upstream; he says he'd rather see it implemented as an independent library.  That's going to take another 2-3 days though.  I decided to press on with getting something functional, and will come back to that later.
(02:45:19 AM) bryce: Part 2 is the GUI itself.  This is about half done, and will take a few more days before its functional enough to be uploaded.  I'm hoping to get here by Thursday, but it might take another day or two beyond that.
(02:45:22 AM) bryce: Part 3 is basically lots of testing against different configs.  :-)
(02:46:18 AM) bryce: x-testing-infrastructure has no components that need uploaded to Hardy, so I've postponed focusing on it for the time being.
(02:46:47 AM) bryce: There is some remaining work to do with input-hotplug and hal support.  Timo is going to look into what's needed and will let me know if my help is needed there.
(02:47:05 AM) bryce: Inkscape's pre-release has been uploaded.  Final version will come in 2-3 weeks.  Inkscape's in feature freeze, so it'll just be bug fixes from here on out.
(02:48:00 AM) cjwatson: I'm concerned about input hotplug and hal; if that's changing, we need notice as it's going to be moderately complex to handle in the installer
(02:48:21 AM) cjwatson: I think at this point we should probably stick with the input configuration mechanisms we've got, unless it lands by tomorrow
(02:48:45 AM) bryce: cjwatson: okay
(02:49:32 AM) bryce: cjwatson: I will check this with timo
(02:50:38 AM) bryce: all the other stuff on my todo list is either bugs or other stuff that can be postponed until after freeze.
(02:50:42 AM) cjwatson: multi-monitor-config is sexy enough in potential that I'd like to allow a few more days
(02:50:58 AM) bryce: great, that'll help a lot
(02:51:20 AM) ***slangasek agrees
(02:51:45 AM) bryce: I don't know why someone else hasn't already done this work, but it's definitely something that everyone has been expecting for a while
(02:52:49 AM) cjwatson: I'll have to poke mjg59 about the hardy-console kernel bit again, bit concerned about that
(02:52:56 AM) cjwatson: let's move on
(02:52:58 AM) cjwatson: bryce: thanks
(02:53:01 AM) cjwatson: calc: you're up
(02:53:02 AM) ***bryce nods
(02:53:31 AM) calc: lzma is pretty much ready aiui, i uploaded test OOo lzma source today
(02:53:46 AM) calc: i think they may end up rolling it out tomorrow, but i am not certain
(02:54:21 AM) cjwatson: kiko has told me they'll cherry-pick the required LP change rather than having us break feature freeze fo rit
(02:54:25 AM) cjwatson: for it
(02:54:47 AM) calc: i am working on converting OOo over to use xulrunner-1.9 which will be uploaded along with the lzma fix (hopefully)
(02:54:52 AM) cjwatson: (and with that I think I'm definitely all out of LP team credit)
(02:55:02 AM) calc: s/fix/usage/
(02:55:10 AM) calc: heh
(02:55:11 AM) asac: calc: great.
(02:55:31 AM) cjwatson: ooo-langpacks hasn't happened, right?
(02:55:47 AM) calc: cjwatson: no
(02:55:59 AM) calc: cjwatson: deferred to splitting of source
(02:56:35 AM) calc: which i will be concentrating on more as i get more time
(02:57:29 AM) cjwatson: ok
(02:57:29 AM) calc: also working with hsqldb upstream on a patch to correct the security misfeature, i verified the versions he wanted to use work and just waiting to get the patch from him at this point
(02:57:47 AM) cjwatson: for cd-reduction we'll have to see how things look once the alternates have lzma packaging
(02:57:52 AM) calc: yes
(02:57:55 AM) cjwatson: that's good news
(02:58:09 AM) calc: once we have lzma done i can go about adding lzma compression to various bits if you would like
(02:58:18 AM) cjwatson: did you get the useless en_GB bits stripped out of the English langpacks?
(02:58:29 AM) cjwatson: that we identified in Cambridge
(02:58:35 AM) calc: i'll have to go back and check that to make sure
(02:58:51 AM) calc: i think i did, but i don't recall for certain at the moment
(02:58:57 AM) ***calc adds that to his todo list to verify
(03:00:15 AM) calc: i think that is all, but i may be leaving out something
(03:00:19 AM) cjwatson: that one looked like low-hanging fruit, so we should grab it if we can
(03:00:25 AM) cjwatson: calc: ok, thanks
(03:00:28 AM) cjwatson: evand: your turn
(03:00:29 AM) calc: yea, i will check it before uploading the next set of debs
(03:00:34 AM) evand:  * UbuntuSpec:ubiquity-preserve-home : Major bug needs to be fixed and
(03:00:34 AM) evand: tested, but otherwise done.
(03:00:34 AM) evand:  * UbuntuSpec:hardy-ubiquity-usability : Need to finish merging and
(03:00:34 AM) evand: refining new tzmap.  Keyboard selection, time estimates, and auto-resize
(03:00:36 AM) evand: text need to be done.  These are smaller tasks.
(03:00:39 AM) evand:  * UbuntuSpec:hardy-ubiquity-reliability : Need to finish "repeat steps
(03:00:41 AM) evand: on failure" and merge in file copy integrity check work.  Need to add
(03:00:44 AM) evand: retry dialog for the bootloader and finish porting the rest of the
(03:00:46 AM) evand: bootloader work to Kubuntu.  Insufficient file space check needs polish.
(03:00:49 AM) evand:  * UbuntuSpec:encrypted-filesystems : Deferred, discussed at previous
(03:00:51 AM) evand: meeting.
(03:00:54 AM) evand:  * UbuntuSpec:installer-for-windows : Done, just a matter of fixing
(03:00:56 AM) evand: bugs.
(03:00:59 AM) evand:  * UbuntuSpec:gobuntu-hardy : Haven't spoke to Kurt about the status.
(03:01:01 AM) evand: Will follow up for next meeting.
(03:01:13 AM) evand: The bug in ubiquity-preserve-home wont take long to fix.  But I'd like to test it thoroughly before uploading that again.
(03:01:55 AM) evand: My biggest concern is the new tzmap.  If possible, I'd like to have the weekend to finish it.  I can make ubiquity switch between it and the old tzmap with a flag, so it can be easily backed out, if necessary.
(03:02:14 AM) evand: The rest should be doable by tomorrow night.
(03:02:49 AM) cjwatson: with the lack of development work on Gobuntu, we may have to do something drastic there
(03:02:56 AM) cjwatson: (but that's not your problem)
(03:04:10 AM) cjwatson: slangasek: what do you think about the timezone map UI changes? I'm too close to it. The reason it's being considered is that it's what's needed to make the installer fit in smaller screen sizes, which is a major source of confusion and bugs
(03:04:13 AM) evand: anything I didn't mention is done or about to be uploaded
(03:04:47 AM) cjwatson: though I think the things Evan mentioned under reliability are larger sources of bugs and higher priority
(03:05:45 AM) evand: indeed, that's exactly why I want to push the tzmap into the weekend -- so I can spend the remaining time on the reliabilty spec
(03:05:51 AM) cjwatson: evand: the map doesn't have to be in its absolute final form for FF, of course, just good enough
(03:05:55 AM) evand: well, that will happen either way
(03:06:00 AM) evand: cjwatson: ok
(03:06:02 AM) slangasek: it sounds like the higher-prio stuff is well in hand, and I agree that the TZ map UI is a big deal for usability on smaller screens
(03:06:41 AM) slangasek: so I think an exception through the weekend is fair
(03:06:55 AM) evand: fantastic, thanks slangasek
(03:07:05 AM) cjwatson: ok
(03:07:34 AM) cjwatson: evand: thanks for the hard work on installer-for-windows, in particular
(03:08:01 AM) evand: you're welcome, though I mostly enjoyed it.  I think we're set to grab a whole new class of users with that feature.
(03:08:10 AM) cjwatson: I should slot in myself at this point
(03:08:12 AM) cjwatson: hardy-bootloader-review: Most of the hard work done; still need to make menu item changes and apply some visual tweaks. Should be able to do most of the rest today.
(03:08:14 AM) cjwatson: apt-authentication-reliability (mostly mvo): done
(03:08:17 AM) cjwatson: networkless-installation-fixes (mostly mvo): done except for adding a progress bar to apt-setup for the 'apt-get update' stage, which was already tried in Debian and caused some problems; this probably won't happen
(03:08:55 AM) cjwatson: and of course the seed reorganisation, which happened on Monday night and should relieve us from merge busywork in future; that was also a prerequisite for edubuntu-addon, coming up later ...
(03:09:05 AM) cjwatson: TheMuso: anything from you?
(03:09:16 AM) TheMuso: initramfs error handling: Essentially done minus the update-manager part, but waiting on kees to get back to me re implementatino and mdadm, however he is still catching up on email, so this may not happen for a while, and I don't think this is critical.
(03:09:24 AM) TheMuso: However, there is a new merge of initramfs-tools and lvm2 that need to be done, and I don't feel up to doing what appear to be rather big merges at this point, so if someone wants to do them, I can pass on my spec work to add to the packages.
(03:09:45 AM) TheMuso: Still looking at dmraid, and doing testing, however since its universe, can easily push it in as an addition later, or at the most, get an exception for it for a few days, once I've had a chance to install, integrate into initramfs error handling, and test.
(03:09:53 AM) cjwatson: TheMuso: first step is to get whatever parts of the feature work you're comfortable with so far uploaded
(03:10:02 AM) cjwatson: it doesn't all have to go in one giant upload
(03:10:07 AM) TheMuso: If we are keen on possibly gettind dmraid in, there is also a new upstream version that might be worth uploading. I can take cae of that if we want it.
(03:10:26 AM) TheMuso: cjwatson: ok
(03:10:35 AM) cjwatson: on initramfs-tools merging, it's rather late and we may want to consider just backporting the stuff we need
(03:10:55 AM) cjwatson: dmraid will need to go to main if it's going to be useful
(03:10:57 AM) TheMuso: Fair call. What about lvm? From what I remember, there is a new upstream version.
(03:11:20 AM) TheMuso: cjwatson: Yeah I know re dmraid, which is why I'm willing to help test and integrate with error handling.
(03:11:27 AM) cjwatson: TheMuso: once you have some basic testing of dmraid done, would you deal with the main inclusion review? now that you're -core-dev you can take that over from evand :-)
(03:11:29 AM) TheMuso: As I happen to have the hardware that makes use of fakeraid.
(03:11:34 AM) cjwatson: s/review/report/
(03:11:53 AM) TheMuso: cjwatson: Sure, can do.
(03:11:59 AM) cjwatson: what's the reasoning for looking at the new upstream of lvm2?
(03:12:09 AM) TheMuso: But I don't think its worth doing till we've got the partman-dmraid bugs worked out.
(03:12:24 AM) TheMuso: Oh I thought it may be desirable thats all.
(03:12:38 AM) TheMuso: I didn't dig any deeper, was just looking through what Debian has done since our version.
(03:12:43 AM) cjwatson: only if there are compelling improvements
(03:13:04 AM) TheMuso: Fair enough. Unless someone wants to look into it, I say just leave it.
(03:13:55 AM) cjwatson: ok, thanks
(03:14:04 AM) cjwatson: ogra: ?
(03:14:09 AM) TheMuso: np
(03:14:14 AM) ogra: classmate:
(03:14:14 AM) ogra:  * image creator -> freeze releveant stuff (packages) done, final changes on builder scripts pending until packages are in the archive
(03:14:14 AM) ogra:  * usb suspend kernel fixes -> no feedback from amitk yet, will hunt him down this week
(03:14:14 AM) ogra:  * theft protection -> behind on that, will need some more days ...
(03:14:14 AM) ogra: .
(03:14:16 AM) ogra: edubuntu-content-server:
(03:14:18 AM) ogra:  * behind, needs exception (doable until the weekend i think)
(03:14:20 AM) ogra: .
(03:14:22 AM) ogra: edubuntu-addon-cd:
(03:14:24 AM) ogra:  * seed integration between edubuntu and ubuntu ongoing
(03:14:26 AM) ogra:  * debian-cd changes pending
(03:14:28 AM) ogra: .
(03:14:32 AM) ogra: ltsp:
(03:14:34 AM) ogra:  * upstream reorganization in ldm and ltspfs are finished as well now, new versions packaged
(03:14:36 AM) ogra:  * a majority of the open LP bugs closed (still 38 open though)
(03:14:38 AM) ogra:  * ldm CK integration will still need some love on the CK side (local vs. non-local sessions)
(03:14:40 AM) ogra: .
(03:14:42 AM) ogra: edubuntu-and-italc (classroom management):
(03:14:44 AM) ogra:  * not officially approved boston spec stgraber worked on with massive success, he reworked the whole italc UI, made it compatible with ltsp5 as well as recent VNC with massive upstream participation (not something that eats much of my personal time apart from testing the package, but that huge effort should be mentioned somewhere :) )
(03:14:48 AM) ogra: .
(03:14:50 AM) ogra: packages:
(03:14:52 AM) ogra:  sabayon and tuxtype had new releases that incorporate plenty of fixes i'd like in hardy, so i'd like to ask for freeze exceptions for these (both are edubuntu packages, sabayon follows the gnome schedule loosely)
(03:15:01 AM) ogra: I'm mortified about the theft protection thing, it somehow slipped off all my todo lists and when i remembered it last night i recognized the upload from intel is broken ... :(
(03:15:22 AM) calc: my connection is bouncing :-\
(03:15:44 AM) cjwatson: theft protection is only going to appear in classmate, so feature freeze only applies insofar as slipping it takes away from your bug-fixing time
(03:16:07 AM) ogra: well, i'd like to not have ppa's in the classmate sources.list
(03:16:35 AM) ogra: oh
(03:16:36 AM) cjwatson: ogra: I'll grab you today and we can do the edubuntu-addon integration
(03:16:38 AM) ogra: i misread
(03:16:47 AM) ogra: oki
(03:16:55 AM) ogra: i have edubuntu meeting at 12:00 UTC
(03:16:55 AM) cjwatson: ogra: openssh CK integration is needed for ltsp, right?
(03:17:00 AM) ogra: right
(03:17:06 AM) cjwatson: so I had probably better upload that :)
(03:17:08 AM) ogra: well, the ssh side of things seems fine
(03:17:17 AM) ogra: with your patches
(03:17:23 AM) ogra: CK isnt yet
(03:17:33 AM) cjwatson: CK upstream acked it and seemed happy except that he thought the need to make the session explicitly active was a CK bug
(03:17:37 AM) cjwatson: but we can live with that
(03:18:00 AM) ogra: its not about active/inactive, its about local/nonlocal
(03:18:03 AM) cjwatson: ogra: please deal with sabayon and tuxtype in the usual way by mail to the RM if those are after FF
(03:18:13 AM) ogra: will do
(03:18:55 AM) ogra: the general concept of CK doesnt allow administrative tasks for non local sessions as i understood it
(03:19:18 AM) ogra: i have the session listed in CK and marked active
(03:19:28 AM) cjwatson: well, policykit disallows it
(03:19:28 AM) ogra: anyway, that doesnt belong here
(03:19:34 AM) cjwatson: CK doesn't inherently say anything about it
(03:19:52 AM) cjwatson: ogra: either way, right now, you can work around it by running the admin tools as root, which will tell policykit to just let you through already
(03:19:55 AM) ogra: ah, right, s/CK/polkit/
(03:20:05 AM) cjwatson: (I know I said earlier that that wasn't needed any more ...)
(03:20:32 AM) cjwatson: ogra: please make sure there's a bug filed on policykit about ltsp's needs here
(03:20:41 AM) ogra: right, well, i'd like it fixed somehow, but yes thast a feasable workaround
(03:20:49 AM) ogra: will do
(03:20:51 AM) cjwatson: ogra: what's left in edubuntu-content-server?
(03:22:08 AM) ogra: everything, but thats an afternoon fingertraining ... its actually only an empty metapackage for now with deps on the needed packages
(03:22:28 AM) ogra: i can probably do it today if i have time left
(03:24:09 AM) cjwatson: ogra: ok, thanks
(03:24:12 AM) cjwatson: slangasek: last up
(03:25:18 AM) slangasek: grub-configuration-improvements: in beta since shortly before alpha 4, have a couple of bugs yet to stomp out but looking good for FF
(03:26:36 AM) slangasek: larger-livefs: RT opened requesting more disk space on the livefs buildds to accomodate building another set of images for the DVDs; it seems unlikely that the buildd that's tight on disk space now will have more available by FF, but I expect to be able to have something in place for the other arch before Thursday
(03:26:47 AM) cjwatson: which arch is which there?
(03:27:25 AM) slangasek: double-checking
(03:27:49 AM) slangasek: i386 has space, amd64 does not
(03:28:45 AM) cjwatson: that's a good way round
(03:28:49 AM) ***slangasek nods
(03:29:10 AM) slangasek: cjwatson: if we have it going for i386 in time, would it be ok to enable this for amd64 post-FF when the resources become available?
(03:29:12 AM) cjwatson: PAM auth we deferred, IIRC
(03:29:17 AM) slangasek: yes
(03:29:28 AM) cjwatson: I think so, if the idea is confirmed to work on i386
(03:29:50 AM) cjwatson: also, I would like to mutter vaguely about user percentages
(03:30:11 AM) cjwatson: anything else of concern to you for FF?
(03:30:11 AM) slangasek: heh
(03:30:29 AM) slangasek: not of personal concern, no :)
(03:30:36 AM) ubotu has changed the topic to: Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 13 Feb 13:00 UTC: Education Team | 13 Feb 20:00 UTC: Security Team | 13 Feb 21:00 UTC: Server Team | 13 Feb 22:30 UTC: Forum Council | 14 Feb 14:00 UTC: Desktop Team | 15 Feb 04:00 UTC: MOTU
(03:31:53 AM) cjwatson: and I think ubotu is hinting to us that we're over-time
(03:32:00 AM) slangasek: seems to be :-)
(03:32:06 AM) cjwatson: all right, AOB?
(03:32:11 AM) asac: just quick for my actions from last week: i couldn't verify that icedtea java doesn't work work on amd64 ( i tested a pbuilder build first and then the bits in the archive and both worked fine for me). so lets review if we can send j2se1.4 to graveyard next week i guess
(03:32:43 AM) asac: for vpn plugins in main, soren said: "Last I checked, they never even had a proper release. I've always just grabbed a random svn checkout."
(03:32:54 AM) asac: so most likely this is a no go for main inclusion
(03:33:28 AM) evand: :( oh well.  Thanks for looking into it asac .
(03:33:29 AM) cjwatson: asac: was that just vpnc, or openvpn too?
(03:33:30 AM) asac: i could upstream upstream list on release policy though - if we want.
(03:33:36 AM) asac: cjwatson: for both iirc
(03:33:47 AM) cjwatson: asac: it's worth contacting them even if it doesn't make this release, I think
(03:33:54 AM) asac: ok will do
(03:34:15 AM) cjwatson: asac: did you get anything sorted with regard to 1.4's buildability?
(03:34:28 AM) cjwatson: you were to upload it to a PPA if you couldn't fix the build locally
(03:34:49 AM) asac: cjwatson: well given that i couldn't verify that icedtea doesn't work (which was the reason to look into resurrecting 1.4) i didn't put more resources in that
(03:35:21 AM) asac: was that a wrong judgement?
(03:35:46 AM) cjwatson: a useful extra data point, is all
(03:36:46 AM) asac: ok, i can upload ppa then (though i think we should seriously consider to refer to icedtea as our java plugin for amd64)
(03:37:13 AM) cjwatson: I would like to, I'm just conscious that people have evolved personal preferences here so it would be nice to have strong reasoning for dropping things
(03:37:24 AM) cjwatson: ok, anything else before we adjourn?
(03:37:36 AM) asac: well, i doubt that anyone would have preference for this broken 1.4 plugin. but anyway, will do
(03:38:15 AM) asac: ok
(03:38:49 AM) cjwatson: going ... going ...
(03:38:58 AM) asac: ;)
(03:39:02 AM) cjwatson: adjourned, thanks all
</pre>
