{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* UDS local/remote participation feedback.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====

There weren't any ACTION point from previous meeting except finding dendrobates at UDS and making sure he offers you a beer. Several Server team members reported success on this task.

===== UDS local/remote participation feedback =====

RoAkSoAx was able to participate to UDS remotely by listening to the meetings and using the #uds-server channel. Sound quality was very good. Several members reported that Gobby was experiencing such significant downtime that it wasn't really usable as a collaboration tool, and there was some confusion around which Gobby server to use. Videos from the videotaped sessions should be available in the next weeks.

===== Review progress made on the specification listed on the Roadmap =====

Merges are still under way, for example RoAkSoAx has prepared an openvpn merge and is waiting for a main sponsor to doublecheck it. We expect to update the Roadmap for Karmic once we'll have digested UDS and started writing the specs.

===== Open Discussion =====

Several new heads were present at this meeting. alex_muntada is a Barcelona-based sysadmin that participated in UDS last week. He is interested in configuration management and cloud. snth is a software developer interested in config management and server user experience. jbianquetti and asanchez maintain all the servers for schools in Andalusia (Spain), currently running Debian. All expressed the desire to join the Ubuntu Server team: ttx pointed them to the https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/GettingInvolved page, where potential areas of contribution are described, and to the #ubuntu-server channel for any questions. Everyone is invited to participate in the next Server team meeting, where a specific agenda point will be added to discuss new members integration.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, June 9th at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:06] <ttx> #startmeeting
[16:06] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:06. The chair is ttx.
[16:06] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:07] <ttx> Today's agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:07] <ttx> last week minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20090512
[16:08] <ttx> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:08] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:08] <ttx> Hm, not so much action points from the rpevious meeting... Did anyone manage to find dendrobates at UDS and have him buy you a beer ?
[16:09] <kirkland> ttx: ack
[16:09] <kirkland> dendrobates: thanks!
[16:09] <sommer> <- this guy :-)
[16:09] <ttx> Lucky you :)
[16:09] <ivoks> hehe
[16:09] <ttx> which brings us to...
[16:09] <ttx> [TOPIC] UDS local/remote participation feedback
[16:09] <MootBot> New Topic:  UDS local/remote participation feedback
[16:10] <ttx> Is there any feedback from local and remote participants to the Server track at UDS ?
[16:10] <ivoks> RoAkSoAx: ?
[16:10] <ttx> Did anyone here try to participate remotely ? How did it go ?
[16:10] <RoAkSoAx> I did
[16:10] <artir> The gobby server sucked
[16:10] <artir> big time
[16:11] <artir> 1/3 of the time it was down :(
[16:11] <ttx> artir: yes, we mentioned that during the local feedback session. The end result is that the notes taken during the sessions are less useful than usual
[16:11] <artir> ok
[16:12] <jbianquetti> dual gobby servers (gobby.conference and gobby.ubuntu.com) was a pain
[16:12] <RoAkSoAx> Listening to the meetings: They had a pretty good sound quality. Good use of #uds-server channel. Gobby was not the best thing though
[16:12] <ivoks> right, couple of people reported great sound quality
[16:12] <ttx> yes, that's positive, usually you couldn't really hear anything
[16:13] <ttx> that said, it's a little scary, given the jokes and private talks near the mikes :)
[16:13] <ttx> ok, anyone else has UDS feedback ? Were the sessions interesting / boring ?
[16:13] <alex_muntada> i for one learnt a lot, it was my first uds
[16:14] <ivoks> very interesting :)
[16:14] <ivoks> except the cloud spam :)
[16:14] <nealmcb> was there any audio or video recording?
[16:14] <ttx> nealmcb: yes, several sessions were videotaped
[16:14] <nealmcb> :)
[16:14] <artir> icecast servers for audio
[16:14] <ttx> nealmcb: videos need to be synced/uploaded, should be ready in a couple weeks
[16:14] <artir> I want to see those vids :)
[16:15]  * zul needs to learn not to get sick before a uds
[16:15] <cody-somerville> zul, You're the one that infected me with this!
[16:15] <ttx> OK, anything else on the UDS topic ?
[16:16] <ttx> cody-somerville: hug culture has some drawbacks
[16:16] <artir> lol hug culture
[16:16] <cody-somerville> I made a point of not hugging anyone
[16:16] <cody-somerville> Or wait, thats not true :(
[16:16] <ttx> ok, moving on to...
[16:16] <ttx> [TOPIC] Review progress made on the specification listed on the Roadmap
[16:16] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review progress made on the specification listed on the Roadmap
[16:17] <ttx> Anyone has any progress to report ? Or new items they want added to that page ?
[16:17] <ttx> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Roadmap
[16:18] <ttx> I saw that merging was under way for several packages
[16:18] <ttx> RoAkSoAx: you need a main sponsor for your openvpn merge, right
[16:19] <RoAkSoAx> ttx, i do
[16:20] <ttx> ok, someone might hear you. I already reviewed the merge so it's more a second review + upload, for anyone interested
[16:20] <ivoks> any main sponsors here?
[16:21] <ttx> mathiaz reviewed the merge very early in the process, he will probably sponsor it when he'll be back to work
[16:21] <ttx> I guess we'll have more on the Roadmap once we'll have digested UDS and started pumping out specs !
[16:21] <ivoks> right
[16:21] <ttx> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[16:21] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[16:22] <ttx> Anyone / Anything ?
[16:22] <ivoks> it was nice seeing you all again at uds
[16:22] <zul> ditto
[16:23] <sommer> yes very good times :)
[16:24] <ttx> For the newcomers to the server team meeting, could you describe your areas of interest ?
[16:24] <ttx> alex_muntada, artir: ^
[16:25] <alex_muntada> i'm a sysadmin in an university in barcelona, and i'm quite interested in config management right now
[16:25] <snth> By new comers .. do you mean people that want to join .. or people that have mentors and all?
[16:25] <ivoks> snth: all
[16:25] <ttx> I mean, people I don't know that fallow this meeting :) So basically, anyone
[16:25] <alex_muntada> but i'm also interested in cloud stuff since we have a couple of clusters and a new one is on the way
[16:26] <ttx> alex_muntada: you were present at UDS last week, I gather
[16:26] <alex_muntada> yes, i was one of the local team guys
[16:26] <alex_muntada> i was wearing that perl mongers t-shirt on thursday ;-)
[16:26] <ttx> cool :)
[16:26]  * artir lurks everywhere :)
[16:27] <snth> I work as a software developer and interested in config management .. and the little things that make the user experience much cooler. If this makes any sense.
[16:27] <alex_muntada> i'd like to join the ubuntu-server team, since servers are mostly my everyday work
[16:27] <ivoks> nice... new people
[16:27] <ttx> alex_muntada: well, the team is very open :)
[16:28] <snth> So, how do we join? what's the process?
[16:28] <ttx> See at the end of https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/GettingInvolved
[16:29] <ttx> Don't hesitate to talk to us to see where you prefer to fit in the big family picture
[16:29] <jbianquetti> Hello, I'm newbie to ubuntu-server too.
[16:29] <alex_muntada> i'm already on the list since uds and just requested membership
[16:29] <ivoks> if you want to work on packaging, you should check out motu mentoring process
[16:29] <ivoks> you could also help us triage bugs
[16:29] <asanchez> jbianquetti and me both work for the Advanced Center for ICT Schools Management in Andalusia, Spain and we mantain all the servers of schools (that currently are running Debian). We are highly interested in all the things that Ubuntu server could offer to us.
[16:30] <ttx> the GettingInvolved page I mentioned details all the kinds of contribution
[16:30] <snth> ttx: I signed up for launchpad and found some bugs that I think I can help with. Should I just go ahead and make a patch and send it to the assignee?
[16:30] <ivoks> asanchez: and we are interested in your experience and knowledge; so that toghether we can bring peace to the world...
[16:30] <ivoks> er... wrong line
[16:30] <jbianquetti> or what can we offer to Ubuntu...
[16:31] <ttx> snth: yes, working on pathes would be great
[16:31] <ttx> patches, even
[16:31] <asanchez> We'll be very proud to collaborate with ubuntu-server
[16:31] <ivoks> snth: add it to the bug
[16:32] <ivoks> ok, idea
[16:32] <snth> Oh OK .. If I have questions, do I ask the assignee or in #ubuntu-devel or here? or I should try everywhere :)?
[16:32] <ttx> so please have a look at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/GettingInvolved and see where you can help. For the next meeting I'll add an item to the agenda so that we can discuss your interest more
[16:32] <ivoks> we should have a defined path on bug triaging
[16:33] <ttx> snth: I'd try #ubuntu-server first
[16:33] <snth> ttx: Cool .. thanks man
=== thewrath is now known as thwrath2
[16:34] <ttx> this brings us to...
[16:34] <ttx> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:34] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:34] <nealmcb> Sorry to miss uds.  But I had a great time at Google I/O (where they gave us free android phones :) and should soon get an account on their internal alpha of Google Wave.  I expect wave to be a big deal - combination of mail, wiki, chat, gobby and other forms of collaboration with a cool new open federation algorithm.   See e.g. http://wave.google.com/ and  http://mashable.com/2009/05/28/google-wave-guide/
[16:35] <ttx> same time, same channel, next week ?
[16:35] <ivoks> sure
[16:36] <sommer> works for me :)
[16:36] <nealmcb> but I don't expect wave to be ready for karmic.....
[16:37] <alex_muntada> it's ok for me too
[16:37] <ttx> I hope to see all those new members of the team again next week !
[16:37] <ttx> mathiaz will have processed your applications to the ~ubuntu-server Launchpad team
[16:38] <ttx> #endmeeting
[16:38] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 10:38.
</pre>
