{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Weekly SRU review.
* Review progress made on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* FFE for bacula - 3.0.2 should be merged and FFE should be asked - zul
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Asterisk =====

jmdault reported that pwlib and openh323 had the right version in karmic since Friday. The rest of the Asterisk packages have been uploaded to <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jmdault/+archive/ppa|his PPA]]</nowiki> and are waiting for sponsorship. The <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AsteriskIntegration|Asterisk wiki specification]]</nowiki> has also been updated to reflect the state of the stack in Karmic.

===== Update Ebox to 1.3 =====

zul reported that ebox had been updated to 1.3 in Karmic universe.

===== SRU weekly review =====

The lists of nominated bugs for each supported release as well as the list of last-week-fix-released bugs have been reviewed during the meeting. Relevant bugs that were SRU worthy have been accepted.

ACTION: mathiaz to produce a list of accepted bugs for packages related to the ubuntu-server team.

===== FFE for bacula =====

There was some discussion on whether time should be spend on getting Bacula 3.0.X merged from unstable into karmic. It was decided that it was too late for karmic and thus deferred to the next release cycle. Providing the new version in a karmic PPA would also be useful.

ACTION: bacula 3.0.X to be made available from a PPA from the bacula team.

===== UEC/EC2 images =====

mdz asked about the status of EC2 images. Karmic images are now built on a daily basis and were included in Alpha 4.

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-on-ec2/+bug/376740|bug 376740]]</nowiki> tracks the failures of the kernel on Karmic AMIs. 
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-on-ec2/+bug/398568|bug 398568]]</nowiki> is tracking Jaunty AMIs failing to boot.

The Ubuntu package archive servers inside EC2 are alive. Both Jaunty and Karmic AMIs are using these by default.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, September 1st at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:07] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[16:07] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:07. The chair is mathiaz.
[16:07] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:07] <mdz> mathiaz: I have a couple of agenda items if there is time
[16:08] <mathiaz> Today's agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:08] <soren> o/
[16:08] <mathiaz> mdz: I'll try to leave some time for an open discussions
[16:08] <mathiaz> last week's minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20090818
[16:09] <ttx> o/
[16:09] <Daviey> \o
[16:09] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Asterisk
[16:09] <MootBot> New Topic:  Asterisk
[16:09] <ivoks> o/
[16:09] <mathiaz> jmdault: what's the state of the stack?
[16:09] <jmdault> mathiaz: pwlib and openh323 have the right versions in karmic since friday
[16:10] <mathiaz> jmdault: next in line are dahdi and astreisk* ?
[16:10] <Daviey> suprisingly, openh323 has been in a build dep wait since April, and was satisified with pwlib upload therefore automagically building.
[16:10] <jmdault> mathiaz: the Debian Asterisk package has been imported in karmic
[16:10] <jmdault> I've built packages in my PPA
[16:10] <mathiaz> jmdault: great - what's left then?
[16:11] <jmdault> Now all that's left is for someone to review my packages and upload them
[16:11] <Daviey> Hmm
[16:11] <Daviey> There is the dahdi-dkms issue.
[16:11] <jmdault> I sent the dkms patch to debian-voip maintainers
[16:12] <Daviey> Debian isn't carrying dkms for dahdi.. so if we upload that now, it's a ubuntu specific change
[16:12] <Daviey> jmdault: great, they were waiting for it.  Would be great to hear of their feedback, was it on the ML?
[16:12] <Daviey> thier*
[16:12] <mathiaz> jmdault: ok - do you have sponsors?
[16:12] <jmdault> hopefully someone will have a look at it between all the spam that's on the list =(
[16:12] <mathiaz> jmdault: where are the packages that needs to be reviewed?
[16:12] <Daviey> jmdault: hah, just seen the email arrive in my Inbox :)
[16:13] <jmdault> mathiaz: https://launchpad.net/~jmdault/+archive/ppa
[16:13] <jmdault> I also put everything in bzr for easy diffs
[16:13] <jmdault> https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-voip/+junk/asterisk-1.6
[16:13] <mathiaz> jmdault: ok - thanks for working on that
[16:14] <jmdault> I was expecting stgraber to sponsor me, unfortunately he's overloaded this week
[16:14] <mathiaz> jmdault: next step is to find sponsors for the remaining packages in https://launchpad.net/~jmdault/+archive/ppa
[16:14] <mathiaz> anything else to add?
[16:14] <jmdault> I updated the wiki page
[16:15] <mathiaz> jmdault: which one?
[16:15] <jmdault> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AsteriskIntegration
[16:15] <Daviey> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AsteriskIntegration
[16:15] <jmdault> =)
[16:15] <jmdault> Now, how can I find a sponsor?
[16:16] <mathiaz> jmdault: send an email to ubuntu-motu@
[16:16] <mathiaz> jmdault: ask in #ubuntu-motu
[16:16] <mathiaz> jmdault: blog about it
[16:16] <jmdault> ok
[16:17] <mathiaz> jmdault: however we're before FF so everyone is very busy
[16:17] <jmdault> yes, I know =(
[16:17] <mathiaz> anything else before we move on?
[16:17] <jmdault> nope
[16:17] <mathiaz> great
[16:17] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Update Ebox to 1.3
[16:17] <MootBot> New Topic:  Update Ebox to 1.3
[16:17] <mathiaz> foolano: ^^?
[16:18] <ttx> zul says: "Ebox 1.3 in universe is done"
[16:18] <mathiaz> great. let's move on.
[16:18] <mathiaz> That's all I had from last week minutes.
[16:18] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] SRU weekly review
[16:18] <MootBot> New Topic:  SRU weekly review
[16:18] <ttx> yay
[16:18] <mathiaz> Review nominated list and last week fix released bugs to either accept them or mark them won't fix
[16:19] <Daviey> quite an easy review :)
[16:19] <mathiaz> http://people.canonical.com/~mathiaz/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[16:19] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~mathiaz/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[16:19] <mathiaz> anything SRU worthy on this list^^ ?
[16:20] <ttx> I don't have any favorite there.
[16:20] <ivoks> well, if apache segfaults with mod_deflate...
[16:21] <Daviey> bug 409987 needs watching
[16:21] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 409987 in apache2 "apache2 segfault using mod_deflate" [Medium,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/409987
[16:21] <ivoks> i'm using mod_deflate and haven't seen segfault in hardy
[16:21] <jmdault> +1 for 409987
[16:22] <ttx> doesn't http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/USN-802-2 cover those ?
[16:22] <Daviey> Bug #406303
[16:22] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 406303 in php5 "Compiled zip support in PHP 5.2.4 64bit can't open archives with large number of files." [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/406303
[16:22] <Daviey>  ^^ seems to be in hand already
[16:22] <mathiaz> right - its seems that it's a security related regression so the security team should be following up
[16:22] <Daviey> ttx: The comments suggest no.
[16:22] <ivoks> ttx: it should
[16:24] <ttx> Daviey: at this point the bug is considered fixed... and in every release
[16:24] <ivoks> should be tested
[16:24] <ivoks> since we have a user that claims it's not fixed
[16:24] <ttx> I'm pretty sure security tested it
[16:24] <mathiaz> I think mdeslaur is on it.
[16:24] <ivoks> right
[16:24] <ttx> anyway, either the bug is fixed or not fixed. If it's not fixed yet, then it's not a SRU candidate anyway
[16:24] <Daviey> i'm not sure we can have additional influence at this stage.
[16:25] <mathiaz> how about bug 406303?
[16:25] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 406303 in php5 "Compiled zip support in PHP 5.2.4 64bit can't open archives with large number of files." [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/406303
[16:25] <Daviey> mathiaz: seems to be in hand with Chuck Short.
[16:25] <ttx> mathiaz: accepted already
[16:25] <mathiaz> oh ok.
[16:25] <mathiaz> anything else from the list?
[16:26] <ttx> no.
[16:26] <Daviey> not here.
[16:26] <mathiaz> ok - let's move on to the next list:
[16:26] <mathiaz> http://us-dappernominated.notlong.com/
[16:26] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://us-dappernominated.notlong.com/
[16:26] <mathiaz> anything worth accepting?
[16:27] <ttx> most of them are nominated by someone named "Mathias Gug".
[16:27] <mdz> sounds suspicious
[16:27] <ttx> I'd accept all of them. Except maybe 164007 which shoudl be handled (or is handled) by security
[16:28] <mathiaz> ttx: sounds good. are you doing it?
[16:28] <mathiaz> ttx: net-snmp seems security related
[16:28] <mathiaz> bug 164007
[16:28] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 164007 in net-snmp "[net-snmp] remote Denial of Service vulnerability" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/164007
[16:28] <ttx> yes, I don't really know what we should do with those. Leave them alone ?
[16:29] <jdstrand> that should be fixed in http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-564-1
[16:29] <ttx> jamie to the rescue
[16:29] <mathiaz> jdstrand: for all previous releases?
[16:29] <jdstrand> dapper through gutsy
[16:29] <Daviey> \o/
[16:29] <jdstrand> look at that, I even prepared it :)
[16:29] <mathiaz> jdstrand: so not relevant for hardy+?
[16:30] <ttx> ok, accepting them and fix-releasing the security one
[16:30] <jdstrand> 5.4.1 has the fix
[16:30] <jdstrand> 5.4.1~dfsg-4ubuntu4 has released in hardy (not affected)
[16:30] <mathiaz> great - nothing left from dapper
[16:30] <mathiaz> let's move on to hardy
[16:31] <jdstrand> s/has/was/
[16:31] <mathiaz> http://us-hardynominated.notlong.com/
[16:31] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://us-hardynominated.notlong.com/
[16:31] <ttx> I'm unsure about those two hardy ones. Are those features, or bugs ?
[16:31] <ttx> If PHP doesn't count correctly, I wouldn't "fix" it in a SRU.
[16:32] <mathiaz> right - decline
[16:32] <ttx> the DDNS thing is a feature, but counts as a bug if "doing as in Windows" is the right behavior
[16:32] <mathiaz> as the potential for regression in existing code is high
[16:33] <mathiaz> does thing badly break if DDNS is not done?
[16:33] <jdstrand> ttx: I'll take care of the net-snmp bug. I didn't notice it before now and should have closed it with the USN
[16:33] <ttx> jdstrand: ok
[16:33] <mathiaz> ttx: does thing badly break if DDNS is not done?
[16:34] <ttx> mathiaz: no. It's just that the newly-joined workstation needs to be manually added into Windows DNS
[16:34] <ttx> while Windows workstations do that automatically
[16:34] <mathiaz> ttx: ok - I'd decline
[16:35] <ttx> ok
[16:35] <ttx> declining both, next
[16:35] <mathiaz> nothing left for hardy - let's move on to intrepid
[16:35] <mathiaz> http://us-intrepidnominated.notlong.com/
[16:35] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://us-intrepidnominated.notlong.com/
[16:35] <ttx> All those are valid. Though I wouldn't spend too much time fixing Intrepid now.
[16:36] <ttx> But since we should accept them if they are valid, rather than if we want to do them...
[16:36] <mathiaz> ttx: right.
[16:36] <mathiaz> just a reminder that accepting bugs doesn't mean they'll get fixed
[16:37] <mathiaz> next step is for someone to prepare the SRU report and a bzr branch for sponsoring
[16:37] <mathiaz> ttx: anything else for intrepid?
[16:38] <ttx> no, accepting them
[16:38] <mathiaz> great - let's move on to jaunty
[16:38] <mathiaz> http://us-jauntynominated.notlong.com/
[16:38] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://us-jauntynominated.notlong.com/
[16:38] <ttx> should be declined. not in Jaunty
=== nxvl_ is now known as nxvl
[16:39] <ttx> regression if any should be handled in a separate bug
[16:39] <ttx> as jamie commented.
[16:39] <mathiaz> ttx: agreed.
[16:39] <mathiaz> so nothing left in these lists.
[16:40] <mathiaz> so next phase:
[16:40] <mathiaz> Review accepted list
[16:40] <mathiaz> well - I've looked at LP and wasn't able to come up with a query that would have this list
[16:41] <mathiaz> FYI I'm following https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase in the SRU weekly review section from the IRC meeting section
[16:41] <ttx> zul has been cherrypicking SRU candidates, but a list would definitely be useful.
[16:41] <mathiaz> ttx: right - I'll work on my scripts to try to produce such a list
[16:42] <ttx> great !
[16:42] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz to produce a list of accepted bugs for packages related to the ubuntu-server team
[16:42] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to produce a list of accepted bugs for packages related to the ubuntu-server team
[16:42] <mathiaz> anything else to add to the SRU review?
[16:42] <ttx> nope
[16:42] <mathiaz> Things should be faster now that we have gone through the first round
[16:43] <mathiaz> and purged all the backlog.
[16:43] <ttx> yes.
[16:43] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] FFE for bacula
[16:43] <MootBot> New Topic:  FFE for bacula
[16:43] <mathiaz> so zul was supposed to talk about that
[16:43] <mathiaz> but he isn't here.
[16:43] <ivoks> eh...
[16:44] <mathiaz> anyone wants to add something ?
[16:44] <mathiaz> ivoks: ^^?
[16:44] <ivoks> i'll ask him if there's anything special to keep in mind
[16:44] <ttx> I guess he expects to request a FFe to get Bacula to 3.0.2
[16:44] <ivoks> but it shouldn't be a problem to do a merge
[16:44] <ivoks> so, i could work on that
[16:44] <ttx> I'm not sure whay 3.0.2 is required though.
[16:44] <ttx> why, even
[16:45] <ivoks> security probably
[16:45] <mathiaz> ttx: seems to be a new upstream version
[16:45] <ivoks> Version 3.0.2 is primarily a important bug fix update to version 3.0.1
[16:45] <mathiaz> it's been in experimental for a few months
[16:46] <mathiaz> ivoks: right - however 2.4 is in karmic
[16:46] <ivoks> we should move to 3.0.x
[16:46] <mathiaz> ivoks: why should we move to 3.0.X now in karmic?
[16:46] <ivoks> so, there should be an upgrade
[16:46] <ivoks> it's probably to late now...
[16:47] <mathiaz> 3.0 went in unstable 5 days ago
[16:47] <Sam-I-Am> is 9.10 going to be lts? i forget...
[16:47] <mathiaz> Sam-I-Am: nope
[16:47] <Daviey> Sam-I-Am: no
[16:47] <Sam-I-Am> ah, then it can probably wait until 10.04
[16:47] <mathiaz> ok
[16:47] <Sam-I-Am> if it was lts i'd say its a bigger deal
[16:47]  * mathiaz agrees
[16:48] <mathiaz> [ACTION] bacula FFe rejected - 3.0.X deferred to the next release cycle.
[16:48] <MootBot> ACTION received:  bacula FFe rejected - 3.0.X deferred to the next release cycle.
[16:48] <dendrobates> mathiaz: although, it would be nice to test it in karmic before we put it in an lts
[16:48] <ivoks> we might open ppa inside bacula-team
[16:49] <Sam-I-Am> that'd work
[16:49] <dendrobates> ivoks: that works
[16:49] <mathiaz> ivoks: seems like a good plan.
[16:49] <Daviey> dendrobates: Whilst i agree, is it a good idea if we get in the habbit of a non-LTS being an 'almost' unstable server release?
[16:50] <mathiaz> [ACTION] bacula 3.0.X to be made available from a PPA from the bacula team.
[16:50] <MootBot> ACTION received:  bacula 3.0.X to be made available from a PPA from the bacula team.
[16:50] <ivoks> i always consider non-LTS as 'technology preview' - this is something you'll get in next LTS
[16:50] <dendrobates> Daviey: yes, that is what it is.
[16:50] <mathiaz> anything else to add on the topic of bacula 3.0.x in karmic?
[16:51] <mathiaz> nope - let's move on.
[16:51] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[16:51] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[16:51] <mathiaz> mdz: ^^?
[16:51] <mdz> mathiaz: thanks
[16:51] <mdz> I'd like to check in on a few 9.10 projects if that's OK
[16:51] <mdz> just to make sure I know where we stand for feature freeze
[16:52] <mdz> I'll try to be quick, if I can get quick answers ;-)
[16:52] <mdz> first, the UEC/EC2 images
[16:52] <mdz> I see that they're building daily now, and they were included in alpha 4. that looks good
[16:52] <mdz> I'm a bit concerned about the following bugs:
[16:52] <mdz> https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/418130
[16:52] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 418130 in ubuntu-on-ec2 "Karmic EC2 kernel tracking bug" [Undecided,New]
[16:52] <mdz> https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-on-ec2/+bug/376740
[16:52] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 376740 in ubuntu-on-ec2 "user-data script: "public key is not available" for PPA" [Critical,Confirmed]
[16:53] <mdz> 418130 is said to be the major blocker, but it's Undecided/New and not targeted. seems in need of triage?
[16:53] <soren> mdz: The latter was fixed today.
[16:53] <mdz> soren: that's great news. launchpad still thinks it's open and critical. can we close it? ;-)
[16:53] <ttx> mdz: 418130 was just created as a tracker. I asked jjohansen to update the status on it
[16:53] <soren> mdz: It was closed 7 minutes ago :) I just haven't done the paperwork yet.
[16:54] <ttx> mdz: I think he is on vacation.
[16:54] <mdz> ttx: why is it "just a tracker"? are we not sure if there is a bug or not?
[16:54] <soren> We're sure there's a bug.
[16:55] <soren> The bug /report/ was opened to have a place to track the work being done on the subject.
[16:55] <ttx> not "just a tracker". A tracker. there might be multiple issues, all resulting in not being able to use a karmic kernel on karmic images.
[16:55] <mdz> I was pointed to this bug as the authoritative bug report for the issue which is preventing us from releasing 9.04 EC2 images
[16:55] <mdz> iirc the problem was that the instances sometimes didn't boot
[16:55] <soren> That's correct.
[16:55] <mdz> there's nothing in that bug report about that, though
[16:55] <mdz> is there a separate bug report which actually describes the problem, filed on the kernel perhaps?
[16:56] <soren> There is. Just a moment.
[16:56] <ttx> soren: ah ? couldn't find it.
[16:56] <mdz> ttx: part of what confused me is that the bug only referred to Karmic (just as you did just now).  but do we not have the same issue on 9.04?
[16:57] <soren> I've decided this is the one: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-on-ec2/+bug/398568
[16:57] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 398568 in ubuntu-on-ec2 "ami-bbf514d2: Sometimes does not start booting (empty console output, no network)" [Undecided,Confirmed]
[16:57] <ttx> soren:  since jj couldn't update the status and zul is away, could you update status on that "tracker" bug ?
[16:57] <mdz> ttx: since there is already a proper bug open, I don't see why we need this "tracker" one
[16:57] <soren> I'm assuming the failure in us-east-1a is a different problem.
[16:57] <mdz> soren: thank you
[16:57] <soren> ttx: I know I said differently yesterday. Sorry.
[16:57] <mdz> that one is set to importance Undecided, and is not assigned to anyone
[16:58] <mdz> who is working on the issue?
[16:58] <soren> zul and jjohansen.
[16:58] <ttx> mdz: I acted based on soren's feedback :)
[16:58] <soren> Yeah, my bad entirely. I read too much into the us-east-1a failure in Eric's report.
[16:58] <mdz> ok, so it needs to be triaged and assigned
[16:58] <mdz> what's the status of the Ubuntu package archive server(s) inside EC2?
[16:58] <ttx> mdz: yes. I thought jjohansen would do that, unfortunately he is away
[16:59] <ttx> mdz: will make sure it is.
[16:59] <soren> mdz: I was under the impression that they were live.
[16:59] <soren> I cannot say so authoritatively, though.
[16:59] <soren> They're run by IS.
[16:59] <smoser> i'm under that same impression, but can verify quickly if need be
[16:59] <mdz> my assumption is that the official jaunty and karmic images use those repositories by default in sources.list
[16:59] <mdz> is that correct?
[17:00] <soren> In a sense, yes.
[17:00] <soren> The instances, yes.
[17:00] <mdz> so it dynamically sets it up at boot?
[17:00] <soren> the images... Less so. We do some configuration at boot-up to adjust things like this.
[17:00] <soren> Yes.
[17:00] <mdz> ok, sounds good
[17:00] <soren> That way we can use the same images all over the place.
[17:00] <mdz> if someone could confirm that they actually work and are being kept up to date, I would appreciate it
[17:00] <ttx> We're running out of time, though we can continue this status update in #ubuntu-server (or #ubuntu-cloud)
[17:01] <mdz> sure, happy to
[17:01] <mdz> ->#ubuntu-server
[17:01] <ttx> mathiaz: close ?
[17:01] <mathiaz> ttx: sure.
=== marjomercado is now known as marjo
[17:01] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[17:01] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[17:01] <mathiaz> next week, same time, same place?
[17:01] <ivoks> yes
[17:02]  * Daviey wonders if it is worth moving the time, as it clearly adds pressure on the TB every week.
[17:02] <Sam-I-Am> yup
[17:02] <mathiaz> Daviey: TB runs every other week
[17:02] <ivoks> Daviey: or move it to ubuntu-server
[17:03] <mathiaz> Also there isn't always a meeting afterwards
[17:03] <mathiaz> anyway - same place, same time, next week
[17:04] <mathiaz> thanks for attending
[17:04] <Sam-I-Am> sounds good
[17:04] <ttx> sound good
[17:04] <mathiaz> #stopmeeting
[17:04] <ttx> thanks mathiaz
[17:04] <Daviey> +1
[17:04] <sommer> thanks mathiaz
[17:04] <Daviey> o/
[17:04] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
</pre>
