{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* No action points from last meeting.

=== Minutes ===
===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====
===== Oneiric Development =====
===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====
===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====
===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) =====
===== Weekly Updates & Questions for Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander) =====
* LINK http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel.html ====
===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====
===== Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community =====
* ACTION received:  sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation. ====
===== Open Discussion =====
===== Announce next meeting date and time =====
* Meeting finished at 11:44.

===== Meeting Actions =====

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, June 14th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[17:02] <Daviey> #startmeeting
[17:02] <RoAkSoAx> lol
[17:02] <MootBot> Meeting started at 11:02. The chair is Daviey.
[17:02] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[17:03] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[17:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[17:03] <Daviey> which were...?
[17:04] <Daviey> None, by the seems of it..
[17:04] <Daviey> Okay.. moving on.
[17:04] <zul> nod
[17:04] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Oneiric Development
[17:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  Oneiric Development
[17:05] <Daviey> Okay, we are exactly 1 month away from Alpha 2.
[17:05] <Daviey> (scary uh?)
[17:05] <hallyn> yeah it's flying
[17:05] <Daviey> We need to make sure that we have set correct expectations for work we are undertaking for this subscycle.
[17:06] <Daviey> Therefore, if anyone doesn't have 'enough' to keep them busy.. please resolve this...
[17:06] <Daviey> ... and equally, if you have too much and suspect it will not be met by A2... also please resolve it.
[17:06] <Daviey> resolve either means invent the 25th hour in a day, or speak with myself or robbiew
[17:07] <Daviey> So anyone that wants to sign up to more fun stuff... please shout :-)
[17:07]  * zul watches tumbleweeds go by
[17:07] <Daviey> Situation where Debian has a newer version than us for packages we track is getting smaller by the day.
[17:07] <Daviey> \o/
[17:08] <Daviey> Incoming bug tracking still needs some love.
[17:08] <Daviey> rocking.
[17:08] <Daviey> EOF.
[17:08] <NCommander> I have some things for this :-)
[17:08] <Daviey> NCommander: no you don't :)  You have your OWN section :P
[17:09] <NCommander> I do?
[17:09] <NCommander> Excellent
[17:09] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Server Team Events
[17:09] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu Server Team Events
[17:09] <Daviey> Where will we all be?
[17:09] <Daviey> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-o-ensemble-conference-talks <-- is tracking some releavnt events.
[17:09] <Daviey> Anybody else going anywhere fun?
[17:10] <Daviey> Ok... moving on.
[17:10] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[17:10] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[17:10] <Daviey> hggdh: around?
[17:10] <nijaba> Daviey: on the previous topic, we will be at Structure in a couple weeks
[17:11] <Daviey> nijaba: Oh, interesting.. who will be there?
[17:11] <Daviey> (/me is convinced nijaba just wants to make the minutes harder to create afterwards)
[17:11] <nijaba> Daviey: Benjamin, Juan, Mark Baker, me....
[17:11] <Daviey> okay, perhaps hggdh will join us shortly
[17:11] <Daviey> nijaba: thanks.
[17:11]  * nijaba is just slow to react :P
[17:11] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[17:11] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[17:11] <Daviey> smb: o/
[17:11] <smb> \o
[17:12] <smb> Err well...
[17:12] <smb> So mostly dabbling around some xen patches
[17:12] <Daviey> smb: how is our lovely kernel?
[17:12] <smb> Sometimes they break sometimes they work... :)
[17:12] <Daviey> smb: DomU ?
[17:12] <smb> Up to now yeah
[17:12] <Daviey> How is Dom0 looking?
[17:12] <smb> Still need to go and check dom0 usage
[17:13] <Daviey> okay..
[17:13] <smb> I had the feeling beside of the blkback, all config options already are set right
[17:13] <hggdh> I am in, Daviey
[17:13] <Daviey> smb: jjohansen was collecting some data for a matrix a while ago, did that get completed do you know?
[17:14] <Daviey> hggdh: o/
[17:14] <smb> There is also the iscsitarget thing, where I need to find out how best handle a need of version higher than a deb package
[17:14] <smb> Daviey, He was collecting mostly for normal kernels.
[17:14] <Daviey> smb: bug associated with that?
[17:14] <smb> AFAIK they will work on that in Dublin
[17:14] <Daviey> okay..
[17:15] <Daviey> smb: Do i need to be concerned with iscsitarget?
[17:15] <smb> Daviey, iscsitarget, no. I don't even know whether this is done with a bug
[17:15] <smb> Daviey, Not that much it more a question of procedure
[17:15] <smb> Which I need to bug some people on ubuntu devel
[17:15] <RoAkSoAx> .win 3
[17:15] <RoAkSoAx> argh sry :(
[17:15] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx: boring you? :)
[17:16] <Daviey> smb: Hmm. okay, will hold out for your mail then. :)
[17:16] <smb> yup
[17:16] <Daviey> smoser: Anything for smb ?
[17:16] <RoAkSoAx> Daviey: no :) just checking who's making noise :P
[17:16] <smb> RoAkSoAx, In doubt my neigbours
[17:17] <Daviey> smb: Okay, super! Thanks
[17:17] <Daviey> Happy to move on?
[17:17] <smoser> i do not have naything for mr smb
[17:17] <RoAkSoAx> smb: hehe
[17:17] <Daviey> wow, that is a first.
[17:17] <smb> smoser, You are too kind to me master
[17:17] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)
[17:17] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)
[17:18] <Daviey> NCommander: The mic is yours.
[17:18] <NCommander> So work on UbuntU Server on ARM is starting in full now that we're over the A1 hump
[17:18] <NCommander> (sorry, laptop is really lagging out ATM)
[17:19] <NCommander> I've started work on implementing netboot images for OMAP3/4 so that we'll be able to test and use ensemble/orchastria on ARM, and shake bugs out of the alternate installer which is not regularly used on ARM images
[17:19] <Daviey> NCommander: this is great, where can work be tracked?
[17:20] <Daviey> NCommander: I assume you are in communication with foundations, specifically cjwatson - regarding d-i?
[17:20] <NCommander> the ubuntu-armel workitem tracker and our blueprints would be the canonical place
[17:20] <NCommander> Daviey: I'll kick a branch up for him to review but I generally do most of the installer work on ARM with ogra
[17:20] <NCommander> [link] http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel.html
[17:20] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel.html
[17:21] <Daviey> NCommander: yeah.. if you have a unoffical netboot image you want us to smoke, can you provide a url we can grab?
[17:21] <ogra_> Daviey, http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/oneiric/ubuntu-armel.html
[17:21] <NCommander> Daviey: official oneiric daily ones should pop up when all is done, I'll drop a link your way when I get that far. A large hurdle dealing with OMAP partitioning was resolved today
[17:21] <NCommander> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dosfstools/+bug/794043
[17:21] <ogra_> bah, NCommander was faster
[17:21] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 794043 in dosfstools (Ubuntu) "mkdosfs incorrectly calculates sector total" [High,Triaged]
[17:22] <Daviey> ogra_: I think the WI trackr for -armel needs refreshing :)
[17:22] <Daviey> i almost had a heart attack :P
[17:22] <NCommander> it does sadly :-(
[17:22] <ogra_> Daviey, yeah, NCommander's specs are still missing :P
[17:22] <Daviey> Looks like it's making great progress... anything else you wanted to mention?
[17:22]  * ogra_ ducks 
[17:23] <NCommander> More of a general announcement
[17:23] <Daviey> Go ahead
[17:24] <NCommander> As OMAP3/4 can't handle the alternate installer, we'll be building preinstall images, so for anyone who is interested in testing them, please be advised that they are different installation than the current server ones
[17:24] <Daviey> Interesting.. what is the reasoning for OMAP3/4 not working?
[17:25] <zul> besides being arm ;)
[17:25] <NCommander> Daviey: limitations in the bootloader. It can only boot from SD, and the installer can not override itself
[17:25] <NCommander> pandas are really meant just for dev work for the time being as they're the most common hardware. They're not ideal server hardware by any strech of the imagination
[17:25] <Daviey> NCommander: I think the installer CAN overwrite itself.. if you are using mini.iso equivilant.
[17:25] <NCommander> Daviey: that's the netboot/netinstall
[17:26] <Daviey> yah
[17:26] <Daviey> netinstall NOT netboot.
[17:26] <NCommander> as another aside, PXE support has landed in the OMAP4 u-boot
[17:26] <zul> \o/
[17:27] <NCommander> Its not currently in archive but should land with the next u-boot update
[17:27] <NCommander> (there's a PPA with it, I can find a link if anyone interested)
[17:27] <Daviey> NCommander: I look forward to reading the blog post all about it.
[17:27] <Daviey> The detail of the blog post will really excite me. :)
[17:27] <NCommander> :-)
[17:27] <Daviey> Okay.. happy to move on?
[17:27] <NCommander> Anyway, does anyone have any questions about Ubuntu Server on ARM, or ARM in general?
[17:28] <ogra_> when can we read that blog post ?
[17:28] <Daviey> not from me... really blocked on having a server image to test. :)
[17:28] <NCommander> ogra_: between now and release
[17:28] <NCommander> (ideally, sometime in the next week or so)
[17:28] <ogra_> NCommander, between now and release is nothing my browser takes as URL :P
[17:29] <ogra_> when and where ? :)
[17:29] <Daviey> Okay, moving on.. NCommander, can you ping -server when you have an image we can try :)
[17:29]  * ogra_ didnt know you have a blog
[17:29] <NCommander> Sure, I'll keep you apprised
[17:29] <Daviey> \o/
[17:29] <NCommander> ogra_: I'm on planet. My last blog post was in 2009
[17:29] <NCommander> I might post in 2011
[17:29] <ogra_> wow
[17:29]  * Daviey jumps back
[17:29] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[17:29] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[17:29] <hggdh> OK
[17:30] <hggdh> two bugs of interest:
[17:30]  * Daviey hopes it is the one he is thinking.
[17:30] <hggdh> bug 791607 <- from A1, Euca does not start
[17:30] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 791607 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu) "Oneiric Eucalyptus fails to start up" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/791607
[17:31] <hggdh> and bug 790712 <- kernel OOPS on i386. I am getting this one sporadically, about 1 in 5 runs
[17:31] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 790712 in linux (Ubuntu) "20110531 i386 server ISO: kernel OOPS during install" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/790712
[17:31] <Daviey> Okay..The packaging for euca is likely to be changing soon.. So it hasn't recieved much attention until we know how to proceed
[17:32] <Daviey> smb: Seen that bug?
[17:32] <hggdh> Daviey: one other thing, I thought we had NTP as a depends/recommends on current euca, could not see it
[17:32] <smb> Daviey, not before now and then only what ubotu said
[17:32] <Daviey> hggdh: You are correct..
[17:33] <Daviey> smb: have you fixed it yet? :)
[17:33] <hggdh> also, adam_g is getting his hands wet on the UEC test rig ;-)
[17:33] <Daviey> smb: Okay, just wanted to make it known..
[17:33] <smb> wonders take a bit of time
[17:33] <adam_g> hopefully soon. :)
[17:33] <Daviey> smb: On the 8th day.
[17:34] <Daviey> adam_g: exciting.
[17:34]  * smb goes inventing the time machine
[17:34] <Daviey> hggdh / jamespage : Any news on jenkins throwing out failure emails? :)
[17:35] <hggdh> Daviey: we should be looking at it next week, on the QA sprint/rally/roomba/whatchamacallit
[17:35] <hggdh> Daviey: together with a potential relocation of the Jenkins server
[17:35] <Daviey> hggdh: super, i think Mr Page might be joining you for a few days.
[17:36] <Daviey> hggdh: anything else?
[17:36] <hggdh> Daviey: no, I am done
[17:36] <Daviey> hggdh: thank you sir!
[17:37] <hggdh> my unending pleasure, sir
[17:37] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[17:37] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[17:37] <RoAkSoAx> sommer was back into action for ISO testing I believe
[17:37] <Daviey> I saw!
[17:37] <sommer> :-) hi ho
[17:37] <RoAkSoAx> sommer: \o/
[17:37] <Daviey> hey sommer..
[17:38] <Daviey> sommer / j1mc: Do we need to re-add the docs section to the meeting?
[17:38] <sommer> Daviey: maybe, I was able to add another section to the server guide before vacation.
[17:39] <Daviey> sommer: I missed that, what did you do?
[17:39] <sommer> I guess I'm a little unclear on the direction the server documentation should go
[17:39] <sommer> Daviey: added a iscsi initiator section
[17:39] <Daviey> useful++
[17:39] <Daviey> sommer: Yeah.. direction is bit of an issue.. Specific ideas?
[17:40] <sommer> Daviey: I kind of like j1mc's idea about looking at the Open Stack docs, and emulating their layout
[17:40] <Daviey> Yeah.. I buy into that... I wanted to hear your views first tho.
[17:41] <sommer> I think that's a good idea, but if I remember correctly the Open Stack docs use DocBook as well.  And I think there is still an issue in translating the DocBook format.
[17:42] <sommer> I'd really like to see the server docs translated as much as possible
[17:42] <Daviey> sommer: Are you happy to drive looking into it with j1mc, and report back next week with issues?
[17:42] <sommer> Daviey: sure thing
[17:43] <Daviey> [ACTION] sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation.
[17:43] <MootBot> ACTION received:  sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation.
[17:43] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[17:43] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[17:43] <Daviey> Anything from anyone else?
[17:44] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[17:44] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[17:44] <Daviey> Tuesday, 14th June 2011 16:00 UTC
[17:44] <Daviey> #endmeeting
[17:44] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 11:44.
[17:44] <Daviey> Thanks all!
[17:44] <Daviey> o/
[17:44] <nijaba> bye
[17:44] <nijaba> thanks Daviey
[17:44] <sommer> thank you :-)
[17:45] <NCommander> Thanks
[17:47] <j1mc> Daviey: I met anne gentle a few days ago, and we went through some of how to build things out in their layout. i should have a test build available within the next few days.
[17:48] <Daviey> j1mc: *rocking*

</pre>
