{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


==== Minutes ====

==== Actions from previous meeting ====

No action was required from the previous meeting.

==== Natty Development ====

Last week alpha3 was released. Blueprints work items should be marked as postponed if they were completed. Everyone should have been doing ISO testing last week as well.

[ACTION] Everybody should be doing ISO testing.

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====

No new events, but UDS is coming up pretty quickly.

==== Weekly Updates and Questions from the QA Team (hggdh) ====

Hggdh mentioned that he would need help in Alpha 3 testing and some baremetal installs would help.

==== Weekly Updates and Questions fromt the kernel team (smb) ====

Smb mentioned there was some EC2 testing fallout, some xfs regresssions, and nome nasty Lucid behavior in net name space (Bug #720095, Bug #725089, Bug #692848)

==== Weekly Updates from the Server Community team (kim0) ====

Ubuntu cloud days is coming soon (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuCloudDays) which is basically similar to UDW but focus on the cloud.

==== Open Discussion ====

I mentioned that we want to add lxc containers support to the UEC images and there was no points raised. This would make things like openstack testing much easier.

==== Next Meeting date and Time ====

Tuesday March 8, 2011 16:00 UTC

<pre>
[15:58] <zul> hi
[15:59] <zul> still 2 minutes according to my clock
[15:59] <RoAkSoAx> o/
[16:00] <zul> hi so lets get that started
[16:00] <zul> #startmeeting
[16:00] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:00. The chair is zul.
[16:00] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:00] <zul> [TOPIC]     Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:00] <MootBot> New Topic:      Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:00] <zul> since there is nothing in the last meeting we jump to
[16:00] <zul> [TOPIC] Natty Development
[16:00] <MootBot> New Topic:  Natty Development
[16:00] <zul> so alpha3 is going to be released on thursday
[16:01] <zul> your blueprints wi should be marked as postposted if they arent complete and carried over
[16:01] <zul> iso testing this week so please help out
[16:01] <zul> anything else?
[16:01] <Daviey> Sounds good to me.
[16:01] <hallyn> action + url for iso testign for the record?
[16:02] <zul> [ACTION] iso testing - everybody (http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com)
[16:02] <MootBot> ACTION received:  iso testing - everybody (http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com)
[16:02] <hallyn> :)
[16:02] <zul> is robbie around?
[16:03] <zul> if not we will move on...going once...
[16:03] <zul> okies then
[16:03] <zul> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:03] <zul> anyone have anything to add?
[16:04] <zul> UDS is soon and sponsorship is open now so if you want to be sponsored please sign up
[16:04] <ttx> cool ;)
[16:05] <zul> that means you ttx
[16:05] <RoAkSoAx> lol
[16:05] <zul> its in budapest this year in may
[16:05] <zul> nice and toasty
[16:05] <zul> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:05] <zul> hi hggdh
[16:06] <hggdh> yo
[16:06] <zul> anything to report?
[16:06] <hggdh> this is A3 week, we will probably need help
[16:06] <Daviey> Hggdh. Expect a news eucalyptus today.
[16:07] <zul> yay!
[16:07] <Daviey> New
[16:07] <hggdh> Daviey: so I will refrain from testing it until you ping me
[16:07] <Daviey> Cool
[16:07] <hggdh> that
[16:07] <zul> that it? ;)
[16:07] <RoAkSoAx> hggdh: so I guess when you start testing we can take a deeper look into the PowerNap issue then
[16:07] <hggdh>  's it
[16:08] <hggdh> RoAkSoAx: yes, certainly
[16:08] <zul> ok next
[16:08] <Daviey> Hggdh... Any comments on a3 testing?
[16:08] <zul> just need help right hggdh?
[16:09] <hggdh> new ISO seems better, but some bare-metal installs would help
[16:09] <hggdh> (we had an issue that only appeared in bare-metal)
[16:09] <Daviey> Groovy
[16:09] <zul> thanks
[16:09] <zul> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:09] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:09] <zul> hi smb
[16:09] <smb> Hi there
[16:10] <zul> anything to report?
[16:10] <smb> So not much. A bit of ec2 testing fallout, some xfs regression that was reported and some nasty Lucid behavior in net namespace.
[16:11] <smb> bug 720095
[16:11] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 720095 in linux (Ubuntu) "vsftpd causes a vmalloc space leak in Lucid" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/720095
[16:11] <zul> oh thats fun
[16:11] <smb> bug 725089
[16:11] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 725089 in linux (Ubuntu) "SECCOMP causes kernel panic on EC2 AMD64 image" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/725089
[16:11] <smb> bug 692848
[16:11] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 692848 in linux (Ubuntu Karmic) "Regression between 2.6.32-27 and 2.6.32-26 xfsdump SGI_FS_BULKSTAT errno = 22" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/692848
[16:12] <zul> people shouldnt use ftp anyways ;)
[16:12] <zul> any questions?
[16:12] <smb> The seccomp panic "luckily" is no regression, just a race that sometimes happens
[16:12] <smb> ..
[16:12] <hallyn> smb: bug id for net ns lucid ?
[16:12] <smb> hallyn, Thats the vsftp bug
[16:13] <hallyn> ah
[16:13] <smb> Basically the problem is that the cleanup for clones of the net namespace hang around for a whole
[16:13] <smb> Upstream changed a lot between Lucid and Maverick to batch things
[16:14] <smb> Seems a bit much for backporting, so I try to find some smaller solution
[16:14] <smb> (not with much luck yet)
[16:14] <smb> ..
[16:14] <zul> thanks
[16:14] <hallyn> impressive root-cause finding ;)
[16:15] <zul> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[16:15] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[16:15] <zul> sommer around?
[16:15] <zul> im thinking no
[16:15] <zul> well come back to that one if needed
[16:15] <zul> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[16:15] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[16:15] <kim0> o/
[16:15] <zul> hi kim0
[16:15] <kim0> the thing I wanna mention
[16:15] <kim0> is the .. drum roll
[16:16] <kim0> Ubuntu Cloud Days
[16:16] <kim0> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuCloudDays/
[16:16] <kim0> basically very similar to UDW
[16:16] <kim0> everyone who's attending that meeting is a very good candidate to register a session
[16:16] <kim0> please choose one and write it in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuCloudDays/Timetable
[16:16] <zul> its just the two days right?
[16:16] <kim0> don't make me pick one for you
[16:17] <kim0> zul: well yes, unless I get flooded with volunteers
[16:17] <kim0> basically, I've written a blog post announcing it
[16:17] <zul> kim0: cool
[16:17] <kim0> but dont wanna publish it before you guys have added a few sessions
[16:17] <kim0> so please go go go
[16:17] <kim0> that's mostly it for me
[16:17] <zul> cool any questions?
[16:17] <kim0> nope
[16:18] <Daviey> Exciting
[16:18] <zul> any other questions for kim0
[16:18] <zul> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[16:18] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[16:18] <zul> kirkland: around? how was scale
[16:19] <zul> or not
[16:19] <zul> so lxcguest
[16:20] <zul> we have been adding lxc containers support to openstack and we would like add lxcguest support to the uec-images
[16:20] <zul> i have discussed with smoser that it should be brought into main. does anyone see an issue with that?
[16:21] <zul> this would make testing images on openstack much more easier
[16:21] <hallyn> woot
[16:21] <zul> the work is already on the way to get it done
[16:22] <Daviey> How will mainly bed supporting generic.lxc?
[16:22] <Daviey> Who
[16:22] <zul> us
[16:22] <zul> or i missed the question
[16:22] <hallyn> I support lxc
[16:23] <Daviey> Hallyn, cool
[16:23] <zul> and the lxc support in openstack is done through libvirt so that is also hallyn :)
[16:23] <Daviey> Heh
[16:23] <hallyn> <twitch>
[16:23] <zul> any other open discussion type things?
[16:24] <Daviey> Nah
[16:24] <zul> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[16:24] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[16:24] <zul> Tuesday, March 8 2011 16:00 UTC
[16:24] <zul> thanks for comming
[16:24] <zul> #endmeeting
</pre>
