{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=03&day=10&year=2014&hour=&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Mar 10th 2014 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': MarcDeslauriers (mdeslaur)

=== Attendance ===
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* jdstrand

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** This week is UDS! Please take a look at the schedule and subscribe yourselves to anything that looks security relevant.
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: community
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** sbeattie
** !AppArmor
*** waiting for sarnold's final packaging test results
*** ipc testing with jjohansen
** tyhicks
** send v2 of dbus-daemon mediation patches for review (+ bug fix and missing feature)
** kdbus for a day or two to finish/continue the upstream conversation
** help with testing
** jjohansen
** !AppArmor
*** ipc and kernel issues
*** testing with sbeattie
*** a few open bugs to handle/delegate
*** cross namespace stacking
** sarnold
** weekly role: triage
** MIRs: juju-core, schroot, strongswan, glusterfs)
** !AppArmor package testing
** chrisccoulson
** Oxide
*** network delegate work (to allow user-agent override mechanism)
*** bug fix for geolocation work
*** review merge requests
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-03-10-16.41.moin.txt
