{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** jamespage to get juju MIR's added to server precise release tracking 
* Precise Development
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====
* [DONE]: jamespage to get juju MIR's added to server precise release tracking

===== Precise Development =====
* discussion of <nowiki>[[http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html|relavant bugs]]</nowiki>

===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====
* none to speak of.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====
* none, round of applause for work on <nowiki>[[https://jenkins.qa.ubuntu.com/view/Precise%20OpenStack%20Testing/|Jenkins Openstack Precise Testing]]</nowiki>

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) =====
* smb brought up some libvirt issues

===== Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak) =====
* cloud-images likely moving to armhf (hard float) from armel (soft float).

===== Open Discussion =====
* Justin Werner is (justinlw) has recently joined the Canonical Server team.

===== Announce next meeting date and time =====
* Tuesday 2012-02-14 at 1600 UTC

===== Meeting Actions =====
* None

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, May 31st at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:06] <smoser> #start-meeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:06] <smoser> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:06] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Feb  7 16:06:50 2012 UTC.  The chair is smoser. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:06] <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:06] <utlemming> smoser: we need to welcome Justinlw to the Server team
[16:07] <smoser> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:07] <smoser>  * jamespage to get juju MIR's added to server precise release tracking
[16:07] <smoser> jamespage, ^
[16:07] <jamespage> smoser: done
[16:07] <jamespage> ta Daviey
[16:07] <smoser> moving on
[16:07] <arosales> welcome justinlw! :-)
[16:07] <smoser> [TOPIC] Precise Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Precise Development
[16:07]  * justinlw nods, waves
[16:07] <Daviey> Feature Freeze next Thursday, anything outstanding?
[16:07]  * smoser is not ignoring that, just figured it was more "open discussion" or some other section than 'review action points'
[16:08] <arosales> smoser: roger, I just jumped the gun
[16:08] <rbasak> I should get my openmpi test builds done before then
[16:08] <Daviey> rbasak: Great.. rbasak, can you raise a warning this time next week if not?
[16:08] <rbasak> will do
[16:09] <Daviey> maas will be uploaded this Thursday, pending review.
[16:09] <Daviey> Anything else of concern?
[16:09] <hallyn> we really want apparmor mount controls before ff
[16:09] <rbasak> Also from my end, console fifo patch into nova? Is that a feature?
[16:09] <hallyn> and netcf in main, and enabled in libvirt
[16:09] <Daviey> hallyn: Does that have a bug?  Dangers it won't be reached?
[16:09] <zul> rbasak: yeah ill stick in today
[16:09] <hallyn> Daviey: it has bugs depending on it, but no explicit bug
[16:09] <hallyn> jjohansen would know what danger of not being reached is right now.
[16:10] <rbasak> Cool, thanks zul!
[16:10] <hallyn> i know he has a lot to juggle, not sure where it's at
[16:10] <Daviey> hallyn: ok, i'll discuss it in -server after the meeting.
[16:10] <hallyn> ok
[16:10] <Daviey> smoser: Do you want to itterate over the todo bugs?
[16:10] <smoser> i can..
[16:10] <smoser> link ?
[16:10] <Daviey> http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html
[16:11] <smoser> bug 924739
[16:11] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 924739 in squid3 (Ubuntu Precise) "after upgrade from oneiric to precise, previous squid config unused, cannot be used when relocated" [Critical,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/924739
[16:11] <adam_g> i helped triage that one
[16:11] <smoser> yeah... and i think its significant.
[16:11] <adam_g> but am unsure of a solution, and was hoping we might be able to discuss the squid3 transition in forum
[16:11] <smoser> i'm not sure what we've done on transition of other packages before.
[16:11] <smoser> i'm assuming there is good prior art
[16:11] <Daviey> adam_g: do you have capacity to drive it, or is it better with roaksoax ?
[16:12] <smoser> but ending up with no running proxy seems not so nice.
[16:12] <adam_g> Daviey: i'd be happy to look into possible solutions if someone can point me toward other packages that have gone through similar transitions in the past, where config files have moved to different locations with new syntax
[16:13] <Daviey> adam_g: okay, lets take it to -server, after.
[16:13] <adam_g> Daviey: +1
[16:13] <smoser> bug 883988
[16:13] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 883988 in glance (Ubuntu Precise) "db migration failing when upgrading glance - trying to create existing tables" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/883988
[16:13] <adam_g> smoser: theres still no movement on that, i was hoping it'd be fixed during their bug squashing day but there still seems to be disagreement among developers up stream on how to handle database migrations.
[16:13] <smoser> adam_g, should you just dupe that ?
[16:14] <adam_g> smoser: yeah, there was a lot of conversion about hte issue on another bug last week, ill try to find that add a link as well
[16:14] <smoser> you put a reference in the bug
[16:14] <Daviey> adam_g: can you open discussion with upstream and see what we should do?
[16:14] <smoser> bug 779311
[16:14] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 779311 in glance (Ubuntu) "Glance update for Ubuntu failing" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/779311
[16:15] <adam_g> Daviey: yeah
[16:15] <smoser> bug 893926
[16:15] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 893926 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu) "Contains traces of UEC" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/893926
[16:15] <Daviey> I'll follow up with the assignee
[16:17] <smoser> k
[16:17] <smoser> bug 911812
[16:17] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 911812 in facter (Ubuntu Precise) "processor fact does not handle arm, others" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/911812
[16:17] <Daviey> roaksoax: ?
[16:17] <roaksoax> Daviey: adam_g was working on it and AFAIK he requested access to the arm cluster to work on it
[16:17] <Daviey> ahh
[16:18] <roaksoax> Daviey: though it was determined that upstream contains the fix for it, we just need to SRU
[16:18] <Daviey> rbasak: Do you think you could chime in?
[16:18] <smoser> adam_g, refute or deny in #ubuntu-server
[16:18] <smoser> bug 913009
[16:18] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 913009 in bacula (Ubuntu) "package bacula-common-mysql (not installed) failed to install/upgrade: trying to overwrite '/usr/lib/bacula/libbaccats.la', which is also in package bacula-common 5.2.1-0ubuntu2" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/913009
[16:18]  * smoser will do that after this meeting.
[16:18] <adam_g> roaksoax: please continue on with that one, i only was able to confirm its at least fixed in the current release
[16:18] <smoser> meant to do it this morning
[16:18] <smoser> bug 914392
[16:18] <Daviey> git bisect ++
[16:18] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 914392 in juju "LXC local provider does not respect 'series' (only installs oneiric)" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/914392
[16:19] <rbasak> adam_g, roaksoax, Daviey: I'm happy to test on my panda, just let me know
[16:19] <smoser> branch is still under review there. maybe hazmat can ping a bit.
[16:19] <roaksoax> adam_g: will sure do.
[16:19] <roaksoax> rbasak: will prepare SRU's and give them for you to test!
[16:19]  * smoser will ping hazmat and beg.
[16:19] <smoser> bug 923681
[16:19] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 923681 in debian-installer (Ubuntu) "Server install fails when selecting everything but 'VM host' & 'Manual selection' from tasksel" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/923681
[16:20] <Daviey> i think that wants input from zul
[16:20] <smoser> that seems somewhat significant
[16:20] <zul> from me?
[16:20] <Daviey> it's a Conflicts issue.
[16:20] <Daviey> see comment #2
[16:21] <smoser> zul, please take a look.
[16:21] <smoser> bug 850443
[16:21] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 850443 in python-eventlet (Ubuntu) "Nova API does not listen on IPv6" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/850443
[16:21] <zul> smoser: ack
[16:21] <smoser> Daviey, did you think that was going to get fixed upstream?
[16:21] <rbasak> 914392 will cause big issues for arm if it doesn't get fixed
[16:21] <Daviey> smoser: NFI
[16:21] <rbasak> bug 914392
[16:22] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 914392 in juju "LXC local provider does not respect 'series' (only installs oneiric)" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/914392
[16:22] <smoser> rbasak, it willg et fixed.
[16:22] <smoser> bug 898840
[16:22] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 898840 in cobbler (Ubuntu) "'default' preseed should be enlister" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/898840
[16:22] <Daviey> smoser: there is a patch we can steal
[16:22] <Daviey> (proposed upstream, wanted to wait for it to be applied.)
[16:23] <Daviey> roaksoax: bug 898840 ?
[16:23] <smoser> ah. to eventlit.
[16:23] <roaksoax> Daviey: ready to merge
[16:23] <smoser> Daviey, so should that be closed on openstack-compute ?
[16:23] <roaksoax> Daviey: though holding it till I succesfully test the maas
[16:24] <Daviey> roaksoax: just land it for orchestra, we'll adjust for next version
[16:24] <smoser> well... i'll poke a bit.
[16:24] <roaksoax> Daviey: cool then
[16:24] <Daviey> smoser: It's unclear.. I'd leave the task open for a bt
[16:24] <smoser> k
[16:24] <smoser> bug 880339
[16:24] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 880339 in mysql-5.1 (Ubuntu Precise) "AppArmor profile needs update" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/880339
[16:25] <smoser> roaksoax,
[16:25] <Daviey> SpamapS might like to add his thoughts?
[16:25] <roaksoax> Daviey: it was marked invalid as I couldn't reproduce it
[16:25] <roaksoax> Daviey: it was just re-openfor what I can see
[16:25] <roaksoax> Daviey: will look into it again
[16:25] <Daviey> With the current discussion going on RE: mysql - that bug might need adjusting
[16:25] <Daviey> cool
[16:26] <smoser> move on?
[16:26] <smoser> bug 875262
[16:26] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 875262 in php5 (Ubuntu Oneiric) "PHP Startup: Unable to load dynamic library '/usr/lib/php5/20090626+lfs/sqlite.so'" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/875262
[16:26] <Daviey> SpamapS: ^^ working with koolhead17 ?
[16:26] <koolhead17> i got help on this from SpamapS
[16:26] <smoser> ok. and its targetted to beta-1. good job koolhead17
[16:27] <SpamapS> sorry I've been away
[16:27] <smoser> bug 904681
[16:27] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 904681 in Ubuntu "precise amd64 minimal-virtual install is oversized" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/904681
[16:27] <SpamapS> Daviey: re the mysql bug.. its been pending for a while.. simple fix. I think there's a dupe in mysql-5.5 that is marked High
[16:27] <Daviey> I think oversized is fixed?
[16:27]  * Daviey checks
[16:28] <Daviey> https://jenkins.qa.ubuntu.com/view/Precise/job/precise-server-amd64_minimal-virtual/
[16:28] <smoser> Daviey, where are you checking? just for those who are playing the home-game
[16:28] <Daviey> woot
[16:28] <smoser> thanks
[16:28] <koolhead17> also Daviey for 875262 there is big merge coming so SpamapS suggested me to hold on :P
[16:28] <SpamapS> re PHP, I've asked koolhead17 to lay off, given the weirdness coming from Debian
[16:28] <smoser> ok. good. so it seems we're on-target there. thank you SpamapS and koolhead17
[16:28] <smoser> bug 906654
[16:28] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 906654 in nova (Ubuntu) "nova should depend on openstackx and load appropriate osapi_extensions by default" [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/906654
[16:28] <SpamapS> I had given up on php 5.4.0 , but some folks have privately asked me to take a second look at it
[16:29] <Daviey> zul: ^^ ?
[16:29] <Daviey> SpamapS: sounds good.
[16:29] <SpamapS> There's a discussion happening today in the Debian php group about suhosin also
[16:29] <smoser> well, per adam_g
[16:29] <smoser> Note: This will likely be marked invalid soon, as the openstackx library is soon to be marked deprecated and removed in favor of python-novaclient.
[16:30] <adam_g> smoser: yes, thats still true. id like to confirm whether or not thats actually happened yet
[16:30] <adam_g> smoser: will mark the bug invalid as soon as i can do that
[16:30] <smoser> adam_g, yeah. thanks.
[16:30] <Daviey> oh, nice
[16:30] <smoser> bug 907197
[16:30] <zul> Daviey: openstackx has already removed from horizon
[16:30] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 907197 in nova (Ubuntu) "ip address can't be injected into the instance when using lxc " [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/907197
[16:30] <smoser> zul you want to lok at that? i can take a quick look also
[16:30] <adam_g> zul: what about in nova?
[16:30] <zul> smoser:  please
[16:31] <smoser> (but in my opinion,that is extremely low importance)
[16:31] <zul> adam_g: i think its gone as well
[16:31] <smoser> i fear i'm going to get sick to my stomach looking from reading the stack trace though
[16:31] <smoser> yuck
[16:31] <smoser> bug 879666
[16:31] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 879666 in nova (Ubuntu Precise) "chown error for console.fifo when launching vm" [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/879666
[16:32] <Daviey> rbasak: ^6 ?
[16:33] <Daviey> did you patch get re-added?  zul ?
[16:33] <rbasak> zul is taking this for precise; I have yet to rebase my patch for oneiric
[16:33] <zul> Daviey: working on it now
[16:33] <Daviey> cool
[16:33] <smoser> k
[16:33] <smoser> bug 916489
[16:33] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 916489 in ipxe (Ubuntu) "grub-ipxe says "B: command not found"" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/916489
[16:33] <zul> rbasak: ill do oneiric as well
[16:33] <smoser> lynxman,
[16:33] <rbasak> thanks zul!
=== shadeslayer is now known as shadeslayer_
[16:34]  * rbasak owes zul a beer
=== shadeslayer_ is now known as shadeslayer
[16:34] <Daviey> jamespage: How is lynxman's ipxe upload?
[16:34] <lynxman> smoser: still need to finish some comments on the new ipxe package, as soon as those are done this bug will be fixed
[16:34] <zul> rbasak: more than one
[16:34] <smoser> lynxman, gracias
[16:34] <Daviey> lynxman: can this be done by EoW?
[16:34] <smoser> bug 924375
[16:34] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 924375 in cloud-init (Ubuntu) "cloud-init should allow pre-seeding of ec2 datasource:Ec2:metadata_urls" [Medium,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/924375
[16:34]  * smoser waits on lynxman
[16:34] <smoser> cloud-init bug i'll have that fixed in cloud-init by feature freeze.
[16:34] <lynxman> Daviey: will try but cant say
[16:35] <smoser> bug 926160
[16:35] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 926160 in Ubuntu "precise cloud-images significantly larger than oneiric" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/926160
[16:35] <Daviey> smoser: you are king.
[16:35] <Daviey> lynxman: We are depending on you :)
[16:35] <smoser> utlemming, can i assign that to you for further invfestigation?
[16:35] <utlemming> smoser: yup
[16:36] <smoser> take a look at that bug, it is interesting.
[16:36] <lynxman> Daviey: I have zero allowance from management on this one, will try to push a nighter to do it :)
[16:36] <smoser> the 'du --apparent-size' of / on oneiric and precise is very similar, but 'df' reports a completely different story.
[16:36] <smoser> bug 833499
[16:36] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 833499 in OpenStack Compute (nova) "virt/disk.py unconditionally inserts public_keys into /root/.ssh/authorized_keys" [Low,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/833499
[16:36] <smoser> i dont think that is going to get fixed up stream unless one of us do it.
[16:37] <smoser> and i think it'd be a feature request too...
[16:37] <smoser> so..
[16:37] <smoser> i tihnk we should take it off this list for essex/precise. its low enough priority with the cloud-init work around
[16:37] <smoser> Daviey, ?
[16:37] <smoser> bug 901881
[16:37] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 901881 in glance (Ubuntu) "nova should depend on python-keystone" [Low,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/901881
[16:37] <Daviey> smoser: how importiant?
[16:38] <smoser> low at best
[16:38] <Daviey> smoser: it's not a feature IMO
[16:38] <Daviey> smoser: lets utrack it.
[16:38] <smoser> it is a feature from openstack perspective.
[16:38] <Daviey> untack
[16:39] <smoser> that bug is fix-released
[16:39] <smoser> why is it in this list?
[16:39] <smoser> er... why is ther ea glace task
[16:39] <smoser> adam_g, ?
[16:39] <Daviey> smoser: glance has the same bug
[16:40] <Daviey> the title doesn't reflect it
[16:40] <smoser> ah. k. so who is driving that fix?
[16:40] <Daviey> zul: Did you say there was a pending upload?
[16:40] <Daviey> (which should now be in the archive?)
[16:41] <zul> still waiting for keystonelight
[16:41] <adam_g> isn't keystone is still going thru MIR, probably a new MIR?
[16:41] <Daviey> zul: uh?
[16:41] <Daviey> glance is blocked on keystonelight?
[16:41] <zul> it shouldnt be and isnt
[16:41] <zul> keystone needs a new security review as well
[16:41]  * Daviey confused.
[16:41] <zul> as am i
[16:42] <zul> can we talk about it after the meeting?
[16:42] <Daviey> zul: k
[16:42] <zul> still juggling alot of plates
[16:42] <smoser> bug 889644
[16:42] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 889644 in openmpi (Ubuntu) "Please update OpenMPI to the 1.5 upstream version" [Wishlist,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/889644
[16:42] <smoser> that has the honorable rbasak assigned
[16:42] <rbasak> I can't remember if this has progressed since last week.
[16:42] <Daviey> smoser: i read that as horrible !
[16:42] <smoser> k. please poke at it a bit and see if you can't make it do so.
[16:43] <rbasak> I have a PPA build that succeeds. Need to try rdepend builds against it next.
[16:43] <rbasak> Readers should note that I have no means of actually testing any of these packages apart from that they build.
[16:43] <smoser> Daviey, if you dont have anything nice to say dont say anything at all
[16:43] <Daviey> rbasak: if it compiles, lets ship it :)
[16:43] <rbasak> I'd appreciate input from stakeholders on testing - otherwise they won't get tested.
[16:43] <smoser> bug 887186
[16:43] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 887186 in orchestra (Ubuntu) "squid proxy big and small buckets not functioning correctly" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/887186
[16:44] <smoser> rbasak, make sure you just ask the opener for testing your ppa build.
[16:44] <smoser> roaksoax, ^
[16:44] <rbasak> opener?
[16:44] <smoser> ah. oh yeah, dave walker was opener.
[16:45] <smoser> regarding squid proxy, there is a thread on an internal canonical mailing list that i tihnk might get orchestra-proxy moving in a different manner.
[16:45] <smoser> or at least help us collect some information.
[16:45] <Daviey> smoser: we should probably move on?
[16:45] <smoser> yep
[16:45] <roaksoax> smoser: upstream issue
[16:45] <smoser> roaksoax, pleaes open upstream bug or task then ?
[16:45] <roaksoax> smoser: i'm yet unsuare whether we should have a newer upstream release which supposedly fixes that
[16:46] <smoser> k.
[16:46] <smoser> well poke a bit please.
[16:46] <roaksoax> due to the latest issues we've been experiencing
[16:46] <roaksoax> smoser: will do
[16:46] <smoser> i think thats all we hae vor this section
[16:46] <smoser> thank fully
[16:46] <smoser> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:46] <smoser> anyone have anything here?
[16:47] <smoser> k. looks like nothing.
[16:47] <Daviey> Thankfully, no
[16:47] <smoser> me moving on.
[16:47] <smoser> hggdh,
[16:47] <smoser> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:48] <smoser> i'll just state here that the openstack jenkins stuff is awesome.
[16:48] <smoser> big round of applause to adam_g zul jamespage
[16:48] <arosales> +1
[16:48] <smb> \o/
[16:48] <smoser> and surely others that I am missing and who can swear at me later.
[16:49] <smoser> for the reference: https://jenkins.qa.ubuntu.com/view/Precise%20OpenStack%20Testing/
[16:49] <koolhead17> adam_g: i need the doc though 4 charm deployment :P
[16:49] <smoser> smb, is up  now
[16:49] <Daviey> \o/
[16:49] <smoser> [TOPIC]
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:49] <smoser> Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:49] <smb>  * Trying to hunt down why libvirt-bin needs to be restarted before it
[16:49] <smb>    gives me running domU's, I first removed all the other error sources
[16:49] <smb>    from the logs. One was my fault of experimenting with qemu-dm paths.
[16:49] <smb>  * Other source was libvirt insisting in running pm-is-supported from
[16:49] <smb>    pm-utils without insisting (depending) on installing it.
[16:49] <smb>    Question is that pebcak or something worth adding to libvirt-bin's
[16:49] <smb>    runtime dependencies?
[16:49] <smb>  * Currently looking at remoteDispatchNumOfDomainsHelper which should
[16:49] <smb>    give one the IDs of guests but only seems to do that after restarting
[16:49] <smb>    libvirtd. The call to remoteDispatchNumOfDefinedDomainsHelper on the
[16:49] <smb>    other hand works all the time.
[16:49] <smb> ..
[16:50] <smoser> smb, it was failing ?
[16:50] <smoser> i really cant see that (libvirt due to pm-is-supported)
[16:50] <smb> smoser, No, that was just cluttering the log
[16:50] <smoser> i'm almost certain i've run vms on generally headless systems. if it fails, please open a bug. if it just warns, then suggests or recommends is probably right.
[16:50] <smb> So its more cosmetical
[16:50] <smoser> cosmetical
[16:50] <smoser> nice.
[16:51] <smoser> smb, well i dont have anything for you.
[16:51] <smoser> but i am remembering this bug
[16:51] <Daviey> smb: Have a bug number?
[16:51]  * smb likes the sound of that
[16:51] <Daviey> smoser is off form.
[16:51] <smoser> bug https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloud-init/+bug/898373
[16:51] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 898373 in cloud-init (Ubuntu) "fsck.ext3: Device or resource busy while trying to open /dev/xvda2" [High,Confirmed]
[16:52] <smb> Daviey, Not for the pm-utils dependency. I was not sure this is really that important
[16:52] <smoser> that is not related to kernel, but Daviey probably should be tracked
[16:52] <smoser> i'll get it into a beter state, updated with the info i have in my head
[16:52] <smoser> and one other bug will come out of it
[16:52] <smb> smoser, Hm, not sure I remember that one
[16:52] <smoser> smb, not kernel related.
[16:52] <smoser> just was thinking about it as i was thinking of "why does ec2 suck sometimes"
[16:53] <smoser> as usually i blame smb for that ;)
[16:53] <smb> heh :)
[16:53] <Daviey> Aww, meanie
[16:53] <smoser> ARM!
[16:53] <smoser> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
[16:53] <Daviey> rbasak: have you fixed ARM?
[16:54] <smoser> i have some stuff to fill in here if rbasak does not type in 3
[16:54] <smoser> 2
[16:54] <smoser> 1
[16:54] <smoser> it looks like we're going to move the cloud-images output for arm from armel to armhf.
[16:54]  * justinlw yay
[16:54] <jamespage> \o/
[16:54] <Daviey> smoser: seems to make sense to me
[16:54] <rbasak> Sorry, pee break
[16:54] <Daviey> utlemming: ?
[16:54] <smoser> as, other than oracle's jvm, nothing really needs soft float
[16:54] <rbasak> Yeah, it's fixed. You do mean my panda, right? :)
[16:55] <smoser> and rbasak claims that we can potentially still support that with multi-arch
[16:55] <Daviey> smoser: hmm, oracle's jvm doesn't work with armel?
[16:55] <Daviey> err, armhf
[16:55] <smoser> only with armel
[16:55] <jamespage> not yet
[16:55] <Daviey> that is suck.
[16:55] <utlemming> robie had some thoughts about multi-arch there
[16:55] <Daviey> ok
[16:55] <rbasak> In that it should in theory work
[16:56] <smoser> theories are always nice to have
[16:56] <utlemming> but its not tested
[16:56] <smoser> anything else?
[16:56] <jamespage> speaking of java on arm; openjdk on precise has now switched back to the zero JVM with the thumb2 intepreter
[16:56] <rbasak> But it looks like armhf (gnueabihf) will be the ARM server standard
[16:56] <smoser> darn
[16:56] <rbasak> So Oracle would be crazy to not support it.
[16:56] <Daviey> lets progress, seems in hand.
[16:56] <smoser> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Open Discussion
[16:56] <jamespage> it passes the Java TCK so if currently the best we have in archive
[16:56] <smoser> now HERE is where utlemming or arosales could chime in
[16:57] <arosales> :-)
[16:57] <jamespage> I have something!
[16:57] <Daviey> jamespage: we all do
[16:57]  * SpamapS hopes its a pony
[16:57] <rbasak> Welcome justinlw!
[16:57] <smoser> welcome justinlw
[16:57] <arosales> wecome justinlw :-)
[16:57] <adam_g> welcome!
[16:57] <SpamapS> justinlw: AHOY!
[16:57] <Daviey> justinlw: Fancy introducing yourself?
[16:57] <utlemming> +1
[16:58]  * justinlw Came from Amazon KaOS & EC2 (worked w/utlemming).
[16:58] <Daviey> exciting!
[16:58] <koolhead17> is justinlw now with canonical?
[16:58]  * justinlw Have done some work w/Calxeda Qemu and am becoming ARM (semi)Literate
[16:58] <justinlw> koolhead17: yes
[16:59] <koolhead17> cool
[16:59]  * justinlw will be tugging on sleeeves for some ramp-up work-flow, etc. help
[16:59] <smoser> anything else?
[16:59]  * justinlw kind to puppies
[16:59] <smoser> other wise...
[16:59]  * SpamapS will be happy to turn the fire hose on justinlw now
[16:59] <SpamapS> ok
[16:59] <SpamapS> we should be done now
[16:59] <Daviey> lets go home!
[16:59] <smoser> please all join us next week
[16:59] <smoser> at this same time
[16:59] <smoser> same channel
[16:59] <justinlw> l8r
[16:59] <Daviey> for another exciting installment
[16:59] <smoser> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[16:59] <Daviey> etc
[17:00] <Daviey> smoser: Who si chair next week?
[17:00] <smoser> $NOW + 7*24*60*60-60*60
[17:00] <smoser> next weeks chair is not me
[17:00] <smoser> looks like utlemming
[17:00] <SpamapS> Heh.. not me, but come march when DST starts I'll be chair for like 6 straight weeks :-P
[17:00] <Daviey> SpamapS: happy times.
[17:00] <zul> as it should be
[17:00] <smoser> although urshina doesn't move herself off the top of the list
[17:00] <smoser> so...
[17:01] <smoser> really...
[17:01] <Ursinha> I can do that
[17:01] <smoser> you only have to do it if you dont want to chair indefinitely
[17:01] <smoser> :)
[17:01] <smoser> #endmeeting
</pre>
