{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This is the 4th 2011 meeting of the <nowiki>[[WisconsinTeam|Wisconsin Team]]</nowiki>, starting at 21:00 CDT, 20111026 (0200 UTC, 20111027) and finishing at 22:19 CDT (0319 UTC, 20111027)

== Attendance ==

<nowiki>[[AnthonyHook|h00k]]</nowiki>, nickmoeck, emefarr, Cheesehead

== Agenda ==

* Meet &amp; Greet<<BR>>
* Interest Survey<<BR>>
* Becoming an approved `LoCo`<<BR>>
* T-Shirts<<BR>>
* New Member Process Wiki<<BR>>

== Minutes ==

* <nowiki>[[#MeetGreet|Meet & Greet]]</nowiki><<BR>>
 No actions<<BR>>

* <nowiki>[[#InterestSurvey|Interest Survey]]</nowiki><<BR>>
 Action - h00k to send interest survey to the mailing list.<<BR>>
 Action - h00k to coordinate a bug-reporting session.<<BR>>
 Action - h00k to locate a trainer for packaging training session<<BR>>

* <nowiki>[[#GettingApproved|Becoming an approved LoCo]]</nowiki><<BR>>
 Application is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WisconsinTeam/ApprovalApplication<<BR>>
 Please help edit the application before November 9<<BR>>
 Action - Cheesehead to fill in "Experience" from the current wiki records<<BR>>
 Action - h00k to announce November 9 IRC pre-application meeting<<BR>>
 Action - h00k to submit application around November 16. <<BR>>

* <nowiki>[[#T-Shirts|T-Shirts]]</nowiki><<BR>>
 No actions<<BR>>

* <nowiki>[[#NewMemberWiki|New Member Process Wiki]]</nowiki><<BR>>
 Action - Cheesehead to finish proposed changes, building on sayonj's work from last month<<BR>>

== IRC LOG ==

IRC Log <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/10/27/%23ubuntu-us-wi.txt|source]]</nowiki>

<pre>
[02:00] <h00k> cool, lets start.
[02:00] <nickmoeck> Hi everybody!
[02:00]  * h00k grabs agenda
[02:01] <h00k> http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/ubuntu-us-wisconsin/250/detail/
[02:01] <h00k> there we are
</pre>

TOPIC: Meet &amp; Greet

<pre>
[02:02] <h00k> hi, nickmoeck
[02:03] <nickmoeck> how have things been going? been a while since I've been around
[02:03] <h00k> let us start with a meet and greet. I am Anthony. I'm from Rhinelander. I am the LoCo contact
[02:04] <h00k> i try to organize things!
[02:04] <h00k> who wants next?
[02:04] <nickmoeck> Hi, my name is Nick, and I'm an alcoholic
[02:04] <nickmoeck> Oh wait, wrong meeting
[02:04] <emefarr_> I'm maurie. From Kimberly, WI
[02:05] <h00k> hi Nick
[02:05] <h00k> :)
[02:05] <nickmoeck> Nick, from Milwaukee
[02:05] <emefarr_> I think that Nick and I will get along just fine.
[02:05] <Cheesehead> I'm Ian. I live in Milwaukee. I do the Milwaukee Ubuntu Hour and the Tuesday/Thursday Night IRC hangouts
[02:05] <h00k> it is a good time!
[02:06]  * Cheesehead scribbles information about nickmoeck, furtively plaaning to guilt him into attending the MKE Ubuntu Hour
[02:06] <nickmoeck> Heh
[02:06] <nickmoeck> Might be able to make it to the next one, whenever that is
[02:06] <h00k> also, Cheesehead is the note taker
[02:07] <h00k> and does Team Reports
[02:07] <Cheesehead> and pizza
[02:07] <h00k> that, too
</pre>

TOPIC: Interest Survey

<pre>
[02:08] <h00k> kinda bring us to item 2.
[02:08] <h00k> I'm going to send out a survey of interest
[02:09] <h00k> to...survey what people are inteesred in
[02:10] <h00k> then we can plan things around those things, and it will be fun.
[02:10] <h00k> sound cool?
[02:10] <Cheesehead> +1
[02:11] <nickmoeck> Good idea
[02:11] <h00k> i like reporting bugs, testing, and physical meet ups
[02:11] <h00k> and online met ups
[02:11] <h00k> meet, rather
[02:12] <h00k> anyone else?
[02:13] <h00k> What are you interested in?
[02:14] <Cheesehead> This is a topic that affects future LoCo approval, too
[02:14] <h00k> YES!
[02:14] <h00k> Point 3.
[02:14] <nickmoeck> I thought we were already an approved LoCo?
[02:14] <h00k> nope
[02:14] <emefarr_> reporting bugs & testing as well
[02:14] <h00k> not officially
[02:14] <h00k> cool.
[02:15] <Cheesehead> when we talk about 'bugs', are we talking discovering, triaging, patching, testing...?
[02:15] <nickmoeck> I've kinda gotten interested in packaging lately, though I absolutely suck at it
[02:15] <Cheesehead> +1 for a packaging tutorial session
[02:16] <h00k> cool.
[02:16] <emefarr_> 3 out of 4 - discover, triage, test
[02:16] <Cheesehead> I believe ripps wanted in on that action, if I recall...
[02:16] <Cheesehead> (packaging action)
[02:16] <h00k> discover, for me, and reporting them
[02:16] <h00k> yes
[02:16] <h00k> he's been mentionex on omgubuntu a few times
[02:17] <nickmoeck> Am I just one of the lucky ones who almot never runs into bugs?
[02:17] <nickmoeck> *almost
[02:17] <h00k> i test beta stuff stupidly early for that
[02:17] <emefarr_> I have this habit of using alphas as production so I see a few bugs
[02:18] <h00k> me too
[02:18] <Cheesehead> I was seriously hammered by bug 858122 last week upon upgrade
[02:18] <lubotu1> Launchpad bug 858122 in sysvinit (Ubuntu Precise) "incomplete migration to /run (shutdown script order has been demolished)" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/858122
[02:18] <emefarr_> despite that ubuntu alphas tend to be more stable than ms releases
[02:18] <h00k> and you were able to recover? I hit that one early, too
[02:19] <Cheesehead> so...reporting bugs from testing alphas? Is that where our consensus is leading?
[02:19]  * h00k shrugs
[02:19] <h00k> and packaging
[02:19] <Cheesehead> h00k: recovery is possible. The solution in comment #22 is a 100% fix for me.
[02:20] <h00k> cool.
[02:20] <h00k> mine was fixed during a package upgrade during alphas
[02:21] <Cheesehead> So should we have somebody spearhead a few bug sessions and somebody else a few poackage sessions? Send around tenative plans on e-mail?
[02:21] <h00k> the more things we do to help the community as a whole, the better chance we have of getting approved
[02:22] <h00k> yep
[02:22] <h00k> I can do a bug reporting session sometime
[02:22] <h00k> and if you want to help, emefarr_
[02:22] <emefarr_> I'll do whay I can to help
[02:22] <emefarr_> what
[02:23] <Cheesehead> Training session? Or hang-out-and-break-it-together session?
[02:23] <emefarr_> Well, I seem to have a gift for the "break it" part.   ;)
[02:23] <Cheesehead> (convenient to get a bug confirmed quickly!)
[02:23] <h00k> both, i have one that would work, a bug
[02:23] <nickmoeck> I'd help out with the packaging session, except I *really* have no clue what I'm doing when it comes to packaging. I'm surprised my packages even work
[02:23] <h00k> i reported it yesterday.
[02:24] <Cheesehead> I have a .tar.gz that I'd love to try to package.
[02:24] <h00k> nickmoek: perfect. maybe we could bring someone else in for a tutorial, too
[02:24] <h00k> a dev or something, a guest
[02:25] <nickmoeck> Also I've only ever built packages for a set of python and PHP scripts, so I have no clue how to do packages for compiled code :P
[02:25] <Cheesehead> Ask for an interested trainer on the e-mail list?
[02:26] <h00k> yep
[02:27] <h00k> cool, that is on our to-do list
[02:28] <h00k> anything else to add?
[02:28] <Cheesehead> Yes...
[02:28] <h00k> gogogo
[02:28] <Cheesehead> So [action] h00k to lead a bug-reporting session ??
[02:28] <h00k> yes
[02:29] <h00k> affirmative
[02:29] <Cheesehead> and [action] h00k to request a trainer for packaging tutorial on the e-mail list??
[02:29] <h00k> inded
[02:29] <Cheesehead> OK, thanks.
[02:29] <h00k> indeed, rather.
[02:30] <h00k> previous, [action] h00k to send survey and gather data
[02:30] <h00k> yes
[02:30]  * Cheesehead makes notes
[02:31] <h00k> anything else?
[02:31] <Cheesehead> No
[02:32] <h00k> emefarr_:  if i could get yur email...is your contact info on Launchpad?
[02:32] <emefarr_> yes
[02:32] <h00k> cool. what alias?
[02:32] <h00k> Ch
[02:33] <emefarr_> emefarr@yahoo.com   emefarr = initials   em 4 maurie   ;)
[02:33] <h00k> Cheesehead: I ask you to mention going for your Membership! Also, I'd like to attend
[02:34] <h00k> coool.
[02:34] <Cheesehead> h00k: I'm sending out an announcement tomorrow or so. Meeting on the first, 3PM
[02:34] <h00k> ok.
</pre>

TOPIC: Becoming an approved `LoCo`

<pre>
[02:35] <h00k> next..i think it would be cool to have polos
[02:35] <Cheesehead> Wait, waht about getting approved?
[02:35] <emefarr_> Cheesehead: what do I need to do to help nominate you?
[02:35] <emefarr_> for membership
[02:35] <Cheesehead> emefarr_: I'll tell you after the meeting!
[02:35] <h00k> ohnoh
[02:35] <emefarr_> ok
[02:36] <Cheesehead> I was looking over https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoGettingApproved
[02:36] <Cheesehead> I think we're close.
[02:36] <h00k> i have started a wiki from the getting approved template, we can add on s we go, a resume  of sorts
[02:37] <h00k> let me find it
[02:37] <Cheesehead> I think we're good on "Resources" (IRC, e-amil list, etc)
[02:38] <Cheesehead> I think we're good on "Membership", especially since h00k just weeded out the old lists
[02:38] <Cheesehead> I think we need to refine "Roadmap" a little
[02:38] <Cheesehead> (Much of which will come from the survey results)
[02:39] <h00k> yes
[02:39] <Cheesehead> And I think we're getting there on "Experience"
[02:39] <Cheesehead> We did the Global Jam events
[02:39] <h00k> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WisconsinTeam/ApprovalApplication
[02:39] <Cheesehead> Rick did the seminars
[02:39] <h00k> there we go.
[02:39]  * Cheesehead shuts up and reads
[02:40] <Cheesehead> How do you want to do Roadmap? Edit the wiki? E-mail comments?
[02:40] <h00k> thebLaunchpad  membership list is accurate, yes. i think e had another ezpire the other day thoug
[02:40] <h00k> h
[02:41] <h00k> lag...
[02:41] <h00k> i think editing the wiki is okay, we can always check revision history, etc
[02:42] <Cheesehead> Since we have notes, we can fill in Experience. I can have a lot of that ready for you in the next couple days
[02:42] <h00k> awesome.
[02:42] <Cheesehead> Deadline for revisions and suggestions?
[02:42] <h00k> two weeks
[02:42] <Cheesehead> Tentative goal for submitting the application?
[02:42] <h00k> giving survey time tobeaccounted for
[02:43] <h00k> hm...
[02:43] <h00k> three weeks?
[02:43] <Cheesehead> You want someone from locoteams to give it a health check first?
[02:44] <h00k> one week to polish, we should meet in 2 weeks
[02:44] <h00k> yes, absolutely
[02:45] <Cheesehead> OK
[02:45]  * Cheesehead shuts up so others can speak!
[02:45] <h00k> sound ok?
[02:45] <h00k> anyoneelse?
[02:45] <emefarr_> sounds good
[02:45] <h00k> this spacebar is hard to find sometimes.
[02:46] <h00k> apologies.
[02:47] <h00k> nickmoek?
[02:47] <h00k> nickmoeck*
[02:47] <nickmoeck> Oh, hi. Sorry, was distracted
[02:48] <h00k> no prob :)
[02:49] <nickmoeck> I think we'll have no problem getting accepted
[02:49] <h00k> i hope :)
[02:49] <h00k> then we're cool.
</pre>

TOPIC: T-Shirts

<pre>
[02:50] <h00k> and....cool people need shirts!
[02:51] <nickmoeck> Indeed!
[02:51] <h00k> if we had a cool idea for a logo...
[02:51] <h00k> we could get sweet polos
[02:52] <h00k> hint hint. if anyone is ok at The Gimp, we could have another call for art on the Mailing lisyt
[02:53] <nickmoeck> I might have some time to try drawing something up.  Just something basic. Ubuntu logo inside the outline of the state or something similar
[02:54] <h00k> or like the ubuntu logo textwith Wisconskn after, then the circle offriends
[02:54] <h00k> 
[02:54] <emefarr_> no ubuntu logo inside a packer-badger-brewer logo?   ;)
[02:54] <h00k> something cool, yeah
[02:54] <nickmoeck> emefarr_: I was actually thinking of how something like that would look lol
[02:55] <emefarr_> you'll have to do it, though nick - i can't draw even WITH computer help!
[02:55] <h00k> lol
[02:55] <nickmoeck> Honestly, I think it would end up looking pretty bad
[02:56] <emefarr_> way too many colors
[02:56] <nickmoeck> Yeah
[02:56] <h00k> cool. i can also send that out. QUICK, someone invent a deadline! A month? Few weeks?
[02:56] <nickmoeck> plus I don't think we want to imply any kind of sponsorship/approval of the teams
[02:56] <nickmoeck> of/by
[02:57] <nickmoeck> Well, a logo is pretty simple. I'd say 2 weeks or so
[02:57] <emefarr_> ubuntu logo superimposed on a Cheesehead?   ;)
[02:57] <h00k> cool.
[02:58] <nickmoeck> yes!
[02:58] <nickmoeck> or.... ubuntu logo made out of cheese
[02:58] <emefarr_> even better
[02:59] <h00k> oho.
[03:00] <h00k> anything else for this subject?
[03:00] <h00k> we'll need to figure out where to get them and pricing, too
[03:03] <nickmoeck> although there are cheap options online, I'd say we should support local Wisconsin businesses and try to find someplace in Madison or Milwaukee that can do it for a reasonable price
[03:03] <h00k> I concur
[03:03] <emefarr_> agreed
[03:05] <h00k> anyone care to volunteer?
[03:05] <h00k> to seek one ouy?
[03:05] <h00k> t
[03:06] <h00k> Cheesehead: anything else for this?
[03:06] <Cheesehead> Not tonight
[03:07] <h00k> cool.
</pre>

TOPIC: New Member Process Wiki

<pre>
[03:07] <h00k> and...new member wiki.
[03:07] <Cheesehead> I liked what js did last month
[03:07] <h00k> we started well on this, yeah
[03:08] <Cheesehead> I suspect a lot of it can actually be on the main wiki page; it needn't be separate
[03:09] <h00k> i agree, i think the wiki needs an overhaul
[03:10] <h00k> and this is part, most, of it.
[03:11] <Cheesehead> I can work up a sample overhaul page next week
[03:11] <h00k> progress here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WisconsinTeam2
[03:11] <h00k> thus far
[03:12] <Cheesehead> Ah, you saw that...
[03:12] <h00k> ;)
[03:12] <h00k> is that bad?
[03:12] <Cheesehead> No. Nothing on a wiki is private.
[03:12] <h00k> it was linked by someone somewhere, i forget
[03:13] <h00k> it is nice so far, anyway.
[03:14] <Cheesehead> I'll resume working on it
[03:14] <h00k> Cheesehead, feel free, js got us some nice steps
[03:14] <h00k> cool.
[03:15] <h00k> Anything else for the evening?
[03:15]  * Cheesehead looks out the window
[03:15] <emefarr_> nothing from me other that I can hopefully attend on a more regular basis
[03:16] <h00k> [action] Cheesehead to update  a delraft of the wiki
[03:16] <h00k> what happened there.
[03:16] <h00k> emefarr_ thanks for coming, it is nice to meet you.
[03:17] <emefarr_> nice to meet you as well!
[03:17] <Cheesehead> emefarr_: To help nominate somebody for Ubuntu Membership, add a testimonial to their wiki page, and (if possible) show up to the IRC membership meeting. My wiki page is at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Cheesehead . The meeting date is Nov 1, 3 PM CDT in #ubuntu-meeting
[03:18] <emefarr_> Cheesehead:  thanks!
[03:18]  * Cheesehead runs out to his car. Early work tomorrow...
[03:18] <emefarr_> same her - up at "quarter to why the heck am i up?"
[03:18] <emefarr_> here
[03:18] <h00k> Brittany is getting restless
[03:18] <h00k> thanks, all!!
[03:19] <h00k> see ya, nickmoeck
</pre>

----
CategoryWisconsinTeam
