{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Open Week -- Introduction to Unity  -- Jorge Castro -- Mon, May 2 ===
{{{#!IRC
[18:00]  * jcastro jiggles the classbot
[18:01] <jcastro> Ok awesome
[18:01] <jcastro> how is everyone today
[18:01] <jcastro> this last session is going to be an Introduction to Unity
[18:01] <coolbhavi> okay guys I m done :) thanks for attending :) If you have any questions I'll be around on the irc on weekends or you can catch me up on facebook @ facebook.com/bshankar or mail me @ bhavi@ubuntu.com
[18:01] <jcastro> I'll wait a minute for the latecomers
[18:01] <jcastro> nice job coolbhavi!
[18:02] <coolbhavi> oops sorry jcastro for interrupting :)
=== ChanServ changed the topic of #ubuntu-classroom to: Welcome to the Ubuntu Classroom - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom || Support in #ubuntu || Upcoming Schedule: http://is.gd/8rtIi || Questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat || Event: Ubuntu Open Week - Current Session: Introduction to Unity - Instructors: jcastro
[18:02] <jcastro> no worries, high five!
[18:02] <ClassBot> Logs for this session will be available at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/05/02/%23ubuntu-classroom.html following the conclusion of the session.
[18:03] <jcastro> ok so let's get started
[18:03] <jcastro> I'm your host, jorge, and I'll be running a session on an introduction to unity
[18:03] <jcastro> I've got a ton of information to share with you folks
[18:03] <jcastro> so I'm going to spiel for a little bit
[18:03] <jcastro> and then I can just take your questions on unity directly
[18:04] <jcastro> so let's start with the basics
[18:04] <jcastro> Unity is a desktop shell that runs on top of GNOME: http://unity.ubuntu.com/
[18:04] <jcastro> it's the default desktop for 11.04
[18:04] <jcastro> and is built using technologies from compiz, gnome, and zeitgeist
[18:04] <jcastro> A great "new user" intro was done by the OMG Ubuntu folks here: http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/natty/
[18:05] <jcastro> and I myself have put together a Unity power user's guide here: http://castrojo.tumblr.com/post/4795149014/the-power-users-guide-to-unity
[18:05] <jcastro> the most common question is
[18:05] <jcastro> what exactly is all this stuff
[18:06] <jcastro> http://askubuntu.com/questions/10228/whats-the-right-terminology-for-unitys-ui-elements/19166#19166
[18:06] <jcastro> so "unity" as a whole is the sum of these parts
[18:06] <jcastro> a launcher, a panel, and what we call the dash and lenses
[18:06] <jcastro> for novice users unity is pretty simple to use
[18:07] <jcastro> you click firefox and go to facebook, and that's mostly it. :)
[18:07] <jcastro> but for people like us Unity has some nice features that I'd like to share
[18:07] <jcastro> the first is the use of keyboard shortcuts to multitask in Unity
[18:07] <jcastro> I did an entire presentation on how to effectively use Unity to launch and manage applications: http://castrojo.blip.tv/file/4997614/
[18:07] <jcastro> I recommend you watch that video
[18:08] <jcastro> people are also starting to put together some pretty amazing quicklists for unity: http://askubuntu.com/questions/35488/which-custom-unity-launchers-and-quicklists-do-you-use
[18:08] <jcastro> which allow you to customize what menu items show up when you right click on a launcher
[18:09] <jcastro> and of course, for people who want to customize their  unity set up
[18:09] <jcastro> we have a tool called ccsm that does that: http://askubuntu.com/questions/29553/how-can-i-configure-unity
[18:09] <jcastro> this is where you can do things like resize the launcher
[18:09] <jcastro> and turn the backlight settings on and off, and mess with the animation
[18:10] <jcastro> this is also where you can choose to have the launcher not autohide
[18:10] <jcastro> by default the launcher does what we call "intellihide"
[18:10] <jcastro> which means when there's nothing on your screen that you're using
[18:10] <jcastro> we show the launcher
[18:10] <jcastro> but if you move a window over to it or maximize a window the launcher hides until you press up against the left of the screen
[18:10] <jcastro> we also have a plethora of keyboard shortcuts
[18:11] <jcastro> http://askubuntu.com/questions/28086/unity-keyboard-mouse-shortcuts
[18:11] <jcastro> these are my favorite feature
[18:11] <jcastro> since in the past we didn't really use the Super key
[18:11] <jcastro> now I have my launcher order in a certain way
[18:11] <jcastro> so that super-1 always launcher my file manager, super-2 is always the browser, and super-3 is my mail program
[18:12] <jcastro> so that when I set up my computer when I log in, it's trivial for me to launch all my favorite apps
[18:12] <jcastro> ok
[18:12] <jcastro> so, those are the basics
[18:13] <jcastro> how I find myself using unity is like so
[18:13] <jcastro> I usually just find myself hitting the super key (this is commonly the windows key on most keyboards)
[18:13] <jcastro> and typing what I want
[18:13] <jcastro> this is similar to how gnome-do works if you've ever used that tool
[18:14] <jcastro> so as I type unity just searches for what I want
[18:14] <jcastro> so if I want libreoffice
[18:14] <jcastro> I can just hit super and start typing libreoffice
[18:14] <jcastro> and then unity matches as I type and I can hit enter and it launches
[18:14] <jcastro> but we do more than app names, we do descriptions
[18:14] <jcastro> so if you type "text" unity shows you the text editor and libreoffice writer
[18:15] <jcastro> so you can super+"text" and then use the arrow keys to navigate the results and just hit enter
[18:15] <jcastro> and we do this for your files too
[18:15] <jcastro> Powered by Zeitgeist(tm)
[18:15] <jcastro> ok, so that's how I use Unity, let me go ahead and open it up to questions
[18:16] <ClassBot> sebsebseb asked: Why is it called Unity?
[18:16] <jcastro> that's a good question for Mark on Wednesday, but I've heard him mention that it's the unity of netbook/laptop/desktop/tablet interfaces
[18:17] <jcastro> (Feel free to start asking questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat)
[18:17] <jcastro> just preface them with QUESTION: so the bot can pick them up
[18:17] <ClassBot> TonyP18 asked: If I run on the Natty live CD I get full 3D unity, but when I upgraded to 11.04 the best I can get is 2D.  Why is this?
[18:18] <jcastro> not sure why that is, you need to ensure that you've installed the right drivers after you install
[18:18] <jcastro> this can be accomplished by running "Additional Drivers" from the classic mode
[18:18] <jcastro> then it will fetch what it needs, and you reboot and go back into unity, if that doesn't work please file a bug
[18:19] <ClassBot> bugslayr asked: what I miss most is "focus follows mouse". The menu in the tope the application menues back to the window or window decoration? panel does not work with it. is it possible to mov
[18:20] <jcastro> right now there are some problems with focus follows mouse
[18:20] <jcastro> there is a bug report somewhere on launchpad that tracks that progress (I can't find it right now but a good google search on site:bugs.launchpad.net/unity should find it)
[18:20] <ClassBot> Nekhelesh90 asked: I have some feature requests, some that I may like to also code. How do I get my point across to the developers?
[18:20] <jcastro> you can talk about unity on the ayatana mailing list.
[18:21] <jcastro> as far as coding your own features, feel free to file them on launchpad and start implementing them and proposing them to unity.
[18:21] <jcastro> though it's probably best if you file the bugs first and get feedback before starting to write them
[18:21] <jcastro> I have instructions here on how to get started hacking on Unity: http://unity.ubuntu.com/getinvolved/
=== N0xman is now known as Dani3l
[18:22] <jcastro> !q
[18:22] <ClassBot> roasted asked: I have a dual screen desktop. I cannot get Unity to be placed on the left side of my right monitor (which is my main). Will there be a patch soon to make it allowable for me to have the Unity bar on the left side of my right monitor?
[18:23] <jcastro> yes
[18:23] <jcastro> this bug is absolutely on neil's radar
[18:23] <jcastro> he's looking at it this week and maybe next week
[18:23] <jcastro> currently if you main monitor is on the right then it's not a very good user experience. :)
[18:23] <jcastro> I have my main on the left so I didn't even notice until someone filed a bug
[18:23] <jcastro> but yeah, that sucks, he's working on it, sorry about that
[18:24] <ClassBot> pali asked: Unity is just gnome-do + dock?
[18:24] <jcastro> well, not really
[18:24] <jcastro> it's an evolution of "what if we took the guys that did gnome do, docky, awn, and cairo dock and took all the lessons they learned and did it integrated with the window manager"
[18:25] <jcastro> (The DX team comprises of members who started all those projects)
[18:25] <jcastro> though David Siegel moved on to a startup (he started GNOME Do)
[18:25] <ClassBot> roasted asked: What are the licensing restrictions of Unity? Is it possible we might see other distros easily adopt Unity, such as opensuse, Fedora, and Mint? Or is Unity somehow bound to Ubuntu only (or with penalty if other distros pick it up)??
[18:25] <jcastro> Unity is 100% Free Software
[18:25] <jcastro> (not sure of the exact licenses of each file, but I think GPL3)
[18:26] <jcastro> anyone is able to take Unity and do what they want with it
[18:26] <jcastro> (Do note that everything in Ubuntu by default as shipped on the CD has to be free software, other than exceptions made for drivers)
[18:26] <ClassBot> uuser2323 asked: Is there a "Show Desktop" button in Unity and if so where?
[18:27] <jcastro> there is no button for this in unity
[18:27] <jcastro> however there are 2 work arounds
[18:27] <jcastro> the first is the keyboard shortcut, Super-D
[18:27] <jcastro> the other is putting one on the launcher itself
[18:27] <jcastro> http://askubuntu.com/questions/29969/is-there-a-unity-equivalent-of-the-gnome-panel-show-desktop-applet
[18:27] <jcastro> which unfortunately you have to do by hand
[18:27] <ClassBot> roasted asked: will Unity 2D get the same customizable features as Unity 3D currently has? Right now, Unity 2D disables the Unity plugin in CCSM, so I cannot do *anything* such as resizing icons, etc.
[18:28] <jcastro> right
[18:28] <jcastro> Unity 2D and 3D are supposed to have feature-to-feature parity
[18:29] <jcastro> this will likely happen for 11.10, but as Unity 2d isn't on the CD and not as the default (other than ARM hardware) it's not /exactly/ the same as 3D
[18:29] <jcastro> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2011/04/ubuntu-unity-2d-tweaking-tool-lets-you-adjust-the-launcher-dash-enable-compositing/
[18:29] <jcastro> check that out though
[18:29] <ClassBot> sebsebseb asked: Currently Unity is not that customisable, when it uses Gnome 3 underneath for 11.10 is it likely to become much more customisable or is this more of a design thing?
[18:30] <jcastro> this is more of a design thing, we'll know next week during UDS
[18:30] <ClassBot> roasted asked: You just mentioned "everything on the Ubuntu CD has to be free software when it is shipped." Why is this? Is this Ubuntu's philosophy that they're living by or is this some sort of legal issue that requires them to do so?
[18:31] <jcastro> Yes
[18:31] <jcastro> this is a fundamental belief in Ubuntu
[18:32] <jcastro> we call this the Ubuntu Promise: http://www.ubuntu.com/project
[18:32] <ClassBot> Nekhelesh90 asked: An introduction to Unity should be shown in the desktop after the installation of ubuntu to help users. Is this planned for the future (like in Oneric)?
[18:32] <jcastro> Not sure, but yes, I agree completely, we'll be discussing things like this in a week
[18:33] <jcastro> so keep an eye out for progress during the ubuntu developer summit here: http://uds.ubuntu.com
[18:33] <ClassBot> roasted asked: Jcastro, you mentioned something about "that's a good question for Mark on Wednesday." Is he coming by to discuss Unity as well? If so, what time?
[18:33] <jcastro> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek
[18:33] <jcastro> wednesday at 1400 UTC
[18:33] <jcastro> hah, more questions! I'm out!
[18:35] <ClassBot> nigelb asked: What's your personal favorite feature in Unity? :)
[18:35] <jcastro> the keyboard shortcuts, by far. :)
[18:35] <jcastro> that just hitting super and typing
[18:35] <jcastro> it's like in the old days search engines were indexes
[18:35] <jcastro> and you had to find a category
[18:35] <jcastro> and then a sub category
[18:35] <jcastro> and then find what you want
[18:35] <jcastro> like old Yahoo
[18:36] <jcastro> and then google came out and then you just type what you want and you get it
[18:36] <jcastro> that's what I love about the search thing in the dash
[18:36] <ClassBot> Nekhelesh90 asked: super-D actually pulls up the panel launcher too, that is really annoying, anyway we can disable that ?
[18:37] <jcastro> There's a threshold for holding down super to invoke the launcher
[18:37] <jcastro> you might need to hit it faster
[18:37] <jcastro> or set minimize in compiz to be a different keyboard shortcut
[18:37] <jcastro> I got so used to ctrl-alt-d that that's what I still use today actually
[18:37] <ClassBot> jrgifford asked: Does Unity *require* compiz?
[18:37] <jcastro> yes, Unity is actually nothing more than a fancy compiz plugin
[18:38] <ClassBot> Nekhelesh90 asked: Are the new lens which are in development be available through the ubuntu software center officially?(Without the need to add any PPA)
[18:38] <jcastro> actually we are working right now on putting the askubuntu lens in extras.ubuntu.com
[18:38] <jcastro> which will do what you want
[18:38] <jcastro> but right now since 11.04 is so new many lenses are fast-moving, but I hope to collect the good ones and put them in extras.ubuntu.com
[18:38] <ClassBot> hardfire asked: what about gnoem3, what happens to it. The whole thing breaks if we try installing gnome3
[18:39] <jcastro> right, currently right now unity and 11.04 is gnome 2.x based
[18:39] <jcastro> like if you log into the classic session it's gnome 2.32
[18:39] <jcastro> now that GNOME3 is out and Unity is in Ubuntu for 11.10 we'll be migrating the distro to GNOME and GTK3, this includes building Unity on GNOME3 tech
[18:40] <jcastro> so for 11.10 we should have moved to GNOME3 tech, which will let us have a better GNOME3 experience in 11.10
[18:40] <jcastro> right now unfortunately it's either GNOME2 or GNOME3 in the archive as we're in a transitionary period
[18:41] <jcastro> which is why the GNOME3 PPA is basically a "1 way upgrade"
[18:41] <ClassBot> roasted asked: Unity is based on Gnome. Which version of Gnome? 2 or 3?
[18:41] <jcastro> GNOME2 stuff
=== kamal1 is now known as kamal
[18:41] <jcastro> it's mostly ready to be compiled on GNOME3 stuff, BAMF just needs a bit of work and it's ready to go
[18:41] <jcastro> the DX team built it in mind knowing that GNOME3 was coming
[18:42] <ClassBot> roasted asked: Will Ubuntu always ship with the Gnome Classic option? I ask this because there are instances I like to use the GUI'd Ubuntu on a server. I love Unity, but it doesn't scream "server interface" to me, so having the classic option might be nice.
[18:42] <jcastro> This release will likely be the last release with the classic GNOME 2.x interface, for 11.10 you'll have Unity as default and Unity-2d for those with driver problems or slower computers
[18:43] <jcastro> unfortunately the GNOME 2 interface is unmaintained, she did serve us well for 7 years though
[18:43] <jcastro> but it's OSS, it's possible someone could just maintain the old panels if there's interest
[18:43] <ClassBot> Nekhelesh90 asked: Where can I find easy examples of unity lens coding?
[18:43] <jcastro> oooh
[18:43] <jcastro> good question
[18:44] <jcastro> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Unity/Lenses
[18:44] <jcastro> I've got a whole guide here
[18:44] <jcastro> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Unity/Lenses/Ideas
[18:44] <jcastro> ^^ and ideas people would like to see in lenses
[18:44] <jcastro> that second page has links to other lenses that people are working on
[18:44] <jcastro> a python lens is about ~350 lines of code, so it's quite easy to just grab someone else's lens and adapt it to your own
[18:45] <jcastro> and here is a list of lenses: http://askubuntu.com/questions/38772/what-lenses-for-unity-are-available
[18:45] <jcastro> http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2011/04/five-neat-unity-lenses-in-development/
[18:45] <jcastro> and another list from OMG to give you an idea of how those are coming along
[18:46] <ClassBot> roasted asked: So while Unity is currently based on Gnome2, it'll soon be ported to Gnome3. Is this something expected for 11.10? If so, are there any expected issues with the platform changes or would this be a smooth transition?
[18:46] <jcastro> like all major releases it will be a ton of work
[18:46] <jcastro> but we have some very experienced GNOME hackers on our team, so it'll be fine
[18:46] <jcastro> keeping in mind that a ton of work has already been done in the PPA
[18:46] <jcastro> we just need to start moving that into the archive
[18:46] <ClassBot> sebsebseb asked: What's BAMF?
[18:47] <jcastro> https://launchpad.net/bamf
[18:47] <jcastro> BAMF is a window matching framework
[18:47] <jcastro> it's the tool that tells you "oh this window is firefox, this one is the terminal"
[18:47] <jcastro> and allows us to match them and show them right on the launcher
[18:48] <ClassBot> sebsebseb asked: Why did you do guest blog enteries about Unity on OMGUbuntu?
[18:48] <jcastro> Why not?
[18:48] <ClassBot> roasted asked: While the transition to Gnome3 for Unity is on the horizon, will there be any additional features or benefits from moving to Gnome3, besides "future proofing" yourselves?
[18:48] <jcastro> good question
[18:48] <jcastro> yes
[18:48] <jcastro> we can drop a ton of old junk from the CD
[18:48] <jcastro> like the old panel
[18:48] <jcastro> (which was fine when it was designed in early 2000's)
[18:49] <jcastro> but not as awesome when it comes to like, multiple monitors
[18:49] <jcastro> touch friendlyness
[18:49] <jcastro> and adjusting to changing resolution on the fly
[18:49] <ClassBot> roasted asked: Unity by definition is what... a shell to Gnome 2/3? That being said, does it fall under the same category as Gnome Shell does? Does GS/Unity have the same relationship to Gnome?
[18:49] <jcastro> yep, that's exactly it.
[18:49] <jcastro> but -shell is the official shell of upstream GNOME.
[18:50] <jcastro> now gnome3 is out you'll notice that upstream gnome doesn't mention GNOME3 and GNOME Shell as seperate things
[18:50] <jcastro> the whole thing is now "GNOME 3"
[18:50] <ClassBot> sebsebseb asked: I guess you blogged about Unity on OMGUbuntu since it's a very popular Ubuntu website at the moment. What do you think about it by the way?
[18:50] <jcastro> I like it, I like all ubuntu blogs
[18:51] <jcastro> I dig webup8, askubuntu, and the ubuntu subreddit
[18:51] <ClassBot> obengdako asked: what type of themes are we to expect in Unity, i used a Mac theme in Gnome2 and would love the same window decorations.?
[18:51] <jcastro> right now it's really just 2 themes
[18:51] <jcastro> the dark one and the light grey one
[18:51] <jcastro> and even then the launcher itself doesn't theme
[18:52] <jcastro> but some people are using icon themes like faenza on it
[18:52] <ClassBot> There are 10 minutes remaining in the current session.
[18:52] <jcastro> unfortunately this isn't something I know much about, so you'll have to wait until after we're further along in 11.10 to find out what the plan is (I also have no idea)
[18:52] <ClassBot> roasted asked: I can't help but to wonder, despite the open source nature of "everybody is free and equal", has there been any tension with working with Gnome developers since Unity is basically a shell fork, independent and separate of Gnome Shell, which is clearly Gnome's "baby" for the future?
[18:53] <jcastro> this really depends on what you think "tension" means
[18:53] <jcastro> for some people this is all controversial and drama filled
[18:53] <jcastro> for others it's just business as usual and they hack on what they love.
[18:53] <jcastro> Ubuntu and Canonical are still heavily invested in GNOME
[18:53] <jcastro> we are part of the GNOME Advisory Board and we participate in GNOME events and hackfests
[18:53] <jcastro> and provide GNOME with infrastructure support
[18:54] <jcastro> and we will continue to do so in the future
[18:54] <ClassBot> obengdako asked: would Gnome3 support theming?
[18:54] <jcastro> I am not sure, I'm not a GNOME 3 pro but iirc it's all just JS and CSS
[18:54] <ClassBot> Grillmeister asked: Since the release of Ubuntu 11.04 the download link of the netbook edition via torrent is broken: http://releases.ubuntu.com/11.04/ubuntu-11.04-netbook-i386.iso.torrent  - When do you think this will get fixed?
[18:54] <jcastro> netbook edition no longer exists!
[18:54] <jcastro> we just have "Ubuntu" and "Ubuntu Server" now
[18:55] <jcastro> and we kind of dropped the edition thing
[18:55] <jcastro> the normal ISO works on both desktops and netbooks
[18:55] <jcastro> the baseline for unity performance is a dell mini 1010, where  unity rocks it at 60fps
[18:56] <jcastro> I have time for like 2 more questions!
[18:56] <ClassBot> roasted asked: Is there more of these chats scheduled in the future besides the one you told me about coming up Weds?
[18:57] <jcastro> we have them all week, Open Week is usually the week after release
[18:57] <ClassBot> There are 5 minutes remaining in the current session.
[18:57] <jcastro> and we have other IRC workshops, you can find the list here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom
[18:57] <jcastro> and you can also run your own!
[18:57] <jcastro> ok so in closing
[18:57] <jcastro> I hope you give unity a shot
[18:58] <jcastro> if you're a developer, please dive in
[18:58] <jcastro> we could always use a hand
[18:58] <jcastro> and remember my power guide here, and tell a friend! http://castrojo.tumblr.com/post/4795149014/the-power-users-guide-to-unity
[18:58] <jcastro> thanks so much for coming out!
[19:02] <ClassBot> Logs for this session will be available at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/05/02/%23ubuntu-classroom.html
}}}
