{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
11:04	maxamillion	Everyone here for Xubuntu meeting?
11:04	Jester45	i am
11:04	philth	aye!
11:05	vidd_laptop	yes
11:05	cellofellow	I guess. :P
11:05	vidd_laptop	if they are not, they can stay anyway
11:06	maxamillion	ok .... current time on my irssi window says 2206UTC so I guess we shall begin
11:06	vidd_laptop	what is first on the meeting agenda?
11:06	maxamillion	Cody was not able to make the meeting today so he asked me to attempt to provide some direction and touch on a few key points that need to be discussed
11:07	maxamillion	first item up is Documentation efforts and their current state of organization
=== Maximilian1st [n=maximili@5-0.1-85.cust.bluewin.ch] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:07	maxamillion	Maximilian1st: welcome
11:07	cellofellow	occasional gobby sessions aren't exactly organized.
11:07	Maximilian1st	Hi max
11:07	maxamillion	for the sake of Maximilian1st ....
11:07	Maximilian1st	thanks
11:07	maxamillion	first item up is Documentation efforts and their current state of organization
=== Rinchen [n=Rinchen@ubuntu/member/rinchen] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:07	Maximilian1st	:-)
11:08	vidd_laptop	who is "the man" as far as documentation?
11:08	maxamillion	vidd_laptop: that i don't know ....
11:08	maxamillion	but here is a wiki break down of documentation as it stands ... https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Documentation/Wiki?highlight=%28xubuntu%29
11:10	maxamillion	i think we should find a more organized way for contributors to "sign up" for sections they would like to work on and that way showing other users what parts of the official documentation are already being worked on (also, if you are to work on a section that someone else is working on please be in contact with them so we aren't doing work over again)
11:10	maxamillion	thoughts, questions, comments?
=== j_ack [n=rudi@p508DA97D.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== vidd_laptop has noticed most of the xubuntu documentation is rehashed ubuntu documentation
11:11	vidd_laptop	a lot, anyway'
11:12	vidd_laptop	to the point thaT some instructions say to use "gedit"
11:12	vidd_laptop	are we going to have a complete and seperate section of documentation...like kubuntu does?
11:13	maxamillion	it is, but there are alot of Xubuntu specifics that go into our documentation that aren't a part of theirs such as network configuration, basic UI customization, etc. ... the differences have to do with the xfce DE and the applications Xubuntu uses compared to ubuntu
11:14	maxamillion	yes, we are ... just like we did with dapper (apparently it got skipped because lack of man power for docs... a problem we don't want to have happen again)
=== vidd_laptop will volunteer to work on networking and wireless networking documentation
11:15	maxamillion	ok, for sake of momentum can we agree to find a way to implement a structured wiki sign up for documentation sections?
11:16	vidd_laptop	agreed
=== maxamillion assumes others are idle
11:17	maxamillion	next order of business is Artwork ... there is deadline 1 coming up for artwork, which i believe JMak is in charge of, but it doesn't appear that he is here so I think I will email him about it later
11:17	maxamillion	moving along is Herd 3 Testing and the new testing procedure https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/ReportingResults
=== willvdl [n=will@196.207.41.253] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
=== Toadstool [n=jcorbier@cl-266.bru-01.be.sixxs.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:19	maxamillion	Again, just as we had with the Herd2 testing I think we will have a sign up on the wiki for where users can sign up for what they would like to participate with but I think all results should be submitted via the requested procedure found the wiki link i just posted about the new testing
11:19	Jester45	time for release?
11:20	maxamillion	Jester45: very good question ... sadly I lack the answer, but I'm pretty sure it is coming up soon ... it will be announced in #xubuntu, one the -devel and -users mailing lists, on xubuntu.org in the news feed section, and on ubuntuforums.org when it does happen
11:21	vidd_laptop	when are we going to acually see the new default icon sets and themes?
11:21	maxamillion	I will speak with Cody tonight and see if we can get a wiki setup similar to the one for Herd2 but compensate for the new testing style
11:22	maxamillion	vidd_laptop: i am under the impression that is what the artwork deadline is about, so i am personally hoping for herd3 image to have them
11:22	maxamillion	vidd_laptop: that question also kinda ties into the next order of business ...
11:22	maxamillion	    *
11:23	maxamillion	      How can we improve the default Xubuntu settings (ie. panel setup, applet setup, etc.)? How can we learn from other Xfce4 based distros to improve our default settings/setup?
11:23	maxamillion	thoughts, questions, comments?
11:24	vidd_laptop	i think we should go to the "one taskbar" setup, and incluse a menu bar similar to dapper, as opposed to edgy
11:24	maxamillion	this is where community input is most needed in my opinion, because its the community that is going to use it daily and endorse it personally, so why not make it what you want? (or atleast as close to what _you_ want as long as the group can come to a neutral agreement)
11:24	Jester45	i think it should stay the same
11:25	Jester45	one thing i would really like is a drag/drop menu
11:25	maxamillion	i think it should stay the way it is too ... alot of what people enjoy about the current setup is its uniformity with Ubuntu and with the general look of Gnome, which i think is a positive thing
11:25	Maximilian1st	As a simple user I use a single panel centered on the bottom. If that can help you out a bit.
11:25	Jester45	so you can drag the links around to your best use
11:25	vidd_laptop	we should reinstate the terminal, file manager and "run" on the menu
11:26	maxamillion	Jester45: don't quote me on this, but i think you might be able to do that in Xfce4.4-stable which is in feisty
11:26	Jester45	maxamillion: then no need to add that:)
11:26	Jester45	Maximilian1st: i think there should still be a top bar to hold the menu and firefox
11:27	maxamillion	vidd_laptop: yes, i agree ... there is actually also talk about writing a panel plugin that creates links to "Places" just like the Gnome second menu does ... so we will kinda be faking a second menu (i don't know if it will happen, but it was discussed)
11:28	Jester45	maxamillion: links as in internet site link?
11:28	Jester45	or folder links
=== vidd_laptop thinks the "places" menu like gnome should be an option, not default
11:29	maxamillion	Jester45: agreed .... I think we will be sticking with the current panel layout for uniformity, because if we can get our defaul installation to resemble Ubuntu almost "to the T" then I think more Ubuntu users will consider it as an alternative (especially because of its light weight aspect)
11:29	Jester45	yes i agree with vidd_laptop
11:29	maxamillion	Jester45: folder links ... $HOME, Trash, etc. ... just popular things users tend to want easier access to)
11:30	maxamillion	well, like i said ... it's only been talked about, i'm not sure any code has even been drafted for it
11:30	vidd_laptop	is there (or will there be) a way to drag and drop menu items to the desktop to create shortcuts?
=== ..[topic/#ubuntu-meeting:Ubugtu] : Current meeting: Xubuntu | Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 31 Jan 23:00 UTC: Kubuntu | 01 Feb 21:00 UTC: Ubuntu Development Team | 05 Feb 20:00 UTC: Mozilla Team | 07 Feb 12:00 UTC: Edubuntu | 08 Feb 16:00 UTC: Ubuntu Development Team
11:30	vidd_laptop	and vise versa?
11:31	maxamillion	vidd_laptop: that i don't know .. I haven't tested the full functionality of Xfce4.4-stable
11:31	Maximilian1st	There won't be before 4.6
11:31	Jester45	i dont like the idea of the trash bin menu stuff i dont like the trashbin to begin with
11:31	Maximilian1st	You can use the appfinder to do some d&d
11:32	maxamillion	interesting tour about Xfce4.4-Stable .... all these features will be in Feisty http://www.xfce.org/about/tour
11:34	vidd_laptop	maxamillion, i see in that tour that a2ps is needed for mousepad to print....
11:34	maxamillion	that is all that appeared to be on the agenda for the evening, so i guess we could move to an open forum ...
11:34	vidd_laptop	we going to have a work around, or will a2ps be included by default?
11:34	maxamillion	vidd_laptop: it might be, there has always been issued with mousepad being able to print
11:35	maxamillion	vidd_laptop: not sure, i would have to ask Jani about that
=== Jucato [n=jucato@210.5.115.128] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:36	vidd_laptop	any other business?
11:36	maxamillion	vidd_laptop: nope ... just open forum for any questions, concerns, or comments
=== gnomefreak [n=gnomefre@ubuntu/member/gnomefreak] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:37	vidd_laptop	has a chat program been choosen as default yet?
11:37	maxamillion	i believe it is still Gaim
11:37	vidd_laptop	gaim is an IM program....
11:37	maxamillion	vidd_laptop: it does irc
11:38	vidd_laptop	ill see you on -offtopic in a few then to discuss that
11:38	vidd_laptop	=]
11:38	vidd_laptop	what about an FTP program?
=== claydoh [n=claydoh@66-252-56-210.dyn-adsl.midmaine.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:40	maxamillion	vidd_laptop: i am actually working on getting gFTP in feisty, but i don't know if it will happen
11:41	vidd_laptop	what is holding it back?
11:41	maxamillion	vidd_laptop: i keep bringing it up, but i don't know if it will make the cut
11:41	maxamillion	vidd_laptop: i'm not entirely sure to be honest
11:42	vidd_laptop	i think we need to compile a list of "must-have" apps (types-not specific)
11:42	vidd_laptop	so we can get some kind of consensus of what kind of apps this distro should have by default
11:43	maxamillion	vidd_laptop: not a bad idea .... I will look into starting a spec for "required apps" on the wiki and we can pass it along to Jani once we have it fine tuned
11:43	vidd_laptop	one other thing....
11:44	vidd_laptop	the volume control panel app should be enabled by default.....
11:44	vidd_laptop	i see so many questions about volume buttons not working
11:44	vidd_laptop	and if the volume control panel app is enabled, they do work
11:45	maxamillion	vidd_laptop: good point, another thing that should be brought up in the -devel mailing lists
=== Hawkwind [n=SoS@ulteo/community-leader/Hawkwind] has joined #Ubuntu-Meeting
11:49	maxamillion	well .... its 50 after and business seems to have been concluded so I think i will call this meeting to a close, thanks to all those who attended and participated
</pre>
