{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

09:00 raphink        hi
09:00 allee          ho
09:01 raphink        hi allee
=== Lure [n=admin@clj46-234.dial-up.arnes.si] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:01 raphink        hi Lure
09:02 Riddell        evening all
09:02 Lure           hi raphink
09:02 raphink        :)
=== robotgeek [i=venkat@ubuntu/member/robotgeek] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:03 raphink        meeting now?*
09:03 Riddell        certainly is
09:03 robotgeek      hey Riddell raphink :)
09:03 raphink        who is there for it?
09:03 raphink        hi robotgeek
=== Tm_T [i=tm_travo@xob.kapsi.fi] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== toma is tom albers
=== robotgeek is in for voting sprees and getting the latest on what's going to happen
=== robotgeek is VenkatRaghavan
=== Tm_T hides
=== Riddell is Jonathan Riddell
09:04 allee          allee is Achim Bohnet
=== raphink is Raphal Pinson
=== Lure is Luka Renko
=== Tm_T is Jussi Kekkonen
09:04 Riddell        no hobbbsee or jpatrick
09:04 Riddell        Lure: are you LukaRenko?
09:04 Lure           yep
=== apokryphos [i=[U2FsdGV@server2.polaristar.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:05 Riddell        good, glad one person with agenda items turned up :)
=== IRCMonkey342 [n=chatzill@85-18-14-23.fastres.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:05 raphink        hehe
09:05 raphink        good thing indeed
09:05 Tm_T           13:47 < Hobbsee> night all...see you at 7am my time, 20.00 UTC
09:05 Tm_T           ;)
=== Hobbsee [n=Hobbsee@ubuntu/member/hobbsee] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:05 raphink        hopefully she'll be here by the minute
09:05 raphink        heh
09:05 raphink        ;)
09:05 raphink        there
09:05 Tm_T           haha
09:05 Hobbsee        hey everyone!
09:05 raphink        well done Tm_T ;)
09:05 Hobbsee        hehe
=== tristanmike [n=tristanm@blk-224-253-165.eastlink.ca] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:05 raphink        hi Hobbsee
09:06 Hobbsee        my machine thought actually booting up was overrated...
09:06 Lure           hi Hobbsee
09:06 raphink        hehe
09:06 Hobbsee        hey Lure and raphink
=== Av|XeN [n=leon@ip56500ec4.direct-adsl.nl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:06 Hobbsee        it booted the *third* time!
=== arrinmurr [n=arrinmur@CDLVIII.tun.saunalahti.fi] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:06 Riddell        hmm, no tonio or jpatrick for this first item
09:07 raphink        i'll call tonio
09:07 Riddell        agenda is at https://wiki.kubuntu.org/Kubuntu/Meetings
=== jjesse [n=jjesse@mail.ftpb.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:07 Riddell        so second item is from Hobbsee?
=== nalioth [n=nalioth@ubuntu/member/pdpc.bronze.nalioth] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:07 Hobbsee        ah, yeah
09:07 raphink        tonio is coming
09:08 Hobbsee        do we want to wait for tonio?
=== kwwii [n=kwwii@likes.smoking.more.than.watching.spacenight.dk] has joined
09:08 Riddell        Hobbsee: no, on you go
09:08 Hobbsee        how many people do we have this morning?
09:08 raphink        Hobbsee: I just called him he's coming
09:08 Hobbsee        okay
09:08 raphink        but you can begin
09:08 Riddell        Hobbsee: at least seven I count
09:08 Hobbsee        well, after last meeting, i checked out knemo - it looks pretty
                     useful.  have people checked this out at all?
09:09 jjesse         i'm here now
09:09 raphink        kwwii: are you there?
09:09 robotgeek      i'm not a dev, but i'm here for LukaRenko's point
09:09 apokryphos     knemo is very cool; worked when I tried it last on dapper IIRC
09:09 Hobbsee        how does it go on your system, in terms of cpu?
=== bkjones [n=bkj@targe.CS.Princeton.EDU] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:09 kwwii          raphink: yepp
09:09 raphink        kwwii: good :)
09:09 apokryphos     knemo is never really server intensive :P
=== Hirion [n=hirion@draugr.de] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
09:09 robotgeek      Hobbsee: i use it, it seems fine
09:09 Hobbsee        I suggest that we have a revote on it, as more people have now had
                     time to test
09:09 raphink        knemo is very light
09:10 Hobbsee        Luka mentioned that it was cpu heavy, hence the question
09:10 raphink        it is useful, informative and doesn't crash
09:10 raphink        ah?
09:10 Lure           I do not object in including it by default (I can turn it on), but it
                     has impact on power management
09:10 allee          I use knemo for more than a year.  CPU ~ 2 -3 % with min freq
09:10 raphink        on power management Lure?
09:10 raphink        how so?
09:10 Lure           s/on/off/
=== Tonio__ [n=tonio@tonio.planetemu.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:10 Tonio__        hi ;)
09:10 Tonio__        sorry for beeing a bit late
09:10 raphink        Lure: the version that is in dapper? or the newest one?
=== apokryphos has to go out for quite a bit, but for the record I totally agree with the
Description (Name) formulation for the K-menu
09:10 Lure           CPU load of 3-4% when on low CPU freq
09:10 raphink        hi Tonio__
09:10 Riddell        do we have a main inclustion report for knemo?
09:11 Lure           raphink: Dapper version
09:11 Riddell        yes, https://wiki.kubuntu.org/MainInclusionReportKNemo
=== apokryphos *always* has knemo on. Not intensive :P
=== trappist [i=trappist@tra.ppi.st] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:11 raphink        Lure: doesn't the dapper version only watch the connections?
09:11 Tonio__        Riddell: no news on that point, knemo is still universe, and I can
                     confirm Lure's bug
09:11 Lure           apokryphos: it is not intensive (that you would feel), but on lightly
                     loaded system it uses same CPU time as xorg
09:12 Riddell        doesn't knemo conflict with wlanassistant in terms of systray space?
09:12 Hobbsee        hey Tonio_
09:12 Tonio_         Riddell: wlassistant doesn't fit in the systray
09:12 allee          knemo has customizable menu.  If we will make use of it (??) that's
                     something knetdock apps has not
09:12 Lure           Riddell: wlassitant does not really compare (and not in systray)
09:13 Riddell        ok cool
09:13 Tonio_         there is another app
09:13 Riddell        so a voluteer please to add that main inclusion report to the main
                     inclusion queue
09:13 Lure           knetdockapp is similar (at least last version) and knetworkmanager
                     (for future)
09:13 Tonio_         called knetdockapp
09:13 Tonio_         Lure: yeah ;)
09:13 Riddell        then I'll put it on the CD and we can see if we get any
                     complaints/complements
09:13 Riddell        Hobbsee: care to volunteer since you brought the item up? :)
09:13 Tonio_         I'm in contact with upstream, and it is activelly developped
09:13 raphink        how many DF do we still have to go with the new schedule Riddell?
09:13 Tonio_         but not as nice as knemo actually
09:13 Lure           knetdockapp has almost 0% CPU usage, but universe version is not
                     latest and as nice as knemo
09:14 allee          Isn't knemo disabled by default?
09:14 Tonio_         allee: it  is
09:14 Riddell        raphink: DF?
09:14 raphink        dapper flight sorry Riddell
09:14 Hobbsee        hehe preferably not.  i wouldnt know what to put in a main inclusion
                     report
=== kmon [n=javier@217.Red-80-25-51.staticIP.rima-tde.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:14 Lure           allee: knemo is configured but not started by default
09:14 allee          So do you turn it on to get feedback?
09:14 Riddell        raphink: no idea, flights just come every two weeks if it's sane to
                     do so
09:14 allee          s/you/we/
09:14 Riddell        Hobbsee: in the list of things to be reviewed
=== jpatrick [n=patrick@ubuntu/member/jpatrick] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:15 allee          Riddell: to get feedback maybe a good idea for at leat one flight
09:15 Tm_T           jpatrick: welcome
09:15 Riddell        allee: yes, agreed
09:15 jpatrick       Tm_T: hi
09:15 Riddell        ok, lets move on
09:15 Riddell        jpatrick had an item and Tonio_ is here now
09:15 Lure           as I said, I do not feel CPU load is showstopper, but just concern as
                     linux PM is already not as battery efficient as the ugly OS
09:15 Tonio_         Riddell: as we discuss about network tools, could we take the
                     oportunity to talk a bit about wlassistant ?
09:16 raphink        hi jpatrick
09:16 Hobbsee        Tonio_: please.  i'm always on the search for good ones :P
09:16 jjesse         Tonio_: i used wlassastiant last night but couldn't get it to give me
                     a dhcp address
09:16 jjesse         had to do a sudo dhclient eth1
09:16 jpatrick       bonsoir raphink
09:16 Tonio_         I didn't put it on the agenda, cause I finished the package last
                     night, and I'm not available during the day now.....
09:16 toma           Lure: those who have a problem with battery life, can turn it off if
                     they get hit by it
09:17 Lure           toma: exactly, this is why I am fine to turn it on by default
09:17 toma           k
09:17 Riddell        Tonio_: if it works better than kwifimanager we should try and get it
                     in
09:17 Tonio_         Riddell: testers needed for this ;)
09:17 jjesse         it worked a lot better then kwifimanager
09:17 Lure           Riddell: it is better, fot sure
09:17 Riddell        Tonio_: where can we get it?
09:17 Lure           s/fot/for/
09:17 Tonio_         Riddell: revu
09:17 Hobbsee        Tonio_: i'll test when i next take my laptop to uni.  because of the
                     lack of wpa support, i cant test it at home
09:17 jjesse         i couldn't get it to give me an ip address via dhcp, had to manually
                     due it
09:17 robotgeek      it's unanimously hated, kwifimanager
09:17 Tonio_         still few polishing needed, but should be working
09:17 Riddell        ok, everyone test wlanassistent!
09:18 Riddell        and watch out for dhcp problems
09:18 Hobbsee        robotgeek: +1.  it lies!
09:18 Tm_T           Riddell: if you buy wlan system to me ;)
09:18 robotgeek      Riddell: i have been using it since yesterday on powerpc, broadcom
                     airport extreme, it works decently well
09:18 Tonio_         Riddell: robogeek didn't have that problem yesterday, that's why more
                     test is needed
09:19 Tonio_         robotgeek: hehe, you're faster than me
09:19 robotgeek      heh
09:19 Riddell        can we move on?
09:19 kwwii          robotgeek: help me get my broadcom working and I'll test it :-)
09:19 Tonio_         Riddell: please ;)
09:19 robotgeek      kwwii: sure, after meeting maybe
09:19 Riddell        jpatrick: go
=== apollo2011 [n=apollo20@69.37.94.117] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:20 jpatrick       I thought we agreed on keeping the tabs on the button
09:20 Tm_T           jpatrick: I thought too
09:20 Av|XeN         is it possible that kubuntu can use multiple audio sources at the
                     same time on onboard sound (i've tried a few guides)
09:20 robotgeek      Av|XeN: wrong place to ask, please ask in #kubuntu
09:20 Riddell        Av|XeN: that's a support question
09:20 Av|XeN         ok sorry
09:21 Riddell        jpatrick: I think they are all on the bottom now
09:21 Hobbsee        jpatrick: i thought we did too, which was why the konsole tabs are
                     now on the bottom too
09:21 Tonio_         Riddell: confirmed, I changed all of them, except konqueror, of
                     course
09:21 Riddell        yes, so sorted?
09:21 jpatrick       yep
09:22 allee          yeap
09:22 Lure           yes - new layout makes sense
09:22 Riddell        Hobbsee: up again
09:22 Hobbsee        ah crud.
09:22 Riddell        :)
                     Are we going to get some kde pictures for flight 5? Surely we dont
                     only have improvements only to gnome. Mornfall should have some
09:22 Hobbsee        pictures of the new Adept and the Update Notifier which should be
                     somewhere in the documentation. What other areas of kde have been
                     changed between breezy and dapper, that are worth putting into the
                     summary page?
09:23 Hobbsee        we're starting to get questions on "well, what does the upgrade do
                     for me?  what's new in kde?  i can see all this stuff in gnome"
09:23 Riddell        Hobbsee: I'd love someone to work on the flight info pages for
                     kubuntu
09:23 Riddell        it just needs someone to do it
09:23 robotgeek      that page was usually done by doc team, i think
09:23 jjesse         Riddell: i would like to take that role, but i'm a little busy rright
                     now
09:23 Hobbsee        do we have a main list on what's been changed or something?
09:23 Riddell        screenshots don't take long but finding what to screenshot and the
                     text and all does take time
=== Snake__ [n=Snake@adsl-65-43-235-178.dsl.bcvloh.ameritech.net] has joined
09:23 robotgeek      for ubuntu, atleast
=== Snake__ is Ken Minardo
09:24 bkjones        I could volunteer some small amounts of time to help with the docs
                     there, riddell
09:24 Riddell        bkjones: excellent
09:24 Riddell        next flight may well be end of next week
09:24 jjesse         flight6?
09:24 raphink        ok
09:24 Hobbsee        i'm kinda busy for the next week or so - darn uni assignments all
                     being due then, so  i'm hesitant to commit to much
09:24 jjesse         Riddell: how owould you see the pages looking like,
                     DapperFlight6/Kubuntu
09:24 jjesse         ???
09:24 Riddell        bkjones: fancy talking with jjesse and whoever does the ubuntu flight
                     notes to make sure kubuntu is well covered?
09:25 raphink        jjesse: or the opposite?
09:25 bkjones        riddell: that's my first volunteer thing for kubuntu. I'll need
                     either an account on some wiki or an email addy to mail docs to.
09:25 jjesse         KubuntuDapperFlight6?
09:25 robotgeek      Matt Galvin
=== hapo [i=pr@kapsi.fi] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:25 Tm_T           jjesse: I like to help a bit with it if I can
09:25 bkjones        bkjones@gmail.com :-
09:25 bkjones        :-)
09:25 Riddell        bkjones: anyone can get a wiki account, just sign up on launchpad.net
09:25 jjesse         bkjones you could work with me (jjesse@iserv.net)
09:25 bkjones        ok
09:25 Riddell        bkjones: jjesse's release notes already contain a lot of what's new
09:26 raphink        bkjones: you only need to sign up on launchpad.net and log with this
                     account on the wiki
09:26 robotgeek      bkjones: possibly join us in #ubuntu-doc too
09:26 bkjones        robotgeek: done.
09:26 Riddell        bkjones: do join us in #kubuntu-devel and I'll poke when flight is
                     going to happen
09:26 Lure           bkjones, jjesse: thanks for this - I think getting message through is
                     as important as fixing bugs
09:26 jjesse         bkjones: we canchat on this
                     maybe the general docs are better for me. I've used breezy and now
09:26 bkjones        I'm on dapper, but I'm not sure I could really list changes between
                     the two.
09:26 raphink        Lure: indeed
09:27 jjesse         Lure: its something that i've been meaing to do, but need to finish
                     my booik chapter first
09:27 jjesse         if you guys would stop changing things :)
09:27 Lure           ;-)
09:27 raphink        jjesse: lol
09:27 Riddell        bkjones: ask us on #kubuntu-devel, we'll tell you what's new and good
09:27 Tonio_         jjesse: hehe
09:27 Hobbsee        jjesse: you dont have books that change automatically?  weird
09:27 Snake__        Lol
09:27 jjesse         grin :)
09:27 bkjones        hey, by any chance, are there plans to add widescreen wallpapers?
09:27 raphink        Hobbsee: hardcoding doc is bad :p
=== bkjones has dual mons.
09:28 Riddell        bkjones: that's other business, wait to the end
09:28 Riddell        Lure: you're up
09:28 Lure           bkjones: that is very wide... ;-)
09:28 bkjones        heh.
09:28 bkjones        k
09:28 bkjones        :)
09:28 Lure           Should we change default layout of KDE menu from "Name (Description)"
                     to "Description (Name)"
09:28 Hobbsee        -25
09:28 Snake__        How come??
09:28 jjesse         too late to change that the doc is done :)
09:29 allee          +25
09:29 Riddell        Lure: I think we go with the KDE default on this
09:29 Lure           this was discussed on forums and got big support
09:29 Tonio_         Lure: I personnaly don't like "description (name)"
09:29 Riddell        and I know KDE has switche back and forth, so I don't want to do the
                     same
09:29 Snake__        -25 as well..
09:29 robotgeek      jjesse: i have a script , talk to me :)
09:29 kwwii          bkjones: we could make a 16:9 or 16:10 version of the wallpaper if
                     there is space or it is another question
09:29 raphink        I don't like this either
09:29 Riddell        Lure: and neither way solves the problem
09:29 allee          GenricName (name) passed my family test
                     personally, i say use name (description), because a) it seems more
09:29 Hobbsee        logical, and b) if you launch an app from the run command, or from
                     katapult, you need to know it's name.
09:29 Snake__        Lure: Just out of curiosity, how come?
09:29 jjesse         i don't think this needs to be changed
09:29 raphink        allt he more that Name is requried in desktop files, whereas
                     GenericName is not
09:29 bkjones        kwwii: that'd be good.
09:30 Tm_T           Hobbsee: agreed
09:30 raphink        Hobbsee: yes
=== Snake__ would like to hear his side of why.
09:30 bkjones        ack. Meeting for me. Bbiab.
                     some apps we want to have branded so you know the name, others we
09:30 Riddell        don't, I'd like a field added to the .desktop files to indicate the
                     correct way to show them
09:30 allee          Newbies don't care about app name, that search for GenericName
09:30 Riddell        Lure: do you have any rationale?
09:30 Lure           Snake__: it is due to most KDE apps starting with k, requiring more
                     to read. See the link on forums for explanaation
09:30 allee          Hirvinen: and appname is in () to alt-f2
09:31 Tonio_         Lure: there are plenty of applications that use a crappy GenericName
                     like "a kde application"
=== Snake__ nods with Tonio_
09:31 Tonio_         I always change that in my package, but that can cause an issue too
09:31 allee          Tonio_: This needs to be fixed independently of this topic ;)
09:31 Lure           Tonio_: I have switched and not that many have bad description - but
                     some should change
09:31 Hirvinen       allee: Are you addressing me or are you just using an inferior IRC
                     client?
09:31 raphink        allee: well this is a fact that our apps are not ready for this
09:32 allee          Hirvinen: oops
09:32 Tm_T           Hirvinen: prolly bad tabfill
09:32 Tonio_         allee: well, it is of any interest talking about the way to display
                     the information
=== mivecz [n=mivecz@87.228.164.224] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== nlindblad [n=nlindbla@user179.217-10-120.netatonce.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:32 Tonio_         the Name is always good, not the genericname
09:32 jjesse         can i ask why we would deviate from what is default from KDE?
09:32 Tonio_         so the first given information as to be the valid one to me
09:32 Hobbsee        what is the default kde?  name (description) ?
09:32 allee          jjesse: better for newbies (in my experience)
09:32 Lure           allee: +1
09:33 raphink        Mandriva has an easy switcher in the kmenueditor iirc
09:33 Riddell        hmm, my menu is  description (name)
09:33 raphink        to switch between "name (description) and description (name)"
09:33 Snake__        :-/
09:33 Tm_T           raphink: it's in kicker options
09:33 raphink        actually
09:33 Tonio_         Riddell: my one is default, and is "Name (Description)"
09:33 jjesse         i have amarok (Audio Player)
09:33 raphink        they allow to switch to another kmenu presenttion too
09:33 Riddell        Tonio_: I'm sure I haven't changed it, curious
09:33 Snake__        Ive never had a problem with Name (Descip)
09:33 robotgeek      mine is in Name (Deskcription) format
09:33 Tm_T           raphink: that what I need
09:33 Lure           Riddell: ;-)
09:33 nlindblad      Name (Description) here too
09:33 Snake__        People chatch on to whats going on
09:33 Lure           Riddell: and you like it? ;-)
09:33 Snake__        catch**
09:33 Riddell        neither is great, and I don't see any one option being significantly
                     better than the other
09:34 robotgeek      Riddell: i had that problem as i moved my .kde from breezy
09:34 jjesse         could this be a discussion for dapper+1?
                     and when you have more than one media player, it shows up as
09:34 Hobbsee        (mediaplayer) app 1, mediaplayer, app2, mediaplayer, app 3, which
                     looks weird adn unhelpful
09:34 Tm_T           I have just "name"
09:34 jpatrick       Tm_T: +1
09:34 robotgeek      one big -ve is that we have to change all kubuntu docs
09:34 Snake__        +1 Hobbsee
09:34 nlindblad      jjesse: yeah, not that big of an issue
09:34 Tm_T           descriptions use too much space ;)
09:34 raphink        jjesse: +1
                     It seems that a lot of people at least on freenode are using clients
09:34 Hirvinen       that try to complete the first word of a line into a nick. Which is a
                     bit problematic when people begin with a hi.
09:34 Riddell        jjesse: yes, I'd like to do it better for dapper + 1, where we can
                     choose which to show in the .desktop file
09:34 Hobbsee        Riddell: breezy seemed to prefer Description (Name)
                     When I first wanted to switch to genericname (name) is as already
09:34 allee          selected by not used.  deselecting and selection again made it work
                     (but that was long time ago)
09:34 Riddell        Hobbsee: that could well be that KDE changed it then
09:35 Tonio_         Riddell: if we can be sure desc is not a "a good kde application" for
                     ALL universe apps, then I'll approve
09:35 Lure           Hobbsee: this is actually better, as they are auto-grouped
09:35 Tonio_         but that generic genericname is very often used
09:35 Lure           robotgeek: good point about docs...
09:35 allee          Tm_T: there no difference between space of 'description (name)' or
                     'name (description)'
09:35 Riddell        a lot of gnome apps don't have a GenericName too
09:35 Tm_T           allee: I use only 'name'
09:35 allee          Tm_T: purist
09:35 Tm_T           allee: but no, it's not good default
09:35 Snake__        Tm_T: just name would be confusing tho..
09:35 Tonio_         Riddell: yes, gnome apps generally use a description as "name"
=== lucas [n=lucas@ubuntu/member/lucas] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:36 Riddell        Tonio_: which just shows that the spec if broken, if they feel they
                     can't stick to it
=== Snake__ could see the users going to launch amarok and typing "Media-Player" in run...
09:36 nlindblad      yeah
09:36 Riddell        does anyone feel strongly about this issue, or can we agree to stick
                     with KDE default until dapper+1?
09:36 nlindblad      +1
                     I think the description is a parenthetical issue, where the name is
09:36 trappist       not.  I like to see what app it is, then maybe the
                     description.  especially since so many apps have identical
                     descriptions (see your multimedia menu)
09:36 Snake__        +1 Riddell
09:36 Tonio_         Riddell: exactly
09:36 jjesse         +1 riddell
09:36 allee          Kmenu: uses currently  name (genericname) and on comment is shown in
                     tooltips
09:37 Hobbsee        +1 Riddell
09:37 Lure           Riddell: if no generic name, than name is used (se open office)
09:37 jpatrick       +1
09:37 Tm_T           +1 Riddell
09:37 Lure           s/se/see/
09:37 raphink        Riddell: +1
09:37 robotgeek      so we arent changing what is currently in my menu? if so, +1
09:37 Riddell        anyone know who V7 is?
09:37 Snake__        +1
09:37 raphink        let's report to dapper+1
=== mgalvin [n=mgalvin@ubuntu/member/mgalvin] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:37 Lure           Riddell: I do not feel strongly, just that newbees would be better
                     with proposed change
09:37 Hobbsee        Riddell: nope, but i'd say that's a very useful key map to do
09:38 Riddell        I'm happy for win key to map to k-menu, I just don't know how
09:38 Hobbsee        because the windows key is fairly useless at the moment
=== robotgeek uses mod4 key for a lot of things
09:38 Riddell        I remember looking at it years ago and not being able to work it out
09:38 Tonio_         Riddell: I know how ;)
09:38 nlindblad      Riddell: that's something we want, yeah
=== raphink has no win key on his powerbook
09:38 Riddell        so first one to come up with the patch to k-d-s gets their name in
                     the changelog
=== Tm_T use winkey to handle desktops
09:38 toma           I would like that mapped as well, but i understood it was not
                     possible anymore in KDE
09:38 kwwii          screw the win key
09:38 Riddell        so long as it doesn't conflict with other uses of the win key
09:38 Tonio_         Riddell: I will have a look on that soon
09:39 Hobbsee        Riddell: what, no pony?  :P
09:39 Riddell        I don't even have a win key on my thinkpad
09:39 robotgeek      for mac users, the windows key becomes the command key
09:39 raphink        the win key is used for amarok
09:39 Tonio_         guys do you appreciate ksnapshot on the print key ?
=== einand_ [n=einand@h202n10c1o1095.bredband.skanova.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:39 raphink        by default
09:39 Tm_T           raphink: yup
09:39 raphink        win + V
09:39 kwwii          i would love it if I had one
09:39 Riddell        raphink: I know, means I can't use any shortcuts for amarok by
                     default
09:39 toma           Tonio_: yes
09:39 raphink        to stop playing in amarok
09:39 nlindblad      Tonio_: yes
09:39 kmon           Tonio_: +1
09:39 Lure           Tonio_: +1
09:39 nlindblad      Tonio_: +1
09:39 Tonio_         it is already added for info ;) just wanted a feedback
09:39 Tm_T           Tonio_: +99
09:39 Hobbsee        Tonio_: +1
09:40 allee          Tonio_: +1 for ksnapshot
09:40 robotgeek      Tonio_: i don't use it, but +1
09:40 raphink        Tonio_: rock
09:40 Tonio_         just press "print"
09:40 Riddell        Lure: next item is yours
09:40 Snake__        Tonio_: Print screen would be great
09:40 Lure           I am just wondering if there is more candidates that could test
                     Kpowersave
09:41 Lure           I would personally like to get latest powersave/kpoersave in Universe
                     for dapper
09:41 Tonio_         Lure: ++
09:41 nlindblad      Lure: what is it? Brief introduction
09:41 raphink        Lure: I still need to be able to build the latest version ;)
09:41 Lure           replacement for klaptop
09:41 nlindblad      advantages?
09:41 Tonio_         way better replacement :)
09:41 robotgeek      Lure: will this work on powerpc machines as well?
09:41 Lure           https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KubuntuPowersave
09:41 raphink        Lure: when I get an option to build it without libsysfs.la
09:41 Hobbsee        https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KubuntuPowersave for more info
09:41 Tonio_         nlindblad: well, by far better in any point of view ;)
09:41 Lure           robotgeek: it should, but no packages yet
09:41 nlindblad      IMO, klaptop is old and poorly translated
09:41 Hobbsee        Lure: i'll certainly test it out, when i get the chance
09:41 Tonio_         it is a top3 app on kde-apps
09:41 robotgeek      Lure: i can build from source package myself
09:42 nlindblad      not very userfriendly
09:42 Lure           robotgeek: and we need to fix building issue with latest libsysfs
                     people testing doesn't solve the main issue which is that I've been
09:42 Riddell        too busy to learn how they both work and what the best way to do
                     power management is in kubuntu
09:42 Hobbsee        and klaptop seem to crash every time i hit suspend, which is kind of
                     inconvenient.
09:42 Hobbsee        Riddell: true
09:42 allee          raphink: that's easy;) rebuild all sources that have libsysfs.la in
                     their .la files.  Grep is your friend ;)
09:42 raphink        allee: libsysfs.la was voluntarily removed from the libsysfs-dev
                     package by pitti
                     Riddell: my opinion : gnome is using the best gtk apps available, and
09:43 Tonio_         it is a bit sad not using one of the best kde application "because we
                     have to stick with gnome choices"
09:43 Riddell        if those packages are in main, raphink has main upload rights now so
                     he can fix them all :)
09:43 Lure           raphink: exactly - we need to ask pitti for reason
09:43 Tonio_         Riddell: although I can understand this of course ;) but if we want
                     the best kde desktop implementation, we have to use the best apps
09:43 allee          raphink: I know. Rebuild that packages that have libsysfs.la in their
                     .la files and libsysfs.la reference goes away
09:44 Lure           Riddell: I am shooting for Universe only - this will ensure testers.
09:44 raphink        Lure: yes I agree. I tried to ping him. It seems to be fixing a
                     Debian bug. didn't check further though
09:44 Lure           Riddell: if feedback is good, then decision for main would be easier
09:44 raphink        allee: hmmm
09:44 Riddell        so plan is for Lure to get new version into universe, and me to read
                     up on these power tools
09:45 allee          raphink: \sh once did this when libXft.la went away
09:45 raphink        same here
=== nlindblad has a stupid idea
09:45 Lure           I am counting on MOTU for getting packages in... ;-)
09:45 raphink        allee: mhm
09:45 Tm_T           nlindblad: what is it?
09:45 nlindblad      why not have a repository for things we WANT tested
09:45 Riddell        nlindblad: launchpad will provide peronal repositories at some point
09:45 raphink        Lure: sure, ping Riddell, Tonio_, jpatrick or me for uploads
09:45 nlindblad      Riddell: nice
09:45 Lure           Riddell: I will also try to get some feedback from ubuntu-laptop
                     people (Matthew) to get buy in
09:46 raphink        (I think I'm forgetting some people..
09:46 jpatrick       Lure hi
09:46 Riddell        Lure: yes, please do
09:46 Riddell        is Nirvana here?
09:46 Tm_T           Riddell: is he ever here?
09:46 Lure           jpatrick: hi
09:46 Snake__        Lol
09:46 robotgeek      i remember Nirvana posting last meeting too, i think
09:46 jpatrick       hehe
09:46 Riddell        well if he reads the logs, he can go and ask amu about klickibunti
09:46 Riddell        kmon: next
09:46 raphink        yes he posts but doesn't show at the meeting
09:47 Hobbsee        what is klickibunti?  same as klik?
09:47 kmon           AFAIK gnome has a usplash theme for the halting process... When will
                     this enter kubuntu?
09:47 Snake__        Hobbsee: I dont think so..
09:47 Riddell        kmon: I've actually been working on this all day and not got very far
                     :(
09:47 Hobbsee        no, can that, i dont want to know.  there are better things to
                     discuss.
09:47 Tonio_         Riddell: :(
09:47 Riddell        kdm is horribly complex and I got it working for shutdown from kdm,
                     but not shutdown from within KDE
09:47 kmon           I though it was changing the artwork only... but I don't know
                     anything about it, really
09:47 kwwii          I made the (I think) current usplash, I can make the shutdown pic too
09:48 Riddell        this is a technical problem, and one the usplash authors never
                     bothered to tell me about
09:48 Hobbsee        kwwii: the very blue one?  it's horrendous!
09:48 Riddell        we need kdm to run usplash_down at the right time
09:48 kwwii          hehe
09:48 robotgeek      Hobbsee: http://www.klickibunti.org/buntibunti.php
09:48 Snake__        LOL
09:48 kwwii          Hobbsee: did you see the lighter version? I will probably make that
                     even lighter and you will love it :-9
09:48 Hobbsee        ARGH!  My eyes!  my eyes!
09:48 Riddell        I'll post my patch on the bug report, but I don't want to spend ages
                     on kdm
09:48 Riddell        so... artwork
09:49 nlindblad      how is suspend2 doing?=
09:49 raphink        robotgeek: ouch
09:49 robotgeek      lol
09:49 Tm_T           robotgeek: murderer
09:49 kmon           Riddell: ok, thanxs for the info
09:49 Tonio_         kwwii: is it added to k-d-s ? I didn't saw any change past 4 days
=== Seveas [n=seveas@ubuntu/member/seveas] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:49 kwwii          I put it up on the wiki, below the first one
09:49 Tonio_         kwwii: url ?
09:50 kwwii          it shows how much better it can get by being only a slight bit
                     lighter, so going even more extreme will work even better
                     kwwii is working on the artwork for dapper, if anyone has things he
09:50 Riddell        should be working on add them to
                     https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuDapperArtworkTodo
09:50 kwwii          wiki.kubuntu.org/DapperKubuntuDesktop I think
09:50 Tm_T           kwwii: I will talk to you about this later ;)
09:50 raphink        :)
09:51 kwwii          I realize now, after seeing the artwork that you like what you want
09:51 nlindblad      is Firefox in kubuntu-desktop yet?
09:51 robotgeek      Riddell: offtopic, but do you know when/if the "certificate error"
                     will go away on wiki.kubuntu.org
09:51 apokryphos     yuck
09:51 Tm_T           nlindblad: stop cursing
09:51 jpatrick       nlindblad: never ;)
09:51 nlindblad      Tm_T: sorry
09:51 Tm_T           ;)
09:51 Riddell        nlindblad: no, we use konqueror
09:51 kwwii          and I will say now that I do not want to go soooo non-saturated but
                     lets meet half way and see what comes out
09:51 nlindblad      I know
09:51 kwwii          the pic posted on the meeting page is probably not 16bit safe btw
09:51 Hobbsee        kwwii: +1
09:51 Riddell        robotgeek: not remembering it seems to be a KDE bug, maybe it's fixed
                     in KDE 3.5.2
09:52 Lure           kwwii: +1
09:52 robotgeek      Riddell: heh, definetly not a kde bug.
09:52 Tonio_         kwwii: ++ ;)
09:52 Riddell        kwwii: will we be able to get a stupidly large wallpaper for 1900
                     screens or is that too much work?
09:53 nlindblad      why not SVG?
09:53 apokryphos     why not svgs? :)
09:53 Lure           Riddell: my 1920x1200 is only 15.4"
09:53 Lure           ;-)
09:53 Snake__        Holy crap Lure !
09:53 raphink        svg rock :)
09:53 Riddell        nlindblad: it's rendered from a 3D modelling tool
09:53 nlindblad      Riddell: okey, sorry
09:53 Tonio_         svg with that quality image and so many effects would be REALLY heavy
09:53 raphink        ah
09:53 allee          current bg is too nervous imho.  Hobbsee suggestion is much more
                     releaxed.
09:53 sladen         Tonio_: but it's only rendered once, and cached after that
09:53 bkjones        back
09:54 nlindblad      having the default wallpaper as SVG would give people a nice
                     impression
09:54 Hobbsee        there's a wallpaper for that too, apart from the kdm theme.
09:54 Snake__        nlindblad: and also kill my P3
09:54 Tonio_         sladen: hum.......
09:54 nlindblad      Snake__: sorry, I must have too new hardware here ;)
09:54 Tonio_         kwwii: any opinion on svg wallpaper ? I really doubt it but well....
09:54 Riddell        sladen: SVG wallpapes are not cached
09:54 Riddell        Tonio_: it's not an option
09:54 Lure           sladen: so it is stored in .png in cache dir?
09:55 Riddell        Lure: don't listen to sladen, he didn't write the code (I did)
09:55 raphink        breezy had a svg wallpaper iirc
09:55 Snake__        Where can I find this SVG thing at?
09:55 Snake__        the wallpaper..
09:55 Seveas         Riddell, then add the caching code ;)
09:55 Riddell        there is no SVG wallpaper!
09:55 kwwii          hrm
09:55 Riddell        any other artwork comments?
=== Snake__ hides
09:55 Tonio_         raphink: breezy had svg source of png wallpaper ;)
09:55 bkjones        just my "dual screen wallpaper" request, riddell
09:55 Tonio_         which is different :)
09:55 bkjones        :)
09:55 kwwii          well, I can definitely post the xcf file for the wallpaper if that
                     helps
09:56 Riddell        bkjones: what's the requirements again?
09:56 raphink        well I made my comments on the new window style killing my powerbook
                     already ;)
09:56 bkjones        there's a good bit of it, just doesn't come with the distro
09:56 Hobbsee        Riddell: to change the kdm, and maybe the default screensaver to
                     http://www.kde-look.org/content/show.php?content=30314 ?
09:56 Riddell        we have a default screensaver?
09:56 Hobbsee        there seem to have been many complaints in the past few days about
                     the bright blue
09:56 Hobbsee        er, desktop
09:56 kwwii          dude, I turned up the bling on the crystal style and my powerbook is
                     running fine
09:56 Hobbsee        but why *dont* we have a default screensaver?
09:56 robotgeek      Hobbsee: _1
09:56 Snake__        KDE has screensavers?
09:56 Snake__        j/p
09:56 robotgeek      +1
09:56 kwwii          although, I do have 1.5GB of RAM
09:56 raphink        Riddell: good idea
09:56 Riddell        because screensavers are annoying and get in the way
09:56 bkjones        requirements would be that the wallpaper should be twice as wide as
                     it is high. I'm not a graphics geek. Sorry.
09:56 bkjones        :(
09:57 Riddell        (in my humble opinion :)
09:57 Lure           raphink: I am also seing delay on rendering - particularly with "ati"
                     driver on low CPU freq
=== jpatrick likes the clock one
09:57 Riddell        bkjones: you have the same wallpaper on both screens?
09:57 Tm_T           jpatrick: I like too
09:57 Tonio_         Riddell: ++ I never used screensaver
09:57 bkjones        I think what I have now is 2560x1024
09:57 kwwii          a really simple screensaver with a kubuntu logo on black might be
                     nice
09:57 Riddell        bkjones: I think that's very hard to satisfy with a default wallpaper
09:57 raphink        Lure: I'm seeing it just without nothing special launched
09:57 bkjones        riddell: wallpaper crosses screens.
09:57 bkjones        riddell: not default, just make it available
09:58 bkjones        default wallpaper looks goofy on dual mons.
09:58 kwwii          bkjones: you mean stretching the pic to cross screens?
09:58 bkjones        gets all stretched out. There's not a good way to deal with them on
                     duals.
09:58 kwwii          or mirroring it, etc.
09:58 bkjones        yeah.
09:58 Riddell        bkjones: ask kwwii for the xcf's and make one for us
09:58 Tonio_         bkjones: we can't provide 100 wallpapers to fit with exceptionnal
                     configurations like yours
09:58 bkjones        exceptional? Half my dept. has the same setup!
09:58 Tonio_         how many different resolutions do exist ? dozens I assume :)
09:58 nlindblad      off-topic: is the installation program capable of resizing
                     NTFS-partitions?
09:58 Riddell        bkjones: that's quite an exceptional departement :)
09:59 bkjones        well, thanks ;-)
09:59 robotgeek      maybe art.kubuntu.org is required
09:59 kwwii          I have a long list of resolutions available on modern hardware if
                     anyone wants it
09:59 Riddell        nlindblad: it uses libparted, see their website
09:59 trappist       we could have kde-wallpapers-$(resolution) packages
09:59 kwwii          it is really long
09:59 nlindblad      Riddell: okey
09:59 toma           i would welcome a background which is usable for dual monitor setup
                     as well
                     yeah, you can find these wallpapers on kde-look and any other site
09:59 bkjones        that has wallpaper, but it'd be awesome if they were "just
                     there(tm)".
09:59 bkjones        Just a thought. I'm done :)
09:59 kwwii          to be honest making so many resolutions is not soo hard, it is more
                     the point of making about 3 different aspect ratios
09:59 Tm_T           kwwii: if I print it as reasonable font, would it be over 100 pages?
09:59 Riddell        toma: don't most dual monitor setups use 1 image on each screen?
10:00 kwwii          4:3 16:9 and 16:10
10:00 kwwii          Tm_T: well, more like 20 lines or so
10:00 bkjones        look at the available ones online. I believe they only make like one
                     or two widescreen sizes for each one.
10:00 toma           Riddell: hmm, i was thinking about it, but i'm not sure, too bad im
                     not at my office now.
10:00 Riddell        kwwii: but even if we have that I don't think we have a way to get it
                     to use the right one by default
10:00 Tm_T           kwwii: bah, boring, I thought I have some night reading
10:00 toma           Riddell: you might be right.
10:00 kwwii          yeah, so forget it
10:00 Riddell        toma: I've no idea, never used one
10:01 bkjones        I love the "soft green" wallpaper, btw, which I think just appeared
                     after an update last night at home.
10:01 kwwii          we could put optional aspect ratios in some package somwhere though
10:01 kwwii          it is almost crazy to talk about doing that for dual monitor setups
10:01 toma           bkjones: is that with xinerama?
                     i currently use this:
10:01 kmon           http://www.kde-look.org/content/show.php?content=31556 Tm_T liked it
                     ;)
10:01 bkjones        just throw 'em in a directory under the default.
10:01 kwwii          just mirror the pick
10:01 bkjones        toma: twinview :-)
10:02 bkjones        so when I browse for wallpaper I can find them, but they're out of
                     the way of most users.
10:02 toma           bkjones: ah, i think xinerama uses the same on both minotors.
10:02 Tonio_         kwwii: I would, personnaly, appreciate that kubuntu offers something
                     other that "only blue"
10:02 Tm_T           kmon: and I already modified it
10:02 toma           i'm pretty sure...
10:02 bkjones        no, xinerama will let you do the same thing I'm doing.
10:02 Tonio_         kwwii: just a suggestion, of course ;)
10:02 Riddell        well, that's an hour up, I have to go in a sec, any other business?
10:02 kwwii          Tonio_: making different color versions will be very easy
10:02 Tonio_         Riddell: just a point about emergency bugs :)
10:02 kwwii          Tonio_: in the end the bubbles are all on one level with alpha and
                     the bg color is on another
10:03 Tonio_         is that possible ?
=== trappist [i=trappist@tra.ppi.st] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
10:03 Hobbsee        Riddell: just more stuff about everything now being far too bright
                     blue
10:03 Lure           Riddell: I heard rumors that NM 0.6 was discussed on developers
                     meeting. true?
10:03 kwwii          so theoretically we could just use the grey mapped pic and colorize
                     it in kde
10:03 Riddell        Tonio_: go
10:03 Tonio_         we still have no idea of what to do with kdeprint, and my patch on
                     kicker systelapplet creates an issue
10:03 Riddell        Tonio_: patch on kicker?
10:03 Tonio_         Riddell: the systemapplet, using system:/
10:04 Riddell        Tonio_: in the worst case for kdeprint well include a CUPS 1.1
                     package
10:04 Tonio_         Riddell: works nice, but causes the "system" button in konq sidebar
                     to fail loadingh
10:04 Riddell        Tonio_: what's that issue again?
10:04 Tonio_         I couldn't find the reason, so coder needed
=== Snake__ [n=Snake@adsl-65-43-235-178.dsl.bcvloh.ameritech.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting
[]
10:04 kwwii          if we did it with a grey scale pic, we could even include three or
                     four kde themes with different colors for everything
10:05 Tonio_         Riddell: but it works nice for the systemapplet itseft
10:05 Riddell        Tonio_: I suggest discussing with ervin on #kde-devel
10:05 raphink        Riddell: I'd think cups should not get these messages on the error
                     output
10:05 toma           maybe explaining the whole issue?
10:05 Tonio_         Riddell: I will thanks :)
10:05 Tonio_         raphink: +1
10:05 Hobbsee        kwwii: that'd be cool
10:05 Tonio_         this is what the gnome-cups-manager does
10:05 Tonio_         the error message appears, but only in the standard output
10:06 Riddell        Lure: yes, keybuk did mention n-m 0.6, if that goes in we should
                     package knetworkmanager toot sweet and get it working
10:06 raphink        no the gnome-cups-manager just ignores the message
10:06 toma           Tonio_: what are you trying to do?
10:06 Tonio_         toma : concerning systemapplet ?
10:06 raphink        the best option would be to shut the message up in cups
10:06 Riddell        Hobbsee: talk to kwwii :)
10:06 Lure           Riddell: I do not this we should go with old cups due to error
                     message
10:06 toma           yes
10:06 toma           Tonio_: yes
10:06 Hobbsee        will do
10:06 Lure           Riddell: great news
10:06 Tonio_         toma: the dault usage of "syste:/home causes many issues, so I
                     patched it to use $HOME instead
10:06 Tm_T           ok, thanks for your time, I go to sleep, good night ->
=== Tm_T [i=tm_travo@xob.kapsi.fi] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["."]
10:07 Tonio_         toma: works nice, but now the system componant of konqsidebar fails
                     loading
10:07 Tonio_         and I don't figure why
10:07 Riddell        anyone want to write minutes from this meeting?
10:07 Tonio_         kwwii: in fact I was talking about a "bicolor" theme
10:07 Tonio_         instead of several "monocolor" ones ;)
10:07 toma           Tonio_: would it be better to fix the apps?
10:08 Tonio_         like you did with suse for example ;) nice mix of blue and green
10:08 Tonio_         toma: fix the apps ?
10:08 Tonio_         toma: can you imagin how many fixes to provide ?
10:08 Tonio_         ;)
10:08 raphink        +1 for green
10:08 toma           Tonio_: what kind of troubles are there with apps?
10:08 raphink        well contrary of suse I would say
10:08 raphink        blue being main color and green completing the picture
10:09 Tonio_         toma: about all applications are copying files in tmp before
                     execution
10:09 Tonio_         like kate, kaffeine etc........
10:09 kwwii          Tonio: bicolor, for accesability you mean
10:09 Tonio_         toma: that's a PAIN when using files more than 60 megs
10:09 kwwii          I am done working on green
10:09 kwwii          :-)
10:09 raphink        lol
10:09 toma           Tonio_: yes, but i think that that is the problem to be solved, not
                     changing system:/home's behaviour
10:10 kwwii          ahhhh, now I get it
10:10 Tonio_         kwwii: just using 2 colors because it is a bit nicer that basing
                     everything on one only in my view :)
10:10 allee          Tonio_: afaiu this is not done by apps by what ever does   %f
                     interpretation in .desktop files
10:10 Tonio_         toma: I don't feel the need of that system:/home feature
10:10 Lure           toma: how - as too many aps consider system:/ as remote
10:10 kwwii          Tonio_: I understand now
10:10 Tonio_         except making the address bar nice, what does it brings ? only
                     problems
10:11 allee          Exec=whatever %f    # everything other than file:// url are copied
                     and then passed to app
10:11 raphink        kwwii: I think having a bit of green woiuld be nice
10:11 Tonio_         allee: so patching .desktop files could do the job ????????
10:11 toma           Lure: a call to mostlocal() from kio would solve that, but that is
                     only for kde apps
                     Tonio_: it is really hard to work out a theme like that which is
10:11 kwwii          changeable in any way. Once it looks good you normally cannot change
                     anything without messing it up
10:11 toma           that would convert system:/home/bla to /home/toma/bla
10:11 kwwii          raphink: yeah, I was just kidding about the green
10:11 allee          Tonio_: no :(  %u  will pass all kinds of URLs
10:12 Riddell        toma: so that's what kaffeine needs to do
10:12 raphink        kwwii: hehe ;)
10:12 toma           Riddell: exactly
10:12 Riddell        but wouldn't solve the problem for openoffice
10:12 Tonio_         Riddell: and ANY gnome app ;)
10:12 Tonio_         gimp causes problem
10:12 Riddell        yes
10:12 Tonio_         firefox too
10:12 kmon           One issue I had with using the default system:/ behaviour in the
                     location was that I could compress files with ark
10:12 allee          Tonio_: IMHO system: home: etc should be converted to /path/to/file
                     and then passed to the app.
10:12 Tonio_         kwwii: yes I can understand that
10:13 kmon           s/could/couln't
10:13 allee          Tonio_: obviously not all of KDE core can handle system: home:
10:13 Tonio_         allee: yes but well........
10:13 toma           ok, is that passsed to the app via the cli or how does the
                     system:/home comes into OOo?
=== Snake__ [n=Snake@adsl-65-43-235-178.dsl.bcvloh.ameritech.net] has joined
=== nick58b [n=brand@cypher.nceas.ucsb.edu] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:13 Riddell        toma: yes, passed as an argument when it starts
=== Snake__ is still Ken Minardo
10:13 toma           the same issue is there for media:/sda1 for usb sticks
10:14 toma           so you keep on patching things
10:14 Lure           allee: can the conversion be done by the process doing Exec from
                     .desktop?
10:14 Tonio_         really that change in the systemapplet only brings problems
10:14 allee          Lure: yes, that was my understanding
10:14 Tonio_         not one intersting feature at least......
10:14 toma           i can provide a executable which converts it, if that helps
10:15 Tonio_         toma: and what about widely used gnome apps, like gimp ?
10:16 kwwii          if I make the wallpaper much ligher it would be easy to get away with
                     using a very light green theme for the default konqi startpage
10:16 toma           Tonio_: what do you mean? It can never be called from the cli with a
                     system:/home parameter
=== netzmeister [n=netzmeis@p549FBB13.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:16 toma           that will never work
10:16 toma           so it has to be converted before
10:16 Tonio_         toma: what about when you're browsing the system with system:/home
10:17 Tonio_         and double click an image to open it with gimp ?
10:17 Tonio_         that crashes........
10:17 Tonio_         that's why the idea has been to make usage of $HOME
10:17 toma           right, but the same goes todocuments located at media:/sda1
10:17 Tonio_         witch works in *any* cases
=== allee assumes that gnomes kill us if we use media2path in their desktop files
10:18 toma           allee: that would be fun you mean ;-)
10:18 Tonio_         toma: yes that's another issue
10:18 toma           Tonio_: i would prefer 'localizing' the parameter, but i dont have a
                     solution....
10:19 Tonio_         toma: that's the problem
10:19 Tonio_         and my patch doesn't work as nicelly as it should
10:19 allee          Tonio_: if we can find that does the URL -> %f conversion, we could
                     add your code to preprocess to file://
10:20 Tonio_         so waiting for a better solution, correcting my patch for the
                     system:/home part would be nice ;)
10:20 Lure           Tonio_, toma: which process handles %f - this one could do
                     translation on-the-fly
10:20 Tonio_         allee: indeed yes
10:21 allee          toma: isn't this an attractive challange :)
10:21 toma           messy ;-)
=== Hirion [n=hirion@draugr.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:21 Lure           allee: I am a bit suprised this is not a concern in general KDE
                     community
10:21 Lure           or is system:/ Kubuntu specific?
10:22 toma           no
10:22 allee          Lure: no KDE in general
10:22 Lure           then let's kill system: ;-)
10:22 allee          Lure: KDE devels are aware of the problem AFAIK, but the korrect
                     solution needs KDE 4
10:23 toma           yes, i fundamentally agree that system:/home is evil.
=== allee nods
10:23 Lure           toma: there is also system:/users...
10:23 toma           someone goes into a terminal and assumes /home =system:/home
10:24 Lure           and home:/
10:24 Lure           I kind of think this is against usability goal of Kubuntu
10:25 toma           hmm, you can wonder what system:/ adds at all
10:26 Riddell        toma: I think it's so that the Up button works as expected
10:26 toma           ;-)
10:27 toma           what dfunctionality would you loose if we did not compile system-kio?
10:28 Riddell        the system applet on kicker for one
10:28 kwwii          ouch, you need that
10:29 Riddell        so no minute taker?
10:29 kwwii          either that or an icon for all of that through hal on the desktop
10:29 kwwii          Riddell: my wife was amazed at the quality of your minute taking
                     abilities
                     media:, system:, home: whatever is kind of useful in knoqueror and
10:29 allee          save*dialogs, but evil as soon as passed via K*Process like classes
                     to outside kdelibs core
10:29 kwwii          my wife seemed to have spent a good deal of time googling for your
                     name
10:30 sladen         kwwii: Riddell is a well practised Quaker at such things :)
=== IO-Jupiter [n=kvirc@80.172.133.152] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:30 Riddell        kwwii: to make sure I won't be a bad infuence on you?
10:31 kwwii          Riddell: I think so...you passed her test
10:31 allee          toma: system:, home: and media: collect infos distributed in a tree
                     to a flat view
10:31 Riddell        sladen: not today I'm not, or I'd have them all done by now
10:31 kwwii          I didn't come home drinking any more or less than I did before :-)
10:31 Riddell        so end of meeting?
10:31 allee          e.g, / and /media/whaever (and /var or /usr/local etc)
10:32 allee          Riddell: yes :)
10:32 Riddell        thanks all, carry on discussions on #kubuntu-devel

</pre>
