{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=05&day=19&year=2014&hour=&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon May 19th 2014 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* sbeattie
* jjohansen
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* mdeslaur
* tyhicks

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
Thanks to Benjamin Drung (bdrung) who provided debdiffs for trusty for vlc (LP: #1276650). Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job!
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: happy place
** travel
** prepare for/attend Client sprints
** sbeattie
** compiler hardening defaults
*** stack-protector-strong is ready for submission
*** -pie for amd64 in progress
** prepare for sprint
** jjohansen
** apparmor
*** bug fixing for touch kernels (bug:1319984, bug:1317545, ptrace, etc)
*** respin touch kernels
*** update apparmor cache patches in preparation for handoff
*** continue apparmor cross namespace
*** prepare for sprint
** sarnold
** weekly role: community
** updating test-django.py test script
** chrisccoulson
** oxide review queue
** firefox 29.0.1 (pdf printing regression)
** ubufox UA string fix for trusty
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-05-19-16.44.html
