{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=09&day=29&year=2014&hour=16&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Sep 29th 2014 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Thanks to Jonathan Riddell (jr) who provided a debdiff for trusty for krfb (LP: #1374043). Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: triage
** !AppArmor
*** sponsored updates and bug fixes as needed
*** ubuntu-download-manager uncompress helper policy
*** docker policy
** adjust UCT for derivative branches
** click-reviewers-tools updates
** patch piloting
** mdeslaur
** short week (off friday)
** community
** pending updates
*** expect more bash updates
** sbeattie
** QRT updates for recent kernel changes
** !AppArmor
*** patch review
*** update utopic with new snapshot (bug fix only)
** tyhicks
** catch up from time off
** !AppArmor
*** respond to upstream comments
** ecryptfs maintenance duties
** jjohansen
** !AppArmor
*** bug fixing
*** upstreaming
*** help with 2.9 release
** sarnold
** weekly role: happy place
** MIR audits
** !AppArmor reviews as time allows
** chrisccoulson
** oxide code reviews
** land Bug:1260016 (Add an API to allow defining custom URL scheme delegates)
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-09-29-16.47.moin.txt
