{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=10&day=22&year=2012&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Oct 22nd 2012 18:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 18:30 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* micahg
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** UDS is next week. Be sure to review the blueprints in LP this week
** Quantal is released and Raring is in pre-freeze. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/ReleaseCycle|ReleaseCycle]]</nowiki> duties have been performed, so be sure to update your trees, etc for these changes
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** happy place
** release cycle duties
** secure boot
** pending updates
** openjdk cross-training
** review blueprints for security team
** prepare for UDS
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: triage
** pending updates
** prepare for UDS
** sbeattie
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor work items surrounding display confinement
** prepare for UDS
** micahg
** weekly role: happy place
** !WebKit for 12.04 and 11.10
** pending browser updates
** prepare for UDS
** tyhicks
** weekly role: happy place
** pending update
** !AppArmor/dbus: upload to a ppa
** jjohansen
** weekly role: happy place
** LP: #1056078
** review new LSM stacking patch for how it affects !AppArmor
** some more on display manager confinement
** envfiltering beta
** UDS preparation
** sarnold
** weekly role: community
** leaves for UDS on Thursday
** pending updates
** setting up new laptop for BuildEnvironment and TestingEnvironment due to hardware issues on other system
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** There are a lot of merge opportunities for packages listed in http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/d2u/. Performing these updates is a great way to help Ubuntu and bolster your developer application.

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-10-22-18.31.html
