{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by RoAkSoAx at 16:02:16 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2011/ubuntu-meeting.2011-09-06-16.02.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting

* Oneiric Development
''LINK:'' http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-oneiric/group/topic-oneiric-server-overview.html   (SpamapS, 16:04:19)
''LINK:'' http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-oneiric/group/topic-oneiric-server-overview.html   (RoAkSoAx, 16:04:45)
''LINK:'' http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html <-- bugs not here, please raise them double quick if they should be fixed for Oneiric  (Daviey, 16:06:10)

* Ubuntu Server Team Events

* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)

* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)

* Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community

* Open Discussion

* Announce next meeting date and time

Meeting ended at 16:18:53 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* RoAkSoAx (46)
* Daviey (4)
* SpamapS (3)
* meetingology (3)
* ogra_ (3)
* hggdh (2)
* zul (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:02:16 <RoAkSoAx> #startmeeting

 16:02:16 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Sep  6 16:02:16 2011 UTC.  The chair is RoAkSoAx. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 16:02:16 <meetingology> 

 16:02:16 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 16:02:44 <RoAkSoAx> [topic] Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:03:02 <RoAkSoAx> alright there were no actions from the previous meeting apparently

 16:03:14 <RoAkSoAx> so unless anyone has something to brng up that has not been logged

 16:03:15 <RoAkSoAx> please do so

 16:03:35 <RoAkSoAx> Ok, I guess there's no action

 16:03:39 <RoAkSoAx> let's move on

 16:03:45 <RoAkSoAx> [topic] Oneiric Development

 16:04:01 <RoAkSoAx> Daviey: is in a meeting at the moment

 16:04:15 <RoAkSoAx> Daviey: so we can come back to this later

 16:04:19 <SpamapS> http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-oneiric/group/topic-oneiric-server-overview.html

 16:04:45 <RoAkSoAx> [link] http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-oneiric/group/topic-oneiric-server-overview.html

 16:04:57 <RoAkSoAx> anywas, he said

 16:05:07 * Daviey pokes in.. Don't forget to progress bugs..  The 'Status' Step is starting to increase.

 16:05:14 <RoAkSoAx> he tol me* to remind you all to set the status of your current blueprints

 16:06:10 <Daviey> http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html <-- bugs not here, please raise them double quick if they should be fixed for Oneiric

 16:06:10 <RoAkSoAx> alright

 16:06:11 * Daviey gets back to his call

 16:06:11 <Daviey> sorry for the fly by.

 16:06:36 <RoAkSoAx> alright then, let's move on

 16:06:41 <RoAkSoAx> [topic] Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:07:11 <RoAkSoAx> any events that anyone is participating in?

 16:07:59 <zul> ODS next month

 16:08:27 <RoAkSoAx> I think Linux Plumbers  is tomorrow isn't it?

 16:08:37 <SpamapS> Yeah we'll have a ton of people at ODS

 16:08:58 <RoAkSoAx> alright then

 16:09:00 <RoAkSoAx> moving on

 16:09:01 <SpamapS> Yes Plumbers starts tomorrow, I think kirkland is there.

 16:09:25 <RoAkSoAx> [topic] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)

 16:09:33 <RoAkSoAx> hggdh: the floor is yours

 16:10:57 <hggdh> No news from me, life is goodf

 16:11:03 <hggdh> ..

 16:11:04 <RoAkSoAx> alright

 16:11:14 <RoAkSoAx> moving on

 16:11:20 <RoAkSoAx> [topic] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

 16:11:29 <RoAkSoAx> smb all yours

 16:12:48 <RoAkSoAx> uhmm seems smb is not around

 16:12:55 <RoAkSoAx> we'll move on and get back to him

 16:13:01 <RoAkSoAx> [topic] Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)

 16:13:22 <RoAkSoAx> NCommander howdy, any updates on ARM side?

 16:14:33 <ogra_> RoAkSoAx, he is on vacation this week

 16:14:52 <RoAkSoAx> ogra_: I see, is there anyone from the ARM team with news?

 16:15:11 <ogra_> i havent gotten any info from NCommander, sorry

 16:15:16 <ogra_> and i dont think anyone else has

 16:15:21 <RoAkSoAx> alright then

 16:15:23 <RoAkSoAx> I'll move on

 16:15:28 <RoAkSoAx> [topic] Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community

 16:15:38 <RoAkSoAx> anyone from the Ubuntu Community has anything to share with us this week?

 16:16:47 <RoAkSoAx> ok so It seems noone is around either

 16:16:57 <RoAkSoAx> [topic] Open Discussion

 16:17:12 <RoAkSoAx> Anyone else has something to add?

 16:18:11 <RoAkSoAx> oh well I guess this was a short meeting then

 16:18:21 <RoAkSoAx> if noone has anything to add

 16:18:27 <RoAkSoAx> and smb is not back yet

 16:18:31 <RoAkSoAx> then we can end this

 16:18:37 <RoAkSoAx> [topic] Announce next meeting date and time

 16:18:41 <RoAkSoAx> same time/date

 16:18:50 <RoAkSoAx> thank you all for attending

 16:18:53 <RoAkSoAx> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
