{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=01&day=30&year=2012&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Jan 30th 2012 18:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 18:30 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* micahg
* tyhicks

=== Not present ===
* jjohansen

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** FeatureFreeze is coming in a little more than two weeks (February 16th). Please try to finish any non-bugfix work items that are tied to the release by this date. Please talk to mdeslaur (and optionally me)  soon if there are issues meeting this deadline. This is particularly true for essential and high priority items.
** Thanks
** Jame Page (jamespage) provided oneiric debdiffs for Jenkins (LP: #914628)
  Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Review of any previous action items
** ACTION: jdstrand to make sure ubuntu-security gets QRT bug mail: DONE
** [ACTION] sbeattie to follow up on qrt bugs from QA team
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** In addition to updates, etc, last week I focused a lot on improvements to UCT for CVE triage, particularly around triaging the output of the locate_cves.py script that mdeslaur wrote
** Weekly role: community
** patch piloting
** audits
** work items
** updates as have time
** mdeslaur
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** several embargoed issues
** sbeattie
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** work items as have time
** micahg
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** mozilla rapid release migration is done, now all releases are on the same upstream mozilla version
** tyhicks
** Weekly role: triager
** pending updates
** jjohansen
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** None

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-01-30-18.05.moin.txt
