{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
TZ UTC+1
<pre>
05:00	jono	right
05:00	jono	who is here for the community question time?
05:00	d1uluv2h8	i am :)
05:00	f0ster52	_|
05:00	boredandblogging	me, but I have no questions, just listening
05:01	Belutz	i am
05:00	jono	ok, ask your questions in #ubuntu-meeting-questions and prefix it with QUESTION so I can see it :)
05:00	jono	lets get going! :)
</pre><pre>
05:02	jono	<f0ster52> QUESTION: will you ever forgive my english? :/, ok, now the real one: Talking about the last Dell declarations on Linux preinstalled on consumer machines. What is/will Ubuntu doing/do to become the chosen distro (if will ever be one)? Other comments? Any thoughts?
05:02	jono	f0ster52: course I will forgive your english :)
05:02	marchesantacater	ok
05:03	jono	f0ster52: this is not something I can really give too much info on as I don't work on it, but we are hoping Ubuntu will be involved in Dell's choices
05:03	jono	I can't say anymore than that really
05:03	jono	thats a business team thing
</pre><pre>
05:03	jono	<poningru> QUESTION: Any ideas what the name of feisty+1 is going to be?
05:04	jono	poningru: no idea, we will have to see - I am sure we all have our own fave ideas :)
</pre><pre>
05:04	jono	<Belutz> QUESTION: will the approved LoCo team will be eligible for one box of Feisty CD's like we did on Edgy?
05:04	jono	Belutz: yes :)
</pre><pre>
05:04	jono	<ivoks> QUESTION: do we know for sure when next LTS is going to happen? :)
05:04	Belutz	jono, that's good news :D
05:04	jono	ivoks: nothing is confirmed right now, but an estimation of Feisty + 2 is kicking around
05:05	jono	ivoks: but we hope to have something confirmed soon
</pre><pre>
05:05	jono	<d1uluv2h8> QUESTION: will the easy codec installation and that nice proprietary video driver installation utility go into kubuntu too?
05:05	jono	d1uluv2h8: as far as I am aware, the easy codec installation is something that could go into kubuntu - it would just need the GUI writing for it - it happens at a gstreamer level
05:10	Hobbsee	jono: can i correct you?
05:10	jono	Hobbsee: sure
05:10	Hobbsee	[01:05]  <jono> d1uluv2h8: as far as I am aware, the easy codec installation is something that could go into kubuntu - it would just need the GUI writing for it - it happens at a gstreamer level  <-- kubuntu tends to use xine-based stuff, not gstreamer, so it's not a straight port.
05:11	jono	Hobbsee: right, thanks for the clarification :)
05:11	Hobbsee	that was all :)
05:11	d1uluv2h8	hm.. what about proprietary driver installation ?
05:12	ivoks	not going to happen for feisty
</pre><pre>
05:06	jono	<Belutz> QUESTION: When the LoCo team can begin to order Feisty CD's?
05:06	jono	Belutz: you would need to contact shipit for a specific answer, but I guess after Feisty is released
</pre><pre>
05:07	jono	<poningru> QUESTION: will lp.net be opened soonish?
05:07	jono	launchpad.net
05:07	jono	poningru: you mean when will lp be open source?
05:07	poningru	right
05:07	ivoks	never
05:08	ivoks	it's a service, it can't be open sourced
05:08	poningru	...
05:08	mc44	sabdfl commented on a comment in his blog about it
05:08	poningru	oh? /me reads
05:08	jono	poningru: right now there is no set date, but LP will certainly be open source at some point, unfortunatly there is no indication of the metric behind that right now
05:08	ivoks	open sourcing LP would destroy nature of LP
</pre><pre>
05:08	jono	<Belutz> QUESTION: my ubuntu membership is about to expired, what should I do to extend my membership?
05:08	jono	Belutz: re-apply :)
05:08	Belutz	wew
05:09	Belutz	and there's a chance that i won't get an extended membership?
05:09	jono	afaik...
05:09	jono	you may want to check with the CC
05:09	jono	Belutz: I think its likely you will
05:09	Belutz	jono, ok :)
05:09	elkbuntu	i think they were discussing some form of rollcall procedure
05:09	jono	unless you really didny do anything useful :)
05:09	elkbuntu	just to check that you still exist and still care
05:09	Belutz	ic ic, that's a good procedure
</pre><pre>
05:12	jono	<mc44> ZOMG QUESTION!!!11!: Will feisty+1 be named G* G*, I* I* or something else entirely?
05:12	jono	mc44: I think its going to be a G* G*
05:12	jono	although we do have grump
05:12	jono	grumpy
05:12	mc44	indeed
05:13	bordy	or glorious gator ;)
</pre><pre>
05:14	jono	<Belutz> QUESTION: is there a chance that you travel around the world to visit every LoCo Teams?
05:14	jono	Belutz: I would love to, but with a loco in nearly every country, it is difficult, but I am trying to get out to as many teams as possible
05:14	jono	Belutz: if you want me there, mail me :)
=== Belutz wish ogra can come to Indonesia to support edubuntu :D
05:15	Belutz	jono, ok :)
05:16	ogra	Belutz, surely at some point ... the whole of asia is still missing on my travelling list :)
05:16	elkbuntu	Belutz, concoct an event and get jono to speak at it. you'll need essential items like beer and wigs
</pre><pre>
05:16	Belutz	jono, what beer do you drink? :D
05:17	jono	Belutz: depends which country - Carling in the UK :)
05:17	Hobbsee	Belutz: he drinks all of them.  in sequence :P
05:17	jono	heh
05:17	Hobbsee	until all the beer runs out
05:17	Belutz	lol
05:17	elkbuntu	poningru, http://www.jonobacon.org/?p=906
05:17	jono	Hobbsee: are you trying to incinuate I drink too much? :)
05:17	Hobbsee	jono: no, no, not at all...  *g*
05:17	jono	elkbuntu: heh
05:17	jono	Hobbsee: :)
05:17	mc44	jono: Carling? /me sighs
05:17	jono	mc44: yeah yeah, but I like it :)
</pre><pre>
05:17	Belutz	if we invite you, do we have to cover all the expenses?
05:17	Belutz	:D
05:17	jono	Belutz: where are you based?
05:18	Belutz	jono, Indonesia, South East Asia
05:18	jono	Belutz: if you could get sponsorship to cover some expenses that would be useful, but Canonical would no doubt pick up some of the tab
05:18	Belutz	Actually i have met with the mighty sabdfl :D
05:18	Belutz	jono, noted :)
</pre><pre>
05:20	jono	<lotusleaf> QUESTION: Has any (known) musician ever been contacted to see if they would like to include samples of their work towards sound effects / jingles for Ubuntu?
05:20	jono	lotusleaf: I think we have talked with some musos - but nothing concrete has happened
</pre><pre>
05:20	jono	<lotusleaf> QUESTION: Can we expect any future events with Ubuntu/Google in California?
05:20	jono	we love Google, so very possibly :)
05:21	elkbuntu	yeah google does rock
05:21	poningru	>:(
</pre><pre>
05:21	jono	<Belutz> QUESTION: What if Ubuntu collaborate with Google Singapore to conduct events across South East Asia? :)
05:22	jono	Belutz: who knows? we (Canonical) like to form partnerships to help spread Ubuntu :)
05:22	Belutz	wew
</pre><pre>
05:22	jono	ok
05:22	jono	so, I think we are done
05:22	jono	thanks all
05:22	Belutz	I feel like my ubuntu spirit is charged :D
05:22	Belutz	thanks jono
05:22	f0ster52	thanks to you
05:23	jono	I will schedule the next community question time for the start of may :)
05:23	jono	right later all! :)
</pre>
