{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

   04:05 Kamion     BenC: you're up
   04:05 BenC       finally :)
   04:05 Keybuk     did we forget infinity again? :)
   04:05 jbailey    JaneW: he's looking for internet right now, pl ease start without him.
   04:06 infinity   I'm here.
   04:06 JaneW      jbailey: right thanks
   04:06 Keybuk     just checking <g>
   04:06 JaneW      ok lets start from the top this week
   04:06 infinity   BenC: We need that new kernel upload yesterday, BTW.
   04:06 BenC       hold off on me till later in the meeting, I am real busy getting this kernel done
   04:06 Kamion     BenC: no, I mean you're up in the meeting :-)
   04:06 Kamion     ok
   === licio [n=licio@ubuntu/member/licio] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:06 Kamion     dholbach:
   04:06 dholbach   IconMission: ubuntu-artwork transitioned to icon-naming-utils, some glitches to fix up -- icon page now reflects the state of affairs (requested/missing icons)
   04:06 dholbach   BugMission: HUG DAY next week, catching up
   04:06 dholbach   this week (done): icon mission, mass-filed some more motu bugs, bug triage
   04:06 dholbach   this week (todo): more bug triage, more bug fixing, do uploads until Matt closes the gates :-)
   04:06 dholbach   next week: cd testing, bug triage, bug fixing
   04:06 BenC       (thanks)
   04:06 Kamion     how far away is the artwork from final?
   04:07 Kamion     not that artwork has *ever* delayed releases before, oh no
   04:07 dholbach   if you look at http://daniel.holba.ch/ubuntu/ic/ you will notice the icon sizes in RED which are missing
   04:07 dholbach   the most important ones are SVGs
   04:07 Riddell    dholbach: you'll be keeping an eye on all those KDE recompiles?
   04:07 dholbach   and I pray and hope they get done soon :(
   04:07 dholbach   however that's not in my hands
   04:07 dholbach   Riddell: yes
   04:08 Riddell    thanks
   04:08 seb128     dholbach: will you try to have an eye to keep on GNOME stuff too? :p
   04:08 dholbach   apart from that the splash and the wallpapers will get the "Ubuntu Dapper Beta" removed, which is easy enough
   04:08 dholbach   seb128: yes :-)
   04:09 Hobbsee    dholbach: about those kde recompiles - if we could get a list on what still needs fixing, after the rebuild, that would be awesome.
   04:09 dholbach   Hobbsee: I'm doing all of main today (8-9 are missing) - I can do a new universe list soon, but not today
   04:09 dholbach   Hobbsee: I'll let you know
   04:09 Hobbsee    dholbach: excellent, thanks.  sounds good to me.
   04:09 JaneW      dholbach: are the bug days done for dapper, or are you holding some lasy ones?
   04:10 JaneW      last
   04:10 dholbach   JaneW: I think we should do them.
   04:10 JaneW      dholbach: yup, when?
   04:10 dholbach   wednesday too?
   04:10 iwj        Kamion: Don't talk to me about artwork.  See mails about ff themes.  More on this when it's my turn ...
   04:10 BenC       dholbach: was the kernel bug day done...did I miss it?
   04:10 JaneW      tomorrow (NOT)
   04:10 pitti      for triaging they are nice, we just won't be able to fix many bugs any more next week
   04:10 dholbach   BenC: it seems you missed it :-(
   === jjesse [n=jjesse@mail.ftpb.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:11 infinity   Only Major blocking bugs next week, and perhaps some "polish" bugs.  That's about all we'll tackle.
   04:11 dholbach   This one went a bit chaotic, I must admit, with Simon missing and me caught up in the icon mission.
   === mdz [n=mdz@201.160.20.139.cableonline.com.mx] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:11 infinity   So, I'm not sure how much value bug days will be.
   04:11 Kamion     ah, welcome mdz
   04:11 mdz        laggy but here
   04:11 dholbach   hi mdz
   04:11 JaneW      hi mdz
   === pitti waves to Mexico
   04:11 mdz        Kamion: can you paste me a log to date?
   04:11 Keybuk     mdz: you're up next
   04:11 dholbach   infinity: I think it's still good to do it
   04:11 Kamion     mdz: will do, just a moment
   04:11 BenC       dholbach: The wiki was done last Friday, so whenever you feel like scheduling a triage for kernel bugs...
   04:12 Mithrandir infinity: getting rid of unconfirmed bugs is always good, though
   04:12 dholbach   BenC: thanks
   04:12 infinity   Mithrandir: True, but not if it detracts heavily from testing images and finding showstoppers.
   04:12 infinity   (and fixing those)
   04:12 Mithrandir infinity: true
   04:12 dholbach   if it gets new people involved in bug triage, I think that's worthwhile
   04:13 JaneW      ok BenC are you ready now?
   04:13 mdz        Kamion: regarding artwork, we are in an unfortunate position of being at sabdfl's mercy
   04:13 JaneW      while mdz catches up...
   04:13 BenC       yes
   04:13 BenC       * Kernel: Final build is completing as we meet. Lots of last minute patches. This is actually a much larger upload than I had planned. It's not a huge amount of code, but it's a lot of trivial and minor things that should make dapper really complete.
   04:13 BenC       * Anything else: Not really...
   04:14 BenC       pretty to the point really
   04:14 mdz        Kamion: he insists on icon updates through the 29th
   04:14 Kamion     ok, thanks dholbach
   04:14 Kamion     doko is not here (vacation?)
   04:14 Kamion     fabbione: around?
   04:14 infinity   mdz: Gah.
   04:14 Kamion     mdz: what a novelty
   04:14 Kamion     mdz: !
   04:14 JaneW      doko is in mexico
   04:14 Kamion     so much for a release candidate!
   04:14 fabbione   Kamion: yes but i am in holidays
   04:14 fabbione   Kamion: so i have no update whatsoever
   04:14 Kamion     ok
   04:14 mdz        Kamion: exactly
   04:15 Kamion     mdz: what are the chances of negotiation here?
   04:15 mdz        Kamion: the discussion has been closed, at least for now
   04:15 mdz        I'm sorry
   04:15 mdz        Kamion: yes, doko is on holiday
   04:15 JaneW      mdz/kamion: we are missing doko (debconf), fabbione (vac)  Kinnison ? ,   sfflaw ?
   04:16 Kamion     ok, apparently nobody wants to ask anything about the kernel :)
   04:16 mdz        JaneW: sfllaw is on vacation as well
   04:16 JaneW      ok thanks
   04:16 infinity   Kamion: I'm happy if it gets uploaded, really. :)
   04:16 Kamion     heno: around?
   04:16 mdz        I have no information about Kinnison
   04:16 Kamion     infinity: me too ...
   === ilja [n=ilja@nanomax.ethz.ch] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:16 Kamion     IIRC Kinnison is embroiled in moving, but I could be wrong
   04:16 heno       Kamion: yes, I'm up?
   04:16 mdz        ah, possibly. would be on StaffCalendar if so
   04:17 Kamion     heno: yep, if you have anything
   04:17 seb128     he mailed warthogs list say he's on vac from 12th to 19th
   04:17 heno       * accessibility: Live CD: gok is still broken (but works on my desktop) -- bug #42308. The magnifier fails to start automatically, but starts from the terminal (bug #45413). The SoC projects seem to be off to a good start.
   04:17 heno       * example-content: updating screenshots and fixing typos.
   04:17 heno       * popcon: helped Tollef make http://popcon.ubuntu.com/ a bit less ugly
   04:17 heno       * ubuntu-artwork: does this need more input from me? We are moving one high viz theme in here and leaving the rest in accessibility-themes. seb128, dholbach?
   04:17 Ubugtu     Malone bug 42308 in gok "On-screen keyboard (gok v1.0.7-0ubuntu3) fails" [Normal,Needs info]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/42308
   04:17 heno       * website: I'm giving the front page a bit of a face-lift for the dapper release. I also expect a number random updates just before the release as usual.
   04:17 Ubugtu     Malone bug 45413 in gnopernicus "Fails to start automatically on Live CD 20060518 " [Normal,Unconfirmed]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/45413
   04:17 Kamion     yes, StaffCalendar says Kinnison is away this week moving, but will be back next week
   04:18 Mithrandir heno: I got a minor update for casper from Luke, do you have more stuff you need in to fix gok/gnopernicus or don't you know yet?
   04:18 Kamion     heno: are we at a reasonable stopping point accessibility-wise? I know I haven't had much time to work on ubiquity accessibility]
   04:18 heno       Mithrandir: it looks like that update might have broken the magnifier launch
   04:18 Riddell    heno: I'll probably update the kubuntu.org page with dapper artwork at some point, can you do the wiki.k.o template?
   04:19 Mithrandir heno: that update is sitting on my hard drive, so I doubt it.
   04:19 heno       Kamion: yes, over all it's looking very good
   04:19 heno       a few more fixes would be good
   04:19 heno       but I'm very pleased overall
   04:19 heno       Riddell: can do
   04:20 heno       Mithrandir: oic, something has broken it though
   04:20 heno       Mithrandir: anyway, I'll test again after your update
   04:20 Mithrandir heno: it just changes fonts, so just test as soon as you have time.
   04:21 heno       Mithrandir: ok, that one. cool
   04:21 heno       k, I'm done
   04:21 mdz        thanks heno
   04:21 mdz        infinity?
   04:22 infinity   last week: Other than a hard drive crash and recovery, there was lots and lots of bugfixing in initramfs-tools, thunderbird, and other random packages that got in my way during the week.  Also, spent some time looking into the OOo build failures, but am still currently stumped (and haven't had the time to get un-stumped)
   04:22 infinity   next week: Preparing for RC, doing as many release critical bugfixes as I can manage, and making sure soyuz runs as smoothly as possible while we head into the final stretch.
   04:22 mdz        infinity: I'm behind on mail and upgrades; did the initramfs-tools ENOSPC bug get fixed?
   04:22 infinity   mdz: Did you get anywhere with OOo?
   04:22 mdz        I did not, no
   04:22 infinity   mdz: The ENOSPC one is the only Major bug unfixed.  I spent a fair chunk of today looking into it, and it'll be a 2 or 3 line fix that I can make first thing Monday morning, if that's cool.
   04:23 infinity   mdz: Just wanted to map it out and make sure I wasn't insane before I made the "obvious" fix and it turned out not to be.
   04:23 mdz        infinity: I don't think an update on Monday would be a very good idea
   04:23 mdz        though maybe if I saw the patch?
   04:23 infinity   Well, I can do it tomorrow and owe you a drink.   Whatever suits.
   04:24 mdz        send it to me and I will do it tomorrow if it feels safe
   04:24 infinity   I'll pass you a patch tomorrow (it's too late now to be writing it in the first place)
   04:24 mdz        oh, we don't have a patch yet
   04:24 infinity   No, just the "this is how it should work" in my head, and the fact that it's simple.
   04:25 infinity   I could give you an instructional patch, and you could code it pretty much identically to how I would.
   04:25 infinity   So, yeah.  No worries.  I'll mail you in the morning.
   04:25 infinity   I have nothing else to do before tomorrow evening anyway.
   04:25 infinity   We'll work out who owes who a drink and why later.
   04:25 mdz        if we don't even have a patch, then it ought to wait until after release
   === infinity shrugs.
   04:26 infinity   It's the least evil of all the bugs, since it's one that will bite the user in other ways anyway.  But I still want it fixed.
   04:26 infinity   Anyhow, we can continue this out of band, I don't want to hold up the meeting.
   04:26 mdz        it's hopefully unlikely to affect the install
   04:26 mdz        right
   04:26 mdz        infinity: thanks
   04:26 mdz        iwj: next?
   === kagou [n=kagou@84.5.173.39] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:27 iwj        Last week: bugs, firefox, firefox themes, firefox startpage translation, etc.
   04:28 iwj        Next week: testing and any panics that turn up.  Only 22 ff bugmails unread atm.
   04:28 iwj        Stuff to discuss:
   04:28 iwj        Bugs: I was expecting a mail or ping from sfllaw about helping with bug triage (he was going to set up a wiki page for the untriaged worrysome ones).
   04:28 iwj        gdebi .deb installer: I think this should be disabled for ordinery `open' in firefox and on the desktop.  Users who need to do this ought to be familiar with the command line.  But there is some disagreement (Malone 41993).  Same question for Wine (Malone 24829).
   04:28 Ubugtu     Malone bug 41993 in firefox "possible "malware" entry way?Firefox provides acess to open .deb files directly with gdebi" [Normal,Confirmed]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/41993
   04:28 Ubugtu     Malone bug 24829 in firefox "Firefox proposes to open .exe files with Wine" [Major,Confirmed]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/24829
   04:28 iwj        Firefox known must fix issues: Malone 44062 (cookies on .co.uk), Malone 40067 (ppc), Malone 44487 (file clashes)
   04:28 Ubugtu     Malone bug 44062 in firefox "Firefox allows cookies to be set for second-level domain hierarchies" [Unknown,Confirmed]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/44062
   04:28 Ubugtu     Malone bug 40067 in firefox "firefox freezes after a few secs on ppc" [Normal,Confirmed]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/40067
   04:28 iwj        Firefox themes: Frank Schoep says his ff themes package's Human is still missing a few icons.  sabdfl was keen to have Human as the default.  It all seems a bit confused and I'm sure it's about to be frantic ...
   04:28 Ubugtu     Malone bug 44487 in firefox "upgrade to firefox 1.5.dfsg+1.5.0.3-0ubuntu2 fails" [Normal,Confirmed]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/44487
   04:28 iwj        Firefox: any thing else that really needs to be fixed, be sure to talk to me and get an ack, or it might fall through the cracks.
   04:28 iwj        Firefox ppc problem (Malone 40067): I'm a bit stuck here, not having a PPC machine to test with ...
   04:28 Ubugtu     Malone bug 40067 in firefox "firefox freezes after a few secs on ppc" [Normal,Confirmed]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/40067
   04:28 iwj        (Sorry about the delay, my new client's paste trip fooled me.)
   04:28 mdz        iwj: sfllaw is on holiday this week
   04:28 iwj        Oh.
   04:28 mdz        but expect to hear from him soon regarding the RC test procedures
   04:28 iwj        Right.
   04:29 mdz        you should all have received an email about the hardware survey from him
   04:29 JaneW      yes
   04:29 pitti      iwj: I can help you with testing ppc stuff
   04:29 iwj        pitti: Thanks.
   04:29 iwj        We can talk offline.
   04:29 pitti      iwj: (although it runs just fine for me on iBook)
   04:29 iwj        I'd like decisions about the mime config for *.deb and *.exe.
   04:29 iwj        pitti: Oh :-/.
   04:30 iwj        And also some idea of what's happening about these themes.
   04:30 Kamion     I'm not sure I'm up to making a decision on the firefox themes thing
   04:30 Kamion     was hoping mdz had more of the sabdfl-related background there
   04:30 mdz        if the theme isn't ready, we shouldn't push it
   === Keybuk hands Kamion some of infinity's liquid refreshment
   04:30 mdz        iwj: can it be made available but not the default?
   04:30 iwj        mdz: OK.  So I'll make it the default iff Frank says to do so ?
   04:30 iwj        Yes.
   04:30 mdz        then let's do that
   04:30 iwj        I was definitely going to do that with your permission.
   04:31 mdz        the sab may step in and change his mind on that, but let's leave it alone otherwise
   04:31 iwj        Changing the default is a new firefox and thus has a nontrivial lead time.
   04:31 iwj        (Not in effort, but the computers have to whirr lots.)
   04:31 mdz        I'll follow up on the email thread on that
   04:31 iwj        Right, thanks.
   04:31 mdz        iwj: thanks
   04:31 mdz        Kamion: next?
   04:31 iwj        So, *.deb and *.exe.  ATM the former runs gdebi if you click on it (web page or desktop) and the latter runs wine.
   04:31 mdz        er
   04:32 mdz        JaneW: next?
   04:32 iwj        I want to disable both of these.
   04:32 JaneW      This week:
   04:32 JaneW      * Ubuntu Dev Team Meeting report.
   04:32 JaneW      * Lots and lots of Google SoC admin and co-ords - please finalise the app selections. Google to allocate project numbers later today. Projects to be granted on Monday.
   04:32 JaneW      * Lots and lots of Paris Ubuntu dev Summit planning, sending out invites, responding to enquirieds and coordinating incoming info.
   04:32 JaneW      * tested shipit and placed orders for Dapper.
   04:32 JaneW      *Edubuntu meeting, final requirements for Dapper, new site launched and wiki cleanups in progress.
   04:32 JaneW      * Discussions with management etc.
   04:32 mdz        last week's report has an unfortunate page break ;-)
   04:32 JaneW      Next week:
   04:32 JaneW      * Finalise SoC project selections. Students to be notified, and welcomed and settled with their mentors.
   04:32 JaneW      * More UDS planning - should be able to hand this to clan from next week.
   04:32 JaneW      * Get edubuntu wiki cleanups finished.
   04:32 JaneW      Needed: guys to finsihs SoC rankings, and start on edgy specs (as they can)
   04:32 mvo        iwj: I think that is not too bad, what about changing it to "save" by default for gdebi but leave gdebi as defaultopen action?
   04:32 mdz        eek, that's soon
   04:32 JaneW      and send Paris confirmation so we can aranage that properly
   04:33 mdz        I'll need to look over the projects tomorrow or over the weekend
   04:33 iwj        mvo: I'm not sure I know how to do that.
   04:33 mvo        iwj: lets talk about it after the meeting
   04:33 JaneW      mdz: yes time sucks a lot, sorry
   04:33 JaneW      time=timing
   04:33 mdz        does everyone have their travel arrangements for Paris in the wiki now?
   04:33 iwj        mvo: Err, OK.  I was hoping (since everyone tends to have an opinion about this) to have a decision from this meeting.
   === mvo has not
   04:33 Kamion     oh, damn, I don't yet, but it's just a train booking
   04:33 JaneW      mdz: now only 3 or 4
   04:33 Kamion     I'll deal with it tomorrow
   04:34 ogra       me too
   04:34 mdz        ok, please do so
   04:34 mdz        JaneW: is it a problem to wait until after the release to gather the list of edgy specs?
   04:34 mdz        that's my preferred timeline
   04:35 seb128     mdz: not yet, but I plan to take the train so no hurry ... will update it anyway ;)
   04:35 mdz        we'll all be far too busy
   04:35 JaneW      mdz: yes, sabdfl wanted them before Paris, but between release and Paris should be good
   04:35 Riddell    JaneW: are you going to assign mentors to all the projects?
   04:35 mdz        right
   04:35 JaneW      Riddell: yes, but prefereably as selected by the mentors themselves
   04:35 pitti      I rated all the projects and picked one I would mentor - is that good enough for now, or are there more things to be done?
   04:35 mdz        JaneW: what's the deadline for assigning mentors?
   04:36 JaneW      we asked for 25 SoC projects, we'll likely get 15-20
   04:36 iwj        gdebi> I must be wrong about everyone having an opinion.  I'll talk to mvo about it in #ubuntu-devel after this meeting.
   04:36 JaneW      Goodle will decide project counts today or tomororw and deadline for project mentor /allocations is Monday
   === mvo did the same as pitti (rating + offering mentoring)
   04:36 ajmitch    JaneW: are you getting all SoC projects written up as edgy specs by the students?
   04:36 Keybuk     heh, Goodle
   04:37 mdz        JaneW: hmm, so we need to assign mentors before we know how many projects we have?
   04:37 JaneW      ajmitch: yes, no, maybe, TBD ;)
   04:37 ajmitch    heh
   04:37 mdz        (and therefore which ones)
   04:37 JaneW      mdz: not entirely, but they are allocating the counts absed on how organised the orgs are, so we can change it over the week-end, but we need to have selected our top projects at least asap
   04:38 JaneW      and then at least made an attemot to match mentors to them
   04:38 mdz        JaneW: how many of our top projects have no mentors yet?
   04:39 mdz        (many or few?)
   === Kamion_ [n=cjwatson@83-216-156-196.colinw664.adsl.metronet.co.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:39 JaneW      well all top projects have a mentor name who said 'I would mentor this'
   04:39 JaneW      that's how they got to the top
   04:39 JaneW      at least half are assigned I think
   04:39 seb128     JaneW: they are not "top scores" though, are they?
   04:40 JaneW      by selecting 'I would mentor this' that app gets sent to the top purple section in numerical score order (and 4 points are added to score)
   04:40 mdz        (FYI: I am on the pavement outside the conference area to get wireless and have only 38 minutes of battery)
   04:40 Kamion     shall we keep moving, then?
   04:40 JaneW      ok lets move on
   04:40 JaneW      mail or ping me with these q's
   04:40 mdz        yes
   04:40 Kamion     ubiquity: Nearly there. Last changes needed: better handling of install.py crashes / close button, support for ship-live, probably one or two other bits and pieces. I've added basic noninteractive UTC/local hardware clock configuration but unfortunately I think it's too late for new UI for this.
   04:41 Kamion     misc: Fixed DVD images, I believe. Have been hoovering up miscellaneous bugs elsewhere. The last two I urgently want to deal with is to try to fix automounting when using the auto-resizer, which has been a persistent source of bugs since Breezy; and, if I get good feedback, possibly reverting yaboot to gcc-3.3. Also CD renaming, ship-live (current size increase would be ~27MB, may be able to trim that).
   04:41 Kamion     anyone have opinions about ship-live (i.e. archive that goes on live CDs that people can use without having to have network access)?
   === ilja [n=ilja@nanomax.ethz.ch] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === licio [n=licio@ubuntu/member/licio] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === fabbione [i=fabbione@gordian.fabbione.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === Bluekuja [n=andrea@ubuntu/member/bluekuja] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === siretart [i=siretart@ubuntu/member/siretart] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === JanC [n=janc@lugwv/member/JanC] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === Meyer [i=mariomey@ubuntu/member/mariomeyer] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === mjg59_ [n=mjg59@cavan.codon.org.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === Lathiat [n=lathiat@ubuntu/member/pdpc.basic.lathiat] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === lifeless [n=robertc@dsl-152.1.240.220.rns01-kent-syd.dsl.comindico.com.au] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === lamont [n=lamont@mib.fc.hp.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:41 Kamion     at the moment I have build-essential and kernel headers and stuff, plus the hardware and network access section from ship
   04:41 mdz        Mithrandir: can you use your unholy bandwidth for DVD testing today?
   04:42 Kamion     nvidia-glx is rather fat and I should probably drop it
   04:42 Mithrandir mdz: yes, that should work.
   04:42 Kamion     saving ~4MB
   04:42 mvo        mdz: I can test the i386 one too
   04:42 mdz        Kamion: what's our default for UTC/local?  same as before?
   04:42 Kamion     mdz: local if you have Windows installed, UTC if not or if we can't tell
   04:43 mdz        right
   === bddebian [n=bdefrees@mail.ottens.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:43 mdz        unfortunately that's rather tricky to change after installation; I didn't even notice it was missing from the UI until you mentioned it
   === Keybuk cries at the loss of nvidia-glx
   04:43 Kamion     Keybuk: I think it's feasible to install from the network?
   04:43 mdz        yes, should be
   04:44 Kamion     mdz: it *can* be added to the timezone page, it's just a little hairy and seems rather late
   04:44 mdz        I'm pretty torn about ship-live
   04:44 mdz        it's not very feasible for most folks to install things as huge as build-essential+linux-headers in the live environment anyway
   04:44 Kamion     it's not intended for installation in the live environment
   04:44 mdz        Kamion: it's a confusing question anyway
   04:44 Kamion     the intention is for ubiquity to set it up as an apt source for after installation
   04:45 mdz        did we get langpacks for the live seed sorted out?
   04:45 Kamion     mdz: agreed, although given the clock being shown in ubiquity it's less confusing that it would otherwise be
   04:45 Mithrandir Kamion: just put it into /var/cache/apt/archives on the cd?
   04:45 Kamion     but my inclination is to defer to edgy
   04:45 pitti      mdz: I mailed you back, I'd like to do that after the next set of langpacks on monday
   04:45 Kamion     Mithrandir: I think we discussed that before, I'm not fond of that approach
   04:45 Mithrandir ok
   04:46 mdz        pitti: monday will have a tight schedule, I expect
   04:46 mdz        since we want to do a full test cycle
   04:46 Kamion     (for reasons I remember articulating but am a bit too broken to articulate now ...)
   04:46 pitti      mdz: I didn't get a new tarball in the last two days; if today's works, we can also use them
   04:46 Kamion     mdz: I've been deferring langpacks until after sorting out ship-live, anyway
   04:46 Kamion     how about I ditch build-essential+linux-headers from ship-live and keep the network access stuff
   04:46 pitti      Kamion++
   04:46 Kamion     that should bring it down to a less controversial size
   === tseng [n=tseng@unaffiliated/tseng] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:47 mdz        Kamion: I'm less concerned about size than adding new features
   === zakame [n=zakame@ubuntu/member/zakame] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:47 zakame     hi all
   04:47 Kamion     mdz: I'm mostly worried that it was one of the biggest negative review points about the beta
   04:48 Kamion     and I think it will affect a lot of shipit users
   04:48 Kamion     I agree it's late in the day
   04:48 mdz        having it on the CD will allow for a documented procedure
   04:49 mdz        without having to change ubiquity to tie it in automagically
   04:49 mdz        users generally need instructions for how to get this stuff going anyway; they don't know the names of the packages they need to build a kernel module etc.
   04:49 mdz        but we're very short on time (and me on battery)
   04:49 Kamion     for the record it's a one-line change, but fair enough :)
   04:49 mdz        Kamion: will try to call after the meeting
   04:49 Kamion     ok
   04:50 mdz        Kamion: mail me a diff then
   04:50 mdz        Kamion: thanks
   04:50 mdz        Keybuk: next?
   04:50 Keybuk     Nothing uniquely interesting to report this week; many bugs fixed.
   04:50 Keybuk     I can do custom Malone reports like http://people.ubuntu.com/~scott/reports/ on request now.
   04:50 Keybuk     #
   04:50 mdz        Keybuk: interface renaming sorted once and for all?
   04:50 Keybuk     I don't think interface renaming will ever be sorted :)
   04:50 mdz        is the archive admin request backlog cleared now?
   04:50 mdz        how does anastacia look?
   04:51 Keybuk     had to abandon the iftab upgrade stuff, it broke more than it fixed
   04:51 infinity   nearly empty.
   04:51 Kamion     anastacia is a thing of beauty
   04:51 Keybuk     I had an FTP blitz today, backlog is gone
   04:51 infinity   Scott attacked her with great vigor.
   04:51 ogra       Keybuk deserves a goldstar for anastacia :)
   04:51 mdz        fabulous
   04:51 mdz        Keybuk: thanks
   04:51 mdz        Mithrandir: next?
   04:51 Mithrandir misc: casper hacking, xkeyboard-config updates, oem-config cleanups, popcon.ubuntu.com updates
   04:51 Keybuk     the only two things there are xubuntu things that scare pitti
   04:51 Mithrandir next week: release preparations, testing
   04:51 Mithrandir blocked: no
   04:52 mdz        is oem-config functional again now?
   04:52 Mithrandir mdz: worked for me.  It's a bit warty, but it works.
   04:52 Kamion     Mithrandir: did you manage to nail the bug where oem-config's locale screen is wrong first time round?
   04:52 Kamion     or was that one of the ones that had gone away by itself?
   04:52 Mithrandir Kamion: no, it's still there and I need to track it down.
   04:52 Mithrandir sorry. :-(
   04:52 Kamion     ok
   04:53 mdz        ok
   04:53 mdz        Mithrandir: thanks
   04:53 mdz        mvo: next?
   04:53 mvo        Did:
   04:53 mvo        - lots of bug triage/fixing
   04:53 mvo        - 3rd party packages work
   04:53 mvo        - some work on the ppc chroot on dholbachs machine
   04:53 mvo        - helped dholbach with the icons a bit
   04:53 mvo        - Goggle SoC review
   04:53 mvo        - Dist-upgrade tool work (improved free space checking, auto-detect/show installed demotions from main->universe, progress reporting, fixes)
   04:53 mvo        Will do:
   04:53 mvo        - testing/fixing RC bugs
   04:53 mvo        - make the ppc upgrade tester run automatically (need manual start right now)
   04:53 mdz        mvo: anything in the commercial repository?
   04:53 mvo        - improve to the auto-dist-upgrade testing script (add a "install-radom-but-not-yet-tested bunch of packages" and try to dist-upgrade them)
   04:54 Kamion     oh, sorry mvo, I never did get a chance to look at your ubiquity auto-upgrade code
   04:54 mvo        mdz: not yet unfortunately :(
   04:54 Kamion     I think it might be too late now :-(
   04:54 mvo        mdz: but we are getting there I hope
   04:54 Kamion     unless mdz says doit
   04:54 mdz        mvo: upgrade tool finalized for release now?
   04:54 mvo        Kamion: yeah, I added it late unfortnately
   04:54 mdz        Kamion: I said dontdoit
   04:54 Kamion     all right
   04:54 mvo        mdz: I think so, unless something new comes up of course (major problem etc)
   04:55 mvo        but still little feedback recently
   04:55 mvo        for the tool
   04:55 mdz        ok
   04:55 mdz        mvo: thanks
   04:55 mdz        ogra: next?
   04:55 ogra       * general: triage/fix RC bugs, final polish (artwork/docs) for edubuntu CDs, solved final size problems with amd64
   04:55 ogra       g
   04:55 ogra       * still fighting with RUNNING_UNDER_GDM in gnome-screensaver
   04:55 ogra       * next-week: RC testing, fix bugs where allowed
   04:55 mdz        mvo: please ask elmo for download stats to see whether it's being used any more than before
   04:56 mvo        mdz: will do, thanks
   04:56 mdz        ogra: so all edubuntu CDs are properly sized now?
   04:56 ogra       mdz, next build will be
   04:56 mdz        ok
   04:56 ogra       i didnt want to extra trigger a build now ...
   04:56 mdz        RUNNING_UNDER_GDM is not the end of the world, but it is a regression and we can't fix it post-release :-/
   04:56 ogra       yes
   04:57 mdz        do you need help with it?
   04:57 ogra       i'm still digging
   04:57 mdz        please get a second pair of eyes on it
   04:57 mdz        Keybuk: can you lend a hand?
   04:57 ogra       ok
   === ogra fears Keybuk is far from being alive
   04:57 Keybuk     mdz: next week?
   04:58 mdz        Keybuk: after the meeting?
   === Keybuk kinda forgot to go to bed last night
   04:58 mdz        gar
   04:58 ogra       as i did ...
   04:58 Keybuk     I blame infinity, he started it
   04:58 ogra       nah, that was a usplash issue
   04:58 ogra       not his fault
   04:58 mdz        ok, I have 20 minute sbattery
   04:58 mdz        ogra: thanks
   04:58 mdz        pitti: next?
   04:59 pitti      reducing-duplication: no progress since last week, and we should leave this alone for dapper now; the current state is very good already
   04:59 pitti      firewall: no answer from Carsten yet, I pinged him again today
   04:59 pitti      done last week:
   04:59 pitti      * security: MySQL, Quagga
   04:59 pitti      * mostly killed my list of 24 dapper-targeted bugs: fixed 23, one wishlist/needinfo bug is left
   04:59 pitti      * lots of important printing bug fixes; if you still have annoying printer failures, speak now or never! :)
   04:59 pitti      * bug triage status: fully caught up with my bug mbox; no showstopper bugs in my +{assigned,package}bugs list any more; still need to go over the printing bugs once more
   04:59 pitti      * set up fully automatic daily language pack building (apt'able, great feedback from translators and testers)
   04:59 pitti      * SoC applications review and ranking
   04:59 pitti      plan for next week:
   04:59 pitti      * tbird 1.5.0.2 will make it into dapper today, update m-tbird-locale-all for it (planned for the evening today)
   04:59 pitti      * upload new langpacks, fill CDs with langpacks (coordinate with Kamion)
   04:59 pitti      * the usual CD testing and major bug fixing rave
   05:00 mdz        pitti: any feedback on the printing situation?
   05:00 mdz        a bit late for a call for testing unfortunately
   05:00 pitti      mdz: yes, a lot of happy users answering in the bug reports :)
   05:00 mdz        good
   05:00 mdz        not an unreasonable thing to fix post-release if necessary
   05:00 mdz        pitti: thanks
   05:00 mdz        Riddell: next?
   05:00 Riddell    done: kubuntu-docs i18n, rosetta support fixes, cups 1.2 checking, trying to get floppy support working, map on kde ubiquity
   05:00 Riddell    also: new amarok and koffice releases
   05:00 Riddell    next week: bug triage and fixing, make sure all language-pack-kde-base-xx packages have the needed files
   05:01 bddebian   amarok.. eeks
   05:01 Riddell    bddebian: amarok 1.4 isn't getting near dapper
   05:01 mdz        Riddell: new amarok and koffice?
   05:02 Riddell    mdz: I made dapper packages, as I say amarok 1.4 isn't getting in dapper.  koffice 1.5.1 I may ask for UVF exception, I think they want to release it today
   05:03 mdz        Riddell: I'm not likely to approve new upstream versions today unless the diff is eyeballable
   05:03 mdz        we're at the 11th hour
   05:03 Riddell    that won't be the case, I'm fine with not getting a UVF exception
   05:03 mdz        ok; if it proves solid it can go into -updates
   05:04 mdz        but let's not risk it for RC/final
   05:04 mdz        Riddell: thanks
   05:04 mdz        seb128: next?
   05:04 seb128     This week:
   05:04 seb128     - lot of bugs triaged and fixed
   05:04 seb128     - some GNOME updates and bunch of patches from CVS backported
   05:04 seb128     - panel changes to the help submenu
   05:04 seb128     - made epiphany changes to use a localized startup page
   05:04 seb128     - tried different daily liveCDs
   05:04 seb128     - registred for GUADEC
   05:04 seb128     - reviewed google SoC projects list
   05:04 seb128     .
   05:04 seb128     Next week:
   05:04 seb128     - looking to french translations
   05:04 seb128     - trying CD images
   05:04 seb128     - fixing bugs for dapper
   05:05 seb128     mdz: speaking about new version, did you read my mail about new intltool?
   05:05 mdz        seb128: I saw it in my box this morning but have not read it
   05:05 mdz        seb128: if I don't get to it, defer to Kamion
   05:05 seb128     k
   05:06 mdz        seb128: panel changes are final now, yes?
   05:06 seb128     If I have to upload it tomorrow, I'll not pay you a drink for it :p
   05:06 seb128     mdz: yep, only the book item destination to change
   05:07 mdz        we still don't have the book content?  when will it arrive?
   05:07 seb128     no idea
   05:07 seb128     who knows about it?
   05:07 dholbach   silbs should, no?
   05:07 seb128     who is supposed to package that?
   05:07 mdz        seb128: can you point the menu at a nonexistent file where we will put the book, instead of the firefox page?
   05:07 mdz        seb128: so we don't have to change it later?
   05:07 seb128     mdz: I tried to get that location but you were not around and mdke didn't know
   05:08 seb128     should I fix a placeholder myself? or is there somebody to ping about it?
   05:08 mdz        seb128: please mail silbs and explain that we need the book content *immediately*
   05:08 seb128     ok
   05:09 mdz        in which package should we put the book content?
   05:09 mdz        example-content?
   05:09 mdz        ubuntu-docs?
   05:09 Kamion     remind me, isn't the book content to be unpacked onto the CD somewhere as well?
   05:09 seb128     ubuntu-docs I think
   05:09 mdz        9 minutes battery remaining
   05:09 Kamion     or do I misremember?
   05:09 seb128     or new package...
   05:09 Riddell    if it's ubuntu-docs it needs to be in kubuntu-docs too
   05:09 mdz        but the room is open now and I can move inside soon
   05:09 sladen     does it not deserve its own package if it's fairly large?
   05:09 mdz        Kamion: I don't remember that; it's too late for that sort of thing
   05:09 mdz        sladen: likewsie
   05:09 Kamion     mdz: good
   05:09 jjesse     isn't ubuntu-docs only supposed to be the docs written by the docteam?
   05:10 mdz        jjesse: hmm, the package description does say that
   05:10 sivang     the book is written by some of the docteam people no?
   05:10 seb128     Kamion: what do you mean by "unpacked onto the CD"?
   05:10 jjesse     also just speaking of the kubuntu chapter, the html content isn't ready yet
   05:10 Kamion     seb128: never mind
   05:10 seb128     alright
   05:11 heno       i'm happy to put it in example-content
   05:11 seb128     as far as the destination pointed by the menu item is available I don't care ;)
   05:11 heno       (when we get acopy)
   05:11 jjesse     sivang: yes some of the stuff is being written by members of the doc team
   05:12 mdz        I have power now
   05:12 heno       seb128: I can make a dummy file now that you can point to
   === pitti sings John Lennon's "Power to the people"
   05:12 mdz        heno: I'm fine with example-content as well, but we need the content
   05:12 sivang     heh
   05:12 mdz        I'll call silbs after the meeting
   05:12 seb128     heno: the issue is not to have a real file or not, it's just to not the filename to use
   05:13 silbs      hey, quit talking about me!
   05:13 seb128     s/not/know
   05:13 seb128     silbs: right, we need you ;)
   05:13 mdz        silbs: do you have the book content in hand?
   05:13 heno       seb128: right, so I can make a file which will act as the TOC for the chapters we include
   05:14 silbs      mdz: nope.  I told you in email on 5 May that it wouldn't be available till 23 May. I can check and get an update on that, but I don't have content now
   05:14 heno       silbs: but we have a rough idea of the form it wil take right?
   === kwwii [n=kwwii@likes.smoking.more.than.watching.spacenight.dk] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Konversation]
   05:14 silbs      heno: we have sizes and we know it is html
   05:14 heno       silbs: a collectiojn of HTML and images
   05:15 heno       right
   05:15 heno       that should be ok
   05:15 silbs      heno: yes. I need to look up size but we have that
   05:15 heno       I'll make a dir call book
   05:15 mdz        O(megabytes)
   05:15 heno       and a dummy html file next to it
   05:15 mdz        heno: thanks, coordinate with seb128 to get the panel changed
   05:16 heno       mdz: ok
   05:16 silbs      Desktop chapters - 2.9MB each, Support chapter - around 2.3MB
   05:16 dholbach   heno: poke me for the upload - we can get the others typos etc fixed with that.
   05:16 heno       dholbach: yep
   05:16 mdz        ok
   05:16 mdz        so here's my list of disasters for next week:
   05:16 mdz        - ooo build failure
   05:16 mdz        - book excerpt
   05:16 mdz        - gnome-screensaver RUNNING_UNDER_GDM
   05:17 Keybuk     mdz: that last one's fixed
   05:17 mdz        Keybuk: sweet
   05:17 Riddell    heno: poke me too when uploaded, I'll see if I can add it to khelpcentre
   05:17 mdz        what else am I missing?
   === doko [n=doko@201.160.19.41.cableonline.com.mx] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   05:17 Keybuk     helps if RUNNING_UNDER_GDM is in the allowed_env_vars[]  list :p
   05:17 heno       Riddell: ok
   05:17 mdz        oh, and
   05:17 mdz        - sounds
   05:17 mdz        - artwork
   05:17 mdz        (esp. icons)
   05:18 Kamion     kubuntu language packs are apparently not being installed by ubiquity at the moment; that's on my list for this afternoon
   05:18 Kamion     ^Wevening
   05:18 mdz        eek
   05:18 Mithrandir ^Wnight^Wlate night ?
   05:18 Kamion     but I expect to be done with that by today
   05:18 mdz        is that a recent regression, or nobody noticed in the past few months?
   05:18 Kamion     people noticed but nobody shouted loud enough to get it to the top of my list
   05:19 Kamion     which, as you may have noticed, has been a bit long lately
   05:19 Kamion     anyway, I expect it's trivial, the infrastructure is all there for it
   05:20 mdz        ok
   05:20 mdz        anything else?
   05:21 Kamion     sounds like we're done
   05:21 pitti      happy free day tomorrow! :)
   05:22 seb128     happy free day ;)
   === ajmitch thinks he'll work on bugs tomorrow :)
   05:22 mdz        indeed, rest up and try not to think about ubuntu for a few days ;-)
   === pitti sits on top of a heap of bug corpses and is quite content
   05:22 Keybuk     I'm going to switch all of my computers off for the weekend
   05:22 bluefoxicy (days are always free of course; hackers only work at night)
   05:22 Keybuk     well, probably not the mail server ;)
   05:22 mdz        if you think of any other disasters, please mail me
   === sivang is currently killing a g-s-t bug
   === bluefoxicy goes back to his dark corner.
   === infinity [n=adconrad@69.0.240.48] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   05:22 mdz        thanks, everyone

</pre>
