{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
09:00 mdz          we'll begin; hopefully Keybuk will join us
09:01 sabdfl       https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TechnicalBoardAgenda
=== derekS [n=derekS@cpe-66-108-44-139.nyc.res.rr.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:01 mdz          I think all of the pending membership applications for ubuntu-core-dev
                   are invalid
09:01 mjg59        mdz: Matches what I thought
09:01 dholbach     mdz: I had no answer back from all of them.
09:01 sabdfl       yup
09:01 mdz          none of them are MOTUs or had prior contact with the TB about their
                   applications
=== derekS [n=derekS@cpe-66-108-44-139.nyc.res.rr.com] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
09:02 mdz          so I'll decline them all with an appropriate comment
=== Vinze [n=vinze@a80-126-159-235.adsl.xs4all.nl] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
09:02 sabdfl       i'll do that while you guys get stated on MOTU
09:02 mdz          ok, thanks
09:02 mdz          LaserJock: you're here?
=== LaserJock is Jordan Mantha
09:03 mdz          glad you could make it at the scheduled time
09:03 LaserJock    well, I'm ditching a RL meeting to be here so hopefully I won't get in
                   too much trouble
09:03 LaserJock    ;-)
09:03 mdz          daring
09:03 mdz          LaserJock: I have your wiki page up, but would you like to summarize in
                   a few sentences what it's all about for you?
09:04 LaserJock    I got started working for MOTU because I had a problem with a package
                   and I wanted to fix
09:04 LaserJock    it
09:04 LaserJock    and Ubuntu was the first distro I  truly felt a part of the community
                   and wanted to give back
09:05 LaserJock    https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2006-February/015279.html
                   is an interview dholbach did of me for the MOTU Report
09:05 sabdfl       LaserJock: any suggestions for ways we can boost Utnubu?
09:06 LaserJock    sabdfl: I think the biggest thing is getting new MOTU wannabes involved
                   and making it easy to get in touch with people
09:06 sabdfl       ok
09:06 LaserJock    most of the old timers know what they are doing or are more "set" in
                   their ways
09:06 sabdfl       great wiki page, btw, very well laid out
09:06 mdz          LaserJock: can you tell us a bit about MOTUScience and your goals for
                   it?
09:07 sabdfl       LaserJock: would you be interested in an Ubuntu derivative specifically
                   for university use?
09:07 LaserJock    mdz: My main goal is to make sure that Ubuntu keeps up with Debian, and
                   where possible provide a pathway for interested scientists to contribute
09:07 mdz          LaserJock: in what ways can we make Ubuntu more useful to the science
                   community?
09:07 LaserJock    sabdfl: I'm more interested in making Ubuntu a good desktop for
                   scientific use rather than a derivative, but Edubuntu is promising
09:08 LaserJock    mdz: providing free/open source packages as alternatives to traditional,
                   expensive, proprietary apps
09:08 sabdfl       do you see the scientific community as different from the university
                   one?
09:08 LaserJock    see w.u.c/UbuntuScientists for example
09:08 ogra_        yes, i hopw to work closer with the MOTUScience team for dapper+1, we
                   want to get other apps in and also provide a more marture set of apps
09:08 ogra_        *hope
09:09 mdz          LaserJock: are there many plausible alternatives to proprietary
                   scientific apps which are not yet available in Ubuntu?
09:09 mjg59        LaserJock: How do you think we can effectively market Ubuntu to
                   scientists?
                   sabdfl: in some ways. the scientific community often lives inside the
09:09 LaserJock    university, but is more geared towards research instead of education (in
                   the traditional sense)
09:09 mdz          <Keybuk-SMS> Hotel.  No Internet Access.
09:10 LaserJock    mdz: yes, some. Kyral has been working on FlowDesigner for MOTUScience.
                   mjg59: By being a great desktop while also being able to provide
09:10 LaserJock    scientific packages that are up-to-date, bug free ;-), and getting new
                   packages in
09:11 sabdfl       mdz: is keybuk traveling for you?
09:11 mdz          sabdfl: yes
09:11 LaserJock    I am particularly interested in people using Ubuntu for writing
                   dissertations and publications, data analysis,etc.
09:12 LaserJock    but a guy in the department yesterday had me get him an Ubuntu disk to
                   put on his computational cluster because it worked better than SuSE
                   LaserJock: apart from improving Ubuntu to make it appealing to
09:12 mdz          scientists, how can we let them know that it exists and might be useful
                   to them?
09:12 mjg59        LaserJock: As a final year PhD student myself, I'm very interested in
                   ways that I can get more people in the community running Ubuntu :)
09:12 sabdfl       ok, +1 for LaserJock from me
09:13 mdz          LaserJock: who has been sponsoring your uploads so far?
                   mdz: I think there is a pretty solid scientific base in Ubuntu, I think
09:13 LaserJock    marketing Ubuntu as being able to run your science apps + having a good
                   desktop experience
=== sistpoty sponsored one or two uploads... and reviewed a package on revu
09:14 LaserJock    mjg59: by making it easy for students/researchers to get there work done
                   and not getting in the way
                   being a MOTU, I was actually surprised to learn that LaserJock wasn't a
09:14 lucas        MOTU yet. He really did a lot of excellent work inside MOTU, and he has
                   been around for longer than I have. I very strongly recommend him for
                   MOTU.
09:14 sistpoty     LaserJock has been around for a very long time, and his packaging work
                   is really good :)
09:14 mdz          dholbach: any comments on LaserJock?
                   mdz: crimsun and \sh did a lot of sponsoring for me but again, crimsun
09:15 LaserJock    was unable to make the meeting (I asked him to email dholbach or mdz)
                   and \sh is sorta away it seems
09:15 dholbach     after there was not a real agreement on him in the last TB meeting I had
                   a look at some of his patches/uploads and they were ok for me
09:15 mdz          thanks
09:15 LaserJock    Riddell also uploaded my first package from scratch (plotdrop)
09:16 mdz          Riddell: around?
=== Tonio_ [n=tonio@tonio.planetemu.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
                   yes, plotdrop was in good shape when I reviewed it, which I think was
09:17 Riddell      after a few revisions on revu, so I advocate LaserJock as much as I can
                   from 1 package
                   I think the 2 big issues as far as MOTUScience goes is licensing
09:17 LaserJock    (getting upstreams to have DFSG free licenses) and bugs (lots of science
                   apps are poorly maintained)
09:18 mdz          mjg59: any further questions?
09:18 LaserJock    I hope by organizing interested parties around science related apps we
                   can help solve those issues
                   those uploads weren't hardcore-deep-down-fixes, but what I like about
                   LaserJock is that he tries to organize the MOTU world a bit and I think
09:18 dholbach     he'll be an asset for the last-weeks-fixing-up-dappers-universe - and I
                   like his honesty, I don't think he would upload packages without being
                   really sure (or having asked others)
09:18 mjg59        Nope, I think the combination of this and last time is good for me
09:19 mdz          ok
09:19 mdz          +1 from me based on peer recommendations and history of working within
                   the community
09:19 mjg59        +1 for working on stuff I'd be doing if I had more time
09:20 mdz          ;-)
09:20 mdz          LaserJock: congratulations and welcome aboard
09:20 dholbach     congratulations LaserJock
09:20 sistpoty     congrats LaserJock! finally :)
09:20 lucas        :-) very good choice to get him in :-)
09:20 mdz          I think we had a couple of folks from the last meeting who were deferred
                   due to lack of time
09:20 LaserJock    thanks TB and thanks all the MOTUs and wannabes
09:20 sabdfl       well done LaserJock
09:20 mdz          is anyone here in that category?
09:21 ogra         yay LaserJock !!
09:21 sivang       LaserJock: congrets!!
09:21 mdz          OK, if not, is there anyone else present who is applying for
                   ubuntu-dev/MOTU membership/
09:21 mdz          s,/,?/
09:21 Tonio_       congrats LaserJock :)
09:22 jpatrick     congrats LaserJock :)
09:22 mdz          Ivailo Ivanov?
09:22 mdz          freeflying?
09:22 jpatrick     sleeping
09:23 mdz          if not, then we're finished
09:23 mdz          with memberships
09:23 mdz          is there any other business?
=== Lure [n=luka@clj46-234.dial-up.arnes.si] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:24 ogra         looks like we're done ...
09:24 mdz          hearing none, adjourned
09:24 dholbach     that must have been one of the quickest TB meetings :)
09:24 mdz          thanks, everyone

</pre>
