{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': Mon Aug 27 16:30:29 2018 UTC
* '''End''': Mon Aug 27 16:44:53 2018 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': Jamie Strandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===

* jdstrand
 <pre> comment
* mdeslaur
</pre>
* sbeattie
 <pre> comment
* jjohansen
</pre>
* sarnold
 <pre> comment
* chrisccoulson
</pre>
* leosilva
 <pre> comment
* msalvatore
</pre>
* ebarretto

=== Not present ===
 <pre> comment
 list people here
</pre>
* amurray
* mdeslaur
* jjohansen
* chrisccoulson
* msalvatore

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Thanks 
** Generalist role rotation
** CVE Triage: leosilva, Bug Triage: ebarretto, Community: msalvatore, Happy Place: sarnold, sbeattie, amurray, mdeslaur
** Thanks to Thomas Opfer for help on security updates for the community supported tomcat8 last week. This work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
** The Ubuntu Security Team is hiring!
** Ubuntu Security engineer: https://boards.greenhouse.io/canonical/jobs/1158266?t=8c0a6c1f1
** Ubuntu Security manager: https://boards.greenhouse.io/canonical/jobs/1278287?t=8c0a6c1f1
** Due to US holiday on September 3rd, the next meeting will be on September 10.
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** continue brand store snap declarations
** continue kubernetes-support interfaces
** various snapd PR reviews (eg, anbox-support, et all)
** iterate on audio-playback/record interfaces
** amurray (not present; reported by jdstrand)
** ceph update
** internal work
** move to another reactive update as time allows
  <pre> comment
** mdeslaur
</pre>
** sbeattie
** happy place
** publishing intel-microcode updates
** finish up some remaining kernel publications
** sponsoring mariadb
** pick up bind9 updates
** other reactive updates as time allows
** apparmor merges and investigate testcase failure in upstream apparmor
** jjohansen (not present)
** LSS attendance
** sarnold
** happy place, but finish community tasks from last week
** get back to xdg-desktop-portal-gtk MIR
** trip prepartation
** review apparmor patches from John as time allows
  <pre> comment
** !ChrisCoulson
</pre>
** leosilva
** cve triage
** flask and poppler updates
  <pre> comment
** msalvatore
</pre>
** ebarretto
** bug triage
** finished ffmpeg to ESM
** pick another update
* Highlighted packages
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2018/ubuntu-meeting.2018-08-27-16.30.moin.txt
