{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu Open Week - Kubuntu Development - Richard Johnson - Mon, Apr 28, 2008 ===
<pre>
(03:59:44 PM) nixternal: OK, if you are here for the Kubuntu talk, can I get a big 'K' in #ubuntu-classroom-chat ?!?!
(04:01:28 PM) nixternal: alrighty, welcome to the train wreck called 'Kubuntu Development by Richard Johnson'
(04:01:48 PM) nixternal: a little introduction shall we...
(04:02:00 PM) nixternal: Hey everyone, my name is Richard Johnson and I am a Kubuntu developer.
(04:02:12 PM) nixternal: I am here to talk to you all about Kubuntu development.
(04:02:19 PM) nixternal: Here is a brief summary of what I am about to cover:
(04:02:27 PM) nixternal:  * A little about myself
(04:02:27 PM) nixternal:  * A little about Kubuntu
(04:02:27 PM) nixternal:  * A breakdown of the various development roles in the Kubuntu community
(04:03:14 PM) nixternal: I ask that everyone place their trays in the upright position, ensure your seatbelts are fastened, and hold on!
(04:03:23 PM) nixternal: ....
(04:03:30 PM) nixternal: === About Me ===
(04:03:41 PM) nixternal:  * Free software developer and advocate since 1994
(04:03:42 PM) nixternal:  * Kubuntu developer and documentation writer since 2005
(04:03:42 PM) nixternal:  * KDE developer and documentation writer since 2005, user since 1996
(04:03:42 PM) nixternal:  * Debian Maintainer for a couple of packages, KDE based of course
(04:03:42 PM) nixternal:  * Co-Author of the Official Ubuntu Book (Edubuntu chapter - huh?)
(04:03:44 PM) nixternal:  * Go by nixternal on every communication protocol imaginable
(04:03:46 PM) nixternal:  * Email me at nixternal@kubuntu.org
(04:04:20 PM) nixternal: ....
(04:04:31 PM) nixternal: What is this Kubuntu thing everyone in the world should be using?
(04:04:41 PM) nixternal: === About Kubuntu ===
(04:04:50 PM) nixternal:  * Official project of the Ubuntu GNU/Linux distribution
(04:04:51 PM) nixternal:  * We use the same exact base system as Ubuntu, we just use KDE instead
(04:04:53 PM) nixternal:  * It is pronounced koo-BOON-too
(04:04:56 PM) nixternal:  * First released in 2005 with the Hoary Hedgehog (5.04) version
(04:04:58 PM) nixternal:  * http://www.kdedevelopers.org/node/591 - The post that started it all, by some guy named Jonathan Riddell
(04:05:25 PM) nixternal: Riddell: say hello to everyone!
(04:05:47 PM) nixternal: he must be drinking his Irn Bru :)
(04:06:22 PM) nixternal: .....
(04:06:28 PM) nixternal: === Where Kubuntu is today ===
(04:06:52 PM) nixternal:  * One of the top KDE based GNU/Linux distributions available
(04:06:52 PM) nixternal:  * Still a small, yet tight-knit community of highly dedicated and experienced developers
(04:06:55 PM) nixternal:  * Both a KDE 3 and a KDE 4 Remix version available
(04:06:57 PM) nixternal:  * In numerous large scaled environments (Canary Islands, French Parliament, and others)
(04:07:00 PM) nixternal:  * A tad bit better than yesterday, only to be made better with YOUR help
(04:07:32 PM) nixternal: .....
(04:07:59 PM) nixternal: Like jono said earlier in his community talk, IT IS ALL ABOUT YOU! THE COMMUNITY!
(04:08:03 PM) nixternal: .....
(04:08:09 PM) nixternal: = Development Roles =
(04:08:22 PM) nixternal: There are many roles available for you to get involved in, no matter your experience level we have a job for you!
(04:08:45 PM) nixternal: I will break down the jobs or roles that I feel are in order starting with the easiest all the way to the hardest.
(04:09:14 PM) nixternal: Feel free to communicate with developers by utilizing our mailing list - https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/kubuntu-devel (Subscription based - low traffic).
(04:09:25 PM) nixternal: Note that this list is NOT for user support, for support please see the list information provided in the upcoming section on user support.
(04:09:49 PM) nixternal: .....
(04:10:30 PM) nixternal: The roles I will break down briefly cover: Advocacy, Support, Bug Triage, Documentation, Packaging, and Coding
(04:10:42 PM) nixternal: .....
(04:10:49 PM) nixternal: === Advocacy ===
(04:11:03 PM) nixternal: Advocacy is nothing more than a fancier, and better sounding word for marketing.
(04:11:42 PM) nixternal: I am willing to bet a couple of you just went, "How in the heck is advocating Kubuntu related to development?"
(04:11:58 PM) nixternal: Yes, advocacy helps in the development of Kubuntu, and by you advocating, you are therefore helping to develop Kubuntu.
(04:12:09 PM) nixternal: This gets Kubuntu in the hands of other people who will use the system and typically report back any issues or compliments to the developers.
(04:12:33 PM) nixternal: How can you advocate?
(04:12:40 PM) nixternal:  * Get with one of your LoCo teams (Nick Ali will hold a LoCo Teams talk at 19:00 UTC this Saturday, May 3, 2008 during this OpenWeek)
(04:12:43 PM) nixternal:  * Get with one of your local Linux Users Groups (LUG)
(04:12:46 PM) nixternal:  * Talk about it face-to-face with friends, family, colleagues, and strangers in the dark (careful using Kubuntu as a pickup line, doesn't get you to far!)
(04:13:15 PM) nixternal: .....
(04:13:44 PM) nixternal: If you don't believe me about using Kubuntu as a pick-up line, eddieftw can tell you all about it, he has been smacked numerous times for trying!
(04:13:47 PM) nixternal: .....
(04:14:12 PM) ***Riddell finds that international freedom fighter works well 
(04:14:35 PM) nixternal: I will have to remember that!
(04:14:39 PM) nixternal: .....
(04:14:48 PM) nixternal: === User Support ===
(04:15:02 PM) nixternal: How can user support be considered a development role?
(04:15:09 PM) nixternal:  * You develop a sense of pride when helping others
(04:15:10 PM) nixternal:  * You develop respect not only for the OS, but also for the users, the developers, and yourself
(04:15:13 PM) nixternal:  * You develop a repoir within the Kubuntu community
(04:15:15 PM) nixternal:  * You help users, see things that could be made better by developers, and report that to the developers
(04:15:39 PM) nixternal: Having someone like YOU helping out the Kubuntu users helps out the development community tremendously.
(04:15:53 PM) nixternal: You free up the main developers time a bit and you also are provided the ability to take what you learn from common issues and communicate that effectively, allowing developers to make a better Kubuntu.
(04:16:32 PM) nixternal: Places you can provide user support:
(04:16:40 PM) nixternal:  * IRC - #kubuntu on Freenode (see https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat)
(04:16:43 PM) nixternal:  * Ubuntu Forums - http://ubuntuforums.org
(04:16:46 PM) nixternal:  * Kubuntu Forums - http://www.kubuntuforums.net/
(04:16:49 PM) nixternal:  * Mailing List - https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/kubuntu-users (Subscription based - medium traffic)
(04:16:52 PM) nixternal:  * At your local LUG or LoCo events
(04:17:47 PM) nixternal: .....
(04:18:12 PM) nixternal: Everyone needs support and community love, and these are 2 very important areas in development
(04:18:27 PM) nixternal: Even this guy needs support and community love! -> http://www.flickr.com/photos/jonobacon/2438454269/
(04:18:39 PM) nixternal: .....
(04:19:04 PM) nixternal: OK, we have seen some bug lovin' today, and guess what?!?! I am going to talk some more about it :)
(04:19:07 PM) nixternal: .....
(04:19:12 PM) nixternal: === Bug Triage ===
(04:19:22 PM) nixternal: Bug triage is a huge part of the development process and comes in easy and difficult tasks.
(04:19:35 PM) nixternal: For the easy, simply going through bug reports and testing to see if you can reproduce the issue and then confirming the bug is a big part on ensuring it gets fixed.
(04:19:48 PM) nixternal: When bugs sit in the New or Incomplete status, their chances of getting looked at in depth are minimal compared to a report that has been Confirmed.
(04:20:07 PM) nixternal: For the difficult part, simply fix the bug by patching the software in question.
(04:20:15 PM) nixternal: For more information on bug triage stay tuned to more talks during this OpenWeek, such talks include:
(04:20:26 PM) nixternal:  * Reporting Bugs by Brian Murray, which happened just a couple of hours ago (17:00 UTC on Monday, April 28, 2008) and will also be held again at 17:00 UTC this Saturday, May 3, 2008
(04:20:30 PM) nixternal:  * Ubuntu Bugsquad + Triaging Bugs by Pedro Villavicencio which happened just prior to this talk (18:00 UTC on Monday, April 28, 2008) and will also be held again at 18:00 UTC this Saturday, May 3, 2008
(04:20:34 PM) nixternal:  * Bughelper - Making Bug Work Easier by Markus Korn at 15:00 UTC on Friday, May 2, 2008
(04:20:58 PM) nixternal: .....
(04:21:25 PM) nixternal: WAKE UP!!!
(04:21:42 PM) nixternal: still have a bit more to cover, then you can bombard me^Wus with questions
(04:21:53 PM) nixternal: .....
(04:22:16 PM) nixternal: AHHH! Here comes my favorite thing in the whole world....are you ready for the truth?
(04:22:20 PM) nixternal: YOU CAN'T HANDLE THE TRUTH!
(04:22:22 PM) nixternal: .....
(04:22:28 PM) nixternal: === Documentation ===
(04:22:37 PM) nixternal: \o/ YAY \o/
(04:22:46 PM) nixternal: Documentation is a very large task in the free software world and it is no different here in Kubuntu.
(04:23:00 PM) nixternal: As it stands, there are about 3 or 4 of us who work on the Kubuntu documentation, with myself and Jonathan Jesse typically available most of the time.
(04:23:21 PM) nixternal: With our future with KDE 4, ALL of our documentation needs to be rewritten in order to suite it. Currently all of our documentation is KDE 3 based.
(04:24:01 PM) nixternal: We house our documentation in Bazaar which a revision control system. Right now our goal will be with Intrepid documentation.
(04:24:19 PM) nixternal: For further information on documentation please see either of the following:
(04:24:32 PM) nixternal:  * Ubuntu Documentation Project by me at 21:00 UTC this Friday, May 2, 2008
(04:24:35 PM) nixternal:  * Ubuntu Documentation Project wiki - https://wiki.kubuntu.org/DocumentationTeam
(04:24:38 PM) nixternal:  * Ubuntu Documentation Project mailing list - https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-doc (Subscription based - low traffic)
(04:24:41 PM) nixternal:  * IRC - #ubuntu-doc on Freenode (see https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat)
(04:24:44 PM) nixternal:  * Asks questions at the end of this talk, message me at a later time on IRC, or email me at nixternal@kubuntu.org with your questions
(04:25:10 PM) nixternal: .....
(04:26:21 PM) nixternal: Now comes the really fun stuff! I ask that you know make sure that your parachutes are ready to go!
(04:26:24 PM) nixternal: .....
(04:26:49 PM) nixternal: sudo apt-get install the_hard_stuff
(04:26:51 PM) nixternal: .....
(04:27:17 PM) nixternal: Actually, that was a lie, the last 2 topics are pretty easy to learn, and a total blast....
(04:27:20 PM) nixternal:  
(04:27:28 PM) nixternal: === Packaging ===
(04:27:35 PM) nixternal: What exactly is packaging?
(04:28:14 PM) nixternal: I will tell you what it isn't...It isn't that sharp plastiK stuff you try to cut away to get at your new geeky toy!
(04:28:17 PM) nixternal:  
(04:28:23 PM) nixternal: If you used Adept, Synaptic, apt-get, or aptitude to install a piece of our free software, then what you have done is downloaded a package which was extracted into the proper locations within your system, ensuring at the same time that any of that applications dependencies were also installed.
(04:28:42 PM) nixternal:  
(04:28:47 PM) nixternal: uncross your eyes, and lets rock!
(04:28:49 PM) nixternal:  
(04:28:56 PM) nixternal: What happens is you have a select group of developers who spend their PERSONAL TIME creating, editing, and maintaining Debian based packages so you can download and install them.
(04:29:06 PM) nixternal:  
(04:30:14 PM) nixternal: The reason behind PERSONAL TIME being in caps wasn't to yell at you...it was to let everyone know that will read this here and in the log files, to breathe before tearing into community members because your favorite package might be broken...bare with us, and we shall fix it for ya!
(04:30:27 PM) nixternal: of course, you could always fix it too, especially seeing as this is the packaging section :)
(04:30:30 PM) nixternal:  
(04:30:53 PM) nixternal: What should you know if you are thinking about packaging? Requirements include:
(04:31:00 PM) nixternal:  * Familiarity with the command line
(04:31:00 PM) nixternal:  * Ability to download, extract, configure, build, and install a tarball (file.tar.gz and such)
(04:31:03 PM) nixternal:  * Familiarity with Debian based packaging scripts and utilities (pbuilder, dh_make, dh_install, and more)
(04:31:06 PM) nixternal:  
(04:31:48 PM) nixternal: ls, cd, mv, mkdir, rm, man, info, dget, wget, and a few more....easy stuff!
(04:32:14 PM) nixternal: wget http://foo.com/bar.tar.gz && tar -xf bar.tar.gz
(04:32:27 PM) nixternal: forgot about tar in my first list of cli commands, oops
(04:33:03 PM) nixternal: dh_make, debdiff, lintian, pbuilder, dh_install, debuild, dput, and more....
(04:33:10 PM) nixternal: still not overly difficult!
(04:33:15 PM) nixternal:  
(04:33:21 PM) nixternal: More information on packaging can be located at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU. Also don't forget to catch the packaging related talks during this OpenWeek, such as:
(04:33:29 PM) nixternal:  * QA: Using piuparts to test your packages by Lars Wirzenius which was earlier today at 16:00 UTC. Don't worry if you missed it, the logs will be available shortly for each session of this OpenWeek
(04:33:33 PM) nixternal:  * Packaging 101 - Session 1 by Daniel Holbach at 15:00 UTC, tomorrow, Tuesday, April 29, 2008
(04:33:36 PM) nixternal:  * Packaging 101 - Session 2 by Daniel Holbach at 16:00 UTC, tomorrow, Tuesday, April 29, 2008
(04:33:39 PM) nixternal:  * Merging Packages 101 by Nicolas Valcárcel at 18:00 UTC, tomorrow, Tuesday, April 29, 2008
(04:33:42 PM) nixternal:  * Python Packaging by Emilio Pozuelo Monfort at 21:00 UTC on Thursday, May 1, 2008
(04:33:45 PM) nixternal:  * And if you are already a packager, check out Running a Packaging Jam by Rick Harding at 19:00 UTC on Friday, May 2, 2008
(04:33:54 PM) nixternal: .....
(04:34:15 PM) nixternal: OK hackers! Leave the Gibson alone and pay attention now!
(04:34:18 PM) nixternal: .....
(04:34:25 PM) nixternal: === Coding ===
(04:34:56 PM) nixternal: ahhhh ya! the fun stuff! the stuff that will make your dating life totally disappear!
(04:34:59 PM) nixternal:  
(04:35:06 PM) nixternal: Are you an elite coding ninja?
(04:35:06 PM) nixternal: A code monkey?
(04:35:06 PM) nixternal: A CS student just learning how to code?
(04:35:11 PM) nixternal:  
(04:35:25 PM) nixternal: don't take code monkey in the negative way!
(04:35:33 PM) nixternal:  
(04:35:38 PM) nixternal: Well we can make some room for you! What type of coding jobs are available at this time are still up in the air until after the Ubuntu Developer's Summit next month.
(04:35:50 PM) nixternal:  
(04:35:56 PM) nixternal: Once the projects are hammered out, I am fairly certain there will be coding projects available for various types of coders.
(04:36:10 PM) nixternal: C++ and Python are our 2 main languages here at Kubuntu and if you have any experience we should have something for you.
(04:36:22 PM) nixternal:  
(04:36:40 PM) nixternal: s/should/WILL! as soon as UDS hits us in a few weeks :)
(04:36:45 PM) nixternal:  
(04:36:55 PM) nixternal: Do you have a project in mind?
(04:37:06 PM) nixternal: If so, then come to one of our regularly scheduled developer meetings and place your ideas on the agenda for that meeting.
(04:37:36 PM) nixternal: https://wiki.kubuntu.org/Kubuntu/Meetings  -- Keep an eye on this page or http://fridge.ubuntu.com to see when our next meeting will be
(04:37:45 PM) nixternal: Who knows, maybe you can twist some arms to get your idea developed and included in the next release, and future releases, of Kubuntu.
(04:37:52 PM) nixternal:  
(04:38:10 PM) nixternal: = Conclusion =
(04:38:41 PM) nixternal: YES! I KNOW YOU ALL JUST SAID "THANK GOD IT IS FINALLY OVER!!!!"
(04:38:53 PM) nixternal: I would like to thank each and every one of you for attending this meeting.
(04:38:56 PM) nixternal: I hope it wasn't to boring for you and that you are now ready to explode with questions, comments, and ideas.
(04:38:59 PM) nixternal: I ask that you provide your question, comments, or ideas in accordance to the rules set forth in the discussion channel for the OpenWeek talks.
(04:39:02 PM) nixternal: Thanks again and if you have any questions, please do not hesitate to ask, and comments and ideas can be fired my way as well.
(04:39:05 PM) nixternal: COMMUNITY!
(04:39:07 PM) nixternal: COMMUNITY!
(04:39:10 PM) nixternal: COMMUNITY!
(04:39:11 PM) mode (+o nosrednaekim ) by ChanServ
(04:39:17 PM) nixternal: there you go Mike, sorry about that
(04:39:36 PM) nosrednaekim: ok... i'll be your question coordinator... first up is...
(04:39:43 PM) nixternal: drum roll please!
(04:39:51 PM) nosrednaekim: <ligemeget> QUESTION: Is it true that Kubuntu is almost exclusively made by Riddell ?
(04:39:58 PM) ***nosrednaekim steps over to his drum set
(04:40:18 PM) nixternal: ligemeget: yes, Riddell is a robot who is fed plenty of grease and electricity, the rest of us just make sure Riddell's batteries don't go dead!
(04:40:34 PM) nixternal: ligemeget: in all actuality
(04:40:35 PM) nosrednaekim: and we are working on a riddell clone
(04:40:52 PM) nixternal: Riddell: is our fearless leader who does a ton of work, but we have numerous excellent contributors
(04:41:26 PM) nosrednaekim: <Syntux> QUESTION: Why Kubuntu team decided to go with building a full distribution instead of keeping it as Ubuntu package and are there any plans to go with the same direction just like Edubuntu ?  and if not then why especially if it's technical reason
(04:41:30 PM) nixternal: sudo apt-get install riddell
(04:41:34 PM) nosrednaekim: (if you were done)
(04:41:39 PM) nosrednaekim: yea... you were :P
(04:42:07 PM) nixternal: Syntux: Kubuntu is a full distro and it is an Ubuntu package (kubuntu-desktop)
(04:42:20 PM) nixternal: the main reason, why should people who want to use KDE have to install Gnome first?
(04:42:46 PM) nixternal: this way here, gearheads can get straight to the KDE love that they want from the first boot
(04:43:10 PM) nixternal: as for going in the Edubuntu direction, not for Kubuntu
(04:43:37 PM) nixternal: the reason is because people don't want Gnome and want KDE only, so Kubuntu provides them with what they want
(04:44:23 PM) nosrednaekim:  <ligemeget> QUESTION: Where the heck in the Kubuntu Documentation located and who do we need to contact if we want to participate in rewriting the whole thing?
(04:44:36 PM) nixternal: the reasoning behind Edubuntu also factored in their much smaller developer pool
(04:45:08 PM) nixternal: ligemeget: Kubuntu docs are located on the system - in Konqueror do help:/kubuntu - In KHelpCenter select the Kubuntu docs up top
(04:45:46 PM) nixternal: ligemeget: Ubuntu Documentation mailing list is the best contact point and I don't have the URL handy right now, get with me after this and I will give you more info
(04:46:01 PM) nosrednaekim:  <Odd-rationale> QUESTION: Wasn't kubuntu.org going to get a make over? What happened?
(04:46:28 PM) nixternal: Odd-rationale: it is still being tweaked....we were hoping to have it finished on release day...hopefully in the next week or so...
(04:46:54 PM) nosrednaekim:  QUESTION: How do you plan to get rid of the whole 'If you want KDE, go get OpenSUSE - Kubuntu is a second rank citizen' myth?
(04:47:02 PM) nosrednaekim: sorry, that was from ligemeget
(04:47:05 PM) nixternal: YES! I KNEW IT WAS COMING!
(04:47:22 PM) nixternal: I have been working on Kubuntu now for almost 3 years and I never got that 2nd class citizen feeling
(04:47:40 PM) nixternal: I will closely with a lot of the Gnome side and we all party like rockstars no matter our distro
(04:47:58 PM) nixternal: the Go Get openSUSE one I haven't heard a bunch of
(04:48:07 PM) nixternal: I have heard get "PC Linux OS"
(04:48:18 PM) nixternal: look, we are reaching our hands out to the community
(04:48:33 PM) nixternal: we need YOU, and all of YOU to help us become #1
(04:48:55 PM) nixternal: it is sad and hurtful seeing people calling my distro of choice a 2nd class citizen
(04:49:10 PM) nixternal: and I know it bothers others who put a lot of blood, sweat, and tears into their volunteer work
(04:49:28 PM) nosrednaekim: <RoAkSoAx> QUESTION: where can we find those coding projects you talking about, specially for a CS student!
(04:49:40 PM) nixternal: nobody is perfect, but we being as small as we are work hard trying to get as close to perfection as possible
(04:50:20 PM) nixternal: RoAkSoAx: chill out in #kubuntu-devel, keep on eye on the kubuntu-devel mailing list, and as soon as UDS is over with, we will have a much better idea of what we will have available
(04:50:49 PM) nosrednaekim: <reldruh> QUESTION: can we hear some more about developers meetings? When/where/are non-developers invited, etc?
(04:50:52 PM) nixternal: oh, and voice up that you really want to get into development work too
(04:51:02 PM) nixternal: reldruh: everyone is invited!
(04:51:18 PM) nixternal: our meetings are always in #ubuntu-meeting here on Freenode
(04:51:35 PM) nixternal: we will probably hold 1 more before UDS so keep an eye on the kubuntu-devel mailing list
(04:51:40 PM) nosrednaekim:  <daskrEEch> QUESTION: Can we play with KDE 4.1 packages?
(04:51:51 PM) nixternal: daskrEEch: go to openSUSE
(04:51:52 PM) nixternal: ;p
(04:52:08 PM) nixternal: daskrEEch: as soon as you package them! Riddell even heard you say that you were going to work on that
(04:52:35 PM) nixternal: should have known you would have asked that one :)
(04:52:43 PM) nosrednaekim:  <Odd-rationale> QUESTION: Do you think there is any likelyhood of KDE following timed-based releases in sync with Ubuntu?
(04:52:58 PM) nixternal: as a matter of fact, we have 4.1 alpha1 release tarballs...sounds like a project to me for you daskrEEch
(04:53:44 PM) nixternal: Odd-rationale: honestly, I hope not...why? why should KDE follow Ubuntu? w/o Gnome or KDE, Ubuntu and Kubuntu are nothing, we should try and follow them like other distros do...Ubuntu/Kubuntu isn't the law of the land
(04:53:57 PM) nixternal: now would I like to see better management of that type of thing, of course, it would totally rock
(04:54:22 PM) nixternal: typically, after release, when KDE releases something new, we work hard to make it available for everyone of our prior releases that are supported
(04:55:09 PM) nosrednaekim: <knoppix> QUESTION: which parts of kubuntu are programmed in python?
(04:56:01 PM) nixternal: knoppix: some of our smaller apps/applets...the new Printer Config that Riddell rocked out, Martin's GDebi-KDE app, Ubiquity the graphical installer
(04:56:11 PM) nixternal: I am reaching here trying to remember others
(04:56:17 PM) nosrednaekim: and and.......
(04:56:18 PM) nixternal: I know there are others
(04:56:26 PM) nixternal: nosrednaekim: do you know anymore that I am missing?
(04:56:28 PM) nosrednaekim: My Desktop-effect-kde app :)
(04:56:31 PM) nixternal: oh ya :p
(04:56:42 PM) nosrednaekim: and the poermanager
(04:56:46 PM) nosrednaekim: *powermanager
(04:56:46 PM) nixternal: oh ya, Guidance
(04:57:04 PM) nosrednaekim: oh... the mountconfig and wine managers as well
(04:57:05 PM) nixternal: whoa, forgot about that one, sorry ScottK and others who broke their backs these past few weeks :)
(04:57:11 PM) nixternal: jeesh, we have quite a bit
(04:57:13 PM) nosrednaekim: and the displayconfig
(04:57:15 PM) Riddell: hwdb, apport, upgrade tool
(04:57:16 PM) nixternal: and more if you want!
(04:57:30 PM) nixternal: rock on!
(04:57:48 PM) nixternal: one more?
(04:58:05 PM) Riddell: oem-config, language-selector
(04:58:09 PM) nixternal: time is running out....if there are more questions, head on over to #kubuntu-devel and we would be glad to answer any more that you may have
(04:58:15 PM) nosrednaekim: no more questions I don't think
(04:58:19 PM) nixternal: hahahaha, Riddell is in Python mode!
(04:58:22 PM) nixternal: rock on...
(04:58:28 PM) nixternal: THANKS EVERYONE! YOU ALL ROCK!
(04:58:34 PM) nixternal: great questions too!
(04:58:49 PM) nosrednaekim: oh... and if you are interested in doing user support, attend my session on saturday on hardware debugging...
(04:59:12 PM) nixternal: rock on nosrednaekim !
(04:59:24 PM) nixternal: wow, there goes the KDE crowd!
(04:59:25 PM) nixternal: hehe
</pre>
