{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== SRU bug tracking =====

ivoks raised the SRU bug tracking point last meeting but hadn't had time to prepare something for this week.

ACTION: ivoks to add to the server team agenda an item about better SRU management.

===== Postfix and Dovecot integration =====

ivoks reported that he hadn't received any feedback yet. mathiaz suggested to write a blog post about it.

ACTION: ivoks to blog about the postfix dovecot integration.

===== Ubuntu and EC2 =====

zul gave a quick status of Ubuntu on EC2: the beta2 images were released last week and are based on intrepid. Follow the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EC2StartersGuide|EC2 Getting Started]]</nowiki> guide to help testing the beta2 image.

zul is also working on images based on hardy and jaunty.

===== Samba bug day =====

mathiaz announced that next Thursday, March 12th, will be dedicated to triaging bugs related to samba. The QA team is currently gathering a list of bugs for the coming Bug day. mathiaz and ttx agreed to provide support to the bug triagers during the whole Bug day. There were also some discussions about announcing the samba bug day via several blog posts.

ACTION: mathiaz to blog about samba bug day on Thursday

ACTION: ttx to blog about samba bug day on Monday

ACTION: nijaba to blog about samba bug day Wednesday from next week.

ACTION: ttx to cover the first part of the samba hug day

ACTION: mathiaz to cover the second part of the samba hug day

===== Exchange support for Evolution =====

seb128 reported that the evolution-mapi package had been uploaded to jaunty and was waiting for review in the NEW queue. He is looking for testers that have access to an Exchange infrastructure. ivoks volunteered for some testing.

ACTION: ivoks to test the evolution-mapi package in an Exchange environment.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

mathiaz mentioned that USA/Canada would start Daylight Saving Time on March 8, 2009 while most of European country would start DST on March, 29. It was decided to move the meeting one hour earlier at 15:00 UTC.

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, March 10th at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:02] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[16:02] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:02. The chair is mathiaz.
[16:02] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:02] <mathiaz> ttx: thanks for running the meeting last time
[16:02] <ttx> mathiaz: it was a pleasure.
[16:02] <mathiaz> ttx: and for preparing and sending the minutes out there - very much appreciated :)
[16:03] <mathiaz> Today's agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:03] <mathiaz> last week's minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20090224
[16:03] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] SRU bug tracking
[16:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  SRU bug tracking
[16:03] <mathiaz> ivoks: any news^^?
[16:04] <ivoks> sorry, i didn't have time to prepare topic as i wanted, so i didn't put it on agenda
[16:04] <mathiaz> ivoks: np - still on track to talk about it?
[16:04] <ivoks> so, if it's not a problem to postpone it for next meeting...
[16:04] <mathiaz> ivoks: np
[16:04] <ivoks> mathiaz: sure, i think that's a very important issue
[16:05] <mathiaz> ivoks: it seems that this topic ought to be well prepared
[16:05] <ivoks> of course
[16:05] <mathiaz> ivoks: so we can defer it to the next meeting
[16:05] <ivoks> yes
[16:05] <mathiaz> ivoks: so when you're ready to discuss could you add an item on the agenda?
[16:06] <ivoks> correct
[16:06] <ivoks> err... yes :D
[16:06] <mathiaz> [ACTION] ivoks to add to the server team agenda an item about better SRU bugtracking  when ready
[16:06] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ivoks to add to the server team agenda an item about better SRU bugtracking  when ready
[16:07] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Postfix and Dovecot integration
[16:07] <MootBot> New Topic:  Postfix and Dovecot integration
[16:07] <mathiaz> ivoks: any news^^?
[16:07] <mathiaz> has some testing been done?
[16:07] <mathiaz> ivoks: or did you receive any feedback on the proposal?
[16:07] <ivoks> well, i didn't recieve any feedback yet :/
[16:08] <ivoks> maybe i should blog about it
[16:08] <ivoks> :)
[16:08] <zul> hello
[16:08] <mathiaz> ivoks: I've seen some blog post about it (from a romanian blog)
[16:08] <ivoks> mathiaz: me too
[16:08] <ivoks> but that's it
[16:08] <mathiaz> ivoks: but yes - blogging about it may be a good idea
[16:09] <mathiaz> ivoks: I've already posted a post on the ubuntu server blog - so doing another one way may not be the best option
[16:09] <mathiaz> ivoks: could do one on your blog?
[16:10] <ivoks> mathiaz: that is the plan
[16:10] <mathiaz> ivoks: great - thanks
[16:10] <mathiaz> [ACTION] ivoks to blog about the postfix dovecot integration
[16:10] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ivoks to blog about the postfix dovecot integration
[16:10] <ivoks> and... we could remove it from roadmap
[16:10] <ivoks> since it has been implemented
[16:12] <mathiaz> ivoks: roadmap updated!
[16:12] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Ubuntu and EC2
[16:12] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu and EC2
[16:12] <mathiaz> zul: ^^?
[16:12] <zul> hi
[16:13] <zul> so the second beta2 was relased last week with lots of new features and bug fixes
[16:13] <zul> you can read how to get started at https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EC2StartersGuide
[16:13] <zul> and join the ec2-beta list at the regular place.
[16:14] <zul> oh yeah these are intrepid images and Im working on jaunty and hardy versions i386/amd64 this week
[16:14] <mathiaz> zul: I've seen a couple of request/comments that the program is not free.
[16:14] <mathiaz> zul: it seems that there is some confusion around the fact that you still have to pay for EC2 even though the beta is free.
[16:15] <mathiaz> zul: should the documentation be updated?
[16:15] <zul> mathiaz: thats correct its in the faq
[16:15] <mathiaz> zul: where is the faq?
[16:15] <zul> it costs nothing to use the images but amazon charges you to use the service
[16:16] <mathiaz> zul: right - but it seems that the message doesn't get through since some people on the mailing have complained about it
[16:16] <zul> mathiaz: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EC2FAQ#How%20much%20does%20it%20cost%20to%20run%20Ubuntu%20on%20EC2?
[16:16] <nijaba> mathiaz: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EC2FAQ
[16:17] <zul> mathiaz: they arent reading the rtfm hard enough then ;)
[16:17] <mathiaz> nijaba: zul: do you think this aspect of the beta program should be improved?
[16:17] <ivoks> there are also footnotes on https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EC2StartersGuide
[16:18] <nijaba> mathiaz: I do not what to do, we cannot force people to read
[16:18] <nijaba> mathiaz: every page I created mention the cost issue
[16:19] <mathiaz> nijaba: what about adding a note in the welcome message when users join the beta mailing list?
[16:19] <nijaba> mathiaz: what would make them read this more than any other text?
[16:19] <zul> bold it or something
[16:20] <nijaba> mathiaz: plus the beta program is now very open, the images do not require registration anymore
[16:20] <mathiaz> https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EC2StartersGuide still mentions that the kernel/ramdisk aren't public
[16:21] <mathiaz> in the section: Using the Ubuntu Imags
[16:21] <zul> mathiaz: because im in the middle of updating it :)
[16:21] <mathiaz> in the section: Using the Ubuntu Images
[16:21] <mathiaz> zul: oh - ok.
[16:21] <mathiaz> ok - let's move on.
[16:22] <mathiaz> zul: anything else on this front?
[16:22] <zul> mathiaz: nope
[16:23] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Bug Day: samba
[16:23] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu Bug Day: samba
[16:23] <mathiaz> so I've talked with the QA team and we're going to have a Bug day about samba next week
[16:24] <ttx> \o/
[16:24] <mathiaz> next Thursday, March 12th
[16:24] <mathiaz> in preparation I've written a debugging samba page
[16:24] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingSamba
[16:24] <zul> yay!
[16:25] <mathiaz> reviews of this page is welcome
[16:25] <mathiaz> if you think about other common situations please add them to it
[16:25] <mathiaz> the QA team will prepare a list of bugs to target during the hug day next week
[16:26] <mathiaz> hm - the bug list will be prepared this week and I'll review it
[16:26] <mathiaz> so that we can leverage the whole bug triagging community to deal with samba bugs
[16:26] <mathiaz> I think we should target NEW and INCOMPLETE bugs
[16:27] <mathiaz> anything else to add related to the samba bug day?
=== mvo_ is now known as mvo
[16:27] <mathiaz> could we coordinate blog posts announcing it?
[16:27] <mathiaz> ttx: ?
[16:27] <ttx> mathiaz: sure.
[16:27] <zul> making sure that the duplicate bugs are taken care of
[16:28] <mathiaz> so there will be a mention of the samba bug day today on the ubuntuserver blog
[16:28] <ttx> Also making sure that confirmed are really confirmed
[16:28] <ttx> mathiaz: ok, I'll echo that
[16:28] <mathiaz> ttx: what about you blogging about the samba bug day this thurday?
[16:28] <zul> also turning up the debug information for the samba logs
[16:29] <ttx> mathiaz: will do. I'll also make sure to review the DebuggingSamba page before that.
[16:29] <mathiaz> ttx: or may be monday?
[16:29] <ttx> Monday is good, unless you have another echo-man
[16:29] <mathiaz> kirkland: ^^?
[16:30] <mathiaz> ttx: I could also echo it on my blog
[16:31] <mathiaz> ttx: so how about that plan:
[16:31] <mathiaz> today: ubuntuserver (via minutes)
[16:31] <mathiaz> thursday: my blog (unique blog post)
[16:31] <mathiaz> monday: ttx blog (unique blog post)
[16:32] <mathiaz> next thursday: ubuntuserver (via minuteS)
[16:32] <mathiaz> next *tuesday*: ubuntuserver (via minuteS)
[16:32] <ttx> worksforme.
[16:32] <mathiaz> next Thursday: ubuntuserver (unique blog post)
[16:32] <mathiaz> plus the normal announcement from the bug team (ubuntu-bugsquad@)
[16:33] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz to blog about samba bug day on Thursday
[16:33] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to blog about samba bug day on Thursday
[16:33] <mathiaz> [ACTION] ttx to blog about samba bug day on Monday
[16:33] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ttx to blog about samba bug day on Monday
[16:33] <mathiaz> and I'm sure we can ask kirkland to do something too :)
[16:34] <nijaba> mathiaz: I can as well if you want
[16:34] <mathiaz> that also mean some of us should hang out with the QA team to help out with bug triaggers next Thursday
=== beuno_ is now known as beuno
[16:35] <mathiaz> nijaba: sure - could you do one next Wednesday?
[16:35] <nijaba> mathiaz: np
[16:35] <mathiaz> [ACTION] nijaba to blog about samba bug day next Wednesday
[16:35] <MootBot> ACTION received:  nijaba to blog about samba bug day next Wednesday
[16:36] <mathiaz> ttx: will you be around next Thursday?
=== ivoks_ is now known as ivoks
[16:36] <ttx> mathiaz: yes, I will.
[16:36] <mathiaz> ttx: great - could you cover the first part of the hug day?
[16:36] <mathiaz> ttx: I'll take the second one then
[16:37] <ttx> yep
[16:37] <mathiaz> [ACTION] ttx to cover the first part of the samba hug day
[16:37] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ttx to cover the first part of the samba hug day
[16:37] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz to cover the second part of the samba hug day
[16:37] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to cover the second part of the samba hug day
[16:38] <mathiaz> great - that's all for the samba hug day
[16:38] <mathiaz> anything else to add on this topic?
[16:39] <mathiaz> nope - let's move on
[16:40] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open discussion
[16:40] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open discussion
[16:40] <nealmcb>  I've been talking with ljl in #ubuntu-ops about the factoid for screen.  The proposal was "Screen is a window manager for terminal sessions, also good for use over ssh.  See https://launchpad.net/screen-profiles for status bars, clocks, notifiers (reboot-required, updates-available), etc.".  Folks there suggested pointing to a wiki page for screen which could point to other related things, like the two links in the current screen factoid, and
[16:40] <nealmcb> !screen
[16:40] <ubottu> screen is a terminal multiplexer. See http://www.kuro5hin.org/story/2004/3/9/16838/14935 and http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_Screen
[16:41] <RainCT> nealmcb: your message was cut at "current screen factoid, and"
[16:42] <nealmcb>  and ljl volunteered to set that up.  This url is available, not used now: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Screen    See also https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DinkelVersus/Screen
[16:42] <seb128> hi
[16:42] <mathiaz> seb128: hi - what's the state of evolution-exchange integration?
[16:42] <seb128> mathiaz: evolution-mapi you mean?
[16:42] <mathiaz> seb128: hm yes
[16:43] <seb128> it's waiting in NEW now
[16:43] <seb128> I will try to convince one of the other archive admin to review it
[16:43] <nijaba> seb128: the openchange mapi integration!!!  great!
[16:43] <mathiaz> seb128: great - once it's in the archive we need some testing done
[16:43] <ivoks> nice
[16:43] <seb128> thanks
[16:44] <mathiaz> so we're looking for testers - having access to an exchange infrastructure is a prerequisite
[16:44] <mathiaz> I don't have access to such a thing, neither seb128
[16:44] <ivoks> how is that related to ubuntu-server?
[16:45] <ivoks> i have access to some exchange setups :)
[16:45] <mathiaz> ivoks: exchange is used in corporate environment
[16:45] <mathiaz> ivoks: I thought it could be usefull to part of our users
[16:45] <nealmcb> what part of the puzzle does evolution-mapi cover?
[16:46] <ivoks> mathiaz: i know that, but exchange support in evolution doesn't quite sounds like ubuntu-server related; unless we provide exchange :)
[16:46] <mathiaz> ivoks: seb128 was looking for testers and I offered to get a call for testing out as our users should have a higher probabilty to have access to such an infrastructure
[16:46] <ivoks> oh, i see
[16:47] <ivoks> i'll test it, i have one exchange environment :/
[16:47] <mathiaz> ivoks: awesome - it's in the NEW queue for now
[16:47] <nealmcb> I'd love to see someone offer a testing infrastructure by giving ubuntu testers access to an exchange/active-directory environment
[16:48] <mathiaz> jdstrand: ^^ - there is some bits in the NEW queue waiting for you :)
[16:49] <jdstrand> mathiaz: I'm on Friday-- kirkland is on tomorrow. I'll be sure to look at it if it is around on Friday :P
[16:49] <ivoks> btw... i use evolution again, after years and years of claws... maybe i'm wrong, but it works muche better than before
[16:50] <seb128> jdstrand: you can look at NEW out of your archive days ;-)
[16:50] <jdstrand> mathiaz: seriously though. if you *must* have it today and the regular admin can't do it, I'll look at it
[16:51] <mathiaz> jdstrand: it's not that urgent
[16:51] <nealmcb> A first version is now up from ljl at https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Screen
[16:51] <mathiaz> jdstrand: friday will be fine
[16:51] <ivoks> jdstrand: i'll be in exchange environment tomorrow, so if i could get that plugin today, that would be great :}
[16:52]  * nijaba needs to run
[16:52] <jdstrand> I'll give it a shot
[16:53] <mathiaz> great - thanks
[16:53] <mathiaz> let's move on
[16:54] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:54] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:54] <mathiaz> so north america will change hours this weekend
[16:54] <mathiaz> IIRC europe doesn't - ttx?
[16:55]  * ttx confesses ignorance and googles the question
[16:55] <ttx> March 29 here
[16:55] <ivoks> i guess we all change it
[16:56] <ivoks> north america, europe and part of australia
[16:56] <ttx> ivoks: you live in the world where we all use the same AC plugs ?
[16:56] <ivoks> http://hr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Datoteka:DaylightSaving-World-Subdivisions.png
[16:56] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://hr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Datoteka:DaylightSaving-World-Subdivisions.png
[16:57] <ivoks> ttx: hehe
[16:57] <mathiaz> so the question is whether we should move the meeting to 15:00 UTC or stay at 16:00 UTC
[16:57] <ivoks> ttx: same voltage and SI system? :)
[16:58] <ttx> mathiaz: either is fine by me
[16:58] <mathiaz> AFAICT the tech board meeting has been moved back one hour
[16:58] <mathiaz> so we could start the meeting at 15:00 UTC
[16:58] <ttx> 1500 is even better
[16:58] <ivoks> probably, yes
[16:59] <mathiaz> ok - so we'll move the meeting to 15:00 UTC next week (and the week after)
[16:59] <mathiaz> next week, same place at 15:00 UTC
[17:00] <mathiaz> thanks all
[17:00] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
[17:00] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 11:00.
</pre>
