{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 04 Oct at 16:02 &mdash; 16:29 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-10-04-16.02.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:02.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20160927 
** ''DONE:'' powersj to put together iso testing signup sheet

==== Yakkety Development ====
The discussion about "Yakkety Development" started at 16:08.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule 
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:08)
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 

==== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)" started at 16:14.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)" started at 16:17.

** ''LINK:'' https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/ 

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)" started at 16:20.

==== Upcoming Call For Papers ====
The discussion about "Upcoming Call For Papers" started at 16:22.

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:24.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:25.

** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-z-server-core 
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-z-server-core 

==== Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak) ====
The discussion about "Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak)" started at 16:27.

==== Announce next meeting date, time and chair ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date, time and chair" started at 16:28.

** ''ACTION:'' jgrimm Add a url for server release bugs to irc commands for meetings
** ''ACTION:'' jamespage checking with old iscsitarget users on relevancy with new kernels

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* jamespage
** jamespage checking with old iscsitarget users on relevancy with new kernels
* jgrimm
** jgrimm Add a url for server release bugs to irc commands for meetings

=== Done items ===

* powersj to put together iso testing signup sheet

=== People present (lines said) ===

* rharper (55)
* jgrimm (33)
* smoser (12)
* meetingology (5)
* powersj (4)
* caribou (3)
* ubottu (3)
* nacc (2)
* jamespage (2)
* rbasak (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:02 <rharper> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:02 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Oct  4 16:02:27 2016 UTC.  The chair is rharper. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:02 <meetingology> 

 16:02 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:02 <rharper> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:02 <jgrimm> thanks rhaper

 16:02 <jgrimm> rharper even!

 16:03 <rharper> jgrimm: sure

 16:03 <rharper> jgrimm: Add a url for server release bugs to irc commands for meetings ?

 16:03 <smoser> o/

 16:04 <jgrimm> rharper, bah.. i just need to add the rls-x url in again

 16:04 <jgrimm> rharper, leave it, i'll do right after meeting

 16:04 <rharper> ok, we'll keep that

 16:04 <rharper> jamespage checking with old iscsitarget users on relevancy with new kernels

 16:04 <jamespage> oh boy

 16:05 <jamespage> better carry that - I need to figure out who to ask

 16:05 <rharper> sure

 16:05 <rharper> powersj to put together iso testing signup sheet

 16:05 <jgrimm> hmm.. that's old

 16:05 <jgrimm> rharper, where are you looking at agenda from

 16:05 <powersj> rharper, yeah - done a while ago ;)

 16:05 <rharper> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20160927

 16:06 <jgrimm> ok, should have been marked done last time. not on wiki at least

 16:06 <rharper> #done powersj to put together iso testing signup sheet

 16:07 <jgrimm> rharper, you are looking at the agenda of last week

 16:07 <jgrimm> by looking at the minutes. :)

 16:07 <rharper> but I was successful, 2/3 still need doing =)

 16:07 <jgrimm> heheheh. indeed!

 16:08 <rharper> ok, I don't see any other actions to review

 16:08 <rharper> #topic Yakkety Development

 16:08 <rharper> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule

 16:08 <rharper> just up to Final Freeze

 16:08 <jgrimm> rush to the finish line

 16:08 <rharper> very much

 16:08 <rharper> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:09 <jgrimm> anything to discuss wrt urgent/critical for freeze?

 16:09 <rharper> maybe, smoser re: the nss/cloud-init/dbus.socket stuff

 16:09 <nacc> down to 4 ftbfs in the test rebuild

 16:09 <jgrimm> cpaelzer got a new upload in today (already in archive) for dpdk, he has some cleanups to do with respect to latest ovs

 16:10 <smoser> bug 1629868

 16:10 <ubottu> bug 1629868 in cloud-init (Ubuntu) "times out because of no dbus" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1629868

 16:10 <smoser> and bug 1629797

 16:10 <ubottu> bug 1629797 in systemd (Ubuntu) "resolve service in nsswitch.conf adds 25 seconds to failed lookups before systemd-resolved is up" [Undecided,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1629797

 16:10 <smoser> are the fun

 16:10 <smoser> they're a result of 2 changes... a.) cloud-init.service now running 'Before=basic.target'

 16:10 <smoser> b.) adding of 'resolv' to /etc/nsswitch.conf in yakkety

 16:11 <smoser> sorry, spelling. resolve

 16:11 <jgrimm> smoser, fix in hand? need help?

 16:11 <rharper> smoser: and (a) was required to ensure cloud-init can mount/unmount devices

 16:11 <rharper> before systemd.mount does

 16:11 <smoser> i'd say *a* fix is possible, but everyone agrees that while being least-intrusive of the options, it seems yucky

 16:12 <smoser> (that fix is to put 'Before=dbus.service' in cloud-init.service, which seems quite counter obvious at first glance)

 16:12 <rharper> indeed

 16:12 <smoser> so, continuing to work that. the good news is it is fairly easily recreatable.

 16:13 <rharper> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:13 <jgrimm> ok, i just read the dbus one.

 16:14 <rharper> any other release items/issues ?

 16:14 <jgrimm> rls-y looks fine

 16:14 <rharper> k

 16:14 <rharper> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

 16:14 <caribou> Hi,

 16:14 <caribou> sosreport up for review, removed the clamav tomsfastmath Universe dependancy

 16:14 <smoser> i'm hoping to fix bug 1630274 shortly

 16:14 <ubottu> bug 1630274 in cloud-utils (Ubuntu) "mount-image-callback may not mount overlay when it could" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1630274

 16:14 <caribou> that's about it

 16:14 <smoser> i need odd_bloke to verify that it works for him, but i expect it to

 16:15 <rharper> any questions for caribou

 16:16 <rharper> thanks caribou

 16:16 <jgrimm> nope, but on the topic, i'm currently working through bugs that have xenial, trusty tasks still in some sort of in-progress state to nudge them along

 16:16 <jgrimm> get owners as needed, etc

 16:16 <jgrimm> that's all

 16:16 <rharper> thanks

 16:17 <rharper> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)

 16:17 <powersj> Spent last week at QA sprint with folks from other areas, learned lots. Focusing this week on triage, gathering cloud-init integration test cases, qemu/kvm live migration tests running.

 16:17 <powersj> Server ISO kernel issues got resolved last week (yea!) and size is decreasing nicely. Only waiting on GCC 6 reductions to hopefully get us down below 703 MB (amd64 is at 743 MB today). Post-release will continue analysis of ISO size and contents. /qa_update

 16:17 <rharper> #link https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/

 16:17 <rharper> powersj: thanks for the summary from the sprint, that was super helpful

 16:18 <nacc> +1

 16:18 <powersj> good to hear :)

 16:18 <rharper> should be an interesting discussion with the team later this week

 16:19 <rharper> any questions for powersj ?

 16:19 <jgrimm> :) heh. josh already had to hear a few rants from me.

 16:19 <rharper> haha

 16:19 <rharper> yeah, I was resisting the urge to poke the messenger

 16:19 <jgrimm> :)

 16:20 <rharper> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)

 16:22 <rharper> nothing from kernel team

 16:22 <rharper> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers

 16:22 <rharper> any new CfPs to think about ?

 16:23 <jgrimm> fosdem 2017 has end of Oct CFP deadline

 16:23 <jgrimm> otherwise october looking pretty empty for CFPs (according to LWN)

 16:23 <rharper> y

 16:24 <rharper> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:25 <jgrimm> LinuxCon Europe / ContainerCon Europe: stgraber & brauner are there for LXD/LXC

 16:25 <jgrimm> this week

 16:25 <rharper> ODS is in a few too

 16:25 <jgrimm> indeed that time o year

 16:25 <rharper> #topic Open Discussion

 16:25 <rharper> floor's open

 16:26 <jgrimm> i'll bring up the z blueprint again just for awareness

 16:26 <jgrimm> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-z-server-core

 16:26 <rharper> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-z-server-core

 16:26 <jgrimm> open for business

 16:26 <jgrimm> thanks!

 16:26 <jgrimm> that's all from me

 16:26 <rharper> ok

 16:27 <rharper> #topic Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak)

 16:27 <rbasak> Nothing from me this week. Carry on as normal I think! Any questions or issues to raise?

 16:27 <rharper> ok

 16:28 <rharper> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 16:28 <rharper> Next meeting will be same time a week from now, chair will be rharper (I shall taunt you a second time!)

 16:29 <jgrimm> :)

 16:29 <rharper> #action jgrimm Add a url for server release bugs to irc commands for meetings

 16:29 * meetingology jgrimm Add a url for server release bugs to irc commands for meetings

 16:29 <rharper> #action jamespage checking with old iscsitarget users on relevancy with new kernels

 16:29 * meetingology jamespage checking with old iscsitarget users on relevancy with new kernels

 16:29 <rharper> adding those for next time since we carry them

 16:29 <rharper> and that's it folks

 16:29 <jgrimm> thanks rharper

 16:29 <rharper> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
