{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== #Ubuntu-Meeting ==
'''Ubuntu-Meeting Log 2004-11-13'''
<pre>
Topic: Something which will pass for a tech board meeting

04:53	mdz	Keybuk: I received an SMS from a number that I don't recognize saying that they won't be able to make the tech board meeting due to being on a plane
04:55	Keybuk	what's the country code?
04:59	mdz	Keybuk: so shall we do this, or punt to the next meeting?
05:00	mdz	this isn't necessarily tech board stuff, I suppose, but we do need to talk about it
05:00	Keybuk	we can have a chat about it, sure
05:00	Keybuk	only the one thing on the agenda?
05:00	mdz	yep
05:01	Keybuk	suppose we better grab a couple of people
05:02	Keybuk	I can sense this is going to be of record length
05:03	daniels	Keybuk: er, no, hoary kickoff meeting
05:03	mdz	elmo: the only thing we need to discuss is how to manage the ongoing merges of new packages from Debian
05:03	Keybuk	daniels: what was last week, dude
05:03	thom	daniels: the other direction
05:04	elmo	mdz: ?
05:04	mdz	elmo: Debian, big place with lots of packages
05:04	elmo	mdz: ?
05:05	mdz	elmo: ...
05:05	thom	*giggle*
05:05	mdz	Keybuk: so anyway, what kind of shape are the tools in for use on an ongoing basis?
05:05	daniels	elmo:
05:05	Keybuk	ok
05:05	Keybuk	well, as I understand things
05:05	Keybuk	packages we haven't modified, elmo's magic will pull from Debian
05:05	mdz	Keybuk: is it feasible to automate at least the generation of the best-effort merges, and file bugs for their review?
05:06	Keybuk	yeah, I think so
05:06	Keybuk	if he can flag that a package we've modified has a new Debian version, my stuff can pull previous and current Debian, try to apply the diff to warty, and do it's dropped stuff
05:06	Keybuk	automating a bug filing ... I have no idea about ... I imagine it's doable though
05:07	mdz	Keybuk: there's a module in debzilla for filing bugs in bugzilla; it's dead easy
05:07	Keybuk	should we flag them all, or just the ones which the debian patch doesn't apply to?
05:08	mdz	based on the last round, i think at least an eyeball review is called for
05:08	mdz	and a test build
05:08	Keybuk	yeah, I tend to agree
05:08	Keybuk	there were a few where patch did odd things
05:08	mdz	though, these are much smaller
05:08	elmo	Keybuk: how do you want me to flag that to you?
05:08	mdz	the ones where it did truly odd things seemed to cause build failures anyway, so they'd be caught
05:09	mdz	having elmo's stuff send notifications sounds hairy; maybe Keybuk's stuff should just pull a Sources file from Debian on its own
05:09	Keybuk	the main issue is that I'm running on rookery
05:09	elmo	mdz: I can ultra-trivially dump the lorraine output to a text file which keybuk can wget?
05:09	elmo	Keybuk: why's that an issue?
05:10	mdz	elmo: works for me
05:10	Keybuk	just a text file of source package names elmo thinks Debian have newer than warty would be ideal
05:11	Kamion	sorry I'm late
05:11	mdz	Keybuk: as part of your output, can you include a debdiff from Hoary->the merged version?
05:11	Keybuk	yeah, if elmo installs that on rookery <g>
05:11	mdz	good point
05:12	mdz	I've been nagging him for a week to put it on jackass :-P
05:12	elmo	err, you so haven't
05:12	elmo	anyway, it's on rookery
05:12	mdz	Oct 29 12:41:07 <mdz>   elmo: debdiff on jackass, please?
05:13	Keybuk	would you prefer debdiff from base -> {old hoary, new hoary} as well?  instead of just ordinary patch?
05:13	elmo	mdz: ... one IRC message [that I missed]  is nagging for a week?
05:13	mdz	elmo: I could dig up more :-)
05:13	mdz	Oct 26 15:25:44 <mdz>   could I get debdiff+interdiff on jackass?
05:14	Keybuk	mdz: so, this debzilla thing, what's that?
05:14	mdz	Keybuk: that's the thing which creates bugs in bugzilla based on debbugs bugs
05:14	elmo	do you want just main, or main +universe?
05:15	mdz	Keybuk: matt.zimmerman@canonical.com--2004/debzilla--mainline--0
05:16	mdz	elmo: ideally both, but filterable
05:16	mdz	e.g., mark them as main or not in the text file
05:16	mdz	so we could generate the output for universe, but not file bugs
05:17	elmo	ok
05:17	mdz	Keybuk: work for you?
05:18	Keybuk	yup
05:19	mdz	Keybuk: yeah, base->new hoary is good too
05:19	mdz	I'm hoping those will be small and easily reviewable
05:19	Kamion	has the problem that we often don't have the right base been fixed?
05:19	Keybuk	yeah, hopefully
05:19	Kamion	that bit me with a lot of the last round of merges
05:19	Keybuk	Kamion: theoretically it's seen the right base now :p
05:20	Keybuk	but yeah, I'll write some code to string ubuntu* and look on snapshot for that
05:20	Kamion	Keybuk: certainly won't've done for some of the ones I'm doing
05:20	Kamion	ok
05:20	Keybuk	string? strip!
05:20	Keybuk	that's actually easy ... the only reason I didn't do it before is because I'm fallible and didn't think of that <g>
05:20	elmo	keybuk: jackass/lorraine/needs-merged.txt
05:20	elmo	missing universe atm. but is that okay?
05:21	Keybuk	cool
05:21	Keybuk	yup
05:21	Keybuk	I assume it'll be s/main/universe/ :p
05:21	elmo	for universe ones, yes
05:22	elmo	it's "%s %s" % (pkg, component)
05:22	mdz	so I guess we'll find out in the course of doing this, how much manual work it will truly be
05:23	mdz	I think it will be fairly reasonable
05:23	mdz	but hopefully just enough to provide the necessary incentives to push our changes upstream :-)
05:23	mdz	speaking of which, herbert's kernel-package stem patch needs to go upstream
05:23	Keybuk	what are we doing wrt to the current patches, btw?
05:24	Keybuk	have they all been pushed, or do we need to push some, etc.
05:25	mdz	we don't have those figures
05:25	Kamion	I've been going over d-i stuff as I upload the merges, pushing upstream as appropriate
05:26	mdz	of course we do have a fair volume of stuff that upstream isn't going to want
05:26	mdz	maybe after hoary when we have better tools, we can do a comprehensive review and make sure that everything has been submitted upstream
05:27	Kamion	indeed, by far the greatest volume of the d-i patches is branding
05:27	mdz	maybe we'll even have someplace to store that metadata :-P
05:27	mdz	and mark patches as should-go-upstream or not
05:27	mdz	anything else to discuss as part of the meeting?
05:28	Kamion	seeds?
05:28	mdz	good call
05:28	Keybuk	I'm going to finish brutalising hct's cli today ... will work on the continual merge thing tomorrow
05:28	Kamion	(viz., having some)
05:28	mdz	should we temporarily use some other repository for the master seed lists until the wiki is fixed?
05:28	Kamion	I'm happy with a world-writable text file on rookery, personally :-)
05:28	mdz	they could be part of germinate's source tree
05:28	Keybuk	we could always use the old wiki?
05:28	Kamion	Keybuk: that might be a plan
05:29	mdz	Keybuk: only if we can enable changes on a per-page basis
05:29	mdz	what about a group-writable arch archive?
05:30	Kamion	as long as we can get at it from {my dev boxes, little, jackass} that'd work
05:30	Kamion	I don't think it should be part of germinate's source tree
05:31	mdz	is the wiki really the best place for it long-term?
05:31	mdz	maybe when we were editing it every day, it was
05:31	mdz	we can keep proposals in the wiki, and move them into the official seeds by other means
05:32	mdz	needs a change history -> arch
05:32	elmo	the nice thing about the wiki is it was a http get for germinate
05:33	elmo	or anything else that wanted to fuck around with seeds
05:33	Kamion	elmo: we can do that with arch too
05:33	mdz	a tla get isn't much different, no?
05:33	Kamion	elmo: dump a checkout on rookery
05:33	mdz	can't tla dump a file for you in one step?
05:34	elmo	Kamion: yeah, true
05:34	mdz	even if not, a checkout isn't a big deal, I suppose
05:34	Kamion	fewer dependencies would be good, but I don't see a problem with having a cronned tla update on people/~cjwatson/seeds/ or whatever
05:34	mdz	I don't see a problem with germinate doing a tla get
05:34	Kamion	it's slow enough already :P
05:35	mdz	yeah, exactly :-)
05:35	mdz	what should we call the archive?
05:35	Kamion	and where should it go? do we want non-canonical staff to be able to write to it?
05:36	Kamion	(I assume the answer is "eventually, yes")
05:36	mdz	right
05:36	mdz	but it isn't a big deal if they can't quite yet
05:36	mdz	it's not something which changes often, and we can propagate things easily enough when there's a consensus
05:36	Kamion	so just chinstrap as before then, I guess
05:36	mdz	yeah
05:37	mdz	more a question of a personal archive vs. something else
05:37	mdz	Kamion: fine with me if you want to keep them in your archive next to germinate
05:37	Kamion	ubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com/seeds--warty--0 etc.?
05:37	Kamion	mdz: that's a bit technically awkward for group-writability, because my archive on chinstrap is only a mirror
05:38	Kamion	and y'all don't have logins on my home server
05:38	mdz	ah, separate then, I suppose
05:38	mdz	does anyone know if we have an official naming scheme for public archives from the arch guys?
05:38	Keybuk	we do for imports, yes
05:38	mdz	anything which we could apply here as well, for consistency?
05:39	Keybuk	<product>@arch.ubuntu.com[--<source>-<year>] /<source>--<branch>--<version>
05:39	Keybuk	Kamion's idea seemed sound to me
05:39	mdz	the ubuntu-devel one?
05:39	Keybuk	yeah
05:40	mdz	works for me
05:40	Kamion	if there are no objections, I can create that after the meeting, import warty's seeds, and tag them onto hoary
05:40	mdz	we can always change it if the arch secret police object
05:40	mdz	Kamion: sounds good
05:40	mdz	we have a bunch of seed changes to review and effect
05:41	mdz	I have a list from the kickoff meeting
05:41	mdz	and I believe there is stuff in the wiki for hoary
05:42	mdz	arything else to discuss?
05:42	Keybuk	not from me
05:43	mdz	ok, adjourned
05:44	mdz	thanks, guys

</pre>
