{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''4th''' meeting of the '''Mozilla Team''', starting at 18:00 GMT and finishing at 19:05 GMT

== Attendance ==

Please type PRESENT at the start of the meeting to ensure we are all clear who is online and paying attention.
Active Atendees:
* JohnVivirito - I should be here.
* AlexLatchford
* DavidFarning
* Freddy Martinez -- I may be there, have to study
* BrianThomason - I have a flight in the afternoon but should be there 
* AlexanderSack - will be gone at about 1850 UTC

== Agenda ==
When adding an agenda item please "sign" it by leaving your name next to it. If you won't be attending the meeting please also spell out your item in detail, otherwise we can't fruitfully discuss it.
 
Items we will be discussing:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">Item
| Presenter
|-
| Approve <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam/Governance]]</nowiki>
| DavidFarning
|-
| Approve <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam/Membership]]</nowiki>
| DavidFarning
|-
| Approve <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam/Upstream]]</nowiki>
| DavidFarning
|-
| Accessibility testing and issues, where we can help.
| AlexLatchford
|-
| Extension / Theme policy
| FreddyMartinez
|-
| GUI Consistency. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.beta.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox/+bug/42263|Bug 42263]]</nowiki>
| AlexLatchford
|-
| Dapper / Fx 2.0 policy <nowiki>[[https://beta.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox/+bug/89704|Bug 89704]]</nowiki>
| Freddy Martinez
|-
| Greasemonkey script maintainer wanted
| AlexanderSack
|}

== Minutes ==

* Approve <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam/Governance]]</nowiki>
** Approved with dfarning, asac, gnomefreak, AlexLatchford, Admiral_Chicago and hjmf as start up members until end of Feisty+1 Development Cycle.
* Approve <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam/Membership]]</nowiki>
** Blocked, dfarning to talk to jono about making it flexible so it is a middle ground between 'new person friendly' & 'QA'.
* Approve <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam/Upstream]]</nowiki>
** Blocked, needs more discussion on the mailing list before this can be approved.
* Accessibility testing and issues, where we can help.
** The team has now been made aware of the procedures in place, have any queries please discuss on mailing list.
* Extension / Theme policy
** Approved, Freddy to flesh out extension list page and then post to mailing list for additions & approval at next meeting for structure.
* GUI Consistency. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.beta.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox/+bug/42263|Bug 42263]]</nowiki>
** Blocked, will be discussed at next meeting as asac was unavailable
** gnomefreak believes it is unneeded.
* Dapper / Fx 2.0 policy <nowiki>[[https://beta.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox/+bug/89704|Bug 89704]]</nowiki>
** Already answered with.. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DapperFirefoxSupport|this]]</nowiki>.
* Greasemonkey script maintainer wanted.
** Blocked, Will be evaluated once Extension/Theme list is started.

== Any Other Business ==

* gnomefreak: ok anyone going through bugs please assign edgy retraces to me. 
  
== IRC LOGS ==

<pre>
07:00	Admiral_Chicago	he won't be back until 18.30
07:00	gnomefreak	me too
07:00	asac	ready
07:00	tonyyarusso	Have an agenda link handy?
07:00	gnomefreak	Admiral_Chicago: what to chair?
07:00	gnomefreak	tonyyarusso: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam/Meetings
07:01	Admiral_Chicago	gnomefreak: no thank you, i have to be in and out due to school reponsibilities
07:02	dfarning	gnomefreak, you are the one with experience;)
07:02	AlexLatchford	meh?
07:02	gnomefreak	thanks but im in middle of something atm if someone wants to start
07:02	gnomefreak	dfarning: your up first anyway iirc
07:02	AlexLatchford	Okay ill chair
07:02	gnomefreak	ty AlexLatchford
07:02	dfarning	ty
07:03	AlexLatchford	dfarning: Approve MozillaTeam/Governance
07:03	dfarning	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam/Governance
07:03	gnomefreak	btw we dont have council page so i changed it
07:03	dfarning	Wanted to formally approve this
07:03	gnomefreak	but i see you found out :)
07:03	dfarning	ty
07:04	AlexLatchford	Personally I have no problems with the Council at the moment
07:04	AlexLatchford	the document as it stands is great
07:04	gnomefreak	+1
07:04	AlexLatchford	Maybe the whole 2 weeks meeting should be changed to monthly
07:04	gnomefreak	oh crap
07:04	asac	monthly is better i guess
07:05	dfarning	ok things were busy busy last month;)
07:05	dfarning	1 per month
07:05	Admiral_Chicago	+1
07:05	AlexLatchford	well we can call one if we need one in between
07:05	gnomefreak	+1 unless needed otherwise
07:05	AlexLatchford	+1
07:05	AlexLatchford	who is on the Council so we know?
07:05	dfarning	nominate asac, john, alex, and freddy
07:05	AlexLatchford	I nominate dfarning
07:06	AlexLatchford	do we need CC approval?
07:06	Admiral_Chicago	i would nominate hilario
07:06	asac	don't know
07:06	dfarning	talk to johno we are ok
07:06	Admiral_Chicago	err i nominate hilario as well
07:06	gnomefreak	no we wouldnt really
07:06	dfarning	talked
07:06	dfarning	very clear we are under cc
07:06	gnomefreak	correct
07:06	AlexLatchford	hmm okay
07:07	gnomefreak	we need to decide on couuncil since
07:07	dfarning	??
07:07	gnomefreak	wow wtf was that
07:07	Admiral_Chicago	So to be clear, the council would take effect immedietly?
07:08	Admiral_Chicago	and last until feisty+1 came out?
07:08	dfarning	yes until feisty comes out in a couple of wee
07:08	gnomefreak	Admiral_Chicago: not as of now with new nominations
07:08	AlexLatchford	erm, well we have nominations for dfarning, AlexLatchford, gnomefreak, Admiral_Chicago, asac and hjmf
07:08	dfarning	I fine with that
07:09	AlexLatchford	cool, anyone know if hjmf has a problem with this?
07:09	Admiral_Chicago	ditto
07:09	gnomefreak	thats fine. has anyone checked with hjmf?
07:09	AlexLatchford	as I dont believe he is here
07:09	gnomefreak	he left a little while ago
07:09	dfarning	he is pretty busy with school
07:09	Admiral_Chicago	hes afk.
07:09	Admiral_Chicago	from what i recalll
07:09	AlexLatchford	aha okay, ewll we can include him and if his status changes we can rethink
07:09	AlexLatchford	+1 on all candidates
07:09	dfarning	+1
07:10	gnomefreak	i say we finish that up on ML
07:10	asac	+1 (though a pretty large group imo) :)
07:10	Admiral_Chicago	+1
07:10	dfarning	ok finish on ML
07:10	AlexLatchford	okay, dfarning can you make a new LP.net team and add the various members?
07:11	dfarning	yes
07:11	gnomefreak	if i remember i will send out a post to list
07:11	AlexLatchford	okay, thanks john
07:11	gnomefreak	yw
07:11	AlexLatchford	Next: Approve MozillaTeam/Membership
07:11	dfarning	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam/Membership
07:11	AlexLatchford	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam/Membership
07:12	dfarning	I would like to postpone until i talk more with jono
07:12	dfarning	new person friendly vs QA is hard;(
07:12	AlexLatchford	yeah you have a point there
07:13	gnomefreak	agreed dfarning you gonna handle talking to jono?
07:13	dfarning	I will do so
07:13	gnomefreak	i may have something else for you to run by him if i cant find elkbuntu
07:13	dfarning	ok
07:13	AlexLatchford	okay
07:13	dfarning	next?
07:14	AlexLatchford	-1 on Membership Wiki, postpone to next meeting
07:14	AlexLatchford	you again david
07:14	AlexLatchford	Approve MozillaTeam/Upstream
07:14	Admiral_Chicago	-1
07:14	Admiral_Chicago	err membership
07:14	dfarning	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam/Upstream
07:14	AlexLatchford	lol Freddy
07:15	asac	postpone
07:15	asac	ups
07:15	asac	late :)
07:15	gnomefreak	why -1?
07:15	asac	about membership ;)
07:15	dfarning	asac, what are your thoughts?
07:16	gnomefreak	im happy with postponing it until david speaks with jono
07:16	asac	the document is good, but i don't know if we need a official policy for that
07:17	dfarning	I would like to set a standard of behavior
07:17	dfarning	that other can depend on
07:17	dfarning	others
07:17	dfarning	so they know we will not send crap/spam
07:17	asac	ah ok
=== gnomefreak wants to stop what has happned the past week with triaging
07:18	dfarning	exactly;(
07:18	asac	patches should only be pushed upstream as well as bugs
07:18	asac	after being reviewed by someone experienced imo
07:18	asac	if that is in that document then its fine
07:18	asac	its important not to stress upstream relationship ... as you said with "crap/spam"
07:19	AlexLatchford	Personally I feel the document needs a little more work before it should be approved
07:19	dfarning	i'll add that
07:19	dfarning	AlexLatchford, what other work?
07:19	gnomefreak	lets get up with jono see what he says than add it to agenda after wiki is fixed in jonos idea of it
07:19	AlexLatchford	Saying who to contact to confirm patches, I am on the team but do not know much about Patches
07:20	AlexLatchford	for instance..
07:20	Admiral_Chicago	i think we need to be more visible so people don't do work outside of our policies
07:20	gnomefreak	asac: would be the contact maybe david also?
07:20	AlexLatchford	Admiral_Chicago: True
=== gnomefreak not good with patches but i can apply them for testing
07:21	Admiral_Chicago	for example, having to go and undo peoples tagging after we set a tag library
07:21	dfarning	I have been trying to be an admin contact letting you guys do all the tech stuff
07:21	gnomefreak	dfarning: tagging closing remarking ect...
07:21	asac	gnomefreak: contact for upstream bug review?
07:22	dfarning	ok with this in mind i'll rewrite and ask for more feed back on ML
07:22	AlexLatchford	+1 on dfarning's suggestion
07:22	gnomefreak	remarking example = after full crash report is attached people are "please install -dbg and run backtrace" or " not enough info closing..."
07:22	asac	ok .... action: improve upstream directions
07:23	Admiral_Chicago	+1 to a rewrite as well
07:23	AlexLatchford	Yes, it still needs a bit more discussion in my eyes
07:23	AlexLatchford	on the mailing list
07:23	dfarning	next?
07:23	asac	Admiral_Chicago: about the visibility
07:23	asac	there is a general debuggingprocedures page
07:23	asac	which links to our policy
07:23	AlexLatchford	Next: Extension / Theme policy - Admiral_Chicago
07:24	Admiral_Chicago	doesn't mean people read it
07:24	asac	bug triagers should read that page from time to time ... though they probably don't do
07:24	Admiral_Chicago	i mean in the community
07:24	asac	yes
07:24	AlexLatchford	maybe we can link it in from the Bugsquad page..
07:24	gnomefreak	they dont they are using -bugs responces
07:24	asac	i am working on convincing lp folks for adding special hints for packages
07:24	Admiral_Chicago	well i put this agenda item to be clear about which themes / extensions we can support
07:25	asac	like: bugs for this package are processed following procedures on http://xxx
07:25	gnomefreak	so far only what we have afaik
07:25	Admiral_Chicago	as I know of, we have a handful of themes and extensions in the repositories
07:26	dfarning	I did have enough tech knowledge to determine why we were packaging certain extensions
07:26	dfarning	did not
07:26	gnomefreak	asac: should we get a list and go one by one down list to see what ones would be worth adding for feisty+1 (somehow i doubt they will end up in feisty)
07:26	asac	please lets not add more to feisty
07:26	asac	others that crash
07:26	Admiral_Chicago	so i suggest we build a library of supported packages
07:26	asac	feisty is pretty late
07:26	gnomefreak	asac: thats why i said feisty+1 :)
07:26	asac	sorry :)
07:26	asac	sure
07:27	asac	anyway, i guess there are only a few extensions are valid candidates
07:27	AlexLatchford	Well, which extensions are we going to include, how do we decide?
07:27	Admiral_Chicago	once we get a valid bug report, those would have to be pushed upstream
07:27	gnomefreak	Admiral_Chicago: get a list of what you are thinking we support and add it to agenda for future meeting (IMHO) i have one nad asac had one we were looking into
07:27	dfarning	I am thinking remove unless there is a good reason to keep
07:28	asac	yes ... good reason: extension is really popular; ubuntu specific; or uses native component
07:28	dfarning	asac,  +1
07:28	AlexLatchford	+1 for me
07:28	gnomefreak	dfarning: i would rather in respect to community add some extensions/themes but only ones that can erally provide help and are throughly checked out
07:28	asac	native components are really rare ... so there should be only a handful in the end
07:28	dfarning	not becaue a MOTU thinks it would be a good place to start packaging
07:28	dfarning	;(
07:29	asac	dfarning: imo we cannot do much, but deny that we will take care for them
07:29	gnomefreak	colorzilla == popular but imho crap since it is cause of alot of crashes
07:29	AlexLatchford	so what action are we taking?
07:29	asac	if they add such packages, packagers have to take care on bug triage alone
07:29	Admiral_Chicago	could we assign them back to the packager?
07:29	asac	colorzilla qualifies by "native component" which is why it crashes :)
07:29	gnomefreak	ah
07:29	asac	however colorzilla has not been released under free license
07:30	asac	so not yet a valid candidate
07:30	AlexLatchford	so what action are we taking?
07:30	dfarning	I'll post something to MOTU ML for consideration
07:30	asac	Admiral_Chicago: yes you can assign back to packager
07:30	AlexLatchford	are we going to make a list of extensions that are working, etc..
07:30	Admiral_Chicago	no i mean, let them deal with the bug reports
07:30	asac	don't know ... document which extensions qualify for mozilla team support
07:30	gnomefreak	mine has but i dont know where to even think about beginning on that one since i couldnt find the files we were looking for and i think i have since made it go away
07:30	asac	e.g. by guidelines i posted above
07:30	Admiral_Chicago	AlexLatchford: i was hoping we could get a list of extensions we support.
07:31	dfarning	would can do the list
07:31	gnomefreak	Admiral_Chicago: i would say start there
07:31	AlexLatchford	Admiral_Chicago: could you flesh out a wiki page and then post it to the ML for discussion?
07:31	Admiral_Chicago	AlexLatchford: can do chief
07:31	asac	Admiral_Chicago: i think we should decide if request pops up ... we can of course screen what is currently in archive and say "yes or no"
07:31	AlexLatchford	ta
07:31	gnomefreak	maybe on your rounds in irc look for what people like and use but try not to ask in support channels
07:32	Admiral_Chicago	yes
07:32	AlexLatchford	well look for bug reports, only package extensions that do not work without it
07:32	gnomefreak	im guessing we have a bit of time on that but would be good to have around feisty's release
07:32	Admiral_Chicago	i'll get a wiki going, send it to the ML, maybe post on the planet about it
07:32	gnomefreak	k
07:32	AlexLatchford	good idea
07:32	asac	k
07:32	dfarning	Admiral_Chicago, +1
07:33	AlexLatchford	Next: Greasemonkey script maintainer wanted - asac
07:33	gnomefreak	lol
07:33	asac	its just a request
07:33	asac	if someone knows .js
07:33	asac	and wants to improve life for us all :)
07:33	AlexLatchford	meh fair enough
07:33	gnomefreak	+1 for asac as maintainer ;) j/k
07:33	AlexLatchford	thought I would link it
07:33	asac	otherwise, i will try to do at some point
07:33	AlexLatchford	lol
07:33	Admiral_Chicago	i know a little java but not too much
07:33	gnomefreak	i havent looked at it yet
07:33	gnomefreak	Admiral_Chicago: its JS not so much java
07:33	asac	its just javascript
07:33	asac	like you do in html pages
07:33	gnomefreak	JS is easier
07:34	Admiral_Chicago	eh.
07:34	asac	maybe lets open a task page :) ... to add such jobs that still have no owner :)
07:34	gnomefreak	i remember bits and peices from classes i took in java. we had to work with some JS
07:34	AlexLatchford	asac: +1
07:34	gnomefreak	asac: +1
07:34	dfarning	got one on /Roadmap
07:34	AlexLatchford	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam/Roadmap
07:35	AlexLatchford	add it to the Roadmap Tasks
07:35	gnomefreak	btw everyone stay i have something to ask at end of meeting :)
07:35	Admiral_Chicago	will do gnomefreak
07:35	AlexLatchford	okay, next?
07:35	dfarning	next?
07:35	asac	ok maybe make another table for tasks that need a maintainer?
07:35	Admiral_Chicago	wait, we skipped AlexLatchford 's big
07:35	asac	i think we are through
07:35	Admiral_Chicago	bug*
07:35	asac	oh
07:35	AlexLatchford	Next: Dapper / Fx 2.0 policy [WWW]  Bug 89704 - Admiral_Chicago
07:35	Ubugtu	Malone bug 89704 in firefox "No backport of Firefox 2.o to Dapper" [Undecided,Needs info]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/89704
07:36	AlexLatchford	Admiral_Chicago: yeah we are not going in order, my points are not High on the list
07:36	gnomefreak	thats stated in bug
07:36	Admiral_Chicago	asac: maybe you can say something about out 1.5 policy
07:36	gnomefreak	there isnt much we can do with it
07:36	Admiral_Chicago	our*
07:36	dfarning	Asac can you write a faq on why we can build 2.0 on dapper
07:36	AlexLatchford	Yes I read the response from cjwatson
07:36	asac	ah
07:36	dfarning	cann't
07:36	asac	look at the bug
07:36	gnomefreak	dfarning: the upgrade page shouyld be fine for htat
07:36	asac	its already done
07:36	gnomefreak	that
07:36	asac	we posted official wiki page
07:37	asac	that states how we approach dapper long term security
07:37	dfarning	where, I missed that;(
07:37	asac	see comment from colin
07:37	Admiral_Chicago	looking now
07:37	gnomefreak	http://wiki.ubuntu.com/DapperFirefoxSupport
07:37	Admiral_Chicago	the Beta LP page is slower than molasses
07:37	asac	yes thats the content
07:38	gnomefreak	Admiral_Chicago: yes i know but i think because everyone went looking at it
07:38	dfarning	reading
07:38	AlexLatchford	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam/FAQ
07:38	AlexLatchford	have added this for now
07:38	asac	good
07:39	AlexLatchford	So this issue is sorted...
07:39	Admiral_Chicago	alright
07:39	dfarning	sound good
07:39	asac	should be ... official statement exists
07:39	AlexLatchford	Next: Accessibility testing and issues, where we can help...
07:39	asac	e.g. canonical statement
07:39	Admiral_Chicago	gnomefreak: no, i think in general
07:39	AlexLatchford	This is more of a 'Be Aware' than a discussion point
07:40	Admiral_Chicago	the beta page is just slow...
07:40	gnomefreak	Admiral_Chicago: its not slow for me anymore
07:40	Admiral_Chicago	maybe its my network, i'll test at home
=== asac agrees that beta is slow
07:40	gnomefreak	agreed in most cases is
07:40	gnomefreak	moving on?
07:40	AlexLatchford	Next: Accessibility testing and issues, where we can help...
07:40	AlexLatchford	This is more of a 'Be Aware' than a discussion point
07:40	asac	i have no idea about accessibility
07:41	dfarning	me neither;(
07:41	asac	i don't like this
07:41	AlexLatchford	Basically the Accessibility Team has been working hard on Orca in Firefox to make sure it actually works
07:41	gnomefreak	me neither to both comments
07:41	asac	but someone who knows should setup some introduction on something
07:41	dfarning	I'll look into in
07:41	asac	e.g. what tools are used for what
07:41	asac	etc.
07:41	AlexLatchford	well Orca is the main program
07:41	AlexLatchford	currently they are implementing colour filters for the colour blind I believe
07:41	gnomefreak	AlexLatchford: is it orcas issues or ff?
07:41	dfarning	I'll ask the ocra guy for a introduction to the issues
07:41	Admiral_Chicago	afaik, orca has a lot of problems building
07:41	AlexLatchford	Well it is Orca issues that will probably be reported to Firefox
07:42	asac	if its a firefox specific issue, someone who knows should probably come up with some details
07:42	gnomefreak	IMHO orca should be filed against orca
07:42	AlexLatchford	Well, this is what we are trying to discover, we need to work closely with them as sometimes it is their bug and sometimes it is ours
07:43	dfarning	I'll start the discussion
07:43	asac	sure ... they should just join us :) ... at least from time to time
07:43	AlexLatchford	but if you see a bug that you believe is Accessibility related, say if it only occuring with Orca enabled
07:43	AlexLatchford	yeah, i will invite Henrik to the next meeting
07:43	Admiral_Chicago	he was at our last one iirc.
07:43	AlexLatchford	..then tag it 'Accessibility' and also subscribe the Accessibility Team to the bug
07:43	asac	haven't seen any ... maybe orca people can do us a favor and search our bts for orca issues?
07:43	AlexLatchford	Admiral_Chicago: yes he was
07:44	gnomefreak	my point being we have more than enough bugs to spread out to 35 teams and still not be fixed by end of year why add more if its not related to fx or tb
07:44	AlexLatchford	gnomefreak: this is what I am saying, we need to reassign it when it is an issue..
07:44	asac	yes ... if its not related, its not our problem
07:44	asac	reassign
07:44	AlexLatchford	as we cannot fix it
07:45	AlexLatchford	it is more of a be aware of this problem
07:45	AlexLatchford	than what we need to do
07:45	asac	ok :)
07:45	gnomefreak	AlexLatchford: you have the link to them as tagged still on the tags wiki right?
07:45	AlexLatchford	Believe so
07:45	AlexLatchford	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MozillaTeam/Bugs/Tags
07:45	gnomefreak	dfarning: who are you planning on talking to?
07:46	gnomefreak	btw ther eis only 1
07:46	AlexLatchford	Well I have emailed the Accessibility list
07:46	dfarning	who ever know anything about accessability:)
07:46	AlexLatchford	and they are kind of aware of the problem, the response I got back was a little quiet
07:46	gnomefreak	lol dfarning
07:46	gnomefreak	ok who has free time this week
07:46	AlexLatchford	ill investigate this more
07:46	gnomefreak	lets kill all birds ;) with this
07:46	AlexLatchford	as I started it
07:47	dfarning	ubutnu accessability, firefox accessibilty, ...
07:47	AlexLatchford	Okay.. moving on?
07:47	gnomefreak	asac: any patches/testing need to be done this week?
07:47	gnomefreak	AlexLatchford: one sec please
07:47	AlexLatchford	okay
=== gnomefreak thinking outloud
07:48	dfarning	did the apport patch make it?
07:48	asac	gnomefreak: not yet :)
07:48	asac	^^ about patches/testing that needs to be done
07:48	gnomefreak	asac: ok i need someone else with me on bug triaging this week. start at one end and work your way through tagging them and assigning them
07:49	AlexLatchford	I have added the testing repository to my sources.list
07:49	gnomefreak	s/asac/everyone
=== dfarning can do 2 hour per day
07:49	asac	it might be a bit tricky to install testing repository versions for the first time
07:49	gnomefreak	it seems like we got caught up with other things nad forgot about it
07:49	asac	after that they should automatically upgrade
=== dfarning wil have a lot of questions
07:49	gnomefreak	dfarning: thats fine.
07:49	gnomefreak	dfarning: ill be here most of day during week
07:50	asac	okay ... are we through
07:50	asac	??
07:50	dfarning	sounds good
07:50	gnomefreak	dfarning: just remember crash report/edgy/coredump please assign to me
07:50	dfarning	ok
07:50	AlexLatchford	Next: GUI Consistency. [WWW]  Bug 42263
07:50	Ubugtu	Malone bug 42263 in firefox "Toolbar display should be "Icons and text" for consistency" [Wishlist,Confirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/42263
07:50	gnomefreak	ick still on that one
07:50	AlexLatchford	meh?
=== gnomefreak likes the icons without text.
07:51	AlexLatchford	well there is an option to turn it off
07:51	gnomefreak	hover mouse over it and text is there
07:51	AlexLatchford	agreed, but it is more for consistency
07:51	dfarning	we may want to postpone this one
07:51	dfarning	talk of mozilla starting a linux gui group
07:51	AlexLatchford	Really?
07:52	gnomefreak	you can add text fairly easy
07:52	Admiral_Chicago	yes postpone it.
07:52	dfarning	so all distros can work together to improve interface on gtk kde
07:52	AlexLatchford	gnomefreak: I know, but it is more of a consistency across the desktop
07:52	AlexLatchford	TB, Nautilus, gEdit all use Text too
07:53	Admiral_Chicago	Konqueror doesn't
07:53	AlexLatchford	*rolls eyes*
07:53	gnomefreak	asac: ?
07:54	Riddell	Admiral_Chicago: doesn't what?
07:54	AlexLatchford	Personally it wouldn't bother me too much if the change was made
07:54	gnomefreak	Riddell: have text and icons
07:54	Riddell	gnomefreak: it does in KDE 4
07:54	AlexLatchford	as default?
07:54	Riddell	yes
07:54	gnomefreak	yes
07:55	AlexLatchford	well if we are after consistency I really think the change needs to be made, but whether or not we wait until Feisty+1 for it if we need more debate time..
07:55	gnomefreak	we should beablet o change it with very little feedback from mozilla but im opposed to the change personally. it just adds one more thing to slow fx down
07:55	asac	sorry ... have no time ... tel conference
07:56	gnomefreak	asac: k
07:56	Admiral_Chicago	i meant in 3.5.6.
07:56	gnomefreak	ok lets posepone this than wait for asac feedback on it
07:56	dfarning	ok
07:56	AlexLatchford	gnomefreak: agreed
07:56	gnomefreak	Admiral_Chicago: text is off there
07:56	Admiral_Chicago	i know that is one thing that has been worked on
07:56	gnomefreak	it should be as simple as a option in rules during ./configure
07:57	gnomefreak	but im not positive on that
07:57	AlexLatchford	just fired up OOo and it doesn't use text
07:57	Admiral_Chicago	to be fair, we have to realize we are packaging from MF, it is really up to them
07:57	AlexLatchford	maybe this is a decision the TechBoard should take
07:57	Admiral_Chicago	the best we can do is file upstream
07:57	gnomefreak	MF? and please dont say what i think you mean
07:57	Admiral_Chicago	Mozilla Foundation...
07:58	gnomefreak	oh ok good :)
07:58	Admiral_Chicago	haha.
07:58	dfarning	this it for meeting?
07:58	gnomefreak	but again ITS A UBUNTU CHANGE afaik
07:58	gnomefreak	not mozillas
07:58	AlexLatchford	well that change will never be included in Firefox default, but we can change it in Ubuntu Firefox
07:59	Admiral_Chicago	really? hmm, we may need to look at that
07:59	gnomefreak	we had one more i think
07:59	dfarning	all ubuntu changes need mozilla approval
07:59	dfarning	to keep trademark
07:59	AlexLatchford	gnomefreak: we have done everything on the list
07:59	gnomefreak	dfarning: its provided as a ./configure option i think
07:59	gnomefreak	AlexLatchford: ah ok goodie
07:59	AlexLatchford	lol what do you have to say..
07:59	dfarning	ok
07:59	gnomefreak	ok anyone going through bugs please assign edgy retraces to me
08:00	dfarning	ok
08:00	AlexLatchford	okay
08:00	gnomefreak	i want to get them out asap
08:00	AlexLatchford	We have any news of Thunderbird-dbg
08:00	gnomefreak	and since i cant always be here that doesnt mean im not infront of pc
08:00	gnomefreak	dfarning: thats your department
08:00	gnomefreak	what email was i going to write? :(
08:00	gnomefreak	council?
08:01	dfarning	Are we still missing the latest build -dbgsym
08:01	Admiral_Chicago	gnomefreak: will do if i see any
08:01	dfarning	for tb
08:01	gnomefreak	dfarning: we have no tb-dbg or dbgsym for edgy at all there is a dbg-sym for feisty i think
08:01	AlexLatchford	dfarning: I am running Feisty and there is no Thunderbird-dbg package
08:01	dfarning	ill follow up with martin
=== dfarning wonders what is going wrong
08:02	AlexLatchford	maybe I am looking in the wrong place..
08:02	gnomefreak	mozilla-thunderbird-dbgsym in feisty
08:02	gnomefreak	AlexLatchford: add universe and multiverse restricted to pittis repo :)
08:03	gnomefreak	its in main
08:03	AlexLatchford	I need pitti's own repository?
08:03	tonyyarusso	What is dbgsym?
08:03	gnomefreak	for the dbgsym you do
08:03	AlexLatchford	gnomefreak: aha okay, this is probably why it is not showing
08:03	gnomefreak	they are debugging symbols for packages
08:03	tonyyarusso	ah
08:03	gnomefreak	AlexLatchford: its not dbg so you cant get backtrace with it
08:04	dfarning	they are the debug symbols striped out of the executables
08:04	AlexLatchford	hmm okay
08:05	gnomefreak	ok are we done i need a smoke
08:05	AlexLatchford	Meeting Closed I guess
08:05	AlexLatchford	thanks guys
08:05	gnomefreak	:)
08:05	gnomefreak	ty
08:05	dfarning	adjourn
</pre>
----
CategoryMozillaTeam
