{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

TZ UTC+1
<pre>
09:56	P235	How often does the group have meetings?
09:58	lophyte	P235: we're gonna try to make them monthly
09:59	P235	Aw...so much for my good timing.  I'll sign up for the mailing list then.  Have a good day everyone.
09:59	lophyte	you too :)
10:01	lophyte	who's here for the ubuntu canada meeting?
10:02	Skapi_	I am :)
10:03	lophyte	hehe, only you? :P
10:04	lophyte	anyone else?
10:07	futz48	wow! pretty interesting meeting...
10:07	lophyte	indeed
10:07	futz48	don't all talk at once
10:08	despot32	yeah that could be hard to follow
10:08	lophyte	I'm waiting for more people to show up before beginning
10:08	futz48	k
10:08	lophyte	most importantly the ubuntu canada leader
10:09	futz48	I'm new to this group thing - what is the purpose of local groups?
10:09	despot32	to group locally
10:09	futz48	or whatever they're called
10:09	lophyte	local community teams more or less serve the purpose of local advocacy and support
10:09	futz48	clubs, like?
10:09	futz48	oh, ok
10:09	lophyte	and in most countries they also work on localization/translations
10:10	lophyte	http://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeams for more info :)
10:10	despot32	i do not think i can join. i am not sufficiently loco :(
10:10	lophyte	lol
10:10	futz48	so we should, like, translate, eh? ya hoser :-D
10:10	lophyte	haha
10:11	lophyte	"You reallywant to close Firefox, eh?"
10:11	lophyte	that'd be pretty funny
10:11	futz48	hehehe
10:11	futz48	"This might take a while. Go get a beer."
10:12	despot32	foreach $line ($manpages) { $manpages-ca .= ", eh?"; }
10:12	lophyte	lmao
10:14	lophyte	my CPU load graph looks like a sine wave
10:14	despot32	i don't look at my cpu load graph. that would use too much cpu
10:14	lophyte	lol
10:15	lophyte	okay, well I suppose we should start then
10:15	lophyte	doesn't look like anyone else is going to show up
10:15	lophyte	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Meetings
10:15	lophyte	that's our agenda
10:17	lophyte	perhaps we should start by introducing ourselves.. all 4 of us
10:17	darkenergy	uh, I'm seeing 87 members ...
10:17	lophyte	okay, perhaps 5..
10:18	lophyte	most people in here are idling and aren't here for our meeting
10:18	lophyte	anywho
10:19	lophyte	I'm Dave, it looks like I'll be heading up the meeting.. I'm currently leading the Toronto subgroup of Ubuntu Canada
10:19	lophyte	hey jamon
10:19	lophyte	welcome
10:19	jamonation	hi
10:19	jamonation	just starting?
10:19	lophyte	yup
10:19	Skapi_	I'm Skapi, hailing from Richmond, BC
10:19	lophyte	Corey hasn't shown up
10:19	futz48	futz from Ladner, BC
10:19	lophyte	welcome guys :)
10:20	despot32	alex, waterloo ontario
10:20	darkenergy	I'm Blaine.   Occasionally join in the Toronto meetings...
10:20	lophyte	ahh.. hey Blaine :)
10:20	darkenergy	:D
10:20	jamonation	jamon, usu. found working in cahoots with lophyte
10:20	lophyte	hehe
10:20	lophyte	welcome  everyone
10:21	jamonation	there a link to the agenda for this meeting on the wiki?
10:21	lophyte	yup
10:21	lophyte	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Meetings
10:21	jamonation	ty
10:21	lophyte	before we begin, does anyone have any questions about the meeting or the team?
10:21	despot32	i do. where is the coffee
10:22	lophyte	haha
10:22	lophyte	I bet in your kitchen
10:22	futz48	in the grinder hopper
10:22	despot32	yeah it is, but it's like 2 days old. screw that
10:22	lophyte	lol
10:22	darkenergy	I've got tea.
10:23	lophyte	no questions from anyone?
10:23	despot32	no legitimate questions
10:23	darkenergy	onward with the question about the Cdn site?
10:23	futz48	yer gonna have to lead on
10:23	lophyte	sounds good
10:24	lophyte	Ubuntu Canada was recently approved by the Ubuntu Community Council as an *official* local community team
10:24	lophyte	as such, this gives us access to a few benefits
10:24	lophyte	one being that we get a shipment of 500 CDs for every release
10:24	lophyte	another being that we have access to Canonical web hosting
10:24	jamonation	shell access?
10:24	lophyte	I'm not sure what sort of access we have to it
10:25	lophyte	I just know that we can host our site on Canonical's servers
10:25	despot32	how local exactly can communities get?
10:25	despot32	cause i mean, Canada's quite the community
10:25	darkenergy	lol
10:25	despot32	can we do Ubuntu Siberia next?
10:26	lophyte	its suggested that you have a LoCo for a country, and then subgroups of it
10:26	lophyte	so, there is an ubuntu-us with subgroups (such as ubuntu-chicago) of it
10:26	darkenergy	does the site need to be moved?   is the current hosting a problem?
10:26	despot32	oh, okay. that makes sense.
10:26	lophyte	its currently hosted on an old box in Burgundavia's basement
10:26	jamonation	makes distributing 500cds difficult...
10:26	darkenergy	ie. does it have limited bandwidth, transfer caps etc
10:26	darkenergy	ah
10:26	lophyte	Burgundavia being the leader of ubuntu canada ;)
10:27	lophyte	so it'd be preferable to move it to Canonical's servers
10:27	jamonation	so there is a question as to moving it? why wouldn't we?
10:27	jamonation	faster, more reliable
10:27	darkenergy	righto
10:27	lophyte	no, that's not the question.. we are moving it
10:27	jamonation	good
10:27	lophyte	the question thats put forth to the Canadian community.. what would you like to see
10:27	ReK_`laptop`	hello all, sorry im late
10:27	lophyte	what would you like to see on ubuntu.ca/ubuntu-ca.org*
10:27	jamonation	the CMS is the question then
10:28	darkenergy	oh, lets figure out what before how
10:28	lophyte	yup.. Brian Burger, the current webmaster, wants to put a CMS on it so that community members can volunteer as editors and news posters
10:28	jamonation	well, looks like ubuntu australia is using drupal
10:28	lophyte	also suggested was a "Planet Ubuntu Canada," which is basically a news aggregator which pulls content from Canadian members' blogs
10:29	jamonation	waht are other LoCo teams using? planet aggregation?
10:29	despot32	i like that idea.
10:29	darkenergy	and are their going to be subsections for locals groups?
10:29	lophyte	darkenergy: most likely... Brian mentioned having a ubuntu.ca/toronto for example
10:29	lophyte	or toronto.ubuntu.ca depending on what kind of access we get to DNS
10:30	jamonation	would that mean changes to mailman or is that hosted elsewhere?
10:30	despot32	if you can get wildcard dns enabled you could just use a rewrite to map that
10:30	lophyte	jamonation: mailman is hosted by Canonical already
10:30	lophyte	lists.ubuntu.com
10:30	jamonation	it would be nice to have an archive of emails on the site, with comments enabled
10:30	darkenergy	probably just as easy to organize the subgroups in the CMS
10:30	jamonation	sorta like gmane, but integrated into whatever other CMS we use
10:31	lophyte	ReK_`laptop`: btw, welcome... our agenda is here: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Meetings
10:31	ReK_`laptop`	thanks
10:31	lophyte	jamonation: good idea
10:31	jamonation	are the 2 or 3 people that volunteered to help with the site present?
10:31	lophyte	kind of like a forum-style interface to the mailing list
10:31	jamonation	yeah
10:31	lophyte	I don't think so
10:32	ReK_`laptop`	im one of them
10:32	jamonation	i think drupal has a mailman module too ;)
10:32	lophyte	ah
10:32	lophyte	I know that when we launched ubuntutoronto.org on Drupal, Corey had issues with it.. we'll have to talk to him
10:32	ReK_	but i cant start for another week or so, deadlines creeping up :(
10:32	darkenergy	what does Cory  like?
10:32	jamonation	anything python?
10:32	lophyte	I'm not sure
10:33	jamonation	well, whatever we choose, I can help with the theming
10:33	lophyte	I'll be posting notes from the meeting on the wiki and the mailing list, so Corey can respond to these questions
10:34	lophyte	ReK_: no worries.. we still need to move it over to Canonical hosting first anyhow
10:34	ReK_	what about phpbb? it has built-in groups, easily moddable and there are already cms mods out for it
10:34	despot32	i liked phpbb when i used it on one of my sites
10:34	lophyte	the issue I see with phpbb is that it wouldn't integrate with the mailing list
10:34	ReK_	how do we want it to intergrate? i might be able to work on that
10:34	darkenergy	and its got a history of security probs
10:35	lophyte	the majority of our discussion traffic is on the mailing list.. if we wanted to create a forum, it would ideally work with the list
10:35	jamonation	http://drupal.org/project/listhandler
10:35	lophyte	jamonation: checking..
10:35	lophyte	Drupal fanboy ;)
10:35	jamonation	indeed
10:35	lophyte	jamonation: looks like what we need..
10:36	darkenergy	so, I'm not personally convinced that drupal is the greatest choice if you want to get non-technical editors involved
10:36	jamonation	why not?
10:36	lophyte	drupal's content posting is quite intuitive
10:36	darkenergy	ok.   /runs for exit
10:36	jamonation	there is also a wysiwyg javascript editor
10:37	jamonation	no no, it's a valid concern
10:37	lophyte	darkenergy: ubuntutoronto.org runs on Drupal, and Kim has posted on it many times
10:37	darkenergy	LOL
10:37	lophyte	its almost his personal blog ;)
10:37	ReK_	about mailing list on phpbb: http://www.mail2forum.com
10:37	jamonation	how many of us have a personal blog or site?
10:37	lophyte	ReK_: checking...
10:37	ReK_	already done, with 2 way comunication between the list and the forum
10:38	lophyte	I know as a fact that people have requested we set up a forum
10:38	jamonation	if most of us have a site already, aggregating into a planet would be best no?
10:38	ReK_	yeah
10:38	lophyte	jamonation: yup.. but we also want ubuntu canada specific content as well, not just aggregated blogs
10:39	jamonation	right, so here again, drupal, bear with me:
10:39	jamonation	forum, integrated and installed in drupal by default
10:39	ReK_	we could get the planet to only read blog posts with the ubunu-ca tag?
10:39	ReK_	or ubuntu* might be better
10:40	darkenergy	if you're using venus its got good filters
10:40	jamonation	aggregation, module is included in core, allows the admin to choose whatever feed, in multiple formats
10:40	jamonation	content posting, done, mailing list integration, doable
10:40	lophyte	well, before we start arguing what CMS is going to be used, let's focus on what features we want
10:40	jamonation	I'll make a list on the wiki page?
10:41	ReK_	so far im seeing news post, mailing list, basic forums and planet-style post aggregation
10:41	ReK_	although the latter could be seperated out of the cms easily
10:41	jamonation	same goes for the forum
10:42	jamonation	though a single sign on auth mechanism is preferable
10:42	jamonation	what about wiki? just use the main ubuntu wiki?
10:42	ReK_	if we can use the forum to make news posts by using user groups/hidden forums, it would be extremely simplistic for editors
10:43	lophyte	yup...
10:43	jamonation	hey one sec. lets take a step back...
10:43	lophyte	any and all wiki needs are met by the existing wiki
10:43	jamonation	what are we trying to do with the site? we have it, but why? what is it's purpose?
10:43	jamonation	if we start there, the CMS and feature will follow
10:43	lophyte	a community portal, I would say
10:43	ReK_	news, a place to gather and talk
10:43	ReK_	what he said, basically :P
10:44	lophyte	it would serve the news function it currently serves
10:44	jamonation	ok, so a portal to events, thoughts, howtos, mailing list?
10:44	lophyte	yup
10:44	jamonation	right
10:44	ReK_	I could see other features n the future, like a downloads section, media gallery
10:44	lophyte	a photo gallery was also suggested
10:44	jamonation	photos/videos/podcasts?
10:45	lophyte	videos could be hosted on youtube or ubuntuvideo.com and linked to from ubuntu.ca
10:45	despot32	yeah
10:45	despot32	this sounds quite complicated
10:45	lophyte	how so?
10:45	ReK_	if were going for a gallery, id suggest this: http://gallery.menalto.com/
10:45	ReK_	we use it for the dystopia pr gallery
10:46	despot32	i mean, will people have use for all these features? sounds like a lot
10:46	darkenergy	I think you probably want to find out what Canonical will supply before selecting packages
10:46	lophyte	agreed
10:46	darkenergy	ditto
10:46	jamonation	i think they'll do whatever runs on the lamp stack
10:46	lophyte	despot32: news and forums isn't complicated
10:46	despot32	no, not at all
10:46	lophyte	other features can be added later, if needed
10:46	despot32	but videos?
10:46	jamonation	there's a gallery plugin for drupal :)
10:46	ReK_	and everything else is gravy that you dopnt have to go to if you dont want
10:46	despot32	i mean are we gonna make ubuntu films?
10:46	darkenergy	yeah, but you need community first.   if you supply empty space it won't be all that inviting
10:47	lophyte	despot32: Ubuntu Toronto is planning to :)
10:47	lophyte	but
10:47	ReK_	well, see, this is why i said i could see these features later
10:47	lophyte	let's get back to the point...
10:47	lophyte	we've got:
10:47	lophyte	1) news
10:47	lophyte	2) mailing list-integated forums
10:47	lophyte	3) news aggregator
10:47	lophyte	I think this is a good place to start
10:47	despot32	those 3 sound good
10:48	jamonation	yeah
10:48	despot32	brb...
10:48	lophyte	anything further can be added later, if needed
10:48	jamonation	apart from mailing list, I think pretty much any CMS will suffice
10:48	lophyte	I agree
10:48	lophyte	I'd suggest Drupal as well
10:49	lophyte	we'll see  what Brian and Corey think
10:49	ReK_	im still partial to phpbb, it can do everything but news aggregation and is more user-friendly for the editors
10:49	jamonation	anyone else?
10:49	jamonation	ReK_: but for admin it is a royal PITA
10:49	ReK_	no
10:50	lophyte	phpbb isn't a CMS though...
10:50	ReK_	it can be modded into one
10:50	lophyte	that creates work
10:50	jamonation	why not go with CMS to begin with then?
10:50	lophyte	someone has to mod it
10:50	ReK_	i will, i have before
10:51	lophyte	rather than modding something that isn't a CMS.. why not go with a CMS to start
10:51	darkenergy	agree
10:51	jamonation	anyone used typo3 or other enterprise CMSes?
10:51	jamonation	plone?
10:51	lophyte	whether its Drupal or not isn't a concern at the moment
10:52	darkenergy	I used typo2.   it was ok but you have to be happy with ruby hacking
10:52	darkenergy	plone, sucks from what I know
10:52	jamonation	hmm, wait a sec., forums can go on http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=183
10:52	jamonation	which is the LoCo team portion of the forums
10:53	darkenergy	nice
10:53	lophyte	it could, but is it a good idea to duplicate discussions?
10:53	jamonation	it would do ubuntu more good to have them there too
10:53	darkenergy	integrated search if its colo'd
10:54	jamonation	it also has integrated rss, so we could aggregate that onto ubuntu.ca
10:54	lophyte	I wonder if there's a way to integrate ubunuforums with the mailing lists
10:54	jamonation	and to have all locos centralized would boost their profile to new users, since forums are usu. their first stop
10:54	darkenergy	and less admin too
10:54	jamonation	there are plugins for posting to mailing lists form a cms
10:55	jamonation	even wordpress has one for mailman
10:55	lophyte	indeed.. but I mean ubuntuforums+mailman
10:55	jamonation	ubuntuforums->ubuntu.ca CMS->mailman
10:55	jamonation	through rss
10:55	lophyte	ah, perhaps
10:55	lophyte	not sure if it would work the other way though
10:56	ReK_	that would be somewhat of a hackjob, we'd have to hide the 'news posts' coming from the forums
10:56	ReK_	and it wouldnt be 2wayu
10:56	lophyte	I was hoping that we could set it up so that the forums and the mailing lists would essentially be one in the same
10:57	lophyte	but I don't think its a huge issue to have it separate
10:57	ReK_	the way I saw was one sub forum would be the mailing list, fully 2 way. the other forums wouldnt, however, otherwise the list wouldnt know where to put new threads
10:57	jamonation	well, we know what we want, so lets put it on the wiki and more on to the next item on the agenda
10:57	despot32	ok back, sorry. headache.
10:57	jamonation	wait for Corey and Brian and then charge ahead
10:58	lophyte	good call
10:58	lophyte	the next item is regarding Ubuntu Canada subgroups
10:58	lophyte	currently, as far as I know, the only one that exists is in Toronto
10:58	lophyte	there's been talk of people wanting to start one in New Brunswick and Winnipeg, but I've heard nothing about them so far
10:59	ReK_	vancouver too
10:59	lophyte	how far is Victoria from Vancouver?
10:59	darkenergy	a boat ride
10:59	ReK_	a ferry ride
10:59	despot32	victoria's on an island
11:00	lophyte	ah
11:00	lophyte	yeah i knew it was on the island
11:00	jamonation	they might as well be 2 distinct groups
11:00	ReK_	say, 2-3 hours
11:01	lophyte	for the most part, I'd like to encourage everyone to try and start a subgroup in their area..
11:01	lophyte	its incredibly rewarding to meet with other Ubuntu users and do advocacy projects together
11:01	lophyte	it doesn't take too much time to start one.. choose a location, a date, and a time, and post it everywhere you can think of
11:02	ReK_	btw: ubuntuforums.com uses vbulletin, and i can find no mailing list plugin for it, so we would have to do it through rss
11:02	lophyte	noted
11:02	jamonation	failing that, or lacking critical mass, how about integrating with a local LUG?
11:02	Fujitsu	ReK_: ubuntuforums used to have a mail gateway set up to a number of Ubuntu lists.
11:02	lophyte	that works as well
11:03	ReK_	did they change forum software recently?
11:03	lophyte	if you feel you don't have the time or energy to start up a local subgroup, talk with your local LUG to set up an Ubuntu special interest group
11:03	Fujitsu	No.
11:04	lophyte	is anyone here interested in starting a local subgroup in their city or town?
11:04	ReK_	im interested in joining one in vancouver, and id help out, but i dont think i can take the full load until summer at least :(
11:05	jamonation	do you go to vanlug meets?
11:05	ReK_	im heading to the next one, havent gone before though
11:06	jamonation	they'll likely be pretty technical
11:06	ReK_	that fine
11:06	jamonation	but you could start by posting on upcoming.org and various places that you'd like to meet other ubuntu users at the meeting?
11:06	lophyte	craigslist works too
11:06	jamonation	yeah
11:06	ReK_	hmm, true
11:06	lophyte	or even on the ubuntu-ca mailing list
11:07	lophyte	just a post that says "would anyone like to meet?"
11:07	jamonation	as a start at least, maybe someone there would help out
11:07	despot32	at the next KWLUG someone's going to be giving a presentation on using drupal. i might attend, if only to be a smartass. lol
11:07	lophyte	lol
11:07	lophyte	despot32: you should start an ubuntu-kw ;)
11:07	despot32	where would i get members?
11:08	lophyte	uh
11:08	lophyte	U of W?
11:08	jamonation	another good spot for starting a sub group would be local college and university campuses
11:08	despot32	it's very rarely that i run into someone who uses linux let alone ubuntu
11:08	ReK_	Fujitsu: "There was once an add-on at vBulletin.org but I believe it was abandoned."
11:08	lophyte	despot32: I bet if you posted on the mailing list, you'd find some folks
11:08	Fujitsu	ReK_: Ah, terrific.
11:08	despot32	Microsoft's hands are heavily in the CS programs so they're all very Windows-centric
11:09	despot32	what mailing list? lol
11:09	lophyte	ubuntu-ca@lists.ubuntu.com
11:09	despot32	ah
11:09	jamonation	not engineering and physics dept's
11:09	lophyte	http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-ca
11:09	despot32	most people i talk to infer that since i use linux i must be homosexual
11:09	jamonation	plus most campus SACs would give free meeting space
11:10	darkenergy	jeez
11:10	lophyte	despot32: perhaps post on the KWLUG mailing list that you'd like to start an Ubuntu group? that might work as well.
11:10	despot32	that might
11:10	despot32	i think i will go to a kwlug meeting first though and see what the community is like
11:11	jamonation	anyone else want to start a local chapter?
11:11	despot32	oh hey, your friend Evan is doing the demo.
11:11	lophyte	LOL
11:11	lophyte	really?
11:11	jamonation	roadtrip!
11:11	despot32	yes
11:11	lophyte	jamonation: let's do a roadtrip to KW ;)
11:11	jamonation	yeah, exactly
11:11	lophyte	though I invited Evan to the next toronto meeting
11:12	jamonation	that's inter-SIG awareness for you
11:12	lophyte	despot32: you might find that the KWLUG is extremely techincal.. TLUG is like that
11:12	lophyte	technical, rather
11:14	lophyte	I think that's it for today
11:14	despot32	the latest legit post on their online forums was almost 4 months ago
11:14	lophyte	hah
11:15	lophyte	perhaps the mailing list is more active
11:15	lophyte	anyway.. let's wrap it up
11:15	lophyte	anyone have any questions or comments?
11:15	darkenergy	Dave, are you going to talk to Corey and Brian about CmS and what is available from Canonical?
11:16	darkenergy	and how does that get moved forward?
11:16	lophyte	yup, I will
11:16	despot32	if they will give you php and mysql databases, you should be good to go
11:16	lophyte	I'll post the meeting notes to the mailing list, and I'm sure a discussion about it will continue from there
11:16	jamonation	don't forget to put them on the wiki too
11:16	lophyte	that too
11:17	darkenergy	k
11:17	lophyte	we're going to make these meetings monthly
11:17	lophyte	so we should be meeting again in a months time :)
11:17	jamonation	put it on the fridge then
11:17	ReK_	heh, theres another feature for the site: a google calander
11:17	lophyte	the meetings? they are
11:17	jamonation	oh good
11:18	lophyte	well thats it for today then.. if anyone would like to stick around and discuss, you're welcome to hop into #ubuntu-ca
</pre>
