{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
[20:10:06] <sistpoty> let's just start with the meeting
[20:10:24] <sistpoty> ok, everybody please state your names for the minutes
[20:10:27] sistpoty is StefanPotyra
[20:10:40] phanatic is SzilveszterFarkas
[20:10:43] Burgwork is Corey Burger (who will lurk)
[20:10:44] ogra is OliverGrawert (watching from a distance)
[20:11:03] Tonio_ is Anthony Mercatante
[20:11:38] tseng is Brandon Hale (watching less than ogra)
[20:11:53] <sistpoty> as always the first question: anyone volunteering to do the minutes?
[20:13:22] <sistpoty> ok, then I'll be doing the minutes...
[20:13:56] <sistpoty> first (and only) point on the agenda: short introduction to the new workflow-tool
[20:14:34] <sistpoty> I hope you noticed, that I hacked up the merge-list to support a list who is working on a pacakage
[20:14:49] <sistpoty> you can find this list at http://revu.tauware.de/~sistpoty/MoM/wip.py
[20:15:43] <sistpoty> it works pretty simple: you file a bug with a title with "accepted work" in it and assign it to universe-bugs or motu-reviewers and it should pop up in the list
[20:16:15] <sistpoty> if you mark a bug as "fix released" or "rejected", it should vanish from the list again
[20:16:39] <sistpoty> (and imo the title "accepted work" is pretty silly, but I didn't get better proposals *g*)
[20:17:15] <sistpoty> any comments/questions/thoughts about this?
[20:19:04] <sistpoty> ok, that was all from the agenda... any other business?
[20:19:47] <Burgwork> sistpoty, UI comment. Would be nice if you list the persons IRC nick
[20:19:52] <Burgwork> maybe link to their wiki page
[20:20:39] <sistpoty> Burgwork: ok, will try to figure this from the bug-mails... 
[20:21:00] <Burgwork> otherwise, very cool
[20:22:36] <sistpoty> Burgwork: thx... seems like I need to parse the +text page to find out the LP-account and find out the nick from the account-page 
[20:23:59] <sistpoty> ok, still anything else, that we should discuss?
[20:24:00] <Burgwork> ouch, does LP not have an XML-RPC interface
[20:24:04] <Burgwork> ?
[20:24:18] <sistpoty> Burgwork: yes, but tiber isn't whitelisted (yet)... so I can't use that :(
[20:25:28] <sistpoty> ok, if we have nothing more to discuss... what should be the date and time for the next meeting?
[20:26:50] <sistpoty> (and did I mention, that I'm a little bit disappointed that nobody seems to be interested in a meeting?)
[20:27:09] <raphink> wow, yet another 2-people MOTU meeting it seems
[20:27:18] <sistpoty> raphink: yes
[20:27:29] <raphink> (sorry I was having dinner)
[20:27:41] <raphink> (haven't seen my parents in a long time so can't really miss such a time ;))
[20:27:55] <sistpoty> np... 
[20:28:25] <raphink> sistpoty: from what I see, lately there is no big big work to do in universe
[20:28:37] <raphink> it's mostly bug fixing
[20:28:45] <raphink> and especially focusing on main, even for MOTUs
[20:28:53] <raphink> since it's the most important part
[20:29:09] <raphink> so it's quite understandable that there's no big deal to discuss in a MOTU meeting
[20:29:21] <raphink> such as merges/syncs or REVU
[20:29:25] <raphink> which are supposed to be quite off now
[20:29:33] <raphink> do't you think?
[20:30:09] <sistpoty> well, yes, true in some way... but /me just remembers the "old" times, where meetings were almost always crowded ;)
[20:30:39] <sistpoty> but OTOH since I'm writing today's minutes, I don't mind, if there is not much to discuss :)
[20:30:45] <raphink> well it'll be crowded again in 2 months I'm sure
[20:30:49] <sistpoty> :)
[20:31:09] <raphink> when we'll have dapper out
[20:31:18] <sistpoty> then I'd suggest to defer the date/time of the next meeting to ML (or another poll)... what do you think?
[20:31:21] <raphink> and people will begin to say this app, and that other one, are missing in it
[20:31:33] <raphink> and will get to package, etc.
[20:31:37] <raphink> :)
[20:31:45] <raphink> hmm sure
[20:31:58] <sistpoty> ok :)
[20:32:01] <raphink> I guess if the two of us agree it's a large majority?
[20:32:08] <sistpoty> *g*
[20:32:13] <raphink> hehe
[20:32:21] <raphink> hehe
[20:32:35] <sistpoty> anything else?
[20:32:47] <sistpoty> ...3
[20:32:53] <sistpoty> ...2
[20:32:57] <raphink> :)
[20:32:58] <sistpoty> ...1
[20:33:09] <sistpoty> meeting closed... kthxbye ;)
[20:33:34] <sistpoty> wow, I guess this was the shortest motu-meeting since I've been around *g*
[20:33:57] <raphink> :)

</pre>
