{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** Daviey to submit UDS-O topic for translations and docs
** jamespage to helpout with verification of euca-dhcp bug
** jamespage to discover process/location for fixing ubuntu server documentation
* Natty Development
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
* Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time
** Tuesday, April  19th 2011 16:00 UTC

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

* No actions.

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====

* Daviey to submit UDS-O topic for translations and docs
** Talked to David P. about it and agreed to participate in the UDS-O session.
* jamespage to helpout with verification of euca-dhcp bug
** DONE
* jamespage to discover process/location for fixing ubuntu server documentation
** DONE
** Docs up to date: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#Documentor resources

===== Natty Development =====

Focus is now on bug fixing rather than development.

* robbiew: any remaining work items should be universe related or non-code
* SpampS mentioned a few items are remaining: 
** http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-server.html

===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====

* SpamapS: Apr. 13,14 I will be at the MySQL Users' Conference in Santa Clara, CA
* jamespage: I'll be attending puppet camp europe on the 28/29 April in Amsterdam
* zul: Apr 25 - 29 I will be at the Openstack summit, Santa Clara, CA

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====

* initial ISO tests via jenkins are all done, with success except for ec2.
* Proposed to discuss jenkins usage on UDS.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) =====

* Launchpad bug 751253 in linux (Ubuntu) "Many interrupts and slow disk I/O on Lucid xen guest" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/751253
*** <smb> thinks really that sounds a bit like maybe xen version or actually a lot of traffic as that machine had 500GB going out in 5 days

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer) =====

* Not present
* SpampS suggested to select someone else to drive the team.
* RoAkSoAx suggested to remote the item from the Agenda until replacement is found.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community =====

* kim0:
** Will be running a weekly community IRC meeting for the Ensemble team. This will be run in #ubuntu-cloud starting tomorrow at 6pm-UTC, it will be merged with the older community meeting. Everyone attending this meeting is a good candidate to attend tomorrow's
** That meeting will provide a high level overview of development in the Ensemble world since last meeting/week.
** Writing an announcement on http://cloud.ubuntu.com/ right now, which I'll mirror on planet, and everyone is encouraged to spread/tweet...etc

===== Open Discussion =====

* kirkland throwing a release party:
** http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2011/04/austins-natty-release-party.html

===== Announce next meeting date and time =====

* Tuesday, April  19th 2011 16:00 UTC

=== Log ===
<pre>
[17:01] <RoAkSoAx> #startmeeting
[17:01] <MootBot> Meeting started at 11:01. The chair is RoAkSoAx.
[17:01] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[17:01] <jamespage> o/
[17:02] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[17:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[17:02] <RoAkSoAx> First of:
[17:02] <RoAkSoAx> Daviey to submit UDS-O topic for translations and docs
[17:02] <RoAkSoAx> what's the status
[17:02] <RoAkSoAx> Daviey: ?
[17:02] <Daviey> I've spoken to David P about it... he seems excited, and will certianlly attend
[17:03] <Daviey> So it's essentially done, it will happen - just not drafted
[17:03] <Daviey> Mark as done
[17:03] <Daviey> sorry for being brief - otp.
[17:03] <RoAkSoAx> alrighty!
[17:03] <RoAkSoAx> let's move on then
[17:03] <RoAkSoAx> jamespage to helpout with verification of euca-dhcp bug
[17:04] <zul> i think thats been done
[17:04] <robbiew> o.
[17:04] <robbiew> o/
[17:04] <jamespage> Verified - yes - by me - no - required - no - so mark as DONE
[17:04] <robbiew> sorry..late
[17:04] <RoAkSoAx> jamespage: awesome!
[17:04] <RoAkSoAx> jamespage to discover process/location for fixing ubuntu server documentation
[17:04] <jamespage> OK - so docs here are now up-to-date : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#Documentor resources
[17:05] <jamespage> We where not far off TBH - loads of stuff on the documentation team wiki pages as well
[17:05] <smoser> o/'
[17:05] <RoAkSoAx> any further action to be taken?
[17:06] <jamespage> not from my perspective
[17:06] <RoAkSoAx> alrighty then. Let's move on then
[17:06] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Natty Development
[17:06] <MootBot> New Topic:  Natty Development
[17:06] <RoAkSoAx> robbiew: ^^
[17:07] <robbiew> so...I'd like to propose Daviey take this section over ;)
[17:07] <SpamapS> http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-server.html
[17:07] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-server.html
[17:07] <SpamapS> still a few items remaining
[17:07]  * Daviey is off the phone
[17:07] <robbiew> I can cut and paste links...as above ;)
[17:07] <RoAkSoAx> Daviey: go for it :)
[17:07] <robbiew> in terms of development...I'm more interested in Bugs now anyway
[17:08] <Daviey> Sorry, somewhat unprepared.
[17:08] <robbiew> any remaining work items should be universe related or non-code
[17:08] <robbiew> Daviey: no worries...I'm always that way :P
[17:08] <Daviey> I think mainly, people need to make sure the blueprints are updated.
[17:08] <SpamapS> Daviey: do we still have an auto-generated report from the server-n* tags ?
[17:09] <Daviey> SpamapS, Yes
[17:09] <Daviey> That is what i've mainly been tracking this week tbh.. it's more uselful at this stage for specific bug tracking,than WI.
[17:09] <Daviey> IMO
[17:09] <SpamapS> awesome. ;)
[17:09] <Daviey> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=server-nrs
[17:09] <SpamapS> WI is almost done anyway, so yeah bugs are where its at. :)
[17:10] <RoAkSoAx> awesome then
[17:10] <RoAkSoAx> anyone has anything to add?
[17:10] <SpamapS> Should show milestoned bugs as purple on the WI tracker. ;)
[17:11] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx, ok to move on...
[17:11] <RoAkSoAx> alright, I guess there's nothing else,
[17:11] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Server Team Events
[17:11] <Daviey> but make sure WI's are up to date :)
[17:11] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu Server Team Events
[17:11] <RoAkSoAx> any event coming up?
[17:11] <SpamapS> TOMORROW I'm speaking at the MySQL User's Conference about Drizzle in Natty
[17:11] <RoAkSoAx> SpamapS: \o/
[17:11] <SpamapS> Santa Clara, CA .. be there, or be square.
[17:12] <zul> ill be there...just not this week
[17:12] <jamespage> Good luck SpamapS - is it due to be video cast?
[17:12] <SpamapS> jamespage: not likely, its a massive event.
[17:12] <Daviey> SpamapS, Looking forward to reading your blog post about it :)
[17:12] <SpamapS> jamespage: and it will be at 3:15pm UTC -0700 ..
[17:12] <RoAkSoAx> maybe would be a good thing to video tape all the events/talks on which ubuntu server member participate, to share them with the community
[17:13] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx, Thanks for volunteering to be the team camera man.
[17:13] <RoAkSoAx> Daviey: no worries if I can travel lol :)
[17:13] <zul> you stole my soull..
[17:13] <RoAkSoAx> anyway, let's move on
[17:13] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[17:13] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[17:13] <RoAkSoAx> hggdh: you are up
[17:13] <Daviey> hey hggdh o/
[17:13] <hggdh> yo
[17:13]  * SpamapS just finished downloading the latest iso's
[17:14] <hggdh> going thru euca now
[17:14] <SpamapS> its ISO testing time yes?
[17:14] <Daviey> SpamapS, cautionary
[17:14] <hggdh> initial ISO tests via jenkins are all done, with success except for ec2 -- will discuss with jamespage
[17:15] <Daviey> The current posted ISO will be deprecated later today, so not too much investment... But sniffing is useful.
[17:15] <jamespage> hggdh - they have not been run yet.
[17:15] <hggdh> jamespage: they _were_ running this morning (mine morning)
[17:15] <Daviey> hggdh / jamespage: Is there any news on email failures of failed jenkins tests?
[17:15] <hggdh> Daviey: no, yet to look at it
[17:16] <Daviey> ok, thanks
[17:16] <jamespage> hggdh: that was some adhoc testing to determine whether we where still getting network failures on startup - looked OK
[17:16] <hggdh> I think it would be more productive to discuss jenkins usage on UDS -- where we would like it to go
[17:16] <hggdh> instead of just ad-hoc additions
[17:16] <hggdh> jamespage: roger, thanks
[17:17] <jamespage> hggdh: agree
[17:17] <RoAkSoAx> alright, I guess a session will be held at UDS
[17:17] <RoAkSoAx> anything else to add?
[17:17] <hggdh> ..
[17:17] <hggdh> :-)
[17:17] <RoAkSoAx> moving one then
[17:17] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[17:17] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[17:17] <Daviey> one mo
[17:18] <smb> evening
[17:18] <Daviey> hggdh, are you going to drive a blueprint on that?
[17:18] <Daviey> (sorry smb)
[17:18]  * smb waits
[17:18] <hggdh> Daviey: I can. Under QA, you mind?
[17:19] <Daviey> hggdh, that sounds like a good place!
[17:19] <Daviey> Thanks
[17:19] <Daviey> smb, Hi o/
[17:19] <smb> I am good to go? :)
[17:19] <RoAkSoAx> smb: the floor is yours now :)
[17:19] <smb> Ok, I try to leave as qquickly
[17:20] <smb> Basically main task is still going on lucid-ec2 patches
[17:20] <smb> now at 16 new and 35 changed of the 147 to go
[17:20] <Daviey> smb, Do you have the bug numbers handy?
[17:20] <smb> That has not yet a bug number
[17:20] <Daviey> Are they tagged?
[17:21] <smb> I will need to create one of "bring our patchset up to date with the one we were taking our  patches from"
[17:21] <zul> smb: may god have mercy on your soul
[17:21] <Daviey> smb, sounds good to me... We appreciate this :)
[17:22] <smb> I had been booting somewhere in the middle on ec2 and it surprisingly worked
[17:22] <SpamapS> Have we run automated ec2 tests since bug 731878 was fixed?
[17:22] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 731878 in Linux "shutdown(2) behavior changed in kernel" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/731878
[17:22] <smb> But ok, atm it does not compile again
[17:23] <smb> SpamapS, Hm, I don't know
[17:23] <jamespage> SpamapS: yes - I was unable to run in all regions but I did not see any instances failing to startup - http://jenkins.qa.ubuntu-uk.org/view/natty-ec2/job/natty_server_ec2_adhoc/5/
[17:24] <smb> In the spare time I only looked over bug 751253
[17:24] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 751253 in linux (Ubuntu) "Many interrupts and slow disk I/O on Lucid xen guest" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/751253
[17:25] <smb> But really that sounds a bit like maybe xen version or actually a lot of traffic as that machine had 500GB going out in 5 days
[17:25] <SpamapS> jamespage: will keep fingers crossed that it was indeed this kernel bug. :)
[17:25] <jamespage> SpamapS: me to!
[17:26] <RoAkSoAx> alright, anything else to add?
[17:26] <smb> I would not have more if there are no questions
[17:26] <RoAkSoAx> anyone with questions?
[17:26] <RoAkSoAx> I guess not. Moving on:
[17:26] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[17:26] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[17:27] <RoAkSoAx> I believe it is time for us to consider removing this topic from the agenda
[17:27] <SpamapS> Well
[17:27] <RoAkSoAx> SpamapS: have you been in recent contact with sommer?
[17:27] <SpamapS> I'd like to see the contact person changed.
[17:27] <RoAkSoAx> SpamapS: sounds like you are volunteering :)
[17:27] <SpamapS> RoAkSoAx: no, but I haven't tried much. Adam has moved on for now. :-/
[17:28] <SpamapS> I would love to do it, but I doubt I'd be very effective at actually getting things done.
[17:28] <RoAkSoAx> I guess that for now we can remove the item from the agenda till we have a replacement to cover this topic
[17:28] <RoAkSoAx> any objections?
[17:29] <RoAkSoAx> I'll take that as a yes to remove it from the agenda then
[17:29] <RoAkSoAx> ok, so moving on
[17:30] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[17:30] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[17:30] <kim0> Howdy everyone o/ .. Got a quick announcement to make
[17:30] <kim0> I will be running a weekly community IRC meeting for the Ensemble team. This will be run in #ubuntu-cloud starting tomorrow at 6pm-UTC, it will be merged with the older community meeting. Everyone attending this meeting is a good candidate to attend tomorrow's
[17:30] <kim0> That meeting will provide a high level overview of development in the Ensemble world since last meeting/week
[17:30] <kim0> I'm writing an announcement on http://cloud.ubuntu.com/ right now, which I'll mirror on planet, and everyone is encouraged to spread/tweet...etc
[17:30] <kim0> That's all for me
[17:31] <RoAkSoAx> awesome!
[17:31] <RoAkSoAx> anyone else with questions/suggestions/or anything?
[17:31] <RoAkSoAx> let's move on then
[17:31] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[17:31] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[17:31] <SpamapS> Oh hah I missed that.
[17:32] <kirkland> RoAkSoAx: anyone else throwing a Natty Release Party?
[17:32]  * SpamapS would like to thank Time Warner's extreme lag for that wrong/window
[17:32] <kim0> hehe
[17:32] <RoAkSoAx> kirkland: throught FL yes... miami... uhmmm it is hard enough to get an Ubuntu hour
[17:32] <kirkland> RoAkSoAx: here's one we're having in Austin: http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2011/04/austins-natty-release-party.html
[17:33] <zul> ill be doing my customary release party thing...sleeping
[17:33] <RoAkSoAx> kirkland: unfortunately, not even my Univerty's LUG is that much involved in events
[17:33] <kirkland> zul: heh
[17:33] <kirkland> zul: don't get toooo excited now
[17:34] <RoAkSoAx> ok so anyone else attending/organizing a release party?
[17:34] <kirkland> RoAkSoAx: apparently not :-)
[17:34] <RoAkSoAx> or is everybody gonna party with zul in their dreams?
[17:35] <zul> that sounds bad
[17:35] <RoAkSoAx> heheh
[17:35]  * RoAkSoAx blames it to the language barrier
[17:35] <RoAkSoAx> :P
[17:35] <kirkland> well, I'm going to drink a beer in celebration of Natty, and one more in looking forward to Oneiric
[17:35] <RoAkSoAx> kirkland: +1. I might do it alone but at least I'll have a beer
[17:35] <RoAkSoAx> anyways.
[17:35] <RoAkSoAx> let's end the meeting
[17:36] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time Tuesday, April 19th 2011 16:00 UTC
[17:36] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time Tuesday, April 19th 2011 16:00 UTC
[17:36] <RoAkSoAx> see you all next week same time/place
[17:36] <RoAkSoAx> #endmeeting
</pre>
