{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{{{
(04:04:26 PM) cjwatson: all right, let's get this over so we can go (back) to the pub and celebrate $HOLIDAY

(04:04:33 PM) cjwatson: BenC: you're up
(04:04:36 PM) BenC: :: Specs
(04:04:36 PM) BenC: * driver-device-manager: Some progress (need to split out a spec for udev/kernel/modprobe changes)
(04:04:36 PM) BenC: * driver-backports: NO PROGRESS (depends on udev/modprobe/kernel changes in driver-device-manager)
(04:04:36 PM) BenC: * ubiquity-driver-updates: NO PROGRESS (depends on driver-backports).
(04:04:36 PM) BenC: :: Work for past week
(04:04:37 PM) BenC: * 2.6.20-pre is now default kernel
(04:04:39 PM) BenC: * Merges: initramfs-tools (mucho breakage, but all fixed now), ndiswrapper, directfb
(04:04:41 PM) BenC: * Worked on kernel changes for driver-device-manager
(04:04:43 PM) BenC: * Kernel debugging of several issues, working with upstream to diagnose a few other issues.
(04:04:45 PM) BenC: :: Work for next week
(04:04:47 PM) BenC: * Play with the toys Santa brings me
(04:05:18 PM) cjwatson: BenC: are you planning on doing all of the UI parts of driver-device-manager?
(04:05:36 PM) BenC: cjwatson: Yeah, I actually have a lp project started for it
(04:05:37 PM) cjwatson: BenC: we were thinking that it might make sense to have somebody who does that sort of thing more often help you out
(04:05:48 PM) cjwatson: unless you already have somebody
(04:06:03 PM) BenC: I have someone who sub'd to the spec who volunteered
(04:06:12 PM) cjwatson: ah, good, that helps
(04:06:19 PM) BenC: I need to do it at first to make sure my changes work
(04:07:10 PM) cjwatson: ok, just try not to get sucked down a UI coding hole :-)
(04:07:21 PM) cjwatson: (I know that feeling too well)
(04:07:28 PM) BenC: I know the warning signs...I'll watch out for it :)
(04:07:44 PM) cjwatson: anyone tested the 2.6.20 installation yet?
(04:07:48 PM) cjwatson: I know I haven't had time
(04:08:09 PM) fabbione: cjwatson: i did on sparc but without the super cool goodies
(04:08:10 PM) BenC: cjwatson: Did all the udeb changes work out?
(04:08:15 PM) fabbione: cjwatson: and it was ok
(04:08:15 PM) ogra: hardlocks for me with the broadcom driver
(04:08:23 PM) ogra: i'm waiting for the next upload
(04:08:45 PM) BenC: ogra: I've been thinking about an initramfs-tools change to allow blacklisting on the kernel command line
(04:08:54 PM) ogra: cool
(04:09:00 PM) ogra: sounds like a great idea
(04:09:02 PM) cjwatson: fabbione: all right, great
(04:09:10 PM) cjwatson: BenC: all I know is that the build didn't fail :)
(04:09:22 PM) BenC: cjwatson: always a plus :)
(04:09:34 PM) fabbione: the patches applies.. it's ready for stable :P
(04:09:50 PM) cjwatson: BenC: ok, thanks

(04:09:55 PM) cjwatson: me next
(04:10:01 PM) cjwatson: intel-mac-support: Will pick up hardware from Matthew Garrett soon.
(04:10:01 PM) cjwatson: ubiquity-advanced-partitioner: I hope to get an extremely raw version that you can invoke with 'ubiquity --new-partitioner' merged and into the archive tomorrow.
(04:10:04 PM) cjwatson: misc: Figuring out how to manage you lot. :-) Lots of time on the phone. I know I haven't talked to all my direct reports yet; I'll get round everyone in the new year. I've also been doing a lot of merges and chasing people about merges.
(04:10:21 PM) cjwatson: we're down to 50-odd merges, most of which are X and will be superseded by a new upstream post-debian-import-freeze anyway
(04:10:38 PM) cjwatson: so while I'd have much preferred to have those all merged, I'm not too worried
(04:10:59 PM) cjwatson: syslinux is still pending and should probably get done; sysvinit, kernel-package, kernel-wedge are excepted
(04:11:13 PM) cjwatson: xfce seems behind
(04:11:39 PM) BenC: cjwatson: kernel-package just uploaded, kernel-wedge in about 5 minutes
(04:12:06 PM) cjwatson: oh good
(04:12:12 PM) cjwatson: does the kernel build with that?
(04:12:31 PM) fabbione: BenC: feh.. i was hoping for a kernel before another breakage..
(04:13:02 PM) BenC: cjwatson: Changes were much more minimal that I had anticipated
(04:13:49 PM) cjwatson: BenC: good-oh

(04:12:59 PM) cjwatson: fabbione: your turn
(04:13:19 PM) fabbione: feisty-toolchain: fixed gcc to build proper dwarf header required to have a working gdb on sparc. Theoretically all sparc binaries are affected by this bug and a full rebuild of feisty should be done. Davem is working on a workaround in gdb to be dropped in feisty+1. Uploaded a no-changes glibc for the above reason.
(04:13:19 PM) fabbione: sparc64-installer: obppath kernel export is in Ben's queue. This will unleash tons of options to improve the overall silo.conf config when detecting extra OS'es. Userland has been worked out locally and pending a new kernel+d-i upload before hitting the archive. main-menu with the priority fix has been uploaded by cjwatson.
(04:13:19 PM) fabbione: integrity-check: no changes since last week. This will need handover to somebody else asap.
(04:13:20 PM) fabbione: spart64-niagara-ssl-accelerator: discussion with upstream is on going. upstream can't escape :)
(04:13:22 PM) fabbione: ubuntu-feisty-ha-cluster: no changes since last week.
(04:13:24 PM) fabbione: sparc-sprint (between david and me, outside the above specs stuff): fixed mono, made ubuntu-desktop installable again, added whole_disk sysfs attr for SUN partitions (pending in Ben's queue) + udev to avoid mount races (and FS corruption), installer tests unfortunately didn't happen yet because one of the buildd was offline and the queue was big (OOo, gcc, glibc) and it did start flushing again only a few hours back. The new silo-install
(04:13:29 PM) fabbione: er changes can't be fully tested without the kernel (that I did ask Ben to wait to let the buildd flush the queue).
(04:13:32 PM) fabbione: Next week:
(04:13:34 PM) fabbione: vacation/holidays.
(04:14:07 PM) cjwatson: oh, yeah, forgot about sparc64-installer in my update
(04:14:23 PM) fabbione: cjwatson: did you add the alias modules= for anna by any chance?
(04:14:38 PM) fabbione: or do we still need anna-$cantremember=..
(04:14:51 PM) cjwatson: fabbione: it's in preseed 1.23 upstream - just needs a sync
(04:14:55 PM) cjwatson: anna/choose_modules= for now
(04:15:09 PM) fabbione: cjwatson: ok thanks
(04:15:34 PM) cjwatson: fabbione: syncing now
(04:15:52 PM) fabbione: :)
(04:15:53 PM) doko: fabbione: OOo was is dep-wait, so shouldn't be a delay
(04:16:13 PM) fabbione: doko: it did build yesterday my time
(04:16:19 PM) fabbione: doko: anyway it's over now
(04:16:30 PM) cjwatson: we need to discuss feisty sparc etc., but I think after the break when everyone's back
(04:16:35 PM) fabbione: and it was not a direct complain.. nothing to blame.. just a state of facts
(04:16:45 PM) cjwatson: fabbione: thanks
(04:16:48 PM) fabbione: cjwatson: welcome

(04:16:48 PM) cjwatson: heno: next
(04:17:19 PM) heno: Done:
(04:17:19 PM) heno: * access-gdm: Work with upstream seems to be comming together now. The latest Orca now works from GDM (and oBoard has for some time)
(04:17:19 PM) heno: * bug-triage: more on ubiquity. More tweaking of bug helper. I've been promised some XML bug data by the LP folks. I've written a super-simple guide for filing bugs with useful logs for Ubiquity here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingUbiquity/AttachingLogs Let me know if I should make similar pages for <your favorite large package>.
(04:17:19 PM) heno: * launchpad-bridge: Please put your favourite little LP bugs here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DevelTeamLPWishList
(04:17:21 PM) heno: * iso-testing: making plans for getting wider involvement in ISO testing
(04:17:23 PM) heno: To do:
(04:17:25 PM) heno: * Holiday break (but I'll probably add some bug triage to pass the time more quickly :) )
(04:18:59 PM) cjwatson: heno: I don't think I replied to you about AttachingLogs, but one-line summary is that I don't think adding it to the crash dialog will help because my experience is that people don't really read it anyway; pitti's work on crash reporting is the future there. In the meantime it's an excellent thing to post in comments on underlogged bugs though
(04:19:59 PM) cjwatson: thank you very much for your work on that so ffar
(04:20:00 PM) heno: ok, and perhaps we can get some more custom info in Malone pages eventually
(04:20:00 PM) cjwatson: far
(04:20:12 PM) heno: np :)

(04:21:03 PM) cjwatson: belatedly, dholbach updated the wiki page with his update, but here it is for the record (he didn't mail distro-team, just me apparently)
(04:21:06 PM) cjwatson: Done
(04:21:09 PM) cjwatson: * GNOME 2.17.4
(04:21:11 PM) cjwatson: * Merges
(04:21:14 PM) cjwatson: * Bug Triage
(04:21:16 PM) cjwatson: * HUG DAY
(04:21:19 PM) cjwatson: To do
(04:21:21 PM) cjwatson: * more Bug Triage
(04:21:24 PM) cjwatson: * REVUing

(04:22:02 PM) cjwatson: Riddell: around?
(04:22:40 PM) cjwatson: ETIMEDOUT

(04:22:41 PM) cjwatson: kylem: next
(04:23:07 PM) kylem: Done:
(04:23:07 PM) kylem: Bit of a slow week for me due to illness,
(04:23:07 PM) kylem: * Reading about MIR criteria
(04:23:07 PM) kylem: * File liberror-perl MIR (git-core uninstallable in feisty)
(04:23:07 PM) kylem: * Reading about SRU
(04:23:09 PM) kylem: * Clean up of various tree lint from last few weeks
(04:23:12 PM) kylem: * Had setup a few test installs for -proposed kernels over weekend,
(04:23:14 PM) kylem: unfortunately sata disk died ~Monday. Recovered data and replaced
(04:23:17 PM) kylem: drive Wednesday, drive will be RMA'd so I have more room for some
(04:23:19 PM) kylem: test installs.
(04:23:22 PM) kylem: Todo:
(04:23:24 PM) kylem: * Clear out my bug mailbox
(04:23:27 PM) kylem: * Email catch up
(04:23:29 PM) kylem: * Relax a bit
(04:23:32 PM) kylem: * Finish documentation about kernel-team bootstrap for wiki
(04:23:34 PM) kylem: * Add MODULE_FIRMWARE annotations to ubuntu/ drivers.
(04:24:36 PM) cjwatson: I'd promote liberror-perl but pitti has been holidaying or something, the slacker ;-)
(04:24:39 PM) BenC: kylem: Are you pushing to rookery yet?
(04:25:04 PM) kylem: BenC, still to ~/archives, not to /srv/kernel-team
(04:24:58 PM) cjwatson: what's MODULE_FIRMWARE?
(04:25:15 PM) BenC: cjwatson: neato thing that allows modinfo to show firmware files the module needs
(04:25:21 PM) kylem: cjwatson, an annotation so the firmware a module needs can be seen from modinfo
(04:25:35 PM) kylem: was added to 2.6.19, but it's only a single line change.
(04:25:41 PM) BenC: so initramfs-tools can make use of it
(04:26:08 PM) kylem: aye aye.
(04:26:28 PM) BenC: kylem: Please start pushing to/kernel-team as soon as possible so I can keep your changes (especially to feisty) in sync
(04:26:30 PM) cjwatson: right
(04:26:53 PM) kylem: need to figure out a way of exposing which driver loaded which firmware, so we don't copy things needlessly when there are many possible firmwares.
(04:26:57 PM) kylem: BenC, alrighty.
(04:27:31 PM) BenC: kylem: thanks
(04:27:35 PM) kylem: np
(04:27:38 PM) cjwatson: ok, thanks Kyle

(04:27:43 PM) cjwatson: doko: next
(04:28:02 PM) doko: - openoffice.org: 2.1 for feisty (merges, upstream updates, adjust ubuntu patches for 2.1).
(04:28:03 PM) doko: - java: first upload of sun-java6 (worked together with tmarble)
(04:28:03 PM) doko: - other: chats, phone calls, looking for unanswered emails in 2006
(04:28:03 PM) doko: - vacation (since Dec 19), until Dec 29.
(04:28:39 PM) cjwatson: oh god, unanswered emails in 2006 would take me about a month :-(
(04:28:42 PM) cjwatson: good luck with that
(04:28:51 PM) doko: yeah, I started ... :-/
(04:29:05 PM) cjwatson: thanks for sun-java6; I believe it's wedged in the 50-odd NEW backlog at the moment but at worst that will be cleared out post-Christmas
(04:29:07 PM) fabbione: doko: expect sparc patches for java6
(04:29:19 PM) cjwatson: I'll see if one of us can look it over before that
(04:29:22 PM) doko: fabbione: ? it's binary only
(04:29:27 PM) Mithrandir: regarding NEW stuff; if you ping me on IRC, I'll take a poke at it.
(04:29:35 PM) fabbione: doko: more or less ;)
(04:29:36 PM) cjwatson: Mithrandir: ping, sun-java6 :-)
(04:29:38 PM) Mithrandir: but please don't do so for stuff which isn't blocking you.
(04:31:12 PM) cjwatson: doko: thanks

(04:31:19 PM) cjwatson: seb128: next
(04:31:27 PM) seb128: Done:
(04:31:27 PM) seb128: • GNOME 2.17.4
(04:31:27 PM) seb128: • Debian merges
(04:31:27 PM) seb128: • continue catching up with bugs, backlog around 350 now
(04:31:27 PM) seb128: .
(04:31:28 PM) seb128: Tomorrow:
(04:31:30 PM) seb128: • clean up mails backlog before holidays
(04:31:32 PM) seb128: • upload some packages from REVU
(04:31:34 PM) seb128: • keep bug triaging and fixing
(04:32:08 PM) ogra: showing off with utf-8 dots ... tsk ...
(04:32:32 PM) seb128: ogra: tomboy did that automatically on <enter>
(04:32:39 PM) ogra: heh
(04:32:40 PM) seb128: I typed "*"
(04:32:51 PM) ogra: nice feature then
(04:32:58 PM) cjwatson: thanks for keeping up with the new GNOME
(04:33:09 PM) seb128: cjwatson: my pleasure ;)
(04:33:41 PM) cjwatson: so we're in GNOME UI freeze now?
(04:33:58 PM) seb128: no
(04:34:15 PM) ogra: i would hope not ... g-p-m still needs some tweaks
(04:34:16 PM) seb128: that version is the start of "announce changes"
(04:34:24 PM) cjwatson: ah, I misread
(04:34:38 PM) seb128: UI freeze is jan 22th
(04:35:03 PM) seb128: API freeze is jan 8th
(04:35:57 PM) cjwatson: how does network-manager look upstream?
(04:35:59 PM) doko: hmm, I don't want to push the move to python2.5 before jan 8th (given that the archive will be frozen before hurd 2 anyway)
(04:36:12 PM) cjwatson: doko: that's GNOME API freeze not us
(04:36:53 PM) seb128: cjwatson: well, only the applet is proposed for GNOME, I don't know lot about network-manager itself, that's an external depends (like hal) and Mithrandir is supposed to look at it
(04:37:17 PM) cjwatson: right
(04:37:29 PM) Mithrandir: I've merged the Debian package, but not gone through the bug list properly yet.
(04:37:38 PM) cjwatson: seb128: thanks

(04:37:47 PM) cjwatson: Mithrandir: which leads neatly to you, if you're around enough ...
(04:38:01 PM) Mithrandir: cjwatson: I haven't prepared an update, but I can type one anyway.
(04:38:14 PM) Mithrandir: last week: archive work, network-manager merge
(04:38:34 PM) Mithrandir: specs: no real progress, I've begun poking at the NM source for the networkroaming spec.
(04:38:48 PM) Mithrandir: I need to know the code base a little bit.
(04:39:01 PM) Mithrandir: next week: more vacation.
(04:39:22 PM) Mithrandir: but I'll be on IRC so if you need archive or buildd work done, prod me and I'll see what I can get done.
(04:39:37 PM) Mithrandir: I won't "work" per se, but I'll certainly attend to my IRC client a little bit.
(04:39:40 PM) Mithrandir: (done)
(04:39:50 PM) cjwatson: I will also be intermittently on IRC, but I do intend to actually have a holiday
(04:40:16 PM) cjwatson: as should the rest of you; this has been a busy year and we all deserve a thorough break
(04:40:36 PM) cjwatson: </nag>
(04:41:13 PM) seb128: (I'll probably not be on IRC a lot but reading mail daily, if anything is required drop me a mail)

(04:41:45 PM) cjwatson: ogra: next
(04:41:48 PM) ogra: * last week:
(04:41:48 PM) ogra: - fixed ltsp merge bugs
(04:41:48 PM) ogra: - some work on edubuntu-network-auth-server (edsadmin is waiting in NEW)
(04:41:48 PM) ogra: - some work on ltsp-management-gui
(04:41:48 PM) ogra: - merges
(04:41:49 PM) ogra: * next week (post christmas holiday):
(04:41:51 PM) ogra: - fix ltsp printserver with sbalneav's patches
(04:41:53 PM) ogra: - more work on edubuntu-network-auth-server
(04:41:55 PM) ogra: - more ltsp-management gui
(04:41:57 PM) ogra: - gnome-screensaver fixes
(04:41:59 PM) ogra: - power-manager bugs
(04:42:01 PM) ogra: * approved specs:
(04:42:03 PM) ogra: - ltsp-fat-clients -no further work
(04:42:07 PM) ogra: - edubuntu-network-auth-server - started, slow progress
(04:42:09 PM) ogra: - edubuntu-network-auth-client - not started
(04:42:11 PM) ogra: - edgy-plusone-thinclient-sound - started
(04:42:13 PM) ogra: - ltsp-management-gui - started
(04:42:15 PM) ogra: - student-control-panel-upgrade - not started (development meeting held today)
(04:42:17 PM) ogra: - edubuntu-on-two-cds - not started
(04:42:19 PM) ogra: - ltsp-persistent-home - ... sbalneav (still waiting for code review)
(04:42:37 PM) ogra: - not to forget i introduced this wonderful gnome-screensaver bug that prevents you from unlocking :(
(04:42:52 PM) cjwatson: ogra: obviously recent management changes mean I'm unlikely to be able to do the cdimage hacking for edubuntu-on-two-cds, but I'm happy to review a diff
(04:43:12 PM) seb128: ogra: do you need some help on the gnome-screensaver breakage?
(04:43:35 PM) ogra: seb128, upstrteam gave me a patch that doesnt apply but seems to solve the issue
(04:43:42 PM) seb128: ok, good
(04:43:54 PM) ogra: i'll handwave it in tonight or tomorrow morning
(04:44:15 PM) seb128: let me know if you need some help with that tomorrow
(04:44:18 PM) ogra: cjwatson, i'll do my best, i wanted to look closer at debian-cd anyway
(04:44:46 PM) ogra: seb128, i guess i'm fine if the patch does what upstream thinks ...
(04:44:53 PM) cjwatson: the thing to note is that we deliberately patched out the code to build multiple CDs because it never applied to Ubuntu
(04:44:55 PM) seb128: ok
(04:45:03 PM) cjwatson: so you're going to have to come up with some kind of evil fudge
(04:45:18 PM) cjwatson: I'm also happy to assist with seed layout design, which is pretty much my territory :)
(04:45:24 PM) Mithrandir: mmm, evil chocolate fudge.
(04:45:25 PM) ogra: well, i dont want a multicd setup anyway
(04:45:33 PM) cjwatson: that's what this is
(04:45:41 PM) cjwatson: it's just a slightly unusual kind of multi-CD setup
(04:45:42 PM) ogra: so probably something outside of debian-cd would be more appropriate
(04:45:48 PM) cjwatson: no, this must be in debian-cd
(04:46:12 PM) cjwatson: we will not maintain multiple CD image building frameworks
(04:46:14 PM) ogra: hmm, k
(04:46:24 PM) cjwatson: anyway, we can discuss it after the break :)
(04:46:29 PM) ogra: yep
(04:47:01 PM) cjwatson: ogra: thanks

(04:47:03 PM) cjwatson: sfllaw: next
(04:47:11 PM) sfllaw: Done:
(04:47:11 PM) sfllaw: * Wiki documentation
(04:47:11 PM) sfllaw: * Bug triaging
(04:47:11 PM) sfllaw: * Hug day (signed up tons of people)
(04:47:11 PM) sfllaw: * Contracts sent to interns
(04:47:14 PM) sfllaw: * SRUs: vino, openoffice.org, gnome-control-center
(04:47:16 PM) sfllaw: To do:
(04:47:19 PM) sfllaw: * Bug triage
(04:47:21 PM) sfllaw: * SRU: gnome-nettool, synaptic
(04:47:24 PM) sfllaw: * Test planning for
(04:47:26 PM) sfllaw: * Holiday
(04:49:05 PM) seb128: speaking about SRU, could anybody approve the bug #73115 upload to edgy-updates so upstream will stop to get duplicates for that crasher before the holidays and not after? ;)
Ubugtu: Malone bug 73115 in control-center "theme manager crash on theme installation" [Unknown,Fix released] http://launchpad.net/bugs/73115
(04:50:32 PM) cjwatson: sfllaw: how many interns have we got?
(04:50:53 PM) sfllaw: Three.
(04:50:59 PM) sfllaw: Two will work with me on bug triaging.
(04:51:09 PM) sfllaw: One will work with cr3 on writing test cases for our testing framework.
(04:51:11 PM) cjwatson: seb128: looking now
(04:51:19 PM) seb128: cjwatson: thank you
(04:51:48 PM) cjwatson: sfllaw: ok, please keep me posted on the effect that has on our bug situation
(04:52:19 PM) sfllaw: Will do.
(04:52:28 PM) cjwatson: sfllaw: thanks
(04:52:31 PM) seb128: sfllaw: if you want to assign one on desktop bug triage we can work with him, let we know ;)
(04:54:15 PM) cjwatson: seb128: done
(04:54:26 PM) seb128: cjwatson: excellent, thank you

(04:52:29 PM) cjwatson: tkamppeter: next
(04:53:02 PM) tkamppeter: Done
(04:53:02 PM) tkamppeter: * Updated foomatic-db to state of Dec 19: More options for Brother printers (http://forums.freestandards.org/read.php?24,106), marked "drv_z42" obsolete (bug 59324), Samsung ML-1610 does not support PostScript, many device IDs contributed by Red Hat
(04:53:02 PM) tkamppeter: * Updated gutenprint for Debian merge and to add support for Lexmark X73 and Compaq IJ1200 (bug 59324)
(04:53:02 PM) tkamppeter: * Updated hplip for Debian merge
Ubugtu: Malone bug 59324 in foomatic-db "Cups filters are not bundled with Ubuntu altough the PPD are present" [Medium,In progress] http://launchpad.net/bugs/59324
(04:53:04 PM) tkamppeter: * Updated foo2zjs to delete old Debian rules when updating, Edgy update of foo2zjs got approved (bug 65618)
Ubugtu: Malone bug 65618 in foo2zjs "Firmware upload to LJ 1000/1005/1008/1020 broken (fix to be proposed as Edgy update)" [Medium,In progress] http://launchpad.net/bugs/65618
(04:53:07 PM) tkamppeter: * Submitted Splix (driver for Samsung bw and color laser printers) for introduction into Ubuntu (bug 59829, bug 44407, bug 63802)
Ubugtu: Malone bug 59829 in foomatic-db "No driver for Samsung ML-1610 printer" [Medium,Fix released] http://launchpad.net/bugs/59829
Ubugtu: Malone bug 44407 in splix "Samsung clp510 not working" [Medium,Fix released] http://launchpad.net/bugs/44407
Ubugtu: Malone bug 63802 in cupsys "[Edgy] unable to install printer Samsung CLP 510" [Medium,Needs info] http://launchpad.net/bugs/63802
(04:53:10 PM) tkamppeter: * Answered to bug reports
(04:54:36 PM) tkamppeter: Next weeks: I will disappear for some time do to holidays and moving (around Jan 10). In the mean time I will sometimes look into my e-mail.
(04:55:28 PM) cjwatson: thanks for the merges; those were our main focus up until today
(04:56:01 PM) doko: tkamppeter: where are you moving?
(04:56:36 PM) cjwatson: tkamppeter: have you told mdz about your holidays/moving already?
(04:56:53 PM) tkamppeter: np, and the nicest christmas present from me will go to the users of all Brother laser printers by my foomatic-db update: 2400x600 dpi, economode, duplex, trays, ...
(04:57:13 PM) tkamppeter: cjwatson, I have told him by e-mail
(04:57:27 PM) tkamppeter: doko, to Portugal
(04:57:27 PM) cjwatson: ok, great, I don't need to worry about that admin work then
(04:57:48 PM) tkamppeter: I have also informed the secretaries
(04:57:53 PM) cjwatson: thank you
(04:58:02 PM) doko: tkamppeter: nice
(04:58:09 PM) ogra: thats nice :)
(04:58:14 PM) cjwatson: all right, I think that's really everyone now
(04:58:21 PM) cjwatson: any other business, once again?

(04:58:45 PM) tkamppeter: There can be a second christmas present by me, for all users of not too old Samasung bw and color lasers, if someone moves in SpliX from NEW ...
(04:59:10 PM) cjwatson: tkamppeter: it probably won't reach main until the new year; new packages in main do need a security review etc.
(04:59:21 PM) cjwatson: but it may happen to sneak into universe before then
(04:59:41 PM) Mithrandir: cjwatson: I've said I'd review it.
(04:59:48 PM) cjwatson: Mithrandir: thanks
(05:00:10 PM) cjwatson: I cleared out about half of NEW today but have had no time for new source packages
(05:00:19 PM) cjwatson: (they require actual thought)
(05:00:24 PM) tkamppeter: I have already prepared the request to move it from Universe to Main. I will submit it as soon as I see SpliX in Universe.
(05:00:27 PM) Mithrandir: yeah, binary new is usually trivial.
(05:00:50 PM) Mithrandir: tkamppeter: probably not tonight, maybe tomorrow. Just too much other stuff happening now.
(05:00:55 PM) cjwatson: ok, adjourned
(05:00:57 PM) fabbione: thanks guys.. cya
(05:00:58 PM) tkamppeter: OK
(05:01:05 PM) cjwatson: thanks everyone for a fantastic year, and have good holidays
(05:01:23 PM) ogra: you too
(05:01:25 PM) cjwatson: I'll be around tomorrow morning; after that, see you in 2007
(05:01:29 PM) tkamppeter: binary new package without source?
(05:02:14 PM) seb128: cjwatson: thank you, enjoy your holidays too!}}}
