{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
TZ UTC-4
<pre>
(12:01:50 PM) heno: Welcome everyone!
(12:01:55 PM) nand_at_work: hi
(12:02:01 PM) heno: #startmeeting
(12:02:02 PM) MootBot: Meeting started at 18:02. The chair is heno.
(12:02:02 PM) MootBot: Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
(12:02:13 PM) heno: Agenda at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings
(12:02:38 PM) heno: [TOPIC] ISO smoke testing
(12:02:38 PM) MootBot: New Topic:  ISO smoke testing
(12:03:02 PM) heno: I wrote an email to the QA list about this earlier
(12:03:48 PM) heno: we'll probably start smoke testing on Friday and those of us who are around on the weekend can continue then
(12:03:59 PM) stgraber: hello
(12:04:02 PM) heno: volunteers are welcome!
(12:04:45 PM) heno: these results are not tracked on iso.qa.u.c and are a bit less formal in nature
(12:04:46 PM) ***davmor2 waves I'll be around friday and some of the weekend 
(12:05:12 PM) heno: basically try to hammer away at commonly used stuff to shake out bugs early
(12:06:13 PM) heno: I'll blog and post in the forum as well after the meeting
(12:06:37 PM) davmor2: sound like a good plan
(12:06:38 PM) stgraber: heno: you could blog about it on blog.qa.ubuntu.com
(12:06:54 PM) heno: any other obvious test points we should add to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/ISO/Smoke ?
(12:07:06 PM) davmor2: stgraber: planet ubuntu would get more coverage
(12:07:10 PM) pedro_: is the blog.qa.ubuntu.com on p.u.c ?
(12:07:37 PM) heno: that would be good
(12:07:49 PM) stgraber: heno: OpenOffice ?
(12:07:53 PM) cgregan: heno: How about multimedia?
(12:08:09 PM) bdmurray: Shouldn't Wubi be in the "install" table?
(12:08:18 PM) stgraber: pedro_: not yet, I'm not sure I can simply add it to planet without asking the sysadmins ...
(12:08:22 PM) heno: both good ideas
(12:08:29 PM) davmor2: heno: I think the only issue I see is with the AD testing I'm pretty sure not many, if at all, have an active directory at home.
(12:08:42 PM) heno: bdmurray: probably, yes
(12:09:37 PM) pedro_: stgraber: ok
(12:09:39 PM) davmor2: heno: evolution/thunderbird
(12:09:53 PM) heno: Is AD a server or desktop team topic?
(12:10:16 PM) heno: I guess we are looking to test the Gnome support, right?
(12:10:26 PM) davmor2: pass open likewise isn't that specific
(12:10:33 PM) davmor2: hangon
(12:11:13 PM) heno: OOo, evolution, etc.> major apps do get tested by the community though in daily use
(12:11:34 PM) davmor2: http://likewisesoftware.com/products/likewise_open/
(12:11:35 PM) MootBot: LINK received:  http://likewisesoftware.com/products/likewise_open/
(12:11:42 PM) heno: though testing these with empty profiles might reveal issues
(12:12:56 PM) davmor2: heno: looks like desktop as it joins Linux etc to ad
(12:13:20 PM) heno: ok, thanks for the feedback. I'll tweak the page a bit
(12:13:23 PM) heno: next
(12:13:46 PM) heno: [TOPIC] Taking Brainstorm ideas to UDS
(12:13:46 PM) MootBot: New Topic:  Taking Brainstorm ideas to UDS
(12:13:55 PM) heno: jcastro: are you here?
(12:14:49 PM) heno: I know jcastro sent out an email yesterday to everyone who is signed up to attend UDS, asking them to look at brainstorm and find topics for UDS
(12:15:20 PM) stgraber: not only those attending UDS, those attending FOSSCamp too it seems :)
(12:15:44 PM) heno: stgraber: ok, even better :)
(12:15:59 PM) heno: he set up this page with suggested topics https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-Intrepid/Brainstorm
(12:16:19 PM) heno: but other topics can be picked too of course
(12:16:44 PM) heno: stgraber, nand_at_work: does this approach seem sensible to you?
(12:17:17 PM) heno: Are there other things we should be doing in this respect?
(12:18:23 PM) stgraber: seems to be a good idea, don't know what the result will be at UDS though. I heard of some FOSSCamp like room with a whiteboard for scheduling
(12:20:16 PM) emgent: @schedule rome
(12:20:18 PM) ubotu: Schedule for Europe/Rome: 09 Apr 23:00: Server Team | 10 Apr 22:00: Security Team | 11 Apr 14:00: MOTU | 16 Apr 23:00: Server Team | 23 Apr 23:00: Server Team | 30 Apr 23:00: Server Team
(12:20:42 PM) heno: right, UDS will mix scheduled sessions with on-the-fly scheduling on whiteboards
(12:20:55 PM) stgraber: Would be good to have some kind of flag on brainstorm so the users know it'll be discussed at UDS (or has been proposed for discussion)
(12:21:23 PM) heno: We can add a notice to the devel comment section
(12:21:27 PM) davmor2: stgraber: it might be better to have a flag for after uds
(12:21:53 PM) heno: we should also add links to blog posts or mailing list discussions about a topic
(12:22:30 PM) heno: perhaps a link section that devs and admins can set
(12:22:52 PM) heno: which is more general than the spec and bug links
(12:23:17 PM) stgraber: note: you can put links in the devel comment
(12:23:58 PM) heno: yep, we should just institute that as common practice
(12:24:28 PM) heno: ok, so that seems on track
(12:24:43 PM) heno: [TOPIC] Introducing mobile test cases
(12:24:44 PM) MootBot: New Topic:  Introducing mobile test cases
(12:25:13 PM) heno: cgregan and davmor2 have been adding and refining UME test cases
(12:25:16 PM) heno: lots!
(12:25:31 PM) heno: e.g. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases/UMEdesktop
(12:26:02 PM) heno: So now is the time to join in with some cutting edge mobile testing
(12:26:40 PM) heno: The interface can be tested in Xephyr and virtual machines
(12:27:18 PM) stgraber: heno: are they considering using the QA tracker in the future ?
(12:27:23 PM) cgregan: heno: correction...VM is still a work in progress
(12:27:33 PM) heno: it's actually very important to do so because since there isn't much mobile HW out there, this stuff gets almost no testing
(12:27:53 PM) heno: cgregan: ah, getting ahead of myself
(12:28:13 PM) cgregan: heno: Hopefully next week we will have VM
(12:28:17 PM) heno: I thought you could boot an ISO, but you did mention some X issues
(12:28:36 PM) davmor2: Xephyr works relatively well currently although not perfectly :(
(12:28:41 PM) heno: stgraber: indeed, probably for Intrepid Alpha 1 or 2
(12:29:31 PM) cgregan: heno: ISO fails to load X so you stop at rc script execution
(12:29:44 PM) heno: stgraber will be at FOSSCamp and cgregan at UDS - I'm hoping there might be a few hours of overlap so you can meet and talk about this
(12:29:59 PM) cgregan: Sounds good
(12:30:09 PM) stgraber: heno: ok, then we'll probably use another sub-domain for them as I don't think they have exactly the same milestone as we do for ISO
(12:30:26 PM) stgraber: cgregan, heno: I'm leaving Prague end of afternoon on Sunday
(12:30:38 PM) heno: stgraber: we might want to add a section like mobile.qa.u.c or add a derivative to iso.qa.u.c
(12:30:47 PM) heno: or perhaps we'll need both
(12:30:57 PM) davmor2: stgraber: I think the big issue will be that the test is so very different too
(12:31:13 PM) heno: stgraber: the plan is that they will for Intrepid AFAIK
(12:31:25 PM) cgregan: stgraber: I fly in Sunday morning.
(12:32:31 PM) stgraber: ok, so if they have the same milestones as we do and also use cdimage (which is currently the case) it's possible to use the ISO tracker for UME testing
(12:33:14 PM) stgraber: cgregan: ok, so it should be possible to have a talk with you :)
(12:34:00 PM) heno: stgraber: mobile has only just gotten bug tracking set up properly (thanks cgregan) and test tracking is next
(12:34:43 PM) heno: there is also a use case for private test tracking here actually
(12:35:02 PM) heno: for people doing custom mobile builds
(12:35:49 PM) heno: stgraber, cgregan: we can take the details of this to email and hopefully Prague
(12:36:01 PM) stgraber: heno: sure
(12:36:18 PM) cgregan: heno: Definitely
(12:36:36 PM) heno: in the meantime, everyone is encouraged to play with the mobile builds!
(12:36:50 PM) heno: any other topics for the meeting?
(12:37:21 PM) davmor2: no
(12:37:51 PM) pedro_: not from me
(12:38:05 PM) stgraber: we launched http://blog.qa.ubuntu.com, so everyone in the QA team (the Drupal group) can now post blog posts here
(12:38:19 PM) stgraber: those have to be related to Ubuntu QA testing or the Brainstorm website though
(12:38:39 PM) stgraber: I'll ping the sysadmins to see if I can add it to Planet
(12:38:51 PM) heno: Excellent, I'll try that!
(12:38:54 PM) pedro_: stgraber: that'd be great ;-)
(12:39:07 PM) ***pedro_ subscribing to the rss feed in the meantime
(12:39:15 PM) heno: if it has an RSS feed you can probably add it directly
(12:39:29 PM) heno: if it's the right format
(12:39:59 PM) heno: there is already a few non-person feeds like package-of-the-week and LP news
(12:40:10 PM) heno: *there are
(12:40:16 PM) stgraber: ok, I'll add it to Planet then
(12:40:30 PM) heno: cool
(12:40:47 PM) heno: hello liw :)
(12:41:03 PM) liw: I shoudln't work, I start missing meetings
(12:41:22 PM) heno: ok, I think we're done
(12:41:23 PM) nand_at_work: hmm... me too :/
(12:41:29 PM) ***nand_at_work is back, too late
(12:41:38 PM) pedro_: haha i almost miss the last desktop one, I'm hating the DST
(12:41:50 PM) heno: #endmeeting
(12:41:51 PM) MootBot: Meeting finished at 18:41.
</pre>
