{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
09:58 bustacap    Ok, let's start..
=== mdke [n=matt@ubuntu/member/mdke] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:58 Bonzodog    grant
09:58 Bonzodog    you here?
09:59 bustacap    Who is in attendance from the Ubuntu Forums admin team?
09:59 jdong       I am
09:59 Bonzodog    me and manicka
09:59 Bonzodog    oh sorry
09:59 bustacap    ok, excellent
=== michael_Steinber [n=michael@cpe-69-207-191-142.rochester.res.rr.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:59 bustacap    Bonzodog, are you a UDSF admin?
09:59 Bonzodog    yes, as is manicka
09:59 bustacap    yeah..
=== mhz_meeting is Mauricio Hernandez, from Chile LoCo Team
10:00 bustacap    the first topic - howtos in the Wiki..
=== mruiz is Miguel Ruiz, from Chile LoCo Team
10:00 bustacap    I have proposed on the agenda page - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDSF/MeetingAgenda -
                  to bypass creating howtos in the forums and create them straight into the Wiki..
10:01 mhz_meeting bustacap: yes, that's the idea.
10:01 jdong       We understand that there are positives to doing so, but the forum team currently
                  does not support doing so
10:01 bustacap    Ubuntu Forums team: are there any proposed ideas to changing the way the howtos
                  are currently setup?
10:02 jdong       first off, unified logins and searches are a must
10:02 jdong       they need to seamlessly bridge together
10:02 bustacap    yes, that is a good idea..
10:02 bustacap    I think there might be a big push to get everybody authenticating off the
                  Launchpad system..
10:02 mhz         currently, every person with LP account can login to wiki
10:02 jdong       secondly, all howto's should be accepted; not rejected due to "debian unholiness"
10:02 jdong       if we all LP, that'd be great
10:03 jdong       but that's not the primary concern
10:03 bustacap    what is  "debian unholiness"?
10:03 jdong       not doing things the Debian way
10:03 bustacap    sure..
10:03 jdong       such as installing stuff by hand or from source bypassing dpkg
10:03 mhz         jdong: the only issue I may see is that Forum users use nicks instead of
                  NameLastname
10:03 bustacap    that's a downside of continuing the howtos in the forums..
10:03 bustacap    mhz, that's off topic..
10:04 bustacap    the howtos need to be scrutinised by the forums team
10:04 bustacap    sure there is a good qa side of that, however, the Wiki documents are scrutinised
                  by the people that are using them..
10:04 jdong       they are fairly scrutinized as far as not allowing anything that blatantly
                  damages systems
10:05 bustacap    KingBahamut gave me the impression that he tested most of the docs that he was
                  assigned..
10:05 Bonzodog    also the how-to's being on the forums allows for live feedback...the how-to's
                  don't always work exactly the same on everyones system
10:05 jdong       KB does indeed put a lot of effort into his project, and I'm not surprised if he
                  personally tests everything
10:05 jdong       Bonzodog: good point; a Wiki->Forum link like what the Fridge has would be
                  awesome
10:06 Bonzodog    we actually use the user feedback as a measure of how good a how-to is
10:06 bustacap    Bonzodog, I have proposed to place a "Discuss this page on the Ubuntu Forums"
                  link on major Wiki pages for starters
10:06 manicka     no one is assigned docs as such, they are scrutinized by the whole community
10:06 jdong       but bustacap, what is wrong with the doc team picking "good" howto's from our
                  forums and putting them on the Wiki?
10:06 Bonzodog    if it has little feedback, or a lot of criticism, we may hold it from the udsf
                  bustacap: it is not 'offtopic' for wiki howtos because using a nick like
10:06 mhz         'ZeRo-Cow' would make wiki-linking a chaos (esp. when we talk about wiki
                  admining) and also would make users have second thoughts on credibility
10:06 bustacap    manicka, isn't there an admin process involved before howtos are posted to the
                  forums..
10:07 bustacap    jdong, that is "double handling"
10:07 jdong       bustacap: a simple "is this a howto and not a question" check; that's all
10:07 jdong       bustacap: you can't call it that when you are going to reject a lot of the
                  HOWTO's as "unsafe"
10:07 bustacap    the Wiki accepts all documents - good and bad - the public fixes them up
10:08 jdong       the last issue then is syntax
10:08 earobinson  hey
10:08 bustacap    sure, I understand there is a need to reject HowTos..
10:08 bustacap    syntax with the Wiki?
10:08 earobinson  has the meeting started?
10:08 jdong       yeah, the differing syntaxes
10:09 jdong       i.e. users want to contribute but don't know the Wiki language
10:09 Bonzodog    earobinson, yes
10:09 bustacap    sure, there is a learning curve involved in the creation of Wikis
10:09 bustacap    but it is rather small..
10:09 jdong       correct, and that learning curve is an initial barrier in making HOWTO's
10:09 bustacap    IMO
10:09 mhz         jdong: we can easily use the "tips" at bottom of every editing page
10:10 bustacap    jdong, to combat that, we need to make an even better Wiki syntax guide..
10:10 mhz         jdong: or we can suggest users to visit wiki:SyntaxReference
=== bustacap puts that on his list of things to bring up at the next docteam meeting..
10:10 jdong       mhz, sure, but we've received complaints about the different syntax the last time
                  we strongly encouraged Wiki howto's
10:10 Bonzodog    bustacap: I have had problems today with moinmoin tags.....mediawiki at least
                  recognises html
10:11 bustacap    it is a matter of people getting comfortable with the syntax
10:11 bustacap    most howtos are just bullet points and a few headings..
10:11 mhz         jdong: oh, yes, so far there are many diff among wikis. However, Moin 1.5
                  incorporates a WYSIWYG editor so we can all contribute happily
10:11 mhz         Bonzodog: yes, Moin only recognizes some html tags
10:11 Bonzodog    mhz: there are somethings that moin does not do though
10:12 Bonzodog    like I wanted strikeout today
10:12 jdong       mhz: a WYSIWYG editor would be great
10:12 bustacap    as long as the content gets posted on the Wiki, the creator just has to put in
                  into CategoryCleanup and then the helpers come along to clean it up..
10:12 mhz         yes, i know, and it doesn't do it because they released 1.5 which does it :D
10:12 jdong       I just have issues with how the doc team might disregard some forum howto/tips as
                  frivolous
10:12 jdong       http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=100167
10:12 jdong       just an example
10:12 bustacap    ok, looking..
10:13 jdong       these kinds of mini-snippet posts really don't need their own wiki page
10:13 jdong       more of an "oh cool, that's sweet" discussion than anything else
10:13 mhz         Bonzodog: oh, my last comment was for you, sorry
10:13 jdong       these seem better on the forum than on the Wiki
10:13 bustacap    jdong, frivolous howtos exist all over the Wiki as well, it takes a good Wiki
                  Team to go through and integrate other people's work into the larger Wiki's
10:13 earobinson  but is there anything wrong if there is a wiki page?
10:14 bustacap    we can fix those with redirects when they have been integrated with other pages..
10:14 mhz         bustacap: yes, actually, today there are over 4500 pages in the wiki
10:14 earobinson  just because we have extra content is not a bad thing, we just need to make sure
                  the more important things are easy to find
10:14 jdong       earobinson: no, but there is also nothing wrong with redundancy
10:14 mhz         bustacap: and it is almost impossible to give pages lot of admin love
10:14 bustacap    jdong, that howto was great!
10:14 jdong       we have forums and mailing lists... that doesn't mean we have to get rid of one
                  in favor for another
10:14 bustacap    we need howtos like that..
10:15 Bonzodog    I have a better idea if I may?
10:15 jdong       I still think that the wiki and forums can coexist
10:15 earobinson  jdong isent that the point, having them on both the wiki and forums would
                  be  redundancy but there is nothing wrong with that
10:15 bustacap    no, forums and mailing lists have different roles to perform..
10:15 jdong       explain
10:15 Bonzodog    can I have a moment to explain?
10:15 mhz         shoot
10:15 jdong       bustacap: the forums provide support, ubuntu-users provides support, #ubuntu
                  provides support. Difference?
10:15 bustacap    mailing lists are for more technically inclined people and are also used to
                  announce changes and for team collaboration
10:16 Bonzodog    right, we have to accept that the udsf is not going to go away
10:16 bustacap    the forums are the best 1st level support mechanism
10:16 Bonzodog    it will remain
10:16 bustacap    point-and-click help in a web browser..
10:16 jdong       bustacap: so you are saying that the forum is for dumber people??
10:16 bustacap    jdong, no, I am saying it is the easiest method of getting help
10:17 mdke        forums are easier to understand than mailing lists/irc
10:17 mdke        that's what he means
10:17 bustacap    not saying that technical subjects aren't discussed in the forums
10:17 earobinson  its just gives more choice to the user
10:17 jdong       well, in the same way posting a thread is the easiest way of letting someone know
                  about something.
10:17 jdong       that just gives more choice to the user, as well
10:17 mdke        is this on the agenda?
=== Bonzodog decides to post his point in a second....
10:17 jdong       if the wiki folks want to make that a wiki page, cool -- go ahead. We'd gladly
                  edit the original thread and link to the new wiki page
10:17 bustacap    jdong, I know about the ease, what I am saying is, with a little more effort, we
                  can keep the docs manageable..
10:18 earobinson  jdong yes and no, because there are so many posts on the forums if I make a post
                  on mounting a hd it quickly gets hidden in a wiki it will always stay ontop
=== mgalvin [n=mgalvin@ubuntu/member/mgalvin] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
                  it's pretty clear that the forums are not good for howtos jdong. it would be
10:18 mdke        really nice if the forum and wiki could work together and provide a nice combined
                  resource, each doing what it does well
10:18 mdke        ideally, it would work really well like that, IMO
10:18 earobinson  mdke +1
10:18 jdong       earobinson: there are 514 forum HOWTO's. How do you keep all of them on top?
10:18 bustacap    creation of howtos directly into the Wiki would be the best solution..
10:19 mhz         mdke: as usual +1
10:19 earobinson  exactly in a forum you cant, but on a wiki you can have sections that keeps the
                  info easy to browse
10:19 jdong       creation onto the wiki with discussion threads in the forum is a good idea
10:19 mdke        jdong, absolutely
10:19 bustacap    jdong +1
10:19 jdong       I agree with that
10:19 Bonzodog    bustacap: as long as everytime one is created, there is a forum link already
                  there
10:19 mdke        jdong, what is the status with LP authentication for the forum?
10:19 manicka     we already have a solution in place to better organise and archive forum data
10:19 mhz         jdong: we could have a CategoryForumHowto
10:19 jdong       mdke: ryan/ubuntugeek was on that; I don't know exactly
10:20 earobinson  mdke what is LP?
10:20 bustacap    jdong, if we can make some progress on this with the forum admins, we should keep
                  in touch on this matter..
10:20 mdke        earobinson, launchpad
10:20 bustacap    LaunchPad
10:20 earobinson  kk
10:20 bustacap    ok, Restructing the Wiki
10:20 Bonzodog    um...if I may
10:20 jdong       our main concern is that howto's placed on the wiki would be removed if they
                  don't meet a certain "quality level"
10:20 bustacap    manicka, do you have any thoughts on restructing..
10:20 Bonzodog    I have something I would like to add
10:20 bustacap    jdong, things don't get removed..
10:20 jdong       as long as you can assure us that censorship won't take place, we're pretty happy
10:20 mdke        jdong, not removed
10:21 jdong       ok, /me happy now :)
10:21 bustacap    Bonzodog, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDSF/MeetingAgenda - add a agenda item
10:21 mdke        what happens is people improve stuff if they think it's weak
10:21 manicka     restructuring what,, the wiki or the forum
10:21 bustacap    the Ubuntu Wiki
10:21 bustacap    do you have any thoughts on it..
10:21 jdong       mdke: ok, good. Building on old work is great, I love it.
10:21 mdke        jdong, there will need to be quality control, but not by removing stuff, probably
                  by categorising it
10:21 bustacap    classification and indexing..
10:21 Bonzodog    this concerns all of this
10:21 mdke        jdong, that's not well evolved at the moment
10:21 jdong       let's let bonzodog speak
10:21 mdke        sure, go Bonzodog
10:21 manicka     I have lots of ideas, I've discussed a few on the doc-team mailing list, but they
                  were dismissed
10:21 mdke        manicka, eh? which ideas were dismissed?
10:21 bustacap    well manicka bring it up here..
10:22 Bonzodog    right - we have to accept that the udsf will not go away right?
10:22 manicka     it was some time ago
10:22 bustacap    Bonzodog, can we put that on the end of the meeting agenda..
10:22 mdke        Bonzodog, no, that depends on your point of view.
10:22 Bonzodog    we will contiinue to archive how-to's from thwe forums
10:22 Bonzodog    however I have an idea
10:22 bustacap    manicka, if you can recall what was rejected, please re-raise your ideas..
10:23 bustacap    Bonzodog, a little later in the meeting please..
10:23 mdke        manicka, absolutely. If things were rejected for no good reason, tell me
10:23 mdke        we want ideas to improve the wiki
10:23 bustacap    I am after some input from the UDSF guys at the moment, and the Ubuntu Forums,
                  for any ideas on how to improve the Wiki
=== mdke nods at bustacap
                  hmm, one last thing, if a forum user really doesn't want to learn moinmoin, what
10:24 jdong       should we do then? Post unformatted text and have others come along and fix it
                  up?
10:24 Bonzodog    bustacap: the front end and editing of moinmoin was enough to put me off
10:24 Bonzodog    I really don't like moinmoin
10:24 bustacap    jdong, absolutely..
10:24 jdong       for you and I, it may be easy enough to learn it, but there are some users that
                  really don't like learning new stuff
10:24 Bonzodog    and I have tried
10:25 Bonzodog    omg I have tried to use it
10:25 mhz         bustacap: wiki needs love, lots of it, indeed, but it is kind of difficult to
                  provide the "best" structure mainly due to its own nature
10:25 bustacap    jdong, that is quite alright for users to post unformatted and place it into
                  CategoryCleanup
10:25 Bonzodog    but it's unusable
10:25 mdke        jdong, yes. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/forum
10:25 mhz         Bonzodog: but have you tried Moin 1.5?
10:25 mhz         (WYIWYG editor)
10:25 jdong       bustacap: but then the whole organization just goes downhill if everything goes
                  into the cleanup category, right?
10:25 bustacap    Bonzodog, adding an agenda item should be just a copy and paste from the other
                  items..
10:25 mdke        mhz, it doesn't matter if he has, we don't use it
10:25 bustacap    Bonzodog, I will just put your agenda item at the end, I will bring it up then..
10:26 mdke        jdong, yep, that's why the category system needs some rework
10:26 mhz         mdke: sure, but MAYBE, he can use desktopedition and copy paste
10:26 manicka     bustacap, we need to move away from this idea that the forums and udsf are
                  separate entities
10:26 mhz         :D
10:26 bustacap    jdong, yes, we are looking at reworking the categories.. but it is still usable
                  now..
10:26 Bonzodog    can it please be accepted that I am an admin of the udsf?
10:26 jdong       just a heads-up, one of the other admins is not happy about the current decision
10:26 earobinson  manicka, they are separate entities, they work well as a team but at the end of
                  the day they are 2 diffent projects
10:27 mdke        jdong, which decision?
10:27 bustacap    manicka, is this to do with the restructuring of the Wiki?
10:27 jdong       I am working to understand exactly what the disagreement is
10:27 jdong       mdke: all howtos are done on the wiki
10:27 mdke        jdong, oh, i think we're a long way from that decision
10:27 jdong       mdke:  alright
10:27 jdong       so let's make clear the roadmap as far as howto's on the forums are concerned
10:27 bustacap    jdong, but as long as we can work towards greater creation of howtos in the Wiki,
                  it's a step forward IMO
10:28 bustacap    sure jdong, shoot..
10:28 mdke        jdong, even if everyone here is agreed, some social barriers need to be broken
                  down before howtos are wiki-only
10:28 jdong       I support greater efforts to migrate current forum HOWTOS onto the wiki
10:28 mdke        plus, some wiki-forum technology will be required, I think
10:28 jdong       that makes all sense
10:28 jdong       but I don't want to deny users from posting howto's on the forum
10:29 manicka     agreed jdong
10:29 Bonzodog    users will always post on the forums
10:29 earobinson  jdong, +1
10:29 jdong       we will do all that's possible to urge users to make new documents on the Wiki,
                  but if a user so chooses, he still can put HOWTO's on the forum
10:29 bustacap    jdong, the interest isn't really in the existing - it is in the new HowTos..
10:29 Bonzodog    even if we ask them not to
10:29 mdke        jdong, that's a shame, because it really isn't the best medium. and if the two
                  resources were integrated properly, there should be no problem
10:30 mhz         jdong: are forums howtos html? If so, we can use Html2Moin.py
10:30 jdong       mhz: after rendered, they are html; internally they're vbulletin markup
10:30 bustacap    jdong, making the HowTo section read-only with a Quick Start guide on how to
                  create a very basic page in the wiki is a possible solution..
10:30 jdong       bustacap: then users will just start making howto articles in other parts of the
                  forum
10:30 jdong       that's inevitable
10:30 Bonzodog    mhz: is the wiki set for u[pgrade in the near future?
10:30 bustacap    jdong, I know that you can't make users do anything..
10:30 Bonzodog    to 1.5
10:30 mhz         Bonzodog: dont know yet.
10:30 Bonzodog    ?
10:30 mdke        jdong, that depends on the level of integration
10:31 mdke        if there is a howto section, which is the wiki, that won't happen
10:31 jdong       bustacap: currently, isolating howto's to the HOWTO area is as good as we can do
                  as forum staff, IMO
10:31 bustacap    but if there is a statement and a firm guide to tell people to create in the
                  wiki, that is the best that can be done..
=== tseng [n=tseng@unaffiliated/tseng] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
10:31 mhz         Bonzodog: but I can happily help you use MoinDesktop edition 1.5 and show you
                  copy/paste into current wiki
10:31 jdong       bustacap: users will start replying to questions with mini HOWTO's, and then
                  you'll just get repetitive clutter
10:31 jdong       that's why the HOWTO area started in the first place
10:31 bustacap    jdong, I just wish people could make more of an effort to create good doco..
10:31 mhz         Bonzodog: desktop edition takes 1 minute to work in your /home
10:32 jdong       bustacap: agreed; but we can't force people to comply with our wishes ;)
10:32 bustacap    well perhaps a limit on the size of the HowTos in the howto section..
10:32 Bonzodog    mhz: I will look, but I also deal with mediawiki
10:32 Bonzodog    and I am a mediawiki fanboy
10:32 mhz         Bonzodog: I used to be a mediawiki fan too
10:32 bustacap    any over 4 lines will need to be created in the Wiki (something like that - needs
                  more thought)
10:32 jdong       a size limit will just force people to cram more information vaguely
10:32 mdke        jdong, I'll say it again: that depends on the level of integration
10:32 earobinson  also the forums let people talk about the how to the wiki will not allow that
10:33 jdong       mdke: how far are we planning ahead here?
10:33 mdke        earobinson, we can use the forums to discuss wiki howtos
10:33 mdke        jdong, it would take some planning yeah
10:33 bustacap    jdong, we could have more meetings ;)
10:33 jdong       as far as soon after this meeting, I can peacefully instate what I've agreed to
                  now :)
10:33 earobinson  maybe we could convert the how to section on the forums to be, a link to you wiki
                  how to section
10:33 earobinson  mdke, I was getting at that
10:33 bustacap    sounds great jdong..
10:33 jdong       but as far as big moves, such as no HOWTO's on forums, that's not something we
                  can do suddenly
10:33 mdke        of course not
10:33 bustacap    no, that's right jdong..
10:33 jdong       there needs to be a smooth transition and evaluation/meetings along the way
10:34 mdke        it will take lots of planning, and talking
10:34 bustacap    it's shift in the "culture" as well..
10:34 bustacap    a shift in habit
10:34 bustacap    that takes time..
10:34 earobinson  I think linking is the best of both worlds
10:34 Bonzodog    I have a much better solution
10:34 Bonzodog    use interwiki
10:34 mdke        Bonzodog, interwiki between a wiki and a forum?
10:35 earobinson  interwiki?
10:35 Bonzodog    to link from the main wiki to the udsf
10:35 bustacap    jdong, moving back to suggestions for the Wiki - I think the
                  wiki.ubuntu.com/Forums solution isn't working and needs to rethought
10:35 mdke        we're not talking about the udsf Bonzodog
10:35 Bonzodog    that way we can carry on archiving howto's
10:35 Bonzodog    from the forums
10:35 bustacap    howtos are archived by being created in the Wiki
10:35 Bonzodog    and the wiki then provides all the vaild links
10:36 mdke        Bonzodog, if you do that, the howto has to be written once, and ported once,
                  rather than just written once. You see the difference?
10:36 bustacap    double handling..
10:36 jdong       bustacap, along the lines of that, we can say that the Forum-Wiki delta is an
                  effort to put the forum HOWTO's into the Wiki, correct?
10:36 mdke        yep
10:36 mdke        ideas for improving that are welcome
10:36 jdong       I think we can safely say that having an intermediate wiki in a different format
                  is truly double-handling, right?
10:36 bustacap    yes it is, I would propose the scrapping of the current system in favour of
                  better help guides for Forum users in the howto section
10:37 mhz         mdke: and you think interwiki feature may work sanely ?
10:37 manicka     by the delta, you mean the pastebin that was set up
10:37 mdke        jdong, you may think that, but that is what the UDSF is, and it is pretty
                  fiercely defended by the people involved
                  jdong, instead of users posting under the forums section, they should just create
10:37 bustacap    their own pages in the main - I don't think we need to "sandbox" forum users'
                  pages..
10:38 bustacap    manicka, I think the "pastebin" solution isn't viable..
10:38 mdke        bustacap, the idea is to have an area where markup is not a problem, and people
                  who want to clean things up can find it easily
10:38 manicka     no, I agree
10:38 bustacap    users can just create their docs inthe main - and place the doc into
                  CategoryCleanup
                  bustacap: there's just simply a culture/awareness gap here; not all of us are
10:38 jdong       educated in how the doc team organizes the wiki. that's why we've been trying to
                  just migrate articles to the wiki and have you guys organize them
10:38 manicka     at least not the version that is currently on the wiki
10:38 bustacap    jdong, there isn't much organisation at the moment..
10:38 bustacap    just a main index
10:38 bustacap    I am working on changing that in a big way
10:39 earobinson  jdong we could sticky a link to a wiki how to on making wikis
10:39 bustacap    the WikiTeam needs a Cleanup subteam along with Wiki Love Days
10:39 mhz         .oO(we can also include a little trick so users see this box: "Create a page here
                  _________"
10:39 jdong       Some sort of documentation of how to work on the Ubuntu wiki would be great
10:39 mdke        earobinson, there is one already
10:39 earobinson  my bad
10:39 jdong       and I don't mean just syntax; organization, layout, and everything
10:39 bustacap    hehe @ mhz, that is sneaky and underhand, it's good..
10:39 mdke        jdong, there is a sticky on the howto section. That references the relevant
                  documentation
10:40 bustacap    I think mhz does have a really good suggestion..
10:41 jdong       mdke: that actually illustrates the wiki barrier pretty well: There's 10+ pages
                  of reading material for contributing content to the wikis!
10:41 mhz         bustacap: i'll provide a url for you to see
=== bobblehead [n=bobblehe@64.141.138.3] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
                  In the howto section, you can have a very simple form that asks for the title of
10:41 bustacap    the HowTo, the user places the name in there, it then redirects the user to edit
                  mode of their title - eg. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewHowToTitle?action=edit :)
10:41 mdke        jdong, erm, one post on the forum, and one page on the wiki should do it
10:41 mdke        jdong, but yeah, we can always work on breaking down the barrier
10:41 jdong       mdke: right, but the 10 pages of reading you say was "VITAL" to do?
10:41 jdong       that's a part of the barrier
10:41 mdke        jdong, perhaps I should revisit my howto
10:41 mdke        s/howto/post
10:42 mdke        the WikiGuide page is comprehensive enough now
10:42 mhz         bustacap: http://www.druidwiki.org/ See at the bottom of the page
10:42 bustacap    jdong, there is a bit of a "you must do it this way" feel about the wiki help
                  docs which I will work on removing
10:42 mdke        it wasn't at the time
10:42 jdong       bustacap: +1
10:42 bustacap    jdong, that is part of making the Wiki more friendly
10:42 mhz         bustacap: that page uses lots of moin nice tricks
10:42 mdke        you can't remove all of that I'm afraid
10:42 mdke        because it's like saying "don't worry about making good documentation"
10:42 earobinson  but there is a huge advantage to haveing all the wikis in the same style bustacap
10:43 bustacap    mdke, sure, but we can encourage good documentation..
10:43 bustacap    not enforce it as a hard and fast rule
10:43 jdong       mdke: that's one of the attitudes of the forum howto section. It's very loose and
                  relaxed
10:43 bustacap    perhaps just "softer" language in the instructions..
10:43 mdke        jdong, "don't worry about making good documentation"???
10:43 mdke        surely not
10:43 jdong       mdke: in a way, yes
10:44 mdke        hmm
10:44 jdong       we don't have a 10 page guide on writing a 5 line howto
10:44 mdke        are there rubbish howtos there?
10:44 bustacap    mdke, it's not a case of - "stuff it - let somebody else fix it up" - it's more
                  that if you want to create good doco, here's how..
10:44 earobinson  bustacap, but even then when a user makes a how to and links it on the forums and
                  it gets edited that could cause problems no?
10:44 jdong       mdke: at times, yes
10:44 mdke        jdong, ah. That wastes the user's time
10:44 jdong       mdke: there are howto's on all levels of complexity and quality
10:44 mdke        he then has to look for another one
10:44 bustacap    earobinson, heaven forbid a Wiki getting edited by others.. :)
10:44 jdong       mdke: no it doesn't.
10:44 mdke        i think so
10:45 earobinson  im saying it can be a good thing, but if a user makes one and then the style gets
                  changed thats where problems could start bustacap
10:45 bustacap    ok, jdong & mdke hear me on this..
10:45 bustacap    mdke, we can agree that there is a need for good doco
                  All I can say is that we've not once got a rant about users not being able to
10:45 jdong       find howto's, but several users who have tried to create docs on the wiki come
                  back confused
10:45 bustacap    jdong, we can agree that shouldn't be the barrage of restrictions and rules for
                  users..
10:45 jdong       correct
10:46 bustacap    we need to simplify the "guidelines" for creating new Wiki docs..
                  jdong, finding and creating are two different problems. I won't tell you that the
10:46 mdke        wiki is easy to create documentation on. Although it's not as hard as people
                  think, and we can work on it
=== dsas [n=dean@host86-128-53-52.range86-128.btcentralplus.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:46 bustacap    sort of like how Malone is a simplified Bugzilla..
10:46 jdong       mdke: correct, but how would you like forum users to act diferently than now;
                  that's currently my #1 concern as representative of the forums
10:47 manicka     mdke, for ordinary users, the wiki is overwhelming
10:47 bustacap    basically, search for an existing topic, if it doesn't exist - create a new one
                  and follow some simple formatting guidelines..
10:47 jdong       currently, I see more of a doc team side effort than a forums issue
10:47 bustacap    manicka, I would agree with that for some ordinary users, we need to simplify the
                  Wiki help & guidelines..
                  we'd be glad to lend a hand, but more important I'd first like to know for the
10:47 jdong       average forum user making a HOWTO thread, how this is going to change after this
                  meeting
10:48 bustacap    I will be scouring the logs for this meeting and bringing up a lot of these
                  subjects at the next meeting - this has been very productive so far..
10:48 bustacap    doc team meeting that is..
10:48 bustacap    jdong, we need to make the Wiki help simpler and friendlier..
10:48 jdong       yeah, we all need to stay in close contact and understand each other better
10:49 bustacap    more meetings like this ;)
10:49 jdong       ugh, pretty much :)
10:49 earobinson  :)
10:49 bustacap    so manicka, Bonzodog, jdong - any thoughts on any structuring within the Wiki
10:49 Bonzodog    yeah...simplification is needed BADLY
10:50 Bonzodog    also, my login to the wiki keeps on going awry
10:50 mdke        Bonzodog, what sort of simplification?
10:50 bustacap    I am of the opinion that the UserDocumentation page needs further indexing at
                  levels below it..
10:50 manicka     well, the obvious one is the layout of the userdocs page
10:50 mdke        Bonzodog, login is cookie based. if you delete your cookies, it goes away
10:50 Bonzodog    no, I have an 'invalid password'
10:50 manicka     you need some subsections created with how-tos linked together, like the recent
                  wifi page
10:50 Bonzodog    as i am using my LP login
10:51 mdke        bustacap, that will happen when the wiki is moved, and searching works properly
10:51 mdke        manicka, ^^
10:51 bustacap    sure, I am working on the UserDocumentation  page manicka - I will make the
                  changes publicly known once I have a solid plan..
10:51 Bonzodog    so I cannot change skin
10:51 bustacap    mdke, I thought the searching works pretty good at the moment..
10:51 mdke        bustacap, search for "bluetooth"
10:51 mdke        you'll get like 4 pages which aren't documentation
10:51 bustacap    mdke, you'll get worse results on Google :D
10:52 bustacap    searching is searching..
10:52 manicka     and some way of establishing if a howto is for a specific version of ubuntu or a
                  generic howto
10:52 mdke        manicka, yes that is true. There's a thread on the ML right now about that
10:52 manicka     the last time I looked there were some redundent pages there
10:53 jdong       ok, http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=100, on that page, we have a
                  read-before-you-post message encouraging users to go on the Wiki
                  manicka, could I invite you along to the next docteam meeting with your thoughts
10:53 bustacap    on the wiki, because these are the exact topics that I am bringing up at the
                  moment..
10:53 jdong       is there anything you guys would like to see changed about that?
10:53 bobblehead  bobble..
10:53 mdke        nope, I am happy with it
10:53 bustacap    jdong, I think I will talk about a restructuring of the whole Forums->Wiki issue
                  with mdke and we'll get back to you..
10:53 bustacap    the page is good though..
10:53 manicka     bustacap, I'm usually there anyway
10:53 jdong       bustacap: then we'll follow-up through e-mail?
10:54 bustacap    sure on the Forums->Wiki issue, yeah
10:54 mdke        jdong, have you got a minute for a couple of things
10:54 mdke        not related
10:54 bustacap    jdong, and maybe another meeting as well..
10:54 jdong       mdke: yeah, like 15 minutes or so, shoot :)
10:54 bustacap    ok, onto UDSF related topics..
10:54 dsas        would it be a good idea for the udsf guys subscribed to the doc ml if they
                  wished? fresh input and their experiences would be helpful on things
10:54 earobinson  why not also post it to the forums let the users know whats going on
10:54 jdong       bustacap: alright
10:54 jdong       this has been a good discussion so far, thanks everyone :)
                  jdong, one is enough :) http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=91 if I add a
10:55 mdke        post about the wiki documentation and official help docs, will you sticky it
                  there?
10:55 mdke        dsas, yes, very good
10:55 bustacap    yes thanks for your attendance jdong..
10:55 manicka     dsas, I've been on the doc ml for some time
10:55 earobinson  because that way as things do change they will know why and have a chance to come
                  to a meeting and make there voice heard
10:55 jdong       mdke: sure; I will
10:55 jdong       bustacap: no problem; glad I could be of assistance
10:55 mdke        jdong, ok I'll PM you or something, if that's ok
10:55 manicka     as is kb and others
=== bobblehead is now known as ubuntugeek
10:55 jdong       mdke: pm, e-mail, all fine
10:55 mdke        thanks all
10:55 bustacap    Bonzodog, you wanted raise the topic of the UDSF
10:56 ubuntugeek  good meeting.. thanks jdong..
10:56 Bonzodog    I wanted to propose the idea of creating a link between the udsf and the wiki
10:56 bustacap    hello ubuntugeek
10:56 ubuntugeek  hello
10:56 Bonzodog    along the lines of using the interwiki
10:56 earobinson  lol ubuntugeek lurking in the shadows eh
10:56 jdong       lol, I was just commenting on that, earobinson  ;)
10:56 bustacap    Bonzodog, one exists - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDSF
10:57 Bonzodog    yeah, I created that
10:57 ubuntugeek  had a second to drop in.. but jdong is doing a fine job and i'll just watch..
10:58 bustacap    well, if nobody has anything extra to add..
10:58 Bonzodog    what i was saying is that how-to's could remain on the udsf
10:58 Bonzodog    archived by us
10:58 bustacap    they can Bonzodog..
10:58 dsas        manicka, ok, I wasn't aware of that.
10:58 Bonzodog    there could be hard lionks put into the main wiki
10:58 Bonzodog    *links
10:58 bustacap    we have no input into what gets copied and pasted around the Internet..
10:59 bustacap    Bonzodog, that is defeating the purpose of the wiki
10:59 bustacap    a wiki that links to another wiki??
10:59 Bonzodog    so we become the how-to section of the wiki effectively
10:59 bustacap    the wiki is the how-to section..
10:59 Bonzodog    thats what interwiki is all about#
10:59 Bonzodog    the wiki contains alot more than howtos's
11:00 bustacap    I don't think this is the intention of the UDSF team? to link off the Ubuntu
                  Wiki?
11:00 Bonzodog    we are the forum howto's archive
11:00 Bonzodog    nothing more
11:00 Bonzodog    we actually have linked across to the wiki
11:00 Bonzodog    on occasion
11:01 bustacap    ok..
11:01 Bonzodog    so we archive the forums how-to's
=== mhz has to leave
11:01 Bonzodog    then we place a link using interwiki in the main wiki
11:01 mhz         bye guys and thx for such interesting discussions
11:01 bustacap    thanks mhz
=== mhz [n=mhz_chil@moinmoin/fan/mhz] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
11:02 Bonzodog    that way users can still create their how-to's in the forums
=== mruiz [n=mruiz@www.3ie.cl] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Bytes!"]
11:02 Bonzodog    we take charge of archiving forum related info
11:02 bustacap    Bonzodog, a solution for the how-tos have been discussed using the official
                  resources of the Ubuntu community
=== KingBahamut [n=bahamut@c-24-98-229-28.hsd1.ga.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:02 bustacap    official Ubuntu Forums -> official Ubuntu Wiki
11:02 manicka     that's a very long term project bustacap
11:03 KingBahamut I aggree manicka
11:03 bustacap    yes it is..
11:03 Bonzodog    my solution works
11:03 Bonzodog    I've seen it
11:03 Bonzodog    i've tried it :)
11:03 KingBahamut sorry for my lateness ladies and gents
11:03 bustacap    sorry KingBahamut, the meeting is coming to a close..
11:03 Bonzodog    manicka: we need to bring KB upto date
11:03 KingBahamut figures my dumb luck would elude
11:03 KingBahamut ce la vie
11:04 mdke        there is a log, no problem
11:04 bustacap    yeah, catch the discussion in the log..
11:04 Bonzodog    but that is my idea
11:04 earobinson  + follow up emails and meetings
11:04 bustacap    I think I will close off the meeting here..
11:04 earobinson  and I assume any info will be posted on the forums
11:04 bustacap    yeah + earobinson
11:04 bustacap    sure there is a post - http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=686596
11:04 Bonzodog    bbustacap: I thought the udsf was to be a major part of this?
11:05 Bonzodog    I would hope that we could work together
11:05 bustacap    Bonzodog, the main topic on the agenda was the duplication of the howtos on the
                  UDSF
11:05 Bonzodog    and is that not what i have been trying to discuss
11:05 bustacap    and a proposal on a joint effort to identify and correct the duplication within
                  the two Wikis..
11:05 Bonzodog    a solution
11:06 bustacap    do you see there being a duplication problem between the two wikis?
11:06 Bonzodog    yes
11:07 Bonzodog    but we are already ahead on that
11:07 earobinson  why is it a problem Bonzodog?
11:07 Bonzodog    so why don't you let us continue what we are doing
11:07 Bonzodog    and we will then create interwiki links to the main wiki
=== lfittl [n=lfittl@83-65-244-232.dynamic.xdsl-line.inode.at] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:08 bustacap    well I will raise the issue at the next docteam meeting on proposing to
                  identifing duplicates..
11:08 Bonzodog    that ways the forums stuff remains as is
11:08 bustacap    sure, you guys just archive.. I am not trying to stop the activities of the UDSF
                  Bonzodog..
11:08 bustacap    I am after a better documentation solution, that's my angle..
11:09 Bonzodog    isn't it better though to continue with the how-to's going to the udsf from the
                  forums?
11:09 Bonzodog    thus we stop duplication onto the main wiki
11:10 mdke        night all, gtg
=== mdke [n=matt@ubuntu/member/mdke] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
11:10 earobinson  I still dont understand what is so bad wit a bit of duplication
11:10 jdong       alright, yeah, I've gotta be heading off too...
11:10 jdong       I think the rest of the discussion for now will be non-forum related
11:10 earobinson  later jdong mdke
11:11 Bonzodog    i say let the users continue posting how-to's to the forums, we will transfer
                  them to the udsf, then create a hardlinked page in the main wiki to the udsf
11:12 bustacap    Bonzodog, this is causing some many extra unnecessary steps.. - this has been
                  discussed above..
11:12 Bonzodog    it will basically echo the index setup of the udsf
11:12 earobinson  bustacap, +1
11:13 bustacap    bustacap, +1 as well
11:13 earobinson  1 step that makes the info available to all 3 is better than 3 steps
11:13 Bonzodog    but you are proposing cutting the supply route by not letting users post how-to's
                  on the forums?
11:14 Bonzodog    thus we suddenly have no info to archive
11:14 bustacap    I have to get going now.. Thanks for everybody turning up and having a great
                  discussion - progress has been made - keep in touch..
11:14 earobinson  not stop it just make it more easy to post in other locations and then link from
                  the forums
11:14 KingBahamut Bonzo, that just means our doc writers go outside the forums
11:14 KingBahamut and it becomes a non issue
11:14 earobinson  exactly
=== bustacap [n=bustacap@203-206-46-153.dyn.iinet.net.au] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
=== Bonzodog [n=bonzodog@unaffiliated/bonzodog] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Ex-Chat"]
11:17 earobinson  meeting over???
11:18 dsas        i'd say so, it seems most everyone has gone.
11:19 dsas        just waiting for the irc logs to refresh so I can catch up :)

</pre>
