{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** [ACTION] sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation
* Oneiric Development
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)
* Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

A large portion of the team was out, recovering from last week's terrific sprint.  Alpha2 is out this week, and Daviey asks that we all give it a try and report bugs.  Handling our incoming bug count is a priority but we also need to focus on feature development.  Ping Daviey if you are unclear on what should be your priorities.

The team welcomed new members m_3, utlemming and Ursinha, then adjourned.

===== Meeting Actions =====

* [ACTION] sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation (continued)
* [ACTION] all: test alpha2

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, July 12th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:05] <serge_> #startmeeting
[16:05] <MootBot> Meeting started at 11:05. The chair is serge_.
[16:05] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:05] <serge_> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:05] <serge_> sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation
[16:05] <serge_> sommer1: \o
[16:06] <serge_> hm, guess i'll defer
[16:06] <sommer1> serge_:  Still working on that :-)
[16:06] <serge_> ah.  ok.  any sort of progress to report in the meeting notes?
[16:06] <serge_> [ACTION] sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation (continued)
[16:06] <MootBot> ACTION received:  sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation (continued)
[16:06] <sommer1> serge_: unfortunately there isn't any news at this time
[16:06] <serge_> sommer1: ok, thanks
[16:06] <serge_> [TOPIC] Oneiric Development
[16:06] <MootBot> New Topic:  Oneiric Development
[16:07] <serge_> over to Daviey
=== pleia2_ is now known as pleia2
[16:07] <Daviey> o/
[16:07] <Daviey> Hoping everyone has recovered from last week, where many of us got together to try and sort out some issues.
[16:07] <Daviey> Short one this week.
[16:07] <Daviey> Our generic overview is:
[16:07] <Daviey> http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-oneiric/group/topic-oneiric-server-overview.html
[16:07] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-oneiric/group/topic-oneiric-server-overview.html
[16:07] <Daviey> (notice the rise)
[16:07] <Daviey> Alpha 2 is this week.  We should strive to all take it for a spin, and report bugs as neccessary. Note, that handling our incoming bug count is a priority.  However, feature development also needs tackling.
[16:08] <Daviey> I imagine most people are aware of work they need to undertake, but please give me a ping if you are in any way uncertain.
[16:08] <Daviey> Thanks all!
[16:08] <serge_> worth an action?
[16:08] <serge_> [ACTION] all: test alpha2
[16:08] <MootBot> ACTION received:  all: test alpha2
[16:09] <serge_> why not
[16:09] <serge_> onward then
[16:09] <serge_> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:09] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:09] <serge_> any to bring up?
[16:09] <serge_> team-wide hangover week?
[16:09] <Daviey> Nothing of major interest is jumping out at me.
[16:10] <serge_> ok, moving on
[16:10] <serge_> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:10] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:10] <serge_> hggdh: around?
[16:11] <serge_> hopefully enjoying some r&r.  moving on
[16:11] <serge_> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:11] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:11] <smb> Nothing in particular to bring up
[16:11] <smb> but open to questions
[16:11] <serge_> any questions for smb?
[16:12] <serge_> ok, thanks.  moving on,
[16:12] <serge_> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)
[16:12] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)
[16:12] <serge_> NCommander: around?
[16:12] <Daviey> NCommander: on holiday
[16:13] <Daviey> (is on)
[16:13] <serge_> thx :)  moving on
[16:13] <serge_> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[16:13] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[16:13] <serge_> any issues/updates/issues to bring up?
[16:14] <serge_> those crickets are too loud
[16:14] <serge_> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[16:14] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[16:14] <Daviey> Well
[16:14] <Daviey> m_3, utlemming and Ursinha ... welcome to the team!
[16:15] <m_3> new guy says hi
[16:15] <m_3> Daviey: thanks
[16:15] <Daviey> Joining the ranks of the Server Team this month were Ben Howard (utlemming), who will mainly be tasked with building upon the success of the cloud images. Mark Mims (m_3), who is already knee deep in ensemble (additionally sporting the best side burns in the team). Ursula Junque (Ursinha) joined as the defect analyst (poached from Launchpad QA), and is already doing a great job of showing us where we fail.
[16:15] <RoAkSoAx> m_3: utlemming Ursinha welcome!!
[16:15] <serge_> welcome!
[16:15] <Ursinha> thanks!
[16:15] <jamespage> welcome to the team guys!
[16:15] <utlemming> excited to be here (well, virtual here anyway)
[16:16] <serge_> i gather the sprint rocked?
[16:17] <Daviey> serge_: sure did!
[16:17] <serge_> alrighty, let's wrap this one up
[16:17] <serge_> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[16:17] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[16:17] <serge_> Tuesday 2011-07-12 at 1600 UTC
[16:17] <serge_> (had to check my calendar :)
[16:17] <serge_> thanks all.
[16:17] <serge_> #endmeeting
[16:18] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 11:18.
</pre>
