{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
   03:57 mdz good morning all
   03:57 dholbach hey mdz
   === fabbione waves
   03:58 pitti JaneW: there now - sort of
   03:58 mdz Kamion,mvo,doko,infinity,Riddell,Mithrandir,iwj,Kinnison,BenC,ogra,JaneW: ping
   === infinity [n=adconrad@loki.0c3.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:58 Kamion here
   03:58 doko good morning
   03:58 Kamion iwj is on holiday
   03:58 Riddell pong
   03:58 mdz right, so he is
   === seb128 thinks that's a stupid slot to have a meeting :p
   03:58 mdz as is Keybuk
   03:59 mvo hello
   === Kinnison is here
   === sistpoty [n=sistpoty@ubuntu/member/sistpoty] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:00 mvo ogra is not here for important personal reasons
   04:01 mdz I thought he retracted that
   04:01 mdz SMSed Mithrandir, JaneW, BenC
   04:02 Kamion I suspect ogra has a good excuse if he doesn't make it, anyway.
   04:02 dholbach Mithrandir was replying on IRC some minutes ago
   04:02 mdz Kamion: indeed
   04:02 Mithrandir I'm here
   04:04 mdz dholbach: would you ring JaneW and BenC? we'll need to start without them
   04:04 mdz Riddell: you're up first
   04:04 dholbach mdz: right
   04:04 Riddell done:
   04:04 Riddell kde espresso syncing with gtk frontend
   04:04 Riddell kde 3.5.2, qt 3.3.6, amarok 1.3.9 uploaded
   04:04 Riddell flight 6 testing and CD resizing
   04:04 Riddell next week
   04:04 Riddell flight 6 then solid kde espresso hopefully
   04:04 mdz Riddell: how is kde espresso overall?
   04:04 mdz I haven't had a chance to try it yet
   04:05 Kamion nor I, not since the UI sprint
   04:05 mdz any regressions in 3.5.2?
   04:05 Riddell still a long TODO list, but should be in a decent shape for beta release time
   === whiprush [n=jorge@64.62.190.212] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:05 Riddell only 1 minor problem in kdeartwork, overlapping files
   04:05 mdz good
   04:05 mdz what's happening with kubuntu-documentation?
   04:05 dholbach narf, our wiki hates me, I'll keep trying
   04:06 Riddell there's been some god activity on the desktop guide, but I should upload an updated version soon
   04:06 dholbach ah ok
   04:06 mdz ok
   04:06 mdz thanks
   04:06 mdz seb128: ready?
   04:06 seb128 this week: bug triage and fixing
   04:06 seb128 next week: keep on bug triage and fixing
   04:07 mdz :-)
   04:07 seb128 :)
   04:07 mdz how long is the bug list?
   04:07 mdz have the bug days helped?
   04:07 mvo lol
   04:07 seb128 you don't want to know about the list :p
   === mvo loves this status update
   04:07 mdz I do
   04:07 seb128 it doesn't go down
   04:07 seb128 the previous bug day has been nice
   04:07 mdz seb128: is gnome .2 scheduled yet?  will we have another point release for dapper?
   04:07 seb128 and there is some new active people
   04:07 JaneW argh - sorry....
   04:08 seb128 yeah, .2 is somewhere during may
   04:08 mdz oh good
   04:08 seb128 let me look at it
   04:08 mdz let me know when there is a fixed date
   04:08 seb128 bug days could use some extra distro team people out of dholbach and me
   04:08 doko seb128: no more pango updates please ;)
   04:09 mdz I think we should have a bug day where the entire team participates
   04:09 fabbione like tomorrow?
   04:09 seb128 May 29th
   04:09 seb128
   04:09 seb128 GNOME 2.14.2 Tarballs Due
   04:09 seb128
   04:09 seb128 May 31st
   04:09 seb128
   04:09 seb128 GNOME 2.14.2 Stable Release
   04:09 fabbione for the X HUG DAY?
   04:09 seb128 according to http://live.gnome.org/TwoPointFifteen
   04:09 mdz seb128: argh, bad timing
   === Kinnison would be pleased to do a long stint on tomorrow's bug day if that would be helpful
   04:09 mdz sure, tomorrow.  I think everyone will be here except iwj
   04:09 dholbach mdz: benC said he was in connecticut and was taking a day off today and tomorrow
   04:10 dholbach mdz: and he had notified you
   04:10 Mithrandir I'll be busy shoving flight-6 out the door, but if you lot are busy triaging bugs, that sounds good.
   04:10 infinity BenC's bug list is generally so drastically different from everyone else's that he may not derive much value from a bug day anyway.
   04:10 mdz dholbach: right, ok
   04:10 mdz so no BenC for bug day tomorrow
   04:11 Kamion infinity: it would probably be useful for somebody to teach the bugsquad how to triage kernel bugs
   04:11 mdz he can attend the next one
   04:11 Kamion if installer bugs are anything to go by, they will need training
   04:11 mdz but let's all join in tomorrow
   04:11 infinity Kamion: It could be, but it takes a certain knowlege of the kernel before you can even begin.
   04:11 dholbach but adding stuff to wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingProcedures might be a good start (anyway)
   04:12 mdz infinity: they can at least learn what information is needed and help getting reports fleshed out
   === JaneW as an update from sivang
   04:12 infinity mdz: True that.
   04:12 mdz JaneW: saw it already
   04:12 JaneW mdz: ah right. ok
   04:13 mdz thanks seb128
   04:13 mdz pitti: ?
   04:13 pitti reducing-duplication:
   04:13 pitti * talked with Adam about php5-sqlite; package will be split off to universe
   04:13 pitti * TODO: check with seb128 about getting rid of gtk+1.2 (quite many packages still use it)
   04:13 pitti DB2 packaging:
   04:13 pitti * DONE:
   04:13 pitti    - automatic instance setup
   04:13 pitti    - reasonable package splitting (server, dev, gui, doc, l10n, metapackage for everything)
   04:13 pitti    - integrated DAS startup/shutdown
   04:13 pitti    - Java SDK deb from the bundled IBM JDK and integrate the GUI stuff to work OOTB
   04:13 pitti    - proper package descriptions
   04:13 pitti    - got many hints and a lot of testing help from sivang
   04:13 pitti    - checked status with mdz, packaging features are deemed sufficient for now
   04:13 pitti    - sivang ran officla certification test suite, passed; I have the logs
   04:13 pitti * TODO: fix some packging issues (mainly daemon stopping and cleaning on purge)
   04:13 pitti general stuff done this week:
   04:13 pitti * brought language pack imports up to date, fixed import bugs
   04:13 pitti * bug triage from hell (sub'ed to many packages and cleaned up bug reports)
   04:13 pitti * bug fixing, mostly in Utopia related stuff
   04:13 pitti plan for next week:
   04:13 pitti * finally dive into triaging printing bugs
   04:13 pitti * cupsys 1.2 final is about to be released, upstream did a ton of bug fixes since our current snapshot; evaluate svn commit changelog for new features, test current RC1 whether it breaks stuff (further :/), ask for UVF exception if
   appropriate
   04:13 pitti * CD/espresso testing
   04:13 pitti sorry, bit longish
   04:14 mdz pitti: are rosetta updates flowing smoothly now?
   04:14 Mithrandir pitti: can I borrow you for flight-6 testing on ppc tomorrow?
   04:14 fabbione Mithrandir: i have ppc too if you need
   04:14 pitti mdz: you mean production code updates?
   === Hobbsee [n=Hobbsee@ubuntu/member/hobbsee] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:14 mdz pitti: I mean translation updates via langpacks
   04:14 pitti Mithrandir: of course, full speed for testing and bug triage tomorrow
   04:15 Mithrandir fabbione: the more the merrier, so sounds good. :-)
   04:15 pitti mdz: ooh, carlos recently started to produce tarballs; I didn't look at them yet, will do ASAP
   04:15 mdz Mithrandir: hmm, flight-6 and bug day both tomorrow?
   04:15 fabbione Mithrandir: just ping me when it's time
   04:15 pitti mdz: but he fixed the worst bugs recently
   04:15 Mithrandir mdz: flight-6 was planned for today, but didn't make it.
   04:15 infinity Mithrandir: I'm prepared to shut off the cronjobs on drescher and drive them by hand, if we need fast turnaround time on the archive for Flight releases.  Waiting forever and a day could really tire us out.
   04:16 mdz Mithrandir: what were the showstoppers?
   04:16 seb128 Mithrandir: tomorrow beeing friday for you?
   04:16 infinity mdz: It's a good match to do them together, since bugs can be triaged without uploads happening. :)
   04:16 pitti right, and while installs progressing...
   04:16 Mithrandir mdz: not booting on some amd64s, for instance.
   04:16 Mithrandir seb128: tomorrow is Thursday.
   04:16 seb128 k, so not the same day as bug day
   04:17 fabbione Mithrandir: it is thursday in our TZ :P
   04:17 Mithrandir fabbione: it's thursday after I've slept.
   04:17 fabbione ahah
   04:17 mdz ok, so flight-6 thursday and bug day friday?
   04:17 seb128 hum, sleep :)
   04:17 seb128 mdz: correct
   04:17 mdz good
   04:17 mdz thanks pitti
   04:17 Mithrandir seb128: yes, this thing some of us do, once in a while.
   04:17 mdz ogra: next?
   04:17 pitti mdz: what will happen with db2 now?
   04:18 mdz pitti: let's talk about it after the meeting
   04:18 pitti mdz: after the packaging fixes?
   04:18 pitti right
   04:18 doko pitti: no ooo files in carlos' rosetta export
   04:19 mdz mvo: next?
   04:19 mvo Did:
   04:19 mvo - bugtriage
   04:19 mvo - work on the dist-upgrade tool, should be in good shape now (polish, ui, better progress reporting, better error recovery)
   04:19 mvo - debugged/found bug in gksu that caused the debconf-gnome problems of the dist-upgrade-tool (fix in dapper, needs to go into breezy-updates too, send mail to kov about it)
   04:19 mvo - fontconfig-voodoo/font work,communication (sil)
   04:19 mvo - work on the gnome-app-install data extractor, fixed various bugs, blacklisted various entries
   04:19 mvo - smallish bits on the qt-language-selector
   04:19 mvo - misc stuff, fixes (gdebi, update-manager, software-properties, apt, notification-daemon, synaptic, gnome-app-install, manual upgrade testing)
   04:19 mvo Will do:
   04:19 mvo - more bug-fixing/bugtriage
   04:19 mvo - push for the auto-dist-upgrade test chroot setup
   04:19 mvo - get the dist-ugprade tool into the archive, my currend idea is to add a "--development" option for people who want to upgrade to the current development release
   04:19 Kamion mvo: is that the same gksu problem we encountered on the live CD?
   04:19 Kamion gksudo didn't work until sudo had been run once, or something like that
   04:19 mdz mvo: is the upgrade tool firmly in breezy-updates now?  any feedback from that?
   04:20 mvo Kamion: no, this seems to be something different, too clearly cleanup
   04:20 Kinnison mvo: tomorrow can we please go through the bits needed to get the upgrade tool signed on cron.daily?
   04:20 Kamion mdz: there's a launchpad bug blocking getting python-vte into breezy-updates/main
   04:20 mvo mdz: not in breezy-updates yet (but prepared for it), the missing bit was how to activate prompting for the devel version
   04:21 mvo I would like to do it with "--developemtn" to only get people using it who can handle a commandline
   04:21 mdz Kamion: do you have a bug numbe?
   04:21 mdz number, even
   04:21 Kamion bug 36022
   04:21 mvo Kinnison: yes, that would be good
   04:21 mvo Kinnison: I talked to elmo about it briefly about it
   04:22 Kinnison mvo: let's talk tomorrow and let the meeting continue for now
   04:22 mvo any objections about the "update-manager --development" approach for prompting for upgrades to a development release?
   04:22 mdz Kamion: ok, will see that it is chased
   04:22 infinity mvo: Sounds good to me.
   04:22 Kamion mdz: thanks
   04:22 mvo it will prompt normally when the official release is out
   04:22 mdz mvo: how do manual dist-upgrades look so far?  any problems?
   04:23 mvo mdz: no, recent upgrades on i386 look very good
   04:23 mdz mvo: have you implemented a scheme to allow us to suppress notifications of the availability of dapper+1 to dapper users, per sabdfl's request?
   04:23 mvo mdz: jbailey had trouble last week with amd64 and OO though
   04:23 infinity I recently dist-upgraded a friend who had ubuntu-desktop, kubuntu-desktop, and a bunch of other crap installed, and it was nearly flawless.  I should try this again and file some bugs on the 2 or 3 issues.
   04:23 mvo mdz: IMHO we need to show notifications for dapper users but offer a way to "don't show this again". because a lot of dapper users will want to upgrade
   04:23 mdz I saw a conffile prompt in some random X package recently
   04:24 mvo we should make it clear in the release notes that this is a upgrade to a not 3y support version
   04:24 mdz mvo: we can argue it later, but need to allow for his request to be satisfied
   04:24 mvo mdz: yes, thanks
   04:24 mdz mvo: I agree that we should offer "don't show this again" in any case
   04:25 mdz do we already have the ability to display a note before the upgrade, where we could explain about the support lifetime etc.?
   04:25 mvo mdz: yes, we display release notes
   04:26 mvo that is, anything that is in the release notes-uri :)
   04:26 mdz ok, thanks mvo
   04:26 mdz Mithrandir: next?
   04:26 Mithrandir last week: finished up the Korean keyboard work, some XKB work, some bug triage.  Also, flight-6 preparations today and tomorrow.  Some espresso hacking too (timezone selector).
   04:26 Mithrandir next week: more espresso hacking, popcon, general bug gardening
   04:26 Mithrandir blocked on: soyuz being slow; see bug 36535.  This is already problematic for flights and will be worse when we get closer to release.
   04:26 mdz how is the new xkeyboard-config working out?
   04:27 Mithrandir a bit rough in the beginning, but upstream's responsive and I think we have most of the issues worked out now.
   04:27 mdz will follow up with LP on 36535
   04:28 Mithrandir Adam has a bug about building out of incoming too.  If we could get both, I'd be thrilled.
   04:28 mdz Mithrandir: be sure the next Flight announcement includes a note about new X keyboard bits and requests explicit attention to testing
   04:28 Mithrandir mdz: ok.
   04:28 mdz building out of incoming is likely to be harder
   04:28 mdz rolling substantial new features into soyuz is a slow process in production
   04:28 mdz there might be low-hanging fruit on performance optimization though
   04:28 seb128 mdz: fixes the issue with GNOME keymaps selections, we got a compose:ralt issue which got worked with upstream and fixed, out of that seems to work nicely
   04:28 mdz I will speak with kiko
   04:29 Mithrandir thanks.
   04:29 Mithrandir seb128: did you get the X parts of that fixed too?
   === Kinnison knows of one bit of low-hanging fruit on the publisher
   04:29 Kinnison and can probably come up with one or two speedups
   04:29 Kinnison possibly enough to make 30m cron.dailys reliable
   04:29 seb128 Mithrandir: svu fixed it with xkeyboard-config changes only in fact
   04:29 Mithrandir seb128: oh, cool.
   04:29 infinity Kinnison: We'd love you forever.
   04:30 mdz Kinnison: please send an email to me+kiko with your ideas to discuss
   04:30 Mithrandir Kinnison: that'd be very, very nice.
   04:30 Kinnison mdz: Sure
   04:30 mdz thanks
   04:30 Kamion Kinnison: I need to have a clear window where I can manipulate publishing records safely
   04:30 infinity Kinnison: As we approach beta, this will become critical.
   04:30 Kinnison infinity: *nod*
   04:30 Kinnison Kamion: I understand
   04:30 Kamion Kinnison: if that window is of the form "it's safe to manipulate publishing records while publish-distro is running", all the better :-)
   04:30 mdz seb128: you recommend it for breezy-updates as well?
   04:30 mdz seb128: (assuming feedback from flight 6 is positive)
   04:31 seb128 probably yep
   04:31 mdz ok
   04:31 infinity Kinnison: I'll poke you later with more on this topic, including concerns/feedback from others about same.
   04:31 mdz thanks Mithrandir
   04:31 Kinnison infinity: thanks
   04:31 mdz Kinnison: next
   04:31 Kinnison gnome-power-manager (PowerManagementInterface): Rewound a bunch of partial patches to prepare 2.14.0-0ubuntu1 upload for after flight-6. Went through even more bugmail. Scouring of CVS to get a list of changesets for upstream to
   produce a 2.14.1 release for us.
   04:31 Kinnison gparted: reviewed patch by dholbach
   04:31 Kinnison metacity: fixed bug in the patch I created last week; continued to chat with upstream about this. They remain unconvinced as yet.
   04:31 Kinnison launchpad: worked on a test set for the uploader and started to integrate it into the launchpad test suite.
   04:31 Kinnison lp-ongoing: I will finish this test suite integration. I imagine there'll be another production rollout soon.
   04:32 Kinnison distro-ongoing: Otherwise continue with gnome-power-manager, acpi related stuff, gparted, etc. I've promised Colin I'll help pick up some espresso UI bits.
   04:32 Kinnison [end]
   04:32 mdz you're around for bug day, right?
   04:32 Kinnison Yes
   04:32 mdz great
   04:32 mdz are you tracking acpi/PM/laptop related issues in malone?
   04:32 Kinnison I am on the bug contacts for acpi-support
   04:32 Kinnison and I'm tracking most of them
   04:33 Kamion Kinnison: do you need any help from me on the gparted 0.2 merge?
   04:33 mdz I hear some murmurings about suspend-to-RAM regressions from various people
   04:33 mdz I don't know whethere they're kernel or userland related
   04:33 infinity mdz: On upgrades, or fresh installs?
   04:33 Kinnison Kamion: dholbach is doing well on that. Once he has a 0.2.3 I'll review it and test it with my harness
   04:33 Kamion there was talk about that being due to the change in the kernel/user memory split; I understood mjg59 was on top of that
   04:33 mdz infinity: unclear; is there expected to be a difference?
   04:33 fabbione mdz: it can make a difference
   04:34 Kinnison mdz: I also have "mail mdz+kiko about speedups for publisher" and "work out what building out of incoming would entail"
   04:34 infinity mdz: Earlier today, a theory was developed that because gfxboot lets you pick a resolution (and then puts that resolution in a vga= line in your bootloader!), people are inadvertently using vesafb where they would previously have
   has vga16fb.
   04:34 mdz Kinnison: mjg59 doesn't seem to have much time for it these days; if you could chat with him and see if you can help fill in, that would be grand
   04:34 Kinnison mdz: I'll add that to my list
   04:34 infinity s/have has/have had/
   04:34 Kamion infinity: that can easily be turned off, if we're confident that nobody will ever need to use vga= to get a visible usplash
   04:35 infinity mdz: mjg59 did, however, just commit a kernel patch that fixes suspend-to-disk on macihnes with massive gobs of RAM (tested on my 2GB laptop)
   04:35 mdz Kinnison: I fully expected build-from-incoming to be a longer-term thing; don't spend too much time on it right away unless you already know otherwise
   04:35 Kinnison mdz: I wouldn't be coding it up, just looking to produce a better estimate of the job
   04:35 Kinnison mdz: in case we decide we need it as release approaches
   04:35 mdz infinity: perhaps we should disable that
   04:35 mdz since it presumably doesn't affect X anyway
   04:36 mdz Kinnison: sure, but it's lower priority than bugs
   04:36 Kinnison mdz: noted
   04:36 pitti mdz: btw, it should; it's one of the few ways we could fix the silly default resolution if resolution can't be detected automatically
   04:36 Kamion mdz: the reason vga= was copied was that it used to be necessary to get a usable console on some machines. Theoretically that shouldn't be the case any more now that we default to 640x400
   04:36 Kinnison mdz: where does "speed up publisher" come in my priority list?
   04:36 pitti that's still an ugly problem we haven't decided on
   04:36 Kamion pitti: VESA resolutions probably aren't a particularly good set of options for X though
   04:37 mdz Kinnison: mail me your list and I'll sort it for tomorrow
   04:37 Kinnison mdz: okay
   04:37 infinity Kamion: Let's continue this bootloader/vga thing out of band.
   04:37 pitti Kamion: maybe, but it's the only input the user can give on the live CD...
   04:37 infinity pitti: You too. ;)
   04:37 pitti yes, it's in a bug report, too
   04:37 mdz pitti,infinity: chat with fabbione about it; he has a todo item for a more graceful VESA fallback
   === fabbione sighs...
   04:37 fabbione yeah
   04:38 mdz thanks Kinnison
   04:38 mdz JaneW: I think Keybuk has been on vacation for most of the time since the last meeting, any update?
   04:38 JaneW mdz: no, I'll mail him...
   04:39 mdz JaneW: nah, as I said I think he was on holiday all but a day or so
   04:39 mdz Kamion: next?
   04:39 Kamion that day I think he spent on n-m
   04:39 Kamion ubuntu-express-copy-filesystem: Estimated install copying time fixed.
   04:39 Kamion ubuntu-express-base-system: Timezone defaults fixed. Started in on sorting out network configuration; would have finished this evening but for laptop hardware problems. Looked at apt-setup this morning, but it turned out to be a bit
   more than the simple job I was hoping, so stepping back for a bit to rethink. Mithrandi
   04:39 Kamion r's doing timezone->country->locale inferring.
   04:39 Kamion ue-partitioning-tool: Fixed manual partitioner not to assume ext3 (too late for Flight CD 6 though).
   04:39 Kamion misc: Various random installer bug fixing. Trying to cope with checking up on all the bugs that triagers are closing for me (not all accurately; installer bugs require different treatment to say desktop bugs because it can be much
   harder to persuade people to re-test, and bugs are often very hardware-specific).
   04:39 Kamion next-week: Bug day tomorrow; perhaps I can do some education on installer bugs. Breezy CD images, this time for real; sorry pitti.
   04:39 Kamion sorry for screen-induced paste breakage
   04:40 mdz Kamion: what are we doing about network configuration in espresso?
   04:40 Kamion mdz: I tried to use netcfg, but it's difficult at present because that tries to bring interfaces up and down
   04:41 mvo Kamion: I would be interessted to talk to you about the eta copy time thing later, I did something like it in the upgrader too
   04:41 mdz there's an outside chance that NM will happen for the installed system, but we can't count on it
   04:41 Kamion mdz: so I'm just doing clone-and-hack of netcfg's logic for writing the standard network configuration files, plus copying certain bits from the live filesystem (/etc/network/interfaces mainly)
   04:41 mdz if we need to remove it from live as well so that we can do network configuration sanely, that's reasonable
   04:41 Kamion mvo: I doubt it's related - espresso's problem was that it was using cpio for the copy and thus losing track of progress due to buffering on cpio's stdin
   04:42 mdz is the live boot still configuring interfaces even though we're installing NM?
   04:42 Kamion mdz: yeah, the disconnect between live and installed is going to be awkward unless n-m remains installed after espresso installs
   04:42 Kamion mdz: it's doing all the configuration it ever did, i.e. write out auto dhcp stanzas for each interface
   04:42 Mithrandir mdz: yes, but NM manages those interfaces so it's not harmful.
   04:42 mdz oh, so NM is ignoring everything on live anyway?  that's less than ideal
   04:42 Kamion n-m considers stanzas of that form to mean that it can manage the interfaces
   04:42 Kamion mdz: no
   04:42 mdz oh
   04:43 mdz how clever of it
   04:43 Kamion this configuration is probably ok; however if
   04:43 Mithrandir nm manages all interfaces on live.
   04:43 Kamion the user actually does any meaningful setup with n-m, they'll be a bit surprised that it's no longer available on install
   04:43 Kamion I could perhaps try to detect whether they've fiddled with n-m and if so keep n-m installed, or something
   04:43 mdz possibly
   04:43 infinity Good thing you can't do anything useful with n-m, except for picking a wireless network. :)
   04:43 infinity (No static IP setup or anything in N-M yet)
   04:43 Kamion infinity: WPA configuration now
   04:44 infinity Oh, and that.
   04:44 mdz that could be frustrating
   04:44 Kamion anyway, out-of-band?
   04:44 mdz yes
   04:44 mdz when Keybuk is back, let's talk about what to do with NM
   04:44 mdz thanks Kamion
   04:44 mdz iwj has been on holiday...
   04:44 mdz infinity: next?
   04:44 infinity last week buildd: Sorting out build failures in main, we're now down to exactly one FTBFS package (syck on amd64) which I'm investigating, everything else it up to date.
   04:44 infinity last week distro: General bug fixing and bug triaging in packages I maintain, and elsewhere (such as network-manager), preparing for Flight-6.
   04:44 infinity next week buildd: More of the same, making sure everything is building, also need to get livefs and security building on hppa/sparc in the DC.  I also need to get MOTU up to speed on their FTBFS issues ASAP.
   04:45 infinity next week distro: More and more triaging and bugfixing in packages I maintain solo and in teams, and help Tollef with the Flight-6 release.
   04:45 infinity NOTE: I don't mind terribly fixing FTBFS bugs, it's a big part of my job, and I'm rather good at spotting build problems, but PLEASE, don't use that as an excuse to not test builds before you upload.  Pretty please.
   04:45 infinity SCARIER NOTE: Due to unfortunate changes upstream in libmysqlclient15, it would be in our best interest to sync their new (ABI incompatible) version and do a mass rebuild of reverse deps.  This needs discussion.
   04:45 mdz great news on buildability, thanks for that
   04:45 mdz do we have a strategy for a test build for dapper?
   04:45 fabbione infinity: +1 on the rebuild
   04:45 infinity We should discuss the MySQL thing, I just wanted to toss it out there so people don't freak out when it happens.
   04:46 mdz infinity: please send an email re: mysql
   04:46 infinity mdz: We have no particularly wonderful strategy there yet.  I need to discuss with Kinnison to see if LP can do it for us, and if not, get elmo to set it up in wanna-build.
   04:46 infinity mdz: Will do.
   04:46 Kamion ubuntu-devel-announce on mysql maybe? (or maybe once we've decided)
   04:46 mdz infinity: ok, please start that ball rolling so we don't have to rush later
   04:46 infinity Kamion: I can announce it, but rebuilds are fairly simple, not sure it's worth the hassle.
   04:46 fabbione infinity:  i can do w-b for sparc here. 24 instances of buildd will be way faster than the machines at the DC
   04:46 mdz Kamion: ubuntu-devel and CC me for the discussion; announce once we'v edecided
   04:47 mdz fabbione: that is a damn fine idea
   04:47 fabbione mdz: that'd be only sparc tho..
   04:47 infinity sparc only would catch 99% of the FTBFS bugs anyway.
   04:47 mdz right, but we have relatively few i386-specific packages and could test them manually
   04:47 infinity But it's no hassle to get it going in the DC, really, just need to get elmo to do his end (cut an archive snapshot)
   04:48 fabbione mdz: can you sponsor a set of earplugs for me, pretty please? :P
   04:48 infinity I suspect LP isn't ready for us to do these things natively yet.
   04:48 mdz infinity: elmo is a busy man
   04:48 fabbione mdz: but yes we can do it
   04:48 fabbione infinity: you can get console here and go with it
   04:48 mdz fabbione: noise canceling headphones, you mean ;-)
   04:48 infinity fabbione: Do you still have a local mirror?
   04:48 fabbione mdz: exactly
   04:48 mdz ok, thanks infinity
   04:48 mdz fabbione: next?
   04:48 fabbione infinity: yes
   04:48 fabbione * server-candy: Missing/buggy: apache2 for "central snakeoil SSL setup" and kernel -server as default from CD install. No other progresses.
   04:48 fabbione * ubuntu-cluster: Waiting ocfs2-tools release for new userland to sync with the kernel that will allow (finally) full desync later. Release is taking a bit longer, pinged upstream, no answer yet. Got the SAN almost up and running.
   Missing to configure the 2x2Gb fiber switches and get some controllers around different machines to start testing.
   04:48 fabbione * last week: X bug fixing/triage/headackes/larting/bashing/killing/... redhat-cluster-suite bug fixing and a bit of sparc bug fixing, got mono working on sparc with David Miller :)
   04:48 fabbione * next week: bug fixing + X hug day tomorrow. Prepare redhat-cluster-suite breezy-update for a missing init script. Wacom in
   04:48 fabbione X needs love very soon (found a can of worm looking at the bugs). Going to announce sparc CDs later today since they have bee
   04:48 fabbione n finally tested.
   04:48 fabbione * bug work has bottle necks on malone missing ability to do multiple bug processing. (Discussed with LP people already)
   04:48 fabbione infinity: i have all in the local mirror
   === robertj [n=robertj@66-188-77-153.dhcp.athn.ga.charter.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:49 mdz fabbione: I am following up on your LP requests to assist with X triage
   04:49 fabbione mdz: yes i saw your first mail, thanks
   04:50 fabbione oh i have been a bit sick yesterday
   04:50 fabbione otherwise everything is on track
   04:50 fabbione X is in bad shape.. we will make it rocking
   04:50 mdz spoke with kiko at length today and will again tomorrow regarding all of the priority LP activity for us
   04:50 fabbione in a year or two
   04:50 fabbione mdz: great thanks
   04:50 mdz fabbione: we run on 1-hour days, so we should be able to squeeze a year in before dapper ;-)
   04:50 mdz thanks fabbione
   04:50 mdz doko: next?
   04:50 fabbione anyway more seriously.. the biggest issue was the ati driver and we got upstream very close to us
   04:51 doko - toolchain-roadmap: glibc i386 on amd64 fixed, patch comparision (unstable vs. dapper) beeing addressed.
   04:51 doko - toolchain-roadmap-ng: blocked (Martin Michlmayer and Ben Hutchings did a Debian unstable rebuild with gcc-4.1 on mips and amd64, which is looking good)
   04:51 doko - openoffice.org: two new locales, bug fixes, finding that we import all message strings as translated into rosetta, en-au dictionary and thesaurus available (jdub, for your slides ;-), working on OOo 2.0.2 packages for breezy (low
   prio)
   04:51 doko - other: preparing ttf-dejavu updates, ttf-dejavau font backport, looking for fonts for printing, python-2.4.3 candidate
   04:51 doko - plans for next week: focus in font/printing bugs and printing related packages
   04:51 mdz doko: any particular bug focus for you beyond ooo?
   04:51 Riddell doko: is fontforge up to date enough for dejavu?
   04:51 mdz working with pitti on printing?
   04:52 doko mdz: ^^^ font/printing bug
   04:52 doko sure, working with pitti on this would be good
   04:52 mdz (in case no one had noticed yet, I sometimes start writing responses before I finish reading the paste, to save time ;-) )
   04:52 pitti yep
   04:52 doko Riddell: any particular reason to ask?
   === fabbione disables mdz's readahead
   04:52 mdz doko: you'll be here for bug day?
   04:52 doko yes
   04:52 mdz great
   04:52 Riddell doko: I remember looking at dejavu earlier in dapper cycle and fontforge wasn't up to date enough for the latest versions
   04:53 mdz doko: do rosetta and ooo like each other these days?
   04:53 doko Riddell: asking upstream DejaVu
   04:54 doko mdz: so, so. OOo does copy the english string to the translated string, and rosetta imports that, so we have 100% OOo translations
   04:54 doko discussing with carlos how to solve this
   04:55 mdz doko: is there hope to have rosetta import/export for ooo for dapper?
   04:55 doko no exports for OOo yet; I'd like to have a tarball in the data center, not having to write 20 emails and fetching these via http
   04:55 infinity Automation is elation.
   04:56 doko mdz: the import is working, the workaround for me is to remove the strings, if en-US == translated lang
   04:56 mdz so we have import but not export
   04:56 mdz ok, running out of time
   04:56 mdz thanks doko
   04:56 mdz dholbach: next?
   04:56 dholbach icon-mission: icon page complete, workflow with art team implemented (apt-ftparchive is unhappy sometimes, need to investigate)
   04:56 dholbach this week (done): finished technical aspects of the icon world, *started* catching up with bug triage
   04:56 dholbach this week (todo): bug day, more bug triage, catching up with motu uvf
   04:56 dholbach next week: bug triage, working on organising the motu dapper fixage
   04:56 mdz dholbach: where do we stand on sabdfl's icon priorities?
   04:56 dholbach mdz: you mean the page?
   04:57 mdz dholbach: I mean actually getting the icons we need from the artist
   04:57 dholbach mdz: there was no update of Dave yet, he was supposed to report back this week
   04:57 dholbach I can mail him.
   04:57 mdz ok, please do
   04:57 dholbach right5
   04:57 mdz ok, before we close up
   04:58 mdz good news, thanks to elmo, syncs should start happening again very soon
   04:58 sistpoty yay :)
   === mvo applauds
   04:58 mdz how is everyone feeling about the release schedule changes?
   04:58 doko mdz: on which basis, we did request syncs for specific versions, which are supserseeded in unstable
   04:59 mdz doko: I will be reviewing the pending requests with elmo
   04:59 mdz and will figure out what to do with those
   04:59 Kamion we can sync from snapshot.debian.net if need be, I'm sure
   04:59 Kamion I have one other issue
   04:59 mdz in the coming week I will be pressing hard on bugs, trying to get a handle on what is going on in Malone
   04:59 mdz working with kiko to get better reports for us
   04:59 Kamion bootable Intel Mac CDs require non-root HFS+ writing support
   05:00 Kamion we have no way to do this using free software, and even with non-free software we only get formatting, not other writing
   05:00 JaneW mdz: can I help with that? (bug reports)
   05:00 mdz JaneW: possibly; ping me tomorrow about it?
   05:00 JaneW mdz: sure
   05:00 Kamion if somebody would like to work on this (ideally adding an HFS+ hybrid option to mkisofs), please let me know; otherwise it'll have to wait until later in the cycle when I'm a bit more out from under the espresso mountain
   05:00 seb128 mdz: schedule change will permit to fix a lot of small glitches which is nice
   05:01 fabbione mdz: i don't mind the change in the schedule, but it might kill my presence at the next spec writing orgy :/
   05:01 mdz Kamion: intel mac support isn't an explicit target for us; it's a nice to have but I'm happy to let it be a later one-off (by us or community-contributed) based on the final dapper CD if necessary
   05:01 Kamion mdz: we can do one-offs relying on somebody invoking root access to build the HFS+ piece, I *think*
   05:01 JaneW Kamion: can you send me espresso %ages - when the time is more sane please?
   05:01 mdz Kamion: happy to bounty the work if a candidate is available
   05:01 Kamion although haven't tested that theory yet
   05:01 Kamion but it's not feasible for autobuilding
   05:02 mdz ok, if anyone has outstanding issues, please mail or call
   05:02 Kamion mdz: nice-to-have> understand, I just thought I'd mention since an increasing number of people are asking about it
   05:02 Kamion JaneW: yes
   05:02 mdz it's late for most of you, thanks for staying up
   05:02 JaneW Kamion: ta
   05:02 mdz good night all

</pre>
