{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** James Page to provide feedback on bugs 1425288 and 1425128
* V Development
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

Please feel free to add more items to the agenda for the next meeting. We will discuss them in turn when it arrives.

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====

None

===== W Development =====

No https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseSchedule yet

No https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-w-server yet

2 bugs @ http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 

===== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) =====

Nothing to report

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara) =====

Nothing to report

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) =====

Nothing to report

===== Open Discussion =====

Ubuntu Online Summit is going on right now, check schedule at  http://summit.ubuntu.com/uos-1505/

===== Announce next meeting date, time and chair =====

Tuesday, May 12th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

===== Meeting Actions =====

None

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, May 12th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:02] <gnuoy> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:02] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue May  5 16:02:45 2015 UTC.  The chair is gnuoy. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:02] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:02] <gnuoy> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:03] <gnuoy> I'm not seeing much in the way of minutes from the last few weeks https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server
[16:03] <gnuoy> Am I missing something there?
[16:04] <gnuoy> Is it just me an arosales or are other people lurking?
[16:04] <jamespage> o/
[16:04]  * arosales is sudo here
[16:04] <arosales> :-)
[16:05] <gnuoy> ok, well lets move on since I see no minutes to review actions from
[16:05] <gnuoy> #topic W Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: W Development
[16:06] <smoser> o/
[16:06] <gnuoy> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseSchedule
[16:06] <gnuoy> hmm, that's not a thing
[16:07] <gnuoy> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:07] <gnuoy> that is a thing
[16:08] <gnuoy> Bug #1450642 is fix released in wily
[16:08] <ubottu> bug 1450642 in libseccomp (Ubuntu Vivid) "seccomp missing many new syscalls" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1450642
[16:08] <coreycb> o/
[16:09] <gnuoy> #subtopic Blueprints
[16:09] <gnuoy> Those who track work with blueprint should prepare their wily ones
[16:10] <gnuoy> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-w-server is not a thing either
[16:10] <gnuoy> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:10] <caribou> gnuoy: nothing special here, thanks !
[16:10] <gnuoy> caribou, np
[16:11] <gnuoy> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
[16:11] <gnuoy> I don't see matsubara
[16:11] <gnuoy> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
[16:11] <gnuoy> any thing for/from the kernel team?
[16:12] <gnuoy> gaughen, are you about atm?
[16:12] <gaughen> gnuoy, yes
[16:12] <gnuoy> hi!
[16:12] <gaughen> Hey Liam
[16:12] <gaughen> I mean gnuoy
[16:12] <gaughen> what's up?
[16:13] <gnuoy> gaughen, who would look after creating the 'w' specific pages for this meeting?
[16:13] <gnuoy> The ones on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting/IRCCommands
[16:14] <gnuoy> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:14] <gnuoy> Please feel free to discuss openly...
[16:15] <smoser> http://summit.ubuntu.com/uos-1505/
[16:15] <smoser> Ubuntu Online Summit is goin on right now.
[16:15] <smoser> that link above is the link to the scehdule.
[16:15] <smoser> please watch, participate, have fun
[16:16] <gnuoy> thanks smoser
[16:17] <gnuoy> ok, I think we're done
[16:17] <gnuoy> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
[16:17] <gnuoy> 12th May same time, kickinz1 to chair
[16:17] <gnuoy> #endmeeting
</pre>
