{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=03&day=17&year=2014&hour=&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Mar 17th 2014 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* sbeattie

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** [ACTION] chrisccoulson send oxide and qtwebkit benchmark results to mailing list: DONE (https://lists.launchpad.net/oxide/msg00003.html)
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** embargoed issue
** comment on ipc policy
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: triage
** pending updates
** tyhicks
** submitted v2 of !AppArmor patches last week
** kdbus ongoing discussion
** help with !AppArmor work items
** investigate test-kernel-security.py failures on powerpc as have time
** jjohansen
** !AppArmor
*** help with 2.8.95 QRT failures, esp on Nexus 4
*** continue with IPC. There is a bug with sockets and ipc
** sarnold
** weekly role: community
** !AppArmor 2.8.95 upload. Remaining issue is tools failing with dbus
** MIRs: juju, schroot, strongswan, glusterfs, and cgmanager to start and finish
** chrisccoulson
** mozilla updates
** Oxide
*** land Oxide in the archive
*** code reviews
*** get network-callbacks branch merged (needed for UA overrides, but also for storage)
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** jdstrand asked about deliverables
** oxide will be tight, but it should land in the archive this week with webbrowser-app/UbuntuWebView/webapp-container following suite
** 2.8.95 should land this week-- some QRT failures on N4. This needs to land for ipc to land
** ipc work:
** 1 bug related to sockets: targeted for this week - required for landing
** fixes for network code: targeted for this week - required for landing
** versioning behavior change around the xtrans table for parser: targeted for this week - required for landing
** replacement issue surrounding compound labels: targeted for this week (have patch, has bug) - can be fixed later
** there needs to be some small revisions around ptrace, signals, and other policy - required for landing
** ptrace test coverage pretty good, signals less so - more signals tests required for landing
** should we push v2 of the patches to trusty once upstream ACKs them for easier LTS maintenance? yes

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-03-17-16.42.html
