{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Attendance ====
People Present:

# Hobbsee
# pitti
# iwj
# mdz
# doko
# calc
# cjwatson
# seb128
# mvo
# fabbione
# Keybuk
# ogra
# dendrobates
# bryce
# BenC
# asac
# Mithrandir
# Riddell
# agoliveira
# bdmurray
# tkamppeter
# kwwii
# evand
# amitk
# mathiaz
# Skiessi

==== Summary ====
Meeting started by mdz at 15:06
15:07:21 	Topic: release management and tribe-4

15:09:03 	LINK 	mdz 	week's activity and agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DevelTeamMeeting20070809

15:22:10 	ACTION 	mdz 	pitti to summarize and discuss release management questions by mail

15:23:06 	Topic: (pitti) progress discussion for Ubuntu 6.06.2 point release

15:28:15 	ACTION 	mdz 	pitti to draft revised schedule for 6.06.2

15:29:01 	Topic: pitti is going on holiday and needs people to fill in on some tasks while he is away

15:29:07 	ACTION 	mdz 	BenC to review kernel realted 6.06.2 bugs

15:34:24 	LINK 	mdz 	https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+milestone/ubuntu-6.06.2

15:40:15 	ACTION 	mdz 	pitti to follow up with Riddell, archive team regarding release management during his holiday

15:42:42 	ACTION 	mdz 	mdz to learn about the RT priority scheme and set an appropriate one for #28728

15:44:30 	Topic: Other business

15:49:24 	ACTION 	mdz 	tkamppeter and pitti to discuss CUPS version, etc.

Meeting ended at 15:49.

==== Logs ====
<pre>
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-meeting
[15:06:52] <Hobbsee> mdz: it'd be nice if we could get it off the LP release cycle too, if possible.
[15:06:57] <pitti> seb128: I appreciate that
[15:07:03] <Hobbsee> mdz: so that LP doesnt break when trying to release
[15:07:03] <iwj> Having a mini _feature_ freeze in addition to the archive freeze, before the milestone, seems eminently sensible.
[15:07:04] <pitti> seb128: just discussing alternatives
[15:07:12] <mdz> MootBot: sorry for not telling you at the beginning of the meeting
[15:07:19] <doko> rushing in OO.o at this point wasn't necessary, the release stopper bug which was present in 2.2 wasn't fixed in 2.3
[15:07:19] <pitti> if we introduce a new feature, it shuold work well and make us proud
[15:07:21] <mdz> [TOPIC] release management and tribe-4
[15:07:28] <pitti> announcing something that barely works is bad IMHO
[15:07:47] <pitti> MootBot? that's new
[15:07:54] <calc> doko: we finally have a firm grasp on what the bug is however and that was within the past couple days
[15:07:56] <pitti> doko: right
[15:07:58] <cjwatson> doko: the rationale was that it needed to land before UVF anyway and OOo needs as much testing as we can give it
[15:07:58] <mdz> MootBot is a tool that the Ubuntu Scribes team created
[15:08:00] <Hobbsee> pitti: it's from the scribes team
[15:08:03] <pitti> doko: but we only knew that *after* it was uploaded
[15:08:04] <mdz> to track meeting activity so they can summarize it
[15:08:11] <pitti> doko: before we assumed that it would fix the eternal hang
[15:08:16] <pitti> that was due to a bad misunderstanding
[15:08:30] <seb128> pitti: the goal is to get those working nicely for gutsy, not to be perfect for whatever tribe they land to imo
[15:08:47] <calc> apparently depending on which libraries you have installed (not just -gtk) it may happen to work for a user, or not
[15:08:50] <cjwatson> I think we focus too much on having no major problems in a milestone, sometimes
[15:08:55] <pitti> seb128: maybe not perfect, but it should reasonably work at least
[15:09:01] <cjwatson> the goal is for major problems from one milestone to be fixed in the next
[15:09:03] <mdz> [LINK] week's activity and agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DevelTeamMeeting20070809
[15:09:03] <doko> pitti: well, in the past we did prepare new OOo versions in ppa archives first, and only did upload when it was working on all release archs.
[15:09:04] <mvo> I agree with seb128 here (also the banlance needs to be maintained, we can not release too broken tribes)
[15:09:08] <cjwatson> not for no new ones to turn up
[15:09:28] <cjwatson> and I think it's inevitable that we only notice certain problems when people focus on testing
[15:09:33] <pitti> cjwatson: "focus too much on having no major problems in a milestone" -> TBH I think we have too many
[15:09:44] <pitti> cjwatson: I agree
[15:09:49] <pitti> so this time I *did* some early testing last week
[15:09:55] <pitti> and CDs looked quite good
[15:09:58] <calc> gtk changed something that causes partial initialization of it to fail horribly instead of just happening to still work
[15:09:59] <seb128> pitti: well, we either should perhaps target less features then and focus on bug fixing
[15:10:01] <iwj> cjwatson: Having a slightly longer period for people who've just rushed in an upload to say `oh wait no that's horridly broken let me fix it' might help a bit.
[15:10:04] <pitti> but then we rushed a few new features in
[15:10:19] <calc> which bit several programs including OOo, some OOo libraries probably do full init which causes it to work if they are around
[15:10:20] <pitti> seb128: well, then we'll slip on features, not good either
[15:10:25] <pitti> we just need to land them a little earlier
[15:10:36] <seb128> right, easy to say
[15:10:42] <cjwatson> iwj: that's true. though it is the zeno's tortoise development model to some extent :-)
[15:10:42] <fabbione> pitti: isn't this why we have a release manager to blame? :P
[15:10:43] <pitti> seb128: I know :/
[15:10:47] <seb128> I know I've landed some things late but that was not bad willing
[15:10:57] <pitti> seb128: I'm not blaming you for anything
[15:10:58] <seb128> that's the best I could manage without dholbach there to give an hand
[15:11:00] <mdz> pitti: perhaps it would help to send out an early "start getting things in now" before the "freeze is imminent" reminder?
[15:11:07] <pitti> the tribe's done, it reasonably works, but I think we can improve
[15:11:19] <pitti> and I'd like to discuss that with you isntead of deciding on my own
[15:11:20] <seb128> pitti: right, but most of the late changes there are desktop things I've landed, so I feel it's part of my fault
[15:11:36] <Keybuk> mdz: what would be the timescale for that mail?
[15:11:39] <seb128> but that was either that or not landing things this cycle
[15:11:40] <pitti> mdz: that might help, yes, together with a mini feature-freeze on Thursday before maybe
[15:11:43] <mvo> seb128: I think a lot of people had their share this time (my apt change included)
[15:11:47] <iwj> You could have a soft freeze "please try to avoid uploading your new feature after if possible and consider whether the next milestone might not be a better target" ?
[15:11:51] <mdz> Keybuk: pitti's decision, I think
[15:12:07] <pitti> some ten days before release, I think
[15:12:10] <pitti> Monday the week before
[15:12:21] <mdz> pitti: perhaps some tools would help as well
[15:12:22] <pitti> we'll find out
[15:12:32] <mdz> perhaps if every time one ran dput, it would print the next week or so of the release schedule :-)
[15:12:38] <pitti> heh
[15:12:41] <mdz> to remind folks to plan ahead
[15:12:41] <seb128> pitti: with a feature freeze 10 days ago I would never have managed to land the desktop changes and they would have been delayed to next cycle maybe
[15:12:46] <Keybuk> pitti: in the latter half of the release cycle, that's almost the day after the previous tribe :p
[15:12:55] <pitti> seb128: no, not feature freeze, announcement
[15:13:12] <pitti> seb128: mini-FF on Friday evening before tribe
[15:13:13] <cjwatson> iwj: I think we'd have to space milestones out more in order to have finer granularity
[15:13:20] <cjwatson> (which would not *necessarily* be a bad thing)
[15:13:23] <seb128> pitti: k
[15:13:38] <mdz> pitti: if the problem was with the new features that seb landed, it doesn't sound like awareness is the problem, but simply too much work to be done in too little time
[15:13:43] <doko> and more freezes don't help for features which are unrelated to milestones
[15:13:44] <pitti> yeah, ten days advance announcement for new features works for three weeks
[15:13:49] <pitti> two weeks is very tight on its own
[15:13:52] <iwj> pitti: I see people working weekends to fix their Friday rush jobs :-).
[15:14:22] * mvo is sure that will happen
[15:14:30] <cjwatson> iwj: *cough*
[15:14:43] <pitti> doko: things like lpia don't really affect the CDs, so those are fine
[15:15:08] <cjwatson> pitti: but longer freezes do adversely affect bootstrapping jobs like that
[15:15:11] <doko> pitti: besides hold of single long building packages, so these affect lpia as well
[15:15:14] <pitti> mdz: right, in the end it simply boils down to lack of manpower
[15:15:43] <pitti> doko: s/long building packages/major packages that affect the CDs/
[15:16:06] <pitti> maybe we should first define what we expect from a Tribe CD
[15:16:08] <mdz> pitti: blame france ;-)
[15:16:21] <doko> pitti: a library yes, more? didn't even change something for the milestone architectures ;-)
[15:16:32] <pitti> either 'something that you can use to show off Ubuntu' or 'something that (mostly) installs and is used to find bugs'
[15:17:10] <mdz> pitti: I consider the latter to be more appropriate
[15:17:15] <ogra> ++
[15:17:26] <Hobbsee> and also being a reasonable time to dist-upgrade, without your system falling to pieces
[15:17:35] <mdz> installs/upgrades
[15:17:37] <pitti> mdz: but then we shouldn't make such a fuss about it with wiki pages and www.ubuntu.com announcements
[15:18:05] <mdz> pitti: we do want to communicate about it, so that it gets testing
[15:18:11] <pitti> and change the tone of announcements to be more developer-oriented
[15:18:18] <mdz> and previews of new features are a good reason for people to test it
[15:18:18] <cjwatson> Hobbsee: it's a very constrained point in time, though. about an hour after the release, all the frozen uploads land and it destabilises again
[15:18:23] <mdz> but they can expect things to be broken
[15:18:29] <cjwatson> Hobbsee: so by the time most people read the announcement, it's already unstable again
[15:18:30] <Hobbsee> cjwatson: this is true - hence it's more in the leadup to the tribe, i guess.
[15:18:48] <pitti> mdz: right, but if even we already know that your desktop doesn't even start often, or that feature X is broken or makes no sense (fusa on edubuntu etc.), what's the point in more testing?
[15:18:50] <Hobbsee> cjwatson: that depends on how long it takes to build everything, too ;)
[15:19:05] <Keybuk> pitti: finding other things that are wrong
[15:19:06] <pitti> mdz: (slightly exaggerating, of course)
[15:19:11] <pitti> Keybuk: right
[15:19:13] <mdz> pitti: we should advertise a feature iff it's able to be tested
[15:19:19] <pitti> Keybuk: that would be with the 'developer-oriented releases'
[15:19:38] <pitti> ok
[15:19:38] <mdz> pitti: I don't consider testing to be exclusively developer-oriented
[15:19:57] <mdz> many people in the user community do useful testing who are not developers
[15:20:06] <Keybuk> indeed; some of the best feedback I've had this cycle is from getting some pure users to test a Tribe Live CD
[15:20:35] <pitti> mdz: well, it may simply be that my quality expectations of an announced test CD are too high then :)
[15:20:41] <dendrobates> mdz: mathiaz and I were just discussing the need for uat,
[15:20:48] <bryce> Keybuk: same here
[15:21:22] <pitti> ok, thanks all, no need to block the entire meeting with that
[15:21:34] <pitti> I think I'll write some ideas and a summary to distro-team@
[15:21:39] <mdz> dendrobates: uat?
[15:21:49] <mdz> pitti: ok
[15:21:53] <dendrobates> user acceptance testing.
[15:21:58] <pitti> oh, and most of all:
[15:22:09] <Hobbsee> pitti: could you CC me on that, if appropriate, as i'm interested in it as well
[15:22:10] <mdz> [ACTION] pitti to summarize and discuss release management questions by mail
[15:22:10] <pitti> thanks to the entire team for your great work and the night shifts!
[15:22:15] * pitti hugs the team
[15:22:19] <mdz> pitti: I think ubuntu-devel would be more appropriate
[15:22:32] <ogra> pitti, i really think mvo deserves an extra hug from us all ;)
[15:22:41] * seb128 hugs pitti, sorry for the hard time, you are doing a rocking work ;)
[15:22:41] <pitti> and calc, too!
[15:22:45] <ogra> yeah
[15:22:50] * pitti gives an extra hug to mvo, calc, and seb128
[15:22:52] <BenC> team hug!
[15:22:55] * Hobbsee hugs all of those who *didnt* break compiz this release.
[15:23:02] * mvo hugs pitti calc seb128 ogra
[15:23:06] <mdz> [TOPIC] (pitti) progress discussion for Ubuntu 6.06.2 point release
[15:23:11] <pitti> mvo: yeah, indeed, no OMGnodesktop!! things this time
[15:23:15] <mvo> Hobbsee: that would be me! *yyyuuuahhhh*
[15:23:20] <Hobbsee> mvo: :D
[15:23:23] <asac> pitti: yes ... many thanks!
[15:23:26] <Keybuk> mvo: well done!
[15:23:26] <pitti> (oh god, I 0wn the schedule, it seems)
[15:23:32] <Keybuk> (for compiz in general)
[15:23:43] <mvo> we even fixed the nasty --replace issue
[15:23:54] <bryce> :-)
[15:23:58] <pitti> so, apart from all the fuss about new features and getting gutsy fixed, etc., we still need to get dapper.2 out
[15:24:00] * mvo sends kudos to upstream
[15:24:16] <pitti> since we are falling behind on the dapper.2 schedule due to ENOTIME, I have a question, mostly to mdz
[15:24:17] * calc hugs everyone, sorry for the mess :\
[15:24:30] <cjwatson> two out of three of the installer fixes are in -proposed; the other is in my editor
[15:24:36] <pitti> should we rather cut down on the dapper.2 goals, or give this more time to solve them all and slip the end-august release?
[15:24:45] <mdz> pitti: what kind of tasks need to be done?
[15:24:57] <pitti> https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+milestone/ubuntu-6.06.2 (sort by status preferably)
[15:25:18] <mdz> pitti: making a good point release is more important than the tentative schedule
[15:25:24] <mdz> pitti: but the reason it was set was to avoid clashing with the beta
[15:25:25] <pitti> the kernel team is much over-represented in the assignee list, due to dapper.2 mostly being a 'get it working wiht new hw' thing
[15:25:36] <cjwatson> also two point releases are harder than one longer one
[15:25:42] <cjwatson> (oo-er)
[15:25:43] <mdz> pitti: looks like mostly kernel work?
[15:25:51] <BenC> Yeah, kernel work is in progress
[15:25:59] <pitti> mdz: I just didn't know how firm the date is wrt. business partners etc.
[15:26:04] <BenC> I expect to have a kernel to cjwatson by tomorrow to roll an ISO for testing
[15:26:14] <mdz> pitti: we haven't announced the date yet, so if you want to propose a more realistic one, pleas edo
[15:26:14] <pitti> mdz: many bugs are even simple things like loading a module in initramfs
[15:26:18] <cjwatson> BenC: note that I'm on holiday all next week
[15:26:24] <cjwatson> (and nowhere near a computer)
[15:26:25] <BenC> cjwatson: so am I
[15:26:31] <mdz> pitti: I explicitly didn't announce it at ubuntu live for this reason
[15:26:38] <pitti> some are quite tricky kernel fixes, and we have a couple of needsinfo bugs which still need judgement from kernel guys
[15:26:47] <pitti> mdz: good to know then
[15:27:07] <BenC> pitti: ah, I didn't realize there were any kernel bugs that weren't confirmed in the list
[15:27:11] <pitti> some changes in mysql, too
[15:27:23] <pitti> BenC: not many, I think #26940 only ATM
[15:27:26] <BenC> pitti: I'll review the bugs today
[15:27:47] <mdz> pitti: can you take some time to estimate an achievable schedule, and we'll discuss that?
[15:27:50] <pitti> those are the things were I'm not qualified to judge eligibility (or even feasibility) for dapper.2
[15:27:54] <mdz> (probably based on Ben's review)
[15:28:06] <pitti> yes, can do
[15:28:15] <mdz> [ACTION] pitti to draft revised schedule for 6.06.2
[15:28:19] <pitti> BenC: can we meet at some time to go over the list and write down some estimations?
[15:28:32] <BenC> pitti: tomorrow, my morning, sound ok?
[15:28:38] <pitti> BenC: good for me
[15:28:53] <pitti> then we should also fine-tune assignees
[15:28:57] <BenC> [ACTION] BenC to review kernel realted 6.06.2 bugs
[15:29:01] <mdz> [TOPIC] pitti is going on holiday and needs people to fill in on some tasks while he is away
[15:29:02] * BenC wonders if that will work
[15:29:07] <mdz> [ACTION] BenC to review kernel realted 6.06.2 bugs
[15:29:11] <BenC> bot ACLs suck :)
[15:29:27] <mdz> BenC: no, according to the web page it's only the chair for that command
[15:29:29] <pitti> BenC: /nick privilege escalation \o/
[15:29:33] <BenC> ah
[15:30:15] <mdz> I think that in general, MootBot should listen to actions from everyone, but automatically assign the action to the person ;-)
[15:30:28] <pitti> so, we need an experienced RM to take over tribe 5&6 and dapper.2 (cjwatson or Mithrandir?)
[15:30:38] <BenC> hehe, that will reduce the abuse
[15:30:42] <mdz> Mithrandir is going to be flat out on mobile during that time
[15:31:02] <pitti> not sure if Hobbsee has some time to assist?
[15:31:02] <mdz> I think he is already oversubscribed
[15:31:18] <Mithrandir> mdz: I am already fully booked, yes.
[15:31:34] <Hobbsee> pitti: maybe. it will depend on how much people want to work as a team, etc, and how much time i have
[15:32:03] <Hobbsee> looks like cjwatson just got voluntold to do it :P
[15:32:14] <pitti> I also expect tribe 6 to be much calmer, with FF and UVF being in place then
[15:32:33] <pitti> tribe 5 is probably tough again, with lots of features getting rushed in (necessarily)
[15:32:39] <cjwatson> cjwatson is not exactly undersubscribed either
[15:32:43] <Hobbsee> pitti: obviously, i'm not in a position to take control of it, unfortunately
[15:33:01] <pitti> Hobbsee: right
[15:33:07] <cjwatson> I can help, but not take full responsibility
[15:33:09] <Hobbsee> although i'd sure like to
[15:33:34] <mdz> pitti: we need someone who is a cdimage admin?
[15:33:49] <pitti> mdz: and an archive admin, and some soyuz knowledge
[15:34:07] <Keybuk> Riddell: would you be interested? you have the above and experience getting releases out
[15:34:17] <pitti> although I don't expect every tribe to take as much soyuz h4ck1ng as I had to do in the past two days :)
[15:34:20] <cjwatson> cdimage admin nature is easier, it's just the end-stage
[15:34:24] <mdz> [LINK] https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+milestone/ubuntu-6.06.2
[15:34:30] <pitti> yeah, building CDs is simple
[15:34:31] <cjwatson> soyuz prodding is more frequently needed really
[15:34:46] <pitti> steering soyuz is more difficult
[15:34:49] <Hobbsee> pitti: presumably you're doing the release, afterwards?
[15:34:53] <Mithrandir> pitti: fwiw, I've yet to hack soyuz, ever.
[15:34:54] <pitti> and having some archive admin experience
[15:34:55] <Riddell> Keybuk: possibly, of course I'm busy with other things but then so is everyone else
[15:35:01] <mdz> pitti: could adam help with soyuz steering?
[15:35:06] <pitti> Hobbsee: I don't think so
[15:35:14] <pitti> mdz: absolutely, if he can make room for that
[15:35:27] <Hobbsee> pitti: oh, so that's going to fall to the person who will be selected too. big call, then
[15:35:35] <pitti> having our archive team and infinity assisting the RM with the soyuz guts will work
[15:35:36] <mdz> pitti: check with elmo, but he's qualified
[15:36:42] <mdz> pitti: is that satisfactory then?
[15:37:16] <mdz> Riddell(?) + archive team + infinity(or someone else who can drive soyuz)
[15:37:38] <pitti> Riddell: if you are ok with it, I would be happy with that
[15:37:50] <pitti> and spreading the archive/soyuz work out will help a lot, too
[15:38:01] <Hobbsee> that'll certainly be interesting
[15:38:22] <Riddell> I'm no soyuz expert, but other than than I can
[15:38:33] <pitti> so RM: please push that package into the archive -- archive/soyuz guys steer publisher/queue-builder/queue etc.
[15:38:40] <mdz> it will be a challenge to fill his shoes, but Martin deserves a honeymoon :-)
[15:38:49] <pitti> Riddell: infinity is, and he generally works on insane (IOW European) hours anyway
[15:38:56] <pitti> \o/
[15:39:00] <Riddell> :)
[15:39:03] <cjwatson> Riddell: I think we have enough people with the necessary combination of domain knowledge and outright bravery for that
[15:39:11] <Hobbsee> pitti: all australians seem to work on european hours. australian hours suck!
[15:39:13] <pitti> I am allowed to take the laptop with me, but I'll be a divorced man if I'll sit at it all day :)
[15:39:27] <cjwatson> advice from a married man: DO NOT TAKE THE LAPTOP ON YOUR HONEYMOON
[15:39:28] * agoliveira never had a honeymoon in 12 years of marriage :(
[15:39:33] <mdz> pitti: [ACTION] pitti to follow up with Riddell, archive team regarding release management during his holiday?
[15:39:42] <pitti> cjwatson: maybe that's a good piece of advice
[15:39:47] <fabbione> cjwatson: ++
[15:40:09] <BenC> cjwatson: but if you have to, don't take it to bed
[15:40:15] <mdz> [ACTION] pitti to follow up with Riddell, archive team regarding release management during his holiday
[15:40:19] <BenC> it's not an enhancement to the mood for sure
[15:40:26] <calc> cjwatson: hehe, i did but had very sporadic internet access so it was ok ;)
[15:40:34] <mdz> Handholding the apport retracers; I filed RT#28728 to make this possible, and I will write some documentation about it; seb128 offered to help out here already
[15:40:51] <pitti> yeah, I still need to get that solved before other people can drive it
[15:40:59] <pitti> (nothing to discuss here, though)
[15:41:09] <mdz> ok
[15:41:11] <pitti> now with the tribe behind me I'll continue documentation writing
[15:41:17] <mdz> SRU bug handling and archive processing
[15:41:19] <asac> pitti: i have no experience with those so far, but would volunteer as well ... if there is documentation and a short introduction
[15:41:26] <pitti> mdz: oh, could you bump the priority of that RT perhaps?
[15:41:28] <seb128> I'm happy to deal with the retracer
[15:41:35] <pitti> asac: appreciated
[15:41:50] <pitti> once the RT is solved, I'll give you a tutorial
[15:41:58] <pitti> and a howto for the occasional hiccups
[15:42:05] <asac> right ;)
[15:42:16] <mdz> pitti: will do
[15:42:21] <pitti> mdz: thank you
[15:42:42] <mdz> [ACTION] mdz to learn about the RT priority scheme and set an appropriate one for #28728
[15:42:46] <pitti> seb128: we need an apport deskbar plugin!
[15:43:01] <pitti> btw, are those action points published somewhere by this cute little MootBot?
[15:43:02] <seb128> pitti: to do what?
[15:43:15] <pitti> seb128: let's find out :)
[15:43:27] <seb128> pitti: if you have a quick web browser bookmark you can already use it from deskbar ;)
[15:43:28] <pitti> seb128: find dups or so :)
[15:43:38] <pitti> seb128: (just kidding anyway)
[15:43:46] <Hobbsee> pitti: yes, they get published. somewhere.
[15:44:02] <mdz> (maybe) language pack building; this should not take any manual intervention actually, so it's not that crucial.
[15:44:16] <pitti> (nothing to discuss, will take that up with Arne)
[15:44:20] <mdz> ok
[15:44:30] <mdz> [TOPIC] Other business
[15:44:36] <mdz> anything else for the meeting?
[15:45:04] <Riddell> was I being volunteered for dapper or next tribe release management?
[15:45:06] * fabbione wishes to say goodbye for his last distro team meeting
[15:45:11] <pitti> Riddell: you are now
[15:45:17] * mvo waves to fabbione
[15:45:19] <doko> Riddell: soyzuz work without having access to the machines is limited
[15:45:21] <pitti> fabbione: *sheding a tear*
[15:45:23] <BenC> fabbione: you will be missed
[15:45:28] <Keybuk> Riddell: yes :-)
[15:45:30] <ogra> ciao fabbione
[15:45:32] * dendrobates waves goodbye to fabbione
[15:45:38] <Hobbsee> Riddell: both, it seems
[15:45:42] <fabbione> :)
[15:45:43] * bdmurray waves
[15:45:44] <tkamppeter> What about CUPS? Should we stay with 1.2.12 or move to 1.3?
[15:45:44] <bryce> cya fabbione!
[15:45:52] <kwwii> bye fabbione
[15:45:54] <pitti> tkamppeter: oh, good question; and s-c-p
[15:45:56] * evand waves
[15:45:57] <amitk> bye fabbione
[15:46:01] <mdz> fabbione will not be going too far
[15:46:05] <pitti> tkamppeter: what kind of feedback did you get so far?
[15:46:07] <mathiaz> bye fabbione
[15:46:14] <ogra> pitti, student-control-panel ?
[15:46:17] <mdz> but perhaps not staying into the evening for distro meetings if he doesn't have to ;-)
[15:46:20] <pitti> ogra: system-config-printer
[15:46:23] <pitti> ogra: yay TLAs :)
[15:46:24] <fabbione> mdz: yeah... just the next room :)
[15:46:29] <asac> bye fabbione
[15:46:30] <ogra> pitti, ouch ... evil
[15:46:40] <pitti> TBH it's much less evil now
[15:46:44] <tkamppeter> pitti, unfortunately no feedback at all, and I have posted on the devel-discuass list, no answer.
[15:46:48] <ogra> pitti, luckily we renamed to thin-client-manager :)
[15:46:53] <pitti> we recently discussed some UI enhancements in #u-devel
[15:46:57] <ogra> pitti, i only meant the naming :P
[15:46:58] <pitti> tkamppeter: hm
[15:46:58] <Skiessi> why gutsy has still SDL 1.2.11? why not 1.2.12?
[15:47:29] <cjwatson> Skiessi: -> #ubuntu-devel
[15:47:35] <Skiessi> okay
[15:48:33] <mdz> pitti: perhaps you and tkamppeter can discuss on #-devel after the meeting?
[15:48:35] <tkamppeter> pitti, for the s-c-p I think we should take it, g-c-m shows also a driver4 selection screen and it also shows the USB backend entries for printers which are supported by HPLIP. So the add printer wizard is not much better.
[15:48:53] <tkamppeter> OK, mdz.
[15:48:58] <pitti> ok
[15:49:24] <mdz> [ACTION] tkamppeter and pitti to discuss CUPS version, etc.
[15:49:31] <mdz> that's a wrap, folks
[15:49:33] <mdz> thanks, everyone
[15:49:34] <pitti> MootBot: --help
[15:49:37] <fabbione> bye bye
[15:49:38] <mdz> #endmeeting
Meeting ended.
</pre>
