{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Drupal install script - tarvid
* vsftpd 2.0.7? - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2008-September/002231.html (<nowiki>[[Adri2000]]</nowiki> - not sure to be able to attend before 16:00 UTC)
* nagios3 in main.
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Ubuntu VM builder =====

soren has been working on fixing bugs in vm-builder. He also added support for EC2.

ACTION: soren to write a blog post about vm-builder once it's available in the archive

ACTION: sommer to update the virtualization section of the server guide once vm-builder is available in the archive

===== Review ServerGuide for Intrepid =====

Koon offered to draft a section about tomcat for the Ubuntu Server Guide.

ACTION: mathiaz to review the ldap section of the server guide

ACTION: kirkland to review the RAID section of the server guide

ACTION: Koon to draft a section about tomcat for the Server Guide.

===== Boot Support for Degraded RAID =====

kirkland added a question to the installer covering the topic of booting from a RAID array. If / or /boot is installed on an md device a question is asked about setting BOOT_DEGRADED to true or false. He also wrote <nowiki>[[http://dustinkirkland.wordpress.com/2008/09/16/intrepid-call-for-testing-booting-degraded-raid/|a call for testing]]</nowiki> on his blog.

===== Tomcat6 server stack support =====

Koon reported that a new tomcat task is available at installation time. The number of dependencies is now reasonable. He has also been working on fixing tomcat5.5 in universe.

===== landscape-client in Ubuntu =====

mathiaz worked on splitting the landscape-client package into two. There are two blockers for Alpha6: a Pre-Depends on python-gobject and promotion of update-motd to main. He's got a fix the first while kirkland is working on the latter.

===== Drupal install script =====

tarvid mentioned <nowiki>[[http://drupal.ls.net/node/47|the script]]</nowiki> he wrote to install multiple instances of drupal. mathiaz suggested he comments on the <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/improved-web-application-framework|Web Framework specification]]</nowiki>.

===== nagios3 in main =====

mathiaz inquired about the status of nagios3. Although its MIR had been accepted the package was never moved to main in hardy. In intrepid nagios2 disappeared while nagios3 entered universe. Koon is working on getting nagios3 promoted to main.

ACTION: Koon to ask an archive admin to promote nagios3 to main.

===== vsftpd 2.0.7 =====

Adri2000 asked if a FF exception was needed for getting vsftpd 2.0.7 in intrepid. It wasn't clear whether it was a bug-fix-only upstream release. mathiaz advised to ask for a FF exception, then work on an updated package and seek for sponsoring.

===== Mail server improvements =====

ScottK mentioned that clamav and spamassassin had been promoted to main and were available on the -server iso. clamav has also been updated to the latest version and may ship with an apparmor profile in Intrepid. He is also considering some refactoring of the amavisd-new configuration.

mathiaz asked if these packages would be added to the mail server task. ScottK said that may require some discussions.

ACTION: ScottK-laptop to start a discussion on ubuntu-server@ about adding spamassassin, clamav and amavisd-new to the mail-server task.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, September 23th at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:02] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[16:02] <Koon> o/
[16:02] <soren> Let's.
[16:03] <nealmcb> Meeting started at 10:02:29. The chair is mathiaz.
[16:03] <mathiaz> After its last week quick appearance MootBot is back on vacation.
[16:03] <mathiaz> Last week's minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20080909
[16:03] <ogra> mathiaz, ping Seeker` about it (he said we should do that)
[16:04] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Ubuntu VM builder
[16:04] <mathiaz> soren: ^^ ?
[16:04] <soren> Ooh, yes. Big stuff going on ehere.
[16:05] <soren> Erm... I've clearly neglected to send out the blog post.
[16:05] <soren> I'll get right on that later today.
[16:05] <soren> I've got a local version that deploys to EC2, so things are coming along very nicely.
[16:05] <mathiaz> soren: ok - you've uploaded a new version ?
[16:05] <mathiaz> soren: and you'll cover most of it in your blog post ?
[16:05] <soren> Most of the stuff I've done pertains to EC2, but there are a few licensing tidbits that needs sorting out before I can push it to the archive.
[16:06] <nealmcb> ooh - ec2 - cool!
[16:06] <soren> mathiaz: Indeed I will. It's mostly written up, I just need to update it with the last couple of weeks' progress and post it.
[16:06] <mathiaz> soren: great.
[16:06] <ScottK-laptop> Hello all.  I'm finally not on the road at meeting time.
[16:06] <mathiaz> [ACTION] soren to write a blog post about vm-builder once it's available in the archive
[16:06]  * mathiaz waves at ScottK-laptop 
[16:07] <mathiaz> sommer: still on the track to update the Server guide wrt to virtualization ?
[16:07] <sommer> mathiaz: yep, I've updated the u-v-m section with what is currently in the man page... I'll update it again once the new version hits the archive
[16:08] <mathiaz> sommer: great !
[16:08] <mathiaz> [ACTION] sommer to update the virtualization section of the server guide once vm-builder is available in the archive.
[16:08] <mathiaz> soren: anything else on the topic of vm-builder ?
[16:09] <soren> I'm thinking no.
[16:09] <tarvid> I would like a link on requirements for a host for a VM
[16:09] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Review ServerGuide for Intrepid
[16:09] <mathiaz> sommer: ^^ ?
[16:10] <sommer> tarvid: http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/virtualization.html
[16:10] <tarvid> tnx
[16:10] <mathiaz> sommer: I still owe a review of the openldap section.
[16:10] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz to review the ldap section of the server guide
[16:10] <sommer> :)
[16:10] <mathiaz> kirkland: raid section ?
[16:10] <kirkland> mathiaz: i published the blogpost calling for testing a few minutes ago
[16:11] <kirkland> mathiaz: if sommer has some time today, i'll review the server guide in conjunction with him
[16:11] <mathiaz> [ACTION] kirkland to review the RAID section of the server guide
[16:11] <sommer> kirkland: sure, can you ping me this afternoon?
[16:11] <mathiaz> sommer: anything else on the server guide ?
[16:11] <kirkland> sommer: yeah, will do
[16:11] <mathiaz> sommer: I guess you're still looking for reviewers for the different sections?
[16:12] <sommer> mathiaz: I had a quick question about the tomcat-server tasksel... is that going to be listed in the installer?
[16:12] <sommer> mathiaz: sure, reviewers are always welcome :)
[16:12] <Koon> sommer: yes
[16:12] <sommer> Koon: cool, just wanted to make sure
[16:13] <Koon> sommer: you want a section in the guide for that ?
[16:13] <zul> sommer: already is
[16:13] <sommer> I added it to the list this weekend... in the installation section
[16:13] <tarvid> i presume one of the motivations for virtualization is to limit the competition between a LAMP stack and a Tomcat sack?
[16:14] <soren> Err... Not really, no :)
[16:14] <Koon> tarvid: the only motivation is that it's fun.
[16:15] <mathiaz> sommer: Isn't it too late to add new material to the server guide ?
[16:15] <nealmcb> along with lots of other motivations.....
[16:15] <mathiaz> sommer: by material I meant brand new sections
[16:15] <tarvid> Oooh
[16:15] <sommer> mathiaz: ummm, I don't think it'd be a big deal... there's been some pretty large updates the last couple of days
[16:16] <mathiaz> sommer: right.
[16:16] <mathiaz> sommer: are you planning to write a section about tomcat ?
[16:16] <mathiaz> sommer: or would require some help on that ?
[16:16] <ScottK-laptop> Is the server guide affected by string freeze?
[16:16] <sommer> mathiaz: I wasn't planning to for Intrepid, but I'm not opposed to the idea
[16:16] <sommer> mathiaz: help would be great
[16:16] <sommer> ScottK-laptop: yes
[16:17] <Koon> sommer: I can help
[16:17] <ScottK-laptop> OK, so this'll all need freeze exceptions too.
[16:17] <sommer> ScottK-laptop: why?
[16:17] <mathiaz> sommer: hm - I'm not sure ScottK-laptop is refering to the same thing./
[16:17] <nealmcb> Hmmm - the top two hits on google for ubuntu server guide are still very confusing, with no link to 8.04.   I'll have to revisit my bug about that
[16:17] <sommer> Koon: that'd be great, and much appreciated
[16:18] <mathiaz> ScottK-laptop: there is a documentation freeze at the begining of the month of october
[16:18] <ScottK-laptop> OK.  I guess that's the relevant one then.
[16:18] <mathiaz> ScottK-laptop: but now that we're in UI-Freeze, the doc team can review the documentation to make sure it's accurate
[16:18] <tarvid> sommer - nag tarvid about Netbeans and Tomcat
[16:18] <Koon> sommer: you prefer me to draft something or that we discuss together on what should be in there and you draft it ?
[16:19] <sommer> Koon: if you don't mind drafting it that'd be great... I've used Tomcat for some legacy stuff, but I'm not that familiar with it
[16:19] <Koon> sommer: will do
[16:20] <mathiaz> Koon: I'd suggest that you branch the ubuntu-doc bzr repo - and submit it to sommer for merge
[16:20] <sommer> tarvid: if you'd like to add some content that'd be great too
[16:20] <mathiaz> [ACTION] Koon to draft a section about tomcat for the Server Guide.
[16:20] <tarvid> I'd like to get a ball of Netbeans, PHP, Drupal and Tomcat running
[16:21] <Seeker`> sorry about the lack of bot; I dont have access to the server it runs on myself, and I cant always get hold of the person that does
[16:21] <mathiaz> sommer: anything else ?
[16:21] <nealmcb> tarvid: a ball?
[16:21] <tarvid> Which is one of the reasons I had the frail hope virtualization would constrain Tomcat from eating my PHP stuff
[16:21] <mathiaz> Seeker`: no problem.
[16:21] <sommer> mathiaz: I don't think so
[16:21] <tarvid> glob, pile, stack, heap
[16:21] <mathiaz> sommer: ok - thanks for the work.
[16:21] <mathiaz> let's move o
[16:22] <mathiaz> n
[16:22] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Boot Support for Degraded RAID
[16:22] <mathiaz> kirkland: ^?
[16:22] <kirkland> mathiaz: \o/
[16:22] <nealmcb> tarvid: hmm - what problems are you having?
[16:22] <nealmcb> tarvid: (maybe later in the meeting)
[16:22] <kirkland> mathiaz: we now have a question in the Ubuntu Server installer, if you have installed / or /boot on an md device, that will ask if you want BOOT_DEGRADED=true|false
[16:22] <mathiaz> nealmcb: tarvid: could take this to #ubuntu-server ?
[16:22] <kirkland> mathiaz: no small feat, I might add :-)  kirkland pats himself on the back :-P
[16:23] <nealmcb> mathiaz: right - even better....
[16:23] <tarvid> it is a current but not top priority project
[16:23] <mathiaz> kirkland: awesome - so nothing is left for this spec in this release cycle ?
[16:23] <mathiaz> kirkland: except testing.
[16:23] <kirkland> mathiaz: actually, there was one regression introduced by adding dmraid to the default seed
[16:23] <kirkland> mathiaz: i solved that one late last night, and colin committed the fix this morning
[16:23] <mathiaz> kirkland: ok.
[16:23] <kirkland> mathiaz: i think the active development on this one is officially done :-)
[16:24] <mathiaz> kirkland: have you closed the bug  in LP ?
[16:24] <kirkland> mathiaz: there's a slew of them
[16:24] <kirkland> mathiaz: they have been appropriately referenced in various patches so as to auto-close
[16:24] <kirkland> mathiaz: the ones i've fixed anyway
[16:24] <kirkland> mathiaz: i should probably actually do a search for open duplicates
[16:24] <mathiaz> kirkland: ok. There is a long bug thread also
[16:25] <kirkland> mathiaz: or related bugs that might have been fixed by these efforts
[16:25] <kirkland> mathiaz: the MOST relevant ones are listed at the top of https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BootDegradedRaid
[16:25] <mathiaz> kirkland: ok.
[16:25] <mathiaz> kirkland: anything else to add on that topic ?
[16:26] <kirkland> mathiaz: nopers
[16:26] <mathiaz> kirkland: great - time to test now.
[16:26] <kirkland> mathiaz: true, as i said, blog post published
[16:26] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Tomcat6 server stack support
[16:26] <kirkland> mathiaz: http://dustinkirkland.wordpress.com/2008/09/16/intrepid-call-for-testing-booting-degraded-raid/
[16:26] <mathiaz> Koon: ^
[16:27] <mathiaz> Koon: I've uploaded your tomcat5.5 changes
[16:27] <Koon> mathiaz: the tasksel is in, thanks to zul. Tested and works ok
[16:27] <Koon> so on the tomcat6 front development is complete
[16:27] <Koon> on tomcat5.5 you uploaded the intrepid fixes
[16:27] <mathiaz> Koon: how are the dependencies going ?
[16:27] <Koon> there is a security update for hardy in the pipe, a SRU is next to fix other things
[16:28] <Koon> about deps, we are in a not too bad shape
[16:28] <Koon> see http://people.ubuntu.com/~ubuntu-archive/germinate-output/ubuntu.intrepid/tomcat-server
[16:28] <jdstrand> fyi-- security fixes are uploaded and available (for hardy)
[16:29] <mathiaz> Koon: seems great.
[16:29] <Koon> the *gcj* + libasound2 packages are pulled in through recommends and are not needed
[16:29] <mathiaz> Koon: right - have you filed bugs about it ?
[16:29] <Koon> but that's almost as slim as it can get
[16:30] <Koon> mathiaz: yes, proposal was rejected for intrepid. Should be shot down in intrepid+1
[16:30] <mathiaz> Koon: good. Anything else on the tomcat front ?
[16:30] <Koon> nope
[16:30] <mathiaz> let's move on.
[16:30] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] landscape-client in Ubuntu
[16:30] <mathiaz> I've been working on fixing landscape-client.
[16:31] <mathiaz> I'm going to upload a new package that will use a Pre-Depends to make it work correctly.
[16:31] <ScottK> Why is it even in Ubuntu, isn't it just a client for a proprietary Canonical product?
[16:32] <jdstrand> ScottK: it's open-source and could be modified for anyone to use
[16:32] <ScottK> Right.  I said that wrong, in Ubuntu/in a standard install.
[16:33] <mathiaz> ScottK: landscape-client isn't install by default
[16:33] <mathiaz> ScottK: there is a choice in the install.
[16:33] <ScottK> OK.
[16:33] <kirkland> ScottK: it does contain some useful, open, aspects, including landscape-sysinfo
[16:34] <dendrobates> but that functionality has been split out so it does not require the full client.
[16:35] <mathiaz> dendrobates: so the pkg split is still under discussion. I'm hoping to get it working in alpha6.
[16:36] <dendrobates> mathiaz: upload it as you have it.  We can make any changes as needed.
[16:36] <mathiaz> That requires a PreDepends change and promotion of update-motd to main.
[16:36] <nealmcb> is the protocol used by landscape-client documented?
[16:36] <mathiaz> the last part is taken care of by kirkland
[16:36] <kirkland> mathiaz: waiting on pitti or doko
[16:36] <radix> nealmcb: it's not documented.
[16:37] <dendrobates> nealmcb: I don't know how much documentation, but the client is gpl, so it could be discovered.
[16:37] <radix> nealmcb: we'd like to have it documented, of course
[16:38] <mathiaz> ok - that's all I have on the landscape front.
[16:39] <mathiaz> That's all from last week minutes.
[16:39] <nealmcb> radix: thanks.  in the past there have been some discussions about how it might fit together with other server management tools.  having a protocol that is documented and some means of discussing changes to the protocol would help
[16:39] <mathiaz> Anything else to add wrt to last week meeting ?
[16:39] <soren> mathiaz: Have you in the process uncovered an Ubuntu policy for pre-depends?
[16:40] <mathiaz> soren: same as Debian - frowned upon
[16:40] <soren> mathiaz: ...and needs raising on ubuntu-devel first?
[16:40] <mathiaz> soren: but in this case it seems that it's the best option in the available time frame
[16:40] <mathiaz> soren: cjwatson mentionned that I should open a bug about it to explain why it has been done.
[16:41] <mathiaz> soren: with the aim to fix it in the mid-trem.
[16:41] <soren> mathiaz: Sounds reasonable.
[16:41] <soren> right.
[16:41] <mathiaz> soren: once the underlaying issue is fixed, we can remove the Pre-Depends.
[16:41] <soren> Right, right.
[16:42] <mathiaz> Let's move on.
[16:42] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Drupal install script
[16:42] <mathiaz> tarvid: ^^ ?
[16:42] <tarvid> here
[16:43] <tarvid> I kept track of the work flow I do repetitively installing Drupal for clients
[16:43] <Adri2000> (I'm sorry guys, I have to run, I should be back in ~15 minutes for the vsftpd item)
[16:43] <tarvid> it involves creating users, databases, dns zones and apache config files
[16:44] <mathiaz> tarvid: is this workflow documented somewhere ?
[16:44] <cjwatson> I just applied http://paste.ubuntu.com/47486/ to policy so that it recommends discussion on ubuntu-devel rather than debian-devel.
[16:44] <tarvid> perhaps by the script itself http://drupal.ls.net/node/47
[16:45] <tarvid> I have older svg files built with "dot"
[16:46] <mathiaz> tarvid: what's the current state of the drupal package ?
[16:46] <mathiaz> tarvid: we should try to aim at integrating your common tasks in the postinstall scripts.
[16:46] <mathiaz> tarvid: or may be create a package that would do this for you.
[16:46] <tarvid> 6.4  and still struggling to update the contributed modules from 5.x
[16:47] <tarvid> there were 6 minor and one major upgrade in the past 12 months
[16:47] <tarvid> staying secure is a challenge
[16:47] <tarvid> the same is true for all large PHP apps
[16:47] <mathiaz> tarvid: it seems that you have a good use case for the web framework specification.
[16:47] <tarvid> installing them in /var/www does not improve the security situation
[16:48] <tarvid> if I knew what that was
[16:48] <tarvid> I am a long time Linux Ubuntu server user
[16:48] <tarvid> but my bash skills are modest
[16:49] <tarvid> I can spot many issues in a shell script
[16:49] <tarvid> some are easy like checking the number of parameters
[16:49] <tarvid> I'd like to reuse existing scripts but I can find much to build on
[16:49] <mathiaz> tarvid: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/improved-web-application-framework
[16:49] <mathiaz> tarvid: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WebAppsPackaging
[16:49] <tarvid> that sounds appropriate
[16:49] <mathiaz> tarvid: you may wanna have a look at these page and provide input there.
[16:50] <mathiaz> tarvid: anything else ?
[16:50] <tarvid> simple issues like creating a new DNS zone are hard to find
[16:51] <tarvid> This may be of more interest in the Drupal world than Ubuntu
[16:51] <mathiaz> tarvid: that should be documented in the Ubuntu Server Guide then.
[16:52] <mathiaz> tarvid: if you could add your input to the spec mentionned above it would be appreciated.
[16:52] <mathiaz> Let's move on.
[16:52] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] nagios3 in main.
[16:52] <mathiaz> Koon: have you been working on that ?
[16:53] <Koon> mathiaz: no. apparently it wouldn't need a MIR so I'm trying to get ahold of someone that could fix it
[16:53] <mathiaz> Koon: IIRC there is also the fact that nagios is not in main for hardy.
[16:53] <mathiaz> soren: ^^ ?
[16:54] <soren> That seems to still be the case, yes.
[16:54] <soren> ...which is a mistake, by the way.
[16:54] <soren> ..and might actually get fixed (magically).
[16:54] <Koon> hmmm.
[16:54] <soren> It *has* been approved.
[16:54] <mathiaz> right
[16:55] <soren> And nagios3 isn't a rewrite (AFAIK), so getting it promoted should be a formality.
[16:55] <Koon> no it's pretty much the same thing, it's just that some plugins API is broken
[16:55] <soren> Oh, really?
[16:55] <zul> Koon: like which?
[16:56] <Koon> it exposes more macros and changed a few of them iirc
[16:56] <Koon> that was the rationale for the major revision number
[16:56]  * Koon looks it up
[16:56] <Koon> anyway, it's a very specific case so I'd like to solve it directly with someone with superpowers
[16:57] <mathiaz> Koon: right - ask an archive admin and refer to the bug
[16:57] <soren> http://nagios.sourceforge.net/docs/3_0/whatsnew.html
[16:57] <mathiaz> Koon: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nagios2/+bug/211323
[16:57] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 211323 in nagios2 "MIR for nagios" [Medium,Fix released]
[16:58] <zul> those bugs reports should be moved to nagios3 once its done
[16:58] <soren> Koon: Grab pitti. I've talked to him about it previously.
[16:58]  * Adri2000 is back
[16:58] <Koon> soren: that's the one I've tried and failed to reach so far
[16:58] <mathiaz> Koon: will take care of this ?
[16:58] <mathiaz> Koon: will *you* take care of this ?
[16:58] <Koon> that's on my todo list yes
[16:59] <soren> Koon: Ah. I've explained the issue to slangasek as well.
[16:59] <mathiaz> [ACTION] Koon to ask an archive admin to promote nagios3 to main.
[16:59] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] vsftpd 2.0.7
[16:59] <mathiaz> Adri2000: ^ ?
[16:59] <Adri2000> yep
[16:59] <Adri2000> basically, what I said in my email :)
[17:00] <mathiaz> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2008-September/002231.html
[17:00] <Adri2000> vsftpd 2.0.7 has an interesting bug fix for FTPS, which makes it not work anymore with clients like filezilla
[17:00] <mathiaz> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vsftpd/+bug/254905
[17:00] <Adri2000> there is not a lot of changes, and they look pretty safe
[17:00] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 254905 in vsftpd "FTPS doesn't work with clients such as FileZilla" [Medium,Confirmed]
[17:01] <mathiaz> So you're asking whether that requires a FF exception ?
[17:01] <Adri2000> it does I think, but I wanted the opinion of the server team before requesting one
[17:02] <zul> it does imho
[17:02] <mathiaz> It's a new upstream - so you'd need a FFe.
[17:03] <soren> Not if it's bugfixes only..
[17:03] <mathiaz> soren: hm.. true
[17:04] <soren> At least, that's my understanding. I can't seem to find a reference to back it up right now, though.
[17:04] <Adri2000> there are two "Add option" and one "enhance" in the changelog, suggesting there are not only bugfixes but also a few enhancements
[17:04] <soren> Oh, that might just be for universe.
[17:04] <mathiaz> Adri2000: if you're not sure, ask for a FFe.
[17:04] <mathiaz> Adri2000: I think you've already talked about with slangasek
[17:04] <Adri2000> yes
[17:04] <ScottK-laptop> soren: Bugfix only is Main and Universe, I'm pretty sure.
[17:05] <Adri2000> but, am I wrong thinking vsftpd is in main and the recommended ftp server? and on the cd maybe also?
[17:05] <Adri2000> that's why I'm asking you :)
[17:05] <mathiaz> Adri2000: you're correct.
[17:05] <soren> Adri2000: No, that's correct.
[17:06] <Adri2000> ok
[17:06] <mathiaz> Adri2000: so go ahead - ask for a FFe. And then you can work on providing an updated package.
[17:06] <mathiaz> Adri2000: and seek for sponsoring via ubuntu-main-sponsor.
[17:06] <Adri2000> okay, will do
[17:07] <mathiaz> Adri2000: great.
[17:07] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[17:07] <mathiaz> anything else ?
[17:07] <ScottK-laptop> Since I was last at one of these meetings, clamav and spamassassin have been promoted and are seeded in server-ship/
[17:08] <mathiaz> ScottK-laptop: awesome!
[17:08] <mathiaz> ScottK-laptop: do you plan to have a mail-server task ?
[17:09] <ScottK-laptop> clamav is up to date with 0.94 and once I have some feedback on testing I'll upload it with the apparmor profile that jdstrand did.
[17:09]  * nealmcb cheers for ScottK
[17:09] <nealmcb> (and all the helpers)
[17:09] <ScottK-laptop> Also Debian has created a pkg-clamav team which I'm a part of and I'll maintain our packaging branches jointly with them in their Git repo.
[17:10] <ScottK-laptop> On amavisd-new, I got some input from ivoks and I'm going to do some slight refactoring/improvement of default preferences after this alpha is out.
[17:11] <nxvl> it's awesome see so many new people on the meetings :D
[17:11] <mathiaz> ScottK-laptop: do you think about adding clamav and amavisd-new to the mail-server task ?
[17:11] <ScottK-laptop> The Debian defaults are not entirely friendly IMO (defaults to mailing virus detection reports back to the send, for example).
[17:11] <ScottK-laptop> mathiaz: I considered it, but wasn't sure.
[17:11] <ScottK-laptop> mathiaz: I thought it needed some discussion first.
[17:12] <ScottK-laptop> mathiaz: Spamassassin too.
[17:12] <ScottK-laptop> Any objections to that?
[17:12] <mathiaz> ScottK-laptop: yop. ubuntu-server@ seems like a good place to start.
[17:12] <ScottK-laptop> OK.  I added them to server-ship to get them seeded so they'd stay in Main.
[17:14] <ScottK-laptop> mathiaz: I'll start a discussion and see if we get consensus and make the change after the alpha if one is wanted.
[17:14] <mathiaz> ScottK-laptop: seems like a good plan to me.
[17:14] <mathiaz> anything else ?
[17:14] <ScottK-laptop> Not from me.
[17:15] <mathiaz> [ACTION] ScottK-laptop to start a discussion on ubuntu-server@ about adding spamassassin, clamav and amavisd-new to the mail-server task.
[17:15] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time.
[17:15] <mathiaz> same place, same time, next week ?
[17:15] <sommer> +1
[17:16] <ScottK-laptop> I'll be on vacation next week, so it'll probably be the week after I make any changes.
[17:17] <mathiaz> Allright then. See you all next week here. Happy Alpha6 testing !
[17:17] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
</pre>
