{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
TZ UTC+1
<pre>
05:01	Keybuk	sorry about the timezone confusion, everybody
05:01	ogra	:)
05:01	heno	erm, yeah sorry :-/
=== Hobbsee waves
05:02	BenC	cjwatson: no sign of amit on either irc server...rtg still out of town I suspect, and kyle is en route to google so can't be on
05:02	fabbione	db_get random_greeting
05:02	fabbione	echo $RET
05:02	fabbione	hellp
05:02	Keybuk	no sign of mvo?
=== calc is here
05:02	BenC	you do need help if you quote debconf syntax for psuedo code :)
05:02	dholbach	Keybuk: he said he'd be here - I'll call him (maybe still having his birthday cake or something)
05:03	dholbach	he might still have thought it'd be one hour later
05:03	fabbione	BenC: that would actually work module a template and sourcing debconf library :P
05:03	fabbione	BenC: but yes.. i agreee..
05:03	Keybuk	yes, I noticed that
05:03	Keybuk	I almost added a new section to the agenda
05:03	keescook	dholbach: scheme? lisp?
05:03	Keybuk	talking of which
05:03	dholbach	Keybuk: line is busy - I'll retry
05:04	Keybuk	http://wiki.ubuntu.com/DevelTeamMeeting20070614
05:04	dholbach	keescook: LPC (I hacked in a MUD ages ago... :-))
05:05	cjwatson	sorry I'm late; traffic sucked today
05:05	keescook	dholbach: aaah, heh.
=== bryyce waves to cjwatson
05:06	calc	heh still showing UTC times
=== cjwatson counts on fingers
05:06	Hobbsee	cjwatson: hah.  you're close enough that you can :)
=== Hobbsee uses kclock
05:07	Keybuk	so, we have new starters today
=== dendrobates yeah
05:07	Keybuk	Amit, who most of you met at UDS, has joined the kernel team (but hasn't turned up to this meeting <g>)
05:07	Keybuk	calc: has joined us to maintain OpenOffice.org
05:08	Riddell	hi calc!
05:08	shawarma	Hi, calc! Welcome to the team!
05:08	calc	hello everyone :)
=== keescook hugs calc
05:08	mathiaz	hi calc
05:08	asac	welcome calc!
=== evand waves
05:08	Keybuk	and dendrobates has joined as the Ubuntu Server Technical Lead
=== BenC wondered why calc suddenly showed up in #kernel :)
=== keescook hugs dendrobates
=== dendrobates waves to everyone
05:08	seb128	welcome calc
05:08	shawarma	dendrobates: hi, boss! Welcome to the team. :)
05:08	evand	welcome calc and dendrobates!
=== BenC waves back
05:09	mathiaz	welcome dendrobates
05:09	asac	hi dendrobates
05:09	dholbach	welcome dendrobates and calc :-)
05:09	pitti	calc: all the best for OO.o!
05:09	seb128	Hi dendrobates
=== agoliveira waves all and apologises for being late
05:09	calc	pitti: thx
05:09	Keybuk	for those keeping score, that brings the distro team up to 24 people
05:09	Keybuk	agoliveira: that's ok, we weren't expecting you anyway
05:10	Keybuk	agoliveira: those at conferences are excused if they can't make it ;)
05:10	agoliveira	Thanks but I'm actually just wating in the lobby of the hotel so it made sense ;)
05:10	Keybuk	28 if you include mdz, cjwatson, heno and myself
05:11	Riddell	I think you four count :)
05:11	Keybuk	we still have quite a few more positions open
05:11	Keybuk	so expect to grow by at least another 8 before the year is out
05:12	iwj	We are *exploding*.
05:12	iwj	I'm looking forward to meeting all you new guys in London.
05:12	dholbach	yeah, me too :)
05:12	Keybuk	Claire has reminded me to nag you all about booking your travel arrangements to London
05:13	Keybuk	and once booked, please make sure you put them onto the wiki
05:13	Keybuk	and if you have any particular room-mate preference, note that too
05:14	cjwatson	we have a very short agenda this week; any more items for it?
05:14	cjwatson	(not that I am complaining)
05:14	agoliveira	anyone who does not snore and do not smoke is fine to me ;_
05:14	ogra	agoliveira, not me then :)
05:14	Riddell	no smoking in England by then
05:14	cjwatson	agoliveira: smoking indoors will be illegal at that point
05:14	BenC	agoliveira: very limiting choices :)
05:14	fabbione	i snore like a tractor on steroids
05:14	fabbione	BenC: can confirm that
05:14	ogra	cjwatson, even outside smokers smell :)
05:15	ogra	for people who care at least
05:15	cjwatson	iwj: we need to play the distro team game in London; it's been some time
=== Hobbsee cringes. australian clean air is good! :P
05:15	cjwatson	and it's a lot harder now
05:15	keescook	cjwatson: "the" distro team game?
05:15	fabbione	keescook: you are too new for that :)
05:16	cjwatson	that's "name all the members of the distro team. no notes allowed."
05:16	fabbione	cjwatson: we did it in Oslo you and I...
05:16	keescook	hah
05:16	ogra	ouch
05:16	shawarma	Ha!
05:16	fabbione	cjwatson: including history :)
05:16	mvo	hi
05:16	iwj	Maybe we should have a field `snores (yes/no)' on the roommate list, to be filled in by the previous roommate :-).
05:16	cjwatson	ok, agenda
05:16	pitti	ugh, that really becomes tricky now
05:16	cjwatson	(keescook) VMWare WS6 license needed
05:16	dholbach	hi mvo
05:16	bryyce	hehe
05:16	ogra	iwj, i usually add it ...
05:16	cjwatson	fabbione was chasing that up
05:16	cjwatson	fabbione: no word, I gather?
05:16	ogra	but then i usually add my data late :)
05:16	Keybuk	before we move onto kees agenda
05:16	fabbione	keescook: i mailed mdy 3 weeks ago..
05:16	Keybuk	one other quick announcement
05:16	fabbione	no news yet
05:16	Keybuk	HAPPY BIRTHDAY MVO!
05:16	fabbione	ehhe
05:16	ogra	MVO !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
05:16	keescook	\o/
=== seb128 hugs mvo
=== shawarma hugs mvo
05:16	bryyce	congrats mvo
05:17	iwj	mvo: Happy birthday!
05:17	asac	mvo: happy birthday!!
05:17	shawarma	Happy birthday, dude!
05:17	evand	happy birthday
=== dholbach hugs mvo too
=== seb128 hugs mvo again ;)
05:17	ogra	haha
05:17	fabbione	cjwatson: nope.. i will try bitching^Wasking again tomorrow
05:17	mathiaz	happy birthday !
05:17	keescook	haha
05:17	bdmurray	happy birthday mvo
05:17	Hobbsee	hahaha
=== agoliveira hugs mvo
05:17	ogra	MVO !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
=== seb128 hugs mvo_ again ;)
=== dholbach hugs mvo too
05:17	cjwatson	fabbione: ok, please mail distro-team if you hear anything useful
05:17	dholbach	haha :)
05:17	Hobbsee	someone paste the backscroll, if mvo_'s actually here...
05:17	seb128	mvo_: your ISP is still loving you? ;)
05:17	fabbione	cjwatson: will do as soon as i have info
=== asac hugs mvo
05:17	cjwatson	release readiness update
=== mvo_ grumbles about his ISP
05:17	keescook	cjwatson: I didn't intend it to be an agenda item, actually.  BenC, fabbione and mdy are all on it, afaik.  :)
=== mvo_ hugs asac
05:18	cjwatson	pitti: do you have a convenient link for tribe-2 bugs?
05:18	cjwatson	keescook: *nod*
05:18	Keybuk	I'll try and mail jp directly
05:18	Keybuk	I may have more luck
05:18	BenC	cjwatson: I got the licenses this morning from JP, mdy will add them to the wiki
05:18	cjwatson	aha, https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+milestone/tribe-2
05:18	mvo_	thanks everybody for the happy birthday wishes!
05:18	keescook	BenC: oh, very cool!
05:18	pitti	https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+milestone/tribe-2
05:18	shawarma	for now we're supposed to use vmware 5.X, is that it? Becuase I'm too stupid to find a link to that anywhere on VMWare's homepage..
=== mvo_ hugs Keybuk ogra shawarma seb128 dholbach
05:19	pitti	it would be nice if everyone could take a look and check whether he can grab one of the unassigned ones
05:19	fabbione	BenC: mail distro team directly? pointless to bounce trough me agian
05:19	keescook	shawarma: I wasn't able to get 5.x working on 2.6.22 so I switched to ws6
05:19	BenC	once they are on the wiki, I'll post to distro-team
05:19	calc	query cjwatson
05:19	Keybuk	BenC: thanks
05:19	fabbione	BenC: ok thanks
=== Keybuk cancels the e-mail
=== Hobbsee hands calc a "/"
05:19	agoliveira	Can I get one of those too? I'm doing the embedded tests on vmware as well.
05:19	calc	Hobbsee: heh
05:19	shawarma	keescook: Didn't BenC have a fix for that?
05:20	pitti	Hobbsee: so you'll chase people for the copious KDE milestone bugs?
05:20	BenC	I have a fix for 2.6.22+ws6, but nothing with 5.x
05:20	agoliveira	BenC: Thanks.
05:20	BenC	any-any isn't working either
05:20	Hobbsee	any kde bugs listed on that tribe 2 list, i'm the contact for, i believe - so if anyone feels like fixing them, it might be worth checking with me if someone's already working on tehm, or has expressed interest in them
05:20	shawarma	BenC: Ah, right. My bad.
05:20	Hobbsee	pitti: typing, typing.  i'm a slow typer today
05:20	cjwatson	Riddell: with regard to that kubuntu-desktop recommends bug
05:21	cjwatson	Riddell: the general plan we had for Ubuntu was to identify the stuff that really makes up the important bits of an Ubuntu desktop - stuff like the panel, gnome-session, critical things
05:21	pitti	BenC: there are quite a lot of kernel bugs on the tribe-2 list; anything that is particularly hard and probably won't make it for tribe-2?
05:21	Hobbsee	cjwatson: right.
05:21	cjwatson	but make many of the others Recommends so that they can be swapped out
05:21	BenC	pitti: I'll review them today
05:21	cjwatson	they will still be installed by default
05:21	pitti	BenC: cheers
05:21	Hobbsee	cjwatson: that was my view, but Riddell didnt really agree with me.
05:21	cjwatson	it's one of the things that comes up in reviews quite a lot - people get confused when they have to remove the metapackages for stuff they should be able to replace
05:22	BenC	bug #109320 is actually against evms
05:22	ubotu	Launchpad bug 109320 in evms "evms blocks access to disk devices" [Critical,Confirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/109320
05:22	iwj	metapackages> If only we had proper implementation of Replaces ...
05:22	BenC	Keybuk: did you do that patch and upload yet?
05:22	Keybuk	BenC: not yet, see my update ealier
05:22	Hobbsee	pitti: i'll be chasing people, yes.
05:22	Keybuk	mostly waiting from upstream for comment
05:22	iwj	I mean, we could do away with transitional packages.
05:22	Keybuk	for comment from upstream
05:22	Keybuk	speak like yodo, do I
05:22	Riddell	cjwatson: if that's the policy that's fine with me, although there seems to be a higher threshold for critial things than you desribe above
05:23	cjwatson	iwj: transitional yes, but I don't think that helps with -desktop
05:23	BenC	pitti: they all look doable for tribe-2
05:23	iwj	cjwatson: No, indeed.
05:23	cjwatson	Riddell: I'm relatively easy about the precise place where the line is drawn
05:23	keescook	*head explodey* etoomanyconversations
05:23	iwj	cjwatson: Oh, I see what you meant now.  Yes, I agree.
05:23	cjwatson	I've taken 120107
05:24	cjwatson	Hobbsee: 108870 should be fix-released?
05:24	seb128	bug #108870
05:24	Hobbsee	bug 108870
05:24	bdmurray	Riddell: could you look at bug 119408? it has not been confirmed yet
05:24	ubotu	Launchpad bug 108870 in kubuntu-default-settings "[Feisty regression]  install two or more debian files with right click on them and install doesn't work" [Low,Fix committed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/108870
05:24	ubotu	Launchpad bug 119408 in kde-guidance "[gutsy]  kde-guidance power manager causes screen to turn off" [Undecided,Unconfirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/119408
05:25	cjwatson	pitti: I'm at debconf next week, so I might have to postpone bug 118744 to tribe-3
05:25	ubotu	Launchpad bug 118744 in gfxboot "no gfxboot in gutsy with new syslinux" [High,Confirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/118744
05:25	Riddell	bdmurray: 108870 should go away with gdebi-kde
05:25	Hobbsee	cjwatson: yes.  was going to double check it actually *fixed* the bug before i did that, though
05:25	pitti	cjwatson: WFM, the current workaround works fine
05:25	pitti	cjwatson: it's mainly a reminder to clean it up at some time before beta
05:25	Riddell	bdmurray: 119408 I've heard some people say, and the other guidance developers have looked at it, but I'm not sure if we found a reason it affects some people
05:26	cjwatson	pitti: yes
05:26	bdmurray	Riddell: okay, if you need some testing done let me know
05:27	cjwatson	BenC: linux-backports-modules-2.6.22?
05:27	BenC	cjwatson: oof, yeah, need to get that out
05:27	cjwatson	should be trivial
05:27	BenC	empty upload, Just Do It
05:28	BenC	get it out with next kernel upload
05:28	fabbione	BenC: i need my toys with the next upload please...
05:28	cjwatson	ok, I don't think there's much else to discuss here, then
05:28	cjwatson	any other business?
05:28	BenC	fabbione: I got something you can play with :P
05:28	fabbione	BenC: cows?
05:28	pitti	I did some anastacia/MIR/cruft cleanup today, will do some more in the future
05:28	bdmurray	Hug Day schedule
05:28	BenC	fabbione: yes, gfs1/gfs2 will be ready next upload
05:28	pitti	s/future/next couple of days/
05:28	fabbione	BenC: cool thanks
05:28	BenC	fabbione: they sometimes fetch pine cones
05:29	fabbione	ROFL
05:29	cjwatson	bdmurray: how did the last one go? I didn't see a whole lot in #ubuntu-devel, but perhaps there was more in #ubuntu-bugs
05:29	seb128	pitti: I'll give you an hand on that, I did some source NEW, syncs and backports cleaning this week
05:29	bryyce	yeah I think most of the action was in #ubuntu-bugs
05:29	bdmurray	cjwatson: it went well bryce and kees did a lot of work
05:29	Hobbsee	cjwatson: i got the amarok upstream guys helping to triage the amarok bugs :D
05:29	pitti	seb128: you rock
05:29	cjwatson	Hobbsee: excellent
05:29	seb128	pitti: you too ;)
05:29	bdmurray	yeah, that was great too
05:29	Hobbsee	yep
05:29	cjwatson	bdmurray: what would you like the schedule to be?
05:30	cjwatson	or are we talking about the developer assignments?
05:30	seb128	there was quite some activity in #ubuntu-bugs yesterday
05:30	dholbach	seb128 did a lot too and I managed to get a bunch of bugs tagged as 'packaging', 'needs-packaging', 'bitesize' and 'upgrade'
05:30	bdmurray	Next one should be the 27th I think so I'm wondering who will be available then
05:30	cjwatson	is the rota on the wiki somewhere?
05:31	bdmurray	The one after that is a bit odd as 2 weeks would be the distro sprint
05:31	fabbione	bdmurray: that might be more fun
05:31	fabbione	with all of us in the same room..
05:31	bdmurray	cjwatson: do you mean the Hug Day schedule or the volunteers?
05:31	cjwatson	bdmurray: the latter
05:31	fabbione	we just need to figure who cleans the blood from the walls
05:31	bdmurray	fabbione: my concern there would be it would less talking on IRC
05:32	bdmurray	cjwatson: no, that isn't in the wiki
05:32	fabbione	bdmurray: you would be surprised how 10 nerds in a room spend more time talking on IRC than face to face :)
05:32	dholbach	bdmurray: I think everybody of us is geeky enough to talk on IRC even if we are sitting in the same room ;-)
05:32	calc	so someone needs to bring duct tape ;)
=== fabbione casts his "waitress" spell
05:33	heno	I don't think there is a rota; we should set one up
05:33	cjwatson	I think that would help, so that we can see who's gone before
05:33	cjwatson	heno: will you take care of that?
05:33	bdmurray	The week before the sprint would be closer to the Tribe 2 release though.
05:34	Hobbsee	bdmurray: i'd agree with you @ the less talking on irc - it becomes very much a canonical-only event that wya - or the feeling of it.
05:35	heno	sure, anyone esp. interested in joining the next bug day? ...
05:35	cjwatson	ACTION: heno to set up skeleton bug day developer rota and mail to distro-team
05:35	cjwatson	heno: let's get it up in a form that people can add to it, and we can hassle folks later
05:35	heno	right
05:35	cjwatson	bdmurray: I'd be happy with the week before the sprint
05:35	cjwatson	if you're happy to have bug days in two consecutive weeks
05:36	bdmurray	I think that makes more sense than waiting until after Tribe 3
05:36	cjwatson	amitk: welcome, although we're just finishing up ;-)
05:37	bdmurray	However, there is a US holiday on July 4th which is a Wednesday
05:37	amitk	cjwatson: sorry, I lost track of time
05:37	agoliveira	Sorry guys, got go. Boss is calling! Bye!
05:37	calc	bdmurray: thu should be fine at least for the US
05:38	calc	bdmurray: but yea you probably won't find many people in the US online on july 4th ;)
05:38	bdmurray	so 6/27 and 7/5 then?
05:38	heno	sounds good
05:38	bdmurray	and then 7/25
05:38	bdmurray	which is after Tribe 3
05:39	cjwatson	that works
05:39	cjwatson	we should be settling down pretty well with feature development by then
05:39	bryyce	one thing that might be worthwhile would be to define a goal, like close 300 bugs (1% of total)
05:40	Hobbsee	there was an aim yesterday of dropping it to 30K bugs.  that seemed useful
05:40	cjwatson	recent bug days seem to have been trying to tackle particular sets of problems, so goals in line with those would be good
05:40	calc	looks like ~ 70 new bugs since the bug day yesterday
05:40	heno	right, and other parts of triage than just cosing bugs are important as well
05:40	seb128	Hobbsee: did it success to go under the 30k line? ;)
=== bryyce nods to Hobbsee
05:40	calc	seb128: hit around 30070
05:42	calc	http://people.ubuntu-in.org/~carthik/bugstats/
05:42	Hobbsee	seb128: i think it was down to 30080.  what calc said.
=== Hobbsee went to bed.
05:42	keescook	I love that our goal is no longer "make bugs reduce in number" but has moved on to "get below some number".  nice work.  :)
05:42	Hobbsee	sigh.  and then it went back up again.
05:42	heno	so when are we turning apport back on for gutsy?
05:42	Hobbsee	what i want to know is where the heck all these bugs are.
05:42	seb128	keescook: let's enjoy the week where apport is not running :p
05:42	bdmurray	I think a fair number of the new ones were sync requests
05:42	keescook	seb128: heheh
05:42	heno	that will bring the exponential growth back ...
05:42	pitti	I really want to wait until we get the private bug filing
05:42	calc	Hobbsee: a huge chunk of bugs are on oo.o
05:42	Hobbsee	ahhh
05:42	pitti	the fix for that is in review
05:42	pitti	also, dup detection is online now, so I hope it won't get that bad
05:42	seb128	pitti: there is no hurry
05:42	asac	pitti: ETA?
05:43	zul	Hobbsee: i think there is over 700 kernel bugs as well
05:43	pitti	asac: I don't know, next LP rollout I hope
05:43	Hobbsee	ah, fair enough
05:43	asac	pitti: i would prefer to get firefox crashes on asap
05:43	heno	I wonder if there is an optimal time in the cycle to get crash reports?
=== Hobbsee attempts to figure out how private bugs and apport fit together. oh, apport being able to file private bugs?
05:43	pitti	asac: right; but we shuold really stop people from exposing their login credentials etc. to the public
05:43	cjwatson	heno: right after finishing whatever feature you've just been working on, IME
05:43	shawarma	Hobbsee: Yes.
05:43	seb128	Hobbsee: yes, for crashers
05:43	Hobbsee	right.
05:44	pitti	private bugs -> see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CrashReporting please
05:44	pitti	Hobbsee: ^
05:44	asac	pitti: yes ... but we did that for a long time ... so a week or so won't hurt imo :)
05:44	calc	hmm i only see 123 bugs on openoffice.org scribblers page but i am pretty sure there are a lot more than that
05:44	asac	pitti: but yes, i agree that private is important
05:44	iwj	Has the thing been fixed where you get three mails about every crash ?
05:44	iwj	It's really only useful to get at most one.
05:44	cjwatson	calc: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openoffice.org says 491
05:44	iwj	Also, TBH I think it would be better not to regard apport crashes as bugs per se.
05:44	cjwatson	6 on -l10n
05:45	dholbach	4 on -amd64
05:45	shawarma	iwj: How do you figure that?
05:45	pitti	iwj: indeed; there are some plans, if you are interested, let's talk about it in #devel
05:45	Hobbsee	pitti: looks sane.
05:45	calc	cjwatson: yea i guess just 123 are assigned to the group or something to that effect
=== heno agrees with iwj
05:46	iwj	pitti: OK.
05:46	asac	pitti: if you talk about that, summon me please :)
05:46	calc	there are slightly over 500 bugs for all the openoffice packages scribblers maintains
05:46	pitti	asac: noted
05:46	iwj	shawarma: I get about one report a month of a crash or other similar malfunction in dpkg and these nowadays almost invariably turn out to be `user has completely broken computer and pureed filesystem'.
05:47	pitti	calc: so, good luck with fixing all of them until tribe-2
=== pitti ducks
05:47	calc	pitti: lmao
05:47	cjwatson	ok, can the rest of this go to #ubuntu-devel?
05:47	bdmurray	calc: relatively speaking it isn't that many though
05:47	cjwatson	it sounds like we're done here
05:47	iwj	dpkg isn't that huge a memory user.  So extrapolating, I imagine that a fair proportion of crash reports in oo.o and firefox and the like are just bad hardware.
05:48	shawarma	iwj: Right, but as a general rule, don't you think an apport generated bug report represents an actual bug?
05:48	cjwatson	certainly ubiquity bugs are disproportionately bad hardware
05:48	iwj	shawarma: In the case of dpkg clearly the answer is no.
05:48	cjwatson	although the ones that aren't are significant
05:48	calc	bdmurray: yea only about 1.7%
05:48	shawarma	iwj: hence "general rule". :)
05:48	bdmurray	so Hobbsee asking about where they all are is a good question
05:48	bdmurray	or interesting
05:48	iwj	`As a general rule, all X are Y'  `No, here is a big subclass of X which are usually not'.
=== mvo blames bad hardware usually too when apt crashes
05:49	iwj	What you mean is `As a general rule, most X are Y' which may be true but we don't know.
05:49	iwj	Anyway.
05:49	calc	bdmurray: is there a way to extract a report of bugs per package to get a top offending list?
05:49	iwj	Are we planning to have the team dinner on the Friday night or earlier ?  I'm just thinking about people missing flights, you understand :-).
05:49	Hobbsee	bdmurray: i'd like to see a https://launchpad.net/~kubuntu-team/+packagebugs for all bugs in ubuntu, but i havent badgered the #launchpad guys as to how feasible it is, and to get an ETA on it.
05:49	iwj	(I mean, for the London sprint.)
05:49	cjwatson	Keybuk: do you know? I hadn't heard
05:49	shawarma	iwj: I did not know that dpkg bugs were really a big subclass of Ubuntu bugs. I would have expected dpkg to have extraordinarily few bugs reported, actually.
05:50	Keybuk	cjwatson: Friday, I understand
05:50	Keybuk	I don't care, as long as it's not at Pizza Express
05:50	Keybuk	;)
05:50	bdmurray	calc: bugnumbers -p --stats I think
05:50	bryyce	mmm pizza
05:50	keescook	iwj: I'd love the dinner to be Wed or earlier; I'm only there a half week
05:50	bryyce	$ bugnumbers -p --stats
05:50	bryyce	Package '--stats' not found.
05:51	cjwatson	sprint dinner requests -> distro-team
05:51	dholbach	bdmurray:  -p openoffice.org ?
05:51	calc	ah bughelper
05:51	cjwatson	sounds like we're done, then
05:51	cjwatson	adjourned
</pre>
