{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
UTC
{{{
16:06	MootBot	Meeting started at 16:06. The chair is liw.
16:06	MootBot	Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
16:06	liw	welcome to the QA team weekly meeting
16:06	liw	agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings
16:06	pedro_	woohoo!
16:06	ogasawara	heh
16:07	liw	[TOPIC] London sprint QA highlights
16:07	MootBot	New Topic:  London sprint QA highlights
16:07	liw	so, we had a distro team sprint in London last week, and that included the Canonical QA people; it wasn't a community event, but we should report the QA related highlights
16:08	ogasawara	I've got a few things . . .
16:08	liw	for me: I got some advice on using KVM, and discussed expanding automatic desktop testing to the graphical installer, and worked together with Marc Tardif to create a package based on his hwtest framework that will run packaged automated desktop tests
16:09	liw	also, various people suggested including, in some form or another, automatic tests they have made, e.g., for security work
16:09	ogasawara	as a team we drafted out SRU process, bug workflow, bug forwarding, re-organizing the Debugging* wiki pages
16:10	liw	oh, and I made changes to the piuparts testing harness to provide a summary that can be included in the developer weather report
16:10	pedro_	And also we verified some of the outstanding SRU's ;-)
16:11	ogasawara	oh and went through the iso-testing bugs
16:12	liw	anything else?
16:12	pedro_	one of the new things that we are going to introduce are the new desktop hug days based on of course desktop packages they will be held the Thursdays so stay tune
16:13	stgraber	oh, so we'll have two hug days ?
16:13	pedro_	yes sr
16:13	stgraber	the first one being for the base system and the second for the GUI apps ?
16:15	pedro_	the second one is supposed to be based on Desktop apps like alacarte, evolution, nautilus, etc we have a few hundreds bugs there that need love
16:15	pedro_	and yeah the first one is more base system but includes another GUI apps like openoffice.org
16:16	stgraber	good, let's hope we'll have as many people for the desktop hugday as we do for the current one
16:16	liw	anything else?
16:17	liw	if so, let's get back to this point later
16:17	liw	[TOPIC] Nautilus bug day
16:17	MootBot	New Topic:  Nautilus bug day
16:18	liw	pedro? ogasawara? (assuming bdmurray ran away already)
16:18	pedro_	the nautilus bug day went pretty fine we have some stats at the bottom of https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20080129
16:18	liw	cool
16:18	pedro_	a couple of new faces helped out
16:18	liw	excellent
16:19	liw	anything else about this?
16:20	pedro_	yes the good thing is that the bugs that we need confirmation to be fixed with nautilus-gio a good portion are fixed
16:20	pedro_	so thanks to all the brave bug testers ;-)
16:20	liw	indeed :)
16:21	liw	[TOPIC] Alpha 4 testing
16:21	MootBot	New Topic:  Alpha 4 testing
16:23	liw	https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2008-January/000371.html is the announcement for Alpha 4, from yesterday, so Alpha 4 should happen tomorrow
16:23	stgraber	Do we have candidates ready for testing ?
16:23	stgraber	I have done some netboot testing yesterday with good results
16:23	liw	how are we set up for that? is everything in order to start testing tomorrow once the ISOs are released?
16:23	stgraber	the only problem being the new restricted-manager being buggy (I had to install my nvidia driver by hand)
16:24	stgraber	I have set "Hardy Alpha 4" as the default milestone on the tracker
16:24	stgraber	so any website admin can now add the builds (pitti and slangasek know how to do so)
16:25	Hobbsee	ich auch
16:25	liw	stgraber, so the iso tracker is ready for everything? that should mean we're ready to start testing, yes?
16:26	stgraber	yes
16:26	liw	excellent
16:27	liw	[TOPIC] QA-Poll beta
16:27	MootBot	New Topic:  QA-Poll beta
16:27	nand	oh, my turn.
16:27	stgraber	nand: stage is yours :)
16:27	nand	Well, I was hoping to see heno today for the domains names!
16:28	nand	otherwise everything is ready
16:28	nand	for upload and a private testing period
16:28	stgraber	apart from the fact that we need to merge devel with trunk again (which may take some time) :)
16:28	nand	I just need confirmation for the subdomains to tweak my .htaccess scripts :)
16:28	nand	yes :)
16:29	nand	This WE, if you are available
16:29	stgraber	What I also wanted to ask here about that is also : Who will be part of the private beta ?
16:30	nand	sry, pple around
16:30	nand	I'd say the QA team
16:31	nand	and some others... But we cannot publicy announce it yet I guess.
16:31	stgraber	the idea is not to have people advertising it through blog posts or things like that as we may have to change some bits
16:31	nand	yes.
16:31	nand	So I'd say the team and trusted friends
16:32	liw	is the private beta expected to last long?
16:32	stgraber	I personally thought ot : Canonical QA team + nand + evand (he was beta tester for the first implementation of qa-poll) + davmor2 + myself
16:32	stgraber	liw: my plan was from Tribe-4 till Tribe-5
16:33	nand	the time for me to fix everything you find :) I hope no more than two weeks
16:33	stgraber	liw: public release happening short after Tribe-5
16:33	liw	that's pretty short
16:33	liw	which is good
16:33	stgraber	that's a 2-3 weeks window, good if we don't find any major bug/lack
16:33	nand	yes. I'd really like it to be released at least two months before the hardy release, to gather a good lot of ideas
16:34	nand	yes
16:34	stgraber	anyway, I think we'll need Canonical's approval for the final release as it was planned to advertise it quite a bit (it's not a devel tool)
16:34	nand	I guess so
16:35	liw	anything else about the qa-poll beta?
16:35	nand	nothing else to add.
16:36	nand	stgraber: let's see this week end about it?
16:36	liw	in that case...
16:36	liw	#endmeeting
16:36	MootBot	Meeting finished at 16:36.}}}
