{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
   
   05:00          Spec               flint: hello
   05:01          flint              Spec, good morning from the Frozen North....
   05:01          YukiCuss           flint, Spec, the hot down-under here?
   05:01          Seveas             Spec, YukiCuss: good to see you around - there's at least 2 points from the
                                     agenda that can be handled
   05:01          Seveas             I'm afraid it was too short notice for a few others
   05:01          jsgotangco         ahh .au team
   05:02          YukiCuss           :)
   === stgraber [i=steph@xeon.stargate-server.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   05:03          flint              Seveas, based upon the current situation, I would wonder who is here from Media?
                                     :^)  I am just here to get Nick Wheeler as a MOTU
   05:03          Seveas             flint, today no one is appointed MOTU - it's all about membership
   05:03          jsgotangco         that's TB
   05:03          Seveas             Kamion, elmo, mako - ping
   05:03          Seveas             16:03 UTC here
   === Florob [n=Florian@xdsl-81-173-174-144.netcologne.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   05:04          Spec               flint: membership first
   05:04          flint              Seveas, that is not what was said two weeks ago.  can you send the agenda url to
                                     the screen?
   05:04          Seveas             wiki/CommunityCouncilAgenda
   05:04          YukiCuss           flint, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityCouncilAgenda ?
   05:04          flint              Seveas, thanks.
   05:05          Seveas             flint, you need to be a member before you can become a MOTU - for membership a
                                     cheerleading squad from the community is needed
   05:05          flint              YukiCuss, thanks even more :^)
   05:05          Seveas             for becoming motu you need other motus to vouch for you
   05:05          flint              Seveas, I represent the cheerleading squad.  I am not interested in being a
                                     member of anything.
   05:06          Seveas             flint, ok, put on your dress and start dancing around
   05:06          flint              I was drafted into being the first DC LOCO
   05:06          Spec               flint's my cheerleader? dear lord...
   05:06          jsgotangco         what happened?
   05:06          flint              Seveas, my dancing is kinda like watching the Hindenburg land at Lakehurst NJ...
   05:07          Seveas             flint, that's way better than mine so go for it
   05:07          Seveas             anyway - the idle times of the CC members aren't promising...
   === sabdfl [n=mark@82.109.136.110] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   05:07          jsgotangco         there's one
   05:07          Seveas             hi mark!
   05:07          sabdfl             hi folks
   05:07          YukiCuss           sabdfl! :)
   05:07          sabdfl             sorry to be late
   05:07          jsgotangco         2 mor
   05:07          jsgotangco         e
   05:07          Seveas             you're the first one here for a change
   05:08          jsgotangco         sabdfl: actually you're not late
   05:08          flint              sabdfl, Hey Mark!
   05:08          sabdfl             flint! long time no see
   05:08          sabdfl             CC meting due now?
   05:08          Seveas             yes
   05:08          flint              sabdfl, trying to stay out of trouble... :^)
   05:08          sabdfl             meeting, that is
   05:08          Seveas             kamion/mako/elmo not in sight
   05:08          sabdfl             flint: you and me both
   05:09          jsgotangco         we seem to have low attendance today
   05:09          sabdfl             ok, have pinged the guys, will sms kamion and elmo too, sec
   05:09          elmo               I'm here
   05:09          Seveas             hi elmo!
   05:10          flint              sabdfl, if you want I can go wake up mdz :^) ...nah...
   05:10          neuralis           i can sms mako, if need be.
   05:10          Seveas             flint, mdz isn't on the CC ;)
   === silbs [n=jane@217.205.109.249] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   05:10          ogra               flint, hey, youre here to work, not for your hobbies :)
   05:10          flint              ogra, lol
   05:11          flint              ogra, waking mdz is a religious experience!
   05:11          highvoltage        flint: what is this about? :) wiki.ubuntu.com/gins
   05:11          jsgotangco         gins?
   05:11          flint              highvoltage, changed the name to wiki.ubuntu.com/gin like the drink mostly...
   05:11          jsgotangco         heh
   05:12          sabdfl             https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityCouncilAgenda
   05:13          Spec               links2 doesn't support ssl :-/
   05:13          sabdfl             vidya was asking earlier about recognition for hte Ubuntu Women's team
   05:13          mdz                flint: you are a menace to sleep
   === seb128 [n=seb128@ANancy-151-1-36-229.w83-196.abo.wanadoo.fr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   05:14          sabdfl             elmo: are you happy to start without Kamion and mako, and then we can ask them
                                     to +1 / -1 member candidates based on the log and email?
   05:14          elmo               sabdfl: sure, if you want
   05:14          sabdfl             ok, lets do that
   05:14          Amaranth           kamion said something about picking someone up from school
   05:14          sabdfl             morning mdz
   === Seveas [n=seveas@ubuntu/member/seveas] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   05:14          sabdfl             locoteams!
   05:14          flint              gin is gnome instant nationalizaiton, a command line tool to change languages.
   05:14          flint              they need it in edubuntu classrooms.... not a big deal...
   05:14          flint              talked to olli about it and he seemd to be ok with it.
   05:14          sabdfl             YukiCuss: ping
   05:14          flint              later refactor in python and hook it to a gui if you want.
   05:14          YukiCuss           sabdfl, hello! :)
   05:14          jsgotangco         flint: shhh
   05:14          sabdfl             tell us about ubuntu down under
   === rbelem [n=rodrigo@ubuntu/member/rbelem] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   05:15          flint              mdz damn, good morning!!!
   05:15          YukiCuss           We're just starting up work, more or less, but so far it's looking very
                                     promising.
   05:15          Seveas             gotta love random disconnects...
   05:15          Seveas             did I miss anything?
   05:15          Amaranth           i don't think so
   05:15          mdz                flint: I've been up since 0600, but damn you anyway
   05:15          YukiCuss           We've had our first meeting (just today), and we've got a roadmap organised
                                     (more or less) for how we're going to tackle various projects around here.
   05:15          sabdfl             Seveas: just getting started
   05:15          Seveas             thanks
   05:15          sabdfl             YukiCuss: where's here?
   05:15          YukiCuss           sabdfl, here is Australia. :)
   05:15          jsgotangco         that's a big place
   05:15          jsgotangco         heh
   05:15          YukiCuss           We've got members all along the east coast so far.
   05:16          YukiCuss           And we're hoping that we can find some more elsewhere.
   05:16          elmo               (Kamion is on his way)
   05:16          Seveas             YukiCuss, cool, what are you focussing on as team?
   05:16          sabdfl             YukiCuss: nice wiki page, wide spread of members across the country
   05:16          sabdfl             YukiCuss: are you all setup w.r.t. virtual server if you want it?
   05:16          YukiCuss           Seveas, at the moment we're looking at the three major groups; home users,
                                     business, and school.
   05:16          Kamion             hi, sorry I'm late, was picking the child up from school and had to run an
                                     errand in the meantime
   05:16          YukiCuss           sabdfl, yep, we've got that pretty much organised, just letting the delay of
                                     email take its toll :)
   05:17          sabdfl             Kamion: no worries, mate
   05:17          sabdfl             g'day
   05:17          sabdfl             ok, YukiCuss, are you the group leader, have you had any process to confirm that
                                     internally?
   05:17          Kamion             sigh
   05:17          YukiCuss           Particularly we're inspecting schools; demonstrations of how Ubuntu can be used
                                     inside a school, and also FOSS.
   05:18          YukiCuss           sabdfl, I am the group leader, and it's been confirmed that I'm the team contact
                                     at a meeting.
   05:18          YukiCuss           We had our first one today, it worked out well. :)
   05:18          Seveas             YukiCuss, do you promote edubuntu too?
   05:18          ogra               YukiCuss, you should get in contact with the edubuntu community :)
   05:18          sabdfl             it's nice for the CC to have a primary contact for a loco team - so that's great
   05:18          sabdfl             anything you'd like from the CC?
   05:18          YukiCuss           Seveas, ogra, of course.
   05:19          jsgotangco         increase the sheilas!
   05:19          jsgotangco         =)
   === svaksha [n=svaksha@unaffiliated/svaksha] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
                                     sabdfl, at the moment, we're hoping that we can get some form of priority with
   05:19          YukiCuss           ShipIt; we'd like to be able to get Dapper out here as quickly as we can, before
                                     the rush.
   05:19          sabdfl             jerome, you suggesting we have sufficient sheep?
   05:19          YukiCuss           (rush of downloads begins, that is; I think the convenience of a real CD will
                                     overwhelm them :))
                                     Other than that, we're going to keep self-regulating (meeting every fortnight
   05:20          YukiCuss           has been agreed on and seems to be convenient), and see how we can let our
                                     projects take off.
                                     YukiCuss: local production an distribution depends on having a company locally
   05:20          sabdfl             that can do it well at great prices, if you have nominations, the right person
                                     to ping is hmb
   05:20          sabdfl             on freenode
   05:20          sabdfl             hande@canonical.com
   05:20          YukiCuss           Thanks!
   05:21          sabdfl             YukiCuss: we've yet to find a regional company that can do it cost effectively,
                                     but would love to get it working well
   05:21          YukiCuss           sabdfl, we've got a few people who are very interested in doing local mailouts.
   05:21          Seveas             YukiCuss, local mailouts rock
   05:21          sabdfl             we can probably do high priority shipment after release if you have a specific
                                     function or requirement
   05:22          Seveas             it's quite popular here in NL too
   05:22          sabdfl             anyway, thank you for checking in, and thanks for setting up the team
   05:22          YukiCuss           No problems! ^^
   05:22          YukiCuss           Thank you.
   05:22          Seveas             YukiCuss, and sleep well ;)
   05:22          sabdfl             Kuyaedz?
   05:22          Seveas             not around
   05:22          Seveas             tried to ping him to no avail
   05:22          sabdfl             ok, let's move on
   05:23          Seveas             members or women?
   === sabdfl notes that Michael Moore is an interesting person to have on a Loco Team :)
   05:23          sabdfl             sheilas!
   05:23          jsgotangco         haha
   05:23          ogra               heh
   === YukiCuss grins.
   05:23          Seveas             :)
   05:23          sabdfl             is svaksha here?
   05:23          svaksha            yes , Vidya Ayer here
   05:23          Seveas             "#ubuntu-women on Freenode - officially recognised or not."
   05:23          sabdfl             svaksha: would you introduce Ubuntu Women, please?
   05:24          Seveas             is there such a thing as an official channel?
   05:24          svaksha            sure,
   05:24          svaksha            well I dont about the official bit ...
   05:25          sabdfl             svaksha pinged me earlier by email
   05:25          svaksha            Ubuntu Women is a group functioning under Ubuntu to provide a platform and
                                     encouragement for women to contribute to Ubuntu-Linux Membership is open to all.
   05:25          sabdfl             asking about official recognition of UbuntuWomen by Canonical, and I think
                                     recognition by the CC is more important
   05:25          svaksha            the non-official part i heard from another forums member Susana
   05:25          svaksha            ok
   05:26          sabdfl             svaksha: are there several different groups that are related to "women in
                                     ubuntu", or is your group the primary initiative?
   05:26          Seveas             I realy don't like to see women as a separate group, sounds very sexist - but
                                     I'm probably missing something
   05:27          elmo               Seveas: you are missing something
   05:27          jsgotangco         Seveas: we'll do ubuntu-blokes don't worry
   05:27          elmo               Seveas: you should probably review the history of debian women
   === soumyadip [n=soumyadi@59.93.241.33] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   05:27          elmo               Seveas: that deeply flawed argument has come up before
   05:27          sabdfl             i tihnk it's very worthwhile to have a group focused on this
   05:28          svaksha            after I wrote to you last year , panickthumb from the forums mentiioned about
                                     this and I asked him to contact you or canonical directly
   05:28          Seveas             elmo, ok
   05:28          sabdfl             as long as we never have folks suggesting that the ONLY place for women in
                                     ubuntu is that group
   === baks17 [n=barkha@59.182.86.61] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   05:28          Kamion             right
   05:28          highvoltage        i've been on the debian-women mailing list before, i've never seen so many
                                     "*hugs*" on a list before :)
   05:28          sabdfl             are there any other comments on the idea of having a group focused on "women in
                                     ubuntu"?
   05:28          svaksha            sabdfl, i dont know what happened after that but I noticed a URL registered in
                                     Dec and in Jan got your OK
   05:28          ogra               highvoltage, you dont share a list with dholbach, do you ?
   05:29          ogra               :)
   05:29          sabdfl             there is some concern that different groups are trying to achieve the same thing
   05:29          highvoltage        ogra: yep :) debian-women have mor!
   05:29          sabdfl             i would like to make sure everyone is talking together
   05:29          jsgotangco         sabdfl: the u-w list has been pretty active (im subscribed)
   05:29          jsgotangco         there's lots of promise
   05:29          sabdfl             jsgotangco: me too :-)
   05:29          jsgotangco         hah
   05:30          Seveas             <highvoltage> i've been on the debian-women mailing list before, i've never seen
                                     so many "*hugs*" on a list before <-- sounds like a list for dholbach
   05:30          sabdfl             svaksha: can we consolidate the different domains that have been registered by
                                     different people?
   05:30          sabdfl             and make sure everyone's working on the same initiative?
   05:30          sabdfl             are there any reasons why that should not happen?
                                     i think that ubuntu-women might be a good idea, not as a feminist activist
   05:30          highvoltage        group, or as a group for just women, but as a forum to discuss the general
                                     involvement of women in the project
   05:30          svaksha            no
   05:31          G0SUB              the issue is that there are a lot of unofficial UW sites / blogs / wikis ... we
                                     should try and get them together to avoid redundancy
   05:31          highvoltage        and to monitor current community activities and evaluate how we can involve the
                                     other half of the world population in ubuntu
   05:31          sabdfl             svaksha: so have you chatted with susana, and you're certain that she's happy to
                                     work with you?
   05:31          Seveas             highvoltage, agreed, as long as it's NEVER going to be women-welcom-only or
                                     women-only-welcome-there which is what I'm a bit afraid of
   05:31          sabdfl             Seveas: we will make certain of that, yes
   05:31          highvoltage        Seveas: agreed, I would think that 'they' feel the same
   05:31          svaksha            i did ask her to bring up the issue on the list
   05:31          ogra               Seveas, highvoltage i think thats up to the team to define itself ;)
   05:31          Kamion             highvoltage: mentorship seems valuable too
   05:32          jsgotangco         yes
   05:32          jsgotangco         its been asked
   05:32          Seveas             ogra, true that
   05:32          svaksha            its not women only ...please read this https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWomen
   05:32          sabdfl             i'm pretty certain mako would be thrilled with this :-)
   05:32          Seveas             do I dare ask why?
   05:32          highvoltage        ogra: also agreed, it was just my attempt to explain that a group about women in
                                     Ubuntu may add value
   05:32          sabdfl             very nicely done wiki page, svaksha
   05:32          Spec               How many members are on the u-w list?
   05:32          svaksha            thanks
   05:33          svaksha            around 70+
   05:33          Kamion             I like how that page lists technical skills first
   05:33          svaksha            yes but that scares away newcomers so Clytie toned it down a little
   05:33          Seveas             the wikipage looks very nice indeed
                                     a lot of women's-groups pages I've seen have almost seemed embarrassed at the
   05:33          Kamion             idea that technical skills might be involved, which always seemed incongruous to
                                     me - I like what you have there
   05:34          Kamion             oh, is that Clytie Siddall (spelling?)
   05:34          svaksha            yep
   05:34          Kamion             cool, encountered her sending huge piles of Vietnamese translations
   05:34          svaksha            :)
                                     The Ubuntu community is very well represented by the male persuasion, yet women
   05:34          flint              are a precious precious to this.  As an individual married for over a
                                     quarter-century let me give you all some advice.  They want a room, they get a
                                     room.
   05:35          sabdfl             #ubuntu-women it is then ;-)
   05:35          svaksha            thanks :)
   05:35          jsgotangco         yay!
   05:35          sabdfl             ok, any further comments?
   05:35          highvoltage        :)
   05:35          Seveas             yes, one comment
   05:35          Seveas             Welcome!
   05:35          ogra               :)
   05:35          sabdfl             ditto :-)
   === psusi wonders why they feel the need to associate with each other... have their own channel... go to the
   bathroom with each other... weird.
   05:36          svaksha            thanks to you all for the support and the CC too :)
   05:36          Seveas             psusi, 42
   05:36          jsgotangco         haha
   05:36          flint              psusi, if that is all you ever worry about...
   05:36          Seveas             ok, shall we move on to new members?
   05:36          flint              :^)
   05:36          sabdfl             psusi: there are greater mysteries in life
   05:36          sabdfl             like handbags
   05:36          sabdfl             i'm doing some research in this regard
   05:36          azeem              psusi: AIUI, the channel is welcoming male people as well?
   05:36          Spec               heh
   05:37          neuralis           sabdfl: it's a dead end. give up and run away while you still can.
   05:37          Seveas             sabdfl, they come from the bermuda triangle it seems
   05:37          sabdfl             ok
   05:37          Seveas             half the world can disappear into it
   05:37          sabdfl             members!
   05:37          Whatsisname        supposedly one guy completely figured out how women work
   05:37          Seveas             Spec, your 3-liner please
   05:37          Whatsisname        but he died of laughing before he could tell anyone
   05:37          Seveas             Spec == NicholasWeeler
   05:38          sabdfl             Whatsisname: easy, tiger
   05:38          Spec               Hello, I'm Nicholas Wheeler, and I'm applying for membership to help with the
                                     Ubuntu cause. I'm interested in becomming a MOTU eventually.
   05:38          Spec               Currently I'm involved in bug triaging of all sorts -- particularly interested
                                     in making the science packages, err, work.
   05:38          Seveas             is the MOTU cheerleading squad arround to support Spec ?
   05:38          flint              I am here to vouch for Nick.  He is a good hack.
   05:39          flint              elkner would be here but he is busy teaching newer hacks.
   05:39          ogra               he wrote a great Howto on the wiki for mondo/mindi use :)
   05:39          Seveas             \o/ from me for doing bug triaging
   05:39          Spec               I also wrote a how-to for the broadcom 43xx card
   05:39          flint              ogra, indeed he did.
   05:39          Seveas             we need much more bug triagers
   05:40          flint              Seveas, i fully intend to understand Malone, I promise I will if you pass Nick.
   05:40          flint              :^)
   05:40          Seveas             Spec, your wikipage is not completely clear - for how long have you been
                                     contributong to Ubuntu?
   05:40          Spec               Contributing, only a couple of months.
   05:41          Spec               I've been using it since hoary I think.
   05:41          psusi              hehe... 42
   05:41          Seveas             couple of months sounds good, any MOTU to confirm that?
   05:41          Seveas             ogra, ?
   05:42          flint              I have not status here but I can confirm that by direct observation.
   === kjcole [n=kjcole@pchb1f.gallaudet.edu] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   05:42          Seveas             flint, how is the DC loco doing, dormant or active?
   05:42          ogra               Seveas, he is the webmaster of the DC LoCo team, when went that online ;)
   05:42          flint              Seveas, the DC loco is represented by Kjcole who just joined.  It is VERY
                                     active.  ask him.
   05:43          Spec               It is very active. :)
   05:43          Seveas             nice
   05:43          ogra               Spec, are you innvolved in the edubuntu deployment thing in DC ?
   05:43          flint              kjcole, you need to say something glib, I know you can...
   05:43          kjcole             Hi all.  Sorry to be late. ;-)
   05:43          Seveas             hi Kevin - please help Spec by cheerleading
   05:43          Spec               ogra: yeap
   05:43          ogra               cool !
   05:43          kjcole             The DC LoCo's now got a few active bzr projects starting up.
   05:43          sabdfl             Spec: how was FOSE?
   === ogra cheers for Spec
   05:44          Spec               very very successful, gave out 1300 ubuntu cds
   05:44          spacey             thats quite a lot
   05:44          Spec               (+1300 opensuse, but that doesn't matter)
   05:44          Seveas             WOW
   05:44          kjcole             Nick and I represented the LoCo at FOSE, and it was a great show.
   05:44          Spec               We were very popular at the convention.
   05:44          Kamion             that MondoMindi page is pretty hideously hackish; can we please get the existing
                                     packages up to scratch instead?
   05:44          Spec               Being next to the bathrooms has it's advantages, i'll have to say...
   05:44          Seveas             (I need some point of reference - how big is the DC area, how many people live
                                     there?)
   05:45          sabdfl             +1 from me on Spec for membership based on advocacy and bug triage, not sure if
                                     elmo or kamion have additional questions
   05:45          Spec               Kamion: I believe in dapper they are up to scratch, in breezy it's a lost cause.
   05:45          kjcole             We also had the trifold Ubuntu brochures that I picked up at UBZ and handed
                                     those out as well.
   === atoponce [n=aaron@c-24-2-85-66.hsd1.ut.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
                                     ah, I see that in the wiki page now, although it's kind of brief and easy to
   05:45          Kamion             skip over, maybe a bit more text is called for so that people don't go to more
                                     work than necessary
   05:45          Kamion             fair enough
   05:45          kjcole             (Unfortunately, I didn't have quite as many of those brochures.  And I now wish
                                     I'd had bumper stickers as well.)
   05:46          elmo               yeah, kamion++, that wiki page is making me cry
   05:46          flint              Kamion, I am responsible for the hackishness of these pages, not nick.
   05:46          jsgotangco         kjcole: wink and you shall receive (hopefully)
   05:46          Spec               I'll edit flint's work to make it prettier :)
   05:46          elmo               if the "Not needed for >= Dapper" bit at the top could be highlighted, that
                                     owuld be good
   05:46          elmo               but in any event ack from me
   05:46          Kamion             other than that, no questions, the other work seems good, and I probably need to
                                     have a look over the bcm43xx page myself ...
   05:46          kjcole             jsgotangco, Yeah.  My fault.  I should have thought about those sooner.
   05:47          Kamion             so +1 from me
   05:47          Spec               Kamion: It's pretty good, but there's lots of guess-work to get it working
                                     still. I think that's the driver's fault.
   05:47          sabdfl             so +1 from Kamion?
   05:47          sabdfl             done
   05:47          sabdfl             welcome aboard
   05:47          Seveas             ok, congratz Spec !
   05:47          ogra               Spec, welcome :)
   05:47          Spec               thank you :)
   05:47          flint              thank you all.
   05:47          sabdfl             i'll approve it in LP
   05:47          Spec               I have to thank my cheerleaders, as well :)
   === jelkner [n=jelkner@158.59.193.240] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   05:47          Kamion             Seveas: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Washington_DC
   05:47          kjcole             jelkner, you're just in time to congratulate Spec... ;-)
   05:47          jelkner            congratulations!
   05:47          sabdfl             hey jeff
   05:48          jelkner            the DC LoCo needed a MOTU
   05:48          sabdfl             victor!
   05:48          jelkner            sabdfl: hi
   05:48          sabdfl             bstqc_ostl around?
   05:48          jelkner            yeah DC LoCo Team!
   05:48          Seveas             probably not
   05:48          jsgotangco         sabdfl: i think you met this guy
   05:49          sabdfl             i've met victor in beijing, would be lovely to have him as a member but i don't
                                     think the TZ works for this meeting
   05:49          Seveas             I spoke to him earlier, sounds like a good candidate
   05:49          Spec               (So how do I get a ubuntu/memeber cloak? :p)
   05:49          sabdfl             yes, very much so
   05:49          sabdfl             but lets get him on board later
   05:49          Seveas             Spec, poke me in a /msg so I don't forget to do that
   05:49          jsgotangco         i can vouch for him too
   05:49          ogra               ah, cool, he's the guy who sends the pdf testreports to -devel :)
   05:49          jsgotangco         yeah
   05:50          dholbach           yes, I'd like to see him as a member too
   05:50          Seveas             BlueT_, (Matthew Lien) is around it seems
   05:50          sabdfl             BlueT_: ping
   05:50          dholbach           I communicated with him for the test plans and he has great ideas and put
                                     incredible work into testing hoary and breezy
   === Bigredman74 [n=Bigredma@68.62.169.39] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   05:51          kjcole             BTW, since I arrived a little late, if it hadn't already been mentioned FOSE is
                                     in it's 30th year, as the largest US federal government computer convention...
   05:51          Seveas             BlueT_, is not around I guess
   05:51          Seveas             and neither is Kuyaedz
   05:52          sabdfl             kjcole: do you think it';s a conference that should be on silbs' list?
   05:52          Seveas             that only leaves the topic of the next meeting. I think we should set a time
                                     right now
   05:52          sabdfl             ok, I will update the wiki page for the meeting
   05:52          sabdfl             when last did we do a UTC-morning meeting?
   === Kuyaedz [n=christer@kuyaedz.fttp.xmission.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   05:52          sabdfl             for the AsiaPac characters?
   05:52          Seveas             Kuyaedz, right on time!
   05:52          sabdfl             ah, welcome Kuyaedz
   05:53          Seveas             sabdfl, I think it would be nice to have an early morning meeting
   05:53          Kuyaedz            Just got out of class :)  ..glad someone came looking for me, I didn't know when
                                     this was.
   05:53          jelkner            ok if i steal Spec so i can get some work outta him?
   05:53          sabdfl             Seveas: define early
   05:53          kjcole             sabdfl, I'll check.  (I'm not familiar with what's type of stuff's already
                                     there, though I think I stumbled across that list before...)
   05:53          sabdfl             jelkner: all yours
   05:53          jelkner            now that his head is all swelled and all
   05:53          Seveas             sabdfl, after Kuyaedz' topics have been handled
   05:53          Spec               thank you all :p
   05:53          jelkner            cya all later
   05:53          Seveas             Kuyaedz, please introduce Ubuntu-Utah to us
   05:54          sabdfl             cheers spec, jelkner
   05:54          Kuyaedz            Ubuntu-Utah is a loco team I started a few months ago.  We've steadily been
                                     growing but are still relatively small.
   05:55          Seveas             how many members?
   05:55          Kuyaedz            11 members registered on the launchpad page, but I know of ~4-5 more that aren't
                                     'official' yet.
   05:55          Seveas             around 10 - not too bad
   05:56          Kuyaedz            We've got members at 3 Utah Universities, which I think is helpful.
   05:56          Seveas             not bad, 10 active members is good for a starting team
   05:56          Kuyaedz            We've set a goal to double that by Dapper release.
   05:57          Seveas             What is the team doing to promote Ubuntu besides handing out CD's?
   05:57          sabdfl             Kuyaedz: how active are you in the forums?
                                     Well the CD distribution and team recruitment are the short-term goals that
   05:58          Kuyaedz            we're currently working on.  In the long term we would like to present school
                                     districts with Ubuntu/Edubuntu.
   05:58          Kuyaedz            sadbfl: I have roughly 750 forum posts.
   05:58          Seveas             Kuyaedz, nice
   05:59          ogra               yeah !
   05:59          Seveas             I'm quite happy with how the Utah team is forming the way I see now
   05:59          sabdfl             Kuyaedz: have you seen the proposals about a forums council?
   05:59          Seveas             Kuyaedz, is there a specifi reason to use ubuntu-utah.org instead of
                                     ut.ubuntu-us.org?
   05:59          Kuyaedz            Seveas: I'm glad to hear that.  I have the day off today & was hoping to get
                                     more team-related work done.
   05:59          Kuyaedz            sadbfl: I have not.
                                     Seveas: There is not.  I did not know who to contact concerning an official team
   06:00          Kuyaedz            site so I registered one.  Also we have requested an official mailing list 3x
                                     with no responses.
   06:00          Kamion             Kuyaedz: was that request to jdub?
   06:00          Seveas             Kuyaedz, I was going to ask what you would like to see from the CC, but that's
                                     clear now
   06:01          sabdfl             Kuyaedz: np, i appreciate your initiative in going ahead
   06:01          G0SUB              IMHO the mailing list creation is a bit of a bottleneck as jdub is a very busy
                                     guy
   06:01          sabdfl             G0SUB: would it help if we put mailing lists into LP?
   06:01          Kuyaedz            We've been using a google-groups system for the time being.
   06:01          Seveas             Who is the contact for *.ubuntu-us.org, smurf or someone else?
   06:01          G0SUB              sabdfl: yes it will
   06:01          sabdfl             G0SUB: i think you mean "yes it might" ;-)
   06:01          Seveas             sabdfl, or simply give jdub an assistant
   06:01          G0SUB              sabdfl: heh ...
   06:02          G0SUB              Seveas: ++
   06:02          sabdfl             but, we've been looking at that here this week
   06:02          sabdfl             we can do it, it will just take a little while
   === Mizar [n=Mizar@ubuntu/member/mizar] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   06:02          G0SUB              sabdfl: what about giving jdub an assistant?
   06:02          G0SUB              I can help with this
   06:02          jsgotangco         fridge jr
   06:02          Kuyaedz            Concerning the mailing list I contacted MathiasUlrich & also sent an email to
                                     Jeff Waugh.
   06:02          jsgotangco         heh
   06:02          sabdfl             G0SUB: offer to help, i'm sure he will accept
   06:03          G0SUB              sabdfl: should I mail him directly?
   06:03          Seveas             G0SUB, put my name in that mail to - I want to help there if possible
   06:03          G0SUB              sabdfl: fine, I will CC you
   06:03          G0SUB              thanks :)
   06:04          Kuyaedz            Seveas: I was wondering if it would be possible to get a layout template so our
                                     team site could nearly match the look/feel of the central.
   06:04          sabdfl             Kuyaedz: i think that's all public
                                     Kuyaedz, as you can see the organizational things are sometimes problematic -
   06:04          Seveas             but it'll be solved soon I guess. I will keep poking jdub/g0sub and smurf about
                                     it
   06:05          Kuyaedz            Seveas: thank you
   06:05          Amaranth           when did launchpad turn into sourceforge?
   06:05          G0SUB              oh, one more thing ... can we put up the moinmoin, drupal themes used in u.c &
                                     fridge somewhere?
   06:05          Seveas             Kuyaedz, I have a PHP based template for ubuntulinux.nl - you might want to look
                                     at that after the meeting, but poke me after the meeting for that
   06:05          G0SUB              so that people can reuse them?
   06:05          sabdfl             Amaranth: when some of us had a spare weekend
   06:05          Amaranth           sabdfl: hehe
   06:05          G0SUB              haha
   06:05          Kuyaedz            Seveas: will do
   06:05          sabdfl             ok
   06:05          ogra               Amaranth, pfft, sourceforge is sooo last century
   06:05          Amaranth           seriously, about the only thing missing is bzr write
   06:05          sabdfl             Kuyaedz: thanks for your work on Utah
   06:05          jsgotangco         sometimes its like friendster
   06:05          sabdfl             what about your membership?
   06:05          Seveas             Amaranth, supermirror
   06:05          sabdfl             Amaranth: it's coming
   06:05          Kuyaedz            sadbfl: happy to do it. I just wish we had more time/resources :)
   06:06          sabdfl             fairly soon, as it happens
   06:06          Amaranth           cool
   06:06          Amaranth           then i can use launchpad for alacarte instead of gnome cvs (eww)
   06:06          Seveas             Kuyaedz, lack of time is a global problem ;)
   06:06          Amaranth           </offtopic>
   06:06          G0SUB              [repeat]  can we put up the moinmoin, drupal themes used in u.c & fridge
                                     somewhere?
   06:06          Seveas             Kuyaedz, habe you collected a cheerleeding swuad to support your membership
                                     application?
   06:07          sabdfl             G0SUB: speak with henrik, they are already public somewhere
   06:07          sabdfl             Kuyaedz: membership?
   06:07          G0SUB              sabdfl: ok, thanks
   06:07          Kuyaedz            Seveas: Well I was going to see what members of the team could come along, but
                                     even I didn't have much notice on the meeting :)
   06:07          Seveas             Kuyaedz, true. it was very short notice
   06:07          Kuyaedz            sabdfl: What can I tell you about membership?  Is there more I can do?
   06:08          sabdfl             your wiki page is excellent
   06:08          sabdfl             very happy to see the laptop testing info
   06:09          Kuyaedz            sabdfl: I was hoping to update a few of those with Dapper results before the
                                     meeting..
   === No1Viking [n=Viking@h-83-140-104-3.ip.cust.port80.se] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   06:09          sabdfl             ok, +1 from me on membership and loco leadership, kamion and elmo may have more
                                     questions
   06:09          elmo               +1
   06:09          Kuyaedz            sabdfl: thank you.
   06:10          Seveas             \o/ from me, wikipage looks good, active since october and doing great things in
                                     Utah
   06:10          Kuyaedz            elmo: again, thank you.
   06:10          sabdfl             +1 on the elmo-statue from you, Kuyaedz?
   06:10          G0SUB              Kuyaedz: awesome! that's great :)
   06:10          Seveas             sabdfl, yes, we need an elmo statue
   06:11          G0SUB              sabdfl: heh, I already spoke about it in the last meet
   06:11          G0SUB              wrt the statue
   06:11          sabdfl             Kuyaedz: have you applied for membership in ubuntumembers in LP?
   06:11          Kuyaedz            sabdfl: I did
   06:12          Kuyaedz            If there is anything else you'd like to see me do, or the team, don't hesitate
                                     to ask.
   06:12          sabdfl             Kuyaedz: i don't see you in the list
   06:12          sabdfl             what's your LP nick? display name?
   06:12          sabdfl             or real name?
   06:12          Kuyaedz            sabdfl: kuyaedz or christer-edwards
   06:12          Seveas             kuyaedz
   06:12          Seveas             I see him in the list
   06:13          sabdfl             ok, it would be nice to put your proper name in the LP account
   06:13          Kamion             ok, sorry I've been discussing things elsewhere, +1 from me
   06:13          sabdfl             done
   06:13          sabdfl             welcome!
   06:13          Seveas             Kamion, great
   06:13          Kuyaedz            thank you.
   06:13          Seveas             Kuyaedz, welcome aboard!
   06:13          Kamion             Kuyaedz: and thanks for the JigdoDownloadHowto page, I've been meaning to write
                                     something like that for a while
   06:13          Kuyaedz            I'm very excited. thank you.
   06:13          sabdfl             good work!
   06:13          G0SUB              Kuyaedz: welcome!
   06:13          dholbach           congratulations Kuyaedz
   06:13          jsgotangco         congrats
   06:14          highvoltage        congrats, Kuyaedz
   06:14          ogra               congrats Kuyaedz
   06:14          Seveas             sabdfl, about the meeting time, given that the CC is in the UK largely 8/9AM
                                     UTC-ish?
                                     Kamion: what's the drill on the meeting agenda page, should i delete the folks
   06:14          sabdfl             approved in the last meeting, make a note of those approved here, and delete
                                     those who did not show up?
   06:14          Kamion             sabdfl: yes, yes, no make a note of those who didn't show up
   === jdub [n=jdub@ppp121-112.static.internode.on.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   06:14          sabdfl             Seveas: i'd prefer 10am, and excuse elmo :-)
   06:14          Seveas             sabdfl, usually I take care of the editing ;)
   06:14          Kuyaedz            I'm glad I made it in time.  The councilagenda page said "TBA".  I was just
                                     hoping someone would contact me
   06:14          G0SUB              yay! jdub
   06:14          Seveas             Kuyaedz, I tried
   06:15          Kamion             can we get mako at 10am UK time?
   06:15          elmo               (fwiw, I can get up, if I need to)
   06:15          Kamion             ok, if we've got elmo then it doesn't matter
   06:15          Kuyaedz            Seveas: atoponce mentioned in #ubuntu-utah. Thanks for coming to find me.
   06:15          YukiCuss           Kuyaedz, I barely managed. :)
   06:15          Seveas             10am is ~4am mako-time iirc
   06:15          Seveas             sounds like a bad idea
   06:15          Kuyaedz            Is there anything immediate that everyone would like to see done with the Utah
                                     Team?
   06:15          Seveas             (for him, that is)
   06:16          Kamion             jdub: did you see the stuff above about mailing list creation?
   06:16          Seveas             Kuyaedz, yes, one thing
   06:16          Seveas             Keep rocking!
   06:16          Kuyaedz            Seveas: I will find you later concerning the template.  Also should we migrate
                                     to ut.ubuntu-us.org?
   === soumyadip [n=soumyadi@59.93.241.33] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
   06:17          Seveas             Kuyaedz, you don't "have to" but it would be nice
   06:17          Seveas             (which reminds me, I should still migrate to ubuntu-nl.org)
   06:17          Kuyaedz            Seveas: Should I also speak with you later about that & access?
   06:17          Seveas             Kuyaedz, yes, preferably in an hour or two (dinner time)
   06:17          jdub               Kamion: no - but elmo's sorting out the RT queue for them, which will make it
******************* vastly* easier to manage.
   06:18          Seveas             Kamion, sabdfl, elmo: so tue april4 10am UTC?
   06:18          Kamion             works for me
   06:18          Seveas             it'll be DST then
   === Surak [n=ubuntu@201009064104.user.veloxzone.com.br] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   06:18          jdub               Kamion: there's two pending atm, utah and ebuntu
   06:18          G0SUB              jdub: can I be your assistant in setting up the mailing lists?
   06:18          Kamion             slightly better than today actually, sorry for setting a meeting time and then
                                     being late for it :)
   06:18          sabdfl             errr... actually i might be on a flight to a conference
   06:19          Seveas             sabdfl, hmm, move the meeting to monday?
   06:19          neuralis           Seveas: that'll be 5am EST, so no dice if you're trying to get mako.
   06:19          Kuyaedz            Seveas: will do.
   06:19          jdub               G0SUB: it requires access to the server and so on - there's not a lot of work
                                     involved, and it ends up being more policy than anything else
   06:19          sabdfl             no, sec, i'm just trying to find out
   06:19          Seveas             ok
   06:19          G0SUB              jdub: sabdfl told that you might be in need of some help wrt this
   06:19          G0SUB              ok
   06:19          Seveas             (fiancee is pulling on my ears to get me to the dinner table - I may disappear
                                     suddenly)
   06:20          sabdfl             monday is clearer for me, elmo, are you still on EST?
   06:20          Kuyaedz            Ok well I'll get ahold of Seveas later.  Is there anything else I'm needed for?
   06:20          elmo               sabdfl: yes, but I can shift without problems
   06:20          Seveas             Kuyaedz, no, we're done here
   06:21          Seveas             sabdfl, ok, monday april 3 it is then
   06:21          Kuyaedz            thank you again.
   06:21          sabdfl             9am?
   === Kuyaedz [n=christer@kuyaedz.fttp.xmission.com] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   06:21          elmo               G0SUB: we're redirecting the list admin stuff to RT, which means there'll be 2
                                     more people helping with lists stuff
   06:21          Seveas             if 9am is ok with Kamion and elmo
   06:21          G0SUB              elmo: that'd be great then
   06:22          Kamion             9am's doable as long as Kirsten is well again by then to take Benedict to school
   06:22          Kamion             which should be the case
   06:22          Seveas             ok, elmo?
   06:22          elmo               yes
   === tdilago [n=dilago@201009064104.user.veloxzone.com.br] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   06:22          Seveas             cool Apr 3, 09:00 UTC it is
   06:23          jsgotangco         nice
   === Seveas off - fiancee is getting mad
   06:23          jsgotangco         i gotta sleep too
   06:23          jsgotangco         good meeting
   06:23          G0SUB              jsgotangco: good night :)
   06:23          Kamion             ok, thanks all, guess that's adjourned
   06:24          kjcole             Good night to those of you half a world away... (Noon'ish here.)
   06:24          highvoltage        night kjcole
   06:25          sabdfl             night all
  
</pre>
