{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** SpamapS to send ruby gems proposal to ubuntu-devel
** zul to clean up the SRU assignee list by prodding people on status
** everyone to pick 1 or 2 papercuts for the beta cycle 
* Maverick development (jib)
* 10.04.1 release (ttx)
** Last-minute merge/reupload for bug Bug:571057
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
** Bug rate extremely high last few weeks -- Triaging getting behind (SpamapS)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
** Bug Bug:597387: Maverick EC2 kernel issue
** Bug Bug:574910: High load averages on EC2 with Lucid while idling 
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Community Team (kim0)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time
** Tuesday 2010-08-17 at 1800 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====
* everyone to pick 1 or 2 papercuts for the beta cycle
* zul to continue clean up the SRU assigne list by prodding people on status
* SpamapS to finalize and send ruby gems proposal to ubuntu-devel
* ttx to send email about 10.04.1 release process to server team

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====

All actions were incomplete and were carried over. The rubygems proposal is being finalized, with the hope to fix it in maverick, but more realistically for maverick+1.

===== Maverick development (jib) =====

Alpha3 was delivered last week, beta started with this <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-server-ubuntu-10.10-beta.html|list]]</nowiki>. This should be vetted by everyone, so that's the deliverable as far as jib is concerned.

===== 10.04.1 release (ttx) =====

10.04.1 was just postponed to next Tuesday, so initial plans need to be adjusted. Since ttx and Daviey will be away, jib, mathiaz and smoser should lead that effort. This will be confirmed by an email from ttx. Bug Bug:571057 will make it, thanks to mathiaz last-minute merge and testing.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====

hggdh reported new regressions in eucalyptus. A fix is in the works and should land tomorrow. smoser asked about people using uec-provisioning, and Daviey reported using it with success. SpamapS raised an extremely high new bug rate over the last few weeks, but old timers dismissed it as a very normal new bug rate.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen) =====

jjohansen reported bug Bug:597387 as now working in all zones. For bug Bug:574910, he has a test kernel building, and should have an update for that tonight.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Community Team (kim0) =====

kim0 launched the maps effort for 10.04.1: see http://maps.ubuntu.com/

===== Open Discussion =====

Daviey raised bug Bug:613463 -- the dependency should be reverted, pending a discussion with cjwatson on a potentially better fix. And SpamapS bragged about CEPH being in Maverick now !

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday 2010-08-17 at 1800 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting

=== Log ===
<pre>
[19:00] <ttx> #startmeeting
[19:00] <MootBot> Meeting started at 13:00. The chair is ttx.
[19:00] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[19:00] <ttx> Incredible agenda is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[19:00] <ttx> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[19:00] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[19:00] <ttx> * SpamapS to send ruby gems proposel to ubuntu-devel
[19:01] <ttx> * zul to clean up the SRU assigne list by prodding people on status
[19:01] <ttx> (maybe we are missing spamaps)
[19:01] <ttx> (maybe we are missing zul)
[19:01] <ttx> * everyone to pick 1 or 2 papercuts for the beta cycle
[19:01] <hggdh> isn't zul on LinuxConf?
[19:01] <ttx> ^that one is incomplete, looking at https://launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+milestone/maverick-beta
[19:01] <jiboumans> we are missing zul afaik, but spamaps should be around
[19:02]  * kim0 is not able to attend this meeting (have to run). But you all know the maps app made its splash. Nothing else to discuss
[19:02] <ttx> kim0: ack
[19:02] <smoser> o/
[19:02] <Daviey> kim0: top work on that :)
[19:02] <kim0> thanks folks
[19:02] <ttx> so I'll action you all again... please do it by next week
[19:02] <ttx> [ACTION] everyone to pick 1 or 2 papercuts for the beta cycle
[19:02] <MootBot> ACTION received:  everyone to pick 1 or 2 papercuts for the beta cycle
[19:02] <jiboumans> kim0++ # nice job on the maps
[19:03]  * hggdh is already geo-located there...
[19:04] <ttx> Looking at http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/sru-tracker-bugs.html the list could use more cleaning
[19:04] <ttx> so I'll action zul again :)
[19:04] <ttx> [ACTION] zul to continue clean up the SRU assigne list by prodding people on status
[19:04] <MootBot> ACTION received:  zul to continue clean up the SRU assigne list by prodding people on status
[19:04] <ttx> mathiaz: did we have the rubygems proposal posted to ubuntu-devel ?
[19:04] <jiboumans> spamaps is waiting on the thumbs up afaik
[19:04] <mathiaz> ttx: not yet - we're currenlty reviewingit
[19:05] <ttx> ok
[19:05] <mathiaz> ttx: it should go out in the next week
[19:05] <ttx> [ACTION] SpamapS to finalize and send ruby gems proposel to ubuntu-devel
[19:05] <MootBot> ACTION received:  SpamapS to finalize and send ruby gems proposel to ubuntu-devel
[19:05] <jiboumans> mathiaz: fix still viable for maverick right?
[19:05] <mathiaz> jiboumans: I don't think so
[19:05] <mathiaz> jiboumans: was the goal to get it fixed in maverick?
[19:05] <jiboumans> mathiaz: the hope
[19:05] <mathiaz> jiboumans: I think it will take more time
[19:06] <jiboumans> mathiaz: i know maverick+1 is more realistic
[19:06] <mathiaz> jiboumans: ah - hope
[19:06] <ttx> I remember hope, it was good.
[19:06] <mathiaz> jiboumans: agreed - maverick+1 is more realistic
[19:06] <jiboumans> heh ttx
[19:06] <ttx> ok, moving on then :)
[19:06] <ttx> [TOPIC] Maverick development (jib)
[19:06] <MootBot> New Topic:  Maverick development (jib)
[19:06] <jiboumans> alpha3 delivered last week
[19:06] <jiboumans> beta started with this list: http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-server-ubuntu-10.10-beta.html
[19:07] <jiboumans> should be vetted by everyone, so that's the deliverable as far as i'm concerned
[19:07] <jiboumans> not much more to say to that ;)
[19:08] <ttx> ok, comments ?
[19:08] <jiboumans> i think it's a bit early to check on progress as we just started
[19:08] <ttx> ok, moving on then
[19:08] <ttx> [TOPIC] 10.04.1 release (ttx)
[19:08] <MootBot> New Topic:  10.04.1 release (ttx)
[19:09] <ttx> so this Thursday we have yet another milestone, with 10.04.1
[19:09] <smoser> or next tuesday
[19:09] <ttx> smoser: ?
[19:09] <hggdh> yes, robbiew just postponed it
[19:09] <jiboumans> it just got postponed
[19:09] <ttx> robbiew: damn you !
[19:10] <ttx> all my effects are gone
[19:10] <hggdh> :-)
[19:10]  * ttx thinks the server team will have to release it without him
[19:10] <smoser> the stare of death works on triceritops, but not on robbiew
[19:10] <ttx> ok, so...
[19:10]  * jiboumans would rather have a scuff with a triceratops
[19:10]  * SpamapS wonders who would win that epic battle.. robbiew vs. triceratops
[19:11] <jiboumans> spamaps: judging by museums world-wide, my money is on robbiew
[19:11] <Daviey> ttx: Should we be spending time testing Hardy -> 10.04.1 upgrades?
[19:11] <ttx> Daviey: yes, and some ISO should be spun early next week (or late this week)
[19:12] <ttx> in both cases I won't be around, so I'll brief someone (Daviey ?) to replace me
[19:12] <Daviey> ttx: OK.. will you be tracking that?
[19:12] <Daviey> ttx: I'm /away next week aswell :/
[19:12] <ttx> or a Daviey-mathiaz team, maybe
[19:12] <ttx> Daviey: and that got approved ? Let me fix that.
[19:12] <Daviey> hah
[19:13] <ttx> any volunteer ?
[19:13] <smoser> hm... I half raise a hand.
[19:13] <ttx> I could nominate zul, since he is having fun at Linuxcon
[19:13] <jiboumans> ttx: we'll sort it between me and mathiaz
[19:13] <smoser> and zul just dropped.
[19:14] <ttx> right, we'll sort it off-meeting
[19:14] <ttx> and I'll send out an email
[19:14] <ttx> Our last minte thing is Last-minute merge/reupload for bug 571057
[19:14] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 571057 in openldap (Ubuntu Lucid) "slapd 2.4.21-0ubuntu5 corrupts olcDatabase={-1}frontend.ldif with duplicate olcAccess lines (again)" [High,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/571057
[19:14] <ttx> which was handled succesfully by mathiaz
[19:15] <ttx> and in verification-needed
[19:15] <mathiaz> I'll do the verification later today
[19:15] <mathiaz> once the package has built
[19:15] <ttx> great, thanks for taking care of that
[19:15] <ttx> mvo might do some upgrade testing, I'll check that with him
[19:16] <ttx> any questions before we move on ?
[19:16] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:16] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:17] <ttx> hggdh: floor is yours
[19:17] <hggdh> nothing new, except having lots of fun with eucalyptus
[19:17] <ttx> "fun" as in regressions ?
[19:17] <hggdh> er, yes, I would say so. Very much fun
[19:17] <jiboumans> hggdh: what's the state on the blocking issues found last week(s)?
[19:17] <Daviey> jiboumans: I have pushed to a PPA, which should fix the major issues we were concerned about
[19:18] <Daviey> ie, registration and topology
[19:18] <hggdh> jiboumans: Daviey just built a new revision, and I just installed it. Will begin to test ASAP
[19:18] <hggdh> jiboumans: OTOH, we cannot use volumes anymore...
[19:18] <jiboumans> hggdh, daviey: excellent. let us know how it goes
[19:18] <hggdh> which I will also test on this revision
[19:19] <Daviey> If that works out well, i'll get it uploaded loater tonight / tomorrow morning
[19:19] <ttx> Daviey: so we should have an ISO tomorrow morning to test topology2 ?
[19:20] <Daviey> ttx: Hmm.. that means uploading it tonight then
[19:20] <Daviey> which i can prepare..
[19:20] <hggdh> Daviey: I would get it done no matter what
[19:20] <hggdh> so, early tomorrow morning (early for me) I can hit topo2
[19:20] <ttx> Daviey: we can do tomorrow morning
[19:21] <smoser> is it appropriate for me to ask if anyone is [successfully] using uec-provisioning  ? or should that wait till "open discussion"
[19:21] <hggdh> Daviey: reasoning is it is difficult to get worse than what we have now
[19:21] <ttx> smoser: go ahead
[19:21] <smoser> anyone ? ccheney  ?
[19:21] <ttx> smoser: haven't used it yet
[19:22] <hggdh> I have not, not prepared for it
[19:22] <smoser> i'm wanting to give it a try, but my last attempts ran into all sorts of archive problems that generally blocked me.
[19:22] <ttx> smoser: might play with it tomorrow
[19:22] <Daviey> ttx: I'm guessing you'll be around in a few hours.. fancy sponsoring that please?
[19:22] <Daviey> ttx; Assuming you are on US timezone still
[19:23] <ttx> I can sponsor in the next 2 hours if needed
[19:23] <ttx> any other question to hggdh / topic for QA ?
[19:23] <SpamapS> I had added one
[19:23] <Daviey> smoser: I'm using uec-provisioning
[19:23] <ttx> Bug rate extremely high last few weeks -- Triaging getting behind (SpamapS)
[19:23] <smoser> Daviey, sweet.
[19:23] <SpamapS> about bug triaging.. I just noticed that it has been spiking a lot the last 3 weeks
[19:24] <ttx> SpamapS: http://webnumbr.com/ubuntu-server-triage shows a good current status...
[19:24] <SpamapS> It was at 16 this morning...
[19:24] <ttx> I'm not sure it's highly unusual
[19:24] <mathiaz> SpamapS: I went through them today
[19:25] <SpamapS> I've been triaging one every day..
[19:25] <SpamapS> but, n/m .. I guess its normal ;)
[19:25] <SpamapS> I'd love to see the *rate* graphed, not just the state.
[19:25] <ttx> ok, mocing on then :)
[19:26] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:26] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:26] <ttx> I don't think we have John
[19:26] <ttx> I wanted to raise the EC2 kernel issues, I guess that will wait a few
[19:27] <jiboumans> pinging him now
[19:27] <jiboumans> take the next topic, we'll revisit
[19:27] <smoser> jjohansen is in boston linuxcon
[19:27] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[19:27] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[19:27] <jiboumans> smoser: aye, but not idle on irc... so if he's around, we'll do the topic.. if not, later
[19:27] <ttx> we don't have sommer either :)
[19:28] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Community Team (kim0)
[19:28] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Community Team (kim0)
[19:28] <jiboumans> .. nor kim0 ;)
[19:28] <Daviey> heh, not here either :)
[19:28] <jiboumans> jjohansen is here though
[19:28] <ttx> So we had the update at the beginning of the meeting
[19:28] <jiboumans> wee
[19:28] <ttx> back to kernel, I guess
[19:28] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:28] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:28] <jjohansen> hey \o
[19:28] <ttx> jjohansen: quick update on bug 597387 and Bug 574910: ?
[19:28] <jiboumans> hey jjohansen. thanks for making time during linuxcon
[19:29] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 597387 in Ubuntu Maverick "pv-ops kernel only works in 3 of 4 zones in EC2" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/597387
[19:29] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 574910 in linux-ec2 (Ubuntu) "High load averages on Lucid while idling" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/574910
[19:30] <jjohansen> alright 597387 - is a couple issues it will need some user side support in stripping and packaging a kernel special as it is built different
[19:30] <jjohansen> erg no disregard wrong bug
[19:31] <jjohansen> 597387 - we are working in all zones
[19:31] <smoser> 597387 should probably be closed.
[19:31] <jjohansen> yeah
[19:31] <ttx> ah, good news
[19:31] <jiboumans> jjohansen++ smoser++ # awesome
[19:31]  * ttx closes
[19:32] <jjohansen> 574910 - I have a test kernel building, and I should have an update for that tonight
[19:32] <smoser> there are open issues though.
[19:32] <jjohansen> yes lots of bugs
[19:32] <smoser> http://paste.ubuntu.com/476072/ is the list i had from alpha-3
[19:32] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://paste.ubuntu.com/476072/ is the list i had from alpha-3
[19:32] <ttx> jjohansen: ok, so it sounds like you're on top on this one
[19:32] <jiboumans> jjohansen: i care very strongly about 574910 - is there anything we can do to expedite a fix?
[19:33] <jjohansen> well, the problem is the bug is in the large xen patchset, and its not bisectable so it is slow going
[19:34] <jjohansen> The 3 points I have is karmic version of it and Lucid, and future point
[19:34] <jiboumans> jjohansen: understood.. can we help testing? or ask pete nicely to give you more time? :)
[19:34] <jjohansen> and working through the thousands of changes is slow
[19:34] <jjohansen> jiboumans: basically I have been on it full time for the last few days
[19:35] <jjohansen> testing will help, I am going to publish a kernel tonight and get results back would be helpful
[19:36] <jiboumans> jjohansen: ttx and smoser should be able to coordinate testing help - don't hesitate to ask
[19:37] <jjohansen> jibousmans, right I will be bugging smoser
[19:37] <ttx> ok, moving on then
[19:37] <jjohansen> the other bugs I have poked at a bit, but no real results yet
[19:38] <jjohansen> ..
[19:38] <ttx> anything else for John ?
[19:38] <jiboumans> a beer next time i see him :)
[19:38] <jjohansen> hehe :)
[19:39] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Community Team (kim0)
[19:39] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Community Team (kim0)
[19:40] <ttx> pasting for reference:
[19:40] <ttx> * kim0 is not able to attend this meeting (have to run). But you all know the maps app made its splash. Nothing else to discuss
[19:40] <ttx> comments ?
[19:40] <jiboumans> tweet/blog it
[19:41] <jiboumans> see here:  http://foss-boss.blogspot.com/2010/08/ubuntu-server-10041-virtual-release.html
[19:41] <jiboumans> and here:  http://maps.ubuntu.com/
[19:42] <ttx> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[19:42] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[19:44] <ttx> ...
[19:44] <Daviey> We need to get some movement on, Bug #613463 . I had hoped to have a discussion between cjwatson, smoser and myself.  However, cjwatson is on holiday at the moment; so we need to grab someone else suitable from foundations.  Scott?
[19:44] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 613463 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu) "[10.10 - Alpha 3 (candidate)] Prompts misleading grub dialogs during UEC Node installation." [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/613463
[19:44] <smoser> i can really only think of the 2 ways to solve it.
[19:44] <ttx> Daviey: looks like not depending on grub would fix that, no ?
[19:44] <smoser> a.) cut up grub more
[19:45] <smoser> b.) do not list a dependency
[19:45] <ttx> I'd go for (b) for the time being
[19:45] <ttx> and ask Colin when he gets back
[19:45] <smoser> yeah. its definitely easy short term.
[19:45] <Daviey> Okay.. i'll push a fix for that.. easy nuff.
[19:46]  * Daviey done.
[19:46] <smoser> Daviey, i can push that
[19:46] <smoser> if you'd like
[19:47] <smoser> i'm touching it right now
[19:47] <Daviey> smoser: go for it.
[19:48] <ttx> ok, anything else ?
[19:48] <SpamapS> CEPH is in Maverick now! :)
[19:48]  * SpamapS ^5's mathiaz
[19:49] <ttx> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[19:49] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[19:50] <ttx> Tuesday 2010-08-17 at 1800 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting
[19:50] <ttx> I won't be there, but have fun
[19:51] <ttx> #endmeeting
[19:51] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 13:51.
</pre>
