{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Should NUMA be enabled on the server kernel 64bit - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/331308 - cooloney
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Ubuntu Server Guide =====

sommer reported that he received some feedback on a few sections from the Ubuntu Server Guide. However some sections still need to be reviewed: they're listed in the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JauntyServerGuide|wiki page]]</nowiki>. Help in reviewing them is welcomed.

===== NUMA support for 64bit -server kernel =====

cooloney brought the <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/331308|question]]</nowiki> of whether NUMA should be enabled on 64bit -server kernel. No objections were raised except that it may be too late for the Jaunty release cycle. This topic should be discussed for the Karmic cycle at the next UDS with the Kernel team.

===== Ubuntu on EC2 =====

zul gave a report on the state of Ubuntu on EC2. The next beta image based on Intrepid is being worked on. Next in the pipeline is an image based on Hardy and the 2.6.24 kernel. An image based on Jaunty and the 2.6.28 kernel is also being planned. Each new release will be announced on the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ec2-beta|ec2-beta mailing list]]</nowiki>.

===== Bugs from Jaunty Beta =====

mathiaz reminded that with the release of Jaunty Beta last Thursday the number of new bugs filed had raised. Any help in triaging them is welcomed. The <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuservernewbugs.notlong.com/|list of new bugs related to the Ubuntu Server team]]</nowiki> is a good place to start any triaging effort.

===== Bacula testing =====

ivoks asked for more testing and bug triaging on the <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bacula/|bacula package]]</nowiki>.

===== RHCS support =====

ivoks raised the question of whether Red Hat Cluster Suite should be kept in main in Karmic. Fabio M. Di Nitto, the current maintainer, <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2009-February/027583.html|mentioned]]</nowiki> he had less and less time to maintain the package and was looking for some help. mathiaz suggested to discuss this topic at the next UDS. Meanwhile ivoks will make sure rhcs is in good shape for Jaunty.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, April 7th at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:00] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[16:00] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:00. The chair is mathiaz.
[16:00] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:00] <mathiaz> Today's agenda:https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:01] <mathiaz> Last week agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20090324
[16:01] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] KVM backport in hardy
[16:01] <MootBot> New Topic:  KVM backport in hardy
[16:02] <mathiaz> kirkland: ^^ how is this going?
[16:04] <mathiaz> allright - kirkland doesn't seem to be around - let's postpone this topic
[16:04] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Server Guide
[16:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  Server Guide
[16:04] <mathiaz> sommer: how is this coming along?
[16:04] <sommer> mathiaz: should be good to go for jaunty
[16:05] <mathiaz> sommer: did you get any feedback on the new and updated sections?
[16:05] <sommer> received some great feed back from translators and some upstream projects
[16:05] <sommer> mathiaz: yep, the eucalyptus team were great with feedback :)
[16:07] <mathiaz> sommer: awesome.
[16:07] <sommer> mathiaz: not sure there's much more news, some of the new sections were reviewed, but some weren't... but they can always be updated in the next release
[16:07] <mathiaz> anything else to report on the documentation front?
[16:08] <sommer> mathiaz: don't think so
[16:08] <mathiaz> ok.
[16:08] <mathiaz> sommer: thanks for keeping on a eye on the Server Guide !
[16:08] <sommer> mathiaz: welcome :-)
[16:08] <mathiaz> That's all I had from last week minutes.
[16:09] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] NUMA support for 64bit -server kernel
[16:09] <MootBot> New Topic:  NUMA support for 64bit -server kernel
[16:09] <mathiaz> cooloney: ^^?
[16:09] <cooloney> yeah, mathiaz
[16:09] <cooloney> i am bryan from kernel team
[16:09] <cooloney> we got a request from mdz for such numa things
[16:09] <mathiaz> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/331308
[16:09] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 331308 in linux "NUMA support not enabled in amd64/config.server " [Medium,In progress]
[16:09] <cooloney> how do you guys think
[16:09] <cooloney> right
[16:10] <ivoks> any known sideffects?
[16:11] <cooloney> for kernel, it will change the abi
[16:11] <zul> i dont have a problem with it
[16:11] <cooloney> and enable some options for NUMA config
[16:11] <ivoks> cooloney: just for amd64 or i386 too?
[16:11] <mathiaz> According to the bug report: Even if it has some overhead on non-NUMA machines,
[16:11] <cooloney> is that ok for jaunty?
[16:12] <cooloney> ivoks, i think only for amd64
[16:12] <cooloney> not i386
[16:12] <mathiaz> Has this been measured?
[16:12] <mathiaz> cooloney: I'm not sure if we can still enable this in jaunty
[16:12] <cooloney> mathiaz, oh, no, i have no idea about the overhead
[16:13] <mathiaz> cooloney: It seems that it's a new feature in the kernel
[16:13] <cooloney> mathiaz, i understand, so we plan to discuss this things in our kernel sprint meeting this week
[16:13] <cooloney> mathiaz, right, so it should be for karmic
[16:14] <mathiaz> cooloney: ok - I don't have an issue with enable NUMA per se.
[16:14] <cooloney> ok, guys, i guess you guys are agree to enable it for karmic
[16:14] <mathiaz> cooloney: It's just that it seems a bit late in the release cycle to enable such a new thing.
[16:14] <mathiaz> cooloney: for karmic, yes.
[16:14] <cooloney> thanks, i will talk to our kernel members about this and try to enable it.
[16:14] <mathiaz> cooloney: now it's up to you discuss it for jaunty.
[16:15] <mathiaz> cooloney: IMO it's too late.
[16:15] <cooloney> mathiaz, yeah, i agreee
[16:15] <ivoks> i found a PDF with some overhead charts
[16:15] <ivoks> but it's from 2001 :/
[16:16] <cooloney> ivoks, do you have the URL of the PDF?
[16:16] <ivoks> cooloney: http://jp.fujitsu.com/group/labs/downloads/techinfo/technote/linux/optimizing-numa.pdf
[16:16] <ivoks> cooloney: but i woulnd't take it into account
[16:16] <ivoks> it's really old
[16:16] <cooloney> mathiaz, so i agree we are not going to enable NUMA for Jaunty but for karmic
[16:17] <cooloney> ivoks, thx, got it
[16:17] <mathiaz> great.
[16:17] <mathiaz> cooloney: thanks for bringing up this topic.
[16:17] <mathiaz> cooloney: anything else to add?
[16:17] <cooloney> mathiaz, one more thing
[16:18] <cooloney> how do you guys think to enable PAE for i386 flavour
[16:18] <cooloney> maybe it is not very interesting for server folks, -:))
[16:18] <zul> suse already does that but it still might be late for jaunty
[16:18] <ivoks> weren't there some ideas in mountain view about merging server and generic?
[16:19] <cooloney> we plan to introduce i386-pae flavour for karmic
[16:19] <ivoks> (iirc, most of the server related stuff can be done with sysctl)
[16:19] <mathiaz> right - IIRC PAE for i386 was discussed during last UDS with the kernel team
[16:20] <cooloney> mathiaz, ok, no problem.
[16:20] <cooloney> please go on the meeting.
[16:20] <mathiaz> great. Thanks
[16:20] <cooloney> we can discuss that in our team sprint,
[16:20] <mathiaz> let's move on
[16:20] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Ubuntu on EC2
[16:20] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu on EC2
[16:20] <mathiaz> zul: ^^
[16:21] <zul> hi
[16:21] <mathiaz> zul: how is the state of the intrepid images?
[16:21] <zul> they are going well no major problems being reported
[16:21] <zul> ec2-api-tools were renelty packaved for jaunty and are available now
[16:21] <mathiaz> is there another beta planned?
[16:21] <zul> there is
[16:22] <zul> im not sure when though, it should be announced soon
[16:22] <zul> by that time we should have some hardy images available for public use
[16:22] <zul> jaunty is still being worked on
[16:22] <mathiaz> zul: great. So the next set of images will be beta images for hardy?
[16:23] <zul> hardy and intrepid
=== Broken|Arrow__ is now known as Broken|Arrow
[16:23] <mathiaz> zul: great. And later on there will be images based on jaunty too.
[16:23] <mathiaz> zul: ?
[16:23] <zul> thats the plan there is more of a demand from our users for hardy before jaunty
[16:24] <mathiaz> zul: agreed.
[16:24] <mathiaz> zul: what will be the kernel base for hardy?
[16:24] <zul> 2.6.24
[16:24] <zul> 2.6.28 for jaunty
[16:25] <zul> i think thats it from me
[16:25] <mathiaz> zul: great.
[16:25] <mathiaz> zul: where all the new beta images will be announced?
[16:25] <mathiaz> zul: on the ec2-beta mailing list/
[16:25] <mathiaz> zul: ?
[16:25] <zul> correct
[16:26] <mathiaz> zul: great. Thanks for giving an update.
[16:26] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Bugs from beta
[16:26] <MootBot> New Topic:  Bugs from beta
[16:27] <mathiaz> so as you may have noticed we've released a beta version of Jaunty last Thursday
[16:27] <mathiaz> and we've seen an increase in the number of bugs filed
[16:27] <mathiaz> so any help in triagging them is welcomed
[16:28] <mathiaz> so that we can have a good view on what's going wrong in Jaunty
[16:28] <mathiaz> and help make a rock-solid release by the end of April.
[16:30] <jdbrowne> How can we help triage the bugs ?
[16:31] <ivoks> reproducing them would be a good step
[16:31] <mathiaz> http://ubuntuservernewbugs.notlong.com/
[16:31] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://ubuntuservernewbugs.notlong.com/
[16:32] <mathiaz> ^^ here is a link to the list of NEW bugs related to the ubuntu-server team
[16:33] <jdbrowne> if I reproduce them, I put a new comment or can I change the status to 'confirmed' ?
[16:34] <mathiaz> jdbrowne: if you can reproduce them, you can move them to the confirmed state
[16:34] <jdbrowne> ok, feel free to bump to the right doc
[16:34] <jdbrowne> to bump me
[16:34] <mathiaz> jdbrowne: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#Bug%20Triager%20resources
[16:35] <mathiaz> jdbrowne: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/GettingInvolved#Triage%20bugs%20and%20become%20a%20Triager
[16:36] <mathiaz> Any help in triagging the influx of bug for beta is welcome!
[16:36] <mathiaz> let's move on.
[16:36] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[16:36] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[16:36] <mathiaz> Anyone wants to add anything?
[16:36] <Extend> me
[16:36] <mathiaz> ivoks: what's on your mind?
[16:37] <mathiaz> Extend: sure
[16:37] <Extend> it's not about the meeting's topic
[16:37] <ivoks> mathiaz: check out bacula and rhcs
[16:37] <Extend> i want to talk control of my loco team cause they are lazy
[16:37] <ivoks> see if there are bugs and triage them
[16:37] <Extend> and i've done great things in my country
[16:38] <mathiaz> Extend: this is not the right moment to ask about that - and not the right people
[16:38] <ivoks> Extend: wrong meeting
[16:38] <Extend> i know
[16:38] <Extend> it is a wrong meeting
[16:38] <Extend> no upcoming scheduled meeting for this topic
[16:38] <ivoks> who is in favour of droping rhcs for next ubuntu releases and going with linuxHA instead?
[16:38] <Extend> but i want someone to tell me what to do
[16:39] <zul> ivoks: mememememememememe!!!
[16:39]  * zul raises his hand
[16:39]  * zul raises his hand
[16:39] <zul> heh
[16:39] <ivoks> zul: me too :)
[16:39] <nealmcb> Extend: join #ubuntu-locoteams
[16:40] <mathiaz> Extend: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoFAQ?highlight=%28CategoryLoCoTeams%29#The%20LoCo%20team%20in%20my%20area%20is%20not%20very%20good,%20can%20I%20replace%20it?
[16:40] <Extend> nealmcb, thanks a lot
[16:40] <mathiaz> Extend: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoFAQ
[16:40] <Extend> mathiaz, thanks :d i don't know what to say really
[16:40] <jdbrowne> what is wrong with rhcs?
[16:40] <mathiaz> Extend: ^^ that page should give you pointers to move forward
[16:41] <mathiaz> ivoks: what's the issue with bacula?
[16:41] <mathiaz> ivoks: it needs more testing/fixing in jaunty?
[16:41] <Extend> thanks all
[16:41] <ivoks> mathiaz: i guess not, but i have to check if there are bugs for jaunty
[16:41] <mathiaz> ivoks: same question for rhcs
[16:41] <ivoks> mathiaz: i was thinking at loud
[16:42] <ivoks> there's nothing more we could do for jaunty, except bugs triaging
[16:42] <mathiaz> ivoks: ok. So more testing and bug handling is required for bacula
[16:42] <ivoks> mathiaz: well, the usual care and testing
[16:43] <mathiaz> ivoks: ok.
[16:43] <mathiaz> ivoks: what about rhcs?
[16:44] <ivoks> mathiaz: well, i would like to see jaunty being last version that supports rhcs
[16:44] <mathiaz> ivoks: IIRC rhcs and linux-ha are not totally feature compatible
[16:44] <ivoks> mathiaz: fabionne was maintainer of rhcs in ubuntu and now we have quite old rhcs
[16:44] <ivoks> mathiaz: no one else wants to take it and not that many people use it
[16:44] <mathiaz> ivoks: is there an equivalent to gvfs in linux-ha?
[16:44] <ivoks> gfs
[16:45] <mathiaz> ivoks: fabionne gave up rhcs in ubuntu?
[16:45] <mathiaz> ivoks: IIUC he was still maintaining it
[16:45] <mathiaz> ivoks: I've seen a couple of upload to jaunty
[16:45] <Agafonov> mathiaz: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncilAgenda points here as todays LoCo meeting. Is it mistake?
[16:46] <ivoks> mathiaz: there was his post on ubuntu-devel about rhcs
[16:46] <ivoks> mathiaz: let me find it
[16:46] <mathiaz> Agafonov: sure - at 20:00 UTC
[16:47] <ivoks> mathiaz: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2009-February/027583.html
[16:47] <mathiaz> ivoks: right.
[16:48] <mathiaz> ivoks: we should probably discuss that during the next UDS
[16:48] <ivoks> of course...
[16:48] <mathiaz> ivoks: and see what we should do about it.
[16:48] <mathiaz> ivoks: I thought there was some demand for rhcs
[16:48] <ivoks> i don't know if anyone is that familliar with it as fabio
[16:49] <mathiaz> ivoks: ok - from a maintainance point of view.
[16:49] <mathiaz> ivoks: and so the proposal would be to replace it with linux-ha?
[16:49] <ivoks> mathiaz: i use it on couple of projects... does anyone else here uses it?
[16:49] <ivoks> it would be great if canonical would give some info about their customer requests for rhcs
[16:50]  * sommer has been considering it, but hasn't really gone in depth
[16:50] <mathiaz> ivoks: I don't know. I can ask the Canonical support guys about it.
[16:50] <ivoks> mathiaz: please do
[16:50] <ivoks> that's for karmic, of course...
[16:50] <mathiaz> ivoks: sure :)
[16:50] <ivoks> in jaunty, i'll make sure everything is working as it should
[16:51] <mathiaz> anything else to discuss?
[16:51] <ivoks> i didn't test it, so it might be ok already :)
[16:51] <mathiaz> ivoks: thanks for giving some love to bacula and rhcs
[16:51] <mathiaz> anything else to discuss?
[16:51] <jdbrowne> is it the right time and people to discuss glitches in the kvm/libvirt jaunty setup, or should I file the bugs first?
[16:52] <mathiaz> jdbrowne: filing bugs is the best way to proceed
[16:52] <jdbrowne> ok
[16:52] <nealmcb> jdbrowne: and then you can also see #ubuntu-virt
[16:53] <jdbrowne> nealmcb: done, i will file the bugs with all the steps to reproduce
[16:54] <mathiaz> jdbrowne: great thanks.
[16:54] <nealmcb> jdbrowne: good!
[16:54] <mathiaz> let's move on
[16:54] <jdbrowne> no pb. This is my own intrest :) will Nijaba be in solutions linux tomorrow also?
[16:54] <mathiaz> time to wrap up
[16:54] <mathiaz> jdbrowne: yes - he already is there
[16:54] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:54] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:54] <mathiaz> same place, same time, next week?
[16:55] <sommer> sure
[16:56] <ivoks> yes
[16:56] <ivoks> bye :)
[16:56] <mathiaz> great - so see you all next week, same place, same time
[16:56] <mathiaz> and don't forget to testdrive Jaunty Beta!
[16:56] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
</pre>
