{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=07&day=01&year=2013&hour=16&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Jul 1st 2013 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* mdeslaur

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Stefan Bader (smb) provided debdiffs for precise-saucy for xen. Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Actions
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: happy place
** worked a lot on the SDK last week. Need to upload the latest patchset to saucy, upstream the patchset and file a few bugs with the SDK team and coordinate with them before I handoff to sbeattie
** monthly planning - need to coordinate July work with people (ie, send the email)
** pending updates
** patch piloting
** sbeattie
** weekly role: happy place
*** !AppArmor
*** IPC email
*** review SDK work
*** catchup from holiday
** tyhicks
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor
*** IPC email - drive to completion
*** enable ARM in dbus ppa
*** online accounts and content picking
*** small ecryptfs tasks
** jjohansen
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor
*** walk sarnold through 2.8 uupdate
*** maguro phablet kernel issues
*** IPC syntax
*** July work items
** sarnold
** weekly role: community
** !AppArmor
*** 2.8 release
*** !AppArmor IPC syntax
** pending updates
** chrisccoulson
** weekly role: happy place
** last week, firefox, tbird and chromium
** investigate chromium crash
** fix upstream firefox regression related to proxy settings (LP: #1194841)
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** None

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-07-01-16.31.html
