{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
=== Apologies For Absence ===
* ttx - RMLL conference (might be able to join though)
* hggdh - Conflicting appointment (may join late)

=== Items for Discussion ===

Please take responsibility for an item if you are adding it, thus we can turn to you when the item crops up. :)

Chair/Scribe will be: jib

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** jjohansen to send email regarding atop patchset
** mathiaz to provide work items for Alpha3 on his specs by Thursday 
** SpamapS to ask kees whether it's good to seed 
** jjohansen to appropriately prioritze bug 576066
** sommer to ping mdke re: refresh issue, through email this time 
** everyone to assign themselves to 2 papercuts from https://launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+milestone/maverick-alpha-3
* Maverick development (jib)
** Alpha3 <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-server-maverick-alpha-3.html|subcycle status]]</nowiki>
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
** Bug Bug:597387: Maverick EC2 kernel issue
** Bug Bug:576066: ums-cypress.ko missing from server installer
** atop kernel patch
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
* Weekly SRU review: new process (zul)
** New <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/sru-tracker-bugs.html|SRU Tracker]]</nowiki>
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time
** Tuesday 2010-07-13 at 1800 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====

** jjohansen to send email regarding atop patchset - DONE
** mathiaz to provide work items for Alpha3 on his specs by Thursday - DONE
** SpamapS to ask kees whether it's good to seed - DONE
**** Kees says ok to seed libmemcached and memcached into main
** jjohansen to appropriately prioritze bug 576066 - CARRY OVER
**** The kernel team is looking for feedback and needs hardware to test on
** sommer to ping mdke re: refresh issue, through email this time - CARRY OVER
**** Pinged, but no reply. Consider next steps for the following meeting
** everyone to assign themselves to 2 papercuts from https://launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+milestone/maverick-alpha-3 - DONE
**** Last item was assigned during the meeting.

===== Maverick development (jib) =====
Alpha3 development is tracked at http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-server-maverick-alpha-3.html. 

All specs should be appropriately targeted & work items defined by Wednesday EOB.
If there are any questions, please ping jib and he'll help resolve them.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen) =====

Regarding Bug:597387: Maverick EC2 kernel issue, jjohansen created a new
Xen kernel and will be testing it during the week. Once that is stabilized,
jjohansen will work on a pv-ops kernel.

The kernel team is still looking for <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2010-June/004393.html|active feedback]]</nowiki> on the merit of 
including the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/kernel-team/2010-June/011307.html|atop kernel patches]]</nowiki>.
Please chime in if you have feedback to offer!

===== Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review (zul) =====

Chuck <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2010-June/004369.html|announced]]</nowiki> the new SRU 
process on the mailing list last week, which should make it easier to nominate new SRUs and track them:

  1. Bug is fixed in development release.
  2. A weekly email is sent to the Ubuntu Server mailing list on the Monday. 
  3. Users will have until Friday to nominate bugs that have been fixed in the development list, by giving a +1 to the bug number and the reason for it.
  4. The nominations will be reviewed and be nominated accordingly based on investigation

This weeks nominations were sent out on <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2010-July/004404.html|Monday]]</nowiki> - Please nominate those you'd like to see approved by Friday!

You can track the overall process of nominated & approved SRUs in the new <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/sru-tracker-bugs.html|SRU Tracker]]</nowiki>, which is updated nightly.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer) =====

Sommer reminds us that if you find a bug in the documentation, you should file it against <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-docs|ubuntu-docs]]</nowiki>

===== Open Discussion =====

SpamapS would like to add a topic for next weeks meeting on improving Rubygems in Ubuntu.
Mathias points him at Bug:403407 for the background on the current state.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday 2010-07-13 at 1800 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting

=== Log ===
<pre>
[19:04] <SpamapS> #startmeeting
[19:04] <MootBot> Meeting started at 13:04. The chair is SpamapS.
[19:04] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[19:04] <jiboumans> thanks all for joining
[19:04] <jiboumans> i'm today's chair and scribe
[19:05]  * SpamapS is the chair proxy
[19:05] <jiboumans> I'll have to possibly leave a bit early, at which point SpamapS will continue (thanks for that)
[19:05] <SpamapS> jiboumans: agenda url so I can keep up w/ your topics?
[19:05] <jiboumans> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
=== rsalveti-afk is now known as rsalveti
[19:05] <SpamapS> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[19:05] <jiboumans> jjohansen to send email regarding atop patchset
[19:05] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[19:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[19:05] <jiboumans> that was done
[19:05] <Daviey> \o
[19:06] <jiboumans> mathiaz to provide work items for Alpha3 on his specs by Thursday
[19:06] <jiboumans> while mathiaz answers
[19:06] <jiboumans> SpamapS to ask kees whether it's good to seed
[19:06] <SpamapS> Kees says ok to seed libmemcached and memcached into main
[19:06] <mathiaz> that was done
[19:06] <SpamapS> :)
[19:07] <jiboumans> spamaps++
[19:07] <jiboumans> nice, good to have it
[19:07] <jiboumans> jjohansen to appropriately prioritze bug 576066
[19:07] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 576066 in linux (Ubuntu) "ums_cypress missing from lucid server cd" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/576066
[19:07] <jjohansen> the kernel team needs some clarification on the bug
[19:07] <jiboumans> jjohansen: anything we can do in the meeting here?
[19:07] <jjohansen> maybe
[19:08] <jjohansen> we were looking for what releases and cd's needed the update
[19:08] <jiboumans> ok, let's talk about it right after the other action point
[19:08] <jjohansen> Lucid server install, alternate, maverick
[19:08] <jjohansen> from a quick look this seems to be present in maverick
[19:08] <jjohansen> but I don't have the hardware to test
[19:08] <jjohansen> so we were going to request that as well
[19:08]  * zkriesse walk into the maverick meeting?
[19:09] <jiboumans> zkriesse: ubuntu server team meeting
[19:09] <jiboumans> jjohansen: does our QA team have it per chance?
[19:09] <MichealH> ogra_cmpc: Its in 2 hours acctually
[19:09] <zkriesse> oh cool
[19:09] <jiboumans> hggdh: ^
[19:09] <MichealH> jiboumans: Its not on the calendar?!?
[19:09] <jjohansen> jiboumans, hggdh: I haven't checked yet
[19:10] <jiboumans> jjohansen: let's move this over to next week then
[19:10] <jiboumans> gives you some time to consult and check with hggdh if they have the hardware
[19:10] <jjohansen> okay, thanks
[19:10] <jiboumans> sommer to ping mdke re: refresh issue, through email this time
[19:11] <SpamapS> [ACTION] hrough email this time
[19:11] <MootBot> ACTION received:  hrough email this time
[19:11] <SpamapS> 11:14 ... join!#ubuntu-meeting -> ikoni
[19:11] <SpamapS> doh
[19:11] <sommer> haven't heard back on that... will ping again
[19:11] <jiboumans> ok, carry over
[19:11] <SpamapS> [ACTION] sommer to ping mdke re: refresh issue, through email this time
[19:11] <MootBot> ACTION received:  sommer to ping mdke re: refresh issue, through email this time
[19:11] <jiboumans> sommer: if we can help somehow, please ask
[19:11] <jiboumans> everyone to assign themselves to 2 papercuts from https://launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+milestone/maverick-alpha-3
[19:11] <zkriesse> If you guys are trying to get ahold of mdke it'll take some time
[19:11] <jiboumans> only https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/125609 left
[19:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 125609 in irqbalance (Ubuntu) "X is required to build irqbalance" [Low,Triaged]
[19:12] <jiboumans> zkriesse: why's that?
[19:12] <zul> ill take it
[19:12] <jiboumans> zul++ thanks
[19:12] <zkriesse> jiboumans: Last few times i've tried contacting him through email/irc he's not responded
[19:13] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Maverick development
[19:13] <MootBot> New Topic:  Maverick development
[19:14] <jiboumans> I've sent out a request to update blueprints
[19:14] <jiboumans> not everyone has done so yet unfortunately
[19:14] <mathiaz> I've worked on creating a status template
[19:14] <kirkland> jiboumans: do you have specific BP's in mind?
[19:14] <jiboumans> [ACTION] kirkland, daviey, hallyn, zul, ttx, spamaps to update their blueprints by Wednesday EOB
[19:14] <hallyn> jiboumans: maybe there's more to 'updating' them than i thought?  is there a url telling us what needs to be doen?
[19:14] <jiboumans> kirkland: i sent a mail on that last week adn again today
[19:15] <kirkland> jiboumans: i touched all of my BP's ... which BP need love, and what love do they need?
[19:15] <jiboumans> hallyn: 	[SERVER] [ACTION REQUIRED] Alpha3 blueprint updates
[19:15] <mathiaz> http://paste.ubuntu.com/459941/
[19:15] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://paste.ubuntu.com/459941/
[19:15] <SpamapS> jiboumans: is it just status that needs to be updated at this time? I think a lot of the 1st work items will spawn the rest of the work items that get burned down through the cycle.
[19:15] <Daviey> jiboumans, I had some uncertainly about who owns the blueprint.. is it the drafter?
[19:15] <Daviey> or the assignee?
[19:15] <jiboumans> All: this is outlined in the email I sent. If it's unclear, please respond with questions.
[19:16] <jiboumans> Please see the above email and I'm happy to pick this up with you 1:1 if there's any unclarity after the meeting today
[19:16] <hallyn> mathiaz: thx
[19:16] <Daviey> jiboumans, In either case, i looked at my blueprints and they seemed current.
[19:16] <jiboumans> Daviey: there's also an action to send out an email
[19:16] <jiboumans> moving on
[19:17] <jiboumans> we'll take a look at the actual progress on alpha3 next week when all specs are completely specified
[19:17] <jiboumans> as hggdh is running a bit late today, we'll move on to the kernel team next:
[19:17] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:18] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:18] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:18] <jiboumans> jjohansen: first, Bug 597387: Maverick EC2 kernel issue
[19:18] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 597387 in Ubuntu Maverick "pv-ops kernel only works in 3 or 4 zones in EC2" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/597387
[19:18] <mathiaz> jjohansen: you guyz rock - my TP x201 is working now!
[19:18] <jjohansen> I have update the Xen kernel patch and will be doing some testing today, so we should have a new kernel soon
[19:19] <jjohansen> the pv-ops kernel is further behind
[19:19] <zul> yay...keep it away
[19:19] <jjohansen> I plan to start testing that option again once we have the Xen kernel up
[19:19] <SpamapS> [ACTION] kirkland, daviey, hallyn, zul, ttx, spamaps to update their blueprints by Wednesday EOB
[19:19] <MootBot> ACTION received:  kirkland, daviey, hallyn, zul, ttx, spamaps to update their blueprints by Wednesday EOB
[19:20] <jjohansen> any other Qs?
[19:20] <zul> nope
[19:20] <mathiaz> jjohansen: great work on bug 554569
[19:20] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 554569 in linux (Ubuntu) "[lucid] Blank screen with KMS on Thinkpad X201 with Arrandale (i915)" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/554569
[19:20] <mathiaz> jjohansen: (but it's not server related :) )
[19:21] <mathiaz> jjohansen: would this rolled out to lucid as an SRU?
[19:21] <jjohansen> ubottu: have you tried the latest kernels, there have been some updates to maverick that fix that for many people
[19:21] <ubottu> Error: I am only a bot, please don't think I'm intelligent :)
[19:21] <jjohansen> hey :)
[19:21] <jiboumans> ubottu++ ;)
[19:22] <mathiaz> jjohansen: ok - I'm still running lucid
[19:22] <mathiaz> jjohansen: anyway - that's outside of this meeting
[19:22] <mathiaz> I've got nothing else for the kernel team
[19:22] <jiboumans> jjohansen: Bug 576066: ums-cypress.ko missing from server installer
[19:22] <jjohansen> mathiaz: okay, yeah lucid is problematic as its a rather large patchset
[19:22] <SpamapS> so were we revisiting the cypress bug in this section?
[19:22] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 576066 in linux (Ubuntu) "ums_cypress missing from lucid server cd" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/576066
[19:22] <netshine> the meeting is more two hours, right?
[19:22] <jjohansen> jiboumans: right, discussed earlier
[19:23] <MichealH> netshine: in 1:30 hours: EMEA meeting
[19:23] <hallyn> jjohansen: and the apparmor permission denied bug?
[19:23] <netshine> exactly, thanks
[19:23] <jiboumans> jjohansen: oh, i must have missed that in scrollback
[19:23] <netshine> MichealH: :)
[19:23] <jjohansen> its just a matter of clearing up some questions, a Lucid update is a few weeks a way
[19:23] <MichealH> netshine: Or visit http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar
[19:23] <jjohansen> hallyn: which permission denied bug?
[19:23] <hallyn> bug 599450
[19:23] <jiboumans> jjohansen: last one then ;) atop kernel patch
[19:23] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 599450 in linux (Ubuntu Maverick) "[apparmor] getattr handled incorrectly in 2.6.35-6.7" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/599450
[19:23] <jiboumans> I saw your email going out; did you get any useful feedback?
[19:24] <SpamapS> [ACTION] (carryover) jjohansen to appropriately prioritze bug 576066
[19:24] <MootBot> ACTION received:  (carryover) jjohansen to appropriately prioritze bug 576066
[19:24] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 576066 in linux (Ubuntu) "ums_cypress missing from lucid server cd" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/576066
[19:24] <hallyn> jjohansen: just wondering if you know the cause already (or if it's worth my digging into)
[19:25] <jjohansen> jiboumans: atop, just needs discussion.  As it currently stands the kernel team is relucant to carry it, and is looking for use cases/ why atop is so much better than other solutions
[19:25] <jiboumans> jjohansen: understood. I'd hate for a patch to be unmaintained upstream of course
[19:25] <jjohansen> hallyn: yep, I know the cause, and need to discuss it on apparmor dev
[19:26] <hallyn> ok thanks
[19:26] <jjohansen> jiboumans: I received a reply from the author on the weekend and he might try pushing it upstream again in the fall
[19:26] <jjohansen> he is busy this summer it seems
[19:26] <jjohansen> I am composing a reply
[19:26] <jiboumans> jjohansen: thanks for chasing it either way
[19:26] <jiboumans> let's revisit again next week
[19:27] <jiboumans> jjohansen++ thanks
[19:27] <jjohansen> yes
[19:27] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[19:27] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:27] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:27] <sommer> nadda new from me
[19:27] <SpamapS> oops
[19:27] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[19:27] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[19:28] <jiboumans> that's an easy topic then :)
[19:28] <SpamapS> sommer: I had a user confused by the CUPS section of the server guide this morning in #ubuntu-server
[19:28] <jiboumans> any questions for mr sommer?
[19:28] <SpamapS> sommer: should I send him to a particular page to report that as a "bug" ?
[19:28] <ttx> o/
[19:28] <sommer> SpamapS: if he files it against ubuntu-docs that should be fine
[19:29]  * ttx just arrived
[19:29] <MichealH> ttx: o/
[19:29] <SpamapS> sommer: ubuntu-docs, got it. Thx.
[19:29] <sommer> welcome :-)
[19:29]  * SpamapS feels a disturbance in the force suddenly
[19:30] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Weekly SRU review: new process (zul)
[19:30] <zul> so I sent out the email on monday I havent gotten any nominations so far this week
[19:30] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Weekly SRU review: new process (zul)
[19:30] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly SRU review: new process (zul)
[19:30] <jiboumans> zul: as in yesterday?
[19:30] <zul> people have until friday to nominate but looking at the bugs there wasnt any good ones to nominate
[19:31] <zul> jiboumans: yes as in yesterday
[19:31] <zul> and ill be doing some SRU gardening on friday as well to go through really old SRU requests to see if they are still relevant
[19:31] <mathiaz> zul: is there a link where the SRU tracker page is updated on a regular basis?
[19:32] <jiboumans> zul: so a reminder in the notes is probably the best we can do right now?
[19:32] <jiboumans> mathiaz: http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/sru-tracker-bugs.html i believe
[19:32] <zul> mathiaz: http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/sru-tracker-bugs.html
[19:32] <zul> jiboumans: probably
[19:32] <jiboumans> zul: ok, i'll make a point to highlight it in the notes
[19:32] <jiboumans> hggdh: are you around?
[19:33] <jiboumans> idle time suggests not
[19:33] <mathiaz> zul: how often is the page refreshed?
[19:33] <zul> mathiaz: every night
[19:33] <jiboumans> we'll make sure to document any questions though so hggdh can address them later
[19:33] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:33] <jiboumans> any questsion for hggdh ?
[19:33] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:33] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:34] <jiboumans> going once...
[19:34] <jiboumans> going twice..
[19:34] <jiboumans> alright then, moving on:
[19:34] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[19:34] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[19:34] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[19:35] <mathiaz> how is everyone doing?
[19:35] <SpamapS> stupdendous over here
[19:35] <Daviey> Tired here :)
[19:35] <jiboumans> Regarding the alpha3 blueprints; please take a look at the mail. I'll schedule an open call tomorrow morning PST for any questions. Email also works if there's anything unclear. Thanks :)
[19:36] <Daviey> jiboumans, to list or direct?
[19:36] <jiboumans> fog's lifted, seeing the sun again :)
[19:36] <jiboumans> Daviey: feel free to ask direct
[19:36] <Daviey> ok, thanks
[19:36] <zul> jiboumans: i wont be there btw
[19:36] <SpamapS> I'm a little unclear on the seed to main process
[19:36] <SpamapS> Is that just something that I need to have sponsored?
[19:36] <jiboumans> zul: no problem, it's only if you ahve questions. feel free to send those over email, irc or any other way
[19:37] <mathiaz> SpamapS: thanks - I've just learned a new word today!
[19:37] <mathiaz> SpamapS: stupdendous
[19:37] <mathiaz> SpamapS: yes
[19:37] <mathiaz> SpamapS: seeds are bzr branches
[19:37] <mathiaz> SpamapS: so you can branch them and then submit a merge proposal through LP
[19:37] <SpamapS> Ah ok so branch, merge request, etc?
[19:38] <SpamapS> mathiaz: well then I may have something for you on Thursday. :)
[19:38] <SpamapS> jiboumans: are we ready to talk about rubygems yet?
[19:38] <mathiaz> SpamapS: great
[19:38] <jiboumans> SpamapS: i think some preparation is required there
[19:38] <zul> SpamapS: gah?
[19:38] <Daviey> Is this something that would be better on ubuntu-server ML?
[19:38] <SpamapS> jiboumans: agreed... I'd like it to be an action point on somebody's radar .. so many angry users.. ;)
[19:39] <SpamapS> Daviey: probably.
[19:39] <jiboumans> [ACTION] SpamapS to prepare suggestion around improving rubygems
[19:39] <jiboumans> spamaps: well volunteered
[19:39] <mathiaz> zul: where is the SRU tracker code?
[19:39] <SpamapS> [ACTION] SpamapS to prepare suggestion around improving rubygems
[19:39] <MootBot> ACTION received:  SpamapS to prepare suggestion around improving rubygems
[19:39] <zul> launchpad.net/server-sru-tracker
[19:39] <mathiaz> zul: great - thanks
[19:39]  * SpamapS has always thought his neck sticks out a bit too much. ;)
[19:40] <jiboumans> any other topics?
[19:40] <hallyn> zul: iiuc i need to nominate bug 588293 for sru
[19:40] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 588293 in qemu-kvm (Ubuntu Lucid) "iovec array memory leak" [Medium,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/588293
[19:40] <mathiaz> SpamapS: debian bug 403407
[19:40] <ubottu> Debian bug 403407 in libgems-ruby "rubygems: gems are installed in /var/lib/gems/X.Y/bin, which is not in $PATH" [Wishlist,Open] http://bugs.debian.org/403407
[19:40] <mathiaz> SpamapS: ^^ this is your starting point :)
[19:41] <SpamapS> mathiaz: cool thanks.
[19:41] <zul> hallyn: please send an email to ubuntu server ml
[19:41] <hallyn> zul: kthx
[19:41] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[19:41] <jiboumans> Tuesday 2010-07-13 at 1800 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting
[19:41]  * ttx puts his head in the sand to avoid seeing rubygems
[19:41] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[19:41] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[19:41] <SpamapS> Tuesday 2010-07-13 at 1800 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting
[19:41] <jiboumans> and that's all she wrote
[19:41] <jiboumans> thanks all for attending!
[19:41] <SpamapS> #endmeeting
[19:41] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 13:41.
</pre>
