{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== #Ubuntu-Meeting ==
'''Ubuntu-Meeting Log 2004-11-18'''
<pre>

Topic: Community Council Meeting - Tuesday 07 December 2004 at 16:00 UTC:
Agenda: https://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/CommunityCouncilAgenda

05:00	jlinares	bona tarda
05:01	teo	hi
05:03	mako	#ubunut-meeting
05:03	mako	BUST AN UNBUNUT
05:03	jordi	Avall els pantalons! (we need to boost catalan usage in this conference...)
05:03	fabbione	ehhehe
05:03	jdub	jordi: that is very different to the spanish
05:04	jordi	well, it's adifferent language after all :)
05:04	jdub	sounds french ;)
05:04	seb128	yeah
05:04	jordi	jdub: doh, I thought you said "abajo los pantalones"
05:04	jordi	They tell me you said "Estoy buscando mis pantalones"
05:04	jordi	Sooo, let's make that "Estic cercant els meus pantalons!"
05:05	jdub	jordi: oh, avall is "take off"? :)
05:05	mako	jdub: avail yourself of your pants
05:05	jordi	"abajo" :)
05:05	jdub	heh
05:05	jdub	mako: NEVER!
05:05	jdub	you will have to fight me!
05:06	quique	we will...
05:06	mako	believe me, i will
05:06	lamont__r	agenda item #1 is jdub's pants?
05:06	mako	if ubuntu has taught me anything, it's that TOGETHER, ANYTHING IS POSSIBLE
05:06	jordi	I need to announce that jdub has been able to deliver a package maaaaany Debian people were waiting for.
05:06	quique	and #2 is his underware
05:06	jordi	It took like... 4 minutes to prepare.
05:06	sivang	jdub : can you see this?
05:06	mako	ok, so this meeting
05:07	mako	i will "Run" this if nobody else wants to
05:07	smurfix_	quique: under_wear_.
05:07	quique	i know...
05:07	jordi	remember, you said you would not be able to run for 2 minutes.
05:07	mako	elmo, Kamion: around?
05:07	elmo	yes
05:08	Kamion	yes
05:08	mako	ok, so the agenda is, AFAIK, empty
05:08	smurfix_	It says "Any new maintainers?".
05:09	mako	are there are new maintainers for the council to consider this week?
05:09	mako	anyone here that wanted to be on that agenda but isn't?
05:09	mako	or, any other business folks want to have mentioned?
05:10	mako	otherwise, i think we should just do a bit of a summary from the conference and end it.. short and sweet :)
05:11	haggai	yesterday there was some discussion about seeds, and the fact there isn't really a defined process for accepting/rejecting seeds
mako    is happy to add that to the list
05:11	mako	or is this a TB issue?
05:11	mako	Kamion?
05:12	haggai	did anyone come up with ideas from the discussion yesterday about how this should be done?
05:12	jdub	haggai: i'm writing a process document about it
05:12	jdub	probably something to propose to the TB next week
05:13	haggai	ok
05:13	Kamion	mako: kind of crossover; I don't think it needs to be approved by the TB necessarily
05:13	haggai	yeah, I think there is a community element to it
05:13	Kamion	I guess process for accepting/rejecting proposals needs approval
05:14	mako	haggai: do you want to give an executive summary of the problem at least and maybe people can communicate/discussion with jdub etc for something to bring to the TB next week?
05:14	elmo	btw, we just  lost bof room upstairs
05:14	mako	or anyone else that is willing to do it?
05:14	jdub	elmo: hrm?
05:14	lamont__r	well, parts of the bof room...
05:14	lamont__r	network connectivity crap
05:14	jdub	mako: (task to write it was assigned yesterday)
05:15	haggai	ok sounds like I missed a vital part :)
05:15	mako	jdub: is it worth doing a summary of the problem
05:15	jdub	haggai: i think you're right that it is both CC and TB relevant
05:15	haggai	summary is basically, there isn't one.  A procedure, that is.
05:15	jdub	mako: yeah
05:16	jdub	currently we are in perpetual seed freeze
05:16	jdub	with matt and i confirming changes as required
05:16	jdub	at the moment, we are confirming things that are required to continue development
05:16	jdub	such as new dependencies, etc.
05:17	jdub	but we also have the open proposals (see SeedManagement on the wiki)
05:17	jdub	there is no documented process or responsibility for ensuring those proposals are dealt with
05:18	mako	so it's a process issue for getting packages added to hoary basically?
05:18	jdub	added to base/desktop/supported
05:18	jdub	we'll have to have a bigger discussion about universe and multiverse
mako    agrees with Kamion that this is a CC issue as well as a TB one
05:19	mdz	mako, basically
05:19	mdz	we know what the requirements are for the process
05:19	mdz	but it has not been written yet
05:20	elmo	mdz lives
05:20	mdz	barely
05:21	mako	for those that are not in mataro, mdz is sick
05:21	Kamion	and then there's the illness
05:21	mako	and sabdfl is away for a couple days
05:21	mako	Kamion: :)
05:21	Kamion	should be back tomorrow morning or so
05:21	jdub	(ripe for coup_
05:21	mako	jdub: alright, so we should definitely move quickly..
05:21	mako	i mean, with the seed prososal document
05:21	mako	right
05:22	jordi	mdz: ugh, I didn't know :/
05:22	fabbione	(that's because mdz didn't have enough burbon yesterday night btw)
05:24	mako	ok
05:24	mako	so i am happy to do an update for folks not at the conference
05:24	mako	and then we can call it quits unless other people have things
05:25	mako	about 50 of us have arrived in mataro already i believe
05:25	mako	and we've had two days of the conference almost over
05:26	mako	almost all of the canonical employess are here already
05:26	mako	and the rest are guests from spain a and from outside who have come
05:26	mako	we've had a handful of bofs on a number of topics.. yesterday saw the hoary feature goals LOVEFEST
05:27	mako	and a bof on seedmanagement and an effort by myself and some others on input methods
05:28	mako	we are also talking a bit about anothre canoncial project called launchpad
05:28	mdz	the process needs to ensure that proposed packages meet the criteria, which are fairly well-specified
05:28	mdz	and that there is an opportunity for discussion
05:29	mako	which includes a number of tools that, in the near future, ubuntu will be using to make making ubuntu easier.. and doing a whole lot of other things that involve working on free software and open source in general easier as well
05:30	mako	we'll be having an open day with lots of other people from barcelona and beyond this satruday
05:30	mako	and other than taht we will focus on a handful of bofs and sessions a day and a lot of hacking :)
05:31	mako	that's my summary :)
05:31	mako	so is there anything else?
05:31	mako	Kamion, elmo?
05:32	elmo	not from me
05:32	mako	alright then..
05:32	mako	next tuesday for the TB meeting and two weeks from today for the next CC meeting
05:32	Kamion	nothing from me
05:33	Kamion	thanks for the summary
05:33	mako	maybe an agenda next week :)
05:33	mako	or in two weeks
05:33	Kamion	let's hope so :)
05:33	Kamion	the CC has been quiet agenda-wise recently
05:33	Kamion	which I'm not entirely sure is a good thing, but we can talk about that later :)
05:33	jordi	mako is mine now. We have... issues to solve.
05:33	mako	Kamion: i share you concern
mako    adjurns the meeting
05:35	mako	thanks everyone for coming!
05:35	mako	laptop bof will be starting for those in mataro

</pre>
