{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** [ACTION] sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation (continued x 3)
* Oneiric Development
** On target
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
** SpamapS (Clint Byrum) will be speaking at OSCON July 28
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
** [ACTION] smb and utlemming to look at Bug #791850
** [ACTION] Daviey and adam_g to address Bug #799630
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)
** Unattended installation w/ preseeds working on pandaboard
** Heavy QA for common package sets
* Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time
** Tuesday 2011-08-02 at 1600 UTC here on #ubuntu-meeting

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, August 02,2011 at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
Jul 26 10:03:25 <utlemming>	#startmeeting
Jul 26 10:03:26 <MootBot>	Meeting started at 11:03. The chair is utlemming.
Jul 26 10:03:26 <MootBot>	Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
Jul 26 10:04:03 <RoAkSoAx>	o/
Jul 26 10:04:06 <utlemming>	[TOPIC] follow up from last meeting
Jul 26 10:04:07 <MootBot>	New Topic:  follow up from last meeting
Jul 26 10:04:23 <utlemming>	sommer, j1mc: to look at doc presentation (continued x 2)
Jul 26 10:04:34 <utlemming>	What is the status on the doc presentation?
Jul 26 10:05:40 <utlemming>	And it looks like neither are in...so
Jul 26 10:05:56 <utlemming>	[ACTION] sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation (continued x 3)
Jul 26 10:05:56 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation (continued x 3)
Jul 26 10:06:09 <utlemming>	[TOPIC] Oneiric Development
Jul 26 10:06:10 <MootBot>	New Topic:  Oneiric Development
Jul 26 10:06:47 <utlemming>	Anyone have any topics here?
Jul 26 10:07:10 <Daviey>	o/
Jul 26 10:07:17 <Daviey>	Full cycle tracking: - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-oneiric/group/topic-oneiric-server-overview.html
Jul 26 10:07:20 <Daviey>	We seem to be pretty much on target, with:
Jul 26 10:07:23 <Daviey>	Bugs currently being tracked for Oneiric Release: - http://people.ubuntu.com/~davewalker/release-bugs.html
Jul 26 10:07:26 <Daviey>	If there is a bug you are aware of, or currently working on that isn't on that list - please can you raise it here, or with me afterwards.  Thanks.
Jul 26 10:07:29 <Daviey>	Sync's/Merges: - http://people.ubuntu.com/~davewalker/server-sid-new.html (We are doing ok!  But please be conservative!)
Jul 26 10:08:12 <Daviey>	(boot experience Clint is currently working hard on)
Jul 26 10:08:19 <Daviey>	LXC is expected to catch up at the LXC sprint.
Jul 26 10:08:24 <Daviey>	Anything else to note?
Jul 26 10:08:43 <hallyn>	conservative?
Jul 26 10:08:57 <hallyn>	meaning don't do any more synca than we feel we really need to?
Jul 26 10:09:01 *	hallyn confused
Jul 26 10:10:18 <utlemming>	Daviey: can you clarify for hallyn?
Jul 26 10:11:14 <Daviey>	hallyn: We just need to start stabilising
Jul 26 10:11:25 <Daviey>	We can still break stuff, but there is added presure to resolve.
Jul 26 10:11:30 <hallyn>	Daviey: oh, i was loking at it a bit differently...
Jul 26 10:11:39 <hallyn>	figuring we should sync to the last possible minute in this cycle,
Jul 26 10:11:49 <hallyn>	and be extra-conservative in 12.04
Jul 26 10:11:54 <zul>	agreed
Jul 26 10:12:12 <hallyn>	was particularly hoping not to sync libvirt at all during 12.04 cycle if possible
Jul 26 10:12:12 <Daviey>	hallyn: Well we /can/ do that.. but be more aware of issues it might cause.
Jul 26 10:12:20 *	hallyn nods
Jul 26 10:12:33 <Daviey>	(hallyn, note that next cycle may be syncing from debian testing, rather than unstable)
Jul 26 10:12:48 <hallyn>	ah
Jul 26 10:13:18 <Daviey>	hallyn: I wonder if we can reduce our delta regarding libvirt?
Jul 26 10:13:35 <hallyn>	Daviey: that's not the issue.  (well, it's a bear, but not the issue ;)
Jul 26 10:13:45 <Daviey>	That seems to be moving quite fast in Debian, and regular sync would be easier if a smaller delta.
Jul 26 10:14:16 <hallyn>	it's moving fast upstream.
Jul 26 10:14:28 <hallyn>	too fast, imo, to safely track during lts cycle.
Jul 26 10:16:44 <Daviey>	hallyn: agreed, we'll discuss that at UDS
Jul 26 10:16:49 <hallyn>	cool
Jul 26 10:17:05 <jdstrand>	fwiw, it does move very fast
Jul 26 10:17:11 <jdstrand>	(imo)
Jul 26 10:17:31 <Daviey>	jdstrand: We'll nab you for a session regarding core component versioning session at UDS btw :)
Jul 26 10:17:39 <Daviey>	utlemming: I think we can move on.
Jul 26 10:17:48 <utlemming>	[TOPIC] Ubuntu Server Team Events
Jul 26 10:17:49 <MootBot>	New Topic:  Ubuntu Server Team Events
Jul 26 10:17:49 <jdstrand>	Daviey: cool
Jul 26 10:17:59 *	jdstrand quiets down
Jul 26 10:18:18 <utlemming>	Do we have any events this week? 
Jul 26 10:19:11 <utlemming>	SpamapS (Clint Byrum) will be speaking at OSCON July 28 
Jul 26 10:19:41 <utlemming>	[TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
Jul 26 10:19:41 <MootBot>	New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
Jul 26 10:20:06 <hggdh>	any questions for me?
Jul 26 10:20:21 <hggdh>	otherwise...
Jul 26 10:20:23 <hggdh>	..
Jul 26 10:21:24 <utlemming>	hggdh: we'll take silence as no questions
Jul 26 10:21:28 <Daviey>	hggdh: None at the moment!
Jul 26 10:21:28 <utlemming>	[TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) 
Jul 26 10:21:29 <MootBot>	New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
Jul 26 10:21:33 <smb>	Hi
Jul 26 10:21:45 <smb>	Not think there so much updates this week
Jul 26 10:21:57 <Daviey>	one mo
Jul 26 10:22:03 <smb>	Found some missing deps for the xen build which zul is taking care of
Jul 26 10:22:22 <smb>	Daviey, yes?
Jul 26 10:22:25 <Daviey>	smb / utlemming: Any news on bug #791850 ?
Jul 26 10:22:28 <ubottu>	Launchpad bug 791850 in linux (Ubuntu) "oneiric cluster compute instances do not boot" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/791850
Jul 26 10:22:41 <utlemming>	Daviey: beat me to the punch there...
Jul 26 10:23:14 <smb>	Daviey, Not so much from my side, I was using the comment of Amazon looking to provide data as a SEP field
Jul 26 10:23:42 <utlemming>	There has been some AWS forum activity going with Oneiric -- so we might need to spend some time there. Amazon reports that the instance dies almost immediately. 
Jul 26 10:23:56 <Daviey>	utlemming: I assigned it to you, purely as the point of contact - as you were talking to Amazon about it.
Jul 26 10:24:18 <adam_g>	i've got a question regarding Bug #799630 and similar, where DKMS packages are updated against backported kernels and fail. is this kinda stuff supported, especially on LTS?
Jul 26 10:24:20 <ubottu>	Launchpad bug 799630 in drbd8 (Ubuntu) "package drbd8-source 2:8.3.7-1ubuntu2.1 failed to install/upgrade: drbd8 kernel module failed to build" [Low,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/799630
Jul 26 10:24:27 <utlemming>	Yes, I've talked with Amazon a couple of times, but haven't made any in roads there yet. 
Jul 26 10:24:47 <Daviey>	utlemming: ok.. what can we do to progress this?
Jul 26 10:25:38 <Daviey>	adam_g: dkms should not build a kernel module if it notices the kernel has a >= to what is in the dkms payload.
Jul 26 10:25:48 <utlemming>	I'll work with smb on this -- we'll likely need to get a dump on this or repro this in house
Jul 26 10:26:00 <Daviey>	utlemming: sounds good!
Jul 26 10:26:08 <utlemming>	[ACTION] smb and utlemming to work on Bug #791850
Jul 26 10:26:09 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  smb and utlemming to work on Bug #791850
Jul 26 10:26:10 <ubottu>	Launchpad bug 791850 in linux (Ubuntu) "oneiric cluster compute instances do not boot" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/791850
Jul 26 10:26:11 <smb>	adam_g, I guess at least for LTS and when providing backported kernels I think it should be taken care of
Jul 26 10:27:02 <adam_g>	Daviey: so that mentioned bug looks more like a packaging issue than anything else?
Jul 26 10:27:29 <RoAkSoAx>	adam_g: yes it does, though you'd also have to start updating user-space tools to match the kernel module
Jul 26 10:27:30 <Daviey>	adam_g: can't comment really, first time i've looked at it
Jul 26 10:27:34 <Daviey>	We'll take it out of meeting.
Jul 26 10:28:00 <utlemming>	[ACTION] Daviey and adam_g to address Bug #791850
Jul 26 10:28:00 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  Daviey and adam_g to address Bug #791850
Jul 26 10:28:01 <ubottu>	Launchpad bug 791850 in linux (Ubuntu) "oneiric cluster compute instances do not boot" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/791850
Jul 26 10:28:15 <utlemming>	Any other topics for smb?
Jul 26 10:28:20 <smb>	Ok. Otherwise I also don't have more.
Jul 26 10:28:22 <adam_g>	drbd is one example, but there are other modules that we maintaind out-of-tree and later merged mainline, but in doing so caused out of tree modules to fail to build against later kernels
Jul 26 10:28:27 <Daviey>	smb: thanks!
Jul 26 10:28:48 <Daviey>	adam_g: Yeah, that sounds like a dkms bug, as it should not build.
Jul 26 10:29:16 <Daviey>	Thankfully, the dkms upstream is a ubuntu developer - we'll jump on him if we get blocked. :)
Jul 26 10:29:28 <adam_g>	Daviey: ok great, ill be happy to look at it with you later
Jul 26 10:29:30 <smb>	Daviey, just note that in some cases you only have the dkms module
Jul 26 10:30:01 <Daviey>	yah
Jul 26 10:30:40 <utlemming>	[TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)
Jul 26 10:30:41 <MootBot>	New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)
Jul 26 10:31:11 <utlemming>	NCommander: you're up
Jul 26 10:33:06 <utlemming>	Okay, moving on
Jul 26 10:33:11 <utlemming>	[TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
Jul 26 10:33:11 <MootBot>	New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
Jul 26 10:34:03 <utlemming>	Any questions or comments to or from our community? 
Jul 26 10:34:45 <utlemming>	Moving on then
Jul 26 10:34:47 <utlemming>	[TOPIC] Open Discussion
Jul 26 10:34:48 <MootBot>	New Topic:  Open Discussion
Jul 26 10:35:28 <Daviey>	I have nothing to raise.
Jul 26 10:35:51 *	NCommander is here now (sorry, TASP call)
Jul 26 10:36:15 <utlemming>	NCommander: glad to have you join
Jul 26 10:36:24 <utlemming>	Any updates for us?
Jul 26 10:36:48 <NCommander>	Unattended installation with preseeds is now know to work on pandaboard which should help satisfy the requirements of ensebmle
Jul 26 10:37:24 <NCommander>	In addition, heavy QA efforts are underway to make sure common sets of server packages work properly on ARM (such as kerberous, ruby-on-rails, etc.)
Jul 26 10:37:40 <NCommander>	any help with QA testing of any sort would be greatly appericated
Jul 26 10:38:00 <Daviey>	NCommander: Is there docs on using uboot to PXE boot?
Jul 26 10:38:23 <Daviey>	NCommander: Where is the QA effort being co-ordinated?
Jul 26 10:38:25 <NCommander>	Daviey: more like a loose collection of notes, GrueMaster is the expert on this
Jul 26 10:38:31 <NCommander>	Daviey: on two specs in LP
Jul 26 10:38:46 <Daviey>	NCommander: I wonder if you'd be able to ask GrueMaster to document this?
Jul 26 10:38:47 *	NCommander tries to get the links
Jul 26 10:39:04 <NCommander>	Daviey: he probably has it documented, I just haven't been around to poke him about it
Jul 26 10:39:21 <NCommander>	https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-o-arm-image-validation
Jul 26 10:39:28 <NCommander>	https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-o-arm-image-qa
Jul 26 10:39:31 <hallyn>	wiki.ubuntu.com/ArmServer ?
Jul 26 10:39:56 <NCommander>	hallyn: there's a landing page on the wiki but I don't have a link handy
Jul 26 10:40:01 <hallyn>	ah ok
Jul 26 10:40:21 <Daviey>	NCommander: This probably needs to be better vocalised.
Jul 26 10:40:35 <NCommander>	Daviey: the QA bits?
Jul 26 10:40:43 <Daviey>	NCommander: both parts :)
Jul 26 10:40:53 <NCommander>	I'll make a posting on my blog about it, though I'm unsure how many people actually read it :-(
Jul 26 10:41:06 <Daviey>	NCommander: We'll all read it :)
Jul 26 10:41:12 <Daviey>	it will be well recieved. :)
Jul 26 10:41:24 <Daviey>	Thanks NCommander !
Jul 26 10:41:39 <NCommander>	np
Jul 26 10:43:03 <utlemming>	[TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
Jul 26 10:43:03 <MootBot>	New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
Jul 26 10:43:08 <utlemming>	Tuesday 2011-08-02 at 1600 UTC here in #ubuntu-meeting
Jul 26 10:43:17 <utlemming>	Thank you everyone and have a good week
Jul 26 10:43:21 <utlemming>	#endmeeting
</pre>
