{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
=== ..[topic/#ubuntu-meeting:Ubugtu] : Current meeting: LoCo Team | Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 29 Nov 12:00 UTC: Edubuntu
=== thom [n=thom@195.54.228.42] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
=== jono [n=jono@ubuntu/member/jono] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:55	opi	hi jono
04:55	jono	hey
=== Burgundavia [n=corey@S0106000fb085cc63.gv.shawcable.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== jono grabs a drink
=== opi grabs a coffee (damn you, office!)
05:00	smurf	Hello everybody
05:00	juliux	hi smurf
05:00	opi	hi smurf
05:01	jono	smurf! :)
05:02	opi	jono, can we start from my case (EmilOppelnBronikowski)? :)
05:02	jono	shoot
05:02	opi	jono, OK, so here it goes
=== OgMaciel [n=omaciel@69.134.176.114] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:03	opi	jono, I'd like to quit from LoCo leader position in Polish team. I'm overloaded by my work activities and perform badly
=== n3gbz [n=Owner@cpe-66-24-228-93.stny.res.rr.com] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
05:03	opi	jono, question: can I join next LoCo meeting with a New Guy that would be selected within Polish community?
05:04	opi	jono, and they you would appoint him?
05:04	jono	opi, I don't need to appoint him
05:04	opi	jono, or is there a process I should follow while quitting?
05:04	opi	jono, OK
05:04	jono	feel free to appoint him inside the team
05:04	opi	OK
05:04	jono	so long as the team are happy with the new leader :)
05:04	opi	then I'll inform you and the rest on ML
05:05	opi	and give him all the data: planet code, ML accounts and so on
=== dand [n=dand@gw.datagroup.ro] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:05	opi	so, again, thanks for this two years -- it was fun -- but I sucks and I have to be replaced!
05:05	opi	:-)
05:05	jono	opi, thanks for your work :)
05:06	opi	jono, well, it was fun
05:06	jono	its always a shame when people have to step down due to other commitments
05:06	opi	jono, after I'll clean up my own backyard, I'll be back
05:06	opi	that's for sure
05:06	jono	woo!
05:06	jono	so does anyone else have any burning issues to discuss
05:06	jono	I figured we could this session fairly open
05:06	jono	particularly with the open week occupying a lot of people
=== nmsa [n=nmsa@202.182.31.90] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:08	jono	who is here for the LoCo meeting?
=== OgMaciel raises his hand ;)
=== dand from the RomanianTeam
=== nmsa same me
05:10	jono	right
05:10	opi	jono, BTW: will the logs from ubuntu-classrom going to be uploaded somewhere? :)
05:10	jono	yep, they are linked on the main Ubuntu Open Week page
05:11	jono	ok, it may be an idea to cancel the meeting
05:11	opi	jono, LoCos could translate some of the Good Stuff there
05:11	jono	I think the Ubuntu Open Week has maybe overtaken it :P
05:11	opi	jono, OK
05:11	jono	I know a bunch of people are in there now
05:11	opi	jono, I wish my meetings at work would go so smooth :)
05:11	jono	hehe
05:11	jono	seemed to go well
05:11	dand	opi: http://www.tonyyarusso.is-a-geek.com/irclogs/openweek/
05:11	opi	dand, thanks! :)
05:12	jono	particularly with over 350 people in there
=== Yann2 [n=Yann4@88.134.59.222] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:12	nixternal	good morning!
=== morgs is here but partially afk
=== OgMaciel waves at nixternal
05:13	OgMaciel	s/at/to
=== smurf is here ... mostly
05:13	nixternal	hehe
05:13	OgMaciel	;)
05:14	jono	hehe, ok lets cancel the meeting
05:14	jono	if anyone want sto discuss anything while we are here though, do go ahead :)
05:14	opi	jono, I'll remove my case from Wiki then
=== Zelut [i=Zelut@gateway/tor/x-6a837ed28d9ab88a] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:15	jono	opi, ok cool
05:15	opi	jono, BTW!
05:16	opi	jono, I see "settings planet guide" thing
05:16	opi	I can write small guide and give away our planetplanet template we did for planet.ubuntu-pl.org
05:17	jono	opi, cool :)
05:17	opi	wait, I'll add that to rememberthemilk list :)
05:17	jono	:)
05:18	opi	OK, done
05:18	opi	so, see you soon
05:18	jono	:)
05:18	opi	and let gods give me power to kill my customers :>
05:21	OgMaciel	well, off to the classroom to sit waaaaay in the back for me
05:21	jono	smurf, ping"!
05:21	jono	hehe
=== poningru [n=poningru@n128-227-104-155.xlate.ufl.edu] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== morgs__ [n=morgs__@dsl-243-58-179.telkomadsl.co.za] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== Tonio__ [n=tonio@59.8.100-84.rev.gaoland.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== morgs__ [n=morgs__@dsl-243-58-179.telkomadsl.co.za] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:30	popey	jono: can you think of anything we (UK Team) can do to improve what we are doing already
05:31	popey	(hello BTW)
05:31	popey	(I have sobered up a little) :)
05:31	jono	popey, hehe
05:31	jono	popey, I think keep doing what you are doing, do lots of events, have lots of campaigns
05:31	jono	I would like to continue to see more regular meetings and strategy where possible
05:31	popey	strategy for what?
05:32	popey	how we deal with local business / charity etc?
05:32	popey	how we present ubuntu?
05:32	jono	all of the above
05:32	popey	meetings are tricky of course
05:32	jono	I would like to see a roadmap of things that the team want to work on
=== sabdfl [n=sabdfl@ubuntu/member/pdpc.silver.sabdfl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== n3gbz [n=William@207.12.3.59] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== gnomonic [n=niels@80.62.135.26] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== Lure [n=lure@clj46-234.dial-up.arnes.si] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== dand [n=dand@gw.datagroup.ro] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== azrael666 [n=azrael@***.net.autocom.pl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:51	smurf	jono: ?
=== sabdfl [n=sabdfl@ubuntu/member/pdpc.silver.sabdfl] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
05:55	jono	smurf, are you /msg'able?
....
</pre>
