{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

   03:00 mdz        good morning all
   03:00 mdz        everyone accounted for?
   03:00 JaneW      Mithrandir...
   03:00 BenC       Mith was awake a short while ago
   03:01 JaneW      and mgj59 still MIA
   03:01 JaneW      shall we start in the mean time?
   03:01 BenC       well, 5 hours ago I guess
   03:01 mdz        yeah, it's Mithrandir's core hours, so he's surely
                    around. maybe stepped out
   03:01 mdz        yes, let's get started
   03:02 mdz        let's go in reverse order for variety
   03:02 dholbach   haha :)
   === iwj [n=ian@xenophobe.extern.relativity.greenend.org.uk] has joined
## ubuntu-meeting
   03:02 mdz        Riddell first
   === Danten [n=danten@h231n11c1o1049.bredband.skanova.com] has joined
## ubuntu-meeting
   === teroedni [n=teroedni@ti411310a080-3401.bb.online.no] has joined
## ubuntu-meeting
   === Chopmo [n=jtj@browser3.eos.dk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:03 mdz        Riddell: ?
   === chmj [n=chmj@196.44.1.98] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === licio [n=licio@unaffiliated/licio] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:04 Riddell    mdz: still finishing my notes.. 1 minute
   03:04 JaneW      tsk
   03:04 mdz        ok, we'll come back to you.  in case it wasn't evident,
                    you need to prepare in advance
   === hno73 [n=henrik@henrik.gotadsl.co.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:05 mdz        is sivang around?
   03:05 mdz        ok, seb128
                    GNOME: load of updates for GNOME 2.13.5 (sync with Debian
   03:05 seb128     before upload for a bunch, ubuntu patches update for new
                    code), deal with new bugs and patched for some issues,
                    load of bug triage
                    dapper-desktop-plan: some discussion on ubuntu-desktop
                    about the session dialog, upstream changed the way they
                    handle that ... what would be the right place to discuss
   03:05 seb128     what strategy we wants to take? Out of that no change, I
                    just keep up with GNOME updates/bug load working full
                    time (and doing extras hours too) on that. gdm changes
                    are probably not trivial and I don't know the code, maybe
                    we could try to bounty that (I'm not opposed working
   03:05 seb128     on that but there is a new GNOME every 2 weeks from npw)?
   03:06 seb128     next week: dapper desktop plan and bug catchup
   === zul [n=chuck@ubuntu/member/zul] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:06 mdz        seb128: if there isn't a consensus among the desktop
                    team, feel free to copy me on the session dialog stuff
   03:06 mdz        seb128: any update on the menus-revised feedback?
   03:06 seb128     mdz: there is some consensus but that doesn't match what
                    Mark asked for
   03:07 Mithrandir pong
   03:07 mdz        seb128: ok, then copy me and mark both
   03:07 seb128     mdz: I've reactivated the window-properties capplet as
                    discussed
   03:07 seb128     and totem
   03:07 seb128     out of that no real complain
   03:07 seb128     we should be good
   03:07 mdz        ok, so the stuff mjg59 posted was resolved?
   03:07 seb128     correct
   03:07 seb128     that's the window-properties capplet
   03:07 infinity   mdz: Can I go next, so I can turn my eyes back to the
                    buildds exploding?
   03:07 seb128     we had a consensus on ubuntu-desktop to reactivate it
   === mgalvin [n=mgalvin@ubuntu/member/mgalvin] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:08 mdz        ok, cool
                    last week: No spec progress, lots of UVF preparation and
                    last-minute merges, including PHP, MySQL, Subversion, and
   03:08 infinity   Thunderbird, to name some prominent ones.  Fixed glibc
                    biarch issues last week as well, did some initramfs
                    hacking, and some livefs hacking.
   03:08 infinity   next week: Fix the current X mess in the next hour or
                    two, then vacation and apache mini-sprint.
   03:08 mdz        infinity: the idea is that everyone is here for the full
                    meeting, otherwise we'd just email in updates
   03:08 infinity   oh, and if I can squeeze it in before my flight, I'll
                    upload a firefox that builds on amd64.
   03:09 infinity   mdz: Oh, I thought that "ok, cool" was directed at me.
                    not for the sake of twiddling thumbs, but knowing what
   03:09 mdz        your teammates are doing and whether you have any role in
                    it
   03:09 doko       infinity: hurray firefox!
   === jbailey [n=jbailey@217.205.109.249] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
                    mdz: Indeed, I agree.  I would have just "phoned it in"
   03:10 infinity   anyway, except that I'm still around specifically because
                    of the buildd/archive mess. :)
   03:10 mdz        infinity: splash-down?
   03:10 iwj        infinity: Do you know what's wrong with the amd64 ff ?
   03:10 mdz        infinity: I only just woke up, what's the mess? (via PM
                    please)
   03:10 infinity   mdz: splash-down is a "at or immediately after the
                    sprint" goal.
   03:10 iwj        That was no.2 on my list today after the version number
                    fuckup.
   03:11 iwj        I was hoping the failure was the make syntax problem but
                    it turns out not to be.
                    iwj: when you are going to break everything gecko related
   03:11 seb128     with a firefox upload that would be nice to ping me
                    before so we are ready to fix GNOME, thank you :)
                    infinity: what's delaying it until then?  the earlier we
   03:11 mdz        get the boot/shutdown process sorted for dapper, then
                    better
   03:11 iwj        seb128: Um, I didn't know I was going to break
                    everything.  Sorry :-/.
                    iwj: It looks like a fakeroot bug to me (which I mean to
   03:11 infinity   dig into later), but the quick fix should just be to pass
                    -X'*libssl3*' to dh_shlibdeps.
   03:12 infinity   mdz: What's delaying it before then is that I'm not
                    around.
   03:12 iwj        infinity: OK, thanks for the hint, I'll deal with it.
   03:12 seb128     iwj: so when you upload firefox it would be nice you try
                    starting epiphany or devhelp or yelp :)
   03:12 iwj        seb128: OK, I can do that, NP.
   03:12 mdz        infinity: oh, you're off next week
   03:12 infinity   mdz: Right.
   03:12 seb128     iwj: you changed some path mozilla-firefox to firefox,
                    but no big deal a rebuild do the trick :)
   === kent [n=kent@h55d210.delphi.afb.lu.se] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:13 infinity   mdz: Well, off, then apache stuff.
   03:13 mdz        ok, thanks
   === stratus [n=stratus@cronopio.rits.org.br] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
                    mdz: If the apache stuff doesn't take all the time
   03:13 infinity   allotted, I'm sure I'll hit up other stuff to hack on
                    too.
   03:13 mdz        fabio is on leave
   03:13 iwj        seb128: Right.  Um, I meant to leave a symlink behind
                    IIRC.  But I will test next time.
   03:13 mdz        JaneW: did he send anything he wanted passed on to the
                    meeting?
   03:13 seb128     iwj: thank you
   03:13 pitti      (wouldn't ogra be next?)
   03:13 JaneW      no I didn;t hear from him
   03:14 mdz        pitti: yes, but since i was looking at infinity...
                    Sorry for fucking it up.  And really sorry for not
   03:14 iwj        thinking beyond `that's a slightly odd version number' to
                    `that's probably wrong, actually'.
   03:14 mdz        pitti: well, no, you'd be next actually ;-)
   03:14 pitti      oh, heh
                    last week: security updates, lots of main inclusion
                    reviews, packaged some new upstream versions, lots of CD
                    testing, much cupsys love, sanitized sudo, added sudo
                    hint for beginnersno progress on specs (ENOTIME), the
   03:14 pitti      remaining specs require a fair amount of intrusive work
                    that will probably not happen any more for dapper; I
                    rather want to concentrate on shaking out long-standing
                    bugs now instead of adding new ones, if that is fine for
                    mdz?
                    plan next week: give cups and printing some more love,
                    some more audio bug fixing (sound card selector and
   03:14 pitti      .asoundrc handling are still in a bad state, I forgot
                    about that, so I want to fix it before feature freeze),
                    some more pending security updates
   03:15 pitti      oh, sorry for the missing line break
   03:15 daniels
   03:15 mdz        pitti: remaining specs = automatic-printer-conf and
                    langpacks-desktop-files?
                    mdz: the former requires a fair amount of new code and
   03:16 pitti      work, and zyga wanted to look into langpack support for
                    .server files
   03:16 pitti      it already works for .desktop for a while
   03:16 pitti      I'm sure we can get .directory support for dapper at
                    least
   03:16 pitti      since it should be pretty easy
   03:16 pitti      but I refered to the printer stuff, yes
   03:17 mdz        ok, the printer stuff can slip
                    argh, sorry, somebody from my letting agent has just
   03:17 Kamion     called at the door about a fence repair; if I'm not
                    around, please excuse me and I'll catch up at the end
                    I'd rather make cups less buggy than add hal-cups-utils
   03:17 pitti      and try to integrate it; it would probably require sb who
                    knows more about gnome than me anyway
   03:18 mdz        if someone is still working on .server files, let's keep
                    that on the roadmap for dapper
   03:18 pitti      yes, we shouldn't drop that one yet
   03:19 pitti      we have the spec 50% implemented already
                    please track what is happening with it, or make sure that
   03:19 mdz        zyga communicates with janew or attends the meeting if he
                    is working on it
   03:19 pitti      ok, I'll do
   03:19 mdz        thanks pitti
   03:19 mdz        ogra: next
   03:19 ogra       * thin-client-memory-usage: further work on nbd network
                    swapping.
   03:19 ogra       * thin-client-faster-startup: played with dash (found
                    some bashisms in ltsp)
   03:19 ogra       * gnome-screensaver-default-image: no progress, still
                    need pictures .... mailed sabdfl...
   03:19 ogra       * general: flight3 testing, assembled a ltsp lab with 5
                    thin clients i got, merge work
*********** next week: do a proper measuring of possible dash
   03:19 ogra       speedup, find a way for gdmsetup or gdm to change the
                    theme from commandline for edubuntu-artwork, more ltsp
                    work
   03:20 Riddell    ogra: what was the problem with KDE starting this
                    morning?
   03:20 mdz        ogra: is nbd all that remains on -memory-usage?
   03:20 JaneW      ogra: what about the flight 3 announcement?
   03:20 ogra       mdz, nope, i'm waiting for a netboot patch to initramfs
   03:21 ogra       mdz, and dash might be a big win, i need to get more
                    numbers
   03:21 mdz        ogra: faster-startup is still drafting, with a comment
                    from me in the spec
   03:21 ogra       mdz, yes, will fix that
   03:21 ogra       Riddell, that was only a bug i have to inspect
   03:21 ogra       JaneW, will send it after the meeting
                    ogra: apart from sabdfl's photos, wasnt' the plan for
   03:22 mdz        default-image to ask for submissions from the community?
                    has that happened?
   03:22 JaneW      ogra: ok thanks
   03:22 ogra       mdz, jdub wanted to care for that iirc with the other
                    content stuff
                    mdz, worst case i'll just put up a package with the
   03:22 ogra       default background and we could do something like
                    calendar
                    ogra: Tackle me at the sprint about all your initramfs
   03:23 infinity   needs.  I think half my time at the sprint will be
                    hacking people's pet features into initramfs.
   03:23 ogra       or even leave it like that
   03:23 ogra       infinity, as i said, i'd be fine fixing my already
                    existing patch :)
   03:23 mdz        ogra: you own that spec, not jdub, so make sure that it
                    doesn't get stalled
   03:23 ogra       mdz, yes, thats why i described you the fallback
   03:23 ogra       its doable in 10 min ...
   03:24 mdz        ogra: screen-saver?
   03:24 ogra       what about it ? gnome-screensaver is in, the lock dialog
                    looks ok, or doesnt it to you ?
   03:25 mdz        ogra: as of last week it was incomplete, and you didn't
                    provide an update. is it finished or not?
   03:25 infinity   Of course, we still have two screensavers on every
                    upgraded system.
                    they rearranged the buttons like we have them in breezy,
   03:25 ogra       the rest of the design is pretty near to breezy, i'd call
                    it implemented
   03:25 Kamion     back, sorry about that
   03:25 mdz        yes, one of the notes from last week was that the
                    transition needs to be figured out
   03:25 ogra       infinity, not with ubuntu-desktop installed
   03:26 mdz        yes, with ubuntu-desktop installed
   03:26 pitti      oh, does u-desktop conflict to xss?
   03:26 mdz        you get both xscreensaver and gnome-screensaver
   03:26 Kamion     pitti: no
   03:26 Nafallo    ogra: yes. ubuntu-desktop doesn't remove things :-)
   03:26 ogra       ah yes
   03:26 pitti      would it hurt to have g-s-s conflict to x-s-s?
   03:26 ogra       but since i'm not allowed to conflict the screensavers,
                    it looks like chicken egg ...
   03:26 Kamion     pitti: we've been over this in the breezy cycle
   03:27 dholbach   pitti: keybuk won't like that. :-)
   03:27 pitti      ok, /me shuts up
   03:27 mdz        ogra: the upgrade tool will need to deal with this, talk
                    with mvo
   03:27 mvo        I could add it to the upgrade-tool (remove xss)
   03:27 mdz        mvo: :-)
   === dholbach hugs mvo
   03:27 ogra       mvo, cool !
   03:27 mdz        ogra: thanks
   03:27 mdz        mvo: next
   03:27 mvo        Did:
   03:27 mvo        * dist-upgrade tool work:
   03:27 mvo          - can do breezy->dapper upgrades now
   03:27 mvo          - announced testversion on ubuntu-devel (to get some
                    testing etc)
   03:27 mvo          - obsolete packages detection should work more reliable
                    now
   03:27 mvo          - fixed some things in pyhton-apt along the way
   03:27 mvo          - fixed various bug
   03:28 mvo          [AutomaticUpgrades]
   03:28 mvo        * HIGification of update-manager, software-properties,
                    language-selector
   03:28 mvo        * gnome-app-install:
   03:28 mvo          - threading supper for external uris
   03:28 mvo          - some work on improving the gnome-app-install ui
   03:28 mvo          [ThirdPartyPackages]
   03:28 mvo        * various smaller stuff (apt, gksu,
                    launchpad-integration, update-notifier, etc)
   03:28 mvo        Next week:
   03:28 mvo        - work on the ThirdPartyPackages spec and improving the
                    g-a-i ui
   03:28 mvo        - getting startup notification working with gksu
   === mvo wonders if he shouldn't make his report a bit more dense
   03:28 iwj        No, it's quite good like that.
   03:28 mdz        mvo: any feedback from ubuntu-devel on the upgrade tool?
   03:29 mvo        mdz: well, it currently breaks because of a transient
                    problem with the new x :)
   03:29 mvo        I picked a bad timing
   03:29 mdz        ok
   03:29 infinity   Should all be sorted in another cron.daily or two.
   03:29 mdz        once that mess is sorted, maybe we should hit
                    -devel-announce
   03:29 mvo        but got quite a few people testing it so far, so once
                    that is fixed, I'll ask for re-testing
   03:29 mvo        mdz: sure, I can ask there too
   03:29 mdz        mvo: thanks
   03:29 mdz        JaneW: any update from mjg59?
   03:29 JaneW      nope
   03:30 JaneW      I pinged him, but have not had a response
   03:30 mdz        ok
   03:30 mdz        please keep trying
   03:30 ogra       mdz, for power management we're waiting for an upstream
                    fix
   === migma [n=migma@unaffiliated/migma] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:31 mdz        ogra: blocking it, or as the only remaining piece?
   03:31 mdz        wasn't there a daemon to be written?
   03:31 ogra       mdz, blocking the upgrade to the last version of g-p-m
   03:31 ogra       thats mjg59's part
   03:31 mdz        what about the daemon?
   03:31 mdz        ok
   03:31 ogra       i have no insight in this area
   03:31 mdz        Mithrandir: next
   03:31 Mithrandir openoffice-amd64: no progress
   03:31 Mithrandir live-cd-performance: no further progress
   03:31 Mithrandir one-true-path: implemented
                    simplified-livecd: a fair chunk of keyboard selection
                    stuff done, but not finished.  I found out a tad late
   03:31 Mithrandir that ckb is written in perl, so I'll have to rewrite that
                    in C.  I have a sneaky plan on how to do that without
                    wasting a lot of effort.
   03:31 Mithrandir livecd-unionfs: implemented, but has problems on
                    powerpc.  BenC says it's fixed in -13
                    misc: a lot more time has been spent fighting with X
   03:31 Mithrandir keyboard maps than I'd had hoped.  I've been trying to
                    keep *-desktop installable, which is an interesting
                    challenge.
   03:31 Mithrandir probe-for-root-filesystem: no progress
   03:32 Mithrandir blocked on: access to popcon.ubuntu.com, people stop
                    breaking -desktop installability.
   03:32 Mithrandir next week: apache-mini-sprint, write lcxkb (linux console
                    xkeyboard)
   03:32 Mithrandir (no idea how those tabs got into the end of lines)
   03:32 BenC       _should be fixed_ in -13, I have to admit I haven't
                    tested it
   03:32 Mithrandir mea culpa about the wording there.
   03:32 mdz        Mithrandir: how much of live-cd-performance remains?
   03:32 BenC       was my fault, I said "it was fixed" :)
   03:33 BenC       Mithrandir: FYI, the fix was to disable debug, which
                    should improve performance a lot
   03:33 Mithrandir mdz: "depends".  As it says in the status, we can squeeze
                    more out, but it'll be a dimishing returns thing to do.
   03:33 Mithrandir BenC: yay
   === Simira [n=rpGirl@118.84-48-121.nextgentel.com] has joined
## ubuntu-meeting
   03:33 Mithrandir mdz: I'm going to play with -lzma a bit, and once scott's
                    fixes for readahead hits the archive, I'll poke at those
   03:33 mdz        Mithrandir: ok, happy for us to stick to the low-hanging
                    fruit for dapper, your call when to say it's enough
   03:33 Mithrandir mdz: when that's done, I think I'll call it done for
                    dapper.
   03:34 Mithrandir we've already had _tremendous_ improvements.
   03:34 mdz        ok
   03:34 mdz        agreed
   03:34 mdz        thanks
   03:34 mdz        JaneW: lathiat, krstic, Keybuk?
   03:34 JaneW      nothing from lathiat or krstic
   03:35 JaneW      Keybuk: udev-roadmap: happy with the udev version, newer
                    versions include
   03:35 JaneW      support for kernels 2.6.16 and post but we're not
                    shipping those.
   03:35 JaneW      streamlined-boot: ifupdown and alsa mods done, ready for
                    upload now
   03:35 JaneW      Flight 3 is out.
   03:35 JaneW      network-magic: still blocked on infinity for same
                    reason's as last week
   03:35 JaneW      misc: mom converstion to malone done, no outstanding
                    necessary merges
   03:35 BenC       wouldn't it be a good idea to include a udev that
                    supports the possible next version of the kernel?
                    mjg59's lending me a laptop with atheros while I'm in
   03:36 infinity   London, so I can get madwifi-ng tested and in the
                    archive, FWIW.
                    people have had lots of problems testing dapper kernels
   03:36 BenC       because the udev/hotplug upgrade didn't allow them to go
                    back
   03:36 mdz        JaneW: is udev-roadmap completed or no?
                    BenC: udev is moving fast enough that we're not likely to
   03:36 jbailey    get a udev that will actually support .17 or whatever
                    we'll have for dapper+1
   03:36 JaneW      yes implemented
   03:36 jbailey    BenC: Also, half the problem was not being able to go
                    back.
   03:37 jbailey    BenC: I think newer udevs are a bit more firnedly that
                    way.
   03:37 BenC       hope so, but guess we wont know till we try it :)
                    JaneW: we need to unblock network-magic; please ask
   03:37 mdz        Keybuk if we can just scanning for atheros chips for the
                    sake of getting it in and testing it
   03:38 mdz        BenC: I suggest having a chat with Keybuk about what can
                    be done there
   03:38 JaneW      mdz: ok
   03:38 mdz        we're way behind on time
   03:38 mdz        Riddell: next, before I forget (I have a shallow stack
                    this early in the morning)
   03:38 Riddell    kubuntu-roadmap-dapper: sudo/iceauth fix done pending
                    final testing, flight 3 testing
   03:38 Riddell    kubuntu-documentation: build fixes, releasenotes is
                    caught up, writers starting on quickguide now
   03:38 Riddell    kubuntu-express: mostly done qtparted changes
   03:38 Riddell    todo: KDE 3.5.1 packages
                    blocking: kubuntu-system-tools need meeting with mdz,
   03:38 Riddell    mornfall and me to sort bounty.  having an account to be
                    able to update kubuntu.org would be really nice
   03:38 mdz        Riddell: which bits of kubuntu-roadmap-dapper remain?
   03:39 mdz        Riddell: account -> admin RT
   03:39 Riddell    rt has been sent
   03:39 Riddell    most of the deliverables of kubuntu-roadmap-dapper are in
   03:40 Riddell    it's just tidying up what's broken (e.g. cups)
   03:40 mdz        no remaining milestones then?
   03:41 mdz        for these multipart specs what we need is a feel for how
                    far along they are
   03:41 JaneW      mdz: I have mailed keybuk
   03:41 mdz        JaneW: thanks
   03:41 Riddell    GStreamer 0.10 support would of course be nice, not sure
                    how possible that is
   03:41 mdz        eek, we're behind on time
   03:41 mdz        Kamion: next
                    ubuntu-express: Lots of bug fixes to the point where I
                    can actually do an installation and the result boots,
   03:41 Kamion     although a few things are wrong. Will be ready to upload
                    an initial version next week (manual partitioning only,
                    and strictly for the brave).
                    ubuntu-express-copy-filesystem: Made espresso run
   03:41 Kamion     casper-provided hooks, and gave Tollef a list of initial
                    hooks to create.
                    ubuntu-express-bootloader: Ready to do espresso-grub now,
                    but semi-blocked on
   03:41 Kamion     https://launchpad.net/products/launchpad/+bug/2788; ddaa
                    is working on merging my patch with high priority. If it
                    doesn't get resolved today then I'll work around it.
                    cd-bootloader: Started working on a keymap menu. Found
                    that I need to do some pretty scary processing on Linux
   03:41 Kamion     keymap files to make this work, but I'm nearly done with
                    that now. Should be straightforward to convert to X
                    keymap handling if/when we're ready for that elsewhere.
   03:42 Kamion     misc: Flight CD 3. Some merge catch-up.
                    next-week: Final merges. Finish cd-bootloader keymap
   03:42 Kamion     support and do localised help. Initial espresso upload
                    for developer testing.
   03:42 mdz        Kamion: brave folks like ubuntu-devel?
   03:42 Kamion     mdz: right
   03:42 mdz        cool, looking forward to it
   === Chopmo [n=jtj@browser3.eos.dk] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   03:43 mdz        UE is looking good; at what point will it be possible to
                    get someone started on the UI wokr?
   03:43 Kamion     after the sprint, I should think
   03:43 mdz        ok
   03:43 Kamion     just after, I mean :)
   03:43 mdz        thanks
   03:43 Kamion     "2168"
   03:43 pitti      ?
   03:43 mdz        JaneW: I don't suppose there's an update from jdub
   03:43 JaneW      nope
   03:44 Kamion     the year 2168 is after the sprint, but rather further
                    after than I meant
   03:44 JaneW      I mailed silbs and she said she is working on a plan
   03:44 pitti      heh, ok :)
   03:44 pitti      Kamion: I thought it would be l33t sp34k or so
                    Kamion: please let SteveA/kiko know that 2788 is blocking
   03:44 mdz        very high-priority work so that it's on their radar, if
                    you haven't already
   03:45 mdz        jbailey: anything to report?
                    LocalesThatDontSuck: Can we update to a newer locales
                    snapshot from Belocs after UVF?  This involves some code
   03:45 jbailey    updates for the localedef program.  If yes, when should
                    be the stop date on that?  Otherwise, we should plan to
                    backport a few changes and work around the slight format
                    changes.
   03:45 jbailey    ToolchainRoadmap: Thanks to Adam for finishing the biarch
                    work.
   03:45 jbailey    ToolchainRoadmapNg: i686 decision to be made in person
                    with distroteam at the sprint.
   03:45 jbailey    Other: Still in London at a sprint, will be back to
                    regular work stuff on Monday from home.
                    Packages: Haven't managed to hand off grub to zul yet -
   03:45 jbailey    Still need to sync up for a round of bug triage.  If
                    there's someone else with time who can help dive in, I'd
                    appreciate it.
   03:45 Kamion     mdz: ok
   03:45 mdz        jbailey: newer snapshot doesn't sound too scary
   03:45 mdz        stop date will depend on how things go
   03:45 jbailey    mdz: No, I'm pretty happy with the idea.
   03:46 mdz        jbailey: is there anything ubuntu-ish in the grub bug
                    list or is it pretty much gardening for upstream bugs?
   03:46 pitti      mdz: the new locales package is prepared and ready for
                    upload, btw
                    Pretty much just a pile of upstream bugs.  We haven't
   03:46 jbailey    done anything new with it, so there's no regressions that
                    I know of.
   03:46 mdz        pitti: ok
   03:46 mdz        ok
   03:46 mdz        thanks jbailey
   03:46 mdz        iwj: next
                    AutomatedTesting:  Tester core initial implementation
                    finished.  I can run my one test test case (all of the
   03:46 iwj        upstream tests in `mawk', as one in the tests/control
                    file).   I got diverted into ff again before I could turn
                    it from a pile of code into a package.  This package will
                    be in sid and dapper RSN.
                    AutomatedTesting: ...  Then I'll can document what I've
   03:46 iwj        done properly (with mails to {debian,ubuntu}-devel).  And
                    try adding some tests to a few more interesting packages
                    and playing with it some more.
   03:46 iwj        Firefox:  Now synched with Debian and upstream 1.5;
                    version number problems will be `fixed' today.
                    Firefox amd64 FTBFS:  I will also look into this
   03:46 iwj        today.  I may need some help from a toolchain expert by
                    the looks of it.
   03:46 iwj        Firefox: I seem to be establishing a reasonably good
                    relationship with the Debian maintainers.
                    DefaultApplicationsFirefox: no change since last
   03:46 iwj        report.  I will pick this up properly when
                    AutomatedTesting is done.
   03:46 iwj        DeveloperDocumentation: Not started, not blocked.
   03:46 iwj        Bugs backlog: awful.  Don't get me started again about
                    Malone.
   03:46 iwj        Email backlog: not too bad if you ignore bug mails.
                    jbailey: otavio (in Debian) is keen on helping us if we
   03:47 Kamion     actually start sending him our patches a little more
                    reliably :-)
   03:47 Kamion     jbailey: (with grub)
   03:47 iwj        Scratch that about a toolchain expert, if infinity is
                    right about the amd64 ff problem.
                    iwj: have you talked with the sysadmins about a place to
   03:47 mdz        run the automated tests periodically?   would be very
                    cool to be able to see the output published somewhere
   03:47 jbailey    Kamion: Thanks for the heads up
                    mdz: No, I haven't done any of that at all.  I was going
   03:48 iwj        to publish the code first and then talk to the sysadmins
                    about the right kind of glue they wanted.
   03:48 iwj        They probably need a new virtualisation server (or
                    options) or something.
   03:48 mdz        iwj: I'd be interested in a typescript sort of demo of
                    what you have, by email
   03:48 mdz        iwj: thanks
   03:48 mdz        doko: next
   03:48 doko       status:
                    - toolchain-roadmap: amd64-biarch, all dependent packages
   03:48 doko       (gcc* and lib32*) updated, binutils synced, spec is
                    nearing the "implemented" status.
   03:48 doko       - toolchain-dapper+1: blocked by preparation of
                    wanna-build and buildd infrastructure (no change)
   03:48 doko       - openoffice-gnome: not started (no change)
   03:48 doko       - openoffice-help: implemented (no change)
   03:48 iwj        mdz: Sure.  I'll put a transcript in my announcement when
                    I make it.
   03:49 doko       - openoffice-spellchecking: not started (no change)
   03:49 doko       - native-java-gcj: infrastructure is ready, packaging of
                    -gcj binary packages not started (no change)
                    - java-roadmap: mostly done, pending are eclipse updates
   03:49 doko       (blocked by firefox-dev/mozilla-dev) and the
                    native-java-gcj support, delaying that in favour of an
                    openoffice.org-gcj package
   03:49 doko       - python-roadmap: proposal implemented, testing outside
                    the archive now.
   03:49 doko       this week:
                    - openoffice.org: fix installability issue, ongoing
   03:49 doko       merging with Debian unstable, setup baz archive for the
                    debian/ parts
   03:49 doko       - python-roadmap: python-central update, uploaded to
                    people.ubuntu.com
   03:49 doko       - toolchain-roadmap: biarch updates, binutils update
                    - other: syncs/merges, updates to new upstream versions,
   03:49 doko       amd64 server upgrade/then new install (badly needed)
                    including bug submissions
   03:49 doko       next week:
   03:49 doko       - finish openoffice.org sync, together with spellchecking
   03:49 doko       - drop python2.3 (either with or without python-central
                    support)
   03:49 doko       - update the estimates for the specs (they are not
                    current)
   03:49 jbailey    doko: Does the openoffice.org sync include 2.0.1 to
                    breezy-updates?
   03:49 mdz        doko: how disruptive will python-central be?
                    mdz: not disruptive at all, it's just dropping of
   03:51 doko       packages, not introduceing new one (python-central only
                    (or python-support, whatever will survive)
   03:51 mdz        ok
   03:51 mdz        thanks
   03:51 mdz        dholbach: next
                    this week (done): GNOME 2.13.5, alongside with merges of
   03:51 dholbach   every package, started apt-get.org building (status:
                    good: 352, fail: 639, Current repo: 177/326)
   03:51 dholbach   this week (todo): bug triage, some more merges, start
                    apt-get.org reviews.
   03:51 dholbach   next week: bug triage, apt-get.org reviews
   03:52 mdz        dholbach: test-plans?
   03:52 doko       jbailey: yeeess, it breaks some things (-base), but maybe
                    let's talk about it later.
   03:52 JaneW      Still can't find mjg59  - so I mailed him for an update.
   03:52 mdz        JaneW: thanks
   03:52 jbailey    doko: Cool, thanks.
                    mdz: They are good to go. I added the gstreamer test case
   03:52 dholbach   URL to the wiki, the media team is going to pick some
                    reference files.
   03:52 mdz        dholbach: implemented?
   03:52 dholbach   mdz: oh yes, I'll change that.
   03:52 mdz        or waiting for content?
   03:53 dholbach   no, we're not blocked on content
   03:53 mdz        ok
   03:53 mdz        cool, thanks
   03:53 dholbach   de rien
   03:53 mdz        daniels: here?
                    x-roadmap: xorg source package uploaded with cleaner
                    config, lots of cruft kicked out.  x{,org,server}-common
                    all collapsed into x11-common, transition should just be
   03:53 daniels    finished as we speak.  fixed an entertaining bug with
                    some radeon laptops where the panel wouldn't display
                    anything even vaguely useful.  marked as implemented in
                    lp.
   03:54 mdz        daniels: no further breakage on the roadmap then?
   03:54 daniels    certainly none planned from me ...
   03:54 mdz        ok, thakns
   03:54 daniels    it should be safe to slip into maintenance mode now.
   03:54 infinity   After today, it should be smooth sailing.
   03:54 mdz        BenC: next
   03:55 doko       daniels: 1920x1200 resolution on amd64 doesn't work
                    preventing-hardware-support-regressions: Builds for i386
                    and amd64 are being done and published to
   03:55 BenC       http://people.ubuntu.com/~bcollins/kernels-daily/.
                    PowerPC will start today aswell. Total space per day is
                    going to be around 260Megs, so I'm worried about space on
                    rookery. Will keep an eye on it.
                    community-server-hardware-testing: (No work from me,
   03:55 BenC       but...) https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTesting is in
                    place. I reviewed it, and am in the process of adding
                    additional info and criteria.
                    Kernel status: Kernel seems stable on all platforms. No
   03:55 BenC       critical outstanding issues, but some important bugs are
                    lingering. Concentrating on fixing these next week.
                    the only thing I can think of is that I ripped out the
   03:55 daniels    language -> keymap 'smarts' assuming that lcxkb goes
                    ahead.  you'll need to revert that one if it doesn't.
   03:55 daniels    doko: bug please
   03:56 mdz        BenC: please ask sysadmin if they would prefer to move
                    the builds elsewhere; how many are you planning to keep?
   03:56 JaneW      ** 5 minute call
   03:56 BenC       I already asked elmo, he was good with it
   03:56 mdz        BenC: is ServerTesting ready to announce to the community
                    for testing?
   03:56 BenC       there's 21Gigs on rookery, so I'm thinking two weeks
                    worth
   03:57 BenC       mdz: hopefully, but I need to finish my review of it
   03:57 mdz        BenC: is sabdfl's X40 fix in the archive now?
   03:57 BenC       uploading today
   03:57 BenC       it's not an X40 issue
   03:57 BenC       it's a wireless bug
   03:57 mdz        oh, he thought it was
   03:57 mdz        ok, one request before we adjourn
   03:58 mdz        please email me your top three issues with Malone,
                    assuming you have that many
   03:58 pitti      lol
   03:58 ogra       heh
   === BenC has more :)
   03:58 Nafallo    hah
   03:58 pitti      that would mean serious picking :)
   03:58 mdz        I'll collate them for the LP folks
   03:58 pitti      mdz: thank you
   03:58 BenC       thanks
   03:58 Kamion     soyuz rollout next week, is it?
   03:59 mdz        yes, soyuz rollout next week
   03:59 iwj        mdz: Um.  OK :-).
   03:59 iwj        Joy.
   03:59 Nafallo    yay!
   03:59 Nafallo    finally soyuz :-)
   03:59 mdz        look out for an announcement of what the visible changes
                    will be
   03:59 iwj        If I put `the web UI is awful' at the top of my list,
                    what will happen ? :-/
   03:59 \sh        christmas so early this year?
   03:59 mdz        iwj: nothing, because that's too vague to be useful
   03:59 mdz        iwj: instead, point to specific UI issues
   04:00 pitti      iwj: kiko and sabdfl will just beat you up, I guess :)
   04:00 daniels    https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=4537
   04:00 daniels    https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=4537
   04:00 daniels    https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=4537
   04:00 daniels    https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=4537
   04:00 pitti      four times?
   04:00 daniels    christ!  sorry.
   04:00 iwj        1. `Navigation structure must be totally reorganised' and
                    2. `Page layout must be completely reorganised' ?
   04:00 daniels    this mouse is pathological.
   04:00 mdz        iwj: this isn't a joke
   04:00 iwj        You'll have seen my more detailed messages.
   04:00 iwj        I'm not joking.
   04:00 iwj        There's no point tinkering at the edges.
   === ajmitch_ [i=ajmitch@port163-8.ubs.maxnet.co.nz] has joined
## ubuntu-meeting
   04:01 mdz        iwj: there are things we can do, and things that we
                    can't, especially in the near term
   04:01 mdz        and we're out of time here
   04:01 iwj        I'm happy to write up a more messages with serious
                    descriptions of what I think is wrong.
   04:01 seb128     "out should not have to open 4 pages to update a bug"
   04:01 iwj        time> true.
   04:01 mdz        thanks, everyone
   04:01 seb128     s/out/you
   04:01 iwj        near term> go back to bugzilla ?
   04:01 JaneW      thanks all
   04:01 seb128     thank you mdz
                    iwj: I think you shuold rather point out how it should be
   04:01 pitti      changed (and, FWIW, I agree that navigation is pretty
                    hard ATM)
   === BenC [n=bcollins@debian/developer/bcollins] has left #ubuntu-meeting
   ["Leaving"]
   04:01 JaneW      next week 20:00 UTC
   04:01 dholbach   thank you mdz
   04:01 pitti      thanks everyone
</pre>
