{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* Wily Development
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Upcoming Call For Papers
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting: =====

* No actions

===== Wily Development =====

Nothing to report

===== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) =====

caribou reported that kdump-tools fix for OOM is being reviewed by the kernel team

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara) =====

nothing to report

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) =====

nothing to report

===== Upcoming Call For Papers =====

nothing to report

===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====

nothing to report

===== Open Discussion =====

===== Meeting Actions =====

* None

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

arosales to chair on Tuesday 13th October 16:00 UTC to 17:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting

=== Log ===
<pre>
 16:00 <coreycb> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Oct  6 16:00:06 2015 UTC.  The chair is coreycb. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:00 <meetingology> 

 16:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:00 <coreycb> Hi all, welcome to this week's Ubuntu Server meeting.

 16:00 <coreycb> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:01 <coreycb> there were no actions from last weeks meeting

 16:01 <coreycb> #topic Wily Development

 16:01 <coreycb> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseSchedule

 16:01 <coreycb> Thurs Oct 8th is kernel freeze for Wily

 16:02 <coreycb> and 2 weeks after that is Final Release for Wily

 16:02 <coreycb> getting there!

 16:02 <coreycb> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:02 <coreycb> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:03 <coreycb> The nova bug is high priority

 16:03 <coreycb> bug 1398999

 16:03 <ubottu> bug 1398999 in OpenStack Compute (nova) "Block migrate with attached volumes copies volumes to themselves" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1398999

 16:04 <coreycb> looks like hallyn is on that from a libvirt perspective and it's assigned to someone upstream for nova

 16:04 <coreycb> hallyn, want to add anything on that?

 16:05 <coreycb> well, moving on as it looks like that bug is covered

 16:06 <coreycb> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)n

 16:06 <caribou> coreycb: o/

 16:06 <caribou> nothing particular on my side

 16:06 <coreycb> caribou, hey, ok

 16:06 <caribou> kdump-tools fix for OOM is being reviewed by the kernel team

 16:07 <coreycb> caribou, alright thanks

 16:07 <coreycb> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)

 16:08 <matsubara> hi coreycb, nothing new to report

 16:08 <coreycb> matsubara, ok

 16:08 <coreycb> and hi :)

 16:08 <coreycb> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)

 16:08 <smb> Open to questions but nothing to report.

 16:08 <smb> Oh maybe ... just to check: caribou you got my email?

 16:09 <caribou> smb: yes

 16:09 <caribou> smb: I'd like to add a hook for the remove portion

 16:09 <smb> caribou, ok just checking since I sent that and right after closed email client... That sound good

 16:10 <caribou> smb: yes, it made it to France ;-)

 16:10 <smb> :)

 16:10 <coreycb> does anyone have anything else for the Kernel team?

 16:11 <coreycb> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers

 16:11 <coreycb> any call for papers coming up that anyone knows of?

 16:12 <coreycb> I don't know of any..

 16:12 <coreycb> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:13 <coreycb> any Ubuntu specific events going on?

 16:13 <coreycb> #topic Open Discussion

 16:13 <coreycb> if anyone has anything else to bring up, now's your chance

 16:14 <coreycb> alright I think we'll end this lively meeting now!

 16:14 <coreycb> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 16:15 <coreycb> We'll see you next Tues at the same time

 16:15 <coreycb> arosales is next in line to chair

 16:15 <coreycb> #endmeeting
</pre>
