{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Logs ===
UTC TZ+1 ''thanks Soren''
<pre>
22:01 < mdz_> I'm finishing up a conference call, can you start without me?
22:02 < seb128> hey mdz_
22:02  * ogra waves
22:02 < bryce> hiya
22:02 < tkamppeter> Plug'n'Print works now and the ugly non-root mode of CUPS went away ...
22:03 < kwwii> tkamppeter: the next time you are in bayern you can drop by my place and get my printer working :p
22:03 < ~calc> OOo 2.3 should be in gutsy once i get the l10n stuff squared away
22:03 < mdz_> cjwatson: are you here?
22:04 < Riddell> tkamppeter: is the plug and print stuff very desktop specific?
22:04 < seb128> calc: do you plan to have a look at the "openoffice is not working for lot of user" bug?
22:04 < ~calc> seb128: afaict OOo 2.3 solves that so I am going to try to get it into gutsy asap
22:04 < seb128> ok
22:05 < ~calc> seb128: OOo 2.3 works fine on gutsy for me in any case
22:05 < seb128> because the bug gets quite a lot of comment of annoyed users every day
22:05 < seb128> write something saying you work toward getting 2.3 in the bug would be nice
22:05 < ~calc> seb128: yea :( i have about 900 lines left to merge so i hope to get that done really soon
22:05 < ~calc> seb128: bug number?
22:06 < seb128> the one flooding your mailbox for a week? ;)
22:06 < ~calc> ah yea i'll take a look after the meeting
22:06 < ~calc> 8D
22:06 < seb128> bug #127944
< ubotu> Launchpad bug 127944 in openoffice.org2 "[gutsy]Open Office applications don't start " [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/127944
22:06 < seb128> you don't read your bug mails, do you? ;)
22:06 < Riddell> maybe we should follow the agenda?
22:07 < ~calc> seb128: yes, but i get so many i mostly scan
22:07 < mvo> Riddell++
22:07 < Riddell> ArneGoetje hello
22:07 < Riddell> going to make us talk 1000 languages?
22:07 < ArneGoetje> Riddell: Good morning!
22:07 < mvo> hey ArneGoetje! its a very bad time for you, right? 4am in the night^Wmorning
22:07  * ArneGoetje yawns
22:08 < tkamppeter> kwwii, do not know when I get to Bayern next time, install Gutsy in the mean time ...
22:08 < ArneGoetje> mvo: yep
22:08 < seb128> hi ArneGoetje
22:08 < doko> calc: "l10n stuff squared away"?
22:08 < kwwii> tkamppeter: luckily it was just a joke :-)
22:08 < ArneGoetje> Hi all
22:08 < kwwii> hi ArneGoetje
22:08 < Riddell> mm, Taiwan isn't it?  we're covering a new timezone
22:08 < mathiaz> hi ArneGoetje
22:08 < mdz_> ok, I'm off now
22:09 < ~calc> doko: i am looking at what if anything in l10n area can be merged with Debian
22:09 < mvo> I guess iwj need to re-do the "what-time-suits-all-timezones" game :)
22:09 < ~calc> doko: after that I should be ready for an upload (i think)
22:09 < tkamppeter> Riddell, no the hal-cups-utils is totally non-interactive. It sends some notification messages into the DBUS, but should still work if there is no program running which does something with the notifications.
22:09 < ArneGoetje> Riddell: correct. But I heard You had experience already with some Australian folks... ;)
22:09 < ~agoliveira> ArneGoetje, ni hao!
22:09 < mdz_> first agenda item is to introduce ArneGoetje, but it seems that some of you have met him already :-)
22:09 < mdz_> Arne is based in Taiwan will be working on i18n/l10n issues in Ubuntu
22:09 < ArneGoetje> agoliveira: ni men hao! :)
22:10 < cjwatson> sorry I'm late!
22:10 < asac> welcome ArneGoetje !
22:10 < evand> hrm, is something up with lithium?  I can't log in.
22:10 < mdz_> he comes from a Debian background and has knowledge of a variety of related technical issues
22:10 < kwwii> cjwatson: there is a first for everything :-)
22:10 < pedro_> welcome ArneGoetje !
22:10 < ogra> hey ArneGoetje
22:10 < evand> welcome ArneGoetje!
22:10 < tkamppeter> agoliveira, voce fala taiwanes?
22:11 < mdz_> please lend him your expertise as he gets up to speed on Ubuntu tools and processes
22:11 < doko> welcome :)
22:11 < cjwatson> evand: oh, I should have mentioned; it's antimony now and is still being provisioned (so be gentle with it)
22:11 < ~agoliveira> tkamppeter: No but Google does :)
22:11 < ArneGoetje> Thanks everyone, nice to be on board! :)
22:11 < cjwatson> it should also have been on the agenda to introduce pedro_, who will be working with the QA and desktop teams to keep our desktop bug situation under contrl
22:11  * bryce waves welcome to ArneGoetje
22:11 < mdz_> pitti has two agenda items, but was unable to attend the meeting
22:11  * asac hugs ArneGoetje 
22:12 < BenC> anyone else experiencing hangs in xchat when connecting?
22:12  * ~agoliveira wears a tshirt "Vote for Pedro!"
22:12 < BenC> sorry, little late
22:12  * bryce welcomes pedro_
22:12 < mdz_> I suggest that we follow up on pitti's handoff needs via email
22:12 < evand> welcome pedro_!
22:12 < pedro_> agoliveira: you too? :-O
22:12 < pedro_> thanks guys ;-)
22:12 < mathiaz> pedro_: welcome :)
22:12 < kwwii> hi pedro_
22:13 < ~agoliveira> pedro_: Who doesn't? :-D
22:13 < mvo> welcome pedro_!
22:13 < mdz_> pedro has spent some time in the GNOME community, where I hear he did a little work in Bugzilla ;-)
22:14 < pedro_> thanks you i'm really happy to be around
22:14 < cjwatson> (pedro was top triager there last I checked)
22:14 < pedro_> hey i'm still in the top :-P
22:14 < cjwatson> I haven't checked recently ;-)
22:14 < pedro_> ;-)
22:14 < evand> pedro_: welcome to Ubuntu, get the Ubiquity bug count down to 15, thanks!
22:15 < pedro_> evand haha i'll do my best to do it
22:15 < evand> kidding, of course :)
22:15 < seb128> shame for him that we don't have weekly launchpad bug stats, he already did quite some work since monday ;)
22:15 < seb128> pedro_: don't listen to them, triage desktop bugs is good and fun
22:15 < pedro_> oh we have this stats from brian http://people.ubuntu.com/~brian/testing_graphs/desktopbugs.html
22:15 < seb128> and vuntz will get you ice cream ;)
22:16 < pedro_> yumi ice cream!
22:16  * ~calc hugs pedro_  :)
22:16 < ~calc> evand and I will love your work I'm sure ;)
22:16 < mdz_> deferring pitti's items to email, mathiaz is first up
22:16 < mdz_> mathiaz: DWHS?
22:16 < doko> I assume that's the old problem of version information upstream/ubuntu/debian
22:16 < mdz_> I don't know what it is
22:16 < doko> we are currently flying blind, some overview is needed
22:16 < doko> how do you know that we are behind debian, behind upstream?
22:16 < doko> even when syncs are frozen.
22:16 < evand> haha, indeed
22:16 < mvo> dhs is basicly a way to have a website with watch file information, quite handy
22:17 < doko> yes, extend that to include debian _and_ ubuntu version information
22:17 < mathiaz> I was looking into porting/installing it for ubuntu.
22:17 < cjwatson> I think DEHS would be an excellent thing for the new release manager to set up, once we have one
22:17 < cjwatson> though I don't actually object to it being done first :)
22:17 < mdz_> cjwatson: sounds like it would fit into the developer weather report idea
22:18 < cjwatson> indeed, exactly that
22:18 < cjwatson> that will already be aggregating a number of existing sources, so DEHS doesn't have to depend on developer-weather-report
22:18 < mdz_> mathiaz: it couldn't hurt to try it as an experiment, if you have the time
22:18 < mathiaz> so I was wondering if it's worth I look into installing dehs.
22:18 < doko> it is!
22:19 < mathiaz> I've looked at the code, it's written in php and uses postgresql
22:19 < mdz_> mathiaz: the gutsy server team work is higher priority, though
22:19 < cjwatson> worth noting that upstream version freeze is in a couple of weeks
22:19 < cjwatson> so making use of DEHS information after that will require exceptions
22:19 < mathiaz> mdz_: I'll keep that in mind.
22:19 < cjwatson> though it would still be nice to know where we stand, even so
22:20 < mdz_> doko: you're looking for help with lpia bootstrap?
22:20 < doko> yes, I cannot review 1000 packages
22:20 < mdz_> doko: what kind of review is needed?
22:21 < cjwatson> it may be worth focusing on categories that can be crossed off en masse, rather than individual reviews
22:21 < doko> IMO we need to review those, and should make it a priority now; it's far easier for the normal maintainers to do the review
22:21 < doko> see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileAndEmbedded/Bootstrap for the problems
22:22 < doko> cjwatson: that's what I mean: if bryce knows how x packages work, he can process them fast, same with gnome
22:22 < doko> don't know how sane kde is packaged
22:22 < seb128> doko: I'll review the GNOME one, that's pretty easy to grep all of them in the Debian pkg-gnome subversion
22:23 < Riddell> I should be able to do or find someone to do the KDE ones
22:23 < cjwatson> I don't think you'll get everything that way, but it certainly makes sense for regular core package maintainers to do this as a normal package maintenance task
22:23 < doko> seb128: thanks, just send infinity the list
22:23 < cjwatson> for things that we focus on
22:23 < bryce> unfortunately I'm going to be on leave tomorrow and monday, so am not going to have time between now and tribe4 freeze, but I could take a look after
22:23 < doko> cjwatson: agreed. should we announce this to -mobile as well?
22:23 < mdz_> we're primarily interested in the packages we'll actually be using on mobile platforms
22:24 < mdz_> auditing the entire archive is not really necessary at this point
22:24 < doko> then a list what is necessary, is appreciated.
22:24 < mdz_> doko: agoliveira should be able to provide thta
22:25 < mdz_> that
22:25 < doko> not easy currently, because much stuff is still in universe
22:25  * ~agoliveira_ agrees
22:25 < doko> no, i mean with all d's and b-d's resolved
22:25 < cjwatson> that's easy to produce with germinate
22:25 < mdz_> there's a list of top-level packages in moblin-image-creator
22:25 < cjwatson> the mobile seed should also have those
22:26 < mdz_> which, via germinate, should give us the list of packages we care about on lpia
22:26 < cjwatson> (if they aren't there already, put them there! they need to be there anyway ...)
22:26 < doko> cjwatson: I'll get in contact with you tomorrow and break down the list of packages
22:26 < ~agoliveira_> doko, ping me if you need help on that.
22:26 < mdz_> cjwatson: agreed
22:26 < cjwatson> agoliveira_: germinate -c main,restricted,universe --no-rdepends, publish required minimal standard mobile out of that
22:26 < doko> well, but please remove insane b-d's first, like libxul-dev (shoudl be firefox-dev)
22:27 < ~agoliveira_> doko, blame asac for that :)
22:27 < cjwatson> the second column is sources, which is probably the list you actually care about
22:27 < doko> agoliveira: the list has much more ;-P
22:27 < cjwatson> and you'll want .build-depends too
22:28 < doko> cjwatson: and installer?
22:28 < cjwatson> mobile won't be using the regular installer, AIUI
22:28 < mdz_> correct
22:29 < ~agoliveira_> yep
22:29 < doko> it would be nice to build a small live CD just for testing; it doesn't hurt if we can use it as an (unsupported) desktop system with gnome
22:29 < mdz_> it's more useful to be able to run it in a chroot with Xephyr/Xnest
22:30 < ~agoliveira_> doko: The image-build will support that eventually.
22:30 < doko> agoliveira: cool
22:30 < cjwatson> I've asked evand to look at getting live CD builds going
22:30 < cjwatson> it should be much easier to do it with the present infrastructure, and will make it easy to check for broken packages in a vaguely normal environment
22:30 < kwwii> what we need is good documentation on getting this stuff running on your test system, be it a mobile device or a "normal" desktop
22:31 < cjwatson> obviously they're no use for mobile releases as such
22:31 < cjwatson> and mobile developers would still want to use chroot+xephyr/xnest
22:31 < mdz_> kwwii: agoliveira created some already
22:31 < ~agoliveira_> kwwii: Isn't what we have not enough?
22:31 < ogra> cjwatson, to build a bootable usb key probably
22:32  * ~agoliveira_ is feeling like Borat today...
22:32 < kwwii> agoliveira_: I didn't get it running - me the stupid artist
22:32 < ~agoliveira_> kwwii: Just ping me and I'll be glad to help.
22:32 < kwwii> I thought about going through it until it worked and editing the docs
22:32 < kwwii> agoliveira_: I'll take you up on that :-)
22:33 < ~agoliveira_> kwwii: One is glad to be of service :)
22:33 < cjwatson> that said I don't want us to waste time getting the live CD installer working on lpia, so
22:33 < mdz_> indeed
22:33 < cjwatson> easy enough to exclude that
22:34 < mdz_> ok, what else for the meeting?
22:34 < dendrobates> since kees is traveling, I need some one to to an upload.
22:36 < cjwatson> dendrobates: what's the package?
22:36 < doko> cjwatson, mdz_: can I ask distro staff for the review of packages?
22:36 < dendrobates> it's a new package that needs to be be reviewed.  auth-client-config.
22:37 < asac_> sorry ... reconnect.
22:38 < Riddell> put it on revu :)
22:39 < cjwatson> doko: where it's within their existing responsibilities, yes, though they may have more immediate priorities
22:39 < Riddell> file a bug and subscribe ubuntu-main-sponsors
22:39 < Riddell> or even ubuntu-universe-sponsors since its new
22:39 < dendrobates> ok, thanks.
22:40 < doko> cjwatson, agoliveira: what's the deadline for the bootstrap for lpia?
22:40 < mdz_> dendrobates: what's the package?
22:40 < cjwatson> mdz_: he answered already
22:41 < cjwatson> doko: Adilson is more likely to know that than I
22:41  * mdz_ is lagged
22:41 < ~agoliveira> doko: Actualy Tollef would be better to answer that :)
22:41 < cjwatson> hah
22:41 < doko> guys ...
22:42 < ~agoliveira> doko: Really, I woudn't be able to give you a deadline right now.
22:42 < cjwatson> mdz_: you know the business deadlines, I don't. Feature freeze?
22:42 < mdz_> cjwatson: we're in the process of re-drafting the schedule to account for various changes
22:43 < mdz_> Tollef will be working on dates when he returns
22:43 < cjwatson> doko: I think "ASAP, and we'd rather not be running up against deadlines" is the best answer for now
22:43 < mdz_> we need lpia for gutsy, but it's not blocking other work (except for thorough testing)
22:44 < mdz_> it can happen in parallel with the development being done on i386
22:44 < cjwatson> I would prefer if it didn't run too far past FF in order to have it out of the way
22:44 < mdz_> let's target FF
22:44 < mdz_> doko: once you have the list of packages in hand, you can assess whether it's too much for one person
22:44 < mdz_> and we'll deal with that as it comes
22:45 < doko> well, in that case I would appreaciate it if core stuff can spend half a day next week on getting this done; the earlier it's ready the more testing we get
22:45 < mdz_> doko: it doesn't make sense to start distracting half the team when we haven't established the scope yet
22:46 < mdz_> so let's do that first
22:46 < mdz_> is there any other business for this week's meeting?
22:46 < cjwatson> e.g. KDE isn't being targeted for mobile so Riddell doesn't need to worry about that
22:46  * ~agoliveira thanks for that...
22:46 < doko> mdz_: well, who does the review then, I got distracted as well to get the basic stuff working.
22:46  * Riddell releaxes
22:47 < cjwatson> doko: I'm not sure it qualifies as "distracted" when it's an assigned task
22:47 < kwwii> so I'll have to make it orange after all
22:47 < doko> cjwatson: toolchain yes, bootstrap? I did take it because nobody else did it
22:47 < cjwatson> doko: get together with agoliveira and work out the scope
22:48 < doko> ok
22:48  * ~agoliveira acks
22:48 < cjwatson> I have one notice: CD builds are down at the moment
22:48 < cjwatson> we're migrating from lithium to a new master build machine, antimony
22:48 < doko> ohh, and mom is down as well
22:48 < doko> still
22:48 < cjwatson> that involved upgrading to edgy
22:49 < cjwatson> apparently we shipped a mkisofs in edgy that segfaults in the configuration used by debian-cd
22:49 < mdz_> cjwatson: I asked agoliveira to look into why the UME builds are failing; can you help him with peeking at logs and poking triggers where he doesn't have the necessary privileges yet?
22:49 < cjwatson> so I'm trying to sort that out at the moment
22:49 < cjwatson> worst case, we'll downgrade mkisofs to dapper
22:49 < cjwatson> mdz_: certainly
22:49 < mdz_> thanks
22:49 < cjwatson> agoliveira: please mail me what you know so far
22:50 < ~agoliveira> cjwatson: Ok.
22:50 < mdz_> does anyone other than Scott have access to the machine where MoM runs?
22:50 < doko> Mithrandir: :)
22:50 < mdz_> does anyone who is not on holiday have access to the machine where MoM runs?
22:50 < cjwatson> #is
22:50 < seb128> where does MoM run?
22:50 < cjwatson> casey
22:51 < mvo> I might have, I can check
22:51 < mdz_> on a machine where IS does not like to give out accounts :-)
22:51 < seb128> so, no
22:51 < mdz_> doko: sounds like an RT ticket is needed to check on it
22:51 < doko> mdz_: will do
22:51 < mdz_> doko: thanks
22:51 < cjwatson> well, if they don't like to give out accounts, the consequence is that they get to be backup when it fails and the people with accounts are not available :)
22:52 < doko> cjwatson: may I quote you? ;-P
22:52 < cjwatson> perhaps use marginally more diplomatic phrasing ;)
22:53 < mdz_> ok, sounds like we are finished with the meeting
22:53 < mdz_> thanks, everyone, and good night
22:53 < cjwatson> only other business is reviews
22:53 < cjwatson> (non-reviewers can go)
22:53 < asac> g'night
22:53 < ~agoliveira> Bye all.
22:53 < kwwii> night all
22:53 < bryce> cya!
22:53 < cjwatson> there are four pending reviews, by my count
22:53 < mathiaz> bye all
22:53 < evand> bye
22:53 < mvo> doko: it looks like i have the required aceess, I can have a look
22:53 < mvo> bye
22:53 < ~amitk_> bye all
22:53 < doko> mvo: cool
22:54 < cjwatson> notify-python (bug 77281), lirc (bug 129038), gnome-screensaver (bug 128935), dhcdbd (bug 128619)
< ubotu> Launchpad bug 77281 in notify-python "python-notify is missing examples" [Medium,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/77281
< ubotu> Launchpad bug 129038 in lirc "lirc overwrote my lircd.conf" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/129038
< ubotu> Launchpad bug 128935 in gdm "Please add this patch to pass gnome-keyring environement trought gdm" [Unknown,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/128935
< ubotu> Launchpad bug 128619 in dhcdbd "[Sync Request] Sync dhcdbd_2.8-1 from Debian unstable (main)" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/128619
22:54 < mvo> doko: now I just need to figure out how to make this thing run again ...
22:54 < cjwatson> volunteers?
22:55  * ogra looks
22:55 < seb128> cjwatson: gdm for me
22:55 < doko> I'll take 128619, reviewing it
22:55 < cjwatson> 128619 looks bogus since there are Ubuntu changes
22:55 < cjwatson> which are not mentioned and apparently not merged
22:56 < ogra> gss for me ...
22:56 < cjwatson> if that's correct, it should be marked invalid and the requestor can reopen if they fix it
22:56 < seb128> ogra: in fact it might have been fixed in 2.19.6 already
22:56 < ogra> seb128, yes, i thought so, need to check the changelog
22:56 < seb128> "        * Fixed #327602, gnome-screensaver never propagates the environment to its helper dialog (William Jon McCann)"
22:56 < seb128> it has
22:56 < cjwatson> please assign bugs to yourselves, I'm not at home and this browser is already logged into launchpad as somebody else
22:57 < ogra> seb128, ah, great
22:57 < ogra> (you're to fast :P )
22:57 < cjwatson> seb128: gdm side is fix-released already
22:57 < cjwatson> anyone for lirc? it's just a packaging bug
22:57 < seb128> cjwatson: in fact that's the gnome-screensaver bug fixed in 2.19.6 I just mentionned
22:57 < cjwatson> I think
22:57 < cjwatson> seb128: nod
22:58 < ogra> cjwatson, gss now too
22:58 < cjwatson> great
22:58 < cjwatson> though a where-it-was-fixed comment would have been nice
22:59 < ogra> i'll add that
23:00 < cjwatson> seb128: could you take python-notify?
23:01 < cjwatson> and I'll take lirc
23:01 < seb128> cjwatson: ok
23:02 < cjwatson> ok, we're done then, thanks
23:02 < cjwatson> adjourned
23:02 < seb128> thanks cjwatson
23:02 < ogra> \o/
23:02 < tkamppeter> One small thing still ...
23:03 < tkamppeter> When pitti is on honeymoon, who will upload my packages?
23:03 < doko> tkamppeter: I'll do it again
23:03 < mvo> doko: mom may behave better now, still give me a error, but that one look like the archive is not in sync
23:03 < tkamppeter> Thanks doko, expect a lot of packages ...
23:04 < cjwatson> tkamppeter: you can also use the main sponsorship process (attach debdiff or similar, subscribe ubuntu-main-sponsors); as you've seen we're now processing that queue fairly reasonably
23:04 < tkamppeter> Thanks cjwatson
23:06 < tkamppeter> Another thing, for the archive experts: pitti has uploaded cupsys-1.2.12-1ubuntu2, it built and the sources can be downloaded from Launchpad, but it does not hit the mirrors. Can someone check? Thanks.
23:07 < cjwatson> tkamppeter: one moment
23:07 < ogra> tkamppeter, some mirrors only sync once in 24h
23:08 < ogra> i think the german one is among them ...
23:09 < cjwatson> hmm, odd, it landed in the archive hours ago
23:09 < cjwatson> -rw-r--r-- 1 lp_publish lp_publish 949352 Aug  2 16:04 ubuntu/pool/main/c/cupsys/cupsys-common_1.2.12-1ubuntu2_all.deb
23:09 < cjwatson> yet you're right, it's not on archive.u.c
23:09 < seb128> cjwatson: same with gdm
23:09 < cjwatson> ogra: archive.u.c syncs more often than once in 24h
23:09 < seb128> the version uploaded by iwj this afternoon was not available when I tried to get it before the meeting
23:09 < ogra> yeah, i understood he meant the mirrors
23:10 < ogra> my bad
23:10 < seb128> cjwatson: it's available now though
23:11 < seb128> maybe it's just being slow
23:11 < cjwatson> it's on syncproxy
23:11 < tkamppeter> ogra, I am using the portuguese one.
23:12 < cjwatson> I think it's only on some of the archive.u.c rotation
23:12  * cjwatson checks
23:13 < tkamppeter> I have tested pitti's cupsys packages by downloading the source from Launchpad ab
23:13 < tkamppeter> and rebuilding.
23:14 < cjwatson> it's on .89.8, but not .89.6 or .88.31
23:14 < cjwatson> I'll file an RT request
23:16 < cjwatson> done
23:16  * cjwatson -> gnome
23:16 < cjwatson> er
23:16 < cjwatson> gone :-)
23:16 < cjwatson> words I am now unable to type, #47 in a series of lots
23:17  * seb128 gives GNOME to cjwatson
23:17 < seb128> good, I can go to bed now ;)
23:17 < cjwatson> well, given that the machine I'm borrowing here is running Kubuntu ...
23:17 < cjwatson> night :)
23:17 < seb128> 'night ;)
</pre>
