{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** None
* W Development
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

Please feel free to add more items to the agenda for the next meeting. We will discuss them in turn when it arrives.

=== Minutes ===
* Review Action Points from previous meeting:
** None

* W Development:
** No https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseSchedule yet
** No https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-w-server yet
** Release Bugs!
** One new bug since last meeting : http://launchpad.net/bugs/1452312
** Blue Prints
** Still empty

* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou):
** Nothing to report

* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara):
** We have smoke tests running for Wily; some bugs found and fixes are under the way.
** There are some recent failures for Trusty as well which will be address next week.

* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
** smb: We are working on isolated recreation of bcache issues in 3,13. If anybody else is having new findings there let me know. 

* Ubuntu Server Team Events
** Forgotten

* Open Discussion
** Openstack Developer Summit next week.

* Announce next meeting date, time and chair

** Next meeting will be on Tuesday, May the 19th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting. (in real the 26th as the 19th has been cancelled).

===== Meeting Actions =====
* None

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, May 31st at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[15:58] <kickinz1> o/
[16:00] <kickinz1> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:00] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue May 12 16:00:29 2015 UTC.  The chair is kickinz1. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:00] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:00] <coreycb> o/
[16:00] <strikov> o/
[16:00] <rharper> \o
[16:00] <beisner> o/
[16:00] <smb> o/
[16:01] <kickinz1> o/
[16:01] <kickinz1> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:01] <kickinz1> I found an old one, don't know if still relevant:
[16:01] <kickinz1>  James Page to provide feedback on bugs 1425288 and 1425128
[16:01] <ubottu> bug 1425128 in linux (Ubuntu Trusty) "bcache causes task hang with 3.13 kernel" [Medium,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1425128
[16:01] <ubottu> bug 1425288 in linux (Ubuntu) "kernel NULL pointer dereference during bcache cache_set_flush call" [High,Expired] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1425288
[16:02] <smb> shall we take that off the agenda for now?
[16:02] <kickinz1> yes
[16:03] <kickinz1> In minutes, there is no other action points left.
[16:03] <kickinz1> #topic Wily Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Wily Development
[16:03] <kickinz1> Still no https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseSchedule yet
[16:03] <kickinz1> #subtopic Release Bugs
[16:04] <kickinz1> 1 New bug since last meeting:
[16:04] <kickinz1> 	http://launchpad.net/bugs/1452312
[16:04] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1452312 in python-eventlet (Ubuntu Wily) "glance-registry process spins if rsyslog restarted with syslog logging enabled" [High,Confirmed]
[16:05] <kickinz1> #subtopic Blueprints
[16:06] <kickinz1> Same here, no https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-w-server yet
[16:07] <gnuoy> o/
[16:07] <kickinz1> Sorry the page is there.
[16:07] <kickinz1> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:08] <caribou> kickinz1: nothing on my side, thanks
[16:08] <kickinz1> Thanks
[16:08] <kickinz1> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
[16:08] <kickinz1> Anythink to say matsubara?
[16:09] <kickinz1> matsubara not ther moving on.
[16:09] <kickinz1> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
[16:09] <smb> We are working on isolated recreation of bcache issues in 3,13. If anybody else is having new findings there let me know. Otherwise not strictly kernel but wondering whether bcache-tools in trusty (bug 1449099) is strictly sru
[16:09] <ubottu> bug 1449099 in bcache-tools (Ubuntu Trusty) "sru bcache-tools to trusty " [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1449099
[16:10] <rharper> smb: are those issues related to the setup/teardown of bcachc ?
[16:10] <smb> smb, No. Reported hangs
[16:10] <rharper> ah, new stuff, ok
[16:10] <smb> rharper, I know about the teardown
[16:10] <smb> anything about setup too?
[16:11] <smb> rharper, If you got anything, let me know offline
[16:12] <smb> Otherwise has anybody question for us
[16:12] <smb> I guess that means no
[16:12] <smb> Or irc is broken
[16:13] <arges> smb: i can hear you
[16:13] <arges> : )
[16:13] <kickinz1> :D
[16:13] <kickinz1> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:13] <kickinz1> Thanks smb
[16:13] <kickinz1> Anything?
[16:14] <matsubara> kickinz1, hey, sorry I'm having connectivity issues and couldn't be online for my QA section of the meeting
[16:14] <rharper> smb: sorry , was distracted, nothing new with setup only those teardown issues with sysfs interface;  if I find anything else, will let you know
[16:14] <smb> rharper, cool. tahnks
[16:14] <kickinz1> So matsubara, do you have anything to say ?
[16:14] <matsubara> We have smoke tests running for Wily: http://d-jenkins.ubuntu-ci:8080/view/Wily/view/Smoke%20Testing%20/
[16:14] <matsubara> Some of them are failing and I'm aware of the failures. There are bug reports for them and I'm fixing and/or coordinating the fixes with others.
[16:14] <matsubara> There are some recent failures for Trusty as well which I'll debug properly during this week.
[16:14] <matsubara> That's all from me.
[16:14] <matsubara> kickinz1, ^
[16:15] <kickinz1> Thanks matsubara.
[16:15] <matsubara> de rien
[16:15] <kickinz1> ODS next week ?
[16:15] <kickinz1> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
[16:16] <kickinz1> next week 19th of may, jamespage to chair.
[16:16] <kickinz1> #endmeeting
</pre>
