{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** ACTION: all to review blueprint work items before next weeks meeting
* U Development
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

===== Final Freeze 9 days out =====
* Check on <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntuwire.org/~wgrant/rebuild-ftbfs-test/test-rebuild-20140914-utopic.html#ubuntu-server|FTBFS packages]]</nowiki> -- seems like there has been good progress
* Make sure <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-u-server|Blueprints]]</nowiki> are up to date, if resources are needed now is the time to ask.
* Release bugs, no high priority ones, juju mirs and openstack bits are being worked.
* kickinz1 brought up two bcache bugs (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1377130|LP #1377130]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1377142|LP #1377142]]</nowiki>) to the kernel team for help.

===== Meeting Actions =====
None

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, Oct 14th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:02] <lutostag> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:02] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Oct  7 16:03:01 2014 UTC.  The chair is lutostag. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:02] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:03] <kickinz1> o/
[16:03] <smb> o/
[16:03] <matsubara> o/
[16:03] <arges> o/
[16:03] <lutostag> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:03] <lutostag> Blueprints...
[16:03] <smoser> o/
[16:04] <coreycb> o/
[16:04] <lutostag> everyone was supposed to review blueprint work items before next weeks meeting
[16:04] <rharper> \o
[16:04] <lutostag> so if you havent done that, get to it nowish I guess
[16:04] <lutostag> no other action items from last week
[16:04] <lutostag> #topic Utopic Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Utopic Development
[16:04] <lutostag> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseSchedule
[16:05] <lutostag> so whats the state of things, are we frozen?
[16:06] <lutostag> Final Freeze is 9 days out
[16:06] <lutostag> #subtopic Release Bugs
[16:07] <lutostag> well, before we do that, Im sure someone probably wants to say something about Utopic
[16:07] <lutostag> I know we still have some FTBFS packages, right rbasak? any high importance ones still outstanding?
[16:07] <rbasak> One moment
[16:08] <rbasak> http://people.ubuntuwire.org/~wgrant/rebuild-ftbfs-test/test-rebuild-20140914-utopic.html#ubuntu-server
[16:08] <rbasak> jpds: are you still looking at the strongswan one?
[16:08] <jpds> rbasak: Yep.
[16:09] <rbasak> OK, thanks.
[16:09] <rbasak> Any help with these would be appreciated.
[16:09] <lutostag> rbasak: thanks, that looks better than I thought it was, do you need more resources or are we on track?
[16:09] <rbasak> I had been leaving them for the virtual sprints.
[16:09] <rbasak> But as we're coming up to final freeze I'll take a look.
[16:10] <lutostag> rbasak: alright, thanks!
[16:10] <jamespage> o/
[16:10] <jamespage> sorry late
[16:10] <lutostag> #subtopic Release Bugs
[16:10] <lutostag> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-u-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:10] <lutostag> doesnt look like any High prio ones
[16:11] <lutostag> we've got our juju mirs and some openstacky things
[16:12] <lutostag> anything in that list we need that isnt being activelt pushed? something not there?
[16:12] <lutostag> actively*
[16:13] <lutostag> I guess we seem to be comfortable then.
[16:13] <lutostag> #subtopic Blueprints
[16:13] <lutostag> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-u/group/topic-u-server.html
[16:13] <lutostag> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-u-server
[16:14] <lutostag> (I just updated servercloud-u-maas moments ago, so that should be doing better)
[16:15] <lutostag> the other ones that look a little low are juno (zul) and curtin (smoser)
[16:15] <lutostag> who dont happen to be here right now
[16:15] <smoser> :)
[16:15] <smoser> i'm here. just quiet.
[16:15] <smoser> i'll llook at curtin.
[16:15] <lutostag> smoser: great, thanks
[16:16] <zul> ditto
[16:16] <lutostag> I guess thats it for Blueprints, get them to the current status and decide what needs to be postponed
[16:16] <zul> not curtin but the other stuff
[16:17] <lutostag> zul: gotcha
[16:17] <lutostag> or if you need more resources, now is the time to pester gaughen
[16:17] <lutostag> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:18] <arges> caribou is out this week btw
[16:18] <lutostag> ah, ok
[16:18] <lutostag> did anyone have anything important from last week to follow up on, if not moving on
[16:19] <lutostag> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
[16:19] <lutostag> psivaa: floor is yours
[16:19] <psivaa> not much to report from us on the iso testing side
[16:19] <psivaa> lutostag: ^ :)
[16:20] <lutostag> so I read that as its going well
[16:20] <lutostag> psivaa: thanks!
[16:20] <psivaa> sure
[16:20] <lutostag> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
[16:20] <smb> I would have nothing to bring up and am not aware of anything pending from our side. Please let me know if there is anything or if there are any questions.
[16:21] <kickinz1> smb, I reported some bugs on bcache, wa may need to speak about them
[16:21] <smb> kickinz1, If you could subswcribe me on them I would find them
[16:21] <kickinz1> ok
[16:21] <arges> kickinz1: is this the same bcache bug we looked at a while ago?
[16:21] <kickinz1> no
[16:22] <arges> ok
[16:22] <kickinz1> if you create a bcache devaice with caching device > backing, kernel crash (machine hangs)
[16:22] <kickinz1> and there is no way to completely destroy a bcache without rebooting.
[16:22] <arges> kickinz1: ok can you post the bug#?
[16:22] <kickinz1> I'll ping you later with the bugs numbers
[16:22] <kickinz1> ok
[16:22] <arges> ok
[16:23] <smb> kickinz1, or send a list to kernel-team mailing list
[16:23] <kickinz1> 1377130, 1377142
[16:23] <smb> that way we all get notified and have a record
[16:23] <kickinz1> ok I'll do
[16:24] <lutostag> great, if nobody has anything else...
[16:24] <arges> kickinz1: also to assist speedy debugging try using latest mainline kernels to help us narrow down the issue. I think joe's bot sends instructions on how to dot hat
[16:24] <arges> and i'm done...
[16:25] <lutostag> :)
[16:25] <lutostag> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:25] <lutostag> so ODS
[16:26] <lutostag> anything else we should be aware of?
[16:26] <lutostag> guess not
[16:26] <lutostag> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:27] <lutostag> Anything else?
[16:28] <lutostag> #topic Announce next meeting date and time
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date and time
[16:28] <lutostag> Tues, Oct 17 same time
[16:28] <lutostag> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[16:28] <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Oct  7 16:28:49 2014 UTC.
[16:28] <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-10-07-16.03.moin.txt
[16:28] <kickinz1> thanks lutostag
[16:28] <lutostag> rharper: you're up next!
[16:29] <rharper> lutostag: yeah, but Ill be out of pocket
[16:29] <gaughen> lutostag, we will need to reorder since rharper will be in Brussels
[16:29] <rharper> yar
[16:29] <rharper> lutostag: also, you might forget to send meeting notes =)
[16:30] <lutostag> and meeting is Oct 14th not 17 -- I cant add 7
</pre>
