{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': Mon Feb 23rd 2015 16:36 UTC
* '''End''': 17:04 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': Tyler Hicks (tyhicks)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Chris Pollock provided a debdiff for lucid for ClamAV (LP: #1420819). Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** snappy hardware access
** update the SnappyConfinement spec
** discuss overlayfs and AppArmor in regards to snappy
** review tool changes
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: bug triage
** publish Samba updates
** publish e2fsprogs updates
** publish ca-certificates updates
** start on freetype updates
** sbeattie
** weekly role: cve triage
** request sponsorship of apparmor and apparmor-easyprof-ubuntu updates in Vivid
** testing gcc-5 packages that have pie by default set
** tyhicks
** weekly role: happy place
** retest and publish ecryptfs-utils security updates
** review and test an eCryptfs kernel fix
** triage an eCryptfs data loss bug on btrfs
** propose v2 of the libapparmor API changes
** review some overlayfs related changes that went into 4.0-rc1 that may affect AppArmor
** jjohansen
** triage failing fd inheritance tests on krillin (LP: #1423810)
** get verification of the LP: #1408833 fix and push it to the kernel team
** v2 libapparmor API review
** AppArmor kernel cleanups and upstreaming
** sarnold
*** weekly role: community
*** several MIRs at the server team's request
*** test and publish Horizon security update
*** discussions about the ppc64-diag MIR
** chriscoulson
*** Firefox and Thunderbird updates
*** Embargoed stuff
 
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2015/ubuntu-meeting.2015-02-23-16.36.moin.txt
