{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** jamespage checkin with old iscsitarget users on relevancy with new kernels
** cpaelzer investigating severity of issues covered by qemu 2.5. stable releases and ask other Teams on their input
** cpaelzer will try to ask Stephen Hemminger for more data on the netdev presentation
** powersj to update agenda to remove yakkety add in zesty
* Development Release
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZestyZapus/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
** Active work that may need wider communication
* Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads (caribou)
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)
** https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
* Upcoming Call For Papers
** https://lwn.net/Calendar/Monthly/cfp/
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion

=== Minutes ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:03.

** ''DONE:'' cpaelzer investigating severity of issues covered by qemu 2.5. stable releases and ask other Teams on their input
** ''DONE:'' cpaelzer will try to ask Stephen Hemminger for more data on the netdev presentation
** ''DONE:'' powersj to update agenda to remove yakkety add in zesty

==== Zesty Development ====
The discussion about "Zesty Development" started at 16:10.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZestyZapus/ReleaseSchedule 
** Need debootstrap with Zesty support SRU'ed back to Yakkety
** Lots of imports completed by nacc
** ''LINK:'' https://code.launchpad.net/~usd-import-team/+git
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:19)
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 
** ''LINK:'' https://code.launchpad.net/~usd-import-team/+git 

==== Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads (caribou)" started at 16:24.

** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/multipath-tools/+bug/1611360 
** Various updates from caribou
** jgrimm requesting SRU for multipath-tools

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)" started at 16:32.

** ''LINK:'' https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/ 
** Focus on cloud-init integration testing
** Won't forget about cpaelzer and QEMU ;)

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)" started at 16:34.

** Out next week for Linux Plumbers

==== Upcoming Call For Papers ====
The discussion about "Upcoming Call For Papers" started at 16:35.

** ''LINK:'' https://lwn.net/Calendar/Monthly/cfp/ 
** Fosdem at the end of the month

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:37.

** Folks at Open Stack Summit this week, Linux Plubmers next.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:38.

** rbasak to help powersj sponsor debootstrap
** smoser reviewing merge requests for cloud-init
** jgrimm interested in snap-create-user support. rharper to get daily image booted on ec2 with support soon 

==== Announce next meeting date, time and chair ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date, time and chair" started at 16:48.

=== Log ===
<pre>
 16:03 <powersj> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:03 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Oct 25 16:03:03 2016 UTC.  The chair is powersj. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:03 <meetingology> 

 16:03 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:03 <caribou> o/

 16:03 <powersj> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:03 <powersj> (jamespage) checkin with old iscsitarget users on relevancy with new kernels

 16:03 <powersj> jgrimm: any update here?

 16:03 <jgrimm> openstack summit this week

 16:03 <powersj> ah yes

 16:03 <powersj> leave on for one more week?

 16:04 <jgrimm> sure. i don't have any context on that item, but we can do over email if needed

 16:04 <powersj> (cpaelzer) investigating severity of issues covered by qemu 2.5. stable releases and ask other Teams on

 16:05 <cpaelzer> yo

 16:05 <cpaelzer> all the Crits in the delta from us to the latest stable were already covered by the security Team

 16:05 <cpaelzer> I got some feedback

 16:05 <cpaelzer> all that I got referred to cases where doing it pro-actively broke stuff

 16:05 <cpaelzer> so I guess the consensus is - unless we have any reason to do so we keep it as is

 16:06 <cpaelzer> there are about two in there which could be considered "high" but it depends so much on the particular setup that it is hard to rate "comunity wide"

 16:06 <cpaelzer> so TL;DR - not bringing in 2.5.1.1 proactively

 16:07 <cpaelzer> powersj: that item done, ready for the next if there are now further questions

 16:07 <powersj> #done cpaelzer investigating severity of issues covered by qemu 2.5. stable releases and ask other Teams on their input

 16:07 <powersj> cpaelzer will try to ask Stephen Hemminger for more data on the netdev presentation

 16:07 <cpaelzer> yeah that is the next one

 16:07 <cpaelzer> I met him, and not only asked but discussed in detail

 16:08 <cpaelzer> while this was an entertaining discussion there isn't much he could share that would help us to identify new issues or address them

 16:08 <cpaelzer> but

 16:08 <cpaelzer> I found good contact in Intel for openvswitch dpdk and at least for that will work on analyzing some East/West Traffic issues that our Testing in regard to ovs-DPDK inveiled in the last dev cycle

 16:09 <cpaelzer> any questions on that?

 16:09 <cpaelzer> powersj: you have the timout duty to call it none, mark it done and go on

 16:09 <powersj> #done cpaelzer will try to ask Stephen Hemminger for more data on the netdev presentation

 16:09 <powersj> powersj to update agenda to remove yakkety add in zesty

 16:09 <powersj> #done powersj to update agenda to remove yakkety add in zesty

 16:10 <powersj> that's all the action items, moving on

 16:10 <powersj> #topic Zesty Development

 16:10 <powersj> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZestyZapus/ReleaseSchedule

 16:10 <cpaelzer> the page doesn't exist yet

 16:10 <jgrimm> heh

 16:10 <cpaelzer> But I'm sure your link will be correct one day

 16:10 <powersj> Yeah I just changed yakkety -> zesty

 16:10 <cpaelzer> one thing on zesty dev

 16:10 <cpaelzer> I just discussed with rbasak on that earlier today

 16:11 <cpaelzer> there is no debootstrap for zesty yet

 16:11 <cpaelzer> that means you can hardly (only with workarounds) do sbuild, autopkgtest and such

 16:11 <cpaelzer> the TL;DR of our discussion was that zesty atm should be considered only "somewhat open" for development

 16:12 <cpaelzer> until that shows up in backports for your release - likely Xenial/Yakkety

 16:12 <cpaelzer> rbasak: andyinth to add?

 16:12 <cpaelzer> "anything"

 16:12 <rbasak> No, that covers it.

 16:12 <rbasak> It'll probably be in updates rather than backports.

 16:12 <cpaelzer> true

 16:12 <cpaelzer> ok, just thought worth to mention it here for all

 16:12 <jgrimm> thanks, i hadn't known that. :(

 16:13 <cpaelzer> jgrimm: you can just fire and forget upload - but if you like testing before :-)

 16:13 <powersj> is it on us or foundations or other to get that updated?

 16:13 * rharper joins late

 16:13 <cpaelzer> on foundation I think, the question is if we could get a hook somewhere to be notified once it is ready to go - and maybe an ETA

 16:14 <rbasak> AFAICT, it usually happens when some developer gets fed up and JFDI

 16:14 <rbasak> I don't think anyone would object if one of us did the update.

 16:14 <rbasak> (though do coordinate in #ubuntu-devel to avoid duplicate effort, etc)

 16:15 <jgrimm> would be good to know if its on someone's plate already/eta

 16:16 <cpaelzer> rbasak: you likely have the best connections - would you reach out to them for the question of jgrimm?

 16:16 <rbasak> ack

 16:17 <rbasak> Is it just debootstrap?

 16:17 * powersj wonders how hard a symlink + change log entry could be ;)

 16:17 <rbasak> powersj: it's not hard in the slightest - just needs someone to do it :)

 16:17 <cpaelzer> powersj: quite often the devil is in the detail

 16:17 <powersj> if I hear no movement I may just try

 16:18 <cpaelzer> powersj: wait until rbasak pings us after inquiring maybe?

 16:18 <powersj> yeah

 16:18 <cpaelzer> rbasak: you could drop whatever you find out to server-dev list or such - ok ?

 16:18 <rbasak> ack

 16:18 <powersj> alright, any other topics for zesty dev?

 16:19 <powersj> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:19 <powersj> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:19 <jgrimm> nacc has imported a bunch of server packages

 16:19 <jgrimm> he's out today

 16:19 <powersj> ah yes!

 16:19 <powersj> I'll capture in notes

 16:20 <jgrimm> basically pre-imported list of server packages that are out of date wrt upstream version

 16:20 <cpaelzer> I'm on the dovecot one and about 5 others, but while a lot of work non is like exploding the system for anybody

 16:21 <powersj> anything else?

 16:21 <jgrimm> #link https://code.launchpad.net/~usd-import-team/+git

 16:21 <powersj> thx!

 16:21 <jgrimm> that's all i had

 16:21 <cpaelzer> did my first re-merge

 16:21 <cpaelzer> using the toolchain

 16:21 <cpaelzer> so far I could fix all I needed together with nacc

 16:21 <jgrimm> nish still owes an email out to ml

 16:22 * smoser started a mega-import to see failures

 16:22 <cpaelzer> smoser: did that mean many imports or a packet with weird and huge history?

 16:22 <smoser> using https://gist.github.com/smoser/4c5480b3c98c37a4eff0715e51f2c27b

 16:22 <jgrimm> always gotta break things

 16:22 <smoser> just started top to bottom alpha on main

 16:22 <jgrimm> :)

 16:23 <cpaelzer> hehe

 16:23 <smoser> lots of network errors :-(

 16:23 <smoser> and then https://bugs.launchpad.net/usd-importer/+bug/1636529

 16:23 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1636529 in usd-importer "UnicodeDecodeError on package gmp and others" [Medium,Confirmed]

 16:23 <cpaelzer> you did that DDOS last week with all the git traffic :-P

 16:24 <powersj> anything else?

 16:24 <jgrimm> that's all i have

 16:24 <powersj> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs & SRU/Pending Uploads (caribou)

 16:24 <powersj> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:24 <caribou> on a personal note, waiting for upstream ACK of a patch so makedumpfile works on 4.8 kernels again

 16:24 <smoser> cpaelzer, i wasnt pushing anything . just locally.

 16:25 <caribou> and now adding a new segment to our weekly broadcast : Current SRU being worked on

 16:25 <caribou> LP: #1626258 [SRU] AttributeError: 'Requirement' object has no attribute 'project_name'

 16:25 <caribou> - Uploaded to Z; X & Y to follow

 16:25 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1626258 in python-pip (Ubuntu Zesty) "[SRU] AttributeError: 'Requirement' object has no attribute 'project_name'" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1626258

 16:25 <caribou> LP: #1621835 multipathd reconfigure does not update /etc/multipath/wwids file on trusty

 16:25 <caribou> - Waiting on verification

 16:25 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1621835 in multipath-tools (Ubuntu Trusty) "multipathd reconfigure does not update /etc/multipath/wwids file on trusty" [Medium,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1621835

 16:25 <caribou> btw, do you want them all in sequence or wait if discussion is needed ?

 16:26 <caribou> LP: #1587261 [SRU] Swift bucket X-Timestamp not set by Rados Gateway

 16:26 <caribou> - Reviewing patch, preparing upload to Z

 16:26 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1587261 in ceph (Ubuntu Zesty) "[SRU] Swift bucket X-Timestamp not set by Rados Gateway" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1587261

 16:26 <caribou> well, this one is more about openstack though

 16:26 <caribou> LP: #1584485 Upgrading samba to latest security fixes together with winbind in nsswitch.conf can harm entire OS

 16:26 <caribou> - Preparing upload to Z, X & Y to follow

 16:26 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1584485 in samba (Ubuntu Yakkety) "Upgrading samba to latest security fixes together with winbind in nsswitch.conf can harm entire OS" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1584485

 16:26 <jgrimm> caribou, i appreciate this. good to know about

 16:26 <caribou> so these are all our current SRUs

 16:27 <caribou> anything that the server team want to bring attention on ? (SRU wise I mean)

 16:27 <caribou> (done)

 16:27 <cpaelzer> sooner or later that will be an SRU bug 1633220

 16:27 <ubottu> bug 1633220 in dovecot (Ubuntu Yakkety) "Dovecot panics when sieve filter outputs much data" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1633220

 16:28 * powersj will be filing SRU for debootstrap

 16:28 <caribou> cpaelzer:we'll be keeping an eye on the release bug report

 16:29 <powersj> anything else for caribou?

 16:29 <jgrimm> caribou, i have an SRU for multipath-tools that you  may be interested in

 16:29 <jgrimm> caribou, (i also need a sponsor)  given you have experience in that package

 16:29 <caribou> jgrimm: got a fix for it yet ?

 16:29 <jgrimm> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/multipath-tools/+bug/1611360

 16:29 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1611360 in multipath-tools (Ubuntu Yakkety) "Xenial 32-bit: multipath exits with SIGSEGV" [High,In progress]

 16:30 <caribou> (multipath-tools changelog got my name all over the place) :)

 16:30 <jgrimm> caribou, already got it into zesty, just need a sponsor for xenial before it can move to sru team assist

 16:31 <caribou> jgrimm: I'll add it to our list to sponsor if you want

 16:31 <jgrimm> much appreciated if you have the time

 16:31 <jgrimm> caribou, cool!

 16:31 <caribou> jgrimm: ok, will do

 16:32 <powersj> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)

 16:32 <powersj> cloud-init integration testing is up on Jenkins with initial test lots of thanks to magicalChicken and his hard work. Plan is to focus on writing additional tests this week.

 16:32 <powersj> Some other work on Jenkins slaves, capturing work done in Yakkety cycle and Zesty task planning.

 16:32 <powersj> #link https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/

 16:32 <powersj> anything for me?

 16:33 <cpaelzer> powersj: don't forget me :-P

 16:33 <powersj> cpaelzer: haven't ;)

 16:33 <cpaelzer> powersj: no it's fine - finalize cloud-init and let me know once we make a nother turn on qemu then

 16:33 <powersj> I don't like seeing all that red, so I'm still looking

 16:34 <powersj> moving on

 16:34 <powersj> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)

 16:34 <smb> No smudged dairy animals this week. Noting else from us (kernel-team). Besides, next week we are at Linux Plumbers.

 16:34 <powersj> thx smb! anything else for kernel folks?

 16:35 <powersj> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers

 16:35 <powersj> #link https://lwn.net/Calendar/Monthly/cfp/

 16:36 <jgrimm> fosdem end of month, only thing i'm seeing

 16:37 <powersj> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:38 <jgrimm> OpenStack Summit, Linux Plumbers already mentioned, various folks attending both

 16:38 <powersj> #topic Open Discussion

 16:39 <rbasak> Nobody is working on debootstrap

 16:39 <rbasak> So powersj is taking it.

 16:39 <rbasak> Thanks powersj!

 16:39 <jgrimm> rbasak, you'll sponsor?

 16:40 * powersj may learn to keep his mouth shut ;)

 16:40 <rbasak> Sure

 16:40 <jgrimm> rbasak, cool, tx

 16:40 <powersj> anything else?

 16:41 <jgrimm> smoser, cloud-init updates?

 16:41 <smoser> not a lot. i made a couple merges

 16:41 <smoser> still have some to do, and really wanting to try magicalChicken's integration test.

 16:42 <powersj> smoser: I proposed one to add coverage to unit tests

 16:42 <smoser> yeah, saw that. will look again.

 16:42 <powersj> ok thx

 16:43 <powersj> final comments?

 16:43 <jgrimm> smoser, i'm interested in snap-create-user support (rharper)..

 16:43 <smoser> it is in trunk now.

 16:43 <smoser> rharper and i working on getting an 'all-snap' image going.

 16:44 <rharper> sometime today if cloud-init daily ppa kicks off; I'll have a new core snap recipe building against cloud-init daily ppa

 16:44 <jgrimm> smoser, and https://bugs.launchpad.net/cloud-init/+bug/1611074

 16:44 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1611074 in cloud-init "Reformatting of ephemeral drive fails on resize of Azure VM" [High,Fix committed]

 16:44 <smoser> believed fixed in trunk

 16:44 <jgrimm> yeah, needs fixed in xenial tho

 16:44 <smoser> rharper, https://code.launchpad.net/~cloud-init-dev/+archive/ubuntu/daily is seemingly good to go

 16:44 <rharper> cool,

 16:45 <rharper> I'll create the recipe for core snap to build against that daily

 16:45 <smoser> jgrimm, well, yes. i will look to update zesty today.

 16:45 <jgrimm> smoser, cool. tx

 16:45 <rharper> we've an almost fully working image for OpenStack;  currently chasing down why we don't mount the boot partition properly; this prevents snapd from confirming that we booted into grub (or uboot); which blocked installing new snaps;  a workaround is to bind mount it from where it got mounted

 16:46 <rharper> hoping to get an image booted in EC2 sometime today and update the status in the document

 16:46 <jgrimm> rharper, smoser \o/

 16:47 <powersj> last call...

 16:47 <jgrimm> that's all for me

 16:48 <powersj> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 16:48 <powersj> Same time, same place with your host: beisner

 16:48 <powersj> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
</pre>
