{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=10&day=03&year=2011&hour=28&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Oct 3rd 2011 17:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:30 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* micahg
* tyhicks
* jjohansen

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Ubuntu 11.10 is scheduled to release in next week. If you are interested, it would be great if people helped make sure that the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-cve-tracker|Ubuntu CVE Tracker]]</nowiki> is up to date for the devel release (particularly for universe/multiverse packages).
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** potentially short week
** Weekly role: happy place
** MIRs
** work items
** UDS preparation
** release cycle duties
** patch pilot
** mdeslaur
** Weekly role: triage, kernel workflow
** UDS preparation
** pending updates
** sbeattie
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** UDS prep
** QRT testing
** micahg
** Weekly role: happy place
** patch pilot
** updates
** tyhicks
** Weekly role: community
** ecryptfs bugs

* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2011/ubuntu-meeting.2011-10-03-17.00.moin.txt
