{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu Open Week - Ubuntu Server - Soren Hansen - Mon, Oct 22, 2007 ===
{{{
16:07 < soren> alright, welcome everybody!
16:08 < soren> My name is Soren, and I work for Canonical on Ubuntu's server edition.
16:08 < soren> Please keep the questions coming as I haven't prepared a whole lot in advance.
16:09 < soren> Our launchpad page is as http://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server
16:09 < soren> We also have a mailing list, which you can subscribe to from http://lists.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-server
16:10 < soren> ...and of course an IRC channel #ubuntu-server. You're always welcome to stop by either of those with your questions or if you want to help out and answer questions from time to time.
16:10 < OrcoFortran> Question: I know this is not under canonical's control,however, is canonical working with dell to bring ubuntu preloaded on server?
16:10 < soren> The server edition of ubuntu uses the same collection of packages as the desktop version.
16:10 < soren> We only don't install very many packages from the start.
16:10 < popey> OrcoFortran: questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat please
16:10 < OrcoFortran> sorry
16:10 < soren> This means that you can without any problems install server packages on your desktop, or even install gnome on your server.
16:11 < soren> Mind you, if you install gnome on your server installation, that doesn't make any questions about that suitable for the #ubuntu-server channel. It's still desktop stuff :)
16:11 < popey> < gehel_> QUESTION : will we see more Java Integration in the future ? Especially things like GlassFish, or other application servers ?
16:12 < soren> Er..  To be honest, I don't know what Glassfish is :)
16:12 < soren> Regarding java:
16:12 < gehel_> Glassfish is the opensource application server from SUN
16:12 < soren> It's always been a bit troublesome due to licensing issues.
16:13 < soren> ...but since Sun is in the process of freeing it, I expect to see it becoming more seamlessly available.
16:13 < soren> I don't think there's anything in particular planned in that respect,
16:13 < soren> but if you have specific suggestions, feel free to file blueprints on launchpad and write a specification about it and we'll take a look.
16:14 < soren> ...or you can do the hard work yourself and help us out!
16:14 < dholbach> glassfish is in the archive since feisty already.
16:14 < soren> Oh, cool.
16:14 < popey> < DrDabbles> QUESTION: What efforts are being made to advance the ease of configuration for ubuntu servers? Efforts such as ebox, etc.?
16:15 < soren> For gutsy we added a set of easily selectable tasks that was meant to make some commonly needed packages easier to install.
16:15 < alextrax> starting upgrading to 7.10
16:15 < soren> For hardy, we're going to be working on getting eBox included.
16:16 < soren> eBox will provide a simple and easy to use web interface for a set of services commonly needed by small business kind of setups.
16:16 < soren> DNS, dhcp, proxy, vpn, etc..
16:16 < soren> Next week is UDS where we'll be looking at what else we can do to make everything easier.
16:17 < soren> If you have suggestions, please e-mail us at ubuntu-server@lists.ubuntu.com or file blueprints on launchpad.
16:17 < soren> ...or stop by UDS in Boston next week and discuss things with us.
16:17 < popey> < Linuturk> QUESTION: What will we see as far as thin clients and the "ease of use" for administering servers?
16:17 < soren> That's really two separate questions.
16:18 < soren> Edubuntu is focused on thin clients.
16:18 < soren> If you want that sort of functionality, edubuntu does that out of the box (as far as I know) :)
16:18 < soren> I believe I answered "ease of use for adminsterings servers" a minute ago :)
16:18 < soren> If not, please rephrase your question.
16:18 < popey> < mybunche> QUESTION: In the future Will Ubuntu Server have a GUI? Maybe something like [windows] home server?
16:19 < soren> I'm not familiar with windows home server, but eBox is a shiny web interface, which is likely to be the most gui-like interface you're going to see in a while.
16:19 < soren> UNIX servers and gui's are traditionally not something that goes hand in hand.
16:19 < soren> :)
16:19 < popey> < OrcoFortran> Question: I know this is not under canonical's control,however, is canonical working with dell to bring ubuntu preloaded on server?
16:20 < soren> To be perfectly honest: I haven't a clue :)
16:20 < loofi> Hi Soren. Can we expect a role for XEN server under installation in the near future?
16:20 < popey> < Linuturk> QUESTION: Have you considered fluxbox as a lightweight gui for windows admins moving to linux?
16:20 < popey> loofi: questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat please
16:20 < soren> No, and I don't think that's the right way to go.
16:21 < soren> fluxbox doesn't look like anything (s)he's used to, so I don't think it'll be of much use to him/her.
16:22 < soren> ...in the sense that it doesn't provide a familiar environment anyway, so it seems a bit pointless.
16:22 < popey> < J_K9> QUESTION: Will Ubuntu Server adopt a more modular approach in the future, in which more preset configurations and software selections become available?
16:22 < soren> Yes, indeed.
16:22 < soren> We added the task selection step in the server installer for gutsy as a start.
16:23 < soren> If you have suggestions for more tasks (and which packages should be included in those tasks) just give us a shout and we'll look into it.
16:23 < popey> < XiXaQ> QUESTION: The new mailserver task is brilliant. It simplifies alot. Will you keep adding new tasks, and if so, what will they be?
16:23 < popey> slight dupe, sorry
16:23 < soren> Er, yeah, that was answered a second ago. However..
16:24 < soren> With regard to being modular, I think ubuntu server is highly modular already.
16:24 < soren> We don't force any superfluous software onto your system.
16:24 < soren> so you can pick the exact pieces you need to solve your puzzle :)
16:24 < popey> < Linuturk> QUESTION: I've been told a few times in #ubuntu-server that said channel isn't for support. Is this true, and/or can that be clarified in the topic of the channel? 
16:25 < soren> The current topic is: Ubuntu Server discussion and support | for general (not server specific) support visit #ubuntu | Seriously good guide to asking questions on IRC: http://www.sabi.co.uk/Notes/linuxHelpAsk.html
16:25 < soren> It already says "support".
16:25 < soren> Up until about a year ago (I think) it was a development only channel, but we changed it, so feel free to stop by and ask your questions.
16:26 < popey> < rick_h_> QUESTION: Is there going to be a well defined list of known issues in doing an LTS->LTS server upgrade?
16:26 < soren> Yes, we'll include that sort of thing in the release notes.
16:26 < _MMA_> ;)
16:26 < _MMA_> (sorry)
16:26 < soren> That's what they're for, after all :)
16:26 < popey> < MartinW> QUESTION: I want to setup a basic LAMP server for my computer studies final project. Do you know a good guide?
16:26 < rick_h_> well, just checking it'll be more LTS -> LTS than Gutsy->Hardy
16:27 < soren> During install you can select the "LAMP server" task.
16:28 < soren> That should set everything up for you. If you're having problems with it, stop by our IRC channel or e-mail the mailing list and we'll do our best to help you out.
16:28 < popey> < agy> Question: What is Canonical's strategy with Landscape (http://www.canonical.com/landscape) and when can we expect to see something of it? Could you explain it a little more?
16:28 -!- mode/#ubuntu-classroom [+o popey] by ChanServ
16:28 < soren> Uh, that's a tough one :)
16:28 -!- popey changed the topic of #ubuntu-classroom to: Ubuntu Open Week info: Information and Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek  |  Ubuntu classroom transcripts: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ClassroomTranscripts | Please ask questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat not here | Current Session: Ubuntu Server - Soren Hansen
16:29 -!- mode/#ubuntu-classroom [-o popey] by popey
16:29 < soren> Landscape is a service provided by Canonical to our support customers.
16:29 < soren> It allows you to manage and monitor a large set of Ubuntu machines easily.
16:29 < soren> IIRC, tt is currently in its beta phase..
16:30 < soren> if you want to try it out, you can find more info on:
16:30 < soren> http://www.canonical.com/landscape
16:31 < soren> At the bottom there's a link to a page where you can sign up for a trial.
16:31 < popey> < Muzik-qs> QUESTION: Is there any effort going into an ubuntu desktop management server which is free and open for the community to use -- along the lines of RHN from Redhat (which only runs on their servers and tells you about what you have support for) or SMS from Microsoft?
16:31 < soren> I'm afraid I'm not sure what either of those provide, so it's a bit hard for me to tell you what we offer that matches it.
16:32 < soren> It's quite possible that landscape fits into that space, but I'm not sure.
16:32 < soren> Rumour has it that we're getting low on questions, so keep 'em coming!
16:32 < popey> FYI: RHN provides a centralised web based management tool 
16:32 < popey> people can logon to RHN and see what updates are pending for all their systems
16:32 < Muzik```> I've never used landscape before, I'm just looking from the previous question.  Can it be run on a local server (or does it reside at canonical hq?)
16:33 < soren> I see. That's sort of what landscape does too, I believe.
16:33 < soren> You install a (free as in speech) client on your machines and manage them from a web interface running on Canonical servers.
16:33 < popey> < J_K9> QUESTION: Can you spill the beans on some interesting, upcoming features in Ubuntu Server?
16:34 < soren> Well, nothing is set in stone yet.
16:34 < soren> We'll be discussing things at UDS next week and only then will we know what exactly we'll be spending the next 6 months doing.
16:35 < soren> A lot of it is going to be "boring" stuff like making sure Dapper->Hardy upgrades work without a hitch, but there's lots of room for shiny new stuff.
16:36 < soren> ...but since nothing's really decided yet, there's still time to suggest new things, and you can also work on things yourself and we can include them! The sky is the limit! :)
16:36 < popey> < gonzalo> Question: Are there any plans for another LTS Server version?
16:37 < soren> I'm not sure what you mean. Hardy (the release scheduled for release in April 2008) will be an LTS release.
16:37 < soren> If that doesn't answer your question, just ask again.
16:37 < popey> < evarlast> Q: Are there plans to fork the server into a conventional server vs. a Home-Server? Where Home Service might not include email, ldap and "enterprise" services, but instead NAS, UPnP Music, and automatic disk management ?
16:37 < soren> Well, as I mentioned earlier, ubuntu is a really modular beast.
16:38 < soren> You can start out with a bare bones install and just cherry pick the components you want (e-mail, vpn, etc.)
16:38 < soren> ...so there's really no need to separate it into several editions.
16:38 < soren> The reason we've split desktop and server is because of space on the CD.
16:39 < soren> ...or lack thereof :)
16:39 < popey> < J_K9> QUESTION: How does Ubuntu's Server team approach security?
16:40 < soren> We have people dedicated to a) monitoring security mailings lists for new vulnerabilites and b) doing auditing of our existing software.
16:40 < soren> when they come across issues, they prepare fixes for all our support releases. currently, that means Dapper, Edgy, Feisty, and Gutsy.
16:41 < soren> These updates should be easily available on any ubuntu system and only be a  quick apt-get update && apt-get upgrade away.
16:41 < popey> < stani> QUESTION: What is the best performing virtualisation platform (ease to install, speed, ...) for Ubuntu Server?
16:41 < soren> Good question.
16:41 < soren> Like many good questions, it doesn't have a good answer, though :)
16:42 < soren> Different virtualisation systems have different requirements of the hosts and different limitations.
16:42 < soren> IMO there's really no one virtualisation system that gives you everything.
16:43 < soren> They all have their quirks and downsides.
16:43 < soren> It really depends on your needs.
16:43 < popey> < mralphabet> QUESTION: What are short term and long term plans for backports (non security, rather feature enhancements - IE mysql or php or samba) for LTS?
16:43 < soren> Well, we don't support backports, actually.
16:44 < soren> The ubuntu backports project (sort of a separate project) provide backports of various software, but it's not really supported.
16:44 < soren> We support security updates and serious bug fixes. That's it.
16:45 < popey> < effie_jayx> QUESTION: what makes the server kernel special?
16:45 < popey> [compared to desktop kernel i suspect this means]
16:45 < effie_jayx> yep :D
16:45 < soren> That's a really good question. Let me check.
16:46 < effie_jayx> I ask because many people install desktop and start adding server functionality... but the kernel is different in some way
16:46 < charlesnw> right.
16:46 < charlesnw> it includes things like ipvs and such
16:46 < soren> Hm... There's different settings for io scheduling and stuff like that.
16:47 < soren> The selection of drivers seems to be the same.
16:47 < popey> max memory settings are higher in the bigiron kernels also?
16:47 < soren> I'm not sure of the details, to be honest.
16:47 < soren> popey: We dropped the -bigiron flavour for gutsy, actually :)
16:47 < charlesnw> soren: interesting
16:48 < charlesnw> I never ran -bigiron on any systems. always -server
16:48 < charlesnw> on servers of course. :)
16:48 < popey> < evarlast> QUESTION: Any plans on having Xen by default?
16:48 < soren> Not that I know of.
16:48 < soren> That was an easy one :)
16:48 < popey> < Linuturk> QUESTION: What is the target audience for Landscape, and will you have to pay for support through Canonical to use such a system? What is the target audience for the beta?
16:49 < charlesnw> I found it greatly helped performance with my vmware system ( I run vmware server on Feisty Fawn host and dapper guests). run server kernel on host and in all guests
16:49 < popey> charlesnw: please take chat to #ubuntu-classroom-chat, thanks
16:49 < charlesnw> ah sure
16:49 < soren> It's not really my area of expertise, but I'll try to answer nonetheless.
16:49 < soren> Landscape is a service provided to support customers.
16:50 < soren> It targets organisations with many ubuntu systems that would like to manage them from a central place.
16:50 < soren> The target audience for the beta is almost the same, except you don't have to be a paying support customer.
16:51 < soren> I don't know what will happen when the beta period is over.
16:51 < popey> < nealmcb> QUESTION: What plans are there for improved directory and authentication support, better integration with AD, etc?
16:52 < soren> We hope to make it a lot easier for an Ubuntu system to use ldap or kerberos for authentication in Hardy.
16:52 < nealmcb> s/integration/interoperation/  :-)
16:52 < soren> It's something that is needed in enterprise settings and that is an interesting place to get into :)
16:53 < soren> We hope that we'll be able to include an easily available ldap server thing, too.
16:53 < soren> We'll know more post UDS :)
16:53 < popey> < tazz> Question: What was the need to come up with ubuntu server, when we already have debian?
16:54 < soren> Well, Ubuntu has a much shorter relaese cycle than Debian.
16:54 < soren> This means that every 6 months you can get a fresh, supported server software stack.
16:55 < tazz> ah, ok so the deference between the 2 of them is the release cycle?
16:55 < soren> Currently, there's actually very little difference between Ubuntu server and a Debian server, but that might change in the future.
16:56 < soren> Many people find themselves in a situation where they want to run Debian stable, but they also need some new software. This forces them to maintain a system that is a mix of stable and testing and that can cause all sort of problems.
16:57 < tazz> oh, ok i get it now :-)
16:57 < soren> If all goes well, every 6 months, you can have a fresh selection of packages that we've spent a great deal of time on making sure interacts properly.
16:57 < popey> < popey> QUESION: I see there is some discussion regarding bringing newer versions of SAMBA into Ubuntu Server. Can you briefly talk about the decisions that have been made in this areas and why?
16:57 < popey> [dapper specifically]
16:58 < soren> We will not be bringing a new version of Samba into Dapper.
16:58 < soren> That's not our policy.
16:58 < soren> We will, however, do our best to identify the precise problems in Samba in Dapper and fix those.
16:59 < soren> Just taking a new version of Samba might cause problems for existing users, and to be perfectly honest, I think not breaking things that already works is more important than fixing other problems.
16:59 < soren> That doesn't mean we shouldn't fix them, but we should be absolutely sure that we don't break existing setups in the process.
17:00 < xworkming> Any one able to give me a hand
17:00 < popey> < sommer> QUESTION: I noticed that DB2 is certified to run on Ubuntu, is work being done to certify other proprietary software to work on Ubuntu?
17:00 < soren> Yes
17:00 < soren> next question, please. :)
17:00 < popey> xworkming: there is a session on at the moment, you might want to move over to #ubuntu-classroom-chat
17:00 < popey> < ubuntu_demon> QUESTION: What's a good FLOSS virtualization platform available for Ubuntu (in main) for VPS (Virtual Private Server) where each VPS hosts another website ?
17:01 < soren> Hmm...
17:01 < soren> I'm not sure, actually.
17:01 < xworkming> I need to install cli only
17:01 < xworkming> What would i need to write out for the boot parameters on Gutsy?
17:01 < Amaranth> xworkming: This is not the place
17:02 < soren> I'm going to have to pass on that question. We can talk later, sommer, ok?
17:02 < xworkming> There are so many ubuntu chanels
17:02 < popey> < Ubersoldat> QUESTION: Do you believe Ubuntu Server is ready for mainstream use as a competition for RHEL?
17:02 < ubuntu_demon> soren: np :)
17:02 -!- mode/#ubuntu-classroom [+o Amaranth] by ChanServ
17:02 -!- mode/#ubuntu-classroom [+b *!*@72.4.4.98!#ubuntu] by Amaranth
17:02 -!- mode/#ubuntu-classroom [-o Amaranth] by ChanServ
17:02 < sommer> soren: np... just realized it was worded as a yes or no
17:02 < soren> Yes.
17:02 -!- mode/#ubuntu-classroom [+o Amaranth] by ChanServ
17:02 < soren> In a word, yes :)
17:03 < sommer> cool thanks soren.
17:03 < soren> We've proven to be quick with security fixes, we got a massive selection of packages to choose from.
17:03 < soren> sommer: Oh, that wasn't an answer to your question. :)
17:04 < soren> I see not particular reason why we shouldn't be a good replacement for RHEL.
17:04 < popey> < savvas> QUESTION: Any plans for more architectures to be supported by ubuntu-server?
17:04 < soren> Not at the moment, no.
17:04 < soren> do you have anything in particular in mind?
17:04 < jefftUK> QUESTION: As architectures have been mentioned, can I ask about Java support on PPC?
17:04 < savvas> no I was just curious, do go to the next question :)
17:05 < soren> Alright.
17:05 < soren> jefftUK: #ubuntu-classroom-chat, please.
17:05 < popey> < J_K9> QUESTION: Are there any plans to simplify virtualization set-up and management in Ubuntu Server?
17:05 < jefftUK> Typically it's something that most distros don't put a lot of effort into, but has the opening up by Sun made any difference in this area?
17:05 -!- mode/#ubuntu-classroom [+o popey] by ChanServ
17:05 < jefftUK> OK sorry.
17:06 -!- mode/#ubuntu-classroom [+v soren] by Amaranth
17:06 -!- mode/#ubuntu-classroom [-o popey] by popey
17:06 < popey> this is the last question.
17:06 <+soren> Yes, there is. I've created a script that makes is trivially easy to setup a virtual machine for vmware. I'll post info the server mailing list.
17:06 <+soren> Oh, right.
17:07 < popey> thanks very much soren and everyone for asking questions..
17:07 <+soren> Thanks for stoppy by, everyone.}}}
