{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=03&day=05&year=2012&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Mar 5th 2012 18:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 18:30 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* micahg
* jjohansen

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Thanks
** Kilian Krause (kilian) provided debdiffs for lucid for fex (DSAs 2414 and 2259)
  Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Review of any previous action items
** [ACTION] sbeattie to follow up on qrt bugs from QA team: DONE
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** happy place
** archive admin caught up
** MIR audit catch-up
** pending updates
** embargoed issue
** mdeslaur
** Weekly role: triage
** pending updates
** research some security bugs
** sbeattie
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending update
** essential work items (!AppArmor userspace bugs/work items)
** micahg
** Weekly role: happy place
** icedtea6 regression Bug:927282
** prepare for next round of mozilla updates
** webkit as have time (uploads to ppa could happen this week)
** tyhicks
** Weekly role: community
** pending updates
** jjohansen
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** upstream submission follow-ups
** bug fixes for mount rules and minimization
** work items
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** Discuss another PPA for staging SRUs and development packages. Is it worth it? (Could provide additional peer-review at lower cost). If so, what should it be named? ubuntu-security-staging
** [ACTION] jdstrand to setup ubuntu-security-staging ppa and communicate to team
** < mdeslaur> tyhicks: what's the status on #842647? It's unclear to me
** tyhicks tried to reproduce recently but couldn't. Wrote a patch and will update the bug.

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-03-05-18.02.html
