{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** Previous meeting minutes at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20131126
** smoser sync with utlemming on building cloud images for alpha 1, targets = seed-review, gpt
** jamespage do seed-review email
** jamespage, gaughen review blueprints and accept for trusty
** gaughen file bug with status.u.c to get ubuntu server topic tracking in there
** all: write up blueprints, and have them ready for review by November 28
* T Development Opening
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

We're at the start of the 14.04 cycle so everyone please complete your bloueprints if you haven't already.  Also please take a look at grep-merges otuput help with merges and syncs.

There will be an alpha1 of cloud images on Dec 19.

===== Meeting Actions =====

* ACTION: gaughen file bug with status.u.c to get ubuntu server topic tracking in there  (carry over)
* ACTION: everyone look at grep-merges output and merge/sync as much and early as possible
* ACTION: jamespage to send email on server seed [carry over)

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, May 31st at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:00] <hallyn> #startmeeting
[16:00] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Dec  3 16:00:34 2013 UTC.  The chair is hallyn. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:00] <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[16:00] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:00] <hallyn> Previous meeting minutes at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20131126
[16:01] <hallyn>  ?
[16:01] <hallyn> what as that about?
[16:01] <hallyn> i'll assume it's a mistake and move on,
[16:01] <hallyn> smoser sync with utlemming on building cloud images for alpha 1, targets = seed-review, gpt
[16:01] <smoser> hm... utlemming ^ ?
[16:01] <smoser> lets mark that done, and i'll do it now.
[16:02] <hallyn> ok
[16:02] <hallyn> jamespage do seed-review email
[16:02] <hallyn> saw it on the list i think
[16:02] <hallyn> jamespage, gaughen review blueprints and accept for trusty
[16:02] <utlemming> hallyn: cloud images will have an alpha 1
[16:02] <gaughen> hallyn, we did that yesterday, it's partially done
[16:02] <hallyn> ok, won't renew the action item then, thanks
[16:02] <hallyn> gaughen file bug with status.u.c to get ubuntu server topic tracking in there
[16:03] <gaughen> not done
[16:03] <hallyn> [ACTION] gaughen file bug with status.u.c to get ubuntu server topic tracking in there  (carry over)
[16:03] <meetingology> ACTION: gaughen file bug with status.u.c to get ubuntu server topic tracking in there  (carry over)
[16:03] <hallyn> thanks
[16:03] <hallyn> all: write up blueprints, and have them ready for review by November 28
[16:03] <hallyn> were we all good boys and girls?
[16:04] <gaughen> smoser?
[16:04] <gaughen> were you a good boy?
[16:04] <smoser> never
[16:04] <gaughen> lol
[16:04] <smoser> but i have 1 of 3 done-ish.
[16:04] <smoser> i will work on others.
[16:04] <hallyn> well deadline passed so wwon't renew that :)
[16:04] <hallyn> moving on,
[16:04] <hallyn> [TOPIC] T Development Opening
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: T Development Opening
[16:04] <gaughen> based on our review yesterday, we do have updates for some folks to make to the blueprints
[16:04] <hallyn> who wants to take this?
[16:04] <gaughen> and of course smoser
[16:05] <hallyn> jamespage: arosales: ^
[16:05] <arosales> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/ReleaseSchedule
[16:05] <jamespage> hallyn, sure
[16:06] <jamespage> so start-ish of cycle still
[16:06] <jamespage> get those blueprints updated as per gaughen's feedback
[16:06] <jamespage> but not looking to bad
[16:06] <arosales> Dec 19 for Alpha 1 which sounds like utlemming is going to cut a cloud image for
[16:06] <jamespage> sensible BP's for an lts
[16:06] <hallyn> ok, thanks - moving on
[16:06] <jamespage> merges and syncs still important focus right now - we need to get version bumps in early as possible
[16:07] <hallyn> ah.  where is the url with theh list of not-done merges/syncs?
[16:07] <jamespage> everyone should know about 'grep-merges' - its easier than going to merges.ubuntu.com
[16:08] <hallyn> hm,  ok
[16:08] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:08] <jamespage> hallyn, I think rbasak did some work on a server focussed merge report but I don't know where that lives
[16:08] <hallyn> jamespage: do you want an action for ppl to look at merges?
[16:08] <jamespage> yes please
[16:09] <hallyn> [ACTION] everyone look at grep-merges output and merge/sync as much and early as possible
[16:09] <meetingology> ACTION: everyone look at grep-merges output and merge/sync as much and early as possible
[16:09] <hallyn> jamespage: thanks
[16:09] <hallyn> caribou is not here
[16:09] <hallyn> does anyone else want to say anything about server/cloud bugs?
[16:09] <hallyn> going once,
[16:09] <jamespage> hrm
[16:09] <jamespage> I know one that is hitting caribou and his guys right now
[16:10] <jamespage> bug 1241674
[16:10] <hallyn> that is appropriate to discuss here?
[16:10] <ubottu> bug 1241674 in juju-core "juju-core broken with OpenStack Havana for tenants with multiple networks" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1241674
[16:10] <jamespage> yeah - it is
[16:10] <hallyn> carry on :)
[16:10] <jamespage> I poked the upstream owner on that one
[16:10] <jamespage> he's promised to update the bug report
[16:10] <jamespage> with details on plans etc...
[16:11] <hallyn> i don't see a link to upstream bug... who is the owner?
[16:11] <hallyn> anyone here?
[16:12]  * arosales is here
[16:12] <hallyn> ok, moving on
[16:12] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
[16:12] <hallyn> psivaa is not here
[16:12] <arosales> hallyn, is that re bug 1241674 ?
[16:12] <ubottu> bug 1241674 in juju-core "juju-core broken with OpenStack Havana for tenants with multiple networks" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1241674
[16:12] <hallyn> arosales: yes
[16:12] <hallyn> arosales: are you the upstream bug owner? :)
[16:13] <jamespage> hallyn, mgz
[16:13] <jamespage> sorry
[16:13] <arosales> looks like jamespage filed :-)
[16:13] <arosales> and there he is
[16:13] <jamespage> mgz is the upstream owner
[16:14] <hallyn> ...  do you want an action for yourself relating to this?
[16:14] <hallyn> (or anyone else...)
[16:14] <arosales> and 1241674 is the upstream bug
[16:14] <hallyn> arosales: then why isn't mgz marked as owner?
[16:14] <arosales> jamespage, any action for ubunt server here?
[16:14] <jamespage> no its all upstream right now
[16:14] <arosales> hallyn, task is out for juju-core
[16:15] <hallyn> ok, thanks.
[16:15] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:15] <smb> I don't have anything to report this week. Are there issues or questions?
[16:15] <hallyn> smb: hi
[16:15] <jamespage> hallyn, no - it was just pertient to carbous section
[16:15] <hallyn> jamespage: ok, thanks
[16:15] <hallyn> anyone have a question for smb?
[16:15] <arosales> jamespage, juju will mostly likely land that in trusty
[16:16] <hallyn> smb: thanks :)
[16:16] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
[16:16] <smb> hallyn, welcome :)
[16:16] <hallyn> rbasak is not here,
[16:16] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:17] <hallyn> A big merge+sync irc party perhaps?
[16:17] <hallyn> Woohoo!  Meeerggeeee
[16:17] <hallyn> guess not, moving on
[16:17] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Open Discussion
[16:18]  * hallyn leaves this open for a minute 
[16:18]  * smoser applauds hallyn's frat-boy excitement over a merge party.  and quickly puts on his toga.
[16:18] <smoser> i'd say for open discussion...
[16:18] <hallyn> toGA toGA MERGE MERGE SYNC
[16:19] <smoser> please see Jamespage's mail
[16:19] <hallyn> topic?
[16:19] <jamespage> smoser, mail?
[16:19]  * smoser searches for link
[16:19] <smoser> oh wait. i thought you had sent one.
[16:19] <jamespage> I've not sent the one about seed package review yet - sorry being slack on that
[16:19] <smoser> yeah, that one
[16:19] <smoser> :)
[16:19] <jamespage> today
[16:19] <hallyn> ooh...  do we need a new action item?
[16:19] <smoser> so, after jamespage mails it with a timestamp in the past, please read at
[16:20] <smoser> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2013-December/thread.html
[16:20] <hallyn> sorry i thought i'd seen the email on that!
[16:20] <hallyn> but i guess that was irc
[16:20] <smoser> probably you saw http://pad.ubuntu.com/server-seed-review
[16:20] <hallyn> [ACTION] jamespage to send email on server seed [carry over]
[16:20] <meetingology> ACTION: jamespage to send email on server seed [carry over]
[16:20] <hallyn> right
[16:21] <hallyn> ok, then
[16:21] <hallyn> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date, time and chair
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
[16:21] <hallyn> Next meeting will be Tuesday Dec 10 at 16:00 UTC
[16:21] <arosales> hallyn, thanks for chairing
[16:21] <hallyn> smoser chairing
[16:21] <hallyn> thanks everyone
[16:21] <hallyn> #endmeeting
</pre>
