{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
06:56	somerville32	Oh, look. My clock must be off by 5 minutes :/ -- all of my clocks, lol
=== marseillai [n=mars@AMarseille-156-1-1-75.w90-9.abo.wanadoo.fr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
07:00	j1mc	hi all
07:00	nixternal	howdy
07:00	somerville32	Hiya
07:00	earobinson	hey
07:01	j1mc	wow, nixternal is here, too
=== j1mc waves
=== ongardie [n=nongardi@66-100-35-21-static.dsl.oplink.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
07:01	nixternal	sitting here at the CoDLUG meeting :)
07:01	nixternal	it is nice and quiet here today
07:01	nixternal	getting some hacking done
07:01	j1mc	cool.
07:01	ongardie	hey
07:02	j1mc	hi ongardie
=== Knightlust [n=Dax@ubuntu/member/knightlust] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
07:03	somerville32	Is this the first xubuntu-devel meeting for Gutsy?
07:03	j1mc	somerville32: yes it is
07:04	somerville32	Awesome. I'm pumped.
07:04	j1mc	me, too
07:05	j1mc	according to the agenda at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings ... we're supposed to cover:
07:05	j1mc	featureset for 7.10
07:05	j1mc	discussion of help center
07:05	j1mc	ideas for 7.10 documentation (yeay!)
07:05	j1mc	and ... whether or not to add a murrine gtk theme.
07:05	j1mc	i am not married to this agenda, though.
=== j1mc added the "yeay!" at the end of the documentation note.
=== somerville32 is editing that wiki page.
07:06	j1mc	np, somerville32
07:07	j1mc	let us know when you're done.  we'll give you a few minutes.
=== maxamillion [n=adam@r74-192-178-37.htvlcmta01.hnvitx.tl.dh.suddenlink.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
07:09	j1mc	hi maxamillion
07:09	maxamillion	sorry i am late
07:10	j1mc	np, cody is editing the agenda on the wiki
07:10	maxamillion	good stuff
07:10	j1mc	he'll let us know when he's done...
07:10	maxamillion	ok
07:11	somerville32	done
=== grazie [n=grazie@host86-133-103-86.range86-133.btcentralplus.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
07:11	maxamillion	grazie: !!! :) ... welcome to the meeting :) ... http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/898
07:12	j1mc	ok!
=== maxamillion checks the newly edited agenda
07:12	grazie	maxamillion: thanks...just being nosey
07:12	j1mc	grazie: agenda up at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings
07:13	maxamillion	grazie: you should participate! https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings
07:13	maxamillion	lol
=== maxamillion was too slow
07:13	j1mc	i'm out at free geek chicago.  ping me when discussion about documentation comes up.  freddy martinez and i have a lot of ideas and such.
07:14	j1mc	i don't knw much about the help center.
07:14	maxamillion	awesome
07:14	maxamillion	wait .. the help center?
07:14	grazie	maxamillion:  not a slow as my new broadband(?) connection
07:14	grazie	j1mc: reading through now...
=== somerville32 doesn't know who added that to the agenda.
=== j1mc did
07:15	j1mc	do we want to use it?  didn't we get a working draft ready for feisty?
07:15	maxamillion	grazie: yeah, i am about to move into a new place in roughly 5 days and i am worried the broadband supplier there will be slow :/
07:15	maxamillion	j1mc: i think you are talking about the welcome center
07:15	somerville32	*centre
07:15	somerville32	<g>
=== j1mc goes to change wiki. is it still something we're interested in?
07:16	maxamillion	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Specifications/Feisty/XubuntuWelcomeCenter
07:16	maxamillion	somerville32: tomato, tomato ....
07:16	somerville32	I question how useful it will be.
=== maxamillion thinks that applies better when he can verbally express each pronounciation
07:17	somerville32	The welcome centre is an interesting idea but it accomplish little more then documentation does.
07:17	j1mc	i think so, too
07:17	ongardie	it might get in the way if auto-started
07:17	maxamillion	somerville32: i think it would be exponentially useful, giving first time users a quick overview of the project, and empowering them with resources they need to be aware of in order to accomplish every day tasks
07:18	somerville32	aka - our documentation :P
07:18	maxamillion	ongardie: it would only auto-start on the first boot of a fresh install and has a check box to continue autostarting, but will always autostart on the liveCD
07:18	somerville32	Developing our own application is a lot of work and overheard.
07:18	maxamillion	somerville32: well, yes .. that and the wiki, the forums, etc.
07:19	maxamillion	somerville32: but 80% of our users never look at the documentation
07:19	ongardie	i don't think the app would have to be that complex, but you'd have to get good content **and** translate it
=== maxamillion didn't look at the documentation until he went to work on updating it
07:19	somerville32	Then maybe we should find out how we can make the documentation more visible and useful to users?
07:20	maxamillion	somerville32: put it in the welcome center :)
=== maxamillion really thinks the whole docbook thing is rather useless
07:20	j1mc	topic-based help is more useful than what we have in place now, though.
07:20	somerville32	Maybe we should looking at removing any gnome dependencies from yelp?
07:20	ongardie	maybe we can package the docs as html files and do the same thing as the welcome center, but with content we already have and through a browser that already exists
07:21	somerville32	ongardie, Thats what already happens with the documentation.
07:21	maxamillion	ongardie: yeah, the docs just pop up in firefox atm
07:21	ongardie	well, then we just need to make that more visible
07:21	somerville32	Firefox is rather "big".
07:21	j1mc	i think that removing the gnome deps from yelp could be useful.
07:21	maxamillion	somerville32: its about to get bigger
07:22	ongardie	i don't see how putting the docs in a python app will improve everything
07:22	somerville32	j1mc: Thats actually what I was thinking.
07:22	somerville32	ongardie, I think what we want to accomplish is showing some kind of welcome documentation at boot. Firefox is for sure too heavy to be auto-started.
07:22	j1mc	yelp looks an awful lot like the welcome center. :)
07:22	maxamillion	ongardie: the welcome center was tested on a 200mhz machine with 128mb of ram, the load time was trivial and using the app was snappy
=== somerville32 nods @ j1mc.
07:23	ongardie	i don't know about you guys, but let's be honest: I would never open the thing and i sure as hell don't want it opening itself
07:24	ongardie	a launcher on the desktop that opens a "heavy" application would suffice, in my opinion
07:24	maxamillion	ongardie: right, but after the first boot of a fresh installation, you can tell it to never open again
07:24	somerville32	I think adding a launcher would be a good first-step.
07:24	maxamillion	lets be honest, the current wave of linux users is helpless and they need things shoved in their face before they have a clue what's going on
07:25	ongardie	they are helpless when it comes to internals
07:25	ongardie	i honestly believe most people can figure out the desktop apps without help
=== somerville32 nods.
07:25	maxamillion	ongardie: i would hope so, that is all rather straight forward
07:25	somerville32	As long as we can get it all to work right out of the box :)
07:26	somerville32	Windows 98's welcome centre failed horribly.
07:26	somerville32	We should learn from it.
07:27	ongardie	what about windows XP's tour? they really made a mistake having that thing run without accelerated video drivers
07:27	ongardie	heh
07:27	somerville32	hehe
07:27	somerville32	I think we should ditch the welcome centre project.
07:27	somerville32	The other buntus do not have things auto-loading like that.
07:27	maxamillion	anyone seen Vista's automated garbage?
07:28	maxamillion	somerville32: no, but the ubuntu welcome center has been in the works for some time now
07:28	j1mc	maxamillion: you mean the whole OS vista?  :)
07:28	somerville32	maxamillion, And when it gets released, we can simply use that instead of developing our own.
07:28	maxamillion	j1mc: heh ... no joke, i am tired of fixing that OS at work
07:28	j1mc	somerville32: when what gets released?
07:28	maxamillion	somerville32: and all the annoying gnome dependencies that come with .....
07:28	maxamillion	j1mc: the ubuntu welcome center
07:29	ongardie	i think the welcome center effort would be better placed in 1) improving the docs, 2) making the docs easily available to new users
07:29	somerville32	It is easier to get rid of gnome dependencies then developing and maintaining our own software.
07:29	j1mc	1) would removing gnome deps from yelp be difficult? and . . .
07:29	j1mc	2) would yelp lead people to our docs?
07:29	maxamillion	j1mc: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWelcomeCentre
07:29	somerville32	ongardie, I concur.
07:30	ongardie	yelp depends on libbeagle? wtf
07:30	maxamillion	i think their idea is bloated and overbearing and will ultimately fail .... just as microsoft's ... but our idea is simple, its just some docs that answer the most commonly asked questions
07:30	maxamillion	ongardie: yeah, gnome apps are cool like that
07:30	ongardie	maxamillion: heh
07:30	somerville32	maxamillion, If you feel strongly about this project, you can continue to develop it, package it, and get it into Universe. It is pointless to debate this at this point when the thing isn't even ready to be included.
07:31	ongardie	yelp depends on firefox?
07:31	maxamillion	somerville32: agreed
07:31	maxamillion	ongardie: probably just on gecko
07:31	somerville32	ongardie, Most likely for the gecko engine.
07:31	maxamillion	:P
07:32	ongardie	oh right. i guess they still haven't properly separated the two
=== j1mc is glad to reach an agreement on that.
=== somerville32 declares the Welcome Centre dead.
07:32	ongardie	the next item on the agenda is a biggie: "7.10 Documentation roadmap"
07:32	somerville32	Woot woot! :)
07:32	j1mc	w00t!
07:32	maxamillion	bleh
07:32	j1mc	hehe
07:32	ongardie	heh
07:33	j1mc	i'm excited about creating topic-based help for xubuntu.
07:33	maxamillion	i can't stand writing docs, xml seems retarded to me
07:33	somerville32	Who were the individuals that were really interested in helping with documentation?
07:33	j1mc	me and freddie martinez
=== _grazie [n=grazie@host86-133-103-86.range86-133.btcentralplus.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
07:33	somerville32	There was another fellow.
07:34	ongardie	(i'm going to eat lunch, but i'll be back)
=== _grazie is now known as grazie
=== vinze [n=vinze@a80-126-159-235.adsl.xs4all.nl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== j1mc is not sure
07:34	vinze	Here I am :D
07:34	vinze	What's the current subject?
07:34	somerville32	Documentation
07:34	j1mc	hi vinze ... talking aboug docs
07:35	vinze	K
07:35	j1mc	somerville32: perhaps it was vincent?
07:35	somerville32	Ok, there seems to be an xubuntu-doc team
07:36	j1mc	who is in it?
=== maxamillion might be
07:36	maxamillion	yup, sure am
07:37	maxamillion	is there an editor i can use to exit the docs without having to traverse through xml?
=== maxamillion finds xml as annoying as html
07:37	somerville32	https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-doc
07:37	somerville32	maxamillion, Yes.
07:38	maxamillion	somerville32: awesome
07:38	maxamillion	what is it?
07:38	somerville32	There a few different ones. You'll need to refer to wiki docs
07:38	somerville32	As for documentation, wasn't there someone who agreed to head that up?
=== j1mc and freddie?
07:39	somerville32	Awesome! :)
07:39	somerville32	j1mc: Tell us what you have planned.
07:40	j1mc	yes, we are excited about this.  we're planning on having weekly in-person doc-hacking sessions this summer to completely update xubuntu-docs
07:40	j1mc	we plan to get things in line with topic-based help
07:40	j1mc	we are both part of the chicago-loco team, along with nixternal who does a ton of work for kubuntu docs
=== somerville32 nods.
07:41	somerville32	Any plans on updating the stylesheet?
07:41	j1mc	in terms of other specifics at the moment, we don't have much.
07:41	j1mc	hadn't thought to update the style sheet yet, but that would be a good idea.
07:41	j1mc	perhaps use some css from the soon-to-be updated xubuntu website?
07:42	j1mc	somehow?  /me is not a css expert
07:42	somerville32	I would speak with TheSheep.
07:42	vinze	It doesn't look too complicated
07:42	somerville32	but something more appealing would be nice.
07:42	j1mc	agreed.
=== juliux [n=juliux@ubuntu/member/juliux] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
07:42	vinze	Yeah, it's kinda... Gray
=== somerville32 nods sadly.
07:43	somerville32	I think it would be wise to have an xubuntu-doc meeting
07:43	j1mc	somerville32: you reference "browser" in the meeting agenda.  care to elaborate?
07:43	somerville32	j1mc: Same thing as in discussion about the welcome centre.
=== TheSheep [i=sheep@atos.wmid.amu.edu.pl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
07:43	somerville32	Firefox is big and bloated.
07:44	somerville32	Having a light-weight doc browser would be useful, I think.
07:44	somerville32	Maybe work with upstream?
07:44	j1mc	with xfce folks?
=== somerville32 nods.
07:44	somerville32	Gnome and KDE both have their own documentation browsers.
07:44	j1mc	yelp is the one for gnome?
=== somerville32 nods.
07:45	j1mc	and you think that removing the gnome deps would be too difficult, and would rather get something from upstream?
=== j1mc is just trying to clarify...
=== afflux [i=fnord@pentabarf.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
07:45	somerville32	j1mc: We'll have to investigate.
07:46	TheSheep	somerville32: wouldn't just a web browser be enough?
07:46	somerville32	TheSheep: Thats the question.
07:46	maxamillion	if we are looking at upstream, kalikiana is in the process of writing a lightweight GTK+ broswer in C using the webkit engine as opposed to gecko
07:47	TheSheep	there is a number of ready ones too, even including dillo
07:47	j1mc	maxamillion: thanks... where can we find info on that?
07:47	vinze	Wouldn't Gecko be a safe choice in terms of website compatibility?
07:47	maxamillion	don't know how far upstream it will be before a stable release results, but meh
07:47	somerville32	I think it would be good to have a chat with the ubuntu-doc team.
07:47	TheSheep	vinze: but we don;t need it for websites, and the documentation would be abviously tweaked for the browser
07:47	maxamillion	vinze: yes, but webkit is what the OS X safari browser runs on, its rather feature rich to be honest
07:47	vinze	Oh, you want a browser especially for docs...
07:47	maxamillion	oh ...
=== maxamillion was confused
07:48	ranf	dillo is fast a lightening but tends to get ugly sometimes.
07:49	j1mc	somerville32: what do you have in mind with chatting w/ the ubuntu-doc team
07:49	somerville32	I don't think installing another, lighter, web browser is a very appealing solution.
07:49	TheSheep	yelp uses gtkhtml2 and it's ok
07:50	somerville32	j1mc: I think that they'd be able to help answer the questions we have.
07:50	vinze	ranf, what do you mean by "getting ugly"?
07:50	j1mc	ok.
07:50	somerville32	I think the question at the moment is: Is a documentation browser other then Firefox appealing?
07:50	j1mc	will we still go with docbook.xml, though?  we're just concerned about presentation, right?  that's the only thing that seems to be up in the air...
07:51	vinze	But DocBook easily exports to other formats
07:51	somerville32	We're for sure not moving away from DocBook.
07:52	j1mc	i like the idea of having a separate app for documentation, if only because people open up a web browser and use it to start searching the web.
=== vinze agrees
07:52	vinze	(with somerville32)
=== j1mc just wanted to clarify that portion so that we could start writing... w/o concern for the final presentation.
07:52	vinze	I think you have a point j1mc but someone would need to take care of either removing gnome-deps from yelp or finding an alternative
07:53	maxamillion	j1mc: i agree with you on your point about the docs opening in the browser and being ignored because people want on the net
=== bashelie1 [n=bashelie@gov91-1-82-234-91-6.fbx.proxad.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
07:53	TheSheep	more modern templates (using xhtml and css) would be nice
07:53	j1mc	TheSheep: yes, we agreed the current look is rather gray... :(
07:53	TheSheep	j1mc: I tried to make a style, but basciallly everything is hardcoded in the html
=== bashelier [n=bashelie@gov91-1-82-234-91-6.fbx.proxad.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
07:54	maxamillion	joy
07:55	j1mc	TheSheep: yesss!  hardcoded into html is ... awesome.  :)
07:56	vinze	</sarcasm> I hope
07:56	maxamillion	awesome like a stroke
07:56	j1mc	yes... sarcasm.  :)
07:56	somerville32	You "compile" the docbook into html.
07:57	TheSheep	somerville32: yes, we just need to use different templates
07:57	j1mc	... i'm sure that things will come up as we develop the new set of documentation, but we'll make the process as transparent as possible.
07:57	j1mc	and we have good resources with nixternal and others.
07:58	j1mc	i am confortable with the writing aspect, but... is there someone who would like to take on the application/presentation part?
=== blenderhead001 [n=blenderh@adsl-068-209-133-121.sip.jax.bellsouth.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
07:58	j1mc	... would like to head that up?
=== maxamillion is scared to volunteer ...
07:59	j1mc	is it something we could push out to the mailing list to seek help with?
07:59	j1mc	... if no one here wants to take it up now?
07:59	vinze	I'm afraid there won't be many volunteers
07:59	vinze	Nah
08:00	j1mc	hmmm... would it be a big problem to use yelp as-is, seeing as people don't open up the docs all that often?
=== somerville32 is on the phone.
08:01	j1mc	would the gnome deps be a big issue?
=== doko_ [n=doko@dslb-088-074-023-229.pools.arcor-ip.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
08:01	gpocentek	yes
08:01	vinze	I think most people aren't even aware of the docs
08:02	j1mc	if it's going to be a big problem with getting a separate app, i say we just stick with having them in firefox for now.
08:02	vinze	Yeah I guess so
08:03	j1mc	maybe a nicer stylesheet will encourage people to use them.  :)
08:03	vinze	Yeah I hope so :D
08:03	vinze	Same goes for the default homepage
08:04	j1mc	ok.  let's go with that for now unless someone objects.  besides, our manpower could probably be put to better use in other areas that more users will appreciate.
08:05	vinze	Agreed
08:05	maxamillion	i am really having trouble finding anything classified as a docbook viewer other than yelp ...
08:06	maxamillion	i know it would be a pain, but anything think we should poll and see if the rest of the development community feels it worth while to remove yelp's gnome libs and make a yelp-gtk package in main?
08:06	gpocentek	it'll be a mess
08:06	vinze	Well, we'd need someone to step up and do it anyway
08:06	gpocentek	honnestly, going with firefox is IMO the best solution
08:08	maxamillion	gpocentek: my only issue with that, as j1mc stated, is that if the docs pop up in firefox i think majority of people would ignore them because they now have a browser infront of them and they will proceed to google or otherwise
08:08	j1mc	maxamillion: maybe we could set it up so that firefox launches a special instance w/o the navigation buttons, links toolbar, etc.  ...
08:08	maxamillion	j1mc: oooo, that's an idea
=== BuffaloSoldier [n=firdaus@ubuntu/member/BuffaloSoldier] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
08:08	TheSheep	now we need a xul programmer instead of a C programmer
08:09	maxamillion	lol
08:09	maxamillion	that will be harder to find
08:09	vinze	Wouldn't there be a special mode?
08:09	j1mc	freddy martinez (aka Admiral_Chicago) is also on the mozilla team.  i was thinking that there was a special mode or something.
08:09	j1mc	i'm sure we could at least find out.
08:09	vinze	Or perhaps do some "firefox --new-tab "javascript:popup" blabla
08:10	vinze	Or I guess without the "--new-tab"
08:10	j1mc	i'll check on that... it sounds like a good compromise if we don't need an xul developer (or whatever)
08:10	maxamillion	j1mc: we could make a 'documentation' profile under firefox and have the docs open firefox with that profile using some custom settings
08:11	j1mc	maxamillion: good idea.  again, i'll check into it with freddy.
08:11	maxamillion	okies
08:11	j1mc	:)  yeay!
08:11	maxamillion	brb
08:11	vinze	K
=== ranf expected more options from "firefox --help"
08:12	vinze	They're not all I think
08:12	j1mc	moving on to feature considerations, then?
08:12	vinze	Guess so
08:13	j1mc	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings (for those who joined late)
08:13	vinze	The Welcome Center
08:13	j1mc	^^ our agenda
08:13	vinze	O wait
08:13	vinze	Sorry
08:13	vinze	Murrine
08:13	j1mc	did you add that to the agenda, vinze?
08:13	vinze	Erm, yes, think so
08:13	vinze	Mainly because we still didn't use Murrine for Feisty
08:14	j1mc	ok.  what are you thinking?  (btw, we have ~45 minutes left in the meeting)
08:14	vinze	Well... That we did use Murrine for Gutsy :P
08:14	j1mc	ok.  i know that jmak already had some theme ideas for gutsy, so you may want to talk with him early in the process.
08:15	vinze	Well, I suppose he has ideas for themes, but they just need to be implemented
08:15	vinze	I don't like his choices, but I think any Murrine-based theme is better than Clearlooks
08:16	j1mc	it would be good to see what he has in mind.  i think he was pushing for a murrine-based theme, but we just ran out of time last time.
08:16	vinze	Ah OK
08:16	vinze	Then I suppose we'll be able to make it for Gutsy
08:17	j1mc	any other comments on theme stuff?  i'd like to move on to stuff like network manager, games, etc.
08:17	vinze	Let's move on
08:17	j1mc	ok.  network manager.  :)  gnome's one works well in xubuntu's panel, but ... there's interest in removing the gnome libs and using for xubuntu.
08:18	ongardie	noooooooo!
08:18	j1mc	no?
08:18	j1mc	that was an emphatic no.
08:18	ongardie	heh, i think network manager is buggy
08:18	j1mc	somerville32 added it to the agenda ...  perhaps he'd like to say what he had in mind.
08:19	j1mc	somerville32: you there?  or still on the phone?
=== somerville32 is on the phone
08:19	ongardie	(http://spuriousinterrupt.org/projects/airconfig should be pretty cool once it's ready, though)
08:19	j1mc	somerville32: what do you need a phone for.  we have irc.  ;-)
=== j1mc goes to look at link
08:20	vinze	Well we *do* need WPA support ;)
08:20	vinze	Was that the project from an Xfce dev?
08:20	vinze	Anyway, if that's not ready yet I suppose it'll be more buggy than NM
08:21	ranf	vinze, Brian Tarricone
08:21	ongardie	vinze: yes, Brian Tarricone is writing airconfig
08:21	vinze	K
08:21	ongardie	vinze: good point. at this point, i bet it is buggier than NM
08:22	vinze	How about Wifi-radar?
08:22	vinze	http://wifi-radar.systemimager.org/
08:22	vinze	Though it doesn't look that user-friendly
08:22	j1mc	ongardie: i like how it is an xfce project, but there isn't even a release for it yet.  very bleeding edge.
08:23	Mithrandir	why not just write a gtk-only, xfce NM applet?  It shouldn't be that hard.
08:23	vinze	ongardie thinks it's buggy
08:23	vinze	I don't have that much experience
08:23	ongardie	it's not the front-end that i have a problem with
08:23	j1mc	ongardie: nm-applet hasn't given me any trouble.
08:23	vinze	It just doesn't work for you or something?
08:24	vinze	Because you could be an exception
08:24	ongardie	maybe it's just me and the people i've talked to
08:24	vinze	How many are they?
08:25	ongardie	me, my bro, the entirety of #xfce-dev
08:25	ongardie	and a couple guys from #ubuntu-houston, iirc
08:25	ongardie	but i think a better idea is to search the forums for problems
=== vinze searches ubuntuforums
08:26	ongardie	http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&client=firefox-a&rls=com.ubuntu%3Aen-US%3Aofficial&hs=hDV&q=networkmanager+problems+site%3Aubuntuforums.org&btnG=Search
08:26	nixternal	someone said my name? :)
08:26	vinze	Only 163 threads
08:26	Mithrandir	ongardie: that seems to just be the suspend/resume problem which we now have a fix for.
08:27	j1mc	nixternal: just referenced you in that you would be available to help freddie and i with docs
08:27	nixternal	roger
08:27	maxamillion	i think wifi-radar would be stellar if it offered some sort of wpa support
08:27	vinze	wifi-radar supports wpa
08:28	maxamillion	vinze: uh, it does?
08:28	vinze	At least, you have a WPA option
=== vinze installs wifi-radar
=== BuffaloSoldier [n=firdaus@ubuntu/member/BuffaloSoldier] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== grazie [n=grazie@host86-133-103-86.range86-133.btcentralplus.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== earobinson [n=_@ubuntu/member/earobinson] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== beuno [n=martin@ubuntu/member/beuno] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== cyphase_ [n=cyphase@c-76-102-74-27.hsd1.ca.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== txwikinger [n=txwiking@sblug/member/txwikinger] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== finalbeta [n=gggggggg@d54C6865D.access.telenet.be] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== Fujitsu [n=william@ubuntu/member/fujitsu] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== lengau_ [n=lengau@c-68-53-53-39.hsd1.tn.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== Czessi [n=Czessi@dslb-088-073-045-120.pools.arcor-ip.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== gouki [n=gouki@ubuntu/member/gouki] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== illovae [n=illovae@unaffiliated/illovae] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== jenda [n=jenda@freenode/staff/ubuntu.member.jenda] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
08:29	ongardie	maxamillion: see the web site, 2nd screenshot. there is something about WPA
08:29	vinze	But it doesn't depend on wpasupplicant...
08:29	maxamillion	vinze: right, but click on the WPA option, just asks for what will supply the wpa functionality
08:29	j1mc	vinze: yeah... having to identify what driver to use for wpa isn't so good.
08:29	j1mc	for the end-user, anyway.
08:30	vinze	Ah, that sucks
=== maxamillion wonders if we could specify a WPA driver in the package of the program and then make the driver a dependency of the package
08:30	vinze	You need to tell explicitly which driver you'd need
08:30	ongardie	quick question: in xubuntu feisty, what tools are there?
08:30	vinze	Tools?
08:30	maxamillion	the advanced user who wants to use something other than a pre-select will do so if there is a pre select or not
08:30	ongardie	for managing the network connections
08:30	vinze	network-admin
08:31	vinze	And a panel plugin
08:31	ongardie	vinze: gnome's network-admin?
08:31	vinze	Yeah but with gnome dependencies removed
08:31	ongardie	i see
08:31	maxamillion	vinze: what planel plugin?
=== BuffaloSoldier [n=firdaus@ubuntu/member/BuffaloSoldier] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== grazie [n=grazie@host86-133-103-86.range86-133.btcentralplus.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== earobinson [n=_@ubuntu/member/earobinson] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== beuno [n=martin@ubuntu/member/beuno] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== cyphase_ [n=cyphase@c-76-102-74-27.hsd1.ca.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== txwikinger [n=txwiking@sblug/member/txwikinger] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== finalbeta [n=gggggggg@d54C6865D.access.telenet.be] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== Fujitsu [n=william@ubuntu/member/fujitsu] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== lengau_ [n=lengau@c-68-53-53-39.hsd1.tn.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== Czessi [n=Czessi@dslb-088-073-045-120.pools.arcor-ip.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== gouki [n=gouki@ubuntu/member/gouki] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== illovae [n=illovae@unaffiliated/illovae] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== jenda [n=jenda@freenode/staff/ubuntu.member.jenda] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
08:32	ongardie	maxamillion: will one driver work for everyone?
08:32	vinze	"Network Monitor"
08:32	vinze	maxamillion, but that's just seeing if it's active
08:32	ongardie	vinze: "Network Monitor" doesn't let you configure anything though
08:32	ongardie	right
08:32	vinze	No no configuration
08:32	j1mc	i like the idea of using airconfig, but don't think it's ready.  in it's absence, i think it would be best to use nm-applet, and see if someone can remove the gnome-deps.
08:32	maxamillion	ongardie: probably not, but we could pre-select the best supported
08:33	maxamillion	ongardie: and then make a reference to alternatives in the docs
08:33	j1mc	someone == jani  :)  ??
08:33	vinze	maxamillion, best supported, wouldn't that mean "works for about 10%"?
08:33	vinze	I think once Gutsy there we'll still be using network-admin... ;-)
08:34	j1mc	i think it would be worthwhile for us to install airconfig onto our test systems, and report bugs up through the xfce-bugzilla, too.
08:34	maxamillion	vinze: not entirely .... a wpa driver to my knowledge is just software and shouldn't matter what wifi card people have
08:34	vinze	maxamillion, ah, OK
08:34	maxamillion	j1mc: i will work on that with my laptop from work ... hopefully we can help along the airconfig project to be stable asap
08:35	j1mc	cool, maxamillion.  i'll do the same.
=== vinze too
08:35	ongardie	we certainly can't depend on airconfig stabilizing and being perfect before gutsy, though
08:35	vinze	No I don't think so too
08:35	j1mc	i think that nm-applet probably our second-best optiont, though.
08:36	maxamillion	ongardie: no, of course not ... this is more of an upstream goal
08:36	vinze	And if someone's to remove gnome deps from NM anyway, I guess it'd be a waste to switch to an alternative for Gutsy+1
08:36	ongardie	so, realistically then, will it be network-admin, NetworkManager, or wifi-radar for gutsy?
08:36	maxamillion	j1mc: but nm-applet is bloated and i think we would get a substantial amount of negative feedback because of its resource intensive nature
08:37	vinze	Yeah and it'd be a lot of work, so I guess network-admin
08:37	maxamillion	ongardie: more likely than not, yes .... they really seem to be the most capable alternatives
08:37	j1mc	maxamillion: maybe, but how many people are connecting via wireless w/ a PII laptop?
08:37	ongardie	i do know of someone that was working on an xfce panel plugin that would be a front-end to NetworkManager
08:37	vinze	That'd be cool
08:37	ongardie	but the xfce devs discouraged him because they all hate networkmanager
08:37	ongardie	lol
08:37	j1mc	i say we table this for now and continue it on the mailing list...
08:37	maxamillion	j1mc: just because they aren't connecting wireless doesn't mean nm-applet isn't running on thier system and eating resources
08:38	maxamillion	ok
08:38	vinze	So... On to games?
08:38	maxamillion	i assume so
08:38	j1mc	we have 20 minutes left... :)
08:38	maxamillion	pySol has my vote!
=== Burgundavia [n=corey@ubuntu/member/burgundavia] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
08:39	vinze	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Specifications/Feisty/xubuntu-gaming
08:39	vinze	I don't really like that "Shooters" list ;)
08:39	vinze	Shipping Nexuiz just doesn't sound like a good idea :P
08:40	maxamillion	vinze: no no, these were just ideas thrown out on the mailing list
=== somerville32 is back.
08:40	maxamillion	wb somerville32
08:40	vinze	Hey Cody
08:40	ongardie	is the idea to create something like gnome-games?
08:41	maxamillion	i think Xjump, pySol, SuperTux, and FrozenBubble would make a solid game set
08:41	maxamillion	ongardie: no, i think its just to include a set of games for xubuntu users to enjoy
08:41	vinze	I think we should go for some Puzzle, Arcade and Board/Card games
08:41	maxamillion	ongardie: just make a meta package called "xubuntu-games" that will pull the agreed upon set of games
08:41	ongardie	maxamillion: unfortunately, supertux-data is 53 megs
08:42	vinze	Too bad
08:42	vinze	Supertux is cool
08:42	ongardie	yeah, i like supertux too :(
08:42	Burgundavia	I would stick with non-fullscreen stuff, from a marketing and branding perspective
08:42	vinze	Agreef
08:42	vinze	*Agreed
08:42	TheSheep	I don't really think the xubuntu's target audience would need games other than the ones they install themselves...
08:42	maxamillion	ongardie: ah, didn't know that
08:43	vinze	Who's Xubuntu's target audience?
08:43	TheSheep	vinze: they guys that come to #xubuntu :)
08:43	TheSheep	and gals
08:43	maxamillion	TheSheep: i think something like pySol would be nice though .... everyone needs a little solitare :)
08:43	vinze	TheSheep,  Oh, no wonder there's no Xubuntu option at ShipIt... :P
08:44	TheSheep	vinze: yes
08:44	vinze	maxamillion, I think so too
08:44	vinze	I recall aisleriot was cool, had loads of card games :P
08:44	vinze	But just Solitaire'll do too
08:44	j1mc	would a meta-package that is not included in the default install work?
=== ongardie points out that pysol looks ugly
=== vinze checks
08:45	ongardie	gtk 1.x?
08:45	maxamillion	j1mc: it would be included into the install
=== mc44 [n=mc44@unaffiliated/mc44] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Exit,]
08:45	maxamillion	ongardie: i believe so, yes ... :/
08:45	vinze	Then I don't think it's an option...
08:46	maxamillion	fair enough
=== vinze can't install airdonfig
08:46	vinze	checking for X... no
08:46	vinze	configure: error: X Window system libraries and header files are required
08:46	ongardie	(the latest version of pysol is from 2003)
08:46	vinze	O wait...
08:47	maxamillion	heh ... we could always throw in gtetrinet :P
08:47	vinze	http://linuxappfinder.com/games/cards
08:47	j1mc	if it's ok... maybe we could set up a wiki page like we did with artwork, where people could list the details of each game they'd like to be included, and we could vote.
08:47	j1mc	it's a low priority, imho
08:47	ongardie	j1mc: that sounds like a good plan to me
08:47	vinze	+1
08:47	maxamillion	k
08:48	j1mc	maxamillion: would you like to do that?
08:48	j1mc	or, would someone else like to set it up, at least the initial stuff?
08:49	maxamillion	it just seems like everytime we try to organize people around the idea of the games topic it ends in chaos and cody and i sort through the remains (which is where the current wiki page came from)
08:49	j1mc	oh, sorry maxamillion ...
08:49	j1mc	guess i didn't see/consider the current games spec wiki
08:49	somerville32	Jani made a comment on the lp spec page.
08:50	vinze	*5 minutes for notification-daemon and smb*
08:50	vinze	But who would be removing gnome-games' gnome-deps?
08:51	maxamillion	i dunno ... the whole games idea might just deserve to be trashed, i think we should focus more on smb support and not bother with games .... we don't want to spread our already limited resources (in terms of man-power) too thin
08:51	somerville32	vinze: I would be interested in doing that
08:51	vinze	somerville32, that'd be really awesome
08:51	vinze	Doesn't that solve our problem?
=== somerville32 nods.
08:51	ongardie	what's the notification daemon idea?
08:52	vinze	To include it?
=== somerville32 nods.
08:52	vinze	Who added it?
=== somerville32 raises his hand.
08:52	gpocentek	notification-daemon is already a dep of xubuntu-desktop
08:52	vinze	Is it?
08:52	mr_pouit	^^
08:52	vinze	It wasn't installed for me
08:52	vinze	But I went with a Herd
08:53	ongardie	gpocentek: it's under Recommends, actually
08:53	somerville32	gpocentek, So you can use libnotify and what not to get those pop-ups?
08:53	gpocentek	ongardie: yes, but installed with a fresh install
08:53	TheSheep	there is also the xfce-notification-daemon
08:53	TheSheep	which doesn;t depend on gconf
08:53	ongardie	TheSheep: is it packaged?
08:53	gpocentek	we use gconf anyway, and don't want duplication
08:54	vinze	I think we should go with the original one
08:54	vinze	As Jani said, the deps are few and it's already packaged and maintained
08:54	TheSheep	vinze: otiginal gnome or original xfce? ;)
08:54	vinze	TheSheep, gnome
08:55	vinze	So will it be moved to "Depends" for Gutsy?
08:55	maxamillion	nothing like an xfce based distro sticking with gnome alternatives when a xfce solution exists ....
08:55	vinze	Well, if it's not packages
08:55	ongardie	i'd like to see notification-daemon-xfce at least packaged
08:55	vinze	And if we already use the gnome deps it has
08:55	gpocentek	ongardie: go ahead, package it
08:56	maxamillion	ongardie: we will get together later about that, i might package it sometime this week
08:56	TheSheep	I think it's not packaged because it din't compile at some point with recent tools
08:56	ongardie	gpocentek: i'd be happy to package that (and the places plugin)
08:56	gpocentek	places-plugin is in NEW already
08:56	mr_pouit	places-lugin is already in new
08:56	mr_pouit	*g*
08:56	ongardie	gpocentek: i just don't know how
08:56	ongardie	what's NEW?
08:56	gpocentek	mr_pouit: you're really slow tonight :p
08:56	maxamillion	ongardie: isn't the places plugin auto-packaged in the xfce-goodies package now?
08:57	ongardie	maxamillion: isn't xfce-goodies just a metapackage?
08:57	vinze	What's the places plugin?
08:57	ongardie	vinze: like gnome's places menu. i'm the author
08:57	maxamillion	ongardie: uhmmm.... actually, it might be now that you mention it
08:57	vinze	Nice
=== somerville32 hates the phone.
08:57	vinze	:P
08:58	TheSheep	ongardie: I love you!
08:58	ongardie	TheSheep: haha, <3
08:58	j1mc	2 minutes to discuss smb shares.  no problem  :)
08:58	vinze	Where do I get it?
08:58	ongardie	vinze: http://goodies.xfce.org/projects/panel-plugins/xfce4-places-plugin
08:59	maxamillion	ongardie: yeah, appears to be a meta package
=== TheSheep drools
08:59	ongardie	do we really just have 2 minutes left?
08:59	maxamillion	j1mc: we have all day in xubuntu-devel :)
08:59	j1mc	maxamillion: right.  :)
08:59	vinze	ongardie, is it packaged somewhere?
08:59	ongardie	vinze: gpocentek just said it is in NEW, but i don't know what that means
08:59	vinze	Me neither
09:00	ongardie	should we move the meeting #xubuntu-devel?
09:00	maxamillion	yes, i believe so
09:00	ongardie	will anyone be using this channel anyway?
09:00	vinze	Who keeps the logs?
09:00	gpocentek	ongardie: packaged and waiting to be approved by an archive admin
09:00	mr_pouit	in new = needs to be approved by an archive admin
09:00	ongardie	mr_pouit: ty
09:00	ongardie	gpocentek: ty too, heh
09:00	gpocentek	:)
09:01	vinze	Is there noone keeping the logs?
09:01	ongardie	i think we have 2 days until there's another meeting in here. we're probably OK to stay
09:01	somerville32	We can continue to chat here if there isn't a meeting scheduled.
09:01	vinze	O OK
09:01	vinze	Let's stay
09:02	ongardie	vinze: (i log everything personally)
09:02	vinze	Have we agreed on something concerning notification daemon?
09:02	vinze	ongardie, OK
09:02	ongardie	maxamillion: so you're willing to help me with packaging notification-daemon-xfce?
09:03	vinze	I'm still planning on learning packaging, is there any app that has priority that I could get my hands on?
09:03	somerville32	Everything is important :]
09:04	vinze	Random suggestion?
=== somerville32 is still on the stupid phone.
09:04	maxamillion	ongardie: sure
09:04	ongardie	maxamillion: ok, then how can we get it in the repos?
09:04	maxamillion	ongardie: we will have to ask for a sponsor to post it, i will contact jani about that because i think it needs to be in main and only core-devs have access to main
09:05	ongardie	k
09:05	ongardie	moving on?
09:05	vinze	Think so
09:05	vinze	Network Shares
09:05	gpocentek	xfce-n-d won't get into main IMO
09:05	gpocentek	there's no reason to have it along with n-d
09:06	ongardie	why would it need to go in main?
09:07	gpocentek	to be part of xubuntu-desktop it needs to be in main
09:07	ongardie	oh, that's not necessarily my goal
09:07	ongardie	i just think it should be packaged
09:07	maxamillion	ongardie: its not?
09:07	maxamillion	ongardie: oh...
09:07	gpocentek	ok :)
09:07	gpocentek	/me away, see you
09:07	vinze	What's the reason you want xfce-n-d?
09:07	vinze	Bye
09:08	ongardie	vinze: because 1) someone took the time to write it, and 2) maybe it'll respect xfwm4's margins
09:08	vinze	Doesn't the normal n-d do that?
09:09	maxamillion	ongardie: why not attempt to get it into xubuntu-desktop though? ... if we are going to go through the trouble of packaging it, why not try and make sure someone actually uses it?
=== vinze was wondering too
09:09	ongardie	maxamillion: i've never even used it, i can't argue for that now
09:09	ongardie	vinze: shrug
09:09	maxamillion	ahhhh, makes sense
09:09	maxamillion	can't endorse something blindly, i can understand that
=== vinze is going
09:10	maxamillion	ongardie: well, we can package it and use it and see if it would be worth our time
09:10	vinze	Laters
09:10	maxamillion	laters vinze
09:10	ongardie	maybe i'm underestimating how hard it'll be to package it, though
09:11	maxamillion	ongardie: packaging isn't generally hard, just time consuming ... but i am not familiar with xfce-n-d so we will have to look into it further, it might end up being a pain
09:11	TheSheep	ongardie: last time I looked it required patching of the makefile
09:11	maxamillion	ah yes ... possible pain
09:11	TheSheep	maxamillion: it's similar to n-d, really, only has the xfce-like settings dialog and looks a little more square
09:12	TheSheep	maxamillion: the n-d requires you to mess with gconf to configure it
09:12	maxamillion	gconf fails at life
09:12	ongardie	haha
09:12	j1mc	hehe
09:12	TheSheep	maxamillion: and makes gconf run in the background
09:12	maxamillion	reminds me too much of ms windows registry
09:12	j1mc	maxamillion: yeah...
09:13	maxamillion	ok, on the smb
09:13	maxamillion	on to*
09:13	TheSheep	if you don't run gaim and n-d, you don't need gconf running in xubuntu, as of today
=== j1mc unplugs somerville32's phone.
09:13	maxamillion	lol
09:14	somerville32	j1mc: Cell phone :(
09:14	somerville32	And he has been talking to me for over an hour
09:14	maxamillion	TheSheep: interesting .... if i could only get my jabber portal to work right i could ditch gaim/pidgin all together
=== somerville32 snores.
=== j1mc removes somerville32's sim card
09:14	j1mc	and battery
09:14	maxamillion	:P
09:14	somerville32	lol
09:14	ongardie	really onto SMB?
09:14	somerville32	k
=== maxamillion hopes so
09:15	ongardie	what's the idea with SMB?
09:15	somerville32	We need a browser :]
09:15	TheSheep	fuse?
09:15	ongardie	the #xfce-dev guys seem to think fuse is the right idea
09:15	TheSheep	why not just mount a fusesmb directory in media by default?
09:15	maxamillion	i would actually like to write a smb plugin for thunar, but i don't think that is going to be something to just be thrown together for the release ... i think it will take some planning
09:16	ongardie	TheSheep: what can you do with a fusesmb directory?
09:16	maxamillion	TheSheep: not a bad idea, and just have the directory populated as smb shares are browsed?
=== blenderhead001 [n=blenderh@adsl-068-209-133-121.sip.jax.bellsouth.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:17	ongardie	"It works like smbfs, but instead of accessing one share at a time, all computers and workgroups are accessible at once from a single filesystem mount, making network browsing just as easy as it is on Windows."
09:17	j1mc	i wish i had it in front of me, but i know that there were other options other than fusesmb that were mentioned during ubuntu open week.
09:17	ongardie	has anyone here used fusesmb?
09:17	maxamillion	i have
=== j1mc has
09:18	maxamillion	it wasn't entirely a plesant experience
=== j1mc agrees
09:18	ongardie	what was the issue?
09:18	maxamillion	but i think we could remedy that with a front end or otherwise
09:18	maxamillion	ongardie: just not very user friendly
09:19	j1mc	also, it may have been how i configured samba, but accessing password protected smb shares wasn't possible through fusesmb.
09:19	ongardie	i wonder why fusesmb hasn't had a release for the last year
09:19	maxamillion	j1mc: that was the issue i was having as well
09:19	j1mc	i'm not a total expert, so don't take that as law or anything, though.
09:20	maxamillion	j1mc: i could access the smb share i made on a spare machine in the office to test it, but i couldn't access the password protected share on the production server
09:20	maxamillion	ongardie: that'a good question
09:21	j1mc	what about gvfs?
09:21	j1mc	don't know much about it, but it was mentioned during ubuntu open week.
09:22	ongardie	is SMB really the only issue? maybe we should go one step higher and have a front-end to manage any fuse filesystem?
09:22	j1mc	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/openweekfeisty/xubuntu  (search for gvfs)
09:42	maxamillion	ongardie: it could be an interesting project
=== j1mc wonders how somerville32 is able to talk on his cell phone when it has no battery or sim card.
09:42	ongardie	would gvfs require applications to do anything?
09:42	TheSheep	ongardie: isn't it just an alternative to gnome-vfs
09:42	ongardie	TheSheep: this is the first i've heard of it, i'm reading a bit now
09:42	maxamillion	TheSheep: i think it is going to replace gnome-vfs ... it appears it was a topic of conversation at a recent gnome-con
09:42	ongardie	but if we need to modify all applications, there's no f'in way
09:42	j1mc	ongardie: hehe
09:42	ongardie	(and then there's openoffice, etc)
09:42	j1mc	i don't know much about it, either.
09:42	maxamillion	TheSheep: errr... actually, it will be talked about at guadec in 3 weeks
09:42	maxamillion	TheSheep: http://guadec.org/node/520
09:42	j1mc	it got mentioned by at least two people during ubuntu open week - even in refernce to xubuntu, so it would be worth researching.
09:42	maxamillion	it appears there would be needed modification per application, at least that is the impression i am getting from it all
09:42	j1mc	http://www.nabble.com/gnomevfs-homepage-t3248187.html  hehe
09:42	j1mc	"and noticed that
09:42	j1mc	gnomevfs has no homepage. I belive it should have atleas a simple one..."
09:42	maxamillion	lol
09:42	ongardie	what i like about fuse: 1) i'm assuming it's stable by now, 2) the apps don't need to know about it, 3) FUSE works with tons of "filesystems"
09:42	TheSheep	it would be nice to have a simple program or panel plugin that would take an url and mount it as apropriate fuse filesystem :)
09:42	mjg59	The model is that gvfs will functionally replace gnome-vfs and continue to support functionality that's difficult with pure posix (like async i/o). There'll be a fuse module layered on top of it in order to allow non-gvfs aware applications to use the same filenames.
09:42	TheSheep	maxamillion: so it's fuse anyways
09:42	j1mc	pyneighborhood?
09:42	j1mc	mjg59: thanks...
09:42	TheSheep	j1mc: ah, right
09:42	mjg59	The problem with purely using fuse is that you have difficulty dealing with certain filesystem types (like network filesystems)
09:42	ongardie	mjg59: wasn't fuse largely designed for network filesystems?
09:42	mjg59	ongardie: Yes, it's fine from the filesystem perspective, but it's difficult from a usable application perspective
09:42	TheSheep	ongardie: but the apps will not know it's a network filesystem, and, for example, generate thumbnails for moves
09:42	TheSheep	movies
09:42	TheSheep	ongardie: which isn't such a good idea imho...
=== somerville32 tries to focus as he listens to this person he doesn't even know ramble on about his life story and all his problems. :(
09:42	ongardie	TheSheep: perhaps we can modify Thunar to not do that
=== TheSheep rolls eyes
09:42	mjg59	You don't want an application to block just because you're having to suck this file in from the network
09:42	TheSheep	somerville32: put the phone in a fish tank :)
09:42	mjg59	So you need some way of doing async i/o
09:42	ongardie	mjg59: i'll have to read more about that
09:42	ongardie	in any case, gvfs doesn't sound like its ready
09:42	j1mc	all, i have to go...  :(
09:42	ranf	bye j1mc
09:42	maxamillion	laters j1mc
09:42	j1mc	thanks for all of your help.  i'll be in touch soon.
=== j1mc [n=jim@adsl-70-236-118-134.dsl.chcgil.ameritech.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
09:42	ongardie	j1mc: peace
09:42	ongardie	doh!
09:42	maxamillion	i think the real question is, do we really want to put together a large scale development project using fuse if in the end it has i/o issues anyways and becomes un-usable?
=== somerville32 is now free.
09:42	ongardie	maxamillion: no, i wouldn't think so
09:42	TheSheep	maxamillion: large scale?
09:42	ongardie	maxamillion: the project could be fairly contained, but I/O issues would be a showstopper
09:42	TheSheep	we need a networked filesystem with discovery, it doesn't have to be samba, but people come and ask "how do I open network?"
09:42	TheSheep	it could as well be zeroconf+scp :)
09:42	maxamillion	TheSheep: well ... i would think making something capable of mounting many different filesystems would be dificult, but then again i am not entirely familiar with all of fuse's capabilities
09:42	TheSheep	there is an avahi browser
09:42	TheSheep	maxamillion: fuse gives you a standard interface to all of them, basically
09:42	maxamillion	TheSheep: oh ... ok
09:42	maxamillion	TheSheep: yeah, then i guess that wouldn't be too terribly hard
09:42	maxamillion	TheSheep: are you familiar with the "mount devices" plugin for xfce?
09:42	ongardie	maxamillion: doesn't it require you modify /etc/fstab?
=== fabbione [i=fabbione@gordian.fabbione.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== Starting logfile irclogs/ubuntu-meeting.log
=== maxamillion would prefer a thunar plugin but can't find docs on the API
(ongardie/#ubuntu-meeting) i think we're probably capable of writing a FUSE front-end. as maxamillion was saying, though, it wouldn't be worth it if there are I/O issues
09:47	ongardie	maxamillion: i wonder if thunar plugins use thunarx: http://www.xfce.org/documentation/4.4/api/thunarx/
09:47	maxamillion	yeah ... i think we would need to first look into if the i/o issues would really create a problem and if so, is there any way to get around the problems
09:47	TheSheep	ongardie: once gvfs is in place, we can just replace it
09:47	maxamillion	ongardie: hmmm...
09:47	maxamillion	TheSheep: true
09:47	TheSheep	on still use fuse+gvfs for the other applications
09:48	maxamillion	brb
09:48	ongardie	this is starting to sound like a plan
09:49	ongardie	maxamillion: yes, at least the media tags plugin uses thunarx
09:50	ongardie	mjg59: do you know of any pages with information about the async I/O stuff?
=== finalbeta [n=gggggggg@d54C6865D.access.telenet.be] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:52	mjg59	http://developer.gnome.org/doc/API/gnome-vfs/gnome-vfs-gnome-vfs-module-callback.html covers the API
09:54	ongardie	mjg59: that's not quite what i was looking for. i meant conceptually
09:54	maxamillion	ongardie: this really sounds like something i would be interested in helping with development if it is decided to be done, but for now i need to go ... i will probably be back later
09:54	ongardie	we're losing a lot of people
09:54	maxamillion	:(
09:54	maxamillion	well ... we are an hour past the meeting time
09:54	ongardie	should we just continue this on the mailing list?
09:54	maxamillion	probably should
09:54	mjg59	ongardie: I'm not really sure what you mean
09:55	maxamillion	i need to go, have to go take care of some stuff ... i am about to move in 5 days
09:55	maxamillion	laters
09:56	ongardie	mjg59: "You don't want an application to block just because you're having to suck this file in from the network"
09:56	ongardie	with async I/O, would the app instead show a progress bar?
09:56	mjg59	ongardie: For instance
09:59	ongardie	mjg59: is it a problem even with small files?
09:59	mjg59	It really depends on the nature of the application and the filesystem
10:00	ongardie	i see
10:02	somerville32	Interesting.
10:02	ongardie	i don't know who is left here, but shall we conclude?
10:03	ongardie	somerville32: yes?
10:03	somerville32	What is the consensus?
10:03	TheSheep	um...
10:03	ongardie	to continue the discussion on the mailing list, i think
10:04	ongardie	i'd like to actually use FUSE for a while to get a feel for the issues mjg59 was referring to
10:04	ongardie	but between maxamillion and i (and did i see some interest from TheSheep?), we might want to write a FUSE front-end
10:05	ongardie	(and i think it'd be quite welcome in the xfce goodies)
10:06	ongardie	is this the end?
10:07	TheSheep	somerville32: ?
10:07	somerville32	This is only the beginning, my friends ;]
10:07	ongardie	heh
10:07	ongardie	peace
10:07	TheSheep	somerville32: comrades
10:07	somerville32	Yes.
</pre>
