{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Dev Week -- Getting Started with Unity 2D -- Kaleo -- Thu, Mar 3rd, 2011 ===

<pre>
[17:01] <ClassBot> Logs for this session will be available at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/03/03/%23ubuntu-classroom.html following the conclusion of the session.
[17:02] <dholbach> Kaleo has been caught up in something else important. I'll keep you posted. Hold tight.
[17:05] <dholbach> thanks a lot Kaleo
[17:05] <dholbach> with just 5 minutes delay, I give you Florian "Kaleo" Boucault, one of the masterminds behind Unity 2D
[17:05] <dholbach> enjoy the session :)
[17:06] <Kaleo> Thanks people for joining in
[17:06] <Kaleo> I will give a brief overview of Unity 2D
[17:06] <Kaleo> And let you guys shoot questions my way
[17:07] <Kaleo> Unity 2D is essentially an implementation of the Unity user interface using Qt and QML
[17:07] <Kaleo> it reuses the same backend technologies used in Unity proper
[17:07] <Kaleo> libbamf, libdee, libunity, places, etc.
[17:08] <Kaleo> and intends to provide a UI that matches Unity proper as much as possible
[17:08] <Kaleo> The rationale behind Unity 2D is that we want to run on platforms that do not provide accelerated OpenGL
[17:08] <Kaleo> QUESTION: < jack002> what are those: libbamf, libdee, libunity, places,
[17:09] <Kaleo> BAMF provides application matching services: it tells you what applications are running on the desktop and informations about them
[17:09] <Kaleo> libdee is a way to publish lists of data over D-Bus
[17:10] <Kaleo> places are the providers of data for the dash (the dash is the thing that comes up when you click on the Ubuntu button in the top left corner)
[17:11] <Kaleo> For those who want to try out Unity 2D, you can find it in a PPA for Natty
[17:11] <Kaleo> We also provide a stable version for Maverick in the same PPA but it does not contain the latest features
[17:12] <Kaleo> < monish001> QUESTION: how to find it in a PPA for Natty?
[17:12] <Kaleo> https://launchpad.net/~unity-2d-team/+archive/unity-2d-daily
=== dholbach_ is now known as dholbach
[17:13] <Kaleo> Unity 2D is the default interface for ARM based Ubuntu isos
[17:15] <Kaleo> For developers
[17:15] <Kaleo> and people interested contributing to it
[17:15] <Kaleo> we have a home on the ubuntu wiki
[17:15] <Kaleo> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Unity2D
[17:16] <Kaleo> In terms of architecture
[17:16] <Kaleo> Unity 2D is divided into:
[17:16] <Kaleo> - window management (using metacity)
[17:16] <Kaleo> - a top panel
[17:16] <Kaleo> - an application launcher on the left
[17:16] <Kaleo> - the dash search interface
[17:16] <Kaleo> - a workspace switcher
[17:16] <Kaleo> they are all separate applications/processes
[17:17] <Kaleo> the code (hosted on launchpad with Bazaar) reflects that separation of components
[17:18] <Kaleo> each having its directory:
[17:18] <Kaleo> - panel
[17:18] <Kaleo> - launcher
[17:18] <Kaleo> - places (= dash)
[17:18] <Kaleo> - spread (= workspace switcher)
[17:18] <Kaleo> metacity being mostly upstream with around 3 small patches
[17:19] <Kaleo> 18:17 < chadadavis> The current natty seems to already have it in the default repositories.
[17:19] <Kaleo> That's correct
[17:19] <Kaleo> We pushed a recent version into Natty last week
[17:19] <Kaleo> but I really recommend the PPA
[17:19] <Kaleo> which contains critical bug fixes
[17:20] <Kaleo> 18:19 < abhinav> QUESTION: what languages can we use for development ? and can development be done on Maverick or Natty is absolutely necessary ?
[17:20] <Kaleo> Unity 2D is written in C++, QML and incidentally Javascript
[17:20] <Kaleo> C++ is used to create APIs that the user interface written in QML uses
[17:21] <Kaleo> QML is a declarative language to describe user interfaces; it is part of Qt
[17:21] <Kaleo> Development is now only done on Natty
[17:21] <Kaleo> We stopped developing on Maverick 2 weeks ago
[17:22] <Kaleo> Only backporting essential bug fixes
[17:22] <Kaleo> 18:20 < rsajdok> QUESTION: Can you describe how to run unity-2d-launcher with gdb and any function?
[17:22] <Kaleo> If you have Unity 2D installed from the PPA
[17:22] <Kaleo> and if Unity 2D is running
[17:22] <Kaleo> you can attach gdb to the unity-2d-launcher process
[17:23] <Kaleo>  ps aux | grep unity-2d-launcher will give you the PID of it
[17:23] <Kaleo> sudo gdb -pid PID_OF_LAUNCHER
[17:23] <Kaleo> will give you the gdb prompt
[17:23] <Kaleo> rsajdok: does it answer your question?
[17:26] <Kaleo> < jack002> QUESTION: Is there any plan to implement "windows tiling" like in Windows? I constantly need two programs opened like Firefox and Terminal.  Switching between them is annoying, resizing windows is time consuming...
[17:26] <Kaleo> There is no plan for windows tiling as far as I know
[17:26] <Kaleo> Sorry :(
[17:27] <Kaleo> < monish001> QUESTION: Could we expect projects from unity 2D for GSoC 2011?
[17:27] <Kaleo> We have not thought about it at all
[17:27] <Kaleo> It sounds like a great idea
[17:27] <Kaleo> I would love any help we can get :)
=== ClassBot_ is now known as ClassBot
=== jussi01_ is now known as jussi
[17:30] <Kaleo> For people who want to chat about Unity 2D in general
[17:31] <Kaleo> we hang out on #ayatana on freenode
[17:31] <Kaleo> with the Unity proper people
[17:31] <Kaleo> agateau, oSoMoN and uriboni are the people to talk with
[17:31] <Kaleo> by uriboni I meant nerochiaro!
[17:35] <Kaleo> Ok, well
[17:35] <Kaleo> I feel we are running out of questions
[17:35] <Kaleo> Thank you all for the good questions and your time
[17:36] <Kaleo> I will stay here longer in case any question comes up
[17:36] <Kaleo> 18:35 < raki__> i would want to help too how can i start?
[17:36] <Kaleo> Start by installing it and trying it out
[17:40] <Kaleo> If you like it
[17:40] <Kaleo> I suggest you find something you would like to improve
[17:40] <Kaleo> And start from there
[17:40] <Kaleo> The wiki page is a great starting point
[17:40] <Kaleo> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Unity2D
=== leila is now known as Guest82995
[17:40] <Kaleo> < monish001> QUESTION: do we have something called unity 3d also>
[17:40] <Kaleo> Unity 3D is a nickname for Unity proper, Unity you get by default in Ubuntu Natty
[17:41] <Kaleo> < Mkaysi> QUESTION: Is Unity2D going to be shopped with Natty, if someone uses computer, which can't run Unity 3D?
[17:41] <Kaleo> No, it will not be installed by default
[17:41] <Kaleo> It will not be on the CD
[17:41] <Kaleo> but it is installable via the packages very easily
=== Kmos is now known as Guest60040
[17:41] <Kaleo> < rsajdok> QUESTION: It started but I can not set backtrace on function launcherapplication::launch()
[17:41] <Kaleo> for that you will need to run from the source code
[17:41] <Kaleo> by that I mean
[17:41] <Kaleo> get the source code as indicated on the wiki page
[17:41] <Kaleo> compile it
[17:42] <Kaleo> and then start the launcher from there using gdb:
[17:42] <Kaleo> bzr branch lp:unity-2d
[17:42] <Kaleo> cd unity-2d
[17:42] <Kaleo> cmake . && make
[17:42] <Kaleo> gdb ./launcher/app/unity-2d-launcher
[17:42] <Kaleo> should do it
=== yofel_ is now known as yofel
[17:52] <Kaleo> QUESTION:
[17:52] <Kaleo> < raki__> suppose if i want to develop something for unity then will i have to learn qml or c++ is enough?
[17:52] <Kaleo> < raki__> and what are you using javascript for?
[17:53] <Kaleo> if you are going to touch the user interface at all you will need to understand QML
[17:53] <Kaleo> Javascript is used inside QML
[17:53] <Kaleo> but no worries, QML is really as easy as it gets
[17:53] <Kaleo> the learning curve is not so high if you did UIs before
[17:56] <Kaleo>  monish001> QUESTION: could you provide any good tutorial for QML to get started?
[17:57] <Kaleo> the QML documentation is quite good
[17:57] <Kaleo> and there is an official tutorial
[17:57] <Kaleo> http://doc.qt.nokia.com/4.7-snapshot/qml-tutorial.html
</pre>
