{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

09:03 mdz           good morning
09:03 JaneW         hi mdz
09:03 ogra          hey mdz
09:04 fabbione      dholbach: right :)
09:04 JaneW         we have appologies from mvo (hockey practice) and infinity (not
                    feeling well)
09:04 mdz           is everyone else here?
09:04 ogra          we pretend to, yes
09:04 jbailey       Just us dwarves. =)
09:04 JaneW         I got advance updates from both, so will represent them
09:04 ogra          hehe
09:04 Keybuk        I'm not.
09:04 Keybuk        Kamion isn't back yet?
=== Mithrandir throws jbailey his pickaxe
09:04 JaneW         is kamion here?
=== pitti raises hand
=== iwj [n=ian@xenophobe.extern.relativity.greenend.org.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:04 JaneW         and BenC?
=== ogra puts on his helmet to not get hit by flying axes
=== iwj decides to have it in the other client. Excuse any confusion.
=== Diziet [n=ian@xenophobe.extern.relativity.greenend.org.uk] has left #ubuntu-meeting
[]
09:05 JaneW         I had no word from daniels this week...
09:05 mdz           daniels is on holiday this week
09:05 mdz           Kamion,seb128,doko,Riddell,BenC: ping
09:06 JaneW         seb is here
09:06 Riddell       I'm at OSDL just now, will try to keep an eye on this window
=== elmo [n=james@83-216-156-21.jamest747.adsl.metronet.co.uk] has joined
09:06 JaneW         and doko
09:06 seb128        mdz: ping
09:06 seb128        ups
09:06 seb128        pong
09:06 doko          pong
09:06 Riddell       daniels is somewhere around, jdub is about to give a talk
09:07 Kamion        hello
09:07 JaneW         hi Kamion
=== Kamion was off buying a car, just got back
09:07 ogra          wow
09:07 dholbach      Kamion: can we congratulate? :)
09:07 ogra          family car ?
=== makx [n=max@baikonur.stro.at] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:07 janimo        or a kamion?
09:07 Kamion        perhaps somewhere where it isn't hideously off-topic ;)
=== xhaker [n=xhaker@luna.sublimesp.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:08 JaneW         are we ready to start?
09:08 mdz           missing only BenC
09:08 ogra          BenC is still missing ...
09:08 mdz           sent him an SMS
09:08 ogra          so lets go bottom to top today then :)
09:08 mdz           let's start rather than waiting
09:08 iwj           start> Yes please :-).
09:09 Mithrandir    ogra: community people first, wasn't it?
09:09 ogra          heh, yup ...
09:09 mdz           by reverse order of first name, then ;-)
09:09 mdz           Mithrandir: I think you're first
09:09 Kamion        yes, community first, we had problems last week
09:09 Kamion        because people couldn't stay around for the whole meeting
09:09 JaneW         is sivang, lathiat or krstic here?
09:09 ogra          is sivang here ?
09:10 iwj           If they're not here now we can slot them in if they happen to turn
                    up.
09:10 dholbach      i pinged lathiat
09:10 mdz           Kamion: people who can't stay around for the meeting can send in
                    status updates via email if that's all they want to do
09:10 JaneW         those 3 are the only 3 on the list so far, and mjg59...
09:10 iwj           They might want to talk about their items.
09:10 mdz           we're 1/5th through the meeting and have accomplished nothing so
                    far.  time to get started.
09:10 mdz           Mithrandir: go
09:11 JaneW         I think we should go on
09:11 Mithrandir    openoffice-amd64: no progress
                    live-cd-performance: bootchart-udeb uploaded, main inclusion report
09:11 Mithrandir    is written and review asked for, will add to d-i lists once it's in
                    main.  Need to investigate size of bootchart + deps for live seed,
                    we might want that in.
09:11 Mithrandir    one-true-path: no progress
09:11 Mithrandir    livecd-unionfs: no progress
=== azeem [n=mbanck@host45.natpool.mwn.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
                    media-integrity-check: in the archive, waiting for syslinux boot
09:11 Mithrandir    menu resolution, but looking good.  Might need some template
                    adjustments
09:11 Mithrandir    network-authentication: no progress, I've been thinking about how to
                    do it, but nothing solid yet.
                    This week: a lot of faff and merges, got dragged into a bunch of d-i
09:11 Mithrandir    stuff when some kbd-chooser breakage was discovered and I spent time
                    cleaning that up, live-cd-performance and media-integrity-check are
                    both looking good and approximately on schedule.
09:11 Mithrandir    Next week: some vacation, Fix up the d-i stuff I've been working on
                    (kbd-chooser). Look at getting one-true-path implemented.
09:11 Mithrandir    Blockers: media-integrity-check blocked on syslinux menu, but apart
                    from that, nothing
09:11 Mithrandir    s/Blockers/Blocked on/
09:12 mdz           Mithrandir: livecd-unionfs is approximately blocked on
                    simplified-livecd
09:12 Kamion        (the kbd-chooser stuff is needed for ubuntu-express-base-system)
09:12 mdz           Mithrandir: it is looking increasingly like I won't have time to do
                    that properly.  how do you feel about taking it on?
09:12 Mithrandir    mdz: I haven't read the spec, give me a few minutes to skim it?
09:13 mdz           JaneW: Mithrandir and me to discuss simplified-livecd later
09:13 mdz           seb128: you're next
09:13 JaneW         ok
09:13 seb128        menus-revisited: no update this week (todo: oo.o2 to upload)
09:13 seb128        rhythmbox-ipod: fixed libgpod according to pitti's comments, got it
                    promoted, updated rhythmbox to the new 0.9.2 using it
09:13 seb128        faster-gnome-startup: gconf transition is done/ok
09:13 seb128        dapper-desktop-plan: started to look on changes, spoke with desktop
                    team/upstream about some of them.
09:13 seb128        video-playback: no update this week (still waiting for gst0.10)
09:13 seb128        misc: desktop bug triage, syncs, fixed GNOME packages for
                    firefox1.5, some new GNOME updates/sync with Debian
09:13 seb128        next week: dapper-desktop plan, continue the desktop bug triage
09:13 mdz           seb128: what remains for faster-gnome-startup?
09:14 seb128        not a lot
09:14 mdz           to be finished next week then?
09:14 seb128        probably
09:14 mdz           ok
09:14 mdz           Keybuk: next
09:14 Keybuk        udev-roadmap: done, uploaded, the big bugs shaken out.
                    hardware-activation: beginning, alsa, hdparm and networking to
09:14 Keybuk        become udev events; ntpdate to become if-up.d script.  those are the
                    most tested and easy to do.
                    streamlined-boot: planned on my whiteboard, need to dump onto
09:14 Keybuk        wiki.  mostly moving rcS stuff about a bit and removing some
                    extraneous messages
09:14 Keybuk        network-magic: no progress.
09:14 Keybuk        misc: one merge remaining (sysvinit, to be done with
                    streamlined-boot).  dpkg conffile handling still to fix.
09:15 iwj           Do you want me to `help' with the dpkg conffile thing ?
09:15 mdz           Keybuk: remember to get that -devel-announce email out
09:15 Keybuk        yup, I'll send that out this evening
09:15 mdz           Keybuk: that should go out today; we've already broken things
09:15 mdz           ok
09:16 Keybuk        iwj: I already have the fix, just need to get around to testing and
                    uploading
09:16 mdz           ok
09:16 mdz           ogra: next
09:16 iwj           OK.  In general feel free to bother me.
09:16 ogra          * thin-client-sound: initscript for the client side and package work
                    done locally, spec pending.
09:16 ogra          * thin-client-local-devices: no further work yet, spec still in
                    drafting.
*********** thin-client-memory-usage: was waiting for the new
09:16 ogra          initramfs/udev/kernel architecture for modlue blacklist testing,
                    spec pending.
09:16 ogra          * thin-client-faster-startup: mainly bug hunting in the new
                    initramfs, works fine now, thanks Keybuk, spec pending.
09:16 ogra          * gnome-screensaver-default-image: no further work done yet, package
                    ready so far, need images.
*********** general: waved in the multiarch-client patch and uploaded bzr
09:16 ogra          branch for mdz inspection. gobby main inclusion report for edubuntu
                    done (looks like we'll get gobby 0.3.0 exclusively for ubuntu
                    according to pkern (upstream and DD)).
                    last weeks goals: requested changes to ldm done and sent to mdz,
                    thin-client sound initscript done, packge data for ltsp-sound
                    (changes to control and rules file) added (locally not yet online)
09:16 ogra          in bzr, etherboot: mknbi seems not to produce usable images (only
                    tested with breezy yet) needs further investigation (also with the
                    new kernel), liveCD filesystem prepared but waits for
                    ubuntu-desktop/edubuntu-desktop being installable, xscreensaver
                    merge
                    done, selected hacks in xscreensaver-data are working with
                    gnome-screensaver now. mailed gnome-screensaver upstream (will
                    provide a patch for lockscreen), edubuntu ready for flight2
09:16 ogra          (considering to drop kino from the desktop since video on ltsp
                    clients sucks), all merge bugs done o far, will propose to drop
                    gtk-qt-engines its not supportable for 3 years, upstream works very
                    slow and doesnt fix bugs (not even the ones with patches) it seems,
                    gnome
09:16 ogra          -screensaver not in main yet, will wait until after flight 2 and for
                    (#3044).
*********** next weeks goals: find out the bugs and fix the Xorg autodetection
                    on thin clients, finish the ltsp sound stuff, fix what mdz sends
                    back to me of my ldm/multiarch stuff, do the xscreensaver hack split
09:16 ogra          for #3044, finally get gnome-screnesaver to main, inspect the
                    mknbi/etherboot problem, get the liveCD ready and test edubuntu
                    fledgling1 (dapper flight 2) live and install, start working on
                    hwdb-client changes, inspect changes that have to be done
09:16 ogra          to edubuntu-artwork for dapper.
09:17 mdz           ogra: isn't there a spec associated with gnome-screensaver
                    integration (not the image one)?
09:18 ogra          mdz, we decided at ubz that we'll drop it
09:18 seb128        ogra: could you use screensaver-list when you mail gnome-screensaver
                    upstream?
09:18 ogra          since is a general item thats done every release
09:18 ogra          seb128, will do
09:18 seb128        cool
09:18 mdz           ogra: we who?  please keep it active for tracking purposes
09:18 mdz           there are several subsidiary tasks associated with it
09:18 ogra          mdz, JaneW, jdub, etc ...
09:19 ogra          mdz, the spec was about the lock dialog.... where there was
                    consensus that it just should be reverted upstream
09:19 ogra          i.e. look like the breezy one or like it looked before they made
                    changes for us
09:19 mdz           JaneW: ogra, me, sbalneav to discuss local devices.  it doesn't look
                    like this is going to make it for dapper
09:20 mdz           ogra: I mean the transition from xscreensaver to gnome-screensaver
09:20 ogra          mdz, yup ...
09:20 JaneW         mdz: erk, ok
09:20 mdz           JaneW: it's big and complicated and still not well specified yet
09:20 mdz           JaneW: do you have a snippet from mvo?
09:21 JaneW         yes
                    ogra: (alpha CD branding for derivatives typically tracks the real
09:21 Kamion        one to avoid hideous confusion on cdimage, so I'd prefer "Edubuntu
                    Flight CD 2")
09:21 JaneW         mvo: * the usual dance of mail/bug triage/irc
09:21 JaneW         * upload new apt/python-apt/gdebi + all depenencies (apt abi break)
09:21 JaneW         * gdebi is in the archive, that means one bit of the
                    3rdPartyPackages
09:21 JaneW           spec is implemented (still needs testing)
09:21 JaneW           [Support for packages by third parties in external repos]
09:21 JaneW         * build a package for unattended-upgrades script, not yet integrated
09:21 JaneW           into the APT::Periodic system
09:21 JaneW           [Unattended package upgrades]
09:21 JaneW         * started with the dist-upgrade tool, extended/cleaned up
09:21 JaneW           update-manager (u-m is responsible for detecting new releases and
09:21 JaneW           downloading the actual script)
09:21 JaneW           it detects new releases now, can download/display release notes
                    and
09:21 JaneW           download/extract the upgrade script tarball (+ cleaning up
09:21 JaneW           afterwards).
09:21 JaneW         * some more bits of python-apt supported where needed for the
09:21 JaneW           update-manager changes
09:21 JaneW         * cmd-not-found magic work with zyga, we have a package now for it,
                    a
09:22 JaneW           (small) patch for bash was submited to make integration smoother
09:22 JaneW         * changed language selector to implement the LanguagePackVsSupport
09:22 JaneW           spec (together with pitti)
09:22 JaneW         * update-notifier does not start when there is a admin group on the
09:22 mdz           JaneW: please ask him to organize by spec name for clarity next time
09:22 JaneW           system but the user is not part of it, implemented my parts of the
09:22 JaneW           HideAdminTools spec [HideAdminTools]
09:22 JaneW         Will do:
09:22 JaneW         * more work on the dist-upgrade tool, the actual dist-upgrade code
09:22 JaneW           comes next
09:22 JaneW         * 3rd party packages channel work
09:22 JaneW         * integrate unattended upgrades script into the APT::Periodic system
09:22 JaneW         mdz: yes agreed
09:22 ogra          Kamion, fine with me ...
09:23 mdz           ok, sounds good
09:23 mdz           doko: ready?
=== ajmitch [i=ajmitch@203.89.178.198] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:23 doko          this week:
09:23 doko          - toolchain-roadmap: gcc updates (3.4.5 final, 4.0 in a state
                    allowing KDE to build on hppa), amd64-biarch blocked by glibc
09:23 doko          - python-roadmap: python merges, started python-central update
09:23 doko          - openoffice.org: started merging / updating to version 2.0.1.
09:23 doko          - java-roadmap: merges done by charles, two left.
09:23 doko          next week:
09:23 doko          - toolchain-roadmap: amd64-biarch, when ready
09:23 doko          - python-roadmap: python-central, start converting packages in main,
                    get rid of python2.3 (start it ...)
09:23 doko          - openoffice.org: try to build a first package. feedback for
                    gnome-integration needed
09:23 Mithrandir    doko: are you doing the ooo-amd64 stuff as well?  It's a fairly easy
                    change, I'd imagine?
09:24 pitti         doko: what's the last point about?
09:24 mdz           doko: what's python-central?
09:24 pitti         doko: build OO.o 2.0.1?
09:24 doko          Mithrandir: I can do that, but after the i386 package
09:24 seb128        doko: I'll send you a patch for oo.o2/menus-revisited, ping me
                    before doing an upload
09:24 doko          mdz: python-central let's us get rid of the pythonX.Y packages
09:24 Mithrandir    doko: I can do it if you're busy, but if you could ping me when you
                    have the i386 package ready, that'd be useful?
09:25 doko          Mithrandir: yes, I'll ping you, if I have something
09:25 doko          pitti: yes
09:25 dholbach      seb128: i think gnome integration is more about clipboard
                    functionality, or is that resolved already?
09:25 Mithrandir    doko: thanks.
09:25 Kamion        pythonX.Y-* that is ...
09:25 seb128        dholbach: I don't use oo.o2 and I don't know anything about it, so
                    dunno if they fixed their bugs :)
09:25 pitti         that should make it easier to drop python versions in the future?
09:25 doko          exactly
09:25 mdz           pitti: add and drop, yes
09:26 pitti         yay
09:26 mdz           pitti: see python-roadmap
09:26 dholbach      doko: what feedback for gnome-integration are you looking for?
09:26 doko          dholbach: just email to mdz
09:27 mdz           hmm?
09:27 dholbach      i don't fully understand
09:27 seb128        dholbach: clipboard is a fd.o spec btw
09:27 dholbach      seb128: that was just one issue i could think of
09:27 dholbach      (having read bugs about it :()
09:27 seb128        dholbach: I don't know what you are talking about, just replying to
                    your comment about clipboard issue ...
09:27 mdz           Mithrandir: you seem to have 5 merges outstanding; anything blocking
                    those from being completed this week?
09:28 Keybuk        Riddell has 17 merges outstanding, 7 of which date to before dapper
                    opened
09:28 mdz           doko: likewise for you, 5 merges
09:28 ogra          i'm working on kino, will update the bug
09:28 doko          mdz: no, two. three are pending
09:28 Kamion        I only see one for Mithrandir
09:28 Kamion        unless my search is b0rked
09:28 mdz           doko: they aren't done until they're in the archive
09:29 mdz           Kamion: mailman, sane-backends, xml-crimson, ia32-libs, courier
09:29 doko          mdz: syncs are requested
09:29 Mithrandir    mdz: no, nothing blocking that.  One of them is a FTBFS when merging
                    (xml-crimson), but the others are easy enough.
=== ajmitch has no main merges if you need someone else to assign them to :)
09:29 mdz           Mithrandir: ok
09:29 mdz           mjg59: you here?
09:29 Kamion        I'm searching for alias matches ^merge-
09:29 mdz           Kamion: I used alias substring "merge-"
09:29 pitti         Kamion: I just search for 'Debian', that's usually quite fine
09:29 Mithrandir    mdz: I'm debian maintainer (or co-maintainer) for mailman and
                    ia32-libs, so those aren't crucial, but I'll get them done anyway.
09:30 doko          gjdoc is blocked (FTBFS), will do openoffice-dictionaries after the
                    oo2 packages
=== ogra just grabbed kino from Riddell
09:30 mdz           doko: can gjdoc be resolved tomorrow?
09:30 doko          Mithrandir: ia32-libs is/should be blocked by amd64 glibc
09:30 Kamion        thanks to people for responding to my no doubt incessant nagging
                    about merges
09:30 doko          mdz: no, it's a compiler regression, fixed in 4.1
09:30 jbailey       doko, Which is a next-week task.  It's in my update when my turn
                    comes. =)
09:30 mdz           Kamion: thanks for incessantly nagging
09:31 mdz           doko: argh
=== any [n=any@fac34-3-82-231-24-63.fbx.proxad.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Bye"]
09:31 mdz           doko: please note in bugzilla if you haven't already
09:31 doko          mdz: already done
09:31 mdz           ok
09:31 mdz           pitti: go
                    hide-admin-tools-to-users: DONE: design decision was taken, sudo
09:31 pitti         changes reverted; discussed further actions with seb128, who wants
                    to do/coordinate the rest
09:31 pitti         belocs-locales: DONE: fully implemented, new glibc, locales, and
                    langpacks are in the archive
                    language-pack-vs-support: DONE: mvo implemented langselector
09:31 pitti         changes; PLAN: installer needs string change, then it's complete
                    (something for Kamion, bug is filed)
                    automatic-printer-conf: PLAN: much harder than expected in the spec,
09:32 pitti         start upstream discussion about hal support and detecting
                    unconfigured printers
                    reducing-duplication: DONE: db4.1, krb4, are in universe, ucs-snmp
09:32 pitti         about to go (if the hppa buildd condescends to build cyrus21-imapd);
                    checked db4.2 removal, it's hard
09:32 pitti         gstreamer-audio-backend: BLOCK: gstreamer 0.10 for creating the
                    alsadmixsink
                    automated-problem-reports: BLOCK: approval from Keybuk, would
09:32 pitti         appreciate opinions from other people, too (elmo, Kamion, mdz) since
                    this is very intrusive
                    merges: DONE: non-blocked merges are finished, remaining ones are
09:32 pitti         stalled by external reasons; BLOCK: tbird l10n packages for tbird
                    1.5, cdrecord for upstream version regression
                    langpacks-desktopfiles: nothing done, no time; PLAN: zyga has some
09:32 pitti         patches, apply and test them; if performance regressions are
                    negigible, upload, else this requires further discussion
09:32 mdz           pitti,seb128: hide-admin was not on seb128's list earlier
09:32 pitti         rosetta-firefox-support, pmount-uber-alles, firewall: no change
                    since last week
09:32 pitti         plan for tomorrow: catch up with the huge amount of main inclusion
                    reports, people start killing me about them
09:32 ogra          mdz, it was in breezy ...
09:32 mdz           seb128: are you going to take it over?
09:32 ogra          SoC afaik ...
09:32 pitti         mdz: he wanted to do the rest...
09:32 seb128        mdz: there is a small gnome-menus patch to update and desktop files
                    to change than is a 10s job that I can do during normal upload
09:33 seb128        s/than/that/
09:33 mdz           seb128: ok, just wasn't on your list for next week
09:33 pitti         mdz: the spec should be reassigned to seb128 now, maybe?
09:33 seb128        yeah, forgot about it
09:33 mdz           pitti: yes, ok
09:33 mdz           pitti: if launchpad lets you, do it, otherwise bug me
09:33 pitti         mdz: and belocs-locales should be mine
09:33 pitti         mdz: I can't reassign
09:33 mdz           pitti: ok, bug me about that later too
09:34 pitti         will do
=== JaneW can reassign
09:34 mdz           pitti: decision has been taken to defer automated-problem-reports
09:34 pitti         ok
09:34 JaneW         let me know what changes from who to who and I'll do it.
09:34 mdz           pitti: if there is a third party interested in working on it as a
                    bounty, great, otherwise it's too much
09:34 mdz           pitti: ok, bug JaneW instead :-)
09:34 pitti         mdz: right, but it would be nice to approve the spec
09:35 mdz           pitti: yes, but we have other priorities right no
09:35 mdz           w
09:35 pitti         mdz: but without an approved spec we can't even bounty it
09:35 mdz           pitti: please note in bugzilla status whiteboard where merges are
                    blocked
09:35 pitti         mdz: ok, will do
09:36 mdz           Riddell: there?
09:36 Riddell       briefly
09:36 Riddell       KDE 3.5 packaging and merges and libstdc++ transition and rosetta
                    support
09:36 seb128        pitti: is that the spec about getting debug backtraces
                    automagically?
09:36 Riddell       next week, finishing all that off especially merges, update seeds,
                    simplify-kde
09:36 pitti         seb128: yes
09:37 Riddell       also moving kubuntu-express to review seems to have slipped my mind
                    so I'll make sure to remember that
09:37 seb128        pitti: grumpf, that would really make bug work easier to get this
                    one done
09:37 mdz           Riddell: you have ~16 outstanding merges, need to get those
                    completed ASAP
09:37 Riddell       mdz: scheduled foras soon as I get back
09:37 mdz           Riddell: there are also unresolved kubuntu-related anastacia items
09:37 ogra          or assigned to someone else
09:38 mdz           Riddell: and remember to merge ubuntu->kubuntu seeds
09:38 dholbach      Riddell: you want me to help with the merges?
                    mdz: pitti and I have been doing that fairly regularly as part of
09:38 Kamion        things we're doing anyway (like getting other stuff out of main, or
                    udev-roadmap, etc.)
09:38 pitti         mdz: I merged the seeds today, FYI
09:38 Riddell       mdz: amarok is waiting on libarts-akode moving to main
09:38 Kamion        (not to say Riddell shouldn't be doing it routinely, but)
09:39 Riddell       mdz: the rest are new versions of kdepim libraries
09:39 Riddell       merging seedsis included in my "update seeds" items
=== dsas [n=dean@host86-129-14-74.range86-129.btcentralplus.com] has joined
09:39 mdz           Riddell: libarts1-akode | 4:3.5-rc2-0ubuntu1 |        dapper |
                    amd64, i386, ia64, powerpc
=== wjb [n=warren@c220-237-178-175.lowrp1.vic.optusnet.com.au] has joined
09:40 mdz           Riddell: please follow up and see what's happening with it
09:40 pitti         Riddell: promoting gstreamer0.8-mad will be hard, since we want to
                    get libmad0 to universe
09:40 Riddell       pitti: it won't be needed that's fixed in the new amarok which as
                    mdz suggests I'll see what's happening with
09:40 ogra          promoting  gstreamer0.8-mad ???
09:40 pitti         ah, ok
09:40 mdz           ogra: no
09:40 pitti         ogra: anastacia
09:40 ogra          phew
09:40 mdz           ok
09:40 mdz           jbailey: ready?
*********** LocalesThatDontSuck: glibc parts done.  Need to figure out best
09:40 jbailey       way to handle locales bug reports.  My guess is forward them to
                    Danis Barbier for now and coordinate a merge monthly or so with
                    pitti.
*********** ToolchainRoadmap: Recovered from last weeks breakage, glibc built
09:40 jbailey       everywhere now.  libc6-i386 coming next week for amd64.  LaMont to
                    get back to me whether ia64 wants it, or if they're dropping i386
                    support.
09:40 jbailey       * Other: Need to go through bugzilla and punt anything that's not
                    glibc or lkh related to other people.
09:40 pitti         ogra: well, the gstreamer package is *absolutely* harmless
09:41 ogra          pitti, still a patented codec ...
09:41 mdz           jbailey: is there a glibc merge pending or no?
09:41 mdz           jbailey: http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=19180
09:41 jbailey       mdz, Yes.  It will come after all the changes that we're doing.  The
                    changes are blocking other people, the merge isn't.
09:42 mdz           jbailey: ok, so just glibc biarch, glibc merge, administrivia and
                    you're clear
09:42 jbailey       Yup
09:42 mdz           great
09:42 mdz           iwj: next
                    DefaultApplicationsFirefox: have applied (without trouble) patches
                    from RH to make Firefox use Gnome MIME handling, but these only
09:43 iwj           solve (a fairly small) part of Firefox's MIME problems.  Work will
                    have to continue.  I am currently constructing another interim
                    Firefox release for Dapper development to help with issues found so
                    far.
                    AutomatedTesting: Discussion in debian-* seems to have
09:43 iwj           finished.  Have spoken to Robert Collins about wider testing
                    arrangements and am waiting for a straw man design idea from
                    him.  *BLOCKED*  I hope to start implementation next week.
                    Launchpad Client Certs
                    (https://wiki.launchpad.canonical.com/SSLCertificateAuthentication):
09:43 iwj           Proof of concept successful and written up on wiki (with full
                    instructions, example config, etc.).  Nothing more to do from my end
                    (hopefully) except support Launchpad people with development and
                    deployment.
09:43 iwj           ThinClientLocalDevices: spec is still in Drafting.  *BLOCKED*
09:43 iwj           DeveloperDocumentation: Not started, not blocked.
                    Firefox maintenance: See above.  The current package has several
09:43 iwj           problems.  I'm aiming for a new release on Friday (tomorrow) which
                    will have fixes for whatever I can get done by then.
                    Others: no more ancient 7.07 gs-esp horror; not seen many problems
09:43 iwj           with gs-gpl and gs-esp 8.15; yay.  Merged mozilla (security fix), no
                    problem.
09:44 mdz           iwj: can the firefox patches land in dapper without waiting for
                    further work?
09:44 mdz           iwj: it would be good to see how that looks
09:44 iwj           Yes.  The RH patch will be in my upload, I hope tomorrow.
09:44 mdz           iwj: re: automated testing, are you saying you're blocked on robert?
09:44 iwj           You're probably going to be disappointed.  It doesn't change the
                    dialogue or anything; it just changes where it gets the data from.
09:44 iwj           Yes, blocked on Robert.
09:45 iwj           The RH patch is relatively sane and I'm happy to carry it.  So we'll
                    definitely get at least that far.
09:45 mdz           iwj: you have only one merge remaining (mozilla), is it blocked?
09:45 iwj           I might try to tart it up to make it a #ifdef for upstream.
09:45 iwj           Err, I must have forgotten to close the bug.
09:45 iwj           Unless I forgot to upload it too.  I will check.
09:45 mdz           using the right apps would be a pretty good start
09:46 mdz           for firefox mime
09:46 iwj           mdz: Right.  It'll use the Gnome ones _most of the time_ but it's
                    still on crack.
09:46 mdz           urgh
09:46 mdz           we'll do the best we can with it; if there's a lot of code to be
                    written, it may not be feasible for us
09:46 iwj           It uses all of (a) HTTP Content-Type (b) filename extension (c) file
                    contents, in bizarre ways.
09:47 mdz           automated testing would take precedence in that case
09:47 iwj           Absolutely.  I don't want any giant 50000-line patch nightmare.
09:47 mdz           ok
09:47 mdz           fabbione: next?
09:47 fabbione      yup
09:47 fabbione      * server-candy: still waiting for jdub to make the mailing list,
                    otherwise no progress since last week.
09:47 fabbione      * ubuntu-cluster: made local packages of new ocfs2 tools. need
                    testing.
*********** installer-volume-management: Implemented. There is one (minor
09:47 fabbione      corner case) bug that is giving me headacke to fix. Otherwise it
                    ROCKS.
09:47 fabbione      * probe-for-root-filesystem: blocked by udev till today (possibly
                    upcoming d-i changes).
09:47 fabbione      * boot-from-usb: blocked by probe-for-root-filesystem.
09:47 fabbione      * last week: done with my merging, one (zlib) is stalled on some
                    libc6-i386-dev-something.
*********** next week: try to kill the last installer-volume-management bug,
09:47 fabbione      cluster love to the tools we already have and server-candy full
                    speed.
09:48 mdz           libc6-i386-dev-something?
09:48 elmo          fabbione: file the list request in RT, you don't need to wait on
                    jdub
09:48 fabbione      mdz: i couldn't remember the exact name of the package, it's the
                    libc6 biarch transition jbailey mentioned before
09:48 doko          fabbione: no, just make it libc6-i386-dev | ia32-libs-dev
09:48 mdz           fabbione: if you don't get the list by Monday, ping me about it
09:49 fabbione      elmo: ah ok!
09:49 mdz           fabbione: or better, what elmo said
09:49 fabbione      elmo: i wasn't aware of that.
09:49 fabbione      elmo: will do asap
09:49 fabbione      mdz: thanks.
09:49 fabbione      doko: dude. you told me to wait and i am waiting
09:49 doko          fabbione: even better :)
09:49 mdz           fabbione,doko: ok, you two can discuss that out of band. we're
                    running short on time
09:49 fabbione      ok
09:49 fabbione      i am done
09:50 jbailey       mdz, doko, fabbione: libc6-dev-i386 for consistancy with other
                    biarch libc6-dev packages.
09:50 mdz           thanks fabbione, next daniels
09:50 Kamion        vacation
09:50 mdz           JaneW: do you have an update from daniels?
09:50 mdz           Kamion: yes, this week
09:50 JaneW         mdz: nope sorry
09:50 Kamion        right
09:50 mdz           ok
09:50 mdz           dholbach: next
*********** power-management-preferences: added explanations about the NEW
09:50 dholbach      approach, that mjg59, pitti and desrt agreed on, asked pitti and
                    mjg59 to have a look, didn't contact hughsie yet, although he made
                    some notes on the wiki page
*********** inclusion-of-docs: fixed a couple of bugs with mdke, uploaded the
09:50 dholbach      new version, will continue with uploading new versions twice a week,
                    mdke agreed on making the community aware of possibilities in doc
                    proofreading/checking/participating
*********** bugs-best-practices: added some notes to the Bugs/ pages,
09:50 dholbach      community tested them on the last Bug Day and they seem to have
                    "worked"
09:50 dholbach      * a11y-*: apart from the meeting and the new mailing list (thanks
                    jeff), no progress :-(
09:50 dholbach      * this week: huge amounts of bug triage, community stuff (desktop
                    team, motu), std allocator change
*********** next week: more bug triage (we will get bugzilla clean next week
09:50 dholbach      :)), organise a motu review day, tackle DesktopTeam/TODO, more
                    merges? investigate with slomo a bit more on formal-test-plans
09:51 mdz           dholbach: is mdke doing the trivial packaging work now?
09:51 dholbach      they are focusing on docs
09:51 dholbach      i helped to get all the path transitions done and the package out
                    the door
09:51 dholbach      it builds and is nice now (apart from having no translations)
09:51 mdz           ok
09:51 mdz           dholbach: is there work to be done on bugs-best-practices or is it
                    basically done?
09:52 dholbach      basically done
09:52 mdz           dholbach: you have one merge open in bugzilla; is it blocked?
09:52 mdz           gtkmm2.4
09:52 dholbach      yeah, i'll do that one
09:52 mdz           ok, this week please
09:52 dholbach      right
09:52 mdz           thanks
09:52 mdz           Kamion: next
                    ue-partitioning-tool: Finished and uploaded first cut at
09:52 Kamion        partman.deb, which shockingly seems to almost work if you know how
                    to drive it.
                    ubuntu-express-*, ue-*: niemeyer and I sorted out last week's
09:52 Kamion        svn2bzr bug, so I nearly have a working import; just waiting for
                    Guadalinex to actually make their dump sufficiently up-to-date now
                    (pinged them again today). No other progress.
                    cd-bootloader: Reviewed gfxboot patch; found it hideous and
                    infeasible to port to 3.11 myself. Talked to SuSE folks about
09:53 Kamion        getting a gfxboot patch for syslinux 3.11; I have this in my hands
                    now and it's much better and doesn't break text mode at least, but I
                    haven't quite had time to set up a graphical mode yet.
09:53 Kamion        cd-build-process: No progress (nothing urgent left here).
                    misc: Finished my merges. Lots of work on the big move to 2.6.15,
                    which has consumed a big fraction of my time this week. I have a
09:53 Kamion        working installer nearly ready to go now; the live CD will take a
                    little longer to get working again since we're now using initramfs
                    in d-i. Minor bug-fixes to pcmciautils, which I packaged
                    week-before-last.
                    next-week: Finish move of installer and live CD to 2.6.15; upload
                    gfxboot and get it enabled by default; try to glue debconffilter
                    onto the front of partman (this is pretty much a torture test of
09:53 Kamion        whether our UE implementation plans will work); prod Guadalinex
                    until we can finally get the UE bzr import done and move on;
                    archive-copier changes for language-pack-vs-support. With any luck,
                    Flight CD 2 next Thursday or so.
09:53 mdz           Kamion: the live CD is about to get a shakeup anyway (and need to be
                    built differently)
09:54 mdz           JaneW: Kamion should be in on the chat with Mithrandir and myself
                    about that
09:54 Kamion        right, but I need to make this one work for Flight CD 2
09:54 mdz           right
09:54 doko          Kamion: I'm not sure I have OOo2 installable next Thursday
09:54 Kamion        incremental development and all that
09:54 Kamion        doko: what's wrong?
09:55 mdz           not building on all architectures perhaps?
09:55 doko          Kamion: I would have to rebuild the current beta packages, that
                    would be possible
09:55 Kamion        please prioritise that if possible; we need an installable system on
                    a regular basis
09:55 mdz           agreed
09:55 mdz           need to move on
09:55 mdz           BenC: you're up
09:55 BenC          * DONE: Get 2.6.15 as main kernel (this has been the bulk of my
                    work)
09:55 BenC          * specs done: initramfs-updates, implemented kernel side to use
                    update-initramfs script
*********** specs dependent on 2.6.15 kernel: ubuntu-server-kernel,
09:55 BenC          testing-server-hardware, preventing-hardware-regressions,
                    udev-roadmap
09:55 BenC          * goals for next week: ubuntu-server-kernel, and start of
                    preventing-hardware-regressions framework
09:55 ogra          edubuntu doesnt even have a working livefs yet, would be nice to get
                    it done by flight2
09:56 Kamion        ogra: similarly blocked, I imagine
09:56 doko          Kamion: ok, I'll probably delay python-roadmap in favour of OOo2
09:56 mdz           BenC: you have two outstanding merges, is there anything blocking
                    them from getting done this week?
09:56 ogra          Kamion, but you already had fight 1
09:56 BenC          what merges?
09:56 ogra          i skipped that one
09:56 ogra          +l
09:56 mdz           BenC: kernel-wedge and kernel-package, assigned to you in bugzilla
                    for some time
09:57 fabbione      mdz: we might not merge them at all
09:57 mdz           BenC: http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=19041
                    http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=19217
09:57 BenC          I didn't know anything about it, so no
09:57 BenC          but I can get on them this week, no problem
09:57 mdz           ok, at both of the last meetings we've talked about the need to
                    finish off merges
09:57 mdz           needs to get done this week
09:58 mdz           fabbione: you and BenC can work that out and let me know if there is
                    a reason not to do it
09:58 BenC          should be easy enough
09:58 mdz           ok,
09:58 mdz           JaneW: update from adam?
09:58 fabbione      mdz: yup. it slept from my sight
09:58 ogra          mdz, no chmj ?
09:58 JaneW         yes
09:58 JaneW         infinity: * last week: lost of work on linux-restricted-modules
                    updating / fixing,
09:58 JaneW         and getting to work with new kernels; sorting patches for a big PHP
09:58 JaneW         security rollup (nothing big about the individual bugs, just that we
09:58 JaneW         have enough piled up to do a bit release now); general buildd,
                    merge,
09:58 JaneW         and bugfix work.
09:58 JaneW         * uplash/initramfs-*: Scott has released his lock on initramfs, so
                    all
09:58 JaneW         of these things will head into full-tilt next week.  Expect to see
09:59 JaneW         progress on all but (maybe) thin client usplash (that will likely be
                    the
09:59 JaneW         week after -- ogra, talk to me about this, the spec itself doesn't
                    even
09:59 JaneW         exist yet, and we should draft one).
09:59 JaneW         * my outstanding merges: portmap was taken by Mithrandir,
09:59 JaneW         initramfs-tools is currently heavily forked from Debian, and may not
                    be
09:59 JaneW         "merged", so much as cherry-picked to and from, mozilla-thunderbird
                    is
09:59 JaneW         waiting on my talking with the Debian maintainer about packaging
                    Tbird
09:59 JaneW         1.5 ASAP, php5 will be re-merged with the set of security uploads
09:59 JaneW         mentioned above, enigmail is waiting on the thunderbird 1.5
                    decision.
09:59 JaneW         Feel free to fire up MOM again, as those (except portmap) are all
                    (in my
09:59 JaneW         mind) false positives for "outstanding". :)
10:00 ogra          i wonder what we should spec about usplash on thin clients ? its
                    only turning on the splash flag on the kernel commandline
10:00 mdz           ogra: chmj is not present
10:00 ogra          no special needs
10:00 ogra          mdz, i see
10:00 mdz           ogra: agreed, just turn it on and see if it works
10:00 ogra          it does
10:00 ogra          using it since two weeks here
10:01 ogra          had timeout probs tht were solved with new initramfs
10:01 mdz           ogra: if it works, let's just turn it on
10:01 mdz           ok, we're out of time
10:01 mdz           if there's anything else to discuss, mail JaneW to get it on the
                    agenda for the next meeting
10:01 Keybuk        should we turn mom back on yet, or leave it off until next week?
10:01 mdz           we need to start on time next week
10:01 ogra          mdz, its on in my ldm branch ...
10:02 mdz           Keybuk: leave off until remaining merges are complete
10:02 Keybuk        ok
10:02 mdz           ogra: ok, I'll get to that next week most likely
10:02 mdz           thanks, everyone
10:02 ogra          fine :)
10:02 dholbach      thanks matt
10:02 fabbione      thanks
10:02 JaneW         I will try to get the rport out during tomorrow, please update your
                    estimates of time etc

</pre>
