{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

   09:56 mdz             good morning folks
   09:56 sladen          x92: just  sudo apt-get install xubuntu-desktop on your server box
   09:56 mvo             hello mdz!
   09:56 mdz             everyone here?
   === lloydinho [n=andreas@rosinante.egmont-kol.dk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === crimsun [i=crimsun@pdpc/supporter/silver/crimsun] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   09:56 ajmitch         hi mdz
   09:56 dholbach        hello
   09:57 siretart        hi
   === infinity [n=adconrad@69.0.240.48] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === Fujitsu [n=fujitsu@c211-28-181-26.eburwd7.vic.optusnet.com.au] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   09:57 Mithrandir      EHLO
   09:57 fabbione        morning
   09:57 Kamion          morning
   09:58 Fujitsu         -ERR
   09:58 pitti           hello
   09:58 x92             sladen: okay.. downloading ;)
   === iwj [n=ian@xenophobe.extern.relativity.greenend.org.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   09:58 mdz             Keybuk,seb128,doko,heno,infinity,sfllaw,BenC,ogra,iwj,Riddell: ping
   09:58 iwj             Hello.
   09:58 dholbach        mdz: seb128 is on holidays.
   09:58 sfllaw          mdz: Pong.
   09:58 mdz             dholbach: oh, yes
   09:59 doko            mdz: pong
   09:59 mdz             JaneW: anyone other than seb128 not expected?
   10:00 JaneW           mdz: not afaik
   === bheung [n=brian@c-67-169-157-51.hsd1.ca.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:00 mdz             dholbach: could you ring ogra?
   10:00 dholbach        mdz: i will do that
   10:01 mdz             Kamion: could you try riddell and keybuk?
   10:02 Kamion          ok
   10:02 mdz             SMSed Ben
   10:03 mdz             Kamion: oh, heno is in your calling radius as well
   10:03 Kamion          Keybuk's phone is ringing ... and ringing ... and ringing
   10:03 dholbach        I left a message on ogra's mobile.
   10:03 mdz             the UK has one of the most reasonable times for this particular meeting, ironically
   10:04 Kamion          I think Keybuk was up late driving edgy
   10:04 Mithrandir      Scott logged off at around ~0300 last night, so he could well be sleeping.
   10:04 Mithrandir      (0300 his local time)
   10:04 infinity        Yeah, Scott was up late wrangling the opening of edgy with me.
   10:04 mdz             dholbach: care to start us off?
   10:05 dholbach        this week (done): gnome 2.14 updates to dapper-updates, bugtriage, general catching up
   10:05 dholbach        this week (todo): gnome 2.15 and merging, more bug triage, writing specs
   10:05 dholbach        next week: gnome 2.15 and merging, more bug triage
   10:05 mdz             dholbach: how are you doing on your specs for paris?
   10:05 Kamion          left messages for Keybuk and Riddell; phoning heno
   === Keybuk [n=scott@quest.netsplit.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:05 dholbach        mdz: starting off and have some plans with Michael - but not much progress yet
   10:06 Kamion          heno will be with us shortly
   10:06 mdz             everyone should have a substantial number of specs (say 5-8) for Paris by the end of the week (i.e. tomorrow)
   10:07 mdz             if you're short of ideas, please talk to me sooner rather than later :-)
   10:07 mvo             should we try to limit ourself to 5-8? or is it ok to have ... more :) ?
   10:07 mdz             mvo: more is always fine, though it's not clear how many it will be possible to schedule
   10:07 Mithrandir      would it be possible to get a bunch of the old spec suggestions removed too?
   10:07 mdz             Mithrandir: removed from where?
   10:07 Mithrandir      the spec tracker in LP
   10:08 Mithrandir      there are some there which are bogus
   10:08 mdz             I don't think so
   10:08 mdz             the idea is that we should only need to pay attention to specs which are targeted for a release or a meeting
   === Seveas [n=seveas@ubuntu/member/seveas] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:08 mdz             and that the list of all specs will be a swamp
   10:08 mdz             but feel free to mail launchpad with suggestions
   === heno [n=henrik@henrik.gotadsl.co.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:09 heno            sorry for being late
   10:09 Keybuk          mdz: re e-mail, I had deliberately left one spec not added to the meeting, because I think it's edgy+1
   10:09 mdz             dholbach: are you confident about meeting that target?
   === Casanova [n=prash@unaffiliated/casanova] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:09 dholbach        mdz: I'll get cracking on it with full speed
   10:10 mdz             ok
   10:10 mdz             thanks dholbach
   10:10 mdz             doko: next?
   === soumyadip [n=soumyadi@59.93.200.176] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:11 doko            - this week (monday bank holidy)
   10:11 doko            - toolchain updates for edgy
   10:11 doko            - openoffice.org: preparing 2.0.2 l10n packages for dapper, rosetta discussions with carlos, preparing 2.0.3 for edgy, builds for amd64 again (no java, gtk crashes, must be gtk bug).
   10:11 doko            - SoC bug
   10:11 doko            - need to do: specs, SoC
   10:12 mdz             doko: 2.0.2 l10n packages?
   10:12 mdz             hmm
   10:12 pitti           doko: erm, we don't have bank holidays in .de :) (that was Pentecost)
   10:12 fabbione        * doko has quit (Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer)) <-
   10:12 mdz             indeed
   10:12 mdz             we'll come back to him when he reconnects
   10:12 mdz             fabbione: you're up
   10:12 fabbione        * sparc: working on t1000. Got it installed yesterday and helping davem to get his box up for full speed d
   10:12 fabbione        ebugging. got access to the 4 core Niagara today.
   10:12 fabbione        * specs: most of the specs i will be working are leftovers from dapper. Need to remove dust from them. Unl
   10:12 fabbione        ikely to have them all ready by deadline.
   10:12 fabbione        * ubuntu-cluster: updated ocfs2 and working on GFS2 userland (kernel is already done) while waiting for sp
   10:13 fabbione        arcs to reboot or build kernels..
   10:13 fabbione        * last week: release, release party, drunk, drunk.. more drunk.. more drunkness.. fun.. profit, sparc, spa
   10:13 fabbione        rc64, more profit..
   10:13 fabbione        * next week: sparc till dapper release.
   === doko [n=doko@dslb-088-073-065-191.pools.arcor-ip.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:13 Kamion          fabbione: hand over some of the profit
   10:13 mdz             fabbione: since you'll be working on your specs remotely and not at the meeting, the deadline is not as critical.  the sparc work is more important of course
   10:13 fabbione        Kamion: ehehe
   10:14 doko            sorry, daily disconnect from my provider
   10:14 fabbione        mdz: yeps.. i will still be coordinating with jbailey, neuralis and infinity.
   10:14 fabbione        mdz: they will be my gw for some of the specs
   10:14 mdz             fabbione: for your specs, just target them to dapper rather than adding to Paris
   10:14 mdz             fabbione: unless you really need us to talk about them without you
   10:14 Mithrandir      s/dapper/edgy/, I guess?
   10:14 infinity        s/dapper/edgy/?
   10:14 fabbione        mdz: some of them are shared, like cluster, server and mubuntu
   10:14 mdz             yes, edgy
   10:15 fabbione        mdz: people can still talk.. i will find a way to be "there"
   === Keybuk hands fabbione a headset
   10:15 fabbione        Keybuk: i have one ;)
   10:15 fabbione        theoretically..
   10:15 fabbione        anyway
   10:15 fabbione        mdz: will do as much as possible.. sparc first
   === silbs [n=jane@217.205.109.249] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === phanatic [n=phanatic@ubuntu/member/phanatic] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:16 mdz             fabbione: if they aren't proposed for Paris by the deadline it will be problematic to schedule them; if they really need to be discussed there then ask the people who will be there to help get them entered so you can continue on sparc
   10:16 doko            fabbione: you did mention this week some sparc toolchain issues?
   10:17 fabbione        mdz: ok will do.
   10:17 mdz             fabbione: thanks
   10:17 fabbione        doko: let's take this on -toolchain
   10:17 fabbione        mdz: thanks to you
   10:17 mdz             doko: now that you're back...you mentioned about 2.0.2 l10n for dapper?  I thought dapper already had 2.0.2 l10n
   === jsgotangco [n=jerome@210.4.38.43] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:18 mdz             doko: disconnected again?
   10:18 doko            mdz; it has, but including the import from rosetta, there are some conversion problems, and currently a build problem, because we do not scale with the number of language packs
   10:19 mdz             doko: 2.0.2-2ubuntu5 seemed to build
   10:20 doko            mdz: -ubuntu12 not yet
   10:20 doko            2.0.2-2ubuntu5 doesn't have the updates from rosetta
   10:20 mdz             doko: is -l10n actually any different between ubuntu5 and ubuntu12?
   10:20 mdz             I see
   10:21 mdz             doko: what is "SoC bug'?
   10:21 doko            mdz: hrm, nothing, just the to do line :-/
   10:22 mdz             doko: meaning SoC mentoring?   what is the 'bug'?
   10:22 JaneW           doko: you can;t call SoC a bug! :P
   10:23 G0SUB           lol
   10:23 doko            mdz: sorry, please ignore that line
   10:23 mdz             ...ok
   10:23 mdz             heno: next?
   10:23 heno            * Websites: gave ubuntu.com a minor facelift and tidying up
   10:23 heno            * Accessibility: working on lots of new specs, SoC, website section, support section in the forums. We are starting to see a trickle of users now trying it out and seeking
   10:24 heno            support
   10:24 mdz             heno: are you more or less finished proposing specs for paris, or have more planned?
   10:24 heno            all done :)
   10:24 mdz             ok, great
   10:25 heno            I realise there were quite a few this time
   10:25 mdz             heno: did you receive the email I CCed you on regarding the forums (from sounder I think(?
   10:25 heno            yes, there are social and technical aspects
   10:25 heno            with the technical being fairly easy
   10:26 heno            coordinating tabs and such
   10:26 mdz             we seem to have one forums person in paris
   10:26 mdz             not necessarily someone who deals with the infrastructure, though; they say they are a moderator
   10:26 JaneW           yes Roald Hopman
   10:26 heno            I have a good communication with the forum staff on the social level as well though, so I can help there
   10:27 mdz             we should slot in at least one discussion about how to encourage more crossover between the forums and other parts of the community
   10:27 mdz             heno: could you register a spec to ensure that goes on the agenda?
   10:27 heno            mdz: yes
   10:27 mdz             thanks
   10:27 mdz             infinity: next?
   10:28 infinity        last week: lots of tete-a-tete with soyuz folk about correctly closing dapper, and getting edgy open.  Also got dapper-updates (soyuz) and dapper-security (dak) live and mostly happy.
   10:28 infinity        this week: opening edgy with a full toolchain bootstrap, then letting open the floodgates for building everything else uploaded, then catching up on some less critical security backlog.
   10:28 silbs           mdz: one of the reasons to get forum people in Paris was to discuss forums governance. Mark and I have talked about this with Ryan Troy in the past, just tryingt omove things forward. Do you need a spec registered for that?
   10:28 mdz             silbs: I suppose we can schedule things manually, but putting in a spec is the best way to ensure that it won't be overlooked (and it'd be a good idea to write up the outcome anyway, provide a means for people to subscribe to participate, etc.)
   10:29 mdz             infinity: specs for Paris?
   10:29 infinity        mdz: What if there's nothing other than "run the infrastructure nearly full time and maintain my pet packages" that really interests me?
   10:30 infinity        mdz: I'll poke neuralis about some ubuntu-server spec stuff, though.
   10:30 mdz             infinity: if you'll be around after the meeting, let's talk about it
   10:30 infinity        Since I intend to still own that.
   === infinity nods.
   10:30 infinity        Do let's.
   10:30 mdz             ok, thanks
   10:30 infinity        I'm here all night making sure edgy opens.
   10:30 mdz             iwj: next?
   === ranf [n=ralfm@dslb-084-058-165-045.pools.arcor-ip.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:31 iwj             last week: release testing.  firefox themes.  chasing ancient dpkg bug with >=2 cargo cult wrong fixes (46530 etc.)
   10:31 iwj             this week: firefox 1.5.0.4.  investigating breezy ff security options.  Thinking about edgy; I hadn't realised the target was 5-8 specs; I'll take a more shallow approach.
   10:31 iwj             todo: investigate some ff 1.5.0.4 for breezy-security.  Firm up, write up and register some of these spec ideas.  When will the decisions about prioritisation be taken ?
   10:31 mdz             infinity: it can't be night for you; it's night for me ;-)
   10:31 Kamion          iwj: prioritisation> next week
   10:31 infinity        mdz: It'll be night when I'm done. :)
   10:31 Kamion          iwj: see https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2006-June/000145.html
   10:31 mdz             iwj: for the deadline, all you need are abstracts for discussion topics
   10:32 iwj             Right.  But if I really want to push something I need to beef up the rationale ASAP.
   10:32 mdz             iwj: in edgy, please merge the human firefox theme as default; once it's been tested in edgy, sabdfl wants it backported to dapper
   10:33 iwj             mdz: That will mean having a different firefox in dapper-updates and dapper-security.
   10:33 mdz             iwj: or merging the change into -security
   10:33 iwj             Indeed.
   10:34 iwj             I'm not sure how our users would feel about us doing a theme update in -security.
   10:34 mdz             I expect that we have few if any desktop users who use -security without -updates, to be honest
   10:34 Kamion          by sabdfl's own definitions, doing that in -security would be wrong ;-)
   10:34 mdz             and almost as few non-desktop users
   10:35 Fujitsu         I'm both a server and desktop user, and I always have both :)
   10:35 mdz             Kamion: I did discuss it with him in fact
   10:35 Kamion          18:30 < sabdfl>  - enable -security only (very stable, only security updates)
   10:35 mdz             Kamion: what was the context there?
   10:35 Kamion          -security vs. -security+-updates vs. -security+-updates+-proposed-updates
   10:35 Kamion          #launchpad yesterday
   10:36 mdz             we've routinely merged non-security bugfixes into -security to avoid duplicating work
   10:36 pitti           not that often, but indeed we did
   === olemke [n=olemke@iup.physik.uni-bremen.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:36 pitti           but only for small critical bug fixes without impact on the UI
   === vinboy [n=vinboy@60-234-137-136.bitstream.orcon.net.nz] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:36 mdz             anyway, thanks iwj
   10:36 mdz             iwj: you'll be around after the meeting as well, yes?
   10:36 iwj             Just to be clear:
   10:36 iwj             mdz: yes
   10:37 iwj             I don't really think this is a very good idea, but obviously I don't want to argue with sabdfl.  So AIUI I'm instructed to push the theme change into -security ?
   10:37 pitti           iwj: but let's do the initial 1.5.0.4 update ASAP, without the theme change for now
   10:38 mdz             pitti++
   10:38 iwj             pitti: Absolutely.
   10:38 iwj             In fact, it was uploaded earlier during the meeting.
   10:38 mdz             iwj: you're welcome to roll a security+theme package for -updates, but keeping that up over 5 years sounds uninteresting
   10:39 iwj             doorbell
   10:39 mdz             ok
   10:39 mdz             JaneW: next?
   10:39 iwj             back
   10:39 infinity        TBH, firefox enjoys a rather lax security policy ANYWAY, so one more change in -security isn't likely to make people take notice in the least.
   10:39 JaneW           Did:
   10:39 JaneW           -SoC: Admin tasks, final mapping of students to mentors, communicating between students and mentors, and google, looking for a SoC admin replacement, any volunteers??? (doko?)
   10:39 JaneW           -Mailing Lists: catching up on back log and unsubscribing from those no longer relevant.
   10:39 JaneW           -Edubuntu: Attended last EC meeting, and appointed 2 new Edubuntu Members, Edubuntu 6.06 released and is doing great on the distrowatch charts - thanks to ogra. Have been handing over my Edbuntu Admin tasks as appropriate.
   10:39 JaneW           -UDS Paris: Invited sponsored guests. Communicated with all guests to facilitate bookings and preferences, prepared spreadsheets and handed these to clan to take over.
   10:39 JaneW           - Have been really knocked by flu and a sinus infection this week.
   10:39 JaneW           To Do:
   10:39 JaneW           -Finalising everything. This is my last week :(
   10:39 JaneW           -Assisting with LP spec registering and Edubuntu as required etc.
   10:39 JaneW           Please let me know if I need to do anything for anyone?
   10:39 JaneW           mdz: how do you want this meeting recorded for instance?
   10:39 JaneW           Finally: Thanks to everyone for the most fantastic opportunity, it has been an honor and privileged to have worked with you all!
   10:40 Kamion          thanks for everything
   10:40 Keybuk          JaneW: thank you!
   === jsgotangco claps for JaneW
   === pitti gives JaneW a big hug and thanks her
   10:40 Keybuk          JaneW: for everything you've done
   10:40 mdz             JaneW: a brief summary for the weekly newsletter and a link to the log would be great
   === Fujitsu applauds JaneW.
   10:40 doko            JaneW: thanks!
   10:40 Kamion          any volunteers for meeting secretary in the future?
   10:40 dholbach        yeah, thank you very much, JaneW
   10:40 Fujitsu         Where are you going? :(
   10:40 JaneW           mdz: right, thanks
   === mvo gives JaneW a big hug and wishes her all the best
   10:40 JaneW           thanks everyone.
   10:41 doko            JaneW: well, it would be nice to have you as some kind of backup for the SoC work
   10:41 JaneW           and drink Amarula in Paris!
   10:41 Mithrandir      JaneW: where would we get that from when you're not coming?
   10:41 JaneW           doko: I think we can arrange that, I'd like to stay in touch with it anyway
   10:41 JaneW           Mithrandir: duty free ;)
   10:41 mdz             JaneW: we'll miss you and your Amarula both ;-)
   10:42 fabbione        JaneW: take lady..
   10:42 fabbione        and if you need anything.. you know where the godfather is
   10:42 mdz             heno: could you take over summarizing our meetings for the newsletter starting next week?
   10:43 heno            mdz: yes, should be fine
   10:43 mdz             JaneW: apart from that and SoC, is there anything else on your list which hasn't been handed off yet?
   10:44 mdz             heno: great, thanks
   10:44 doko            JaneW: as long as nobody volunteers, I'm going to do that (at least you already did start briefing ;-P)
   10:45 JaneW           mdz: not really besides some UDS stuff, and the specs etc, the edubuntu team has been great at volunteering
   10:45 mdz             JaneW: claire n. should be handling the remainder of the summit planning, yes?
   10:45 JaneW           mdz: and the meeting reminders etc... bt it is on the fridge, so it's pretty bot-like
   10:45 JaneW           mdz: yes except for the stuff silbs has asked me to do
   10:45 mdz             JaneW: the stuff silbs asked you to do, is doable by the end of the week?
   10:45 JaneW           mdz: also there's the e-mail I receive I will handle it and/or forward it as appropriate as it comes in
   10:46 JaneW           mdz: I did remove my address as the reference on the various wiki pages I had added it to
   10:46 mdz             JaneW: are you feeling any better?
   10:46 JaneW           mdz: I hope so yes, I just read the message properly this morning, I am not sure I understand the team speak requirement, but am going to try to find out...
   10:46 mdz             JaneW: if you could forward me a copy, that'd be appreciated
   10:47 JaneW           mdz: I get a bit better during the day, but at night and in the morning I feel really rotten. I really hope the worst is over now . Thanks.
   10:47 mdz             I've developed sinus infections as a complication of cold/flu before, no fun
   10:48 mdz             thanks JaneW, and all the best
   === Khalid [n=chatzill@82-167-30-27.odsplus.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:48 mdz             Kamion: next?
   10:48 Kamion          misc: Huge amounts of bugmail, mostly Ubiquity. Preparing specs for Paris (done five, pondering revive-tasksel); ubiquity-advanced-partitioner prompted by aforementioned flood of bugmail. Various dapper-updates uploads, more to come. Will start on the big d-i merge today, probably (blocked on merging packaging toolchain).
   10:49 Kamion          migration-assistance: (This is my student's GSoC project.) I've seen an initial code drop and done a design and minimal code review on it; basic approach is mostly sound and I'm happy with his progress so far.
   10:49 Kamion          next-week: On holiday.
   10:49 JaneW           Kamion: enjoy your holiday - is it not your anniversary then (or soon?)
   === rob [i=Robert@freenode/staff/ubuntu.member.rob] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:49 fabbione        Kamion: am i still allowed to SMS you if we get the sparc bugs fixed?
   10:50 fabbione        Kamion:  i am sure i can handle up to testing cdimages.. but for final release i think i will need your 31337 sk1775
   10:50 Kamion          JaneW: couple of months, this is just a random holidday
   10:50 Kamion          fabbione: I will be nowhere near a computer
   10:50 fabbione        Kamion: ok.. have fun1
   10:50 Mithrandir      fabbione: I can do releases for you.
   10:50 fabbione        Mithrandir: on releases.ubuntu.com ?
   10:51 Kamion          I can run Mithrandir through what needs to happen; it's a bit weird and will need manual assistance
   10:51 Mithrandir      that's just a mirror of lithium.
   10:51 Kamion          the scripts will get a few things wrong
   10:51 mdz             Kamion: if you can do a dry run with Mithrandir before you go, that'd be good
   10:51 fabbione        Kamion, Mithrandir: up to you two.. i can't even be 100% sure evything will be fixed
   10:51 Kamion          will do
   10:51 Kamion          um, we need to discuss other things, but #ubuntu-devel after the meeting
   10:51 mdz             ok, thanks
   10:52 mdz             Keybuk: next?
   10:52 Kamion          fabbione: (SMS is fine, BTW, as long as you don't demand an answer within the hour :-))
   10:52 Keybuk          (this week) MoM: Working on a new source grabbing method for mom, instead of relying on external morgues.  Currently finding all sources that I can for the backlog.
   10:52 Keybuk          (this week) edgy: Prepared new udev, module-init-tools and usplash packages.
   10:52 Keybuk          (this week) dapper: Fixed the pcmcia-cs utils bug harder *ahem*
   10:52 Keybuk          (next week) specs: finish off spec drafts and get them on the wiki
   10:52 Keybuk          (next week) edgy: Fix upstream's also-broken udev device enumeration
   10:52 fabbione        Kamion: don't worry.. i expect you to have fun :) not to be ready for me :)
   10:53 mdz             Keybuk: how much luck are you having finding the missing sources?
   10:53 Keybuk          mdz: I'm using several different archives; won't know what the hit/miss rate is until it's finished though
   10:53 Keybuk          hopefully it'll be good enough
   10:54 mdz             Keybuk: do we have a plan for the future so that we're sure to keep copies of what we need?
   === ogra [n=ogra@ubuntu/member/ogra] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:54 mdz             or is that tbd in paris?
   10:54 Keybuk          mdz: my plan for the future is that Launchpad should do it
   10:54 infinity        The future plan is to import sid into LP.
   10:55 mdz             that's unlikely to start happening before the merge starts
   10:55 mdz             unless you know something I don't
   10:55 siretart        infinity: do you plan to have chroots on the buildds for sid?
   10:55 infinity        siretart: No, we're not BUILDING sid, we'll be importing a read-only copy.
   10:56 siretart        I was rather thinking about personal package archives
   10:56 Keybuk          mdz: you didn't specify the constraint for "future" :p
   10:56 mdz             Keybuk: "edgy"
   10:56 Keybuk          mdz: edgy plans are to use the scripts I've written
   10:56 Keybuk          they basically keep our own equivalent of snapshot.dn
   10:56 Keybuk          but without history we don't need or binaries
   10:56 mdz             ok, so once we've filled in the gaps, they should give us what we need going forward
   10:57 Keybuk          yeah
   10:57 mdz             wfm
   10:57 mdz             Keybuk: thanks
   10:57 mdz             Mithrandir: next?
   10:57 Mithrandir      misc: post-release cleanups, thinking and writing up specs for Eft.  Public holiday, getting started on SoC mentoring
   10:57 Mithrandir      next week: more spec preparation, get my space bar fixed so I stop losing spaces, start uploading syncs again, more SoC mentoring
   10:58 mdz             Mithrandir: are you confident about getting 5-8 specs in for Paris by the end of the week?
   10:59 Mithrandir      yes
   === zul [n=chuck@ubuntu/member/zul] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:59 pitti           Mithrandir: HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!!
   10:59 mdz             OH
   10:59 Mithrandir      I'm picking some off your suggestions list as well as drawing from a bunch of my own too.
   10:59 Mithrandir      pitti: thanks. :-)
   10:59 mdz             happy birthday indeed
   === dholbach hugs Mithrandir!
   === mvo hugs Mithrandir
   === sfllaw hugs Mithrandir.
   10:59 mdz             doko just had one as well
   === ogra hugs Mithrandir
   11:00 mdz             and elmo!
   === ogra hugs as well :)
   11:00 dholbach        doko: HAPPY BIRTHDAY - when is the party? :-)
   === dholbach hugs doko
   11:00 mdz             goodness, we need to get these on the fridge calendar ;-)
   11:00 pitti           doko: happy belated birthday!!
   11:00 Mithrandir      thanks everybody.
   === mvo hugs doko
   11:00 ogra            mdz++ :)
   11:00 doko            thank you :)
   11:00 sfllaw          mdz: Yes, we should.
   === sfllaw hugs doko.
   11:01 mdz             Mithrandir: ok, thanks
   11:01 mdz             mvo: next?
   11:01 mvo             Did:
   11:01 mvo             (monday  Pentecost)
   11:01 mvo             - some 3rd party packages work/review
   11:01 mvo             - SoC/spec work
   11:01 mvo             - apt work (ddtp)
   11:01 mvo             - smart work (apt-channel-sync)
   11:01 mvo             - bug triage
   11:01 mvo             Will do:
   11:01 mvo             - preparing specs for paris (including resurrecting some dapper ones)
   11:01 mvo             - more 3rd party app work
   11:02 mdz             mvo: do you have enough spec ideas to occupy you in Paris?
   11:02 mdz             if not I have all sorts of ideas for you :-)
   11:02 mvo             mdz: yes, I'm confident in this :)
   11:02 mvo             (both that you have enough ideas for both of us and that I will be able to have enough specs)
   11:02 mdz             mvo: there seem to be at least two things being called 3rd party now
   11:03 mvo             ?
   11:03 mdz             our vendor-oriented repositories, and the install-packages-via-browser magic
   11:03 mvo             oh, ok. "3rd party packages" means for me review/mail for the vendor repository
   11:03 mdz             which wasabi has been talking about
   11:04 mdz             one of them should be renamed to avoid confusion
   11:04 mvo             ok
   11:04 mdz             you and he can fight it out ;-)
   === mvo wins
   11:04 mdz             his is apt-third-party I think
   11:04 mdz             mvo: thanks
   11:04 mdz             ogra: next?
   11:04 ogra            * general: preparing a fix for missing cursors in edubuntu-artwork, discussing specs, preparing the merge of debians ltsp branch, packing g-s-s 2.14.2, SoC (willow spec changes)
   11:04 ogra            g
   11:04 ogra            * next-week: initial packaging of ltsp manager, more ltsp work (lots of changes in debian), preparing for paris, finishing spec writing and selecting edubuntu and ltsp specs
   11:06 mdz             ogra: ltsp manager? is that the gui configurator?
   11:06 ogra            yep
   11:06 ogra            it has also a spec, so i can work "officially" on it :)
   11:06 mdz             ogra: are you going to tackle the dhcp configuration issue and/or local devices for edgy?
   11:07 ogra            local dev is my highs priority indeed
   11:07 ogra            and the dhcp conf issue is at least solved for new installs in my local branch (in the udeb)
   11:07 ogra            *highest
   11:07 mdz             ogra: ok, if any further discussion is needed about dhcp, please get it on the agenda for paris.  if you'd like to send me a diff to review, I'll look over it
   11:08 ogra            ok, first i need to  get the debian changes in
   11:08 mdz             I think the best approach would be for that file to stop being a conffile in dhcp3
   11:08 ogra            the branch is pretty mixed up
   11:08 ogra            thats the minimal requirement, yes
   11:08 mdz             ok, thanks
   11:08 iwj             ogra: Have you seen any more reports about that ip address exhaustion problem ?
   11:08 mdz             pitti: next?
   11:09 ogra            another thing is when and how to generate it in "not new" installs
   11:09 pitti           done last week:
   11:09 pitti           * piled up a huge number of security updates; staged since *-security wasn't working until this morning
   11:09 pitti           * fixed a few major bugs in dapper-updates
   11:09 pitti           * set up automatic daily langpack updates for hoary, breezy, and dapper
   11:09 pitti           * initial design discussion with my SoC student
   11:09 pitti           plan for remainder of this week/next week:
   11:09 pitti           * finish my amber wrapper to generate USN templates that are actually usable, to greatly reduce the time I spend for creating them (currently in progress)
   11:09 pitti           * release the currently pending security updates
   11:09 ogra            iwj, only one
   11:09 pitti           * deal with the next round of security updates (firefox, tbird, mozilla, mysql, kernel), discuss solution for Mozilla&friends with upstream and other vendors
   11:09 pitti           * find some time to think about Edgy specs until tomorrow; most likely I won't find time for 5-8, since security takes a lot of my time, and AutomatedProblemReports is a huge spec that I'd like to concentrate on
   11:09 mdz             pitti: dapper-security is working now?
   11:09 pitti           mdz: at least jackass uploads; I didn't try to release something
   11:09 pitti           mdz: packages with translation tarballs are still broken, though
   11:09 mdz             pitti: are we still getting a significant amount of ongoing new translations for hoary and breezy?
   11:10 pitti           since katie doesn't eat the raw-translations changes items
   11:10 iwj             ogra: Hmm.  I do still think there's something wrong with dhcpd there but at least it's not hugely serious.  Do let me know if it becomes more prominent on your radar.
   11:10 pitti           mdz: yes, since all dapper translations which are valid for hoary and breezy will be updated there as well
   11:10 mdz             pitti: don't many/most packages have translation tarballs?
   11:10 ogra            iwj, will do
   11:10 ogra            iwj, thanks for pointing
   11:10 pitti           mdz: acutally not, about 400 in main
   11:10 pitti           mdz: and most of the UI stuff is not particularly vulnerability-prone
   11:11 mdz             pitti: do you have a tentative date for uploading the first translation updates for dapper?
   === shenki [n=shenki@ppp163-218.lns3.adl4.internode.on.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:11 pitti           mdz: carlos and I agreed to update translations on first Monday every month
   11:11 pitti           mdz: does that sound fine to you?
   11:11 pitti           so, July 3
   11:11 mdz             pitti: that's fine with me; jordi proposed doing the first update earlier though
   11:12 pitti           works for me
   11:12 mdz             did you discuss with him?
   11:12 Riddell         mdz: I'm awake now, sorry for being late
   11:12 pitti           the packages are generated daily, we just need to upload whenever we want
   11:12 pitti           mdz: I'll talk with jordi
   11:12 ogra            Riddell, seems to be a derivative desease, i was late as well :)
   11:12 pitti           mdz: June 14 sounds like a good date then
   11:12 mdz             pitti: did we already send something to -announce about translation updates from rosetta?
   11:13 pitti           mdz: I will do the announcement once I can do a thorough test of the hoary and breezy updates and have the dates settled
   11:14 mdz             pitti: ok
   11:14 mdz             silbs: might we want to do a press release about the fact that we will now be doing periodic translation updates for Ubuntu from Rosetta?
   11:15 mdz             pitti: we need to keep you busy somehow in Paris; do you need help getting specs registered?
   11:16 pitti           mdz: oh, I'll have plenty to do :) I plan to discuss several ffox/oo.o/langpack related things with Carlos, talk with Till Kampetter about printing stuff, and grab some people for AutomatedProblemReports
   11:16 mdz             pitti: it's a good idea to register your planned meetings as specs, that way they go on the agenda
   11:16 pitti           mdz: but I'll find some time today to review the specs and at least be drafter for some of them
   11:16 mdz             pitti: (and you will have time to document the outcome)
   11:17 pitti           right
   11:17 pitti           mdz: are you fine with me inviting Till Kampetter for a day? he lives in Paris
   11:17 pitti           mdz: he's the Mandriva print guru, and he wanted to exchange some ideas with me
   11:17 mdz             pitti: I think it's too late to get accomodation, but of course he is welcome to come by for the session itself
   11:17 pitti           he doesn't need accomodation
   11:18 pitti           he'll just be there for a few hours, I guess
   11:18 mdz             that's fine, it's open to the public.  he should register on /Attendees though
   11:18 pitti           since our print infrastructure could need a huge hunk of love, I think it's a good idea
   11:18 pitti           alright
   11:18 mdz             thanks pitti
   11:18 mdz             Riddell: next?
   11:18 Riddell         done:
   11:18 Riddell         - e-mail catchup
   11:18 Riddell         - spec writing
   11:18 Riddell         - edgy package update preparation http://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuEdgyPackageUpdates
   11:18 Riddell         - making sure all SoC students are alive and with specs
   11:18 ogra            pitti, i'd like to have kdeedu langpacks (in case we cant drop it from edubuntu) to reduce the cd size, can we discuss that in paris ?
   11:18 Riddell         - Discussing Rosetta with KDE translators
   11:18 Riddell         - dapper-updates
   11:18 Riddell         next week:
   11:18 Riddell         - finish off pre-summit specs
   11:18 Riddell         - KDE 3.5.3 edgy packaging
   11:18 pitti           ogra: sure, should become a small spec
   11:19 Riddell         - meeting with KDE reps to discuss summit plans
   11:19 mdz             Riddell: you have a bunch of specs registered; do you expect to divide that work between yourself and some KDE folks?
   11:20 Riddell         mdz: me, KDE folk and the other kubuntu people who are coming
   11:20 mdz             Riddell: I commented on the status whiteboard of one of your proposed specs and asked for it to be reorganized a bit; hopefully launchpad emailed you?
   11:20 ogra            pitti, it will be included in the "edubuntu CD diet" spec (which has some other topics as well)
   11:20 Riddell         mdz: yes got that, will change that spec around today
   11:20 mdz             Riddell: how many SoC projects are you mentoring?
   11:21 Riddell         mdz: three
   11:21 ogra            phew
   11:21 mdz             Riddell: seems like a lot, make sure you budget time to help them
   11:21 mdz             in terms of your personal spec workload
   11:22 Riddell         sure
   11:22 mdz             Riddell: what do you plan for dapper-updates?
   11:22 Riddell         mdz: just the ones that have been uploaded, plus the openoffice amd64 stuff with doko
   11:23 mdz             Riddell: ok, I approved qt-x11-free earlier today
   11:23 mdz             Riddell: when is the meeting with KDE?
   11:23 Riddell         monday (european) evening
   11:24 Riddell         I need to warn them about the 9 o'clock starts
   === doko remembers that we'll need an ia32-libs-gtk update to include libgail* ...
   11:24 mdz             ok, please ping me when it's starting so I can at least listen in
   11:24 Riddell         mdz: sure
   11:24 mdz             Riddell: thanks
   11:24 mdz             sfllaw: next?
   11:24 sfllaw          Done: Bug triage, release party, SoC mentoring, setup ability to work in the Montreal office.
   11:24 sfllaw          Todo: Bug triage, training people for ubuntu-qa, spec writing, SoC mentoring.
   11:24 sfllaw          .
   11:24 sfllaw          STATISTICS
   11:24 sfllaw          ==========
   11:24 sfllaw          Since Dapper's release...
   11:24 sfllaw          Unconfirmed and unassigned bugs of severity >= normal: 1581 -> 2086
   11:24 sfllaw          Needs Info bugs: 1450 -> 1651
   11:24 sfllaw          Dapper bugs: 64 -> 76
   11:24 sfllaw          Bugs without packages: 1079 -> 1303
   11:24 sfllaw          Bugs closed: 6696 (This number seems wrong, considering what https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bugs said yesterday, which was about 5000 less.)
   11:25 mdz             sfllaw: does that represent a large spike in bug activity, or normal firehose action?
   11:25 sfllaw          What do you mean by "that"?
   11:25 sfllaw          The numbers overall?
   11:25 mdz             sfllaw: the deltas
   11:25 Kamion          sfllaw: bugs closed> does that take dups into account?
   11:26 sfllaw          Kamion: I'm unsure.  bradb would be the best person to answer that.
   11:26 sfllaw          mdz: We have a huge spike in bug activity, caused by Dapper's release.
   11:26 mdz             sfllaw: the inconsistency might have something to do with that malone bugfix which went in recently, correcting the numbers vs. query results
   11:26 sfllaw          mdz: Fair enough.  Sane numbers should reappear next week, then.
   11:26 mdz             bug 33882
   11:26 Ubugtu          Malone bug 33882 in malone "Critical bugs are listed as 8 in the side bar, but there actually aren't any" [Medium,Fix released]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/33882
   11:26 sfllaw          In any event, the bug flow seems to have doubled after you made that release announcement.
   === bheung [n=brian@c-67-169-157-51.hsd1.ca.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:27 mdz             sfllaw: from what you've seen, are there many valid/confirmable bug reports or mostly dupes/noise?
   11:28 sfllaw          A lot of both.
   11:28 dholbach        from what I've seen, I'd say 60% dupes/noise and 40% valid bugs (desktop-bugs)
   11:28 doko            sfllaw: more statistics: ubuntu > 4500 hits on distrowatch, kubuntu and xubuntu on rang 4 and 5 (7 day statistics), edubuntu on rang 23 (ogra, go ;-)
   11:28 ogra            YAY !
   11:28 sfllaw          dholbach: That sounds about right.
   11:29 mdz             doko: indeed, distrowatch is very sensitive to new releases and other big news ;-)
   11:29 sfllaw          Lots of people hit bugs in ubiquity, that I've been hesitant to collapse into dupes.
   11:29 mdz             qualitative feedback about dapper so far seems to be very positive, though
   11:29 sfllaw          I agree.
   11:29 mdz             congratulations to all of you on that success
   11:29 ogra            mdz, dont take our illusions !
   11:29 ogra            (about distrowatch)
   11:29 sfllaw          Lots of people have weird configurations which didn't show up in Release Candidate stages.
   11:29 mdz             we're getting great press and user feedback
   11:29 Kamion          sfllaw: I'm happy to (and indeed prefer) to do most of that, but see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingUbiquity for the easy cases that can be done by others
   11:29 sfllaw          Thanks.
   11:30 mdz             sfllaw: we need to figure out how to get those folks testing pre-release
   11:30 Kamion          sfllaw: ubiquity is about 80% dupes or weird-shit. :-(
   11:30 sfllaw          It's psychological, I think.
   11:30 sfllaw          Kamion: We need their logs before we can sort into dupes.
   11:30 Kamion          sfllaw: right, I have cut-and-paste text for that ...
   11:30 sfllaw          Yeah, so do I.  :(
   11:31 mdz             anyone heard from BenC?
   11:32 mdz             out of time
   11:32 mdz             thanks all, and good time-of-day
   11:32 sfllaw          Thanks.
   11:32 fabbione        mdz: thanks, good night
   11:32 sfllaw          Zzz.
   11:32 dholbach        thanks - sleep tight
   11:33 heno            sfllaw: I think people are more likely to test Live CDs pre-release, so better ways of getting debugging info from those would help
   11:33 ogra            heno, but that wont show you the upgrade probs with weird configs ...
   11:33 heno            ogra: true
   11:33 Kamion          heno: we only really started to get decent ubiquity crash reporting going around beta 2, unfortunately
   11:33 Kamion          I regret not doing that earlier
   11:34 ogra            i had a guy who obviously had poked around in his /etc/login.defs and couldnt log without getting a ton of errors for example ...
   === vincent__ [n=vincent@85.69.101.147] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Ex-Chat"]
   11:36 pitti           bye everyone

</pre>
