{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Mysql 5.1 in karmic main? - mathiaz
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== SRU tracking on server-related packages =====

mathiaz had a chat with bdmurray about a way to generate a list of bugs that have been fix for a previous week. bdmurray has a script that almost does the job.

ACTION: mathiaz to follow up with bdmurray about the list of fixed released bugs related to the ubuntu-server team.

===== Ubuntu HA team: Cluster stack update =====

mathiaz reported that the latest version of drbd had been uploaded to Debian. It was using DKMS as suggested by ivoks. The drbd package has been synced in Ubuntu Karmic.

RoAkSoAx updated the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuHighAvailabilityTeam/Roadmap|Ubuntu HA roadmap]]</nowiki>. We are just waiting for the Debian packages of pacemaker and heartbeat, since openais is already in Debian experimental, and corosync is about to reach it.

===== Mysql 5.1 in karmic main =====

mathiaz announced that MySQL 5.1 had been uploaded to Debian unstable and outlined a proposal to move 5.1 from universe to main. The two identified blockers have been solved:
# The test suite is run during the 5.1 build. 
# In MySQL 5.1, cluster support is disabled. Upgrades from 5.0 to 5.1 are aborted if the NDB cluster engine is used and a message suggests to remove the mysql-server package. 
 
Uploading 5.1 to main now would mean going through another library transition.

ACTION: mathiaz to send an email to ubuntu-devel@ outlining the proposal to move 5.1 into main.

===== Cloud power management =====

kirkland considers that powernap and powerwake are feature-complete. He is in testing mode and is looking for a rackable server that has S3 in /proc/acpi/sleep. Anyone willing to help out should contact him.

===== Ubuntu Server Guide =====

sommer has been busy updating the Ubuntu Server Guide according to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KarmicServerGuide|plan]]</nowiki> laid out during UDS.

===== Asterisk =====

jmdault resumed his work on getting the Asterisk stack updated in Ubuntu. More work is required and cooperation with the Debian team is going on. mathiaz suggested to write up a basic outline of a plan for Karmic in a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AsteriskIntegration |wiki page]]</nowiki>.

ACTION: jmdault to write up a basic plan for Astrisk for Karmic.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, August 4th at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
16:04] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:04. The chair is mathiaz.
[16:04] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:04] <mathiaz> Today's agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:05] <mathiaz> Last week minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20090721
[16:05] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] SRU tracking on server-related packages
[16:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  SRU tracking on server-related packages
[16:05] <mathiaz> So I've asked bdmurray about a script to get the list of bugs marked fixed released during a previous week
[16:06] <mathiaz> he said he almost had such a script
[16:06] <mathiaz> I need to follow up with him and see how and where we can run this script
[16:07] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz to follow up with bdmurray about the list of fixed released bugs related to the ubuntu-server team.
[16:07] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to follow up with bdmurray about the list of fixed released bugs related to the ubuntu-server team.
[16:07] <mathiaz> anything else to add on this topic?
[16:08] <zul> are we going to review it every week at the meeting?
[16:08] <zul> or should it be an automated email to the server mailing list?
[16:09] <mathiaz> zul: let's start by a weekly review in this meeting
[16:09] <mathiaz> zul: if this takes too much time, we can always move it to the mailing list
[16:10] <zul> k
[16:10] <mathiaz> anything else related to this topic?
[16:11] <mathiaz> nope - let's move on
[16:11] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Preparing a 2009 edition of the Server Survey
[16:11] <MootBot> New Topic:  Preparing a 2009 edition of the Server Survey
[16:11] <mathiaz> nijaba wrote up a blog post about it: http://nicolas.barcet.com/drupal/en/preparing-2009-server-survey
[16:12] <mathiaz> anything else to add to this topic?
[16:13] <mathiaz> nope - let's move on
[16:14] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Ubuntu HA team: Cluster stack update
[16:14] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu HA team: Cluster stack update
[16:14] <mathiaz> neither RoAkSoAx nor ivoks seem to be around
[16:15] <mathiaz> on a related note Debian has moved to DKMS for the drbd package
[16:15] <mathiaz> and the latest version of drbd has been synced in karmic this morning
[16:15] <mathiaz> congratulation to ivoks for driving this packaging effort in both Debian and Ubuntu
[16:16]  * sommer cheers
[16:17] <mathiaz> ivoks told me yesterday he was now focusing on packaging the pacemaker+openais+... stack for karmic
[16:17] <mathiaz> anything else to say on the cluster stack?
[16:18] <mathiaz> it seems not. Let's move on.
[16:19] <mathiaz> That's all I had from last week minutes.
[16:19] <mathiaz> Anything else to add related to last week meeting?
[16:20] <mathiaz> seems not - let's move on.
[16:20] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Mysql 5.1 in karmic main
[16:20] <MootBot> New Topic:  Mysql 5.1 in karmic main
[16:21] <mathiaz> Debian unstable saw the upload of 5.1 into unstable last weekend
[16:21] <mathiaz> and thus transition to libmysql16 has started in unstable.
[16:21] <mathiaz> The question is whether we should do the same in karmic now?
[16:22] <zul> i dont see why not
[16:22] <mathiaz> The two blockers I had when I looked at moving 5.1 into main a couple of week ago were:
[16:22] <mathiaz> 1. the test suite was not enabled during build time, while it was in 5.0
[16:22] <mathiaz> 2. the cluster engine is not available in 5.1 while it is in 5.0
[16:22] <zul> is there a reason why it was disabled?
[16:23] <mathiaz> zul: because it wasn't successful?
[16:23] <mathiaz> zul: because it wasn't successful.
[16:23] <zul> pretty good reason
[16:23] <mathiaz> zul: hm well - what are you refering to 1 or 2?
[16:23] <zul> both probably
[16:25] <mathiaz> For 2. one solution could be to add a check in pre and see if the ndb engine is used
[16:25] <mathiaz> if so the upgrade would abort and suggest to remove mysql-server
[16:25] <mathiaz> and leave mysql-server-5.0
[16:25] <mathiaz> and leave mysql-server-5.0 installed on the system
[16:25] <zul> sounds reasonable
[16:26] <mathiaz> as transitionning from 5.0 to 5.1 in karmic main means that mysql-server would be provided by 5.1 instead of 5.0
[16:27] <mathiaz> The kubuntu team also would like to move to 5.1 as it would simplify the packaging of amarok
[16:27] <mathiaz> and it seems that we'd want to have 5.1 for the next LTS
[16:28] <mathiaz> uploading 5.1 to main now would mean going through another library transition - I wonder if it's not too late in the release cycle
[16:28] <zul> how many libraries are affected again?
[16:29] <zul> if its alot then it would be just a matter of going to motu's saying we need help to transition mysql libraries to 5.1
[16:29] <mathiaz> zul: well - not really - only packages in main would have to be transitioned in karmic
[16:29] <mathiaz> zul: as we could keep 5.0 in universe for this release cycle
[16:30] <zul> true
[16:30] <mathiaz> zul: in debian there are around 160 pkg IIRC
[16:30] <mathiaz> zul: but there isn't a difference between main and universe
[16:30] <zul> but this would also be an opprotunity to help debian out as well
[16:30] <mathiaz> I've check point 1 (test suite not enabled in 5.1) and it's not true anymore
[16:31] <mathiaz> the test suite is run at build time IIUC
[16:31] <mathiaz> so the only blocker I have is point 2 and we have a workaround for karmic.
[16:31] <mathiaz> so I think the next step is to send an email to ubuntu-devel to discuss the transition to mysql 5.1 in main
[16:32] <mathiaz> and file a MIR for 5.1
[16:32] <mathiaz> which may take some time to get processed.
[16:32] <zul> cool beans
[16:32] <mathiaz> anything else to add?
[16:33] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz to send an email to ubuntu-devel about moving 5.1 to main
[16:33] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to send an email to ubuntu-devel about moving 5.1 to main
[16:33] <mathiaz> let's move on.
[16:33] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Cloud power management
[16:33] <MootBot> New Topic:  Cloud power management
[16:33] <mathiaz> kirkland: ^^
[16:33] <mathiaz> kirkland: anything new on this front?
[16:33] <kirkland> mathiaz: howdy o/
[16:33] <kirkland> mathiaz: not much since last week, really
[16:34] <kirkland> mathiaz: i expect that the functionality is basically done for karmic
[16:34] <kirkland> mathiaz: and i've moved into test-mode
[16:34] <mathiaz> kirkland: allright - feature complete, testing required.
[16:34] <kirkland> mathiaz: yessir!
[16:34] <mathiaz> kirkland: are you looking for specific hardware?
[16:34] <mathiaz> kirkland: are there any test instructions?
[16:35] <kirkland> mathiaz: yes, still looking for a rackable server that has S3 in /proc/acpi/sleep
[16:35] <kirkland> if you are in possession of one of these, let me know :-)
[16:36] <mathiaz> kirkland: are you focusing on hardware support testing or software testing?
[16:36] <kirkland> mathiaz: software testing of PowerNap and PowerWake
[16:36] <kirkland> mathiaz: i considered the work I did testing suspend/hibernate/resume in Jaunty to verify the hardware support
[16:36] <mathiaz> kirkland: I'd suggest to talk to cr3 - he may have some hardware available
[16:37] <kirkland> mathiaz: okay
[16:38] <mathiaz> anything else to add to this topic?
[16:38] <kirkland> mathiaz: nope, not really
[16:38] <mathiaz> ok. Let's move on.
[16:38] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Server Gudie
[16:38] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu Server Gudie
[16:38] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Server Guide
[16:38] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu Server Guide
[16:38] <mathiaz> sommer: ^^
[16:38] <mathiaz> sommer: how is it going on this front?
[16:40] <sommer> mathiaz: slowly but surely... been busier than normal with the day job and real life
[16:40] <sommer> mathiaz: I think everything in the blueprint should get done though :)
[16:40] <mathiaz> sommer: awesome - what are the deadlines?
[16:41]  * RoAkSoAx waves
[16:41] <mathiaz> sommer: has the doc team changed the milestones this release cycle?
[16:41] <sommer> Doc Freeze is Oct 1st
[16:41] <sommer> mathiaz: nope as far as I know the milestones are the same
[16:42] <mathiaz> sommer: ok - keep up the good work!
[16:42] <mathiaz> sommer: and ask around for some help
[16:42] <mathiaz> sommer: since there is a list of items to be done on a wiki page (where?) people can pick up some tasks listed there.
[16:42] <sommer> mathiaz: ya, I've been meaning to do a blog post about the new sections
[16:43] <sommer> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KarmicServerGuide is the spec
[16:43] <mathiaz> sommer: great!
[16:44] <mathiaz> anything else to add on the topic of documentation?
[16:44] <sommer> think that's it for me
[16:45] <mathiaz> allright - let's move on then.
[16:45] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Ubuntu HA team: Cluster stack update
[16:45] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu HA team: Cluster stack update
[16:45] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: now that you're around - I've given a quick status update earlier in the meeting
[16:46] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: did you get a chance to update the Roadmap?
[16:46] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, yes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuHighAvailabilityTeam/Roadmap
[16:46] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: with a brief overview of what needs to be done
[16:47] <RoAkSoAx> Well for now, we are just waiting for the Debian packages of pacemaker and heartbeat, since openais sis already in debian experimental, and corosync is about to reach it
[16:47] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: awesome thanks.
[16:47] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: great - and then all of these packages need to be synced in karmic?
[16:48] <RoAkSoAx> mathiaz, yes
[16:49] <mathiaz> ok - anything else to add related to the Cluster stack?
[16:49] <RoAkSoAx> we are just gonna wait for debian packages, do our own tests and see if there are any other needed for Ubuntu. Other than that, those packages already contains our changes
[16:49] <RoAkSoAx> and that would be it
[16:50] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: great - keep up the good work.
[16:50] <mathiaz> RoAkSoAx: and once the packages are in Ubuntu, I'd suggest to write up a blog post to ask for more testing
[16:50] <mathiaz> let's move on.
[16:51] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[16:51] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[16:51] <mathiaz> Anything else to add?
[16:52] <jmdault> mathiaz: I'm back from vacation and resuming work on Asterisk
[16:52] <mathiaz> jmdault: great!
[16:52] <mathiaz> jmdault: are you up-to-date on what happened in Debian in the mean time?
[16:53] <mathiaz> jmdault: (I'm not)
[16:53] <jmdault> It's more work than I expected, I will have to work with Debian in making newer packages
[16:53] <jmdault> mathiaz: nothing has changed on the Debian side. The dahdi drivers are still 2.0-rc5
[16:53] <jmdault> But the final 2.0 are out from digium, and it fixes some kernel panics
[16:53] <mathiaz> jmdault: ok - is there a wiki page where the plans for Karmic are recorded/outlined?
[16:54] <jmdault> mathiaz: not yet
[16:56] <mathiaz> jmdault: it may be worth spending some time to write a short description of the plan for karmic
[16:56] <mathiaz> jmdault: and get in touch with the debian team to work together.
[16:56] <mathiaz> anything else to add before we wrap up?
[16:56] <jmdault> mathiaz: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AsteriskIntegration ?
[16:56] <mathiaz> jmdault: looks like a good place
[16:57] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:57] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:57] <mathiaz> next week, same place, same time?
[16:58] <sommer> +1
[16:59] <mathiaz> allright then.
[16:59] <mathiaz> see you all next week, same place, sime time.
[16:59] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
[16:59] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 10:59.
</pre>
