{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Next Meeting ===

'''When:'''  Thursday June 21, 2007  1800UTC

'''Where:''' <code>#ubuntu-meeting</code> on the <nowiki>[[http://freenode.net/|Freenode Network]]</nowiki>

==== Attending? ====

Please place your name in the list below.

* JohnVivirito
* AlexanderSack
* JenFraggle
* HMontoliu

=== Agenda ===

Please take responsibility for an item if you are adding it, thus we can turn to you when the item crops up. :)

Items we will be discussing:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> Item
| Presenter
| Notes
| Decision
|-
| Mozilla Testing Team
| AlexLatchford
| This was deferred from the last meeting where gnomefreak & asac were to discuss the 'policies/responsibilities involved in membership'.
| 
|-
| UbuntuForums
| JohnVivirito
| I would like a couple of people to add forums to their jobs, I will go through the process im thinking about (this could be the start of a wider testing base).
| Posting to Forums, opening bug report on this
|-
| Mozilla Team
| JohnVivirito
| If possible i would like to either accept or decline the proposed memberships <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mozillateam/+members|Proposed Members]]</nowiki>
| Cleaned out proposed and inactive members)
|-
| Mozilla Team Wiki
| JohnVivirito
| We need to Clean up and work on wiki pages. Example: add intro about marking dupes, begginer triaging, ect..
| Jen to start beginner page
|-
| Plugins/Extension Gutsy Day
| AlexanderSack
| We need to test extensions/plugins in archive as well as popular extensions/plugins distributed by third parties (e.g. like allpeers et al.) to get an idea about what works and what doesn't work ... and if we can do something about those that don't work
| Deferred until asac talks to Heno
|-
| Reviewing Tag/States
| AlexanderSack
| Tag/States have been extended. Review Documentation
| 
|}

(The decision field is to be filled during meeting as a note for the actual minutes which will be written at a later date.)

Please feel free to add more items to the agenda for the next meeting. We will discuss them in turn when it arrives.

=== Member candidates for consideration ===

Please prepare your wikipage well before the meeting, so we can read it beforehand. Come well prepared, otherwise the meetings will take too much time.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">'''Name'''
| '''IRC nick'''
| '''Wiki Page'''
| '''Launchpad Profile'''
| '''Date added'''
|}

=== Minutes ===

Minutes of all the previous meetings are uploaded at the <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/Mozilla]]</nowiki> page.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMozillaTeam]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[CategoryBugSquad]]</nowiki>
