{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Logs ===
TZ UTC+1
<pre>
04:00	elkbuntu	Okies. who do we have here for the LoCo Teams Meeting?
04:01	rafael_carreras	that's me, Catalan LoCo Contact
04:02	elkbuntu	rafael_carreras, cool. we might wait a few moments for everyone to remember
04:02	rafael_carreras	ok
04:04	jenda	Burgwork: pong
04:04	elkbuntu	calling all loco people. AlinuxOS, juliux, jenda, Burgwork, nixternal, poningru?
04:05	jenda	whoa
04:05	elkbuntu	muaha. we now have two!
04:05	juliux	hi elkbuntu
04:05	AlinuxOS	elkbuntu, I'm from Georgian (ka - ) team.
04:05	jenda	elkbuntu: total coincidence ;) I was responding to Burg's ping from yesterday.
04:05	elkbuntu	three! my lucky day!
04:05	juliux	elkbuntu, what is now?
04:05	leogg	ubuntu-ni here, morning all
04:06	elkbuntu	ooh... i should try this pingspamming more often!
04:06	juliux	elkbuntu, lol
04:06	elkbuntu	anyway, welcome all
04:06	juliux	elkbuntu, ask seveas if ubotu can do that;)
04:07	elkbuntu	juliux, arming a bot, that interacts with users, with a pingspam feature.. is not a good idea :
04:07	elkbuntu	hey... i didnt say he could go :(
04:08	elkbuntu	Ok, so the main point for this meeting is to discuss the discussions had at UDS regarding LoCos
04:09	elkbuntu	we had two formal discussions, one about resources, and one about collaboration
04:10	elkbuntu	as a result of the resources discussion, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoHosting has been cleaned up, and the resources available are now better explained
04:11	Seveas	theres @nicks :)
04:11	jenda	Seveas: shhh
04:11	elkbuntu	bwaha. you speak, you stay and contribute!
04:11	elkbuntu	Seveas, were you at the resources discussion?
04:11	jenda	yes, I will :)
04:11	jenda	for a while.
04:12	elkbuntu	jenda, you were already captured, it's Seveas' turn :
04:14	elkbuntu	smurf, ping? i believe you might have been there?
04:15	jenda	elkbuntu: ah, of course - I never thought of Seveas as a LoCo team person... more like an IRC overgod ;)
04:15	elkbuntu	he's the head of the mad dutch people army
04:15	jenda	and if it ain't the French representation now :)
04:15	elkbuntu	hello yann
04:16	yann2	hey :)
=== yann2 looking for the agenda
04:16	jenda	good idea
04:16	jenda	:)
04:16	jenda	elkbuntu: linky?
04:16	yann2	no i mean, where is it? ^^
04:16	elkbuntu	jenda, i think the agenda is a wee bit old
04:16	jenda	ok
04:16	elkbuntu	i never got around to updating it
04:17	jenda	so... why is it we're here? ;)
04:17	elkbuntu	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamMeeting
04:17	elkbuntu	jenda, discussing the UDS things
04:17	elkbuntu	which i cant remember all of :(
04:17	jenda	Ah
04:17	jenda	neither can I, but I think my memory isn't to blame this time around ;)
04:17	elkbuntu	Burgwork, was taking nice notes, but he seems to be actually working or something
04:18	Seveas	weaseling around...
04:18	elkbuntu	lol
04:18	yann2	isnt the agenda the one from last time? ^^
04:18	jenda	elkbuntu: at 11 AM on sunday... maybe he's in church :)
04:18	elkbuntu	yann2, yes, thats why i said it was a wee bit out of date
04:18	yann2	*g*
04:18	yann2	so, what are the issues today?
04:19	elkbuntu	jenda, discussing the UDS things \n s/jenda/yann/
04:19	jenda	hehe
04:19	jenda	ya, I got that part... ;)
04:19	elkbuntu	jenda, i was repeating for yann
04:20	jenda	ok, ok :)
04:21	jenda	elkbuntu: and those are...?
04:21	elkbuntu	anyway, the resources issues were discussed. I cant remember who smurf said he had offloaded to, and jono was going to work on passing the mailing list request QA to someone else
04:21	jenda	elkbuntu: for those of us who couldn't attend...
04:21	jenda	ok
04:21	elkbuntu	jenda, patience please
04:21	elkbuntu	but either way, some of the bottlenecks should be gone, or should go soon in terms of resources
04:22	yann2	I got some things i would enjoy to discuss with you, it there is an "others" in this meeting :)
04:22	elkbuntu	secondly, we discussed collaboration between locos and other teams
04:22	elkbuntu	yann2, we'll see how we go
04:22	yann2	elkbuntu> secondly, we discussed collaboration between locos and other teams <- it may be this one, depending what you mean :)
04:23	elkbuntu	richard weideman gave us an example, in terms of the education representatives that teams are encouraged to appoint
04:24	elkbuntu	these could be someone in the team who is a teacher or has an interest in education, to help feed information into the education/edubuntu teams
04:24	elkbuntu	basically keeping the edu guys briefed on what challenges still exist locally, what local teachers/students/institutions are looking for, etc etc
04:25	elkbuntu	these sorts of roles can be equally appropriate for instance with the Marketing Team, or possibly even the Art Team, who with enough prodding may establish local art packages (as an example of course)
04:26	elkbuntu	things like that.
04:26	elkbuntu	yann2 was that what you wanted to discuss?
04:26	yann2	points of collaboration with locos from other projets - i got sources telling me that mozilla may start a loco project
04:27	elkbuntu	that's awesome
04:27	elkbuntu	we most certainly encourage them to work with us
04:27	yann2	although just rumours for now :)
04:28	yann2	and then i don't know for you, but we have a lot of issues with that "sexism" story :(
04:28	elkbuntu	yann2, we can discuss that one later
04:28	elkbuntu	not in this meeting
04:28	yann2	np
04:28	elkbuntu	ok, i think that's about it for what i can remember from UDS
04:29	elkbuntu	now, I'm going to remind people that now is the perfect time to start thinking about organising an event for Software Freedom Day
04:30	elkbuntu	it's a perfect thing for locos to organise around. if there's a number of lugs running events in your countries, making sure there's ubuntu representation at those lug's events is a Really Good Idea
04:30	jenda	elkbuntu: in my personal opinion, the main role of the marketing team is to supply LoCo teams with resources and gather them from other LoCo teams - the other roles it fulfills right now (intra-community communication such as the UWN/magazine/etc) aren't really marketing per se.
04:31	elkbuntu	jenda, it goes both ways. translations, uwn stories
04:31	jenda	(just my 2 regarding LoCo-MT cooperation)
04:31	elkbuntu	locos are an ideal contact point for translators who dont yet know rosetta, for example
04:31	jenda	indeed
04:32	elkbuntu	someone wanting to have something to prove themselves on, before going for the real deal
04:32	jenda	BTW, Rosetta is not used by our translation team anymore.
04:32	jenda	It has been found insufficient for its task, as it doesn't offer enough flexibility and cooperation with the upstream.
04:32	jenda	but that's another issue.
04:32	elkbuntu	indeed it is
04:33	jenda	(And I'm not the one most knowledgeable in the subject)
04:33	elkbuntu	that is one that should be discussed directly with the rosetta guys, imho
04:33	jenda	I believe it has been, but let's not go into that.
04:34	elkbuntu	right. so back to Software Freedom Day... who else has started planning?
04:35	leogg	elkbuntu, we are organizing the event here in .ni
04:35	leogg	no lugs involved so far
04:35	elkbuntu	for those who dont know what it is, Software Freedom Day (SFD) is on saturday september 15th, when open source addicts go out and infect others with the fever ;)
04:35	yann2	jenda , sorry, which locoteam are you from again?
04:36	jenda	yann2: Czech
04:36	yann2	thx :)
04:36	elkbuntu	leogg, it's a good idea to get them on board, as they will be able to provide additional people to help run it, and also, different information and more points of view
04:37	leogg	elkbuntu, sadly there are no strong lugs in our country, only the ubuntu team but we have some people from suse and fedor on board :)
04:37	elkbuntu	information about the day can be found at http://softwarefreedomday.org/ and teams that register before 31st of July will get some free tshirts, balloons and cds to help run the day
04:38	elkbuntu	Note to self: time for a reminder about it on the loco list
04:38	rafael_carreras	elkbuntu: good idea
04:39	elkbuntu	for up and coming teams, organising this is a great thing to put on an application for official status :)
04:39	elkbuntu	ok. i think this is about all for this topic. does anyoen else have anything they wanted to bring up?
04:44	elkbuntu	ok then. meeting closed. thank you all for coming :)
</pre>
