{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=04&day=08&year=2013&hour=16&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Apr 8th 2013 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Thanks to mdeslaur for preparing the meeting's wiki pages
** We have a new meeting time: 16:30 UTC
** Thanks to Angel Abad (angelabad) who provided a debdiff for quantal for almanah (LP: #1155000), and Christian Kuersteiner (ckuerste) who provided a debdiff for precise for tomcat7 (LP: #1115053). Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job!
* Actions
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: triage
** requirements planning
** apparmor abstraction updates
** performance reviews
** audits (2 to finish)
** pending updates
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: community
** nvidia updates
** haproxy update
** others as time permits
** sbeattie
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor
*** display manager confinement: writing some example applications
** tyhicks
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor
*** working on items from security-1304-appisolation-dbus, currently 'dbus - parser tests', but more this week
** hope to also get the AES-NI performance ecrtypfs patch ready for the 3.10 merge window
** jjohansen
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor labeling. Should have updates pushed to the ppa. This will also include DBus testing
** sarnold
** weekly role: happy place
** vbulletin plugin reviews
** MIR audit
** maybe clean up submitted juju charms based on feedback (one was accepted)
** chrisccoulson
** weekly role: happy place
** mozilla updates continue this week
*** webapps testing process
*** thunderbird
*** firefox crashers
** continue with chromium automated testing this week if time allows
** fix some chromium ARM crashes for UfA
** update/refine webkit and javascript engine maintenance story based on vUDS and last week's announcement
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-04-08-16.31.html
