{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=01&day=06&year=2014&hour=&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Jan 6th 2014 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Happy new year!
** thanks to Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) provided debdiffs for precise-saucy for qt4-x11 (LP: #1259577)
** thanks to Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) provided debdiffs for raring-saucy for qtbase-opensource-src (LP: #1259577)
** thanks to Stefan Bader (smb) provided debdiffs for precise-saucy for xen
* Actions
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** work items
** holiday backlog
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: triage
** pending updates
** patch pilot
** holiday catchup
** sbeattie
** !AppArmor
*** sync up with jjohansen on IPC stuff
*** review dfa minimization patch
** tyhicks
** holiday catchup
** benchmarking LUKS and ecryptfs (ecryptfs is done-- need to do LUKS and provide report)
** kdbus thread
** yama and config patches: autopilot testing. coordinate with jjohansen and chrisccoulson on testing the devices
** jjohansen
** holiday catchup
** AppArmor
*** dfa patches and tests
*** IPC work and tests
*** kdbus discussions
** sarnold
** weekly role: community
** holiday catchup
** MIR audits
** !AppArmor review
** chrisccoulson
** fix oxide runtime errors and ftbfs
** remove X dependency which is a requirement for touch
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-01-06-16.32.html
