{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

TZ UTC+1
<pre>
11:02	dholbach	hello everybody - do we have a motu meeting right now?
11:02	sistpoty	hi dholbach
11:02	ajmitch	we do!
11:02	dholbach	I thought maybe everybody was out to celebrate Valentine's day :)
11:02	ajmitch	at least I hope we have enough people
11:02	ajmitch	I think a few are
11:02	ajmitch	(or just sleeping)
11:02	dholbach	ok... who's here?
11:02	ajmitch	laserjock sends his apologies, 2AM isn't suitable
11:03	TheMuso	Valentine's day? Who'd waste their time with that?
11:03	ajmitch	TheMuso: people who aren't single :)
11:03	TheMuso	Thats understandable IMO
11:03	ajmitch	hey jsgotangco :)
11:03	dholbach	http://xkcd.com/c223.html
11:03	sistpoty	ajmitch: I tend to agree... 11am isn't suitable *g*
11:03	ajmitch	sistpoty: I'm impressed that you're awake at this early hour :)
11:03	dholbach	scottk has an item on the agenda, but doesn't seem to be here
=== tmarble notes 4 AM isn't ultra suitable either, :)
11:04	ajmitch	so the rest is sistpoty? :)
11:04	sistpoty	ajmitch: well... awake is a different state than I'm in now *g+
11:04	dholbach	sistpoty: you have some items on the agenda - why don't you start us off?
11:04	sistpoty	ok
11:04	sistpoty	anyone volunteering for the minutes?
11:04	ajmitch	um
=== ajmitch may as well
11:05	sistpoty	cool, thx ajmitch
11:05	TheMuso	ajmitch: I will if you'd rather not.
11:05	TheMuso	I don't mind you doing it, but if you really don't want to.
11:05	ajmitch	TheMuso: ok, thanks :)
11:05	sistpoty	great, thx TheMuso
11:05	sistpoty	let's get started, right?
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(review)]]</nowiki><pre>
11:05	sistpoty	first item: Proposal to drop the requirement for MOTU's to have new packages reviewed
11:06	sistpoty	well... we're always lagging with revu behind
11:06	ajmitch	and enough MOTUs skip this step
11:06	sistpoty	and imo it doesn't seem that sane that motu's should have the same requirements as non-motus to bring new packages in
11:07	TheMuso	As well as already having the rights and responsibilities that come with the title of MOTU.
11:07	ajmitch	it wasn't the same, but it was 1 other ACK
11:07	sistpoty	practices differ ;)
11:07	ajmitch	yeah
11:07	TheMuso	Yep.
11:08	ajmitch	the intended practice was that a MOTU upload to REVU & get 1 other MOTU to check it
11:08	sistpoty	well... I'd propose that motu's are "encouraged to get a new package reviewed" instead of forcing them to go through revu
11:08	sistpoty	what do you think?
11:08	ajmitch	that has frequently been skipped by MOTUs who've been around awhile :)
11:08	ajmitch	sure
11:08	TheMuso	I like that.
11:08	dholbach	I agree, TheMuso has a point... although I think that probably the MC should take that decision once it's active. This decision has more consequences than others.
11:08	TheMuso	One area that other reviewing is useful is copyright related stuff.
11:08	tfheen	as an archive team member, I'd be fine with you dropping the requirement, but if it ends up being even more rejects because of it, I'd like you to reconsider.
11:09	TheMuso	Fair enough.
11:09	sistpoty	great
11:10	sistpoty	any objections?
11:10	dholbach	what do you think about deferring the decision to the first MC meeting?
11:10	ajmitch	sounds fair
11:10	sistpoty	fine with me
11:10	TheMuso	Yep. I'm sure crimsun would have something to say on this.
11:10	dholbach	we gathered enough arguments now, but I think that a policy decision should be made by the MC
11:10	dholbach	alrighty, let's move on
11:11	sistpoty	ok... scottk isn't here, right?
11:11	dholbach	yeah, let's move on - we can discuss his question on the mailing list
</pre><pre>
11:11	sistpoty	Decide on standard policy for upstream debian dirs
11:11	dholbach	I don't think it's necessary to have a policy for that, but a "best practice" bit in the FAQ maybe
11:12	dholbach	shall I kick off a thread on the mailing list for that?
11:12	TheMuso	I saw one package that renamed upstream's debian to debian.upstream.
11:12	sistpoty	well... it was discussed on the ml in the past, but without a result
11:12	sistpoty	so I'd rather discuss it here to have it settled
11:12	dholbach	ok, there are 3 possibilities: 1) remove it, 2) rename it, 3) leave it (and in all cases talk to upstream to get it removed there)
11:13	dholbach	(maybe also: repackage, native package)
=== ajmitch tends towards leave it + fix it
11:13	TheMuso	I have seen many a package that ships with .spec files etc for rpm based distros, so what has been the problem with upstream providing a debian dir in the past?
11:13	sistpoty	imo the first thing would always be to ask upstream to remove it... if that won't work, I'd tend to say that any packager may do as he seems fit
11:14	sistpoty	TheMuso: the problem is that you cannot remove files from it (unless you remove them from the tarball) and that the .diff.gz looks kinda weird
11:14	ajmitch	TheMuso: it's harder to change a number of files in a .diff.gz, since it doesn't track deletions well
11:14	TheMuso	Right.
11:14	dholbach	I don't think I'd dictate a workflow there.
11:14	ajmitch	it depends on how messy upstream's debian/ is
11:15	ajmitch	so up to the packager
11:15	ajmitch	I think the issue was new people getting conflicting advice
11:15	dholbach	who wants to add a blurb to MOTU/FAQ? :)
11:15	sistpoty	ok... everybody agreeing that it's up to the packager?
11:15	TheMuso	Yep.
11:15	dholbach	yeah
11:16	sistpoty	great
11:16	sistpoty	I'll add the text to motu/faq, if no one else is faster ;)
11:16	sistpoty	let's move on, shall we?
11:16	dholbach	sure
11:16	dholbach	thanks sistpoty
11:16	TheMuso	yep ok
11:16	ajmitch	make it a fast meeting :)
11:16	tmarble	here's a naive question... if upstream debian/ is significantly changed does that hamper fix flow back to debian (i.e. does not minimize the debian-ubuntu diff)?
11:17	ajmitch	seems like there's only 4 of us here & active
11:17	ajmitch	tmarble: in this case, upstream is the original author, rather than debian
11:17	tmarble	ajmitch, ah i see (sorry for the confusion)
11:16	sistpoty	:)
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(zero)]]</nowiki><pre>
11:16	sistpoty	well, this was discussed on the ml as well... do we want zero-install injector?
11:17	TheMuso	What is zero-install injector?
11:17	sistpoty	TheMuso: it let's an user install packages, which get downloaded by some means
11:18	ajmitch	tmarble: often the original upstream project might have someone who's contributing packaging in their project, and it's not in debian yet
11:18	dholbach	sistpoty: do we have a link to the project? who wanted to bring it into ubuntu? it sounds more like an archive admin decision to me?
11:18	grimace	www.0install.net
11:18	ajmitch	sistpoty: I'm not really a fan of more breakage, but I've heard less scary things about zeroinstall than about autopackage
11:19	tsmithe	i think we should let 0install in, on the basis of not what it is, but it being an ok and legal package. we don't have to support it's efforts
11:19	sistpoty	tfheen: still there? could you share us your opinion on zero-install?
11:19	dholbach	ask pitti :)
11:19	tfheen	sistpoty: let me take a look.
11:19	ajmitch	see if he runs away screaming?
11:19	sistpoty	well, I reviewed the package (also looking at the code a lilttle bit) and it didn't seem too offensive security wise
11:20	tfheen	like klik, it seems.
11:20	sistpoty	however it provides an alternate means to install software
11:20	talex	Hi guys. I'm the author of Zero Install, so if you have any technical questions, ask away...
11:20	sistpoty	so I'm really undecided
11:20	sistpoty	hi talex
11:20	grimace	I've been running it for years very nicely ;)
11:20	sistpoty	how about letting archive admins decide on this issue?
11:21	dholbach	sistpoty++
11:21	TheMuso	THat sounds sane to me.
11:21	tfheen	depends on how it works, but if it's like klik which does something like MacOS disk images, I'm fine with it, from an archive POV, but I think we can offer a much better user experience by packaging the software properly.
11:21	tfheen	talex might be able to comment (short) on that?
11:21	grimace	tfheen: then it will be up to the user to agree with you?
11:21	talex	It installs to a self contained directory, rather than a disk image, but same principle.
11:22	talex	Also, the download is an XML file, rather than a shell script, but the effect is the same.
11:23	tfheen	ok.
11:23	tfheen	from an archive point of view, that's fine with me and as long as it doesn't end up tripping the rest of the system (*cough* autopackage *cough*) it shouldn't cause problems either.
11:24	talex	Right. It will never install anything outside of ~/.cache/0install.net or (if run as root) /var/cache/0install.net
11:24	sistpoty	tfheen: ok, then I'll just upload the package and you can look at it via new... ok?
11:25	tfheen	sistpoty: sure.
11:25	sistpoty	great... let's move on
11:25	ajmitch	great, halfway through the meeting items
</pre><pre>
11:25	dholbach	sistpoty wants to review the uvf-process
11:25	ajmitch	UVF team/process
11:25	ajmitch	some confusion here
11:25	sistpoty	well... UVF has just started...
11:25	dholbach	slomo, siretart and I agreed to have the same uvf team again to avoid having to vote etc again
11:26	dholbach	the next team should be appointed by the MC (in time!) :)
11:26	dholbach	we just didn't want to have a delay because of that
11:26	TheMuso	dholbach: Makes sense.
11:26	sistpoty	ok... have there been many UVF requests yet? are you getting along well?
11:26	dholbach	atm there are 7 open afaik
=== ajmitch wasn't sure if he was meant to vote or not, so refrained from confusing people :)
11:26	sistpoty	(basically the item was just a ping to make sure everything's working as expected)
11:27	ajmitch	dholbach: if I get going this weekend I'll have a bunch more
11:27	dholbach	I'll go through the open bugs later today
11:27	ajmitch	dholbach: there's 1 unconfirmed assigned to motu-uvf
11:27	ajmitch	I think that once they're confirmed, motu-uvf should be unassigned, right?
11:27	dholbach	yeah that'd make sense
11:28	tmarble	sorry for the n00b question, just what exactly *is* the UVF process? (i.e. file special bugs, etc.)?
=== ajmitch would think that would be internal team agreement
11:28	ajmitch	tmarble: yep, file a bug, assign it to motu-uvf
=== ajmitch pulls up the wiki page
11:28	dholbach	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FreezeExceptionProcess#head-9523bc4076ff011324d67cddc97969ec609618d6
11:28	ajmitch	thanks
11:29	sistpoty	ok... if everything is working (as it looks to me), I see no need for further discussion
11:29	dholbach	tmarble: we're in upstream version freeze now, so a special team checks a upstream changelog diff and a diffstat before approval
11:29	dholbach	revu sprint sounds good :)
11:29	ajmitch	sistpoty: so from that, motu-uvf don't upload on the 2nd ack, that's only for SRU :)
11:30	ajmitch	I thought another revu sprint was already scheduled?
11:30	sistpoty	ajmitch: yep, right... there is no debdiff involved
11:30	sistpoty	is it?
11:30	dholbach	no
11:30	TheMuso	ajmitch: News to me.
11:30	ajmitch	if not, then let's do it
11:30	sistpoty	ajmitch: since you're chief of qa, please pick a sensible date ;)
11:30	ajmitch	hah
11:31	TheMuso	haha
11:31	ajmitch	what time suits people?
11:31	sistpoty	hehe
11:31	ajmitch	monday/tuesday?
11:31	TheMuso	Whenever at the moment. I'm around a lot of my waking hours.
11:31	dholbach	sounds good to me
11:31	ajmitch	ok
11:31	sistpoty	sounds sane
11:31	ajmitch	it's generally just a time for people to do more reviewing
11:32	ajmitch	sanity, from me?
=== ajmitch is slipping\
11:32	dholbach	:-)
11:32	sistpoty	hehe
11:32	TheMuso	ajmitch: lol
</pre><nowiki>[[Anchor(todo)]]</nowiki><pre>
11:32	dholbach	ok... moving to TODOs
11:32	sistpoty	well... this point is up for everyone...
11:32	dholbach	sistpoty: is the item a try to update the TODO page?
11:33	ajmitch	yeah, I've slipped behind on getting more lists, and getting commented lists
11:33	dholbach	UnmetDeps for sure
11:33	dholbach	I see one 'transition' coming up, but the documentation for that is not ready yet: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PyDbgBuilds
11:33	ajmitch	since I promised a commentable unmet deps list & some others
11:33	dholbach	so don't mention that yet
11:33	ajmitch	how much work in that one?
11:33	dholbach	doko will write something to the lists too
11:33	TheMuso	Is there a way of getting a list of unmet deps for source packages?
11:34	ajmitch	TheMuso: the basic way is apt-cache -u unmet
11:34	ajmitch	and then pushing that through a few filters to get a list of source packages
11:34	sistpoty	hm... how about doing mass bug filing for unmet deps?
11:34	ajmitch	should be easy enough if they're verified before filing
11:35	sistpoty	dholbach: didn't you do that with a script for edgy?
11:35	dholbach	sistpoty: massfiling bugs?
11:35	sistpoty	dholbach: yep
=== ajmitch would like to see that pre-tagging support for filing bugs in malone
11:35	dholbach	sistpoty: http://daniel.holba.ch/bzr/massfile
11:35	sistpoty	cool
11:36	ajmitch	who's going to do it? we don't want 2 or 3 people mass-filing :)
=== sistpoty hides behind his thesis
11:37	dholbach	I thought about using python-bughelper to determine if bugs are already filed.
11:37	ajmitch	sistpoty: fine, I'll volunteer :P
11:37	dholbach	but I'm not sure it's going to work as it is atm
11:37	sistpoty	ajmitch: great :)
11:37	geser	on which arch will the checking be done for the bugs?
11:37	ajmitch	dholbach: it'd be slow & cause plenty of LP load
11:37	ajmitch	geser: amd64 or x86, I've got both
11:37	ajmitch	in a nice squeaky clean chroot
11:38	dholbach	ajmitch: no no :)
11:38	geser	there are some unmet deps which only appear on one arch (due to ftbfs)
11:38	dholbach	what else do we have? how are the merges looking?
11:38	ajmitch	dholbach: no no?
11:38	ajmitch	merges are looking better
11:38	dholbach	ajmitch: no no "slow" :)
11:38	TheMuso_	um.... ok guys
11:38	sistpoty	well... we still have ajmitch's list of RC-bug fixes
11:38	ajmitch	there are still a number of serious/grave bugs that debian has fixed
11:38	TheMuso_	I was cut off. What'd I miss?
11:38	ajmitch	yeah
11:38	sistpoty	and lucas list's of FTBFS
11:39	ajmitch	TheMuso: you've been delegated to fix universe bugs
11:39	dholbach	TheMuso_: I'll paste you what happened
11:39	ajmitch	logs should be on the usual place later
11:39	TheMuso_	dholbach: Thanks.
11:40	dholbach	what else do we have? pythondbg (once it gets started), unmet deps, merges - what else? :)
11:40	sistpoty	bug fixing, bug fixing, bug fixing ...
11:40	dholbach	ok, sounds good :)
11:40	ajmitch	so more sync request need to be filed for the RC bugs, I filed about 50 already, I'll get onto doing some more
11:40	dholbach	ahh... how many motus are you mentoring at the moment?
11:40	ajmitch	I may need UVF exceptions, so be ready :)
11:40	ajmitch	none
=== ajmitch is too scary to mentor people
11:41	dholbach	i don't believe a word :)
11:41	dholbach	ok... if people talk to you, we should be good at pointing them at the todo
11:41	TheMuso_	ajmitch: You are thorough.
11:41	sistpoty	ok... anything else on the TODO-list? if not let's agree on a date of the next meeting
11:41	dholbach	maybe we should also try to tag universe bugs as "packaging bug" or something
11:41	ajmitch	ok, we've got enough to keep the TODO updated?
11:42	dholbach	so people who are interested can get involved easily in fixing packaging
11:42	TheMuso_	who's updating it?
11:42	sistpoty	dholbach++
11:42	dholbach	what do you think about having a universe bug sprint to do just that
11:42	ajmitch	bug triage, or bug fixing?
11:42	dholbach	for bughelper bugs we use "bitesize" to indicate an easy bug
11:42	TheMuso_	I guess that sort of thing can happen after FF?
11:42	dholbach	triage, so we can point people to a list of bugs
11:42	dholbach	maybe we should have a discussion about bug tags on the mailing list
11:42	ajmitch	dholbach: sounds like something the bugsquad may be able to do
11:42	sistpoty	that would be great
11:43	dholbach	i can see "packaging" and "bitesize" as useful already
11:43	dholbach	ajmitch: we should do that too
11:43	dholbach	ajmitch: we can't shove bugs to "bugsquad"
11:43	ajmitch	if there are people in the bugsquad who can identify stuff as packaging bugs
11:43	dholbach	that doesn't work
11:43	ajmitch	no, but I'd hope that they be the first line of bug triage :)
11:43	dholbach	we should make an effort too
11:43	dholbach	and explain what our "guidelines" and "ideas" are
11:43	ajmitch	of course, I'm not saying that we should drop it on them
11:44	dholbach	ok
</pre><pre>
11:44	dholbach	any other business?
11:44	geser	what should we do with mozilla-browser in feisty? it's removed from debian and replaced with seamonkey upstream
11:44	ajmitch	next meeting time
11:44	ajmitch	if we keep mozilla-browser in feisty, someone will need to keep it updated
11:45	geser	from where will you update it? upstream abandoned it
11:45	sistpoty	I'd like to go with debian in this respect, unless someone is volunteering to take care of it
=== ajmitch agrees
11:45	dholbach	next meeting time: maybe we should have a MC meeting first and discuss where we want to go with MC meetings vs MOTU meetings
11:46	ajmitch	dholbach: sounds good, so we need a MC first :)
11:46	geser	should we replace mozilla-browser with iceape?
11:46	dholbach	right-o
11:46	dholbach	what about MC meeting end of next week?
11:46	ajmitch	sounds good
11:46	dholbach	that'd leave some time for the MC to talk to each other etc
11:47	ajmitch	3 (potential) MC members here to agree on it, so it should work
11:47	sistpoty	yep... sounds sane
11:47	dholbach	friday same time? a bit later?
11:47	ajmitch	votes close in 13 hours, will you announce to the world after that?
11:48	ajmitch	friday 10:00UTC?
11:48	sistpoty	dholbach: a bit later would be nice for me :P
11:48	ajmitch	will sistpoty be awake?
11:48	sistpoty	hehe
11:48	dholbach	sistpoty: 2h more? :)
11:48	ajmitch	not too much later, please :)
=== TheMuso_ notes that ajmitch set himself a trap.
11:48	sistpoty	well.. 10utc is fine for me as well... I wanted to get a saner wake-sleep rythm anyways
11:48	ajmitch	TheMuso_: sistpoty is more in my timezone than dholbach's ;)
11:49	dholbach	ok fri, 23rd 10 utc MC meeting
11:49	ajmitch	ok
=== ajmitch notes that on his calendar
11:49	dholbach	excellent
11:49	dholbach	thanks a lot to everybody for a QUICK meeting
11:49	sistpoty	cool :)
11:49	ajmitch	thanks!
11:49	dholbach	we're getting quite disciplined :)
11:49	sistpoty	thanks
11:49	ajmitch	it helped that there were so few of us
=== TheMuso_ will endever to have the minutes on the ml in the next hour or so.
11:49	ajmitch	TheMuso_: thank you very much
=== dholbach writes a mail to ubuntu-bugsquad@ and ubuntu-motu@
11:50	TheMuso_	np
11:50	ajmitch	http://people.ubuntu.com/~fabbione/irclogs/ubuntu-meeting-current.html should have the full log in 30min or so, or I can stick it somewhere for you
11:50	TheMuso_	Now if freenode could just kick my original connection, I'd be happier. :)
11:51	dholbach	  /msg nickserv ghost themuso <password>
11:51	TheMuso_	ajmitch: Besides the cutoff, where dholbach msgd the missed bits, I have it logged
11:51	TheMuso_	dholbach: thanks
11:51	ajmitch	ok, I've got the whole thing
11:52	TheMuso	ajmitch: Thanks, but I'll probably not need it.
11:52	ajmitch	http://ajmitch.net.nz/~ajmitch/motu-meeting.log
=== TheMuso grabs anyway
11:52	TheMuso	thanks
11:53	TheMuso	I think NSW ADSL customers experienced something weird.
11:53	TheMuso	anyways, back to -motu
11:53	TheMuso	thanks folks
</pre>
