{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
 Hello all!
01:00	iwj	Hello.
01:00	zul	hi
01:00	sfllaw	mdz asked me to moderate this meeting, because he's in an aeroport right now.
01:00	pitti	hey Simon
01:01	ogra	excuses !
01:01	Keybuk	that's hardly a "creative" excuse
01:01	sfllaw	I know.
01:01	ogra	theer are surely hotspots :)
01:01	sfllaw	Anyway, it feeds my lust for power.
=== infinity [n=adconrad@loki.0c3.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:01	sfllaw	So who am I to argue?
01:01	ogra	hehe
=== givre [n=flo@APuteaux-152-1-70-42.w83-204.abo.wanadoo.fr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:01	Keybuk	he wouldn't let us get away with that one
01:01	Keybuk	it'd be "well, dial in on your mobile then"
01:02	sfllaw	Has anyone seen heno?
01:02	ogra	hehe, yeah
01:02	Keybuk	did he even send in a report?!
=== vincent_ [n=vincent@abo-71-198-68.ang.modulonet.fr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:03	sfllaw	BenC, Kamion, fschoep, Riddell, pitti, mvo, seb128: Ping!
01:04	seb128	sfllaw: pong
01:04	BenC	sfflaw: pong
01:04	mvo	hello
01:04	fschoep	sfllaw: pong
=== pitti waves to sfllaw again, this time really hectically
01:04	Riddell	I've ponged
01:04	Riddell	Kamion will be holidaying
01:04	Keybuk	sfllaw: Kamion is still on Holiday
01:04	sfllaw	Oh.
01:04	pitti	sfllaw: Kamion is still on holiday
01:04	pitti	Keybuk: /me takes a penalty card for being snapped
01:04	sfllaw	:)
01:04	Riddell	fschoep ponged too
01:04	BenC	sfllaw: Not sure if anyone told you, but Kamion is on holiday :)
01:05	sfllaw	doko: Ping.
01:05	sfllaw	BenC: StaffCalendar is not very reliable these days.
01:05	pitti	sfllaw: it's not supposed to be any more
01:05	pitti	sfllaw: canonicaladmin.com :)
01:05	Keybuk	sfllaw: are you using the canonicaladmin.com one
01:05	BenC	we have the mondo admin app now
=== Keybuk takes a penalty card also
01:05	pitti	Keybuk: snap!
01:06	doko	sfllaw: here from the beginning
01:06	iwj	So ... shall we go ?
01:07	sfllaw	Yup.
01:07	sfllaw	infinity?
01:07	infinity	sfllaw: I need about 5 mins.  Just woke up.  Sorry.
01:07	sfllaw	It's cool.
01:07	sfllaw	BenC?
01:07	BenC	* Implemented remainder of kernel side for apport.
01:07	BenC	* Implemented auto-module loading for speakup synth modules.
01:07	BenC	* Burned through a lot of kernel bugs.
01:07	BenC	* Benchmarked i386 and amd64 kernels. Result, kernels will be reduced to one generic of each of i386 and amd64, SMP enabled. Server kernels haven't changed. A -386 kernel will be retained as an alternate target for systems that need non-SMP capable (legacy) drivers.
01:07	BenC	* ia64 and hppa32 have been reduced to two SMP enabled kernels. The UP versions were removed.
01:07	BenC	* Lots of other trivial and not so trivial kernel stuff.
01:07	BenC	* Started implementing changes for Intel platforms: drm, e1000, scheduler fixups, iommu changes for IOAT.
01:07	BenC	* libata-for-all-disks: Pretty much stalled because of me. I think someone proposed some time for this at the distro-sprint, and it needs it. It's not hard, just needs some eyes and hands to get it done.
01:08	Keybuk	I did indeed propse time
01:08	Keybuk	randomly, I notice my ATA driver is still not in the list
01:08	Keybuk	(ALi -- FTB or some other reason?)
01:08	BenC	not all of them were turned on
01:08	BenC	some were "done, but never tested"
01:09	BenC	I honestly think that for edgy, we may not enable these drivers by default
01:09	BenC	but doing so in edgy+1 will be a lot easier
01:10	BenC	we should at least finish the UUID conversion regardless of the date of libata-for-all-disks
01:10	BenC	s/date/fate/
01:10	Keybuk	yeah; I'm inclined towards "edgy+1 when it's in mainline anyway" but have everything in place so that there's a switch in edgy they could throw if they wanted
01:11	BenC	right, I feel much better about that scenario too
01:11	Keybuk	ok, I'm done :p
01:11	sfllaw	Anyone else?
01:12	rodarvus	yes
01:12	rodarvus	BenC, the drm stuff you mention is the agpgart driver, right?
01:12	rodarvus	(the updates to it on intelinuxgraphics.org, I mean)
01:12	BenC	agp and drm
01:12	BenC	right
01:12	rodarvus	*nods*, thanks
01:12	doko	BenC: do you care about the misdn user tools, or should that somebody else?
01:13	BenC	are you doing the xorg side?
01:13	rodarvus	. o O ( we seriously need a machine with a i965g board )
01:13	rodarvus	BenC, its done, already
01:13	BenC	doko: Considering I don't have isdn, I would prefer someone else do it :)
01:13	BenC	rodarvus: excellent
01:13	rodarvus	I'll upload a new mesa later today, but it only has a minor fix
01:13	BenC	we have one such machine
01:13	BenC	it's in Montreal
01:13	BenC	we should bug jbailey about it
01:13	infinity	sfllaw: Kay, I guess I'm readyish now.
01:13	sfllaw	rodarvus: Or cr3.
01:14	rodarvus	cr3 said he didn't have one on his hands (but I might have read what he said incorrectly)
=== BenC is taking too much time...let's move on :)
01:14	sfllaw	Perfect.  infinity?
01:14	infinity	Done:
01:14	infinity	* build-failure-process: After many talks with cprov and some tests, this is rolled out in production, but not turned on, awaiting one final fix, which should be done today.
01:14	infinity	* Spent lots of time this week with Team Soyuz, discussing their specs, discussing new and shiny bugs, and generally giving them gentle shoves in the directions we need.
01:14	infinity	* General archive maintenance, NEW processing, etc.
01:14	infinity	* Re-rolled, tested, published, and re-released the 6.06.1 Ubuntu Server CD for sparc.
01:14	infinity	* General buildd maintenance, as usual.
01:14	infinity	* Some random bugfixing, bootstrapping, and other faff not worth expanding.
01:14	infinity	To do:
01:14	infinity	* While everyone is off sprinting, I intend to finish up what's left of larger-livefs, live-cd-stacked-filesystems, livefs-build-speedups, and debian-maintainer-field.  None have a great deal of work left, but all have some odd requirements here and there.
01:14	infinity	* Need to put the pieces together with pitti to get ddebs off the buildds and onto rookery.
01:14	infinity	* Need to do a couple dozen uploads for FTBFS issues to get edgy's out-of-date count back down to zero.
01:15	Keybuk	I got to 'p' in the NBS before I got bored
01:15	infinity	Awesome, thanks.
01:15	Riddell	NBS?
01:15	infinity	Not Built from Source.
01:15	infinity	ie: Removing old cruft.
01:15	Riddell	right
01:16	Riddell	infinity: are you coming to Wiesbeiden?
01:16	pitti	Riddell: Wiesbaden :)
01:16	Riddell	no, presume not from your update
01:16	Riddell	pitti: thingy
01:16	infinity	Nope.
01:16	Keybuk	UDMTW
01:16	pitti	Keybuk: Ubuntu Distro Meeting Thingy Wiesbaden?
01:17	Keybuk	that would work too
01:17	sfllaw	I just got a bug with an apport crash report.  It's sexy.
01:17	pitti	sfllaw: :)
01:17	Keybuk	I was just thinking of a Fawlty Towers scene
01:17	ogra	ugh
01:17	ogra	why did i read airport there ?
=== doko sees Riddell lost in Germany ...
=== j_ack [n=rudi@p508DC103.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== mvo is pretty sure there is no iron brew (or whatever it is spelled) in germany too
01:18	Keybuk	Irn Bru
=== mvo makes a note "Irn Bru"
01:18	Keybuk	of which, the only good thing that can be said is that it washes away the taste of the haggis
01:18	mvo	LOL
01:18	sfllaw	Any more questions for infinity?
01:18	ogra	hahaha
01:18	Keybuk	(actually, I rather like haggis, but anyway)
01:18	iwj	I think not judging by the conversation ...
01:18	pitti	infinity: happy to IRC meet with you next week for the ddeb stuff
01:18	pitti	infinity: (to do the rookery side)
01:18	infinity	pitti: Yeahp, will do.
01:20	Riddell	sfllaw: poke, do the clerking thing
01:21	pitti	Riddell: just go next :)
01:21	iwj	Yep, Riddell, go next.
01:21	Riddell	done:
01:21	Riddell	    kubuntu-hwdb: implemented
01:21	Riddell	    kubuntu-accessibility: implemented, just waiting on casper and gfxboot support from kamion/mithrandir
01:21	Riddell	todo:
01:21	Riddell	    kubuntu-edgy-package-manager: have a go at implementing commercial repository support in adept-installer
=== sfllaw_ [n=sfllaw@ottawa-hs-209-217-124-190.d-ip.magma.ca] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:22	sfllaw_	Woah, sorry about that.
01:22	pitti	wb sfllaw_
01:22	Riddell	sfllaw: we're going without you
01:22	Keybuk	iwj: next :p
01:22	iwj	sfflaw_: Hello.  We decided to have Riddell next because he put his hand up.
01:22	sfllaw_	Nice.
01:22	pitti	Riddell: did you see any problems with langpacks-desktopfiles-kde?
01:22	mvo	Riddell: let me know if  I can do something for you there (commercial support)
01:22	iwj	Keybuk: I'll wait for us to finish with Riddell :-).
01:23	Riddell	pitti: seems to be working, although most of KDE needs recompiled to add it
01:23	pitti	cool
01:23	Riddell	mvo: we might also look at a kubuntu dist-upgrader at the sprint
01:23	mvo	Riddell: ok
01:24	mvo	Riddell: lets see how far we get with the support from python-konsole :)
01:24	Riddell	yep
01:24	Riddell	no kwwii this week, in the US
01:24	Riddell	I make it iwj next
01:25	iwj	firefox 2.0 beta merge: Finished.  Sorry for the mess last week.
01:25	iwj	LP `1.0' UI: Got involved in some discussions.  Not sure how fruitful it was.
01:25	iwj	automated-testing-deployment: No change since last week.
01:25	iwj	suggest-packages-for-filetypes: Not started.  I hope to discuss this briefly with mvo at the Sprint and implement it shortly after that; it doesn't look hard.
01:25	iwj	package-dependency-field-breaks: Following feedback after a deployment in firefox, it now seems that the changes to apt are an essential part of this.  I've started to understand the code for this.  If a ff theme package isn't available by late Friday I'll upload a firefox without Breaks to make the dependency problems go away, so that the theme ends up installed but silently broken.
01:25	doko	iwj: dselect aborts
01:25	iwj	doko: Coo.
01:25	iwj	Bug# ?
=== givre [n=flo@APuteaux-152-1-70-42.w83-204.abo.wanadoo.fr] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Ex-Chat"]
=== givre [n=flo@APuteaux-152-1-70-42.w83-204.abo.wanadoo.fr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== givre [n=flo@APuteaux-152-1-70-42.w83-204.abo.wanadoo.fr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:26	mvo	iwj: I would be interessted if you could let me know about the implementation plan in apt
01:26	fschoep	iwj: Are you waiting for me to do the FF2 theme (by tomorrow)?
01:26	iwj	mvo: I'll keep you posted.  I'm still reading code atm.
01:26	mvo	iwj: thanks
01:26	iwj	fschoep: I'm not really waiting on you, in that you're not blocking me.
01:27	doko	iwj: bug 56761
01:27	Ubugtu	Malone bug 56761 in dpkg "dselect aborts on select" [Untriaged,Unconfirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/56761
01:27	fschoep	iwj: OK, that's fair - but it's kind of high prio, then?
01:27	iwj	fschoep: But the current situation wrt the Breaks in firefox is suboptimal and it needs to be made to go away either by having fixed themes or by changing firefox.
01:27	iwj	fschoep: So I agreed with mdz that if the theme wasn't ready by tomorrow I'd upload a new ff without Breaks.
01:28	iwj	fschoep: That has nearly no effect on you I think.
01:28	iwj	doko: Thanks.
01:28	fschoep	iwj: OK, when I finish the theme, it won't give you headaches if it's after tomorrow?
01:28	iwj	fschoep: No.
01:28	fschoep	iwj: OK, good to know.
01:28	iwj	But I think it would be good to have it sooner so we can test it, play with it, people can complain about things they don't like, etc.
01:29	iwj	doko: Ooo.  Thanks.  Will fix tomorrow.
01:29	fschoep	That's true, holds up for everything I think.
01:29	sfllaw	Any more quetsions for iwj?
01:29	iwj	doko: I know why that's happening and I should have thought of it ...
01:30	sfllaw	Right.  fschoep?
01:30	iwj	fschoep: Is it probably going to be after tomorrow ?  If so I can do the ff thing more or less straight away (after sleeping).
=== MatthewV [n=MatthewV@CPE-139-168-251-17.wa.bigpond.net.au] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:30	fschoep	Done:
01:30	fschoep	* ubuntu-art-complete-highcontrast-icons, : find and document icons which need work
01:30	fschoep	* starting up / assisting sound engineering, filtering proposals
01:30	fschoep	* ubuntu-art-cd-dvd-artwork: communication with Jane / Kenneth on improving media package artwork
01:30	fschoep	* attract some new active members to the artwork team
01:30	fschoep	Ongoing:
01:30	fschoep	* art-polish-human-gtk-theme: summarize improvements, implement
01:30	fschoep	To-do:
01:30	fschoep	* approve artwork production directions, then kick off production phase for community artwork
01:30	fschoep	* update the Human icon priority list with the contents of the PDF to-do list
=== PWill [n=paul@cpe-24-208-191-36.columbus.res.rr.com] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Ex-Chat"]
01:30	fschoep	iwj: yes, sorry to disappoint you.
01:30	iwj	fschoep: No problem; that doesn't cause me trouble.  It's good to know.  Thanks.
01:32	fschoep	Well... Anyone?
01:32	sfllaw	I suppose you were very clear!  :)
01:32	sfllaw	pitti?
01:32	pitti	Done:
01:32	pitti	* automated-problem-reports:
01:32	pitti	  - some tweaks and bug fixes, added to ubuntu-desktop, announced to u-d-a
01:32	pitti	  - wrote tool for regenerating apport report backtraces with symbols
01:32	pitti	  - some thoughts how to improve the kernel<->apport protocol, to be discussed again at the sprint with BenC, seb128, and anyone else interested (registered slot on wiki page)
01:32	pitti	* mentored Kees Cook for security updates
01:32	pitti	* many pkg-create-dbgsym fixes
01:32	pitti	* security updates: krb5, gnupg2, heartbeat, binutils, imagemagick
01:32	pitti	* some general bug fixing
01:33	pitti	* SoC project (apt-offline): horrible state, no way to get this ready by Monday; I deem the bounty failed, but maybe he'll continue working on it after Soc
01:33	pitti	To Do:
01:33	pitti	* apt-get-debug-symbols: implement rookery side of ddeb cowboying once infinity finished the buildd side
01:33	pitti	* have fun on distro sprint
01:33	pitti	* vacation week!!!
01:33	Riddell	you're on holiday during distro sprint?
01:33	seb128	pitti: you are on VAC during the sprint? ;)
01:33	pitti	the week after
01:34	seb128	ah, ok ;)
01:34	sfllaw	The apport stuff looks very good.
01:34	iwj	I'm on holiday that week too.
01:34	pitti	seb128: of course not, we need to drink champagner together
01:34	sfllaw	It will make triaging a lot faster.
01:34	sfllaw	So thanks.
01:34	pitti	you're welcome :)
01:34	seb128	pitti: and schnaps too :p
01:34	infinity	pitti: Your update failed to mention if she said "yes".
01:34	pitti	let's hope that it'll get even better during the spring
01:34	pitti	s/g$/t/
01:34	pitti	infinity: she did!
01:34	sfllaw	pitti: Congrats!
01:35	pitti	http://www.piware.de/verlobung.jpg
01:35	mvo	CONGRATS pitti
01:35	infinity	pitti: See, that's the only news worth reporting. :)
01:35	pitti	thanks
01:35	zul	congrats
=== pitti hugs everyone
01:35	iwj	pitti: Excellent :-).
01:35	seb128	pitti: Congrats ;)
01:35	ajmitch	congrats pitti :)
=== seb128 hugs pitti
=== pitti beams
=== Keybuk hugs and congrats pitti
=== mvo hugs pitti
=== sfllaw hugs pitti.
01:36	sfllaw	doko?
01:36	pitti	so, as I threatened, prepare for champagner next week
=== ogra hugs pitti
01:36	doko	I was waiting for the champagne ...
01:36	doko	- this week
01:36	doko	  - edgy-toolchain: look at and finally find the cause for the gcc build
01:36	doko	    failures on powerpc, took too long.
01:36	doko	    state of edgy-toolchain: mostly implemented. remaining bugs/bits should
01:36	doko	    be addressed next week (libstdc++ link errors).
01:36	doko	  - some more tests with -mtune=generic, enabled now on i386 and amd64 in
01:36	doko	    gcc-4.1 and gcj-4.1.
01:36	doko	  - edgy+1-toolchain: look at the sparc biarch build failures in gcc-4.2
01:36	doko	    / gcc-snapshot; found it. the sparc developer machine is SLOW! where are
01:36	doko	    the niagaras?!
01:36	doko	  - java-roadmap: updated gcj-4.1, packaged gcj-4.2 with the new libgcj-bc;
01:36	doko	    rebuilt and updated required packages, updated java-gcj-compat,
01:37	doko	    updated and rebuilt the gnome java bindings (jni libraries), eclipse update
01:37	doko	    will need some UVF exceptions for java libraries.
01:37	doko	    some phone calls for packaging coordination.
01:37	doko	  - openoffice.org: OOo 2.0.4~m1 test build; would like to upload the 2.0.4rc1
01:37	doko	    to edgy (mdz?). glad to read the job offer for an OOo maintainer :)
01:37	doko	  - other: sun-java5 update; considering upload to dapper-updates after some
01:37	doko	    days.
01:37	doko	  - python-roadmap: no news
01:37	doko	  - python2.5: updated to python2.5~rc1, upload tomorrow
01:37	doko	  - other specs: no progress
01:37	doko	- next week
01:37	doko	  - stop uploading toolchain packages, the buildd's will need the time for OOo ;-)
01:37	doko	  - sprint: focus on toolchain bugs, java-roadmap, python2.5, ongoing OOo work.
01:37	pitti	wow, doko was really busy
01:37	infinity	Or just likes to type. :)
01:38	iwj	Oh, I'd just like to say:
01:38	sfllaw	doko: You'll have to talk to mdz when he gets back online.
01:38	iwj	~++
01:38	pitti	well, -changes was full of dokoisms, too :)
=== doko slaps infinity ...
01:38	sfllaw	Hey, hey!
01:38	sfllaw	Keep it down, boys.
01:38	doko	pitti: missed your fastjar updates ...
01:38	pitti	doko: no biggie, they are still on my list, too
01:38	doko	sfllaw: yes, maybe needs to wait until Monday
01:38	rodarvus	doko, regarding the OOo maintainer - have you talked with Pavel Janik? he is (or was) he biggest community contributer, back in my OOo time. Also he did some work for Novell, but it looks like he doesn't works there anymore (but I might be wrong)
01:39	rodarvus	I haven't talked with him, but I think he could be a great maintainer of OOo
01:39	Keybuk	what will doko do if he doesn't maintain OOo
01:40	doko	rodarvus: he's working on his own, and AFAIK all job offers are for full timers; I'be at OOoCon in September; hope to meet some people there
01:40	rodarvus	*nods*
01:40	doko	Keybuk: I'll find another office package ;)
01:41	mvo	doko: write one!
01:41	pitti	doko: you enjoy pain, don't you? :-P
01:41	sfllaw	Any other questions?
01:41	doko	pitti: yes, I love ssp ;-P
01:41	zul	i thought i was the one who enjoyed pain
01:42	pitti	zul: it's not limited to just one person, don't worry :)
01:42	sfllaw	mvo?
01:42	zul	pitti: oh ok...thank god
01:42	mvo	Did:
01:42	mvo	- apt:
01:42	mvo	  * merged ddtp support into apt, python-apt, synaptic, libapt-front, adept (rebuild aptitude too)
01:42	mvo	  * uploaded first ddtp tarball to the archive, a lp problem prevents full usage currently
01:42	mvo	  * added "--fix-policy" switch to apt (works like fix- borken and looks for not-satisfied recommends)
01:42	mvo	  * announced the --install-recommends support in apt
01:42	mvo	- gnome-app-install:
01:42	mvo	  * added better integration of the popcon data in gnome-app-install (sortable popularity column)
01:42	mvo	  * fix in the icon extraction code
01:42	mvo	  (should we enable it by default with next upload?)
01:42	mvo	  * work on the g-a-i cache (cPickle) branch (40% startup time reduction)
01:42	mvo	- gnome-system-tools/system-tools-backends work
01:42	mvo	- bug triage
01:42	mvo	- misc (update-manager, update-notifier, dist-upgrader, new realplayer dapper-commerical,apt)
01:42	mvo	Blocked:
01:42	mvo	* review of the "AlwaysEnableUniverseMultiverse" spec
01:42	mvo	Will do:
01:43	mvo	- devel meeting in wiesbaden
01:43	iwj	mvo: Thanks for that --auto-deconfigure change in apt, btw.
01:43	mvo	cheers
01:43	Riddell	mvo: anything I should look at with respect to AlwaysEnableUniverseMultiverse and adept?
01:44	mvo	Riddell: it is not accepted yet, I guess we can talk about it in wiesbaden
01:44	mvo	Riddell: there is a "plan b" in the spec :)
01:44	Riddell	ok
01:45	sfllaw	Questions?
01:45	iwj	mvo:
01:45	iwj	You have a bit of time at the sprint to talk about the suggest-packages-for-filetypes ?
01:45	iwj	You can tell me what you've done and I'll pick it up.
01:46	iwj	Shouldn't take too long.
01:46	mvo	iwj: I except so, yes. the gnome-app-install bits should be more or less done (modulo further startup optimizations)
01:46	iwj	Right.
01:47	sfllaw	ogra?
01:47	ogra	* this-week:
01:47	ogra	- thinclient-local-devices many good changes in the implementation, nearly done, waiting for ltspfs/d MiR and promotion to main, floppy handling missing yet
01:47	ogra	- student-control-panel-completion parts of the dbus interface implemented
01:47	ogra	- gnome-screensaver update and bugfix
01:47	ogra	* next-week:
01:47	ogra	- finish thinclient-local-devices
01:47	ogra	- finish student-control-panel-completion
01:47	ogra	- implement ltsp-dhcpd-autogeneration
01:47	ogra	- start on fully-automatic-swap-server with rodarvus
01:47	ogra	* specs:
01:47	ogra	- ltsp-dhcpd-autogeneration (started/suspended, resume planned before knot-2 to have it in there for testing)
01:48	ogra	- student-control-panel-completion: (waiting for approval, slow progress)
01:48	ogra	- ltsp-daily-image-tarballs: (in progress, scripts and tarballs available at http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogra/ltsp-tarballs/)
01:48	ogra	- ltsp-convergence: (no progress, multi distro meeting sept. 14th-19th)
01:48	ogra	- ltsp-netboot-enhancement: (no progress debian patches applied locally)
01:48	ogra	- thinclient-local-devices (good progress)
01:48	ogra	- fully-automatic-swap-server (no progress)
01:48	ogra	- ltsp-login-and-session-handling (no progress yet)
01:48	ogra	- edubuntu-xfce-desktop (no progress yet)
01:49	sfllaw	Questions?
01:49	pitti	ogra: let's sit together and finish the ltsp mount stuff
01:49	pitti	ogra: i. e. the suid mount wrapper and the gnome-vfs bug fix you wanted me to do
01:50	pitti	ogra: (next week)
01:50	ogra	pitti, sbalneav shuld have done the last bits ... i think he sent you the last changes
01:50	pitti	he did, will audit it tomorrow
01:50	ogra	yep
01:50	ogra	i thin its nearly done ...
01:50	ogra	*think
01:51	ogra	but lets sit down for the gnome-vfs stuff (also the cd thing is bothering me)
01:51	ogra	i'll bring my thin client and a bunch of local devcies ...
01:51	sbalneav	ogra: should we file a bug about g-v-m adding stuff in /tmp?
01:52	ogra	sbalneav, not if i'm working face to face with pitti on it anyway ;)
01:52	sbalneav	ah, ok :)
01:52	iwj	suid mount wrapper> Time for me to plug userv again ? :-)
01:52	ogra	btw, for anyone who didnt know it, that localdevice implementation is the sexiest ever !
01:53	ogra	thanks to sbalneav !
=== rodarvus cheers
=== sfllaw hugs sbalneav.
=== sbalneav hugs back
01:53	ogra	its completely desktop independent and i didnt need to make seb128 unhappy with ugly nautilus scripthacking ;)
01:54	seb128	cool :)
01:54	ogra	yep, we mount in /media now ... nautilus just picks it up :)
=== mvo cheers to ogra and sbalneav
01:55	seb128	nice
01:55	seb128	sfllaw_: only 5 min before timeout for the meeting, can we move on?
01:55	sfllaw	rodarvus
01:55	rodarvus	Done:
01:55	rodarvus	* Much Edubuntu administrativia
01:55	rodarvus	* Planning OLPC Edubuntu Effort
01:55	rodarvus	* X.Org bugfixing
01:55	rodarvus	* Preparing for Wiesbaden Developers Sprint
01:55	rodarvus	Todo:
01:55	rodarvus	* Wiesbaden Developers Sprint
01:55	rodarvus	   - X.Org bugfixing
01:55	rodarvus	   - Discuss OLPC effort with (at least) mdz and ubuntu-archive team, others welcome too :)
01:55	rodarvus	   - Work on fully-automatic-swap-server (pair programming with ogra)
01:56	sfllaw	Questions?
01:56	sfllaw	Keybuk?
01:57	seb128	3min :p
01:57	rodarvus	>:-)
01:57	sfllaw	seb128: We started 5 minutes late as people were still showing up.
01:57	sfllaw	We've got 8.
=== pitti looks forward to Keybuk demoing upstart next week
01:57	seb128	sfllaw: we always do but we are on time usually ;)
01:57	sfllaw	That would be cool.
01:58	sfllaw	Well, Keybuk doesn't seem to be present...
01:58	sfllaw	seb128?
01:58	seb128	This week:
01:58	seb128	- caught up with most of my mails and SoC lag
01:58	seb128	- bug triage, bug triage, bug triage: a good number of bugs triaged or fixed but almost as many new ones coming
01:58	seb128	- worked on evolution, evolution-data-server, evolution-exchange news versions from GNOME 2.14.3 for dapper-proposed
01:58	seb128	- backport some desktop fixes to dapper-updates
01:58	seb128	- some GNOME updates to edgy
01:58	seb128	.
01:58	seb128	Next week:
01:58	seb128	- distro sprint to Wiesbaden
01:58	seb128	sfllaw: BTW thank you for the 4 bug changes you did on desktop bugs during the week :p
=== pitti hugs Seb"bug terminator"astien
01:59	sfllaw	seb128: Was that sarcasm I detect?
01:59	sfllaw	Questions?
=== rexbron [n=rexbron@CPE00904bbc8c86-CM0012256e816a.cpe.net.cable.rogers.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:59	seb128	sfllaw: maybe ;)
01:59	sfllaw	Done
01:59	sfllaw	* UbuntuBugDay
01:59	sfllaw	* Bug triaging
01:59	sfllaw	To do
01:59	sfllaw	* Prepare for UbuntuBugDay at the summit
01:59	sfllaw	* Bug triaging
01:59	sfllaw	* E-mailing CEGEPs about interns
01:59	seb128	sfllaw: an hand on desktop bugs would still be appreciated :)
01:59	sfllaw	seb128: I've been triaging across the board, as the number still keep climbing.
02:00	sfllaw	seb128: We have done bug days for desktop bugs, though.
02:00	seb128	right
02:00	Keybuk	sfllaw: sorry, got caught by a typing break there
02:00	sfllaw	Keybuk: I know the feeling.
02:00	sfllaw	You're up.
02:00	Keybuk	Done:
02:00	Keybuk	* ReplacementInit: now only a few final bits to tidy up, notably initial console settings.
02:00	Keybuk	* BootMessageLogging: implemented as part of upstart
02:00	Keybuk	To do:
02:00	Keybuk	* Package upstart and get it into the archive (pre-Wiesbaden)
02:00	Keybuk	* Wiesbaden: have everyone test while there, and with high bandwidth to me if things go wrong
02:00	Keybuk	* Wiesbaden: UUID migration needs help from other people (LVM, MD, RAID, devmapper, sparc, ia64, hppa, PowerPC, etc.)
02:00	seb128	sfllaw: we have some people working on them which is nice, but having an hand from the QA master would be appreciated too ;)
=== BenC [n=bcollins@debian/developer/bcollins] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:01	sfllaw	Questions?
02:02	pitti	Keybuk: does it work? :)
=== rodarvus desperately needs help with X.Org bugs too
02:02	sfllaw	rodarvus: I went an rejected some today.
02:02	rodarvus	(bug triaging X.Org bugs, I mean)
02:02	Keybuk	pitti: yeah, very well
02:02	rodarvus	sfllaw, thanks
02:03	pitti	Keybuk: \o/
02:03	sfllaw	Thanks everyone!  Please update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DevelTeamMeeting20060817.
02:03	rodarvus	I was unable to read my "bugs" mailbox today :/
02:03	iwj	I just wanted to say quickly that if I don't forget I'll have two UK->Euro adapters with me and only need one.  So if you're one short do ask me.  (I was going to post this to distro-team but it's not working for me atm.)
02:04	ogra	pitti, btw, getting the MiR approved for ltspfs/d would speed me up a bit ;)
02:04	pitti	ah, yeah, MIR is haunting me again
02:04	ogra	iwj, i'll bring a collection of powerstrips with me ... so we can multiply the adapters
02:04	sfllaw	I need to find North American power strips that won't short at 240V.
02:04	ogra	aww, indeed that doesnt wotk in that direction ... ignore me :)
02:04	iwj	I don't think I have a spare 4-way, unfortunately.
02:05	iwj	sfllaw: Ug.
02:05	infinity	sfllaw: Just get European plugs for all your auto-switching gear.  It's what I do.
02:05	infinity	sfllaw: Much less hassle.
02:05	iwj	sfllaw: You could buy a lead for your laptop with a sensible plug.
02:06	iwj	Now we'll be in the middle of a town I can buy a euro lead for my laptop.
02:06	infinity	sfllaw: I have a US, AU, EU, and UK plug for my laptop, just pack what I feel is appropriate.
02:06	Keybuk	I can't seem to find my EU one ;'(
02:06	Keybuk	I usually bring them all, as there's always *some* kind of power strip nearby, and not always the one you'd expect
02:06	iwj	Bed for me now though.
02:07	doko	good night
02:07	iwj	ttfn all
=== iwj [n=ian@xenophobe.extern.relativity.greenend.org.uk] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
02:08	pitti	thanks to all, and good night!
02:08	Keybuk	night all
=== mvo goes to bed as well
02:08	fschoep	Thanks everyone and good night. See you next week.
=== infinity [n=adconrad@loki.0c3.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
02:08	seb128	'night

</pre>
