{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''1st''' meeting of the '''ServerTeam''', starting at 15:00 UTC and finishing at 16:16 UTC.

== Agenda ==

* Introductions - <nowiki>[[dendrobates|RickClark]]</nowiki>
* Article in Ubuntu Weekly News about the Server Team (in Community Spotlight) - MathiasGug
* review each section of the roadmap.
* agree on next meeting date and time.

== Minutes ==
* Introductions: 17 people introduced themselves.
* Article in Ubuntu Weekly News about the Server Team:
  mathiaz raised the idea of adding a small section about the Ubuntu Server team in the next UWN.

 '''ACTION:''' mathiaz will send to beuno a modified version of the Ubuntu Server Team announcement to get it published in the UWN.
* Sending meeting notes to the ubuntu-server mailing list and update wiki pages to point to meeting logs: 

 '''ACTION:''' mathiaz will update the wiki page and send meeting notes to ubuntu-server.
* Triagger section review:
   soren stated that we need a good plan to triage older bugs. mathiaz suggested to tackle this problem on a per-package basis, first mysql, then samba.
 
   This doesn't mean that we should stop triagging/fixing other bugs in other packages - it's just a way to suggest what new contributors can do to help.

 '''ACTION:''' The Ubuntu Server Triagers will focus on triaging mysql bugs that are in New, Undecided state, especially the old ones.
* Packager section review:   
   fernando will add watch files to packages. mathiaz clarified the idea behind this task: being able to track upstream release (not debian release) from one location. mathiaz offered to help fernando.

* Tester section review:
   All test plans should go under https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Server. The iso testing tracker may be used later for tracking tests. That involves writing test plans for the components and features that need to be tested. These wiki pages should be put under https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Server and will be linked from the iso testing tracker. 

 '''ACTION:''' mathiaz will move the AppArmor testing plan to Testing/Server.

 '''ACTION:''' dendrobates will create a test plan for ldap-auth-client.

* Developer section review:
** Ebox integration:
     soren has uploaded some packages in universe. He is looking for more testers once a few more packages are uploaded.

   '''ACTION:''' soren will send an email to ubuntu-server once the packages have been uploaded to ask for more widespread testing.
** AppArmor integration:
     mathiaz reported that apparmor packages should get into main after the archive is reopened. The packages will be split between core infrastructure packages in main and profiles in universe. He asked for more testing.
** LDAP Authentication Client:
     dendrobates has uploaded the meta-package and worked on clarifying the spec <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LDAPAuthentication]]</nowiki>. jdstrand mentioned his work on auth-client-config script, which should cooperate with the packages created by dendrobates. 

     dendrobates mentioned the spec created by stephanbuys about an application to manage /etc/pam.d/.
 
   '''ACTION:''' dendrobates will create a wiki page to list the tasks that people can help with.
* Any Other Business:
** package maintained by the Ubuntu Server Team:
     ScottK asked about the process for deciding which packages the server-team is going to care about. The current policy is to limit ourselves to packages in main. Once the team has grown and is organized, it can be responsible for more packages, both in main and universe.
** ubuntu-server team membership:
     sommer asked if the team was open to everyone. It is, and the process to apply for membership is outlined in the https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/GettingInvolved page.

* Next meeting will be in two weeks on Tuesday, July the 31st at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

== IRC LOGS ==

TZ UTC+1
<pre>
05:01	dendrobates	Ok lets get started.
=== keescook [n=kees@ubuntu/member/keescook] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:01	soren	Hi, kees.
05:01	mathiaz	ScottK: we can discuss that after the meeting
05:01	ScottK	Sure
05:01	dendrobates	Welcome to the first public server team meeting
05:01	keescook	hiya folks.  :)
05:01	soren	\o/
05:01	mathiaz	keescook: hiya
05:02	nealmcb	agenda at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
05:02	dendrobates	Lets start with introductions, since we are so new.
05:02	dendrobates	nealmcb: Thanks
05:03	dendrobates	I am Rick Clark the Technical lead of the Ubuntu server team.
05:03	dendrobates	For gutsy I am focused on ldap authentication.
=== stephanbuys [n=stephanb@dsl-241-207-82.telkomadsl.co.za] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:04	dendrobates	now everybody else.
05:04	soren	I'm Soren Hansen (the hacker formerly known as shawarma), I've been around the Ubuntu community for a couple of years now and I'm on the server team working for Canonical.
05:04	soren	My primary focus for this release is eBox.
05:04	dendrobates	Also state your area of interest in Ubuntu server.
05:04	soren	I want to make it cool.
05:04	miles	haha
05:04	soren	:p
05:04	mathiaz	I'm Mathias Gug and I'm an Ubuntu Server developer
05:04	nealmcb	I'm Neal McBurnett, running simple ubuntu servers for a number of years, active with the Colorado loco team and looking for ways to get involved in improving especially authentication/authorization support for ubuntu server.  how can we help people test this?  need some environments to test against
05:05	keescook	I'm Kees Cook, currently focused on Ubuntu security, and somewhat lurking in the server team until I have more spare cycles to contribute more significantly.  I did the initial packaging of AppArmor, and work on the kernel integration bits.
05:05	mathiaz	For gutsy, I'll focus on AppArmor integration.
05:05	Mithrandir	I'm Tollef Fog Heen, technical lead for Ubuntu mobile, not really here, but watching a bit. My main interest in ubuntu server is as a sysadmin for a bunch of servers I help maintain.
05:06	miles	my name is miles, im just a young kid but i do sysadmin and java development at my job...i am currently running an ubuntu-server and want to be involved in the community
=== Knightlust [n=dax@ubuntu/member/knightlust] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:06	jdstrand	I am Jamie Strandboge, ubuntu advocate with an interest in ubuntu server and open source server technologies in general
05:07	stephanbuys	Stephan Buys here, architect for Impi Linux, interested in bringing Ubuntu into government and business in South Africa. Focusing on what perceive to be the missing pieces to make Ubuntu "enterprise ready"
05:07	nealmcb	I'm also wondering if ubuntu or launchpad or canonical has any "enterprise" ldap/kerberos/whatever infrastructure (for doing builds, etc?) that we could put up test apps on and lure testers with, or any other way for folks who don't run servers to do client testing
05:07	ScottK	I'm Scott Kitterman.  I'm a MOTU and primarily interested in Postfix and the packages associated with it.  I'm also a member of ubuntu-backporters (the ones that ack backports requests to the archive admins).  My current focus is on getting the clamav 0.9x series into Dapper (it has a depressing number of rdepends).  I don't have any Gutsy server goals at the moment.  On the server end, I'm focused on getting stuff I did in Feisty into Debian.
05:08	dendrobates	Anyone else? we will wait a couple minutes for more introductions.
05:08	sommer	I'm Adam Sommer.  I'm a Linux Sysadmin looking to become a Ubuntu-dev/MOTU and currently helping ScottkK with clamav.
=== miles wonders what MOTU means?
05:09	Meyvn	I'm Arjen Logghe, somewhat of an Ubuntu newbie and recently started to delve into programming (C++/C#) and I'm here to eavesdrop into this conversation.
05:09	fernando	I'm Fernando Ribeiro, i'm justing a sysadmin, a ubuntu enthusiast. I'm focused on ldap integration and replication.
05:09	lionel	I'm Lionel Porcheron. I'm a MOTU and work everyday as a sysadmin. Ubuntu server is my primary server platform. I just want to make it rocks
05:09	Knightlust	I'm Dax Solomon Umaming, Xubuntu Advocate and System Administrator for a school.
05:09	Mithrandir	miles: master of the universe, the group responsible for maintaining the packages in Universe.
05:09	soren	miles: A MOTU is a "Master of the Universe". It's the team of developers that manage the universe component of Ubuntu.
05:09	miles	thanks
05:10	aquo	Hi, I'm Steffen Bauch, and just watching for connections of Ubuntu Server and NetworkManager.
05:10	dendrobates	Welcome everyone.
05:11	dendrobates	mathiaz: You had the first agenda item.
05:11	mathiaz	yes - I read the last UWN and there is section about the Scribus team
05:12	mathiaz	in the community spotlight. So it may be a good idea to do the same thing for the Server Team.
05:12	dendrobates	Since building our community is very important right now, I think it is a good idea.
05:13	mathiaz	well - we could wait a little bit
05:13	mathiaz	we could focus on absorbing the first round of applicant
05:13	beuno	if you need/want to get the server team highlighted in UWN, just drop me a line with what you want it to say  :D
05:13	mathiaz	uwn has a wider audiance
05:13	mathiaz	beuno: what's the audience of uwn ?
05:14	beuno	mathiaz: the Ubuntu Community in general
05:14	mathiaz	because for now we're looking to get more developper
05:14	beuno	and it goes a bit beyond, as it get reproduced in several Linux sites
05:14	ScottK	It also gets mentioned in Linux Weekly News.
05:14	beuno	mathiaz: UWN won't hurt, and posting in the planet won't either  :D
05:15	dendrobates	Nick Ali from UWN also mentioned that they could summarize our meeting in UWN if we liked as well.
05:15	mathiaz	Do we plan to send notes from the meeting ?
05:15	mathiaz	to ubuntu-server ? like MOTU does
05:16	dendrobates	I think that is an open question.
05:16	mathiaz	ok - to come back to UWN
05:16	mathiaz	should we send a strip down version of the Server Team annoucment ?
05:16	soren	I think we should send the minutes to the mailing list. If for no other reason, then to remind ourselves what we talked about and decided.
05:17	soren	mathiaz: Agreed.
05:17	beuno	mathiaz: you will get the best response if you can state clearly and specifically what you need, and how people can contact you
05:17	dendrobates	mathiaz: yes.
05:17	mathiaz	beuno: how many lines ?
05:17	beuno	mathiaz: 2 paragraphs seem fine, it really depends on the team
05:18	mathiaz	beuno: ok.
05:18	beuno	just not too many "filler" text
05:18	beuno	as straight to the point as possible
05:18	mathiaz	I'll work on that
05:18	beuno	and just sent it over to me: beuno@ubuntu.com
05:18	mathiaz	beuno: ok.
05:19	beuno	and contact me in the future for anything else you want features in UWN  :D
=== juliux [n=juliux@ubuntu/member/juliux] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:20	dendrobates	What do we think about meeting summaries?
05:20	dendrobates	I would be a little sparse at this point.
05:21	dendrobates	but as the team picks up, it might be nice.
05:21	mathiaz	I think it would be a good idea for people that are not able to attend the meeting
05:21	soren	If we make any decisions during this meeting, I think said decisions should be echoed on the ml.
05:22	mathiaz	ok. I'll send the notes to the ml.
05:22	ScottK	Definitely at least decisions need to get to the ML.
05:22	soren	mathiaz: Cool.
05:22	dendrobates	We could also put transcripts on the wiki
05:23	mathiaz	it'S a bit too much I think. We should just link to where the channel is logged.
05:23	soren	dendrobates: The channel is logged, so that seems a bit redundant.
05:23	aquo	just publish pointers to the log
05:23	dendrobates	soren: then we could link to where it is logged.
05:24	mathiaz	sounds good to me - I'll update the wiki pages.
05:24	soren	dendrobates: Sure.
05:24	dendrobates	ok lets move on to the roadmap.
05:24	mathiaz	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Roadmap
=== txwikinger [n=txwiking@sblug/member/txwikinger] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:25	dendrobates	Lets start with bug triage.
05:26	dendrobates	Anyone have anything to new report to the team?
05:26	nealmcb	mathiaz: Thanks for all the roadmap updates!  It really gives me ideas about what is active and what is history (like so many of the server-related specs....)
05:27	mathiaz	nealmcb: you're welcome. We'll try to keep the specs later.
05:27	soren	dendrobates: We need a firm plan on how to get to the bottom of the bug lists.
05:27	mathiaz	for now we're just trying to focus on specific tasks, so that we can get something done for gutsy.
05:27	soren	dendrobates: All the new stuff that comes in is no problem, I think. The problem is the existing backlog.
05:28	mathiaz	soren: correct. That's why I suggest we try to tackle bugs per package basis.
05:28	soren	mathiaz: Dividing them among us? That could work.
05:28	dendrobates	mathiaz: so you are suggesting we start with mysql, right?
=== ScottK already keeps Postfix bugs triaged.
05:28	mathiaz	yes
05:28	mathiaz	we have to start somewhere.
05:28	dendrobates	agreed.
05:28	stephanbuys	is the aim to fix bugs for gutsy?
05:28	mathiaz	and lets try to get all the bugs in triagged state
05:29	soren	mathiaz: "yes" what? Yes, we divide them among us, or yes, we take one package at a time?
05:29	mathiaz	soren: one package at a time
05:29	mathiaz	stephanbuys: try to get them to triagged
05:29	soren	mathiaz: Sounds sane.
05:29	nealmcb	for how long?
05:29	mathiaz	stephanbuys: which means we had a look at it and then we can start fixing them
05:30	mathiaz	nealmcb: as long as it takes
05:30	mathiaz	nealmcb: it doesn't mean that we're not fixing it.
05:30	dendrobates	What do you think about scheduling a bug day for each package.
05:30	mathiaz	anyone can work on fixing bug, that are triagged or not.
=== ScottK thinks bug days should be about fixing, not just triaging.
05:30	stephanbuys	mathiaz, so its fair to say there is no slant towards gutsy when it comes to bugs (dapper LTS gets equal treatment?)
05:30	mathiaz	dendrobates: I'd rather have a suggested line
=== ScottK really appreciated soren's help during that server bug day.
05:30	mathiaz	dendrobates: I mean a suggested list packages
05:31	mathiaz	the roadmap is to give pointer for new contributors.
05:31	dendrobates	mathiaz: like the last bug day?
05:31	mathiaz	dendrobates: yes. instead it's not a day but more a 2 week plan.
05:31	soren	stephanbuys: Gutsy is the current development focus. Dapper only gets high priority bug fixes and security fixes.
05:32	mathiaz	So let's try to get all mysql bugs reviewed and triagged by the next 2 weeks
05:32	ScottK	There is dapper-backports for new features, but not for bug fixing.
05:32	dendrobates	soren: we should try your idea, but if we don't get community involvement, be prepared to rethink it.
05:32	nealmcb	there are a lot of packages, one at a time might mean missing important ones, and not everyone can help with each packages.   anyone have a sequence of packages in mind?
05:33	soren	dendrobates: Which idea was that?
05:33	dendrobates	I mean mathiaz;
05:33	mathiaz	nealmcb: after mysql, I thought about doing samba.
05:33	soren	dendrobates: Ah, I see.
05:33	mathiaz	dendrobates: ok - no problem. we'll see how it works.
=== highvoltage [n=jonathan@broadband-196-1-61-45.amobia.co.za] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:34	nealmcb	is there a summary anywhere of which server packages have the most outstanding and/or untriaged bugs?
05:34	dendrobates	mathiaz: we need to explain what to do more on the roadmap, maybe boint to some documentation.
05:35	mathiaz	dendrobates: yes - I'll update the wiki pages Roadmap and Knowledge.
05:35	mathiaz	dendrobates: It's still a work in progress.
05:35	dendrobates	But you've done a great job on them.
05:35	aquo	which are the most annoying untriaged bugs for mysql?
05:35	mathiaz	nealmcb: https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/
05:36	mathiaz	aquo: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mysql-dfsg-5.0
05:36	mathiaz	aquo: lists the bugs related to mysql - we target the one in New - Undecided states.
05:36	dendrobates	can we move to packaging?
05:36	mathiaz	aquo: the goal is to move to a triagged/confirmed state
05:37	aquo	mathiaz: yes, i know, but are there bug with special importance?
05:37	soren	aquo: If we knew, they would have been triaged already.
05:37	aquo	k
05:38	soren	aquo: The point of traiging is to look at the bug, determine if it's bogus or not, and to assign an importance to it.
05:39	aquo	soren: i know, my question is if the fact that they are untriaged a hint for there unimportance is
05:40	mathiaz	aquo: no
05:40	aquo	if they would be important, somebody would have triaged them already?
05:40	soren	aquo: That doesn't make sense. If you knew if it was important or not, you would by definition have triaged it.
05:40	mathiaz	aquo: new, undecided means nobody has looked at the bug
05:40	aquo	k, just go on
05:40	soren	triaging means figuring out how important it is.
05:40	aquo	i know
05:40	dendrobates	Ok on to packaging
05:41	Meyvn	unfortunately i have to leave, good luck all
05:41	dendrobates	Meyvn: thanks for stopping by.
05:41	soren	Meyvn: thanks for your time.
05:42	dendrobates	it looks like FernandoRibeiroSilva has assigned himself to add watch files to the packages.
05:42	mathiaz	fernando: thanks for taking this.
05:42	dendrobates	Thank you for that.
05:43	dendrobates	fernando: do you need any help?  have you had a chance to start?
05:43	fernando	I'm glat could help you.
05:43	fernando	no help this first time
05:43	lionel	that means we are going to diverge from Debian for this package? With for example newer upstream release (as we do for GNOME for example)
05:43	mathiaz	lionel: which package ?
05:43	lionel	I meant packages
05:44	lionel	for those we add watch files
05:44	mathiaz	lionel: watch files are just a way to track upstream version.
05:44	keescook	I think the goal would be to send the watch files upstream too.
05:44	soren	lionel: I hope we can cooperate with Debian to get newer stuff into Debian and then let it trickle into Ubuntu, but we're not going to block on Debian if there's shiny new stuff we want.
05:44	mathiaz	lionel: debian can track it - but we're also interested in tracking them
05:44	mathiaz	keescook: definetly.
05:44	mathiaz	I'm sure that Debian would be interested into that also.
05:45	lionel	Ok, ok, it was to get things clear :) Thanks :)
05:45	fernando	i can to send the watch updates to debian too
05:45	mathiaz	keescook: would this help from a security perspective ?
05:45	keescook	mathiaz: I might, but it would still require people examine release notes for things that are not already listed in CVe
05:45	mathiaz	fernando: I've added this point to the roadmap. so if you need help to get started, you can contact me.
05:46	mathiaz	keescook: ok.
05:46	fernando	mathiaz, great
05:46	dendrobates	Ok on to testing.
05:46	jdstrand	is the goal of adding the watch file to watch debian, upstream, or both?
05:46	mathiaz	the idea behind this, is to be able to track upstream relases centrally - without being subscribed to thousand of mailing lists
=== jsgotangco [n=jsgotang@smtp01.globe.com.ph] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:47	mathiaz	jdstrand: upstream only.
05:47	jdstrand	mathiaz, ah-- makes more sense now
=== cjwatson [n=cjwatson@82-69-40-219.dsl.in-addr.zen.co.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:47	mathiaz	jdstrand: we get debian updates via merges
05:47	mathiaz	jdstrand: when the merge window is opened.
05:48	jdstrand	mathiaz, right-- so this is to help ubuntu in general, and feed what we know back to debian so they can do with it what they want
05:48	dendrobates	I have not added openldap to the apparmor test plan yet.  Plan to do it this week.  We will than need testers.
05:48	mathiaz	yop
05:48	nealmcb	on the testing front, I've posted an idea about an enterprise testbed.  there are so many configurations to test against
05:48	mathiaz	AppArmor should be in main soon
05:48	mathiaz	so we need to test it more.
05:48	nealmcb	e.g. in the authentication area - ldap/kerberos/ad etc
05:49	dendrobates	nealmcb: you are right, we are going to need community support to test those configurations.
05:50	nealmcb	if there are any folks out there with guest accounts to test against that would be great
05:50	nealmcb	ideally there would be places stable and public enough that we could put them in documentation.  "log in via kerberos as guest/guest" etc....
05:50	sommer	is there a place where configurations that need testing are posted?
05:51	dendrobates	currently only apparmor has a test plan.
05:51	aquo	nealmcb: hacker-hotspot
05:51	dendrobates	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AppArmorGutsy#testplan
05:51	mathiaz	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Server
05:51	mathiaz	^^ this where we should put our testing plans
05:52	mathiaz	as discussed with heno.
05:52	nealmcb	are there shared build machines available to ubuntu developers?  if so how do people log in?
05:52	sommer	cool...I'm very willing to help in testing.
05:52	soren	nealmcb: We don't. We just upload to them via ftp.
05:53	dendrobates	mathiaz:  will you be moving the apparmor plan to the new page?
05:53	mathiaz	dendrobates: yes.
05:53	nealmcb	aquo: yes indeed - and a good way to discover DOS bugs - might need to reinstall periodically like the folks that put up multiple CMS installations for worldwide login and experimentation and comparison
05:53	dendrobates	I wil work on a ldap-auth-client paln as well.
05:53	soren	nealmcb: Anonymous ftp, that is. The uploads are signed.
05:53	mathiaz	dendrobates: we may start using the isotracker.
05:54	mathiaz	dendrobates: henrik wants to turn the isotracker tester in a more general testing platform.
05:54	aquo	nealmcb: could be also a place to attack other machines from.
05:54	mathiaz	dendrobates: on our side, it means we have to write test plans
05:54	mathiaz	dendrobates: and we aggreed to put our test plan in the wiki.
05:54	nealmcb	aquo: only if you give them too many permissions.  even a "hello guest - you have authenticated" would be handy for some setups
05:55	mathiaz	dendrobates: so that they can be linked from isotracker later.
05:55	dendrobates	mathiaz: I remember.
05:55	aquo	nealmcb: so you don't need real users, but just sophisticated test-scripts.
05:55	nealmcb	aquo: but I know it can be a hassle - may need to be limited to trusted folks - just trying to figure out how to test against real-world situations
05:55	aquo	qemu + some scripts ...
05:56	aquo	this is possible even with multiple instances of qemu, client + server.
05:56	dendrobates	can we skip right to devlopment, I have a hard stop coming up.
05:56	soren	dendrobates: Me too.
05:56	mathiaz	dendrobates: np.
05:57	dendrobates	Soren: you first.
05:57	mathiaz	there is so much in the documentor section for now.
05:57	dendrobates	:)
05:57	soren	dendrobates: Huh?
05:57	stephanbuys	dendrobates, my 2cents and it follows on what came before, there is a need for more virtualization on the roadmap. any plans for Xen?
05:57	nealmcb	aquo: for testing authn, that's right.  for testing authorization, providing some sort of access to protected resources by relying parties would be necessary, and there can also be user interface testing
05:58	zul	stephanbuys: we already have xen-3.1
05:58	soren	ah.
05:58	soren	Yes, as I mentioned, I'm working on this eBox platform.
05:58	stephanbuys	zul, my bad
05:58	soren	http://www.ebox-platform.com
05:58	soren	Well, working on integrating it into Ubuntu.
05:59	soren	I'd like it if a few people would be kind enough to volunteer a machine they don't particularly care for for testing it.
05:59	nealmcb	soren: amazon's ec2 can be good for that, or xen
05:59	dendrobates	I'll continue testing.
05:59	soren	It's a systems management framework and - surprisingly - it manages your system, which means it may or may not mangle your configuration files. In some cases, that's what you want, in some cases not.
06:00	mathiaz	soren: do you have any specific things to test ?
=== mvo [n=egon@81.187.73.203] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:00	soren	In the cases where it's not what you want, I want to be absolutely sure it handles things elegantly.
06:00	soren	mathiaz: I'm sort of waiting on pitti to ack a few more packages before it starts getting interesting.
06:00	aquo	Is ebox free software?
06:00	soren	aquo: Of course.
06:01	soren	So far, there's only ebox,  libebox, and ebox-objects.
06:01	mathiaz	soren: ok. Then we can add a new point in the Testing section.
06:01	soren	So far, they really don't do anything, but if people want to instal them and see if they work at all or break miserably, that would be great.
06:01	soren	Wait a few hours, though. :) There's one more thing I want to tweak.
06:02	aquo	soren: which dependencies has ebox?
06:02	dendrobates	soren: done?
06:03	mathiaz	soren: what about sending an email to ubuntu-serve when you're ready for more widespread testing ?
06:03	soren	dendrobates: Yes.
06:03	soren	mathiaz: I will.
06:04	dendrobates	Ok, Mathiaz, you want to go next?
06:04	mathiaz	dendrobates: ok. For AppArmor, it's almost in main
06:04	mathiaz	the plan is to split the profiles into universe
06:04	mathiaz	and get the infrastructure bits in main as soon as possible.
06:05	mathiaz	so I hope I'll get Apparmor into main after tribe-3
06:05	mathiaz	as the archive is frozen for now.
06:05	aquo	tribe3 is friday? thursday?
06:05	mathiaz	but everything is there and I need more testing.
06:05	mathiaz	aquo: thursday
06:05	soren	aquo: thursday
06:05	aquo	k
06:05	mathiaz	there is a testplan.
06:06	soren	aquo: As a general rule, tribe releases are on Thursdays.
06:06	mathiaz	and I'm looking for testing with named
06:06	mathiaz	mysql and samba.
06:06	aquo	soren: to not hazzle the mirror admins on friday?
06:06	mathiaz	so if you can provide some help, it's time to join the effort.
06:07	soren	aquo: So we have an extra day to take care of *very* urgent stuff before the weekend.
06:07	aquo	k
06:07	mathiaz	dendrobates: that's all.
06:07	dendrobates	for ldap-auth-client:  I sent an email to the ubuntu-directory mailing list and have received an incredible response.  I have heard from both redhad and Impi Linux (thanks Stephan), about collaboration.  The meta package is uploaded, but for some reason not yet available.  I will be creating a wiki with specific tasks that folks can help with.
06:08	dendrobates	I am still tuning the spec, to try to lessen the confusion I seemed to be creating about my purpose.
06:09	dendrobates	The work has started on libpam-ldap and libnns-ldap as well.
06:10	jdstrand	dendrobates: I just subscribed to ubuntu-directory (not aware of it), so will look through it.  As discussed #ubuntu-server, I have started the auth-client-config script for debconf to call to update nsswitch.conf and pam
06:10	jdstrand	dendrobates: should have something for you to play with soon
06:10	dendrobates	stephanbuys created a new spec for an app that would configuring /etc/pam.d/*
06:11	jdstrand	dendrobates: where is that spec?
06:11	dendrobates	that might be rolled into my spec if it looks like it can be finished in time.
06:11	dendrobates	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LDAPAuthentication
06:11	ScottK	soren: (sorry for the lag - this relates to ebox) - I think you would be intersted in this thread: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/kubuntu-devel/2007-July/001802.html
06:12	dendrobates	that is all from
06:12	dendrobates	me
06:12	dendrobates	is there any other business?
06:12	ScottK	Question...
06:13	dendrobates	ok
06:13	ScottK	Is there a process for deciding which packages the server-team is going to care about?
06:13	ScottK	Is it limited to Main?
06:13	ScottK	OK, that was two...
06:13	soren	ScottK: "it"?
06:13	mathiaz	ScottK: for now yes.
06:13	soren	ScottK: Ah.
06:13	ScottK	it == packages server-team cares about.
06:13	mathiaz	ScottK: limited to main.
06:13	ScottK	OK
06:14	soren	Any particular reason?
06:14	ScottK	Trying to understand the scope of the team.
06:14	mathiaz	for now we're bug contact for a couple of packages.
06:14	soren	The server team could easily handle relevant universe packages as well.
06:14	ScottK	There is a lot of stuff (e.g. spamassassin, clamsmtp, clamav) in Universe that's very commonly used on mail servers.
06:14	mathiaz	once we've get some controlled on the bugs for the packages, we can think about adding other ones.
06:15	dendrobates	I imagine that as the team grows, our ability to handle more packages will as well.
06:15	dendrobates	Right now, we have all we can handle.
06:15	ScottK	OK
06:15	mathiaz	dendrobates: I aggree with you.
06:15	sommer	is the server-team open to all or do you need to be a dev?
06:15	dendrobates	open to all.
06:15	nealmcb	so is the list at https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+packagebugs complete?
06:15	mathiaz	sommer: to all.
06:16	mathiaz	nealmcb: yes.
06:16	sommer	cool...I'll sign up.
06:16	dendrobates	I need to scoot.
06:16	nealmcb	I'm glad to see all the recent activity and organization here - thanks folks
06:16	dendrobates	Thank you for coming everyone.
06:16	mathiaz	sommer: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/GettingInvolved#becomemember
06:17	mathiaz	the next meeting will be in two weeks.
06:17	dendrobates	We hope to see all of you at our next meeting in two weeks.
06:17	mathiaz	same time same place
06:17	dendrobates	same channel
06:17	dendrobates	bye.
</pre>

----
CategoryServerTeam
