{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Ubuntu vm builder =====

soren uploaded a new version that only fixes bugs. mathiaz asked about the supported images. soren said that xen had been supported for a few weeks now. He added that there was some interest to get virtualbox supported as well. For vmware nijaba stated that player, workstation and server should work. For ESX it may need a manual conversion with tools provided by VMware. Testing on these platforms is welcome.

nijaba has updated the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/JeOSVMBuilder|the JeOS VmBuilder tutorial]]</nowiki> and would like to get some feedback on it.

===== JeOS for Intrepid =====

mathiaz noted that the JeOS iso won't be produced for Intrepid. JeOS is instead an option when booting the -server installer by pressing F4 at the first screen. JeOS has also been renamed to Minimal Install. 

However the linux-image-virtual kernel meta package isn't available. The -server flavor is installed instead. soren is working on getting the virtual meta packages ready. mathiaz asked whether something else had to be done in the installer to get the virtual flavor installed. soren said the virtual flavor should be seeded but wasn't sure if the installer code had to be updated.

===== Review ServerGuide for Intrepid =====

mathiaz reviewed the ldap section. He is planning on doing more testing to cover the replication section.

ACTION: sommer to update the JeOS and installation sections

ACTION: zul to do review of the virtualization of the server guide

ACTION: mathiaz to update the support section

===== nagios3 in main =====

Koon reported that nagios3 had been promoted to main. mathiaz seeded the packages on the server cd replacing the nagios2 packages.

===== Ubuntu Server Survey =====

nijaba announced that the Ubuntu Server survey had been launched. So far it got more than 2000 full replies. The result will be published before UDS. The survey will be closed on the last week of November. He also added that the launch plan was working well. <nowiki>[[http://digg.com/linux_unix/Ubuntu_Server_survey_launched|Digging it]]</nowiki> is welcome !

ACTION: kirkland to blog about the server survey

===== Beta Freeze and release =====

mathiaz reminded that the archive was frozen in preparation for Beta scheduled for Thursday. As usual iso testing is coordinated on the <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/|Iso testing tracker]]</nowiki>.

===== Automatic RAID install =====

mathiaz reported that partman-auto-raid had been promoted to main and was now on the server iso. RAID installation can now be automated via preseeding.

===== DRBD =====

ivoks reported that DRBD was broken in Intrepid. The kernel module (8.2.6) isn't working with the tools (8.0.12) currently in the archive. He also added that updating the tools to 8.2.6 wouldn't fix the issue. He successfully tested 8.2.7rc1 (both for the kernel module and the userspace tools).

ACTION: ivoks to send the drbd patch to the ubuntu-kernel mailing list to get 8.2.7rc1 in intrepid

ACTION: ivoks to upload 8.2.7 tools to a PPA ready for testing and sponsoring

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, October 7th at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:01] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[16:01] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:01. The chair is mathiaz.
[16:01] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:02] <soren> kirkland: Maybe.
[16:02] <soren> kirkland: :P
[16:02] <mathiaz> Today's agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:02] <nealmcb> I thought dendrobates had spiked sideburns
[16:02] <mathiaz> Previous meeting minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20080923
[16:02] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Ubuntu vm builder
[16:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu vm builder
[16:03] <mathiaz> soren: what's new there ?
[16:03] <soren> New version uploaded with lots fixes in it.
[16:03] <soren> Erm..
[16:03] <soren> No big news, I'm afraid.
[16:03] <mathiaz> nijaba: how is the tutorial update going ?
[16:04] <nijaba> mathiaz: I just completed it, fixing/finding a few bugs as I go
[16:04] <mathiaz> soren: IIRC you've added xen support to vmbuilder
[16:04] <nijaba> mathiaz: but I think that, apart from a few changes, the general content is there and I'd love to get some feedback
[16:04] <mathiaz> soren: do you have access to a xen environment to do the testing ?
[16:05] <mathiaz> nijaba: url ?
[16:05] <soren> mathiaz: That was weeks ago, though.
[16:05] <soren> mathiaz: Yes, I have Xen running inside a KVM instance :)
[16:05] <zul> soren: scarey
[16:05] <nijaba> has not changed: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/JeOSVMBuilder
[16:05] <soren> mathiaz: zul and I have been trying to get Xenner to be useful, but it's not working out very well.
[16:05] <nijaba> Xenner?
[16:06] <soren> Xenner is a twisted version of KVM that can run Xen paravirt instances.
[16:06] <zul> xen built ontop of kvm
[16:06] <mathiaz> soren: is there support for vmware in vmbuilder ?
[16:06] <zul> soren: a version of it will be in the next version of xen
[16:06] <soren> It's rather... umm... interesting *cough*.
[16:06] <soren> mathiaz: There is, yes.
[16:07] <mathiaz> soren: do you have access to vmware environment to test it ?
[16:07] <nijaba> but no virtual box yet, I think that's the main one missing
[16:07] <soren> mathiaz: Nope.
[16:07] <nijaba> (even though it is not a priority)
[16:07] <soren> nijaba: Right. Someone asked me about that yesterday.
[16:08] <mathiaz> soren: are all product of vmware supported ?
[16:08] <mathiaz> soren: like ESX, -server, etc... ?
[16:08] <soren> nijaba: I told him that if he could explain how to turn a set of raw images and some settings (amount of ram, cpu's, etc.) into a vbox instance, I'd be happy to implement it.
[16:08] <soren> nijaba: We'll see how it goes.
[16:08] <soren> mathiaz: I forget the details right now.
[16:09] <soren> mathiaz: It should support whatever ubuntu-vm-builder supported.
[16:09] <soren> If it doesn't, that's a bug that needs fixing.
[16:09] <nijaba> mathiaz: I am not sure we can support ESX fully with what qemu-img offers
[16:09] <mathiaz> soren: ok - anyway testing in vmware product is welcome.
[16:09] <nijaba> mathiaz: was the same for uvb
[16:09] <mathiaz> nijaba: ok.
[16:10] <mathiaz> it may be usefull to figure out which products/technologies are supported by vm-builder.
[16:10] <nijaba> player, workstation and server. For esx, it needs a manual conversion IIRC
[16:11] <nijaba> tools are provided by VMware
[16:11] <mathiaz> nijaba: thanks.
[16:11] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Review ServerGuide for Intrepid
[16:11] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ServerGuide for Intrepid
[16:11] <mathiaz> sommer: did you update the virtualization section
[16:11] <mathiaz> ?
[16:12] <sommer> mathiaz: I added a couple of lines about xen, but I'm not sure it's quite where it needs to be
[16:12] <sommer> mathiaz: it'll be updated by SF though
[16:13] <nijaba> sommer: pointer to what you added?
[16:13] <mathiaz> zul: could you take a look at the seciont ?
[16:13] <mathiaz> zul: could you take a look at the virtualization section ?
[16:13] <zul> mathiaz: yep
[16:13] <sommer> nijaba: http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/ubuntu-vm-builder.html
[16:13] <mathiaz> zul: ^^
[16:14] <mathiaz> [ACTION] zul to do review of the virtualization of the server guide.
[16:14] <MootBot> ACTION received:  zul to do review of the virtualization of the server guide.
[16:14] <mathiaz> sommer: nijaba: shouldn't the JeOS section be removed ?
[16:15] <nijaba> mathiaz: or updated using what I just produced on the wiki?
[16:15] <dendrobates> mathiaz: or changed.
[16:15] <mathiaz> or at least updated as there won't be JeOS iso
[16:15] <mathiaz> dendrobates: IIUC JeOS is now an option in the -server iso
[16:15] <soren> That's the idea, yes.
[16:15] <nijaba> mathiaz: or an option in vmbuilder
[16:16] <mathiaz> how do you get to install a JeOS from -server ?
[16:16] <nijaba> (as soon as we find a virtual kernel for intrpid)
[16:16] <nijaba> mathiaz: press F4 at first screen
[16:17] <mathiaz> which kernel flavour is currently installed ?
[16:17] <nijaba> for some reason, there is no linux-image-virtual kernel available in intrepid ATM
[16:17] <mathiaz> since -virtual doesn't exist
[16:17] <soren> Sure it does.
[16:17] <nijaba> mathiaz: -server
[16:17] <soren> I've filed a bug against linux-meta about the missing linux{,-image}-virtual packages.
[16:18] <dendrobates> soren: have you sent an email to pete about it?
[16:18] <soren> There *is* a virtual kernel flavour.
[16:18] <soren> dendrobates: Umm. No?
[16:18] <nijaba> soren: and is the 64bit version available as well?
[16:18] <soren> nijaba: Yes.
[16:18] <nijaba> so the only thinkg misssing is the meta packages....
[16:18] <soren> yes.
[16:18]  * nijaba puts too many letters...
[16:19] <mathiaz> soren: once the -virtual- packages are there, is there anything that needs to be changed in the installer to pick itup ?
[16:19] <soren> dendrobates: linux-image-2.6.27-4-virtual | 2.6.27-4.6 | intrepid/universe | amd64, i386
[16:19] <soren> Whoops, that wasn't for dendrobates.
[16:19] <soren> Whuh... Universe?
[16:19] <nijaba> mathiaz: some server-ship seeding?
[16:19] <soren> Yeah, we need to seed it.
[16:19] <mathiaz> soren: since as of now -server is installed in Jeos
[16:20] <soren> It needs seeding, but first a metapackage.
[16:20] <mathiaz> soren: right - and the installer will automatically choose it
[16:20] <soren> mathiaz: Erm.. No.
[16:20] <soren> mathiaz: Not the -virtual kernel.
[16:20] <dendrobates> I want to make sure someone looks at the bug.
[16:21] <mathiaz> soren: ok - so -virtual- needs to be seeded + the installer has to be modified.
[16:21] <soren> mathiaz: I'm working on a "detect which virtual environment I'm in, if any" utility.
[16:21] <soren> I'm going to get that added to base-installer for Jaunty.
[16:21] <mathiaz> soren: for intrepid or beyond ?
[16:21] <soren> mathiaz: I'm not sure about changing the installer.
[16:22] <soren> The option you get in isn't called "JeOS". It's called "Minimal install".
[16:22] <mathiaz> soren: ok - so that means we still need to fix or at least look into the JeOS option for the intrepid installer
[16:22] <soren> Which, apart from the kernel choice, is the same thing.
[16:22] <nijaba> soren, in fact, it is not a real JeOS iso replacement...
[16:22] <soren> ..but it's preseedable, which was the original requirement (back in the gutsy days).
[16:22] <soren> nijaba: -v
[16:23] <nijaba> Well, the JeOS iso would install the -virtual kernel by default, so picking minimal install is not a replacement for it
[16:24] <mathiaz> nijaba: so the minimal install for -server intrepid isos installs the same set of packages than JeOS ?
[16:25] <mathiaz> nijaba: what's missing is the -virtual- kernel packages for now ?
[16:25] <soren> nijaba: That's what I just said?
[16:25] <soren> 15:22:19 < soren> Which, apart from the kernel choice, is the same thing.
[16:25] <soren> mathiaz: Yes, apart from the kernel, the choice of packages is (or should be) the same.
[16:26] <mathiaz> soren: ok.
[16:26] <mathiaz> let's move on.
[16:26] <soren> Let's.
[16:26] <mathiaz> sommer: anything else on the server guide ?
[16:26] <sommer> so the jeos section needs updated, and probably the installation section?
[16:26] <mathiaz> sommer: I've given you some feedback on the ldap serction
[16:26] <sommer> mathiaz: yep... still need to adjust that
[16:27] <dendrobates> mathiaz: did you give sommer feedback on the support section, that we discussed?
[16:27] <sommer> mathiaz: was the ldapadd instead of slapadd the only thing?
[16:27] <mathiaz> sommer: not yet
[16:27] <mathiaz> dendrobates: not yet.
[16:27] <dendrobates> mathiaz: you had wanted some changes, that I agreed with.
[16:28] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz to update the support section of the server guide
[16:28] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to update the support section of the server guide
[16:28] <mathiaz> sommer: yes
[16:28] <sommer> mathiaz: cool
[16:28] <mathiaz> sommer: I still wanna go through the rest of the section and test it.
[16:28] <mathiaz> sommer: there are some sub-sections about replication and so on.
[16:29] <mathiaz> sommer: I wonder if it's too advanced for the server guide.
[16:29] <sommer> mathiaz: ya, cn=config does add some more complexity
[16:29] <mathiaz> sommer: we could probably mention that it exists and point to the openldap guide
[16:29] <mathiaz> sommer: upstream documentation is good
[16:30] <sommer> mathiaz: I think it's pretty important to have replication in... having only a single LDAP server on a network is sort of scary
[16:31] <mathiaz> [ACTION] sommer to update the JeOS and installation section
[16:31] <MootBot> ACTION received:  sommer to update the JeOS and installation section
[16:31] <mathiaz> sommer: right - IIRC upstream documentation may lack some real world ldif files to setup replication.
[16:31] <mathiaz> sommer: I'll go through the section and test it
[16:32] <sommer> mathiaz: ya, and it's not really very clear on adding schema ldif files
[16:32] <mathiaz> sommer: anything else ?
[16:32] <sommer> mathiaz: I think that's it
[16:32] <mathiaz> sommer: great - thanks !
[16:32] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] nagios3 in main
[16:32] <MootBot> New Topic:  nagios3 in main
[16:32] <mathiaz> Koon: ^^ ?
[16:32] <mathiaz> Koon: I think it's fixed now ?
[16:33] <Koon> mathiaz: I posted the MIR, which wasn't really needed, then nagios3 was promoted
[16:33] <Koon> and you added it to the server-ship seed
[16:33] <mathiaz> and it's on the -server cd now ! :D
[16:33] <nijaba> server-ship?
[16:33] <mathiaz> nijaba: yes
[16:33]  * nijaba wonders why, but fine
[16:34] <mathiaz> nijaba: nagios2 was there
[16:34] <nijaba> mathiaz: ah, makes sense then
[16:34] <soren> Well, it wasn't, actually.
[16:34] <Koon> yep
[16:34] <mathiaz> nijaba: I've just s/nagios2/nagios3/
[16:34] <soren> ..but that was a mistake :)
[16:34] <Koon> soren: tss
[16:34] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Server survey
[16:34] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu Server survey
[16:34] <mathiaz> nijaba: how is it going ?
[16:35] <nijaba> it is doing great
[16:35] <nijaba> more than 2000 full replies so far
[16:35] <nealmcb> :)
[16:35] <sommer> wow
[16:35] <mathiaz> nijaba: when do you plan to close the survey ?
[16:35] <nijaba> we get about 1/3 of the respondant that do not complete the survey, but that was expected
[16:36] <nijaba> mathiaz: result will be published before UDS, so I intend to close it last week of november
[16:36]  * nijaba looking for people knowing how to use a SPSS type tool
[16:36] <mathiaz> nijaba: seems that the marketing plan is working well.
[16:37] <nijaba> mathiaz: yes, it is.
[16:37] <mathiaz> anyone that wants to blog about it is welcome.
[16:37] <nijaba> there are also some items left to do in the launch plan
[16:37] <mathiaz> it was announced last thursday - and there is a digg link IIRC
[16:37] <nijaba> yes, but that is not getting too much digging
[16:37] <kirkland> please splat the digg link here, now
[16:38] <kirkland> i'll digg+1 it :-)
[16:38] <nijaba> http://digg.com/linux_unix/Ubuntu_Server_survey_launched
[16:38] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://digg.com/linux_unix/Ubuntu_Server_survey_launched
[16:38] <kirkland> done
[16:38] <nealmcb> nijaba: I've played with R in the past - very powerful, if confusing.  scipy also does a lot
[16:39] <kirkland> i'll blog something too
[16:39] <nijaba> nealmcb: are you voluntering to help on the analysis?
[16:39] <nijaba> ;)
[16:39] <mathiaz> [ACTION] kirkland to blog about the server survey
[16:39] <MootBot> ACTION received:  kirkland to blog about the server survey
[16:40]  * nealmcb gets a digg in
[16:40] <nealmcb> nijaba: yes
[16:40]  * nijaba hugs nealmcb
[16:40] <nealmcb> I'm not an expert with stats or surveys, but will do what I can
[16:40] <mathiaz> nijaba: great - anything else on the survey ?
[16:41] <nijaba> nope...
[16:41] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Beta Freeze
=== alex3f is now known as alex3f[ubuntu-ro
[16:41] <MootBot> New Topic:  Beta Freeze
=== alex3f[ubuntu-ro is now known as alex3f[ubunt-ro]
[16:41] <mathiaz> so we're in beta freeze and the -server isos for beta have been produced.
[16:41] <mathiaz> http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/ is used to track the tests.
[16:41] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/ is used to track the tests.
[16:41]  * ivoks o/
=== alex3f[ubunt-ro] is now known as alex3f[ubuntu-ro
[16:42] <mathiaz> on a related note, partman-auto-raid has been promoted to main and is now available on the iso
[16:42] <zul> what does that do again?
[16:42] <mathiaz> so preseeded installs can now setup a RAID system
[16:42] <zul> ah
[16:43] <kirkland> \o/
[16:43] <mathiaz> It requires some testing though.
[16:43] <ivoks> iirc, it is usable
[16:43] <ivoks> at least it was when i worked on that... a year ago (or more) :)
[16:43] <mathiaz> ivoks: well - it has never been tested in ubuntu.
[16:43] <ivoks> right
[16:44] <mathiaz> ivoks: It works in debian.
[16:44] <nijaba> an is the option to have a sane boot degraded mode preseedable as well?
[16:44] <nijaba> s/an/and
[16:44] <soren> Yes. It's been the default for years.
[16:45] <soren> :p
[16:45] <nijaba> :P
[16:45] <mathiaz> nijaba: kirkland implemented it - he should know about it.
[16:46] <kirkland> mathiaz: sadly, i have little experience with preseeding, so I don't know
[16:46] <nijaba> kirkland: is it a debconf question?
[16:46] <kirkland> nijaba: yup
[16:46] <soren> kirkland: presseding means answering debconf questions ahead of time.
[16:46] <ivoks> kirkland: you are so lucky... :)
[16:46] <nijaba> so it should work fine
[16:46] <mathiaz> kirkland: ok - so it's preseedable.
[16:46] <kirkland> awesome
[16:47] <soren> For bonus points, someone should tweak kickseed to handle this..
[16:47]  * nealmcb pats kirkland on the back
[16:47] <ivoks> that shouldn't be too hard
[16:47] <nijaba> soren: err... kickstart?
[16:47] <soren> kickseed.
[16:47] <ivoks> no, seed
[16:47] <ivoks> kickstart doesn't know anything about preseeding
[16:47] <mathiaz> nijaba: kickseed is the name of the kickstart implementation for the Ubuntu installer
[16:48] <nijaba> ivoks: yup, but you can add preseeds to it
[16:48] <soren> nijaba: kickseed is an installer component that lets you pass a kickstart file to d-i and then it translates it into the corresponding preseed values.
[16:48]  * nijaba used it without know its name...
[16:48] <mathiaz> ivoks: kickseed has a hook to add preseed command in the kickstart file
[16:49]  * nijaba confirms that it is VERY usefull
[16:49] <ivoks> ok... i always used kickstart file + preseed file - i guess i'm outdated :)
[16:50] <mathiaz> so if you've got some spare server hardware, testing the -server iso for Beta is more than welcome!
[16:50] <mathiaz> Beta is schedule for Thursday.
[16:51] <ivoks> ok :)
[16:51] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[16:51] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[16:51] <mathiaz> anyone wants to add anything ?
[16:51] <ivoks> yes?
[16:51] <ivoks> am i allowed to twist arms of kernel team?
[16:51] <ivoks> :)
[16:52] <ivoks> we have very broken drbd implementation in intrepid
[16:52] <mathiaz> ivoks: on your behalf or on behalf of the server team ?
[16:52] <ivoks> this requires changes in kernel and new user space tools
[16:52] <ivoks> well, server team
[16:52] <nijaba> great calendar to add for the up to date release schedule: 	http://people.ubuntu.com/~vorlon/UbuntuReleaseSchedule.ics
[16:52] <ivoks> the thing is that we have to ship release candidate of drbd 2.8.7
[16:52] <mathiaz> ivoks: what is required on the kernel side ?
[16:53] <ivoks> since stable release doesn't work on 2.6.27, and changes are huge
[16:53] <mathiaz> ivoks: do you have a bug number?
[16:53] <ivoks> this also means that we'll have user space tools from debian experimental
[16:53] <ivoks> yes
[16:54] <ivoks> bug #271254
[16:54] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 271254 in drbd8 "drbd doesn't start: "No response from the DRBD driver! Is the module loaded?" but module is loaded" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/271254
[16:54] <ivoks> i've been working on this for last 3-4 days and i have a working solution - drbd 2.8.7~rc1
[16:55] <ivoks> http://www.grad.hr/~ivoks/0001-UBUNTU-drbd-New-upstream-prerelease-2.8.7-rc1.patch
[16:55] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://www.grad.hr/~ivoks/0001-UBUNTU-drbd-New-upstream-prerelease-2.8.7-rc1.patch
[16:55] <ivoks> this is a patch for kernel
=== asac_ is now known as asac
[16:55] <mathiaz> ivoks: I'm confused by the version numbers.
[16:55] <zul> i had a look at the kernel patch and it looks fine to me
[16:55] <mathiaz> ivoks: 2.8.7 or 8.2.7 ?
[16:55] <ivoks> 8.2.7
[16:55] <zul> mathiaz: 8.2.7
[16:55] <ivoks> sorry, my mistake
[16:55] <ivoks> i'll fix that
[16:56] <mathiaz> ivoks: as of now, 8.2.6 doesn't work in 2.6.27 ?
[16:56] <ivoks> correct
[16:56] <ivoks> opensuse has the same problem
[16:56] <nealmcb> ivoks: thanks for figuring all that out!
[16:56] <mathiaz> ivoks: could it be possible to fix 8.2.6 ?
[16:56] <mathiaz> ivoks: or 8.2.7 is the only viable option ?
[16:57] <zul> basically what happened is that we have 8.0.12 in the archive and the kernel has 8.2.6 which doesnt work well together and if you use 8.2.6. kernel/user then it wont work as well
[16:57] <ivoks> mathiaz: i've looked at commit, for which drbd guys say that fixes the issue
[16:57] <ivoks> it simply depends on too many changes to just go cherry picking
[16:58] <ivoks> in my opinoion, 8.2.7 is a way to go
[16:58] <mathiaz> zul: ok - so 8.2.6 is broken - 8.2.7rc1 works
[16:58] <zul> mathiaz: yes
[16:59] <mathiaz> ivoks: could the kernel be downgraded to 8.0.12 ?
[16:59] <ivoks> i haven't tested 8.0.12 with 2.6.17
[16:59] <zul> mathiaz: Ive talked to kernel guys about that before I got ivoks involved and they didnt think it was a good idea
[17:00] <mathiaz> right - so it seems that 8.2.7rc1 is the best option as the current situation is broken
[17:00] <ivoks> right
[17:01] <nealmcb> zul: and thanks to you too...  looks like it might be one of those costs of going with the 2.6.27 kernel
[17:01] <ivoks> we can do this changes after beta is out...
[17:01] <mathiaz> ivoks: do you have 8.2.7 tools in a ppa ?
[17:01] <dendrobates> ivoks: is there a bug #
[17:01] <ivoks> nealmcb: yes, it's exactly that...
[17:01] <mathiaz> dendrobates: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/drbd8/+bug/271254
[17:01] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 271254 in drbd8 "drbd doesn't start: "No response from the DRBD driver! Is the module loaded?" but module is loaded" [High,Confirmed]
[17:01] <ivoks> mathiaz: no, but i'm working on it... upstream alredy provides debian/, so i'll just compare to our and debian source
[17:02] <mathiaz> ivoks: you've mentionned debian experimental.
[17:02] <ivoks> yes
[17:02] <ivoks> mathiaz: debian experimental has 8.2.6
[17:02] <mathiaz> ivoks: I think the key point here is to have the tools in a PPA so that we can show that 8.2.7 is working correctly.
[17:02] <ivoks> mathiaz: i agree
[17:03] <ivoks> mathiaz: i have 8.2.6 in my ppa, but i'll move it to 8.2.7 today
[17:03] <mathiaz> ivoks: excellent. then once we're out of beta, we can update the kernel.
[17:03] <mathiaz> ivoks: IIUC you've also the kernel part ready ?
[17:04] <mathiaz> ivoks: ie a git branch ready ?
[17:04] <ivoks> mathiaz: correct
[17:04] <ivoks> yes
[17:04] <ivoks> http://www.grad.hr/~ivoks/0001-UBUNTU-drbd-New-upstream-prerelease-2.8.7-rc1.patch
[17:04] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://www.grad.hr/~ivoks/0001-UBUNTU-drbd-New-upstream-prerelease-2.8.7-rc1.patch
[17:04] <zul> ivoks: just send the patch off to the kernel-t-eam mailing list is is the proper procedure
[17:04] <mathiaz> ivoks: zul: is it possible to upload a modified kernel to a PPA ?
[17:04] <ivoks> why not?
[17:05] <mathiaz> ivoks: I don't know - that's why I'm asking :D
[17:05] <zul> mathiaz: it can be done sure...
[17:05] <ivoks> if not, i can setup archive outside ppa
[17:05] <mathiaz> ivoks: to point is to get wider testing ASAP
[17:05] <mathiaz> ivoks: KernelFreeze will be in two weeks for Intrepid.
[17:05] <ivoks> i know
[17:05] <mathiaz> ivoks: so we won't have that many uploads to test/fix things.
[17:05] <ivoks> sorry, i didn't have time untill a week ago :(
[17:05] <zul> mathiaz: its best to send off the patch asap
[17:06] <mathiaz> zul: ok
[17:06] <ivoks> zul: with fixed typo
[17:06] <mathiaz> [ACTION] ivoks to send the drbd patch to the ubuntu-kernel mailing list
[17:06] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ivoks to send the drbd patch to the ubuntu-kernel mailing list
[17:06] <zul> ivoks: yep
[17:07] <mathiaz> [ACTION] ivoks to upload 8.2.7 tools to a PPA
[17:07] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ivoks to upload 8.2.7 tools to a PPA
[17:07] <mathiaz> ivoks: ^^ that will help for sponsoring
[17:07] <ivoks> and kernel source
[17:07] <ivoks> i know
[17:08] <ivoks> easier to track changes
[17:08] <mathiaz> ivoks: excellent ! Thanks for the good work
[17:08] <mathiaz> Anything else to add ?
[17:08] <ivoks> yes :)
[17:08] <ivoks> bacula :)
[17:08] <ivoks> bacula in hardy isn't in very good shape
[17:09] <ivoks> we've missed a .1 release cause of one bug
[17:09] <ivoks> upstream claims that bug is fixed, but our bug reporter claims it isn't
[17:09] <mathiaz> ivoks: .1 - you mean 8.04.1 ?
[17:09] <ivoks> right
[17:09] <mathiaz> ivoks: well - we can still fix things in hardy.
[17:10] <ivoks> what's the procedure if our bug reporter doesn't reply to bug report, while upstream claims that bug is fixed?
[17:10] <nijaba> ivoks: I would tend to beleive waht kern said and check if the 2 patches he mentioned were actually applied
[17:10] <ivoks> since, for SRU, we need validation-confirmed
[17:10] <ivoks> and there's no one to confirm it :)
[17:10] <mathiaz> ivoks: what's the bug number ?
[17:11] <ivoks> just a second...
[17:11] <mathiaz> ivoks: for SRU we also need a test case - so that we can reproduce it
[17:11] <ivoks> bug #227613
[17:11] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 227613 in bacula "[SRU] SIGSEGV in bacula-fd" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/227613
[17:13] <mathiaz> ivoks: hm - it seems that we have test case that is repoducable
[17:14] <mathiaz> ivoks: zul: were you able to reproduce it or not ?
[17:14] <ivoks> well, it just seems
[17:14] <ivoks> neither can i or upstream reproduce this bug :)
[17:14] <zul> mathiaz: no i wasnt
[17:15] <mathiaz> ivoks: well - in that case, we can only rely on the reporter or one of the tester.
[17:15] <ivoks> and the bug reporter on bacula's buglist confirmed that this patch solved the issue
[17:16] <mathiaz> ivoks: ok - it seems that it's a corner case though
[17:16] <ivoks> ok, so we wait for bug reporter to confirm it is fixed?
[17:16] <mathiaz> ivoks: in this case we rely on the rporter
[17:16] <ivoks> ok
[17:16] <mathiaz> ivoks: yes - I'd proceed that way.
[17:17] <ivoks> that's what i tought... :)
[17:17] <mathiaz> ok - we're over time now.
[17:17] <mathiaz> Anything else ?
[17:18] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[17:18] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[17:18] <mathiaz> next week, same time, same place ?
[17:18] <ivoks> ok
[17:18] <sommer> works for me
[17:19] <mathiaz> great - so see ya all next week, same time, here.
[17:19] <mathiaz> happy beta testing all !
[17:19] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
</pre>
