{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=05&day=13&year=2013&hour=16&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon May 13th 2013 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Francois Trahan (francois-trahan) provided diffs for precise-raring for fwlogwatch (LP: #1178281) 
** Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Actions
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: triage
** vUDS
** pending update
** various sprint followups
** patch pilot
** short week
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: community
** vUDS
** pending updates
** upstart/!AppArmor integration
** sbeattie
** weekly role: happy place
** vUDS
** !AppArmor
*** security-s-appisolation-sdk (currently on getting easyprof to support json input)
*** finish aa-easyprof templates for qml apps and html5 apps
** tyhicks
** weekly role: happy place
** short week
** vUDS
** !AppArmor
*** security-s-appisolation-dbus-performance
*** DBus syntax changes
** jjohansen
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor
*** appdev-s-appisolation-signals-ipc-ptrace
*** prep for May meeting
*** fix recent kernel bug in default profile
** sarnold
** weekly role: community
** !AppArmor patch review
** upstart/!AppArmor patch review
** chrisccoulson
** weekly role: happy place
** getting up to speed on chrome
** Mozilla security updates
** investigating hang in firefox 20
** embargoed update
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** sarnold> I'm curious about our proposed favored ssl/tls bindings in our SDK.. do we have an API there that's better than OpenSSL's for application authors to use?
** jdstrand mentioned Qt has some, yes (but that would require writing in C++)
** sarlond will follow-up with bzoltan from the SDK team

=== Log ===
Log bot was down during this meeting
