{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** [ACTION] sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation
* Oneiric Development
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)
* Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
* Open Discussion
 
=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====

* [ACTION] sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation:
** DEFERRED.

===== Oneiric Development =====
* Good Progress with WI
* Tracking progress:
** http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-oneiric/ubuntu-server.html
** http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-oneiric/

===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====
* Canonical Server Team will be in Dublin week of 27th
* SpampS: Cloud Camp San Diego:
** http://cloudcamp-sandiego-2011.eventbrite.com/
* smoser: Taking at Mug.org

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====
===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) =====
* Work on Changing hard-xen to conform to qa-regression-testing
* Put together an iscsitarget package proposal

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander) =====

===== Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community =====
===== Open Discussion =====
* Discussion around MySQL 5.5 Transition.

===== Meeting Actions =====

[ACTION] sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation:

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, May 31st at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[17:01] <RoAkSoAx> alright I guess we should get this started
[17:02] <RoAkSoAx> #startmeeting
[17:02] <MootBot> Meeting started at 11:02. The chair is RoAkSoAx.
[17:02] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[17:02] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[17:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[17:02] <RoAkSoAx> The only action from previouys meeting was:
[17:02] <RoAkSoAx> sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation
[17:03] <sommer> j1mc told me that he already started some stuff with the presentation
[17:03] <sommer> he said he'd let me know when he had something tangible
[17:04] <Daviey> sommer: is j1mc likely to be here later?
[17:04] <sommer> might be another week since I haven't heard anything... I'll also start working on getting something mocked together
[17:04] <sommer> Daviey: not sure, maybe
[17:04] <Daviey> okay, sounds like it needs defering.
[17:04] <Daviey> sommer: thanks :)
[17:04] <sommer> np
[17:04] <RoAkSoAx> [ACTION] deferring sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation
[17:04] <MootBot> ACTION received:  deferring sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation
[17:04] <RoAkSoAx> ok so there's no other action
[17:04] <RoAkSoAx> let's move on
[17:05] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Oneiric Development
[17:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  Oneiric Development
[17:05] <Daviey> o/
[17:05] <Daviey> Since the last meeting we have a funky new work item tracker:
[17:05] <Daviey> http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-oneiric/ubuntu-server.html
[17:05] <Daviey> It's well worth having a look around there, to see how we are doing.
[17:05] <Daviey> We do have some skew, due to a bug in the WI tracker vs Launchpad teams. :/
[17:05] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-oneiric/ubuntu-server.html
[17:05] <Daviey> We do seem to be pretty well on track.  Incomming bug count is low (as expected).
[17:05] <Daviey> Merges of packages pertinent to Server are looking minimal now.  (Thanks everyone for watching that)
[17:05] <Daviey> We really need to put extended focus on feature work.
[17:05] <Daviey> But generally, things are looking rosey.  Nice job.
[17:06] <Daviey> ..
[17:06] <SpamapS> purty colors
[17:06] <RoAkSoAx> indeed
[17:06] <SpamapS> seems we should raise the WI number to 660
[17:06] <Daviey> SpamapS: yeah...
[17:06] <Daviey> Oh, the other thing to add.. is TOPICS
[17:06] <Daviey> This is something quite new.
[17:06] <Daviey> one moment
[17:07] <RoAkSoAx> ok...
[17:07] <Daviey> See the server pertinent topics, http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-oneiric/
=== lionel__ is now known as lionel
[17:07] <Daviey> This allows more finegrain tracking of topics / features.
[17:07] <Daviey> ... done. Thanks.
[17:07] <RoAkSoAx> awesome
[17:08] <RoAkSoAx> if there's noone else who wants to raise something
[17:08] <RoAkSoAx> let's move on
[17:08] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Server Team Events
[17:08] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu Server Team Events
[17:08] <RoAkSoAx> are there any events of interest that someone's is participating in?
[17:09] <RoAkSoAx> i guess not
[17:09] <RoAkSoAx> so let's move on
[17:09] <Daviey> Most of Canonical Server team will be in Dublin week of 27th
[17:09] <RoAkSoAx> ahh the Rally
[17:09] <RoAkSoAx> indeed
[17:09] <smoser> ...
[17:09] <Daviey> So any Dublin peeps want to meet for a beer... do speak up.
[17:09] <SpamapS> I will be at CloudCamp tonight in San diego
[17:09] <smoser> i will be giving a 5 minute blurb on Ubuntu one at a local event next friday
[17:09] <SpamapS> http://cloudcamp-sandiego-2011.eventbrite.com/
[17:09] <Daviey> smoser: I'll book my flight now to that...
[17:09] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://cloudcamp-sandiego-2011.eventbrite.com/
[17:09] <smoser> and am talking tonight at Mug.org meeting about Ubuntu Server Oneiric
[17:10] <smoser> Daviey, right.
[17:10] <smoser> its good.
[17:10] <Daviey> smoser: (you need to comment where it is)
[17:10]  * Daviey mentions https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-o-ensemble-conference-talks
[17:11] <RoAkSoAx> quite a few events
[17:11] <RoAkSoAx> so I guess there's nothing else
[17:11] <RoAkSoAx> i'll move on
[17:11] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[17:11] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[17:11] <RoAkSoAx> hggdh: o/
[17:11] <zul> oh and im at OLS right now
[17:12] <zul> sorry carry on :)
[17:12] <RoAkSoAx> hehe
[17:12] <Daviey> hggdh: Hello sir!
[17:12] <smoser> hggdh, so could you please update me on where we stand on hardy kernels in ec2 ?
[17:13] <smoser> ...
[17:13] <smoser> i guess i will bother him later.
[17:13] <RoAkSoAx> seems that hggdh  is not around
[17:13] <RoAkSoAx> we'll have to come back to him later
[17:13] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[17:13] <smb> smoser, I can
[17:13] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[17:13] <smb> Various little things done last week as well as changing hardy-xen to conform to qa-regression-testing and putting together a iscsitarget package proposal which I sent out to a few people that potentially can help me with some packaging stuff.
[17:14] <smb> smoser, So basically the config option is turned off now (COMPAT_VDSO)
[17:14] <smb> It was not really a regression though
[17:14] <smb> So it should not prevent releasing the kernel as it is now
[17:14] <smoser> so theres a kernel in -proposed ?
[17:14] <smoser> that we think might be good
[17:15] <Daviey> smb: Now the kernel is a major version higher, what exciting things are exciting to us?
[17:15] <smb> The kernel currently in proposed has the problem with compat_vdso
[17:15] <smb> but its not new. There will be the next one after that without
[17:15] <smb> Daviey, beside of new things outside the kernel breaking? :)
[17:16] <Daviey> smb: we love that.
[17:16] <hggdh> RoAkSoAx: in a sprint right now, with James
[17:17] <RoAkSoAx> hggdh: alrighty ;)
[17:17] <RoAkSoAx> smb: anything else you'd like to add?
[17:17] <smb> Oh, and I tried to boot a 2.6.39 as dom0 which went surprisingly well
[17:17] <smb> Well beside of some crashes the way down
[17:17] <zul> sweet
[17:18] <smb> I hope I can sort those out.
[17:18] <smb> Otherwise nothing else here
[17:18] <RoAkSoAx> alrighty then
[17:18] <RoAkSoAx> moving on
[17:18] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)
[17:18] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)
[17:19] <RoAkSoAx> NCommand1r:
[17:19] <RoAkSoAx> o/
[17:19] <Daviey> smb: that is great news!
[17:19] <Daviey> NCommand1r: is currently on a call.. suspect he'll have to /pass
[17:19] <RoAkSoAx> Daviey: alright
[17:19] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[17:19] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[17:20] <RoAkSoAx> anyone from the Community has anything that they would like to bring into our attention?
[17:21] <RoAkSoAx> seems noone
[17:21] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[17:21] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[17:21] <RoAkSoAx> everybody seems bussy latelty :)
[17:21] <Daviey> :(
[17:21] <SpamapS> So..
[17:21] <SpamapS> MySQL 5.5 ..
[17:22] <zul> please say its done
[17:22] <SpamapS> We really need to start by getting it into Debian, but Norbert seems very busy.
[17:22] <Daviey> heck, there is an outstanding merge for mysql 5.1 that is getting larger.
[17:22] <SpamapS> I am thinking that we, the ubuntu server team, should step up and 1) gain DD access (at least 2 of us) and 2) offer to help maintain MySQL in Debian.
[17:22] <zul> agreed
[17:23] <SpamapS> Daviey: indeed, we've been holding off since 5.5 is a target for oneiric and 5.1 will be demoted.
[17:23] <Daviey> SpamapS: Who is talking to Norbert atm?
[17:23] <SpamapS> me
[17:23] <SpamapS> and he's been swamped.. he's had the 5.5 packages I prepared for 2 weeks now
[17:23] <Daviey> SpamapS: How is that going?  Is he eager for help?
[17:23] <SpamapS> Yes
[17:23] <Daviey> oh splendid
[17:24] <Daviey> SpamapS: Is he looking to sponsor your packages?
[17:24] <SpamapS> I think we should offer it more clearly.. right now its just patches and little bits of help here and there.
[17:24] <SpamapS> MySQL is maintained by a "team" in Debian, but that team only has one DD.. Norbert
[17:24] <Daviey> Well we should certainly look to be more visable contributors to the team
[17:24] <SpamapS> I think I have enough cred now to ask Norbert to support me for DD
[17:25] <SpamapS> But I think we should have another server team member seek DD status.
[17:25] <Daviey> dandy.
[17:25] <zul> i would volunteer
[17:25] <Daviey> I think most of the team would quite like that.
[17:25] <Daviey> So i'm not sure there needs to be a specific volunteer, most of us that i know of are striving for it.
[17:26] <SpamapS> zul: ok, I'll draft an email for the pkg-mysql-maint mailing list and send it to you for review.
[17:26] <Daviey> You don't need to be a DD to be a contributor, or even a maintainer :)
[17:26] <SpamapS> Daviey: thats just the thing, you need to be a DD to help with this situation. :-/
[17:26] <zul> SpamapS, cool beans
[17:27] <Daviey> SpamapS: ah?
[17:27] <SpamapS> Because after MySQL 5.5 is uploaded.. *all* of the rdepends need to be rebuilt
[17:27] <Daviey> How so?
[17:27] <SpamapS> $ apt-cache rdepends libmysqlclient16|wc -l
[17:27] <SpamapS> 174
[17:27] <Daviey> Well that is a transition.. not sure it needs NMU's for that..
[17:27] <Daviey> Surely it would hit experiemental first?
[17:28] <SpamapS> Daviey: I think you're missing the point.. that w/o DD all we can do is file bugs and beg.
[17:28] <SpamapS> I'm a little worried we're too late for the transition to be successful in Oneiric. :(
[17:28] <Daviey> Hmm.
[17:29] <Daviey> Lets take this out of meeting and draft a plan.
[17:29] <SpamapS> Yes good idea, I just wanted to bring up the situation.
[17:30] <RoAkSoAx> alright
[17:30] <Daviey> good stuff
[17:30] <RoAkSoAx> since NCommand1r and hggdh and in call/sprint respectively, let's end this
[17:30] <RoAkSoAx> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[17:30] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[17:31] <RoAkSoAx> Tuesday, June 21st 2011 16:00 UTC
[17:31] <RoAkSoAx> thanks all
[17:31] <Daviey> Thanks RoAkSoAx o/
[17:31] <RoAkSoAx> #endmeeting
</pre>
