{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=11&day=25&year=2013&hour=&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Nov 25th 2013 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Thanks to the following individuals:
** Thomas Ward (teward) provided debdiffs for precise-saucy for nginx (LP: #1253691)
  Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Actions
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: triage
** very short week
** pending update
** work items
** mdeslaur:
** weekly role: community
** pending updates
** ruby1.8 demotion
** sbeattie
** short week
** !AppArmor
*** testing for IPC
*** parser improvements
** tyhicks
** very short week
** investigate parser segfaults related to AA_DBUS_EAVESDROP cleanup patches
** yama on touch images
** jjohanson
** short week
** !AppArmor
*** IPC
*** send pull request to kernel team for goldfish fix
** sarnold
** short week
** weekly role: happy place
** merges
** MIR audit
** !AppArmor patch review
** chrisccouson
** oxide packaging: almost done
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-11-25-16.45.html
