{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

05:00	Riddell	hi all
=== iwj [n=ian@xenophobe.extern.relativity.greenend.org.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== seb128 [n=seb128@ubuntu/member/seb128] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:03	mvo	isn't it meeting time now?
05:04	iwj	I thought so.
05:04	pitti	yep, should
05:04	fschoep	I think so.
05:04	seb128	yep
05:04	pitti	mdz?
05:04	iwj	mdz, sfllaw ?
05:04	sfllaw	iwj: Yup.
05:04	sfllaw	iwj: It is.
05:05	sfllaw	I suppose if mdz doesn't show up, we can hold this meeting ourselves.
05:05	sfllaw	And just send him the log.
05:05	Riddell	I volunteer sfllaw to be our mdz
05:05	sfllaw	Oh great.
05:05	Keybuk	Riddell++
05:05	infinity	sfllaw: I suggest you chair the meeting and begin nowish.
05:05	BenC	pitti: I replied, the filename already gets passed
05:05	sfllaw	First mdz suckers me into sending out announcements...
05:05	sfllaw	Right.
05:05	iwj	sfllaw: You have a list of people ? :-)
05:05	sfllaw	Yeah.  Lemme look into this.
05:05	Riddell	list is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DevelTeamMeeting20060810
05:05	sfllaw	Has anyone seen jono?
05:06	BenC_mdz	I'll do it
05:06	Keybuk	is jono expected at these?
05:06	sfllaw	I suppose not.  But I think he was invited specifically to this one.
05:06	seb128	he has not started yet, so I would say he's not
05:06	sfllaw	Ah.  He asked about it in some e-mails.
05:06	sfllaw	infinity: Ping
=== lbm [n=lbm@82.192.173.92] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:06	Keybuk	I've text him just in case
05:07	sfllaw	Kamion: ping
05:07	Riddell	Kamion's on holiday
05:07	Riddell	infinity is here
05:07	infinity	sfllaw: Err, yes?  I just spoke to you. :)
05:07	sfllaw	fabbione: Ping.
05:07	rodarvus	is someone able to sms/phone mdz?
05:07	sfllaw	infinity: Sorry.
05:07	fschoep	kwwii (Kenneth Wimer) is on a holiday as well I think
05:07	fabbione	sfllaw: i am on paternity leave
05:07	sfllaw	Is dholbach on holiday too?
05:07	fabbione	sfllaw: i have been for the last almost 2 weeks
05:07	sfllaw	fabbione: Oh yeah.  Go back to being a father.
05:07	fabbione	sfllaw: thanks :)
05:07	sfllaw	heno: Ping.
05:08	seb128	sfllaw: dholbach is on holidays since today
05:08	Riddell	dholbach did depart saying he'd see us in Weisbiden
05:08	heno	sfllaw: pong
05:08	sfllaw	mvo: Ping.
05:08	mvo	hello sff
05:08	seb128	mvo should be around :)
05:08	mvo	hello sfllaw
05:08	doko	fabbione: don't play with your sun, it's your son :)
05:08	sfllaw	Any Mithrandir?
05:08	fabbione	doko: ..|.. ;)
05:08	mvo	have fun fabbione
05:08	fabbione	Mith is in honeymoon
05:08	Riddell	he's honeymooning
05:08	pitti	sfllaw: Mithrandir is on honeymoon
05:08	sfllaw	Man, all these people enjoying summer.
05:09	fabbione	sfllaw: today sucks to be you
05:09	seb128	sfllaw: holidays until sprint
05:09	ogra	if that calendar in th ecompany tool would be usable, we'd know ;)
05:09	sfllaw	Let's begin, shall we?
=== jono [n=jono@mail.openadvantage.org] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:09	Riddell	welcome jono
05:09	pitti	hi jono
05:09	jono	hi folks
05:09	sfllaw	jono: Hi.  I'd thought I'd invite you so you can see what we do.
05:09	Riddell	we're about to begin
05:09	seb128	sfllaw: do you sometime look on your mails? people usually send a mail saying they are on holidays and when they come back ;)
05:09	jono	sounds good, I will need to dip in and out thought
05:09	sfllaw	seb128: It drops out of my brain because I see too many bugs.
05:09	sfllaw	My attention span is now very small.
05:10	sfllaw	So let's do this in boring order.
05:10	sfllaw	infinity, you start first.
05:10	infinity	Last week:
05:10	infinity	- Discussions with pitti about .ddeb support on the buildds
05:10	infinity	- Work on new LRM (which will be a 2-part upload, after discussion with BenC, he'll do half, and I'll get the other half in shortly after him)
=== mvo wonders how much attention span seb128 has left then
05:10	infinity	- Work on keeping the buildds limping along, with several measured and mass give-backs, and some by-hand bootstrapping of snags
05:10	infinity	- Violently mangle the livecd generation scripts and wrapper to allow building dapper livefses for Colin
05:10	infinity	- Start work and testing of the stacked filesystem infrastructure, almost complete, but rollout blocked on getting kernel support on the buildds
05:10	infinity	Next week:
=== seb128 hugs mvo
05:10	infinity	- Finish stacked filesystem work, and bug elmo again about kernel support
05:10	infinity	- Sort out the changes required for debian-maintainer-field, and roll out to the buildds
05:10	infinity	- Continue to mangle buildds and build failures, as per usual
05:10	infinity	- Watch for fallout from impending LRM changes
05:10	ogra	mvo, enough for hugging :)
05:10	infinity	- Work on .ddeb support, as specced with pitti last week
05:10	Riddell	infinity: LRM?
=== mvo hugs ogra
05:10	infinity	*cough*
05:11	infinity	Riddell: linux-restricted-modules, sorry.  I'm a TLA whore.
05:11	iwj	infinity: What's a .ddeb ?
05:11	infinity	(Three Letter Acronym)
=== ogra hugs mvo and seb128
05:11	pitti	iwj: detached debug symbols
05:11	ogra	iwj, debugging deb
05:11	iwj	Oh, right, those things.
05:11	pitti	iwj: to be named .ddeb to get a different namespace
05:11	Keybuk	infinity: s/Acryonym/Abbreviation/
05:11	sfllaw	infinity: Are the buildds going to give us long-term trouble?  Could they hold up the release?
05:11	Keybuk	neither LRM or TLA are acronyms </pedant> :p
=== GazzaK [n=Gary@host81-136-56-107.in-addr.btopenworld.com] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["so]
05:12	infinity	sfllaw: The buildds always give us trouble, that's why I have a job. :P
05:12	infinity	sfllaw: But they never seem to stop us from releasing, no.
05:12	sfllaw	Anyone else have questions?
=== jesse_ [n=jesse@gw.thecybersource.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:12	sfllaw	OK.
05:12	sfllaw	BenC?
05:12	Riddell	thanks for the mass give backs infinity
05:12	Keybuk	sfllaw: Soyuz automatically breaks whenever we have anything critical happening
05:12	imbrandon	heh
05:13	Riddell	BenC asked to be delayed i think
05:13	sfllaw	I must have missed that.
05:14	sfllaw	Kamion?
05:14	Riddell	holiday
05:14	sfllaw	fschoep?
05:14	rodarvus	sfllaw, you seem to have a very little attention span today :)
05:14	fschoep	Ongoing:
05:14	fschoep	* ubuntu-art-login-manager, ubuntu-art-login-splash, ubuntu-art-usplash, ubuntu-art-wallpaper: cull proposals, choose direction
05:14	fschoep	* art-polish-human-gtk-theme: identify areas for improvement, now with community backing till 10th of August
05:14	fschoep	* ubuntu-art-complete-highcontrast-icons, : find and document icons which need work
05:14	fschoep	* ubuntu-art-cd-dvd-artwork: communication with Jane / Kenneth on improving media package artwork
05:14	fschoep	* starting up / assisting sound engineering
05:14	fschoep	To-do:
05:14	fschoep	* finish submission of GTK theme tweaks, start coding good ideas
05:14	fschoep	* approve artwork production directions, then kick off production phase for community artwork
05:14	fschoep	* update the Human icon priority list with the contents of the PDF to-do list
05:15	fschoep	It was quite a slow week regarding artwork, but it's getting more interesting now.
=== hua [n=hua_@221.172.51.21] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:15	Riddell	I think fschoep's report should include screenshots :)
05:15	sfllaw	That's mean.
05:15	ogra	asciiart !!!
05:15	cbx33	Riddell, and sound bytes :p
05:15	pitti	in ascii art? :)
05:15	fschoep	Riddell: I had some last time, this time it's kinda hard to do :)
05:15	cbx33	I'll start drawing ascii waveforms :p
05:16	iwj	fschoep: Did you know that firefox-themes-ubuntu doesn't work with ff 2.0 beta ?
05:16	fschoep	iwj: yes
05:16	ogra	iwj, btw, you didnt answer my ff theme question
05:16	iwj	ogra: Which one ?
05:16	ogra	iwj, cant we just replace the icons with different ones and keep the names ? would ff pick them up ?
05:17	ogra	s/names/names and paths/
05:17	iwj	ogra: I don't think that's a very good idea.  It would make the ff package build-depend on the artwork.
05:17	ogra	nd make the packages conflict
05:17	fschoep	ogra: iwj: maybe discuss this via e-mail?
05:17	ogra	yep
05:17	fschoep	CC me and I'll shine my light over it
05:17	sfllaw	Thanks.  Any other questions?
05:17	fschoep	I wasn't aware of any active problems right now, so I'm interested.
05:17	ogra	thats why i answered ... to the one on -devel ... just wanted to draw some attention :)
05:18	sfllaw	OK.
05:18	sfllaw	heno?
05:18	heno	Done:
05:18	heno	* Attended the OATS project launch in London. Blog entry here: http://blog.omma.net/?p=7
05:18	heno	* Further work on SOK (now called onBoard). A basic scanning feature and better layout customisation implemented.
05:18	heno	* Testing Orca/gnome-speech on Edgy. There are some problems with various applications still.
05:18	heno	Todo:
05:18	heno	* Write a script for performing some AT setup tasks. Could possibly be a GUI as well. I can do the Glade work but I'll need help with the python (or whatever) back-end.
05:18	heno	* livecd-access - no change - are there any gfxboot/LiveCD people who are not on holiday?
05:19	fschoep	heno: do you still need work on those keyboard layouts?
05:20	heno	fschoep: We have a fair number now, but I'm sure the design and colour choices could be better :)
05:20	fschoep	heno: OK, shall we e-mail on that to get you something beautiful then ?
05:20	heno	see: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Accessibility/Projects/SOK/layouts
05:21	heno	yes please :)
05:21	fschoep	OK, noted.
05:22	sfllaw	Thanks.
05:22	sfllaw	iwj?
05:22	iwj	automated-testing-deployment: Snapshot resumption works.  Just need to glue it into autopkgtest now.  Currently on hold due to firefox 2 beta merge.
05:22	iwj	xen-edgy: No significant change since last week.  Chuck has included some shell script patches from me to improve virtual machine resumption time.
05:22	iwj	package-dependency-field-breaks: No activity this week.
05:22	iwj	suggest-packages-for-filetypes: Not started.
05:22	iwj	firefox 2.0 beta merge: Ug.  Currently testing/bugfixing.  There seems to be an incompatibility with the themes.  And other problems.
05:23	fschoep	iwj: I think I can help you majorly with the themes.
05:23	iwj	fschoep: Right.  When I get it working apart from that I'll get back to you.
05:23	fschoep	iwj: OK, thanks.
05:23	heno	me again: when does the gfxboot stuff freeze? How worried should I be about those changes not being implemented yet?
05:23	iwj	I'll upload it anyway and that way we can fix what's there.
05:24	iwj	fschoep: Thanks for the offer of help, though, I expect to need it.
05:24	fschoep	iwj: No problem, I got you into the theme things to begin with, so I'd better help you out.
=== rodarvus_ [n=rodarvus@200.146.73.202.adsl.gvt.net.br] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:24	iwj	:-)
05:24	fschoep	heno: is gfxboot about GRUB artwork?
=== rodarvus_ sighs
05:25	rodarvus_	if someone said anything to me, please repeat - I lost my connection :/
05:25	heno	fschoep: no, about a large-icon menu in gfxboot
05:25	heno	with sounds
05:25	sfllaw	iwj: Do we expect Firefox to ship by September?  And if not, is the beta Good Enough?
05:25	Riddell	gfxboot is used for the CDs
05:25	pitti	rodarvus: nothing directly to you so far
05:25	fschoep	heno: OK, just checking, since it's not on my radar I'm afraid.
05:25	iwj	sfllaw: I have no idea.  Mozilla expect it to ship by then but I wouldn't trust them.
05:25	rodarvus	pitti, thanks
05:26	iwj	mdz tells me the request for the 2.0 beta comes from Mark and realistically we don't have a plan B once we put the 2.0 in edgy.
05:26	sfllaw	Ugh.
05:26	ogra	fschoep, it was a usplash ripoff in deapper ... might be we'll do the same in edgy
05:26	sfllaw	QA hat on: I don't like the sound of that.
05:26	heno	perhaps I should just mail -devel with the current status and questions
05:26	ogra	fun :)
05:26	ogra	its edgy, isnt it :)
05:26	sfllaw	Anyway, no more questions.
05:26	iwj	sfllaw: If you want the decision changed you have about a day.
05:26	sfllaw	iwj: Nope.  I'll deal with it when it hits the fan.
05:26	iwj	If nothing horrid happens I'll probably upload, committing us, tomorrow.
05:26	fschoep	ogra: I see, it's just never gotten onto the work list for the artwork team
05:26	iwj	OK.
05:27	sfllaw	You can still browse the web, right?
=== SunWukong [n=stephan@pra13-2-82-235-212-185.fbx.proxad.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:27	iwj	At the moment just barely :-).
05:27	rodarvus	in a desperate situation firefox could be reversed to 1.5, couldn't it?
05:27	rodarvus	(at least I can't see why not)
05:27	pitti	iwj: 1.5+2.0beta+reverted-to-1.5-1, we had this exercise already :)
05:27	iwj	rodarvus: In theory but it would be a real PITA.
05:27	ogra	heh
05:27	iwj	pitti: Quite :-/.
05:27	sfllaw	Riddell?
05:27	Riddell	hi, I have an update from kwwii
05:27	Riddell	1) worked on window deco graphics (buttons and colors)
05:27	Riddell	2) worked more on the wallpaper ideas used in knot2 (matching the colors
05:27	Riddell	used in the window deco, etc.), and creating variants of those.
05:27	Riddell	3) hacking HTML/CSS and making images for the KDE app start pages still,
05:27	Riddell	trying to find some community help on this
05:27	Riddell	4) finishing up BZR-NG GUI icons (summer of code project)
05:28	Riddell	we have a nice new purple feel to kubuntu now thanks to kwwii
05:28	Riddell	and from me:
05:28	Riddell	done:
05:28	Riddell	    kubuntu-laptop-buttons: working fully for me, further testing needed (thanks to Lure)
05:28	Riddell	    kubuntu-power-management: new HAL frontend written, working fully for me, further testing needed (thanks to sebas)
05:28	Riddell	    kubuntu-system-settings-usability: new layout implemented, some tweaks needed (thanks to Sime)
05:28	seb128	iwj: does 2.0 will break apps using gecko?
05:28	Riddell	    also dapper point release testing
05:28	Riddell	    soc: working with abattoir on kubuntu oem-installer
05:28	Riddell	blocked:
05:28	Riddell	    ruby1.8
05:28	Riddell	    backports
05:28	Riddell	todo:
05:28	Riddell	    kubuntu-accessibility (get kdeaccessibilty into main)
05:28	iwj	seb128: very probably.
05:28	Riddell	    kubuntu-hwdb
05:28	iwj	I haven't got that far.
05:29	iwj	yet
05:29	seb128	iwj: do you have public packages I could play with before you break GNOME by uploading? :)
05:29	ogra	time for xulrunner :)
=== ogra hides
05:29	iwj	seb128: Not yet but I can give you a sneak preview if you want.
05:29	sfllaw	Riddell: Can anyone help with your blocked items?
05:29	iwj	ATM they're too broken to give to you, really, but some time tomorrow and I could delay the actual upload until Monday ?
05:29	Riddell	sfllaw: dunno, I don't think we have any ruby experts with a powerpc
05:29	mvo	iwj: I would be interessted as well
05:30	iwj	mvo: OK, I'll post to ubuntu-devel :-).
05:30	Riddell	sfllaw: and Kamion said he had a plan for backports, but presumably it's ultimately a soyuz team issue
05:30	seb128	iwj: no hurry but you start having packages ready to use that would be nice, so I can prepare GNOME updates that need to be uploaded when the new firefox is uploaded
05:30	iwj	seb128: Right, quite so.
05:30	mvo	thanks iwj
05:30	seb128	thank you
05:30	seb128	s/you start/when you start/
05:30	sfllaw	Riddell: OK.  Give us a shout if the situation changes for that.
05:31	sfllaw	Any more questions?
05:31	iwj	seb128: I don't plan to have two uploads unless I can help it, so I'm going to try to fix all of the showstoppers now and leave anything else to fester until shortly before release.
05:31	seb128	ok
05:31	sfllaw	Right.
05:31	sfllaw	pitti?
05:32	pitti	Done:
05:32	pitti	* auto-unmount-notifications: First implementation uploaded, announced, waiting for test results
05:32	pitti	* automated-problem-reports:
05:32	pitti	   - discussed update-notifier fixes with mvo, everything should be fixed in the very latest uplaod
05:32	pitti	   - discussed KDE frontend with Riddell (not for edgy, KDE's crash handler is deemed good enough)
05:32	pitti	   - discussed required kernel changes with BenC, next kernel will bring full backtrace and core dump love
05:32	pitti	   - polished UI, core dump shrinking, fixed some bugs, adapted to new (future) kernel behaviour
05:32	pitti	   - started writing a tool to produce symbolic stacktraces from a crash report and ddebs
05:32	pitti	* pkg-create-dbgsym: discussion with infinity about cowboying .ddebs to a public inofficial place; we agreed to the process and structure, needs implementation on buildds and on rookery now
05:32	pitti	* dapper point release CD testing
05:32	pitti	* security update: libwmf (quiet week, *happy*)
05:32	pitti	* thoughts about new sponsoring process, wrote tool, created teams, announced to u-devel for testing; seems to work pretty well
05:32	pitti	* misc: various bug fixes (pmount, hal, langpacks), locales updates
05:32	pitti	Todo:
05:32	pitti	* automated-problem-reports: new kernel should be uploaded RSN; test with new kernel, make final adoptions to apport, coordinate required bug-buddy/gnome changes with seb128, stick into ubuntu-desktop, announce for testing
05:32	pitti	* security updates
05:33	pitti	* catch up with bug triage
05:33	pitti	[end]  sorry, long vehicle
05:34	sfllaw	pitti: Do you need help with CD testing?
05:34	sfllaw	I think some people in #ubuntu-bugs might be interested.
05:34	pitti	sfllaw: too late, dapper point release is out :)
05:34	sfllaw	As well as the Laptop Testing team.
05:34	sfllaw	Well then.
05:34	sfllaw	Never mind.
05:35	sfllaw	Any other questions?
=== pitti hugs the people who helped him with apport stuff
=== seb128 hugs pitti
05:35	sfllaw	doko?
05:36	doko	- this week
05:36	doko	  - openoffice.org 2.0.3: decided against 2.0.3 for dapper-updates, two regressions in -calc with auto filters. started 2.0.4 builds for edgy.
05:36	doko	  - edgy-toolchain: benchmarking the biarch compiler and a biarch-disabled compiler (checking for compile time regressions after a discussion with Maxim), sparc and powerpc still needed.
05:36	doko	  - FC backport of classpath-0.92 to gcj-4.1; uploaded; shiny new things, including new gcjwebplugin
05:36	doko	  - python2.5: update to beta3 (final release delayed to Sept 12).
05:36	doko	  - fastjar security updates (partly done)
05:36	doko	- next week
05:36	doko	  - looking at gcc build failures on powerpc
05:36	doko	  - openoffice.org: upload of 2.0.4 milestone
05:36	doko	  - catch up / update status on all specs before the sprint
05:37	pitti	doko: oh, nice to know that you are doing fastjar
05:37	pitti	doko: the directory traversal?
05:37	doko	yes
05:38	sfllaw	Questions?
05:38	sfllaw	Thanks.
05:38	sfllaw	mvo?
05:38	mvo	Did:
05:38	mvo	* 3rd party software work (pandasoft)
05:38	mvo	* apt:
05:38	mvo	  - ddtp support added to python-apt, synaptic, pending inclusion into lp-production
05:38	mvo	  - ddtp synces with debian and improved the tools
05:38	mvo	  - added --{no-}install-recommends and implemented
05:38	mvo	    install-new-recommends-on-upgrade logic, uploaded, install-recommends by default not yet enabled by default (announcement pending)
05:38	mvo	  - implmented/tested a 90% complete sha256 (apt-get source and .dsc file support missing) branch (md5 replaced as standard hash)
05:38	mvo	* command-not-found-magic initial version uploaded (in NEW)
05:38	mvo	* update-notifier improvments to notify about crash-reports
05:38	mvo	* misc (python-vte, system-tools-backends, gdebi, gksu,libgksu, language-selector, update-manager)
05:38	mvo	Blocked:
05:38	mvo	* review of the "AlwaysEnableUniverseMultiverse" spec
05:38	mvo	Will do:
05:39	mvo	* merge ddtp into apt, python-apt, synaptic (if it enters launchpad this week)
05:39	mvo	* announce that "recommends" will be installed shortly by default
05:39	mvo	* start with the cdrom-based dist-upgrade support
05:39	mvo	* look into what aptitudes needs to natively work with the new apt auto-remove
=== vincent_ [n=vincent@abo-71-198-68.ang.modulonet.fr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:39	sfllaw	The recommends behaviour for apt-get?
05:39	Keybuk	mvo: aptitude is VERY slow for me since the upgrade ... is that known bug?
05:39	Keybuk	it can sit for up to an hour in "blah blah package states"
05:39	Keybuk	(upgrade to edgy)
05:39	mvo	Keybuk: it was reported, but I have not yet investigated it
05:39	Riddell	mvo: what is software-properties?
05:39	rodarvus	mvo, I wonder if apt-get can somehow force update of dpkg  before an upgrade from dapper to edgy
05:40	mvo	Keybuk: bug 51893
05:40	Ubugtu	Malone bug 51893 in aptitude "aptitude pegs cpu for extended period of time on startup" [Untriaged,Confirmed]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/51893
05:40	Riddell	looking at AlwaysEnableUniverseMultiverse
05:40	mvo	Riddell: the sources.list editor in gtk
05:40	rodarvus	(necessary for new Breaks: field)
05:40	seb128	mvo: would have be nice to announce "install Recommends by default" some time before implementing it to let time to fix packages abusing from Recommends atm ...
05:40	mvo	rodarvus: no, but the dist-upgrade tool can do this - and we need to put it into the release notes
05:40	Riddell	mvo: right
05:40	rodarvus	mvo, right
05:40	mvo	seb128: it is implemented :) its just not enabled yet
05:40	rodarvus	this is quite important, then
05:41	mvo	rodarvus: yes
05:41	mvo	indeed
05:41	seb128	mvo: yeah, what I said, would have been nice to announce it before implementing :p
05:41	seb128	mvo: we need a "clean Recommends usage" spec ;)
05:41	rodarvus	users might end up with a broken X if they upgrade from dapper to edgy and don't have the 'xorg' metapackage (and newer dpkg is not installed yet)
05:41	mvo	seb128: yeah!
05:42	mvo	rodarvus: ok
05:42	Riddell	mvo: install recommends is an apt thing?  (rather than a synaptic thing?)
05:42	iwj	rodarvus: Breaks> There's a bug against the dist upgrade tool about that.
05:42	mvo	Riddell: sure, almost all work I do currently is apt :)
05:43	rodarvus	iwj, nice
05:43	mvo	Riddell: it will automatically picked up by the frontends
05:43	Riddell	mvo: cool, that'll be fun
05:43	mvo	Riddell: its a config option - but it is going to be fun :)
05:43	sfllaw	It'll just be like the good old days and dselect!
05:44	sfllaw	Anyway.
05:44	seb128	some people still use dselect :p
05:44	sfllaw	Let's move on, shall we?
=== mvo would like to point to his DselectToUniverse spec
05:44	sfllaw	ogra?
05:45	ogra	* this-week:
05:45	ogra	- point release testing etc.
05:45	ogra	- thinclient-local-devices, running smoothly over here, waits for ltspfs{,d} main inclusion (took most of this week)
05:45	ogra	- student-control-panel-completion some bugfixes
05:45	ogra	- re-assigned all ltsp specs from rodrigo back to me, he'll work fulltime on olpc soon
05:45	ogra	* next-week:
05:45	ogra	- finish thinclient-local-devices
05:45	ogra	- more serious work on student-control-panel-completion
05:45	ogra	- checking which bits from my (unused) dapper code fit for ltsp-dhcpd-autogeneration
05:45	ogra	* specs:
05:45	ogra	- ltsp-dhcpd-autogeneration (started/suspended, resume planned before knot-3 to have it in there for testing)
05:45	ogra	- student-control-panel-completion: (waiting for approval, started)
05:45	ogra	- ltsp-daily-image-tarballs: (in progress, scripts and tarballs available at http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogra/ltsp-tarballs/)
05:45	ogra	- ltsp-convergence: (no progress, hack-meeting planned for sept. 14th-19th, in michigan)
05:45	ogra	- ltsp-netboot-enhancement: (no progress, reviewed some debian patches for that)
05:45	ogra	- thinclient-local-devices (good progress (nearly done in fact, waiting for bits to move to main) scripts in review by sbalneav)
05:46	ogra	- fully-automatic-swap-server (no idea about progress, reassigned, need to talk to rodrigo)
05:46	ogra	- ltsp-login-and-session-handling (no progress yet, reassigned to me)
05:46	ogra	- edubuntu-xfce-desktop (no progress yet, reassigned)
05:47	sfllaw	Questions?
05:47	Riddell	how's the new office?
05:48	ogra	nice !
05:48	sfllaw	Yay!
05:48	ogra	i have a big window and loooots of space :)
05:48	ogra	20sqm
05:48	sfllaw	rodarvus?
05:48	rodarvus	Done:
05:48	rodarvus	  * X.Org triaging, bug fixing
05:48	rodarvus	  * Much Edubuntu administrativia (worth a few days of work)
05:48	rodarvus	  * miscelaneous X.Org package upgrades
05:48	rodarvus	Todo:
05:48	rodarvus	  * libdrm,mesa update for new i810 driver (pending approval by mdz)
05:48	rodarvus	  * more X.org bug triaging, bug fixing
05:48	rodarvus	  * More Edubuntu Administrativia
05:48	rodarvus	  * Start OLPC Edubuntu effort (first Thailand Beta due Jan 1th 2007)
05:48	rodarvus	Issues:
05:48	rodarvus	  * Due to OLPC, I won't be able to dedicate so much time to X.Org - help is *really* appreciated
05:48	rodarvus	  * After talk with ogra and RichEd, we agreed ogra will take over my LTSP specs, so I can concentrate on OLPC (thanks ogra!)
05:49	ogra	welcome :)
05:49	rodarvus	:)
05:49	sfllaw	rodarvus: But, but, we didn't have time to work on X.org before you came onboard!
05:49	sfllaw	;)
05:49	rodarvus	sfllaw, yeah, this is my biggest fear :)
05:49	ogra	dont worry, we'll take your OLPC work and you have time ;)
05:50	pitti	rodarvus: you have a big X chained to your legs now ;)
05:50	rodarvus	we are looking for an upstream X.Org developer to maintain X for Ubuntu, btw
05:50	Riddell	rodarvus: what's the administrativia? (wondering how it compares to kubuntu administrativia)
05:50	Keybuk	rodarvus: what's KP doing these days? <g>
05:50	ogra	hehe
05:50	rodarvus	Riddell, not really comparable, I fear
05:50	ogra	Keybuk, want to switch us to 100% kdrive ?
05:50	rodarvus	mostly Canonical internal stuff
05:51	Keybuk	ogra: if it supports my Nvidia cards and SLI, sure <g>
05:51	ogra	hehe
05:51	Keybuk	it'll save infinity some repeated pain
05:51	ogra	kdrivexgl :)
05:51	rodarvus	Riddell, I can explain to you in privmsg if you want :) (not really the most appropriate place here)
05:51	Riddell	rodarvus: sure
05:51	sfllaw	Keybuk: Keith made a press release a few days ago.
05:51	sfllaw	A press release!
05:52	ogra	with text ?
05:52	sfllaw	Hmm.
05:52	sfllaw	I think he's done.
05:52	sfllaw	:)
05:52	sfllaw	Keybuk?
05:52	Keybuk	Done:
05:52	Keybuk	- holiday, left me feeling very relaxed
05:52	Keybuk	- ReplacementInit: made some big advancements, this should be ready before distro sprint so slightly ahead of schedule!
05:52	Keybuk	To Do:
05:52	Keybuk	- more of the same, hopefully get a package put together for other people to test
05:52	Keybuk	- may write BootMessageLogging in my CST (it's needed for upstart anyway)
05:52	Riddell	rodarvus needs to learn about screen
05:52	ogra	Riddell, xchat doesnt run in screen :)
05:53	pitti	Keybuk: CST?
05:53	ogra	(note the X in xchat)
05:53	pitti	another TLA *sigh*
05:53	Keybuk	pitti: Copious Spare Time
=== rodarvus_ [n=rodarvus@200.146.73.202.adsl.gvt.net.br] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:53	pitti	lol
05:53	Keybuk	ogra: oddly enough, that's why I wrote dircproxy
05:53	sfllaw	Keybuk: You'll have to give us a ReplacementInit demo during the sprint.
05:53	rodarvus_	ahn, the joys of packaging X - it just exploded my computer :)
05:53	sfllaw	It sounds like something edgy.
05:53	Keybuk	sfllaw: my current goal is that I'll casually mention that you've all been running it for a week by then <g>
05:54	ogra	Keybuk, make it a company policy that we all use it then ;)
05:54	Keybuk	oh, random Q
=== rodarvus_ is now known as rodarvus
05:54	pitti	policy? for my part, I'm looking forward to try it without any force :)
05:54	Keybuk	unsurprisingly, I haven't implemented it as specified
05:54	ogra	i was talking about dircproxy :P
05:54	sfllaw	Any other questions?
05:54	pitti	ah
05:54	Keybuk	should I update the spec?  or just accept it as a failure of intelligent design
05:55	pitti	Keybuk: I usually retroactively change specs for the matter of having an uptodate documentation
05:55	pitti	for small bits at least
05:55	ogra	Keybuk, the latter ... that gives us others more freedom to say .. but Keybuk did that as well ;)
05:55	Riddell	Keybuk: I don't tend to touch specs after approvial, I add notes at the end
05:55	sfllaw	Keybuk: Or at least note where you deviated in a comment below.
05:55	sfllaw	Don't feel too bad.  Upfront design almost never works.
05:55	Keybuk	heh, you're telling me!
05:56	Keybuk	I've decided I really can't do it
05:56	Keybuk	this time, I had it all planned in little multi-hour chunks
05:56	Keybuk	and I just sat there not knowing what to do
05:56	Keybuk	so I threw it all in the bin, and just started coding without any plan
05:56	Keybuk	much easier <g>
=== imbrandon [n=brandon@ubuntu/member/pdpc.active.imbrandon] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:56	sfllaw	There are ways to do this sanely, but this is probably not the place to discuss it.
05:56	sfllaw	So, let's move on to seb128.
05:56	sfllaw	seb128?
05:57	seb128	This week:
05:57	seb128	- GNOME 2.15.91 for edgy
05:57	seb128	- backported some desktop fixes to dapper-updates
05:57	seb128	- war against desktop bugs: load and load of bugs triaged, but there is simply too many of them for the number of people working on it, we barely keep up with new and high priority bugs at the moment (not speaking of catching with the lag)
05:57	seb128	.
05:57	seb128	Next week:
05:57	seb128	- really catch up with mails and SoC lag
05:57	seb128	- keep triaging bugs, load and load of them still to work on
05:57	seb128	- backporting some other desktop fixes to dapper
05:57	sfllaw	Thanks for the bug triaging work.
05:57	seb128	np ;)
05:57	ogra	Keybuk, and usually *much* better results ... ;)
05:57	seb128	have you planned to give an hand on desktop bugs btw?
05:57	sfllaw	Yes.
05:57	seb128	we could use some extra hands for it :)
05:57	sfllaw	I'm going to spend some of my weekend on it too.
05:58	seb128	I don't ask for that much
05:58	sfllaw	That's OK.
05:58	seb128	some week time would be a good start ;)
05:58	sfllaw	Hey!
05:58	sfllaw	Any other questions?
05:58	sfllaw	All right.
05:58	sfllaw	sfllaw?
05:59	sfllaw	Oh wait, that's me.
=== sfllaw is going senile.
05:59	sfllaw	Done
05:59	sfllaw	* UbuntuMotuSchool session
05:59	sfllaw	* Bug triage
05:59	sfllaw	* Testing various specs
05:59	sfllaw	To do
05:59	sfllaw	* Aggressive bug triage
05:59	sfllaw	* Organizing next week's UbuntuBugDay
05:59	sfllaw	* Poke SoC student some more
05:59	rodarvus	sfllaw, I'd like to know if you could give us a hand triaging some X.Org bugs?
05:59	sfllaw	Any particular packages?
05:59	seb128	rodarvus: desktop asked first :p
05:59	sfllaw	A URL of a Malone query would be excellent.
05:59	rodarvus	starting with the unconfirmed bugs for 'xorg' would be a great start
05:59	rodarvus	seb128, oh :/
05:59	rodarvus	haha
06:00	sfllaw	I'll just switch over when I get bored.
06:00	sfllaw	Or my eyes glaze over.
06:00	sfllaw	Doing on bug triaging makes me attention span last about 60 seconds.
06:00	rodarvus	'xorg' is a meta-package, ideally it should have 0 bugs :)
06:00	rodarvus	so, overal a great place to start
=== SunWukong [n=stephan@pra13-2-82-235-212-185.fbx.proxad.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:00	seb128	GNOME is perfect, so it should have 0 bugs too :p
06:00	rodarvus	:)
06:00	pitti	*cough*
06:01	ogra	just delete them :)
06:01	pitti	seb128: apart from that icky terminal resizing bug :)
06:01	rodarvus	yeah, all wanna-be X bugs are actually kernel, gnome or kde bugs!
06:01	seb128	pitti: ah right, I'm not bothered about it because I don't use tabs ;)
06:01	imbrandon	rodarvus: no kde ones !!??!!
06:01	rodarvus	or something wrong on the users side
06:01	imbrandon	;)
06:01	ogra	as long as they dont turn into ltsp bugs :)
06:01	sfllaw	Any general issues people want to bring up?
06:01	sfllaw	Is everyone booked for the summit?
06:01	Riddell	I presume we won't have a Knot 2 without Kamion and Mithrandir?
06:02	ogra	unlikely
06:02	infinity	sfllaw: Are you ready to declare this one done, Mr. Chair?
06:02	rodarvus	I see there are a few of us which aren't booked yet (or haven't updated the wiki page)
06:02	infinity	Riddell: I wasn't planning on one.
06:02	ogra	Riddell, we *could* do it on our own though ... infinity is here
06:02	ogra	thats all we need ;)
06:02	sfllaw	If you haven't updated the wiki, please do so.
06:02	rodarvus	fuJNesp3
06:02	fschoep	rodarvus: are you talking about the "confirmed" column?
06:02	sfllaw	That will make cvd happy.
06:02	ogra	rodarvus, thanks :)
06:02	rodarvus	oh
06:02	infinity	Riddell: It could be done, but there are enough weird breakages right now, it's probably best to roll one at the end of the sprint.
06:02	rodarvus	that was unexpected
06:03	sfllaw	Right.  I think this meeting's done.
06:03	infinity	rodarvus: And which machine is that password for?
06:03	ogra	rodarvus, file a GNOME bug ;) it shouldnt steal focus
06:03	Riddell	thanks sfllaw
06:03	rodarvus	fschoep, yes, and some of us also haven't filled general information
06:03	infinity	rodarvus: And have you already changed it? :)
06:03	rodarvus	infinity, my laptop :)
06:03	sfllaw	Thanks all.
06:03	pitti	general issue: how does everyone feel about their SoC students?
06:03	sfllaw	60 minutes.
06:03	fschoep	Should I update "confirmed" myself, then?
06:03	sfllaw	We did good.
06:03	sfllaw	:)
06:03	pitti	my SoC student is performing terribly :(
06:03	ogra	pitti, totally good
06:03	rodarvus	fschoep, yup
06:03	fschoep	OK, will do.
06:03	sfllaw	pitti: So's mine.
06:04	seb128	pitti: my student it barely doing anything :/
06:04	ogra	pitti, sudo apt-get install willowng willowng-config :)
06:04	Riddell	pitti: mostly below expectations
06:04	sfllaw	This is pretty typical of students, though.
06:04	sfllaw	:/
06:04	pitti	it doesn't seem to work very well in the majority of cases
06:04	seb128	nop
=== mvo nods
=== ogra is totlly happy about Amaranths work
06:04	pitti	it was even better last year
=== infinity [n=adconrad@loki.0c3.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
06:04	seb128	I've to admit I've not a lot of time to push him though
=== Chris__38 [n=chris__3@88.122.36.60] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:04	rodarvus	ogra, actually, I have two keyboards in front of me now
06:04	rodarvus	just typed in the wrong one
06:04	pitti	seb128: $6000 should be push enough, I had thought...
06:04	rodarvus	(while also looking at the wrong screen)
06:04	seb128	pitti: yeah me too
06:05	pitti	and I regularly stab mine, too
06:05	ogra	rodarvus, aww, i know how that feels (i have 5 here for the thin clients)
06:05	Keybuk	seb128: mine has vanished off the face of the earth entirely
06:05	rodarvus	:)
06:05	sfllaw	pitti: Money is actually a poor motivator.
06:05	ogra	did you guys tell our SoC leader ?
06:05	sfllaw	It's extrinsic, instead of intrinsic.
06:05	ogra	(doko)
06:05	fschoep	sfllaw: interesting, is there more info on that subject?
06:06	pitti	sfllaw: right
06:06	Keybuk	ogra: no, because I suck more than my student
06:06	ogra	haha
=== vincent_ [n=vincent@abo-71-198-68.ang.modulonet.fr] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Ex-Chat"]
06:06	sfllaw	fschoep: I'll dig up some links on psychology and organizational behaviour for you.
06:06	fschoep	Great, I'd enjoy reading that.
=== Keybuk tells Jane to take away sfllaw's pay cheques
06:07	fschoep	Thanks for being ehre everyone
=== ajmitch__ [n=ajmitch@port166-123.ubs.maxnet.net.nz] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:07	rodarvus	thanks all
06:07	rodarvus	I'll brb
06:07	pitti	thanks everyone
06:08	sfllaw	Keybuk: Then I wouldn't be able to eat.
06:08	sfllaw	And would be sad.
=== pitti [n=pitti@ubuntu/member/pitti] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Bye"]
=== pitti [n=pitti@ubuntu/member/pitti] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:08	seb128	sfllaw: I'm sure they can send you some food instead of money :p
=== rodarvus [n=rodarvus@ubuntu/member/rodarvus] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:09	sfllaw	seb128: If all my needs were met without money, I would totally work for those instead.
06:09	sfllaw	Food, books, a bit of travel, tons of free time.
06:09	sfllaw	I'd probably be happier too.
06:09	seb128	right ;)
06:09	sfllaw	Money's just convenient.
06:09	sfllaw	Currency was a pretty useful invention.
06:10	sfllaw	That way, Jane doesn't have to figure out what I want.
06:10	seb128	yeah
=== BenC [n=bcollins@72.169.114.90] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Ex-Chat"]
=== phanatic [n=phanatic@ubuntu/member/phanatic] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== iwj [n=ian@xenophobe.extern.relativity.greenend.org.uk] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
=== Keybuk [n=scott@quest.netsplit.com] has left #ubuntu-meeting [""]
=== j_ack [n=rudi@p508D8103.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== abattoir [n=abattoir@59.92.33.255] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== ryanakca [n=ryanakca@unaffiliated/ryanakca] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:48	mdz	argh
06:48	mdz	sfllaw: thanks for moderating
06:49	sfllaw	mdz: No worries.
06:49	mdz	I had the meeting marked for evening UTC
06:49	mdz	if that ever happens again, please call me

</pre>
