{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
03:02 mdz            good morning
03:02 JaneW          hi mdz
03:03 mdz            Kamion: thanks for the call; lunch ran late
03:03 Kamion         no problem
=== infinity waits for JaneW to wag a finger at mdz.
03:03 BenC           someone has to :)
03:03 JaneW          *little wag*
03:03 mdz            BenC: ready?
03:03 BenC           Dapper Kernel Status: Bugs have mostly been caught up with. Major
                     updates since last week:
03:03 BenC           - SPARC Niagara support courtesy of DaveM, and much effort from
                     Fabbione.
03:03 BenC           - IPW2200 1.1.1 synced. This should fix a lot of firmware error bugs
                     (will be in -18.28)
03:03 BenC           - Lots of sound fixes merged from alsa, coutesy of Daniel T. Chen
                     (crimsun)
03:03 BenC           - cPad driver update (now known as synaptics-usb). Most people were
                     seeing a crash from this driver.
03:03 BenC           Major bugs still needing fixes:
03:03 JaneW          infinity really wants to go first
03:03 BenC           - ACPI-PnP: Loss of functionality. Matthew Garrett (mjg59) is looking
                     into isolating the patch from ACPI-git to fix this problem.
                     - PPC Sound: Tumbler is still in regression since my fixes to get
03:03 BenC           Toonie working. I think I am just going to revert the Tumbler
                     portions of this for dapper. Working with BenH to get the over-all
                     patch fixed for Tumbler as well.
                     - Odd crash with some x86 machines running -686 kernel. Seems SMP
03:04 BenC           related. Other distros are experiencing this. Working with lkml folks
                     to resolve it.
03:04 BenC           - Crash with amd64 systems running x86 kernels.
03:04 mdz            JaneW: ok, he's next
                     - powernow-k8 seems to not be working for people with x86 kernels.
03:04 BenC           Some people even report it not working with amd64 kernels. This is
                     working for me with exact same CPU as at least one other person
                     reported having the problem on. Investigating.
03:04 infinity       JaneW: No, no, it's okay.  I was being sarcastic. :)
03:04 BenC           - Various regressions on rare peripherals. Working on these as I can.
03:04 mdz            BenC: we seem to have a collection of interesting laptop-related bugs
                     at the moment
=== suodla [n=dous@efreet.edu.ms] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:04 mdz            BenC: e.g., mvo's laptop hibernating when he disconnects the power
03:04 infinity       BenC: Does that ipw2200 merge include an ipw2100 merge as well?
03:05 BenC           mdz: yeah, those are on the list too
03:05 infinity       BenC: And the 3945 stuff? (so I can do the LRM side of that)
03:05 BenC           infinity: it will, but 2200 was more important
03:05 pitti          BenC: I deem broken capabilities as not too unimportant, too
03:05 mvo            BenC: if I can help you debugging it let me know
03:05 BenC           mvo: I'll email to schedule some time, if that's ok
03:05 Keybuk         BenC: the PNP stuff is (unsurprisingly) causing problem for everyone
03:06 mvo            BenC: sure, that's fine. best is next week when I'm back from the
                     sprint
03:06 Keybuk         personally I blame mjg59, as his Mactel is the only i386 around
*********** without* PNP :p
03:06 BenC           infinity: 3945 needs a tester so we don't dump stuff in blind like I
                     did with rtl81xx junk
03:06 infinity       BenC: Yeah, I think we're waiting on someone (anyone) to actually get
                     one in the mail.
03:06 BenC           Keybuk: yeah, me too :)
03:06 infinity       BenC: I'd love to see a T60 before release.
03:06 BenC           I have PCIE, but not mini-PCIE
03:06 mdz            BenC: did you get much feedback from the most recent Flight?
03:06 kbrooks        may I ask a question?
03:07 BenC           and I can't find a adapter board
03:07 pitti          kbrooks: you just did :)
03:07 BenC           mdz: it seems we are getting a lot more testing now
03:07 mdz            BenC: do we have a handle on where we stand as far as regressions?
03:07 kbrooks        so I'm allowed. OK.
03:07 BenC           mdz: I think so
03:07 Keybuk         I think it'd be worth blessing the next Flight (or even 5) with a
                     "ready for large-scale testing" label
03:07 Kamion         kbrooks: if it's on-topic for this team meeting; otherwise please use
                     a different channel
                     BenC: That's to be expected as we near release.  Sadly, most
03:07 infinity       regressions get found within a month or less of release, which will
                     put you in hardcore crunch mode for a while.
03:08 mdz            Keybuk: indeed, and explicitly random hardware testing
03:08 mdz            right, we need to move on
03:08 mdz            BenC: thanks
03:08 BenC           I agree, things are ramping up, and odd bugs are being found
03:08 mdz            dholbach: ?
03:08 BenC           now it's in time, but later it will be too late
03:08 dholbach       mdz: not infinity? :)
03:08 kbrooks        hibernation: i think we should show a progress bar for it.
03:08 dholbach       example-content: another version uploaded, flat directory structure
03:08 dholbach       icon-mission: prioritisation ongoing, community efforts are planned,
                     will setup buildsystem today
03:08 dholbach       this week (done): GNOME 2.14.0, started triaging HUGE bug backlog
03:08 dholbach       this week (todo): icon-mission, bug triage, HUG DAY on Friday!
03:08 dholbach       next week: (bug triage)++
03:08 mdz            dholbach: he said he wasn't serious
03:08 dholbach       right
03:08 kbrooks        thatis all.
03:08 infinity       Sarcasm is lost on this group.
03:09 BenC           kbrooks: off-topic... -devel mailing list would be best
03:09 mdz            dholbach: example-content is looking good
03:09 mdz            dholbach: GNOME 2.14.0 seems a bit rough around the edges
03:09 mdz            what's your assessment?
03:09 kbrooks        dholbach, icion-mission: i'm unfimilar with it. what is it, anyway?
                     and i might participate in the bug triaging
03:09 dholbach       mdz:  to be honest I don't have an overview yet... i have 1705 unread
                     desktop bugs mails
03:10 doko           mdz: can I make example-content make depend on openoffice.org?
                     (pictures show up in the OOo gallery ...)
03:10 Keybuk         infinity: it's not lost, it just fades into the general background of
                     sarcasm
03:10 dholbach       kbrooks: I don't think we have the time to elaborate here, let's chat
                     after the meeting
03:10 kbrooks        dholbach, all right.
03:10 dholbach       kbrooks: but I'm happy if you join the bug efforts :)
03:10 mdz            doko: can you conditionalize it so that they're added to the gallery
                     if ooo is installed, otherwise do nothing?
03:10 kbrooks        dholbach, where? :)
03:11 doko           mdz: I'll have a look, or mabe a new binary package
03:11 mdz            doko: ok
03:11 mdz            dholbach: do you need help with the bug day?
03:11 mdz            now would be the time to round it up, if so
03:11 dholbach       mdz: I'd be happy if somebody joined seb and me
=== A4-tje [n=ernst170@adsl-dc-3c4c8.adsl.wanadoo.nl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:12 dholbach       you can add yourself and your tasks to:
                     http://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay
03:12 doko           dholbach: can do that for 1/2 day
                     dholbach: I'd be happy to pop in and dump FTBFS bugs on everyone as I
03:12 infinity       go through build logs tomorrow, but I can't promise much help with
                     mentoring/sponsorship type stuff.
03:12 dholbach       nice, thanks
03:12 pitti          dholbach: since now I'm in real bug fixing mood, I'll join
03:12 mdz            Kinnison: would you do a bug day sortie as well?
=== ogra adds a screensaver task to the page
03:12 dholbach       i plan to do them every 2nd week from now on
03:13 JaneW          mdz: Kinnison isn't here yet, we are pinging him
03:13 mdz            are we missing anyone else?
03:13 JaneW          everyone else is accounted for - except sivang
03:13 doko           iwj
03:13 JaneW          iwj is on leave
03:13 dholbach       but he's on vacation
03:13 seb128         doko: he's on VAC
03:13 mdz            right
03:13 JaneW          fabbione is prepping for funeral
03:13 mdz            thanks dholbach
03:13 mdz            doko: ?
03:13 JaneW          and jbailey said he isn;t needed
03:14 kbrooks        funerals suck... :) </random>
                     - toolchain-roadmap: final versions in the archives for all
03:14 doko           architectures (v8 on sparc), java problems on hppa (not that critical
                     for main), lamont not yet happy, infinity starts feeling better.
03:14 doko           - toolchain-roadmap-ng: blocked
                     - openoffice.org: results from the OOo sprint last weekend in the
03:14 doko           archive (closed about 120 reports for things fixed in 2.0.2, fixed
                     another 15 at the weekend or later), more complete report today to
                     ubuntu-devel.
03:14 doko           - other: uploads and bug fixed on OOo related packages, OOo & l10n
                     and OOo & font discussions
03:14 mdz            JaneW: correct
03:14 mdz            doko: how was the sprint?
03:14 doko           too much pizza
03:14 mdz            (overall, I'll wait for your report)
03:14 mdz            productive?
03:14 doko           but anyway, we finished many things, yes!
03:15 infinity       doko: You forget to mention the ia32-libs-dev purge I see in my INBOX
                     right now.
=== sivang is here now
                     kbrooks: hibernation> this isn't the place for random bug reports or
03:15 Kamion         wishlist ideas, I'm afraid; please take those elsewhere. This is a
                     status meeting to establish what distro team hackers have done this
                     week and what they're planning to do next week.
03:15 mdz            doko: hopefully it will make it easier to continue collaboration
                     online as well
03:15 doko           infinity: ahh yes
03:15 doko           mdz: I think so, it was a good start.
03:15 mdz            doko: thanks
03:15 mdz            heno: anything to report?
*********** example-content: implemented. Some updates and tweaks to individual
03:16 heno           files will continue to be made. mdzzzz.ogg is no longer the default
                     video :)
03:16 infinity       Shame.
03:16 mdz            heno: something a bit longer?
03:16 pitti          mdzzzzzzzz ;)
03:16 dholbach       yes a recorded desktop session
03:17 mdz            oh, interesting
03:17 mdz            will check it out after the upgrade
03:17 Mithrandir     heno: it's a fresh video from the latest sprint instead?
03:17 heno           a video of the dsktop in action, but it needs to be redone with the
                     new look
03:17 nhaines        What a shame.  :)
03:17 mdz            thanks heno
03:17 mdz            infinity: next
                     last week buildd: Finish with sparc and ia64 catching up, lit up hppa
                     buildds and began the long, hard road to hppa catching up
03:17 infinity       again.  Went through every failed build log I could find in the last
                     two weeks and did judicious fixes/give-backs to try to sort what I
                     could.
                     last week distro: Helped Colin and Tollef release Flight-5, upated
03:17 infinity       LRM for new fglrx and AVM Fritz, random bugfixes in packages that
                     were either FTBFS or causing others to fail.
                     next week buildd: Taking another hack day or two (already approved by
03:17 infinity       mdz) to work with cprov on soyuz buildd shortcomings, trying to
                     finish the hppa backlog, and going further back in time with failed
                     build logs, fixing or bugfiling where appropriate.
                     next week distro: Bug triaging and fixing in just about everything I
03:17 infinity       pseudo-maintain, focussing first on crucial bugs in
                     initramfs-tools.  Testing and uploading pkgbinarymangler to replace
                     pkgstriptranslations and do Maintainer field mangling.
03:18 mdz            infinity: what sort of issues are afoot with initramfs-tools?
03:18 infinity       The worst being that if /tmp or /boot run out of space, it just
                     blindly carries on and you end up with an unbootable system. :)
03:18 infinity       (Yes, that bug's been there isnce breezy)
03:18 infinity       since, too.
03:18 mdz            sweet
03:18 infinity       doko tried to hurt me earlier today for that one, so it's time I
                     fixed it.
03:19 infinity       There are other poorly (or non) handled failure cases that are
                     slightly less severe, I'll go through a bunch.
03:19 doko           heh, why do have _I_ find these things as the first person? :-/
03:19 mdz            doko: because you fill your disks with openoffice builds?
03:19 infinity       doko: You weren't the first, just the scariest / most German.
03:19 mdz            thanks, infinity
03:19 ogra           infinity, did bddebian file a bug for you? seems cpqarray doesnt end
                     up in the initramfs recently
03:20 doko           mdz: not my /boot partiton ;p
03:20 mdz            we have no iwj?
03:20 mvo            on vac
03:20 seb128         mdz: he's on VAC this weel
03:20 seb128         week
03:20 mdz            right, of course
03:20 infinity       ogra: He caught me on IRC.  It's mentally filed.
03:20 ogra           oki
03:20 mdz            Kamion: next
03:20 Kamion         ue-gnome-ui: Identification page totally reworked; several other
                     small UI changes.
                     ue-partitioning-tool: Partitioning committal moved to the main
03:20 Kamion         installation progress bar. Some gparted bugs are currently blocking
                     me from testing part of this properly, though.
03:20 Kamion         ubuntu-express: Internationalisation support on its way, now that
                     I've implemented the escape capability in debconf.
                     misc: Little spec progress this week, since I had about half the week
03:20 Kamion         eaten by the installer security vulnerability in Breezy. We're going
                     to release updated Breezy CD images at some point, although they
                     won't make the last shipit batch.
                     next-week: Integrate Fabio's disk selector (really). Finish
03:20 Kamion         internationalisation. Deal with various partitioning bugs that have
                     been reported. Start on updated Breezy CD images.
=== cameron [n=cameron@cpc1-kirk1-0-0-cust631.renf.cable.ntl.com] has joined
03:21 mdz            Kamion: is the wiki todo up to date?
03:21 Kamion         yes
=== j_ack [n=nico@p508D99E3.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== ilkappa [n=ilkappa@81-208-36-80.ip.fastwebnet.it] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:22 mdz            it's still a bit distressingly long
03:23 JaneW          Kamion: can you do %'s again?
03:23 mdz            Kamion: of those items, the partman commit (for usability) and
                     localisation (for the benefit of translators) look to be priorities
03:23 Kamion         I could do with help on UI bits, which account for a lot of the
                     length; hope Kinnison can do that when he's finished launchpadding
03:23 mdz            Kamion: ok, will see who I can get for you
03:24 Kamion         mdz: the partman commit is IMHO not a huge deal now that most of it's
                     been moved to the final progress bar
03:24 Keybuk         UI is possibly something I can help with
03:24 JaneW          ok fabbione sent the following
03:24 mdz            Kamion: hmm, ok, haven't done an install since last week
03:24 mdz            Kamion: thanks
03:24 Kamion         it's only starting up partman a couple more times, is all
                     fabbione * server-candy: Missing/buggy: apache2 for "central snakeoil
03:24 JaneW          SSL setup" and kernel -server as default from CD install. Added
                     rc.local support on mdz/sabdfl request.
                     fabbione * ubuntu-cluster: Waiting ocfs2-tools release for new
03:24 JaneW          userland to sync with the kernel that will allow (finally) full
                     desync later.
                     fabbione * last week: Finished with partman-auto core modifications
                     to present disk-selector and later how to trash a disk. Patch is in
03:24 JaneW          Kamion hands for string love. Bug fixing. Started looking into some X
                     stuff. No don't start asking me when bug foo will be fixed because I
                     have no idea.
03:24 JaneW          fabbione * next week: hw upgrade at the office, bug fixing and more
                     bug fixing.
03:24 Kamion         mdz: that only went in about twenty minutes ago anyway
03:24 heno           does UI require coding or will testing and advice help?
03:24 mdz            Keybuk: please dive in then; coordinate with Kamion
03:24 Kamion         heno: code
03:24 heno           oki :)
03:25 JaneW          and iwj asked me to reminder everyone of his request for LP feedback
03:25 JaneW          (as sent to warthogs)
                     I mean, testing and advice won't hurt, but we do have rather a lot of
03:25 Kamion         that piled up already and I think it might help to clear this lot of
                     feedback away first before getting another pile
03:25 JaneW          s/reminder/remind/
=== hunger [n=tobias@p54A61836.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:25 heno           yep, np
03:25 mdz            yes, please do ensure that your most critical launchpad
                     needs/feedback are sent to iwj
03:25 mdz            Keybuk: next?
03:26 Kamion         er, fabbione and I obviously miscommunicated, I didn't realise he was
                     expecting me to finish off the partman-auto disk selector patch
03:26 Keybuk         udev: some minor bugs fixed, including one that affected Installer.
03:26 Keybuk         netbase: still a strange bug where for no apparent reason, wifi cards
                     cause "Configuring network interfaces" to stop on boot
                     network-manager: have been investigating 0.6 and would like to
                     recommend that we look at shipping that in dapper, along with
03:26 Keybuk         wpa_supplicant -- with the extended release cycle it would still get
                     more testing than I was expecting 0.5 to get.  It also fixes a lot of
                     damned irritating problems.
                     n-m on livecd: generally response has been good, except for casper
03:26 Keybuk         seeding /etc/network/interfaces badly -- haven't had a response from
                     Tollef yet about that.
03:26 Kamion         I thought I had already told him my views and that he would finish it
                     off
03:26 Keybuk         next week: going to grep every binary for /var/run, /etc/hotplug,
                     etc. and fix them all.
03:26 Keybuk         other: I'd like to help out with ftp archive/cd building/etc. do we
                     need more people for this?
03:26 mdz            Kamion: ok, please follow up via email
03:26 Mithrandir     Keybuk: huh?  I haven't seen anything about that from you?
03:26 Keybuk         Mithrandir: are you /dev/null'ing your Malone mail?
03:26 Keybuk         or is Malone just sulking
03:26 Mithrandir     Keybuk: no, not ttbomk
                     Keybuk: not much with CD building now that Mithrandir and infinity
03:26 Kamion         are up to speed on it, but I'm the only active archive admin at
                     present
03:26 pitti          Keybuk: _ion is already working on 0.6 packages and ported much of
                     our changes, are you aware of that?
03:27 Keybuk         pitti: yup, I'm going to merge his work with mine
03:27 Kamion         which chews up more of my time than I would like
03:27 mdz            Keybuk: when you have 0.6 in hand, let's revisit whether to add it to
                     desktop
03:27 Keybuk         Kamion: I'd be happy to learn that and take some of the work from you
03:27 infinity       Kamion: I have ftpmaster rights, but have not been abusing them out
                     of deference to others.
03:27 Keybuk         Mithrandir: k, let's go over it after meeting
03:27 Mithrandir     Keybuk: 'k
03:27 infinity       Kamion: If you need more help in that area, just holler.
03:27 Kamion         mdz: opinion on ftpmastery?
03:28 mdz            Kamion: is elmo still helping out there?
03:28 Kamion         if Keybuk's keen, I see no reason not to
03:28 Riddell        Keybuk: are there packages for n-m 0.6 yet?
03:28 Kamion         mdz: not since the switch to Soyuz
03:28 Kamion         which I think is more a matter of time than policy
03:28 Kamion         (since he's busy with the tools)
03:28 mdz            Kamion: ok, please help Keybuk get up to speed then
                     Kamion: There are certainly times when doing buildd stuff that I'd
03:29 infinity       like to NEW things on my own, etc, but don't, as I don't want to to
                     step on toes.
03:29 Kamion         Keybuk: please mail RT to get access
03:29 Kamion         I also don't object to infinity being able to smooth his own path
03:29 mdz            Keybuk: please munge Kamion's teachings into a wiki page for the next
                     time around (and for me)
03:29 Kamion         Keybuk: let me know when that's done and I shall dispense runic
                     wisdom or something
03:29 mdz            infinity: feel free to deal with binary NEW yourself
03:30 mdz            Keybuk: I'll try to remember to tap elmo when I see him later today
03:30 mdz            Keybuk: thanks
03:30 infinity       Keybuk: You need to be added to the "lp_archive" group for ftpmastery
                     (make that explicit in your RT ticket)
03:30 mdz            Kinnison: here?
03:30 pitti          speaking of archive tools, if I sat down and wrote a tool that does
                     syncs, would anyone hurt me?
03:31 mdz            pitti: I spoke to kiko about this yesterday, and he said that josie
                     has been ported to soyuz already
03:31 Kamion         pitti: I understand that elmo's part-way through such a tool, but you
                     could talk to him
03:31 mdz              /srv/launchpad.net/codelines/current/scripts/sync-source.py  --help
03:31 pitti          oh, neat
03:31 infinity       elmo's tool is stalled on him having some anger management issues
                     with his tools, apparently.
03:31 mdz            Kamion: <kiko> in lp_queue's home there is a HOWTO-SYNC file
03:31 Kamion         mdz: can you get a definitive answer out of elmo on whether that's
                     definitely OK to use?
03:32 mdz            Kamion: not at the moment; try it and see?
03:32 Kamion         I don't like using tools that look finished but might not be blessed
                     yet
03:32 pitti          I pile up new requests every day, and doing them later doesn't help
                     to make UVF exceptions better
03:32 Kamion         been bitten by that already
03:32 infinity       Kamion: Last I heard, it was still somewhat unhappy.
03:32 mdz            infinity: once the tool is sorted, would you own syncs going forward?
03:32 infinity       Kamion: Or, in his words, "I though it was working, then it broke
                     again"
03:32 infinity       mdz: Sure thing.
=== mdz_ [n=mdz@217.205.109.249] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
                     mdz: If you can chase up elmo on the status of said tool, that'd be
03:33 infinity       cool, since you'r ein the same town.  If not, I'll bug him when we
                     cross paths.
03:33 JaneW          I'll mail Kinnison
03:34 mdz_           infinity: once the tool is sorted, would you own syncs going forward?
03:34 infinity       mdz: And if you missed my previous message:
03:34 mdz_           Kamion: I'll follow up with kiko/elmo
03:34 mdz_           JaneW: thanks
03:34 infinity       07:32 < infinity> mdz: Sure thing.
03:34 Kamion         thanks
03:34 mdz_           infinity: cool
03:34 pitti          thanks
03:34 dholbach       yeah, cool :)
03:34 mdz_           Mithrandir: next?
                     misc: keyboards.  Korean keyboard handling is getting there,
03:34 Mithrandir     espresso's keyboard handling is getting there and I'm getting bored
                     of keymaps.  Also done some small fixes to gdm, evolution and the
                     clock applet for pet peeves.  Also: released flight-5
03:35 Mithrandir     next week: More keyboard stuff, possibly flight-6 (end of next week),
                     possibly popcon.u.c
03:35 Mithrandir     blocked: no
03:35 mdz_           Mithrandir: what remains on espresso keyboard stuff?
03:36 Mithrandir     mdz_: it doesn't actually apply any of the settings yet.
03:36 Mithrandir     it needs a map from installer keymaps to X keymaps and do
                     immediate-apply of those
03:36 infinity       (Does Mithrandir get bonus points for visiting the Korean embassy
                     just to get a keyboard?)
03:36 mdz_           infinity: yes
03:36 sivang         heh
                     mdz_: it's "almost there", but I keep being distracted with stuff
03:37 Mithrandir     like the korean keyboards and such, which is why it's moving slower
                     than I'd like.
03:38 mdz_           Mithrandir: however, espresso is still very high priority, so don't
                     let the Korean keyboard become too much of a time sink
03:38 Kamion         (the map is easy, BTW, we just lift it out of xserver-xorg.config)
03:38 mdz_           that can land later, needs less testing
03:38 mdz_           Mithrandir: thanks
03:38 mdz_           mvo: next?
03:38 mvo            Did:
03:38 mvo            - ui-sprint:
03:38 mvo              * new notification-bubbles design in the archive
03:38 mvo            - i18n-sprint:
03:38 mvo              * build/uploaded a bunch of thai support packages
03:38 mvo              * worked on a general input-method solution (uploaded, only zh_HK
                     missing)
03:38 mvo              * banged my head against fontconfig for CJK (it's all pretty
                     horrid)
03:38 mvo            - misc:
03:38 mvo            * various update for update-manager, g-a-i, update-notifier, fonts
03:38 mvo            * a bit of work on the dist-upgrade tool (little, I need my usual
                     setup to properly work/test stuff)
03:38 mvo            * finished the backport of the tools for the dist-upgrader
03:39 mvo            Will do:
03:39 mvo            - get hold of infinity to get the auto-dist-upgrade test chroot setup
03:39 mvo            - get the upgrade tool into the archive
                     - try to get promotion to main for the backported python-vte in
03:39 mvo            breezy-updates (from universe to main) if that is possible (for the
                     dist-upgrade-tool)
03:39 mvo            - catchup with the stuff that I wasn't able to do due to sprinting
                     (my todo list is pretty long currently :(
03:39 mvo            - see if the OFL font license is suitable for main (seems so)
03:39 Kamion         ug, don't know whether we can promote stuff just in breezy-updates
03:39 mdz_           mvo: any hope for fontconfig?
03:39 mvo            Kamion: it would be nice otherwise people need to add breezy-updates
                     universe
03:40 Kamion         I can try, I guess; will need to clone off an anastacia setup for
                     breezy+breezy-updates to make sure the world remains sane
03:40 mdz_           mvo: please send me your todo list via email; I'll give you a hand
                     with prioritization
03:40 pitti          mdz_: we had a pretty nice discussion with Abel some hours ago, will
                     have another round after the meeting I guess
                     mdz_: very hard problem, unfortunately we have no real expert here.
03:40 mvo            we will probably send configs for the languages that need special
                     treatment
03:40 doko           mvo: OFL?
03:41 mdz_           mvo: if you can find someone upstreamish, I'm happy to fund a bounty
                     to get what we need
03:41 mvo            mutl-languages font configuration is a big problem in general, that's
                     for sure
03:41 mvo            mdz_: thanks, I'll try
03:41 mvo            doko: open font license
03:41 ogra           doko, open foint license ?
03:41 mdz_           mvo: I don't think we can target multi-language configurations for
                     Dapper; focus on getting each language right first
03:41 mvo            mdz_: the current plan is to ship configs in language-selector
                     (fontconfig snippets)
03:42 mvo            mdz_: that are selected based on the default language (if they are
                     required)
=== pitti tries not to make sounds of anger and pain
03:42 mdz_           eek
03:42 mvo            doko: http://scripts.sil.org/OFL
03:42 pitti          mvo: so you discarded the 'let's chop fonts' approach?
03:42 mdz_           mvo: how will we get it set up correctly at install time?
=== olemke [n=olemke@iup.physik.uni-bremen.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:43 mvo            the trouble is that zh_CN and zh_TW have different preferences for
                     fonts and we can't easily put that in language-{support,pack}
03:43 doko           mvo: one nice unicode font is there ...
03:43 mvo            doko: which one?
03:43 mvo            pitti: that solve only part of the problem
03:44 mvo            mdz_: we need to work that out
03:44 pitti          mvo: right, but better one part solved and one open than two open :)
=== mgalvin [n=mgalvin@ubuntu/member/mgalvin] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:44 pitti          the other problem is an intrinsic font design problem that we can't
                     solve
03:44 doko           mvo: Gentium
03:45 mdz_           mvo: ok, thanks
03:45 mdz_           we can continue the fontconfig discussion after the meeting
03:45 mdz_           ogra: next?
03:45 mvo            daf had a idea what we could try to solve one problem without
                     chopping
*********** general: flight 5 preparation and testing, fixed
                     ltsp-update-sshkeys to copy the keys even if sshd isnt running, other
                     small ltsp fixes, hunted the gnome-screensaver GL hacks flicker,
03:45 ogra           found the reason, working on a fix. fixed the "two menu entries for
                     screensaver preferences" bug (upload pending (will happen today)),
                     worked on dirtributor-icon inclusion for edubuntu-artwork, no
                     edubuntu-docs work yet. prepared and moved the complete hwdb dataset
03:45 ogra           (~4.5G) to the DC.
                     next-week: poke gnome-screensaver harder, get the flickering fixed
                     (make sure GL screensavers are displayed in a GL visual by
03:45 ogra           gnome-screensaver), more edubuntu-artwork stuff, more edubuntu-docs
                     work, look into progressbar handling of ltsp-client-builder.udeb now
                     that UI freeze slided, more small ltsp fixes.
03:45 mvo            doko: we have it in multiverse currently (can probably go to
                     universe/main)
03:45 mdz_           ogra: what's the reason for the flickering?
03:45 ogra           mdz_, g-s-s uses the default visual of the screen
03:46 ogra           it must use the GL visual
03:46 doko           mvo: yes, was on my TODO list, now on your's ;p
=== mvo kicks doko
03:46 ogra           xscreensaver has handling for that in the daemon
03:46 mdz_           ogra: good, should be straightforward from here.  thanks for tracking
                     it down
03:46 ogra           my job, eh ? ;)
03:47 mdz_           indeed
03:47 mdz_           pitti: next?
03:47 pitti          educing-duplication:
03:47 pitti          * status: no progress last week; gnutls transition is ready on
                     primary arches, SCCs need to catch up;
*********** plan: sort out SCCs for gnutls12, finish libgd demotion, discuss
03:47 pitti          libsqlite0 demotion with infinity (php5-sqlite is the only package
                     that needs to be changed)
                     general stuff done this week: security updates, new langpacks, tons
03:47 pitti          of bug triage and fixing, annoyed Kamion with lots of espresso bug
                     reports, lots of font discussion for the l10n sprint
03:47 pitti          next week: bug fixing, CD testing
03:47 pitti          s/^/r/ :)
03:47 Kamion         I demoted some of libgd yesterday
03:47 pitti          I think it needs a rebuild of *desktop to get the python-gdchart out
                     of it
03:48 pitti          should be mostly brainless stuff
03:48 infinity       pitti: I'm babysitting the SCCs with gnutls, I'll ping you when it's
                     ready.
03:48 pitti          thanks
03:48 infinity       pitti: And we can discuss sqlite at another time.
03:48 mdz_           pitti: looks like the main inclusion queue is back down to a
                     reasonable size
03:48 pitti          the only serious issue is sqlite, the rest is straightforward
03:48 pitti          mdz_: I tried hard, but I still shy away from things like asterisk...
03:49 Kamion         anastacia isn't too bad at the moment either
03:49 sivang         asterisk to be brought in main? interesting.
03:49 pitti          I did some cleanup yesterday, will do a followup on that next week
03:49 mdz            Kamion: indeed, looking much more manageable
03:49 mdz            thanks, both of you
03:49 Kamion         there's some noise from hppa which will go away once it's caught up
03:49 pitti          some stuff in it needs packaging fixes
03:49 mdz            seb128: next?
                     This week: GNOME 2.14.0, fixed firefox so GNOME stuff build again,
03:49 seb128         fixed xorg cursor theme use, played with new xkeyboard-config that
                     fixes GNOME xkb issues which are a frequent user complain, update
                     menu item names and tooltips with changes pointed by mail
03:49 seb128         Tomorrow: bug day
                     Next week(century?): bugs catching up and fixing (went from 10 unread
03:49 seb128         bug mails before UI sprint to 400 and that's with keeping one mail
                     unread by bug usually...lot of backlog to work on)
03:50 Kamion         silbs tells me that the ops team is ready to go with promoting
                     Xubuntu, so I may do that pretty soon
03:50 Kamion         ops/support that is
03:50 mdz            seb128: mmm, would be good to get GNOME+xkb sorted
03:50 janimo         \o/
03:50 seb128         mdz: updating xkeyboard-config from 0.6 to 0.8 would do it
03:50 seb128         mdz: Mithrandir is looking on it
03:50 mdz            janimo: ;-)
03:51 Keybuk         . o O { it'd be nice if GNOME/X could get the right bloody key for
                     PrintScreen }
03:51 seb128         according to daniels there should be no issue with the upgrade
03:51 seb128         (and works fine for me)
03:51 mdz            seb128: what can we do to help you and dholbach process the desktop
                     bugs faster?  any low-hanging fruit we could change in malone?
03:51 pitti          seb128: for french keyboards :)
03:52 seb128         mdz: nothing obvious no, the issue is the quantity of bugs coming atm
                     ...
03:52 kbrooks        Keybuk, isnt that discussion offtopic here
03:53 seb128         mdz: would be nice to have the search non returning closed bugs
                     though
03:53 pitti          seb128++
03:53 seb128         but bradb knows about it
03:53 sivang         seb128++
03:53 pitti          that's utterly annoying
03:53 seb128         atm it takes ages to find a bug due to that
03:53 mdz            seb128: is there a controversy over whether it should be changed?
03:53 mdz            or is it to be fixed?
03:53 seb128         to be fixed
03:53 mdz            good
03:54 Keybuk         I sat down with bradb a couple of weeks ago and gave him the spec for
                     a "bugs I need to fix" page
03:54 mdz            I'm not going to make it over to the LP sprint before I leave, but
                     they're charging ahead over there
03:54 Keybuk         I think the reason it isn't done is that LP would struggle to produce
                     it in time
03:54 Keybuk         so hopefully with the performance upgrades they've been doing, we'll
                     see it soon
03:54 mdz            Keybuk: is it written up?  I'd like to see it
03:54 seb128         extending the number of bugs by page would be nice too
03:55 mvo            seb128++
03:55 pitti          right, even if it's just manually changing batch_end (but that
                     doesn't work ATM)
03:55 seb128         because having to browser 10 pages to browse the nautilus bug is
                     really subobtimal
03:55 Keybuk         mdz: I didn't, I'll find out whether he did
03:56 dholbach       and make sorting work not across the 20 bugs displayed, but across
                     the whole set
03:56 mdz            seb128: agreed
=== mgalvin [n=mgalvin@ubuntu/member/mgalvin] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:56 pitti          these issues are mainly a db problem
03:56 seb128         dholbach: you can edit the URL for that
03:56 pitti          it's not that it's wanted that way
03:56 mdz            dholbach: really, does it not sort the full list?
03:56 mdz            I see
03:56 pitti          no, just the displayed batch
03:57 Mithrandir     the sorting is useless due to that, IMO
03:57 dholbach       mdz: the last time I tried not... from that time on, I only used
                     advanced searches with handpicked bug statuses
03:57 seb128         mdz: no, they dropped the option from the UI, and clicking on the
                     column acts on the page
03:57 seb128         mdz: but you can add the parameter by hand to the URI as a workaround
03:57 mdz            ok, either deal with bradb/kiko directly or queue issues with iwj for
                     next week
03:57 mdz            seb128: thanks
03:57 mdz            sivang: ?
03:59 sivang         mdz: here
03:59 mdz            sivang: you wanted to report something?
03:59 sivang         mdz: had some good progress the last week, I can see the end now,
                     approxmt. in one week from now or less
04:00 mdz            sivang: ok
04:00 sivang         mdz: backend are are ready, including burn and isobuilding, all left
                     is glade and PyGTK UI hacking to finish.
04:00 sivang         (including supoort for multisession for differential backups)
04:00 mdz            sivang: please type your updates in advance in the future; it saves a
                     great deal of time
04:00 sivang         mdz: yes, sorry
04:00 mdz            sivang: thanks
04:00 mdz            Riddell: next?
04:01 Riddell        done:
04:01 Riddell        ui sprint artwork
04:01 Riddell        flight 5
04:01 Riddell        fix the main problems in flight 5, and test & upload numberous other
                     bugfixes people have sent me
04:01 Riddell        currently doing:
04:01 Riddell        kdm usplash_down
04:01 Riddell        next week:
04:01 Riddell        kde espresso, KDE 3.5.2 packaging
04:01 sivang         mdz: (a package will get uploaded soon to universe , so you could see
                     where this is going)
=== irvin [n=irvin@ubuntu/member/irvin] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
                     espresso's gtkui has moved on a fair bit; though I've tried to keep
04:01 Kamion         kde-ui up to date with some of it, I couldn't manage it all, so
                     you'll have a fair bit of catching up to do
04:02 Kamion         suggestions for things that could be moved into common code are
                     welcome
04:02 sladen         * sivang pinged me about reviewing it, so I guess it's nearly there
04:02 Riddell        Kamion: yep, I'll look out for that
04:02 mdz            Riddell: happy to fund external work for kde espresso if you can find
                     someone
04:02 Riddell        some people from a spanish uni are helping but currently they seem to
                     be rewriting the whole frontend, which isn't terribly helpful
04:02 mdz            Riddell: how is the overall bug situation for kubuntu?
04:03 Kamion         Riddell: that all sounds disturbingly familiar and should be nipped
                     in the bud sooner rather than later
04:03 Riddell        mdz: major bugs has improved a lot, CUPS is the only vital one still
04:03 Kamion         people need to learn the value of incremental improvements that can
                     be looked at piece by piece
                     mdz: I know this has been asked a million times but what's happening
04:04 JaneW          re the delay descision, has there beena  special TB sitting yet, or
                     is one scheduled?
04:04 mdz            JaneW: it happened yesterday
04:04 pitti          Riddell: would upgrading to 1.2beta help in any way?
04:04 Kinnison       mdz: When is bug day?
04:04 mdz            the decision was ratified
04:04 Kamion         JaneW: already done, delay agreed - sabdfl will be writing an
                     announcement
04:04 JaneW          oic
04:04 mdz            Kinnison: tomorrow I think; coordinate with dholbach
04:04 Kamion         and circulating it around CC/TB before sending
04:04 JaneW          ok thanks, I missed that
04:04 Riddell        pitti: I doubt it would make any difference, the problem is on KDE's
                     side
04:04 kbrooks        Kamion, what the?
04:04 BenC           mdz: will this affect the sprint scheduled in May?
04:04 kbrooks        oh SHIT...
04:04 JaneW          I assumed it would be passed
04:04 mdz            BenC: yes
04:04 pitti          Riddell: I know, but KDE might port to 1.2 directly
=== kbrooks curses at ubuntu
04:04 Kinnison       mdz: I can only do that if I get agreement from stevea
04:05 mdz            kbrooks: please
=== Kinnison will ask him now
04:05 dholbach       kbrooks: calm yourself
04:05 JaneW          mdz: do we know any details of new sprint dates yet?
04:05 BenC           mdz: delayed, or change of priorities in the sprint?
04:05 Kamion         kbrooks: this is not the place. Please refrain from deliberately
                     disrupting our meeting.
04:05 Riddell        pitti: sure, it wouldn't make things any worse certainly
04:05 mdz            BenC: will be rescheduled
04:05 JaneW          BenC: I asked sabdfl and he said if Dapper is delayed the sprint will
                     be delayed till after dapper is released
04:05 mdz            JaneW: no, silbs and I were discussing it today
04:05 JaneW          mdz: oh
04:06 mdz            but yes, definitely after Dapper
04:06 mdz            tentatively mid-June
04:06 infinity       mdz: Which would put it pretty close to Spain, then.  Is that also
                     affected/changed?
04:06 mdz            infinity: probably will be replaced
04:07 mdz            or merged
04:07 JaneW          well need to sort this out soon, so that all the leave plans can get
                     figured out again etc
04:07 seb128         bah, after GUADEC was nice
=== infinity agrees with JaneW.
04:07 mdz            JaneW: silbs is planning it
04:07 Kinnison       mdz: Essentially the answer is "no" unless I can get everything done
                     I need to before then
04:07 JaneW          mdz: and the debain folk can still go to debconf?
04:07 infinity       I was planning on leave around the conference, so I'd like to get
                     some dates so I can put in requeusts and plan. :)
04:07 Kinnison       mdz: We're very busy here and since they only have me for a week
                     they're making heavy use of me
04:07 mdz            seb128: yes...but we will already be short on time for dapper+1 and
                     need to meet earlier
04:07 mdz            Kinnison: right, I thought you were there next week rather than this
                     week
04:07 mdz            Kinnison: no worries
04:08 mdz            JaneW: as planned
04:08 Kinnison       mdz: nup, I'm back on distro next week :-)
04:08 mdz            infinity: it'll go out to the lists as soon as it's finalized
04:08 infinity       mdz: Excellent, danke.
04:08 infinity       Are we through meeting, then?
04:08 mdz            we have a backlog of bugs in Malone which no one has looked at yet
04:09 mdz            i.e., bugs which aren't automatically CCed to anyone
04:09 mvo            do we have a filter for "main" and "universe" now?
04:09 mdz            traditionally I had trawled these, but it's grown so far beyond my
                     available time that it's laughable
04:09 JaneW          I will be bugging anypone with goald which are not yet marked
                     'Implemented' in the morning. Be warned.
04:09 Kamion         is there a way to get a report of those?
04:09 infinity       How do we find bugs without auto-CCs?
04:09 Kamion         snap
=== seb128 tries to look quite often to new bug and grab desktopish one and reassign some
04:09 mdz            seb128: yes, but you, too, are only one person ;-)
04:10 seb128         right
04:10 pitti          I tried to in the past, but the flood of universe bugs makes tracking
                     ubuntu-bugs almost impossible
04:10 Keybuk         there's no main/universe filter that I'm aware of
04:10 pitti          or, at least, needs too much time
04:10 mdz            Kamion: was talking with kiko about that yesterday, will see what can
                     be done
04:10 Keybuk         I was told that that query is damned hard in Launchpad, and would
                     take minutes to run
04:10 mdz            for now, ubuntu-bugs is a good start
04:10 mdz            mvo: not yet, but it's on the whiteboard next to me as a target for
                     the LP sprint
04:11 mvo            Keybuk: maybe it would be possible to generate a static page for this
                     (as a workaround)?
04:11 Kinnison       Keybuk: pardon? minutes?
04:11 mdz            mvo: kiko said it wouldn't be too hard
04:11 sivang         seb128: please CC me on  g-s-t stuff that goes through you , I'll
                     start taking look at them when I've finished with HUB.
04:11 seb128         no human is able to keep up with ubuntu-bugs traffic
04:11 Kamion         Keybuk: you mean the main/universe filter would take minutes?
04:11 seb128         sivang: you know, you can subscribe to a package
04:11 Keybuk         Kamion: yeh
04:11 Kamion         I look at subject lines of about half the new bugs, randomly
                     Kinnison: if you could poke a bit for us at the sprint about getting
04:11 mdz            the report we need (bugs that no developer has looked at yet), that
                     would be a great help
04:11 Keybuk         Kinnison: cross-referencing all bug reports against component
04:11 mdz            Kinnison: I didn't get that onto the original list
04:12 sivang         seb128: oh right, will do :)
04:12 Kamion         Keybuk: it could be done more easily as an X-Launchpad-Bug thing when
                     mails go out, though, couldn't it?
04:12 Kinnison       mdz: If you can produce a list of the queries we're interested in I
                     will sit with brad and help him work out how to do it
04:12 Kamion         that's simple, "is this bug filed on a package in main or universe"
04:12 Keybuk         Kamion: that assumes you have every ubuntu-bugs e-mail in your
                     mailbox ready to be filtered
04:12 Kamion         I do. HAND. :-)
04:12 Keybuk         Kamion: I was talking about getting a page of bug links for
                     mass-triage purposes
04:12 seb128         Keybuk: would be nice
                     Kinnison: in addition to "display only bugs in main" functionality
04:13 mdz            (which is on the list already), we need a report which shows us bugs
                     we haven't touched yet
04:13 Kamion         actually, we already have component=main in X-Launchpad-Bug
04:13 Keybuk         Kamion: we do, yes
04:13 Kamion         right, might start procmailing on that then
04:13 Keybuk         if you have ubuntu-bugs, the headers are useful
04:13 mdz            yes, I filter on that for ubuntu-bugs
=== Keybuk gave up with ubuntu-bugs, it was just too much traffic
04:13 mdz            there are other useful bits in the headers as well
04:13 mdz            we need to wrap up here
04:13 Kinnison       mdz: seriously I have no context as to what this is "in addition to"
                     and I have only very patchy IRCness currently
04:13 pitti          cool, /me will adjust his procmail settings for that
04:14 Keybuk         mdz: release schedule
04:14 Kinnison       mdz: mail it to me :-)
04:14 mdz            revised release schedule is up here:
                     https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DapperReleaseSchedule/Slewed
04:14 Kamion         release delay is NOT AN EXCUSE for new features
04:14 mdz            Kamion++
04:14 Kamion         i.e. we're still in feature freeze
04:14 mdz            Kinnison: please read the log; you should know what was said here
                     anyway
04:14 Kinnison       okay, but it's gonna be tonight before I have time to trawl the log
04:15 mdz            Kinnison: no problem
04:15 Kinnison       okay
04:15 mdz            thanks, everyone
04:15 mdz            adjourned

</pre>
