{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
18:55	cody-somerville	\o/
18:56	sommer	hello
18:56	meborc	hi
18:56	vinze	Hi
18:57	cody-somerville	Heya jm1 :)
18:57	keescook	(ubuntu security team meeting: please join #ubuntu-hardened -- we've had a room conflict)
18:57	cody-somerville	Heya jgamio, vinze, TheSheep, etc. etc. :)
18:57	vinze	Hey cody-somerville :)
18:57	vinze	I've managed to make it :)
18:57	jgamio	hi cody-somerville
* cody-somerville cheers.
18:58	jgamio	hi everybody
18:58	bobi	hi
18:58	tomplast	Hello
18:58	cody-somerville	It looks like we've gotten a good turn out
18:58	jm1	hi cody-somerville
18:58	solar_george	hi
18:59	jono_	hi all! :)
* vorian waves
=== jono_ is now known as jono
18:59	tomplast	Hello Jono
18:59	jono	hi vorian tomplast :)
* heno waves
19:00	keescook	(ubuntu security team meeting: please join #ubuntu-hardened -- we've had a room conflict)
19:00	vinze	keescook, perhaps that'd be useful in the topic?
=== ubotu changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Current meeting: Ubuntu Security Team Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 26 Mar 21:00 UTC: Server Team | 28 Mar 04:00 UTC: MOTU | 02 Apr 21:00 UTC: Server Team | 09 Apr 21:00 UTC: Server Team
19:00	highvoltage	hello jono
19:01	keescook	vinze: ubotu controls that.
19:01	jono	hey highvoltage
19:01	vinze	O ok
19:02	jono	right
19:02	jono	is everyone here?
19:02	tomplast	#define everyone ?
19:02	tomplast	;)
19:02	cody-somerville	Jim isn't here.
19:02	zoredache	everyone = people who matter
19:02	jono	anyone  who wants to be involved in the xubuntu meeting :)
19:03	meborc	i'm here ;)
19:03	tomplast	Then at least I'm here :)
19:03	tomplast	And you ;)
19:03	vinze	cody-somerville, Jim did plan to be there didn't he?
19:03	vorian	/me waves again :)
19:03	cody-somerville	Yup. He said he might be a few minutes late though, IIRC.
19:04	vinze	O OK
19:04	jono	ok, lets wait a few mins and then begin
* cody-somerville notes that he is at work and will have to leave for 15 minutes in an hour to go home. :)
* meborc makes food for everyone
19:04	cody-somerville	\o/
19:04	cody-somerville	Speak of the devil :)
19:04	jono	ok, all set?
19:05	jono	anyone else who should be here?
19:05	highvoltage	we could probably do some warm-up talk. who had enough time to properly think about the questions that cody-somerville asked?
19:05	j1mc	hi all.  i have 1 hour.  :)
19:05	jono	I have an hour too
19:05	jono	ok....
19:05	vinze	Hi j1mc
19:05	highvoltage	I found some of them a bit tough, but thought of it when I had a few gaps here and there :)
19:05	jono	for those who don't know me, I am Jono Bacon, I am the Ubuntu Community Manager
19:05	jono	and I generally try to help the community tick along as smoothly as possible
19:05	jono	while listening to very loud metal :)
19:06	cody-somerville	:)
19:06	heno	highvoltage: are these questions on a mailing list? Got URL?
19:06	vinze	Hehe
19:06	jono	cody-somerville came to me to raise a few of these problems in the community
19:06	vinze	heno, on the mailinglist
19:06	highvoltage	heno: yes, just a sec and I'll get you a link
19:06	jono	and the aim of this meeting is to raise the key issues and begin the road to solving them
19:06	heno	thx
19:06	highvoltage	heno: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2008-March/005242.html
19:06	highvoltage	everybody who hasn't read it yet, please do so before we get going.
19:06	jono	lets keep this meeting as cordial and happy as possible - it is about fixing problems, and we *can* fix these things
* cody-somerville nods.
19:07	jono	so cody-somerville,
19:07	jono	could you summarise the key issues in a few short sentances?
* cody-somerville nods.
19:09	cody-somerville	I believe the root issue for Xubuntu right now is that it lacks definition. There is no mission statement, no core objectives, no strategy, and no structure. This has resulted in a number of conflicts and has ultimately lead to several key contributors deciding that it isn't worth their time anymore.
19:09	vinze	Agreed
19:09	jono	right
19:10	jono	so this is something we should absolutely do - produce a mission statement, and a strategy for what you want to achieve with Xubuntu
19:10	jono	something that key contributors agree to
* cody-somerville nods.
19:10	_MMA_	Are those people even known?
19:11	_MMA_	"key contributors"
19:11	cody-somerville	Thats an excellent question.
19:11	jono	_MMA_: maybe not, but regular contributors may be
19:11	jono	I am not talking about importance
19:11	jono	I am talking about who does the work
19:11	bobi	is the decision of the key contributors definitive?
19:11	vinze	jono, beyond packagers I assume?
=== \sh_away is now known as \sh
19:11	_MMA_	jono: Sure. In Ubuntu Studio we have those people on a list.
19:12	j1mc	with xubuntu we seem to have a small handful of people who do the packaging / seed work, and a few others who contribute in non-technical areas
19:12	jono	I think we need to approach this by first producing an approx strategy
19:12	j1mc	the conflict was on the technical side
19:12	jono	and then people going in and refining
* cody-somerville nods.
19:12	jono	I think it would be advisable for one person to drive these changes where possible
19:12	\sh	hi guys...sorry for being late...just got home
19:12	jono	is this some people would be happy cody-somerville doing - and would you be interested in doing this cody-somerville?
19:13	jono	it is not about just cody-somerville's view, but him fairly taking in feedback and adjusting the strategy
19:13	j1mc	i would be happy with cody drafting the strategy.  i think he has a good take on what xubuntu is about and could be about
19:13	vinze	I'm all for cody-somerville
* _MMA_ gives a +1 for Cody as he has been the most active and visible head of Xubuntu for a while.
19:14	jono	from my experience of cody, I would support him to do this too
19:14	jono	anyone else?
19:14	meborc	support on my side
19:14	highvoltage	well, cody has certainly taken initiative in getting things back on track again, by getting this meeting together and addressing the issues. no one else has. I think xubuntu needs cody-somerville to get things into shape a bit.
19:14	charlie-tca	I would support cody
19:14	highvoltage	so I support him too.
19:14	vinze	Btw, cody-somerville, are Lionel and/or Jerome here?
=== ubotu changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Current meeting: Xubuntu Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 26 Mar 21:00 UTC: Server Team | 28 Mar 04:00 UTC: MOTU | 02 Apr 21:00 UTC: Server Team | 09 Apr 21:00 UTC: Server Team | 16 Apr 21:00 UTC: Server Team
19:14	mr_pouit	+1 for cody too
19:14	jono	cody-somerville: would you be happy to do this work?
19:14	vinze	Ah
19:14	vinze	:)
19:15	cody-somerville	I'd be happy to. :)
19:15	jono	excellent
19:15	jono	so this is a great first step - someone to help drive this process
19:15	jono	I can also work with cody-somerville to assist him on getting a good strategy document together
* cody-somerville nods.
19:16	cody-somerville	I'd appreciate that.
19:16	jono	they key thing is that when this strategy document is in place, that the project can work to it - it will need broad acceptance
19:16	vinze	I think that should be no problem if community input is gathered
19:16	_MMA_	So then it's official, Cody is the lead on Xubuntu? I ask so there is a clear record.
19:16	meborc	ok
19:17	jono	ok, question for everyone now - please state one sentence aboiut what you feel the purpose of Xubuntu is - if someone else says what you think +1 them
19:17	jono	_MMA_: no, he is producing a strategy document, not neccessarly a lead
19:17	vinze	Producing a user-friendly desktop system, allowing for advanced configuration options without getting bloated
19:17	highvoltage	jono: could I provide a short reasoning for it?
19:17	jono	highvoltage: one sentance please
19:17	meborc	xubuntu is a LIGHTWEIGHT OS using xfce as a DE and lightweight applications
19:17	jono	we don't have a lot of time in this meeting
19:18	solar_george	+1 <vinze>
19:18	bobi	+1 vinze
19:18	tomplast	+1 vinze
19:18	highvoltage	"Xfce Distribution built on Ubuntu core values with usability as main focus."
19:18	charlie-tca	A desktop system for the older, slower systems that are not capable of running most GNOME and KDE
19:18	tomplast	...and "a low memory footprint"i hope...
19:18	meborc	+1 charlie-tca
19:18	_MMA_	jono: I feel this needs to be established in this meeting. Otherwise, you get a continuation of the last cycle.
19:18	vorian	+1 highvoltage
19:19	jono	_MMA_: just give me some time
19:19	Odd-rationale	Xubuntu should aim to be a light and fast OS that uses xfce desktop and xfce/gtk apps as defaults as much as possible.
19:19	meborc	i believe the main fight was in either including or excluding some gnome applications... this should also be somehow said in the statement!
19:19	j1mc	+1 Odd-rationale
19:19	_MMA_	+1 highvoltage (even if it means GNOME apps)
19:20	mr_pouit	+1 Odd-rationale
19:20	meborc	+1 Odd-rationale
19:20	highvoltage	_MMA_: yes, that is one of the things I would've like to explain ;)
19:20	vinze	meborc, that should follow from the purpose
19:20	jono	anyone else?
19:20	charlie-tca	+1 _MMA_
19:20	jono	I am trying to amalgomate much of the key themes into a single mission here
19:21	vinze	I think that might become a big problem
19:21	meborc	vinze, yes, but if the purpose is a wide "political" talk, then anyone can misinterpret it
19:21	vinze	Two goals are quite conflicting
19:21	jono	would people agree with this:
19:21	jono	To produce an easy to use distirbution, based on Ubuntu, using Xfce as the graphical desktop, with a focus on integration, usability and performance, with a particular focus of running on lower powered computers. The integration in Xubuntu is at a configuration level, a toolkit level, and matching the underlying technology beneath the desktop in Ubuntu.
19:21	vinze	Hmm, true
19:21	vinze	No
19:21	j1mc	to me, the key issues are to decide on which side of the user-handholding of gnome and the lightness of gtk-only / xfce apps.
19:21	vinze	I don't think this would be a solution
19:21	bobi	i would see performance as the main of the three goals
19:21	jono	vinze: which bit?
19:21	_MMA_	And this conflict is why I believe there needs to be a clear lead who can say "THIS is what we're doing".
19:22	meborc	i agree with j1mc
19:22	jono	_MMA_: please...wait
19:22	j1mc	_MMA_: agreed
19:22	jono	_MMA_: we will get there
19:22	antares79	jono, i think a term like "lower-powered computer" is a little too vague these days.. just my 2¢
19:22	Odd-rationale	j1mc: I agree
19:22	_MMA_	SUre
19:22	charlie-tca	_MMA_ agreed
19:22	jono	ok, in the sentance I posted above, what is good and what is bad?
19:22	Seveas	antares79, $¢ or €¢?
19:22	vinze	jono, when you say "focus on integration, usability and performance", then you will still be having the discussions on whether to include heavier but user-friendly applications or not
19:22	vinze	Because usability and performance can conflict
19:23	Seveas	(oops, sorry, thought I was in -offtopic -- I'll be quiet)
19:23	jono	vinze: I agree - this is not about specifics, but general goals
19:23	bobi	jono: good is to set the focus on performance, usability and integration
19:23	vinze	Ah, then I think we can all agree on that
19:23	jono	ok
19:23	highvoltage	jono: I think you missed the ubuntu values part. not sure if that was intentional :)
19:23	jono	so do we all agree that the sentence I posted is a general goal
19:23	highvoltage	bobi++
19:23	vinze	+1 for highvoltage
19:23	posingaspopular	im worried about that performance bit jono
19:23	solar_george	jono yes
19:24	tomplast	Do we have to say "focus of running on lower powered computers" isn't "focus on making an effective and memory conservative system" better *-).
19:24	bobi	jono: yes, but we need to priorize priority, usability and integration
19:24	bobi	because they can conflict
19:24	j1mc	jono: i think that the "integration in Xubuntu is at a configuration level" requires some clarification, but i like the empahis on lower-powered computers.
19:24	jono	ok everyone, hold up
19:24	highvoltage	tomplast: indeed. and lots of people run Xubuntu on high-end computers too.
19:24	bobi	sorry, ment performance
19:24	jono	let me read
19:24	vinze	bobi, <jono> this is not about specifics, but general goals
19:25	jono	To produce an easy to use distribution, based on Ubuntu, using Xfce as the graphical desktop, with a focus on integration, usability and performance, with a particular focus on low memory footprint. The integration in Xubuntu is at a configuration level, a toolkit level, and matching the underlying technology beneath the desktop in Ubuntu. Xubuntu will be built and developed as part of the wider Ubuntu community, based around the
19:25	jono	ideals and values of Ubuntu.
19:25	jono	how about that?
19:25	bobi	sounds good
19:25	tomplast	Sound good to me as well :)
19:25	vinze	Same here
19:25	meborc	+1 :)
19:25	solar_george	+1
19:25	charlie-tca	+1
19:25	j1mc	jono: still don't understand the "the integration in Xubuntu is at a ..." but maybe i just don't get it because i'm not uber-technical.
19:26	j1mc	what is "the integration?"
19:26	jgamio	jono: i like change the easy with light
19:26	j1mc	in plain english
19:26	highvoltage	I agree too, is it necessary to say "easy to use" and "usibility" though? (I realise their a bit different, but I think it's the usability part that's actualy important)
19:26	Odd-rationale	when you say "with a focus on integration, usability and performance" is it in that order?
19:26	jono	j1mc: it basically means - xubuntu will be integrated and feel like a unit with configuration, the gui toolkit
19:26	vinze	Odd-rationale, <jono> this is not about specifics, but general goals
19:27	Odd-rationale	ok
19:27	j1mc	jono: ok. thank.
19:27	bobi	just a short general question: is there a place for new, unexperienced developers to help with xubuntu?
19:27	cody-somerville	For Xubuntu, I'd personally like Xubuntu be a powerful, useful desktop that is smart, concise, and usable.
19:27	jono	ok
19:27	vinze	bobi, I'd say a post to the xubuntu-devel mailinglist would be good to get you started
19:27	posingaspopular	bobi: yes, and it depends on where you want to start
19:27	jono	so would everyone agree that my sentence is a good general goal
19:27	vinze	bobi, and there's always xubuntu.org/devel
19:27	jono	does anything scream out as wrong?
19:27	vinze	Yup
19:27	vinze	No
19:27	bobi	jono: yes
19:27	antares79	jono, should this statement help to resolve conflicts between "integration and usability" (ie. feature-rich gnome apps) and "low memory footprint" (ie. gtk-only apps)?
19:28	antares79	if not, then +1 ;-)
19:28	jono	we are getting into specifics too much people
19:28	cody-somerville	jono, My only concern is making the primary emphasis a light memory footprint.
19:28	jono	I want _general_ concensus on _general_ goals
19:28	_MMA_	jono: To me, it doesnt settle to core conflict that has been going on over this dev cycle.
19:28	cody-somerville	I think Xubuntu should be useful before light.
19:28	antares79	alright, then +1
19:28	vinze	So nothing is emphasized yet
19:28	Odd-rationale	jono: Generally, good.
19:28	jono	_MMA_: listen...I am going to get to this
19:28	meborc	if general goal is for low memory, then i'm for it
19:28	jono	_MMA_: this is an iterative process
19:28	meborc	:)
19:28	_MMA_	jono: See my PM.
19:29	meborc	jono, sorry, this is a very painful topic for many of us
19:29	vinze	Xubuntu has a few goals, there has been a conflict on which has the highest priority, but atm we're just defining those goals, right?
* cody-somerville notes that almost half of the meeting is up for most people.
19:29	highvoltage	jono: to be honest, it's difficult to get general consensus when it affects big specific things that are important to many people, such as the gnome libs inclusion issue.
19:30	jono	all I am looking for before we discuss any specifics of leadership, or specific libraries or gnome inclusion, is a general viewpoint on what we are trying to achieve
19:30	jono	it seems that me in a nutshell you folks want to produce a sleek, usable distro with a focus on performance
* j1mc nods
19:30	Odd-rationale	jono: Correct. That is what I want.
19:30	cody-somerville	IMHO, I don't think we have the expertise to have a focus on performance.
19:31	cody-somerville	Although, I think we could certainly strive to be light weight.
19:31	solar_george	sounds about right
19:31	_MMA_	jono: What Xubuntu is trying to achieve is really up to the people involved.
19:31	jono	right - I am just looking for a general agreement on what the  high level goals are
19:31	\sh	jono: I think xubuntu has the very same problem as Kubuntu has, which is integration with the core part of ubuntu...so I think to get Xubuntu on track, you should focus on core OS integration level (hal, dbus et all)
19:31	jono	\sh: indeed this is _general_ goals
* meborc has to leave :( but i'm screaming on my way - MAKE XUBUNTU LIGHT AGAIN :) have a nice evening all...
19:32	jono	please folks, we will get to specifics, but before we can we need to understand what is the general goal of Xubuntu
19:32	jono	it seems that "To produce an easy to use distribution, based on Ubuntu, using Xfce as the graphical desktop, with a focus on integration, usability and performance, with a particular focus on low memory footprint. The integration in Xubuntu is at a configuration level, a toolkit level, and matching the underlying technology beneath the desktop in Ubuntu. Xubuntu will be built and developed as part of the wider Ubuntu community, ba
19:32	jono	sed around the ideals and values of Ubuntu." seems to cater for most general goals
19:32	highvoltage	jono: well, it seems that in _general_, people do actually agree with that general goal
19:32	jono	how those thngs are implemented is another discussion naturally
* j1mc nods
19:33	vinze	OK, so I think we all agree on that?
19:33	jono	so it seems the key themes are: usability, performance, integration, community processes
19:33	jono	agreed?
19:33	Odd-rationale	I agree with that goal statement.
19:33	vinze	+1
19:33	jono	ok cool
19:33	highvoltage	+1
19:33	_MMA_	+1
19:33	bobi	+1
19:33	solar_george	+1
19:33	tomplast	+1
19:33	cody-somerville	I think that statement is a good start, +1
19:33	j1mc	+1
19:33	posingaspopular	+1
19:33	jgamio	+1
19:34	jono	now what I think we need to do is to use that statement as a general mission statement for the project
19:34	jono	we can now begin discuss exactly how this is implemented
19:34	jono	now, I want to focus on what _MMA_ discussed
19:34	jono	leadership
19:34	jono	there seems to be a lot of faith in cody-somerville
19:34	jono	do you all feel there should be a leader, and if so, would it be cody-somerville?
19:35	bobi	yes
19:35	vinze	I think currently Lionel is project lead, right?
19:35	jono	(you don't have to say if you would want to be a leader, yet)
19:35	cody-somerville	vinze, Lionel has stopped contributing to Xubuntu for the time being
19:35	vinze	Ow, OK, thanks cody-somerville
19:36	jono	I personally feel cody-somerville is demonstrated good leadership skills from what I have seen
19:36	highvoltage	afaik, cody-somerville seems to be the only person who has made himself available to do it, and he seems capable to me.
19:36	jono	what does everyone else think?
19:36	_MMA_	I have watched Cody really step up. He is active in the Ubuntu development channels and looks to really want Xubuntu to shine again.
19:36	vinze	Agreed
19:36	j1mc	i get the feeling that, if we have a leader, that they will likely have the final say on some technical matters, and that everyone might not agree with their perspective, but that is part of having a leader.  i just think it's important to mention that.
19:36	Odd-rationale	+1 cody-somerville
19:36	tomplast	Has Lionel said anything about this?
19:36	bobi	+1 cody
19:36	j1mc	mr_pouit: ?
19:36	vinze	On the other hand, I think we should involve Lionel in this
19:36	j1mc	comments?
19:36	vinze	And mr_pouit
19:36	solar_george	+1 cody-somerville
19:36	cody-somerville	vinze, mr_pouit is Lionel :)
19:36	vinze	Ehm, wait
19:36	vinze	Yeah
19:36	_MMA_	I have had many talks with Cody and also looks to be able to devote the time needed.
19:36	vinze	Sorry, Jerome I meant >.<
19:36	mr_pouit	j1mc: I'm still ok with cody ;)
19:36	vinze	(What's his nick?)
19:37	smarter	jeromeg
19:37	jono	ok, next question:
19:37	vinze	Thanks smarter
19:37	j1mc	+1 for cody... :)  (had to get that in there)
19:37	cody-somerville	:) thanks.
19:37	jono	would you all be happy for cody-somerville to lead the project, based upon the general goal we agreed earlier?
19:37	posingaspopular	+1 cody
19:37	vinze	Yes
19:37	Odd-rationale	aye
19:37	jgamio	+1
19:37	j1mc	Yes
19:37	_MMA_	+1 Cody
19:37	vorian	+1
19:37	highvoltage	+1
19:37	solar_george	+1 cody-somerville
19:38	bobi	+1
19:38	jono	next question:
19:38	jono	do you think that Xubuntu would REALLY KICK ARSE with cody-somerville leading and based on that general goal earlier? :)
19:38	highvoltage	jono: for the record, Xubuntu already really kicks arse ;)
19:38	jm1	+1
19:38	highvoltage	(but yes, it would)
19:39	Odd-rationale	+
19:39	Odd-rationale	1
19:39	tomplast	+1 from what I have seen so far
19:39	bobi	:) +1
19:39	vinze	+1 for highvoltage's comment :)
19:39	vinze	But yeah
19:39	jono	cody-somerville: would you be interested in leading the Xubuntu project?
19:39	cody-somerville	Yes, sir! :)
19:39	vinze	\0/
19:40	jono	in which case we have made three important steps forward here:
19:40	jono	1) picked a leader
19:40	jono	2) agreed on a general mission statement of goals
19:40	jono	3) agreed that cody-somerville will develop a strategy based on that mission statement
19:41	Odd-rationale	now for specifics?
19:41	j1mc	i just want to reiterate that, part of having a leader is that we may not always agree with cody's gnome/non-gnome app choices, but that we need to make sure that we're respectful of each other in the decision-making processes, and that we still work together as a community.
19:41	cody-somerville	Well said j1mc
19:41	_MMA_	j1mc: +1
19:41	Odd-rationale	j1mc: +1
19:42	jono	I believe the next step is for cody-somerville to develop an initial strategy based on his experience of the project, and then we can use that as a basis for the next meeting
19:42	jono	we need something to work from to move forward effectively
19:42	jono	so I recommend cody-somerville works on this document and then presents it to the community for comment and we schedule another meeting
* cody-somerville nods.
19:42	posingaspopular	when would the next meeting be?
19:43	jono	posingaspopular: whenever cody-somerville has the document completed
19:43	jono	I recommend in a week or so
19:43	vinze	I think you can track xubuntu-devel for that
19:43	posingaspopular	i certainly dont want to rush cody-somerville
19:43	vinze	(Perhaps a notice on xubuntu.org?)
19:43	jono	I think cody-somerville is likely to be well aware of the key themes and concerns
19:43	jono	and his strategy should seek to satisfy the general goals we agreed earlier
19:43	jono	is everyone in favour of this step forward?
19:44	highvoltage	well, maybe there should be some kind of draft in about a week or so, and then there could be a request for comments.
19:44	cody-somerville	+1
19:44	vinze	+1
19:44	highvoltage	+1
19:44	jono	highvoltage:yep
19:44	tomplast	+1
19:44	Odd-rationale	+1
19:44	bobi	+1
19:44	j1mc	+1
19:44	solar_george	+1
19:44	jm1	+1
19:44	jono	great stuff
19:44	vinze	Thanks jono
19:44	jono	I think we made some good progress here folks :)
19:44	_MMA_	I'd also like to see some of this CC'e to the devel-discuss ML.
19:44	jono	I will help cody-somerville flesh something definitive out, and then lets meet again when the document is complete
19:45	bobi	at least, it's a very good first step
19:45	jono	I would recommend posting the meeting log
19:45	jono	thanks everyone for your participation
19:45	Odd-rationale	Thanks, jono.
19:45	jono	:)
19:45	Odd-rationale	Good luck, cody-somerville
19:45	cody-somerville	Thank you everyone for your kind words
* vinze thanks jono and our newly-apponted leader cody-somerville :)
19:45	cody-somerville	I appreciate your faith and I look forward to working with all of you
19:45	bobi	congratulations cody-somerville ;)
19:45	j1mc	:)
19:45	vinze	Congrats cody-somerville :)
19:45	jono	:)
19:45	cody-somerville	And a big thanks to jono for coming out to help us
19:45	highvoltage	and thanks cody-somerville
19:45	vorian	best of luck cody-somerville :)
19:45	solar_george	all hail cody-somerville
* _MMA_ wonders if Cody is old enough to get a pint in Prague? :P
19:45	jono	cody-somerville: your welcome :)
19:46	posingaspopular	congrats cody-somerville
19:46	highvoltage	and thanks to jono too. this might have been a very long meeting without him :)
19:46	posingaspopular	thanks jono
19:46	tomplast	Congrats cody-somerville
19:46	cody-somerville	_MMA_, I'm sure we'll share a few ;]
19:46	jono	no worries folks :)
19:46	_MMA_	;)
19:46	vinze	highvoltage, we're no easy crows, eh? ;-)
19:46	charlie-tca_	good luck cody-somerville
19:46	vinze	s/crows/crowd
19:46	tomplast	you will need it :E. I vote for only KDE-apps in Xubuntu ;)
19:46	cody-somerville	I welcome everyone over to #xubuntu-devel for further chit chatting and brainstorming :)
19:46	vinze	+1 for tomplast :P
19:46	cody-somerville	<g>
19:46	highvoltage	vinze: heh, yes.
19:47	jono	later all
19:47	jono	:)
19:47	vinze	Bye jono
19:47	tomplast	bye Jono, bring some bacon next time ;)
19:47	cody-somerville	I can write up a meeting summary and post it/send it out/etc. if nobody else absolutely wants to :)
19:47	bobi	bye jono, thanks
* highvoltage hits the end-of-meeting-gong
19:47	highvoltage	*gong*
</pre>
