{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

11:00	mako	greetings
11:01	Seveas	konnichiwa
11:01	mako	let me switch to my laptop.. give me 1 minute
=== mvo waves to mako
11:01	\sh	wow mako
11:01	Simira	mako :) Long time and all that. Missed you in Montreal
11:01	kjcole	Saluton!
11:01	mako	i missed me in montreal
11:02	ogra	mako, we too
11:02	Seveas	23:02 - any sign of elmo Kamion and/or sabdfl yet?
11:02	elmo	I'm around
11:03	ogra	ah
11:03	sivang	mako !
11:03	Seveas	welcome elmo :)
11:03	mako	greetings everyone
11:03	mdke	hiya
11:03	mitsuhiko	hi all
=== \sh is serving some snaks, beer, water, coffee
11:03	GnuKemist	mako: hello
11:03	mako	i turn into a pumpkin in a little under an hour
11:03	kjcole	Woopsie.  23:03?  UTC? I was hoping for 22:00 UTC.
11:04	mdke	it's 22
11:04	MagicFab	Hello
11:04	Seveas	it's 22:00 UTC now
11:04	ogra	mako, could we get a pic of this ?
11:04	mako	ogra: absolutely not
11:04	ogra	or better a shortcut :)
11:04	smurf	awwww...
11:04	elmo	sending SMS pings
11:04	Seveas	cool, ICMP over SMS :)
11:04	mako	elmo: thanks dude.. i was about do it :)
=== Kamion is here
11:05	Seveas	mako, David Larlet got accepted last time but had not joined ubuntu-members on launchpad back then. He has joined that team now, but needs to be approved. Would you be so kind? :)
11:05	Kamion	my mobile's out of charge, so good luck trying to SMS me ;)
11:06	ogra	heh
11:06	Simira	:-)
11:06	mako	alrighte
11:06	kjcole	Seveas: I'm just an Ugly American.  I don't "cotton" to all this international brotherhood B.S.  (Re: UTC) ;-)
11:06	mako	Kamion: i turn into a pumpkin in an hour so we should ge through the voting stuff quickly
11:06	Seveas	s/last time/25 oct (http://archives.free.net.ph/message/20051026.124102.e648e759.en.html)/
=== \sh is StephanHermann
=== Seveas is Dennis Kaarsemaker
=== smurf == Matthias Urlichs
11:06	Kamion	ok
=== mitsuhiko is Armin Ronacher
=== juliux is Julius Bloch
11:06	elmo	I'll ring sabdfl in a couple of minutes, but given his laptop is in the office and he isn't, I think we should assume he can';t make it
=== ogra is Oliver Grawert
=== GnuKemist is Og Maciel
=== Simira is Karianne Grnningster
11:06	mdke	matthew east
=== kjcole is Kevin Cole
=== Kamion is Colin Watson
=== sivang is Sivan Greenberg
=== MarioMeyer is Mario Meyer
=== mako is Benjamin Mako Hill
=== dholbach is Daniel Holbach
11:07	Simira	Seveas : ey, I didn't even know you were you...
=== david`bgk is David Larlet
11:07	Seveas	Simira, neither did I ;)
=== Ju is Julien Rottenberg
=== mhz [n=mhz_chil@pc-252-84-215-201.cm.vtr.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:07	Kamion	mpathy is again not here, so let's skip that item
11:07	mako	alright.. it's gonna be rush rush for me since i turn into a pumpkin in one hour :)
11:07	bhuvan	bhuvan: Bhuvaneswaran
11:07	mhz	MauricioHernandez is here
=== MagicFab is Fabian ROdriguez
11:07	Simira	Seveas : you didn't know who you were?
11:08	juliux	Kamion, he said that you can kick this itme
11:08	Seveas	RolandoBlanco isn't here either
11:08	ogra	mhz, hey ! :)
11:08	mako	alright then, loco team introductions
11:08	mhz	Seveas: said it is 'not possible to be here'
11:08	Seveas	So mhz is the first on the agenda (Chilean team)
11:08	mhz	ogra: thx for inviting me
=== [NikO] [n=nicolas@men13-4-82-240-60-210.fbx.proxad.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:09	ogra	Seveas, what about Latin american Team ?
11:09	Seveas	mhz, can you tell us a bit more about your team?
11:09	mhz	yup
11:09	Seveas	ogra, see the notes at RolandoBlanco in the proposed members
11:09	ogra	Seveas, yes, sorry, missed it
11:09	Seveas	mhz, then please do :)
11:10	mhz	ChileanLoCoTeam was meant to spread Edubuntu and Ubuntu. However, in Chile, there's someone (i still can't find his email) who is using ubuntu.cl
11:10	mako	mhz: that's an issue we can handle
=== Amaranth [n=travis@ubuntu/member/amaranth] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:10	mako	smurf and jane know all about that :)
11:10	Amaranth	i made it to one, finally!
11:10	mhz	So, personally, I do feel 100% cmmited to Edubuntu. Mainly because, there are plenty of LUGs in LA
11:10	mhz	and Spain
11:10	ogra	jane == silbs, not JaneW :)
11:11	mako	ogra: yes, sorry :)
11:11	sivang	Amaranth: lol
11:11	MagicFab	ubuntu-es is pretty active
11:11	mhz	Seveas: our plans are simple, yet agressive
=== dirkvdbroek [n=c1000@82-170-229-42.dsl.ip.tiscali.nl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:11	mako	mhz: overlapping LUGS and loco teams are perfectly alright
11:11	mhz	Seveas: we can work together with any LUG that wants to work hard, no problem.
11:12	mako	people need/want local community and supporst on a number of different locality issues
11:12	ogra	mhz is one of the most active promoters for edubuntu in whole latin america i guess
11:12	mhz	mako: oh, i didnt know it
11:12	mako	mhz: sure, they exist :)
=== Seveas brb - fiancee yelling
11:12	mako	Seveas: it's fine
11:12	mdke	mhz, who is in the team?
11:12	mako	right, what sort of membership and interest that you have
11:13	mhz	mako: Seveas however, I am very honest and I believe LA needs much more help on educational areas than linux related. So yes, I can spread Ubuntu. Nevertheless, my passion is Edubuntu :)
11:14	mhz	mdke: so far, Sergio Vergara (student of Chemestry), Rodrigo Morales (tecnocimiento guy who is the Biz plans guy), Victor Moral (tecnocimiento guy who is the IT expert and web developer), Me.
11:14	mhz	the 4 of us are well commited to ICT on education
11:14	MagicFab	mhz: I could be liaison with Colombia
11:14	mdke	cool
11:15	kjcole	mhz: ICT?
11:15	mako	mhz: well, that sounds great
11:15	mdke	mhz, there is an Ubuntu forum on ubuntu.cl, is that anything to do with your team?
11:15	ogra	btw, this is mostly the work of the chilenian team: http://wiki.edubuntu.org/EdubuntuCdLabelAndSlip
11:15	mhz	However, I do participate a lot in CDSL (www.cdsl.cl) and they would help us on this. For EdubuntuChilean Tour, we have already contacted ColegioInteractivo, and institution that works with over 1000 teachers in Chile
11:15	mako	mhz: but you should welcome to working with other people from chile who want to tackle other issues
11:15	mhz	mdke: nop
11:16	mako	mhz: so that we don't *have* to have competing locos :)
11:16	mdke	mhz, it looks quite well developed
11:16	mako	mhz: if you have a primary intersting one area or two, that's great
11:16	mhz	mdke: so far, I only know them via forum. I have never klnown of any InstallFest organized by them
11:16	mhz	mako: absolutely
11:16	mako	but it's good to be willing to work with people have have other ubuntu interests
11:16	mdke	mhz, perhaps you can join forces with the organisers of it
11:16	mako	cool
11:16	mhz	mako: the diff. is how commited people are in the end, on daily basis.
11:17	mhz	mako: sure, I am trying to get his leader email (they were off line for long period)
11:17	mdke	great stuff
11:17	mhz	CDSL and us, are organizing install fest for next saturday
11:17	mako	great stuff
11:18	Seveas	cool, install fests rock
11:18	mhz	mako: and so far, we have not heard from them. I guess it's mainly because they live in diff areas (we are divided by regions)
11:18	mdke	mhz, did you try posting to the forum?
11:18	mhz	yup, last week
11:18	mako	well, in interests of time, we shoudl move on
11:19	mdke	good
11:19	mhz	no answer yet
11:19	mhz	but i know i will
11:19	mdke	mako is going orange
11:19	ogra	whhops
11:19	mhz	Seveas: we are planing also HowTo Fests
11:19	mitsuhiko	hehe
11:20	mdke	mako, you wanna move on?
11:20	kjcole	mhz: Nice. Keep good records of those.  Might come in handy for others.
11:20	Seveas	mhz, sounds great, good luck with all that and when you have other interesting stuff to report, don't hesitate
11:20	mako	yes, lets do it :)
11:20	Seveas	next would be rolando blanco
11:20	mako	new member candidates
11:20	Seveas	but he can't make tuesdays, can we schedule a meeting on wednesday for once?
11:20	mhz	kjcole: sure. At least on IRC I am reporting as much as we can :)
11:21	mako	Seveas: we can :)
11:21	MagicFab	mhz: pictures, pictures, pictures :)
11:21	Seveas	mako, great, shall I do that for next meeting and coordinate it a bit with him?
11:21	mako	Seveas: we need to run it by other people
11:22	mhz	MagicFab: sure. form next saturdays
11:22	mako	Seveas: we also need tdo shift the times back and forth
11:22	mako	Seveas: we've been having too many late meeting times
11:22	mako	Seveas: but we can do that at the end of hte meeting
11:22	mako	lets move on
11:22	Seveas	juliux, you're up
11:22	mdke	JuliusBloch
11:22	juliux	yes i am here
11:22	mako	juliux: alright, do you know the drill?
11:22	ogra	juliux, youre no member yet ? o_O
11:22	juliux	ogra, no
11:22	kjcole	Mako: Late is a relative term. ;-) (5:22 PM here)
11:22	Seveas	please give a 3-line intro about what you did, what your plans are and your vision on Ubuntu
11:23	juliux	at the moment many people in Germany heard something about ubuntu, but don't know what  exactly it is. my dream is that everybody knows what ubuntu is. so i have  decided to present ubuntu on fairs in Germany and tell the people what ubuntu is and to make my dream a little bit more real.
=== ogra wonders if 3 lines are enough ...
11:23	mdke	nice wiki page
11:23	mhz	:)
11:23	Seveas	mitsuhiko, bhuvan, mhz please prepare such a 3-liner so you can paste it when you're up
11:23	mhz	okidoki
11:23	\sh	oh...juliux and mitsuhiko are great workers in things like ubuntu and promoting it
11:23	bhuvan	Seveas, ok
11:23	juliux	in the past i have do many support for ubuntu in Germany
11:23	mitsuhiko	Seveas: i've prepared one :)
11:23	ogra	juliux is organizing a lot in the german community ... preparing booths and presence at fairs
11:24	Seveas	awesome
11:24	ogra	he's busy in #edubuntu as well
11:24	mdke	great work juliux
11:24	juliux	thanks mdke
11:24	Kamion	I'm impressed by the pile of stuff there
=== Seveas too
11:25	\sh	he is one of the founding members of ubuntu Deutschland e.V. and works on wiki.ubuntuusers.de...he is awesome
11:25	juliux	hm i think i can do more, but i have to study
11:25	GnuKemist	juliux: if you don't mind me ask, how do you pay for your travelling?
11:25	\sh	(same applies to mitsuhiko)
11:25	juliux	GnuKemist, i paid it my self
11:25	GnuKemist	juliux: wow
11:25	mdke	wiki.ubuntusers.de is exceptional
11:26	GnuKemist	juliux: I have done the same as far as buying and burning CDs to give out...  awsome!
11:26	ogra	he organized my talk at linuxtag.de at dec 3rd
11:26	mdke	oh dear
11:26	juliux	ogra, no linuxtag.de is the one in march next year
11:26	mako	juliux: have you been involved in the gnome community fo much longer?
11:26	mdke	unleashing ogra on the public
11:26	mdke	-1
11:26	mhz	Seveas: my 3 lines are ready
11:26	mitsuhiko	mine too :)
11:26	juliux	mako, yes
11:26	\sh	he convienced me to do a "Photo With A MOTU" at the Essener Linuxtage fair ,)
=== mdz [n=mdz@ca-studio-bsr1o-251.vnnyca.adelphia.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:26	juliux	mako, the last few years
11:27	mdke	\sh, LOL
11:27	dholbach	\sh: hehe :)
11:27	juliux	\sh, psst
11:27	mitsuhiko	hehe
11:27	dholbach	\sh: he did the "interview with a motu" too :)
11:27	juliux	ogra, the right url for december is http://essen.linux-tage.linec.de/
11:27	ogra	mdke, come on, i'm not *this* ugly :)
11:27	mdke	ogra, :D
11:27	mako	juliux: great, i'm glad that you've moved over to this community :)
=== crimsun [i=crimsun@pdpc/supporter/silver/crimsun] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:28	Seveas	http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/Spiele_Ubuntu <-- you don't mention xmoto, kobo deluxe and xgala ;)
11:28	Seveas	but that wiki is indeed exceptional
11:28	Seveas	VERY informative
11:28	Kamion	ok, happy to approve juliux if elmo and mako are
11:28	mako	right
11:28	mitsuhiko	Seveas: Spiele is outdated, we move it into the german holarse wiki
11:28	ogra	even if i develop a bread of wisdom now (according to makos definition)
11:28	mdke	Seveas, that wiki is flair
11:28	mitsuhiko	AFIAK
11:28	mako	juliux: i appreciate you contributions
11:28	juliux	thanks a lot
11:28	elmo	ack
11:28	ogra	*beard
11:28	mako	you've got a thumbs up from me
11:28	GnuKemist	juliux: congrats!
11:28	mako	sounds good
11:28	mdke	welcome juliux
11:29	dholbach	excellent, juliux :)
11:29	ogra	congratds juliux
11:29	mako	Armin Ronacher
11:29	mitsuhiko	juhuu :)
11:29	Seveas	juliux, welcome aboard, don't forget to do the launchpad/signing ritual
11:29	juliux	Seveas, i have done this
11:29	mitsuhiko	Since the beginning of november
11:29	mitsuhiko	2004 i'm ubuntu user. One month after my first contact with ubuntu and linux
11:29	mitsuhiko	Since Dezember the Admin of ubuntuusers.de beside Sascha Morr.
11:29	mitsuhiko	I work on the Portal Software and try to answer user questions. My account
11:29	mitsuhiko	there is named "blackbird" and with about 3000 posts i'm one of the most
11:29	\sh	juliux: finally u made it, dude :) congratulations :) welcome aboard :)
11:29	mitsuhiko	active authors.
11:29	mdke	mitsuhiko is a god
11:29	mitsuhiko	lol
11:29	mdke	he has written loads of cool wiki things for the german wiki
11:29	\sh	yeah...he is young, he is fresh, he works for ubuntu even during his schooltime...
11:30	mdke	and is very helpful in the locoteam area in sharing ideas and such
11:30	mitsuhiko	\sh: *psst* don't tell ^^
11:31	mako	mitsuhiko: that's impressive :)
11:31	mako	not the schooltime thing
11:31	\sh	and he is friendly, community orientated..and the best what you can get for ubuntu...smurf, juliux, mitsuhiko, and sascha are the base of the most of the ubuntu work in germany...
11:31	mako	i'm actually in a research group meeting RIGHT NOW :)
11:31	mitsuhiko	:)
11:31	mako	(but my group all uses ubuntu so it's tolerated)
11:31	juliux	\sh, there are much more in germany
11:32	\sh	juliux: i know...but you are one of the big guns
11:32	mako	mitsuhiko: so ubuntuusers.de has been around for a while, right?
11:32	mako	how long have you been at it?
11:32	mitsuhiko	mako: since Dec. 2004
11:32	mitsuhiko	user founded it 2 days after the warty release
11:32	mitsuhiko	so. somewhere in october 2004
11:32	Seveas	Anmeldungsdatum  19.11.2004
11:33	Seveas	(according to the forum profile :)
11:33	mitsuhiko	Seveas: jep. that's true :)
11:33	smurf	mitsuhiko has been very active for quite some time, I'd be happy to sponsor hi for membership just on his consistency ;-)
11:33	mako	wow,
11:33	mdke	yeah the guy is good
11:33	mako	smurf: that's good to hear :)
=== sistpoty [n=sistpoty@ubuntu/member/sistpoty] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:33	Seveas	I think it says enough :)
11:33	mdke	long overdue for membership
11:33	Seveas	Beitrge insgesamt   3182 [2.85% aller Beitrge / 8.62 Beitrge pro Tag]
11:33	Kamion	ok, sure, I'm happy, plenty of material and recommendations
11:33	elmo	ack too
11:34	mako	looks like sustained and sustained contributions to me
11:34	mako	looks great
11:34	Seveas	mitsuhiko, welcome aboard
11:34	GnuKemist	mitsuhiko: congrats!
11:34	mako	looks great :)
11:34	mitsuhiko	thx
11:34	mako	bhuvan: hey there
11:34	mako	i think you're up
11:34	\sh	mitsuhiko: congratulations :)
11:34	bhuvan	yes
11:34	juliux	mitsuhiko, congratds
11:34	bhuvan	wiki page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bhuvan. I belong to docteam. I've submitted many patches to docteam svn repository. I've also contributed couple of wiki pages. I've also made changes/corrections to many wiki pages.
11:34	bhuvan	i'm one of the maintainer for ServerGuide for Dapper. I've already prepared the  spec and got the appropral from team members.  w.u.c/ServerGuide
11:35	bhuvan	Currently, I'm preparing the server guide for Dapper with the help of my team mates.
11:35	mako	bhuvan: where are you from?
11:35	bhuvan	india
11:35	mako	bhuvan: where about?
11:35	bhuvan	india, chennai (chennai is a metro in south india)
11:35	mdke	i would like to support bhuvan too. He has been helping around the docteam for a while now, and has submitted several helpful patches. He is enthusiastic and has excellent team-working. he learns fast and is patient, and is contributing steadily in the docteam
11:35	mako	bhuvan: sure, i know :)
11:35	bhuvan	mako, cool
=== Simira gives a + to India
11:36	mako	mdke: thanks, that's helpful
11:37	Seveas	bhuvan, any other interests beside documentation?
11:37	Kamion	bhuvan: how much of the server guide do you think can be sourced (modified or otherwise) from existing documentation?
11:37	mako	bhuvan: how long have you been involved? where do you want to take ubuntu?
11:37	bhuvan	i'm interested in MOTU. but, as i wish to learn new stuff, i prefer documentation for some time before moving to MOTU
11:37	Kamion	(er that sounds like a bit of a leading question, that's not the intent, just a simple question)
11:38	mdke	Kamion, we will be relying heavily on the debian guide i imagine
11:38	bhuvan	Kamion, so far i've referred redhat. sure, we may make use of debian document
=== claydoh [n=claydoh@65.99.187.64] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:39	Kamion	yeah, that or the HOWTOs (minus all the "if you're running <this> system from 1997, do this, otherwise ..." stuff)
11:39	\sh	bhuvan: why the redhat documentation?
11:39	mako	i would be surprised if the debian document didn't offer us good things we could use
11:39	mdke	oh btw, if you want an idea of the quality of his work, check out the SubVersion and Mailman wiki pages that he has done
11:39	mdke	mako, from what I've seen, it definitely does
11:39	bhuvan	mako, for the past 3 months. i've been using ubuntu for the past 2 months
11:39	mako	nice
11:40	Seveas	it's good that people who are new to ubuntu immediately contribute
11:40	Seveas	shows dedication :)
11:40	mako	wait.. you've been writing documents for longer than youv'e been using it
11:41	Kamion	hmm, I could proofread that, but it's basically clear and simple documentation, and my command of Indian languages is hardly excellent so ... :)
11:41	bhuvan	Seveas, i'm used to debian though
11:41	mdke	Kamion, for a first and immediate contribution, it is so much better than a lot of wiki pages that spring up :)
11:42	\sh	Kamion: come on learn hindi :)
11:42	Kamion	mdke: yeah, certainly
11:42	Kamion	(BTW Subversion is spelt thus, no capital V)
11:42	mdke	yeah that looks like some fake camelcase ;)
11:42	bhuvan	Kamion, no!
11:42	bhuvan	seems, it must be spelled SubVersion
11:42	bhuvan	one of the SVN developer suggested that change
11:42	Seveas	it should be spelled bazaar-ng ;)
11:43	\sh	.oO(correct spelling should be subVersion, and bzr is now called DomVersion)
11:43	mako	bhuvan: well, i'm thrilled with your contributions
=== mitsuhiko is wispering "git"
11:43	bhuvan	mako, ok
11:43	mako	and, as Seveas said, i'm happy to see you contributing already
11:43	Kamion	bhuvan: odd, that's not the way it was spelled when I used to be on subversion-devel, and it's not how http://subversion.tigris.org/ spells it
11:43	Kamion	but anyway
11:43	bhuvan	Kamion, ok
11:44	mdke	bhuvan, do you have commit access for the docteam svn repo yet?
11:44	Kamion	detailed quibbles aside :-), I'm fine with bhuvan for membership
11:44	bhuvan	as i work for CollabNet, i referred my developer over here .. he suggested couple of changes to that document, its one of them ..
11:44	elmo	me too
11:44	Seveas	bhuvan, welcome on the Ubuntu ship
11:44	Kamion	maybe there's been a policy change
11:44	GnuKemist	bhuvan: congrats!
11:44	Seveas	congratulations!
11:44	bhuvan	mdke, not yet
11:45	mhz	bhuvan: congrats
11:45	ogra	congrats bhuvan
11:45	Seveas	MagicFab, you're next
11:45	bhuvan	oh, thankx
11:45	mako	bhuvan: personally, i'd prefer to see a little more sustained contribution
11:45	mdke	bhuvan, right let's sort that out. elmo is that to be rt'ed?
11:45	\sh	congrats bhuvan
11:45	Seveas	(for the people who are puzzled, look 6cm down on the agenda)
11:45	juliux	congrats bhuvan
11:45	mako	but yeah, that's great :)
=== mitsuhiko too
=== vincent_ [n=vincent@85.69.101.97] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:45	elmo	mdke: yeah
11:45	mako	bhuvan: so stay involved dude :)
11:45	MagicFab	I am here
11:45	bhuvan	sure, thankx
11:45	mdke	mako, you will, I have the feeling that this guy is here to stay
11:45	mako	bhuvan: keep up the good work :)
11:45	Seveas	MagicFab, the 3-line introduction please
=== ogra tries to measure 6cm on the display ...
11:46	mdke	bhuvan, nice work
11:46	mako	Seveas: how else is on the stack?
11:46	Seveas	FabianRodriguez (Wasn't there 8/11) - Confirming I'll be there as MagicFab - -- FabinRodrguez 2005-11-22 15:48:13
11:46	MagicFab	Mhh... I have a bit more than 3 lines
11:46	mako	i gotta run in like 5 minutes
11:46	MagicFab	WikiPage:https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FabianRodriguez - stuff I find significant in bold. I am originally from Colombia, have been living in Quebec Canada since I was 16 while visiting family there yearly - so I've known about the horrors of remote support of proprietary software, webcams etc. :) You may remember me from UBZ when I told the true story of having converted my parents' PC to Ubuntu only.
11:46	mdke	bhuvan, can you come into -doc for a while?
11:46	bhuvan	mdke, ok
11:46	ogra	Seveas, doesnt that depend on the DPI setting ?
11:46	Seveas	mako, only this and a few non-voting things
=== \sh was looking 6cm down..and saw...his panel
11:46	Seveas	ogra, sort-of
11:46	mako	Seveas: perfect
11:46	MagicFab	I currently work full-time as an Open Source software solutions consultant, focusing on security and migration issues in Montreal. Curiously, I am the first link in U. Marketplace - NorthAmerica :) I have strong links to the local community and I am mostly interested in advocacy/marketing (events, etc.), local support & training and new users introduction / migration to Gnu/Linux.
11:47	mako	MagicFab: have you been doing much ubuntu business?
11:47	MagicFab	I'd say Debian so far. My first Ubuntu server proposal is out this week :)
11:47	mako	that's nice
=== Kamion would be interested to hear how the marketing team's work is progressing; haven't heard much from that side
11:48	MagicFab	Ah, wait, several custom training sessions, yes.
=== mako nods to Kamion
11:48	Seveas	MagicFab was at UBZ, any UBZ-ists you talked to there MagicFab ?
11:48	mitsuhiko	Kamion: i'm waiting for some work of the art team
11:48	MagicFab	Sivang, at a BOF
11:48	mdke	elmo, what do you need, email address, gpg # and preferred nick?
=== claydoh [n=claydoh@65.99.187.64] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Later]
11:49	MagicFab	any UBZers here ? I personally know hub (not here) - also go to meet Corey Burger
11:49	elmo	mdke: s/nick/username/ but yes, that'll work
11:49	Simira	MagicFab : a lot of us were there
11:49	kjcole	MagicFab: I was there, but more of a lurker...
11:49	mako	MagicFab: many of your contributions have been in the last month or so
11:49	ogra	MagicFab, i was there
11:50	\sh	MagicFab: many of us ... ogra, \sh, kamion, elmo ....
11:50	mako	which is great, but i like to look for slightly more long term contributions
11:50	mako	MagicFab: do you have any testimonials from existing developers?
11:50	MagicFab	mako: I've been on since 4.10
11:50	mako	MagicFab: right, i understand you've been using ubuntu until 4.10
11:51	mako	but our job is to recogized a series of sustained and significant contributions
11:51	Amaranth	whoops, gotta go
=== Simira too
11:51	Simira	g'night
11:51	mako	Simira: good night
11:51	ogra	night Simira
11:51	GnuKemist	night
11:51	MagicFab	mako: well, I do this full time and some of the stuff has not been online - like advocacy in Colombia
11:51	mako	MagicFab: you do what full time?
11:52	MagicFab	mako: OSS consulting, training and migration from Win to Linux
11:52	mdke	:))
11:52	mako	yes, i understand that, and i understand your committment to ubuntu
11:52	Seveas	MagicFab, what we are looking for are contributions to Ubuntu - not to OSS in general
11:52	mako	but i'm trying to gague contributions to the ubuntu community
11:52	MagicFab	I'd say 1/2 of what I do is Mozilla related, 1/2 is now Ubuntu
11:52	mako	MagicFab: ok.. but the nature and extent of those is not known to me or obvious from my wiki page
11:53	mako	sorry, from your wikipage
11:53	mako	MagicFab: do you have any other members who can give you testimonials
11:53	MagicFab	sivang could, he's here
11:53	MagicFab	Some of you may see me on IRC
11:54	MagicFab	Corey Burger too
11:54	Seveas	I never really saw you in #ubuntu actually
11:54	MagicFab	ONe of my main projects is a doc to accompany Ubuntu CDs, a work in progress for more than a year
11:54	mako	Seveas: that's fine though, you rarely see me there either :)
11:54	mako	using irc is by no means a requirement
11:54	mako	MagicFab: cool :)
11:54	mako	that sounds great
11:54	MagicFab	https://secure.fabianrodriguez.com/files/ubuntu-fr.pdf
11:55	Seveas	mako, no but he said that some would, and I'm in there 'sometimes' :)
=== Ubuntuser_BA [n=deb_user@200165122122.user.veloxzone.com.br] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:55	mako	MagicFab: in any case, i'd suggest we postpone this until you can collect a few testimontials
11:55	mako	Seveas: sorry, missed that
11:55	Ubuntuser_BA	Hello Folks/1
11:55	mako	MagicFab: and keep working on the directly commmunity engaged projects you've started in the last month or so
11:56	david`bgk	MagicFab, why don't you get yann and me in touch for french documentation ?
11:56	MagicFab	? last month ?
11:57	david`bgk	yes for your CDs accompany
11:57	mako	MagicFab: the stuff that is down with "oct 2005"
11:57	mako	in any case
11:57	ogra	hmm, is there a reason we skipped mhz's membership Seveas ? he's above MagicFab on the agenda
11:57	david`bgk	we're interested in this
11:57	mhz	Seveas: Can I paste my lines once last candidate is introduced? when you asked me to introduce myself I thought that to be invited here is because work was already recognized :)
11:57	MagicFab	Well, I can't see how it's considered recent or last month
11:58	Kamion	MagicFab: mako's referring to the marketing team work I think?
11:58	mako	yes
11:58	mako	MagicFab: i'm not suggesting that ALL of your contributiosn started last month
11:58	Seveas	ogra, he didn't put himself on the list and the 'covered in recent meetings' is usually not treated, but he made a note there
11:58	Kamion	if the public speaking work goes back some time, I'm happy to consider that a contribution; we've taken members on the basis of advocacy before
11:58	MagicFab	david`bgk: if you're in ubuntu-fr I think we're already in touch
11:58	ogra	mhz, wait until mako/Seveas call you
11:58	mako	i'm suggesting that some of the most directly community-engaged projects, like marketing team stuff, is relatively recent
11:58	mhz	ogra: ok, thx.
11:59	mako	MagicFab: i'm more comfortable postponing this
11:59	ogra	Seveas, i dont see MagicFab either in the above list
11:59	sivang	Seveas: MagicFab also participated in a BOF and spec I was in charge of and gave some good ideas
11:59	mako	MagicFab: it may just be that you need to do a better job documenting this
11:59	Seveas	sivang, nice, put that in a wikipage
11:59	mako	yes
11:59	mako	and we need to do this before the meeting
11:59	david`bgk	MagicFab, yes of course we are, you have been added to the planet a week ago
11:59	MagicFab	mako: I'd love to - I spent quite some time on the my wiki page. How can I improve that ?
11:59	mako	MagicFab: work with me in the next two weeks
11:59	sivang	Seveas: I should add it?
11:59	mako	MagicFab: and lets see how we can improve it
12:00	mako	i'm happy to do it offline
12:00	mako	right now, i'm going to turn into a pumpkin
12:00	Seveas	mako, wait
12:00	mako	Seveas: ?
12:00	Seveas	one more candidate (I missed it on the agenda)
12:00	mdke	mhz
12:00	mako	right
12:01	mhz	mdke: wait until Seveas calls me?
12:01	mako	please, go ahead, i'll reconnect ASAP and comment on the log.. take votes from the other two :)
12:01	Seveas	mhz, your wikipage mentions very little Ubuntu contributions
12:01	mako	if i'm lucky, it will be in ~10 minutes
12:01	Kamion	I've seen mhz around on the Edubuntu project for quite some months
12:01	mako	otherwise, 2.5h
12:01	mdke	mhz, go ahead now
12:01	mako	if you get kamion and elmo to agree, i doubt you will get a fight from me :)
12:01	mhz	Seveas: Debian user for 3 years and Ubuntu since warty. My first commitment is to freedom of access because knowledge is key for sustainable development. Education is one of the most important areas to achieve such development. Ergo, Ed/Ubuntu is the key actor in my plans:
12:01	mhz	Edubuntu Chilean Tour + Fairs of free Technology.
12:01	mhz	So far I edit some wiki stuff in edubuntu.org, I keep www.tecnocimiento.cl/EdubuntuChile and I am coordinating the EdubuntuCdLabelAndCdCover and EdubuntuStudyContents.
12:01	mhz	Also, I have installed Ubuntu in 2 medium sized-companies servers and over 25 desktops, and edubuntu in over 16 machines now, 3 of them at a university.
12:01	Kamion	although I'm not sure the wiki page reflects that as much as it might do
12:01	mhz	On december one article I wrote on Ubuntu for Education, for a Education Magazine, will be handed to over 1000 schools. Also, I'll present Ubuntu and Edubuntu on a local TV show for teens.
12:01	mako	alright guys.. ttys
12:01	mhz	I am sure ogra and JaneW can give good testimonials of my contributions, so far.
12:01	ogra	Seveas, he did nearly all of the wiki stuff for edubuntu, is very active in the edubuntu community
12:01	mako	alright guys, see you soon
12:01	Kamion	FWIW I tend to skip over the "life story" bits of people's wiki pages :)
12:02	mdke	bye mako
12:02	Seveas	ogra, that's a nice + for him
12:02	ogra	he does a great job promoting edubuntu in latin america
12:02	mhz	Kamion: thx for that
12:02	ogra	additionally he and his mates made the http://wiki.edubuntu.org/EdubuntuCdLabelAndSlip for us
12:02	mhz	mako: bye
12:03	\sh	which looks really nice...good work mhz
12:03	kjcole	mako: bye!
12:03	mhz	\sh: thx
12:04	Seveas	nice artwork
12:04	ogra	i'd like to see him as member, and he wants to take over responsibility for a chilenian/latin american edubuntu mailing list ... which i appreciate very much
12:04	mhz	\sh: thxubunut
12:04	mhz	Seveas: also, one of the new comers and us are organizing the Free Software Institute for LAtin America, and are already working on training course about ubuntu
12:04	Seveas	ogra, how long has he been contributing to edubuntu?
12:04	ogra	Seveas, since #edubunt exists
12:04	ogra	+u
12:04	Seveas	mhz, very cool, please make it available in english too :)
12:04	Kamion	~5 months I think
12:05	ogra	he's a guy of the first hour in #edubuntu
12:05	Kamion	is that accurate?
12:05	ogra	yup
12:05	Seveas	fwiw, my doubts about mhz that I had after reading the wikipage are gone
12:05	mhz	Seveas: sure as soon as we can finish the spanish one and test it, then we can translate it
12:05	mhz	Seveas: hehee, thx
12:05	Kamion	I'm happy to say yes based on what I know from beforehand
12:06	mhz	Kamion: i appreciate it
12:06	ogra	elmo, ?
12:06	mhz	ogra: thank you very much for your confidence
12:07	mhz	elmo: can i add i did some help to Henrik when you guys were even thinking of moving to Moin?
12:07	elmo	sorry, one sec, need to catch up
12:07	ogra	oh, yes, mhz is moin wiki specialist :)
12:07	mhz	maybe that doesnt involve ubuntu directly :)
12:07	ogra	not really, but was very helpful very often already *g*
12:08	mdke	yes he helped when we moved away from zwiki
12:08	mhz	heheh
12:08	MagicFab	Can someone explain what mako meant by "work with me for the next 2 weeks"?
12:08	ogra	MagicFab, you ?
12:08	mdke	MagicFab, exchange emails etc
12:08	Seveas	MagicFab, he'll contact you and give pointers on what to do
12:08	elmo	ogra: what are you pinging me for?
12:08	Seveas	elmo, +1/0/-1 on mhz
12:08	ogra	elmo, mhz membership approval
12:08	elmo	didn't we lose mako tho?
12:08	ogra	hmm, yes
12:08	ogra	grmpf
12:09	Seveas	yes, but mako said that Kamion and elmo could vote already
12:09	Seveas	<mako> please, go ahead, i'll reconnect ASAP and comment on the log.. take votes from the other two :)
12:09	ogra	elmo, <mako> if you get kamion and elmo to agree, i doubt you will get a fight from me :)
12:09	mhz	hehhe
12:09	elmo	blah, one more sec, then
12:09	ogra	take your time :)
12:10	mhz	elmo: you can also see info about my talks
12:10	mhz	:)
12:10	Seveas	After that there are 2 more iems on the agenda: Scheduling the next meeting and the SebPayne issue
12:10	Seveas	(the latter is not on the wiki, we all forgot about it I think :))
12:10	elmo	ack for mhz
12:11	ogra	yay
12:11	Seveas	cool
12:11	Seveas	mhz,you'll make it :)
12:11	mhz	what is the meaning of ack (me not english native)
12:11	Kamion	mhz: acknowledge
12:11	GnuKemist	mhz: congrats!
=== kjcole waited patiently...
12:11	Seveas	mhz, that he wants you as member
12:11	mhz	elmo: thx!!!
12:11	ogra	mhz congrats
12:11	Seveas	kjcole, oops
12:11	MarioMeyer	congrats, mhz
12:11	mhz	Seveas: gooooogle
12:11	\sh	congrats mhz :)
12:11	mhz	ogra: educooool
12:11	Seveas	completely skipped that
12:11	juliux	congrats mhz
12:11	kjcole	I had an item earlier on the agenda that got missed.
12:11	ogra	hehe
12:11	mhz	Kamion: thx, indeed
12:11	Seveas	kjcole, you should have shouted :)
12:12	Seveas	sorry
12:12	mhz	\sh: me much more relief now, thx
12:12	mhz	juliux: 2 u 2
12:12	kjcole	I'm not an assertive guy. ;-)
12:12	mdke	seveas you are losing your touch
12:12	\sh	mhz: it can be a hard time :)
12:12	Seveas	kjcole's proposal is about 3-letter codes for locoteams
12:12	mdke	:)
12:12	Seveas	Kamion, elmo, what are your thoughts about this?
12:12	mdke	welcome mhz
12:12	mhz	GnuKemist: thx
12:12	mhz	mdke: thx
12:12	mhz	thx to you all guys :D
12:12	\sh	iso code?
12:12	Seveas	airport codes
12:13	\sh	oh well..
=== StrikeForce [n=marc@203-59-196-174.dyn.iinet.net.au] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== Sime [n=konversa@ip54579d1b.direct-adsl.nl] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Konversation]
12:13	elmo	I'm not sure I understand the proposal?
12:13	Seveas	(don't know whether that's an iso standard - anyone?)
12:13	kjcole	Background:
12:13	MagicFab	I have to go - but I must say there should be some other way of measuring involvement, I almost feel insulted
12:13	GnuKemist	MagicFab: don't
=== ogra would have a hard time to get airport code for his area ... there are some sports airports though
12:14	kjcole	I was talking to mdub at UBZ about mailing lists, etc for the Washington, DC loco
12:14	Kamion	is this like ubuntu.tx.us?
12:14	GnuKemist	MagicFab: I'm sure you'll make it
12:14	\sh	ogra: u have a 4 letter airport code ,-)
12:14	Seveas	elmo, simply said: if you want 2 locoteams in the US, name them ubuntu-lax and ubuntu-wdc for instamce (for LA and DC)
12:14	ogra	\sh, ??
12:14	\sh	ogra: rohr :)
12:14	kjcole	He said it LoCo's sorta became CoCo's (Country Communities) and there wasn't namespace for
12:14	mdke	let's hear kjcole's proposal
12:14	Kamion	I would have thought that the DNS subdivisions would be a better way to do that
12:14	kjcole	smaller stuff.  
12:14	ogra	\sh, lets keep it english.... pipe ;)
12:15	smurf	ogra: airports have a four-letter-code (every one of them, cryptic) and a three-letter-one (commercial airports only, somewhat understandable abbrev unless you're in canada)
12:15	kjcole	I argued that "LoCo" usually meant more "local" than that, and he agreed, but didn't want to create "ubuntu-us-washington-dc" etc
12:15	Seveas	Kamion, I'd think so too - plus it's easier to setup since all ubuntu-CC.org domains are already in canonicals hands
=== MagicFab [n=MagicFab@modemcable112.146-82-70.mc.videotron.ca] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
12:16	ogra	smurf, even sports airports ? i live 10km away from one :)
12:16	kjcole	Something short and sweet.  ubuntu-dca would work... (DCA being the code for Washington National Airport)
12:16	Seveas	kjcole, how about ubuntu-us-dca and/or dca.ubuntu-us.org?
12:16	Kamion	I really think airport codes are a pretty obscure way to do this sort of thing
12:16	smurf	ogra: it should have one
12:16	mdke	me too
=== smurf agrees with kamion
12:16	ogra	smurf, cool, i'll try to find it out then :)
12:16	GnuKemist	not sure this is really usefull... no insult...
12:17	kjcole	3-leter codes are more uiniversal. Would work well in other countries that have airports.
12:17	MarioMeyer	in Brazil we are already planning regional subdomains to ubuntu-br.org
12:17	Seveas	MarioMeyer, how are you going to name them?
12:17	\sh	Kamion: it is
12:17	MarioMeyer	like rj.ubuntu-br.org
12:17	GnuKemist	MarioMeyer: we are?  ;)
12:17	Seveas	rj for Rio?
12:17	MarioMeyer	where RJ is the 2 letter code for the state of Rio de Janeiro
12:17	smurf	IMHO regional subdomains make more sense, and I wouldn't proscribe their form -- that's too country specific
12:17	Seveas	smurf++
12:18	Kamion	kjcole: I don't think it needs to be universal - you can do country+subdivision
12:18	dholbach	yes, that makesmost sense
12:18	Kamion	which is easier to handle if you don't happen to have a list of airport codes in your head :)
12:18	\sh	smurf: i think the idea of having ffm.ubuntu-de.org is much better then having airportcodes as suffix
12:18	smurf	as we already have *lots* of ubuntu-??.org domains, I do hesitate to register even more of them
12:18	Seveas	\sh, you could even du frankfurt.ubuntu-de.org :)
12:19	GnuKemist	\sh:  and ffm stands for?
12:19	\sh	Seveas: yeah..:)
12:19	Seveas	Frankfurt am Main
12:19	\sh	GnuKemist: frankfurt/main
12:19	ogra	GnuKemist, frenkfurt
12:19	GnuKemist	ahh
12:19	Seveas	there's frankfurt/universe too
12:19	Seveas	for the MOTU :)
12:19	ogra	lol
=== smurf is not looking forward to sending Canonical a 100-page invoice for 5000 domains in a few years
12:19	GnuKemist	so we'd add the 2 letter abbreviation of the local states to the team?
12:19	dholbach	:)
12:19	kjcole	I'm not committed to the airport code idea, but it was one option.  As for remembering them, that's what the wiki's for. ;-)  (Whatever scheme is chosen, longer name could be provided on the
12:19	\sh	smurf: peanuts ,)
12:20	Seveas	kjcole, cool, so this is settled then?
12:20	kjcole	LoCoTeams page and a link to the short name.
12:20	Kamion	create this sort of thing on demand, I think - e.g. the UK doesn't need subdivided teams, but the US does
12:20	\sh	kjcole: subdomains with country or area codes are much easier for the local people...airportcodes..i think nobody can think about that
12:20	GnuKemist	how many letters?
12:21	Seveas	GnuKemist, you decide :)
12:21	GnuKemist	hehe
12:21	GnuKemist	2 then
12:21	GnuKemist	it is universal I think
12:21	Seveas	ok, anyone has more questions/remarks?
12:21	GnuKemist	all US staes use 2
12:21	GnuKemist	states
12:21	\sh	GnuKemist: i think this depends on the fantasy of the people...rio.ubuntu-br.org or rj or whatever
12:21	kjcole	OK.  (Guess I've always had some familiarity with the airport codes of interest to me. I was assuming local folks would know their own.)
12:21	Seveas	kcole, for the administsative tasks regarding setting up these subdomains you can simply contact smurf, he administers all ubuntu-CC.org domains
12:22	MarioMeyer	rio would sound like the City of Rio.. and rj would be the State...
12:22	MarioMeyer	which are named equally
12:22	GnuKemist	\sh: people could do riolandofcarnival.blah
12:22	Seveas	let's move on and not get dragged away in names...
12:22	GnuKemist	;)
12:22	kjcole	Will contact Smurf then.
12:22	Seveas	SebPayne was supposed to deliver a progress report today as part of being approved as a member
12:23	smurf	kjcole: Just make sure you all agree on a naming scheme *first*. ;-)
12:23	Seveas	however, his wikipage hasn't changed since oct. 30 and apart from begging for an IRC cloak I heared nothing from him
12:23	Seveas	anyone with better news?
12:23	dholbach	Seveas: none
12:23	Kamion	(did we explicitly tell him *he* needed to deliver a report? my memory is that we said "we'll revisit this in a month" or something equally vague :-/)
12:23	dholbach	Seveas: i didnt see him much around in #ubuntu-motu either
12:23	ogra	nope
12:23	Seveas	Kamion, we did
12:23	smurf	Kamion: I think so
12:23	ogra	yp
12:23	ogra	yup
12:23	Kamion	ok
=== MarioMeyer leaving.. cyall
12:24	Seveas	cya MarioMeyer
12:24	smurf	Ping him and tell him to give us an update at the next cc meeting?
12:24	\sh	sebpayne was who?
12:24	Seveas	So what to do with this? Insist that he shows up next time with this report? deactivate?
12:24	Seveas	spayne
12:25	Kamion	there is a progress report there, even though it was last edited on the 30th
12:25	Ubuntuser_BA	i'll be back in 2 weeks... ;)
12:25	GnuKemist	Ubuntuser_BA: ;)
12:25	Seveas	Shall I ask him to come to the next meeting?
12:25	Kamion	if somebody could ping him, that would be good; he does need to show up
12:25	Seveas	ok, I;ll do that
12:25	smurf	Seveas: +1
12:26	Ubuntuser_BA	;)
12:26	Kamion	his membership will automatically deactivate on the 26th
12:26	Seveas	If i'm not forgetting more, only datetime of next meeting should be decided
12:26	\sh	ah..
12:26	Kamion	(I set the expiration date to one month from the meeting in which he was approved ...)
12:26	\sh	spayne..now
12:26	dsas	Could I just quickly bring something up re launchpad and ubuntu teams?
12:26	mhz	Seveas: what about edubuntu.cl ? or those flavours?
12:26	mhz	.oO(too many flavours could mean too many problems with names)
12:26	mhz	Seveas: I like that edubuntu.ubuntu-cl.org
12:26	Kamion	dsas: sure (under any other business)
12:26	mhz	or santiago.ubuntu-cl.org
12:26	mhz	etc
12:26	dsas	Would it be possible to encourage a policy which says that each ubuntu group on launchpad has at least two administrators, where feasible?
=== Ubuntuser_BA [n=deb_user@200165122122.user.veloxzone.com.br] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
12:26	mhz	smurf: that santiago.ubuntu-cl.org is good because we reuse same resources, more efficently. I agree
12:26	dsas	At the moment groups with only one Administrator run the risk of having that administrator be a bottleneck for approving new members. That will become more of an issue closer to release date as everyone gets busier.
12:27	mhz	smurf: maybe in Chile we have more problems with regions unless we can use 1.ubuntu-cl.org  In chile we use numbers for regions
12:27	Seveas	dsas, that should be decided within the group
12:27	Kamion	dsas: from personal experience I know that's not feasible for all groups
12:27	smurf	mhz: not a problem, if somewhat unusual
12:27	mhz	good
12:27	Kamion	but perhaps something can be done in the Launchpad UI to encourage adding people you trust as administrators
12:27	mdke	dsas, if you have a problem with a group, best thing is to email them or contact them another way
12:28	mhz	smurf: I had booked edubuntu.cl  So it is not necesary? should we use edubuntu.ubuntu-cl.org?
12:28	Seveas	Kamion, while you're approving, could you approve David Larlet
12:28	Seveas	he was accepted oct. 25
12:28	dsas	Right ok, having difficulty getting in touch with the admin of a group, but apparently he's not been saw online for the last few days, so I'll try and get in touch in a weeks time.
12:28	Seveas	but wasn't registered on launchpad back then
12:28	Kamion	if there are possible UI enhancements, do bring those up on #launchpad, or as bug reports
12:28	StrikeForce	When do you go through the approval process?
12:28	StrikeForce	or have I missed that?
12:29	StrikeForce	I came in a bit late :(
12:29	Seveas	we already did that StrikeForce
12:29	StrikeForce	no worries
12:30	Kamion	StrikeForce: see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityCouncilAgenda for instructions; we're looking for sustained (multi-month), significant contributions
12:30	StrikeForce	Kamion, I have but I did it through launchpad
12:30	Seveas	last item: Date/time of the next meeting. Shall I ping all regular CC meeting visitors and ubuntu-devel to coordinate new times?
12:30	StrikeForce	Kamion, the signing and all of that
12:30	ogra	at least 4 weeks of contribution and forseeable ongoing activity ...
12:31	\sh	Seveas: in 2 weeks time :)
12:31	StrikeForce	ogra, re packaging?
12:31	Seveas	\sh, it's feasible :)
12:31	ogra	StrikeForce, yes ?
12:31	Seveas	StrikeForce, please discuss this after the meeting
12:31	Kamion	Seveas: David Larlet done, thanks for chasing that up
12:31	Seveas	Kamion, thnx
12:31	Kamion	StrikeForce: for the moment, you do need to bring this up on the agenda or we won't notice, sorry
12:32	Seveas	\sh, I have a secret plan already :)
12:32	\sh	Seveas: post it on the fridge :)
=== vincent_ [n=vincent@85.69.101.97] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
12:32	Kamion	let's do the next meeting two weeks from now as per usual; perhaps we can convene people specially to talk to Rolando Blanco, since he can't do Tuesdays
12:32	david`bgk	thanks Kamion
12:33	Seveas	Kamion, ok, but mako sort of complained abot the scheduled times in general
=== Adri2000 [n=Adri2000@lns-bzn-37-82-253-38-250.adsl.proxad.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:33	Seveas	I think coming up with a better schedule may be worthwile - since people from .au/.nz for instance have a hard time showing up
12:33	Kamion	we can't discuss that with him absent; we'll have to sort it out next time round
12:33	Seveas	true, but I could gather some opinions already
12:33	Kamion	likewise sabdfl, I don't know his schedule well enough to comment
12:34	mhz	Seveas: what if we rotate shcedules?
12:34	StrikeForce	due to work committments
12:34	Seveas	mhz, we already do
12:34	\sh	Seveas: should we change times like for TB?
12:34	mhz	ohh
12:34	Kamion	the sad fact is that it has to be reasonably convenient for the CC otherwise it won't happen
12:34	Kamion	with three of us on London time we are somewhat constrained
12:35	Seveas	even then the schedule can be improved
12:35	Kamion	we've tried rotating times, and the 6am one was laughably inquorate :-)
12:35	Seveas	currently it's 14:00 / 22:00 - that's only 8 hours apart
12:35	Kamion	14:00 is harsh on mako
12:35	Seveas	hehe :)
12:35	mhz	Kamion: heheh
12:36	Seveas	anyway, I propose that we all think about this for the next meeting and end this one here :)
12:36	Kamion	I can handle back to 09:00 or so (08:00 is hard because the child is getting ready for school), but again that's getting pretty late for mako
12:36	mhz	Kamion: indeed. however, if meetings take place every 2 weeks, then there is not much sufferinf
12:36	mhz	suffering
12:36	Kamion	mhz: I'm speaking as somebody who *has* to show up :P
12:36	mhz	ahh
12:36	juliux	gn8 everybody
12:36	ogra	and who cant make tuesdays
12:36	Seveas	gn8 juliux
12:36	GnuKemist	well, I guess I'll check back with you guys...  cheers
12:36	ogra	night juliux
12:36	mhz	juliux: bye, congrats and thx
12:37	Kamion	ok, let's make it 14:00 in two weeks time, and we'll discuss it more then with everyone present
12:37	\sh	juliux: sleep well...and again congrats
12:37	Kamion	thanks for showing up, everyone
12:37	Seveas	ack, see you all in 2 weeks :)
12:37	Kamion	meeting closed

</pre>
