{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
TZ UTC+1
<pre>
05:05	mdz	ok, good, let's get started
05:05	mdz	some of you may have heard that we're releasing in two weeks :-)
05:06	cjwatson	EASY
05:06	mdz	Mithrandir's last email said we had 140 release-critical issues
05:06	pitti	and we don't even know the name of feisty+1 yet :(
05:06	mdz	but that was a week ago
05:06	mdz	pitti: I sit next to Mark now and will ask every day until that changes :-)
05:06	Keybuk	pitti: we're trying our hardest
05:06	mdz	won't be long now
05:06	cjwatson	I haven't done a bug count today yet
05:06	mdz	strike that, it said "about 140"
05:07	cjwatson	(give me two minutes)
05:07	mvo	I think we have ~90 milestoned currently
05:07	pitti	113
05:07	seb128	what do you count release-critical?
05:07	seb128	anything using a 7.04 milestone?
05:07	Mithrandir	milestoned and in main+restricted
05:07	mdz	I count 131
05:07	seb128	I tend to use milestone with low importance for things I want to work on, that doesn't mean they are r-c
05:07	mdz	oh, I counted universe+multiverse
05:08	cjwatson	131> ditto
05:08	pitti	weird, I see 113 milestone bugs; anyway, lots
05:08	mdz	this being our sixth release, it's about time we had an agreement about how release-critical issues are recorded
05:08	Mithrandir	so 109 now.
05:08	cjwatson	seb128: regardless, they all need to be unmilestoned or fixed before release
05:08	heno	note that some of these may be dupes of already fixed bugs such as bug 89070
ubotu	Malone bug 89070 in casper "Can't eject cdrom (dup-of: 84592)" [Medium,Unconfirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/89070
ubotu	Malone bug 84592 in casper "feisty shutdown eject doesn't" [Undecided,Fix released]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/84592
05:09	mdz	I think it makes most sense to reserve the ubuntu-7.04 milestone for truly critical issues
05:09	heno	I plan to look for more such cases
05:09	cjwatson	131> that figure counts duplicates and bugs with multiple tasks
05:09	seb128	cjwatson: right, I already dropped some of the list but I still have a bunch of bugs I want to work on and that's the best way I've found to keep track of them
05:09	mdz	we can create a second milestone for things which we want to remember to look at, if that's needed
05:09	pitti	that should be 'in progress' state
05:09	Mithrandir	mdz: we have one (which is *cough*, part of edgy), later.
05:09	mdz	we're unlikely to fix all 109 of those bugs during freeze
05:10	pitti	seb128: why not assign to you/set in progress? that works very well for me and is more natural to the LP workflow
05:10	Mithrandir	heno: 89070 isn't on the list of RC bugs.
05:10	mdz	mvo: do you still have 25 targeted bugs?
05:10	seb128	well, I though r-c was > importance bugs
05:10	heno	Mithrandir: sorry
05:10	seb128	pitti: because I list them for desktop team and I'm not working on them, dholbach work on some also, etc
05:10	mvo	mdz: no, my count should be much less, around 5
05:10	Mithrandir	heno: don't use +milestone/ubuntu-7.04, use https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&field.status%3Alist=Unconfirmed&field.status%3Alist=Needs+Info&field.status%3Alist=Confirmed&field.status%3Alist=In+Progress&field.status%3Alist=Fix+Committed&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_contact=&field.milestone%3Alist=200&field.component=1&field.component=2&field.component-empty-marke
05:11	mdz	mvo: you have many marked fix committed
05:11	mdz	mvo: did you forget to change them to fix released?
05:11	seb128	pitti: that's a "would be nice to fix those desktop bugs" list and anybody is welcome to give a hand ;)
05:11	mvo	mdz: most likely I will go over them
05:11	mdz	Mithrandir: is there a link to that from UbuntuDevelopment?
=== mvo wants "changelog closes bugs"
05:11	mdz	mvo: we're very close
05:11	mdz	I spoke with kiko about it on Monday
05:11	Mithrandir	mdz: I don't think so, no.  I can put it on my list of things to do next week.
05:12	mdz	it is reportedly BjornT's next focus
05:12	mvo	mdz: cool! sorry, but my milestone search exclude fix-commited so I haven't noticed
05:12	mdz	and kiko has given him some code for the soyuz bit
05:12	mdz	Mithrandir: please do; that's a list all developers should be able to find easily
05:12	mdz	Keybuk: do you know what's happening with this critical evms bug?
05:12	Keybuk	mdz: there's a new one?
05:13	Keybuk	what #?
05:13	mdz	Keybuk: the one at the top of Mithrandir's url
05:13	mdz	bug 74317
ubotu	Malone bug 74317 in evms "race with devmapper" [Critical,Unconfirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/74317
05:13	Keybuk	mdz: that's the first time I've seen that one
05:13	cjwatson	bug 63175 and bug 89069 are likely the same thing, but it's difficult
ubotu	Malone bug 63175 in e2fsprogs "Edgy Beta -- fsck on every (re)boot" [Medium,Needs info]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/63175
ubotu	Malone bug 89069 in ubiquity "problem with time" [Medium,Unconfirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/89069
05:14	Keybuk	and it is likely that wasabi is correct in the fix
05:15	mdz	cjwatson: it's not clear to me why that would change since warty
05:15	mdz	Keybuk: can you chase it up and fix it in ian's absence if necessary?
05:16	cjwatson	it doesn't surprise me that it changed around dapper/edgy due to certain internal installer changes
05:16	Keybuk	mdz: yup
05:16	mdz	mvo: bug 99171 is not a real bug, but it does need to get done
ubotu	Malone bug 99171 in update-manager "Reminder: disable "useDevelopmentRelease=True" before final release in CD self upgrader" [Critical,Confirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/99171
05:16	mdz	mvo,Mithrandir: when is the right time to throw that switch?
05:16	mvo	mdz: after RC
05:16	mdz	mvo: surely before RC, no?
05:17	pitti	mvo: why would it hurt to do it earlier?
05:17	pitti	mvo: after all, there's no feisty+1 yet to upgrade to
05:17	mdz	(unfortunately)
05:18	mvo	after the last image that we consider "not-yet-released"
05:18	mvo	otherwise people will not get a updated dist-upgrader (if we issue one)
05:18	mvo	but we need to turn it off before final release
05:18	mdz	RC should have all of the trimmings for final; that's the point
05:19	mdz	version numbers and all
05:19	Mithrandir	mvo: you mean people who run the dist-upgrader from RC to final won't get the updated one?
05:19	mvo	Mithrandir: if we have a updated one on the net, then no. if we don't it does not matter
05:19	mdz	upgrading to RC should give the same experience as upgrading to final, so we can test the final process
05:20	Mithrandir	I agree with mdz, while we're updating langpacks after RC, I'd like to avoid changing code at all possible after RC is out.
05:20	Mithrandir	that's kinda the point of RC.
05:20	Riddell	cjwatson: the release notes URL link should be turned on in ubiquity?
05:20	cjwatson	Riddell: it already is
05:20	mvo	fair enough, then we need to turn it off before the weekend
05:20	mdz	mvo: would this be a good item to add to the checklists?
05:21	mdz	rather than filing a bug
05:21	cjwatson	Riddell: oh, argh, maybe it isn't, I'll check
05:21	mvo	mdz: good point! I used a bug because I wanted to be 100% certain that I don't forget it
05:21	Riddell	cjwatson: it's a file that needs putting on the CD as I remember, maybe Mithrandir knows
05:21	cjwatson	Riddell: no, it's my problem
05:22	cjwatson	it's supposed to have been on the CD for ages but apparently fell off due to a slight code bug
=== mvo makes a note to add it to the release-checklist
05:22	Riddell	cjwatson: where does it point to (for Kubuntu)?
05:22	cjwatson	-> #ubuntu-devel
05:22	Riddell	yep
05:23	mdz	mvo: thanks
05:23	mdz	cjwatson: is that on the checklist as well?
05:24	mdz	Mithrandir: have you given up on bug 45696?
ubotu	Malone bug 45696 in network-manager "NetworkManager can't find interface on resume from suspend" [High,Confirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/45696
05:24	cjwatson	mdz: it's supposed to be on the CD throughout release, so no. it's just a bug.
05:24	mdz	Mithrandir: bug 58503 has a safe+sane-looking fix
ubotu	Malone bug 58503 in usplash "No response to keyboard input at prompt after ejecting CD-ROM" [High,Confirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/58503
05:25	cjwatson	mdz: (updating the mapping table is on the checklist, but that's not what Riddell's talking about)
05:25	Mithrandir	mdz: 45696 has gone away by itself for me, I used to see it all the time, but no longer.
05:26	mdz	Keybuk: thoughts on bug 66637?
ubotu	Malone bug 66637 in util-linux "After running mkswap, swap space is discarded, system fails to hibernate (invalid swap signature)" [High,Confirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/66637
05:26	mdz	Mithrandir: it just happened to me today
05:26	mdz	so it's still around
05:26	mvo	Mithrandir: I have it here too
05:26	mdz	mvo: do you get the connection limit message?
05:26	Keybuk	mdz: isn't that the old "mkswap discards the previous UUID" bug?
05:26	mdz	Keybuk: yes
05:26	bdmurray	I've seen that some recently too
05:26	Keybuk	mdz: I had a mostly finished patch for that
05:26	mdz	Keybuk: with 13 duplicates
05:26	mvo	mdz: I haven't checked
05:27	Keybuk	except we had new information that sometimes fsck changes the UUID too, so I was investigating that
05:27	Keybuk	but got side-tracked by the evms/md/lvm/devmapper stuff
05:27	Keybuk	it's next on my list to fix
05:27	mdz	ok
05:27	Mithrandir	mdz: 58503, I haven't looked at that lately, I've spent time on trying to fix NM to work beter.
05:27	Mithrandir	better, even.
05:27	mdz	BenC: how about the kernel bugs on that list?
05:28	mdz	Mithrandir: I have never seen that one, but it's fairly serious for folks who do (and can't be fixed in an update)
05:28	BenC	mdz: We're reviewing things
05:29	BenC	checking to see what we want to target for RC and release
05:29	mdz	cjwatson: bug 85612 -> agreed
ubotu	Malone bug 85612 in kde-systemsettings "Edgy/Kubuntu update broke access to display settings on 4 separate systems (dup-of: 38692)" [Undecided,Unconfirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/85612
ubotu	Malone bug 38692 in kde-systemsettings "systemsettings doesn't load Display, Disk and Filesystems control module" [High,Confirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/38692
05:29	mdz	er
05:29	Keybuk	mdz: that fix is inspired
05:29	mdz	bug 85162, that is
Malone bug 85162 in localechooser "installer doesn't permit to set little countries" [High,Confirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/85162
05:29	Keybuk	and really would explain why it doesn't work
05:29	cjwatson	yeah, too risky
05:29	BenC	mdz: At this point, I don't thing any of our bugs are real showstoppers, but we have some that would be worth fixing for release
05:29	mdz	Keybuk: which?
05:30	Keybuk	mdz: 58503 ... if the keyboard is in the wrong mode, that'd explain why previous attempts to debug have failed
05:30	mdz	BenC: worth fixing why?
05:30	Keybuk	we were assuming the keyboard was attached to the wrong VT/etc.
05:30	mdz	BenC: if they can be fixed via updates instead, it's time to start thinking about that
05:30	mdz	Keybuk: ah, right
05:31	mdz	seb128: what about the panel crash with 8972342 duplicates?
05:31	pitti	BenC: I think the nvidia vs. legacy one will hurt upgraders badly
05:31	BenC	mdz: The only patches I'm considering at this point have to be non-ABI changes, and pretty trivial (meaning we can review it and see that it will fix things, without a lot of testing)
05:31	seb128	mdz: I've just uploaded another gtk+2.0 fix 30 seconds ago, might fix it
05:31	heno	Mithrandir: can we fix bug 91868 ? it should be a trivial casper script change
05:31	doko	we're down to 98 RC reports, lets continue 4hours, and we're done =)
ubotu	Malone bug 91868 in casper "Magnifier does not start from accessibility menu due to incorrectly referenced file." [Medium,Confirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/91868
05:31	BenC	pitti: That's still in progress, and I will have it before RC
05:31	seb128	mdz: another invalid read to icon code I've caught with valgrind
05:31	pitti	BenC: cool
05:32	Mithrandir	heno: yes.
05:32	mvo	BenC: rock!
05:32	heno	cool
=== dholbach hugs seb128
05:32	mdz	kylem: bug 88219?
ubotu	Malone bug 88219 in lilo "lilo won't add the new kernel 2.6.20" [High,Fix committed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/88219
05:32	mdz	seb128: so there's a fix on the way?
05:32	seb128	mdz: not easy to debug, we get ziliion of dups but nobody able to get a valgrind log of it crashing
05:32	mdz	seb128: oh, I thought you meant you had caught a log of it
05:32	seb128	mdz: I'm not sure that's "the fix", it stopped the incorrect read to icon code I was getting
05:33	seb128	mdz: right, not sure that's the only bug though
05:33	seb128	though I'm confident this one is good
05:33	mdz	asac: bug 89071 doesn't sound release-critical
ubotu	Malone bug 89071 in firefox "Can't allow sites for adding extensions" [High,Confirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/89071
05:33	seb128	I'm running gnome-panel under valgrind for some hours and I've get no error on package installations, upgrades, etc
05:33	asac	mdz: yes we can untarget that
05:34	kylem	mdz, i'll have to look at it again. i thought i fixe dit.
05:34	mvo	seb128: have you tried theme changes as well?
05:34	asac	mdz: done
05:34	mvo	seb128: I got some crashes in synaptic from people changing themes during downloads
05:34	seb128	mvo: it's not happening on theme change, it's happening on upgrades
05:34	mvo	seb128: ok
05:34	seb128	mvo: might be a different one :/
05:34	mvo	seb128: yeah :/ joy!
05:35	mdz	mvo: do you have any fix committed bugs which *shouldn't* be fix released? (any pending uploads?)
05:36	mvo	mdz: I don't think so, I was careful to make sure that everything went in before the freeze today, but I will double check
05:36	tkamppeter	seb128, your non-optimized version for bug 91218 seems still not be a good workaround.
ubotu	Malone bug 91218 in gnome-cups-manager "MASTER: [apport]  gnome-cups-manager crashed with SIGSEGV in g_signal_emit_valist()" [High,Confirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/91218
05:36	mdz	Keybuk: bug 96777?
ubotu	Malone bug 96777 in upstart "ttyS0 not migrated properly on upgrades from edgy to feisty" [High,Confirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/96777
05:36	mvo	mdz: some of the obvious ones I closed already
05:36	tkamppeter	someone has installed your package and got the same crash.
05:36	mdz	mvo: there are a bunch on the list; I'll reload
05:37	mdz	mvo: the update-manager bugs are really cluttering the list
05:37	Keybuk	mdz: err, I thought I uploaded that before I came here
05:37	seb128	tkamppeter: the change to build with -O0 on amd64 didn't work apparently, I'll have an another look
05:37	Keybuk	mdz: but I don't see it in the archive -- will look when I get home :)
05:37	mdz	Keybuk: last upstart was 11 mar
05:37	Keybuk	yeah, weird, there's a newer one
05:38	Keybuk	0.3.8-2
05:38	Keybuk	but LP knows nothing
05:38	mdz	Mithrandir: re: bug 102105, LSB 3.1 was not a release goal
ubotu	Malone bug 102105 in lsb "Issues of Ubuntu's LSB compliance - Login shell startup" [High,Unconfirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/102105
05:39	mdz	Mithrandir: have you been in contact with mdke regarding bug 103308?
05:39	Mithrandir	mdz: iirc, tkamppeter milestoned it.  And I think LSB is on crack there, since they can't mandate changes to what POSIX sh should support.
ubotu	Malone bug 103308 in ubuntu-docs "newtoubuntu documents has link to English version of user-guide rather than localised version" [High,Confirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/103308
05:39	mdz	Mithrandir: oh, it was only reported 2 hours ago. urgh
05:40	Mithrandir	mdz: so, no, I haven't.  I'm on vacation. :-P
05:40	mdz	seems worthy of a freeze exception if the fix is simple
05:40	doko	mdz: the wording is "shall" in both cases
05:40	Keybuk	doko: what does that mean for LSB?
05:40	tkamppeter	Mithrandir, so POSIX does not require -l and /etc/profile.d for sh?
05:40	Keybuk	shall implies required?
05:40	Keybuk	tkamppeter: right
05:41	mdz	doko: in 3.0 as well, you mean?
05:41	mdz	we passed the 3.0 validation tests at some point
05:41	doko	looking ...
05:41	tkamppeter	If "shall" would not require anything, why are such terms in the LSB?
05:41	cjwatson	http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/009695399/utilities/sh.html <- POSIX sh
05:41	Mithrandir	and while I think that LSB support would be nice, LSB should not try to change behaviour of /bin/sh and similar interfaces.
05:42	mdz	doko: what were the two cases?
05:42	Mithrandir	and profile.d has been rejected from Debian policy multiple times.
05:42	mdz	that's all of the interesting high-priority milestoned bugs, at a glance
05:42	cjwatson	sounds like they got it into LSB by the back door
05:43	doko	mdz: "The shell shall support an additional option -l" and "The sh utility shall read and execute commands ..."
05:43	cjwatson	I think the swap formatting control thing in ubiquity should be done if at all possible
05:43	Keybuk	doko: so they're both required by the LSB?
05:43	cjwatson	just haven't quite had time yet
05:43	Keybuk	(note we're nowhere near LSB compliance according to the letter of the spec, so I don't think more non-compliance matters)
05:43	cjwatson	I'm doing bug 91868
ubotu	Malone bug 91868 in casper "Magnifier does not start from accessibility menu due to incorrectly referenced file." [Medium,Fix committed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/91868
05:43	heno	cjwatson: thanks
05:44	cjwatson	ok, pending agenda items?
05:44	cjwatson	there are only a couple
05:44	cjwatson	(ogra) Edubuntu is RC blocked on bug #100021 (or on removing NM from the Edubuntu seeds) at the moment.
ubotu	Malone bug 100021 in ltsp "[Feisty]  LTSP fails on multi-homed server due to network manager touching predefined static interfaces" [Undecided,Confirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/100021
05:44	Mithrandir	it doesn't seem like "shall" is defined in the LSB spec.
05:44	cjwatson	can somebody who knows n-m give advice or fixes as necessary?
05:44	mdz	ogra: how is it that this was only discovered 2 weeks before release?
05:45	Mithrandir	but they use shall and must.
05:45	Keybuk	Mithrandir: those are both "required" things, Englishishwise
05:45	tkamppeter	Mithrandir, then the LSB spec is broken.
05:45	Keybuk	"should" is normally used in specs to mean "recommended"
05:45	Keybuk	and "may" for optional
05:46	pitti	ogra: not sure whether this is fixable ATM; n-m's very concept is 'one active device at a time' :(
05:46	doko	Keybuk: http://refspecs.freestandards.org/LSB_3.1.0/LSB-Core-generic/LSB-Core-generic/def.html so yes, it's must.
05:46	doko	mdz: 3.0 has the same wording
05:47	tkamppeter	Keybuk, if they are required, this bug needs to get fixed.
05:47	Keybuk	tkamppeter: *shrug* if it isn't part of their test suite, it's not that important
05:47	mdz	pitti: network-manager may not be appropriate for servers with multiple network interfaces
05:47	Keybuk	I'd argue that they're trying to change POSIX-defined interfaces there, so the LSB needs to be fixed
05:47	mdz	this is an odd situation because desktop packages get installed on edubuntu servers
05:47	pitti	mdz: right, neither for desktop machines with the same situation (mine, for example)
05:48	Mithrandir	pitti: I am adding a concept of "manual" devices devices to NM which it knows about and assumes that are always online (but doesn't touch)
05:48	mdz	pitti: on desktops, it's usually the right thing, and folks who are doing something funny can remove it :-)
05:48	pitti	mdz: right, I wasn't complaining
05:48	Mithrandir	so if you have interfaces which are on some kind of manual, NM won't touch them.
05:48	pitti	mdz: well, I'd correct it to 'on laptops it's the right thing', but anyway
05:48	mdz	but in this case, we know that it's not the right thing because we're installing a server
05:48	mdz	ogra: are you here?
05:49	tkamppeter	Keybuk, I think following the LSB wording and not only the test suite is important, as people who make distribution-independent packages, read the specs and do not analyse the source of the test suite.
05:49	pitti	but at this time I guess it's too late to install it on laptops only
05:49	mdz	it doesn't seem that ogra is here, so I suppose we'll move on
05:49	mdz	(pitti) Confirm decision about apport in final release.
05:49	cjwatson	tkamppeter: I think it's a bug, but not a release-critical one
05:49	Keybuk	tkamppeter: *shrug* nobody produces distribution-independent packages and nobody like that cares about the LSB
05:49	Keybuk	tkamppeter: for the first point, the LSB mandates RPM not DEB :p
05:49	mdz	pitti: the consensus seemed clear on the mailing list; what's the question?
05:49	cjwatson	Keybuk: (tkamppeter does, for printing)
05:49	pitti	mdz: right, just getting a bunch of 'ok' from folks like bdmurray who didn't report back on the ML
05:50	tkamppeter	Yes, that is true, cjwatson, perhaps I am the first user of the LSB?
05:50	mdz	pitti: you have the floor :-)
05:50	asac	pitti: you have my ok :)
05:50	pitti	bdmurray: are you fine with disabling crash reports by default, only keep it on the live CD?
05:50	pitti	and asac?
05:51	bdmurray	pitti: yes
05:51	pitti	ah, asac beat me to it
05:51	pitti	great, I'm done then, thanks
05:51	mdz	tkamppeter: you may be the first to rely on this feature and notice it...I assume you know the right people to talk to at FSG about this issue :-)
05:51	mdz	ok, that's the end of the agenda
05:51	mdz	friday and monday are holidays in the UK, so some of us may not be online much
05:51	doko	what about demoting libstdc++5 and ia32-libs?
05:52	Mithrandir	doko: please. :-)
05:52	mdz	Mithrandir: when are you back at work?
05:52	tkamppeter	Yes, I have already reported on the lsb-discuss mailing list of the Linux Foundation that there are these issues with sh.
05:52	pitti	demoting++
05:52	doko	ok, doing that
05:52	Riddell	any progress on having more people to admin NEW queue?
05:52	pitti	doko: i. e. you'll unseed this?
05:52	doko	pitti: yes
05:52	Mithrandir	mdz: Tuesday, but I'll look at IRC for freeze exceptions, etc at least daily.
05:52	pitti	doko: great, ping me, I'll care for the demotion
05:52	asac	doko: there are some that use upstream firefox ... though i don't care maybe they want it.
05:52	mdz	Mithrandir: who is your backup while you are away?
05:53	doko	asac: it's still available in universe
05:53	pitti	asac: they have to manually install it anyway
05:53	Mithrandir	mdz: AIUI, most of the distro team is away for Easter already, so nobody with the access rights is around.
05:53	pitti	asac: it would make a difference if we shipped it in -desktop, or on the CDs, but we don't
05:54	cjwatson	Riddell: there were four items in NEW last I looked
05:54	cjwatson	I'm not concerned
05:54	asac	doko: pitti fine
05:54	cjwatson	(I realise three of them are yours)
05:54	mdz	Mithrandir: that's going to put us in a bit of a crunch for RC, I think
05:54	pitti	yes, I spent a fair amount of time on source new last week
05:54	cjwatson	I am available although not on a much more regular basis than Mithrandir
05:55	mdz	RS/ES/LT/England/AU/DK/NO are mentioned as having holidays
05:55	Mithrandir	hm, not .de?
05:55	kwwii	and DE
05:55	seb128	I'll be around and reading mail every now and then if anything is required
05:55	mdz	kwwii,Mithrandir: not on the wiki
05:55	pitti	see the copious warthogs mails
05:55	seb128	FR as well
05:55	mdz	but it seems so, yes
05:55	doko	I'll be skiing, so not reading email
05:55	Mithrandir	seb128: you don't have access to lithium, do you?
05:56	seb128	Mithrandir: not that I know, no
05:56	seb128	Mithrandir: nop
05:56	mdz	Mithrandir: given that we still have bugs to fix, and that most folks won't be working until Tuesday, it seems unlikely that we'll be able to start building candidates on schedule, don't you think?
05:56	doko	Mithrandir: can I remove the milestone from bug 88486 ?
ubotu	Malone bug 88486 in openoffice.org "impress hangs when opening Canonical template presentation [regression from edgy] " [Undecided,Needs info]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/88486
05:56	Mithrandir	doko: yes, I think that makes sense.
05:57	cjwatson	(rtg had to go due to battery)
05:57	Mithrandir	mdz: I'd like to see if we can compress it and evaluate on Tuesday afternoon or Wednesday whether we need to postpone it one day.
05:58	mdz	it sounds like there is a day's worth of bugs to fix, so wednesday would be the earliest to start
05:58	mdz	whereas the schedule calls for it to start Monday
05:58	seb128	mdz: GNOME 2.18.1 tarball will be rolled on monday and tuesday ...
05:59	seb128	tarballs
05:59	mdz	seb128: that's not ideal either
05:59	seb128	well, nothing we can change there
=== ogra waves
06:00	mdz	seb128: we could do them as -updates or selectively
06:00	seb128	mdz: I think that would be a mistake
06:00	seb128	we would drop one month of bug fix
06:00	mdz	seb128: we could delay the release
06:01	seb128	hum?
06:01	cjwatson	mdz: ... you mean the release candidate?
06:01	seb128	mdz: there is 10 days between GNOME 2.18.1 and 7.04, you think that's not enough?
06:02	mdz	seb128: I count 9, and about 3 days of that are supposed to be RC testing :-)
06:02	cjwatson	can anyone reproduce bug 96958?
ubotu	Malone bug 96958 in ubiquity "[feisty]  Kubuntu timezone page broken" [Undecided,Needs info]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/96958
06:02	pitti	seb128: will there be any intrusive soname bumps and the like, anything that could screw and delay buildds/archive consistency?
06:02	mdz	cjwatson: I meant the release, but only half seriously
06:02	Riddell	cjwatson: I've only heard of it from heno on virtual box as I say
06:02	seb128	pitti: no, GNOME 2.18.1 is only bug fix, stable branch has still UI, string, API, ABI, etc freezes
06:03	mdz	seb128: I think we should try to avoid this conflict for feisty+1, it puts unnecessary pressure on you for packaging, and on all of us for CD testing
06:03	ogra	err, did you guys reschedule the meeting ? its supposed to start now, no ?
06:03	Mithrandir	mdz: I'm fine with delaying the RC, but not release, I believe we can get a good release out
06:03	asac	ogra: schedule is wrong ... i almost fell for it as well.
06:03	seb128	ogra: 15UTC was 1 hour ago
06:04	heno	Riddell, cjwatson: virtual box is still a bit raw on graphics. Most likely the problem
06:04	Riddell	ogra: like last week it was rescheduled by an hour, poke Keybuk to tell fridge to update
06:04	ogra	seb128, my evo says 18:00 CEST
06:04	ogra	which is exactly now
06:04	Keybuk	Riddell: how do I tell fridge?
06:04	Keybuk	ogra: your evo is wrong
06:04	ogra	seb128, and the fridge seems to agree
06:04	seb128	ogra: Keybuk's mail said 15UTC
06:04	mdz	ogra: the distro team calendar is authoritative
06:04	Riddell	Keybuk: #ubuntu-marketing, fridge-devel@
06:04	dholbach	Keybuk: fridge-devel AT lists DOT ubuntu DOT com
06:04	ogra	gah
06:04	pitti	mdz: that's even more wrong
06:04	Keybuk	ogra: I mailed you explictitly, with the reminder, with the fact the time was different in capitals
06:04	mdz	pitti: it's correct here
06:04	Keybuk	Riddell: well voluntold, could you let them know :)
06:04	pitti	mdz: it says 8 am for me
06:05	ogra	please keep the fridge updated ...
06:05	Riddell	nixternal: fancy editing fridge calendar?
06:05	cjwatson	please don't use the fridge for this
06:05	seb128	mdz: I'm confident GNOME 2.18.1 will be no problem, it's the same timing every time, but right, an extra week next time could be nice
06:05	nixternal	Riddell: sure!
06:05	cjwatson	-> distro team + ogra anyway. it's useful for others
06:05	mdz	seb128: yes, I know.  we've managed in the past and we will manage this time also
06:05	nixternal	meeting, date, time, agenda?
06:05	mdz	seb128: but I think it would be better to have a little more time
06:05	Riddell	nixternal: devel team meetings back an hour (UTC)
06:05	seb128	mdz: agreed
06:05	ogra	cjwatson, i use the fridge for all dates ... why must this one differ ?
06:06	cjwatson	ogra: if you're using a calendar which is consistently not updated for this meeting, you should use something else and deal ...
06:06	ogra	:/
06:06	cjwatson	it is clearly mailed out to everyone, and blaming the calendar isn't good
06:06	Keybuk	Til managed to turn up on time
06:07	Keybuk	+l
06:07	mdz	ogra: we don't even have the ability to change the fridge calendar; it's run by a different team and sometimes lags
06:07	mdz	(directly)
06:07	ogra	i know
06:07	Keybuk	and we change the times of this meeting, and whether they even happen, regularly
06:08	mdz	ok, we're over time
06:08	mdz	is there any other business for the meeting?
06:08	Keybuk	I could cc fridge-devel on the reminders the day before, but I suspect they'd get sick of that
06:08	ogra	but other teams manage it as well ... having a centralized calendar seems pointless if its not used
06:08	pitti	the distro team google calendar would be nice, if that wouldn't fail so hideously on time zones
06:09	mdz	quibbling about meeting times ->elsewhere
06:09	mdz	meeting adjourned
06:09	mdz	thanks, everyone
</pre>
