{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=05&day=06&year=2013&hour=16&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon May 6th 2013 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold

=== Not present ===
* chrisccoulson

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Evan Broder (broder) provided a debdiff for lucid for libapache-mod-security (LP: #1169030)
** Scott Kitterman (ScottK) provided a debdiff for hardy for clamav and new package for saucy (LP: #1172981)
** Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Actions
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: happy place
** openjdk-6 updates
** notes assimilation
** embargoed issue
** patch pilot
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: triage
** pending updates
** sbeattie
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor
*** finishing up a couple of carried over work items: aa-easyprof templates for qml apps and html5 apps
*** modifying aa-easyprof to take a manifest file and emit policy
** tyhicks
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor
*** finshed carryover work item last week
*** wrapping up "adjust policy language to better match the network rule style and use more appropriate dbus keywords"
*** performance testing DBus
** jjohansen
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor
*** work items from https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/appdev-s-appisolation-signals-ipc-ptrace
*** prep for !AppArmor meeting
** sarnold
** weekly role: community
** !AppArmor patch review
** review upstart seccomp2 patches
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-05-06-16.33.html
