{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
10:59 JaneW      hello
10:59 ogra       yello
11:00 Riddell    hi
11:00 ajmitch    hi
11:00 pitti      moin
11:00 Kamion     hi
11:00 dholbach   HELLO
11:00 JaneW      jbailey sends appologies as does mjg59
11:00 JaneW      BenC: ping
11:03 dholbach   JaneW: you should do a CALL in the room. :-)
11:03 Simira     JaneW: are they sick also now?
11:03 JaneW      you means SPEAK?
11:03 Mithrandir dudes&dudettes
=== Lathiat [i=lathiat@ubuntu/member/pdpc.basic.lathiat] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:03 ogra       dudettes ?
=== fabbione waves
=== mdz [n=mdz@82.109.136.125] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:04 dholbach   duderettes
11:04 mdz        good morning
11:04 JaneW      we are missing BenC still
11:04 ogra       dholbach, sounds like a gay dancegroup :)
11:04 mdz        should we do this in the usual way, or by more physical means?
11:04 dholbach   ogra: haha :)
11:04 JaneW      I had no appologies from him
11:04 JaneW      jbailey sends appologies as does mjg59
=== fabbione suggests more physical means.. like sumo
11:04 Mithrandir ogra: JaneW and Simira at least are clearly not dudes, but dudettes.
11:04 ajmitch    mdz: it'd be nice to see the updates if possible
11:05 dholbach   fabbione: woohoo! :)
11:05 JaneW      mdz: the community asked for an on-line meeting as usual
11:05 mdz        ajmitch: the report would still go out as usual, of course
11:05 JaneW      true
11:05 JaneW      mdz: but then I'd have to do ALL the typing ;)
11:05 Mithrandir haha
11:05 ogra       dont we copy and paste all from prepared docs anyway ... ?
11:05 mdz        JaneW: presumably everyone has prepared their reports as usual, and could
                 paste them in addition to talking
11:05 JaneW      ok
11:06 mdz        but we can do it here also
11:06 ogra       lets just do the copy/paste thing here and discuss in RL
11:06 mdz        mjg59 is apparently planning to drop by this afternoon
11:07 mdz        no word from BenC?
=== jsgotangco [n=jsg@125.212.120.177] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:08 mdz        ok, starting from the bottom then
11:08 mdz        Riddell?
11:08 JaneW      BenC: is prolly asleep
                 done:  kpdf ported to poppler with pitti did not succeed with kword,
11:08 Riddell    investigate kdm for debconf preseed issue (couldn't find a problem, neither
                 could kamion, needs further investigation), various kubuntu.org website
                 updates
                 kubuntu-roadmap-dapper: kde 3.5.1 all released, only 1 problem reported now
11:09 Riddell    fixed, (working with backport Mez to get it backported), move amarok/kaffeine
                 to xine
11:09 Riddell    langpacks-desktopfiles: investigated for KDE, looks possible if careful to
                 avoid kconfig/klocale loop
11:09 Riddell    kubuntu-express: reading kamion's code
11:09 Riddell    todo: more kubuntu-express, get network-manager working so I can investigate
                 getting knetworkmanager working
=== iwj [n=ian@xenophobe.extern.relativity.greenend.org.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:09 mdz        JaneW: your reminder went out with enough advance notice
11:09 mdz        to set an alarm clock
11:09 JaneW      mdz: yes about 18 hours before...
=== Simira [n=simira@194.24.252.250] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
11:10 mdz        Riddell,pitti: is kword still pending, or is it not worth the effort?
11:10 JaneW      Riddell: 3 of your specs are red as they haven't been approved yet...
11:10 pitti      mdz: it's an awful lot of work, since it still uses xpdf 2
11:11 Riddell    mdz: it's not worth the effort, we need to decide if we want to ship the pdf
                 importer or not
11:11 pitti      mdz: which has completely different classes, etc
11:11 mdz        (note that the approver doesn't get any asynchronous notification of these, so
                 if a spec needs review, the assignee needs to tell them)
11:11 Riddell    JaneW: kubuntu-express I think is pending review by Kamion
11:11 JaneW      Kamion: can you check it please? ^
11:11 mdz        ok
11:11 Kamion     ok, will eyeball after the meeting
11:11 mdz        thanks, Riddell
11:12 mdz        is sivang in attendance?
11:12 Riddell    JaneW: simplify-kde isn't on my list but should be
11:12 JaneW      sivan is not here: he has not made further progress but is still hoping to
                 complete in time for dapper
11:12 JaneW      he'll let us know in the next 2 weeks is it is going to need to be deferred
11:12 JaneW      Riddell: ok, I'll check that
11:13 mdz        seb128: next?
11:13 seb128     this week: new GNOME
11:13 seb128     next week: dapper-desktop-plan, bug catchup, gstreamer0.8 out of the desktop
                 (gstreamer 0.10 rocks!)
11:13 mdz        seb128: how does video-playback look?
11:13 Riddell    seb128: can evolution-plugins use gstreamer 0.10?
11:14 mdz        since xine is now split, we have that option if gstreamer 0.10 doesn't solve
                 the issues, right?
11:14 seb128     Riddell: not yet but we don't care about it, we can drop it
11:14 Riddell    sorted
11:14 seb128     mdz: correct, but gst0.10 looks great
11:14 seb128     A/V sink is much better
11:14 mdz        it works well for me, but I think we need more feedback
11:14 Keybuk     gst plays all known videos of mdz sleeping
11:14 mdz        seb128,Kamion: please make sure that it's mentioned in the next Flight
                 announcement with a call for video testing
11:14 JaneW      Keybuk: heh
11:14 pitti      gst 0.10 works well for me, too
11:15 mdz        include a link to a sample video
11:15 seb128     and reactivity, switching between files, moving in a file, etc are much better
                 too
11:15 mdz        (no, not THAT sample video)
11:15 dholbach   :-)
11:15 ogra       lol
11:15 Kamion     mdz: noted
11:15 seb128     mdz: agreed, extra feedback would be nice
11:15 dholbach   http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Media/Testing
11:15 Keybuk     Dapper Dance.ogg
11:15 Kamion     BenC noted lack of DVD support
11:15 mdz        seb128: DVD support is coming, right?
11:15 seb128     it's known, plugin needs to be ported
11:15 mdz        just lags behind
11:15 seb128     its not done yet but they are working on it, should be fine for dapper
=== Kamion nods
11:16 mdz        ok
11:16 mdz        seb128: thanks
11:16 mdz        pitti?
11:16 pitti      * hacked kpdf to use poppler instead of static modified xpdf copy
11:16 pitti      * updated network-manager to work with linux-wlan-ng
11:16 pitti      * cleaned up and updated locales and locale binaries
11:16 pitti      * finished openssl transition for main (only package left is python2.3 on
                 ia64+sparc)
11:16 pitti      * misc: various bug fixes, new gnome-volume-manager, some libdb4.3 transitions
11:16 pitti      no progress on specs this week
11:16 pitti      next week:
11:16 pitti      * play with gnome-power-manager on powerpc and try to find a reasonable
                 solution for the event handling conflict with pbbuttonsd
11:16 pitti      * finish langpacks-desktopfiles for .server files (together with zyga)
11:16 pitti      * catch up on bug triage
11:16 pitti      oh, and a pending PHP security update with Adam
11:17 pitti      (some other security updates as well)
11:17 fabbione   pitti: python2.3 is FTBFS because of aa missing B-D.. i will dig into that
                 later
11:17 pitti      fabbione: yay
11:17 mdz        pitti: how many packages are involved for the db4.3 transition?
11:17 pitti      it's hopefully going into universe anyway, but still
11:17 mdz        we could divide them up and perhaps finish in a short time
11:17 pitti      mdz: oo.o is basically the only one
11:17 pitti      oh, and openldsp
11:17 mdz        oh, good
11:17 pitti      ldap, even
11:17 mdz        heh
11:17 JaneW      pitti: there is interest in the firewall spec again - is it too late for
                 dapper?
11:18 mdz        ltsp + ldap = ldsp
11:18 pitti      but oo.o seems to be particularly hard
11:18 mdz        JaneW: from whom?
11:18 pitti      openldap probably uses transactions, so we need to be a bit carful
11:18 JaneW      mdz: casten (original google bounty guy and Krishna)
11:18 mdz        doko: is there someone we can bounty the libdb/oo.o project to?
11:18 pitti      JaneW: I read the mail, but didn't followup yet
11:19 pitti      mdz: basically, Carsten never get an answer to his bounty proposal
11:19 JaneW      piti: ok let me know when you assess it
11:19 pitti      s/get/got/
11:19 mdz        JaneW: I don't think there is time to complete it by feature freeze; they are
                 welcome to work on it of course and we can take a decision then
11:19 pitti      JaneW: it's not going to be finished for FF
11:19 ogra       its pretty late ... less than 3 weeks, but if they are confident to finish it
                 ....
11:19 JaneW      mdz: ok thanks
11:19 pitti      at least not the complete spec
11:19 JaneW      pitti: it was just UI missing AFAIR
11:19 pitti      but at least we could have the basic stuff working in dapper
11:19 pitti      JaneW: no, it was 'just the implementation' what was missing :(
11:19 mdz        pitti: that's my fault; I am down to 56 messages in inbox but that is one of
                 them
11:19 ogra       heh
11:19 pitti      it didn't work at all after SoC
11:19 JaneW      oh :(
11:20 pitti      but since Carsten had to do it for uni anyway, I hope that it's better
                 nowadays
11:20 ajmitch    pitti: that's a shame, I've seen a few people wanting that (but without the
                 skills to code it)
=== zakame [n=zakame@ubuntu/member/zakame] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:20 mdz        pitti: please review the proposal; you can judge whether it is reasonable
11:20 pitti      mdz: ok
11:20 mdz        we can still fund a bounty for it even if it can't target dapper
11:21 pitti      wrt openldap, I'll look into it if infinity can't do it soon
11:21 mdz        we do want it eventually
11:21 pitti      yes, agreed
11:21 mdz        pitti: s/can't do it soon/doesn't survive/
11:21 mdz        pitti: do you have a copy of the firewall proposal or shall I forward it?
11:21 mdz        you were CCed originally
11:21 pitti      mdz: I hace it
11:21 mdz        ok
11:21 pitti      have, even
=== pitti is still used to his Kinesis keyboard
11:22 mdz        ok, thanks
11:22 mdz        ogra?
11:22 ogra       * thin-client-memory-usage: initramfs netboot mode implemented
11:22 ogra       * thin-client-faster-startup: final spec changes, approved
11:22 ogra       * gnome-screensaver-default-image: no work done this week
11:22 ogra       * general: ltsp debugging, traveling, sprint
********* next week:  debconf debugging (to be able to set VideoRam, DefaultDepth and
11:22 ogra       other X values for the memory usage spec), implement ltsp faster startup, ltsp
                 bugfixing, merge the changes in my various ltsp trees. implement peres xauth
                 fix with mdz's changes. care for edubuntu-artwork gdm theme handling.
=== ajmitch will paste an update on the selinux work at the end if that's ok
=== doko [n=doko@82.109.136.125] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:22 ogra       sadly cant update my specs... launchpad doesnt like me today
11:23 dholbach   ogra: Mithrandir had the same problems.
11:23 JaneW      ogra: thin client faster start-up is red, can you push the spec to approved
                 soon?
11:23 mdz        ogra: is netboot the default for ltsp-build-client now?
11:23 ogra       mdz, yup
11:23 mdz        cool
11:23 Mithrandir dholbach: uh, what problems?
11:23 ogra       :)
11:23 Mithrandir dholbach: the ekiga stuff?
11:23 dholbach   Mithrandir: accessing your specs on launchpad?
11:23 ogra       Mithrandir, LP
11:23 Mithrandir oh, yes.
11:23 dholbach   :)
11:23 mdz        ogra: if the launchpad timeouts are recurring (even after a reload) or
                 something other than a timeout is happening, send me the OOPS codes
11:23 Mithrandir it works if I go to +assignedspecs, though
11:23 mdz        I'm not having a problem there
11:23 ogra       mdz, will do
11:24 mdz        ogra: thanks
11:24 mdz        mvo?
11:24 ogra       Mithrandir, oh thanks !
11:24 mvo        Did:
11:24 mvo        - AutomaticUpgrades:
11:24 mvo          - testing
11:24 mvo          - evaluted user feedback
11:24 mvo          - fixed some packages that broke upgrades
11:24 mvo          - send report about current status of the upgrade to ubuntu-devel
11:24 mvo          - started to write a NonInteractive DistUpgrade tester to autotest problems
                 during the dist-upgrade
11:24 mvo          - BIG problem: a single failed pkg makes a upgrade stop halfway through
11:24 mvo        - misc stuff [gksu statup notification, HIGification on language-seelctor,
                 update-manager)
11:24 mvo        - traveld, sprint, got sick
11:24 mvo        Will do:
11:24 mvo        - finish the non-interactive dist-upgrade autotester
11:24 mvo        - gnome-app-install new-look branch finish and upload
11:24 mdz        mvo demoed AutomaticUpgrades here at the sprint earlier this week; it's
                 looking good
11:25 mdz        all you lurkers out there should test it
11:25 JaneW      mvo: default apt sources? Is it still going to get done?
11:25 mvo        and don't forget to send me logs if you test it!
11:25 mvo        JaneW: yes, I'm confident in that one
11:25 mdz        it's in braindump currently
11:25 JaneW      mvo: ok good, approved spec please (or else straight to implemented) ;)
11:26 mdz        JaneW: did mjg59 send any update?   we can hassle him in a few hours if not
11:26 mdz        mvo: thanks
11:26 ogra       JaneW, thin-client-faster startup is not red in my launchpad overview ...
11:26 JaneW      mdz: yes
11:26 JaneW      mjg59 JaneW: Basically, everything's sorted - libpam-foreground and
                 gnome-power-manager need to be added to desktop
11:27 JaneW      ogra: it's read cos it's not yet approved
11:27 Kamion     as pitti said gnome-power-manager needs some work on powerpc
11:27 ogra       JaneW, it was approved this morning
11:27 mjg59      g-p-m should be fine on ppc, hal may need some loving
11:27 mdz        seb128,dholbach: do you concur re: g-p-m?
11:27 JaneW      ogra: oic, excellent, thanks :)
11:27 ogra       JaneW, (and has the right status in LP)
11:27 mjg59      And pbbuttons probably needs to go
11:27 pitti      mjg59: event handling of pbbuttonsd and g-p-m should conflict, don't they?
11:27 JaneW      ogra: I haven;t checked the changes this am yet
11:27 mdz        if so, please go ahead and seed
=== mjg59 leaves for a real meeting
11:27 pitti      mjg59: g-p-m depends p-m-i depends pbbuttonsd
11:28 mdz        mjg59: still coming by later?
=== jbailey [n=jbailey@217.205.109.249] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:28 slomo      mjg59: pbbuttonsd is still needed for brightness setting etc
11:28 JaneW      hi jbailey
11:28 pitti      slomo: no, gnome-settings-daaemon does that for ages
11:28 mjg59      mdz: Yeah
11:28 ogra       mdz, i'll care for the seeding ...
11:28 seb128     mdz: I didn't really played with g-p-m, maybe dholbach?
11:28 mjg59      pitti: Well, that can be fixed
11:28 mdz        mjg59: ok, see you later then
11:28 mjg59      slomo: No it's not - hal can do that
11:28 pitti      we already had to cripple pbbuttonsd a lot
11:28 seb128     s/played/play
11:28 dholbach   mdz: a bit and it looked good from what i saw.
11:28 mdz        ok
11:28 mdz        let's go ahead then
11:28 pitti      mjg59: so g-p-m doesn't use pmi?
11:28 mdz        libpam-foreground also
11:28 ogra       pitti, it does ...
11:29 mdz        mjg59: thanks
11:29 mdz        Mithrandir?
11:29 mjg59      pitti: It does, but that only needs pbbuttons to make one ioctl
11:29 mjg59      Anyway, we'll talk abou this later
11:29 ogra       pitti, (hal does in fact)
11:29 pitti      yes
11:30 Mithrandir openoffice-amd64: no progress
11:30 Mithrandir live-cd-performance: no further progress
                 simplified-livecd: support for putting the live image on USB stick/hard drive
11:30 Mithrandir added, support for persistency in a loopback (ext2/ext3/whatever) filesystem
                 on vfat added, keymapper stuff Not Yet There, now autoconfigures all found
                 network devices
=== mjg59 goes to a real life meeting
                 misc: distro sprint death plague struck, been having useful discussions with
11:30 Mithrandir Colin about espresso and how I can help once I get my specs out of the
                 way.  Apache sprint was very productive even though we ended up with a
                 decision to not put 2.2 in dapper due to external modules not being ready.
11:30 Mithrandir probe-for-root-filesystem: started on it today, will hopefully be completed
                 today as well.
11:30 Mithrandir blocked on: access to popcon.ubuntu.com
11:30 Mithrandir (the blocked on is not for a spec, but for getting popcon going again)
11:30 mdz        Mithrandir: is there anything from the original simplified-livecd spec which
                 isn't complete yet, or can it be marked implemented?
11:30 Mithrandir we don't handle keyboard maps yet
11:31 mdz        Mithrandir: is popcon a sysadmin request? if so, please send the RT ticket
                 number by email
11:31 Mithrandir yes, it is.
11:31 Kamion     (gfxboot passes the keymap - casper just needs to do something with that)
11:31 mdz        ok, good
11:31 Mithrandir I think it's waiting for admins to set up a replacement for the current
                 machine
11:32 mdz        Mithrandir: can we use probe-for-root-filesystem for casper-on-USB as well as
                 install-on-USB?
                 casper-on-usb is already there, and no, it's a bit
11:33 Mithrandir different.  probe-for-root-filesystem seems to just need grub-installer
                 changes, not changes in the installed system.
11:33 Mithrandir Scott has already fixed udev to DTRT when you pass
                 root=/dev/disk/by-uuid/${...}
11:33 mdz        Keybuk,Mithrandir: still planning to have a readahead chat while you're here?
11:34 mdz        Mithrandir: casper-on-usb just searches around for something with a filesystem
                 image on it, then?
11:34 Kamion     Mithrandir: yaboot-installer too?
11:34 Kamion     though that might be hairier
11:34 Keybuk     mdz: yeah, will still have that chat
11:34 Mithrandir Kamion: that too, but I can't test that in anything resembling a useful way.
11:34 Kamion     open firmware being the weird-shit that it is
11:34 fabbione   i suggest to skip ppc for this feature
11:35 Mithrandir mdz: with a fairly restricted set of "something", yes.  It doesn't try to look
                 in ext2/ext3 partitions, for instance.
11:35 Keybuk     Mithrandir: the caveat is that it doesn't work if you need ide-generic
                 (because it doesn't know to load it)
11:35 Kamion     if anyone here has a firewire drive, actually, that might be useful
11:35 Mithrandir Kamion: I have an ieee1394 dvd-rw in Oslo
11:35 Mithrandir so, probably not useful.
11:35 Kamion     not so much
11:35 mdz        Keybuk: can we arrange for that to be loaded in this case?
11:35 mvo        Kamion: I have one
11:35 Keybuk     mdz: then it'd break your laptop
11:35 Kamion     mvo: cool, will talk later
11:36 mdz        Keybuk: I don't use root=/dev/disk/by-uuid/foo on my laptop
11:36 Keybuk     right, but you wouldn't be able to use it either
11:36 Keybuk     including whatever Tollef was doing
11:36 mdz        the plan so far is only to use this method if root is on a removable device
11:36 Keybuk     removable devices are always SCSI
11:36 Keybuk     (in Linuxworld)
11:37 fabbione   Keybuk: nope
11:37 Mithrandir Keybuk: udevinfo can give you the path, though
11:37 Keybuk     fabbione: the IDE subsystem has no concept of of "removable"
11:37 fabbione   Keybuk: you don't use IDE at all there
11:37 Keybuk     Mithrandir: chcken and egg
11:37 Keybuk     in practice this shouldn't be a problem
11:38 Keybuk     if we only use /dev/disk/by-*/* for "removable" devices, then we only care
                 about the SCSI subsystem
11:38 Mithrandir Keybuk: how so?  I'm thinking of doing it in the installer, where you'd see
                 the drive or not.  If you don't see it in the installer, you lose.
11:38 Keybuk     and that will all work fine
11:38 mdz        Mithrandir: oo.o-amd64 seems a lost cause at this point, no?
11:38 Keybuk     Mithrandir: let's discuss the problem with clarity in a bit
11:39 Mithrandir mdz: I guess so.. the current solution works, while it's not pretty.
11:39 mdz        let's officially defer it, then
11:39 Mithrandir 'k
11:39 mdz        dapper+1 material
11:39 mdz        thanks, Mithrandir
11:39 mdz        Keybuk?
11:39 Keybuk     streamlined-boot: remaining changes are to the cleanup scripts and improving
                 readahead; no new breakages expected
                 network-magic: testing of n-m underway, when it works, it's great.  going to
11:39 Keybuk     modify it to work better for us, and then decide whether it's ship-able or
                 desktop-able.  resolv.conf bug fixed in ifupdown, still to write iftab helper
                 for udev but it's high on todo now.
11:40 doko       Mithrandir: how do the -experimental OOo2 packages work?
11:40 mdz        Keybuk: should probably get streamlined-boot reviewed and approved,
                 considering it's nearly implemented
11:40 Kamion     Keybuk: oh, we should sit down and sort out netcfg udev rule generation so
                 that interface names don't change between the installer and the target system
11:40 fabbione   or between reboots. kthxbye
11:40 mdz        Keybuk: maybe sit down with Kamion and go over the changes you've made vs. the
                 spec
11:40 mdz        Kamion: I believe that's just waiting for Keybuk to implement iftab support in
                 udev
11:40 JaneW      Keybuk: streamlined boot, is the spec going to be approved? - or straight to
                 implemnted?
11:41 Kamion     mdz: that works too, I guess
11:41 mdz        the installer can continue to write iftab
11:41 Keybuk     mdz, JaneW: yeah, I should probably ...errr... write that spec ;)
11:41 mdz        it involves quite a few different changes and would benefit from some peer
                 review
11:41 JaneW      Keybuk: thanks, that would be good ;)
11:42 mdz        Keybuk: thanks
11:42 mdz        Kamion?
11:42 Kamion     cd-bootloader: Added an accessibility menu for UbuntuExpress/Accessibility.
                 ubuntu-express: Uploaded an initial working-for-me version; and have spent a
                 fair bit of the distro sprint polishing away some of the really egregious
11:42 Kamion     bugs. Made cdebconf and debconf coinstallable and added preliminary support
                 for using cdebconf here; initial testing suggests it doesn't provide really
                 noticeable speed benefits, but it may help avoid some compatibility bugs.
                 Started bringing Tollef up to speed on wher
11:42 Kamion     e things are. Added first cut at a to-do list on the wiki (UbuntuExpress/ToDo)
                 so that Tollef and Jonathan can dive in.
                 misc: Some system-config-kickstart maintenance (I'm working on getting this
11:43 Kamion     stuff into Debian so we don't necessarily have to worry about maintaining it
                 ourselves so much).
                 next-week: Shake up the Espresso component API to allow for running
                 debconffiltered processes asynchronously, which will let me massively improve
11:43 Kamion     UI responsiveness in the first few steps. Start on the missing UI steps
                 (language, keymap, location/timezone). Thinking about killing archive-copier
                 by default since it's not all that necessary any more.
11:43 JaneW      I have jbailey's update...
11:43 mdz        Kamion: is there implementation work to be done for the localized help in
                 cd-bootloader, or just translations?
11:44 Kamion     mdz: implementation, basically just file-shuffling
11:44 jbailey    JaneW: Please, thanks.
11:44 mdz        Kamion: ready for  a live espresso demo after the meeting?
11:44 jbailey    (I wrote it in the email to you and don't have it handy. *g*)
11:45 Mithrandir mdz: I'm hogging his machine for grub-installer foo, so preferably not. :-)
11:45 Kamion     mdz: sure, will need a bit of prep time though since Tollef's stolen the test
                 box for other things
11:45 Mithrandir or at least not right away.
11:45 mdz        definitely today though
11:45 Kamion     certainly
11:45 iwj        kamion: You can use this test box here ...
11:45 mdz        preferably before lunch, while we're all focused together
11:45 Kamion     iwj: ok, thanks
11:45 mdz        or directly after lunch
11:45 mdz        Kamion: thanks
11:45 JaneW      jbailey : * ToolchainRoadmapNg: Led a group discussion at the Distro Sprint
                 with
11:45 JaneW      doko - See http://people.ubuntu.com/~jbailey/thinclient.txtfor initial
11:45 JaneW      brainstorm. For those interested in participating, please see
11:45 JaneW      http://people.ubuntu.com/~scott/20060131_dropping-pre-i686_jbailey-doko.oggand
                 post comments to ubuntu-devel and put [small]  in the subject.
11:46 JaneW      jbailey: * ToolchainRoadmap: Providing timezones directly from upstream tzdata
11:46 JaneW      going well. Targetting to upload tomorrow (Friday 02 Feb).
11:46 JaneW      * LocalesThatDontSuck: Update from Belocs locales coordinated with
11:46 JaneW      pitti. This will move localedef out of glibc and into a separate binary
11:46 JaneW      package.
11:46 JaneW      General: Distro sprint this week. Avoided the plague (/me knocks wood).
11:46 JaneW      Spent time talking with Martin about Main Inclusion and support.
11:46 mdz        jbailey: what remains on ToolchainRoadmap, for your part?
11:46 mdz        same question for belocs
11:47 pitti      belocs is basically done now
11:47 pitti      with this morning's uploads
11:47 jbailey    mdz: Just these last tweaks to make updating timezones not suck across 5
                 years.  Other than that it's just the usual set of bugs.
=== segfault [i=carlos@prognus.com.br] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:47 mdz        pitti: ok, if so, please mark as implemented
11:47 doko       mdz: ToolchainRoadmap+1: need to think how we go on with a breezy/dapper test
                 build
11:48 pitti      jbailey: belocs had a separate spec?
11:48 jbailey    mdz: ToolchainRoadmap+1 is behind because of the lack of test build.  I think
                 it was due in December, but depended on Soyuz.
11:48 jbailey    pitti: LocalesThatDontSuck is the wiki page.  Lemme look up what we called it
                 in Launchpad.
11:48 mdz        doko,jbailey: I see no reason why a dapper-autotest couldn't be done right
                 away, in terms of infrastructure
11:48 mdz        (using katie and wanna-build)
11:49 jbailey    mdz: How do we coordinate that?
11:49 mdz        same as the last few times, via lamont/infinity/elmo
11:49 mdz        soyuz won't have a snazzy autotest capability for a while; it'd have to be
                 done more or less by hand there as well
11:49 pitti      jbailey: don't worry, this one is implemented for ages
11:49 mdz        so no point in waiting for that
11:49 doko       mdz: let's discuss this in person, it didn't work well last time
11:49 jbailey    Cool, hopefully next week (subject to infinity jetlag and elmo time)
11:50 mdz        doko: hmm, ok
11:50 mdz        jbailey: thanks
11:50 mdz        iwj?
11:50 jbailey    pitti: Right.  It's even called "Belocs-locales" =)
=== Keybuk [n=scott@82.109.136.125] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:50 iwj        AutomatedTesting:  Announcement to go out RSN; found a few bugs which I want
                 to get out first.
                 Firefox: Some bugfixes (including turning offesddsp) uploaded early this
11:50 iwj        week.  pygnome coredump will hopefully be fixed RSN.  Anyone else have a
                 firefox problem they want to demo for me ?
11:50 iwj        DefaultApplicationsFirefox: no change since last report.
11:50 iwj        DeveloperDocumentation: Not started, not blocked.
11:50 iwj        Death plague: I'm more or less recovered but I still feel very thickheaded
                 today.
11:50 Keybuk     *ahem* ... X bug
11:50 iwj        Bugs backlog: awful.
11:50 jbailey    pitti: I'll look over the spec later to make sure that it reflects what we
                 actually implemented.
11:50 iwj        Email backlog: none.
11:51 mdz        iwj: pygnome coredump?
11:51 seb128     is that the gtkmozembed crasher?
11:51 iwj        mdz: There's a bug which makes pymozgnombed or whatever it's called crash.
11:51 iwj        Yes.
11:51 mdz        ah
11:52 seb128     nice to get that one fixed
=== mvo nods
11:52 Kamion     yeah, I ripped gtkmozembed out of espresso to avoid that :)
11:52 Kamion     (that code path sucked anyway ...)
11:52 mdz        firefox (sans flash) has been behaving pretty well for me
11:52 mvo        I use gtkhtml2 in gnome-app-installright now
11:52 mvo        but ...
11:52 iwj        mdz: Good.
11:52 doko       iwj: there are Firefox problems on amd64
11:52 Mithrandir doko: oh, what?
11:52 iwj        doko: Still ?
11:52 ogra       not herre
11:52 ogra       -r
11:52 iwj        Where then ? :-)
11:53 doko       iwj, Mithrandir: still the same as reported in launchpad, looking up the
                 number ...
11:53 dholbach   Is there any upstream bug about pygtkmozembed?
11:54 iwj        dholbach: Not that I know of but I haven't had a thorough look.
=== irvin [n=irvin@ubuntu/member/irvin] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:54 mdz        ok
11:54 mdz        infinity is bedridden
11:54 mdz        thanks iwj
11:54 mdz        fabbione?
11:54 fabbione   sec
11:54 fabbione   vim died
11:55 ajmitch    this plague sounds serious
11:55 fabbione   * server-candy: done last cleanup for system-integrity-check still blocked on
                 admins to prepare the server.
11:55 fabbione   * ubuntu-cluster: no progress.
11:55 fabbione   * boot-from-usb: implemented.
11:55 fabbione   * last week: Apache2.2 sprint, distro sprint. Details have gone into Jane's
                 reports.
********* this week: distro sprint: server candy work and a lot of small things: fix a
                 few FTBFS, fixed a kernel regression in .12 for a scsi driver that made the
11:55 fabbione   system unbootable (needs porting to dapper). Created ubuntu-x-swat team for X
                 server maintainance (suicide is less painful). Started looking at X... no
                 really..
11:55 fabbione   * next week: world peace.
11:55 JaneW      mdz: I'll get an update from infinity if he emerges
11:55 ogra       uh, he switched to gentoo ?
11:55 ajmitch    ogra: bad pun
11:55 ogra       :)
11:55 mdz        fabbione: is server-candy blocked, or not?  you say it's blocked, but that you
                 will work on it this week
11:56 fabbione   mdz: i cannot upload to the archive is the admins do not provide the server.
11:56 fabbione   mdz: i can still do code cleanup and test locally
11:56 fabbione   but clearly it would be nice that if i can actually get a wide spreaded test
11:56 fabbione   RT#723
=== Hirion [n=hirion@draugr.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
11:58 mdz        sysadmin has some high priority things coming in right now due to soyuz and
                 sparc, but I'll see what can be done
11:58 mdz        meanwhile, X bugs need your sweet loving
11:58 fabbione   mdz: yes i know about that. tho 723 is from UBZ or so
11:59 mdz        fabbione: yes, but we need to deal with the present :-)
11:59 fabbione   mdz: yeah i know.. please reassing them to the SWAT team
11:59 mdz        fabbione: thanks for updates
11:59 mdz        doko?
11:59 doko       [status]
11:59 doko       - no changes from last week, besides
11:59 doko       - openoffice.org: don't stick with 2.0.1, but start working
11:59 doko         on upgrades to current milestones leading to 2.0.2.
11:59 doko       [this week]
11:59 doko       - distrosprint
11:59 doko       - fixing sparc specific bugs
11:59 doko       - practical virus testing (should be fixed now)
11:59 doko       [still to do for this week]
11:59 doko       - ISDN testing, together with mvo
11:59 mdz        doko: openoffice-gnome?
12:00 doko       mdz: the martink bounty?
12:00 mdz        doko: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OpenOfficeGnome
12:00 mdz        marked approved, high priority in LP
12:01 mdz        doko: regarding martink, if he completed the work to your satisfaction, please
                 send me mail to that effect so that we can close out the bounty
12:01 JaneW      doko: java-roadmap spec still needs to be approved...
12:02 mdz        I'm the approver on that one, didn't realize it was pending
12:02 mdz        er
12:02 JaneW      tsk tsk, we really need that auto-mailer functionality...
12:02 mdz        the link from LP to the spec is broken
12:02 mdz        there is no JavaRoadmap in the wiki, hence nothing to approve
                 mdz: the "my defaults" are underspecified, a suggestion from a user. font
12:02 doko       hinting was low priority, there's a workaround using environment variables,
                 but not gnome integration
12:03 JaneW      https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDownUnder/BOFs/JavaRoadmap ?
12:03 doko       JaneW, mdz: java-roadmap is low priority, as descriobed, will work on an
                 openoffice.org2 specific solution as it's done for eclipse
12:04 JaneW      and LP spec https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/java-roadmap
12:04 mdz        doko: regarding openoffice-gnome, is there work that can be done or no?
12:04 mdz        if so, it's high priority, otherwise, must be deferred
12:05 mdz        JaneW: that wiki page looks like the old JavaRoadmap spec from UDU
12:05 JaneW      mdz: agreed...
12:05 doko       mdz: the hinting can be done, will update next week. will talk to seb128 for
                 the copy/paste integration, "my defaults" should not be done
12:06 mdz        doko: is there a new JavaRoadmap spec?
=== JaneW is wondering how it can be pending review....
12:06 doko       mdz: update for "only OOo"?
12:07 mdz        doko: hmm?
12:08 mdz        doko,mvo: how are you planning to do ISDN testing here?  do we have ISDN
                 service available?
12:08 doko       mdz: do you mean https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NativeJavaGcjPackages ?
12:08 mvo        mdz: I have various isdn hardware with me (and a modem)
12:08 mdz        doko: I mean https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/java-roadmap
12:08 mvo        we may only be able to test everything but the connecting :/
12:09 mdz        doko: the summary mentions gcj
=== wjb [n=warren@c220-237-173-120.lowrp1.vic.optusnet.com.au] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:09 doko       mdz: ISDN: it's just getting firmware loaded with udev, for breezy we did use
                 hotplug
12:09 mdz        doko: but the hyperlink goes nowhere, and there are some other components to
                 it as well
12:09 mdz        doko,vmo: re: ISDN, ok
12:09 mdz        s/vmo/mvo/
                 Riddell: I've approved kubuntu-express now with the changes I mentioned. Note
12:09 Kamion     the status whiteboard though - I think it would help to design the UI in
                 advance and have a usability person look it over.
12:09 doko       mdz: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDownUnder/BOFs/JavaRoadmap
12:10 mdz        doko: if that's the real java-roadmap spec, please update the URL in LP
12:10 Riddell    Kamion: thanks, will do probably after a demo
12:10 doko       mdz: ok
12:10 Kamion     Riddell: (not that my demo will bear much relation to the final UI as yet)
12:10 mdz        ok, we're over time already
12:10 mdz        dholbach?
12:11 dholbach   this week (done): GNOME 2.13.90, random fixes
12:11 dholbach   this week (todo): serious bug triage with seb256 (now that he's feeling better
                 again), try to make evolution work with bogofilter
12:11 dholbach   next week: visit London, bug triage, apt-get.org reviews
12:11 JaneW      and there's no daniels or BenC...
12:11 mdz        dholbach: enjoy the holiday next week
12:12 mdz        thanks dholbach and doko
12:12 dholbach   mdz: thanks a lot
12:12 mdz        JaneW: please find out what happened to BenC
12:13 JaneW      mdz: I will
12:13 Riddell    mdz: mornfall is waiting on a reply to kubuntu-package-manager
12:13 mdz        JaneW: daniels I don't expect will be attending these meetings going forward
12:13 mdz        Riddell: it's a major piece of work and I've asked for input from mark on it
12:13 Riddell    ok
12:13 JaneW      nod, do we need any further updates in x? I know it's implemented, but does it
                 need further tracking at all?
12:13 mdz        JaneW: only the issues we discussed tuesday
12:14 JaneW      we could shift x into someone else's section for that
12:14 ogra       JaneW, it will have bugs that need to be fixed before release ...
12:14 mdz        if there's anything else to discuss, let's do it in person
12:14 mdz        thanks everyone, adjourned
12:14 ajmitch    mdz: hm?
12:14 fabbione   cuya
12:15 JaneW      bye
12:15 pitti      bye
=== pitti [n=pitti@ubuntu/member/pitti] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Ex-Chat"]
12:15 ajmitch    ah well
=== mdz [n=mdz@82.109.136.125] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Ex-Chat"]
=== pitti [n=pitti@ubuntu/member/pitti] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:15 JaneW      ajmitch: handg 10
12:15 jsgotangco heh
12:15 JaneW      hang 10 even
=== mdz [n=mdz@82.109.136.125] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
12:15 mdz        ajmitch: hmm?
12:15 ajmitch    sorry, I'd written up an update for selinux
12:15 Mithrandir I think ajmitch wanted to throw in his update
12:16 mdz        ajmitch: if you have dapper work in progress, please arrange with JaneW to get
                 it tracked on the status spreadsheet
12:16 JaneW      ajmitch: shoot
12:16 ajmitch    no matter, I might not have time before feature freeze now
                 selinux: spec not approved, some implementation details have changed since UBZ
12:16 ajmitch    due to switch to modular reference policy. Probably not time for a bounty
                 before feature freeze. - building targeted & strict policies off the reference
                 policy project, currently monolithic but switching to modularised policy.
12:16 ajmitch    - some basic tools for managing selinux users & booleans are being done with
                 the python bindings.
                 - going to try & coordinate policy packaging with debian, talked with the
12:16 ajmitch    current policy maintainer at LCA & he's happy to let me maintain refpolicy in
                 debian with his help.
12:16 mdz        pitti: you're approver on that spec
12:16 ajmitch    timing looks shaky now that I'm off to australia next week
12:16 ajmitch    but I'll see what net access I have there
12:17 JaneW      ajmitch: your call, want it track or not?
                 ajmitch: we can certainly lay the groundwork in dapper, but I don't think it's
12:17 mdz        something we'll want to switch on for this release due to our conservative
                 strategy
12:17 ajmitch    JaneW: might as well
12:17 pitti      mdz: ok, I'll look at it
12:17 ogra       if its not going to be implemented, can we switch off the "cant mount
                 /selinux/" message ?
12:17 JaneW      ajmitch: ok will add it
12:17 ajmitch    mdz: understood, I've discussed that briefly with pitti
12:17 mdz        ajmitch: I'm interested in hearing about your progress though
12:17 mdz        ok
12:17 mdz        I need to make a phone call, anything else?
12:17 ajmitch    ogra: can do, it's a simple modification to the sysvinit patch
12:18 mdz        ajmitch: thanks for the update, we'll see what we can accomplish there
12:18 ogra       that'd be nice ... even a >/dev/null would be enough
12:18 ajmitch    ok

</pre>
