{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu Open Week - MOTU - Sat, Dec 2, 2006 ===
see also <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekedgy/MOTU|Wednesday Session]]</nowiki>.
<pre>
05:01	dholbach	HELLO EVERYBODY
05:01	dholbach	this session is going to be about MOTU, the Master of the Universe!
05:02	dholbach	I'm Daniel Holbach, work for Canonical and my main objectives are Ubuntu's Desktop and working with teams like MOTU, Telepathy, Accessibility, the Art team and others. I joined the MOTUs nearly two years ago and we were around 5 of them at that time.
05:02	dholbach	I should probably say, that I'm happy to take questions in between, so don't be shy.
05:03	dholbach	The name originates from the Universe component, which holds the biggest amount of our packages. 'main' and 'restricted' are supported by Canonical, 'universe' and 'multiverse' by the community. 'main' and 'restricted' hold 4829 packages today and 'universe' plus 'multiverse' 15855. So as the name suggests, the MOTU team takes care of 'universe' (and 'multiverse' also). We currently have 57 members. And we hang out in #ubuntu-motu - so
05:03	dholbach	if you're interested in helping out and get to know the people and packaging, join us and have fun
05:04	dholbach	So what do MOTUs generally do?
05:04	kalon34	thanks elkbuntu
05:04	dholbach	As a MOTU you're maintaining packages. The good thing about Ubuntu is that we don't follow the concept of applying the rigorous big maintainer lock, it's your choice which package you take care of.
05:05	dholbach	We have people
05:05	dholbach	* taking care only of their own packages
05:05	dholbach	* working together with others on a set of packages in a team
05:05	dholbach	* fixing lots of different packages
05:05	dholbach	(* working on no packages at all)
05:06	dholbach	So if you belong to the last category, listen up! This is your first step in the Ubuntu Development Community. :-D
05:06	dholbach	Any questions up until now?
05:07	dholbach	So who of you is already part of the MOTU process?
=== rmjb raises hand
05:07	dholbach	rmjb: Excellent#
05:07	dholbach	Anybody in here considering joining the team?
05:08	dholbach	I'll just go on and if you have questions or ideas what you'd like to do we can try to get into more detail there
</pre>

''<kalon34> Which knowledges are needed to join MOTU team ?''

 we had people joining the team, who were just curious and had basic linux skills and they did a good job.

<pre>
05:09	dholbach	Key to having fun and profiting of the MOTU world is to be interested and motivated, talk to people and learn a lot
05:10	dholbach	if you already built  source from scratch, wrote small programs, know how to use shell scripts, even better
05:10	dholbach	but we have people at any skill level in the MOTU team, so you'll always find somebody you can learn something from
05:11	dholbach	I'll go on now with what I've prepared - feel free to ask more questions in -chat
05:11	dholbach	So how do I become a MOTU?
05:11	dholbach	That's very easy. You basically contribute to the team's efforts, either by packaging a new piece of software or by helping with fixing / updating / merging existing packages.
05:12	dholbach	MOTUs are the community package maintainers
05:13	dholbach	and apart from that a group of people having a lot of fun and hanging out in #ubuntu-motu :)
</pre>
''<mruiz> do you consider a MOTU mentoring plan?''

 I'm not quite sure I understand the question. We do have people mentoring MOTU hopefuls. What is your exact question? If we have a strict plan to do the mentoring?

 http://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Mentors might answer your question, if not, please ask again

''[kalon34] Is there somewhere with the process to follow or can you describe it please ?''

 I personally always found the second way (to work on existing packages) to be much easier and you learn a lot along the way. As a MOTU hopeful you're not allowed yet to upload to the archive yourself, but you can ask other team members to sponsor the upload for you. We have a lightweight process for that in place.

''<rmjb> How can someone who is not yet an MOTU help with the merging / syncing process? Isn't a MOTU always needed for this?''

 that might also answer your question: we do sponsoring, which means that somebody who has upload rights already reviews your patch or package and then does the upload for you

''<mruiz> I don't know that you have people mentoring MOTU. Can you explain it?''

 if you look at the page I mentioned to you, you will find a list of people and mail adresses there. just mail anybody of them - all of them are happy to take on MOTU hopefuls to walk them through the basic first steps in the MOTU world
<pre>
05:17	dholbach	It's easy to see that it's not just a matter of technically abilty, but also a matter of teamwork and trust. The current process asks you to become an Ubuntu member in the Community Council meeting (where you are recognized for your efforts) and become a member of 'ubuntu-dev' after the Technical Board was happy with you on a technical basis. That process will change in the near future and a MOTU council (let's see if it will be called
05:17	dholbach	'Council Grayskull' in the end...), which will do the approval.
05:19	dholbach	Here some things the MOTUs do:
05:20	dholbach	We work on Bugs, so just to put some numbers into the discussion
05:20	dholbach	* 10563 bugs in Universe/Multiverse    (66274 in Ubuntu total)
05:20	dholbach	* 6739 closed bugs Universe/Multiverse (46063 closed in Ubuntu total)
05:20	dholbach	While the numbers look scary, here's a very good thing about working with the MOTUs: you're not alone. If you try to fix a bug in a package you have:
05:20	dholbach	1) team members,
05:20	dholbach	2) the Debian maintainer and
05:20	dholbach	3) the upstream author
05:20	dholbach	you can ask and work with. Working on bugs is highly rewarding: sometimes it's a one line fix, you find in the upstream CVS already and you make a lot of users happy.
</pre>
''<LKRaider> Do all upstream packages go through MOTU before entering the repos?''

 No, we inherit an awful lot of packages from Debian automatically. in the times where we're not in Freeze times (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/FeistyReleaseSchedule will show), we automatically sync the source from Debian packages (if we don't have changes that might get overwritten). so sometimes you upload a new package to ubuntu and in the next cycle there's a debian maintainer you can merge your efforts with. it's really to cool to have another somebody to work with on the package, so that's great

''<rmjb> what ubuntu mailing lists should a MOTU Hopeful subscribe to other than ubuntu-motu?''

 good question, ubuntu-devel-announce@ and ubuntu-devel@ are good fits also, because it's good to know what's planned, which big changes are going to be introduced, etc. I'd also recommend to read  feisty-changes@  which send you a mail for every package change that is uploaded. these are only changelogs, but still you get a general gist of what's going on - so if you have packages that you need to integrate yours with, you can easily find out what happened there. apart from that it brings a certain learning experience to see what other package maintainers do and then of course upstream mailing lists, so if you're package maintainer for say abiword, you might want to sign up for their lists too.	I'm subscribed to loads of other mailing lists too, but that should be a good start and not be too scary :-)
<pre>
05:26	dholbach	TEAMS
05:26	dholbach	MOTU has formed a huge bunch of subteams already:
05:26	dholbach	* Games team
05:26	dholbach	* Media team
05:26	dholbach	* Science team
05:26	dholbach	* Photo team
05:26	dholbach	* UncommonProgrammingLanguages team
05:27	dholbach	and a lot of other teams, which started in Universe, but now are working across the whole distro, the Mono team is a good example for that. If you have good ideas for a team and want to kickstart it, let me know: dholbach at ubuntu.com
</pre>
''<jorgp> :does Edgy MOTU get version bumps and updates or are the versions locked in the same way main is?''

 Edgy is released, which means it is LOCKED. We currently work on Feisty. of course you get security fixes in edgy-security and high-profile bug fixes in edgy-updates (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates has more info about that one) and specific backports in   edgy-backports

''<pradeep> Is uploading packages a one time activity for a release? I mean can I build a new package or a new version for an existing package for edgy/dapper now?''

 I'm not quite sure I understand. You can't upload to Edgy or Dapper now. They're both released. Which means they're locked. Frozen.
<pre>
05:30	dholbach	Mentoring
05:30	dholbach	We're doing huge efforts at helping people get up to scratch on packaging, especially #ubuntu-motu on irc.freenode.net is always buzzing and somebody is always awake to answer *your* packaging question.
05:30	dholbach	But mentoring also happens on our ubuntu-motu@lists.ubuntu.com mailing list, in private chats, by doing reviews of packages and patches or via mail. Don't hesitate to approach us, join the Master of the Universe today! :-)
05:31	dholbach	( https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-motu )
05:31	dholbach	Something we do at the moment: Merges
05:31	dholbach	In the beginning of each release cycle we merge our efforts with those of the Debian maintainers. So this is what we currently do for Feisty. If you want to help out, just grab a merge from http://merges.ubuntu.com/universe.html or http://merges.ubuntu.com/multiverse.html and go ahead.
05:32	dholbach	there's the MOTU School
05:32	dholbach	In the spirit of the Ubuntu's Open Week we already had some interesting MOTU School sessions: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/School - if you want to hold a session or request a session, let us know on the mailing list and on the wiki pages.
05:33	dholbach	so if you look at named page, you'll find that we did some sessions already and there are really good logs you can just dive into
</pre>

''<jorgp> you said security updates make it into edgy release, what about bug fixes?''

 I said that high-profile bugs go into edgy-updates.
 <pre>
05:34	dholbach	if we look at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates the requirements are:
05:34	dholbach	Stable release updates will, in general, only be issued in order to fix high-impact bugs. Examples of such bugs include:
05:34	dholbach	    *  Bugs which may, under realistic circumstances, directly cause a security vulnerability
05:34	dholbach	    *  Bugs which represent severe regressions from the previous release of Ubuntu
05:34	dholbach	    *  Bugs which may, under realistic circumstances, directly cause a loss of user data
05:34	dholbach	if you look at the page some more, that our policy is very strict
05:35	dholbach	that's for a reason - some of you might remember the problems with the X server updates that left people without X and just a black screen and wonky messages
05:36	dholbach	but as I said, we 1) don't rule out such updates and 2) have backports which are less conservative but of course we can't packages that require too intrusive changes
</pre>

''<mruiz> you told us that MOTU also works in bugs... what is the difference between MOTU and Bug Squad team?''

 the BugSquad helps out to triage bugs, which means: 1) get more information from the reporter, 2) get the right people involved with the bug and so on. of course MOTUs do that too and we have people who are active on both fronts,	but MOTUs actively work on packages and fix them themselves

 MOTUs also introduce bugs.	no, I was kidding about the last point ;-) of course they don't

 === dholbach hugs all the MOTUs in the room

 MOTUs: please speak up if you're here and tell us something about you

<pre>
05:39	dholbach	Ok, let's move on: Documentation!
05:39	dholbach	Jordan Mantha (Laserjock) and others have worked hard on the Packaging Guide, but he'd always be glad to have people who are interested in explaining and helping new MOTU hopefuls to find their way into the community. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Documentation lists a few pages of interest.
05:40	dholbach	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU and its subpages could also do with some helping hands. MOTU is a community effort and has grown into all sorts of directions over time, the wiki pages bear witness of that, so it'd be great if you'd fix whatever documentation you found inaccurate.
05:41	dholbach	I know that's probably not a task for newcomers, but the same thing applies here: if you don't understand documentation or it seems broken to you: let us know - just drop a mail on ubuntu-motu@lists.ubuntu.com and we'll fix it
</pre>
''<LKRaider> what about introducing packges that are not on Debian, for example?''

 we add new packages that are not in Debian all the time. https://help.ubuntu.com/6.10/ubuntu/packagingguide/C/index.html is the link to the packaging guide. there's no problem with that, it's just nice if you find a RFP (request for package) or ITP (intent to package) in Debian's bug database, that you follow up on the bug and say something along the lines of: "hey guys, I have the package ready, please comment on it and try to get it into debian if you like." because you then have additional people to talk to and work with and that's what we all rely on

 ''[LKRaider]	so the work is always synched back to Debian?''

  we try to do our best, sometimes it's not easy because we didn't do a transition that debian did already or the other way around for example debian decided to stick with gnome 2.14 for their release and have 2.16 in experimental. we're working on 2.17 already and then there are other decisions that just don't match. but there's a patches mailing list, which automatically send the patch when the upload happens and then there are maintainers working together closely. we have collaboration on different levels

<pre>
05:48	dholbach	So who of you could imagine joining the MOTUs at some point?
05:48	dholbach	not now, not tomorrow, but in the near future?
05:48	mruiz	me!
=== rmjb is hopeful
05:48	LKRaider	me (maybe) :)
05:49	pradeep	me too .. at some point
05:49	Neonightmare	me also, i do what i can
05:49	jorgp	me
05:49	dholbach	rock and roll, that's nice to hear
=== Lure is considering
=== elkbuntu can picture dholbach on the other side of the internet doing the Mr Burns 'Eeeeeexcellent'
05:49	vicox	me too
05:49	dholbach	super
05:49	zilo_	me
05:50	zilo_	It's interesting working with such a big team
05:50	dholbach	so if you haven't done already - try to pick somebody from the mentors list and ask them for help if you need
</pre>
''<rmjb> so the process is 1. get ubuntu membership, 2. get ubuntu-dev membership, 3. get ubuntu-motu membership?''

 drop the 3rd point. ubuntu-dev means MOTU. : there's only ubuntu-core-dev to go for afterwards, which means upload rights to main and restricted too

''[zilo_]	So if I wan't to put mu own program into ubuntu it is possible right?''

 absolutely.  if you need help with the packaging, ask in #ubuntu-motu or on the mailing list
<pre>
05:51	dholbach	who here finds the whole idea of joining the MOTU still intimidating or not easy to achieve?
05:53	mruiz	if someone can help you, I think that must be easy to join MOTU team
05:54	dholbach	it absolutely is - the huge list of merges is a good start and we have a good motu school session about that one already
05:54	dholbach	If you want to join the MOTU and help making Universe ROCK, start here: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU
05:54	dholbach	and remember: http://daniel.holba.ch/temp/motu.png
05:55	dholbach	If there's no more question I think we should let the room settle down for the next session, which is about KDE, I believe.
</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTU]]</nowiki>
