{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
*** none
* Quantal Development
*** Release Bugs - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html
*** Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-quantal/ubuntu-server.html 
** 12.04.1 Development (jamespage & smoser)
*** SRU Tracking 
** Ubuntu Server Team Events
** Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)

** Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

** Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
** Open Discussion
** Announce next meeting date and time 

=== Minutes ===

===== Quantal Development =====

Feature freeze is on 23 august, about two weeks from this
meeting.  Urshina and jamespage will catch up on new triage
reports ursinha has been working on.  m_3 and jimbaker will
discuss juju charm unit tests this week.  Some of the cloud
image work may end up being postponed.

===== 12.04.1 Development =====

Target is Thursday, so anything not in by then should be retargeted to -updates.

===== Server team events =====

Jim Baker will be presenting juju at 3 events in the next 3 months.

===== Weekly Updates & Qustions for the Kernel Team =====

Bug 1031090 ("kvm_intel not loadable in a quantal guest")
was discussed.  It was decided that since it only
deteriorates performance of kvm inside a nested kvm guest,
it was not urgent to push to 12.04.1, but can rather wait
for an update.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server =====

Java 7 for arm was discussed - it is in progress and looking good.

===== Open Discussion =====

Gema from QA team will attend the next server team meeting to give an overview of the new testing framework (UTAH) and show how we can get more involved with test cases.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, Aug 14, at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
 16:01:55 <hallyn> #startmeeting

 16:01:55 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Aug  7 16:01:55 2012 UTC.  The chair is hallyn. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:01:55 <meetingology> 

 16:01:55 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 16:02:01 <hallyn> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:02:06 <hallyn> none

 16:02:13 <hallyn> #topic Quantal Development

 16:02:18 <hallyn> jamespage: over to you :)

 16:02:37 <jamespage> ta

 16:02:39 <jamespage> http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-quantal/ubuntu-server.html

 16:02:45 <jamespage> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-quantal/ubuntu-server.html

 16:02:57 <hallyn> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-quantal/ubuntu-server.html

 16:03:00 <hallyn> hm

 16:03:05 <jamespage> I had a review earlier today - a few to focus in on

 16:03:20 <jamespage> utlemming,

 16:03:32 <jamespage> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-q-cloud-images

 16:03:32 <jamespage> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-q-awstools

 16:03:59 <jamespage> just a checkin to make sure you are comfortable/on track with those two

 16:04:18 <utlemming> yeah, one of the first, the motu's don'

 16:04:18 <jamespage> smoser, utlemming:

 16:04:18 <jamespage> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-q-cloud-init-utils

 16:04:39 <utlemming> want everything in debian, and there is a freeze in place

 16:05:35 <jamespage> utlemming, I'm sure kamal can get some new packages into unstable for you :-)

 16:05:35 <utlemming> on the cloud-image roundtable, that should be okay

 16:05:42 <smoser> jamespage, well, they're clearly behind and i'm sure some things will be postponed.

 16:06:10 <jamespage> Ursinha:

 16:06:10 <jamespage> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-q-bug-triage-review

 16:06:35 <jamespage> we still need to catchup on that one - are you going to have some time for report updates etc?

 16:07:02 <jamespage> m_3, jimbaker:

 16:07:02 <jamespage> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-q-juju-charm-unit-tests

 16:07:19 <jamespage> lots of stuff in progress - all OK?

 16:07:46 <jimbaker> jamespage, yes, we should be getting this connected up this week

 16:07:52 <Ursinha> jamespage, I've been working on reports, I need to catch up with you later

 16:07:56 <jamespage> jimbaker, great!

 16:08:00 <jamespage> Ursinha, fantastic

 16:08:07 <jamespage> sounds like things are moving along

 16:08:24 <jimbaker> i have the first goaround in terms of running manually with a nice DSL in bash

 16:08:43 <jimbaker> then hook up to m_3's charmtester charm

 16:08:53 <jamespage> remember feature freeze is on the 23 august (~2 weeks) - so any new stuff targetting main ideally needs to be in archive by then

 16:09:08 <jamespage> otherwise you have to beg for feature freeze exceptions....

 16:09:23 <jimbaker> jamespage, that's been my fate in the past on the juju project :)

 16:09:39 <jimbaker> but time to squeeze it all in!

 16:09:44 <jamespage> \o/ - great

 16:10:18 <jamespage> so keep on updating blueprints as you complete stuff - helps keep overall track on progress

 16:10:22 <jamespage> so - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html

 16:10:25 <jamespage> #link http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html

 16:10:37 <jamespage> hallyn, bot does not like me for some reason

 16:10:48 <jimbaker> jamespage, cool, m_3 and i were discussing this very stuff yesterday re blueprint updating

 16:10:54 <hallyn> jamespage: link didn't work for me either

 16:11:02 <hallyn> #LINK http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html

 16:11:06 <hallyn> [LINK] http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html

 16:11:09 <hallyn> <shrug>

 16:11:38 <jamespage> OK - so zul and adam_g have a few bugs in quantum and horizon in hand

 16:11:54 <zul> to say the least

 16:11:58 <hallyn> uh, MIR for netcf is not on the list

 16:11:59 <jamespage> we still need a volunteer to look at bug 844995

 16:12:01 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 844995 in python-couchdb (Ubuntu) "Drop support for couchdb related packages" [Undecided,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/844995

 16:12:39 <jamespage> any takers?

 16:13:05 <jamespage> (I'll sponsor it if someone wanted to have a first stab at some packaging updates...)

 16:13:29 <jamespage> hallyn, netcf - I'll need to subscribe ubuntu-server to the package for bugs - then it will appear

 16:13:38 <jamespage> looks like we have *alot* of MIR's in flight

 16:13:43 <hallyn> jamespage: great, thanks

 16:14:15 <jamespage> hallyn, done

 16:14:31 <hallyn> \o/  we'll wnat that anyway

 16:15:10 <jamespage> if you are raising MIR's please can you set a priority on the bug reports; at a minimum it helps prioritize focus for the MIR team

 16:15:49 <jamespage> should probably reflect the priority of the associated blueprint - remember you can link bugs to blueprints as well so they can be tracked on status.ubuntu.com

 16:16:55 <jamespage> any other quantal dev stuff anyone wants to raise?

 16:17:06 <hallyn> (i'll wait until smb's section :)

 16:17:18 <jamespage> hallyn, I think thats me done then

 16:17:24 <hallyn> thanks!

 16:17:27 * smb shudders

 16:17:27 <hallyn> #topic 12.04.1 Development (jamespage & smoser)

 16:17:36 <hallyn> uh, and straight back to you? :)

 16:17:47 <jamespage> unless smoser wants the spot :-)

 16:17:54 <hallyn> smoser: \o

 16:17:58 <smoser> hey

 16:18:07 <smoser> so. basically the target for 12.04.1 is thursday

 16:18:15 <rbasak> o/

 16:18:25 <smoser> if you're not going to have something in by then, then you should really consider it not in for 12.04.1 and retarget anything to -updates.

 16:18:45 <smoser> thats my general comment

 16:18:47 <hallyn> and http://people.canonical.com/~jamespage/server-sru/precise-sru.html is the definitive list?

 16:18:57 <jamespage> yeah - thats a good source

 16:19:06 * jamespage must get the integrated somewhere more formal

 16:19:11 <smoser> do you have anything specific, jamespage ?

 16:19:37 <jamespage> we need to nudge walinuxagent forwards but aside from that I think we are in an OK place

 16:21:26 <hallyn> moving along then,

 16:21:34 <hallyn> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:21:45 <hallyn> i assume quite a few people going to plumber's and associated events?

 16:22:06 <hallyn> or not :)

 16:22:16 <hallyn> any other events to mention?

 16:22:30 <hallyn> moving along,

 16:22:34 <hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)

 16:22:42 <hallyn> hey hggdh

 16:23:23 <smoser> hallyn, are you going to plumbers?

 16:23:29 <hallyn> smoser: i am not :(

 16:23:38 * smb is

 16:24:04 <hallyn> no hggdh , moving along

 16:24:08 <hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

 16:24:09 <hallyn> hey smb

 16:24:14 <smb> hey hallyn

 16:24:18 <smb> So wassup?

 16:24:26 <jimbaker> i am presenting juju at 3 separate events around boulder in the next 3 months: boulder lug, big data meetup (focused on zookeeper and how we use it, along w/ hadoop, etc), and the national center for atmospheric research

 16:24:26 <hallyn> my q was on bug 1031090

 16:24:28 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1031090 in linux (Ubuntu) "kvm_intel not loadable in a quantal guest" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1031090

 16:24:43 <hallyn> is the fix for that known, or are you just saying "when someone whips up a fix we'll take it"?

 16:24:43 <smb> Not much to bring up specifically. The failure to load the kvm intel module is in progress. The upstream discussion is/was mostly on how/where to fix it (the right way). But rather will need to go into precise.

 16:25:02 <hallyn> but precise is on 3.2 i thought?

 16:25:03 * smb notes he was about to say something about tit

 16:25:29 <smb> hallyn, Right, the problem is that loading the modules checks a msr for a feature which any real cpu would have

 16:25:31 <hallyn> (jimbaker is a travelin' fool)

 16:25:47 <hallyn> smb: right but i thought one comment said it was introduced in 3.3

 16:25:51 <smb> but the older kvm modules did not set it for the nested case

 16:26:15 <smb> hallyn, Introduced yes as in adding the support for that feature

 16:26:34 <smb> but upstream thinks rather than handling the non-presence (which should not happen) in newer coder

 16:26:36 <hallyn> ah

 16:26:36 <smb> *code

 16:26:44 <smb> the old code should add it

 16:27:09 <smb> And I think 3.2 is about the only kernel that supports nesting and misses it

 16:27:20 <hallyn> we were never at war with eurasia, and that bug was never there

 16:27:21 <smb> Could be wrong though, then it needs backport to before

 16:28:06 <hallyn> smb: if we were to add itot the old code, is it simple to do?  should we just do it to hit 12.04.1?

 16:28:30 <hallyn> eh, let's discuss in -server after the meeting?

 16:28:47 <smb> hallyn, ok, it would be simplish (hopefully safe)

 16:28:54 <hallyn> great, thanks

 16:28:55 <smb> hallyn, but yeah, lets move this on

 16:28:57 <hallyn> any other questions for smb?

 16:29:12 <hallyn> from smb? :)

 16:29:29 <smb> nothing mmore

 16:29:37 <hallyn> thanks smb.  moving on,

 16:29:40 <hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)

 16:29:41 <rbasak> Nothing to report. Any questions for me?

 16:30:06 <jimbaker> rbasak, i assume good outcome of the java mtg i missed when i was on vac?

 16:30:26 <rbasak> Yeah I think so

 16:30:29 * rbasak tries to remember

 16:30:40 <rbasak> I think jamespage was more involved in that than I was

 16:30:58 <jamespage> jimbaker, ok-ish

 16:31:10 <jimbaker> no worries, i *might* have some insight on any java issues

 16:31:12 <jamespage> still no java 7 JVM implementation - soon!

 16:32:13 <hallyn> moving on?

 16:32:19 <jimbaker> so there are good results posted on the openjdk for java 7 on arm. anyway, i'll need to get onto arm hw soon enough for the testing doing w/ m_3

 16:32:21 <jimbaker> so look then too

 16:33:13 <hallyn> any bounds on 'soon enough'?

 16:34:02 <jamespage> hallyn, not really - it has focus upstream but the invoke-dynamic stuff is proving complex to implement

 16:34:12 <hallyn> ok

 16:34:25 <hallyn> #topic Open Discussion

 16:35:28 <jamespage> I have one for next week - I invited gema from the QA team to come and give us an overview of whats happing in QA this cycle

 16:35:40 <hallyn> cool

 16:35:53 <jamespage> specifically the new testing framework (UTAH) and how we can get more involved with test cases etc...

 16:36:03 <hallyn> yup, i still need to do that for lxc testcases

 16:36:17 <hallyn> (this might nudge me along)

 16:36:36 <hallyn> anything else?

 16:36:43 <hallyn> going twice,

 16:36:56 <hallyn> #topic Announce next meeting date and time

 16:37:12 <hallyn> Tuesday Aug 14, same time as always

 16:37:16 <hallyn> thanks everyone

 16:37:24 <hallyn> #endmeeting

</pre>
