{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu Open Week - Ubuntu Studio - Cory Kontros - Sat, Oct 27, 2007 ===
<pre>
18:07 <+_MMA_> Hi all. My name is Cory Kontros and I'm the lead on Ubuntu Studio. http://ubuntustudio.org My intro will be short. I'll post info with pauses so people can read. Then I'll open it up to questions.
18:07 -!- mode/#ubuntu-classroom [-v atoponce] by Vorian
18:07 <+_MMA_> Our project aims to bring together the best in the free-software world for multimedia production as well as spotlight these applications and help them gain a wider audience. We also work to maintain a good relationship with upstreams and the Debian-multimedia team as this will only better that apps in Ubuntu Studio and raise the bar for Linux multimedia creation as a whole.
18:08 <+_MMA_> The project started from a couple of Ubuntu users that were also users of DeMuDi. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DeMuDi The project started simply as a guide for Dapper (https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudio/DapperPreparation) but was expanded to be a true Ubuntu-based, DeMuDi replacement. Simple beginning. :)
18:08 <+_MMA_> I will be sighting info from our Wiki page. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio
18:08 <+_MMA_>  
18:09 <+_MMA_> Our project provides packages suites of applications geared toward specific tasks.
18:09 <+_MMA_>  * Audio - All applications deemed necessary to provide a working PC studio environment.
18:09 <+_MMA_>     * Audio-Plugins - A collection of DSSI and LADSPA plugins.
18:09 <+_MMA_>  * Video - A collection of various video editing/creation apps.
18:09 <+_MMA_>  * Graphics - A collection of 2D/3D manipulation applications and plugins.
18:09 <+_MMA_> A listing of packages can be found: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/PackageList
18:09 <+_MMA_>  
18:09 <+_MMA_> With our Gutsy release we have also met 4 of our major goals.
18:09 <+_MMA_>  * Provide a true realtime patched kernel.
18:09 <+_MMA_>  * Support AMD64.
18:09 <+_MMA_>  * All packages in the Ubuntu proper repos.
18:09 <+_MMA_>  * Clean up the "Sound&Video" menu.
18:09 <+_MMA_> The team feels these will go along way toward improving the Ubuntu Studio users experience.
18:09 <+_MMA_>  
18:10 -!- mode/#ubuntu-classroom [+o PriceChild] by ChanServ
18:10 -!- mode/#ubuntu-classroom [-o Vorian] by PriceChild
18:10 <+_MMA_> We are a very small team an are always on the lookout for people who can give solid help. Currently we are looking for people to help with:
18:10 <+_MMA_>  * ISO testing
18:10 <+_MMA_>  * Documentation
18:10 <+_MMA_>  * Artwork for Gutsy. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Artwork/OfficialHardyIncoming (this includes all aspects for the "look&feel of Ubuntu Studio-Gutsy as well as the website.)
18:10 <+_MMA_>  * Knowledgeable help with packaging and technical issues around Linux audio.
18:10 <+_MMA_> The front page of our wiki gives various ways to contact us about involvement. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio
18:10 <+_MMA_>  
18:11 <+_MMA_> So with that I'll open it up. :) Please post questions to #ubuntu-classroom-chat prefixed with "QUESTION:"
18:11 <+TheMuso> c
18:11 <+TheMuso> ugh
18:11 <+TheMuso> sorry
18:11 < mzungu> join #ubuntu-classroom-chat
18:13 <+TheMuso> desertc: Thereis no upgrade path, as it uses ubuntu Gutsy as base. If you only want to install either audio, audio plougins, video, or graphics, you only need in stall the ubuntustudio-audio, -video, -graphics, or -audio-plugins as needed.
18:14 <+_MMA_> ? I didnt see the question here.
18:14 <@PriceChild> TheMuso, you might want to paste the questions you're answering in here so the logs are nice :)
18:14 <+TheMuso> The ubuntustudio-desktop brings in the GNOME desktop, much like ubuntu-desktop does. if you are already running gutsy, you likely won't want to do this, as you already have a desktop.
18:14 <+TheMuso> PriceChild: Ok.
18:14 <+_MMA_> SOmeone handle the questions please.
18:15 <+_MMA_> "awkorama_: QUESTION: what's your view of NLE software for linux? what new video software is included in gutsy?"
18:15 <+_MMA_> Currently this is a big thorn in many sides.
18:15 <+TheMuso> desertc asked:  Is there an upgrade path from Ubuntu Gutsy standard install to Ubuntu Studio?
18:15 <+TheMuso> My answer is above.
18:16 <+_MMA_> NVE are really lacking.
18:16 <+_MMA_> Cinelerra is the best thing we have going but has many license issues.
18:16 <+_MMA_> Its a really complex app to develop.
18:17 <+_MMA_> Ardour has had success with audio because of a great team and financial support over the years.
18:17 <+_MMA_> But sadly this hasnt happened for NVE.
18:18 <+TheMuso> < mzungu> QUESTION: hi - is it ok to use kubuntu as the base system? -- mzungu, of course. There is nothing stopping you from using Kubuntu as a desktop.
18:19 <+_MMA_> mzungu: Sure. Wont hurt anything. :)
18:19 <+_MMA_> You *should* be able to use any *buntu you want with our packages.
18:20 <+TheMuso> < FayZee> QUESTION: (Following on from desertc) can i upgrade from Ubuntu 7.04 if I first uninstall the Gnome desktop? If  so, how / what CLI command - uninstall or purge or whatever?? - FayZee_  -- You shouldn't need to uninstall GNOME to upgrade to UbuntuStudio gutsy.
18:21 -!- mode/#ubuntu-classroom [+v jussi01] by ChanServ
18:21 <+TheMuso> FayZee_: Since a lot has changed, and while many have had success, we recommend a fresh install of UbuntuStudio.
18:21 <+_MMA_> <desertc> QUESTION: Back to my comment about user-generated-content being the killer-app of Linux, Is Ubuntu Studio leading users to use Free file formats, or at least educating them about using non-Free codecs?  I imagine most people want to make and edit MP3 and AVI files, only because the know of the file formats.
18:21 <+TheMuso> FayZee_: Note also that you will need to remove the extra repo needed for Ubuntustudio Feisty from your /etc/apt/sources.list file.
18:21 < popey> opme
18:21 <+_MMA_> We do prefer free formats where we can.
18:22 <+_MMA_> We ship no support for them by default following the same line as Ubuntu proper.
18:22 <+TheMuso> ^/c
18:23 <+TheMuso> < mzungu> QUESTION: in relation to my last question - i was thinking about audio latency issues with arts - so a kubuntu  desktop will still do the job?
18:23 <+TheMuso> mzungu: You just need to kill artsd before you use any audio app that might need to use Jack for example.
18:23 <+TheMuso> But yes, Kubuntu as a desktop is fine.
18:24 <+TheMuso> Any more questions?
18:24 <+_MMA_> hehe. Gonna be a short one. :)
18:25 <+jussi01> <desertc> QUESTION: Do you offer packages or advice on how Ubuntu Studio users can publish their work?  Is there any server-services that could be used to publish user-generated media on a high-speed Internet connection?
18:25 <+_MMA_> desertc: Currently no. We're open to ideas. :)
18:25 <+TheMuso> I don't know of any, but others may... Guys?
18:26 <+jussi01> <desertc> QUESTION (cont): I am thinking of pod-casting, and video-casting, as well as advise on where to put picture collections.
18:27 <+jussi01> <awkorama_> QUESTION: is there any chance, that I won't get 90 audio apps when installing ubuntu studio, but get one to get a job done (think of ubuntu-desktop, it does not kill user by giving him 100 apps right away)
18:27 <+TheMuso> awkorama: As I said earlier, you can install ubuntustudio-audio to install a selection of audio applications.
18:27 <+_MMA_> awkorama_: You will get the audio apps installed by ubuntustudio-audio.
18:28 <+TheMuso> awkorama: But if you only want to install a few apps, you are better off finding the apps you need, and installing them.
18:28 <+_MMA_> We have tried to really pair it down via user feedback when we started.
18:29 <+jussi01> <desertc> QUESTION: Have you seen Ubuntu Studio used in any organizations worth mentioning?
18:29 <+_MMA_> But if you're looking for a single app its best to use U/K/Xubuntu ans grab what you want.
18:29 <+_MMA_> desertc: Id have to dig for some emails but I would saw the short answer is no. :)
18:30 <+_MMA_> I have a school using it and someone mentioned using it at their work but thats about it. :)
18:31 <+_MMA_> *crickets*
18:31 <+_MMA_> :)
18:32 <+jussi01>  <desertc> QUESTION: Does Ubuntu Studio have DVD video encoding?  Can I make burn my own digital movies to DVD like Apple iFilm?  If not, then what do you see as the roadblocks
18:33 <+_MMA_> desertc: Currently no. We are looking at some to make sure there are no license concerns.
18:33 <+TheMuso> Proprietary codecs.
18:33 <+_MMA_> We're happy to take any suggestions on the matter.
18:34 <+TheMuso> Don't forget that the large majority of codecs in use for things like DVD today, are patent encumbered.
18:34 <+_MMA_> Like I said, we're a small team and welkcome help. ;)
18:34 <+TheMuso> And/or require royalties.
18:34 <+_MMA_> *welcome
18:35 <+jussi01> <desertc> QUESTION: Have you thought about educational uses of this software, for classes that teach about multimedia in their intro to  computers class?
18:35 <+TheMuso> As a development team, I don't see that as our concern at this point.
18:35 <+TheMuso> If users wish to do that, they are most welcome to.
18:36 <+TheMuso> DVDs use MPEG for the video, which has patents/royalties as far as I know.
18:36 <+_MMA_> Sure, problem is, that its really hard to use some of our tools in the "normal world" because of the proprietary nature of broadcasting.
18:36 <+_MMA_> So schools usually want AVID.Pro-Tools.
18:37 <+_MMA_> And though it can be done with our tools, its hard to get them to look at us.
18:37 <+TheMuso> < popey> does ubuntustudio do mp3 encoding?
18:37 <+TheMuso> < popey> if so then the patent argument aobut dvd is somewhat irrelavent
18:37 <+TheMuso> Not by default, no.
18:38 <+TheMuso> You need to install an MP3 encoder from the multiverse repo to do that.
18:38 <+_MMA_> We follow the same "party line" as Ubuntu proper.
18:38 <+jussi01> <desertc> QUESTION: Thought about the upcoming GNASH project and incorporating an open flash development tool set?
18:39 <+jussi01> desertc: does one exist?
18:39 <+TheMuso> I personally dislike flash greatly, so wouldn't recommend encouraging a proprietary format.
18:39 <+TheMuso> I don't know of one that exists so far.
18:39 < luisbg> gnash playbacks flash, doesn't edit it
18:39 < luisbg> no free flash editor is even plausible right now
18:39 <+TheMuso>  But at the end of the day, its not my call whether it goes in or not.
18:40 <+jussi01> <desertc> QUESTION: How has the alpha-status of the OGG video codec, Theora, effected the tools you include in Ubuntu Studio?
18:40 <+TheMuso> We just include them. The only way things get better, is if users use/test them, and file bugs.
18:40 <+TheMuso> And, theora is the most ree of video codecs atm afaik.
18:40 <+_MMA_> Not so much only that I keep am keeping a better eye on then to make sure we get the newest packages in we can.
18:41 < luisbg> the alpha-status is a label they have, the quality is very good and could be definitive
18:41 <+jussi01> <desertc> QUESTION: What is your most favorite feature in Ubuntu Studio?  What's the most fun you've had on the team?
18:41 < luisbg> but some projects tend to dilate the alpha label, specially if there is no money behind release a "final product"
18:41 <+TheMuso> Realtime kernel + Jack + 3 soundcards simultaneously. :p
18:42 <+_MMA_> Hmm... Ardour2 and our -RT kernel. :)
18:42 <+TheMuso> I've had fun doing everything that I've done for the project/team.
18:42 < luisbg> -rt kernel has given us real fun times, no doubt
18:42 <+_MMA_> And our cleaned up Sound&Video menu. :)
18:43 <+_MMA_> Its dived into submenus now to help with the mile-high menu.
18:45 <+joejaxx> and amd64 support :)
18:45 <+_MMA_> Ahh..
18:45 <+_MMA_> Yes. :)
18:45 <+_MMA_> +1 for Joe
18:45 <+jussi01> <BonesolTeraDyne> QUESTION: How far do you think video editing in Linux has come compared to, say... last year? Also, how long do you think it will be until we get something that has achieved the level that Adobe Premier or iMovie has gotten to right now?
18:46 <+_MMA_> Not far at all. Its a fairly complex thing to pull off and alot of the devs that do them sadly work alone.
18:46 < popey> pitivi is coming along very nicely
18:46 <+_MMA_> I have been talking with the 64Studio guys to see what we can do.
18:47 <+_MMA_> We have a long way to go to get to Adobe Premier or iMovie.
18:48 <+_MMA_> pitivi is coming along but Open Movie Editor looks to be making more progress.
18:48 < luisbg> I believe the real problem is in the bass... gstreamer and openlibs aren't ready for video heavy duty
18:48 <+_MMA_> This is something we will be heavily looking at in the Hardy cycle.
18:48 < luisbg> but progress in that side is being made day after day
18:50 <+jussi01>  <imbrandon> QUESTION: how much MT. Dew and $other_caffeine do you guys go though close to a release :P
18:50 <+_MMA_> Personally, none. :) Joe might though.
18:50 <+TheMuso> None here. Just get good rest, and be sure I know what I'm doing, why I'm doing it, and how much time I have to get it in.
18:51 <+TheMuso> And whether its likely to break something.
18:51 < luisbg> I don't drink coffee... mabe tea
18:51 <+joejaxx> i only drink cranberry juice :) it is great make sure you get the Ocean Spray
18:51 < luisbg> but if you were offerings drugs... I can give you my post adress
18:51 <+_MMA_> But Id really like to stress that this project is very much in that hands of its users.
18:51 <+joejaxx> luisbg: lol
18:51 <+joejaxx> _MMA_: yes the community is a big part
18:51 <+_MMA_> We need people to get involved in a constructive way.
18:52  * luisbg underlines constructive
18:52 <+joejaxx> _MMA_: and commitment
18:53 <+joejaxx>  /win 288
18:53 <+joejaxx> bah
18:53 <+_MMA_> We have had issues we took to the ML and forums and received feedback thats great. We also need suggestions and help from people who can carry out a plan.
18:54 <+TheMuso> If you wish to get involved with packaging, I suggest you first get involved with the MOTUs, (See other sessions), and then if you wish to help us further, contact us, and we'll have a talk.
18:55 <+_MMA_> Apart from new ideas people can help with testing ISOs. Writing HOW-TOs/Documentation. And our art is open to the community this time around.
18:55 <+_MMA_> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/Artwork/OfficialHardyIncoming
18:57 <+_MMA_> Well lets kill it then.
18:57 <+joejaxx> :D
18:57 <+_MMA_> Please feel free to contact us. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio
18:57 <+joejaxx> Thank you all for attending
18:57 < luisbg>  or #ubuntustudio
18:58 <+joejaxx> We hope to see your involvement in the upcoming release cycle :)
18:58 <+_MMA_> That link has all the info to get involved or just jump on IRC and chat.
18:58 <+TheMuso> We do attempt to have someone in all timezones, but there is also the users mailing list.
18:59 <+_MMA_> I personally wont be around in #ubuntustudio till tomorrow or Monday but feel free to hit me up when you see me.
18:59 <+TheMuso> I'll be on and off, depending on whether I can get my box at home up again, but I will be around this week as well.
18:59  * joejaxx is on all the time :)
19:00  * luisbg doesn't want to be distracted... just kidding, we are all open to chat when we are around
19:03 <+_MMA_> Ok. Thanx all. Im out. :D
19:05 -!- mode/#ubuntu-classroom [+o nixternal] by ChanServ
19:06 -!- nixternal changed the topic of #ubuntu-classroom to: Ubuntu Open Week info: Information and Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek | Ubuntu classroom transcripts: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ClassroomTranscripts | Please ask questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat not here | Current session:  Ubuntu Documentation - Richard Johnson
</pre>
