{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** arosales to update Juju blueprints
** hallyn_ to coordinate with zul and smb on testing xen 4.3 on nova
** zul to follow up on  mariadb/percona making it into Saucy

* Saucy Development
** Release Tracking Bug Tasks - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-s-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
** Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-s/group/topic-s-servercloud-overview.html
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===
A catchup was planned with percona about making it into saucy.  jamespage
expects to work on it next month, but saucy looks unlikely.

A charm school on how to use charm helpers is coming up this Friday, Sep 6 at
1700UTC.

There appear to be more than one nested-kvm bugs.  32-bit userspace in level
1 appears to have been broken for awhile, while 64-bit appears to be a regression
in 3.11 or 3.10.

The bug list is getting out of hand, so everyone is asked to spend some extra
time triaging.

The next meeting will be Tuesday, Sep 10 at 16:00 UTC.

===== Meeting Actions =====

everyone spend extra time triaging bugs this week

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, Sep 10th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:01] <hallyn_> #startmeeting
[16:01] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Sep  3 16:02:22 2013 UTC.  The chair is hallyn_. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:01] <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[16:02] <hallyn_> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:02] <hallyn_> arosales to update Juju blueprints
[16:02] <arosales> hallyn_, got some good updates during the sprint last week.
[16:02] <hallyn_> and bp is updated?
[16:03] <hallyn_> will assume yes :)
[16:03] <hallyn_> hallyn_ to coordinate with zul and smb on testing xen 4.3 on nova
[16:03] <hallyn_> done - tested fine
[16:03] <hallyn_> zul to follow up on mariadb/percona making it into Saucy
[16:04] <hallyn_> zul: done?
[16:04] <jamespage> we have a catchup in +2 hrs about that with percona
[16:04] <jamespage> mariadb is still in review in Debian
[16:04] <hallyn_> cool, i'll count that as up-followed
[16:04] <hallyn_> thx
[16:04] <jamespage> and percona expect to work on it next month
[16:04] <jamespage> saucy looking unlikely
[16:04] <hallyn_> ok
[16:04] <hallyn_> #topic Saucy Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Saucy Development
[16:05] <hallyn_> #link http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-s-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
[16:06] <hallyn_> looking through the high prio ones, not sure those pertain to us
[16:06] <hallyn_> oh there we go
[16:06] <arosales> hallyn_, yes sorry for the delay. Yes got some good BP updates
[16:06] <hallyn_> bug 1208455 - we can talk about during smb's section
[16:06] <ubottu> bug 1208455 in linux (Ubuntu Saucy) "general protection fault running apt-get inside double nested kvm VM" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1208455
[16:07] <hallyn_> arosales: great, thanks
[16:07] <hallyn_> bug 1213915
[16:07] <ubottu> bug 1213915 in ceph (Ubuntu Saucy) "Please demote ceph-mds and ceph-fs-common to universe" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1213915
[16:07] <hallyn_> jamespage: ?
[16:07] <jamespage> with archive admins
[16:07] <jamespage> no further action on our part required
[16:07] <hallyn_> thx
[16:07] <hallyn_> bug 1206872
[16:07] <ubottu> bug 1206872 in samba (Ubuntu Saucy) "samba fails to unpack (behavior change in patch) and ftbfs on aarch64" [High,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1206872
[16:07] <hallyn_> zul: ^ ?
[16:07] <hallyn_> also bug 1156932
[16:08] <ubottu> bug 1156932 in python-novaclient (Ubuntu Saucy) "User can't modify security-group-rule via nova-api if there are duplicated security group name" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1156932
[16:08] <jamespage> thats fixed
[16:08] <zul> will look at it this week
[16:08] <hallyn_> and bug 1199791
[16:08] <ubottu> bug 1199791 in nova (Ubuntu Saucy) "nova-compute-xcp misses nova-compute.conf" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1199791
[16:08] <zul> jamespage:  the samba one/
[16:08] <jamespage> yeah
[16:08] <jamespage> nova security groups thing is not and probably won't be I guess
[16:08] <zul> jamespage:  i was hoping for the nova security one ;)
[16:08] <jamespage> nah
[16:08] <hallyn_> jamespage: sorry, won't be what?
[16:08] <jamespage> its not that of a biggy
[16:08] <jamespage> won't be fixed
[16:08] <hallyn_> ok
[16:09] <hallyn_> last high prio one is bug 1214615
[16:09] <ubottu> bug 1214615 in juju-core (Ubuntu Saucy) "package juju-core 1.13.1-0ubuntu1 failed to install/upgrade: subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 2" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1214615
[16:09] <jamespage> I just closed that
[16:09] <jamespage> I realized my mistake just after uploading but someone raised a bug Idid not spot
[16:09] <hallyn_> i see that :)  thx
[16:09] <hallyn_> ok, so moving on to blueprints
[16:09] <jamespage> that horizon r/w on /usr/share is a pig as well
[16:09]  * jamespage bumps the priority
[16:10] <hallyn_> jamespage: oh?
[16:10] <jamespage> I hit is yesterday when testing a few updates for horizon
[16:10] <hallyn_> bug 1216019
[16:10] <jamespage> I'll have a look
[16:10] <ubottu> bug 1216019 in horizon (Ubuntu Saucy) "Horizon default config assumes www-data has R/w on /usr/share... directory" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1216019
[16:10] <hallyn_> jamespage: thx
[16:10] <jamespage> yeah - horizon tries to store/retrieve a secret
[16:10] <jamespage> is horrid
[16:11] <hallyn_> ok, so moving on -
[16:11] <hallyn_> [LINK] http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-s/group/topic-s-servercloud-overview.html
[16:11] <hallyn_> arosales: jamespage: ^
[16:11]  * hallyn_ defers
[16:11] <jamespage> good oh
[16:11] <arosales> smoser, jamespage did vUDS allow for some good BP updates?
[16:11] <jamespage> looks like everything might have had a good catchup after uds last week
[16:12] <arosales> ah ok
[16:12] <jamespage> roaksoax, https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-openstack-charms-ha-v2
[16:12] <jamespage> any updates?
[16:12] <jamespage> bah - we are stuck on the hard stuff - active/active rabbitmq and active/active mysql
[16:12] <roaksoax> jamespage: nope, I'll start this week to work on the charms (cause got distracted last week with toher stuff) right now in training
[16:13] <jamespage> I started to look at charming percona/cluster using upstream repositories
[16:13] <jamespage> it feel fragile still
[16:13] <jamespage> anyway..
[16:13] <smoser> arosales, i did a far amount of bp updates. if nothing else, vuds did give a reasonable time slot for that.
[16:13] <jamespage> smoser, https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-simplestreams
[16:13] <jamespage> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-cloud-init
[16:14] <jamespage> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-openstack-qa got a bit of a replan post vUDS
[16:14] <jamespage> so s'ok
[16:15] <smoser> jamespage, simplestreams is in correct state.
[16:15] <jamespage> zul, please can you update and re-plan https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-openstack-havana against remaining milestones
[16:15] <smoser> cloud-init i'm updating now.
[16:15] <zul> ack
[16:15] <zul> jamespage:  will do so this afternoon
[16:15] <jamespage> I don't think mongodb will make main this cycle - https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-mongodb
[16:16] <jamespage> but hopefully we can figure out something with upstream for 14.04
[16:16] <zul> arrgh
[16:16] <jamespage> that said we are now ship-shape on OpenSSL + AGPL linking exceptions
[16:16]  * jamespage thanks MongoDB for doing that
[16:16] <jamespage> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-openstack-charms
[16:17] <jamespage> adam_g, I think that needs an update post UDS session please; with milestones etc...
[16:17] <adam_g> jamespage, ack
[16:17] <jamespage> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-cloud-archive
[16:17] <jamespage> replanned and OK
[16:18] <jamespage> zul, smb, https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-openstack-hypervisor  has some immediate work items that need attention
[16:18] <jamespage> specifcally FFe's for openstack stuff
[16:18] <zul> FFE filed for xen
[16:18] <smb> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xen/+bug/1218817
[16:18] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1218817 in xen (Ubuntu) "[FFE] Update to Xen-4.3 in Saucy" [High,New]
[16:18] <jamespage> zul, please update the blueprint then
[16:18] <zul> FFE filed for openstack-lxc coming today
[16:18] <jamespage> thanks
[16:19] <smb> jamespage, thought I did update the bp
[16:19] <jamespage> smb; so you did - my mistake
[16:19] <jamespage> arosales, want to touch on the juju blueprints?
[16:19] <jamespage> I'm not so close to those...
[16:20] <jamespage> nope -OK
[16:20] <jamespage> looks like not to many issues anyway
[16:20] <jamespage> hallyn_, back to you
[16:21] <arosales> jamespage, I think we are good for this week
[16:21] <hallyn_> jamespage: thanks, moving on,
[16:21] <arosales> plus looks like I lost my chance :-)
[16:21] <jamespage> arosales, lol
[16:21] <jamespage> blink and you miss it
[16:21] <hallyn_> :)
[16:21]  * arosales too slow
[16:21] <hallyn_> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:21] <hallyn_> plumber's is comgin up with several mini-confs (lxc, virt, security...)
[16:22]  * smb will be there
[16:22] <hallyn_> any more coming up?
[16:22] <arosales> charm school this friday
[16:22] <arosales> https://juju.ubuntu.com/events/
[16:22] <arosales> How to use Charm Helpers
[16:22] <arosales> 1700 UTC (1pm EDT) 6 September
[16:22] <arosales> #juju on Freenode
[16:22] <hallyn_> and maybe what charm helpers are? :)  /me should consider listening in
[16:22] <hallyn_> ok, moving on,
[16:22] <hallyn_> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)
[16:23] <arosales> yes if you don't know what charms are please join us and find out :-)
[16:23] <jamespage> charm helpers help you write charms in less code +10000
[16:23] <zul> lol
[16:23] <hallyn_> plars: psivaa: \o
[16:23] <hallyn_> we can come back if need be,
[16:23] <hallyn_> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:24] <psivaa> hello
[16:24] <smb> too late ? :)
[16:24] <psivaa> no updaes from us btw :)
[16:24] <hallyn_> psivaa: ok thanks :)
[16:24] <smb> So just for that kvm bug mentioned before...
[16:24] <smb> I cannot say more than that is seems to be some regression with 3.11 (maybe 3.10 already). I just managed to write a lengthy email to the kvm mailing list this morning as I am not sure how to drill down further. Basing on 64bit Precise  and 64bit Saucy on level 1 for a level 2 should be mostly working but adding more saucy to deeper nesting is likely prone to fail.
[16:24] <hallyn_> smb: so 3.9-under-3.9 wouldn't have had this problem?
[16:25] <hallyn_> (I thought jodh was having trouble iwth earlier kernels, but maybe i mis-remember)
[16:25] <smb> hallyn_, I think only 32bit user-space in level 1 seems to have been broken a bit longer
[16:25] <hallyn_> oh. right.  we have multiple bugs?
[16:25] <smb> Likely
=== kyleN-afk is now known as kyleN
[16:25] <hallyn_> lovely
[16:26] <hallyn_> ok so, we're waiting on community to jump in.  this can be rperoduced with fedora or some other distros i assume?
[16:26] <smb> I hope but I have not tried
[16:26] <hallyn_> ok.  (mahbe i'll try later this week)  any other questions for smb
[16:27] <hallyn_> if not, we can move on to...
[16:27] <hallyn_> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
[16:27] <rbasak> Nothing new from me. Any questions?
[16:27] <hallyn_> (waiting 30 secs for responses)
[16:28] <hallyn_> great, let's move on to
[16:28] <hallyn_> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Open Discussion
[16:28] <hallyn_> anything?
[16:28] <rbasak> In case anyone is unaware, http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/triage-report.html needs some love.
[16:29] <hallyn_> oh yeah - can we do any automated cleanup of the likewise-open bugs?
[16:29] <hallyn_> jamespage: ^ that looks like yoru ba
[16:29] <hallyn_> bag
[16:30] <jamespage> golly
[16:30] <jamespage> yes
[16:30] <jamespage> I'll take a look
[16:30] <jamespage> but if the rest of the team can have a dirge on bug triage this week/next that would be helpful
[16:30]  * jamespage holds up his hand for being a little neglegent on triage duty recently
[16:30] <hallyn_> jamespage: ok, thanks :)  i looked at some by hand, and actually they looked like not all the same causes - but it's hard to tell bc i don't know the package that well
[16:31] <hallyn_> i'd also like to consider taking all < 1000000 numbered likewise-open bugs and marking them all dups or something
[16:31] <hallyn_> but ok, let's say
[16:31] <hallyn_> [ACTION] everyone spend extra time triaging bugs this week
[16:31] <meetingology> ACTION: everyone spend extra time triaging bugs this week
[16:32] <hallyn_> so we can move on to
[16:32] <hallyn_> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
[16:32] <hallyn_> Should be Tuesday Sep 10 at 16:00 UTC, with the magnificent roaksoax chairing
[16:32] <hallyn_> thanks everyone \o
[16:32] <hallyn_> #endmeeting
</pre>
