{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': Mon Oct 15 17:00:44 2018 UTC
* '''End''': Mon Oct 15 17:18:44 2018 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': Joe McManus (joemcmanus)

=== Attendance ===

* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson
* leosilva
* msalvatore
* ebarretto
* joemcmanus

=== Not present ===
 <pre> comment
 list people here
</pre>
* amurray

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** SLC Sprint next week, Jamie & Joe out of office
  <pre> comment
</pre>
** Generalist role rotation
** CVE Triage: leosilva, Bug Triage: ebarreto, Community: msalvatore, Happy Place: the rest :)
** The Ubuntu Security Team is hiring!
** Ubuntu Security engineer: https://boards.greenhouse.io/canonical/jobs/1158266?t=8c0a6c1f1
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
  <pre> comment
* amurray
</pre>
** jdstrand
** fix bug in snapd wrt system-key and calculating apparmor parser features
** respond to feedback for recently pushed kubernetes policy updates
** continue on brand store declarations
** product roadmap sprint prep
** mdeslaur
** short week
** net-snmp updates
** test the ppp updates
** additional updates as time allows
** sbeattie
** kernel signoffs and some re-triage
** investigate toolchain updates for cosmic+1
** apparmor reviews
** jjohansen
** finish the apparmor releases, which includes rolling out a 2.13.2 emergency release because initscripts are broken on suse and debian.
** more LSM stacking review and work on the ubuntu patchset
** refresh and get an RFC out for the NS LSM hook patchset this week
** LSS-EU presentation
** nnp changes so I can get back to Eric with them
** audit/prompting work and apparmor 3.0 userspace as time allows
** sarnold
** oath-toolkit mir
** aa patch reviews as jj asks for them
** additional MIRs as time allows
** file a few bug reports from the previous MIRs as time allows
** !chrisccoulson
** thunderbird 60.2.1 publication. Now ready to hand over to the desktop team
** firefox sponsored upload from desktop team
** libssh2 MIR
** leosilva
** cve triage this week
** attend python brasil event
** moin update.
** additional cves/pkgs to update as time allows
** msalvatore
** community this week
** wireshark, version 2.6.1 for trusty, xenial, and bionic went out today
** update look and feel for the ubuntu cve tracker
** resolve some universe CVEs as time allows
** ebarretto
** bug triage this week
** tomcat6 update (trusty and xenial)
** tomcat7 as time permits
** continue retriaging CVEs
** joemcmanus
** Plan for SLC
** Web page update planning
** 1:1 with team
** Security role phone screens
* Highlighted packages
** Miscellaneous and Questions
