{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* T Development
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

A few last pieces are being worked in the last couple of days to final freeze.

* James Page is struggling to find a release team member to review the docker.io feature freeze exception request (bug 1295093).
* The juju-quickstart MIR is deferred; Robie will upload some final bugfixes soon.
* Louis is working on some last minute fixes to sosreport.
* Parameswaran reports that all smoke tests are passing.
* Stefan is polishing some last pieces in Xen and libvirt.

===== Meeting Actions =====

None

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

The next meeting will be at: Tue, 15 Apr 2014 16:00:00 +0000. Scott will chair.

=== Log ===
<pre>
17:00 <rbasak> #startmeeting ubuntu-server
17:01 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Apr  8 16:01:00 2014 UTC.  The chair is rbasak. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
17:01 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
17:01 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server Meeting | Current topic:
17:01 -!- hallyn has joined #ubuntu-meeting
17:01 <rbasak> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
17:01 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
17:01 <rbasak>     Serge to drop the arm server item from agenda 
17:02 <rbasak> Looks like he has. Thanks Serge!
17:02 -!- PaulW2U has joined #ubuntu-meeting
17:02 -!- smb has joined #ubuntu-meeting
17:02 <rbasak> #topic Trusty Development
17:02 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server Meeting | Current topic: Trusty Development
17:02 <rbasak> Final freeze is in two days.
17:02 <gaughen> o/
17:02 -!- caribou has joined #ubuntu-meeting
17:02 <rbasak> Is there anything anyone needs to raise?
17:02 -!- lutostag has joined #ubuntu-meeting
17:02 <rbasak> I know jamespage has been chasing bug 1295093.
17:02 <beisner> o/ hi
17:02 <ubottu> bug 1295093 in docker.io (Ubuntu Trusty) "[FFe] Merge docker.io 0.9.1 from Debian unstable" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1295093
17:03 <rbasak> Any other pieces we need to land?
17:03 <rbasak> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/ReleaseSchedule
17:03 <gaughen> my only question is what else needs to get done before GA
17:03 <jamespage> rbasak, I have but I can't persuade my normal release team member to review it
17:03 <gaughen> smoser, jamespage?
17:03 <smoser> o/.
17:03 <rbasak> #subtopic Release Bugs
17:03 <rbasak> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-t-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
17:03 <gaughen> release notes, server guide - anything else that needs to get done?
17:04 -!- arosales has joined #ubuntu-meeting
17:04 <rbasak> Looking at this list, I know that the juju-quickstart MIR is deferred, and I'm preparing the latest upstream for upload today.
17:04 <rbasak> This will fix bug 1301464 and bug 1301481
17:04 <ubottu> bug 1301464 in juju-quickstart (Ubuntu) "The mega-watcher for machines does not include containers addresses" [Undecided,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1301464
17:04 <ubottu> bug 1301481 in juju-quickstart (Ubuntu Trusty) "juju-quickstart will be broken in Trusty after juju-core updates in its stable PPA" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1301481
17:05 <rbasak> Any other comments on the release tracking bugs? How's icehouse looking?
17:05 <coreycb> o/
17:05 <rbasak> #subtopic Blueprints
17:05 <rbasak> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-t/group/topic-t-servercloud-overview.html
17:06 <rbasak> Probably time to start closing off work items and postponing them if needed.
17:06 <rbasak> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
17:06 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
17:06 <rbasak> caribou: you're up!
17:06 <caribou> some last minute fixes to sosreport to report, that's all
17:07 <rharper> o/
17:07 <rbasak> Thanks caribou!
17:07 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
17:07 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
17:07 <rbasak> psivaa: hello!
17:07 <psivaa> rbasak: nothing much to update from us this week
17:07 <psivaa> tests are 100% in smoke
17:08 <rbasak> OK. Thanks psivaa!
17:08 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee) 
17:08 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
17:08 <smb> Frantically working on some polishing for Xen and libvirt. Apart from that I have not more myself. Anything from your side?
17:08 <rbasak> Does anyone have anything for smb?
17:08 <rbasak> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
17:08 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
17:09 <rbasak> Any new events to report?
17:09  * rbasak isn't aware of any
17:09 <rbasak> #topic Open Discussion
17:09 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
17:09 <rbasak> Does anyone have anything else to raise?
17:10 <rbasak> #topic Announce next meeting date and time
17:10 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date and time
17:10 <rbasak> The next meeting will be at: Tue, 15 Apr 2014 16:00:00 +0000
17:10 <rbasak> smoser: you're next up to chair.
17:10 <smoser> thanks rbasak
17:11 <rbasak> Thanks all!
17:11 <rbasak> #endmeeting
17:11 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
17:11 <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Apr  8 16:11:09 2014 UTC.
17:11 <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-04-08-16.01.moin.txt

</pre>
