{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
=== ..[topic/#ubuntu-meeting:Ubugtu] : Current meeting: Xubuntu | Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 19 Mar 15:00 UTC: Kernel Team | 19 Mar 23:00 UTC: IRC Operators | 20 Mar 18:00 UTC: Community Council | 21 Mar 12:00 UTC: Edubuntu | 22 Mar 16:00 UTC: Ubuntu Development Team
04:08	j1mc	Seveas: thanks
04:08	Grey_Loki	Is there a log of this MOTU meeting somewhere? I'd quite like to read up on what was said, assuming that it's the sound-related MOTU...
04:09	effie_jayx	Grey_Loki,  check #ubuntu-motu
=== Grey_Loki frowns
04:09	Grey_Loki	Damn
04:09	Grey_Loki	Masters Of The Universe?
04:09	effie_jayx	Grey_Loki,  aham
=== Grey_Loki sighs
04:09	effie_jayx	Xubuntu meeting here :D ?
04:10	cellofellow	yeah, I think.
=== nothlit_ [n=nothlit@pcd416055.netvigator.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:10	cellofellow	supposed to be
04:10	j1mc	hey effie_jayx yeah . . .
04:10	j1mc	we don't have many people here right now, but . . . any of you involved with documentation or artwork?
04:10	cellofellow	not really.
04:10	j1mc	effie_jayx: you?
04:11	effie_jayx	j1mc,  In spanish
04:11	j1mc	ok
04:11	cellofellow	sometimes I give jmak artwork tips. I support his ideas more than some of the other devs.
04:11	Seveas	I fixed the xubuntu usplash theme, that's all art I do :)
04:11	cellofellow	not that i'm a dev
04:11	effie_jayx	j1mc,  I ma interested in begining xubuntu docs in spanish... I currently manage a team of spanish documentation
04:11	j1mc	well, i guess i can provide a brief update on docs . . .
=== Grey_Loki [n=Loki@212.49.210.38] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
=== TheSheep_ [i=sheep@atos.wmid.amu.edu.pl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:12	j1mc	unlike edgy, did provide some updates to our docs
=== j1mc welcomes TheSheep_
04:12	j1mc	the updates primarily were to make them current, and fix glaring errors but no major overhauls
04:13	TheSheep_	hello everyone
04:13	j1mc	effie_jayx: do you know who you'd contact to help with translating them in spanish?
04:13	cellofellow	I'm not exactly sure what is new in Feisty. New versions of all the bits and pieces as usual.
04:13	effie_jayx	j1mc,  I came here hopeful that  Iwould network with someone doing some spanish doc
04:14	cellofellow	I would if I knew a lick of spanish. :)
04:14	j1mc	effie_jayx: ok, i'll see who i can put you in touch with.  i know one of the main kubuntu doc people.
04:14	j1mc	can you /msg me and send me your email address?
04:15	effie_jayx	sure
04:15	j1mc	TheSheep_: what have you been involved in?
=== bleinmono [n=toffel@ppp85-141-149-82.pppoe.mtu-net.ru] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:16	cellofellow	Welcome Centre?
04:17	j1mc	cellofellow: do you know if that made it through?
04:17	cellofellow	not sure.
=== dennda [n=dennda@ubuntu/member/dennda] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:17	cellofellow	TheSheep_: how is Welcome Centre going anyways? It's sort of like docs  . :)
04:19	j1mc	cellofellow: what have you been up to, other than providing good support on #xubuntu?  :)
04:20	cellofellow	Learning to program with Python.
04:20	cellofellow	Adding some insights to xubuntu-devel mailing list.
=== cyphase [n=cyphase@c-71-202-49-23.hsd1.ca.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:22	j1mc	although it wasn't listed as an agenda item, xubuntu ISO testing is getting better, with more community participation.
04:22	cellofellow	I don't have a CD burner, and so I am limited to using QEMU.
04:22	cellofellow	I can use QEMU to install on a normal hard drive and run from there.
04:23	highvoltage	hey guys
04:23	cellofellow	hi
04:23	j1mc	ok, if you want, i can see if they have a specific spot to report QEMU tests
04:23	j1mc	hi highvoltage
04:23	TheSheep_	j1mc: oh, sorry, mainly welcome centre, it's not doing very well
04:24	cellofellow	I install using qemu, but then run in the normal box.
04:24	highvoltage	hey j1mc and cellofellow
04:24	j1mc	highvoltage: how are things with xubuntu packages in edubuntu?
04:24	j1mc	TheSheep_: what needs help in welcome centre?  just more manpower?  what skills are required to work on it?
04:25	TheSheep_	j1mc: the program is more or less finished, we don't really have any content for it though
04:25	cellofellow	highvoltage: do we NEED to compete with TuxLabs or can we just let them fill their niche?
04:25	j1mc	in content, you mean docs?
04:26	cellofellow	TheSheep_: where is the content wiki again?
04:26	TheSheep_	cellofellow: welcome.sheep.art.pl
=== BackwardsDown [n=niels@5351BB29.cable.casema.nl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:26	TheSheep_	cellofellow: we can move it to regular ubuntu wiki
04:26	TheSheep_	cellofellow: or anywhere else
04:26	highvoltage	cellofellow: I don't think tuXlabs and Xubuntu ever competed
04:27	highvoltage	cellofellow: I think tuxlab has done good in getting xubuntu out there, and getting it more wider testing
04:27	cellofellow	TuxLabs is Edubuntu stuff with XFCE desktop. Designed for LTSP installations.
04:27	cellofellow	so, why we need Edubuntu stuff in Xubuntu?
04:27	cellofellow	tuxlabs does that.
04:27	highvoltage	ah, I see
=== nothlit [n=nothlit@n219077184133.netvigator.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:28	j1mc	oh . . . pardon my comment, i was just going off of some notes from the last meeting: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings
04:28	j1mc	(my comment about xubuntu packages in edubuntu)
04:28	highvoltage	cellofellow: well, Edubuntu is going to use Xubuntu packages on the edubuntu-add-on disk, so there's not any additional load on the xubuntu team has to do in terms of education at the moment
04:29	cellofellow	ok, so an XFCE-Edubuntu option disk?
04:29	highvoltage	something like that, yes
04:29	highvoltage	Edubuntu will install a gnome desktop, and there will also be an Edubuntu CD 2 disk
04:29	highvoltage	that will contain Xfce for those who would like to implement it
04:30	cellofellow	ok then.
04:30	highvoltage	cellofellow: but if anyone would like to get more involved with xubuntu-edubuntu collaboration, I'd urge them to join #edubuntu too
04:30	highvoltage	(and vice-versa)
04:31	j1mc	highvoltage: sounds good.  thanks for that tip.
04:31	cellofellow	well, allright then. I might try that. I just installed Xubuntu on a computer that is mostly for younger kids.
04:31	j1mc	i think both edubuntu and xubuntu struggle a bit with manpower, no?  i know nixternal was asking for edubuntu doc help.
04:31	highvoltage	j1mc: yes, both need help
04:32	j1mc	if we can work together on some items, maybe we can pool resources.
04:32	highvoltage	both have strong, small cores, but I think they are at a stage where both needs to expand
04:32	highvoltage	j1mc: sounds very good
04:32	cellofellow	I would think Canonical would put a lot of effort behind Edubuntu, because it's a more commercial-oriented version than the otehrs.
=== j1mc will look into edubuntu project. cellofellow i agree. esp because edubuntu is an official Canonical project.
=== j1mc thinks the welcome centre looks pretty great
04:34	highvoltage	the demand for Xfce is *definitely* growing, imho, it's just a matter of time before Canonical will have to provide for Xfce as well
04:34	highvoltage	especially on large LTSP deployments.
04:34	cellofellow	I think the language is a bit too technical and needs to be lively and written for the lay-man or even the semi-technophibic.
=== j1mc *nods*
04:35	j1mc	cellofellow: was the welcome centre intended to replace the "getting started guide"?
04:36	cellofellow	It was supposed to pop up and "welcome" the user on first boot I believe.
04:37	TheSheep_	j1mc: it was supposed to have links to the most important parts of documentation
04:37	TheSheep_	j1mc: something like the windows' one
04:38	j1mc	TheSheep_: ok, kind of like an introduction to the documentation - more concise
04:38	TheSheep_	j1mc: I'm not convinced it's needed, but it was fun to write :)
=== highvoltage thought that big parts of it was already written
04:38	j1mc	:-)  yeah
04:39	cellofellow	I think the language in it should be bright and happy. It seems technical and concise right now. Not that concise is bad, you want it in serious docs, but in a Welcome! thing it should say the basics in a nice happy way.
04:39	TheSheep_	cellofellow: you are absolutely right
04:39	TheSheep_	cellofellow: some dialog would be nice too
04:39	highvoltage	been a while since I've seen Adam on IRC, anyone been in contact with him?
04:39	cellofellow	Dialog? how do you mean.
04:39	TheSheep_	cellofellow: unfortunately, most of it is just copied from the ubuntu docs or written by tech people
04:39	j1mc	Adam?  you mean maxamillion?
04:39	cellofellow	I saw him yesterday. and on jabber too.
04:40	cellofellow	he's offline ATM.
04:40	highvoltage	j1mc: yep
04:40	j1mc	was he heading up the welcome centre?
04:40	cellofellow	I thought it was Radomir here. (If we are using real names. ;) )
04:40	TheSheep_	cellofellow: dialog like in books, you know, also some narration and maybe even plot
04:41	highvoltage	him and cody somersville, iirc
04:41	cellofellow	Don't know about that. Perhaps so.
04:41	cellofellow	Cody's been in the hospital or something.
04:41	highvoltage	oh yes, indeed: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Specifications/Feisty/XubuntuWelcomeCenter
04:41	j1mc	cellofellow: yes.  :(  i hope he's ok.
04:42	cellofellow	I think I can juice up the Welcome Centre if I find time. My family and I are going to England this week, will be gone for three.
04:43	cellofellow	I currently have some Home LAN admin issues too.
04:44	j1mc	i am not an expert, but it looks like the UI is off to a decent start.  i would be willing to help write for the welcome centre.
04:44	j1mc	sounds like we're looking at feisty+1 for this?
04:44	cellofellow	Maybe
04:45	cellofellow	(I think Feisty+1 should be Groovy Gazelle.)
=== j1mc thinks grande giraffe
04:45	cellofellow	both cool.
04:45	j1mc	hehe  :)
04:45	highvoltage	geeky gazelle
04:46	j1mc	hehehe
04:46	cellofellow	Grande Giraffe sounds big. Groovy Gazelle sounds cool and fast.
=== j1mc pings mark shuttleworth to ask which he prefers. ;-)
04:47	j1mc	so . . .   sounds like we need to get in touch with the welcome centre devs.
04:48	cellofellow	hey, jmak is online
04:48	j1mc	oh, cool...
04:48	cellofellow	Gtalk, I just IM'd him.
04:48	j1mc	thanks.
=== nothlit [n=nothlit@pcd555190.netvigator.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== AlexLatchford [n=alex@82-44-193-109.cable.ubr07.haye.blueyonder.co.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:50	j1mc	cellofellow: did he respond?
04:50	cellofellow	not yet
04:50	cellofellow	he must be busy.
=== Jmak [n=mak@h66-201-246-27.gtcust.grouptelecom.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:51	cellofellow	*wave*
04:51	j1mc	hello, Jmak!
04:51	Jmak	Hi
04:52	j1mc	howdy.  thanks for stopping by.
04:52	Jmak	What's going on
04:52	cellofellow	Nothing really. Might we ask how the artwork is going?
04:52	j1mc	so far we have briefly discussed documentation, working with edubuntu, and also spent some time talking about the welcome centre.
04:53	j1mc	. . . so now would be a good time for artwork.  :)
04:53	Jmak	Everything is already done
04:53	j1mc	i must say that the default wallpaper has grown on me.
04:53	Jmak	How so?
04:54	j1mc	at first i thought it was a bit too dark or rich, and i thought something glass-ier might look better, but now i like it.
04:54	j1mc	just one person's opinion.
04:54	cellofellow	Jmak: how about my face-browser-enabled login screen idea?
04:55	j1mc	Jmak: there are some new icon sets available in the repos.  have you given any of them a try?
04:55	Jmak	What repos?
04:55	j1mc	well, i'm not sure if they're "new" but they are new to being in the repos.
04:56	j1mc	i'll check . . .
04:56	Jmak	I am also working on an orange version of the tango
04:57	cellofellow	Isn't that already? Tangerine?
04:57	Jmak	Tangerein is too oragne
04:57	Jmak	Mine is more brownish
04:58	Jmak	And i also have an aluminium version
04:58	j1mc	gnome-icon-theme-gartoon tangerine-icon-theme gnome-extra-icons gnome-humility-icon-theme gnome-icon-theme-blankon gnome-icon-theme-dlg-neu gnome-icon-theme-gperfection2 gnome-icon-theme-nuovo gnome-icon-theme-suede
04:58	j1mc	those are new to me from the repos, anyway.
04:59	j1mc	i just did an "apt-cache search icon --names-only"
04:59	cellofellow	perhaps we can provide overall "themes". You seem to like either Blue or Gray. I like green myself.
04:59	Jmak	I know the nuovo and the neu, i check out the rest
04:59	Jmak	Green icons?
04:59	j1mc	Jmak: there are a few others, too.  those are just what i picked out.
05:00	cellofellow	never seen any, I just like green desktops.
05:00	Jmak	Everythin is better than the blue tango
05:00	cellofellow	someone must have packaged a bunch of icons for debian.
05:00	j1mc	Jmak: i haven't done a thorough test, but using some of those as my icon set doesn't convert *all* of my icons to the selected settings.
05:01	cellofellow	that means they aren't quite complete.
05:01	Jmak	I like the green themes as well for feisty +
=== JanC [n=janc@lugwv/member/JanC] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:01	j1mc	cellofellow: might it mean that xfce looks for icons to be in a specific file hierarchy, and that it doesn't always match up with gnome??
05:02	Jmak	Most icon sets are incomplate
05:02	cellofellow	I do like the Gcezanne icons you linked to on the mailing lists once, and they work great for ROX, but not enough icons in the right places for full XFCE.
05:02	j1mc	Jmak: do gnome and xfce use the same file tree structure to store icons?
05:02	cellofellow	XFCE uses the Tango standard for icon locations, I think. right?
05:03	Jmak	There is a nice Gcezanne one of my favorite too.
05:03	TheSheep_	xfce has some icons named differently -- there are symbolic links to amend that]
=== PuMpErNiCkLe [n=pumperni@about/essy/bacon/PuMpErNiCkLe] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:03	cellofellow	can't we all just settle on the gnome or tango standard please?
05:03	j1mc	welcome, PuMpErNiCkLe
05:03	PuMpErNiCkLe	yo
05:04	TheSheep_	cellofellow: agreed :)
05:04	j1mc	cellofellow: is that a rhetorical question?  :)
05:04	Jmak	Blue tango is very dull
05:04	cellofellow	I thought Tango was more than just an iconset, it was also a icon tree standard wannabe.
05:04	cellofellow	j1mc: sort of.
=== highvoltage quite likes blue tango
=== vinze [n=kvirc@ip4da1ded4.direct-adsl.nl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:06	cellofellow	I like Firefox themes that match or look like the native iconset. I can do that with Tango but not others.
05:06	vinze	Hey
05:06	cellofellow	Could we make a complementary Firefox theme too?
05:06	cellofellow	perhaps not for Feisty, but next time.
05:07	Jmak	There is a tango icon set for firefox
05:07	TheSheep_	better make firefox use the system icons and theem ;)
=== highvoltage agrees strongly with TheSheep_
05:08	cellofellow	Trouble is Firefox doesn't acces the system icons.
05:08	cellofellow	you have to make a firefox theme addon.
05:08	highvoltage	can't the theme contain symlinks to the system icons?
05:09	highvoltage	(an add-on theme, that is)
05:09	cellofellow	themes are sort of self-contained.
05:09	cellofellow	the default firefox theme uses the system GTK colors, it just has its own icons.
05:10	PuMpErNiCkLe	Also, they're not just icons - themes cover other aspects of the appearance, iirc.
05:10	cellofellow	yeah, I think we're talking about icons right now. We settled on a murrina GTK theme right?
05:11	Jmak	Great then we have to add the murrina configurator as well
05:11	Jmak	That will be a big success
05:12	Jmak	Everyone is going to like it
05:12	cellofellow	is the Murrina engine package in the repos yet?
05:12	Jmak	I think so
05:13	cellofellow	not here in Edgy, I have to hunt it down on the web.
05:13	Jmak	I find the author web site for you
05:14	PuMpErNiCkLe	It's in the Feisty repos.
05:14	cellofellow	I use it already, it's ok jmak.
05:15	vinze	I'll be back in a sec
05:15	vinze	Just testing Herd 5 :P
05:15	vinze	There was en error burning it
05:15	_MMA_	Ubuntu Studio also uses murrine for its engine. We got it in.
05:16	cellofellow	cool then
05:16	j1mc	the murrine engine allows easy customization of the theme, right?
05:16	_MMA_	.51 is in.
05:16	j1mc	of murrine-based themes. . .
05:17	_MMA_	With the configurator.
05:17	j1mc	is the configurator in the repos?
05:17	Jmak	Yes, you need the configurator
05:17	cellofellow	haven't tried the configurator yet.
05:17	_MMA_	I havnt messed with that much myself.
05:17	_MMA_	I did ours by hand.
05:17	_MMA_	I dont think thats in the repos.
05:17	Jmak	The confugurator is not in the repo you can get it from the authour website
=== j1mc answers his own question: no. :)
=== _MMA_ looks at the new queue.
05:18	Jmak	Thsi is the author web site
05:18	Jmak	http://cimi.netsons.org/pages/murrine/download.php
05:19	j1mc	Jmak: do you think it would be a good idea to include the configurator for feisty+1?
05:19	gpocentek	_MMA_: do we have Murrine themes in the repos
05:19	gpocentek	?
05:19	Jmak	In feisty
05:19	_MMA_	gpocentek: I think there are a couple.
05:19	TheSheep_	none
05:20	_MMA_	Our art packages didnt make the freeze. :(
05:20	TheSheep_	there is OranSun in feisty
05:20	j1mc	TheSheep_ is correct, we just have the engine.
05:20	TheSheep_	but I think it's in a separate repositorium
05:20	j1mc	_MMA_ your art package?
05:20	_MMA_	j1mc: This is OT but all the Ubuntu Studio art.
05:21	_MMA_	We struggled a little with the packages.
05:21	j1mc	_MMA_: :(
05:21	_MMA_	We'll host it on the site.
05:21	_MMA_	All the apps made it though.
05:21	j1mc	well, any other art-related subjects for anyone?
05:22	j1mc	any other topics?  :)
05:23	j1mc	anything that anyone would like to bring up?
05:23	TheSheep_	web site?
05:23	j1mc	TheSheep_: yes?
05:23	TheSheep_	j1mc: actually, no, it's good :)
05:24	j1mc	vincent has been helpful in providing updates about my ISO tests.  :)  to me, it meeds cody's criteria that it be clean, warm, and fuzzy. :)
=== rpereira [n=rpereira@ubuntu/member/rpereira] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:25	j1mc	anything else?
05:26	j1mc	i will get a few notes up on the meeting  wiki about our conversations here today.
05:26	j1mc	anyone know how / if these meetings are logged?
=== j1mc didn't log anything from irssi.
05:27	TheSheep_	there is ubuntulog here...
05:28	j1mc	!ubuntulog
05:28	j1mc	TheSheep_: can you access it?  or let me know how to?
05:29	TheSheep_	j1mc: no, no idea where it logs :/
05:29	j1mc	hehe  ok.  hmmm...
05:30	j1mc	i see a link up at the top here, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/
05:30	Seveas	/msg ubotu logs
05:30	j1mc	thanks, all.
05:30	Seveas	:)
05:30	TheSheep_	http://people.ubuntu.com/~fabbione/irclogs/
05:30	TheSheep_	:)
05:31	cellofellow	well, gtg
05:33	j1mc	thanks, all
</pre>
