{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Ubuntu VM builder =====

soren is preparing a new upload of his python rewrite of ubuntu-vm-builder. nijaba offered to write a short tutorial about ubuntu-vm-builder once it's available in the archive. sommer mentionned that the virtualization section of the server guide should also be updated.

ACTION: nijaba to write a tutorial about the new ubuntu-vm-builder.

ACTION: sommer to update the virtualization section of the server guide with references to the new ubuntu-vm-builder.

===== Review ServerGuide for Intrepid =====

sommer updated the openldap section to cover cn=config. Sections that have been updated are marked with "Ready for Review" on the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IntrepidServerGuide|wiki page]]</nowiki>. sommer also mentioned that doc.ubuntu.com is up-to-date. He added that reading through all the sections and update any path names, package names, etc that may have changed with intrepid would be helpful.

ACTION: jjesse to update the apache section of the server guide.

===== Tomcat6 server stack support =====

Koon announced that tomcat 6.0.18 had been uploaded to fix a few security issues that were disclosed a few weeks ago. He is waiting for feedback. He has written all relevant MIRs to get tomcat6 moved to main and then have a task added to tasksel.

mathiaz asked about dependencies pulled in by tomcat6. Koon has been working on reducing them and filed bugs for most of them. He is asking for sponsoring. Some of them may be controversial and he'd like to ask doko about it.

ACTION: Koon to write a post about tomcat6 for ubuntuserver blog.

ACTION: mathiaz to sponsor Koon patches for non-controversial packages.

===== UFW Package Integration =====

jdstrand reported that the ufw portion was basically done. The <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Roadmap|Roadmap]]</nowiki> has been updated with a list of packages to be integrated with ufw. Help in that area is welcomed.

===== Rails and Rubygems =====

macd said that the passenger package on REVU was in good shape. He also started a discussion about the rubygems changes. If the passenger changes are made and the rubygems changes that were spoken of are made rails will be in good shape for intrepid.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, September 2nd at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[15:58] <mathiaz> hello !
[15:58] <nijaba> o/
[15:59] <zul> hi
[16:02] <mathiaz> anyone around for the meeting ? (except zul nijaba and jjesse) ?
[16:03] <jjesse> nope :)
[16:03] <nijaba> we feel lonely today
[16:03] <dendrobates> o/
[16:03] <jjesse> i saw dendrobates join the channel
[16:03] <mathiaz> well - let's get started
[16:03] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[16:03] <soren> o/
[16:04] <soren> -ENOMOOTBOT
[16:04] <mathiaz> hm - MootBot doesn't seem to be around :/
[16:04] <nijaba> not even a bot for the meeting
[16:04] <dendrobates> hello mootbot!
[16:04] <soren> That's the worst turnout evar.
[16:04] <Koon> o/
[16:04] <mathiaz> Today's agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:04] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:05] <mathiaz> I wasn't there last week - and haven't seen any minutes
[16:05] <mathiaz> is there anything left from last meeting ?
[16:05] <Hobbsee> mathiaz: it's responding in PM, so...
[16:05] <Hobbsee> #start meeting
[16:05] <Hobbsee> hmm
[16:05] <jjesse> mootbot didn't work in the tech board mtg held previously
[16:06] <mathiaz> so nothing from last week meeting
[16:06] <mathiaz> let's move on
[16:06] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Review progress made on the specification listed on the Roadmap
[16:07] <mathiaz> As you may know, Thursday is FeatureFreeze for Intrepid
[16:07] <mathiaz> The current roadmap: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Roadmap
[16:08] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Ubuntu VM builder
[16:08] <mathiaz> soren: ?
[16:08] <soren> I'm going to upload something tonight.
[16:09] <mathiaz> soren: do you plan to blog about it ? or write up some documentation ?
[16:09] <soren> I'm trying hard to squeeze in all the features I've been thinking of, and then expect to polish them after Thursday.
[16:09] <soren> mathiaz: I'm adding a lot of API documentation inline.
[16:09] <soren> I'm trying to get pydoc to generate some external API docs for me.
[16:10]  * nijaba hugs soren
[16:10] <mathiaz> soren: great !
[16:10] <soren> but that's new territory to me, so I need to wrap my head around that first.
[16:10] <soren> It doesn't seem very complicated, though.
[16:10]  * nijaba feels bad to have not made more time for uvb
[16:10] <mathiaz> soren: writing documentation ?
[16:10] <zul> writing documentation sucks
[16:10] <sommer> :(
[16:11] <nijaba> zul: do you mean to say something to sommer?
[16:11] <mathiaz> nijaba: are you planning to update your tutorial about uvb ?
[16:11]  * Koon hugs sommer and shields him from zul's mentos throwing
[16:11] <nijaba> mathiaz: which one?
[16:11] <mathiaz> nijaba: once soren uploaded his work ?
[16:11] <soren> mathiaz: Well, getting on top of the documentation system.
[16:11] <nijaba> mathiaz: I'll gladly make one
[16:11] <mathiaz> nijaba: you wrote a tutorial about uvb for hardy (the one published in the linux jounral IIRC)
[16:12] <nijaba> mathiaz: no uvb in that one
[16:12] <nijaba> mathiaz: but I could definitely update it to include uvb
[16:12] <mathiaz> nijaba: ah right - it was about jeos
[16:13] <mathiaz> sommer: which section should be updated in the server guide to cover the new uvb stuff from soren ?
[16:13] <nijaba> mathiaz: the virtualization section
[16:13] <sommer> yep the virt section
[16:14] <sommer> it's on my list to update... I was thinking next week?
[16:14] <mathiaz> sommer: seems like a good plan
[16:14] <sommer> o//
[16:14] <mathiaz> the next step is for soren to upload his new stuff
[16:14] <mathiaz> then sommer and nijaba can start to have a look at it and update the documentation
[16:15]  * nijaba agrees
[16:15] <soren> Right on.
[16:15] <dendrobates> sommer: did you get  a chance to add the bit about support at the end?
[16:15] <dendrobates> sommer: or was I suposed to write it?
[16:16] <sommer> dendrobates: no haven't had a chance yet, it's still on the list though
[16:16] <nealmcb> OOPS - I forgot the minutes.  Here are two actions.   [ACTION] ScottK will post a blog request for help with the ClamavSpamassasssin MIRs
[16:16] <nealmcb> [ACTION] tarvid to summarize drupal issues and propose something to the mailing list
[16:18] <mathiaz> nealmcb: great - thanks for running last week meeting
[16:18] <mathiaz> nealmcb: I haven't seen any drupal email
[16:19] <nealmcb> I'll get the transcript on the web at least - harder without mootbot.  but I didn't even follow up on why mootbot wasn't working last week.  too much going on.....
[16:19]  * nealmcb sighs
[16:19] <mathiaz> nealmcb: ok - you can get the logs from irclogs.ubuntu.com
[16:19] <mathiaz> nealmcb: that's were I grab them usually
[16:19]  * nealmcb nods
[16:20] <mathiaz> so any action on uvb ?
[16:20] <mathiaz> nijaba: to write a tutorial ?
[16:20] <mathiaz> sommer: to update the virtualization section ?
[16:20] <nijaba> yep
[16:20] <nealmcb> http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2008/08/19/%23ubuntu-meeting.html - to be sliced up later....
[16:20] <sommer> sure
[16:21] <mathiaz> [ACTION] nijaba to write a tutorial about the uvb
[16:21] <mathiaz> [ACTION] sommer to update the virtualization section of the server guide with references to uvb
[16:21] <mathiaz> nealmcb: I usually use the .txt version
[16:21] <mathiaz> nealmcb: rather than the .html
[16:22] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Review ServerGuide for Intrepid
[16:22] <mathiaz> sommer: how is it going on this front ?
[16:23] <sommer> mathiaz: good almost have the cn=config stuff updated in the openldap section
[16:23] <sommer> basically only need adding new schemas, and to update the samba and ldap section
[16:24] <jjesse> sommer: let me know if there are section i can help w/
[16:24] <mathiaz> sommer: sections that need review are marked in the IntrepidServerGuide wiki page
[16:24] <sommer> jjesse: actually the apache section could use a little love :)
[16:24] <mathiaz> sommer:  is doc.ubuntu.com up-to-date ?
[16:25] <jjesse> sommer: let me look at it
[16:25] <sommer> mathiaz: nope it's quite a few revisions old at this point
[16:25] <nijaba> jjesse: that would be great :)
[16:25] <mathiaz> [ACTION] jjesse to update the apache section of the server guide
[16:26] <mathiaz> sommer: so where is the best place to start reviewing the server guide ?
[16:26] <jjesse> bzr :)
[16:26] <sommer> mathiaz: this is newer than doc.u.c: http://doc.ubuntu.com/~mdke/test/serverguide/C/
[16:26] <sommer> but the bzr branch is newer still
[16:27] <sommer> mathiaz: basically at this point there isn't a good online review location
[16:27] <mathiaz> sommer: ok - so check out the bzr branch
[16:27] <mathiaz> sommer: and send reviews to the ubuntu-doc mailing list
[16:28] <sommer> another thing that would be very helpfull is to read through all the sections and upate any path names, package names, etc that may have changed with intrepid
[16:28] <sommer> mathiaz: yeppers
[16:28] <mathiaz> sommer: anything else on the documentation front ?
[16:29] <sommer> mathiaz: I think that's it... getting closer, heh
[16:29] <mathiaz> sommer: awesome - thanks and keep up the good work !
[16:29] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Tomcat6 server stack support
[16:29] <mathiaz> Koon: ^ ?
[16:30] <Koon> Tomcat 6.0.18 was uploaded to fix a few security issues that were disclosed a few weeks ago
[16:30] <Koon> I've filed the required MIRs since it is a main target
[16:31] <Koon> next step after MIR is seed inclusion, then tasksel. Those will probably appear after FF
[16:31] <Koon> no feedback so far. I guess we should blog about it at one point
[16:32] <mathiaz> Koon: right - would you write a blog post for the ubuntuserver blog ?
[16:32] <mathiaz> Koon: I can create an account for you and publish it once it's ready
[16:32] <Koon> mathiaz: sure, as soon as I'm done with wbem, which probably means after FF
[16:32] <mathiaz> Koon: ok
[16:33] <mathiaz> [ACTION] Koon to write a post about tomcat6 for ubuntuserver blog
[16:33] <mathiaz> Koon: you mentionned that tomcat6 pulls in a lot of dependencies
[16:34] <mathiaz> Koon: if we want to put on the -server isos, do we have enough space on it ?
[16:34] <Koon> mathiaz: the unecessary stuff is pulled in through Recommends
[16:35] <Koon> but there are a few that should be fixed before seed includion
[16:35] <Koon> the lib*-java -> java2-runtime Depends in particular
[16:35] <cjwatson> recommends is pulled onto CDs just as much as depends at the moment
[16:35] <mathiaz> cjwatson: is this going to change ?
[16:36] <Koon> cjwatson, mathiaz: I've filed bugs to fix those dependency issues, it's more a matter of sponsoring / doko approval
[16:36] <dendrobates> Koon: adding it to the seed will force us to fix it.  So do it asap.
[16:37] <mathiaz> Koon: ok - so work is under way. Can this wait after FF ?
[16:37] <Koon> mathiaz: I don't expect the MIRs to be processed by then, and seed work comes after that ?
[16:37] <cjwatson> mathiaz: we may add some kind of exception mechanism, but not in general
[16:38] <mathiaz> Koon: right - I was refering to the Recommends -> Suggests patches
[16:38] <cjwatson> Koon: doko's on holiday - best to find somebody else
[16:38] <Koon> mathiaz: those are bugs, so I guess they can wait for after FF. I want to fix them for alpha-5 though
[16:39] <Koon> cjwatson: noted.
[16:39] <nijaba> cjwatson: is our traditional maintainer for Java, so I would guess he'd like to have a word about his types of changes, no?
[16:39] <nijaba> s/is our/Doko is our/
[16:40] <Koon> doko insisted in having lib*-java packages recomment lib*-java-gcj, which pulls in all non-headless gcj in server installs
[16:40] <cjwatson> nijaba: indeed, and it would be a bad idea to make changes we know he hates in his absence, but we don't need to have individuals have a lock on packages in Ubuntu
[16:40] <Koon> so there is some discussion to have with him I suppose
[16:40] <nijaba> cjwatson: point taken
[16:40] <cjwatson> Koon: IIRC from the bug there were some possible tweaks there without having to drop all the recommends
[16:40] <mathiaz> Koon: right - I guess that should be taken to the Ubuntu Jave team then
[16:40] <cjwatson> e.g. adjusting the -headless recommends target
[16:41] <Koon> anyway, I've filed bugs (1 pending), most of them are no-brainers that can have someone else sponsoring them
[16:42] <Koon> the remaining two might be conflictual
[16:42] <mathiaz> Koon: can you forward the list of bugs to me ? I'll have a look at sponsoring them
[16:42] <Koon> mathiaz: will do (and will file the last conflictual one)
[16:43] <mathiaz> Koon: great - if you could subscribe me to the bug in LP that would be helpful
[16:43] <mathiaz> Koon: anything else on tomcat6 ?
[16:44] <Koon> cjwatson: do you mind if I ping you sometime on the two conflictual issue so that you check if they should wait for doko's return or not ?
[16:44] <Koon> mathiaz: no.
[16:44] <cjwatson> Koon: sure, please e-mail
[16:44] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz to sponsor Koon patches
[16:44] <mathiaz> let's move on
[16:44] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] UFW Package Integration
[16:44] <mathiaz> jdstrand: ^ ?
[16:45] <jdstrand> the ufw portion is basically done, with a few minor things I'd like to adjust. People can look at the Roadmap to see what packages need updating to integrate with ufw
[16:45] <nealmcb> see also the discussion on that last week
[16:45] <jdstrand> yes, I am assuming people have seen that ;)
[16:46] <nealmcb> The other big discussion from last week, which did make it on to the mailing list, was Rails Integration and Rubygems
[16:47] <mathiaz> jdstrand: great - thanks
[16:47] <jdstrand> basically, see ServerTeam/Roadmap on what to update, and UbuntuFirewall for details on how to do it
[16:47] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Rails and Rubygems
[16:47] <mathiaz> macd: ^ ?
[16:47] <macd> Im here
[16:47] <macd> Looks like passenger needs a few changes as pointed out on REVU
[16:48] <macd> I sent NeilW an email (think he might be on vacation)
[16:48] <mathiaz> Right - the passenger package looks in good shape - NeilW updated the package
[16:48] <mathiaz> I haven't had time yet to review the package
[16:48] <macd> I saw your review from aug-22 and stevenk from aug 26
[16:48] <nealmcb> macd: good job on getting discussion going!
[16:48] <mathiaz> there was some discussion about rubygems and the solution to use update-alternated
[16:48] <nxvl> jdstrand: that integration must be done before FF?
[16:48] <macd> nealmcb, I had to hit the ML for some visibility
[16:49] <macd> mathiaz, yes I saw that, and that looks to be the middle ground we need
[16:49] <jdstrand> nxvl: yes
[16:49] <nxvl> ok
[16:49] <macd> so it looks that if the pass changes are made and the rubygems changes that were spoken of are made, we can get rails into intrepid in just enough time
[16:50] <macd> And we'll leave tasksel for the next release
[16:50] <macd> Just keep this focused on making sure everything works together when pulled in individually
[16:50] <mathiaz> macd: rails ?
[16:50] <macd> Intrepids rails play pretty nice
[16:50] <mathiaz> macd: my impression from NeilW was that the rails package was not working well
[16:51] <macd> That was due to gem conflicts I _think_
[16:52] <mathiaz> macd: may be - he mentionned that he was planning to get proper gem support in intrepid, but expect people to use gem to install rails
[16:52] <mathiaz> macd: rather then apt-get install rails
[16:52] <macd> mathiaz, well that certainly sounds better to me
[16:53] <macd> mathiaz, gems tend to get updated faster than the release cycle here, I've always thought the distro should have gems and let people manage their gems like perl people do cpan
[16:53] <mathiaz> macd: I'll have a look at the latest package NeilW uploaded to the ubuntu-ruby PPA
[16:53] <macd> mathiaz, great
[16:53] <mathiaz> macd: right - that's what NeilW is trying to accomplish
[16:54] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[16:54] <mathiaz> anything else ?
[16:54] <sommer> I spoke too soon doc.u.c has been updated... yay!
[16:54] <sommer> just fyi
[16:56] <nijaba> fyi: bloggers wanted at http://www.workswithu.com/2008/08/22/ubuntu-linux-bloggers-wanted/
[16:57] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:57] <mathiaz> next week, same time, same place ?
[16:57] <soren> Yay!
[16:57] <nijaba> +1
[16:58] <sommer> o//
[16:59] <nijaba> \\o
[16:59] <nealmcb> where does ClamavSpamassasssin stand?
[16:59] <mathiaz> great - see you all next week, same time, same place
[16:59] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
</pre>
