{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Merges =====

mathiaz reminded that karmic had opened and merging was one of the favorite activities of the Ubuntu developers these days. He also mentioned the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuserver.wordpress.com/2009/05/11/hungry-for-merges-the-ubuntu-server-team-has-a-selection-for-your-appetite/|list of easy merges]]</nowiki> published in the Roadmap. These packages should not be too difficult and thus are perfect to get used to the whole merge process.

===== MIT krb5 1.7 =====

coffedude asked about the state of krb5 in Karmic. mathiaz explained that krb5 1.7 had been synced from Debian. libkrb53 will be removed from Karmic once the transition to libkrb5-3 has been completed.

===== Karmic Alpha1 =====

mathiaz reminded that Karmic Alpha1 is scheduled for Thursday. Help in iso testing is welcome once the iso candidates are available.

===== UDS =====

dendrobates announced that the Server team will have 2 session rooms and a break out room for UDS. The sessions will also be randomized amongst the physical rooms so that we will not just get to sit in the same room. However it may be a little complicated figuring out where to go. ttx said that a riddle would have to be solved to get to the right room while kirkland hoped for a broken RNG.

More important though was dendrobates announcement that he would buy a beer for any server team community team members that shows up. dendrobates looks like <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~dendrobates/|this]]</nowiki> and becoming a member of the server team is a simple <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/GettingInvolved#becomemember|two steps process]]</nowiki>.

===== Web Mirror Manager =====

gourgi asked whether the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WebMirrorManager|web mirror manager]]</nowiki> blueprint would be discussed. nijaba pointed to the <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/foundations-karmic-repository-management|relevant blueprint]]</nowiki> in Launchpad which will be discussed in the Fondations track.

===== screen-profiles renamed to byobu =====

kirkland announced that the screen-profiles project had been renamed to byobu, a japanese term for elegant folding room dividers, aka folding screens.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Due to travels and UDS it was decided to cancel the meeting for the next two weeks.

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, June 2nd at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:01] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[16:01] <coffeedude> ttx, not going to make it.  Triple booked on dev work.  But I will start on the likewise-open 5.2 packages for Karmic this week.  Also will fix the upgrade from 4.1 issue.
[16:01] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:01. The chair is mathiaz.
[16:01] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:01] <mathiaz> Today's agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:02] <mathiaz> last week minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20090505
[16:02] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Merges
[16:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  Merges
[16:03] <mathiaz> I've published a list of merges that look easy
[16:03] <mathiaz> http://ubuntuserver.wordpress.com/2009/05/11/hungry-for-merges-the-ubuntu-server-team-has-a-selection-for-your-appetite/
[16:03] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://ubuntuserver.wordpress.com/2009/05/11/hungry-for-merges-the-ubuntu-server-team-has-a-selection-for-your-appetite/
[16:03] <mathiaz> I've also updated the Roadmap with the list
[16:03] <ttx> I confirm that the tomcat6 remerge there is very easy for a beginner.
[16:03] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Roadmap
[16:04] <mathiaz> So anyone interested in the merge process can start by these
[16:04] <dendrobates_> o/
[16:04] <mathiaz> The technical level shouldn't be high and will help in understanding the merge process itself.
[16:05] <mathiaz> And once all the merges on the list are done, MoM has the full list
[16:05] <mathiaz> https://merges.ubuntu.com/
[16:05]  * RoAkSoAx waves
[16:06] <mathiaz> As of now there are 227 outstanding merges in main 363 outstanding merges in universe
[16:06] <mathiaz> enough to keep us busy for a while :)
[16:06] <mathiaz> any questions related to the merge process?
[16:07]  * nijaba is late: o/
[16:07] <coffeedude> mathiaz, where does the MIT krb5 1.7 packaging fall in this?
[16:07] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] MIT krb5 1.7
[16:07] <MootBot> New Topic:  MIT krb5 1.7
[16:08] <mathiaz> coffeedude: so krb5 1.7 has been synced from debian
[16:08] <coffeedude> mathiaz, but is still in beta correct?
[16:08] <mathiaz> coffeedude: yes
[16:08] <mathiaz> coffeedude: 1.7 is still in beta according to upstream
[16:08] <mathiaz> coffeedude: debian has moved 1.7 to unstable though
[16:08] <mathiaz> the libkrb53 transition has started in karmic
[16:09] <coffeedude> mathiaz, I can start looking at local patches for likewise-open to work against the 1.7 code but can't officially move to it until it is released.
[16:09] <mathiaz> for now we're not doing anything special - we're just relying on the debian autoimport to rebuild the packages
[16:09] <mathiaz> coffeedude: understood.
[16:09] <coffeedude> mathiaz, so an 'apt-get install libkrb53' in karmix will get you 1.7 though correct?
[16:09] <mathiaz> coffeedude: we can talk with the MIT devs about their plan for 1.7
[16:09] <coffeedude> s/karmix/karmic/
[16:10] <mathiaz> coffeedude: nope - libkrb53 is no longer there
[16:10] <mathiaz> coffeedude: libkrb5-4 is the new package name IIRC
[16:10] <coffeedude> mathiaz, Ahh....ok.  But that's what you get from 'apt-get install i-want-the-krb5-client-libs-pkg-name'
[16:10] <coffeedude> mathiaz, that's all I needed to know I think.
=== dendrobates_ is now known as dendrobates
[16:11] <mathiaz> coffeedude: you want libkrb5-3
[16:11] <mathiaz> coffeedude: libkrb53 is still in karmic because some packages are still depending on it
[16:12] <mathiaz> coffeedude: however libkrb53 will disappear from karmic once the transition is completed
[16:12] <coffeedude> mathiaz, understood.
[16:13]  * nealmcb is surprised to see that single-des seems to still be supported by default for the previous release of kerberos
[16:13] <mathiaz> great - the MIT devs will be at UDS - so we can talk to them about their release plan
[16:13] <mathiaz> anything else related to krb7 1.7?
[16:14] <mathiaz> hm - *krb5*
[16:14] <coffeedude> mathiaz, I'm good.
[16:15] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Karmic Alpha1
[16:15] <MootBot> New Topic:  Karmic Alpha1
[16:15] <mathiaz> so we're preparing the alpha1 release of Karmic
[16:15] <mathiaz> scheduled for this Thursday
[16:15] <mathiaz> that means some iso testing will be conducted in the coming days
[16:15] <mathiaz> http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/
[16:15] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/
[16:16] <mathiaz> ^^ will track the list of candidates
[16:17] <mathiaz> Any help in this area is welcome
[16:17] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] UDS
[16:17] <MootBot> New Topic:  UDS
[16:17] <mathiaz> so we're also preparing for UDS
[16:17] <mathiaz> schedule to happen in 2 weeks in the lovely city of Barcelona, Spain
[16:18] <mathiaz> dendrobates: anything to say on this topic?
[16:18] <dendrobates> mathiaz: this UDS will be a little different.
[16:18] <dendrobates> we have 2 session rooms and a break out room
[16:18] <dendrobates> so that means twice as many sessions.
[16:19] <dendrobates> I have just received notice, that they will be randomizing the rooms.
[16:19] <soren> Hahah!
[16:19] <dendrobates> so, we will not just get to sit in the same room, and it may be a little complicated figuring out where to go.
[16:20]  * sommer likes to setup camp
[16:20] <dendrobates> soren: I'm not kidding.
[16:20] <ttx> sommer: like a good sniper :)
[16:20] <zul> randomizing?
[16:21] <ttx> zul: you have to solve a riddle to get to the right room.
[16:21]  * mathiaz thinks that will help to get some physical exercise done during the summit
[16:21] <dendrobates> zul:  yes, that;s when things change in an unpredictable way.
[16:21] <nijaba> zul: and it prevents people from falling asleep too long
[16:21] <zul> ttx: like monty python and the holy grail?
[16:21]  * kirkland hopes for a broken RNG
[16:22] <mathiaz> dendrobates: will the rooms schedule be published before UDS?
[16:22] <dendrobates> As usual I will buy a beer for any server team community team members that show up.
=== zaafouri is now known as zaafouri`
[16:22] <dendrobates> mathiaz: I sure hope so.
[16:22] <ogra> mathiaz, its on lp since weeks
[16:22] <mathiaz> dendrobates: s/community//g
[16:22] <ttx> mathiaz: well, we are part of the community, so we get a beer as well.
[16:23] <mathiaz> ogra: I meant the rooms where the discussion are taking place
[16:23] <nijaba> ttx: can I get a coke instead?
[16:23] <ogra> mathiaz, me too :)
[16:23] <dendrobates> ogra: without the randomization, though.
[16:23] <mathiaz> IIUC we'll have to change physical room between discussion
[16:23] <dendrobates> ttx: maybe, sherry.
=== jfolsom is now known as wiremonk
[16:24] <zul> dendrobates: do we get a homeroom a la high school?
[16:24] <dendrobates> we have plenty of open spaces and a breakout room for adhoc discussions.
[16:24] <dendrobates> zul: that is a good question/idea.
[16:25] <ogra> http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-karmic/ for reference
[16:25] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-karmic/ for reference
[16:26] <mathiaz> ok - any other questions related to UDS?
[16:26] <dendrobates> please note that the sessions can still move around.
[16:28] <ScottK> It's nice that it highlights the ones I'm signed up for ....
[16:28] <kirkland> it's a great list of sessions so far!
[16:29] <mathiaz> there are some free slots left
[16:29] <ttx> kirkland: the server rooms have some of the busiest schedule around.
[16:30] <mathiaz> I'd suggest to go through the server-a and server-b schedule and make sure the topic you wanna talk about are scheduled somewhere
[16:31] <mathiaz> all right - any other ideas/comments/rants about UDS?
[16:32] <mathiaz> nope - let's move one
[16:32] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open discussion
[16:32] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open discussion
[16:33] <mathiaz> Any other question/ideas?
[16:33] <gourgi> any plans for this in karmic https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WebMirrorManager  ?
[16:34] <nijaba> gourgi: there is a talk about such a tool in the platform session
[16:34] <nijaba> gourgi: mvo is leading it IIRC
[16:34] <mathiaz> nijaba: what's the blueprint?
[16:35] <nijaba> mathiaz: hold on
[16:35]  * mathiaz doesn't move
[16:35] <nijaba> mathiaz: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/foundations-karmic-repository-management
[16:36] <mathiaz> nijaba: great - thanks for the link
[16:36] <nijaba> oh, I forgot s/platform/foundations/
[16:36] <gourgi> nijaba thank you
[16:36] <nijaba> np
[16:37] <mathiaz> nijaba: I've updated the wiki page to point to the new blueprint in LP
[16:37] <mathiaz> nijaba: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WebMirrorManager
[16:37] <nijaba> mathiaz: and I signalled the existence of this bp to mvo
[16:37] <mathiaz> nijaba: right - we already talked about it during the Prague UDS
[16:37] <nijaba> corrext
[16:38] <mathiaz> Anything else?
[16:40] <zul> nope
[16:41] <kirkland> mathiaz: I thought I'd mention to this group that screen-profiles has been renamed to 'byobu'
[16:42] <kirkland> mathiaz: thanks to this group for all the feedback given during screen-profiles-1.x cycle, here's to an even better byobu-2.0 :-)
[16:43] <mathiaz> kirkland: awesome - how did you find the new name?
[16:44] <coffeedude> "bring your own bottled ubuntu" ?
[16:44] <ttx> coffeedude: almost
[16:44] <gourgi> kirkland i love byobu, i'm gonna translate it in greek soon.
[16:44] <nijaba> byobu is an ancient japenese term....
[16:44] <kirkland> mathiaz: nijaba is right!
[16:45] <kirkland> it's a japanese term for elegant folding room dividers, aka folding screens
[16:45] <gourgi> kirkland also server-guide needs update about byobu http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/screen-profiles.html
[16:45] <kirkland> i think this is appropriate, since this is really just a fancier frontend to screen itself
[16:45] <kirkland> gourgi: thanks a lot!  i'm hoping very much to focus on internationalization of byobu for Karmic
[16:45] <kirkland> this will require help from all you non-english speakers :-)
[16:46] <gourgi> kirkland i know, i follow your ppa and blog pretty often
[16:46] <mathiaz> kirkland: you don't speak non-english?
[16:46] <kirkland> gourgi: great
[16:46] <kirkland> mathiaz: i do plan on translating it into Texan, Cajun, and Latin :-P
[16:46] <kirkland> (my other lingos)
[16:46] <kirkland> heh
[16:47] <nijaba> kirkland: I'll do parisian and FR_sl then....
[16:47] <mathiaz> allright -anything else?
[16:47] <kirkland> mathiaz: thanks!
[16:48] <zul> meeting next week?
[16:48] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:48] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:48] <nijaba> just before UDS?  seems tough....
[16:48] <mathiaz> so most of us will be traveling next week
[16:48] <mathiaz> on tuesday
[16:49] <mathiaz> so I suggest we cancel the meeting next week
[16:49] <mathiaz> and then there will be UDS
[16:49] <mathiaz> in two weeks
[16:49] <mathiaz> so I suggest to cancel the meeting in two weeks as well
[16:50] <mathiaz> that brings us to Tuesday June 2nd
[16:50] <mathiaz> so next meeting: Tuesday June 2nd, same place, same time?
[16:50]  * nealmcb will miss you all!
[16:51]  * gourgi hopes for good news from UDS about the local mirrors management :)
[16:51] <kirkland> mathiaz: ack
[16:51] <mathiaz> nealmcb: you can tune in during the UDS discussions
[16:51] <nealmcb> I'll be at google i/o playing with android
[16:52] <nealmcb> but may be able to tune in for a few
[16:53] <mathiaz> all right then
[16:53] <ttx> nealmcb: Tunein, you'll enjoy the incredible audio lag :)
[16:54] <mathiaz> next meeting in three weeks, Tue Jun 2nd, 15:00 UTC, #ubuntu-meeting
[16:54] <mathiaz> thanks for attending
[16:54] <mathiaz> and happy travels to Spain for some of you :)
[16:54] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
[16:55] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 10:54.
</pre>
