{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''15th''' meeting of the '''ServerTeam''', starting at 21:00 UTC and finishing at 22:29 UTC

== Agenda ==
Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review each section of the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam/Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

== Minutes ==

=== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ===

nealmcb added an ebox entry to the factoids. He reminded people that other
suggestions for the factoids are welcome and they should contact him.

ACTION: zul will add a section in the Roadmap about the state of Xen in hardy.

=== Review each section of the ServerTeam/Roadmap ===

==== Status about JeOS tutorial and server guide ====

nijaba gave a link to the JeOS tutorial published in linux magazine [1]. He
added that the article should not be made available anywhere else on the web
during the next 3 months. After that we're free to do whatever we want with it.
The Hardy Server guide should be released after the 3 month period, although
the development version would be publicly available before. nijaba suggested to
include the tutorial in the server guide.

[1]: http://www.linux-mag.com/id/4829

sommer started a virtualization section in the server guide, based on the JeOS
tutorial content.

==== KVM Virtualization in Hardy ====

soren created a wiki page [2] outlining KVM based virtualization in Hardy.  He
also blogged about it [3]. He uploaded KVM version 60. The main improvement is
that I/O inside KVM will be massively faster. The next step is to update
libvirt, virtmanager and virtinst to also support it.

dendrobates asked if a KVM option in tasksel should be added. soren will look
into that.

dendrobates asked soren to do an interview for the Ubuntu Weekly News about KVM
virtualization in Hardy.

ACTION: soren will do an UWN interview about virtualization. boredandblogging
will get in touch with soren about it.

[2]: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KvmVirtManagerEtc
[3]: http://warma.dk/blog/article/86/

==== JeOS improvements ====

soren fixed lvm2 in the JeOS installer. 

ubuntugeek asked if the lsi scsi driver will be included in Hardy so that
JeOS can be run on vmware ESX. soren checked if the driver was included and
came back with a positive answer.

==== Apache default SSL configuration and SNI support ====

sommer gave a quick update about SSL configuration in Apache. The Debian
maintainer commented on his proposal for a default SSL configuration [4].
They'd rather wait for SNI support to be in included in apache2.2.

[4]: http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=267477

mathiaz pointed to LP bug 184131 [5] used to track SNI support in apache. There
is a patch attached to the Apache bug for the 2.2 branch. He suggested that a
package with SNI support could be made available through a PPA so that it can
get tested. dendrobates wondered how testing should be tracked. mathiaz
suggested to use a wiki page to list which browser+platform have been covered.

ACTION: mathiaz will upload an apache2 package with SNI enabled to his PPA and
organise the test plan.

[5]: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apache2/+bug/184131

==== MIR process for server related packages ====

nijaba asked ivoks about the state of drbd. ivoks explained that there's an
effort to move drbd into vanilla kernel, and he doubts we will see drbd in
vanilla kernel before 2.6.28. However there is a patch available for 2.6.24.
zul suggested it could be included in linux-ubuntu-modules, which seems easier
to achieve as drbd is just a module.

ACTION: ivoks will send a link to zul for the drbd patch and zul will contact
BenC to see if the drbd module could be included in linux-ubuntu-modules.

nijaba was surprised by the rejection of bacula, rsnapshot and arpwatch. There
are also 6 packages left on the ServerPackageReview list [6].

ACTION: zul will look into the rejected packages (bacula, rsnapshot, arpwatch)
and the rest of the packages.

[6]: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerPackageReview

==== Windows authentication integration ====

dendrobates gave a quick update about the likewise integration: the gui has
recently been changed to gtk, it is being repackaged now and will be in
universe next week. Once uploaded dendrobates will send an email to
ubuntu-server to ask for more testing.

==== LDAP integration ====

dendrobates said there wasn't any progress made on the client authentication
front.

On the server front mathiaz announced that openldap 2.4 has been uploaded to
debian and synced in ubuntu. soren added that although the package name was
2.3, it really is 2.4 - this is done so that transition is easier. Packages
that link against openldap2.1 libraries are updated.

==== LTS upgrade test tracking ====

soren thought about a plan to track LTS upgrade tests. dendrobates suggested to
share his secret ideas with mvo.

ACTION: soren will share his ideas about LTS upgrade tracking with mvo.

==== PostgreSQL 8.3 included in Hardy ====

leonel asked if PostgreSQL 8.3 will be included in hardy. soren answered that
it will be the case. The switch should be done in the next few days, as pitti
already did so in Debian unstable. PostgreSQL 8.3 RC2 should be the default
postgresql installation in a few days in hardy.

==== Dovecot Postfix SASL integration ====

ivoks explained that this effort was stalled. He needs to talk with lamont
about it.

=== Agree on next meeting date and time ===

Next meeting will be on Wednesday, January 30th at 21:00 UTC in

== IRC LOGS ==
<pre>
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-meeting
[21:04:13] * jdstrand waves
[21:04:32] <mathiaz> Today's agenda is... minimal
[21:04:34] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[21:05:13] <mathiaz> anyone wants to add something to the agenda ?
[21:05:20] <nealmcb> good thing - I have to leave in 25 minutes
[21:05:22] <nealmcb> :-)
[21:05:36] <dendrobates> can we get an update on ruby?
[21:05:52] <dendrobates> if anyone is here, who's working on it.
[21:06:16] <mathiaz> dendrobates: I don't think that the people who are working on it are around
[21:07:04] <pygi> it's always like that :P
[21:07:08] <leonel> PostgreSQL maybe released before march and hardy feature freeze will be on feb 14 is there any chance to include PostgreSQL 8.3 once is released ??
[21:07:25] <soren> We plan to switch even before then.
[21:07:29] <mathiaz> leonel: yes - pitti has done it today
[21:07:48] <jdstrand> it's in debian sid
[21:07:56] <soren> And by "switch" we mean move 8.2 to universe and 8.3 to main.
[21:08:10] <soren> and make the postgresql metapackage depend on 8.3.
[21:08:16] <leonel> Great !
[21:08:33] <soren> If it turns out that there are major issues (we doubt it, but you never know), we'll switch back.
[21:08:54] <soren> ..but this way we get a lot of testing done, so I think it's all good.
[21:08:59] <jdstrand> apparently there has already been a long beta/rc cycle
[21:09:03] <leonel> if there's any thing to test just let me know
[21:09:13] <jdstrand> so hopefully not too much
[21:09:31] <jdstrand> uh-- in terms of bugs, not testing ;)
[21:09:44] <mathiaz> leonel: the new package should hit the repository in the next days
[21:09:54] <leonel> mathiaz: the RC2 ?
[21:10:01] <nealmcb> http://developer.postgresql.org/pgdocs/postgres/release-8-3.html
[21:10:12] <jdstrand> rc2 yes
[21:10:20] <jdstrand> 8.3~rc2-1
[21:10:30] <jdstrand> we'll merge from sid
[21:11:11] <mathiaz> so let's move on
[21:11:14] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
[21:11:35] <mathiaz> The previous minutes can logs can be found here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20080116
[21:12:09] <mathiaz> sommer: nijaba: quick status about JeOS ?
[21:12:22] <nijaba> article was publihed on the 18th
[21:12:23] <mathiaz> will the tutorial be in the server guide ?
[21:12:24] <nijaba> http://www.linux-mag.com/id/4829
[21:12:36] <sommer> congrats on the article
[21:12:38] <zul> w00t
[21:12:47] <sommer> that was cool to see it published
[21:12:48] <nijaba> soren, 3mo from now, we can do whatever we want with it
[21:13:00] <nijaba> s/soren/so
[21:13:19] <mathiaz> nijaba: hum-- so that's after hardy is released
[21:14:02] <mathiaz> nijaba: well - it's one day before the release
[21:14:16] <nijaba> soren, that should be fine then
[21:14:53] <sommer> I love it when a plan comes together :)
[21:14:58] <mathiaz> nijaba: I don't know as it will be publicly available before
[21:15:02] * nijaba hates autocomplete
[21:15:17] <nijaba> mathiaz: on the we or on file in the cd ?
[21:15:18] <mathiaz> nijaba: OTOH the server guide won't be on the help.ubuntu.com before that.
[21:15:25] <mathiaz> nijaba: both
[21:15:45] <nijaba> what counts is web publication, I think
[21:15:48] <mathiaz> nijaba: it may be on doc.ubuntu.com, which may present the developpement version of the documentation
[21:16:06] <mathiaz> nijaba: well - it'd be in a bzr tree
[21:16:11] <sommer> we can always pull it out of the guide and replace it later
[21:16:14] <nijaba> bzr is fine
[21:16:28] <mathiaz> sommer: that has to be done before documentation freeze
[21:16:41] <mathiaz> sommer: and then it cannot be added just one day before release
[21:16:55] <nijaba> let's put it there... we'll see ig the editor complains
[21:17:00] <sommer> mathiaz: gotcha, may be easier to simply remove the html files after the site is built then
[21:17:40] <mathiaz> we could always say that it's a developpement version and it hasn't a widespread usage
[21:17:55] * nealmcb nods
[21:18:08] <mathiaz> soren: can you post the link to your blog post about virtualization ?
[21:18:20] <soren> http://warma.dk/blog/article/86/
[21:18:46] <dendrobates> I have also asked soren to do a uwn interview about kvm.
[21:19:08] <boredandblogging> wohoo!
[21:19:10] <boredandblogging> sorry
[21:19:13] <mathiaz> soren: so you've opted for a wiki page on w.u.c ?
[21:19:26] <dendrobates> boredandblogging: can you contact soren about it?
[21:19:33] <boredandblogging> dendrobates: sure
[21:19:39] <soren> mathiaz: Ask apposed to?
[21:19:48] <soren> mathiaz: Er... "As opposed to?"
[21:19:50] <nealmcb> soren: great cake - such a wife! http://www.warma.dk/blog/article/85/
[21:20:06] <soren> nealmcb: It tasted even more awesome than it looked :)
[21:20:26] <mathiaz> [ACTION] soren will do an uwn interview about virtualization. boredandblogging will get in touch with soren about it.
[21:20:35] <nealmcb> Mr Hansen, I'm sorry to inform you that Canonical is forced to let you go due to trademark infringement....
[21:21:04] <soren> O_O
[21:21:12] <mathiaz> soren: I thought you would actually document everything in your blog post.
[21:21:13] <nijaba> nealmcb: that was a piece of cake
[21:21:19] <soren> mathiaz: Oh. No, no.
[21:21:25] <mathiaz> soren: anyway - it's great to have something.
[21:21:29] <soren> mathiaz: That way *I*'d have to do all the work.
[21:21:36] <soren> Now I can blame everyone else for not improving it.
[21:21:51] * sommer has started a virtualization section
[21:21:51] <mathiaz> sommer: how do you plan to integrate that in the server guide ?
[21:22:12] <sommer> mathiaz: good question, still working on that part
[21:22:32] <nijaba> I think we need ubuntu-vm-builder document in there
[21:22:33] <sommer> I don't have hardware to support kvm so I was going to start with qemu
[21:22:52] <nealmcb> sommer: it will be good to have it tested both ways
[21:22:53] <sommer> and document that using the virt-manager etc
[21:23:25] <sommer> nealmcb: sure, if others can submit docs on specifics to kvm, that'd be awesome
[21:23:30] <mathiaz> nijaba: that would be based on your JeOS tutorial ?
[21:23:44] <nealmcb> nijaba: indeed!
[21:23:47] <nijaba> the tuto would have to be modified a bit, I think
[21:24:09] <nijaba> but first we need to finish this script
[21:24:47] <nealmcb> has a name been decided for the script?
[21:24:47] <mathiaz> So IIUC the virtualization section in the server guide would be based on the KvmVirtManagerEtc wiki page and the JeOS tutorial ?
[21:24:50] <nijaba> and soren just gave me the missing part so that I can finish the partioning I want to put there
[21:25:21] * nealmcb wonders if it should really be in python, but is feeling lazy....
[21:25:39] <nijaba> why? bash is good enough...
[21:26:04] <soren> bash is ok. It just needs to cleaned up. A lot.
[21:26:05] <zul> with python you can probably hook in the libvirt stuff to make it easier
[21:26:11] <nealmcb> it would be easier to hook into other stuff (and vice versa) in python
[21:26:25] <soren> zul: that's *real* easy from bash as well.
[21:26:34] <zul> soren: :)
[21:26:56] <soren> zul: virsh provides almost all the same hooks as the python bindings.
[21:27:15] <mathiaz> nealmcb: any news about the factoid about ebox ?
[21:27:18] <zul> yeppers...
[21:27:27] <nealmcb> mathiaz: that was done last week
[21:27:35] <nealmcb> an hour after the meeting
[21:27:39] <nealmcb> !ebox
[21:27:46] <ubotu> ebox is a web-based GUI interface for administering a server. It is designed to work with Ubuntu/Debian style configuration management. See the plans for Hardy at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EboxSpec
[21:27:51] <mathiaz> nealmcb: great ! :)
[21:27:52] <nealmcb> !webmin
[21:27:52] <ubotu> webmin is no longer supported in Debian and Ubuntu. It is not compatible with the way that Ubuntu packages handle configuration files, and is likely to cause unexpected issues with your system. See !ebox instead.
[21:28:10] <nealmcb> and I updated the roadmap then also
[21:28:27] * nijaba hugs nealmcb
[21:28:30] <nealmcb> if folks run across other FAQs that we want factoids for, let me know
[21:28:51] <nealmcb> faqtoids? sounds ugly...
[21:29:06] <nealmcb> nijaba: :-)
[21:29:19] <sommer> heh, kind of like those old dominos commercials
[21:29:38] <sommer> I think that was "the noid"
[21:29:39] <nealmcb> As long as I do the hard work on the factoids, I expect you all to do that simple virtualization and documentation stuff :-)
[21:29:53] <mathiaz> Is there anything else related to last week's meeting ?
[21:30:06] * nealmcb has to run now to the dentist :-)
[21:30:10] <sommer> heard back about the Apache SSL thing
[21:30:21] <zul> just the xen roadmap addition but i havent got a cahance yet
[21:30:28] <sommer> they're going to wait for SNI support
[21:30:55] <mathiaz> [ACTION] zul will add a section in the Roadmap to Xen in hardy.
[21:31:21] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Review each section of the ServerTeam/Roadmap.
[21:31:32] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Roadmap
[21:31:44] <mathiaz> sommer: so what's the state of Apache SSL ?
[21:31:58] <mathiaz> sommer: there are two things - SNI support and default SSL Configuration
[21:32:02] <nijaba> I just put a spec for SNI support
[21:32:07] <sommer> http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=267477
[21:32:08] <ubotu> Debian bug 267477 in apache2 "ssl: some easy way to set up an ssl server (as apache-ssl package in apache 1)" [Important,Open]
[21:32:26] <sommer> the reply was they wanted to wait for SSL Server Name Indication support
[21:32:54] * nijaba just realized that he opened a duplicate bug in debian...
[21:32:57] <sommer> I think there was a recent bug about backporting the features as well, but I don't have a link
[21:33:22] <mathiaz> sommer: yes - there's a bug in LP about SNI support
[21:33:47] <mathiaz> sommer: It's linked to an upstream bug in apache where there is a patch to enable SNI for apache2.2.
[21:34:13] <sommer> mathiaz: gotcha, so are we going to wait for SNI as well, or patch our own?
[21:34:16] <mathiaz> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apache2/+bug/184131
[21:34:18] <ubotu> Launchpad bug 184131 in apache2 "Apache 2.2 SNI support" [Unknown,Confirmed]
[21:34:59] <mathiaz> sommer: I'd have a look at the patch attached to the upstream bug and check if we can integrate it in our package.
[21:35:12] <mathiaz> http://issues.apache.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=34607
[21:35:48] <mathiaz> it seems that it has already been applied to the 2.4 branch.
[21:36:05] <sommer> mathiaz: cool
[21:36:30] <mathiaz> sommer: if it isn't a too invasive patch, it'd be great.
[21:36:43] <mathiaz> sommer: the earlier we get it into hardy, the more testing can be done
[21:36:56] <sommer> anything I can help with?
[21:37:26] * sommer is a daily user of apache
[21:37:36] <mathiaz> one option would be to provide an apache2.2 package in a PPA with the SNI patch applied
[21:37:49] <mathiaz> and ask users to test it with different browsers
[21:38:46] <sommer> cool, that would have to be done by the 14th, correct?
[21:38:56] <mathiaz> sommer: yes.
[21:39:19] <dendrobates> mathiaz: it is worth trying.
[21:39:28] <sommer> gotcha
[21:39:38] <dendrobates> but we need a way defined for users to report results.
[21:39:52] <zul> wiki
[21:40:04] <mathiaz> dendrobates: I'd send an email on ubuntu-server and ask people to install it and test it.
[21:40:26] <sommer> might not want to wait on me for that, I'm not sure how much time I can commit... plus still learning packaging
[21:40:28] <mathiaz> dendrobates: do you think about having a more extensive test coverage (such as which browser, platform) have been tested ?
[21:41:48] <dendrobates> mathiaz: that seems like a good idea
[21:42:18] <mathiaz> dendrobates: I can upload an apache2 package to my PPA, and setup a wiki page to track the testing.
[21:42:49] <sommer> mathiaz: I have time to help test
[21:43:03] <dendrobates> mathiaz: ok
[21:43:12] <mathiaz> sommer: great !
[21:43:22] <nijaba> ivoks: are you still planning on doing the MIR for drdb?
[21:43:34] <ivoks> nijaba: i wanted to disccus that...
[21:43:44] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz will upload an apache2 package with SNI enabled to his PPA and organise the test plan.
[21:44:03] <ivoks> nijaba: it requires patching the kernel, and the upstream isn't very happy with drbd's patches for kernel
[21:44:06] <mathiaz> So let's move on to the MIR process
[21:44:21] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerPackageReview
[21:45:19] <ivoks> nijaba: bottom line; there's an effort to move drbd into vanilla kernel, and i doubt we will see drbd in vanilla kernel before 2.6.28
[21:45:20] <nijaba> ivoks: so that makes a good case for rejecting it
[21:45:31] <ivoks> nijaba: i'm afraid so, yes...
[21:45:48] <zul> ivoks: is there a kernel patch for 2.6.24?
[21:45:49] <mathiaz> ivoks: can you update the wiki page, specify the reason for the rejection ?
[21:46:19] <ivoks> zul: there is
[21:46:39] <ivoks> zul: but according to lkml, there's some work to be done before patch is accepted
[21:47:03] <nijaba> OTOH, I feel quite surprised by bacula and rsnapshot rejection by fabio
[21:47:11] <zul> if its really important we can try to get it included into linux-ubuntu-modules and wait for upsream
[21:47:34] <nijaba> could someone have another look at these 2 packages?
[21:47:37] <mathiaz> ivoks: does the patch require modification to core parts of the kernel ?
[21:48:03] <ivoks> mathiaz: iirc, not, it's just an addition
[21:48:19] <ivoks> mathiaz: it would be great to have it... suse includes drbd
[21:48:22] <mathiaz> ivoks: so it would just go in u-module
[21:48:45] <mathiaz> zul, soren: how easy it is to get something in ubuntu-modules ?
[21:48:46] <zul> the i can get the url and submit a patch to the kernel team then
[21:49:04] <zul> mathiaz: pretty easy ive done it a couple of times before
[21:49:31] <ivoks> zul: then, i'll come up with a patch, and you could work from there?
[21:49:54] <zul> ivoks: sure just send me a url or something
[21:50:05] <ivoks> zul: ok, tomorrow ;)
[21:50:07] <mathiaz> zul: so even if lkml is not so happy with the state of the patch, the kernel team doesn't care so much ?
[21:50:40] <mathiaz> [ACTION] ivoks will send a link to the zul for the drbd patch.
[21:51:01] <zul> well they do care but if its an external module then its easier to get intclude (ie: driver)
[21:51:05] <zul> ill talk to BenC
[21:51:32] <zul> if its a large patch then its less likely
[21:52:03] <mathiaz> [ACTION] zul will contact BenC to see if the drbd module could be included in ubuntu-modules.
[21:52:57] <mathiaz> There were a couple of package that were rejected (bacula, rsnapshot, arpwatch) by fabio.
[21:53:06] <mathiaz> What should we do about them
[21:53:06] <mathiaz> ?
[21:53:34] <ivoks> i'm surprised for bacula rejection :)
[21:53:39] <dendrobates> zul: will you review those packages to see if you agree with fabio?
[21:53:40] <nijaba> could someon have a second look at that?
[21:54:05] <mathiaz> ivoks: it's not a rejection by the MIR team, but fabio that said it wasn't worth
[21:54:22] <ivoks> i know...
[21:54:37] <zul> dendrobates: sure
[21:54:44] <mathiaz> ivoks: but fabio has a good understanding of the procedure, so the issues he raised will probably be raised by the MIR review team
[21:54:50] <sommer> by unmaintained upstream that's debian correct? not the individual project?
[21:54:59] <zul> both..
[21:55:13] <mathiaz> [ACTION] zul will look into the rejected MIR (bacula, rsnapshot, arpwatch)
[21:55:13] <sommer> gotcha
[21:55:22] <zul> sommer: for example mtx the package was 4 years old in universe
[21:56:15] <zul> until recently
[21:56:30] <mathiaz> there are 6 packages left that haven't a MIR written
[21:56:45] <zul> ill go through them as well
[21:57:17] <mathiaz> [ACTION] zul will go through the rest of the packages on the ServerPackageReview list.
[21:57:57] <mathiaz> dendrobates: could you give a quick update about the Windows auth integration ?
[21:58:13] <dendrobates> mathiaz: yes
[21:58:55] <dendrobates> the gui has recently been changed to gtk, it is being repackaged now and will be in universe next week.
[21:59:46] <dendrobates> There has been a bit more work involved than I origianlly hoped.
[22:00:06] <mathiaz> Is there any plan for testing ?
[22:00:07] <dendrobates> still no manpages though.
[22:00:59] <dendrobates> centeris is running a test suite currently, and when it is uploaded I will send a message to the mailing list asking for testing.
[22:01:09] <mathiaz> dendrobates: great !
[22:01:22] <mathiaz> dendrobates: what's the state of the ldap client integration ?
[22:02:05] <dendrobates> it has not been worked on because Jerry has been busy with likewise problems.
[22:02:22] <dendrobates> but, we are planning a face to face to try to get it done.
[22:02:36] <dendrobates> as well as other things.
[22:02:41] <mathiaz> on the server front, openldap 2.4 should be uploaded to debian real soon now.
[22:03:05] <dendrobates> mathiaz: already done
[22:03:06] <mathiaz> once it has been uploaded, all the packages that depend on it need to be rebuilt
[22:03:17] <dendrobates> migration has been started
[22:03:47] <mathiaz> dendrobates: great. steve is working on getting the package rebuilt ?
[22:04:21] <soren> http://packages.ubuntu.com/hardy/net/slapd http://packages.debian.org/source/sid/openldap2.3
[22:04:23] <dendrobates> most is already done.
[22:04:33] <soren> It says 2.3, but it *is* 2.4.
[22:04:43] <soren> It makes transitioning loads easier.
[22:05:34] <zul> can we get the limks updated on the roadmap dor bug triaging ldap then?
[22:06:05] <zul> when it is available of course
[22:06:25] <mathiaz> zul: well - it still points to openldap2.2.
[22:06:37] <soren> mathiaz: Eh? What does?
[22:06:43] <mathiaz> zul: may be we should have list of links for all the openldap packages
[22:06:48] <mathiaz> soren: on the roadmap
[22:06:55] <zul> sure
[22:07:09] <mathiaz> soren: under the triager corner.
[22:07:19] <soren> I need links so I can click on them.
[22:07:34] <ivoks> :)
[22:07:45] <mathiaz> soren: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Roadmap#head-f98ade0ed42e24e574acc3b0f89d377b25d2be4b
[22:07:52] <soren> Thanks.
[22:08:07] * nijaba think that playing with is phone is what he really wants
[22:08:44] <soren> I'll update the link.
[22:08:56] <mathiaz> [ACTION] soren to update the links to the openldap bugs queries.
[22:09:10] <soren> Done.
[22:09:21] <mathiaz> soren: did you think about LTS upgrade tracking ?
[22:09:27] <soren> Yes.
[22:10:22] <soren> That's it.
[22:10:26] <mathiaz> soren: did your thought get translated into a wiki page ?
[22:10:27] <dendrobates> soren: talk to mvo to sync with his lts upgrade work.
[22:10:40] <soren> mathiaz: I didn't check :)
[22:11:10] <mathiaz> soren: hum.. you may check w.u.c - strange things happen there sometime ;)
[22:11:19] <soren> mathiaz: So they say :)
[22:11:30] <soren> mathiaz: I'll talk to mvo tomorrow and we'll hash something out.
[22:11:53] <mathiaz> [ACTION] soren will share his ideas about LTS upgrade tracking with mvo
[22:12:39] <dendrobates> soren: tell us the state of KVM
[22:12:57] <soren> It works, bitches.
[22:13:07] <dendrobates> I concur
[22:13:08] <sommer> lol
[22:13:24] <soren> I've just updated it to kvm 60 (which got released today).
[22:13:38] <soren> And got the virtio stuff into the kernel which will be uploaded tomorrow.
[22:14:07] <soren> This means that all I/O inside kvm will be massively faster.
[22:14:14] <mathiaz> soren: did you send an email on ubuntu-server about getting kvm tested ?
[22:14:35] <dendrobates> can we get the interview in uwn first?
[22:14:48] <soren> libvirt, virtmanager and virtinst will need to support this cleverly as well. I've done most of libvirt for it already, and will continue upwards in the stack afterwards.
[22:14:52] <dendrobates> and then send to the list later that day?
[22:15:01] <soren> mathiaz: Er... Crap. No. I blogged, but no e-mail to the list.
[22:15:06] <mathiaz> dendrobates: that's a better idea actually - the coverage should be bigger.
[22:16:52] <mathiaz> soren: any news on the JeOS front ?
[22:17:25] <soren> Since last meeting?
[22:17:27] <soren> Er...
[22:17:36] <soren> Yeah, I think I fixed lvm2 support in the installer.
[22:17:41] <soren> \o/ Go me.
[22:17:52] * nijaba hugs soren for this :)
[22:17:58] <soren> Well... All the virtio stuff counts as Jeos advancements as well, i guess.
[22:18:02] <zul> you are my hero ;)
[22:18:11] <ubuntugeek> soren: any plans on putting the lsi scsi driver into jeos so its usable on vmware esx?
[22:18:47] <soren> I'm 62.3% sure it's already there.
[22:18:49] * soren checks
[22:19:07] <ubuntugeek> In the 7.10 version?
[22:19:40] <soren> Er.. No.
[22:20:12] <ubuntugeek> 8.04?
[22:20:33] <soren> Yes.
[22:20:36] <soren> Er... and no :)
[22:20:43] <ubuntugeek> hrm.. :)
[22:20:45] <soren> Hrm... I told someone to do that ages ago.
[22:21:01] <soren> Added to my todo list.
[22:21:11] <ubuntugeek> Here is the thing, making jeos work in vmware server is great. But the lsi scsi support is vital to vmware esx
[22:21:20] <ubuntugeek> good to hear it!
[22:21:28] <dendrobates> mathiaz: make that an action
[22:21:36] <mathiaz> [ACTION] soren will follow up on getting lsi scsi support in JeOS
[22:22:03] <mathiaz> ivoks: what the state of dovecot/postfix/sasl integration ?
[22:22:25] <ivoks> well, it's stalled
[22:22:53] <ivoks> i prepared everything for tasksel, but now it turns out that it could be better to do it inside of packages
[22:23:02] <mathiaz> ivoks: did you talk with lamont after the replies you've received on ubuntu-devel ?
[22:23:12] <ivoks> no, not yet
[22:23:13] * lamont is sorta-here
[22:23:21] <ivoks> lamont: then fire up :)
[22:23:48] <lamont> kinda heads down for another 15 min or so.... maybe after meeting?
[22:24:10] <mathiaz> yop - better that way
[22:24:13] <ivoks> lamont: could you just reply to messages about postfix/dovecot on ubuntu-server mailing list?
[22:24:15] <mathiaz> we've got 5 mns left
[22:24:41] <mathiaz> Anything else to add ?
[22:24:45] <dendrobates> soren: have you about how to present kvm in the installer
[22:24:46] <zul> no
[22:24:50] <dendrobates> thought
[22:25:02] <soren> dendrobates: I'm hoping to not have to deal with it at all.
[22:25:16] <soren> dendrobates: In the sense that everything should automagically Just Work[tm].
[22:25:35] <mathiaz> dendrobates: do you suggest to add a task to tasksel ?
[22:25:36] <soren> dendrobates: So far, that plans is looking to come together.
[22:25:37] <zul> good luck with that [tm]
[22:25:42] <soren> :)
[22:25:49] <dendrobates> how about a tasksel for kvm
[22:26:22] <soren> I might add a "Virtualisation node" task or something like that.
[22:26:50] <mathiaz> ok - time is running out.
[22:26:53] <soren> which includes libvirt-bin and all that jazz.
[22:27:20] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time.
[22:27:43] <mathiaz> Everyone is fine with the new schedule ?
[22:27:52] <mathiaz> same time, same place, next week ?
[22:27:55] <sommer> I like it
[22:28:05] <nijaba> yeah
[22:28:44] <mathiaz> well - sold then !
[22:28:56] <mathiaz> see ya next week. Thank you all for joining
[22:29:05] <nijaba> thanks for charing mathiaz
[22:29:06] <jdstrand> bye!
[22:29:11] <dendrobates> byeee
[22:29:13] <jdstrand> thanks mathiaz :)
[22:29:13] <sommer> later all
[22:29:19] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
Meeting ended. 
</pre>

----
CategoryScribesTeam CategoryTemplate
