{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Open Week -- Having fun with Ubuntu Testing -- Paolo Sammicheli -- Tue, May 3 ===
{{{#!IRC
[16:01] <xdatap> dpm, Thank you very much David :)
[16:02] <xdatap> Hi everybody, thanks for coming!
=== ChanServ changed the topic of #ubuntu-classroom to: Welcome to the Ubuntu Classroom - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom || Support in #ubuntu || Upcoming Schedule: http://is.gd/8rtIi || Questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat || Event: Ubuntu Open Week - Current Session: Having Fun With Ubuntu Testing - Instructors: xdatap
[16:02] <ClassBot> Logs for this session will be available at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/05/03/%23ubuntu-classroom.html following the conclusion of the session.
[16:02] <xdatap> My name is Paolo Sammicheli, I'm an Ubuntu member from the Italian LoCo Team, and today we'll talk about ISO Testing.
[16:03] <xdatap> Let's start with the most important question:
[16:03] <xdatap> Why should one try to test Ubuntu?
[16:03] <xdatap> Because it's fun!
[16:03] <xdatap> because it's a valuable contribution to Ubuntu
[16:03] <xdatap> and because you will learn a lot of things :)
[16:04] <xdatap> Let's see, now, how to test Ubuntu!
[16:04] <xdatap> You might already know that Ubuntu has a 6-month release cycle, which means that every 6 months we have a new Ubuntu release.
[16:05] <xdatap> Less known is the fact that, before the final release, several development releases are launched: ALPHAs and BETAs.
[16:05] <xdatap> Every cycle slightly changes his schedule, due several reason, but it's published since the beginning in a wiki page, so that everybody can be aware about what's going on.
[16:06] <xdatap> You can see the Natty schedule on the following link:
[16:06] <xdatap> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NattyReleaseSchedule
[16:06] <xdatap> For all these releases, we have several kind of tests.
[16:07] <xdatap> The ISO Test is a test performed few days before the milestone release on the big files you use to burn an Ubuntu CD (called ISO Images),
[16:07] <xdatap> in which we want to be sure that the installer works properly and the live version starts correctly.
[16:07] <xdatap> We also test the upgrade process and the installation from windows with Wubi.
[16:08] <xdatap> The tool for reporting this kind of test is called ISO Tracker and it's available on the following link:
[16:08] <xdatap> http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com
[16:08] <xdatap> (go take a look at it, I will wait 2 minutes)
[16:10] <xdatap> As you can see last week we were testing Natty final release in all the officially supported flavors.
[16:10] <xdatap> For each flavor you can find several test case.
[16:11] <xdatap> A test case is a list of actions to perform in order to complete the test.
[16:12] <xdatap> Often you can find bugs which does NOT make FAIL your test, but it's useful that you report it on launchpad and you include their IDs in the test report.
[16:13] <xdatap> You can see how to report a test on the following link:
[16:13] <xdatap> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/ISO/Procedures
[16:14] <xdatap> As described on the page above, filling your account on the ISO Tracker with your email and selecting the Email notification flag you will get an email each time there's a new image available for tests.
[16:15] <xdatap> You can choose which test case you want to test in which image so the email will contain the direct links for the test.
[16:16] <xdatap> To avoid to download the image every time I recommend to use zsync or rsync, as described on the following link:
[16:16] <xdatap> https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ZsyncCdImage
[16:17] <xdatap> ISO Testing it's not the only test we perform over the CD Images.
[16:17] <xdatap> We have also different test programs like Laptop, Video Drivers, Desktop, etc.
[16:18] <xdatap> primes2h, who just entered in the channel is the rockstar who wrote the patches for the Laptop Tracker. He's another member of the Italian LoCo Team, :)
[16:19] <xdatap> What's the difference between these programs? Basically it changes WHAT we test and WHEN.
[16:20] <xdatap> One example: Laptop testing perform tests after each Milestone release and with the previous stable releases providing testcases for the hardware compatibility:
=== ganesh is now known as Guest78019
[16:20] <xdatap> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Laptop
[16:20] <xdatap> (take a look to the link, I'll wait 2 minutes)
[16:22] <xdatap> Xorg tested the nVidia Video Card Proprietary Drivers (almost) every week:
[16:23] <xdatap> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Testing/ProprietaryDrivers/Natty/WeeklyProgram
[16:23] <xdatap> Once you learn how to contribute to one program, like ISO Testing, you will be able to easily contribute to all of these tests because the tools are the same.
[16:24] <xdatap> If you are involved in a LoCo and you're interested in ISO Testing take also a look at the LoCo Testing Team How To:
[16:24] <xdatap> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/LoCoTeam
[16:25] <xdatap> (2 minutes for allowing you to read the link)
[16:27] <xdatap> How it works? You can setup a team inside your LoCo, choose a test to "adopt" and then divide the effort with your team members.
[16:28] <xdatap> The Italian experience shown that organizing this kind of activity helps in gathering new contributors and keeping them motivated.
[16:29] <xdatap> Take a look on the survey I made before last UDS in Orlando, you will find very interesting data about it:
[16:30] <xdatap> http://xdatap1.wordpress.com/2010/12/04/italian-loco-testing-team-survey/
[16:31] <xdatap> The Ubuntu Hall of Fame shows test results per LoCo, so it's nice to play a competition between LoCo in testing:
[16:31] <xdatap> http://hall-of-fame.ubuntu.com
[16:32] <xdatap> So, how to start with ISO Testing?
[16:32] <xdatap> Take a look at the QA Website (http://qa.ubuntu.com)
[16:33] <xdatap> and at the Testing page:
[16:33] <xdatap> http://qa.ubuntu.com/testing/
[16:34] <xdatap> Join the QA Mailing List (https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-quality)
[16:34] <xdatap> and for any question you will find us in the #ubuntu-testing IRC Channel.
[16:34] <xdatap> Ubuntu Testing: Let's make this rock!
[16:34] <xdatap> :)
[16:35] <xdatap> Time for questions
[16:37] <xdatap> you can ask questions joining the channel #ubuntu-classroom-chat and writing: "QUESTION: bla bla bla"
[16:38] <ClassBot> effie_jayx asked: How do you manage language barrier?, if it is an issue at all...
[16:38] <xdatap> yes it's a big issue
[16:39] <xdatap> the idea of a LoCo team comes from the idea that mentoring newcomers in their language helps a lot
[16:40] <xdatap> so, we started with the idea of a mentoring team, and then we also wanted to have a "team spirit" and we introduced the adoption
[16:41] <xdatap> reporting a bug is the biggest issue. If someone is not sure about what to write we ask to send an email in our mailing list and then we translate the description replying to the list
[16:42] <xdatap> people who started to be more sure and expert about the test process and how to report a bug tend to overcome the language barrier, btw
[16:42] <xdatap> but this is an issue, no doubt
[16:43] <xdatap> any other question?
=== gaurav__ is now known as Guest190
[16:52] <ClassBot> There are 10 minutes remaining in the current session.
[16:55] <xdatap> ok, It looks like the time is over.
[16:56] <xdatap> Thanks everybody for coming
[16:56] <xdatap> Next session is "Getting involved via the Beginners Team"
[16:57] <ClassBot> There are 5 minutes remaining in the current session.
[16:57] <xdatap> jledbetter, the class is your :)
}}}
