{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

   10:01 Keybuk     let us begin
   10:02 Keybuk     \sh has asked to go first, due to a flaky modem
   10:02 Keybuk     \sh: off you go
   10:02 \sh        thx
   10:02 \sh        hi, my name is Stephan Hermann, I think most of you know me
   10:03 \sh        I disabled my developer rights the last months, because of personal problems
   10:03 \sh        but these personal problems are solved, and I want to re-apply for motu and core.
   10:04 \sh        that's why I'm here today...
   10:04 Keybuk     mjg59: any thoughts here?
   10:05 mjg59      I don't have any objection
   10:05 Keybuk     myself neither, \sh appears to be active again, and has been stuck in sponsor hell for a while
   10:05 mjg59      Though we haven't really got any formal process, this seems similar to the Debian emeritus process
   10:05 Keybuk     he's sufficiently proved, to my mind, that he's able to resume his duties again
   10:05 mjg59      I agree
   10:06 Keybuk     \sh: welcome back
   10:06 mjg59      Ok. Core candidates?
   10:06 ogra       \sh, congrats
   10:06 mjg59      There's a couple on the list, are any of them here?
   === rodarvus is here
   10:06 \sh        Thanks a lot...so if anyone put me back into the teams, I can upload tomorrow a lot of stuff I have on my laptop
   10:07 LaserJock  wahoo \sh
   10:07 Keybuk     rodarvus: you're up, would you care to introduce yourself
   10:07 rodarvus   sure
   10:07 Keybuk     your past experience
   10:07 Keybuk     and what you'll be doing for Ubuntu
   10:07 rodarvus   I'm Rodrigo Novo, have been doing linux distro development for the last 9 years
   10:08 rodarvus   (I worked at Conectiva, Freedows Consortium and Nokia Institute of Technology)
   10:08 rodarvus   at conectiva I used to do rpm packaging but the rest of the job was basically the same as in ubuntu distribution
   10:08 rodarvus   at INdT (Nokia institute...) I worked on the "platform sdk"
   10:09 rodarvus   which are the core packages + development packages, run inside scratchbox, to do development for Maemo platform
   10:09 rodarvus   I was hired by Canonical three weeks ago
   10:09 rodarvus   to work mainly on Edubuntu, and in the near future, OLPC
   10:09 rodarvus   (hopefully a Ubuntu community effort)
   10:09 rodarvus   mjg59, thats why I asked you about OLPC yesterday, actually :)
   10:10 rodarvus   right now, I'm working on X packages for Edgy
   10:10 rodarvus   more specifically, I'm working on a spec with the description and list of the changes (which are quite big)
   10:10 \sh        rodarvus: so you are replacing deniels
   10:10 Keybuk     what's the general play for X in Edgy?
   10:10 Keybuk     s/play/plan/
   10:10 rodarvus   and am already working on integrating changes from debian xserver-xorg-video-* into our video drivers
   === zul [n=chuck@CPE0006258ec6c1-CM000a73655d0e.cpe.net.cable.rogers.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:11 rodarvus   Keybuk, I had relatively little time to talk with infinity, as he went on vacation a few days ago
   10:11 rodarvus   (two days after I started the task)
   10:11 rodarvus   the plan is to integrate better our X packages with debians
   10:11 rodarvus   as we don't have the manpower to maintain them ourselves
   10:11 mjg59      Sounds like a good start
   10:12 mjg59      Are we moving to 7.1?
   10:12 \sh        sounds great
   10:12 rodarvus   mjg59, yes, hopefully even in time for edgy
   10:12 rodarvus   the first part of the job is to base our package on theirs, though
   10:12 \sh        rodarvus: do we get all transitional packages as debian?
   10:12 rodarvus   and do like we do with Gnome - just diverge on upstream versions
   10:12 rodarvus   \sh, yes, this is the plan
   === Klaidas [n=klaidas@unaffiliated/klaidas] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   === uniq [n=frode@ubuntu/member/frode] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   10:13 mjg59      rodarvus: How much experience have you of Debian packaging?
   10:14 rodarvus   mjg59, I've been doing this daily for the last few years
   10:14 rodarvus   and I have very strong knowledge of packaging policy itself
   10:14 rodarvus   (which is the most important part, I believe)
   10:14 Riddell    rodarvus: what experience do you have relevant to edubuntu?
   10:14 rodarvus   in this case, I have almost 9 years of experience (counting rpm and deb packaging)
   10:15 \sh        rodarvus: why do you want to do the packaging of Xorg for ubuntu?
   10:15 rodarvus   Riddell, I have little experience with edubuntu itself - I have some (previous) experience with thinclients (which is related to LTSP, and thus, edubuntu)
   === tonyyarusso [n=anthony@dialup-4.159.11.49.Dial1.Chicago1.Level3.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:16 rodarvus   \sh, partly because it is in a semi-abandoned status in Ubuntu
   10:16 rodarvus   and partly because I want to be involved in the maintenance of X packages
   10:16 rodarvus   (which are important on any linux distro, of course)
   === crimsun [n=crimsun@pdpc/supporter/silver/crimsun] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:17 \sh        rodarvus: I'm just asking because of the "sometimes" political indifference between ubuntu and debian....so I would like to see if someone tries to combine the affords of packaging between ubuntu and debian....thx for your answer :)
   10:17 rodarvus   Riddell, thinclients are a very common setup in Brazil, and I have done a "edubuntu-like" package setup for Conecitva Linux in the past (though not for educational purposes)
   10:17 mjg59      Keybuk: Any more questions?
   10:18 Keybuk     I have none, I've had the opportunity to meet rodarvus in person in Paris
   10:18 ogra       rodarvus will take a bunch of responsibilitys in the edgy ltsp development
   10:18 rodarvus   ogra, right, I have a few (three) LTSP-related specs to complete on Edgy timeframe
   10:18 ogra       (and hopefully beyond :) )
   10:18 rodarvus   :)
   10:18 \sh        If keybuk met rodarvus I
   10:19 \sh        'm second the decision
   10:19 \sh        s/if/when/
   10:19 Keybuk     mjg59: any more questions from you?
   10:19 mjg59      Nope, I'm happy
   10:20 Keybuk     ok, votes
   10:20 Keybuk     +1 from me, I'm confident he'll do a good job
   === ogra cheers for rodarvus
   10:20 mjg59      1 from me
   10:21 Keybuk     mjg59: + or - ? :)
   10:21 ogra       well 1 > 0 :)
   10:21 mjg59      Congratulations!
   10:21 mjg59      Keybuk: I'll let you decide
   10:21 \sh        congrats rodarvus and welcome to ubuntu :)
   10:21 ogra       congrats rodarvus !
   10:21 rodarvus   thanks :)
   10:22 Keybuk     anybody else applying for core-dev/
   10:22 LaserJock  rodarvus: \o/
   10:22 mjg59      We'll move onto universe if nobody speaks up in the next minute or so...
   10:23 Keybuk     there's nobody else on my list, anyway
   10:23 Keybuk     so, universe
   10:23 Keybuk     lukketto?  present or ping'able by anyone?
   10:23 Keybuk     bluekuja: present?
   10:23 Keybuk     id_sonic?  present or ping'able by anyone?
   10:24 Keybuk     zbowling?  present or ping'able by anyone?
   === bddebian [n=bdefrees@71.224.172.103] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === rob [i=Robert@freenode/staff/ubuntu.member.rob] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:25 Keybuk     bueller?
   10:25 Keybuk     bueller?
   10:26 bddebian   heh
   10:27 Keybuk     right then
   10:27 Keybuk     any other business?
   10:27 Keybuk     anyone want to comment on anything edgy related?
   10:27 ogra       it sucks to have no keyboard supoort on ibooks
   10:27 ogra       edgy related ^^^
   10:27 Riddell    are all the specs going to be reviewed by thursday?
   10:28 Keybuk     Riddell: good point
   10:28 Keybuk     mdz send an e-mail to u-d-a today
   10:28 Keybuk     basically, if you have a spec that has not yet been approved
   10:28 Keybuk     FIND A REVIEWER
   10:28 Keybuk     https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-reviewers
   10:28 Keybuk     those people can review your spec and get it to Pending Approval
   10:29 Keybuk     members of the TB (myself, mjg59, mdz) and Kamion can approve specs
   10:29 slomo_     ogra: that's fixed now
   10:29 slomo_     ogra: well, will be with the next kernel upload
   10:29 Keybuk     it is _your_ responsibility as a spec author to drive it to approval
   10:29 ogra       slomo_, i know
   10:29 Keybuk     don't leave it too late either, the reviewer may have many comments that need addressing
   10:30 ogra       slomo_, i still always type on the wrong keyboard :P
   10:31 Keybuk     ok
   10:31 Keybuk     end of meeting
   10:31 Keybuk     thanks everybody
   10:31 ogra       thanks Keybuk
   

</pre>
