{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
Feb 15 15:59:59 <j1mc_>	hi all
Feb 15 16:00:09 <chewit>	hi
Feb 15 16:00:09 *	charlie-tca waves
Feb 15 16:00:14 <j1mc_>	i'm on a bit of a laggy connection - hope i stay with things.
Feb 15 16:01:39 *	Andre_Gondim has quit ("Saindo http://andregondim.eti.br")
Feb 15 16:01:53 *	titan_ark_ (n=titan_ar@117.192.9.23) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 15 16:02:41 *	Andre_Gondim (n=Andre_Go@c925acbc.virtua.com.br) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 15 16:02:42 *	JPohlmann (n=jannis@e176157174.adsl.alicedsl.de) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 15 16:02:56 <knome>	hello.
Feb 15 16:03:10 <j1mc_>	hi knome & JPohlmann
Feb 15 16:03:14 <JPohlmann>	Hey
Feb 15 16:03:24 <knome>	i'm also connecting (still) through my mobile phone
Feb 15 16:03:49 <cody-somerville>	Hey! :)
Feb 15 16:03:53 <titan_ark_>	hello :)
Feb 15 16:03:59 <j1mc_>	hi cody-somerville
Feb 15 16:04:31 *	knome has changed the topic to: Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | Check out the scheduled meetings at http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar
Feb 15 16:04:59 *	knome has changed the topic to: Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/
Feb 15 16:05:17 <cody-somerville>	j1mc_, hey
Feb 15 16:05:19 <knome>	so are we ready to start or are we waiting for somebody to arrive?
Feb 15 16:05:57 <cody-somerville>	Who is all here? :)
Feb 15 16:06:07 *	j1mc_ waves
Feb 15 16:06:12 *	charlie-tca nods
Feb 15 16:06:17 *	knome farts
Feb 15 16:06:24 *	JPohlmann is kinda here
Feb 15 16:06:39 *	Myrtti (i=myrtti@ubuntu/member/myrtti) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 15 16:07:21 *	Kiption (n=rerobins@208-45-77-202.clsp.qwest.net) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 15 16:07:21 <knome>	ok, shall we start?
Feb 15 16:07:52 <j1mc_>	sure
Feb 15 16:08:17 <chewit>	it is 8mins in, so everyone wanting to be here is here
Feb 15 16:08:37 <ScottK>	Which meeting is this?
Feb 15 16:08:43 <j1mc_>	i'm a bit out of it today, and we don't have an agenda... if anyone would like to go first, please go ahead.
Feb 15 16:08:49 <knome>	ScottK, xubuntu developer
Feb 15 16:08:52 <j1mc_>	ScottK: xubuntu meeting
Feb 15 16:09:14 <cody-somerville>	Alrighty
Feb 15 16:09:20 <cody-somerville>	There are a few things I'd like to discuss today
Feb 15 16:09:41 *	ScottK will just toss in that the kernels on the ports archs (sparc, powerpc, ia64, and hppa) recently got fixed, so if you've got broken stuff you want to retry, now's a good time.
Feb 15 16:09:54 <charlie-tca>	thanks, ScottK
Feb 15 16:09:59 <cody-somerville>	ScottK, thanks :)
Feb 15 16:10:13 <cody-somerville>	1. Team Reports
Feb 15 16:10:19 <cody-somerville>	OH wait
Feb 15 16:10:22 <cody-somerville>	Lets see if we can use mootboot.
Feb 15 16:10:24 <cody-somerville>	#STARTMEETING
Feb 15 16:10:26 <MootBot>	Meeting started at 14:10. The chair is cody-somerville.
Feb 15 16:10:26 <MootBot>	Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
Feb 15 16:10:37 <mr_pouit>	o/
Feb 15 16:10:51 <j1mc_>	mr_pouit: yeay - glad you're here.
Feb 15 16:11:02 <knome>	aye.
Feb 15 16:11:04 <cody-somerville>	[TOPIC] Team Report
Feb 15 16:11:04 <MootBot>	New Topic:  Team Report
Feb 15 16:11:22 <cody-somerville>	The team report is a great way to help let the rest of the community know what we're up to.
Feb 15 16:11:34 <cody-somerville>	Team leads: Please ensure you do your part to update it
Feb 15 16:11:44 <cody-somerville>	It is located at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/TeamReports
Feb 15 16:12:02 <knome>	Question: If the Team has been inactive, should I make a note on that?
Feb 15 16:12:07 <cody-somerville>	Yes, please.
Feb 15 16:12:12 <knome>	Ok.
Feb 15 16:12:27 <cody-somerville>	I'm wondering, is anyone willing to take responsibility for the report?
Feb 15 16:12:43 <knome>	Question: What if I am not allowed to edit the team report page?
Feb 15 16:12:45 <cody-somerville>	ie. Poking people to update it, submitting it monthly, etc.
Feb 15 16:12:56 <cody-somerville>	knome, You just need to login to edit it
Feb 15 16:13:06 <knome>	ah! true. sorry. :)
Feb 15 16:13:18 *	charlie-tca raises hand s-l-o-w-l-y
Feb 15 16:13:37 <charlie-tca>	I'll take it
Feb 15 16:13:56 <knome>	I think this is something that one person should not take responsility.
Feb 15 16:14:13 *	j1mc has quit (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))
Feb 15 16:14:14 *	j1mc_ nods - we need each team lead to be responsible to update it.
Feb 15 16:14:20 *	j1mc_ is now known as j1mc
Feb 15 16:14:29 <cody-somerville>	I agree
Feb 15 16:14:45 <cody-somerville>	However, it would be nice if we could have someone volunteer to remind folks :)
Feb 15 16:14:51 <charlie-tca>	but don't we need a leader to submit it to Ubuntu and remind people?
Feb 15 16:15:11 <j1mc>	we're adults - we should put it in our calendars.  :)
Feb 15 16:15:12 <knome>	I think the team reporting system is a bit confusing, for me at least.
Feb 15 16:15:37 <knome>	Splitting it to separate parts is fine, but also quite restrictive.
Feb 15 16:15:39 <j1mc>	when do we need to have the team reports updated every month?
Feb 15 16:15:53 <cody-somerville>	22nd
Feb 15 16:16:13 <cody-somerville>	j1mc, I think you make a good point.
Feb 15 16:16:42 <knome>	If I have tried to get new contributors to Xubuntu, is it part of Marketing, Community or what ever team the people decide to join or not to join?
Feb 15 16:16:53 *	Rafik has quit (Remote closed the connection)
Feb 15 16:17:17 <cody-somerville>	knome, It would be a part of Marketing
Feb 15 16:17:26 <cody-somerville>	knome, However, "community" is the catch-all category IMHO.
Feb 15 16:17:35 <cody-somerville>	So if you don't think something fits somewhere, slot it into community
Feb 15 16:18:18 <cody-somerville>	So, lets all take responsibility for updating it.
Feb 15 16:18:24 *	Rafik (n=rafik@ubuntu/member/rafik) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 15 16:18:25 <knome>	yes.
Feb 15 16:18:29 <cody-somerville>	(instead of relying on someone to remind us)
Feb 15 16:18:35 *	AliBB has quit (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))
Feb 15 16:18:37 <knome>	can we add notifications on *bot ?
Feb 15 16:18:40 <j1mc>	sounds good - i've just added it to my calendar
Feb 15 16:18:43 <cody-somerville>	The calendar idea also sounds like a great one.
Feb 15 16:18:44 <j1mc>	brb
Feb 15 16:19:13 *	nellery has quit (Remote closed the connection)
Feb 15 16:19:22 <cody-somerville>	I'm going to create two events on the calendar (repeating monthly) and invite the team leads. It'll be a reminder to update the team report and the deadline.
Feb 15 16:19:59 <knome>	yes. sounds great. where is the calendar? :P
Feb 15 16:20:10 *	charlie-tca wondering that too
Feb 15 16:20:13 <cody-somerville>	Thats another great idea. We should create a team calendar!
Feb 15 16:20:29 <knome>	under xubuntu.org maybe?
Feb 15 16:20:32 knome kaptengu Keybuk kibble Kiption kirkland 
Feb 15 16:20:36 <knome>	i can take responsibility for that.
Feb 15 16:20:37 <cody-somerville>	knome, I was thinking a Google Calendar
Feb 15 16:20:46 <JPohlmann>	Liaison is not a team lead position, is it?
Feb 15 16:21:21 <knome>	google calendar would then be just-an-another-site-you-have-to-visit (tm)
Feb 15 16:21:35 <cody-somerville>	knome, I was thinking the same thing about adding a calendar to xubuntu
Feb 15 16:21:46 <cody-somerville>	However, the nice thing about google calendar is that you can sync it with what ever you want
Feb 15 16:21:53 <knome>	does ubuntu have a calendar?
Feb 15 16:21:57 <cody-somerville>	A google calendar, yes.
Feb 15 16:22:10 <knome>	can we just add our things there?
Feb 15 16:22:19 <knome>	or are team reports already there?
Feb 15 16:22:23 <cody-somerville>	JPohlmann, A leadership position but not a team lead position (unless you wanted to create an army of liaison)
Feb 15 16:22:30 <j1mc>	team calendar sounds fine w/ me.  :)
Feb 15 16:22:32 <JPohlmann>	cody-somerville: Not really ;)
Feb 15 16:22:51 <cody-somerville>	knome, The Ubuntu calendar is more for events and less for this sort of coordination. However, we do use it internally
Feb 15 16:23:54 <knome>	hmmh.
Feb 15 16:24:16 <knome>	i think a xubuntu calendar would be useless if we only have team reports and maybe feature freezes there.
Feb 15 16:25:08 <knome>	nobody would visit it anyway if there's only the things they know.
Feb 15 16:25:49 <knome>	maybe by the spec (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/Jaunty/GrowXubuntuCommunity) try to communicate more.
Feb 15 16:26:05 <knome>	#
Feb 15 16:26:06 <knome>	Regular IRC & Skype Meetings
Feb 15 16:26:14 <knome>	skype++
Feb 15 16:26:17 <cody-somerville>	[ACTION] Cody to investigate the use of a team calendar
Feb 15 16:26:18 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  Cody to investigate the use of a team calendar
Feb 15 16:26:25 <cody-somerville>	Okay, lets move on.
Feb 15 16:26:34 <knome>	right.
Feb 15 16:27:08 <cody-somerville>	[TOPIC] Review roadmap
Feb 15 16:27:09 <MootBot>	New Topic:  Review roadmap
Feb 15 16:27:28 <cody-somerville>	[LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap
Feb 15 16:27:29 <MootBot>	LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap
Feb 15 16:27:36 <cody-somerville>	It looks like the roadmap page needs updating.
Feb 15 16:27:40 <knome>	yes,
Feb 15 16:27:44 <knome>	i will do it live.
Feb 15 16:28:20 <cody-somerville>	However, I'm happy to announce that thanks to a number of folks such as mr_pouit, jeromeg, NCommander, and the debian xfce team... we now have xfce 4.6 uploaded to the archive.
Feb 15 16:28:23 <cody-somerville>	mr_pouit, correct? :)
Feb 15 16:28:31 <cody-somerville>	(4.6 Release Candidate 1 that is)
Feb 15 16:28:40 <mr_pouit>	yes ^^
Feb 15 16:28:49 <j1mc>	:)  thanks, all.
Feb 15 16:29:13 <knome>	JPohlmann, what about thunar improvements?
Feb 15 16:29:14 <cody-somerville>	We're still smoothing out the rough edges but I'm nor running jaunty and am very happy with a number of new features and improvements.
Feb 15 16:29:46 *	JPohlmann blushes
Feb 15 16:29:56 <cody-somerville>	err..
Feb 15 16:30:02 <knome>	ok, so the status "Starting to work on." is accurate.
Feb 15 16:30:03 <cody-somerville>	*I'm now running
Feb 15 16:30:15 <knome>	to where?
Feb 15 16:30:16 <JPohlmann>	knome: There are only few new features in Thunar. We mostly fixed bugs.
Feb 15 16:30:51 <cody-somerville>	Also, I'm happy to note that Jeromeg's xfswitch-plugin has been uploaded to the archive. xfswitch is a session switcher. Although not as featured as gnome's version, it does do the job and jeromeg is going to help add some extra features before jaunty releases.
Feb 15 16:30:52 <knome>	what about user switcher applet?
Feb 15 16:31:15 <knome>	\o/
Feb 15 16:31:19 <JPohlmann>	Benedikt, the original author has been inactive for a while, so there wasn't much we could do. Thunar will receive a major overhaul (in form of GIO/GVfs support) in the next months.
Feb 15 16:31:23 <cody-somerville>	w00t
Feb 15 16:31:40 <cody-somerville>	So, back to "Thunar Improvements", thats actually Xubuntu specific. 
Feb 15 16:31:44 <j1mc>	mr_pouit: regarding the xfce-menu - the menu entries that are included in Applications > Settings > ...  (e.g., Appearance)... will we be able to hide the menu entries that are also included in the Xfce4 Settings Manager?
Feb 15 16:31:54 <knome>	JPohlmann, will it make it to jaunty?
Feb 15 16:32:02 <cody-somerville>	JPohlmann, do you think you could spare a half hour some day to help me look over the samba hack? :)
Feb 15 16:32:06 <j1mc>	mr_pouit: i'm not sure if that sentence made sense.
Feb 15 16:32:29 <mr_pouit>	j1mc: as we did with the previous dialog?
Feb 15 16:32:31 <JPohlmann>	knome: Nope. I'll work on that the next 3+ months as a student thesis. I'll take my time ;)
Feb 15 16:32:43 <JPohlmann>	cody-somerville: Does it not work anymore?
Feb 15 16:32:47 <knome>	JPohlmann, yeah, no problem. i'll just update the roadmap page.
Feb 15 16:33:01 <j1mc>	mr_pouit: yes, they appear in the settings manager, and they also appear as a separate menu item - can we hide the menu item like we did before?
Feb 15 16:33:03 <cody-somerville>	JPohlmann, I haven't had a chance to look at it at all yet nor am I very good with autoconf stuff :)
Feb 15 16:33:15 <knome>	cody-somerville, does "uploaded to the archive" mean the objectives ar fulfilled?
Feb 15 16:33:33 <cody-somerville>	knome, We didn't really write a spec so its difficult to say. I'd say its good progress
Feb 15 16:33:36 <JPohlmann>	cody-somerville: Ok. Sure, I can help you with that.
Feb 15 16:33:49 <cody-somerville>	j1mc, mr_pouit: I think it looks better when items in the menu.
Feb 15 16:34:06 <knome>	cody-somerville, ok. i'll make a new color scheme for the objective listing.
Feb 15 16:34:09 <cody-somerville>	Next, "Refresh distro artwork"
Feb 15 16:34:20 <cody-somerville>	knome has volunteered to do the distro artwork this release
Feb 15 16:34:27 <cody-somerville>	jmakz is unfortunately too busy this cycle to be able to help :(
Feb 15 16:34:29 <knome>	[TOPIC] Refresh distro artwork
Feb 15 16:34:30 <mr_pouit>	+1, some (French) users complained that they were missing ;]
Feb 15 16:34:54 <j1mc>	it seems weird to have them in two places, though.
Feb 15 16:35:00 <cody-somerville>	knome, Any updates on the artwork?
Feb 15 16:35:09 <knome>	cody-somerville, not yet. next week.
Feb 15 16:35:43 <cody-somerville>	Finally, on the topic of the roadmap, Id like to look at our growing the xubuntu community spec unless someone has anything else to say about the other objectives.
Feb 15 16:35:56 <charlie-tca>	j1mc: you get used to it after a little bit
Feb 15 16:37:11 <j1mc>	ok - i can understand how people can get used to it, but you can say that about the other approach, too, and i think it makes more sense to have settings in one place.
Feb 15 16:37:34 <j1mc>	otherwise, why even include the settings manager?
Feb 15 16:37:40 <knome>	cody-somerville, go on.
Feb 15 16:37:47 <cody-somerville>	The specification is located at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/Jaunty/GrowXubuntuCommunity
Feb 15 16:38:05 *	j1mc will bring up the other topic later - sorry all.
Feb 15 16:38:10 <knome>	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap - updated.
Feb 15 16:38:23 <cody-somerville>	I think this specification is an important one.
Feb 15 16:39:13 <knome>	yes.
Feb 15 16:39:24 <chewit>	knome, the xfce 4.6 milestones are not correct
Feb 15 16:39:44 <knome>	chewit, ?
Feb 15 16:39:54 <chewit>	on the roadmap
Feb 15 16:39:55 <JPohlmann>	BTW, I could imagine another point in that specification: Be present at user and developer oriented conferences like FOSDEM. There were a lot of distributions present with a booth this year, but no Ubuntu and no Xubuntu.
Feb 15 16:40:31 <knome>	JPohlmann, it would be interesting to have xubuntu there, yes.
Feb 15 16:40:54 <knome>	chewit, yes. can you tell me what is wrong?
Feb 15 16:41:01 <cody-somerville>	All of us are here, contributing to Xubuntu. People come and go and in a years time some of us will still be here, some of us will have moved on, and some of us will be new faces. So, I'd like to ensure we invest in recruiting new contributors and retaining existing ones.
Feb 15 16:41:08 <Myrtti>	JPohlmann: LIES
Feb 15 16:41:14 <Myrtti>	JPohlmann: there was a ubuntu desk
Feb 15 16:41:25 <JPohlmann>	Really? Must have missed that.
Feb 15 16:41:30 <chewit>	the dates are incorrect. for example. the release date on the list says it is in september 2008
Feb 15 16:41:33 <Myrtti>	it was next to the gnome desk
Feb 15 16:41:46 <knome>	a-ha on the spec page.
Feb 15 16:41:47 <JPohlmann>	Fedora and CentOS were quite well represented IMHO but I couldn't spot the ubuntu logo anywhere
Feb 15 16:41:58 <knome>	chewit, right?
Feb 15 16:42:24 <knome>	chewit, ah, there. got it. yes.
Feb 15 16:43:08 <knome>	JPohlmann, could you update the milestones section of the roadmap page on the wiki?
Feb 15 16:43:13 <chewit>	though, not sure what the current release date is. It was meant to be the 6 Feb 09, but thats been & gone
Feb 15 16:43:28 *	nellery (n=nickelle@ubuntu/member/nickellery) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 15 16:43:40 <cody-somerville>	Lets review the different items we brainstormed up
Feb 15 16:43:51 <cody-somerville>	[IDEA] Improving the content on the "Get Involved" pages. 
Feb 15 16:43:52 <MootBot>	IDEA received:  Improving the content on the "Get Involved" pages.
Feb 15 16:43:59 <cody-somerville>	We said:
Feb 15 16:44:06 <cody-somerville>	# Ensure that there is contact information.
Feb 15 16:44:06 <cody-somerville>	# Minimize the amount of information presented to the user at once.
Feb 15 16:44:06 <cody-somerville>	# Point users at low hanging fruit.
Feb 15 16:44:06 <cody-somerville>	# We want users to feel like they're apart of the team; link to 5-a-day.
Feb 15 16:44:06 <cody-somerville>	# Improve more comprehensive documentation on the wiki. 
Feb 15 16:44:32 <cody-somerville>	knome, How is this coming along?
Feb 15 16:45:11 <JPohlmann>	knome: You mean the Xfce wiki?
Feb 15 16:45:19 <knome>	JPohlmann, ubuntu wiki
Feb 15 16:45:27 <knome>	JPohlmann, see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap
Feb 15 16:45:33 <knome>	cody-somerville, not really at all.
Feb 15 16:45:40 <JPohlmann>	It's kinda difficult. We don't have a planned release date at the moment :-/
Feb 15 16:45:41 <knome>	cody-somerville, i need the help of documentation team.
Feb 15 16:46:10 <knome>	i would totally do taht by myself if i had the time. i hope that i'll have enough time to work on everything xubuntu the next week.
Feb 15 16:46:26 <j1mc>	knome: what do you need help with?
Feb 15 16:46:38 <j1mc>	re: documentation team
Feb 15 16:46:48 <knome>	j1mc, improving the content on the "get involved" pages
Feb 15 16:46:57 *	arualavi (n=ivan@unaffiliated/arualavi) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 15 16:47:06 <j1mc>	knome: i could probably hash things out with you.
Feb 15 16:47:06 <knome>	j1mc, or i don't know whether it should be the doc team.
Feb 15 16:47:18 <cody-somerville>	What do you think about setting something up like the MOTU reception. ie. Volunteers who agree to help get new contributors contributing?
Feb 15 16:47:28 <j1mc>	well, it's the xubuntu portion of the wiki, so we should really take responsibility for it.
Feb 15 16:47:31 <j1mc>	i'm glad to help,though
Feb 15 16:47:47 <knome>	j1mc, and http://xubuntu.org/contribute
Feb 15 16:48:13 <knome>	j1mc, the wiki should include *all* the information available
Feb 15 16:48:26 <knome>	j1mc, the website only main points.
Feb 15 16:48:32 <j1mc>	knome: so you want to merge the info from the website section there into the wiki?
Feb 15 16:48:54 <knome>	j1mc, nope, because the website info is not up-to-date
Feb 15 16:49:02 <knome>	j1mc, we need to review that.
Feb 15 16:49:10 <knome>	j1mc, and improve.
Feb 15 16:49:11 <j1mc>	knome: ok - i'll take a look
Feb 15 16:49:12 <j1mc>	ok
Feb 15 16:49:20 *	j1mc will help with that
Feb 15 16:49:32 <knome>	the first item is critical, i think: # Ensure that there is contact information.
Feb 15 16:50:22 *	j1mc nods
Feb 15 16:50:32 <knome>	cody-somerville, good idea. though that means we have to ave resources for that.
Feb 15 16:50:35 <knome>	co	even if the people won't start conr tributing after the w ha
Feb 15 16:50:46 <knome>	*wha=hard work we put into that
Feb 15 16:50:58 <knome>	i'm sorry about this crap, my connection is dying.
Feb 15 16:51:22 <cody-somerville>	Who wants to volunteer to take that up and run with it?
Feb 15 16:51:39 <cody-somerville>	I'm happy to volunteer to be a "mentor" or what ever you want to call it
Feb 15 16:51:48 <knome>	i think that is something which should be done by the team leads.
Feb 15 16:51:49 <j1mc>	cody-somerville: could you clarify "that"?  :)
Feb 15 16:52:09 <knome>	if a user wants to contribute to marketing, i'm more than willing to help.
Feb 15 16:52:26 <knome>	but if he wants to hack xubuntu's code, i just can't help.
Feb 15 16:53:00 <knome>	i just can point them to saying hello to you (cody-somerville) and maybe JPohlmann or charlie-tca who know about that more.
Feb 15 16:53:16 <j1mc>	i already said that i'd help update the getting involved portion of the wiki.
Feb 15 16:53:28 <knome>	j1mc, and the website? :]
Feb 15 16:53:33 <cody-somerville>	[ACTION] Cody to write up e-mail to xubuntu-dev ML about reception idea.
Feb 15 16:53:34 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  Cody to write up e-mail to xubuntu-dev ML about reception idea.
Feb 15 16:53:49 <cody-somerville>	Get more contributors blogging & talking about Xubuntu 
Feb 15 16:53:52 <cody-somerville>	We said:
Feb 15 16:53:57 <cody-somerville>	# Get current contributors to apply for Ubuntu membership so that their blog posts are syndicated to planet.ubuntu.com
Feb 15 16:53:57 <cody-somerville>	# Post/blog about the monthly team report.
Feb 15 16:53:57 <cody-somerville>	#
Feb 15 16:53:57 <cody-somerville>	Get people contributing to the team reports; see: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/TeamReports
Feb 15 16:53:57 <cody-somerville>	# Encourage current contributors to help out more on the #xubuntu support channel.
Feb 15 16:53:57 <cody-somerville>	# Start an official Xubuntu blog?
Feb 15 16:53:57 <cody-somerville>	# Micro-blogging
Feb 15 16:53:57 <cody-somerville>	# Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter 
Feb 15 16:54:09 <cody-somerville>	Who here is a Ubuntu member?
Feb 15 16:54:12 *	cody-somerville raises his hand.
Feb 15 16:54:18 *	j1mc 
Feb 15 16:54:21 *	knome is applying currently
Feb 15 16:54:24 <JPohlmann>	It's a bit of a twist. I mean, with <10 people you just don't have the resources to make that all happen. But you need it to reach the point where you have >10 people helping out.
Feb 15 16:54:40 *	charlie-tca didn't think I did enough to apply
Feb 15 16:54:44 <j1mc>	knome: yes, i'll help with website content if you can upload/format it
Feb 15 16:55:09 <knome>	JPohlmann, true. but if we are mentoring, we might get new contriubtors who could mentor themselves.
Feb 15 16:55:12 <knome>	j1mc, sure.
Feb 15 16:55:23 <j1mc>	there is already a xubuntu group on identi.ca - http://identi.ca/group/xubuntu
Feb 15 16:55:40 <knome>	JPohlmann, i mean, we lack this mentoring tradition.
Feb 15 16:55:59 <knome>	who is on facebook?
Feb 15 16:56:14 *	j1mc 
Feb 15 16:56:26 *	JPohlmann   
Feb 15 16:56:34 <knome>	j1mc, JPohlmann: do you have a xubuntu group?
Feb 15 16:57:11 <j1mc>	not on facebook, i don't think
Feb 15 16:57:24 <knome>	j1mc, create one and write a mail to the ML
Feb 15 16:57:32 <j1mc>	ok
Feb 15 16:57:36 <cody-somerville>	Facebook might be a little personal
Feb 15 16:57:37 <knome>	(users and devel)
Feb 15 16:57:42 <knome>	cody-somerville, why?
Feb 15 16:58:05 <knome>	cody-somerville, it is still something that unites people and it's big atm.
Feb 15 16:58:11 <cody-somerville>	Sure,
Feb 15 16:58:23 <cody-somerville>	just saying some people might find it a little too personal
Feb 15 16:58:36 <j1mc>	joining a group doesn't permit other people to see your entries.
Feb 15 16:58:39 <knome>	then they won't join the group.
Feb 15 16:59:13 <knome>	anyway, the point is to make people feel like they belong to this something called "the xubuntu community"
Feb 15 16:59:24 <knome>	if they don't want to feel it, ok, then they won't.
Feb 15 16:59:32 <knome>	and they won't join the group.
Feb 15 16:59:53 <knome>	it's alower barrier to join the facebook group than to join #xubuntu on freenode and subscribe to the mailing list.
Feb 15 17:00:05 <knome>	joining to a facebook group doesn't oblige you to anything.
Feb 15 17:00:12 <JPohlmann>	Groups on Facebook are more a showing-off-what-you-like kind of thing. I don't think it's worth it. At least there are more important things.
Feb 15 17:00:41 <knome>	JPohlmann, it's not a big thing to do, but it might grow up into something.
Feb 15 17:00:57 <knome>	JPohlmann, isn't xubuntu something you'd like to show off that you like?
Feb 15 17:01:06 <knome>	JPohlmann, (if, in the first place, you were using it?)
Feb 15 17:01:08 *	chewit has quit ("Leaving")
Feb 15 17:01:24 <JPohlmann>	Well, maybe. But Facebook is not part of the Ubuntu community infrastructure so ... I'm not sure.
Feb 15 17:01:37 <knome>	does it matter? neither is identi.ca
Feb 15 17:02:11 <knome>	i don't know what the facebook groups are like but i expect you can have some content there.
Feb 15 17:02:25 <knome>	just tell what xubuntu is, how to get it and how to contribute
Feb 15 17:03:00 <Nafallo>	hahaha
Feb 15 17:03:12 <knome>	like "hey, join this group if you like xubuntu" and once you're in "hey, who don't you join our community at thebiggestubuntucommunitysiteeverakaubuntu.com"
Feb 15 17:03:21 <knome>	Nafallo, yes?
Feb 15 17:03:23 <JPohlmann>	Right. Still, if it's about attracting new contributors Facebook is almost irrelevant.
Feb 15 17:03:37 <knome>	JPohlmann, it's not attracting new *contributors*
Feb 15 17:03:41 *	ajmitch_ is now known as ajmitch
Feb 15 17:03:41 <Nafallo>	knome: just found it funny that the community would host facebook :-)
Feb 15 17:03:48 <knome>	JPohlmann, community is not only contributors.
Feb 15 17:03:53 <Nafallo>	having seen their kit and all... ;-)
Feb 15 17:04:00 <knome>	JPohlmann, community is not only developers.
Feb 15 17:04:07 <knome>	JPohlmann, community is people who use xubuntu.
Feb 15 17:04:18 <JPohlmann>	Hmm. I thought we were talking about new contributors initally.
Feb 15 17:04:38 <knome>	JPohlmann, yes, but you never know what a use can grow to, right?
Feb 15 17:05:24 <knome>	JPohlmann, you remember me popping in at #xubuntu-devel? i had quit amarok and joined the channel and asked whether i could do something for xubuntu, because i like it. like a week or two after we had a new website.
Feb 15 17:05:36 <cody-somerville>	I'm in favour of doing anything that doesn't drain our resources that might possible create a feeling of community and attract new contributors.
Feb 15 17:05:41 <cody-somerville>	*possibly
Feb 15 17:05:48 <cody-somerville>	So, lets move on
Feb 15 17:05:52 <knome>	yes.
Feb 15 17:06:08 <knome>	maybe a few words about the other items:
Feb 15 17:06:15 <cody-somerville>	Lets all agree to make an active effort to blog, micro-blog, etc. etc., about Xubuntu
Feb 15 17:06:21 <knome>	i've done efforts to get my new personal website up.
Feb 15 17:06:26 <JPohlmann>	Yeah, that's right. It's true that facebook groups don't really cause any maintainance overhead. So if someone wants to go for it I'd be happy to join the group ;)
Feb 15 17:06:31 <knome>	once i do, i'll start writing about xubuntu
Feb 15 17:06:39 <cody-somerville>	:)
Feb 15 17:06:40 <cody-somerville>	awesome
Feb 15 17:06:42 <knome>	j1mc, ?
Feb 15 17:06:49 <j1mc>	knome: yes?  :)
Feb 15 17:07:05 *	charlie-tca nods; he mentions xubuntu on his website
Feb 15 17:07:10 <knome>	j1mc, maybe you are willing to create the xubuntu facebook group and send the mail as i asked, plase? :]
Feb 15 17:07:13 <j1mc>	i'll get the fbook group set up
Feb 15 17:07:16 <j1mc>	sure
Feb 15 17:07:37 <knome>	i've also written about xubuntu in finnish on my personal blog.
Feb 15 17:08:08 <knome>	and i've felt a need to write about it more and in english.
Feb 15 17:09:37 *	titan_ark_ has quit (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))
Feb 15 17:09:40 <knome>	anyway, let's go on.
Feb 15 17:10:14 *	alleeJaunty has quit (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))
Feb 15 17:11:38 <cody-somerville>	What do folks think about a Xubuntu blog?
Feb 15 17:11:50 <knome>	isn't vinnl kind of writing one already?
Feb 15 17:12:20 <knome>	or do you mean an aggreated blog from all of our entries?
Feb 15 17:12:50 <knome>	keeping strictly xubuntu-only would make sense, but there is not a lot of subjects we can write about.
Feb 15 17:13:16 <cody-somerville>	Thats not true
Feb 15 17:13:27 <cody-somerville>	There is lots of Xubuntu stuff to write about
Feb 15 17:13:31 *	j1mc_ (n=j1mc@ubuntu/member/j1mc) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 15 17:13:33 <cody-somerville>	I'm thinking of an official Xubuntu blog
Feb 15 17:13:39 <knome>	then i would not be the correct person to write that.
Feb 15 17:13:45 <cody-somerville>	Where we'd post official xubuntu team blog entries.
Feb 15 17:13:57 <cody-somerville>	Sort of like what the Server and launchpad team do
Feb 15 17:14:00 <knome>	cody-somerville, can it be aggregated, please? :]
Feb 15 17:14:03 <j1mc_>	cody-somerville: kind of like the server team, right?
Feb 15 17:14:06 <cody-somerville>	yup
Feb 15 17:14:06 <j1mc_>	right
Feb 15 17:14:08 <charlie-tca>	We can't even keep the TeamReports up, how can we do a blog?
Feb 15 17:14:13 <cody-somerville>	knome, any blog can be aggregated
Feb 15 17:14:28 <knome>	charlie-tca, maybe that would be the solution.
Feb 15 17:14:45 <cody-somerville>	charlie-tca, If the tool is available, people might be more inclined. Furthermore, blog entries are more fun to write then the the team report :)
Feb 15 17:14:46 <knome>	cody-somerville, i mean aggregated like planet.
Feb 15 17:15:09 <cody-somerville>	knome, I think it would be a wordpress instance and people who want to write for the blog could get accounts.
Feb 15 17:15:16 <cody-somerville>	knome, We could use the xubuntu.org website for it even
Feb 15 17:15:36 <knome>	cody-somerville, yeah. we might get off of drupal. is that possible?
Feb 15 17:15:48 <cody-somerville>	Yup
Feb 15 17:15:52 <knome>	\o/
Feb 15 17:15:58 <knome>	+1 (billion)
Feb 15 17:16:00 <cody-somerville>	[ACTION] Cody to investigate possibility of using xubuntu.org for official team blog.
Feb 15 17:16:01 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  Cody to investigate possibility of using xubuntu.org for official team blog.
Feb 15 17:16:04 <cody-somerville>	Okay, lets move on now.
Feb 15 17:16:07 <cody-somerville>	"Create teamwork opportunities "
Feb 15 17:16:10 <JPohlmann>	Planets usually aren't very coherent in their topics. If it's supposed to be about Xubuntu only, then aggregation like that doesn't make much sense.
Feb 15 17:16:13 <cody-somerville>	We said:
Feb 15 17:16:17 <cody-somerville>	# 5-a-day
Feb 15 17:16:17 <cody-somerville>	# User-created content on the CD (ala Ubuntu Free Culture Showcase)
Feb 15 17:16:17 <cody-somerville>	# "Community Help Contact"??? (could tie in with channel opping)
Feb 15 17:16:17 <cody-somerville>	#
Feb 15 17:16:17 <cody-somerville>	Bug & Package Jams 
Feb 15 17:16:20 <knome>	JPohlmann, true.
Feb 15 17:16:31 <cody-somerville>	charlie-tca, What do you think of 5-a-day?
Feb 15 17:16:32 <j1mc_>	JPohlmann: check out the server team blog or the launchpad team blog
Feb 15 17:16:54 <charlie-tca>	5-a-day is great for promoting bug-triaging.
Feb 15 17:17:17 <charlie-tca>	But it is only useful for bug work
Feb 15 17:17:22 *	j1mc has quit (Read error: 60 (Operation timed out))
Feb 15 17:17:23 *	cody-somerville nods.
Feb 15 17:17:40 <cody-somerville>	charlie-tca, How about we setup a 5-a-day Xubuntu team? :)
Feb 15 17:17:47 <knome>	and only possible/relevat with bugs!
Feb 15 17:17:49 <knome>	+n
Feb 15 17:17:54 <charlie-tca>	If you want
Feb 15 17:18:04 <charlie-tca>	I'll get one set up
Feb 15 17:18:07 <knome>	charlie-tca, do you think that would draw people?
Feb 15 17:18:59 <cody-somerville>	I think it would. It'll certainly get me more involved in bug triage.
Feb 15 17:19:08 <charlie-tca>	I don't really know. I see a few people triaging our bugs, but we are at a point we have to triage all bugs to get 5-a-day
Feb 15 17:19:11 <knome>	ok. let's certainly do that.
Feb 15 17:19:23 <charlie-tca>	We only have 63 new bugs right now
Feb 15 17:19:26 <cody-somerville>	[ACTION] Charlie to setup 5-a-day team
Feb 15 17:19:27 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  Charlie to setup 5-a-day team
Feb 15 17:19:43 <knome>	charlie-tca, i think the idea behind 5-a-day is not *5*, but improving contiributor quality and motivation.
Feb 15 17:19:59 <charlie-tca>	okay
Feb 15 17:20:24 <cody-somerville>	I think the user-created content on CD is something we can look at next cycle
Feb 15 17:20:36 <knome>	yeah. agreed. we are too busy now already.
Feb 15 17:20:41 <cody-somerville>	However, what about a "Community Help Contact". We could take turns herding #xubuntu :)
Feb 15 17:20:56 <charlie-tca>	yes, good idea
Feb 15 17:21:02 <knome>	community help contact could be also linked a bit with mentoring, right?
Feb 15 17:21:26 <knome>	and also is linked to improving the get help&support and involved -pages :)
Feb 15 17:21:33 <cody-somerville>	Sure
Feb 15 17:21:45 *	txwikinger has quit (Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer))
Feb 15 17:21:54 <cody-somerville>	I'll see if TheSheep will champion the community help contact idea
Feb 15 17:22:25 <cody-somerville>	[ACTION] Cody to speak with TheSheep about organizing the community help contact idea 
Feb 15 17:22:26 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  Cody to speak with TheSheep about organizing the community help contact idea
Feb 15 17:22:30 <knome>	+1
Feb 15 17:22:45 <cody-somerville>	"Regular IRC & Skype Meetings"
Feb 15 17:22:53 <cody-somerville>	It seems like we are doing IRC meetings regularly
Feb 15 17:22:53 <knome>	+1
Feb 15 17:22:54 <knome>	;)
Feb 15 17:23:00 <cody-somerville>	How about we try Skype sometime?
Feb 15 17:23:01 <cody-somerville>	:)
Feb 15 17:23:06 <charlie-tca>	I have no Skypoe
Feb 15 17:23:10 <charlie-tca>	Skype
Feb 15 17:23:10 <knome>	we are, but i miss the impromptu meeting we've had a few times.
Feb 15 17:23:12 <j1mc_>	me neither
Feb 15 17:23:27 <JPohlmann>	Skype could be funny.
Feb 15 17:23:32 <cody-somerville>	charlie-tca, We can call you
Feb 15 17:23:34 <cody-somerville>	"Create resources for loco teams (flyers, artwork, etc.) "
Feb 15 17:23:37 <cody-somerville>	knome, ^^
Feb 15 17:23:48 <cody-somerville>	and last but not least, "Default settings for IRC and Pidgin could point to #xubuntu "
Feb 15 17:23:56 <knome>	JPohlmann, it's easier now as we've met each other (at least many of us)
Feb 15 17:24:03 <cody-somerville>	mr_pouit, Can you volunteer to explore this option?
Feb 15 17:24:21 <knome>	cody-somerville, resources will come once we've progressed in the artwork for this cyclw.
Feb 15 17:24:24 <knome>	*cycle
Feb 15 17:24:30 <cody-somerville>	ok
Feb 15 17:24:32 <cody-somerville>	great
Feb 15 17:24:38 <Myrtti>	mumble
Feb 15 17:24:45 <Myrtti>	for audio conference calls over IP
Feb 15 17:24:53 <cody-somerville>	hehe
Feb 15 17:24:56 <cody-somerville>	Myrtti, Hey!
Feb 15 17:25:02 <knome>	cody-somerville, i'll just export thing to different shapes and sizes
Feb 15 17:25:07 <mr_pouit>	cody-somerville: ok (if pidgin supports xdg config directories, it should be easy...)
Feb 15 17:25:07 <cody-somerville>	Myrtti, Do you want to volunteer to champion the community contact idea for #xubuntu?
Feb 15 17:25:16 <cody-somerville>	mr_pouit, I was thinking xchat as well
Feb 15 17:25:24 <knome>	Myrtti, the official language for audio conferences should be finnish. ;)
Feb 15 17:25:27 <mr_pouit>	ok
Feb 15 17:25:38 <Myrtti>	cody-somerville: sure, if I can get a quick roundup on what's to be done.
Feb 15 17:25:40 <cody-somerville>	mr_pouit, either have specific config for Xubuntu install or have it open #ubuntu, #kubuntu, and #xubuntu no matter what desktop you're on
Feb 15 17:26:03 *	mpih has quit (Remote closed the connection)
Feb 15 17:26:10 <knome>	cody-somerville, mr_pouit: i think that's already been done on ubuntu, irrc.
Feb 15 17:26:15 <knome>	*iirc
Feb 15 17:26:26 <cody-somerville>	[ACTION] mr_pouit to look into modifying pidgin and xchat to open #xubuntu in addition to #ubuntu on startup
Feb 15 17:26:27 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  mr_pouit to look into modifying pidgin and xchat to open #xubuntu in addition to #ubuntu on startup
Feb 15 17:26:29 <knome>	or kubuntu.
Feb 15 17:26:36 <knome>	or then somebody was talking about that
Feb 15 17:27:15 <cody-somerville>	[ACTION] Cody to also contact Myrtti regarding community help contact idea.
Feb 15 17:27:16 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  Cody to also contact Myrtti regarding community help contact idea.
Feb 15 17:27:52 <cody-somerville>	[TOPIC] Documentation
Feb 15 17:27:53 <MootBot>	New Topic:  Documentation
Feb 15 17:27:55 JPohlmann j1mc_ james_w jcastro jdstrand johnc4510 johnc4510-laptop jpds juliux jussi01 
Feb 15 17:27:58 <cody-somerville>	JPohlmann, j1mc_ ^^ :)
Feb 15 17:28:44 *	jeromeg (i=jeromeg@pocentek.net) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
Feb 15 17:28:48 <cody-somerville>	Hey jeromeg 
Feb 15 17:28:56 <JPohlmann>	Discussion on the Xfce developer mailing list has started about how to improve the upstream end user documentation.
Feb 15 17:29:04 <jeromeg>	hello
Feb 15 17:29:10 <cody-somerville>	JPohlmann, excellent.
Feb 15 17:29:15 <knome>	\o/
Feb 15 17:29:21 <cody-somerville>	JPohlmann, do you think we'll see updated documentation for Jaunty?
Feb 15 17:29:58 <j1mc_>	yeah - i sent them a note to get that ball rolling.  i'm working on some merges from ubuntu docs tonight.
Feb 15 17:30:27 <j1mc_>	most inappropriate ubuntu references are out of the xubuntu docs, but i still need to update much of the content.
Feb 15 17:30:37 <JPohlmann>	Jim is in a dialog with Nick and a few others. We're currently investigating different options. One way would be to write the documentation in a wiki and then importing it into the tarballs for releases. Another is to generate online content based on documentation that is shipped with the tarballs.
Feb 15 17:30:41 <j1mc_>	being able to merge off of ubuntu docs is helping to keep things up to date, i think
Feb 15 17:30:52 *	cody-somerville nods.
Feb 15 17:31:02 <knome>	agreed.
Feb 15 17:31:05 <cody-somerville>	Interesting. I'm excited to hear this.
Feb 15 17:31:08 <JPohlmann>	Nothing has been decided yet and this won't happen in 4.6 because we're now close to the final release.
Feb 15 17:31:18 <JPohlmann>	So that's something for the next release cycle unfortunately.
Feb 15 17:31:32 <cody-somerville>	j1mc_, I'd like to see a Xubuntu doc hug day or something to see if we can get the docs some love.
Feb 15 17:31:41 <j1mc_>	i had proposed having xfce devs file a bug against their own packages to indicate if the docs needed updating
Feb 15 17:32:13 <j1mc_>	some of the xfce devs have updated their docs - others haven't.
Feb 15 17:32:25 *	JPohlmann hasn't. Shame on him.
Feb 15 17:32:25 <j1mc_>	i think jeromeg had updated his, right?  :)
Feb 15 17:32:43 *	knome throws a rotten tomato on JPohlmann 
Feb 15 17:32:48 <JPohlmann>	AFAIR jeromeg has also updated the xfdesktop docs.
Feb 15 17:32:55 <jeromeg>	j1mc_: I have an up to date doc for xfce4 screenshooter and I updated the xfdesktop one
Feb 15 17:32:58 <j1mc_>	if xfce devs would file a bug against their packages in bugzilla - that would help things along.
Feb 15 17:33:32 <JPohlmann>	j1mc_: I guess I could do that since I'm contributing to most of them.
Feb 15 17:33:50 <j1mc_>	cody-somerville: a hug day sounds good.  i don't know how many docteam members are familiar with xubuntu, but we could still get some input.
Feb 15 17:34:00 j1mc_ JPohlmann jeromeg james_w jcastro jdstrand johnc4510 johnc4510-laptop jpds juliux jussi01 
Feb 15 17:34:05 <j1mc_>	JPohlmann: if you could do that, it would be great.
Feb 15 17:34:27 <cody-somerville>	[ACTION] j1mc_ to organize a Xubuntu doc hug day closer to doc freeze.
Feb 15 17:34:28 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  j1mc_ to organize a Xubuntu doc hug day closer to doc freeze.
Feb 15 17:34:51 <JPohlmann>	cody-somerville: Can you create an action for the bug filing thing for me?
Feb 15 17:35:09 <JPohlmann>	Erm, yeah, I guess I can do that myself ...
Feb 15 17:35:27 <cody-somerville>	[ACTION] JPohlmann to get developers to file bugs against their packages that need doc updating.
Feb 15 17:35:28 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  JPohlmann to get developers to file bugs against their packages that need doc updating.
Feb 15 17:35:49 <JPohlmann>	Ok
Feb 15 17:35:56 <cody-somerville>	[TOPIC] Last minute topics
Feb 15 17:35:59 <MootBot>	New Topic:  Last minute topics
Feb 15 17:36:09 <cody-somerville>	Anything else anyone would like to bring up before we conclude this meeting?
Feb 15 17:36:27 <knome>	I'm married!
Feb 15 17:36:33 <knome>	WOOHOOO
Feb 15 17:36:34 <Myrtti>	knome: congrats!
Feb 15 17:36:37 <j1mc_>	wow - congrats, knome!!!
Feb 15 17:36:42 <knome>	partee at my house any summer day ;)
Feb 15 17:36:46 <charlie-tca>	Yes, I would like opinions on expanduing the testing of the LiveCD to about what we do on an install
Feb 15 17:36:48 <JPohlmann>	On a side node: I've almost finished work on move/merging support in libxfce4menu. It won't make it into 4.6 but at least it's now pretty sure that it will be finished in 4.8 ;)
Feb 15 17:36:49 <j1mc_>	:)
Feb 15 17:36:58 <knome>	Myrtti, j1mc_: thanks
Feb 15 17:37:08 <cody-somerville>	JPohlmann, knome :)
Feb 15 17:37:13 <j1mc_>	JPohlmann: wonderful.
Feb 15 17:37:16 <cody-somerville>	charlie-tca, Can you elaborate?
Feb 15 17:37:48 <charlie-tca>	Many people are using the desktop cd as a live cd without installing. They are finding bugs we miss in testing
Feb 15 17:38:09 <charlie-tca>	I think we need to expand testing to actual use cases
Feb 15 17:38:18 <cody-somerville>	That sounds like an excellent idea to me.
Feb 15 17:38:38 <charlie-tca>	AbiWord, for example, will mis-spell words that work on the installed version
Feb 15 17:39:20 <charlie-tca>	pulse audio has to be installed to use totem and VLC
Feb 15 17:39:30 <cody-somerville>	oh bloody hell
Feb 15 17:39:41 *	Lure has quit (Read error: 113 (No route to host))
Feb 15 17:39:42 <charlie-tca>	\o/
Feb 15 17:39:53 <cody-somerville>	[ACTION] Cody to speak with Luke and Charlie about audio issues.
Feb 15 17:39:54 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  Cody to speak with Luke and Charlie about audio issues.
Feb 15 17:40:07 <jeromeg>	xubuntu ships vlc ?
Feb 15 17:40:20 <cody-somerville>	jeromeg, no
Feb 15 17:40:21 <charlie-tca>	No, but using it with the livecd fails
Feb 15 17:40:27 <jeromeg>	ok
Feb 15 17:40:37 <cody-somerville>	charlie-tca, are there bugs for all this?
Feb 15 17:40:44 <charlie-tca>	some of it.
Feb 15 17:40:53 <charlie-tca>	bug 329252
Feb 15 17:40:54 <ubottu>	Launchpad bug 329252 in xubuntu-meta "No sound on Jaunty Alpha 4 Live CD (missing pulseaudio)" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/329252
Feb 15 17:41:08 <charlie-tca>	I don't think most of it is reported
Feb 15 17:41:13 <cody-somerville>	I was hoping we could avoid pulseaudio
Feb 15 17:41:21 <cody-somerville>	We'll have to investigate I guess
Feb 15 17:41:25 <charlie-tca>	doesn't seem like it
Feb 15 17:41:37 <cody-somerville>	Anything else we need to discuss before I conclude this meeting? :)
Feb 15 17:41:38 <j1mc_>	i know we talked about it earlier, and it looks like others disagre with me, but ... do we really want two menu items / places to update the same thing in Xubuntu?  (re: settings manager items or regular menu items)?
Feb 15 17:41:47 <j1mc_>	Of course, I'm partly asking because having them in two places requires that I document them being in two places, but it also doesn't make a lot of sense.
Feb 15 17:41:58 <cody-somerville>	j1mc_, I like both
Feb 15 17:41:59 j1mc_ jeromeg JPohlmann james_w jcastro jdstrand johnc4510 johnc4510-laptop jpds juliux jussi01 
Feb 15 17:42:09 <cody-somerville>	j1mc_, especially with the divider between the settings manager and the rest
Feb 15 17:42:23 <j1mc_>	others agree?
Feb 15 17:42:32 *	charlie-tca nods
Feb 15 17:42:45 <charlie-tca>	I like the "other" menu, too
Feb 15 17:42:50 <j1mc_>	ok - so be it.  :)  i'll figure something out.
Feb 15 17:43:01 <cody-somerville>	j1mc_, sorry for the extra work ;p
Feb 15 17:43:09 <j1mc_>	no biggie
Feb 15 17:43:15 <cody-somerville>	j1mc_, I recommend for documentation that you pick one way and use it throughout for consistency
Feb 15 17:43:21 <j1mc_>	it would've been extra work for mr_pouit the other way, too.  :)
Feb 15 17:43:24 <cody-somerville>	;]
Feb 15 17:43:33 <cody-somerville>	Okay, any other things? :)
Feb 15 17:43:47 <knome>	hmmh. who administrates the identi.ca xubuntu group?
Feb 15 17:43:52 <j1mc_>	i'll probably direct people to the settings manager, but will also note that they are available as individual menus
Feb 15 17:43:58 <cody-somerville>	j1mc_, okay
Feb 15 17:44:01 <j1mc_>	knome: boredandblogging
Feb 15 17:44:06 <cody-somerville>	#ENDMEETING
Feb 15 17:44:07 <MootBot>	Meeting finished at 15:44.
Feb 15 17:44:09 <j1mc_>	he set it up  (nick ali)
Feb 15 17:44:18 <knome>	ok.
Feb 15 17:44:21 <j1mc_>	All - next meeting is set for april 5th
Feb 15 17:44:38 <j1mc_>	a little earlier given the release cycle deadlines
Feb 15 17:44:58 <knome>	j1mc_, ali like right now in freenode?
Feb 15 17:45:07 <cody-somerville>	Who wants to update the wiki for this meeting?
Feb 15 17:45:11 <knome>	it's a long way there.
Feb 15 17:45:12 <j1mc_>	knome: he goes by boredandblogging on freenode
Feb 15 17:45:18 <knome>	ok.
Feb 15 17:45:26 <cody-somerville>	j1mc_, knome? :)
Feb 15 17:45:34 <j1mc_>	cody-somerville: i'll update the wiki
Feb 15 17:45:36 <cody-somerville>	thanks
Feb 15 17:45:41 <knome>	j1mc_, thanks.
Feb 15 17:45:41 <j1mc_>	np
Feb 15 17:48:07 *	j1mc_ has quit ("leaving")
</pre>
