{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


This is the '''16th''' meeting of the '''Iowa Team''', starting at 20:00 CST and finishing at 21:10 CST

== Attendance ==

Please type PRESENT when the meeting starts to indicate who is online and paying attention.

'''Active Attendees:'''
* !AtomicSpark
* Iowan
* !DrDogwelder
* Bynw

== Agenda ==
When adding agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ after each of your items.If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.
 
* Insert agenda items here

== Minutes ==
* A summary of the meeting will be placed here after the meeting. Topics will be linked to the topics in the log.

== Any Other Business ==

* 

== Guide Lines ==
The meeting moderator will ensure key points are discussed. Key points from the Agenda will be noted by <code>[TOPIC] Agenda item</code>. When ideas are put forward to be considered they should be noted by <code>[IDEA] Idea</code>. The meeting moderator will indicate the final state of each topic by <code>[ACTION] Action being taken</code>. This should signify that the topic is discussed and the meeting is moving forward. The meeting moderator will use special tags to start and end the meeting and its recording. Please see <nowiki>[[ScribesTeam-MootBot| MootBot]]</nowiki> for details on specific tags.

== IRC LOGS ==
<pre>
* *** BEGIN LOGGING AT Thu Aug 26 19:46:16 2010

Aug 26 20:00:00 <Iowan>	Time to start the August meeting of the Iowa LoCo team. Good evening! 
Aug 26 20:00:11 <Iowan>	Present!
Aug 26 20:00:41 <AtomicSpark>	Oh hi.
Aug 26 20:01:13 <AtomicSpark>	I just drove into my driveway at 40 mph so I could be on time.
Aug 26 20:01:17 <AtomicSpark>	Dedication, yes.
Aug 26 20:01:17 <Iowan>	That's two (including me)!
Aug 26 20:01:59 <DrDogwelder>	This is the first time I got here before a meeting.
Aug 26 20:02:12 <AtomicSpark>	DrDogwelder: You're late!
Aug 26 20:02:47 <DrDogwelder>	Not as late as usual.
Aug 26 20:03:41 <Iowan>	Late is a relative term... I have lots of relatives who are late...
Aug 26 20:03:42 <Bynw>	present (sorta)
Aug 26 20:04:00 <DrDogwelder>	I think the soonest I got here was about five minutes after nine.
Aug 26 20:04:00 <AtomicSpark>	Discuss, or I go make tuna.
Aug 26 20:04:08 <Iowan>	... and a few "late" relatives.
Aug 26 20:04:24 *	AtomicSpark counts
Aug 26 20:04:49 <AtomicSpark>	Maverik isnt until next next month.
Aug 26 20:04:50 <AtomicSpark>	Hmm.
Aug 26 20:05:42 <AtomicSpark>	Topics: How to get loco members more interested. Projects we could work on. Other things on peoples minds. How was your summer, etc.
Aug 26 20:05:45 <AtomicSpark>	Iowan: Go!
Aug 26 20:06:05 <Iowan>	Summer - waaay wamr.
Aug 26 20:06:11 <Iowan>	...warm
Aug 26 20:08:08 <AtomicSpark>	I was in Texas for my brothers graduation from basic training for the air force
Aug 26 20:08:21 <AtomicSpark>	Dont you complain about iowa heat
Aug 26 20:09:14 <Iowan>	I was in Texas for 18 days of 100+ temperatures
Aug 26 20:09:50 <Iowan>	Depends what part of Texas - Houston area is humid...
Aug 26 20:11:48 <Bynw>	summer = eventful, busy and hot
Aug 26 20:12:36 <Iowan>	busy=good  - especially when paycheck gets involved
Aug 26 20:15:04 <Bynw>	it wasn't due to paycheck that is just steady
Aug 26 20:15:14 <Bynw>	it was due to moving and getting married
Aug 26 20:16:22 <Iowan>	Li'l lifestyle change?
Aug 26 20:17:11 <Bynw>	a bit
Aug 26 20:21:10 <AtomicSpark>	San Antonio
Aug 26 20:21:13 <AtomicSpark>	105+
Aug 26 20:32:06 *	AtomicSpark nudges Iowan 
Aug 26 20:32:18 <Bynw>	other than that just wanting to learn more about linux so i can get a job in it someday
Aug 26 20:37:10 <Iowan>	Bynw: The forums have lots of info/how-to's/etc... as does the #ubuntu IRC channel
Aug 26 20:42:27 <Iowan>	I have a few cheap computers I got from Univ Surplus, Goodwill, etc., that I use to set up systems.  The server version doesn't need as much horsepower.
Aug 26 20:44:39 <Bynw>	well i do have a pure debian server actually that i;m paying for just need to learn more so i can do the adminstration myself rather than having one of my more skills friends do it for me
Aug 26 20:57:09 <Bynw>	Iowan, yep used them both
Aug 26 21:08:52 <Iowan>	Clock has slipped past 9:00, so I suppose it's time to draw this meeting to a close. AtomicSpark  - we need to have a chat about those topics you mentioned
Aug 26 21:10:21 <Iowan>	Thanks all... g'nite!
* *** ENDING LOGGING AT Thu Aug 26 21:10:37 2010
</pre>
