{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu Open Week - Running an Ubuntu Localization Team - AdiRoiban - Thu, Apr 30th, 2009 ===

<pre>
(12:02:13 PM) adiroiban: Hi, My name is Adi Roiban, and I am here as a member of Ubuntu Translation Community.
(12:02:13 PM) adiroiban: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AdiRoiban
(12:02:57 PM) adiroiban: Durring this session I will try to touch some aspect about running an Ubuntu localization team and assuring translations quality
(12:03:06 PM) adiroiban: David Planella (dpm) is also here, on behalf of Canonical.
(12:03:26 PM) adiroiban: Beside this session, feel free to contact me or David for any question related to Ubuntu Translation Process.
(12:03:27 PM) adiroiban: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TranslatingUbuntu/Contact
(12:03:44 PM) adiroiban: We will start with a short presentation, followed by a question and answer session.
(12:04:00 PM) adiroiban: Don't forget that tomorrow, at the same hour, David will run an OpenWeek session entitled "Demythifying Launchpad Translations".
(12:04:18 PM) adiroiban: First off all I will do a short introduction to Ubuntu Translation process, similar with the one done during "Translating Ubuntu Docs" session.
(12:04:44 PM) adiroiban: Ubuntu localization process is based on Launchpad Translation web tool.
(12:04:56 PM) adiroiban: You can learn how to use Launchpad Translations by reading the Launchpad help pages: https://help.launchpad.net/Translations
(12:05:12 PM) adiroiban: You can start translating Ubuntu right away, by following this page:
(12:05:12 PM) adiroiban: https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/
(12:05:22 PM) adiroiban: Everyone is free to help translating Ubuntu  into his/her language.
(12:05:40 PM) adiroiban: When I said that everyone is free to help translating Ubuntu into his/her language, I mean that everyone can add suggestion / possible translations for an original text
(12:05:58 PM) adiroiban: In Ubuntu, we have Ubuntu Localization teams, and they act as Translation Quality Assurance Team. They will review and approve suggestions.
(12:06:14 PM) adiroiban: If you are an active translator and you are doing a great translation job you can request to join the Ubuntu Localization team appointed for your language
(12:06:32 PM) adiroiban: Here you can find the team appointed for your language:
(12:06:32 PM) adiroiban: https://translations.edge.launchpad.net/+groups/ubuntu-translators
(12:06:45 PM) adiroiban: For any questions related to the translations of Ubuntu docs into your language, please contact the team appointed to your language.
(12:07:16 PM) adiroiban: There is a wiki page dedicated to Translating Ubuntu https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TranslatingUbuntu
(12:07:25 PM) adiroiban: If you are translating Ubuntu from time to time, or you are a member of an Ubuntu Translation/Localization team, you will find the above wikipage useful
(12:07:53 PM) adiroiban: Roughly we can consider that we can have 2 types of Ubuntu localization teams.
(12:08:05 PM) adiroiban: 1. Emerging teams
(12:08:05 PM) adiroiban: 2. Well established teams
(12:09:03 PM) adiroiban: During this session, I will focus on the emerging teams, but member of well established teams are invited to add suggestions and share best practices
(12:09:31 PM) adiroiban: Like I said in the beginning, Ubuntu Translations teams act as quality assurance teams for localization. In the same time they are responsible for translating Ubuntu specific packages
(12:09:53 PM) adiroiban: Here is a list of Ubuntu specific packages.
(12:09:53 PM) adiroiban: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TranslatingUbuntu/UbuntuSpecificTranslations
(12:10:22 PM) adiroiban: When you are member / coordinator of a new team you will find  there is long road in front of you and your team.
(12:10:47 PM) adiroiban: There is a lot of work, so few members in the team. and assuring translations quality and consistency seems like an unachievable goal.
(12:11:09 PM) adiroiban: While the team has less than 5 active members it is  a good idea to keep the team open, but as soon as the team starts to be active and it has dedicated contributors consider moderating the membership for new members.
(12:11:32 PM) adiroiban: By allowing everyone to approve translations it will be very hard to assure the translation quality.
(12:11:58 PM) adiroiban: By moderating the team, each new member will be evaluated. This does not imply a closed team, it's just that new teams are made aware of the teams process and rules.
(12:12:18 PM) adiroiban: After the team has 2 or 3 active contributors please consider defining a guidelines for your team.
(12:12:36 PM) adiroiban: The guidelines should be a set of rules/steps/indication about how you should translate Ubuntu into your language, together with some info about the translation process from your team.
(12:13:04 PM) adiroiban: For the information regarding how to translate Ubuntu intro your language, please consult with the other translations teams that are doing translations for your language.
(12:13:21 PM) adiroiban: By doing so you will assure the consistency between the translations made by your team and for example GNOME, KDE, Mozilla localization team...
(12:13:47 PM) adiroiban: I tried to create a skeleton for such a guide
(12:13:47 PM) adiroiban: https://help.launchpad.net/Translations/Guide
(12:14:22 PM) adiroiban: There is an option to add a big banner in Launchpad Translations to warn new translators about the guildelines
(12:14:39 PM) adiroiban: Here is a short tutorial about how to include your guidelines in Launchpad
(12:14:39 PM) adiroiban: http://adi.roiban.ro/2009/03/20/localization-guidelines-in-launchpad-towards-improving-quality/
(12:14:57 PM) morhangex is now known as vercukorszint
(12:15:09 PM) adiroiban: Translations teams always struggle between translation quality/consistency and translation completeness.
(12:15:20 PM) adiroiban: My suggestion is to balance the above goals.
(12:15:40 PM) adiroiban: Source texts are added or modified very often and if you focus to much on quality there is a risk to loose the motivation, as your will not see to much progress.
(12:16:15 PM) adiroiban: Also while being member of an Ubuntu Translation Team please don't forget about other active translations teams for your language.
(12:16:24 PM) adiroiban: Ubuntu includes packages from many projects like GNOME, KDE and Ubuntu Translations teams should check the consistency of those packages as a whole.
(12:16:51 PM) adiroiban: For shared translations please do the translations upstream and then only check them in Launchpad.
(12:17:02 PM) adiroiban: This mean that for those translations you should work together with the upstream teams.
(12:17:28 PM) adiroiban: While running an localization team you can improve the quality of translations made by other translators by giving feedback.
(12:17:28 PM) vercukorszint is now known as sastre
(12:17:38 PM) sastre is now known as morhangex
(12:17:48 PM) adiroiban: you can consider creating a localization section on the Ubuntu Forum dedicated to your language
(12:18:29 PM) adiroiban: also you can get in touch with other Ubuntu translators using the Ubuntu Translations mailing list
(12:18:30 PM) adiroiban: https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-translators
(12:18:30 PM) adiroiban: or joining #ubuntu-translators IRC channel on  freenode
(12:20:25 PM) adiroiban: Now we will continue with the questions and answer part.
(12:20:25 PM) adiroiban: Also if you are member of on Ubuntu Localization team and would like to share some best practices, feel free to share them here.
(12:21:23 PM) adiroiban: any questions ?
(12:21:53 PM) adiroiban: ﻿BobJonkman: QUESTION: What sort of things get translated? Just documentation?
(12:22:22 PM) adiroiban: Ubuntu translations team handles both user interface  and documentation
(12:23:10 PM) adiroiban: for for example we also translate the Ubuntu Start page
(12:23:33 PM) adiroiban: and help with the translations of other texts, example Ubuntu Release Notes
(12:24:22 PM) adiroiban: When there is a request for such a translations, it is always announces via the ubuntu-translators mailing list https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-translators
(12:25:32 PM) adiroiban: any other questions?
(12:26:21 PM) adiroiban: how many of you are already members of an Ubuntu Localization team (please use the -chat channel :)
(12:26:26 PM) adiroiban: ?
(12:26:44 PM) adiroiban: ﻿DoruHush: QUESTION: What is the relation between the translation teams and the team that update the packages in order to be included in the regular system updates after the main release. What translation team should do in order that their work to be included in yhe regular system updates?
(12:26:51 PM) hemanth: QUESTION : My professor is good at translation , but he is not good in using computers , he can translate hard copies , how can he help
(12:27:20 PM) hemanth is now known as hmh
(12:27:44 PM) adiroiban: Translations team should make sure their translations are made available in Launchpad
(12:28:09 PM) adiroiban: in order to create a updated package for a language
(12:28:34 PM) adiroiban: the maintainer of the language package extracts the translations from Launchpad
(12:28:53 PM) adiroiban: basicaly, a translations team should just use Launchpad for translation
(12:30:06 PM) adiroiban: ﻿hemanth: QUESTION : My professor is good at translation , but he is not good in using computers , he can translate hard copies , how can he help
(12:30:31 PM) adiroiban: He should learn how to use Launchpad Translations web tool
(12:30:49 PM) adiroiban: translating using Launchpad is really easy
(12:31:09 PM) adiroiban: and basicaly is just like translating hard copies
(12:31:39 PM) adiroiban: https://help.launchpad.net/Translations/StartingToTranslate
(12:32:41 PM) adiroiban: if he still have problems using Launchpad for translation, I suggest to contact the Ubuntu Localization team appointed for his language
(12:32:52 PM) adiroiban: they should be able to guide him
(12:33:42 PM) adiroiban: any other questions?
(12:34:13 PM) JyZyXEL: i say stop wasting time translating, everyone can read english so there is no point making crappy translations that are just annoying
(12:34:15 PM) JyZyXEL left the room.
(12:34:58 PM) adiroiban: ok.
(12:36:00 PM) adiroiban: I think that you should translate for people that don't know english.
(12:36:28 PM) adiroiban: a rought statistics sais that only 1.8 bilions of people knows english
(12:36:52 PM) adiroiban: the translations are targeted to the other 5 bilions people
(12:39:35 PM) adiroiban: ﻿dpm: adiroiban: one thing I'd like to share as a member of a localization team is that resources like the Ubuntu wiki can be quite useful to a localization team, for example to track who's working on a translation in order not to duplicate work.
(12:39:54 PM) adiroiban: ﻿An example of such pages -> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGermanTranslators/Aufgaben/Jaunty (German team). It is also useful for a team to look at what other teams are doing, and maybe learn som﻿ething new and useful.
(12:44:02 PM) adiroiban: Thank you very much for you attention. We will take a short break, and at 17.00 UTC Billy Cina and Belinda Lopez will continue with a session dedicated to Ubuntu Training
</pre>

----
CategoryTranslations
