{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== LOG ===
<pre>
10:04 < mdz> let's get started
10:04 < mdz> any adjustments to the agenda?
10:04 < bdmurray> I made one
10:05  * Keybuk learns two new german swear words
10:05 < mdz> I'd like to add an explicit beta bug review
10:05 < bdmurray> Added it to the wiki page
10:05 < kwwii> sorry all
10:05 < mdz> ok
10:05 < mdz> (mvo) should we move the command-not-found package to main? or let it mature for one cycle in universe?
10:06 < Keybuk> Tollef has a broken net connection
10:06 < mdz> mvo: I, er, thought it was already there.  I use zsh and so I don't notice if it's installed or not ;-)
10:06 < mdz> mvo: short answer: yes, we should
10:06 < pitti> I think we shuold only move it to main once we actually want to ship it in -desktop
10:06 < mdz> mvo: in fact iirc sabdfl wanted it installed by default
10:06 < pitti> otherwise it doesn't make much sense
10:06 < mdz> agreed
10:07 < mvo> mdz: fine with me,  I will add it to the desktop-seed as recommend
10:07 < mvo> if none objects
10:07 < mdz> it's equally useful on servers
10:07 < pitti> mvo: has this exit status bug been fixed?
10:07 < mdz> but we don't have a proper server metapackage yet, eh?
10:07 < pitti> mdz: is there something like standard-recommends?
10:07 < cjwatson> the bug I filed about it has been closed, at least ...
10:07 < mdz> pitti: that would be a good classification for it
10:07 < cjwatson> pitti: should work fine in the normal way if you use that seed syntax
10:07 < mvo> pitti: yes and it will only run in non-posix and interactive shell mode
10:07 < mdz> standard-recommends would be the place for it
10:07 < pitti> cjwatson: ah, cool
10:08 < pitti> mvo: heh, would indeed be nasty in shell scripts :)
10:08 < fabbione> mdz: ubuntu-minimal basically
10:08 < mdz> at least one person will write an excited blog entry about that feature ;-)
10:08 < mdz> fabbione: standard, I think
10:08 < mvo> :)
10:08 < pitti> 'hey, I lost my command, and that thing found it'
10:08  * dholbach hugs mvo
10:08 < fabbione> ehheeh
10:08 < cjwatson> fabbione: ... I'm not sure I want to mess with Recommends in debootstrap; not offhand sure what that would do
10:08 < cjwatson> I agree with mdz, standard
10:09 < fabbione> cjwatson: my bad.. -standard
10:09 < mdz> mvo: ok, so you'll make the necessary changes?
10:09 < mvo> yes
10:09 < mdz> sounds good
10:09 < mdz> (pitti) More interested people for doing source NEW?
10:09 < mvo> ACTION-ITEM: mvo to seed command-not-found and update the database in it
10:09 < mdz> pitti: any motivational words to add? :-)
10:09 < pitti> well, so far I think seb128 does a few source NEWs, but other than that the queue doesn't really shrink except for the things I review
10:10 < pitti> mdz: yes
10:10 < iwj> I'd be quite happy to volunteer, if the contributors can stand my pickiness.
10:10 < pitti> LET'S GET MORE SHINY CRACK INTO UBUNTU!
10:10 < ogra> yay
10:10 < kylem> pitti, i'd be interested in source NEW powah.
10:10 < ogra> iwj, isnt pickiness mandatory for that job ?
10:10 < pitti> right, it takes a fair while
10:10 < mdz> iwj: all of the admins should be following the same guidelines, preferably codified
10:10 < fabbione> iwj: paranoia is mandatory for NEW
10:11 < iwj> ogra: Sure, but look at the effect on the poor sods whose MIRs I've occasionally touched ...
10:11 < pitti> reviewing all the files for redistributability, reviewing copyrights, etc.; reviewing packging, too
10:11 < mdz> I think there is at least one written document
10:11  * Mithrandir pongs
10:11 < iwj> written document> Excellent, that's what I like to hear.
10:11 < pitti> iwj: the MIR template is wonderful now
10:11 < pitti> at least for me, the policy came to me via mouth propaganda
10:12 < pitti> I'll look for a document
10:12 < mdz> there's one which comes from debian ftpmaster iirc
10:12 < cjwatson> it should be linked from ArchiveAdministration
10:12 < pitti> ah, reject FAQ or so
10:12 < mdz> which is more like a checklist
10:12 < cjwatson> (may not be right now)
10:12 < cjwatson> http://ftp-master.debian.org/REJECT-FAQ.html
10:12 < ogra> iwj, yes, and even if i will curse you loud and often for all the MIRs you will reject from mine, i love the fact that software entering main will be very well reviwed ... it makes me sleep better :) so apology in advance for the cursing and thanks as well ;)
10:12 < iwj> pitti: I'd be happy to help codify any random piles of verbiage and woolliness you come across.
10:12 < cjwatson> I'll make sure it's linked
10:13 < mdz> pitti: is queue/new visible without archive admin privileges?  that would make it easier to open up review
10:13 < pitti> mdz: not really
10:13 < mdz> pitti: I think that would be a good idea
10:13 < pitti> but it's trivial to copy the packages somewhere
10:13 < mdz> that way, a large group of reviewers could look at the packages and provide feedback
10:13 < pitti> right
10:13 < mdz> perhaps many could be rejected without archive admins having to review yet
10:13 < pitti> I could build an sftp:// deb archive from chinstrap
10:14 < cjwatson> Mithrandir: could you extend your unapproved queue mirrorer to do NEW as well?
10:14 < mdz> pitti: why not http?
10:14 < cjwatson> tollef already has code for this, might as well reuse it
10:14 < pitti> mdz: I'm reluctant to put it on a public place
10:14 < mdz> pitti: these are all signed packages from registered developers
10:14 < pitti> mdz: since if the stuff is really not redistributable, this might bite us
10:14  * pitti is just paranoid
10:14 < cjwatson> https:// from chinstrap would be fine
10:14 < mdz> pitti: things won't stay there permanently, and it's trivial to take things down if there's a problem
10:15 < iwj> If it's public you'll start getting people referring others to packages in the NEW queue.
10:15 < pitti> ok, fine for me
10:15 < cjwatson> we have other stuff there that's passworded
10:15 < mdz> it doesn't need to be passworded, imo
10:15 < Mithrandir> cjwatson: no, I would preferably not do that.  It might not be redistributable?
10:15 < cjwatson> it can be, or can be not, I don't mind
10:15 < cjwatson> Mithrandir: are you reading the discussion? :-)
10:15 < pitti> passworded from chinstrap sounds good so far
10:15 < Mithrandir> cjwatson: yes, just doing so now.
10:15 < Mithrandir> I can mirror it to chinstrap just fine.
10:16 < Mithrandir> ideally I'd like an ubuntu-archive account there too, but I guess that's doable.
10:16 < mdz> I think we only need to worry about w4r3z being redistributed, not developer mistakes
10:16 < mdz> it's a temporary holding area
10:16 < pitti> hm, right, any ubuntu-dev could in theory put w4r3z into an existing package as well
10:17 < mdz> so long as it comes from someone we know, we can publish it temporarily.  if something non-redistributable ends up there, the worst that could happen is that someone points it out and we reject the package -- which is exactly what we're hoping for! :-)
10:17 < mdz> so fewer barriers -> more review -> less archive admin work
10:17 < Mithrandir> mdz: point.  So you're fine with making it public?
10:17 < mdz> Mithrandir: yes
10:18 < Mithrandir> ok, I'll set that up.
10:18 < mdz> in the words of the sab, "I'll take the bullets"
10:18 < pitti> grat
10:18 < pitti> Mithrandir: you can use your existing code for the unapproved queue archive?
10:18 < mdz> pitti: you'll talk with iwj about policy, and get something written?
10:18 < Keybuk> mdz does his neo trick ...
10:18 < Mithrandir> pitti: it probably needs a small hammer applied to it, but yes, mostly the same code.
10:18 < pitti> mdz: yes
10:18 < cjwatson> anything that involves not having to be lp_archive@drescher to do code review is good in my book
10:18 < iwj> Since there are lots of volunteers perhaps the existing admins should conduct some kind of interview/appointment?
10:19 < BenC> "Words are like bullets, they pass right through me"
10:19 < mdz> ACTION: pitti and other archive admins, iwj to codify guidelines for acceptance of new packages
10:19 < cjwatson> full lp_archive privileges are (a) big and scary and (b) lots of work
10:19 < mdz> (heno) I'd like to confirm that people generally agree with the 'just in time' ISO testing plan. The aim is to reduce the number of tests each distro person does, though we have to be ready to help out when there are gaps (as always). I'll also do my best to get some baseline test coverage from the community.
10:19 < cjwatson> so having people come up via NEW review sounds sensible
10:19 < mdz> heno: I like it
10:20 < heno> ok, cool
10:20 < mdz> I gave more detailed feedback on the list
10:20 < iwj> This plan is what has been discussed in the emails so far, right ?  Is it currently written down in a coherent all-edits-included form ?
10:20 < mdz> heno: it's only getting better so far
10:20 < heno> iwj: it's only written in my post to -distro
10:20 < mdz> iwj: I think this is heno soliciting further feedback before doing that :-)
10:21 < iwj> mdz: Right :-).
10:21 < heno> I'm learning as I go :)
10:21  * ogra thinks heno is doing very well ...
10:21 < mdz> are folks comfortable with the workload balance?
10:21 < cjwatson> heno: I've started polishing up your descriptions of the various install methods, btw
10:21  * ogra feels the improvements :)
10:21 < heno> cjwatson: great, thanks
10:21 < mdz> we need a lot of hands to cover the testing requirements, but everyone should be able to continue fixing bugs without it interfering
10:22 < heno> please just email me with individual workload or other feedback
10:22 < mdz> the process should be mostly non-interactive
10:22 < Riddell> dfgt#
10:22 < mdz> download ISOs in the background, start a test and let it run in the background
10:22 < ogra> Riddell, really ?
10:22 < Riddell> heno: do the test plans include edg
10:22 < heno> cr3 is doing some very interesting work with automating iso testing btw
10:22 < Riddell> heno: edgy to feisty upgrades?
10:23 < mdz> everyone has at least VMWare, and preferably one machine where they can do install testing without it blocking your work
10:23  * seb128 should install vmware ;)
10:23  * ogra too
10:23  * asac too
10:23 < heno> Riddell: I've not looked enough at that, they should
10:23 < pitti> seb128: it's really great
10:23  * dholbach uses other machines - has no vmware either
10:23 < pitti> seb128, ogra, asac: module will fail to compile on 2.6.20; talk to me, I have a patch for that
10:23  * mvo uses it a lot for interactive upgrade tests - very useful
10:23 < seb128> and I've no machine where I can easily take over the disk
10:24 < mdz> someone needs to make a patch for vmware-config.pl which uses the pre-built modules from l-r-m
10:24 < BenC> you can download ws6 beta's with temp license
10:24 < Keybuk> I only have vmware, and find I can manage quite a few tests
10:24 < BenC> and test paravirt+vmi too
10:24 < heno> vmware has a bad accessibility bug though :(
10:24 < seb128> pitti: ok
10:24 < mdz> with a fast machine, it's easy to run multiple tests in parallel in vmware
10:24 < Keybuk> mdz: it can do that?  I just let it build each time
10:24 < heno> you can't escape out of a session without Ctrl+Alt
10:24  * pitti bought an extra 2 GB of RAM for that; you'll need lots
10:24 < cjwatson> heno: I thought you could tweak that in the .vmx
10:24 < mdz> Keybuk: I'm told that they work, but the perl made me choke when trying to get it to try
10:24 < mdz> BenC: can someone from the kernel team try a hand at sorting t hat out?
10:25 < heno> cjwatson: in virtualbox yes, not seen it in vmware
10:25 < cjwatson> http://www.easyvmx.com/cgi-bin/ikonboard/ikonboard.cgi?act=ST;f=3;t=4
10:25 < heno> (could be I missed it)
10:25 < mdz> BenC: you've put the work into getting the modules pre-built and available, we should make use of them to make our lives easier
10:25 < BenC> mdz: VMWare is working on it for me
10:25 < BenC> mdz: I'll reping them about it
10:25 < cjwatson> though that only suggests different combinations of ctrl/alt/shift; having just one of those as the release hotkey would probably be annoying
10:25 < mdz> note that a patch is required to get the workstation 5.3 modules to build with the feisty kernel
10:25 < mdz> at least, it was for me
10:25 < fabbione> mdz: same here
10:26 < mdz> the details are easily googled if your compile fails
10:26 < Keybuk> ah, my vmware machine is still on edgy :p
10:26 < BenC> mdz: Right, our modules are patched to work with 2.6.20, ws6 works out of the box
10:26 < pitti> mdz: right, I have a fixed vmmon.tar here, I'll pass it to anyone who wants it
10:26 < mdz> heno: ok, happy with the feedback about your test plan?
10:26 < cjwatson> iirc the patch is something like "vmware-any-any"
10:27 < BenC> cjwatson: that's it
10:27 < mdz> it's a one-liner
10:27 < heno> mdz: yes, just wanted a basic all clear to proceed as I have been
10:27 < mdz> ok, great
10:27 < mdz> (bdmurray - sneaking in) initial bug classification - i.e. with audio bugs crimsun said to use alsa-driver if you weren't positive of the package. What about printing bugs? What about X bugs? and others.
10:27 < pitti> yes, it's just removing an obsolete #define or so
10:27 < heno> so no one is very surprised
10:27 < mdz> really?  I thought audio bugs should move from alsa-driver to the kernel
10:27 < mdz> given that we don't use the driver in alsa-driver
10:27 < mdz> I wish alsa-driver were called something else
10:28 < cjwatson> maybe crimsun finds them easier to handle there or something?
10:28 < Keybuk> I think the rationale there is that the kernel person who fixes the bugs is subscribed to alsa-driver
10:28 < mdz> probably a little easier to work with than tags
10:28 < Keybuk> and they're at least related source
10:28 < bdmurray> He said they ideally should go to linux-source-x but alsa-driver is subscribed to by ubuntu-audio
10:28 < Keybuk> and it prevents them getting tangled in random other hardware bugs
10:28 < dholbach> subscribe the ubuntu-printing team for printer bugs - they usually sort it out
10:28 < cjwatson> perhaps we could collect names of packages which are used as general holding bins for bugs
10:28 < cjwatson> or teams
10:28 < bdmurray> cjwatson: yeah, that was my hope
10:28 < mdz> bdmurray: there's a web page about teams and bugs
10:28 < cjwatson> debian-installer, partman-base are other similar holding packages
10:29 < dholbach> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/Teams
10:29 < mdz> dholbach: thanks, google wasn't finding it
10:29 < bdmurray> dholbach: however that isn't a package in lp per se
10:29 < bdmurray> so they still show up in bugs w/o a package which seems less useful
10:29 < dholbach> bdmurray: i know - but in tricky cases it's best to let a team deal with it, if you really don't know
10:29 < mdz> bdmurray: I don't know why there are three tables of teams on that page
10:29 < dholbach> right
10:30 < mdz> bdmurray: it would probably be a lot clearer if they were collapsed into one
10:30 < cjwatson> dholbach: there's often a suitable package to be a starting point
10:30 < dholbach> bdmurray: then I'd suggest setting at least the importance of the bug, so it doesn't show up in unconfirmed/undecided any more
10:30 < mdz> bdmurray: printing bugs can be in a variety of packages which don't relate directly to printing
10:30 < dholbach> cjwatson: right
10:30 < mdz> bdmurray: so they should be filed against whatever's appropriate for the software involved, and the printing team subscribed
10:30 < cjwatson> I mean very few installer bugs *actually* belong on debian-installer, but it's a perfectly good place to keep them anyway
10:30 < dholbach> like meta-gnome or gnome-desktop, right seb128? :)
10:31  * cjwatson takes away Ubugtu's tranquillisers
10:31 < cjwatson> if somebody names a wiki page to put this stuff in, I'll happily brain-dump what I know
10:31 < bdmurray> cjwatson: right so I was wondering if there were any other perfectly good places for printing and x bugs
10:31 < cjwatson> if a few other people do that then that should clear up the guts of the problem
10:31 < seb128> dholbach: gnome-desktop usually yeah :/
10:31 < mdz> cjwatson: Bugs/Teams is where similar content is; perhaps it should be renamed
10:32 < mdz> bdmurray: how about first cleaning up Bugs/Teams, getting Colin's brain dump merged into it, and announcing it on -devel-announce to get further feedback?
10:32 < bdmurray> mdz: what about FindRightPackage?
10:33 < mdz> that's useful too
10:33 < dholbach> mvo: . o O { FindingPackages :-) }
10:33 < mdz> isn't that aimed at reporters rather than triagers though?
10:33 < bdmurray> true, but is usually reporters who assign bugs to no package
10:33 < mdz> I had an idea about bug reporting categories once...I think I even wrote it down
10:33 < cjwatson> there's also a small amount of this on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/CommonTasks
10:33 < mvo> dholbach: :)
10:34 < bdmurray> so maybe I'll take the team update and trim it down for FindRightPackage
10:34 < cjwatson> I like having it in Bugs/FindRightPackage
10:34 < mdz> I agree, those should be merged
10:34 < cjwatson> I want to be able to tell reporters where to file things in the first place too, for the small subset of them who read that ...
10:34 < mdz> though neither of the names is suitable for the merged content
10:35 < dholbach> I think Bugs/Teams is still valid, as some teams have different triaging guides/policies
10:35 < mdz> dholbach: the content on FindRightPackage isn't really about teams though
10:35 < dholbach> but let's first just see how big that merged page gets
10:35 < mdz> ACTION: bdmurray to merge Bugs/Teams and Bugs/FindRightPackage, solicit feedback from developers
10:36 < mdz> bdmurray: naming is up to you ;-)
10:36 < bdmurray> mdz: thanks, I guess
10:36 < mdz> bdmurray: thanks for bringing it up
10:36 < mdz> (mdz) Review of beta blocker status
10:37 < mdz> http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/feisty/7.04-beta
10:37 < mdz> minus the bugs which are already fixed, of course
10:37 < Keybuk> 404
10:37  * mdz mumbles about bug 62495
10:37 < Ubugtu> Malone bug 62495 in malone "Milestone bug list doesn't sort properly" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/62495
10:37 < Keybuk> http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+milestone/7.04-beta
10:37 < bdmurray> I got a bin file too, if we could have a survey about that later
10:37 < mdz> right
10:37 < mdz> defeated by my own error in my firefox history
10:37  * Keybuk waits for beta
10:38  * Keybuk sits down and starts singing about gold
10:38 < dholbach> https://beta.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+milestone/7.04-beta for people using beta
10:38 < seb128> I'm wondering why Mithrandir listed the xmodmap GNOME bug there
10:38 < Mithrandir> seb128: prompted by James
10:38 < seb128> dholbach: launchpad does auto redirection to beta
10:38 < dholbach> seb128: it didn't work for me, it just added beta. for me
10:38 < seb128> Mithrandir: that doesn't look a beta stopper for me, he's the only one who complained about it
10:38 < mdz> seb128: yeah, it just takes 30 seconds sometimes
10:39 < dholbach> it oopsed 3 times and told me the page didn't exist
10:39 < mdz> dholbach: the url hasn't changed; I just pasted the wrong one
10:39 < dholbach> ah
10:39 < seb128> dholbach: Keybuk copied the right one after mdz
10:39 < mdz> Mithrandir: can you do a greasemonkey script to filter out the fixed bugs from that page? ;-)
10:39 < dholbach> lalala, ok
10:40 < mdz> is someone looking into bug 86857?
10:40 < Ubugtu> Malone bug 86857 in brltty "libbrlapi1 file overwrite with brltty (dup-of: 86694)" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/86857
10:40 < Mithrandir> mdz: yes, I'm intending to.
10:40 < Ubugtu> Malone bug 86694 in brltty "edgy->feisty dist-upgrade stops at libbrlapi1 ("trying to overwrite /lib/brltty/libbrlttybba.so")" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/86694
10:40 < mdz> oh, it's fixed
10:41 < cjwatson> xmodmap so does work in feisty, my down key relies on it
10:41 < mdz> iwj is looking into bug 75681, but the milestone list doesn't show it
10:41 < Ubugtu> Malone bug 75681 in mdadm "boot-time race condition initializing md" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/75681
10:41 < Mithrandir> cjwatson: it works for me too, so it's something about the office, I believe.  James has some other bugs nobody are able to reproduce too.
10:41 < mdz> cjwatson: your lack-of-a-down-key, you mean
10:41 < Keybuk> mdz: shows it for me
10:41 < cjwatson> mdz: 75681 is on the list
10:41 < mdz> Keybuk: it doesn't show the assignment
10:41 < cjwatson> mdz: exactly
10:41 < cjwatson> ah
10:41 < Keybuk> mdz: so does <g>
10:42 < Keybuk> (though why it appears twice in the list, I've no idea)
10:42 < cjwatson> because it has multiple bug tasks and apparently somebody can't spell "SELECT DISTINCT"
10:42 < mdz> I must be crosseyed from the small fonts
10:42 < iwj> (excuse me, my network just dropped out briefly)
10:42 < Keybuk> if we're going to discuss launchpad bug list bugs, as well as our own, we'll be here all night <g>
10:43 < asac> mdz: ctrl-mousewheel :)
10:43 < mdz> Mithrandir: can you review that list and send out a mail to ubuntu-devel with the real list of beta blockers and who's working on them?
10:43 < ogra> or ctrl++
10:43 < Mithrandir> mdz: yes.
10:43 < mdz> asac: that's dangerous; things get big FAST
10:43 < mdz> ACTION: Mithrandir to mail out list of beta blockers and assignees to ubuntu-devel
10:44 < mdz> fabbione: how about certification bugs?  there seemed to be some confusion about how many issues there were
10:44 < fabbione> mdz: sorted with last Ben email
10:44 < fabbione> mdz: without info we can't reassign properly.. so they are in a limbo
10:45 < mdz> fabbione: ok, so they are new bugs without enough info yet, not known issues
10:45 < fabbione> mdz: they were known for at least 2 milestones
10:45 < mdz> in that case they are not yet our responsibility to fix
10:45 < mdz> fabbione: er
10:45 < fabbione> mdz: but we can't triage them if i don't know where the problem comes from
10:45 < BenC> fabbione: The ones still in needs info?
10:45 < fabbione> and they are stalled in needinfo
10:45 < fabbione> BenC: yes.. the last 3 i mentioned in the mail
10:45 < BenC> Ok
10:45 < mdz> fabbione: so they were found a month ago and don't have details yet?
10:46 < BenC> mdz: Right
10:46 < fabbione> mdz: yeps.. right.. not enough details to know what is at fault
10:46 < BenC> aside from that, we only have one real bug we can work on for cert
10:46 < mdz> ok, I misunderstood, I thought they were somehow new
10:46 < fabbione> nope
10:46 < fabbione> there have been no new bugs since herd-4
10:47 < fabbione> from that point of view herd-5 was really good with no regressions
10:47 < mdz> fabbione: ok, I will follow up by email about this then
10:47 < fabbione> mdz: ok
10:47 < mdz> all actions from the previous meeting were complete?
10:47 < mdz> that's great
10:48 < Keybuk> yup
10:48 < Keybuk> well done everyone
10:48 < mdz> indeed
10:48 < mdz> Mithrandir: I heard today that the ISOs have been oversized for a while; is that fixed now
10:48 < mdz> s/$/?/
10:48 < pitti> mdz: I removed all langpacks today, so that I can start from a clean slate tomorrow
10:48 < pitti> wrt. input support and such
10:49 < Mithrandir> mdz: they haven't been for a while, at least not that I've seen.  I've been waiting for pitti to do his magic wrt langpacks.
10:49 < pitti> mdz: the only problematic one is ppc/alternate, it's huge and has no langpacks
10:49 < mdz> i386 desktop is 708M
10:49 < cjwatson> Jani mailed me today about oversizing in Xubuntu
10:49 < Mithrandir> pitti: you know you can just ask me for respins too?
10:49 < pitti> Mithrandir: right
10:49 < cjwatson> haven't looked at it yet
10:49 < pitti> mdz: today's images are still too big, tomorrow's ones should fit (except for ppc, but let's not worry about that ATM)
10:50 < cjwatson> we don't have to worry about powerpc, that was kind of the point of desupporting it
10:50 < mdz> so the fact that nobody reported this during their pre-beta testing means that you're all using DVD media for your tests, right?
10:50 < mdz> pitti: indeed
10:50 < Mithrandir> mdz: I gave all my CDs away more than a year ago.
10:50 < Mithrandir> being fed up with cdrecord.
10:50 < fabbione> i still use CD's
10:50 < Mithrandir> pitti: I'm fine with just ripping random bits off the ppc alternate.  Or even dropping it and saying "desktop or -server".
10:50 < ogra> mdz, we were probably busy with fixing bugs instead of playing with little silver disks :)
10:50 < fabbione> but server images are just smaller
10:51 < kylem> mdz, er, i386-alternate was fine for me on 700M cd.
10:51 < cjwatson> mdz: or vmware pointed at a .iso ...
10:51 < mdz> kylem: ok, maybe the oversizing is more recent than I thought
10:51 < kylem> ah, alternate-i386 is only 701M
10:51 < Seveas> (i'm fixing ubugtu not to change the topic during meetings, sorry for the annoyance)
10:52 < pitti> mdz: since Tuesday's feisty langpacks probably
10:53 < mdz> ok
10:53 < mdz> any other business?
10:54 < pitti> mdz: how badly do we want hwdb-increase on the live system?
10:54 < Keybuk> just a quick SoC note from me:
10:54 < pitti> mdz: I'm still blocked on that live fs script change for that
10:54 < Keybuk> the webapp seems broken (shock) and won't show me who's applied to be a mentor yet
10:54 < Keybuk> but if you could visit the URL I sent out, and fill that in, they should turn up eventually
10:54 < mdz> pitti: important enough to escalate that to management
10:55 < pitti> Keybuk: it worked fine today
10:55 < mdz> has anyone followed up with elmo on it?
10:55 < pitti> mdz: I can mail elmo about that RT, sure
10:55 < Keybuk> pitti: yeah, it'll show you as pending -- but it  won't show you as pending to *me* :p
10:56 < pitti> aha
10:56 < mdz> Keybuk: what's the deadline?
10:56 < Keybuk> mdz: for mentor applications?  Marc 23
10:56 < Keybuk> with an "h" in there
10:57 < mdz> ok
10:57 < Keybuk> ideally way before that, since mentors need to rate applications and claim students, etc.
10:57 < mdz> maybe best to ping individually the people who volunteered on-list and confirm that they signed up
10:57 < Keybuk> (that's also the student application deadline)
10:57 < Keybuk> yes
10:57 < mdz> ok, that's everything then
10:57 < mdz> thanks, all
10:57 < mdz> and good night
</pre>
