{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=11&day=17&year=2014&hour=16&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Nov 17th 2014 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Thanks to Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) who provided debdiffs for lucid-utopic for konversation (LP: #1389296) and debdiffs for precise-utopic for kde-workspace (LP: #1389665). Your work is very much appreciated and will keep our users secure. Great job! :)
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: triage
*** attend Cloud sprint
*** !AppArmor - finish up what I started last week:
*** finish up some apparmor-easyprof-ubuntu updates for vivid
*** finish up click-apparmor 0.3 upload
*** finish my upstream patch for docker so it can apply policy based on parser capabilities
*** click-reviewers-tools updates
** adjust UCT for derivative branches
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: community
** pending sponsored uploads
** embargoed issue
** sbeattie
** working on gcc pie-by-default for amd64
*** https://launchpad.net/~sbeattie/+archive/ubuntu/gcc-pie-amd64/+packages
*** local builds, but unrelated failures
*** verified some successful builds
*** gcc patch cleanup
*** look at gcc testsuite failures
** tyhicks
** !AppArmor update for trusty
** Bug: 1362469 - !AppArmor unrequested reply protection generates unallowable denials
** Get back to making the apparmor cache handling code a library
** jjohansen
** finish up a kernel sync of apparmor for vivid
** working on apparmor stacking
** upstreaming labelling bits
** sarnold
** weekly role: happy place
** finish mariadb-5.5 sponsored update for 14.10
** two MIRs
** !AppArmor patch review
** chrisccoulson
** oxide security update
** chromium security update
** media-hub oxide branch reviews
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-11-17-16.36.moin.txt
