{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Log ====
TZ UTC-4
<pre>
(12:00:47 AM) nixternal: #startmeeting
(12:00:48 AM) MootBot: Meeting started at 05:01. The chair is nixternal.
(12:00:48 AM) MootBot: Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
(12:01:06 AM) nixternal: [TOPIC] Everyone who is here for the MOTU meeting
(12:01:06 AM) MootBot: New Topic:  Everyone who is here for the MOTU meeting
(12:01:12 AM) ***nixternal is here
(12:01:22 AM) ***TheMuso is here.
(12:01:23 AM) ***superm1 is here
(12:01:42 AM) ***tritium is here
(12:02:14 AM) ***ScottK2 is here
(12:02:26 AM) nixternal: is that it?
(12:02:33 AM) ***Hobbsee is here
(12:02:49 AM) nixternal: alright then, first topic of the evening....
(12:02:54 AM) nixternal: [TOPIC] FeatureFreeze exceptions for bug fix releases: FreezeExceptionProcess says that up to Alpha 6, only releases with new features need FFes. Release team members seem unclear as to whether that remains standing.
(12:02:54 AM) MootBot: New Topic:  FeatureFreeze exceptions for bug fix releases: FreezeExceptionProcess says that up to Alpha 6, only releases with new features need FFes. Release team members seem unclear as to whether that remains standing.
(12:03:06 AM) nixternal: person here that added that?
(12:04:34 AM) nixternal: hrmm, I guess that can be kind of confusing
(12:05:19 AM) ***ScottK2 wrote to alpha 6 because that seemed a long way off when he wrote it.
(12:05:21 AM) ***Hobbsee would have thought that the sensible thing was until the rc freeze, it was OK
(12:05:29 AM) TheMuso: Hobbsee: agreed.
(12:05:30 AM) ***ScottK2 goes off to bed and will be happy with whatever
(12:05:32 AM) nixternal: Hobbsee: +1
(12:05:45 AM) nixternal: ScottK: do you agree until RC?
(12:06:08 AM) ScottK: Sure, but I think it's up to MOTU to decide and motu-release to execute the policy
(12:06:16 AM) superm1: how about up until whenever we have the big freeze that needs manual pushing from archive admins?
(12:06:21 AM) ScottK: Good night.
(12:06:22 AM) superm1: is that RC time or before?
(12:06:24 AM) TheMuso: superm1: Thats rc freeze.
(12:06:27 AM) nixternal: rc
(12:06:27 AM) nixternal: ya
(12:06:29 AM) superm1: okay then, great timing :)
(12:06:33 AM) nixternal: g'nite ScottK
(12:06:35 AM) TheMuso: Just less than 2 weeks.
(12:08:44 AM) nixternal: So the plan is to take FFe until RC then
(12:09:28 AM) nixternal: actually, that is for bug fix only updates that an FFe wasn't waranted, just a quick bug filed for paper trail purposes
(12:11:14 AM) nixternal: [VOTE] Extend Feature Freeze Exception for new upstream bug fixes only to RC
(12:11:14 AM) MootBot: Please vote on:  Extend Feature Freeze Exception for new upstream bug fixes only to RC.
(12:11:14 AM) MootBot: Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
(12:11:14 AM) MootBot: E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
(12:11:20 AM) nixternal: +1
(12:11:21 AM) MootBot: +1 received from nixternal. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
(12:11:24 AM) superm1: +1
(12:11:25 AM) MootBot: +1 received from superm1. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
(12:11:29 AM) Hobbsee: +1
(12:11:29 AM) MootBot: +1 received from Hobbsee. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
(12:12:08 AM) nixternal: TheMuso?
(12:12:17 AM) TheMuso: +1
(12:12:17 AM) MootBot: +1 received from TheMuso. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
(12:12:19 AM) nixternal: [ENDVOTE]
(12:12:20 AM) MootBot: Final result is 4 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 4
(12:12:36 AM) nixternal: Any other items for this meeting?
(12:14:17 AM) nixternal: alrighty then, meeting adjourned
(12:14:20 AM) nixternal: #endmeeting
(12:14:21 AM) MootBot: Meeting finished at 05:14.
</pre>
