{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
   10:02 Keybuk       Let's Get It Started!
   10:02 ogra         ok
   === cbx33 [n=pete@84-45-238-195.no-dns-yet.enta.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === Guest0101 [n=Tom@85-210-162-33.dsl.pipex.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:02 mdz          sfllaw: presumably jbailey would advocate you; is he available by any chance?
   10:03 sfllaw       I'm under the impression that he's "being a booth babe".
   10:03 sfllaw       But let me look.
   10:03 sfllaw       He doesn't seem to be online.
   === mvo [n=egon@p54A648B2.dip.t-dialin.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:03 sfllaw       I'm afraid that I can't say whether jbailey would absolutely vouch for me.
   10:03 sfllaw       But I'm presuming he would.
   === ubuntu_lt [n=Styx`@85.206.224.190] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:04 mdz          I'll try his mobile
   10:05 dholbach     I can try to say some bits: I was in touch with sfllaw around 2 years ago, when I used wvstreams for a project - at that time I was impressed on how fast he reacted, analyzed the problem I had and got the fix either into Debian or fixed it directly upstream. That's what I can say about his Debian / packaging skills.
   10:05 dholbach     sfllaw: for how long have you been a Debian maintainer now?
   10:06 mdz          jbailey was just walking onto an airplane, he won't be able to make it
   10:06 ogra         dholbach, thats already 2 years ago ? woah
   10:06 Keybuk       mdz: if it crashes, we're blaming you
   === ogra remembers dholbach's praises for wvstreams upstream bck then
   10:06 ogra         *back
   === freeflying-ibook [n=freeflyi@61.190.65.30] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:07 dholbach     Keybuk: don't make that kind of jokes shortly before release :)
   10:07 sivang       was ubuntu existing then? :)
   === sivang lost track of time already.
   10:07 ogra         sivang, dholbach and i met in #ubuntu at that time
   10:08 ogra         so it existed, yes
   10:08 dholbach     or maybe it was even longer ago
   10:08 sivang       ogra: ah, so we already met each other probably
   10:09 mdz          sfllaw: have you wandered off?
   10:09 sfllaw       mdz: Nope.
   10:10 sfllaw       dholbach: I've been looking...
   10:10 dholbach     ah... ok :-)
   10:10 mdz          sfllaw: it's probably best if we wait until the next meeting for this, when you have some time to prepare
   10:10 sfllaw       Fair enough.
   10:11 mdz          dholbach: heard from gloubigoula?
   10:11 sfllaw       dholbach: January 2000 was when I started.
   10:11 dholbach     mdz: yeah, as I said: he'll be 30m late, so ~20m he should be here
   10:11 mdz          is there any other business?
   10:11 dholbach     the only other applicant (that really meant it) was afaik wasabi
   10:11 ogra         lifeless isnt around by chance ?
   10:11 mjg59        Daf is around if we want to do his motu?
   10:12 wasabi       I was an applicabt?
   10:12 wasabi       applicant? I was wondering why you were yelling at me.
   10:12 dholbach     wasabi: for ubuntu-dev?
   10:12 wasabi       Already in.
   10:12 dholbach     wasabi: I tried to highlight on all your nicks :-)
   10:12 dholbach     wasabi: Oh sorry, I must have missed that. I just rememberd you signed up with the team.
   10:12 wasabi       Yeah, I was "missed" in the LP migration somehow, and was too busy to notice.
   10:13 mdz          wasabi: who took care of that for you?
   10:13 wasabi       keybuk
   10:13 ogra         daf sounds like a good start ...
   10:13 mdz          ogra: daf isn't here
   10:13 mjg59        mdz: Shall I grab daf?
   10:13 mjg59        (He's physically here)
   10:13 mdz          this is possibly the most chaotic tech board meeting yet ;-)
   10:13 mdz          mjg59: his choice
   10:13 ogra         heh
   10:14 mjg59        30 seconds
   === daf [i=daf@muse.19inch.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:14 mjg59        There we go
   10:14 wasabi       Hmm. I think I was in ubuntu-core-dev, too.
   10:14 wasabi       But I haven't had to work on my packages in main in a long while.
   10:14 ogra         hey daf
   === daf waves
   === JanC [n=janc@lugwv/member/JanC] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:15 dholbach     hello daf!
   10:15 Keybuk       wasabi: only found your ubuntu-dev meeting
   10:15 wasabi       k. No biggy.
   10:15 wasabi       I'm done with Java stuff anyways.
   10:16 mdz          wasabi,Keybuk: the archive keyring was authoritative at the time
   10:16 mdz          and that's what I worked from when migrating to LP
   10:16 mdz          daf: welcome
   10:17 mdz          daf: care to tell us a bit about your involvement with ubuntu and plans for future involvement?
   === sivang hugs daf
   10:17 daf          mostly been involved with Rosetta stuff
   10:17 daf          occasional patches
   === mvo waves to daf
   10:18 daf          my impetus for upload privileges is to be able to upload stuff to Ubuntu at the same time as I upload to Debian
   10:18 mdz          daf: you're a Debian developer as well, yes?
   10:18 daf          aye
   10:18 mdz          daf: which packages do you maintain there?
   10:18 daf          er
   10:19 daf          http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=Dafydd+Harries&comaint=yes
   10:19 daf          various things
   10:19 daf          plus I've recently joined the GNOME team
   === Lure [n=lure@clj46-234.dial-up.arnes.si] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:21 mdz          daf: have you done any Ubuntu uploads through an existing developer?
   10:21 daf          no, don't think so
   10:21 dholbach     daf: didn't I uploaded a patch and new gnome-gpg or something?
   10:21 dholbach     daf: or you worked on it and I synced it?
   10:22 daf          that was a sync
   10:22 dholbach     Ok.
   10:22 raphink      hi there
   === Gloubi|AFK [n=gauvain@84.5.69.197] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === Riddell [i=jr@kde/jriddell] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:23 raphink      hi Gloubi|AFK
   10:23 raphink      and hi Riddell :)
   10:23 Gloubi|AFK   hi
   10:23 dholbach     then we investigated a bit in the gossip package
   10:23 raphink      tb is @ 22UTC right ?
   10:23 mdz          raphink: it's at 20UTC as always, and it's in progress right now
   10:23 raphink      ouch sorry mdz :(
   === raphink keeps quiet
   10:23 daf          dholbach: indeed
   10:23 mdz          dholbach: care to comment on your experience working with daf?
   10:24 dholbach     mdz: he was very easy to work with, we discussed some gossip bugs and had a look on a new gnome-gpg version and he was always easy to work with.
   10:25 dholbach     He answered quickly and things were done in no time. I was happy. :-)
   10:25 mdz          Keybuk: any questions?
   10:26 Keybuk       mdz: no questions
   10:26 mdz          ok
   10:26 mdz          votes
   10:26 mjg59        +1 on the basis that I can hit him in person if he does anything wrong
   10:27 ogra         heh
   10:27 Keybuk       +1 from me
   10:27 dholbach     hahaha
   10:27 mdz          +1 from me based on Debian experience and dholbach's advocacy
   10:27 mdz          daf: done and done
   10:27 mdz          daf: welcome
   === dholbach congratulates daf!
   10:27 daf          thank you
   10:27 dholbach     Excellent news! :-)
   10:27 raphink      :)
   10:27 ogra         welcome daf
   10:27 mdz          Gloubiboulga: I believe you're next?
   === Gloubiboulga is Gauvain Pocentek
   10:27 Riddell      daf: well done
   10:28 mjg59        Gloubiboulga: So, what do you want to do in Ubuntu?
   10:28 Gloubiboulga I guess I'm the next one mdke
   10:28 Gloubiboulga mjg59, my work has been centered on Xubuntu for a month
   === mdke passes it onto mdz
   10:28 janimo       s/work/great work/
   10:29 Gloubiboulga I'd like to keep working on this, even if Xfce is in main now:)
   10:29 mdz          janimo: have you been uploading his packages?
   10:29 janimo       mdz, yes
   10:29 janimo       all his xfce work
   10:29 mdz          janimo: and reviewing them before upload, presumably. ;-)  what is your assessment of his work?
   10:30 janimo       mdz, very nice work.
   10:30 janimo       thorough
   10:31 mdz          Gloubiboulga: presumably you will continue to work through janimo for Xubuntu packages for now; is there any other area where you would like to work as a MOTU?
   === raphink has reviewed Gloubiboulga's work on REVU since he began contributing and is also very happy with the quality of his work
   10:31 Gloubiboulga mdz, not really a particular aera
   10:31 janimo       mdz, there are still some bits left in ubinverse for xubuntu
   10:31 janimo       he has some new uploads from xfce upstream in the queu
   10:31 janimo       e
   10:32 Gloubiboulga I'm really interesting in helping new packagers
   10:32 Gloubiboulga I've comment some packages on REVU, it's an important part of the MOTU work imo
   10:32 Gloubiboulga *commented
   10:32 ogra         yes, thats true ...
   10:33 raphink      yes, I have advocated comments on REVU for Gloubiboulga as he sent them to me
   10:33 ogra         Gloubiboulga is very helpful to people in -motu
   10:33 raphink      most of good interest
   10:33 raphink      Gloubiboulga: have you gotten in touch with laserjock to help with packaging guide?
   10:33 dholbach     Yeah, I personally liked how he steppd up in ubuntu-bugs as well, took care of patches for issues in universe-bugs, etc
   10:33 dholbach     I'm pleased with his work there
   10:33 mdz          ok
   10:33 Gloubiboulga raphink, nop, I read his guide, discussed a few thing with him, that's it
   10:34 mdz          Keybuk,mjg59: any questions for Gloubiboulga?
   10:34 Keybuk       nope, no questions from me
   10:35 mjg59        Gloubiboulga: What are your aims for xfce?
   10:35 Gloubiboulga mjg59, Xfce itself is fine, but Xubuntu can provide a much more usable desktop
   10:36 Gloubiboulga It's easily installable, comes on an iso
   10:36 Gloubiboulga everything is done to have a clean, stable distro using this desktop
   10:37 mdz          Gloubiboulga: is there anything in particular that you feel is missing which you would like to work on adding?
   10:37 janimo       Gloubiboulga has been in touch with xfce panel plugin writers, about them being in time for dapper
   10:37 Gloubiboulga mdz, yes, some tools are missing, like keyboard, printer manament
   10:37 lucasvo      imho notebook support in xubuntu is poor
   10:37 Gloubiboulga managment*
   10:38 Gloubiboulga lucasvo, true
   10:38 janimo       lucasvo: true. the only thing there is susp/hib form logout menu
   10:38 lucasvo      janimo: exactly
   10:38 lucasvo      no battery status etc.
   10:38 janimo       lucasvo: there's a battrey plugin in main since yesterday
   10:38 mdz          Gloubiboulga: are there good solutions for keyboard and printer functionality which exist but are not in Xubuntu yet?
   10:38 Gloubiboulga mdz, Xfce only cannot satisfy a desktop user imo
   10:38 janimo       was in universe
   10:38 lucasvo      janimo: ah, ok
   10:39 janimo       Gloubiboulga actually works on the xkb plugin now, but for some reason not mentioningit
   10:39 Gloubiboulga mdz, you can't easily set up different keuboard layouts for exemple
   === mvo [n=egon@p54A648B2.dip.t-dialin.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:40 Gloubiboulga mdz, janimo just told it, I'm working on the xkb plugin to solve this
   10:41 Gloubiboulga editing xorg.conf is not an easy for most users :)
   10:41 Gloubiboulga esay thing even
   10:41 mdz          ok
   10:41 mdz          Keybuk,mjg59: votes?
   10:42 Keybuk       +1 from me, good to get more xfce work
   10:42 mdz          +1 for Gloubiboulga based on several MOTU recommendations and good work demonstrated with janimo
   10:43 mdz          did we lose mjg59?
   10:43 mdz          Gloubiboulga: at any rate you have a majority, congratulations and welcome
   10:43 janimo       Gloubiboulga: congrats :)
   10:43 dholbach     congratulations Gloubiboulga! welcome to the team!
   10:43 Gloubiboulga thanks :)
   10:43 ogra         congrats Gloubiboulga
   10:43 raphink      welcome Gloubiboulga :)
   10:44 raphink      a fait plaisir de t'avoir comme dev :)
   10:44 mdz          I believe that's the end of the agenda?
   10:44 Gloubiboulga merci raphink ;)
   10:44 ogra         yep
   10:44 Gloubiboulga janimo, dholbach, ogra thanks a lot :)
   10:44 dholbach     thanks everybody
   10:44 mdke         mdz, i have a quick question, if you have time. I've written it already so it should be fast.
   10:44 dholbach     Gloubiboulga: anytime - you deserved the praise
   10:44 mdz          mdke: shoot
   10:44 mdke         I've vaguely followed the meeting since I joined the channel, is it correct that ubuntu membership is no longer required for becoming a developer (some of the candidates considered are not members, and some of the core-dev team don't appear to be either)? If so, I think we should update the website: it gives a slightly misleading account of the community governance process. Or alternatively, the ubuntu-members LP group may be incomplete.
   10:45 ogra         mdke, its still required
   10:45 mdke         so the latter?
   10:45 mdz          mdke: they're somewhat disconnected at the moment; people generally go through the processes separately
   10:45 mjg59        Whoops, sorry about that
   10:45 mdz          indeed, they're handled by different groups
   10:45 mdke         mdz, does it matter which goes first?
   10:45 mjg59        But I agree
   10:46 mdz          mdke: for my part, I don't mind which goes first, but they should happen close together
   10:46 mdz          folks who are in ubuntu-dev but not members should go through the membership process
   10:46 mdke         ok, the website is definitely misleading then
   10:47 raphink      indeed
   10:47 mdz          what we wanted to avoid was folks having to wait 3 weeks or more, and attend adjacent meetings, to go through the process
   10:47 mdz          this is probably something to be discussed at CC next week
   10:47 mdke         ok fine
   10:47 mdz          logically, it would make sense for membership to be a prerequisite, but we've been somewhat flexible for practical reasons
   10:47 mdz          mdke: would you put it on the CC agenda?  I'll try to be there to discuss
   10:48 mdke         mdz, be happy to.
   10:48 mdke         it's two problems I suppose
   === lifeless [n=robertc@dsl-43.1.240.220.rns01-kent-syd.dsl.comindico.com.au] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:48 lifeless     Keybuk: am I too late?
   10:48 mdz          lifeless: well hello, we were just about to close up
   10:49 Keybuk       I think we can just squeeze him in
   10:49 lifeless     thank you
   10:49 mdz          lifeless: care to introduce yourself?
   10:49 lifeless     Hi, I'm lifeless
   10:49 sivang       he has a french dictionary named after him :)
   10:49 lifeless     I'm here hoping to get upload rights to universe as a MOTU
   10:50 ogra         yay
   10:50 ogra         lifeless,
   10:50 lifeless     indeed, the Robert-Collins dictionary
   10:50 ogra         often missed here
   10:50 lifeless     https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RobertCollins describes most of the Ubuntu focused things I get up to
   10:51 mdz          lifeless: you maintain a few packages in Debian as well, yes?
   10:51 mdz          ah, it's on your wiki page
   10:51 lifeless     yup, bicyclerepair, fl-cow, opensync, testresources
   10:52 mdz          lifeless: who sponsors the bzr uploads to ubuntu? jbailey?
   10:52 Mithrandir   lifeless: I don't think Ubuntu runs well on S/360s.  I don't know about S/390s, though..
   10:52 mdz          lifeless: do you do most of the packaging work for the uploads which go directly to ubuntu?
   10:52 lifeless     mdz: yes. bzr is currently packaged by jbailey himself
   10:53 mdz          lifeless: are you a Debian developer, or does someone sponsor your uploads there?
   10:53 lifeless     mdz: I'm a DD, though still a relatively new one
   10:54 sivang       lifeless: what about i5/OS ? ;-)
   10:54 mdz          (I asked because your Maintainer fields don't have a debian.org address)
   10:54 lifeless     I tend to get someone to eyeball my uploads if I'm working in a new area of packaging I'm not familiar with
   10:54 lifeless     mdz: ah.
   10:54 Keybuk       mdz: that's not so unusual?  When I was a DD, I never used my debian.org address
   10:55 mdz          Keybuk: not everyone does, but when they don't, it isn't immediately obvious whether they're a DD or not
   10:55 lifeless     this is true. I guess I think of myself as 'me' and as being a DD as one facet.
   10:56 mdz          and I'm far too lazy to go beyond apt-cache show to confirm ;-)
   10:56 lifeless     its the same with canonical work, I usually use my home address except in rare circumstances
   10:56 Keybuk       lifeless: so, what makes you want to join the MOTU?
   10:56 Keybuk       what about Ubuntu interests and excites you
   10:56 Keybuk       and what would you like to change and make better?
   10:57 lifeless     so
   10:57 lifeless     I want to join MOTU to be able to complete the loop when I'm helping out in #ubuntu-motu
   10:58 lifeless     for instance, azeem and I want to make the mobile syncing stuff in ubuntu really rock for dapper +1
   10:58 lifeless     which is why we are working on all the opensync, discussing issues with upstream
   10:58 lifeless     and so on.
   10:58 mdz          lifeless: what are the issues there? I'm interested
   10:59 lifeless     mdz: multisync is essentially abandoned upstream, and the 'new' codebase 'opensync' is very unstable
   10:59 mdz          I want to be able to sync contacts between my phone and evolution, in particular
   11:00 mdz          does opensync have that sort of use case as a target?
   11:00 lifeless     we've hit a number of issues in packaging - the test suite is location fragile
   11:00 lifeless     oh yes, thats exactly what opensync is about, multisync 0.8x may well do it already
   11:01 mdz          cool, maybe I'll find time to play with it one of these days
   11:01 Keybuk       would opensync also let me sync the evolution address book on my laptop with that on my desktop?
   11:01 lifeless     but the multisync 0.8 ui is (at best) crackful - the 0.9 ui based on opensync should be much much better once it all comes together
   11:01 mjg59        Keybuk: Yes
   11:01 lifeless     Keybuk: yes
   11:01 lifeless     Keybuk: syncml + evo on the desktop, evo + syncml on the laptop
   11:01 mjg59        Synchronisation is something we've really been missing out on
   11:02 mdz          any further questions?
   11:02 mdz          votes
   11:03 lifeless     answering what about ubuntu interests and excites me is rather hard - I find *everything* fascinating and interesting--- its just a matter of triaging down to the things I have time to actually look at
   11:03 mjg59        +1 based on past record and intention to work on important stuff
   11:03 mdz          +1 based on Debian history, sanity of existing packages, etc.
   11:03 Keybuk       +1
   11:03 Keybuk       even though he's at least partly responsible for Arch
   11:03 Keybuk       :)
   11:04 mdz          lifeless: congrats
   11:04 lifeless     I'm also 'at least partly responsible' for the solution!
   11:04 lifeless     mdz: thank you
   11:04 lifeless     thank you mjg59 and Keybuk too
   11:04 mdz          any other business before workrave strangles me?
   11:05 mdke         mdz, I've added the agenda item for the CC
   11:05 mdz          mdke: thanks
   11:05 ogra         yay lifeless
   11:05 ogra         finally :)
   11:05 mdz          not hearing any other business, adjourned
   11:05 mdz          thanks all
 
</pre>
