{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 31 May at 16:00 &mdash; 16:24 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-05-31-16.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

Skipping all empty sections
==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====

No old actions to review.
As a bit of a delayed action from two weeks ago nacc was telling us that there will be a v2 of the importer tool this week.

==== Yakkety Development ====
The discussion about "Yakkety Development" started at 16:03.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule 
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 

==== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)" started at 16:07.

- nothing to discuss

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team" started at 16:09.

- nothing to discuss

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)" started at 16:10.

- smb shared that there are indications but no confirmations for a 4.8 kernel in Yakkety.

==== Upcoming Call For Papers ====
The discussion about "Upcoming Call For Papers" started at 16:12.

No interesting CFPs

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:12.

None.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:13.

- nothing to discuss

==== next meeting will be in a week date 7th of june, same time - gnuoy will be chairing (I jumped in today) ====
The discussion about "next meeting will be in a week date 7th of june, same time - gnuoy will be chairing (I jumped in today)" started at 16:15.

==== Bug Progress ====
The discussion about "Bug Progress" started at 16:16.

- We now regularly track progress on community important bugs here. See the full log for details.

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* cpaelzer (56)
* rbasak (30)
* ubottu (12)
* nacc (10)
* jgrimm (6)
* meetingology (4)
* caribou (3)
* smb (3)
* rharper (3)
* smoser (1)
* coreycb (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:00 <cpaelzer> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue May 31 16:00:31 2016 UTC.  The chair is cpaelzer. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:00 <meetingology> 

 16:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:00 <coreycb> o/

 16:00 <smoser> o/

 16:00 <cpaelzer> o/

 16:00 <jgrimm> o/

 16:01 <smb> o/

 16:01 <cpaelzer> FYI - a few people are busy right now we will highlight them if needed

 16:01 <cpaelzer> nice bunch of waving to start with the meeting

 16:01 <cpaelzer> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:02 <cpaelzer> the only older open action was about the importer which was announced already by nacc

 16:02 <cpaelzer> checking for anything else we might miss ...

 16:02 <nacc> ack, rbasak and i decided to sort of rewrite the algorithm, so a v2 beta will be announced this week :)

 16:02 <cpaelzer> thanks nacc

 16:03 <cpaelzer> nacc: there was a question about "waiting for importer" on #ubuntu-server today

 16:03 <cpaelzer> nacc: I gues the answer is, not yet and wait hpow v2 looks like then?

 16:03 <cpaelzer> anyway, lets go on then

 16:03 <cpaelzer> #topic Yakkety Development

 16:04 <rbasak> The current version is usable, but v2 may rewrite history, that's all.

 16:04 <cpaelzer> thanks rbasak

 16:04 <cpaelzer> anything important for Yakkety development from your side?

 16:04 <cpaelzer> today pitti announced a major change to dns resolving

 16:04 <rbasak> Nothing from me. It's merge time, but I understand we don't have that many major ones.

 16:04 <cpaelzer> you might all check whatever you own or love if things are still as they should

 16:05 <cpaelzer> there is a mail thread on ubuntu-devel about it

 16:05 <rbasak> Remember grep-merges to find your TIL packages please.

 16:05 <cpaelzer> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule

 16:05 <cpaelzer> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:05 <cpaelzer> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:06 <cpaelzer> sorry

 16:06 <cpaelzer> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:06 <cpaelzer> rbasak: you will later go over curretn assigned bugs again, anything for now?

 16:06 <rharper> o/

 16:06 <caribou> \o

 16:06 <rbasak> cpaelzer: I propose to do that at the end. I'd like to get a process update on assigned bugs then please, so if you have assignments, please take a look.

 16:06 <rbasak> A progress udpate I mean.

 16:07 <cpaelzer> I'll pass the torch at the end then

 16:07 <cpaelzer> for now the list in Y is rather small, and no news for server

 16:07 <cpaelzer> going on then for now

 16:07 <cpaelzer> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

 16:08 <caribou> working on a few merges & done with kdump-tools work

 16:08 <cpaelzer> great

 16:08 <caribou> that's about it

 16:08 <cpaelzer> thanks, anything for caribou?

 16:09 <cpaelzer> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team

 16:09 <cpaelzer> jgrimm: do you want to interim cover that if there is anything?

 16:09 <nacc> nothing but praise! excited for the merge :)

 16:09 <jgrimm> nothing to report

 16:09 <jgrimm> cpaelzer, ^^

 16:09 <cpaelzer> k, thanks

 16:10 <cpaelzer> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)

 16:10 <smb> Yakkety still coming with a 4.4/Xenial kernel. Seers foretell a 4.8 for the 16.10 future. Beside that nothing to report. Would there be any questions?

 16:11 <cpaelzer> smb: thanks, that seem to be no further question

 16:11 <cpaelzer> smb: any seer info on when to expect the first pre 4.8 ?

 16:11 <smb> http://phb-crystal-ball.org/

 16:11 <cpaelzer> hehe

 16:12 <cpaelzer> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers

 16:12 <cpaelzer> any papers generated by the crytal ball that would be important?

 16:12 <cpaelzer> ok, nothing here

 16:12 <cpaelzer> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:12 <cpaelzer> jgrimm: anything coming up?

 16:13 <cpaelzer> lets assume nothing changed since last week, so no

 16:13 <cpaelzer> #topic Open Discussion

 16:13 <cpaelzer> anything in your minf that didn't fit the topics but wants to be discussed before we do bug progress checks?

 16:14 <cpaelzer> minf=>mind

 16:14 <jgrimm> nope

 16:15 <cpaelzer> #topic next meeting will be in a week date 7th of june, same time - gnuoy will be chairing (I jumped in today)

 16:15 <cpaelzer> now is the time for anybody not wanting to participate in the bug progress discussion to drop off with a o/

 16:15 <cpaelzer> I'll hand over to rbasak for that

 16:16 <cpaelzer> #topic Bug Progress

 16:16 <cpaelzer> #chair rbasak

 16:16 <meetingology> Current chairs: cpaelzer rbasak

 16:16 <rbasak> Thanks cpalezer!

 16:16 <rbasak> May I have progress updates please? The current assignments I'm tracking are:

 16:16 <rbasak> rharper: bug 1384503, bug 1457957, bug 1511735, bug 1518440, bug 1491406

 16:16 <ubottu> bug 1384503 in rsync (Ubuntu Trusty) "rsync fails on large files with compression" [Undecided,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1384503

 16:16 <ubottu> bug 1457957 in puppet (Ubuntu Vivid) "puppet uses upstart for service status checks in vivid" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1457957

 16:16 <ubottu> bug 1511735 in libnl3 (Ubuntu Trusty) "libnl: fail to bind() netlink sockets" [Medium,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1511735

 16:16 <ubottu> bug 1518440 in MAAS "tgt fails to install in LXD" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1518440

 16:16 <ubottu> bug 1491406 in augeas (Ubuntu) "augeas-lenses-1.2.0 - NagiosCfg lens broken for /etc/nagios.cfg due to spaces" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1491406

 16:16 <rbasak> nacc: bug 1318317, bug 1423498, bug 1524635, bug 1570472

 16:16 <ubottu> bug 1318317 in openipmi (Ubuntu Trusty) "openipmi startup script removes kernel modules" [High,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1318317

 16:16 <ubottu> bug 1423498 in squid3 (Ubuntu Trusty) "FTP upload causes squid hang" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1423498

 16:16 <ubottu> bug 1524635 in haproxy (Ubuntu) "haproxy syslog configuration causes double logging" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1524635

 16:16 <ubottu> bug 1570472 in puppet (Ubuntu) "Set systemd as default service provider" [Undecided,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1570472

 16:16 <rbasak> nacc: that last one I added when I saw activity on it last week. I don't think I'd formally assigned it to you as tracked. Hope that's OK.

 16:17 <rbasak> magicalChicken isn't here so I'll ask him in #ubuntu-server

 16:17 <rbasak> cpaelzer: bug 1507681

 16:17 <rharper> rbasak: for tgt on LXD; it's released except for trusty, which SRU to Trusty is under way

 16:17 <ubottu> bug 1507681 in psmisc (Ubuntu Precise) "killall with 65 arguments kills more than expected" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1507681

 16:17 <rbasak> jgrimm: bug 1397250

 16:17 <ubottu> bug 1397250 in libnss-ldap (Ubuntu) "SIGPIPE not caught in do_atfork_child()" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1397250

 16:17 <rharper> rbasak: for the remaining of mine, I've not touched those;

 16:17 <nacc> rbasak: lp1318317 needs ibm to confirm it's fixed in the sru so it can push through.

 16:17 <cpaelzer> bug 1507681 is read, SRU template filled, the patch on the bug was correct incomplete, I backported a bit more from the upstream fix for it

 16:17 <jgrimm> rbasak, been out on PTO/holdiay, sorry no progress

 16:17 <nacc> rbasak: lp1423498 debdiff attached, waiting on testing there

 16:17 <rbasak> rharper: OK, thanks!

 16:17 <cpaelzer> waiting for sponsors in the queue

 16:18 <nacc> rbasak: lp1570472, was going to work on that patch today

 16:18 <nacc> rbasak: and i'll get a debdiff and ppa setup for lp1524635 today as well

 16:18 <rbasak> nacc: for 317 I'll mark as cleared in tracking then, as it's been blocked on not-us for a week now. Thank you for driving that!

 16:19 <nacc> rbasak: ack

 16:19 <rbasak> cpaelzer: thanks. I'll review for you after this meeting.

 16:19 <rbasak> jgrimm: np. Let me know if we should cancel that assignment.

 16:19 <cpaelzer> rbasak: thank you

 16:19 <jgrimm> rbasak, i'd like to keep it, as its somewhat low importance. good one for me. :)

 16:19 <rbasak> OK

 16:20 <cpaelzer> rbasak: I'll keep track if it and hope the reporters test once it is in proposed, but free to pass another one to my inbox

 16:20 <rbasak> cpaelzer: fancy taking bug 1495988?

 16:20 <ubottu> bug 1495988 in apache2 (Ubuntu) "ProxyErrorOverride leads to slow 404 responses" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1495988

 16:21 <cpaelzer> rbasak: I'll start looking at it in non existing spare time :-)=

 16:21 <rbasak> I have one fairly bulky one I'd like to delegate please.

 16:21 <cpaelzer> assigned myself in the bug

 16:22 <rbasak> Thanks cpaelzer!

 16:22 <rbasak> bacula is pretty broken generally in Xenial it seems. There are about four bugs. I think one or two are remaining to figure out, and then we can SRU.

 16:22 <rbasak> Is someone available to drive that please?

 16:22 <rbasak> I guess not. I'll stick them in the backlog.

 16:23 <rbasak> I think I'm done then. Thanks all!

 16:23 <rbasak> Any other comments from anyone?

 16:23 <nacc> rbasak: i probably TIL'd it (the merge), i can take a look

 16:23 <rbasak> nacc: for bacula? Thank you!

 16:23 <nacc> rbasak: yeah

 16:24 <nacc> rbasak: feel free to just assign in lp and i'll prioritize them up

 16:24 <rbasak> ack

 16:24 <rbasak> I guess we're done then. Thanks all!

 16:24 <rbasak> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
