{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

   02:05 Kamion          huh, I guess the CC meeting is meant to be now
   02:05 [BlueT_at_Mars] hello guys :)
   02:05 Kamion          sabdfl will be at debconf; I'll SMS him on the off-chance but he may not be awake
   === jsgotangco [n=jsg123@ubuntu/member/jsgotangco] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   02:08 Kamion          I've SMSed everyone; not a lot I can do now except wait and hope
   02:08 Kamion          fortunately there does not appear to be a lot of business, just glatzor
   02:08 jsgotangco      :)
   02:09 glatzor1        hi jsgotangco
   === soonindallas [n=peter@m88.net81-66-142.noos.fr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === Hirion [n=hirion@draugr.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   02:10 mako            hey
   02:10 mako            i'm here
   02:11 [BlueT_at_Mars] hello mako
   02:11 Kamion          mvo: how's glatzor been to work with?
   02:11 Kamion          hi mako
   02:11 [BlueT_at_Mars] BlueT_: yo
   02:11 jsgotangco      hi mako
   === jsgotangco can vouch for glatzor1's work on g-a-i and u-m
   02:11 soonindallas    hi all.  I have a question for whenever it's appropriate
   02:12 Kamion          soonindallas: go ahead, this is sort of a quiet time
   02:12 mako            right
   02:12 soonindallas    ok thanks.  it's been a while since i've seen any logs for dapper developer meetings.
   02:13 soonindallas    are there still meetings, are the logs being made available ?
   02:13 Kamion          soonindallas: Jane Weideman posts summaries to ubuntu-devel-announce@ every week
   02:13 Kamion          if you want the full logs, they're available with the logs of this channel at http://people.ubuntu.com/~fabbione/irclogs/
   02:13 mvo             Kamion: I only say the best about glatzor
   02:13 dholbach        glatzor stepped up in a lot of places in the DesktopTeam, he was helpful and committed a million of changes to gnome-app-install, update-{manager,notifier}, synaptic, etc :-)
   02:13 mvo             Kamion: he is full of energy and good ideas
   02:14 soonindallas    Kamion: ok.  logs on the wiki pages stopped sometime in march
   02:14 sivang          he is also already helping me with hubackup, and already designed a much better UI design that my origianl.
   02:14 sivang          (mostly helping on the UI front and taking interest, which is blessed by me as I require the design help)
   02:16 glatzor1        Kamion: I also created a wiki page about my previous commitements. If I may point you to this:
   02:16 glatzor1        Kamoin: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SebastianHeinlein
   02:16 Kamion          I've just been reading it and following all the links
   02:17 Kamion          well, nearly all :-)
   02:17 Kamion          looks like a fantastic pile of UI work; I have absolutely no problem with glatzor for membership
   02:17 Kamion          very impressive
   02:17 mvo             I can't agree more :)
   02:17 Kamion          I hadn't realised all those changes were down to you ..
   02:18 Kamion          mako?
   02:18 Kamion          we have no elmo or sabdfl apparently
   02:18 mako            right
   02:19 mako            Kamion: do you know where elmo is?
   02:19 Kamion          also at debconf I think
   02:19 Kamion          I've SMSed both of them but it's pretty early in .mx
   02:20 Kamion          (didn't we discuss this last time round?)
   02:20 mako            i don't think so
   02:20 mako            i knew mark was there
   02:20 ogra            sabdfl mentioned it
   02:20 mako            didn't know elmo was
   === Kamion pokes through logs
   02:20 ogra            but i think elmo talked about it in -devel
   02:21 Kamion          Kamion: in some ways 12UTC might work better - there's more chance of me attending, if not mark.  20UTC would put us middle of day, fighting with talks (or the water park)
   02:21 Kamion          er, quoting elmo there
   02:21 Kamion          <elmo> kamion/mako: ok, let's do 12UTC.  I can have fun trolling mark, telling him he has to attend to make up for missing so many
   02:21 ogra            heh, he apprently didnt :)
   02:21 ogra            *apparently
   02:21 Kamion          I think I'll troll both of them when they wake up from their beauty sleep
   02:22 ogra            hehe
   === mako nods
   02:22 Kamion          glatzor1: ok, I don't see that there's going to be any problem with your application; for form's sake I'll make sure to get an ack from either elmo or sabdfl later on
   02:23 Kamion          thanks for showing up, you did better than half the CC ;-)
   02:23 mako            well, i'll go into the lab at some point which will put me offline at half an hour but will be around for the rest of the day
   === j_ack [n=nico@p508D93BC.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   02:23 Kamion          Any other business?
   02:23 Kamion          soonindallas: which wiki pages?
   02:24 ogra            https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs ?
   02:24 soonindallas    Kamion: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/?action=fullsearch&context=180&value=meeting+logs&titlesearch=Titles for ex
   02:24 elmo            sorry, I'm here now
   02:24 elmo            (and for the record, 4 hours can't be considered beautiful in anyway)
   02:24 jsgotangco      i think that's robitaille's wiki page to make a clean "log" page
   02:24 mako            heh
   02:24 ogra            elmo, 4h can make you looking pretty ugly in fact :)
   02:25 Kamion          soonindallas: the logs on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs go up to 2006-05-11, which looks pretty current to me
   02:25 glatzor1        Kamion: I prepared some sentences, should I paste them here for formal reasons?
   02:25 Kamion          elmo: we just have one candidate, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SebastianHeinlein
   02:25 Kamion          glatzor1: go ahead
   === ivoks [n=ivoks@ubuntu/member/ivoks] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   02:25 glatzor1        Kamion: sorry. but I am not at home and my irc client here doesn't have got a nickname notfication
   02:26 Kamion          soonindallas: I don't know what's wrong with the search, but https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs appears current
   02:27 soonindallas    Kamion: I don't know what's wrong either, but when I search for "meeting logs", the page that's returned is incomplete.  I'll look at the page you suggest
   === Hobbsee [n=Hobbsee@ubuntu/member/hobbsee] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   02:28 elmo            ack for glatzor1
   02:29 Kamion          excellent
   02:29 Kamion          right, last call for any other business?
   02:30 Kamion          (glatzor1 approved in LP too)
   02:30 glatzor1        thanks a lot elmo and Kamion
   02:30 jsgotangco      \o/ glatzor1 \o/
   02:30 dholbach        confgratulations glatzor1
   02:30 juliux          welcome glatzor1
   02:30 mvo             congrats glatzor1
   02:30 glatzor1        I want to use this opportunity to thank Michael Vogt for having an open ear for my suggestions, sponsoring and pushing me.
   === mvo blushes
   === dholbach hugs glatzor1
   === dholbach hugs mvo
   === glatzor1 hugs all
   02:31 Kamion          ok, adjourned, thanks all
   02:31 Kamion          RECORD TIME
   === zul [n=chuck@ubuntu/member/zul] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   02:31 jsgotangco      yay
   02:31 glatzor1        mvo: I really enjoyed the last 3 and a half years that we have worked together
   02:31 zul             thats it?
   === Hobbsee jumps
   02:31 Hobbsee         the meeting over *already*?
   02:32 jsgotangco      heh
   02:32 juliux          Hobbsee, yes
   02:32 jsgotangco      there wasnt that much in the agenda
   02:32 Hobbsee         oh, fair enough
   02:33 glatzor1        thanks a lot to all supporters of mine.
   02:33 glatzor1        i have to leave for class - it is time for neurology :)
   === zul [n=chuck@ubuntu/member/zul] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   === Hobbsee has to actually *do* the maths assignment she was happily procrastinating over :P
   02:34 glatzor1        bye juliux, jsgotangco, mvo and dholbach
   02:34 juliux          glatzor1, have fun in school
   === janimo [n=jani@Home03207.cluj.astral.ro] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   02:36 Kamion          oh, we forgot to schedule the next meeting
   02:37 [BlueT_at_Mars] this meeting's short :)
   02:37 Hobbsee         Kamion: heh, seems a bit late now :P
   02:37 Kamion          any objections to 30 April at 16:00? I'm going to be down in the London office for the Dapper release push, so mid-afternoon's OK but late evening might not work so well
   02:38 Hobbsee         Kamion: any aussies, or anyone in those sort of timezones will want to shoot you, but i wouldnt think there's a problem except for them :P
   02:38 Kamion          can't win 'em all
   02:39 Hobbsee         hehe
   02:39 bimberi         April?
   02:39 neuralis        Kamion: will you provide the time machine? ;)
   02:39 Kamion          er, 30 May, right
   02:39 Kamion          I've provisionally scheduled it on the wiki
   === bimberi thinks neuralis was much more subtle ;)
   === freeflying [n=freeflyi@ubuntu/member/freeflying] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   02:40 mako            tentatively, that sounds good to me
   02:40 mako            may that is
   02:41 elmo            sounds ok to me too
   === Schoolinux [n=chatzill@217.219.189.181] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   02:42 Schoolinux      Hi all
   02:42 Kamion          good good
   02:42 Kamion          I'll mail c-c@ with the time
   === suzan229 [n=suzan@203.189.240.250] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === Hobbsee thinks a 3am or so meeting wouldnt be pleasant :P
   02:42 Kamion          can't win 'em all, like I say
   02:42 Hobbsee         true
   02:42 Kamion          no time works for everyone, that's why we rotate
   === hovan [n=hovan@222.172.224.130] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   02:43 Hobbsee         hehe - i think this was the first CC meeting that i actually had a hope of attending at a sane time...
   02:44 Kamion          well, we do also have to make sure that the CC can attend. We tried it at 0400 UTC or something once before and none of the CC actually woke up ...
   02:44 Kamion          oh, no, that's not quite true, mako was there on his own
   02:44 jsgotangco      lol
   02:44 Kamion          but there are three of us in the UK
   02:45 jsgotangco      are there plans in the immediate future to have someone from a different timezone join the council?
   02:46 Kamion          not in the immediate future, but it would be nice
   02:46 Hobbsee         haha - that's why we're going to have to change the kubuntu CC times - if they want me there and coherant, they cant have 7am meetings!
   === Hobbsee doesnt do mornings!
   === Schoolinux [n=chatzill@217.219.189.181] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   02:50 mako            i wasn't thrilled to have a meeting at 8am today
   02:50 mako            which might as well be 4AM for me :)
   02:50 mako            4am would be better.. i'm more likely to be
   02:50 mako            up

</pre>
