{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

   03:25 EmxBA       hi
   03:26 EmxBA       so current meeting is Xubuntu right
   03:26 seanh       according to the fridge, yes
   03:26 janimo      EmxBA: should start in a few minutes
   03:26 EmxBA       ok
   03:27 janimo      there's no agenda though
   03:28 janimo      EmxBA: anything in particular that you want to discuss?
   === crimsun [i=crimsun@pdpc/supporter/silver/crimsun] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:28 EmxBA       janimo: not really
   03:28 EmxBA       maybe edubuntu
   03:28 EmxBA       oh, I know
   03:28 EmxBA       i had several problems with espresso
   03:29 EmxBA       i suppose you know hat it is :P
   03:29 EmxBA       *what
   03:29 janimo      yes, for bug reports LP is the way to go, not the meeting though :)
   03:30 EmxBA       ok
   03:30 janimo      nomed: ping
   03:30 seanh       EmxBA - I just recently installed xubuntu and am interested, about how many people are there working on it?
   03:31 EmxBA       it looks good
   03:31 EmxBA       i tried xfce 4 on slackware
   03:31 EmxBA       looks bad
   03:31 EmxBA       it is better on xubuntu
   03:31 EmxBA       really
   03:33 janimo      crimsun: hi, we have no agenda for the meeting so if there's anything you want to talk about please do
   03:33 janimo      same for others
   03:33 crimsun     janimo: (ok)
   03:33 janimo      I haven't got around to make edgy specs from any of the wiki ideas yet
   03:36 crimsun     ok, just finished reading XubuntuEdgyIdeas
   === highvoltage pops in
   03:37 janimo      crimsun, feel free to edit that page if you have things to add
   03:37 janimo      highvoltage: hi
   03:37 highvoltage i have a new Xubuntu website ready off-line, which i think looks great, and will be easier to update than our static page atm.
   03:37 janimo      highvoltage: good news :)
   03:37 highvoltage Znarl has just set up the database, and will be sending me the password today.
   03:38 janimo      highvoltage: when you get a chance can you describe what are the exact logout actions which should be allowed in a thin client?
   03:38 crimsun     not sure if we're following any sort of order for "Important Features", but the one that certainly interests me is the multimedia situation. The thread on the mailing list seems to have decent suggestions. I suspect we'll want to replace xfmedia pretty soon/early in Edgy?
   03:38 janimo      comment on the LP bug you opened preferably
   03:38 janimo      crimsun: I agree, we can go gxine shortly after edgy opens
   03:39 janimo      or whatever yuo think fits better
   03:39 EmxBA       ok
   03:39 crimsun     I think gxine is a good initial replacement, but many people want to see a GSt-based one in Edgy, it seems
   03:39 seanh       my two cents: I haven't seen this mailing list thread, but the most common command I've typed since installing xubuntu is "killall xfmedia"
   03:39 janimo      crimsun: but are there any besides totem?
   03:39 EmxBA       i assume no
   03:39 janimo      good ones, like xine based one
   03:40 janimo      seanh: yeah, it's hanging too often
   03:40 highvoltage gxine is great.
   03:40 crimsun     I don't know of one off the top of my head that will do both audio and video like Totem
   03:40 seanh       Have you considered having a music player and a video player seperately?
   03:40 janimo      crimsun: totem depends on gnome libs though as seen in the thread
   03:41 crimsun     janimo: right, problematic
   03:41 janimo      seanh: sure
   03:41 highvoltage i've seen beep-media-player pop up in some old threads and wiki pages. is there a reason that won't work for xubuntu?
   03:41 janimo      highvoltage: that is discontinued by upstream
   03:41 janimo      they were working on xmms3 last time I read
   03:42 EmxBA       where can ubuntu-lite be downloaded
   03:42 crimsun     right, and upstream hopes to have 0.20, the next version, of BMPx available for Edgy
   03:42 janimo      EmxBA: ubuntulite.org I presume
   03:42 EmxBA       no
   03:42 EmxBA       Curently no download links are avalible
   03:42 highvoltage ah
   03:43 crimsun     BMPx is a completely rewritten app based on GSt. It's library-based similar many of the newer audio apps. It should play video, too, but I haven't tried with the latest stable, 0.14.x
   03:43 janimo      crimsun: sounds good
   03:43 seanh       just installed gxine, immediate comments: It needs a splash screen to launch, there is a button on the main interface to change the audio channel
   03:45 seanh       it seems to have some adult channels installed by default, I'm not even sure what they are, internet radio or tv it seems, the UI is quite bad in my opinion
   03:45 crimsun     seanh: Darren Salt's quite responsive to gxine bug reports, so many of those things could be addressed
   03:46 seanh       Right, you'd really want to overhaul the UI from the looks of it, there's a lot of strange technical details exposed
   03:47 janimo      crimsun: did the BMPx devs specifically mention edgy or their schedule just coincides with edgy's ?
   03:47 crimsun     I do want to point out some additional shortcomings of gxine, the most important of which is the fact that it's based on xine-lib. From a technical perspective, being xine-lib-based introduces a problem of forcing a user to restart the application whenever a new sound card is chosen.
   03:48 crimsun     janimo: they're not tying BMPx 0.20 to Edgy, but last I chatted with the devs, they hope to have it in time for Edgy
   03:48 crimsun     i.e., no rigorous committment
   03:48 janimo      crimsun: the sound-card switch thing is a corner case though no? especially in xubuntu targetted machines
   03:49 janimo      crimsun: do you know anything about how xinelibs and gst (not any players based on them) compare wrt memory requirements?
   03:49 crimsun     janimo: depends whether one considers having multiple sound devices a corner case nowadays :)  but yes, I do see your point.
   03:49 crimsun     janimo: I haven't done specific evalution
   03:50 janimo      the major disadvantage to xine I see is that since both gnome and kde move over to it, we'd be havoing it in main only for us, and carry it along
   03:50 janimo      I think kubuntu 6.06 still has xine right?
   03:50 Riddell     janimo: yes
   03:51 crimsun     right, the fact that both gnome 2.12 and kde 4 (will) have migrated to GSt is a strong reason to choose a GSt-based player
   03:51 Riddell     kde 4 isn't migrating to gstreamer
   03:52 Riddell     it's migrating to whichever backend is best on the day
   03:52 ogra        but kubuntu :)
   03:52 crimsun     Riddell: what are the choices being considered?
   03:52 janimo      Riddell: yeah, they thought there are not yet enough layers of from apps to the hw
   03:52 Riddell     crimsun: phonon using xine, NMM, gstreamer, anything else that comes along
   03:53 crimsun     Riddell: hmm, ok, thanks
   03:53 janimo      layers of abstraction I meant
   === highvolt1ge [n=jono@196.36.161.235] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:53 mjg59       Riddell: For generic media purposes - presumably gstreamer will end up used for more complex cases?
   03:54 Riddell     mjg59: depends on the choice of the application author
   03:54 Riddell     but using gstreamer directly in KDE would be frowned upon for binary compatibility reasons
   03:56 crimsun     For Xubuntu, seanh's query is pertinent then. Should there be separate audio and video players?
   03:56 crimsun     I'm inclined to shy from introducing that separation
   03:56 janimo      crimsun: I'm fine with whatever you chose
   03:57 janimo      I think anything will be an improvement over current status
   03:57 janimo      gxine plays audio too so we can just have that
   03:57 crimsun     ok, I move that when Edgy opens, we replace xfmedia with gxine but continue to evaluate GSt-based players
   03:58 janimo      crimsun: agreed
   03:58 nomed       i'm in late
   03:58 nomed       hi all
   03:58 janimo      hi nomed
   03:58 janimo      crimsun: I assume we ant to keep all the deps of gxine and bring them in main, however crazy :)
   03:59 crimsun     I believe Gauvain tried compiling gtk-only totem and had difficulties
   03:59 crimsun     janimo: hmm, yes, for now
   03:59 crimsun     'lo nomed
   03:59 janimo      crimsun: yes, g-vfs deps
   04:00 janimo      nomed: we have been discussing multimedia status for now. Any topic you want to discuss? Agenda is empty
   04:00 nomed       janimo, ex..
   04:01 nomed       i'm moderating the xubuntu board of the ubuntu-it forum
   04:01 nomed       what i've seen there is:
   04:01 nomed       1) users have problems with "edit menu"
   04:01 nomed       MANY
   04:01 janimo      Riddell: do you know if there are specific apps which may become common (module GUI) for edgy?
   04:01 nomed       they will not check in launchpad
   04:01 nomed       NEVER
   04:01 nomed       if there are known bug
   04:01 janimo      Riddell: kde/gnome apps I mean
   04:02 crimsun     nomed: yeah, that menu-editor one is pretty annoying
   04:02 janimo      like language-support is now
   04:02 nomed       2) xfmedia doesn't work
   04:02 janimo      crimsun, nomed I agree I'll have to take a look at it these days
   === strapal [n=strapal@caracas-1227.adsl.interware.hu] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   === strapal [n=strapal@caracas-1227.adsl.interware.hu] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:02 nomed       users that used xubuntu on old machines ..
   04:03 nomed       were thinking it was too slow
   04:03 nomed       because of xfmedia ..
   04:03 janimo      nomed: as a workaround these and other issues may need to be prominently advertised on the xubuntu-it site
   04:03 nomed       ex while playing audio cds
   04:03 Riddell     janimo: network-manager
   04:03 janimo      since it is quite normal people wont' check LP
   04:03 Riddell     janimo: beagle maybe?
   04:03 nomed       janimo, done ...
   04:03 janimo      Riddell: that already is backend+frontend no? Or does kde use something else now?
   04:04 Riddell     janimo: back/frontend are separated, we have knetworkmanager
   04:04 janimo      Riddell: how about the gnome-power-manager? Does kde have something like that?
   04:04 nomed       but they do not check if the topic is a "stiky"
   04:04 Riddell     janimo: kde has the unmaintained klaptopdaemon and the suse maintained kpowersave
   04:04 nomed       then ...
   04:05 nomed       they expect that thunar can have:
   04:05 nomed       1) ssh as gnome vfs
   04:05 nomed       2) they want to use samba+file manager
   04:05 Riddell     janimo: kde may also get compiz support for edgy, possibly, maybe
   04:06 janimo      Riddell: update-manager/notifier?
   04:06 crimsun     nomed: thunar doesn't currently have support for smb, does it?
   04:06 janimo      crimsun: it does not
   04:06 nomed       crimsun, it doesn't
   04:06 crimsun     right
   04:06 Riddell     janimo: we have adept for both
   04:06 janimo      Riddell: yeah, I mean is a unification with the gnome ones planned ?
   04:07 nomed       the lang switcher doesn't work ..
   04:07 janimo      nomed: the keyboard switcher?
   04:07 janimo      or the language selector?
   04:07 nomed       we may thing to use ubiquity code for that
   04:07 nomed       janimo, kayboard switcher
   04:07 Riddell     janimo: no, although the language selector has a qt version and gdebi and dist-upgrader may gain kde ports
   04:07 janimo      nomed, hmm does not work or cannot add new layouts from the GUI?
   04:08 nomed       janimo, no langs available
   04:08 nomed       ubiquity gas a big list ...
   04:08 nomed       and it's possible to select all of them from its frontend
   04:08 janimo      nomed, yes need to edit xorg.conf. Sad but Gauvain and I got too late into the xkb plugin to make it ready for dapper
   04:09 janimo      nomed: it will be done for edgy definitely
   04:09 nomed       janimo, nice :)
   04:09 nomed       i'm just listing all the feedbacks i got ..
   04:09 janimo      nomed: thanks
   04:10 nomed       that i think could be xubuntu edgy  stuff
   04:10 janimo      the menueditor at least should be dapper-updates stuff as well
   04:10 crimsun     yeah, that should be highest priority imo
   04:10 nomed       janimo, it has to ..
   04:11 nomed       what i'd add is:
   04:11 nomed       1) desktop search tool
   04:11 nomed       2) galago +  mail client
   04:12 nomed       3) notification daemon
   === Bluekuja [n=andrea@ubuntu/member/bluekuja] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:12 nomed       i've been testing sylpheed ..
   04:12 nomed       but it needs to improve
   04:13 nomed       from the gui to the usability
   04:13 nomed       if we want to use it ..
   04:13 nomed       we have to contact upstreamers i guess
   04:13 ogra        we were discussing balsa for edubuntu recently
   04:13 janimo      or just continue using t-bird
   04:13 nomed       ogra, that's something i should test
   04:14 nomed       janimo, thunaderbird is not that good for old machines
   04:14 janimo      ogra, what's wrong woth t-bird (as it's in main already)
   04:14 nomed       if it'll be possible to use
   04:14 janimo      nomed, I know, but sylpheed has too many quirks
   04:14 nomed       *saemonkey*
   04:14 ogra        janimo, tb has tb langpacks
   04:14 janimo      and mail clients are not that important imho
   04:14 nomed       we'll have all there
   04:14 nomed       janimo, i do not think so ..
   04:15 nomed       :)
   04:15 crimsun     but seamonkey has even heftier system requirements last time I evaluated it
   04:15 ogra        janimo, if i look at new stuff for edubuntu, my main concern is to reduce CD size
   04:15 nomed       but we have different ideas here :)
   04:15 janimo      ogra, I know. t-bird was about 8Meg smaller than evo right?
   04:15 nomed       ogra, seamonkey has browser+mail client
   04:15 janimo      ogra, the best way for you to get that would be to work on dpkg-7zip :)
   04:15 ogra        janimo, including all the langpacks you need on the CD i very much doubt it
   04:15 nomed       and it's really faster then firefox ..
   04:16 janimo      ogra, w/o langpacks, true
   04:16 nomed       i dunno how it's doable to include it in main
   04:16 janimo      nomed, seamonlye (mozilla) was just dropped to universe, so I don;t know if it would come back
   === licio [n=licio@ubuntu/member/licio] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:16 ogra        janimo, balsa translations would only grow the gnome langpack in a minimal way and balsa itself is 2.5M
   04:16 nomed       ohh ..
   04:16 janimo      new ffox/tbird should build on the new seamonkey code and be faster as well
   04:16 janimo      in theory
   04:17 nomed       janimo, that would be ideal
   04:20 crimsun     how much interaction is planned with UbuntuLite?
   04:21 janimo      crimsun: I hope they will be interested
   04:21 janimo      I'd like to get icewm and/or fluxbox on the CD
   04:22 janimo      but I doubt I'll be able to handle upstream interaction/packaging whatever else by myself
   04:22 nomed       icewm has better "feedesktop standard" support
   04:22 janimo      so I hope either ubuntu lite or existing MOTUs show interest
   04:22 crimsun     ok, and just on the CD, or do you envision there being a selector in the installer?
   04:22 janimo      nomed: that by itslef is no big deal :) . People need it because it's light
   04:22 crimsun     (not sure how this would affect the whole "X" branding...)
   04:23 janimo      crimsun: I though of a minimal intervention in the installer (the least minimal being a boot option) to chose from the exiting desktops
   04:23 nomed       for fluxbox there are nubuntu guys
   04:23 janimo      like feesbie ot some other FreeBDS livecd does with flux/xfce
   04:23 nomed       i don't know that much about nubuntu
   04:23 crimsun     not familiar w/ nubuntu either
   04:23 nomed       but they are active on thei project ..
   04:24 nomed       if ubuntulite ppl do not show interest
   04:24 nomed       that's a possible alternative
   04:24 janimo      right
   04:24 nomed       they'll take care for sure of fluxbox ackages
   04:24 nomed       +
   04:24 nomed       configrations
   04:25 janimo      from the nubuntu page
   04:25 janimo      we do not think about whether people are using it or not.  We are more concerned about the learning process
   04:25 janimo      does not mean it cannot be good though :)
   04:25 nomed       ehehe
   04:25 crimsun     I'm in favour of including both icewm and fluxbox in addition as an initial step
   04:26 janimo      crimsun: including on the CD? or are you thinking of how to present the choice to the user as wlel?
   04:27 nomed       i'm not sure that's a good idea ..
   04:27 crimsun     janimo: I think if either/both are to be on the CD, prompting needs to stay away from the installer
   04:27 nomed       i agree
   04:27 janimo      crimsun, so just install them and appearing in GDM menu?
   04:28 crimsun     janimo: not even sure I'd have them installed, just on the CD. Conceivably people wanting Xfce wouldn't want either of the others
   04:28 janimo      or they could be an explicit boot option since only people who know about them will choose them
   04:28 janimo      but we need some way to run them in the desktop CD
   04:29 crimsun     right, something at boot time is preferable to an installer prompt or shoehorning either into gdm
   04:29 janimo      that'd make the difference of being able to run in 64M live or not
   04:29 nomed       janimo, that probably means to patch casper
   04:29 janimo      depends also on liveCD improvemts for edgy thiugh
   04:29 Mithrandir  janimo: what kind of live CD improvements are you looking for?
   04:30 janimo      right now xfce live runs up until the Xfce splash screen in 64M then the wheel stops turning...
   04:30 janimo      Mithrandir: make it much faster, and make it use much less ram . Nothing more :)
   04:30 Mithrandir  janimo: that's probably more "desktop" and less "live cd", though.
   04:32 nomed       Mithrandir, i've never checked it ..
   04:32 janimo      Mithrandir: I was just mentioning that our aim of running a live/desktop CD in 64M using fluxbox or icewm may be reached without us doing anything if improvements were don in the liveCD
   04:32 nomed       does casper support swap ?
   04:32 Mithrandir  nomed: casper uses and swap which is already set up, so yes.
   04:32 Mithrandir  s/and/any
   04:34 crimsun     any additional items for Xubuntu discussion? (another meeting offline shortly)
   04:34 nomed       Mithrandir, if i'm not wrong livecds as knoppix can use a swap made on a win partition ..
   04:34 nomed       but i'm not even sure of that ..
   04:35 nomed       crimsun, for me it's over
   04:35 nomed       cu
   04:36 Mithrandir  nomed: patches accepted. :-)
   04:36 crimsun     janimo: ok, Xubuntu adjourned then?
   04:36 nomed       Mithrandir, i'll take a look
   04:36 janimo      crimsun: yes
   04:36 nomed       i need to go for a while now
   04:36 nomed       bye
   04:36 crimsun     ok.
   04:37 Mithrandir  (as in, I'll accept patches, but it's not near the top of my list, so I probably won't get to do it myself)
   04:37 janimo      bye all

</pre>
