{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=01&day=23&year=2012&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Jan 23rd 2012 18:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 18:30 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* micahg
* tyhicks
* jjohansen

=== Not present ===

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Happy new year and welcome to our first meeting this year.
** Thanks
** Thanks to Mahyuddin Susanto (udienz) for his help on security updates for the community supported lighttpd (LP: #906792), cacti (LP: #906773) and squid3 (LP: #907690) packges on lucid and higher over the last weeks.
** Also would like to thank Ante Karamatić (ivoks) for providing a debdiff for lucid for phpmyadmin (LP: #913846)
** Thank you to Harald Jenny (harald-a-little-linux-box) for providing a debdiff for hardy for openswan (LP: #917754)
  Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** short week, off Fri
** Weekly role: triage
** pending updates
** archive admin work
** audits
** mdeslaur
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** investigate several embargoed issues
** sbeattie
** Weekly role: community
** test openjdk regression update
** pending update
** gdb regression update testing
** apparmor work items
** possibly help with !AppArmor 2.7.1 release
** micahg
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** patch piloting
** finish rapid release testing 
** back to webkit
** tyhicks
** possibly short week (jury duty)
** Weekly role: happy place
** fixed ecryptfs kernel and upstreamed them in time for the window
** pending updates
** jjohansen
** Weekly role: happy place
** upstream !AppArmor 2.7.1 release
** pending updates
** !AppArmor work items (mount rules)
** review ecryptfs patches
** testing of proper fix for /proc/pid/mem issue
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** [jdstrand] People are talking quite a bit about the recent /proc/<pid>/mem handling in the kernel. We have released an update today (http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-1336-1/)
** [micahg] speakers for UDW and I thought it might be nice if someone gave a talk on helping with security updates. jdstrand thought someone had already done this before and will followup with the team
** [sbeattie] nuclearbob proposed a couple of additional tags for qrt in bug 913818 and bug 913812, and I wanted to get the team's opinions on them
** [ACTION] sbeattie to follow up on qrt bugs from QA team
** [ACTION] jdstrand to make sure ubuntu-security gets QRT bug mail

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-01-23-18.00.moin.txt
