{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

09:01 JaneW      mvo, dholbach & iwj have sent appologies
09:01 JaneW      and Kamion may need to be excused
09:01 JaneW      Riddell: yes sorry I missed that ;)
=== Burgwork [n=corey@S010600131016cf6f.gv.shawcable.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:01 JaneW      shout next time ;)
09:01 Keybuk     btw, what are we doing for the meeting next week?
09:01 Mithrandir HELLO, JANE
09:01 JaneW      is daniels expected or not?
09:01 Kamion     Keybuk: 10am
09:01 mdz        Keybuk: we'll all sit on IRC of course
09:02 JaneW      HELLO TOLLEF
09:02 Mithrandir :-)
09:02 Keybuk     Kamion: aww, I was quite looking forwards to doing it at 2am after
                 clubbing ;)
09:02 mdz        ok, let's get started
09:02 mdz        BenC: you're up
09:02 infinity   JaneW: Seems unlikely.
09:02 JaneW      Keybuk: pah
09:02 BenC       community-server-hardware-testing: General support is in place.
                 Announcement to start community testing will go out today or tomorrow.
09:02 BenC       Kernel status: Currently working on regressions in snd-powermac. Going
                 back through bug reports to work on regressions from breezy.
09:03 Keybuk     JaneW: I was especially looking forward to how you'd cope with it :p
                 BenC: if you need extra hands dealing with the community interaction for
09:03 mdz        server testing, I'm sure fabbione as server team lead will be happy to
                 oblige
=== zyga [n=zyga@ubuntu/member/zyga] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:03 BenC       mdz: ok
09:03 fabbione   mdz: did i say that while i was drunk?
09:03 JaneW      :P......*
09:03 BenC       hehe
09:03 mdz        fabbione: I paid helen back for you
09:04 mdz        BenC: thanks
09:04 fabbione   mdz: ok thanks.
09:04 mdz        JaneW: dholbach?
09:04 Keybuk     he "walking the dog" again? ;)
09:04 JaneW      I have that hang on
09:04 JaneW      dholbach: this week (done): bug triage, updates, motu organisation
09:04 JaneW      this week (todo): getting ekiga, bug triage, apt-get.org reviews
09:04 JaneW      next week: gnome 2.13.90, bug triage, apt-get.org reviews
09:05 JaneW      he is at a trade show
09:05 mdz        ok
09:05 mdz        doko: next
09:05 ogra       presenting edubuntu *g* :)
=== zach_ is now known as zachtib
09:05 doko       mdz: can we have a short rount at the end about who brings which hardware
                 to the meeting?
09:05 mdz        doko: sure
09:05 JaneW      ogra: yay
09:05 doko       this week:
                 - openoffice.org: ongoing merging with Debian unstable, setup baz archive
09:06 doko       for the debian/ parts, starting test builds to identify bugs present in
                 Ubuntu but not in other distros.
09:06 doko       - python-roadmap: python-central update, discussions/coordination with
                 debian-python
09:06 doko       - other: syncs/merges, updates to new upstream versions, make mozilla
09:06 doko       - java-roadmap: make mozilla-dev usable again, eclipse updates (works on
                 i386, problems on amd64)
09:06 doko       next week:
09:06 doko       - distro sprint
09:06 mdz        in fact, if everyone would include their sprint ideas with their updates,
                 that would be great
09:06 mdz        doko: anything in particular you will be working on during the sprint?
09:06 mdz        BenC: same question
09:06 doko       sprint ideas:
09:06 doko       == Transitions ==
09:06 doko       * Drop Python2.3, convert packages in main to use
                 python-central/python-support (MatthiasKlose)
09:06 doko       == Discussions ==
09:06 doko       * How to dump^Wdemote package from main to the MOTUs?
09:06 doko       * Planning work for dapper+1-toolchain. Is it still needed/appropriate? Or
                 just let it happen as in the past?
09:06 doko       * ISDN testing (MichaelVogt, MatthiasKlose)
09:07 mdz        cool
09:07 BenC       mdz: nothing in particular
09:07 doko       I'd like to have some feedback about the python packaging
09:07 doko       at the sprint ...
09:07 mdz        doko: thanks
09:07 mdz        fabbione?
09:08 infinity   doko : I may have some things to say about it.  I haven't been following
                 the debian-ptython stuff recently, though.
09:08 fabbione   * server-candy: no progress. Added -server activities to
                 DistroSprint2006Ideas
09:08 fabbione   * ubuntu-cluster: no progress.
09:08 fabbione   * boot-from-usb: implemented.
09:08 fabbione   * last week: Holidays.
09:08 fabbione   * this week: catch up from hell with emails and other activities. Started
                 apache-mini-sprint today.
09:08 fabbione   * next week: distro sprint: server candy work.
=== pitti points people to https://wiki.canonical.com/DistroSprintLondon2006Ideas again
=== LaserJock [n=mantha@ubuntu/member/laserjock] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:09 mdz        fabbione: thanks
09:09 mdz        infinity?
09:09 fabbione   mdz: welcome
                 last week: was on VAC all last week except for today; no spec progress
09:09 infinity   (obviously), and good progress on Apache 2.2 today at the Apache
                 minisprint.
09:09 infinity   next week: more apache mini-sprint, then distro sprint.
09:09 infinity   sprint ideas: I'd like to clear up any major library transitions we need
                 done, while I have people there to bug about FTBFS issues and such.
09:10 mdz        cool, thanks
09:10 mdz        JaneW: ian?
09:10 JaneW      iwj sent me load of stuff ito updates... let me know when to stop ;)
09:10 JaneW      Tasks and work progress:
                 AutomatedTesting: initial package uploaded to Debian and Ubuntu,
                 autodebtest 0.5.1, awaiting NEW processing in both. Announcement not yet
                 written; I'll do that when it's in at least one of the archives
09:10 JaneW      (announcement(s) will go to u-devel and d-devel at least). Next steps:
                 wire piuparts into it (some design required); talk to soyuz and sysadmin
                 people about what shape interface they want for automatic testing of
                 uploads; write m
09:10 JaneW      ore per-package tests.
                 Firefox: persistent but not consistent reports of crashes. I suspect the
09:10 JaneW      Flash plugin. There are definite problems with the hack for Flash sound
                 support, which I plan to disable. See
                 https://launchpad.net/malone/bugs/29760.
09:10 JaneW      DeveloperDocumentation: Not started, not blocked.
09:10 JaneW      Email backlog: caught up (yay)
09:10 JaneW      Things to do at the sprint:
********* I would like anyone with a firefox bug to please demo it front of me. I
09:10 JaneW      want to spend much of the week trying to track as many of these down as
                 possible.
********* AutomatedTesting discussions with sysadmin/soyuz people, to result in
09:10 JaneW      agreed interface shape and/or tasks. See above. Will elmo be at the sprint
                 ?
09:10 JaneW      * There are some systematic problems with the LP UI (for example, the
09:10 JaneW      3-column layout is one of my pet peeves). To appropriately drive
09:10 JaneW      change on these issues, we (the distro team) need to 1. discuss
09:10 JaneW      amongst ourselves what our opinions are and 2. come to some
09:10 JaneW      conclusions that have strong and broad support in the distro team.
09:10 JaneW      This will clarify discussions with LP designers and help us to drive
09:10 JaneW      good changes (even if they can't be implemented right away).
09:10 JaneW      It will also allow us to identify criticisms that are not widely
09:10 JaneW      shared so that those people can know they're not going to win the
09:10 JaneW      argument and can stop arguing. I would suggest the following
09:11 JaneW      structure: 1. plenary meeting (1h) to brainstorm opinions/
09:11 JaneW      criticisms/ideas and nominate champions for particular points of view
09:11 JaneW      (with lists of rough supporters for champions to talk to);
09:11 JaneW      2. refinement by champions offline and with informal discussions;
09:11 JaneW      3. plenary meeting where champions present opinions and meeting
09:11 JaneW      decides (by show of hands if necessary) which opinions have consensus.
09:11 JaneW      (Note that I envisage that some champions' positions will be
09:11 JaneW      indepedent of each other, but others might be contradictory.) This
09:11 JaneW      will take about 3h for each distro team member, which I hope is not
09:11 JaneW      too much and I think it will help clear the air.
09:11 JaneW      4. consensus views documented by champions passed to LP development
09:11 mdz        I don't think it'll be necessary to wire testing into uploads; we can just
                 periodically test the archive
09:11 JaneW      team (eg as bug reports).
09:11 JaneW      ok the last line...
09:11 JaneW      Probably, you don't want to paste all of that into the meeting :-).
09:11 JaneW      So as a summary:
09:11 Kamion     heh, bit late
09:11 JaneW      * IWJ would like to come to closure, and rough consensus, on disputed LP
                 UI issues - at least within the distro team.
09:11 JaneW      :)
09:11 pitti      mdz: hm, rejecting uploads on regressions would be sexy, though
                 he does realise that we did all this at UBZ, especially jbailey and I, and
09:11 Keybuk     we managed to get just one slight change to the UI out of all of our work?
                 :)
09:12 Kamion     (worth noting that bradb has got approval for a 2-column layout for some
                 of the bug pages)
09:12 mdz        yes, elmo will be at the sprint
09:12 mdz        Kamion: !
09:12 Keybuk     Kamion: "one" of the bug pages :)  but yes, \o/
09:12 Kamion     mdz: should be in either #ubuntu-devel or #canonical archives for today, I
                 forget which
09:12 Kamion     I think it was the bug contact index
09:13 mdz        JaneW: I don't want to argue launchpad UI issues at the sprint; LP won't
                 be represented there
09:13 ogra       for the overview and search output page
09:13 JaneW      mdz: ok, I'll gag him
09:13 mdz        it would just be us complaining
09:13 ogra       http://flickr.com/photos/84096161@N00/91073757/
09:13 mdz        I've received email with Malone issues from some of you, but not all
=== Kamion notes autodebtest being accepted into dapper
09:13 ogra       2 column layout ^^
09:14 mdz        those of you who didn't send mail don't get to complain about Malone :-)
09:14 mdz        JaneW: thanks
09:14 jbailey    mdz: The rest of us are just filing bugs instead. ;)
09:14 mdz        jbailey: I do want to be in the loop regarding what's most hurting you
09:14 jbailey    mdz: 'k
09:14 mdz        I will chase those down with LP mgmt personally
09:14 mdz        a list of 3 bug numbers is sufficient
09:15 jbailey    Cool.
09:15 mdz        jbailey: anything to report status-wise?
********* Toolchainroadmap - I'd like to peel off the timezone data from glibc and
                 put them into the langpacks.  It's not an ideal fit, but timezone data is
09:15 jbailey    updated a number of times (6 to 10) a year.  Have already had one request
                 to update Breezy.  Spoke with pitti, it seems good.  Will figure out what
                 this means and email to mdz for an okay.
09:15 jbailey    == Sprint Ideas ==
09:15 jbailey    * Roundtable discussion of dropping pre-i686 from main Ubuntu port.  A
                 side effect of this is probably a discussion on buntu.
09:15 jbailey    * Group session to understand how langpack updates work, and how I should
                 work with pitti (and others?) to get updates in.
09:15 jbailey    * Jam session.  Bring instruments. =)
09:15 jbailey
09:15 JaneW      jbailey: we making jam? 8)
09:15 Keybuk     mdz: I've tended to just talk to bradb directly ;)
09:16 pitti      jbailey: s/langpacks/locales package/ I assume?
09:16 jbailey    pitti: Yes, sorry.
09:16 mdz        jbailey: cool, thanks
09:16 mdz        JaneW: anything from jdub?
09:16 JaneW      nope, not a word
09:17 mdz        Kamion: next
09:17 Kamion     cd-bootloader: Implemented keymap selection. Only localised help is left
                 here.
                 ubuntu-express-bootloader: Implemented espresso-grub. (This just needs
09:17 Kamion     espresso-yaboot now and then it'll be done, and I think that's fairly
                 easy.)
                 ue-partitioning-tool: Made formatting and mounting be done using partman
09:17 Kamion     too, which eliminates some duplication and some outright wrong and
                 dangerous code. UI still slow and clunky though; I have plans for this,
                 probably to be discussed and played with at the sprint.
09:17 Kamion     ubuntu-express: Would have uploaded an initial working-for-me version
                 today but for my disk problems. I'll do it tomorrow.
09:17 Kamion     misc: Low-memory installation support improved (successful 32MB
                 installation on i386).
                 sprint-plans: Get somebody else up to speed on roughly how Espresso works
09:17 Kamion     so that they can help me, and work on UI and performance. Live CD on USB
                 sticks, maybe? Localised help in the new CD boot loader?
09:18 mdz        Kamion: please send something to ubuntu-devel when your WFM version is in
                 dapper
09:18 mdz        Kamion: thanks
09:18 Kamion     will do
09:18 mdz        Keybuk?
09:18 Keybuk     streamlined-boot: going well, various tweaks remaining but nothing earth
                 shattering
09:18 Keybuk     network-magic: networking hotplugs again, known bugs: no /etc/resolv.conf
                 and no ifrename
09:18 Keybuk     sprint: madwifi-ng and network-manager testing, make alsa udev-froody,
                 vmware testing and pretty much stealing hardware from people to test
09:18 Kamion     probably once I've got a live CD image with it on
=== elmo [n=james@83-216-156-21.jamest747.adsl.metronet.co.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:18 mdz        Keybuk: we should perhaps have a chat about this mount --move /var
                 business ;-)
09:18 Keybuk     mdz: oh?
09:19 mdz        Keybuk: you should have heard the noise elmo made
09:19 Keybuk     it only does it quickly ;)
09:19 mdz        LOOK OVER THERE shuffleshuffle NOTHING TO SEE HERE
09:19 Keybuk     pretty much, yes
09:19 mdz        ok
09:19 mdz        thanks
09:19 JaneW      mdz: I have mailed sivang, lathiat and krstic for updates, no reponse,
                 yet.
09:19 mdz        Mithrandir?
09:19 Keybuk     but yes, that's still looking for a better solution, don't worry :)
09:19 Mithrandir ooo-amd64: no progress
09:19 Mithrandir live-cd-performance: waiting for scott to do readahead magic, no progress
                 on lzma
09:20 Mithrandir simplified-livecd: almost there, merged the espresso hooks from Colin,
                 keymapper not there yet, waiting for some code from daniels
09:20 Mithrandir probe-for-root-fs: no progress
09:20 Mithrandir blocked on: live-cd-performance is semi-blocked on Scott, still no access
                 to popcon.ubuntu.com
09:20 Mithrandir next week: apache sprint, distro sprint
09:20 Keybuk     oh, sprint+=readahead with mithrandir :)
09:20 Mithrandir sprint stuff: get up to speed on u-e, get my specs done.
09:20 JaneW      mdz: will mail mjg59 too if he is not here
09:20 mdz        I think mjg59 has been swallowed by his Ph.D
09:20 JaneW      what of his goal?
09:20 ogra       power manager
09:20 mdz        please try to find out if we need to hand some of his work off to others
09:20 JaneW      power-management-config
09:21 ogra       is fine and working, all bits from mjg are in place so far
09:21 JaneW      ogra: what more is required
09:21 ogra       we ysould promote it to main
09:21 Mithrandir good that mjg59 isn't missing any parts.
09:21 mdz        Mithrandir: ok, thanks
09:21 Kamion     I need to go NOW, sorry
09:21 mdz        JaneW: mvo?
09:21 mdz        Kamion: understood
09:21 JaneW      mvo: Dev-Meeting 2006-01-26
09:21 ogra       Mithrandir, heh
09:21 JaneW      Did:
09:21 JaneW      * dist-upgrade tool:
09:21 JaneW      - got/answered lots of feedback
09:21 JaneW      - fixed lots of bugs
09:21 JaneW      - auto-retry on network failures
09:21 JaneW      - fixed kubuntu-desktop upgrade
09:21 JaneW      - improved logging a lot
09:21 JaneW      - has forced obsoletes now (for e.g. xscreensaver)
09:21 JaneW      - i18n works
09:21 JaneW      - big problem are dpkg failures (e.g. failed postinst) in the middle
09:21 Kamion     hardware I'm bringing to the sprint: amd64 desktop + keyboard + monitor,
                 including vmware installation; my powerbok
09:21 JaneW      of a upgrade
09:21 JaneW      - [trivia: we made it to a big german IT news site (golem.de) with it]
09:21 Kamion     powerbook, whatever
09:21 JaneW      * gnome-app-install:
09:21 JaneW      - new-look
09:21 JaneW      http://people.ubuntu.com/~mvo/gnome-app-install/new-look/gai--new-look.png
09:21 JaneW      implemented, can this go into dapper? or is it too
09:21 JaneW      late? The old treeview dosn't scale well with many packages
                 [ThirdPartyPackages]
09:22 JaneW      * gdebi:
09:22 JaneW      - improved ui (HIG), drag'n'drop. do we want it in main as default
09:22 JaneW      handler for .debs? [ThirdPartySpec]
09:22 JaneW      * notification-daemon transition again (minor api changes only, look
09:22 JaneW      of the notifications changed again) [DapperDesktopPlan]
09:22 JaneW      * various small stuff (python-apt, update-notifier, synaptic,
09:22 JaneW      update-manager
09:22 JaneW      will do:
                 yeah, I'm bringing a 160GB drive and a 74GB raptor.  Those can be used for
09:22 Mithrandir test installs and crack, but they'd need SATA cables, both signals and
                 power.
09:22 JaneW      - more upgrade tool work
09:22 JaneW      - send report to ubuntu-devel about current upgrade testing (failures
09:22 JaneW      in packages)
09:22 JaneW      - maybe upload gnome-app-install new-look into dapper (if it will be
                 approved)
09:23 mdz        we definitely want gdebi in main
09:23 mdz        and if it feels good, in desktop
09:23 mdz        JaneW: no sprint ideas from mvo?
09:23 JaneW      mdz: no sorry
09:24 mdz        JaneW: please collate everyone's suggestions from here and the wiki page
                 into a list we can use next week
09:24 mdz        ogra?
09:24 JaneW      mdz: will do
09:24 ogra       * thin-client-memory-usage: did some more playing with nbd
09:24 ogra       * thin-client-faster-startup: no work this week
09:24 ogra       * gnome-screensaver-default-image: package done will upload with dummy for
                 now ... sabdfl images after the asia tour
09:24 ogra       * general: last merges, flight 3, eurolinux conference, fiddling with
                 etherboot stuff
09:24 ogra       * next week:  sprint ... will do mostly ltsp spec finishing, uploading the
                 final xscreensaver split
09:24 ogra       === sprint ideas ===
09:24 ogra       flight 4 testing session since we all can share one CD set and will have a
                 bunch of differnt HW ;)
09:24 pitti      JaneW: can we collect it right on the wiki page?
09:24 ogra       === will bring ===
09:24 ogra       compaq thin client+ keyboard/mouse
09:24 ogra       ibook
09:24 ogra       amd64 lappie
09:24 ogra       usb dvd writer
09:24 ogra       160GB ide disk if needed
09:25 ogra       both laptops have spare patitions for test installs
09:25 mdz        ogra: what's left for faster-startup?
09:25 JaneW      pitti: certainly - in fact please do
09:25 ogra       that we talk about initscript removal ;) removing them doesnt work, i
                 think we need to set them to K
09:25 fabbione   JaneW: I will bring my powerbook, usb hd for testing, local copies of all
                 the .iso, dvd burner, some cd/dvd media.
09:26 pitti      JaneW: that's the page I announced for collecting ideas, so if you want to
                 add anything, there's no need for another place imho
09:26 ogra       mdz, additionally the intiramfs patch infinity wants to talk about at the
                 sprint
09:26 JaneW      pitti: indeed I'll use that, it was listed in my mail earlier too
09:26 mdz        ogra: doesn't work?
09:26 mdz        ogra: ok, let's talk about it after the meeting or tomorrow
09:26 ogra       mdz, not for rcS
09:27 Keybuk     JaneW: I'll bring my laptop, powerbook, guitar, and anything else I can
                 reasonably lug on the train
09:27 mdz        ogra: did you ask anyone else?
09:27 ogra       i talked with pere
09:27 infinity   ogra: I'll be doing a fair chunk of initramfs hacking at the sprint, to
                 get everyone's pet bugs sorted.
09:27 ogra       but i see that they are recreated in rcS
09:27 infinity   ogra: So, just tap me on the shoulder, and we'll sor tit.
09:27 infinity   sort it, too.
09:27 ogra       infinity, thats what i was referring to
09:27 mdz        ogra: recreated, really?
09:27 mdz        ogra: ok, talk to infinity about it rather than me
09:27 mdz        he's even in a convenient time zone
09:27 ogra       or reinstalled ... they are there again :)
09:27 pitti      I thought they were just recreated if all symlinks are removed
09:28 mdz        ogra: thanks
09:28 infinity   ogra: That's a feature.  Talk to me about that one, too.  (the init
                 scripts)
09:28 mdz        pitti?
09:28 ogra       infinity, oki
09:28 pitti      langpacks-desktopfiles:
09:28 pitti      * implemented langpack support for .directory files
09:28 pitti      * added cdbs part for langpack support for .server files
********* zyga looked into the gnome side of that and should have something going
09:28 pitti      by start of next week (otherwise I'll finish that; we will definitively
                 have it for dapper)
09:28 pitti      * wrote a script to track rebuild progress and catch packages which need
                 manual fixes
09:28 pitti      * talked to Riddell, KDE seems more difficult; mdz, can we split that into
                 a separate spec and assign that to Riddel?
                 other stuff this week: cups bug fixing, cleaned up ALSA configuration file
09:28 pitti      handling, improved default sound card selection, langpack update for
                 breezy (95% finished, will upload tonight if testing goes well), some
                 security updates
09:28 pitti      no progress on other specs
                 plan: finish breezy langpack update, complete implementation of gnome side
09:28 pitti      of langpacks-desktopfiles, catch up on bug triage, work with infinity on
                 PHP security update
                 sprint ideas so far: work on transitions with infinity (openssl, libdb,
09:28 pitti      mozilla, mysql); work on various locales stuff with jbailey; help
                 testing/implementing NetworkMagic and work on the linux-wlan-ng side for
                 it (since it's a bit 'spethial')
09:28 pitti      sprint hardware: iBook, USB wireless (linux-wlan-ng), usb stick, usb
                 headset
09:28 mdz        pitti: feel free to break out the KDE bits and hand off to Riddell
09:28 pitti      mdz: ok, I'll do that; easier to track that way
09:29 pitti      btw, langpack testing is thumbs up
09:29 mdz        cool
09:29 mdz        pitti: thanks
09:29 pitti      yay rosetta
09:29 mdz        seb128?
                 dapper-desktop-plan: hacked gdm to have the new menu and icons for entries
09:29 seb128     as described by the spec, edited the ubuntu-artwork theme according to the
                 spec
                 gstreamer0.10: updated rhythmbox (now daap works with gst0.10), new
                 upstream version of totem. New gnome-media and sound-juicer switched to
09:29 seb128     gst0.10. Only gnome-applets (has a patch upstream), evolution (just a
                 plugin, we don't need to build it) and serpentine (SVN ported) require
                 0.8, we can probably kick gstreamer0.8 out of the desktop next week
                 other: bug triage, bug triage, some GNOME updates, comments on launchpad,
09:29 seb128     played with the new gconf (split of the .xml by locale) on different boxes
                 before uploading it
09:29 pitti      late, but good :)
09:29 seb128     .
                 next week (sprint): GNOME 2.13.90, discussion about debugging packages for
09:29 seb128     dapper (would make bug work much easier for distro and upstream), getting
                 opinions on the desktop changes for dapper (what we need to adjust, what
                 others changes we want to do)
09:30 mdz        seb128: nice, thanks
09:30 mdz        Riddell?
09:30 Riddell    kubuntu-dapper-roadmap: KDE 3.5.1 packaging
09:30 Riddell    kubuntu-package-manager: discussions with mornfall and mdz, I believe he's
                 still to forward final costings though
09:30 Riddell    also: revu, koffice beta packaging, fixing upgrade
09:30 Riddell    blocking: mdz to decide on kde 3.5.1 upload
09:30 Riddell    sprint todo: start porting espresso to qt?
09:31 mdz        Riddell: go for it with 3.5.1
09:31 Riddell    great, thanks
09:31 mdz        Riddell: yes, waiting for pricing from mornfall
09:31 Riddell    he finished his last exam the other day, I'll poke him more
09:31 mdz        Riddell: thanks
09:31 mdz        fastest round of status updates EVAR
09:32 mdz        so who's bringing what musical instruments to the sprint?
09:32 Riddell    my mini mac probably doesn't count
09:32 ogra       i have a blues harp i can bring but cant play it :)
=== pitti won't bring the guitar with the plane, but will do so in april
09:32 Keybuk     I can bring guitar
09:32 pitti      will we have any guitar there?
09:32 jbailey    Flute, recorder, might get a drum but I'm not sure yet.
09:33 pitti      jbailey: no chance to forget the recorder?
09:33 mdz        doko: you wanted to discuss bringing hardware?
09:33 mdz        is there specific hardware we need?
09:33 fabbione   my hardware is big enough
09:33 Keybuk     do we know what the network situation there is yet?
09:33 fabbione   Keybuk: 2M/256k
09:33 Keybuk     or is it still "here's an ADSL line, enjoy"?
09:34 Keybuk     oh, good.  elmo: no e-mail for you
09:34 elmo       no sprint for me
=== neuralis [n=krstic@hagen.kdb.hr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:34 Keybuk     are you not popping down? :(
09:34 ogra       cant you set up a wireless link from mossop street ?
09:34 mdz        doko?
09:34 elmo       Keybuk: hey, it beats your current internet situation ;-)
09:34 elmo       ogra: across 10 miles?
09:34 elmo       you guys will have your own server
09:34 ogra       some hops needed indeed ;)
09:34 elmo       with local mirror, squid, chroots, whatever you want
09:34 JaneW      elmo: you are doing the server set-up on sunday though, right?
09:34 elmo       I'll QOS upload so you can kill the down
09:35 Mithrandir apache2.2's proxy stuff is much faster than squid. Or so thom claims.
09:35 elmo       JaneW: nah, distro team sucks I can't be bothered
09:35 elmo       JaneW: (or, rather: yes)
09:35 JaneW      elmo: :P
09:35 ogra       heh
09:35 jbailey    Should we try and dig up a local PPC box for builds for any portability
                 work?
09:35 mdz        server setup party sunday night?
09:35 JaneW      elmo: thanks *ruffle*
09:35 elmo       Mithrandir: well, whichever, I'm not going to be there, you guys can do
                 what you with it
09:35 doko       mdz: For OOo build I think about bringing an amd64 mini pc, just want to
                 avoid to bring the monitor and keyboard
09:35 JaneW      mdz: I'll bring the Amarula
09:35 doko       does somebody has a KVM switch?
09:36 mdz        doko: you could do builds on the server
09:36 Riddell    I'll bring kubuntu CDs
09:36 elmo       doko: the server will be a ronne class dl385
09:36 elmo       doko: would that not suffice?
09:36 mdz        JaneW: excellent!
09:36 Riddell    let me know if you want a box for your LUG etc
09:36 neuralis   mdz: we should discuss server testing after the meeting, there seems to be
                 some confusion
09:36 ogra       can anybody bring a serial mouse i can land until the conference for ltsp
                 testing ?
09:36 elmo       anyway, I'm brining a monitor and keyboard
09:36 Mithrandir elmo: shiny.
09:36 ogra       s/land/lend/
09:36 mdz        neuralis: now is OK, we have some extra time
09:36 doko       elmo: no, that's ok, as long as we can install test builds
09:37 fabbione   elmo: are you going to mirror cdimage as well? (just daily?)
09:37 JaneW      ogra: I think I have one lying around somewhere... may have the round
                 connector - that ok?
09:37 elmo       fabbione: probably won't have space to do full cdimage, only 6x72 drive,
                 but can mirror a subset if you tell me what you want
                 mdz: when we last spoke, you explained you wanted community-s-t to be an
09:37 neuralis   outline of testing steps that humans can carry out, much like we have with
                 LaptopTesting
09:37 doko       ogra; serial mouse, what is this? ;-P
09:37 ogra       JaneW, the round one is ps2
09:38 ogra       doko, thats what i'm always asking my edubuntu users ;)
09:38 fabbione   elmo: dunno.. i think daily/live for big 3 will do
09:38 mdz        neuralis: yes, and it looks like you've made a good start on that on
                 ServerTesting
09:38 fabbione   elmo: no need more than that i think
09:38 mdz        neuralis: (that was you, right?)
09:38 elmo       fabbione: well, someone let me know by Saturday night ;-)
09:38 neuralis   mdz: yes, that was me; i wasn't under the impression you wanted anything
                 else for that spec?
09:38 pitti      ogra: I might still have a serial mouse in my cellar somewhere if you need
                 it
09:38 fabbione   elmo: ok
09:39 ogra       pitti, that would be great
09:39 elmo       doko: as I said, I'm not there, someone else'll be in chargeof the box, so
                 'tever
09:39 mdz        neuralis: BenC will be coordinating the actual testing with the community
09:39 Keybuk     ogra: I have some serial mice somewhere
                 mdz: BenC looked over ServerTesting and didn't have additions, so i was
09:39 neuralis   expecting you'll simply ok the spec so the remainder of the wiki pages can
                 be created
09:39 ogra       ah, cool
09:39 ogra       one is enough :)
09:39 mdz        neuralis: my reply about the spec was that it didn't seem to reflect what
                 we agreed on (and indeed what you have already worked on)
09:39 pitti      ogra: don't count on mine :)
09:39 ogra       pitti, k
09:40 ogra       Keybuk, so if you could bring one ...
09:40 Keybuk     ogra: yup, I'm reasonably sure I know where I put them
09:40 ogra       great
09:40 Keybuk     should be in the loft, somewhere under the mess of wires I added last
                 weekend :p
09:40 ogra       lots of ltsp users will owe you one :)
=== cassidy [n=cassidy@f1-pc174.ulb.ac.be] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
                 mdz: i altered the spec to leave the 'certification/community testing
09:41 neuralis   catalog' spec bits in place, but explicity said we're first approaching
                 the problem via wiki and ServerTesting. would you like me to move all the
                 testing catalog parts to a separate spec?
                 neuralis: yes, I think that would be best.  we're saying that
09:42 mdz        ServerTesting is a target for dapper, and so the spec should reflect the
                 dapper goals
09:42 neuralis   mdz: okay. is there anything else that you want done?
09:42 Mithrandir mdz: is the meeting adjourned?  I don't think the whole distro team needs
                 to be around for the community server testing thingy?
09:42 mdz        neuralis: thanks for your efforts on those specs
=== licio is now known as Spl4y
09:43 JaneW      ogra: we do have a serial mouse
09:43 mdz        any other last-minute discussion topics, or shall we finish early for the
                 first time(!)?
09:43 fabbione   the latter++
=== BenC [n=bcollins@debian/developer/bcollins] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:43 JaneW      ogra: ping me tomorrow in case I forget, but I will bring it, if I rem to
                 dig it out the back room
09:44 ogra       JaneW, but Keybuk has the shorter transportation to do
09:44 JaneW      ogra: well if you let me know by 15:00UTC tomorrow if you need it, I can
                 bring it
09:44 mdz        ok
09:44 mdz        adjourned then
09:44 mdz        thanks, everyone

</pre>
