{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Server survey: official server online, call for volunteers for a last test and to prepare annoucement. 
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Ubuntu VM builder =====

soren uploaded his rework of ubuntu-vm-builder. The package has been renamed to vm-builder. It is waiting in the NEW queue to be processed by an archive administrator. nijaba has started to write up a tutorial based on the bzr branch of vm-builder. He plans to put it on the Ubuntu help wiki.

ACTION: soren to write a blog post about vm-builder once it's available in the archive

ACTION: sommer to update the virtualization section of the server guide with references to the new ubuntu-vm-builder

ACTION: nijaba to write a tutorial on vm-builder and put it on the help wiki

ACTION: soren to ping UWN editor to get a paragraph about vm-builder in UWN

===== Tomcat6 server stack support =====

Koon wrote up a blog post which has been published on the ubuntuserver blog. mathiaz asked about the state of the patches to reduce the pulled in dependencies. Koon reported that two of them are left and doko was looking at them.

===== Review ServerGuide for Intrepid =====

sommer added a <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/ubuntu-support.html|support paragraph]]</nowiki> to the server guide. He also reported that the ldap sections had been updated to cover the new cn=config backend. mathiaz reminded that sections that needed reviews were listed in <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IntrepidServerGuide| the wiki page]]</nowiki>. Reviews can be conducted either online on <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/ | the development documentation website]]</nowiki> or by checking out a bzr branch of the documentation as outlined in the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#Ubuntu%20Server%20Guide|knowledge base]]</nowiki>.

ACTION: kirkland to review the RAID section of the server guide

ACTION: mathiaz to review the ldap section of the server guide

ACTION: sommer to specify the review work on the Roadmap

===== Ubuntu Server survey =====

nijaba reported that a host had been provided for the server survey. He is looking for volunteers to check that everything is fine before the launch and start the announce as planned on the wiki. He thinks a good launch date could be Mon, September the 22nd. Anyone interested in helping out should <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NicolasBarcet|contact him]]</nowiki>.

===== UFW Package Integration =====

jdstrand reported that ufw had been uploaded before Feature Freeze. Thanks to the good work of nxvl and didrocks support for ufw has been added to almost all packages from the server tasksel list. mathiaz asked if the <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/firewall.html|the firewall section]]</nowiki> of the server guide had to be updated.

ACTION: jdstrand to review the firewall section of the ubuntu server guide

===== Alpha 5 and Feature Freeze =====

mathiaz reminded that alpha5 is scheduled for Thursday this week. Testing of the -server isos will be asked up to the release. He also added that now that Feature Freeze is in effect the development team is focusing on bug fixing and testing.

===== Clamav and Spamassass in Main =====

nealmcb asked about the state of clamav and spamassassin in intrepid. According to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ClamavSpamassassinInMain|the wiki page]]</nowiki> all the MIRs have been written.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, September 9th at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:01] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[16:02] <soren> o/
[16:02] <nijaba> [Meeting started]
[16:02] <mathiaz> Today's agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:02] <soren> MootBot: Feel free to enter the game any time you find it convenient.
[16:03] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
[16:03] <mathiaz> Last week meeting notes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Roadmap
[16:03] <mathiaz> Last week meeting notes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20080826
[16:03] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Ubuntu VM builder
[16:03] <mathiaz> soren: did you upload something new ?
[16:03] <soren> I did indeed.
[16:04] <soren> https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+queue?queue_state=0&queue_text=vm-builder
[16:04] <mathiaz> nijaba: did you get a chance to review the new package ?
[16:05]  * nijaba just started working on the tutorial today.
[16:05] <mathiaz> nijaba: are you using soren's bzr branch ?
[16:05] <soren> nijaba: It should be mostly compatible with the old one.
[16:05] <soren> I have a transition plan for when it's completely compatible.
[16:05] <nijaba> mathiaz: yes
[16:06] <nijaba> soren: yep, I'll send you a few notes later on that subject
[16:06] <soren> Cool.
[16:06] <mathiaz> sommer: did you get a chance to look at the package also ?
[16:06] <soren> nijaba: Any regressions from u-v-b to v-b should be considered bugs.
[16:06] <sommer> mathiaz: not yet, still on the list though
[16:07] <mathiaz> soren: have you wrote a blog post about your release ?
[16:07] <nijaba> soren: so far, only finding regression with my intrepid branch
[16:07] <mathiaz> soren: or advertise the upload somewhat ?
[16:07] <nijaba> mathiaz: he did on his blog, IIRC
[16:07] <mathiaz> soren: or you're waiting for the package to get through NEW ?
[16:07] <soren> mathiaz: I will when it's actually in the archive.
[16:08] <soren> I've announced stuff before their actual availability before... IRC was no fun for the next few days.
[16:08] <nijaba> http://warma.dk/blog/article/90/
[16:08] <mathiaz> [ACTION] soren to write a blog post about vm-builder once it's available in the archive
[16:09] <mathiaz> [ACTION] sommer to update the virtualization section of the server guide with references to the new ubuntu-vm-builder
[16:09] <nijaba> there is also going to be a feature in the gss newsletter
[16:09] <mathiaz> nijaba: awesome
[16:09] <nijaba> (first edition of a newsletter going out to support customers)
[16:09] <mathiaz> nijaba: where do you plan to push your tutorial ?
[16:09] <nijaba> mathiaz: wiki once I have a first valid draft
[16:10] <nijaba> mathiaz: h.u.c
[16:10] <mathiaz> nijaba: great - should we also write up something for the UWN ?
[16:10] <mathiaz> (once it's in the archive)
[16:10]  * nealmcb cheers
[16:11] <nijaba> mathiaz: why not, but my to do is a bit full atm, so it may take a bit for me to write it
[16:11] <nijaba> any volunteers?
[16:11] <mathiaz> [ACTION] nijaba to write a tutorial on vm-builder and put on the help wiki (h.u.c/community)
[16:12] <nealmcb> I"d think UWN would just want a link to soren's post?
[16:13] <mathiaz> nealmcb: seems like a good option
[16:13] <mathiaz> soren: could you ping UWN once you've published your post ?
[16:13] <soren> mathiaz: How do I do that, exactly?
[16:13] <nealmcb> but the more posts/viewpoints the better, of course
[16:14] <mathiaz> boredandblogging: is your man
[16:14] <soren> (Wow, it took me 5 seconds to type "exactly")
[16:14] <soren> mathiaz: Ah, right. Will do.
[16:14] <mathiaz> soren: great !
[16:15] <mathiaz> [ACTION] soren to ping UWN editor to get a paragraph about vm-builder in UWN
[16:15] <mathiaz> soren: anything else to report on the vm-builder front ?
[16:15] <soren> Probably, but I think I'll save that for my blog post. :)
[16:15] <mathiaz> soren: thanks
[16:15] <mathiaz> let's move on
[16:16] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Tomcat6 server stack support
[16:16] <mathiaz> Koon: thanks for writing the post
[16:16] <mathiaz> Koon: I've published it on ubuntuserver.w.com
[16:16] <Koon> np, a couple of nice reactiosn already
[16:16] <mathiaz> Koon: what's the state of the patches ?
[16:17] <mathiaz> Koon: it seems most of them have been sponsored
[16:17] <Koon> the remaining two are the conflictual ones
[16:17] <Koon> so it's more doko's decision
[16:18] <Koon> as our java platform master, he dedcides
[16:18] <mathiaz> Koon: do they pull in a lot of dependencies ?
[16:19] <Koon> there are two remaining bugs
[16:19] <Koon> bug 249178 has two aspects
[16:19] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 249178 in ecj "libecj-java shouldn't recommend java2-runtime" [Low,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/249178
[16:19] <Koon> one is that it pulls a full java runtime, that needs to be fixed and is undisputed
[16:20] <Koon> the other is that by recommending libecj-java-gcj you get a full GCJ runtime with it
[16:20] <mathiaz> Koon: right - I'm more interested by the space it may take on the isos
[16:20] <Koon> and at the moment it means a few X libraries through a libgcj9-0-awt recommend in libgcj9-0
[16:21] <mathiaz> Koon: although we have a lot of spaces left on the -server isos, it seemed that there are a lot of deps pulled in
[16:21] <Koon> the other remaining bug is bug 261847 - this one pulls a lot through a libnss-mdns recommend in openjdk-6-jre-headless
[16:21] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 261847 in openjdk-6 "Installing openjdk-6-jre-headless pulls in dbus/avahi" [Critical,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/261847
[16:22] <Koon> i'm not really sure what is not already on the server iso though.
[16:22] <mathiaz> Koon: ok - it's under discussion for now and the right person is involved
[16:22] <doko> Koon: I'm back, looking at the latter. I'll fix the former as indicated in the bug report
[16:22] <Koon> doko: great ! thx
[16:23] <mathiaz> ok - let's move on
[16:23] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Review ServerGuide for Intrepid
[16:23] <mathiaz> sommer: any news on the apache2 section from jjesse ?
[16:24] <sommer> mathiaz: haven't heard from him about that section yet
[16:24] <sommer> I added a  support section though
[16:25] <sommer> I think it covers what dendrobates wanted, but if not just let me know
[16:25] <mathiaz> sommer: http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/ubuntu-support.html ?
[16:25] <sommer> mathiaz: yep, that's it
[16:26] <kirkland> i still owe sommer a review of the RAID stuff in there...  i'll get to it this week
[16:26] <sommer> heh, cool... the ldap sections are all updated for cn=config as well
[16:26] <mathiaz> [ACTION] kirkland to review the RAID section of the server guide
[16:27] <mathiaz> sommer: I'll take a look at the cn=config stuff
[16:27] <sommer> mathiaz: great thanks
[16:27] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz to review the ldap section of the server guide
[16:28] <sommer> I think that's pretty much all the news from me :)
[16:28] <mathiaz> sommer: great !
[16:28] <mathiaz> sections of the server guide that can be reviewed are listed in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IntrepidServerGuide
[16:29] <mathiaz> and reviews can be made from http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/
[16:30] <mathiaz> sommer: could you update the roadmap mentionning the review work ?
[16:30] <nealmcb> sommer, is there a section in other ubuntu guides on support?  seems like the story is the same for all editions
[16:30] <sommer> mathiaz: sure, will do
[16:30] <nealmcb> except for the lenght of time it is supported
[16:31] <mathiaz> sommer: so that potential contributors can dive in quickly
[16:31] <sommer> nealmcb: nope that's a new section
[16:31] <mathiaz> [ACTION] sommer to specify the review work on the Roadmap
[16:31] <nealmcb> and e.g. desktop guide doesn't mention it?
[16:32] <mathiaz> nealmcb: you may wanna ask the ubuntu-doc team about it
[16:33]  * nealmcb nods
[16:33] <sommer> nealmcb: ya, it may just have never came up before, or at least the commercial side of things
[16:33] <mathiaz> nealmcb: the desktop guide is actually used by yelp - so I'm not sure if it would be usefull there
[16:33] <nealmcb> mathiaz: ?
[16:34] <mathiaz> nealmcb: hm - it's up to the desktop guide author - I think the ubuntu-doc team is the best ressource to ask
[16:35] <mathiaz> let's move on.
[16:35]  * nealmcb nods
[16:35] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] # Server survey: official server online, call for volunteers for a last test and to prepare annoucement.
[16:35] <mathiaz> nijaba: ^ ?
[16:35] <nijaba> IS has finally provided us with a host for the server survey! \o/
[16:35] <nijaba> I should have a RC of the survey by the end of the week
[16:35] <nijaba> I would need some volunteers to check that everything is fine before the launch and start the announce as planned on the wiki.
[16:35] <nijaba> I think a good launch date could be mon sept 22nd.
[16:36]  * sommer volunteers
[16:36] <mathiaz> nijaba: great ! I think owh was interested in that
[16:36] <mathiaz> nijaba: you may wanna get back to him
[16:37] <mathiaz> nijaba: should volunteer just email you ?
[16:37] <nijaba> mathiaz: sure
[16:38] <mathiaz> nijaba: great - anything else on this subject ?
[16:38] <nijaba> mathiaz: not unless someone has something to add
[16:39] <mathiaz> nijaba: did you add some questions to the survey ?
[16:39] <mathiaz> nijaba: or the questions are the same as the ones back in may ?
[16:39] <nijaba> mathiaz: yes I did add the question from Redmonk, our partner, still waiting for something from Intel
[16:40] <nijaba> but the survey will not be delayed further waiting for this
[16:40] <mathiaz> nijaba: ok. Thanks.
[16:40] <mathiaz> let's move on to review the Roadmap
[16:41] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Roadmap#Documentor%20corner
[16:41] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Roadmap
[16:41] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] UFW Package Integration
[16:41] <mathiaz> jdstrand: what's the state ?
[16:41] <mathiaz> jdstrand: it seems that things are moving well - most of the packages have been updated
[16:42] <jdstrand> ufw was uploaded before feature freeze
[16:42]  * nijaba hugs didrocks and nxvl for their work - awesome
[16:42] <jdstrand> also, thanks to didrocks and nxvl, all packages from the server tasksel list have been updated
[16:43] <jdstrand> and uploaded before FF
[16:44] <mathiaz> jdstrand: great - so I guess that's we're done for this cycle on the package integration front
[16:44] <mathiaz> jdstrand: ie we're not trying to add support for ufw to more packages
[16:44] <jdstrand> mathiaz: mostly-- there I a couple bugs to fix, but they are not FF dependent
[16:44] <jdstrand> s/I/are/
[16:45] <mathiaz> jdstrand: ok - is there anything to be done on the documentation front ?
[16:45] <nijaba> mathiaz: integration with ufw is a feature or a bug?
[16:45] <mathiaz> nijaba: a feature
[16:45] <nijaba> if the former, then we are stuck, right
[16:45] <jdstrand> but, yeah, we are in good shape. I think didrocks is planning on working on squid and postgresql
[16:46] <jdstrand> nijaba: I have been considering it a feature-- but at this point it is no more that a Suggests and a file dropped in /etc/ufw/applications.d
[16:46] <jdstrand> nijaba: caused I started using dpkg triggers. so additional packages could probably get an easy FFe
[16:47] <mathiaz> jdstrand: is the content of the server guide up-to-date ?
[16:47] <nijaba> jdstrand: cool to know. so we may get a few addt'l packages before release
[16:47] <mathiaz> jdstrand: I notice there is a section about "ufw Application integration"
[16:47] <nijaba> Koon: did you add the definition for ufw in Tomcat?
[16:47] <jdstrand> nijaba: if you want to add some suggested packages to ServerTeam/Roadmap#UFW Package Integration, then maybe people will pick them up. I'd be happy to sponsor them
[16:47] <Koon> nijaba: no
[16:48] <jdstrand> mathiaz: I haven't reviewed it, but sommer and I talked about it some last week
[16:48] <nijaba> jdstrand: adding Tomcat then ;)
[16:48] <sommer> jdstrand: mathiaz: yep, I made a few adjustments based on our discussion
[16:49] <mathiaz> sommer: great ! :)
[16:49] <mathiaz> anything else to add wrt to ufw ?
[16:49] <jdstrand> sommer: can you point me to it? I added a new option with the dpkg triggers changes, but it likely won't change anything you've done
[16:49] <jdstrand> mathiaz: as always, test and report bugs :)
[16:50] <mathiaz> jdstrand: http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/firewall.html
[16:50] <sommer> jdstrand: ^^ yep
[16:50] <jdstrand> cool
[16:50] <mathiaz> jdstrand: are you planning to do a review of the section ?
[16:50] <jdstrand> mathiaz: yes
[16:51] <mathiaz> [ACTION] jdstrand to review the firewall section of the ubuntu server guide
[16:51] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open Discussion.
[16:51]  * nijaba added tomcat and libvirt to the ufw package integration list
[16:52] <jdstrand> nijaba: hmm, libvirt will be hard cause of nat...
[16:52] <mathiaz> As you know, we're passed FeatureFreeze now - so we're shifting our efforts on bug fixing
[16:52] <mathiaz> and testing
[16:52] <jdstrand> nijaba: soren and I have had some discussions about it, but I haven't come up with something good yet
[16:53] <mathiaz> alpha5 is also scheduled for thursday
[16:53] <nijaba> jdstrand: ok, I guess you are the best judge.
[16:53] <nijaba> but that would be very nice
[16:53] <mathiaz> so iso testing will be done in the next two days
[16:53] <jdstrand> oh I agree, but the ufw command doesn't do nat yet at all
[16:53] <nijaba> specially if that can be done at the same time kirkland's meta packages get in
[16:54] <nijaba> I would call for a ****group hug of mathiaz****, whom has been shaken a bit lately on ubuntu-devel.  It was way too hard for all the good work that was put to it.
[16:55]  * kirkland hugs
[16:55]  * nijaba hugs mathiaz
[16:55] <jdstrand> nijaba: for nat and other fancy stuff, need to update /etc/ufw/*rules manually, there *may* be an improvement on that front, if the gui-ufw folks have anything to say about it
[16:55]  * Koon hugs mathiaz
[16:55]  * zul hugs mathiaz 
[16:55]  * sommer also gives matiaz a big hug
[16:55]  * jdstrand gives mathiaz a big hug
[16:55]  * nealmcb hugs mathiaz and neilw for moving things forward on the rubygems front
[16:56] <mathiaz> thanks guys ! :)
[16:56] <nijaba> yes, neilw deserves a hug as well!
[16:56] <mathiaz> anything else ?
[16:57]  * nealmcb wonders about mail and spam stuff - updates from scottk?
[16:58] <mathiaz> @schedule
[16:58] <ubottu> Error: Please don't use @schedule during a meeting
[16:59] <mathiaz> nealmcb: it seems that all of the MIR have been written
[16:59] <mathiaz> nealmcb: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ClamavSpamassassinInMain
[16:59] <nealmcb> :)
[16:59] <nijaba> \o/
[16:59] <mathiaz> sommer: wrote most of them
[16:59]  * nealmcb hugs sommer
[16:59]  * nijaba too
[17:00]  * nealmcb sends props to scottk
[17:00] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time.
[17:01] <mathiaz> next week, same place, same time ?
[17:01] <sommer> oh ya, that project should be good
[17:01] <nijaba> +1
[17:01] <Koon> wfm
[17:01] <sommer> me too :)
[17:02] <mathiaz> exzellentes - see ya all next week - don't forget iso testing of alpha5 images !
[17:02] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
</pre>
