{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation (continued x 3)
** smb and utlemming to look at Bug #791850
** Daviey and adam_g to address Bug #791850 
* Oneiric Development
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)
* Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====

As Somer has sadly announced he does not have sufficient time to continue
his excellent work on the docs, kim0 is going to help us by working to create
a new community around documentation.

Regarding oneiric images not booting on hvm instances, smb had a test image
fixing that problem.

===== Oneiric Development =====

With everyone sprinting the previous week, our bug list had grown again.
Both the triage report and server release bug lists needed work.  Daviey
said that feature freeze exceptions need to be raised for every feature not
yet landed.

===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====

lynxman and company are sprinting next week for openstack and orchestra.
Linuxcon is this week.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) =====

smb was wondering whether the rename of xvd to sd patch should be reverted on
maverick as well.  smoser was not comfortable with that, they will discuss
further.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====

hggdh asked, (1)  "are there any new tests we should run on the ISO tracker?"
and (2) "what is the status of openstack & companions?".  Daviey said we need
more tests, and hopefully Jamespage will be able to help with that soon.
Jamespage started a list of openstack testing at
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Oneiric/OpenStackTestPlan.

===== Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community =====

Daviey asked anyone in the community interested in helping to make Ubuntu
server rock even more to ping him.

===== Meeting Actions =====

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, August 23d at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>

Meeting started by hallyn at 15:59:30 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2011/ubuntu-meeting.2011-08-16-15.59.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
''ACTION:'' Daviey to sync with kim0 offline regarding docs  (hallyn, 16:02:23)

* Oneiric Development
''LINK:'' http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/triage-report.html   (Daviey, 16:04:53)
''LINK:'' http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html   (Daviey, 16:04:58)
''ACTION:'' all look over http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html  (hallyn, 16:05:39)

* Ubuntu Server Team Events

* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)

* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
''ACTION:'' smoser and smb to further discuss xvd renaming (bug 821466)  (hallyn, 16:16:02)

* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)

* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)

* Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
''ACTION:'' anyone (anyone!) who wants to make ubuntu server even more awesome, talk to Daviey  (hallyn, 16:32:43)

* Open Discussion

* Announce next meeting date and time

Meeting ended at 16:34:46 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* Daviey to sync with kim0 offline regarding docs
* all look over http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html
* smoser and smb to further discuss xvd renaming (bug 821466)
* anyone (anyone!) who wants to make ubuntu server even more awesome, talk to Daviey

=== Action items, by person ===

* Daviey
* * Daviey to sync with kim0 offline regarding docs
* * anyone (anyone!) who wants to make ubuntu server even more awesome, talk to Daviey
* smb
* * smoser and smb to further discuss xvd renaming (bug 821466)
* smoser
* * smoser and smb to further discuss xvd renaming (bug 821466)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* hallyn (65)
* Daviey (49)
* smb (24)
* meetingology (16)
* hggdh (12)
* zul (10)
* smoser (8)
* robbiew (8)
* ogra_ (5)
* utlemming (5)
* jamespage (4)
* ubottu (3)
* kirkland (1)
* RoAkSoAx (1)
* nijaba (1)
* toddc (1)

=== Full Log ===

 15:59:30 <hallyn> #startmeeting

 15:59:30 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Aug 16 15:59:30 2011 UTC.  The chair is hallyn. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 15:59:30 <meetingology> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.

 15:59:42 <hallyn> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 15:59:42 <meetingology> TOPIC: Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 15:59:50 <hallyn> sommer and j1mc to look at doc presentation (continued x 3)

 16:00:04 <zul> heylo

 16:00:15 <hallyn> what do we do about the docs? :)

 16:00:26 <zul> docs what docs? :)

 16:00:52 <hallyn> robbiew: ^ something was said about this last week somewhere, right?

 16:01:34 <robbiew> kim0 is helping us there

 16:01:42 <robbiew> reviewing what we have

 16:01:57 <hallyn> ok, i'll mark that as an action to discuss next week?

 16:02:02 <robbiew> I guess

 16:02:07 * Daviey takes the action of syncing with kim0 offline.

 16:02:13 <hallyn> yay

 16:02:23 <hallyn> #action Daviey to sync with kim0 offline regarding docs

 16:02:23 * meetingology Daviey to sync with kim0 offline regarding docs

 16:02:31 <hallyn> Daviey and adam_g to address Bug #791850

 16:02:32 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 791850 in linux (Ubuntu Oneiric) "oneiric cluster compute (hvm) instances do not boot" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/791850

 16:02:58 <Daviey> was it adam, or utlemming?

 16:02:59 <hallyn> (and, related, smb and utlemming to look at Bug #791850 )

 16:03:07 <hallyn> in the meeting logs i saw adam

 16:03:12 <utlemming> there was a typo there....

 16:03:16 <hallyn> ah

 16:03:30 <utlemming> SMB has a test image with that fixed

 16:03:32 <hallyn> noted.  so what's the status?

 16:03:37 <hallyn> cool

 16:03:43 <Daviey> looks like it is making progress!

 16:03:44 <smb> I need to poke upstream a bit more there but I have a patch to revert, yes

 16:03:44 <Daviey> yah

 16:04:03 <hallyn> smb: do you think it warrants an action still?

 16:04:22 <smb> No, I think we are on track

 16:04:29 <hallyn> awesome, thanks

 16:04:34 <hallyn> #topic Oneiric Development

 16:04:34 <meetingology> TOPIC: Oneiric Development

 16:04:42 <Daviey> Welcome back everyone!

 16:04:47 <Daviey> With most of the team sprinting last week, our incoming bug triage fell off the radar slightly.

 16:04:50 <Daviey> We need to add some love to:

 16:04:53 <Daviey> http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/triage-report.html

 16:04:55 <Daviey> Release bugs:

 16:04:58 <Daviey> http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html

 16:05:00 <Daviey> If you know of a bug not being tracked on that page, please raise it now or shortly after the meeting.

 16:05:12 <Daviey> We really need Feature Freeze Exceptions raised for every feature not yet landed.

 16:05:28 <Daviey> If there is a feature you know of, not being tracked at the top of that page, please make it known.

 16:05:39 <hallyn> #action all look over http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html

 16:05:39 * meetingology all look over http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html

 16:06:10 <Daviey> FWIW, the feature reaper might have to show it's head soon.

 16:06:32 <hallyn> scythes look cool

 16:06:37 <hallyn> <shrug>

 16:06:46 <Daviey> Everyone knows what a 'feature' is, i guess>

 16:06:48 <Daviey> ?

 16:07:02 <smb> Anything we cannot claim a bug?

 16:07:21 <Daviey> smb: couldn't put it better myself!

 16:07:42 <utlemming> or anything we can't make sound like a bug?

 16:07:43 <Daviey> anything else for development?

 16:07:49 <Daviey> utlemming: Shhh (but yes)

 16:07:59 <Daviey> But actually, feature bugs are helpful for tracking.

 16:08:12 <hallyn> thanks, Daviey.  moving on then,

 16:08:19 <hallyn> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:08:19 <meetingology> TOPIC: Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:08:41 <hallyn> i think we're event'ed out, but linuxcon is going on right now and at least plumber's is coming up

 16:08:46 <Daviey> Next Week - lynxman and co are sprinting.

 16:09:06 <Daviey> doing orchestra and openstack love.

 16:09:17 <toddc> +

 16:09:20 <zul> linuxcon thisweek

 16:09:40 <Daviey> So say hello to zul if you see him in Vancoover.

 16:09:50 <hallyn> ok, moving on,

 16:09:51 * robbiew leaves today

 16:09:54 <robbiew> for linxcon

 16:10:00 <zul> yay

 16:10:12 <zul> robbiew: bring your tuxedo

 16:10:17 <hallyn> and kirkland is there?

 16:10:31 <kirkland> hallyn: I am in Vancouver :-)

 16:10:32 <zul> at kvm forum somewhere

 16:10:47 <hallyn> excellent

 16:10:48 <hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)

 16:10:48 <meetingology> TOPIC: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)

 16:10:58 <robbiew> zul: I got one ;)

 16:11:09 <zul> robbiew: bringing it?

 16:11:24 <zul> robbiew: or tux shirt?

 16:11:29 <hallyn> hggdh: o/

 16:12:09 <hallyn> drat, moving on then

 16:12:12 <hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

 16:12:12 <meetingology> TOPIC: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

 16:12:15 <smb> Heya, there is sort of just two little things from my side...

 16:12:18 <robbiew> zul: bringing

 16:12:18 <smb> Based on a recent incident (or user confusion) -> bug #821466 I am wondering whether we may want to consider reverting the rename xvd to sd special patch from Maverick as well. On the other hand its only a matter of time till that dies now...

 16:12:19 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 821466 in linux (Ubuntu) "Lucid kernel works on Rackspace cloud server, Maverick kernel does not" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/821466

 16:12:56 <smb> Its gone in Natty and I would think EC2 can do without... smoser ?

 16:13:12 <hggdh> \o (late, I know)

 16:13:25 <smoser> wait, what ? smb ?

 16:13:30 <hallyn> hggdh: (cool, we'll go back when smb is done)

 16:13:52 <smoser> oh, i see. i would not say we should change the device naming in an SRU

 16:14:14 <smb> smoser, Would you think too, that maverick EC2 would still work with the devices be xvda... and so on?

 16:14:22 <nijaba> o/ (late too)

 16:14:26 <smb> Ok, so we just keep it that way

 16:14:43 <hallyn> does that mean mav kernel won't work on rackspace?

 16:14:51 <smoser> smb, i'm not sure. without thinking more.

 16:15:29 <hallyn> do you want to discuss out of band after thinking more?

 16:15:34 <smb> Other thing. Currently trying to test latest oneiric dom0. PVM seems ok. HVM... well the loader seems ok after todays update, but something evil is going on with my bonding setup...

 16:15:47 <smb> hallyn, Yeah, no hurry there

 16:16:02 <hallyn> #action smoser and smb to further discuss xvd renaming (bug 821466)

 16:16:02 * meetingology smoser and smb to further discuss xvd renaming (bug 821466)

 16:16:03 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 821466 in linux (Ubuntu) "Lucid kernel works on Rackspace cloud server, Maverick kernel does not" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/821466

 16:16:11 <smoser> if i understand correctly, smb, you're suggesting that we should make maverick use the /dev/xvda based naming rather than the patch we had there to make the first device as /dev/sda

 16:16:14 <smoser> is that correct?

 16:16:32 <smb> smoser, correct (revert the patch doing that like in natty)

 16:16:50 <smoser> because i'm really pretty sure that we should not make such a change in a stable release, especially one that is just going to go away soon enough

 16:17:07 <smoser> lucid, though, is another story

 16:17:22 <smoser> we will need that to upgrade smoothly to 12.04, so will have to think about it.

 16:17:24 <smb> smoser, Ok, can live with that too. So I would document it in the bug and be done

 16:17:28 <utlemming> also, I would be a little concerned about what happens when a user updates

 16:18:06 <utlemming> if users aren't mounting via persistent names, than that sort of change could break them.

 16:18:15 <hallyn> so is that decided (comment and make no change)?

 16:18:26 <smb> smoser, Well we need to look closely which kernel yields what

 16:18:57 <smb> ec2 kernels probably use sda while server and generic-pae would have xvd

 16:19:20 <hallyn> let's move on guys.  smb you suspect your bonding setup is unreliable?

 16:19:21 <smb> hallyn, I take that yes for Maverick anyways

 16:19:34 <smb> hallyn, Not working at all seems a better word

 16:19:42 <hallyn> but it was working with latest try?

 16:19:54 <hallyn> oh, i see

 16:19:54 <smb> It works under normal boot it seems

 16:20:20 <smb> Maybe when xend takes over and creates pbond0... not sure yet

 16:20:42 * RoAkSoAx is back

 16:20:52 <smb> It was working before I upgraded today, but that was the after-feature freeeze update...

 16:20:59 <hallyn> smb: do you want any help from smoser/zul on that, or do you just need to dig in?

 16:21:02 <smb> so all odds are open

 16:21:12 <smb> I'll get back if I can find nothing

 16:21:17 <smb> Just wanted to bring it up

 16:21:24 <hallyn> cool, thanks smb

 16:21:30 <smb> In case someone else had been experiencing the same

 16:21:30 <hallyn> moving back,

 16:21:35 <smb> ..

 16:21:39 <hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)

 16:21:39 <meetingology> TOPIC: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)

 16:22:05 <hggdh> I have a few questions relating to beta

 16:22:21 <hggdh> (1) are there any new tests we should run on the ISO tracker?

 16:22:41 <hggdh> (2) what is the status of openstack & companions?

 16:23:23 <Daviey> hggdh: we need more tests, but as it stands we've had no time to assist with that

 16:23:39 <Daviey> I'm hoping jamespage might be able to assist with that soon.

 16:23:41 <hallyn> Daviey: is there a list of new tests which need to be written?

 16:23:47 <Daviey> hallyn: not as yet.

 16:24:19 <Daviey> hggdh: the devtest lab currently has an orchestra provisioning server

 16:24:35 <Daviey> Once ensemble lands it's required features, we are hoping to really bang out the test cases.

 16:24:40 <jamespage> Daviey, hggdh: I did start a topic for planning openstack testing - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Oneiric/OpenStackTestPlan

 16:24:51 <Daviey> jamespage: splendid!

 16:24:55 <hggdh> perfect!

 16:24:55 <jamespage> but its lacking detail as yet

 16:25:10 <hggdh> what about cobbler?

 16:25:32 <jamespage> hggdh: should we drop the current uec tests from the tracker (or did I miss that happening already?)?

 16:25:55 <Daviey> jamespage: I believe that has been done

 16:25:57 <hggdh> jamespage: as far as I can remember, they should have been dropped already

 16:26:03 <jamespage> OK

 16:26:05 <hggdh> I will check with jibel, though

 16:27:03 <hggdh> and, from me. This is it. Please do help on the ISO tests -- review, manual run, whatever

 16:27:05 <hggdh> ..

 16:27:15 <hallyn> thanks, hggdh

 16:27:18 <hallyn> moving on,

 16:27:21 <hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)

 16:27:21 <meetingology> TOPIC: Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)

 16:27:25 <hallyn> NCommander: around?

 16:27:48 <Daviey> ogra_: can you stand in?

 16:28:04 <ogra_> stand where ?

 16:28:12 <Daviey> ogra_: just there ----->

 16:28:23 * ogra_ stands there --->

 16:28:27 <Daviey> ogra_: Are you able to talk about ARM server, as NCommander isn't here?

 16:28:36 <ogra_> not really, he didnt update me

 16:28:49 <Daviey> ogra_: ok.. :'(, thanks anyway.

 16:28:54 <ogra_> sorry :(

 16:29:03 <hallyn> thanks - moving on

 16:29:05 <hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community

 16:29:05 <meetingology> TOPIC: Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community

 16:29:06 <ogra_> i didnt know he wouldnt be around, else i would have colledted info

 16:29:21 <Daviey> ogra_: understood, no worries.

 16:29:34 <hallyn> any questions from community?

 16:29:42 <Daviey> anyone looking for stuff to do?

 16:29:50 <hallyn> lol

 16:29:51 <Daviey> ranging from easy to really very complicated?

 16:29:56 <Daviey> both essential :)

 16:30:19 <hallyn> if so, go see Daviey, if he runs out of things he'll know who to go to next :)

 16:30:24 <hggdh> Daviey: shoot. I can always jump out ;-)

 16:30:40 <Daviey> hggdh: Super!  Grab me afterwards :)

 16:31:00 * hggdh wonders what is in store...

 16:31:02 <hallyn> Daviey: did you have some specific htings you wanted to list now, or were you just waiting to see if anyone responds?

 16:31:10 <Daviey> hallyn: both.

 16:31:27 <Daviey> :)

 16:31:29 <hallyn> noone's responding, but enumerate away!

 16:32:13 <Daviey> hallyn: just note that grab me if people want to contribute to the awesomness that is Ubuntu Server.

 16:32:26 <Daviey> With YOUR help, it will be a little bit more awesome.

 16:32:28 <Daviey> EOM.

 16:32:43 <hallyn> #action anyone (anyone!) who wants to make ubuntu server even more awesome, talk to Daviey

 16:32:43 * meetingology anyone (anyone!) who wants to make ubuntu server even more awesome, talk to Daviey

 16:32:51 <hallyn> #topic Open Discussion

 16:32:51 <meetingology> TOPIC: Open Discussion

 16:33:27 <Daviey> anyone looking for stuff to do?

 16:33:32 <zul> mememe

 16:33:32 <Daviey> ranging from easy to really very complicated?

 16:33:34 <Daviey> :)

 16:33:40 <hallyn> hey should i make an action item for that?

 16:33:49 <hallyn> zul: fix libvirt

 16:33:56 <hallyn> and libcgroup

 16:34:05 <zul> hallyn: be my guest :)

 16:34:12 <hallyn> <zounds>

 16:34:13 <Daviey> zul: please consider rewriting libvirt in Go.

 16:34:19 <robbiew> heh

 16:34:20 <hallyn> ok, moving on,

 16:34:25 <hallyn> #topic Announce next meeting date and time

 16:34:25 <meetingology> TOPIC: Announce next meeting date and time

 16:34:36 <hallyn> I believe that would be August 23, 16:00 UTC

 16:34:43 <Daviey> top banana!

 16:34:44 <hallyn> thanks all, have a great day.

 16:34:46 <hallyn> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.4 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
</pre>
