{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

TZ UTC+1
<pre>
=== ogra will be able to probably attend 10-20 mins (no promises, but it seems i'm currently not urgently needed)... in case you need me for WinFOSS
04:52	cjwatson	ogra: let's put that agenda item first then, or you can just follow up to Henrik by mail
04:52	ogra	oki
04:52	cjwatson	ogra: it's a straight question, so if it can be given a straight answer, mail's fine
04:52	heno	agreed
04:53	ogra	i'm all for including WinFOSS, but kdeedu isnt moved yet and i know LaserJock is still submitting MIRs ... apart from thyt language packas go first ...
04:53	heno	just need to know approximately how much disk space I have to play with (or not)
04:53	ogra	so it depends on the final free space
04:53	ogra	what the common need of WinFOSS ?
04:53	heno	hm, and when do we know that?
04:54	heno	from 15 to 100MB
04:54	heno	depending on whether you want openoffice
04:54	Riddell	need is giving out CDs to people who are unlikely to change operating system, edubuntu CDs tend to be more targeted than ubuntu/kubuntu CDs though
04:55	ogra	heno, 100M *with* OO.o ?
04:55	heno	right
04:55	ogra	heh, i will have 100M for you then ... i was expecting 200 and upwards
04:55	ogra	100 is totally fine
04:56	ogra	Riddell, we talk about the add-on CD ... which works on *all* *buntus
04:56	heno	OK, that will compliment the other CDs well, as they don't have OOo ATM
04:56	heno	I'll also look out for some educational stuff
04:56	Mithrandir	pong
04:56	ogra	heno, that'd be ubercool !
=== dholbach hands ogra an ''
04:57	heno	we can have a fixed set of OOo, Firefox and TB say, and other stuff that can optionally give way to language packs
04:57	ogra	dholbach, thnks
04:57	heno	it's easier to remove stuff than to create content in a hurry :)
04:57	ogra	heno, right ... sounds fine, lets do it :)
04:58	heno	\o/
04:58	asac	hi all
04:58	heno	ok, that's one item settled *before* the meeting
04:58	heno	any others ? :)
04:59	ogra	i dont mind dropping one or the other exotic language :) its not called the language-cd ;) but i want as many as i can on it, to give benefit to everyone without bandwith
04:59	Riddell	heno: are you going to redo the kubuntu winfoss sometime (removing scribus and kdepim)?
04:59	mdz	morning
04:59	pitti	ogra: width :)
04:59	pitti	hey mdz
04:59	heno	ogra: just the be clear, the 100 MB quoted is real CD space, not livefs space
04:59	heno	Riddell: mostly done, just need to upload
05:00	cjwatson	ogra: is this including WinFOSS on the first or the second CD?
05:00	ogra	pitti, bah ... can't type today :)
05:00	ogra	cjwatson, add-on
05:00	heno	can do that after the meeting <- Riddell
05:00	cjwatson	ogra: ok, small cdimage change probably required for that, let me know
05:00	ogra	cjwatson, ok, will do ...
05:00	Riddell	heno: cool
05:01	iwj	Oops, wrong server.
05:01	mdz	ok, let's get started
05:01	mdz	everyone here?
=== mvo_ waves
05:02	asac	me :)
05:02	_kyle	ack.
05:02	tkamppeter	hi
=== dholbach too
=== seb128 as well
05:02	rtg	ack
05:02	cjwatson	here
=== pitti waves
=== Mithrandir jumps up and down
05:02	bdmurray	here
05:02	pkl_	here
05:02	heno	here
=== highvoltage is here but just to listen
05:02	mdz	seb128,doko,BenC,kwwii: ping
05:03	pitti	* seb128 as well
05:03	BenC	mdz: pwong
05:03	seb128	mdz: heh, I replied just after dholbach :p
05:03	dholbach	do we know about sfllaw?
05:03	mdz	seb128: yes, and I missed it due to an xchat bug!
05:04	seb128	iz GTK bog? :p
05:04	BenC	mdz: Is that the one where it makes random lines invisible?
05:04	doko	pong
05:04	mdz	dholbach: sfllaw is not in attendance today
05:04	mdz	BenC: in this case it omitted the '*'
05:05	mdz	cjwatson: heard from Ken?
05:05	dholbach	i talked to him today and pinged him
05:05	cjwatson	I see dholbach has beaten me to it
05:05	cjwatson	he was active on #ubuntu-devel not that long ago
05:05	dholbach	excusez-moi :)
05:05	mdz	seb128: http://people.ubuntu.com/~mdz/temp/Screenshot-FreeNode:%20%23ubuntu-meeting.png
05:05	mdz	seb128: when there are multiple /me's in succession, it omits the '*' from the succeeding ones
05:06	seb128	mdz: right, it does that here as well
05:06	mdz	so when I scan for people I miss them
05:06	mdz	ok, let's get started
05:06	mdz	agenda is:
05:06	mdz	(pitti) compiz in main or universe, and integration into live system
05:06	seb128	that's probably the "don't repeat the name when several line come from the same person" which gets confused
05:06	mdz	(pitti) packaging of beryl, get it into universe
05:06	mdz	(heno) Does Edubuntu need WinFOSS?
05:06	mdz	(mvo) More people in the SRU verification-needed -> verification-done team? (the step after a fix was uploaded to -proposed, but before it can go to -updates).
05:06	mdz	(bdmurray) How to deal with beryl bugs
05:06	mdz	(bdmurray) Bug 83726 and similars - power saving mode in Live CD
05:06	Ubugtu	Malone bug 83726 in xorg "[feisty]  X Display in Power-Saving mode on Startup, LiveCD only" [Undecided,Unconfirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/83726
05:07	mdz	any changes, additions or deletions?
05:07	mdz	seb128: yes
05:07	highvoltage	hehe. mdz is in #ubuntu-women
05:07	heno	the edubuntu winfoss question has been answered
05:07	ogra	right ...
05:07	heno	(with as yes)
05:08	mdz	ok, will delete
05:08	heno	*a
05:08	mdz	pitti: your floor then
05:08	pitti	so, as I wrote on distro-team, I'm not really happy with the state of compiz in main
05:08	pitti	with my QA/MIR hat on
05:09	pitti	so I talked to sabdfl about our goals for feisty
05:09	seb128	I talked with pitti about it and I think even if compiz has bug we should get it on the CD, because many users look for the cool effect and we should make easy for them to get it
05:09	pitti	as you saw on the IRC quote, he would even be fine with having beryl/compiz in universe
05:09	pitti	right
05:09	BenC	I can confirm that compiz in feisty is very unstable, even compared to compiz-freedesktop(gandalfn) from edgy
05:09	seb128	those users are rather likely to go to some other distro if we don't make that easy
05:09	mdz	seb128: yes, in fact that was a requirement from sabdfl
05:09	pitti	so I see two options:
05:10	pitti	we put it in main and on the CD and live with the brokenness
05:10	mdz	pitti: he may have said that, but he contradicted himself in doing so, probably without knowing
05:10	seb128	BenC: weird, the package from feisty is made by gandalfn
05:10	pitti	or we leave it in universe and change desktop-effects to install it if people want to enable it
05:10	BenC	it's broken for me, whereas his packages on my edgy box are very stable
05:10	seb128	and the new version is not known to unstable
05:10	mdz	he doesn't realize that it needs to be in main in order to be activated on the live CD
05:10	BenC	cube breaks workspaces
05:10	BenC	windows go missing
05:10	seb128	BenC: do you have an ATI card?
05:10	pitti	so I'd like to know what we should do
05:10	BenC	Intel 945
05:10	seb128	speaking about compiz packaging
05:11	seb128	I just merge sync 0.3.6 with Debian today
05:11	seb128	and synced compiz-extra from there
05:11	mdz	pitti: it's important that users be able to switch it on in the default install and on the live CD
05:11	mdz	it doesn't have to be bug-free
05:11	pitti	mdz: alright, so this question is settled then
05:11	seb128	there is a gnome-compiz-manager to source NEW which is guy to configure compiz, I would appreciate some review help on it, it ships some xfree source files and there is probably cleanup required
05:11	mdz	pitti: we can display a warning that it's experimental software
05:11	BenC	seb128: I use that a lot
05:12	pitti	mdz: it's not really a question of 'bug free', but rather 'is it usable at all', so I'd really add a disclaimer somewhere
05:12	mdz	in fact I think desktop-effects already may
05:12	mdz	many people are using it on Ubuntu anyway, so it is usable for some
05:12	pitti	there's no disclaimer yet, but at least it has a nice handling of 'do you wnat to keep these settings'
05:12	mdz	I believe Mithrandir is using it
05:12	kwwii	sorry for being late
05:12	Mithrandir	mdz: I was for a while, then got bored of not having enough workspaces and switched back to openbox.
05:12	seb128	pitti: it works fine with intel cards
05:13	pitti	mdz: right, intel cards are basically the only platform where it works
05:13	seb128	for ATI users we need "Option "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps" "true"", does anybody knows if we could add that option by default to xorg.conf or if that's a bad idea?
05:13	pitti	seb128: I experimented with that and it seriously degraded performance, as well as introducing strange screen effects
05:13	seb128	and EXA?
05:13	mdz	seb128: I don't, but I can tell you who can answer that question (email me)
05:14	seb128	mdz: ok, will do
05:14	pitti	seb128: also, this should go into the non-free driver configuration tool that Keybuk wrote
05:14	seb128	pitti: well, the option is for the free driver
05:14	seb128	fglrx doesn't work for compiz
05:14	pitti	seb128: ah, right
05:14	pitti	seb128: well, but you can forget the free driver anyway, it's unusably slow
05:14	seb128	it's not for me
05:14	pitti	alright, but no need to reiterate
05:14	seb128	I use the radeon driver and it works really fine on my desktop
05:15	ogra	i'd like to point out that i'd lik to have a possibility to disable these options if we write them to xorg.conf
05:15	pitti	I'm fine with mdz's word
05:15	mdz	ok
05:15	mdz	nsext
05:15	mdz	(pitti) packaging of beryl, get it into universe
05:16	doko	seb128: the FireGL ATI cards don't support it at all
05:16	ogra	ltsp already had some probs were flash stopped working on certain cards because of the AIGLX stuff which you can only disable through hacking xorg.conf ...
05:16	pitti	right, someone needs to do that
05:16	seb128	beryl has been packaged
05:16	pitti	do we have anyone who is interested?
05:16	ogra	which is no option in ltsp, it needs to be preseedable
05:16	seb128	and rejected for license problems
05:16	pitti	right, the compiler stuff needs to be sorted out
05:16	seb128	upstream is going to fix them for 0.2
05:16	Mithrandir	as well as the pixmaps.
05:16	cjwatson	pixmaps we could tolerate
05:17	doko	does it use icc?
05:17	Mithrandir	doko: no.
05:17	mdz	seb128: when is 0.2?
05:17	Mithrandir	cjwatson: they're technically just large char * structs in a C file.  I'm not sure that's ok, wrt GPL.
05:18	Mithrandir	(it's almost certainly not the preferred form of modification)
05:18	seb128	mdz: no idea, I've read some mails but I don't follow beryl, I work on the compiz packages and that's enough for me
05:18	seb128	(and beryl is an evil fork)
05:18	cjwatson	ok, if it's linked in then that could be problematic
05:18	cjwatson	although I think that particular interpretation is probably excessively strict, given that the PFoM is probably an image file and pixmaps basically are that
05:19	mdz	I don't think it's necessary to provide both compiz and beryl
05:19	Mithrandir	cjwatson: there's no way to load it into an image editor.  It's not an xpm.
05:19	iwj	You mean xpm's ?  That's just a compilable image format.
05:19	iwj	Mithrandir: Oh, that's silly.
=== ogra has to leave the room ....
05:19	mdz	we will only put one of them in the default install, and there it seems compiz is a better choice
=== ogra waves
=== _kyle blinks.
05:19	Mithrandir	iwj: you can't load xpms into opengl textures without some kind of converter, and it's an opengl texture.
05:19	mdz	for beryl we should accept it into universe
05:20	cjwatson	it's probably a silly image format, but surely the translation is absolutely trivial?
05:20	Mithrandir	mdz: but wait for somebody to package it, or have somebody package it?
05:20	cjwatson	I sort of see your point, it just doesn't seem all that interesting
05:20	mdz	Mithrandir: it's already packaged aiui
05:21	mdz	there are packages out there
05:21	pitti	so why cant' we put them into multiverse for now?
05:21	Mithrandir	pitti: because it's undistributable.  Sourceless GPL-ed files.
05:21	pitti	doesn't make much of a difference even for desktop-effects integration (should we do that)
05:21	pitti	Mithrandir: ah, right
05:22	Mithrandir	"This file is autogenerated from $file; This file is under the GPL" ; no sign of $file.
05:22	pitti	ok, so let's just ditch it for now
05:22	Mithrandir	oh, and it'd have to go to multiverse anyway, because there is no free compiler for the shaders.
05:22	mdz	ok, we don't believe it to be redistributable now, so we can't include it yet
05:22	siretart	there are beryl packages sitting in debian/NEW atm
05:22	mdz	but someone should monitor that situation and ensure that it gets into universe when it's fixed
05:23	cjwatson	monitor> and push if necessary
05:23	mdz	siretart: since you're watching it, would you be willing to see that it gets into universe as well?
05:23	gnomefreak	beryls already in universe only thing that isnt in feisty is beryl-core
05:24	pitti	gnomefreak: only beryl-manager
05:24	gnomefreak	oh
05:24	gnomefreak	ah thought i saw more
05:24	pitti	and it's not "really" there because it's uninstallable
05:25	pitti	ok, I don't think we need further discussion right now
05:25	siretart	mdz: I'll monitor the situation in debian and arrange things (syncs, etc) as soon as they're ready over there
05:25	mdz	siretart: great, thank you
05:25	Mithrandir	siretart: please keep me up-to-date on what's going on too, please?
05:25	mdz	(mvo) More people in the SRU verification-needed -> verification-done team? (the step after a fix was uploaded to -proposed, but before it can go to -updates).
05:26	mvo	it seems that currently only simon is doing this verification. if he is sick or on vacation then the process is stuck. I would like to suggest bdmurray as a backup (if he agrees of course)
05:26	siretart	no idea how long it'll take, though. the new queue seems to be growing lately, and I'll probably not be able to work actively on beryl packaging.
05:26	siretart	Mithrandir: will do
05:26	mdz	mvo: why yes, I think we do need help there; thank you for volunteering! ;-)
05:26	dholbach	/query mvo
05:26	pitti	http://tinyurl.com/2yx8aj, btw
05:26	mdz	mvo: bdmurray is occupied at the moment
05:27	pitti	i. e. lots of stuff pending ATM
05:27	cjwatson	I already asked bdmurray about this and he preferred not to for the moment
05:27	mdz	yes, simon has dropped the ball on this and we need someone else to pick it up
05:27	bdmurray	I think I might be able to now
05:28	mvo	mdz: I'm ok with doing it as long as I'm not the only one in charge
05:28	mdz	it's also important that we do SRUs *only* for serious bugs
05:28	pitti	right
05:28	pitti	unfortunately edgy has many of those :(
05:28	mvo	but that filtering happend before the verfication-needed -> done step
05:28	pitti	however, the list is not as bad as it seems, some of them affect universe which have their own team
05:29	cjwatson	mvo: we haven't been as strict in the past
05:29	mvo	I wouldn't want to do my own SRUs for example
05:29	mdz	mvo: it would be good if you could help with it, since you (alone?) are able to verify that the upgrade test succeeded
05:30	mdz	which should be a prerequisite for any other verification
05:30	mvo	mdz: as I said, I'm fine iwth it. its just that I do not want to verify my own SRUs. I mean, I did that before the upload already :)
05:31	mdz	mvo: perhaps bdmurray would be your backup for the ones you produce yourself
05:31	mvo	mdz: sounds good
05:31	mdz	bdmurray,cjwatson: ?
05:31	mvo	mdz: scott (as my manager) may need to agree too
05:31	bdmurray	mdz: that works for me
05:31	pitti	mdz: if Simon is officially not doing them any more, do you want me to update the process on the wiki page?
05:31	cjwatson	I'm ok with that if Brian's happy
05:32	cjwatson	yes, Simon is officially not doing them any more
05:32	mvo	pitti: I will follow your example and do SRU days
05:32	mdz	pitti: yes, it should use a team instead
05:32	pitti	we can probably just eliminate that step (mailing Simon), looking by tags does fine
05:32	mdz	mvo: please review this proposal with Scott when he is well and confirm
05:32	mvo	mdz: I will. thanks
05:32	mdz	pitti: sure, if that works for mvo and brian, that's fine
05:32	pitti	ACTION: mvo and pitti to discuss new SRU process, update wiki
05:33	pitti	^ and brian
05:33	mdz	ok, sounds good
05:33	mdz	(bdmurray) How to deal with beryl bugs
05:33	mdz	bdmurray: ->same as for other universe bugs :-)
05:34	pitti	mdz: but its not in universe
05:34	mdz	pitti: but it will be
05:34	mdz	is the problem that beryl bugs are being filed in launchpad before the package is there?
05:34	cjwatson	ok, bugs on software not in the archive should be rejected
05:34	mdz	agreed
05:34	pitti	bdmurray: they are assigned to random packages ATM?
05:34	cjwatson	i.e. stuff we don'tt ship
05:34	mdz	I thought this was about the future
05:35	bdmurray	pitti: some end up w/o no package at all
05:35	cjwatson	AFAIK it's about bugs that are there right now
05:35	cjwatson	when Brian last asked me about this I hadn't realised that beryl-manager wasn't the whole thing
05:35	mdz	as Colin says, bugs for software not in the archive have to be rejected
05:35	bdmurray	there seem to be packages in lp for beryl-core and beryl-manager
05:36	mdz	it's a bit awkward in this case because we *want* it in the archive, but nonetheless we have to wait.  we can't even ask whether they're using the proper version when we don't provide one yet
05:36	cjwatson	bdmurray: since that isn't all of beryl, we need to find out from the submitter where their beryl packages come from
05:36	bdmurray	so accept beryl-manager bugs, we said it is in the archive earlier, but not beryl-core bugs?
05:36	seb128	I'm rejected beryl bugs quite often with a comment saying to contact people shipping the packages they are using
05:36	cjwatson	if it's regarding those pieces of beryl that we ship, then we shouldn't reject the bugs, but otherwise they have to go
05:37	pitti	since beryl-manager is uninstallable ATM anyway, should we just remove the binaries for now maybe?
05:37	pitti	and re-add them when it actually becomes useful?
05:38	seb128	looks like a good idea
05:38	mdz	bdmurray: assuming they're using our packages, yes
05:38	mdz	bdmurray: but that seems unlikely given that it isn't installable :-)
05:39	bdmurray	okay, so we'll point them at the beryl project bug tracker and reject them then.
05:39	mdz	ok
05:39	mdz	(bdmurray) Bug 83726 and similars - power saving mode in Live CD
Ubugtu	Malone bug 83726 in xorg "[feisty]  X Display in Power-Saving mode on Startup, LiveCD only" [Undecided,Unconfirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/83726
05:39	bdmurray	I've seen quite a few bugs similar to that and wanted to know if anyone had any ideas about it.
05:41	mdz	bdmurray: do I understand correctly that the problem is only when booting the live CD?  booting the installed system with the same packages works fine?
05:41	mdz	if that's not clear, we should confirm that
05:41	bdmurray	mdz: checking, I think I read someone had the problem after install too
05:42	bdmurray	85930 indicats it happening after install
05:42	bdmurray	86592 has a possible resolution
05:43	mdz	bdmurray: do you know when the problem began? is it a regression in feisty?  in a particular milestone?
05:43	mdz	bug 86592
05:43	Ubugtu	Malone bug 86592 in xorg "Live CD Installer causes screen to turn off when X starts" [Undecided,Unconfirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/86592
05:44	bdmurray	I see someone indicating it happened for them on Herd 3
05:44	bdmurray	I don't recall seeing it for Herd 2
05:45	mdz	bdmurray: if it's a regression, the best approach is to find out where it regressed. that will help isolate the bug
05:46	bdmurray	mdz: okay
05:46	mdz	bdmurray: I /msg'd you an upstream contact who might be able to help
05:47	mdz	bdmurray: does this give you enough to move forward with the bug?
05:47	bdmurray	mdz: yes, I believe so
05:48	mdz	bdmurray: thanks for bringing it up.  I think reviewing outstanding serious bugs where we're stuck is a good idea for this meeting
05:48	mdz	especially where you come upon something which is not maintained directly in Ubuntu
05:48	mdz	that's the end of the discussion agenda
05:49	mdz	only one outstanding action from the previous meeting: iwj to write up summary of experiences debugging udev
05:49	mdz	iwj: ?
05:50	iwj	I still haven't done that; I've been doing autopkgtest all this last week.
05:50	iwj	... which has gone well.
05:50	Riddell	mdz: are you able to look over bug 84717 sometime and give your approval?  requested by pitti
Ubugtu	Malone bug 84717 in update-manager "SRU: updates necessary for Kubuntu Upgrade Tool in Edgy" [Undecided,Needs info]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/84717
05:51	mdz	Riddell: ->release team
05:51	pitti	Riddell: heh, I had the sentence prepared as well :)
05:51	Riddell	mdz: ok
05:51	mdz	Mithrandir: I need for you to write/update the documentation for freeze exceptions
05:51	Riddell	Mithrandir: ^^ :)
05:51	mdz	Mithrandir: it's at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FreezeExceptionProcess
05:52	pitti	mdz: this would be an outright rejection for a normal SRU; if we do this, then I'd like an official commitment for us that we want to break SRU policy to achieve this goal
05:52	Mithrandir	mdz: yes, it's partially blocked on getting a ubuntu-release mailing list.  I'll document the rest of it and tell people to mail me for the time being.
05:52	mdz	ACTION: Tollef to update FreezeExceptionProcess, particularly to send requests to the release team
05:53	heno	can community members subscribe to that (planned) list?
05:53	mdz	iwj: is it likely that the udev documentation will get done in the next week?  iirc it was already carried over once
05:53	iwj	mdz: Yes.
05:53	Mithrandir	heno: that's the idea, yes.
05:53	iwj	I didn't want to get too distracted this week since I was making good progress.
05:53	heno	cool
05:53	Mithrandir	heno: I see no point in keeping it secret at least.
05:54	mdz	ok
05:54	mdz	any other business?
05:54	cjwatson	I think it should still be primarily a contact point for the release team rather than a discussion list, though
05:54	heno	Mithrandir: it will be an announce-only list?
=== pitti hugs Riddell for getting apport integrated into KDE
05:54	cjwatson	based on experience from debian-release, I recommend making that clear in the charter
05:54	mdz	I agree with cjwatson
05:55	mdz	developer discussion stays on -devel
05:55	mdz	-release should reach only the release team for contact purposes
05:55	Mithrandir	heno: what Colin says; it's a contact list and not a discussion list.
05:55	heno	so perhaps it should be moderated even for subscribers
05:56	Mithrandir	I'll probably end up mailing various reports to it as I write the bits to generate them
05:56	mdz	heno: no one will be subscribed to it except the release team
05:56	Riddell	pitti: I'm feeling the love.  did you say you had updates from michael hoffman for apport-qt?
05:56	mdz	it's just a mail expander
05:56	heno	People might want to subscribe to be notified about the release process but not to get random contact mails
05:56	pitti	Riddell: not new ones, they have all been merged into trunk
05:56	pitti	Riddell: if anything still looks weird, please file bugs
05:56	mdz	heno: only things intended for the release team only should be sent to that address
05:56	heno	so perhaps we need a testing-announce list
05:56	mdz	if it's of general interest, it should go elsewhere
05:57	mdz	I've suggested that we need a list for automated checks
05:57	pitti	Riddell: the behaviour under Gnome isn't very representative due to some bugs in the theme/gtk-qt bridge stuff
05:57	mdz	we have several sources of automated checks alerady
05:57	Mithrandir	should we take the list discussion after the meeting?  I don't see it being useful for the whole team?
05:57	heno	right
05:57	cjwatson	agreed
05:57	mdz	michael's upgrade tester, ian's package tester, the installation testing done in montreal
05:58	mdz	they should all go to one place which anyone can monitor
05:58	mdz	Mithrandir: ok
05:58	mdz	last call for other business
05:58	mdz	ok, adjourned
05:58	mdz	thanks, all
05:58	seb128	thank you
05:58	dholbach	thanks
05:58	mdz	cjwatson: would you post the action items?
05:58	pitti	thanks guys
05:58	asac	thanks
05:58	BenC	thanks!
05:58	bdmurray	thanks
05:59	cjwatson	mdz: yes
05:59	cjwatson	only three this week
05:59	mvo	thanks
</pre>
