{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

09:03	rodarvus	good morning
=== timfrost [n=tim@222-155-218-184.jetstream.xtra.co.nz] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== Keybuk yawns
09:03	mdz	missing BenC
09:04	mdz	seb128: will you start us off this morning?
09:04	seb128	Done:
09:04	seb128	- bug triage, bug triage, bug triage
09:04	seb128	- bug day
09:04	seb128	- caugth up with desktop-list mails lag
09:04	seb128	- VAC
09:04	seb128	- desktop CD testing
09:04	seb128	.
09:04	seb128	To do:
09:04	seb128	- keep triaging bugs and fix some of them too
09:04	pitti	seb128: your Karma will hit 10M very soon, I guess :)
09:04	mdz	seb128: do you feel older?
09:05	seb128	mdz: no, I feel wiser though :p
09:05	dholbach	haha
=== dholbach hugs seb128
09:05	seb128	;)
09:05	seb128	pitti: right ;)
09:05	mdz	seb128: did you test whether your usplash problem is fixed?
09:05	seb128	pitti: I'm first now, waouh :p
09:06	seb128	mdz: yep, works fine now, I let mjg59 know when I tried
09:06	mdz	ok, cool, thanks
09:06	seb128	np
09:06	mdz	infinity: next?
09:06	infinity	Done
09:06	infinity	* Assisted with the Knot-3 release (ongoing), including archive admin tasks and chasing up a mess of related soyuz issues.
09:06	infinity	* General liasing with Team Soyuz regarding bugs affecting distro recently/currently.
09:06	infinity	* General buildd mangling and processing.
09:06	infinity	* Bootstrapped fpc for MOTU.
09:06	infinity	* Finished stacked-livefs, but didn't roll it out in production for fear of hiseously breaking the knot-3 release with the (inevitable) bugs.  Will roll it out for dailies after knot-3 is out.
=== slomo [n=slomo@ubuntu/member/slomo] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:07	infinity	To do
09:07	infinity	* Roll out stacked-livefs
09:07	infinity	* Get ddeb exports working with pitti
09:07	infinity	* Lots of bug triaging and fixing
09:07	infinity	Err, "other random faff" in the "done" section, like a php5 upstream bump, etc.
09:07	mdz	infinity: did you do the seed changes for larger-livefs?
=== ompaul [n=ompaul@ubuntu/member/ompaul] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:07	pitti	infinity: oh, cool, you did the PHP merge? thanks
09:07	infinity	mdz: No, haven't done the new seed, though I can commit it later.
09:08	infinity	pitti: Yeah, it's in queue/unapproved, waiting for knot-3 to fly.
09:08	pitti	\o/
09:08	mdz	infinity: have you and Kamion worked out what changes need to be made there?
09:08	Mithrandir	infinity: (psst, it's flights that flew, knots are tied, or something.)
09:08	infinity	Mithrandir: Thpt.
09:08	sfllaw	Not another knot joke.
09:09	Keybuk	They're totally knot funny at this time in the morning
09:09	infinity	mdz: Should be a straightforward additoin to the structure to place it above live.
09:09	infinity	mdz: I'll test with germinate to make sure I'm not on crack, of course, and pass it by Colin before I blow up the world.
09:10	mdz	infinity: ok, that's well behind schedule now, please make sure that it lands immediately after knot-3
=== infinity nods.
09:10	mdz	infinity: thanks
09:10	mdz	doko: next
09:11	doko	status:
09:11	doko	- edgy-toolchain: implemented
09:11	doko	- edgy-toolchain+1: no status change, opening of edgy+1 needed,
09:11	doko	   test rebuilds of the archive needed.
09:11	doko	- python-roadmap: beta available, need to go over the list of
09:11	doko	   application packages in main.
09:11	doko	- python2.5: beta available, extension packages are built for
09:11	doko	   2.4 and 2.5, rc2 in the archive; needs an update for the final
09:11	doko	   2.5 release. will not be the default python in edgy.
09:11	doko	- java-roadmap: good progress, classpath-0.92 based gcj in the
09:11	doko	   archive, packages providing jni bindings built natively, built
09:11	doko	   the core java packages as native (-gcj) packages.
09:11	doko	- openoffice.org-l10n: delayed
09:11	doko	this week:
09:11	doko	- java: ia32-libs updates, fixed issues with the 32bit gcj.
09:11	doko	- openoffice.org: 2.0.4 rc1 updates, native amd64 packages,
09:11	doko	   provide test packages for all architectures. look at glibc/kernel
09:11	doko	   build problems on sparc, build failures on standard edgy (OOo
09:11	doko	   currently only builds in the data center and on the buildd's),
09:11	doko	   not in a new edgy installation.
09:11	doko	- other: OOoCon, looking at python2.5 related build bugs.
09:11	doko	next week:
09:11	doko	- openoffice.org updates?
09:12	doko	- OOo bug triage
09:12	doko	- hplip update, demanded by several users (sync from debian).
09:12	mdz	doko: has the oo.o event been useful?
09:12	fabbione	doko: OOo builds here. it might specfic to faure the problem.
09:12	doko	mdz: yes, I'll summarize on warthogs.
09:13	mdz	doko: 2.0.4rc1 is running well here
09:13	doko	fabbione: so let's use standard kernels in the data center (did you build until you had the .deb's?)
09:13	mdz	doko: do you know if printing in oo.o is in shape for edgy?  it would be a good idea to talk with tkamppeter
09:14	fabbione	doko: yes full build. afaik sparc uses standard kernels at the DC. it might be a race condition on smp code specific for that cpu
09:14	doko	mdz: last week when I checked on i386, yes. I can test printing tomorrow again
09:14	fabbione	doko: anyway we will dig that out.. just upload.. the buildd have UP kernel anyway
09:15	Keybuk	fabbione: elmo using a standard kernel?  that'll be the day <g>
09:15	mdz	doko: if there are any open printing bugs, be sure to subscribe ubuntu-printing
09:15	mdz	then he'll see them
09:15	fabbione	Keybuk: at least faure does.
=== zul [n=chuck@ubuntu/member/zul] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:15	mdz	is this build failure new with rc1?
09:15	doko	mdz: I'm part of the printing group
09:15	doko	mdz: sparc?
09:15	mdz	doko: sure, but that's the list that tkamppeter is using
09:16	doko	the other one: the same as in dapper, sometimes to reproduce on the buildd's, sometimes not (maybe infinity remembers)
09:16	doko	mdz: yes, same list
09:16	mdz	doko: my point is that he will look at the printing-related bugs if that team is subscribed, and if not, he won't see them
09:17	mdz	doko: the build failure is only sparc?
09:17	doko	mdz: you can see all printing related reports in the package view.
=== allee [n=ach@dialin-212-144-128-194.pools.arcor-ip.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:17	mdz	doko: hmm? I do not understand what you mean
09:18	doko	there are two build failures: apparently the sparc specific one can only be reproduced on faure, the other one can be reproduced on a standard edgy setup, but not on the buildd's and in the data center
09:18	pitti	doko: you mean https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-printing/+packagebugs ?
09:18	doko	mdz: I mean https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-printing/+packagebugs
09:19	mdz	doko: that only shows packages where ubuntu-printing is a bug contact
09:19	pitti	OO.o is not a bug contact of u-printing
09:19	mdz	doko: whereas there are open printing bugs filed against oo.o
09:20	doko	mdz: so you do want the printing group a subscribe of all OOo printing bug reports?
09:20	mdz	doko: yes, all printing-related bug reports regardless of the package
09:20	mdz	so that till and other printing team members see them
=== teckfatt [n=teckfatt@218.111.28.17] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:20	doko	ok, doing that today or tomorrow
09:21	mdz	doko: thank you.  is there a schedule for python 2.5 final?
09:21	doko	mdz: Sep 18
09:21	mdz	oh good, soon
09:21	pitti	doko: please not
09:22	pitti	doko: oh, wait, please do
09:22	mdz	pitti: hmm? :-)
09:22	pitti	doko: (I thought you meant making u-printing a bug contact of OO.o)
09:22	mdz	doko: I will be sending an email about opening edgy+1, should go out tomorrow
09:22	doko	pitti: sure, if you will work on OOo reports ,p
09:22	Keybuk	f*censored* f*gagged*! :p
09:23	doko	mdz: we currently don't have a posisbility of doing throw-away builds?
09:23	Keybuk	(though I prefer funky, which Mark changed the name to in the screenshots :p)
09:23	mdz	doko: we'll find a way
09:23	mdz	Keybuk: I will attempt to hold that discussion without addressing that particular question
09:24	mdz	doko: ok, thanks
09:24	mdz	iwj: next
09:24	iwj	package-dependency-field-breaks: A couple of examples deployed, one (well, one source, many binaries) in the default install.  Need to go through and change more packages.
09:24	iwj	suggest-packages-for-filetypes: Deployed.
09:24	iwj	automated-testing-deployment: No change since last report.
09:24	iwj	firefox beta 2 merge: Done except for a quick final test and upload.
09:24	iwj	todo: bugfixing, automated-testing-deployment, add some more Breakses.
09:25	mdz	iwj,mvo: are any of the existing breaks test cases exercised by the dist-upgrade test?
09:25	iwj	mdz: I need a UVF exception for firefox ...
09:25	iwj	mdz: The m-f-l-all should be exercised by it.
09:26	doko	mdz: what was the decision / further steps about OOo?
09:26	iwj	That is, breezy's packages match the breaks in dapper's m-f-l-all.
09:26	mdz	I'm not sure which set of packages the dist-upgrader starts with; if it gets language-support-en then that's certainly there
09:26	mdz	doko: what's the question?
09:26	mvo	mdz: the problem with hte breaks on upgrade is that the upgrader needs to use a new dpkg/apt to pre-caclulate the upgrade to see if it will work
09:26	Kamion	iwj: s/breezy/dapper; s/in dapper/in edgy/ ?
09:26	iwj	Sorry, yes.
09:26	mdz	mvo: doesn't the dist-upgrader handle that?
09:27	doko	mdz: upload to edgy? upload to edgy with the native amd64 packages as a default?
09:27	mdz	doko: if the build failure is new in this version, that needs to be fixed first
=== xavier [n=xavier@112.229.99-84.rev.gaoland.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:27	mdz	doko: regarding amd64, wasn't it only yesterday that you asked for testing?  was there any feedback?  how well do they work for you?
09:27	mvo	mdz: it could install apt/dpkg early, but to make it possible to undo the upgrade fully, we would have to downgrade apt again (or LD_PRELOAD it or something)
09:28	mdz	doko: do you feel that it's clearly solid enough for a feature freeze exception?
09:28	iwj	mvo: I had the impression you'd done that, or at least decided to and it was easy ...
09:29	mdz	mvo: so long as the apt upgrade succeeds, I don't think it's necessary to try to downgrade it if a later step fails
09:29	mdz	the system should still be consistent
09:30	infinity	An apt upgrade will mean a libc and libstdc++ upgrade, though.
09:30	doko	mdz: I'll recheck the printing first. the build failure is the same I do see with 2.0.3 in edgy.
09:30	infinity	Among other things.
09:30	iwj	We could build the new apt against dapper if that would help.
09:30	mdz	iwj: regarding firefox and UVF, yes, we're committed and more or less have to push ahead with it
09:30	mvo	what infinity said, and pressing cacncel won't undo all the stuff anymore
=== RichEd [n=richard@dsl-146-132-88.telkomadsl.co.za] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["~>]
09:31	iwj	mdz: Right, that's what I thought, but I wanted the formal go-ahead.  Thanks.
=== raphink [n=raphink@ubuntu/member/raphink] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:31	mdz	I've exchanged email with Mike Schroepfer at mozilla and he feels there's a reasonable chance that they'll make it in time for us to release with final
09:31	iwj	mdz: I'll believe it when I see it.
09:31	mdz	they should roll an RC soon, so at worst we should have that
09:31	mdz	iwj: one thing, we need to change the Bon Echo branding to Firefox
09:31	iwj	mdz: The problem with the dist-upgrader is that it purports to show you what it's going to do before it does anything.
09:32	mdz	apparently all of the betas and RCs can be called firefox 2
09:32	iwj	mdz: I would like some feedback from upstream before I do that.
09:32	iwj	Oh, really.
09:32	mdz	iwj: I'll forward you the email from schrep
09:32	iwj	I'm not sure where to frob it, either.  It seems quite pervasive.
09:32	iwj	email> Thanks.
09:32	mdz	they must have a knob somewhere
09:33	iwj	I'll see if I can find it.
09:33	mdz	we can ask if it's not obvious
09:33	iwj	Mmm.
09:33	iwj	Can we get back to this dist-upgrader thing ?  It doesn't seem settled.
09:34	mdz	iwj: how much of automated-testing-deployment is you and how much will be sysadmin, do you reckon?
09:34	mdz	either the dist-upgrader can accomodate breaks in this upgrade, or it can't.  if it can't, we presumably can't use breaks in edgy
09:34	iwj	I'm going to deploy it on a machine here first and when that's sorted and working for a month or two then elmo won't look at me like I'm mad when I say I want him to install it.
09:35	lifeless	mad, muahah.
09:35	lifeless	*sorry*
09:35	iwj	mdz: In general it seems to be that because the dist-upgrader wants to show the user what it's going to do, it needs to do one of:
09:35	mdz	iwj: sounds like deferral to edgy+1 then
09:35	iwj	1. partially commit by upgrading apt
09:35	mvo	I would like to try a solution that involves downloading a new apt, unpacking it and using LD_* magic to use the new code. I think being able to cancel without any permant changes on the system is important
09:35	iwj	2. LD_PRELOAD
09:35	iwj	3. Use algorithms from the previous release.
09:36	mdz	I think you and mvo should follow up on this together after the meeting; I can chime in if needed before I crash
09:36	Mithrandir	mvo: that sounds almost as crackful as just using LVM snapshots and rolling back if the upgrade fails, else commit it.
09:36	iwj	mdz: OK.
09:36	mdz	iwj: thanks
09:36	pitti	btw, wrt firefox, many other big distros upgrade their stables from 1.0.x to 1.5.x; so Debian and we are pretty much alone now when it comes to security patch backporting :( so we still have a problem
09:36	lifeless	Mithrandir: I didn't think LVM snapshots had rollback yet
09:36	lifeless	just snapshot and point in time access
09:36	pitti	iwj: I think we have to re-consider upgrading breezy to 1.5 again :/
09:36	mdz	zul: hi?
09:36	zul	mdz: hi
09:36	iwj	pitti: Hmmmm.
09:37	fabbione	lifeless: you just mount the other snapshot to roll back
09:37	lifeless	fabbione: ah, *duh me*
09:37	pitti	iwj: I'd give up on hoary, it's EOLed in a month anyway; but we have to do sth. about breezy
09:37	mdz	zul: would you like to present an update?
09:37	zul	sure
09:37	mvo	Mithrandir: that would be interessting anyway (if feasible at all)
09:37	zul	tis week: xen bug fixing, kernel security updates, bug triaging
09:37	fabbione	mvo: that's something elmo and I discussed at UDU and it's not possible
09:38	zul	next week: xen bug fixing, update wiki, bug triagin
09:38	mdz	zul: wiki?
09:38	iwj	pitti: I don't know if dapper's source builds on breezy but it might not be so far off.
09:38	zul	yeah i renamed the xen kernels so they are more in line with the edgy kernels
09:38	mvo	fabbione: ok
09:39	Mithrandir	zul: we need to app a suffix to the version or something so we won't end up with a conflict with the regular kernel packages over /lib/modules.
09:39	Mithrandir	s/app/add/
09:39	mdz	zul: do you have a wiki page which explains how to get up and running with the xen packages?
09:39	fabbione	Mithrandir: uh why? xen is at .16 and we are at .17
09:40	mdz	fabbione: sheer luck ;-)
09:40	zul	mdz: yes just need to update it reflecting the changes
09:40	Mithrandir	fabbione: for now, yes.  What happens when we're suddenly both at .18 or .19?
09:40	mdz	zul: are you going to make me hunt for it? :-)
09:40	fabbione	mdz: the day we can ship from the same source, we can merge into one kernel.. problem goes away
09:40	fabbione	Mithrandir: ^^
09:40	mdz	fabbione: we will see
09:40	zul	mdz: no of course not ;)
09:40	fabbione	the only reason why we did never merge is because xen is always behind
09:41	mdz	zul: is it XenOnEdgy?
09:41	zul	yes
09:41	mdz	ok
09:41	mdz	thanks
09:41	mdz	dholbach: next
09:41	dholbach	Done:
09:41	dholbach	    * HUG DAY
09:41	dholbach	    * Bug Triage
09:41	dholbach	    * Started Telepathy Team
09:41	dholbach	TODO:
09:41	dholbach	    * more Bug Triage
09:41	dholbach	    * another REVU DAY (next week)
09:41	dholbach	    * start apt-get.org reviewing
09:41	dholbach	    * more work on art-builder
09:41	dholbach	    * more Telepathy
09:42	mdz	dholbach: has anyone stepped up to do real work on telepathy?
09:42	mdz	dholbach: how far along is art-builder?  I've received inquiries
09:42	dholbach	mdz: we have 3 people working quite actively on packaging (apart from me), they're doing good work and they're going to be good MOTUs
09:43	mdz	cool!
09:43	dholbach	mdz: i'll put more effort into it today and tomorrow and on the WE - next week I should have something presentable
09:43	mdz	dholbach: ok, thanks
09:43	mdz	heno: next
09:43	dholbach	de rien
09:44	heno	Done:
09:44	heno	* Assistive technology desktop integration for Edgy -- patches prepared with Chris Jones for gnome-at-preferences and Orca -- BLOCKED - these need review and inclusion by a core dev
09:44	heno	* onBoard: Ready for inclusion in main and the CD -- BLOCKED -- needs review and inclusion by a core dev
09:44	heno	* ubiquity: Working with upstream and Chris on making an Orca script for Ubiquity to make it more suitable for screen reader use
09:44	heno	* Meetings with ACE and ComputerAid charities to talk about a11y collaborations.
09:44	heno	* Completed the OpenCD v4.0
09:44	heno	To Do:
09:44	heno	* Testing Live CD a11y, esp. with ubiquity-Orca script
09:44	heno	* Holiday / Move to Oslo
09:44	heno	* REQUEST: Could everyone here please run Edgy with AT-SPI switched on for just 20 minutes or so? There is a crash bug (#56452) that we are having a tough time getting a good backtrace on. Many users are seeing it, but it has not yet appeared for any core devs. Thanks!
09:44	mdz	heno: those patches sound like they probably need a FF exception, too; please email
09:44	Mithrandir	heno: when's the housewarming party? :-)
09:44	mdz	heno: are there new winfoss tarballs accompanying opencd 4.0?
09:45	heno	mdz: yes, that's why I was getting a bit worried, will do
09:45	dholbach	heno: I tried to get a backtrace from at-spi-registryd for quite a while, I'm sorry I was not successful yet. :-/
09:45	heno	Mithrandir: weekend after next I guess :)
09:45	Mithrandir	heno: woo. :-)
09:45	heno	mdz: I'll do those afterwards with fresher packages
09:45	mdz	heno: good luck with your move; keep me informed if your schedule changes
09:45	Kamion	heno: that's the "start up orca from /usr/bin/ubiquity" thing? I'll try to remember to do that in the next upload
09:46	heno	looking to use FF 2 for example
09:46	mdz	heno: thanks
09:46	heno	mdz: thanks!
09:46	mdz	Mithrandir: next
09:46	Mithrandir	* misc: Knot 3 release (ongoing), some bug fixing, played a bit with Xen.
09:46	Mithrandir	* blocked on: nothing
09:46	pitti	heno: is that 'enable assistive technologies' (freely translated) in System->Settings?
09:46	Mithrandir	* next week: X bugs
09:46	mdz	Mithrandir: anything special on the hit list for knot 3?
09:46	Mithrandir	(argh, network)
09:46	heno	Kamion: it's more of a fix on the Orca side, I'll email you a summary
09:47	Keybuk	Mithrandir: the upstart update should be in now
09:47	heno	pitti: yes
09:47	Keybuk	at least, the binaries built and didn't show up in unapproved
09:47	Mithrandir	mdz: we've had a series of problems, but I think they're all fixed now.
09:47	Mithrandir	Keybuk: I hope they were in an hour ago too?
09:47	mdz	Mithrandir: are the daily heath checks useful?
09:47	Kamion	heno: ok, thanks
09:47	Keybuk	Mithrandir: about 9 hours ago
09:48	Mithrandir	mdz: they're not good enough yet; I need to work with Colin on reordering the information there, I think.
09:48	seb128	Mithrandir: did you figure what causes that mono looking for the config at the wrong place?
09:48	Kamion	I do need to apply suggestions from mdz
09:48	Kamion	on the health checks, to make them less noisy for the release team
09:48	mdz	I think I sent an email last week or so
09:48	Mithrandir	seb128: unionfs/kernel bug, I think; I filed a bug on launchpad-integration about the same problem.
09:48	mdz	but email is sort of a blur
09:48	Kamion	you did, I just haven't applied the suggestion yet
09:49	Mithrandir	seb128: I _can_ work around it in casper, but it's not ideal and might cause pain for Colin
09:49	seb128	Mithrandir: I've seen the lpi one
09:49	Mithrandir	seb128: that's the one
09:49	mdz	ok, thanks  Mithrandir
09:49	mdz	pitti: next
09:49	Kamion	Mithrandir: #ubuntu-devel, but what's the candidate casper workaround?
09:49	pitti	Done:
09:49	pitti	* security updates: X.org/libxfont, mailman, coordination for kernel
09:49	pitti	* finished cups 1.2.3 merge & upstream version upgrade
09:49	pitti	* gnutls12->13 transition: done everything but gutenprint; this package was merged by tkamppeter, to be uploaded after knot-3
09:49	pitti	* caught up on my overflowing bugs inbox
09:49	pitti	* fixed high-profile langpack-o-matic bug, new edgy langpacks; BLOCKED: dapper needs an urgent update, too, we need *-updates back
09:49	pitti	* started bug fixing in various packages (mainly hal and apport)
09:49	pitti	* CD testing
09:49	pitti	Todo:
09:49	pitti	* more CD testing
09:49	pitti	* more security updates
09:49	pitti	* collect low-hanging fruits out of the bug firehose and fix them
09:49	pitti	* care for php 5.1.6 and mysql merges if infinity's workload is too high
09:49	pitti	* apt-get-debug-symbols: provide ddebs on people.u.c, BLOCKED: buildds need to export them first
09:50	mdz	pitti: how is till's learning of packaging coming along?
09:50	pitti	mdz: after a few rounds of discussion the gutenprint merge now looks fine
09:50	pitti	I taught him about a few specifics, otherwise it's going well AFAICS
09:50	mdz	pitti: updates can start to be considered again after the new policy and procedures are finalized and published; it's due Friday
09:50	pitti	the merge took a while, naturally
=== mvo_ [n=egon@p54A66CAE.dip.t-dialin.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:50	pitti	ah, thanks for the update heads-up
09:51	mvo_	sorry, network
09:51	mdz	pitti: what's the nature of the blockage regarding ddebs?
09:51	infinity	mdz: pitti and I just need a quick meeting and deployment day, scheduled for early next week.
09:51	mdz	ok
09:51	mdz	round tuits
09:51	pitti	mdz: the buildds need to use the translation tarball magic to http-export ddebs
=== infinity nods.
09:51	infinity	Always with the round tuits.
09:51	mdz	pitti: thanks
09:52	mdz	fschoep: next?
09:52	fschoep	Done:
09:52	fschoep	* usplash-artwork: contact Seveas to get a basic design in
09:52	fschoep	* ubuntu-art-polish-human-icons: get approval from sabdfl
09:52	fschoep	Ongoing:
09:52	fschoep	* art-polish-human-gtk-theme: decide on color tweaks based on artwork direction
09:52	fschoep	* community-artwork: polish and rework parts to sabdfl's liking, fix outstanding bugs
09:52	fschoep	* sound-themes: tweaking and polishing of sounds
09:52	fschoep	* ubuntu-art-polish-human-icons: contact Dave today
09:52	fschoep	* theme-teams: (try to) package their work
09:52	mdz	fschoep: how has the artwork drop at feature freeze been received?
09:52	fschoep	mdz: mixed reactions really
09:52	mdz	reactions usually are ;-)
09:52	fschoep	mdz: most important thing is that sabdfl isn't happy yet
09:52	fschoep	mdz: and he's my client ;)
09:53	mdz	the opinions of the rest of the world count as well, though
09:53	Keybuk	fschoep: if you cause last minute artwork changes ... we know where you live <g>
09:53	fschoep	mdz: I wanted to gauge public opinion with Knot 3
09:53	fschoep	Keybuk: great, you're all invited since it's bound to happen
09:53	mdz	if sabdfl is the *only* one who is pleased, we haven't done the best job ;-)
09:53	mdz	fschoep: get something into the knot 3 release announcement?
09:53	fschoep	mdz: Uh, didn't pay attention yet, can I still get something in?
09:54	dholbach	fschoep: ask Burgundavia
09:54	mdz	fschoep: yes, coordinate with Mithrandir
09:54	fschoep	OK, great - I'll do that
09:54	dholbach	oh, well...
09:54	mdz	fschoep: it's not out yet but sounds close
09:54	mdz	fschoep: thanks
09:54	mdz	mvo_: next
09:54	fschoep	mdz: thanks
=== pitti really likes the new sounds
09:54	Mithrandir	fschoep: from my officemates I've had numerous comments along the lines of "wow, that's edgy"?  (for the gdm screen), so that's good.
09:54	mvo_	Did:
09:54	mvo_	- added popcon/ddtp to UWN make sure the new features get popular
09:54	mvo_	- Bugtriage
09:54	mvo_	- Bugfixing (g-a-i, apt, u-m, vmware-player, ...)
09:54	mvo_	- Google SoC/apt-sync
09:54	mvo_	- Fix performance regression in aptitude/synaptic
09:54	mvo_	- comand-not-found spec database updated
09:54	mvo_	- ddtp description database updated, added more scripts to automate it
09:54	mvo_	- improved auto-dist-upgrader testing script, ran it (we do not look good :/)
09:55	mvo_	Will do:
09:55	mvo_	- bugs
09:55	mvo_	- more "frontend" work for the auto-dist-upgrade tester, make it a real package and encourage users to run it to simulate a dist-upgrade
09:55	mvo_	- investigate what to do with the dist-upgrader and early upgrading of apt
09:55	Kamion	pitti: they're ok but a bit too lengthy
09:55	fschoep	Mithrandir: GDM is one of sabdfl (and the whole martketing dept's) worst nightmares so it's bound to change ;)
09:55	Keybuk	THE GLOW WAS IMPORTANT! </jdub>  ?
09:55	mdz	mvo_: do you know if the hostid in popularity-contest is used for anything important?  if so, we might have some work to do
09:56	Kamion	yeah, pre-knot-3 ubiquity wasn't reconfiguring it
09:56	mvo_	mdz: I don't know, sorry. but I can check it out
09:56	mdz	mvo_: I like the idea of user testing of the upgrader
09:56	Kamion	now, this does mean that at least there was a different one for every livefs build ;-)
09:56	mvo_	mdz: do you have privacy concerns about the hostid?
09:56	mdz	mvo_: no, it's just as Kamion says
09:57	mdz	it's not as unique as it should be
09:57	mdz	so we should check if that's affecting the stats
09:57	Kamion	unfortunately there isn't just one hostid that we can check for and forcibly reconfigure
09:57	Kamion	there are lots
09:57	Kamion	however, perhaps we should collate a list of the most common ones and forcibly reconfigure them in an upgrade
09:57	Kamion	popularity-contest already does this for certain hostids
09:57	mdz	Kamion: we could upload popcon nowish and have all upgrades from earlier versions reconfigure
09:57	mdz	it does? how interesting
09:57	Burgundavia	fschoep, Keybuk: the darkness of the current gdm is my primary concern
09:58	mdz	anyway, time is short
09:58	mdz	mvo_: thanks
09:58	mdz	Keybuk: next
09:58	fschoep	Burgundavia: I got the memo ;)
09:58	Keybuk	Done:
09:58	Keybuk	* Bug fix upload of upstart
09:58	Keybuk	* Debugged hang on sparc and ppc64
09:58	Keybuk	* BootMessageLogging: implemented
09:58	Keybuk	To do:
09:58	Keybuk	* Seed upstart-logd, update ubuntu-minimal
09:58	Keybuk	* Fix "quiet" bug
09:58	Keybuk	* Add output to checkfs and checkroot for when the disks get checked, and cryptdisk for password
09:58	Keybuk	* Teardown Part Deux
=== dsas_ [n=dean@host86-129-23-177.range86-129.btcentralplus.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:58	mdz	Keybuk: my boot messages aren't logged
09:58	mdz	potpal:[~]  cat /var/log/boot              
09:58	mdz	(Nothing has been logged yet.)
09:59	infinity	mdz: Known bug, I annoyed him about it earlier.
09:59	Keybuk	mdz: right, I didn't get a chance to seed the required package before the ice queen descended on the distro
09:59	infinity	mdz: The logger is missing from the seeds.
09:59	pitti	('me too')
09:59	mdz	ok
09:59	mdz	Keybuk: upstart bug list seems pretty tame
09:59	Keybuk	mdz: yes, I rock
09:59	mdz	Keybuk: almost...too quiet
09:59	Keybuk	the worst bug we had was the ppc64/sparc one
10:00	infinity	I guess I should statr filing bugs.
10:00	mdz	Keybuk: good press too
10:00	zul	Keybuk: is the "quiet" bug something that the quiet grub patch caused?
10:00	Keybuk	fwict, it largely just works for everyone
10:00	Keybuk	zul: no, just my bad spelling
10:00	mdz	Keybuk: thanks
10:00	zul	Keybuk: ah ok
10:00	Keybuk	it works if you boot with "quite" :p
10:00	mdz	fabbione: next
10:00	fabbione	Done
10:00	fabbione	* Catchup after all this time away has been priority.
10:00	fabbione	* ubuntu-edgy-cluster: completed. we are in bug fixing mode. Only one/two GFS2 bugs left to fix and one bug in the resource manager that must be fixed before release. Considerting to add a set of NFS kernel/userland patches to handle properly NSF exports failovers.
10:00	fabbione	* pkgsum.u.c is up and running. the client is in the archive but still need testing.
10:00	fabbione	* edgy-sparc: not much done other than bug fixing. edgy did introduce a set of weird bugs that are slowly being worked out. Problem is that they are all in chain. silo that doesn't boot .17 with bigger initrd, lvm segfaulting etc... work in userland has been generally more difficult than usual.
10:00	fabbione	To do
10:00	fabbione	* Fix root on raid (dapper -> edgy regression).
10:00	fabbione	* Start test install of edgy on sparc.
10:00	fabbione	* Bug fixing in general.
10:01	mdz	fabbione: please add pkgsum to the list for UWN so that it's featured in an upcoming issue
10:01	fabbione	mdz: once it's tested i will do it
10:01	mdz	fabbione: the point is to get testing for it ;-)
10:01	fabbione	mdz: also the udeb is still in universe and to be useful it needs to be on CD
10:02	fabbione	mdz: it's not easy to test without CD first and i was waiting knot-3 to get it there in a daily
10:02	mdz	fabbione: could you send me email with details of the outstanding sparc issues? no time to discuss right now
10:02	fabbione	mdz: sure.
10:02	mdz	fabbione: thanks
10:02	mdz	Kamion: next
10:03	Kamion	Done:
10:03	Kamion	  sane-installer-keyboard: Mopped up a couple of loose ends, but surprisingly I'm not seeing too many issues here. The biggest ones I've noticed are that UK keyboards aren't detected properly, which I've punted to smurfix for the time being, and some problems with preseeding. We might get some more bugs coming in here after Knot 3.
10:03	Kamion	  usplash: Fixed up bogl backend so that usplash works on powerpc, at least for me and (more urgently) kwwii. I've had to stop working on this for the time being though - see Blocked.
10:03	Kamion	  misc: SoC review (project successful, need to tidy up a few loose ends but I expect to merge it for Edgy+1). Some cdebconf/debconf enhancements which will help us clean up a lot of total madness down the line. A bunch of ubiquity bug-fixing work.
10:03	Kamion	Blocked:
10:03	Kamion	  usplash: Bug 60183 is effectively preventing me from doing much more on usplash for the time being.
10:03	Ubugtu	Malone bug 60183 in linux-source-2.6.17 "oops while running usplash" [Untriaged,Unconfirmed]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/60183
10:03	Kamion	To do:
10:03	Kamion	  ubiquity: Get the bug list under something resembling control, and knock off more of the frequently-reported issues: I have concrete plans for several of them.
10:03	Kamion	  usplash: Work on tasksel enhancements needed to make resolution detection on fresh (d-i) install work properly. I've cleared the general idea here with joeyh.
10:03	mdz	60183 -> eek
10:04	Kamion	I have no idea what's calling vfs_unlink; usplash doesn't call unlink itself
10:04	Kamion	but it's entirely consistent, the trace is basically the same every time and I can reproduce more or less at will
10:04	mdz	anyone else able to confirm it?
10:04	mdz	Kamion: has the point release reduced the ubiquity bug torrent?
10:05	Kamion	it is possible that my local usplash modifications make it more likely to crash; it is one of those bugs with the annoying property that, the more you try to debug something else, the harder your system wedges
10:05	fabbione	Kamion: i will test usplash as soon as i get my PB back
10:06	Kamion	mdz: I've more or less stopped keeping up with my incoming bug folder, so I don't have an accurate idea, but my impression from dealing with the web UI is that the flow of duplicates is reducing and I'm starting to be able to find interesting problems again
10:06	mdz	here's hoping
10:06	mdz	Kamion: thanks
10:06	mdz	sfllaw: next
10:06	sfllaw	Done:
10:06	sfllaw	* Absurd amounts of e-mail
10:06	sfllaw	* Bug triage
10:06	sfllaw	* Hug day
10:06	sfllaw	* E-mailed about interns
10:06	sfllaw	To do:
10:06	sfllaw	* Bug triage
10:06	mdz	sfllaw: was the bug day forwarding theme successful?
10:06	sfllaw	mdz: Marginally so.
10:06	mdz	sfllaw: how is the bug count?
=== sfllaw looks.
10:07	sfllaw	Sorry for the delay.  Ubuntu machine just died.
10:07	mdz	I'd like to hear about the forwarding experiment in more detail sometime after the meeting, email is fine
10:08	mdz	if that approach wasn't entirely successful, maybe we need to try others
10:08	sfllaw	BugDays seem more like people do what they're comfortable with days.
10:08	sfllaw	Maybe we want something targetted at a particular interest
10:08	sfllaw	And then ask if people would like to forward stuff.
10:08	mdz	sfllaw: do we still have a request pending for graphs of bug count data from LP?
10:09	sfllaw	We have graphs.  They're just not useful.
10:09	sfllaw	They're on cricket.
10:09	sfllaw	Raw numbers are better.
10:09	mdz	right, the ones I saw were awfully uninteresting
10:09	mdz	I thought we asked for adjustments
10:09	sfllaw	We went down from 72 unforwarded bugs to 66.
10:09	seb128	a bug triager mailed the bugsquad list, he has worked on some plots for number of bugs, etc but he needs a place where he could place it ... do we have something like that?
10:09	sfllaw	However, we did have lots of bugs closed, as is normal for a BugDay.
10:10	mdz	seb128: supermirror? :-)
10:10	sfllaw	seb128: He's doing that by sampling Malone, isn't he?
10:10	sfllaw	Wouldn't getting the raw data out of the database be better?
10:10	iwj	sfllaw: ITYM scraping.
10:10	seb128	sfllaw: I've not looked at what he's doing, he just wrote saying he needs "to use wget,
10:10	seb128	python and gnuplot, in addition to a server to serve the pages. Its
10:10	seb128	just a few pages, and the plots are not huge (like < 4K each)."
10:10	mdz	sfllaw: let's continue with the weekly stats presented here then
10:11	sfllaw	OK.  Who controls the Malone DB?
10:11	seb128	sfllaw: could you give him a reply if you think it should be done differently so he doesn't waste time neither feel ignored?
10:11	mdz	seb128: he can generate the graphs locally and upload to the supermirror
10:11	sfllaw	Can we get them to run a cronjob there that spits out the right numbers?
10:11	fabbione	sfllaw: #launchpad
10:11	sfllaw	OK.
10:11	fabbione	sfllaw: probably stub
10:11	sfllaw	Will ask there.
10:11	mdz	sfllaw: email the LP list asking for a DBA, I believe there's more than one
10:11	seb128	mdz: the point is that he has no "locally" connected to internet all the time
10:11	mdz	or at least a backup, so best to ask the list
10:12	Mithrandir	mdz: how can one store web-accessible files on the supermirror?  Checking them into bzr, but can you get them out as a web page of some sorts?
10:12	mdz	Mithrandir: you can just sftp things to the supermirror I think
10:13	mdz	sfllaw: thanks
10:13	mdz	kwwii: next
10:13	kwwii	done:
10:13	kwwii	changed from yellow-purple to blue-purple for knot3
10:13	kwwii	worked on kubuntu banner, program guide, etc. for akademy
10:13	kwwii	made first usplash version and got it running on my machine (thanks to Seveas for help making the theme and Kamion for getting it running on my machine so I can test it)
10:13	kwwii	worked on several ideas for usplash animations
10:13	kwwii	todo:
10:13	kwwii	create wiki page with all updated/final artwork
10:13	kwwii	finish usplash
10:13	kwwii	finish tweaking any yellow-purple odds and ends
10:13	kwwii	polish, polish, polish
10:13	mdz	kwwii: how has the feedback been on your side?
10:13	kwwii	mdz: very good actually
10:13	Keybuk	kwwii: you'll go blind if you keep polishing it
10:13	kwwii	the yellow-purple kinda freaked out a few people
10:14	kwwii	wax on, wax off
10:14	mdz	kwwii: probably a good idea to solicit it explicitly in the knot-3 announcement as we discussed with fschoep
10:14	kwwii	mdz: there is a page ready with stuff for kubuntu
10:14	fschoep	mdz: kwwii / Riddell did a good job for that on Knot 2 with screenshots and all
10:14	Kamion	kwwii: paint the fence
10:14	kwwii	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EdgyEft/Knot3/Kubuntu
10:14	mdz	cool, thanks
10:14	mdz	Riddell: next
10:15	Riddell	done:
10:15	Riddell	    koffice 1.6 beta
10:15	Riddell	    KDE ubiquity up to date with GTK frontend
10:15	Riddell	    knot 3 testing
10:15	Riddell	blocked: ruby on ppc
10:15	Riddell	todo:
10:15	Riddell	    knot 3 release today
10:15	Riddell	    further KDE ubiquity changes now needed
10:15	Riddell	   bugfixes bugfixes
10:15	mdz	Riddell: same ruby problem as last week?
10:15	mdz	no change?
10:15	Riddell	yes
10:16	Riddell	it compiles for me, just not in the buildds
10:16	mdz	grr
10:16	infinity	64-bit issue, like we once had tith mono?
10:16	infinity	s/tith/with/
10:16	infinity	And we appear to have with fpc (just stumbled on it today)
10:16	pitti	Riddell: does it work/break on davis?
10:16	Riddell	pitti: I've not tried
10:16	mdz	Riddell: please do
10:16	Riddell	oko
10:17	mdz	thanks
10:17	mdz	rodarvus: here?
10:17	rodarvus	yes
10:17	rodarvus	Done: (very short week, I'm sorry)
10:17	rodarvus	- bug triage (mostly for video drivers)
10:17	rodarvus	- X.Org driver bugfixing catchup for Knot 3, X.Org server fixes (mostly ready, waiting for main to be unfrozen)
10:17	rodarvus	- Some (little) OLPC work
10:17	rodarvus	To do:
10:17	rodarvus	- more bug triage & bug fixing
10:17	rodarvus	- write down OLPC plans to Wiki
10:18	mdz	rodarvus: looking forward to testing that ATI bugfix
10:18	mdz	rodarvus: let's catch up for a few minutes after the meeting
10:18	rodarvus	mdz, sure, it will be uploaded in a few minutes
10:18	rodarvus	*nods*
10:18	mdz	we're already over time
10:18	mdz	anything else before we adjourn?
10:18	mdz	done
10:18	mdz	thanks, all
10:18	zul	mdz: can i bug you later?
10:18	pitti	thanks everyone
10:18	sfllaw	Night.
10:19	mdz	zul: I'll be up for a bit
10:19	mvo	thanks
10:19	zul	mdz: i was thinking later today
=== infinity [n=adconrad@loki.0c3.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
10:19	mdz	zul: after I've slept then
=== iwj [n=ian@xenophobe.extern.relativity.greenend.org.uk] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
10:19	zul	yep same here
=== kwwii [n=kwwii@p54954ABF.dip.t-dialin.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Konversation]
10:20	zul	mdz: ttyl then

</pre>
