{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: IRC Operator team meeting, 19 Mar at 18:03 &mdash; 20:46 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-03-19-18.03.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''Minutes of previous meeting:'' http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-01-22-18.01.log.html 
==== Open items in the IRCC tracker ====
The discussion about "Open items in the IRCC tracker" started at 18:06.

==== Review Bugs related to the Ubuntu IRC Council ====
The discussion about "Review Bugs related to the Ubuntu IRC Council" started at 18:10.

==== The IRCC going forward ====
The discussion about "The IRCC going forward" started at 18:11.

==== Paste and attack prevention in the main channels ====
The discussion about "Paste and attack prevention in the main channels" started at 18:47.

** ''ACTION:'' AlanBell to follow up with IRCC reporting back to community
** ''ACTION:'' Tm_T to focus on communication
** ''LINK:'' https://github.com/AlanBell/Supybot-plugins 

==== Factoid Review ====
The discussion about "Factoid Review" started at 19:06.

** ''LINK:'' http://pad.ubuntu.com/factoids 
** ''ACTION:'' knome to edit !repeat-#xubuntu to be more exact on xubuntu-specific links
** ''ACTION:'' Alanbell to move !canibeanop link content to wiki
** ''ACTION:'' AlanBell to send a summary of factoid changes to ubuntu-irc@

==== Metabot and Bestbot - clean up, or re-implement ====
The discussion about "Metabot and Bestbot - clean up, or re-implement" started at 19:56.

** ''ACTION:'' ircc to clean up behind bestbot and metabot

==== Review #ubuntu-ops-team and how we as a team use the various communication channels ====
The discussion about "Review #ubuntu-ops-team and how we as a team use the various communication channels" started at 20:09.

==== Operator Applicants ====
The discussion about "Operator Applicants" started at 20:13.

** ''LINK:'' http://paste.ubuntu.com/7121828/ 

==== Membership applications ====
The discussion about "Membership applications" started at 20:28.

==== Remove idoru from #ubuntu-offtopic and keep it out of there - rww ====
The discussion about "Remove idoru from #ubuntu-offtopic and keep it out of there - rww" started at 20:29.

==== Any Other Business ====
The discussion about "Any Other Business" started at 20:33.

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* AlanBell
** AlanBell to follow up with IRCC reporting back to community
** AlanBell to send a summary of factoid changes to ubuntu-irc@
* knome
** knome to edit !repeat-#xubuntu to be more exact on xubuntu-specific links
* Tm_T
** Tm_T to focus on communication
* **UNASSIGNED**
** Alanbell to move !canibeanop link content to wiki
** ircc to clean up behind bestbot and metabot

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* AlanBell (307)
* knome (254)
* ubottu (108)
* rww (86)
* phunyguy (83)
* not_rww (67)
* ikonia (42)
* jussi (40)
* IdleOne (40)
* Pici (35)
* cprofitt (27)
* tsimpson (25)
* Tm_T (18)
* MooDoo (16)
* hggdh (12)
* meetingology (9)
* DJones (2)
* lderan (1)
* knome_webchat (1)
* elfy (1)

=== Full Log ===

 18:03 <AlanBell> #startmeeting IRC Operator team meeting

 18:03 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Mar 19 18:03:04 2014 UTC.  The chair is AlanBell. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 18:03 <meetingology> 

 18:03 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 18:03 <IdleOne> o/

 18:03 <AlanBell> agenda is over here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/IrcCouncil/MeetingAgenda

 18:05 <AlanBell> not sure where the meetingology logs are for the last meeting, but here is the day log http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2014/01/22/%23ubuntu-meeting.html

 18:05 <AlanBell> no specific ation items recoreded but we did quite a bit of assorted stuff since then :/

 18:05 <knome> http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-01-22-18.01.log.html

 18:06 <AlanBell> ah, silly me I was looking in the #meetingology channel not ubuntu-meeting

 18:06 <AlanBell> ok, so moving on

 18:06 <AlanBell> #topic Open items in the IRCC tracker

 18:07 <AlanBell> just checking the tracker . . .

 18:07 <AlanBell> no open tickets

 18:08 <knome> what's the tracker URL, and is it publicly accessible

 18:08 <AlanBell> for those that don't know, the tracker is an osticket instance running here http://ubottu.com/tickets

 18:08 <AlanBell> tickets get created when people email the appeals address

 18:08 <knome> ack

 18:09 <AlanBell> it isn't publicly accessible, but every meeting we declare anything going on in it at a high level

 18:09 <phunyguy> (here)

 18:10 <AlanBell> #topic Review Bugs related to the Ubuntu IRC Council

 18:10 <AlanBell> we have a bug though

 18:10 <AlanBell> bug 892501 has been reopened, and we can discuss that in more detail in a later item on the agenda

 18:10 <ubottu> bug 892501 in ubuntu-community "Floodbots - need a re-write to be under ubuntu operator team control" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/892501

 18:11 <AlanBell> but first . . .

 18:11 <AlanBell> #topic The IRCC going forward

 18:11 <AlanBell> so, we have a newish IRCC, following the elections in December

 18:12 <AlanBell> since then there have been rather a lot of stressful interactions and IdleOne has sent an email of resignation to the list

 18:13 <AlanBell> so we are back down to 4 members, AlanBell Pici Tm_T hggdh

 18:13 <AlanBell> there have also been other discussions and suggestions about the IRCC, whether it is right for the team and so on

 18:14 <AlanBell> I would be interested in feedback from others on what we do from here

 18:14 <not_rww> o/

 18:15 <hggdh> so would I...

 18:15 * phunyguy ponders

 18:15 <MooDoo> Has the resignation been accepted?

 18:15 <AlanBell> all options are open, we could have a vote of confidence in the current IRCC, we could have a vote on whether there should be an IRCC, we could open an election to fill the seat, we could invite the CC to fill the remaining seat

 18:15 <not_rww> AlanBell: in terms of immediate issues, I would prefer either IdleOne un-resigning and being not-chairperson, or sticking to 4 members. I don't think electing another person is a good idea at this time.

 18:15 <hggdh> MooDoo: yes, it has

 18:15 <AlanBell> MooDoo: good question

 18:16 <phunyguy> I do not think it should go away.   The IRCC has it's place in my eyes, and to do away with it would leave a giant hole.  Just my two cents.

 18:16 <knome> does the IRCC have the teams support and is it trusted to steer the team?

 18:16 <IdleOne> I have already stated that I am willing to un-resign with the coditions that rww has mentioned.

 18:16 <AlanBell> quite whether a resignation can be withdrawn, I have no idea, we don't have a procedural path for that as such, but if the CC agrees I would see no problem with it

 18:17 <ikonia> I see a problem with it personally

 18:17 <IdleOne> I think this might be something that the current four member, the CC, and myself might want to discuss.

 18:17 <knome> i don't think you can force anybody to stay a member.

 18:18 <ikonia> IdleOne: has resigned without notice or hand over - done, move on

 18:18 <knome> if it's not accepted, the resigned memeber can just do nothing

 18:18 <ikonia> you have 4 members - move on

 18:18 <AlanBell> yeah, we can't "not accept" the resignation

 18:18 <knome> and it is effectively the same as "accepting" the resignal

 18:18 <MooDoo> I don't think it's as simple as that

 18:18 <ikonia> it is as simple as that

 18:18 <phunyguy> I agree that flipflopping resignations is probably not a good idea....

 18:18 <AlanBell> whether it can be withdrawn is an open question

 18:19 <MooDoo> imo if it's been 5 members, then it needs to be 5 members

 18:19 <AlanBell> we don't neccessarily need to do anything about it

 18:19 <knome> whether it can be withdrawn is up for the whole teams' approval, not the IRCC only

 18:19 <ikonia> MooDoo: why ? why does it need to be 5 members

 18:19 <ikonia> why the magic of 5

 18:19 <AlanBell> we had 4 members for some time, we gave the casting vote to the CC

 18:19 <IdleOne> knome: why? the whole team didn't get a vote on who got elected

 18:19 <ikonia> someone doesn't want to do the job - thats fine, they  have left, thats fine too, why make an issue out of them coming and going

 18:19 <phunyguy> ^ yes the odd number is what needs to be.  Not even.

 18:20 <MooDoo> what phunyguy said :)

 18:20 <ikonia> I'm sure 4 people can manage to work out a judgment

 18:20 <AlanBell> ikonia: I am not really, but it would be a failure not to have this agenda item

 18:20 <ikonia> and it can go to the CC if someone feels a real deal breaker is needed

 18:20 <ikonia> AlanBell: it's good that it's on the agenda

 18:20 <knome> "Members of the Ubuntu IRC Members Team are eligible to vote."

 18:21 <IdleOne> knome: not all those members got to vote afaik

 18:21 <MooDoo> ikonia: but going to the CC just drags things out surely when it can be sorted by the power of 5?  just my two cents :)

 18:21 <AlanBell> knome: yes, that is the voting group, which isn't quite a lineup with the operator team

 18:21 <ikonia> MooDoo: it can be sorted by the power of 4 quite easy

 18:21 <cprofitt> I would prefer not to have the CC have to get involved just to break a tie

 18:21 <AlanBell> IdleOne: all that group did, just not all operators are in that groups

 18:21 <ikonia> these aren't life and deather changes, a "hung" issue has pretty much never happened

 18:22 <knome> IdleOne, that's a shortcoming of the voting procedure, and does by no means mean that it's okay for the IRCC to withdraw a resignation

 18:22 <AlanBell> cprofitt: mostly an accademic issue, we have never had a tie

 18:22 <ikonia> exactly

 18:22 * cprofitt nods

 18:22 <ikonia> so 4 members, move on,

 18:22 <cprofitt> on the subject of resignation and withdrawl

 18:22 <IdleOne> anyway, not a big deal for me. I resigned and I'll stick to my choice. I offered to help if the need was there but I don't want to cause more problems. So I am fine with not being on the IRCC.

 18:22 <elfy> cprofitt: I'd agree with that

 18:22 <cprofitt> I think the question is less about the resignation and more about what it implies

 18:22 <ikonia> IdleOne: if you want to do it - do it, if you don't thats fine too, it's just the limbo state that seems pointless to drag out

 18:22 <knome> if the irc members team isn't up-to-date, update it

 18:22 <IdleOne> I suggest we consider this matter closed.

 18:23 <not_rww> with 4 people, majority is 3. with 5 people, majority is 3. shouldn't make much of a difference in reality, especially since everyone's usually on the same page

 18:23 <cprofitt> I can certainly appreciate that the resignation was done in the heat of the moment while emotions were running high

 18:23 <not_rww> especially since IdleOne doesn't seem the sort of person to avoid giving input just because he's not on IRCC *ducks*

 18:23 <cprofitt> I can understand not wanting to alow a person to un-resign...

 18:24 <IdleOne> not_rww: I'm not one to hold my tongue that is for sure

 18:24 <ikonia> in fairness there was a real short list of candidates and people got pushed into doing it because no-one wanted to do it

 18:24 <cprofitt> the question, for me, is if IdleOne can do the job or if allowing him to come back would negatively impact the team in the future

 18:24 <cprofitt> +1 ikonia

 18:24 <AlanBell> I think my view is that withdrawing a resignation is a rule we don't have, and probably don't want to have

 18:24 <cprofitt> I think that is the larger issue -- not many candidates

 18:24 <cprofitt> AlanBell: I agree...

 18:24 <cprofitt> accept the resignation

 18:24 <AlanBell> regardless of the circumstances of this one

 18:25 <phunyguy> this is why I don't agree that this should be brushed off as "it happened, move on"

 18:25 <ikonia> cprofitt: that is how I see it, IdleOne pretty much stuck his name in the hat due to lack of people coming forward

 18:25 <knome> nobody answered my first question:

 18:25 <knome> 20:16  knome: does the IRCC have the teams support and is it trusted to steer the team?

 18:25 <cprofitt> that does not exclude a person from serving again in the future though does it?

 18:25 <knome> which is definitely related to the IRCC going forward...

 18:25 <hggdh> cprofitt: no, it does not exclude

 18:25 <AlanBell> cprofitt: no, it certainly doesn't

 18:25 <cprofitt> good question knome

 18:25 <hggdh> but knome's question is, I think, important

 18:25 <ikonia> knome: the last IRCC term was the best there has been, the new one is made up of mostly the same people, I have no reason to doubt the individuals

 18:26 <AlanBell> so if we decided to fill the seat at the end of the term or before then IdleOne would be most welcome to stand

 18:26 <cprofitt> so if it does not exclude a person from serving again... use your normal procedure to fill the fifth slot

 18:26 <phunyguy> I can agree with that.

 18:26 <knome> ikonia, i'm not doubting anything either, but i want to raise the question up

 18:26 <phunyguy> put it up to another vote... the same way the IRCC is voted upon today?

 18:26 <IdleOne> cprofitt: I agree wit not_rww another election now is just going to cause more problems. The IRCC can effectively do the job with 4 members

 18:27 <phunyguy> oh.

 18:27 <MooDoo> so basically stick with 4 until the next election?

 18:27 <cprofitt> then we can go with 4... just follow the established procedure for restaffing

 18:27 <phunyguy> I just don't think it should be vacant if it dosn't have to be.

 18:27 <AlanBell> yeah, so are we agreed, carry on with 4, fill the 5th seat at some point when it seems like a good idea, but no urgency to that

 18:27 <hggdh> +1

 18:27 <IdleOne> not to mention I doubt there will be any more volunteers this time around especially with all that has been going on

 18:27 <cprofitt> I would agree with focusing on getting the team healthy

 18:27 <phunyguy> I would volunteer, but not a member, etc.

 18:28 <MooDoo> phunyguy: snap!

 18:28 <ikonia> IdleOne: that is a real concern, especially based on the last time

 18:28 <not_rww> phunyguy: I think it has to be. Another election would be distracting and add another person to an already-confusing dynamic.

 18:28 <MooDoo> I would stick with 4 until the next election go to CC if needed and let IdleOne stand if he wants to?

 18:28 * MooDoo shuts up

 18:28 <AlanBell> part of the issue was the timing of the open letter, which was just before the call for candidates

 18:29 <AlanBell> (I actually delayed the call for candidates by a few days as a result)

 18:29 <phunyguy> OK I can agree with it staying 4 members then.  We can revisit later.

 18:29 <AlanBell> but anyhow, I think we have a route forward which is what I wanted from this agenda item

 18:30 <Tm_T> hi

 18:30 * phunyguy looks at his watch and taps foot at Tm_T

 18:30 <not_rww> I'm interested in discussing knome's question next, personally.

 18:30 <knome> if nobody "wants" to be on the IRCC, and only do it because "nobody else does", can *i* trust that the IRCC actually does their job well, and in the best intents for the team?

 18:30 <IdleOne> yes you can

 18:30 <knome> because?

 18:30 <phunyguy> knome: that's a loaded question.

 18:30 <AlanBell> #agreed stick with 4 people on the IRCC until further notice

 18:30 <phunyguy> knome: because that person may have the ability, but not the confidence.

 18:30 <ikonia> before we go any futher would it be possible to have a meeting without any more "jokey" comments

 18:31 <ikonia> and actually disuss things without these off track comments

 18:31 <knome> phunyguy, of course it's a loaded question, everything is.

 18:31 <IdleOne> The four members on the IRCC are most trustworthy and in all my time on this team they have always acted in the best interest of the community

 18:31 <knome> if somebody doesn't have the confidence, can i trust they are able to deliver their best?

 18:32 <AlanBell> knome: there were more candidates than places

 18:32 <phunyguy> knome: in most cases, yes, because they are judging themselves and put more time into their decision.

 18:32 <ikonia> knome: I suggest anyone who isn't confident mails the team

 18:32 <hggdh> knome: you mean the team's confidence, right?

 18:32 <ikonia> rather than call it out in public

 18:32 <ikonia> then their individual issues can be addressed

 18:32 <AlanBell> ikonia: calling it out in public is fine, as I said, all options are on the table

 18:32 <ikonia> (team = council )

 18:32 <not_rww> My main concern with IRCC (not the current iteration, this has been a general thing) is that issues tend to take forever to get resolved. I don't know if that's just me being impatient and/or expecting too much for people in charge of real-time chat, or a genuine problem.

 18:32 <knome> sure.

 18:32 <ikonia> AlanBell: it's not really going to go anywhere is it

 18:33 <ikonia> I have confidence / I don't - discuss

 18:33 <not_rww> So I have the habit of not having confidence that issues are going to get sorted out promptly.

 18:33 <ikonia> the issue is with $user / IRC Council

 18:33 <knome> what not_rww said is also my concern as well

 18:33 <AlanBell> not_rww: got a specific example?

 18:33 <not_rww> But that's an institutional issue. In terms of the specific people we have right now, I have confidence that they will do the position to the best of their abilities, while hampered by institutional issues.

 18:33 <AlanBell> it probably is fair that we try to slow things down sometimes

 18:34 <knome> floodbots?

 18:34 <AlanBell> and sometimes we are slow due to availablility and reluctance to deal with things

 18:34 <not_rww> AlanBell: LjL comes to mind. I think he's stated, and I strongly agree, that that took way too long.

 18:34 <cprofitt> not_rww: I think in many cases when you have a group of people that are tasked with making a decision that delay is part of the process.

 18:34 <not_rww> AlanBell: FloodBots should have had a decision ages ago.

 18:34 <cprofitt> I would assume 'easy topics' do not get elevated to the IRCC

 18:34 <knome> AlanBell, reluctance... well said.

 18:34 <cprofitt> it is the difficult ones that do

 18:34 <ikonia> not_rww: who actually are you ? is not_rww your normal nick name ?

 18:34 <ikonia> are you rww ?

 18:34 <not_rww> ikonia: yes

 18:34 <ikonia> ok, cool

 18:35 <knome> AlanBell, so if the IRCC is "reluctant" to act on things, should i trust them doing their best for the team?

 18:35 <knome> how can we deal with that reluctancy?

 18:35 <not_rww> I could think of others that are also, as cprofitt said, difficult decisions. But the standard IRCC response in the past has tended to be inaction, and that needs to stop.

 18:35 <cprofitt> knome - reluctant does not mean unwilling...

 18:35 <AlanBell> there are quite a few things that we did reluctantly recently, we did them though

 18:36 <cprofitt> reluctant means a realization that they need to take things slowly...

 18:36 <knome> cprofitt, i acknowledge

 18:36 <cprofitt> to take caution and care with them

 18:36 <hggdh> I think there is merit to both sides

 18:36 <ikonia> the time lag to have a discussion between the members can cause delay, thats frustrating, but I don't see how that can be improved.

 18:36 <ikonia> thats not peoples fault they are in different time zone, or have to work, or look after a child

 18:36 <knome> disclaimer: i'm not trying to cause drama and confrontation here...

 18:36 <cprofitt> I agree that, at times, delay causes issues... just like quick action can

 18:37 <hggdh> I cannot speak about previous IRCCs, but I can state that the current one had some quite difficult decisions to make -- and they did get made

 18:37 <cprofitt> I do have faith that everyone on the IRCC is trying to do their best... quick action or delayed action

 18:37 <knome> hggdh, i appreciate that

 18:37 <AlanBell> shall we move on?

 18:37 <cprofitt> with complex issues there is often a need to gather facts as well... which takes time

 18:38 <knome> would it be fair to ask the IRCC to publicly response to any issue raised within some specified time, like a week?

 18:38 <knome> and follow up weekly or beweekly about the status

 18:38 <not_rww> Even if the public response is "we are looking into this"

 18:38 <knome> *bi-weekly

 18:38 <ikonia> knome: that sadly doesn't work

 18:38 <AlanBell> hmm, if it is a defined item somewhere

 18:38 <knome> ikonia, because?

 18:38 <AlanBell> !appeals

 18:38 <ubottu> If you disagree with a decision by an operator, please first pay #ubuntu-ops a visit. If you are still unhappy, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/AppealProcess for the steps you should take. If you feel the need to discuss the channel rules, please contact the ops on IRC or via the email address on the aforementioned page.

 18:38 <AlanBell> ^ email it there and create a ticket \o/

 18:38 <ikonia> knome: they tried this with an issue for me - but the delay was down to people not talking to each other, so when I got an update they had not spoken to each other and the update was wrong

 18:39 <knome> ikonia, ok.. so what you are saying is that "it hasn't worked in the past"

 18:39 <cprofitt> knome: it would be fair to expect a response... as in 'we are looking at this' ... but not a decision

 18:39 <knome> cprofitt, i'm not asking for a decision

 18:39 <ikonia> knome: totally, yes, thats the correct wording

 18:39 <ikonia> knome: if there is a delay doing $something it normally seems to be because people are away, in which case the update is either "nothing done yet" or "wrong" becauyse the guy giving the update is out of the loop

 18:39 <ikonia> they have tried that

 18:39 <knome> AlanBell, so should all issues raised to the IRCC go through the appeals email then?

 18:40 <hggdh> cprofitt: that is not enough, I think. "We are working on it" is nice as a boilerplate, but updates are also necessary, with more details

 18:40 <knome> if the IRCC give weekly notices and all of them are "nothing is done", maybe the team can question if the IRCC is fit in that situation

 18:40 <AlanBell> knome: nope, just talk to us

 18:40 <AlanBell> but if you want SLAs on it, then use the tracker

 18:40 <not_rww> is IRCC/IrcTeam subject to Team Reporting? i forget

 18:40 <knome> AlanBell, then how do i get weekly notices how things are going, since it's not a specified item?

 18:40 <knome> SLA?

 18:40 <cprofitt> hggdh: I agree it is nice to have more,... but I am not sure a one week period of time is enough to expect more

 18:40 <AlanBell> service level agreement

 18:40 <knome> not_rww, all teams should be

 18:41 <knome> well, i just think the IRCC should give periodic reports on *all* issues they are working on.

 18:41 <ikonia> keep in mind these people are giving up their time

 18:41 <AlanBell> not_rww: we did that for a while, can do it again, I have no idea who reads them, nothing happened when we stopped doing them

 18:41 <knome> if that's not happening, the rest of the team can't know if there is any progress

 18:41 <Tm_T> knome: periodic report like, uh, these meetings?

 18:41 <not_rww> then I'd suggest perhaps weekly/every two week interim team reports that get rolled into the monthly one

 18:41 <MooDoo> I think a simple. hello $person, thanks for your $communication, we'll get back to you shortly, please bear with us is enought right?

 18:41 <ikonia> knome: could it be put o the individual to chase up with the council /

 18:41 <ikonia> eg: I raise the issue, I chase it up with them

 18:41 <not_rww> and actually doing the monthly one ;)

 18:41 <knome> not_rww, AlanBell: the team reporting sucks pretty much for all teams atm, but all teams are "subject" to it

 18:42 <not_rww> and private issues that aren't suitable for there can be status-checked over the ticket thing

 18:42 <knome> Tm_T, for example, but a report every month tends to just delay and delay

 18:42 <AlanBell> so what is an "issue" that we are working on?

 18:42 <Tm_T> knome: I know, I remember when we had monthly reports

 18:43 <Tm_T> adding more bureaucracy doesn't sound a good way to go though

 18:43 <ikonia> AlanBell: if you skip forward to the councils function, this query may go away

 18:43 <knome> AlanBell, anything that an operator has raised and that needs IRCC intervention or decision that isn't acted on.

 18:43 <knome> i'm not proposing to add bureaucracy...

 18:43 <knome> i'm proposing to add communication to both direction

 18:44 <Tm_T> knome: communication can be done in many ways

 18:44 <knome> if an operator raises an issue for the IRCC, it would be nice to get reports back

 18:44 <Tm_T> yes I totally agree with that

 18:44 <knome> if it's an informal mail to the mailing list, cool

 18:44 <knome> that would be completely okay

 18:44 <knome> again, EVEN IF the report was "we're still working on this"

 18:45 <hggdh> indeed. And I think this is doable, and should be done

 18:45 <jussi> depends on the issue no, arent the issues raised with the ircc meant to be private/confidential ?

 18:45 <knome> but if that reporting happens once a month in a team meeting, you only need to postpone it twice and by that time, quarter of a year has passed

 18:45 <not_rww> jussi: and those would go over the ticketing system instead

 18:45 <knome> jussi, obviously, if it's a private issue, report to concerned parties only

 18:45 <AlanBell> most issues we just deal with them

 18:45 <Tm_T> not_rww: all issues could go to ticketing if it requires followup

 18:46 <hggdh> (an email to the ML, I mean. And, of course, private/confidential issues would have to be sanitised.)

 18:46 <AlanBell> like someone asks for a cloak, someone needs to get access to a channel etc

 18:46 <knome> AlanBell, that's good, in that case you obviously do not need to report

 18:46 <knome> AlanBell, because the issue has been taken care of

 18:46 <knome> i'm talking about open issues

 18:46 <AlanBell> and some are not operator specific, like we need to clean up expired cloaks

 18:46 <AlanBell> and those go on the meeting agenda

 18:47 <Tm_T> I really recommend people to use the ticketing system more actively if there is something they really see important and isn't for irc team meeting or something that can be done in #ubuntu-irc

 18:47 <AlanBell> anyhow, I think we need to move along . . so

 18:47 <knome> i'm all in for that...

 18:47 <AlanBell> #topic Paste and attack prevention in the main channels

 18:47 <knome> but i would think the tickets should be public for the team to view at all times

 18:48 <knome> not only if you know the ticket number

 18:48 <AlanBell> so we had the floodbots for many years, and now they are gone

 18:48 <knome> AlanBell, so no promise?

 18:48 <knome> AlanBell, no response?

 18:48 <tsimpson> knome: you can use LP for that

 18:48 <knome> AlanBell, no action item?

 18:48 <knome> tsimpson, that works for me, if the IRCC doesn't think that's too much bureucracy

 18:48 <AlanBell> knome: I will follow up with something

 18:48 <knome> thanks.

 18:48 <Tm_T> knome: I promise to focus on communicating better, happy? (:

 18:49 <knome> #action AlanBell to follow up with IRCC reporting back to community

 18:49 * meetingology AlanBell to follow up with IRCC reporting back to community

 18:49 <tsimpson> knome: it already exists https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-irc-council

 18:49 <IdleOne> regarding expired cloaks. I think after two weeks that a member has expired and has not requested to be added back on the team, the cloaks should be automatically removed. Membership is for life anyway (rare cases do happen), the ex-member can always request a cloak again later.

 18:49 <knome> #action Tm_T to focus on communication

 18:49 * meetingology Tm_T to focus on communication

 18:49 <AlanBell> we have launchpad bugs, the ticket tracker, the mailing list, the meeting logs and you can *talk to us*

 18:49 <AlanBell> IdleOne: yeah, we just have to do it, time consuming stuff

 18:49 <knome> tsimpson, yes, i'm okay with that, as long as it's okay for the IRCC, and there is actually responses.

 18:49 <knome> but cheers, i'm happy with this.

 18:49 <AlanBell> so, attack prevention

 18:49 <tsimpson> well reporting on the LP bugs is part of the regular meeting agenda

 18:50 <AlanBell> we had the floodbots, jolly convenient they were too, but they are gone. We said we would put together some kind of tool for preventing accidental pastes, which we did

 18:50 <AlanBell> we put a supybot instance together, running a modified AttackProtector plugin

 18:51 <AlanBell> code is https://github.com/AlanBell/Supybot-plugins

 18:51 <IdleOne> source is ?

 18:51 <IdleOne> there it is

 18:51 <Tm_T> AlanBell: are they verbose of their doings in some monitoring channel?

 18:51 <AlanBell> the modification is to allow auto reversal of mode changes

 18:51 <AlanBell> Tm_T: nope

 18:51 <Tm_T> allright

 18:51 <not_rww> I think it using NOTICE is already on your todo list, right?

 18:52 <not_rww> b/c I don't care, but some people presumably do (and AntiSpamMeta does, amusingly)

 18:52 <AlanBell> this bot was sat in the #unopaste channel for some time for a bit of testing

 18:52 <AlanBell> not_rww: it is using notice

 18:52 <IdleOne> AlanBell: it shouldn't be

 18:52 <not_rww> AlanBell: right, i think people were saying it /shouldn't/ be noticing channels?

 18:52 <IdleOne> was the point :)

 18:52 * AlanBell thinks it was rww that asked for it to be a notice

 18:52 <not_rww> I didn't ask for it to be a notice...

 18:52 <AlanBell> but sure, it can not be a notice

 18:52 <AlanBell> someone did, I wouldn't just make that up ;)

 18:53 <not_rww> I don't care what it is, but some/most people have crap IRC clients that care a lot about channel notices

 18:53 <IdleOne> AlanBell: only because some clients send notices to server tab. New users might not know to look there.

 18:53 <tsimpson> I really don't think it should notice the channel

 18:53 <AlanBell> ok, I will change that later

 18:53 <tsimpson> it should either notice the user, or /msg the user, or just use a normal channel message

 18:53 <Tm_T> I agree no notice

 18:53 <Tm_T> in channel that is

 18:53 <not_rww> what tsimpson said. in decreasing preference order for me

 18:54 <AlanBell> oh, maybe you said to notice the user

 18:54 <IdleOne> channel message is best because that is where the user is looking when the are pasting mulitple lines

 18:54 <not_rww> AlanBell: that sounds more like something I'd say

 18:54 <AlanBell> what does that even do?

 18:54 <Tm_T> not_rww: you mean rww would say?

 18:54 <phunyguy> noticing the user is like a PM, but they see it everywhere... right?

 18:55 <AlanBell> go on, notice me :)

 18:55 <IdleOne> phunyguy: not in all clients

 18:55 <phunyguy> oh.

 18:55 <not_rww> depends on the client

 18:55 <not_rww> what it does is send an RFC-compliant message to the user

 18:55 <phunyguy> mine has settings to put it where you want.

 18:55 <not_rww> some clients choose to display that in stupid ways, some don't

 18:55 * AlanBell sees nothing, anyone noticed me?

 18:56 <hggdh> /invite #ubuntu-br-ops

 18:56 <tsimpson> AlanBell: you have a notice

 18:56 <knome> AlanBell, i just did.

 18:56 <AlanBell> hmm

 18:56 <IdleOne> phunyguy: You are an experienced IRC user though. The best solution is the one that covers all the bases. A channel message would be it

 18:56 <AlanBell> less than totally effective

 18:56 <phunyguy> yep.  I agree there

 18:56 <AlanBell> oh, there they are in a status window, not hilighting me

 18:56 <IdleOne> see

 18:57 <AlanBell> I would never notice those notices

 18:57 <tsimpson> the only problem with a normal channel message is that it can (theoretically) be exploited to ironically flood the channel, adding to the noise

 18:57 <IdleOne> first time irc user in #ubuntu gets a notice, doesn't see it and is now upset about getting Can't send to channel messages from the server

 18:57 * Tm_T notices AlanBell not noticing notice

 18:57 <tsimpson> but it's not something I see as likely

 18:57 <not_rww> so use PM?

 18:57 <IdleOne> not_rww: same problem

 18:57 <knome> time limit the notice to one per 30 secs.

 18:57 <IdleOne> new users might not see the new tab

 18:57 <AlanBell> PM is less of a problem

 18:58 <knome> or one per 1 minute.

 18:58 <phunyguy> I am horrible at noticing PMs and I am an experienced user.

 18:58 <MooDoo> AlanBell: but more intrusive?

 18:58 <not_rww> presumably you'd have more chance to notice when you see you can't talk :P

 18:58 <phunyguy> ask IdleOne, chu, and everyone else that PMs me

 18:58 <AlanBell> anyhow we don't like the notice to the channel so I can change that

 18:58 <knome> how commonly are there several floodpastes in 1 minute?

 18:58 <knome> (from different users?)

 18:58 <AlanBell> in principal though we can get it to do different things, message the monitor channel and other stuff

 18:59 <IdleOne> A channel message is most effective because that is where the users attention is at the time they would get a message about pasting to the channel

 18:59 <knome> or even in 5 minutes

 18:59 <AlanBell> knome: really rare

 18:59 <knome> see.

 18:59 <phunyguy> not_rww: I thought when you are +q, it still sends to the channel on your end? Or is that only if +z is set?

 18:59 <knome> just time limit the notice message to N minutes

 18:59 <not_rww> phunyguy: only if +z is set, you get a server error if it's not

 18:59 <phunyguy> so some may not realize...

 18:59 <phunyguy> oh ok.

 18:59 <phunyguy> well +z can be set at any point in time.

 18:59 <phunyguy> (or unset)

 18:59 <not_rww> anyways, apart from that bikeshedding, I think the bot is working fine as a starting point, and we can do more complicated stuff iff need be

 18:59 <AlanBell> I made the bot some time ago (17 days ago) but the general opinion was to not send it in to the channel and see how we got on without it

 19:00 <AlanBell> couple of days ago there was a bit of a complaint about the lack of floodbots so I sent it in and it has prevented a couple of problems

 19:00 <not_rww> i'll be back in 5 minutes

 19:00 <knome> AlanBell, is the code available and can you link to it

 19:00 <AlanBell> knome: of course, and I did :)

 19:00 <AlanBell> https://github.com/AlanBell/Supybot-plugins

 19:01 <AlanBell> pull requests welcome

 19:01 <knome> just missed that. thanks.

 19:01 <AlanBell> so I think unopaste is staying, I am not hearing howls of anquish

 19:01 <AlanBell> it isn't another eir ;)

 19:02 <knome> AlanBell, AttackProtector is the right subdir, right?

 19:02 <AlanBell> knome: yeah

 19:02 <knome> cheers.

 19:02 <AlanBell> oh, I need to push up the /notice bit

 19:02 <AlanBell> that just isn't something to push upstream

 19:03 <AlanBell> so, a few items to improve on that, but there we are for now

 19:03 <knome> AlanBell, i've asked lderan to look at the code and come up with a time-limiter

 19:03 <tsimpson> it could go upstream, if it was a configuration option

 19:04 <Tm_T> good starting point and possibility to improve is all we need now

 19:04 <knome> can ask him to look at that as well, if you want

 19:04 <AlanBell> tsimpson: yeah, I just hard coded the text for now, if done properly then it might be worth contributing

 19:04 <knome> AlanBell, asked for the conf option as well.

 19:05 <knome> AlanBell, lderan will most probably be in touch with you.

 19:05 <AlanBell> knome: sure, lderan can have all access required, no problem

 19:05 <knome> AlanBell, yeah, i'm just *reporting back* on progress ;)

 19:06 <knome> and noticing that somebody is actually looking at it.

 19:06 * rww reappears

 19:06 <lderan> hello there

 19:06 <AlanBell> we are not committed to this path, if there is a different anti-paste solution that anyone preferes, then we can totally switch

 19:06 <AlanBell> hi lderan

 19:06 <AlanBell> anyhow, lets trot along to the factoid review \o/

 19:06 <AlanBell> #topic Factoid Review

 19:06 <rww> thank you for taking lead on pastebot by the way AlanBell. was good work :)

 19:07 <AlanBell> so we have a bunch of factoids and one of the issues raised in the open letter and then again in assorted bits of drama, was the over-use or inappropriate use of factoids by the team and users

 19:07 <knome> http://pad.ubuntu.com/factoids

 19:07 <AlanBell> so we thought we would have a look at what factoids might be in scope for that, and put the list on the pad that knome linked to :)

 19:08 <AlanBell> so, lets go through them now, everyone should have access to the pad where comments have been left

 19:08 <DJones> Evening

 19:09 <MooDoo> hi DJones

 19:09 <AlanBell> so, from the top :)

 19:09 <AlanBell> !language

 19:09 <ubottu> Please watch your language and topic to help keep this channel family-friendly, polite, and professional.

 19:09 <knome> that has -5 +2 (for new merging with !english)

 19:09 <AlanBell> we had a number of people not liking this factoid and an alternative proposal

 19:10 <AlanBell> The main Ubuntu channels require that you speak in calm, polite English. For other languages, please visit https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/ChannelList

 19:10 <AlanBell> !english

 19:10 <ubottu> The #ubuntu, #kubuntu and #xubuntu channels are English only. For a complete list of channels in other languages, please visit https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/ChannelList

 19:10 <knome> AlanBell, since the factoids are in the pad, do we need to copy/paste?

 19:10 <AlanBell> so the proposal was to make both of them different

 19:11 <Tm_T> AlanBell: I would prefer to see them merged

 19:11 <AlanBell> knome: I am going to call them one by one, doesn't matter if we have extra text here, just makes the minutes look clearer

 19:11 <AlanBell> ok, so we like the new text for both english and language?

 19:11 <Tm_T> I'm ok with it

 19:12 <AlanBell> !no language is <reply> The main Ubuntu channels require that you speak in calm, polite English. For other languages, please visit https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/ChannelList

 19:12 <ubottu> I'll remember that AlanBell

 19:12 <AlanBell> !english is alias language

 19:12 <ubottu> But english already means something else!

 19:12 <AlanBell> !forget english

 19:12 <ubottu> I'll forget that, AlanBell

 19:12 <AlanBell> !english is alias language

 19:12 <ubottu> english has been forgotten, use '!unforget english' to edit it again

 19:12 <AlanBell> bah

 19:13 <DJones> The only issue I can see with that will be disagreements on what constitutes "the main ubuntu channels"

 19:13 <AlanBell> someone know how to do it?

 19:13 <tsimpson> unforget it, then use <alias>

 19:13 <knome> !unforget english

 19:13 <ubottu> I suddenly remember english again, knome

 19:13 <knome> !no, english is <alias> language

 19:13 <ubottu> I'll remember that knome

 19:13 <AlanBell> ah, angle brackets

 19:13 <AlanBell> !english

 19:13 <ubottu> The main Ubuntu channels require that you speak in calm, polite English. For other languages, please visit https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/ChannelList

 19:13 <AlanBell> hah

 19:13 * tsimpson mumbles something about the documentation

 19:13 <AlanBell> yeah, I read it once

 19:13 <knome> tsimpson, documentation, BOOORIING and TL;DR ;)

 19:13 <AlanBell> in one eye, out the other

 19:14 <AlanBell> !ohmy

 19:14 <ubottu> Please remember that all Ubuntu IRC channels share the same attitude of providing friendly and polite interaction with all users of all ages and cultures. Basically, this means no foul language and no abuse towards others.

 19:14 * phunyguy is running out of time :(

 19:14 <knome> could actually made a alias of language now.

 19:14 <AlanBell> so, for this one several people didn't like it at all

 19:15 <phunyguy> yeah, these types of factoids should be more humanly conveyed.  As in, not a bot trigger

 19:15 <AlanBell> !no ohmy is <alias> language

 19:15 <ubottu> I'll remember that AlanBell

 19:15 <AlanBell> phunyguy: so we can forget things altogether, that is fine

 19:15 <AlanBell> but there was a proposal to reword it that had some support

 19:15 <phunyguy> ahh I haven't checked recently.

 19:16 <AlanBell> !enter

 19:16 <ubottu> Please try to keep your questions/responses on one line. Don't use the "Enter" key as punctuation!

 19:16 <AlanBell> several forgets on this one

 19:16 <AlanBell> !forget enter

 19:16 <ubottu> I'll forget that, AlanBell

 19:16 <AlanBell> !repeat

 19:16 <ubottu> Don't feel ignored and repeat your question quickly; if nobody knows your answer, nobody will answer you. While you wait, try searching https://help.ubuntu.com or http://ubuntuforums.org or http://askubuntu.com/

 19:16 <AlanBell> lots of people liked this one

 19:16 <AlanBell> !anyone

 19:16 <ubottu> A high percentage of the first questions asked in this channel start with "Does anyone/anybody..." Why not ask your next question (the real one) and find out? See also !details, !gq, and !poll.

 19:16 <rww> kill with fire

 19:16 <AlanBell> !forget anyone

 19:16 <ubottu> I'll forget that, AlanBell

 19:16 <phunyguy> ^ yes

 19:17 <AlanBell> !behavior

 19:17 <ubottu> The people here are volunteers, your attitude should reflect that. Answers are not always available. See http://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/Guidelines

 19:17 <rww> people were abusing the hell out of that factoid :<

 19:17 <rww> i like !behavior

 19:17 <AlanBell> seems fine to me

 19:17 <AlanBell> !etiquette

 19:17 <ubottu> Unsure how you should behave on this channel? See (in a private message with the bot, /msg ubottu <keyword>): !AskTheBot, !CoC, !Guidelines, !Offtopic, !Language, !Attitude, !Repeat, !Enter, !Paste, !Caps, !NickSpam, !PM, !English - And most importantly, use common sense...

 19:17 <AlanBell> for people who can spell etiquette

 19:17 <jussi> I dont like behaviour. it feels very bossy

 19:17 <rww> !behaviour =~ s/,/;/

 19:17 <ubottu> I'll remember that rww

 19:18 <knome> jussi, and a bit too direct, "Answers are not always available."

 19:18 <rww> jussi: it's usually a response in kind to people getting complainy about not getting answered

 19:18 <jussi> knome: yes "short"

 19:18 <tsimpson> too !many !see !also !keywords

 19:18 <rww> could be reworded tho, but the intent needs to stay

 19:18 <knome> why not merge with guidelines, +3 for that.

 19:18 <knome> !guidelines

 19:18 <ubottu> The guidelines for using the Ubuntu channels can be found here: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/Guidelines

 19:18 <jussi> yep

 19:18 <AlanBell> knome: merge which one with guidelines?

 19:19 <jussi> ettiquette

 19:19 <knome> actually both

 19:19 <jussi> which I cant spell

 19:19 <knome> both have +3 for merging

 19:19 <AlanBell> !no etiquette is <alias> guidelines

 19:19 <ubottu> I'll remember that AlanBell

 19:19 <AlanBell> !no behavior is <alias> guidelines

 19:19 <ubottu> You are editing an alias. Please repeat the edit command within the next 10 seconds to confirm

 19:19 <knome> reword behavior or merge it

 19:19 <rww> AlanBell: behaviour, not behavior

 19:20 <AlanBell> !no behaviour is <alias> guidelines

 19:20 <ubottu> I'll remember that AlanBell

 19:20 <AlanBell> spelling, I fail

 19:20 <AlanBell> !best

 19:20 <ubottu> Usually, there is no single "best" application to perform a given task. It's up to you to choose, depending on your preferences, features you require, and other factors. Do NOT take polls in the channel.

 19:20 <knome> !behavior

 19:20 <ubottu> The guidelines for using the Ubuntu channels can be found here: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/Guidelines

 19:20 <knome> forget !best

 19:20 <jussi> I like best.

 19:20 <rww> i dislike best

 19:21 <rww> also, I just remembered that !patience covers what I wanted !behavior to cover, so yay

 19:21 <tsimpson> let's have a poll!

 19:21 <jussi> haha

 19:21 <knome> no,

 19:21 <AlanBell> what is the best factoid?

 19:21 <knome> there was a poll already

 19:21 <rww> i vote for !best is <alias> worst-#ubuntu-offtopic

 19:21 <knome> and if you must take polls, take them in #ubuntu-polls :P

 19:21 <jussi> knome: serious face off for a min :P

 19:21 <AlanBell> !worst-#ubuntu-offtopic

 19:21 <ubottu> This factoid is supposed to be pretty terrible. Please contact rodserling if you find a factoid worse than this, in order to improve, I mean pejorate, this useless conglomerate of words, thank you, well not really. Worst is also the dutch word for sausage.

 19:22 <AlanBell> yeah, that is pretty bad

 19:22 <jussi> just needs an update that one

 19:22 <rww> not as bad as !ettiquette

 19:22 <IdleOne> no, it's the worst

 19:22 <jussi> I think we just change roserling and IdleOne and its all good

 19:22 <knome> i think we must stop joking

 19:22 <knome> we're discussing !best

 19:23 <AlanBell> I don't think we need a best factoid, if someone asks what the best virtualisation system is or whatever then people can ask them what their requirements are

 19:23 <jussi> yeah, back to it

 19:23 <knome> (i don't want to sit in IRC the whole evening talking about IRC)

 19:23 <knome> !forget best

 19:23 <ubottu> I'll forget that, knome

 19:23 <AlanBell> yay

 19:23 <AlanBell> !who

 19:23 <ubottu> As you can see, this is a large channel. If you're speaking to someone in particular, please put their nickname in what you say (use !tab), or else messages get lost and it becomes confusing :)

 19:23 <knome> has +4

 19:23 <AlanBell> that looks kinda handy

 19:23 <knome> keep and move along

 19:23 <knome> !away

 19:24 <ubottu> Please do not use noisy away messages and nicks in Ubuntu channels. It is annoying and unnecessary. Use the command "/away <reason>" to set your client away silently. See also Â«/msg ubottu GuidelinesÂ»

 19:24 <AlanBell> !away

 19:24 <knome> -4 +1

 19:24 <knome> probably better to notice personally about that.

 19:24 <rww> "a simple PM to the user can help this", yes, !away > user

 19:24 <AlanBell> good point, works well with >

 19:24 <rww> it's not like it's something that really needs discussion, and people who get hit with it generally have heard about how awaynicks suck from elsewhere

 19:25 <AlanBell> ok, keeping for now

 19:25 <AlanBell> !pm

 19:25 <ubottu> Please ask your questions in the channel so that other people can help you, benefit from your questions and answers, and ensure that you're not getting bad advice. Please note that some people find it rude to be sent a PM without being asked for permission to do so first.

 19:25 <knome> can we keep !away, but edit !away-#ubuntu to give no response?

 19:25 <phunyguy> yeah I just still hold firm that factoids like this should be more human and not a bot trigger, even if it is an !away > user

 19:25 <AlanBell> knome: sure, go ahead

 19:25 <phunyguy> just my opinion

 19:25 <rww> "no response" don't think so

 19:25 <knome> AlanBell, i mean, is that technically possible... and what do i set !away-#channel to?

 19:25 <knome> !pm has -1 +4

 19:25 <ubottu> knome: I am only a bot, please don't think I'm intelligent :)

 19:26 <knome> ubottu, quiet!

 19:26 <AlanBell> didn't I do that for !ops-#ubuntu-ops

 19:26 <AlanBell> oh, not quite, no

 19:26 * knome shrugs

 19:26 <knome> i can file a LP bug ;P

 19:26 <AlanBell> knome: ok, sounds like a good idea, if we can do it, lets move on :)

 19:26 <knome> yep.

 19:27 <AlanBell> so for pm, people don't like the last sentence

 19:27 <phunyguy> I have to go to another meeting.  Farewell all for now.

 19:27 <AlanBell> I don't think it needs to be there in that context

 19:28 <AlanBell> !no pm is <reply> Please ask your questions in the channel so that other people can help you, benefit from your questions and answers, and ensure that you're not getting bad advice.

 19:28 <ubottu> I'll remember that AlanBell

 19:28 <AlanBell> !details

 19:28 <ubottu> Please give us full details. For example: "I have a problem with ..., I'm running Ubuntu version .... When I try to do ..., I get the following output: ..., but I expected it to do ..."

 19:28 <AlanBell> !work

 19:28 <ubottu> Doesn't work is a strong statement. Does it sit on the couch all day? Does it want more money? Is it on IRC all the time? Please be specific! Examples of what doesn't work tend to help too.

 19:28 <rww> . !work is funny and pisses users off, !details is fine but a bit overused

 19:28 <AlanBell> I like details, not sure why you would want to merge it with work

 19:29 <AlanBell> so lets move on from details for now

 19:29 <AlanBell> !shout

 19:29 <ubottu> PLEASE DON'T SHOUT! We can read lowercase too.

 19:29 <knome> !forget shout

 19:29 <ubottu> I'll forget that, knome

 19:29 <knome> thanks!

 19:29 <rww> \o/

 19:30 <AlanBell> OK, WHAT IS NEXT?

 19:30 <rww> oh

 19:30 <rww> so

 19:30 <rww> you guys have a bunch of dangling aliases now

 19:30 <rww> !caps

 19:30 <ubottu> Error: unresolvable <alias> to shout

 19:30 <knome> AlanBell, I CAN'T HEAR YOU

 19:30 <rww> i call not it on fixing those

 19:30 <knome> rww, aww for not being able to do that...

 19:30 <knome> rww, i mean, understanding that

 19:30 <AlanBell> rww: ok, fine, we can go through those later

 19:30 <rww> can just remove as we find, i guess

 19:30 <rww> !forget caps

 19:30 <ubottu> I'll forget that, rww

 19:31 <knome> !forget scrolling

 19:31 <ubottu> I'll forget that, knome

 19:31 <AlanBell> well I can go through what we forget in this meeting and fix them

 19:31 <knome> !forget return

 19:31 <ubottu> I'll forget that, knome

 19:31 <knome> !forget anybody

 19:31 <ubottu> I'll forget that, knome

 19:31 <rww> next up, !o4o

 19:31 <AlanBell> !o4o

 19:31 <ubottu> Some topics are controversial and often end in negativity. Take care on subjects like war, race, religion, politics, gender, sexuality, drugs, potentially illegal activities and suicide. The topics are not banned; stating your position is ok, but trolling, baiting, hostility or repetition are not. If you are asked to stop, do so politely. Disputes to !appeals, please adhere to !freenode Policy and the !CodeOfConduct

 19:31 <knome> !forget somebody

 19:31 <ubottu> I'll forget that, knome

 19:31 <rww> strong keep on !o4o

 19:31 <knome> !forget !someone

 19:31 <ubottu> I know nothing about !someone yet, knome

 19:31 <knome> !forget someone

 19:31 <ubottu> I'll forget that, knome

 19:31 <knome> !forget expert

 19:31 <ubottu> I'll forget that, knome

 19:32 <AlanBell> o4o seems worth keeping to me

 19:32 <AlanBell> !stop

 19:32 <ubottu> NOTICE - Please stop this discussion NOW. See !offtopic for things that are inappropriate to discuss in this channel. Continuing will result in action being taken.

 19:32 <rww> and it's one of those factoids that has had iterations to remove bugs and is brushing up against the size limit, and I don't think it needs editing again

 19:32 <knome> !forget good

 19:32 <ubottu> I'll forget that, knome

 19:32 <knome> !forget better

 19:32 <ubottu> I'll forget that, knome

 19:32 <rww> i'm on the fence about !stop

 19:32 <knome> !forget preference

 19:32 <ubottu> I'll forget that, knome

 19:32 <knome> !forget ppolls

 19:32 <ubottu> I know nothing about ppolls yet, knome

 19:32 <rww> knome: (/msg ubottu plz)

 19:32 <AlanBell> stop wasn't on the list, do we like it

 19:33 <knome> rww, i thought for logs/history

 19:33 <knome> but okay.

 19:33 <knome> then i can't follow the discussion!

 19:33 <rww> then do it later :P

 19:33 <AlanBell> knome: lets bash the aliases at the end of the meeting

 19:33 <knome> doing it now in PM

 19:33 <AlanBell> so, !stop, do we like that?

 19:33 <rww> iirc !stop's intended for operator use, not user use

 19:34 <tsimpson> in which case, it's dumb

 19:34 <rww> mainly been used in -ot that i've seen

 19:34 <tsimpson> in which case, it's more dumb

 19:34 <rww> agreed

 19:34 <AlanBell> doesn't make sense there

 19:34 <rww> discussions don't usually get to a point in #ubuntu where it'd be necessary to be so harsh

 19:35 <AlanBell> and you could just mute people, or set +m if it was that bad

 19:35 <tsimpson> and then 'forget' to unset it

 19:35 <AlanBell> !forget stop

 19:35 <ubottu> I'll forget that, AlanBell

 19:35 <rww> in -ot, I'm more of a fan of using !o4o's "stop when asked" clause and asking for stop, in a different tone from !stop

 19:36 <AlanBell> !netsplit

 19:36 <ubottu> netsplit is when two IRC servers of the same network (like freenode) disconnect from each other, so users on one server stop seeing users on the other. If this is happening now, just relax and enjoy the show. See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Netsplit

 19:36 <jussi> thats a good one

 19:36 <AlanBell> !lol

 19:36 <ubottu> Please don't use "LOL" and "OMG" and so forth on a regular basis. This is IRC, not IM, and using those lines on their own is not required, and it is rather annoying to the rest of the people in the channel; thanks.

 19:36 <AlanBell> !forget lol

 19:36 <ubottu> I'll forget that, AlanBell

 19:36 <knome> !inappropriate

 19:36 <ubottu> The current discussion topic is inappropriate for this channel. Please stop.

 19:36 <AlanBell> !nickspam lol

 19:36 <rww> !netsplit =~ s/^/<reply> A netsplit is /

 19:36 <ubottu> I'll remember that rww

 19:36 <knome> ^

 19:37 <AlanBell> !nickspam

 19:37 <ubottu> You should avoid changing your nick in a busy channel like #ubuntu, or other Ubuntu channels; it causes excessive scrolling which is unfair to new users. Please set your preferred nick in your client's settings instead. See also Â« /msg ubottu Guidelines Â»

 19:37 <rww> -1 on !inappropriate existing

 19:37 <knome> !forget inappropriate

 19:37 <ubottu> I'll forget that, knome

 19:37 <jussi> good

 19:37 <rww> i have the same opinion of !nickspam as of !away

 19:37 <AlanBell> nickspam seems popular in the pad

 19:37 <knome> yes,

 19:37 <knome> same as away

 19:37 <AlanBell> keep, but stop it working in-channel if we can

 19:38 <knome> make it PM-only.

 19:38 <AlanBell> !u

 19:38 <ubottu> U is the 21st letter of the modern latin alphabet. Neither 'U' nor 'Ur' are words in the English language. Neither are 'R', 'Y', 'l8', 'ryt',  'Ne1' nor 'Bcuz'. Mangled English is hard for non-native English speakers. Please see http://geekosophical.net/random/abbreviations/ for more information.

 19:38 <jussi> I dont like that one. feels short and grumpy.

 19:38 <knome> !forget lolops

 19:38 <ubottu> I'll forget that, knome

 19:38 <knome> !forget lolcats

 19:38 <ubottu> I'll forget that, knome

 19:38 <tsimpson> you could just get rid of the first two sentences of !u

 19:39 <rww> . !no, u is <reply> Shortened English is difficult for some non-native English speakers to read. Please use full words instead. Thanks!

 19:39 <knome> or merge with !language.

 19:39 <AlanBell> much better

 19:39 <tsimpson> like that, yep

 19:39 <knome> !language

 19:39 <ubottu> The main Ubuntu channels require that you speak in calm, polite English. For other languages, please visit https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/ChannelList

 19:39 <jussi> rww: ++

 19:39 <Pici> hi

 19:39 <rww> !no, u is <reply> Shortened English is difficult for some non-native English speakers to read. Please use full words instead. Thanks!

 19:39 <AlanBell> hi Pici

 19:39 <ubottu> I'll remember that rww

 19:39 <jussi> heya Pici

 19:39 <knome> isn't mangled english essentially "other language"

 19:39 <rww> knome: no, it r txt liek dis

 19:39 <AlanBell> !piracy

 19:39 <ubottu> piracy discussion and other questionably legal practices are not welcome in the Ubuntu channels. Please take this discussion elsewhere or abstain from it altogether. This includes linking to pirated software, music, and video. Also see !guidelines and !o4o

 19:39 <knome> rww, yes... looks like other language to me :)

 19:39 <AlanBell> popular one

 19:40 <AlanBell> !noob

 19:40 <ubottu> Acronyms or statements like noob, jfgi, stfu, or rtfm are not welcome in this channel. Period.

 19:40 <rww> !-piracty

 19:40 <rww> !-piracy

 19:40 <ubottu> piracy aliases: warez, illegal, cracking - added by elkbuntu on 2007-03-11 14:52:32 - last edited by Pici on 2011-07-19 19:43:02

 19:40 <rww> !-cracking

 19:40 <ubottu> cracking is <alias> piracy - added by LjL on 2007-11-07 22:23:06

 19:40 <knome> !forget noob

 19:40 <ubottu> I'll forget that, knome

 19:40 <rww> . !piracy doesn't cover cracking. Should it?

 19:41 <rww> also, !noob was +2/-2, not really a forget-without-discussion

 19:41 <AlanBell> rww: possibly, however penetration testing, wireshark and wifi stuff that is in the repos is entirely supportable

 19:41 <rww> then !forget cracking

 19:41 <AlanBell> yeah

 19:41 <knome> rww, can reintroduce if people feel strongly.

 19:41 <jussi> noob should go from my point of view, tipping it to +2/-3

 19:42 <Pici> We historically do not support the actual use of things like aircrack-ng even if they claim they are using it for legal purposes

 19:42 <rww> on second thought, all the *f* acronyms in !noob are covered by !language

 19:42 <knome> i've already !forgot all the aliases for !noob

 19:42 <knome> (but i can reintroduce)

 19:42 <knome> but i think it's just misuse of the factoid system

 19:42 <AlanBell> I think the policy remains, stfu and so on are not acceptable, we just don't need a bot factoid to say so

 19:42 <knome> exactly

 19:42 <jussi> exactly

 19:42 <knome> basically,

 19:42 <rww> alrighty, i'll go with that

 19:42 <knome> all factoids that are "op use only" should go.

 19:43 <knome> well

 19:43 <knome> don't take that black and white :)

 19:43 <rww> . !noob wasn't op-use-only, but I agree

 19:43 <rww> !google

 19:43 <ubottu> While Google is useful for helpers, many newer users don't have the google-fu yet. Please don't tell people to "google it" when they ask a question.

 19:43 <Pici> There are op-only factoids?

 19:43 <knome> but there are usually better ways to handle

 19:43 <knome> Pici, !stop was mentioned as one

 19:43 <knome> Pici, and not *technically* ops-only

 19:43 <knome> which is why they also should be dropped...

 19:44 <jussi> I think a lot of the factoids that tell/order users what they must or must not do are not that useful/somewhat rude

 19:44 <knome> !piracy ?

 19:44 <ubottu> knome: I am only a bot, please don't think I'm intelligent :)

 19:44 <AlanBell> so !google had some support

 19:44 <AlanBell> !work

 19:44 <ubottu> Doesn't work is a strong statement. Does it sit on the couch all day? Does it want more money? Is it on IRC all the time? Please be specific! Examples of what doesn't work tend to help too.

 19:44 <knome> what happened to !piracy

 19:44 <knome> did we decide something?

 19:44 <AlanBell> !piracy

 19:44 <ubottu> piracy discussion and other questionably legal practices are not welcome in the Ubuntu channels. Please take this discussion elsewhere or abstain from it altogether. This includes linking to pirated software, music, and video. Also see !guidelines and !o4o

 19:44 <knome> keep?

 19:44 <Pici> yes

 19:44 <knome> (i guess)

 19:44 <knome> ok

 19:44 <AlanBell> keeping it

 19:44 <AlanBell> but !work is less popular

 19:44 <knome> i'm actually thinking -1 !google

 19:45 <AlanBell> !details

 19:45 <ubottu> Please give us full details. For example: "I have a problem with ..., I'm running Ubuntu version .... When I try to do ..., I get the following output: ..., but I expected it to do ..."

 19:45 <rww> Pici: re: aircrack and such, I'd appreciate some pondering from IRCC about that and perhaps clarification on if it is or isn't supportable, since different ops seem to disagree in the past about it

 19:45 <AlanBell> so !work and !details are similar

 19:45 <knome> it sounds like something an op or and experienced user would throw at a not-so-experienced helper

 19:45 <rww> i dislike work

 19:45 * phunyguy is back

 19:45 <AlanBell> rww: that has previously been discussed, I will look it up, the CC was involved I think

 19:46 <jussi> theres another one I dont remember that says something similar but better

 19:46 <AlanBell> !no work is <alias> details

 19:46 <ubottu> You are editing an alias. Please repeat the edit command within the next 10 seconds to confirm

 19:46 <knome> !details | jussi

 19:46 <ubottu> jussi: Please give us full details. For example: "I have a problem with ..., I'm running Ubuntu version .... When I try to do ..., I get the following output: ..., but I expected it to do ..."

 19:46 <jussi> no

 19:46 <rww> !-work

 19:46 <ubottu> work is <alias> doesn't work - added by Seveas on 2006-06-18 16:49:49 - last edited by AlanBell on 2014-03-19 19:46:11

 19:46 <rww> !-doesn't work

 19:46 <ubottu> doesn't work aliases: work, doesntwork, doesnt work, didnotwork, didn't work, dontwork, works - added by Seveas on 2006-06-18 16:49:40 - last edited by Seveas on 2007-03-02 18:20:46

 19:46 <jussi> it starts with e and is a long word

 19:46 <Pici> I like work

 19:46 <AlanBell> !no doesn't work is <alias> details

 19:46 <ubottu> I'll remember that AlanBell

 19:46 <rww> !elaborate

 19:46 <ubottu> Please elaborate, your question or issue may not seem clear or detailed enough for people to help you. Please give more detailed information, errors, steps, and possibly configuration files (use the !pastebin to avoid flooding the channel)

 19:46 <AlanBell> !work

 19:46 <ubottu> Please give us full details. For example: "I have a problem with ..., I'm running Ubuntu version .... When I try to do ..., I get the following output: ..., but I expected it to do ..."

 19:46 <jussi> rww: yup

 19:46 <knome> yes!

 19:47 <rww> i prefer !elaborate to !work

 19:47 <jussi> yes, as do I

 19:47 <knome> Â¡no, details is <alias> elaborate

 19:47 <knome> ^

 19:47 <rww> !-details

 19:47 <ubottu> details aliases: doesn't work, example - added by LjL on 2008-11-06 23:26:49

 19:47 <rww> knome: +1

 19:47 <jussi> knome: also +1

 19:47 <knome> and work too.

 19:47 <knome> !no, details is <alias> elaborate

 19:47 <ubottu> I'll remember that knome

 19:47 <knome> !no, work is <alias> elaborate

 19:47 <ubottu> You are editing an alias. Please repeat the edit command within the next 10 seconds to confirm

 19:47 <AlanBell> !work

 19:47 <rww> !work

 19:47 <ubottu> Please elaborate, your question or issue may not seem clear or detailed enough for people to help you. Please give more detailed information, errors, steps, and possibly configuration files (use the !pastebin to avoid flooding the channel)

 19:47 <knome> !no, work is <alias> elaborate

 19:47 <ubottu> You are editing an alias. Please repeat the edit command within the next 10 seconds to confirm

 19:47 <AlanBell> already done, it is a chain of aliases

 19:47 <knome> what?

 19:48 <knome> stupid.

 19:48 <rww> knome: it's fine :P

 19:48 <knome> :)

 19:48 <AlanBell> knome: relax

 19:48 <rww> !elaborate =~ s/,/;/

 19:48 <ubottu> I'll remember that rww

 19:48 <knome> NEVAR!

 19:48 <AlanBell> !please

 19:48 <ubottu> Avoid following your questions with a trail of "Please, help me", "Can nobody help me?", "I really need this!", and so on. This just contributes to making the channel unreadable. If you are not answered, ask again later; but see also !repeat and !attitude

 19:48 <AlanBell> !forget please

 19:48 <ubottu> I'll forget that, AlanBell

 19:48 <rww> !repeat

 19:48 <ubottu> Don't feel ignored and repeat your question quickly; if nobody knows your answer, nobody will answer you. While you wait, try searching https://help.ubuntu.com or http://ubuntuforums.org or http://askubuntu.com/

 19:48 <rww> !attitude

 19:48 <ubottu> The guidelines for using the Ubuntu channels can be found here: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/Guidelines

 19:48 <jussi> that one gets abused... (repeat)

 19:49 <knome> #action knome to edit !repeat-#xubuntu to be more exact on xubuntu-specific links

 19:49 * meetingology knome to edit !repeat-#xubuntu to be more exact on xubuntu-specific links

 19:49 <AlanBell> it does, someone pastes a question, repeats hours later and someone tells them off for repeating :)

 19:49 <Pici> I'm a little confused as to where the decision to remove some of these is coming from... like !please

 19:49 <AlanBell> Pici: the pad

 19:49 <knome> Â¡no, repeat is <alias> elaborate

 19:49 <rww> knome: -1

 19:50 <rww> knome: they're different issues

 19:50 <AlanBell> if there is overwhelming -1s on the pad or +1s then I wassn't discussing in great depth

 19:50 <Pici> -1

 19:50 <knome> mmh, yeah, i acknowledge that..

 19:50 <knome> just an idea

 19:50 <rww> AlanBell: !please was +4...

 19:50 <rww> oh no it wasn't

 19:50 * rww searches better

 19:50 <AlanBell> rww: no, it wasn't

 19:50 <Pici> sorry, I missed that on the pad

 19:50 <knome> would !forget repeat

 19:50 <rww> yeah, ignore me, I failed at ctrl-f

 19:50 <Pici> no

 19:50 <Pici> repeat is used a lot.

 19:50 <Pici> repeatedly

 19:51 <AlanBell> is that good or bad?

 19:51 <knome> i guess that proves my point. :)

 19:51 <rww> I think it's fine if it's not abused.

 19:51 <Pici> Well, I was making a joke. It is used when it is necessary.

 19:51 <phunyguy> jokes are not allowed here.

 19:51 <knome> hmm,

 19:51 <Pici> Remember that some people prefer to see things that ubottu says as 'official' despite other users telling them the same thing.

 19:51 <knome> drop anything off !repeat except the last sentence?

 19:52 <knome> While you wait...

 19:52 <rww> hrm?

 19:52 <knome> dunno

 19:52 <knome> i'm just throwing ideas.

 19:52 <AlanBell> if we can't decide now, lets move on

 19:52 <AlanBell> !punctuation

 19:52 <ubottu> Punctuation is good, but its overuse hurts readability. Please refrain from adding many ?'s or !'s to the end of your sentences. See also !enter

 19:52 <Pici> k

 19:53 <knome> forget...

 19:53 <Pici> we got rid of enter :/

 19:53 <knome> proves we should drop punctuation as well :P

 19:53 <Pici> but then I can't do things like

 19:53 <Pici> !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!punctuation

 19:53 <ubottu> Punctuation is good, but its overuse hurts readability. Please refrain from adding many ?'s or !'s to the end of your sentences. See also !enter

 19:53 <rww> +1 Pici

 19:54 <knome> punctuation is requested 141 times

 19:54 <rww> i changed my mind, kill it

 19:54 <knome> approximately 100 of those is Pici playing with the bot

 19:54 <Pici> punctuation can probably go, I just liked !enter

 19:54 <Pici> knome: probably :P

 19:54 <knome> !forget punctuation

 19:54 <ubottu> I'll forget that, knome

 19:54 <jussi> yup

 19:54 <AlanBell> !coc

 19:54 <ubottu> The Ubuntu Code of Conduct is the document that spells out etiquette in the Ubuntu community | http://www.ubuntu.com/project/about-ubuntu/conduct  | For information on how to electronically sign the CoC, see https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SigningCodeofConduct | Watch http://static.screencasts.ubuntu.com/videos/2010/12/22/004-SigningCoC.ogv

 19:54 <AlanBell> keep that one

 19:54 <Pici> keep

 19:54 <phunyguy> this is a good one

 19:54 <AlanBell> !canibeanop

 19:54 <ubottu> If you are interested in joining the Ubuntu IRC Team, take a look at both http://www.siltala.net/2010/03/24/ops-teams-applications-announcement/ and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/IrcTeam/OperatorRequirements for info on the process and requirements.  You can also learn about what the job entails from people in #ubuntu-irc.

 19:54 <rww> !coc =~ s/  / /

 19:54 <ubottu> I'll remember that rww

 19:55 <Pici> keep

 19:55 <phunyguy> also a good one

 19:55 <Pici> beanop

 19:55 <rww> !canibeanop =~ s/  / /

 19:55 <ubottu> I'll remember that rww

 19:55 <knome> !meta

 19:55 <ubottu> If you would like to help in #*ubuntu* but it just goes too fast to spot interesting questions, try joining #ubuntu-meta and watching for questions there (note that it is NOT a support channel, however, and questions should still be answered in #*ubuntu*)

 19:55 <tsimpson> may be a good idea to move the blog link to the wiki somewhere

 19:55 <AlanBell> yeah, I will move the content to the wiki

 19:55 <knome> +1 for tsimpson's idea

 19:55 <Pici> aye

 19:55 <rww> #action Alanbell to move !canibeanop link content to wiki

 19:55 * meetingology Alanbell to move !canibeanop link content to wiki

 19:55 <rww> :3

 19:55 <AlanBell> ok, that concludes the factoid review \o/

 19:55 <knome> meta?

 19:56 <phunyguy> phew

 19:56 <rww> no it doesn't there is !meta :P

 19:56 <tsimpson> -meta is dead

 19:56 <rww> !forget meta

 19:56 <ubottu> I'll forget that, rww

 19:56 <knome> !forget meta

 19:56 <ubottu> I know nothing about meta yet, knome

 19:56 <AlanBell> knome: coming up next . .

 19:56 <rww> I WIN

 19:56 <knome> boo!

 19:56 <AlanBell> I will send a summary of what has changed to the list later

 19:56 <AlanBell> I will extract it from the minutes

 19:56 <rww> #action AlanBell to send a summary of factoid changes to ubuntu-irc@

 19:56 * meetingology AlanBell to send a summary of factoid changes to ubuntu-irc@

 19:56 <AlanBell> #topic Metabot and Bestbot - clean up, or re-implement

 19:56 <knome> hmm, please

 19:56 <knome> one more

 19:56 <knome> !ask

 19:56 <ubottu> Please don't ask to ask a question, simply ask the question (all on ONE line and in the channel, so that others can read and follow it easily). If anyone knows the answer they will most likely reply. :-) See also !patience

 19:57 <phunyguy> that one is beat to hell also

 19:57 <rww> alias to !elaborate

 19:57 <Pici> I'd like to shorten that one up

 19:57 <knome> rww, not quite the same issue... :)=

 19:57 <rww> . !elaborate is my new favorite thing

 19:57 <Pici> It used to be just "Don't ask to ask, just ask"

 19:57 <knome> sounds alike to "someone"

 19:57 <rww> brb on alt

 19:57 <knome> just different wording

 19:58 <knome> and !someone was dropped

 19:58 <MooDoo> sorry guys brb little one playing up

 19:58 <tsimpson> I don't see the relevance to !patience either

 19:58 <knome> !no, patience is <alias> repeat

 19:58 <ubottu> I'll remember that knome

 19:58 <AlanBell> I think !ask is OK

 19:58 <jussi> I say we keep ask in some form - Ive seen many channels using similar wording and its quite a well known/said thing. maybe a link to how to ask wiki is good

 19:59 <knome> (it *was* the same factoid)

 19:59 <phunyguy> While this factoid is probably OK, it just gets used a lot

 19:59 <phunyguy> more than it should.

 19:59 <AlanBell> people are hesitant to ask sometimes

 19:59 <knome> does throwing a factoid help their thresold to ask?

 19:59 <phunyguy> example, "anyone here use $someapplication?"

 20:00 <phunyguy> about 4 people slam them with the bot factoid

 20:00 <tsimpson> I'd remove everything in parentheses and the see also

 20:00 <knome> i vote -1 to !ask

 20:00 <phunyguy> same, -1

 20:00 <Pici> I'd keep the words in the parens and remove the second and 3rd sentences

 20:00 <knome> it is essentially the same as !someone

 20:00 <knome> and all the reasons why we decided to drop that applies to !ask

 20:00 <knome> wasn't the goal to reduce bot usage?

 20:00 <knome> if we really miss the factoid, then reintroduce it.

 20:00 <phunyguy> ^

 20:01 <knome> </rant>

 20:01 <AlanBell> the goal is to have a more human atmosphere

 20:01 <not_rww> o/

 20:01 <Pici> humans :(

 20:01 <knome_webchat> i have lag.

 20:01 <knome> i have lag.

 20:01 <AlanBell> I read about humans in a book once, I am an expert now \o/

 20:01 <tsimpson> !lag

 20:01 <ubottu> You have lag, I don't have lag

 20:02 <Pici> How long until helpers complain that ubottu isn't working because we removed a bunch of factoids?

 20:02 <knome> tsimpson, was lag between my irc shell and freenode.

 20:02 <phunyguy> Pici: good question... and that question can be answered pretty easily

 20:02 <phunyguy> (their question I mean)

 20:03 <MooDoo> back sorry about that

 20:03 <Pici> phunyguy: yep.  And as always, I always tell them to suggest a factoid if they think it should exist.

 20:03 <knome> so can people express their thoughts on !ask with -1 +1 -+0

 20:03 <phunyguy> yes, I agree

 20:03 <knome> i'm not sure what the general opinion is.

 20:04 <phunyguy> in case it was missed, -1

 20:04 <knome> -1 from me too

 20:04 <knome> i need to go really soon.

 20:05 <knome> anybody +1's !ask?

 20:05 <phunyguy> yeah this has been an exceptionally long, but productive meeting so far.

 20:05 <AlanBell> as always this stuff is reversable, if we get complaints we can undo it

 20:05 <knome> so forget?

 20:05 <AlanBell> I don't have a strong opinion on ask

 20:05 <knome> ok, mind if i forget that and the aliases then?

 20:06 <IdleOne> !ask

 20:06 <ubottu> Please don't ask to ask a question, simply ask the question (all on ONE line and in the channel, so that others can read and follow it easily). If anyone knows the answer they will most likely reply. :-) See also !patience

 20:06 <knome> ask, help, justask, metaquestion, problem, questions, question

 20:06 <IdleOne> keep

 20:06 <Pici> ask and help are useful.

 20:06 <Pici> +1 on ask

 20:06 <AlanBell> ok, lets keep it, now for this topic item :)

 20:06 <phunyguy> ok, so keep it

 20:06 <knome> ask == help

 20:06 <knome> ok, i'm off

 20:07 <phunyguy> \o

 20:07 <AlanBell> as well as the floodbots we no longer have the use of metabot and bestbot

 20:07 <AlanBell> we have the option of trying to reimplement the functionality, or cleaning up the channels and wiki pages and factoids

 20:08 <AlanBell> any thoughts?

 20:08 <IdleOne> clean up

 20:08 <phunyguy> +1 to clean up

 20:08 <AlanBell> my view is to clean up

 20:09 <AlanBell> ok, in the absence of any strong support for reimplementing . . .

 20:09 <not_rww> +1 clean up

 20:09 <AlanBell> #action ircc to clean up behind bestbot and metabot

 20:09 * meetingology ircc to clean up behind bestbot and metabot

 20:09 <AlanBell> #topic Review #ubuntu-ops-team and how we as a team use the various communication channels

 20:09 <AlanBell> we touched on this earlier

 20:09 <AlanBell> how the IRCC and team in general should use communication tools available

 20:10 <AlanBell> there has been some suggestion that we should use the -ops-team channel less and use -irc more for topics that are appropriate there

 20:10 <AlanBell> we could close -ops-team if people want it to not exist

 20:11 <phunyguy> well I like -ops-team, but I can live without it.

 20:11 <IdleOne> -ops-team is useful when trying to resolve and ban with a user and I'm not sure what to do

 20:11 <phunyguy> yes, I agree there

 20:11 <Pici> +1

 20:12 <IdleOne> I say we keep the channel, but try and move much of the discussion as possible to -irc

 20:12 <Pici> and a place for other ops to chime in without having to try to talk over the proceedigns in -ops

 20:12 <IdleOne> ^

 20:12 <phunyguy> right, purely for operator issues/assistance that need to be private.

 20:12 <phunyguy> but discussing things related to the IRC team should be in -irc imo

 20:13 <phunyguy> recent events being a good example.

 20:13 <not_rww> +1 all above

 20:13 <AlanBell> ok, I can reflect that in the minutes, a general preference to use -irc more

 20:13 <AlanBell> #topic Operator Applicants

 20:14 <AlanBell> next item is operator applicants, now we were doing this on a per-cycle basis after UDS

 20:14 <AlanBell> then UDS got a bit confusing, but we have just had one, so lets process some queues

 20:14 <AlanBell> http://paste.ubuntu.com/7121828/

 20:14 <IdleOne> I think this should be tabled for now. I would like to discuss letting the channel ops pick and chose their own ops for the channels. IRCC can keep a veto power just in case it is needed.

 20:14 <AlanBell> that is the list of all the channel groups on launchpad and the people who have applied to join

 20:15 <Pici> what are the numbers?

 20:15 <AlanBell> Pici: launchpad karma I think, for no particular reason

 20:15 <Pici> o

 20:15 <IdleOne> channels should be viewed as individual sub-teams to the irc-team.

 20:15 <phunyguy> I picked #ubuntu-ops by accident, that can be removed.

 20:16 <AlanBell> phunyguy: sure, will do

 20:16 <phunyguy> I have not been an op long enough for that

 20:17 <phunyguy> wait, I did apply for #ubuntu... am I missing it in there?

 20:17 <not_rww> you're not in the proposed list for https://launchpad.net/~irc-ubuntu-ops

 20:18 <AlanBell> IdleOne: channels are individual subteams on launchpad, and we do invite people to comment on applicants, I think for now we have to follow the process we have, which isn't completely incompatible with what you are saying

 20:18 <not_rww> also, I'd like to postpone this topic until next meeting because I have input on some applicants that I want to express in private, and didn't realize it was coming up today

 20:18 <not_rww> i am aware that this is my fault for failing at reading

 20:18 <IdleOne> AlanBell: understood. I'll propose for next meeting perhaps.

 20:18 <phunyguy> :(

 20:19 <phunyguy> I am 99.9% sure I applied in #ubuntu.  Oh well.  I will reapply.

 20:19 <AlanBell> ok, so I need to clarify where we are right now :)

 20:19 <AlanBell> the process is that at some point (now) we put out a call for operators, and look at who is already in the queue

 20:20 <AlanBell> at that point we sort out any administrative errors in the queues, like that phunyguy in the wrong one, and that deactivated account

 20:20 <AlanBell> then we have a feedback period

 20:20 <jussi> there is a clause there (iirc) that the ircc can just "approve" people if it wants

 20:20 <IdleOne> AlanBell: I think that the IRCC voting on who should be an op in which channels is a little bit too much micromanaging. Let the channel ops decide who they think is best for their channel. I know many of us have ops over a lot of the same channels, but I think the channel ops are best placed to know who will be a good fit.

 20:21 <AlanBell> !canibeanop

 20:21 <ubottu> If you are interested in joining the Ubuntu IRC Team, take a look at both http://www.siltala.net/2010/03/24/ops-teams-applications-announcement/ and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/IrcTeam/OperatorRequirements for info on the process and requirements. You can also learn about what the job entails from people in #ubuntu-irc.

 20:21 <AlanBell> Apply to join the appropriate operator team(s) on Launchpad. For example, if you wish to become an #ubuntu-devel operator, you should apply to join ~irc-ubuntu-devel-ops on Launchpad.

 20:22 <IdleOne> anyway, I'll drop it for now and propose something for a later meeting.

 20:22 <AlanBell> When the Ubuntu IRC Council notices the need to have more operators in a particular channel or channels, they will send an email to the ubuntu-irc mailing list. After this email is sent, there will be a one week period for any last minute applications and/or for applicants to finish updating their wiki pages. During this time Testimonials and concerns can be emailed direct to the Ubuntu IRC Council mailing list, or listed on the ...

 20:22 <AlanBell> ... applicants wiki page.

 20:22 <AlanBell> ^ that is where we are now

 20:22 <AlanBell> so, I am letting people know who is in the queue right now, and going to send a mail to the list opening the one week period

 20:23 <phunyguy> please include me in #ubuntu on that email, I hit the button on LP.

 20:23 <AlanBell> the channel ops are best placed to give feedback

 20:23 <jussi> ahh the clause was about dropping applicants, not approving them

 20:24 <MooDoo> ok sorry all, my little one is playing up, i'm gonna have to bail.

 20:24 <AlanBell> yup, we can remove applicants from the list if they are not appropriate

 20:24 <AlanBell> no problem MooDoo o/

 20:24 <MooDoo> thanks all

 20:25 <IdleOne> I'm out too. Good meeting thanks all.

 20:25 <AlanBell> so, yes, operators in a channel are well placed to give feedback on the applicants, I will try and stress that

 20:25 <IdleOne> oh, one more thing. idoru can go bye bye.

 20:26 <AlanBell> we just don't have a channel operator voting process at the moment, but sure, one could be proposed and thought through

 20:26 <AlanBell> in practice I would be surprised if the IRCC in any way ever "overruled" feedback from a channel operator

 20:27 <AlanBell> though actually, it probably has happened that channel operators didn't give any feedback and were later surprised that someone was appointed

 20:28 <AlanBell> anyhow, that is where we are, and I will be mailing the list accordingly

 20:28 <AlanBell> #topic Membership applications

 20:29 <AlanBell> no membership applications on the agenda, but pretty much anyone who is an op would find it easy to demonstrate a significant and sustained contribution if they applied

 20:29 <AlanBell> #topic Remove idoru from #ubuntu-offtopic and keep it out of there - rww

 20:29 <AlanBell> so, idoru, any support for keeping it? anyone know why it is there?

 20:29 <not_rww> because we used to get spambots in there, probably

 20:29 <not_rww> i very much want it gone

 20:29 <phunyguy> I fear teh spambots will come back and then we will want idoru back

 20:29 <phunyguy> the*

 20:30 <jussi> not_rww: why?

 20:30 <AlanBell> the fun things about decisions on IRC is that nothing is final

 20:30 <tsimpson> what's the problem with it being there anyway?

 20:30 <AlanBell> so is it randomly klining people?

 20:30 <not_rww> jussi: because it has not killed a spambot in a long while and has killed legitimate users, and freenode is bad at keeping an eye on klines it sets to make sure they're legit

 20:31 <AlanBell> on a technical level, what do we have to do, ask staff to get it to part?

 20:31 <not_rww> please refer to the comments I made when it got removed from #ubuntu, they apply to #ubuntu-offtopic too except more strongly

 20:31 <not_rww> AlanBell: yes

 20:31 <phunyguy> or kickban it

 20:31 <not_rww> phunyguy: it's not affected by bans

 20:32 <phunyguy> o.

 20:32 <AlanBell> ok, anyone actively want to keep it?

 20:33 <jussi> nope

 20:33 <AlanBell> #agreed idoru to be removed from -offtopic

 20:33 <AlanBell> #topic Any Other Business

 20:33 <phunyguy> it can be added back again

 20:33 <AlanBell> it can

 20:33 <not_rww> i have an AOB item

 20:33 <AlanBell> so, anyone else want to discuss anything else

 20:33 <AlanBell> go ahead not_rww

 20:34 <not_rww> I was pondering ways of making #ubuntu less broken recently and thought that perhaps adapting the 5-a-day bug system to support would be interesting. I'm curious if anyone else has thoughts / thinks this is a good idea.

 20:34 <phunyguy> I don't know what that is.

 20:34 <knome> adapting in what way?

 20:34 <not_rww> i.e., trying to cultivate sustained contribution to #ubuntu by encouraging people to answer/participate in 5 support questions a day

 20:35 <AlanBell> interesting

 20:35 <phunyguy> eehhh

 20:35 <not_rww> knome: one component of 5-a-day is tracking success over time, and I'm not sure how one would do that on IRC

 20:35 <AlanBell> bit of gamification

 20:35 <knome> not_rww, yep.

 20:35 <phunyguy> I have a bad feeling abotu it, but I am also new.

 20:35 <not_rww> AlanBell: indeed, which is good or bad depending on your opinion of gamification

 20:35 <knome> i don't think it's a bad thing to come up with new ways to motivate people to help

 20:36 <knome> but what's the "reward", since not_rww said, there's not really an easy way to track it

 20:36 <not_rww> (or is there...)

 20:36 <knome> sounds like either manual work or, ugh, pushing all questions through a bot

 20:36 <phunyguy> I am not saying that coming up with ideas is bad

 20:36 <phunyguy> I was actually talking about the idea.

 20:36 <knome> phunyguy, so what's bad with the ideA?

 20:36 <AlanBell> knome: not neccessarily

 20:36 <jussi> metabot used to identify questions...

 20:36 <not_rww> or just voluntary reporting to a bot when you answer/participate in a question

 20:37 <phunyguy> knome, I don't really know, I just get a weird feeling about it.

 20:37 <not_rww> since it's not like gaming it is going to get you much, and you're limited to getting "points" for five a day

 20:37 <knome> jussi, but not if they were answered/who answered them, and if that was succesful or not

 20:37 <phunyguy> like it won't last.

 20:37 <phunyguy> Stuff like that works on forums, not sure it would work on IRC

 20:37 <not_rww> "if that was successful" i don't think that's possible/useful to track anyway. not all bug reports are successful either, but they still counted

 20:38 <not_rww> anyways, was just one of my random thoughts. but if it's not a good idea, we probably should ponder what /is/, since i have bad feelings about the quality of #ubuntu support right now

 20:38 <knome> i think it would be fair to shout out to people that "you can do 5-a-day with irc support too, though you won't get rewarded points for that"

 20:38 <phunyguy> not_rww: I do agree that support has been a bit terrible there.

 20:39 <AlanBell> it would be possible to have a points system and leaderboard type thing

 20:39 <knome> #xubuntu has lately went into a factoid-bashing mode too

 20:39 <phunyguy> 9 times out of 10, I go in there to ask a question, then spend 3 hours helping others when I get no answer

 20:39 <knome> maybe we should have a "IRC supporter day"

 20:39 <knome> with some sessions on how to be helpful, or something

 20:39 <knome> could also do sessions about bot usage etc.

 20:40 <knome> just award points per lines said per day, and kick unhelpful/offtopic people :P

 20:40 <AlanBell> grep for "thanks knome" or something

 20:40 <knome> hmpf,

 20:40 <not_rww> AlanBell: thankbot!

 20:40 <not_rww> "lines said per day" encourages bad behavior, unfortunately

 20:40 <knome> haven't heard that too much...

 20:40 <not_rww> ( http://www.jonobacon.org/2010/08/24/articulating-irc-contributions-concisely/ )

 20:40 <knome> not_rww, sure... but that's why i said kick unhelpful/offtopic people

 20:41 <not_rww> knome: yep, but I prefer systems that don't encourage such things, much easier than working around such encouragement

 20:41 <AlanBell> not_rww: yeah, thankbot, but more seamless

 20:41 <knome> a thankbot would be manual rewarding

 20:41 <not_rww> ( I've dealt with this problem a lot with public pisg stats tracking in various channels )

 20:41 <knome> doing it automatically is hard

 20:41 <phunyguy> so, this has gone an hour and 41 minutes over schedule already.

 20:42 <phunyguy> just throwing that out there

 20:42 <not_rww> yeah, we should probably table this and ponder it for future

 20:42 <AlanBell> phunyguy: yes, it has, I know

 20:42 <knome> phunyguy, at least things get dicussed

 20:42 <tsimpson> perhaps start a ML discussion

 20:42 <AlanBell> any other AOB?

 20:42 <phunyguy> yes this is true.

 20:42 <jussi> yes

 20:42 <AlanBell> go ahead jussi

 20:42 <jussi> the ircc hasnt actioned my expiring from teams, why not?

 20:43 <AlanBell> not got round to it yet, wasn't on the top of the priority pile :)

 20:43 <AlanBell> and I wasn't sure if you had finished expiring from thigns

 20:44 <knome> jussi, file a bug.

 20:44 <jussi> also, on the incentive thing, perhaps even takng nominations for quarterly "helper of #ubuntu" or somethign?

 20:44 <not_rww> jussi: i note you can remove your own flags in ChanServ

 20:44 <not_rww> not that you should have to, but it's an option

 20:44 <jussi> not_rww: unfortunately when I tried I wouldnt let me. why?

 20:45 <not_rww> jussi: /msg chanserv flags #channelname jussi -*

 20:45 <not_rww> erm, jussi01 **

 20:45 <jussi> [11:38:49] [ChanServ] You are not authorized to execute this command.

 20:45 <not_rww> if you use the correct nick?

 20:45 <jussi> anyway, lets not fill up meeting with this

 20:45 <AlanBell> we have quite a lot of expiries to catch up on, I have a launchpad script that I compare with chanserv lists, it just takes quite a lot of hours to do

 20:46 <AlanBell> any other AOB

 20:46 <AlanBell> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
