{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** jgrimm to update/clean up blueprint
** caribou to investigate if kickin's clamav merge should land
* Xenial Development
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Assigned bugwork (rbasak)
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Upcoming Call For Papers
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

jgrimm did some clean ups to the server blueprint. He asked to keep the action so he can do further clean ups to it next week.

caribou to investigate if kickin's clamav merge should land.

===== #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara) =====

matsubara to look into test case failure: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer/+bug/1559507

matsubara wrote dep8 test for open-iscsi to avoid regressions like https://code.launchpad.net/bugs/1553017

===== #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) =====

smb noted that fixing dhclient required updating bind9 so might be good to keep an eye on DNS as well in case there was collateral damage there (in Xenial that is).

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, Mar 29nd at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
<meetingology> Meeting started Tue Mar 22 16:00:46 2016 UTC.  The chair is coreycb. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
<meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
<jgrimm> o/
<teward> o/
<coreycb> hello everyone
<coreycb> let's get started
<cpaelzer> o/
<coreycb> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
<coreycb> let's see..
<coreycb> jgrimm to update/clean up blueprint
<matsubara> o/
<jgrimm> coreycb, keep it for me
<coreycb> jgrimm, will do
<coreycb> that was it for action items from last time
<coreycb> #topic Xenial Development
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Xenial Development
<coreycb> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule
<coreycb> One month until final release of xenial!
<jgrimm> w00t
<jgrimm> wow, wiki is painfully slow loading
<cpaelzer> you even get internal server errors sometimes
<coreycb> xenial entered final beta freeze yesterday
<coreycb> the upload queue is frozen at this point until final freeze so uploads require release team review
<coreycb> final beta images are scheduled for release late Thurs
<coreycb> s/final freeze/final release/ above
<caribou> do we want to push for kickinz1's latest clamav merge through release review ?
<caribou> there is an FFE for that one I believe
<caribou> jgrimm: ^^
<jgrimm> caribou, what's in it?
<coreycb> caribou, maybe rbasak-laptop has input too
<caribou> jgrimm: dunno kickinz1 did the recent merge
<rbasak-laptop> I'm not sure I've seen it.
<rbasak-laptop> Does it involve feature changes?
<kickinz1> jgrimm, caribou not a lot, mainly debian cleanups
<caribou> llvm3.6 is one thing I noticed
<caribou> we may want to avoid dragging llvm3.5 deps into Xenial
<caribou> I'll take that one offline with the release team if you don't mind
<coreycb> caribou, sounds good, thanks
<coreycb> caribou, I'll put an action down and we can check status next week
<caribou> coreycb: was about to ask
<coreycb> alright then moving on
<coreycb> #subtopic Release Bugs
<coreycb> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
<jgrimm> caribou, kickinz1:  wrt clamav. if just cleanups, probably not worth pushing .. everyone's busy and other stuff we really do want to get in
<coreycb> bug 1508874 is high importance and not triaged
<ubottu> bug 1508874 in nova-lxd (Ubuntu Xenial) "Please disable cpu resource configuration" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1508874
<caribou> jgrimm: I'll ask Foundation about the llvm3.6 dependancy
<jgrimm> caribou, k
<coreycb> jamespage, can we mark 1508874 as triaged?  I assume so.
<kickinz1> caribou, jgrimm I agree, previous ubuntu clamav is alreay depending on llvm3.6
<jgrimm> k
<coreycb> that's all I see for bugs
<coreycb> moving on
<coreycb> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
<caribou> I'm working on adding dep8 tests to makedumpfile
<caribou> also working on enabling it on s390x
<coreycb> caribou, sounds fun, good luck
<caribou> other than that, nothing worth mentioning
<coreycb> caribou, ok thanks
<coreycb> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
<matsubara> hi there
<matsubara> Test case failure: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer/+bug/1559507
<ubottu> Launchpad bug 1559507 in debian-installer (Ubuntu) "Keyboard selection is missed" [High,Confirmed]
<matsubara> so, teward and philw brought to my attention that bug yesterday. I confirmed the issue today.
<matsubara> It's not possible to choose the keyboard layout
<matsubara> some further info from another reporter indicates a similar  problem is happening in the desktop iso
<matsubara> so I'll look into that issue and keep the OP and reporters updated in the bug report.
<jgrimm> thanks matsubara 
<coreycb> matsubara, ok thanks.  should that be escalated to the desktop team?
<matsubara> coreycb, I'll debug it further today and then talk to someone in the desktop team
<coreycb> matsubara, sounds good
<matsubara> in any case, I'll look into what's the root cause
<coreycb> matsubara, thanks
<matsubara> also, I wrote a dep8 test for open-iscsi to avoid regressions like https://code.launchpad.net/bugs/1553017
<coreycb> any questions for matsubara ?
<matsubara> I'm sheparding it through review
<coreycb> matsubara, nice job, lots of dep8 test working going on!
<matsubara> but I expect it to be landed this week
<matsubara> and that's all from me
<matsubara> thanks coreycb
<coreycb> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
<matsubara> s/to be landed/to land it/
* Lord_System has quit (Quit: Leaving)
<smb> Nothing about the kernel as far as I know. Maybe to mention here as well that fixing dhclient required updating bind9 so might be good to keep an eye on DNS as well in case there was collateral damage there (in Xenial that is). Anything to bring up / ask us?
<smb> 3..2..1..gone..
<jgrimm> thanks!
* philipballew (~philip@ubuntu/member/philipballew) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<jgrimm> coreycb, still there?
<jgrimm> heh.  well, let's keep going
<jgrimm> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers
<jgrimm> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
<jgrimm> #topic Open Discussion
<jgrimm> is anyone left out there?
<teward> i'm still alive
* rbasak-laptop is here
<teward> but it got missed in the Xenial Development part
<jgrimm> heh. thanks was feeling lonely
<cpaelzer> yep
<teward> after poking the Release team, nginx 1.9.12 finally landed
<rbasak-laptop> \o/
<teward> the FFe for the upload got stucked
<rbasak-laptop> Thanks teward
<teward> once infinity approved, i pushed the upload in, and it landed.  :)
<jgrimm> \o/
<rbasak-laptop> I really appreciate not having to worry about nginx
<teward> rbasak-laptop: you're welcome, next update is going to be equally annoying I think given Final Beta freeze, but I'll check with Release team before uploading anything more :)
<rbasak-laptop> Since I know you have a handle on it
<teward> rbasak-laptop: indeed, it's nice to have it always-watched by someone :)
<teward> rbasak-laptop: i'm happy to keep an eye on it :)
* teward returns to silence and shadows
<jgrimm> thanks teward 
<teward> jgrimm: you're welcome!
<jgrimm> anyone else?   
<smb> Hm, maybe as open discussion topic... how do we convince the bot to end the meeting without coreycb ? ;)
<jgrimm> smb, indeed!
* hallyn (~sehh33ad@ubuntu/member/hallyn) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<cpaelzer> command should be command, no matter who issues it right?
<cpaelzer> oh really it cares about the "master" of the session - uh
<smb> No I think there is a affection to the person who starts a meeting
<jgrimm> claims to need chair
<jgrimm> we can try for kicks tho
<jgrimm> #endmeeting
<jgrimm> there ya go.
<cpaelzer> #chair jgrimm
* maclin has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
<jgrimm> #endmeeting
<jgrimm> still nothing
<cpaelzer> #unchair coreycb
<cpaelzer> none of the chair commands work if not being a chair :-/
<cpaelzer> staring a new one might ovveride it?
<cpaelzer> starting
<jgrimm> #startmeeting
<meetingology> jgrimm: Error: Can't start another meeting, one is in progress.
* chrisccoulson has quit (Read error: Connection reset by peer)
<jgrimm> cpaelzer, i think it timesout at somepoint
<jgrimm> or i hope at least
<cpaelzer> kernel Team is next in 25 minutes
<cpaelzer> smb: will notice then
* hallyn (~sehh33ad@ubuntu/member/hallyn) has left #ubuntu-meeting
<smb> cpaelzer, luckily we don't do those anymore
<cpaelzer> ok, then it should time out - 2nd is in almost two days
<jgrimm> Well, thanks everyone.. hopefully will resolve itself.  
</pre>
