{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 18 Feb at 16:03 &mdash; 16:38 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-02-18-16.03.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Agenda ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* T Development
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

==== Summary ====
This weeks meeting had a focus on addressing items needed before Feature Freeze on Feb 20.  This included conversations around high/essential bugs, red high/essential blueprints, and test failures.  

Specific bugs discussed in this weeks meeting were:
* 1248283 in juju-core (Ubuntu Trusty) "juju userdata should not restart networking" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1248283
* 1278897 in dovecot (Ubuntu Trusty) "dovecot warns about moved ssl certs on upgrade" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1278897
* 1259166 in horizon (Ubuntu Trusty) "Fix lintian error" [High,Triaged]
* 1273877 in neutron (Ubuntu Trusty) "neutron-plugin-nicira should be renamed to neutron-plugin-vmware" [High,Triaged]

Specific Blueprints discussed:
 curtain, openstack charms, ceph, mysql alt, cloud-init, openstack (general)

Meeting closed with announcing Marco and Jorge will be at SCALE12x giving a talk, so be sure to stop by if your are going to be at SCALE.

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:04.

16:06 <arosales> gaughen follow up with jamespage on bug 1243076
16:06 <ubottu> bug 1243076 in mod-auth-mysql (Ubuntu Trusty) "libapache2-mod-auth-mysql is missing in 13.10 amd64" [High,Won't fix] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1243076
16:09 <jamespage> not got to that yet
16:10 <jamespage> working on a few pre-freeze items first
16:10 <arosales> ack I'll take its appropriately on your radar :-) --thanks
16:10 <jamespage> it is

16:06 <arosales> gaughen follow up on dbus task for  bug 1248283
16:06 <ubottu> bug 1248283 in juju-core (Ubuntu Trusty) "juju userdata should not restart networking" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1248283

16:07 <arosales> jamespage to follow up on bug 1278897 (policy compliant)
16:07 <ubottu> bug 1278897 in dovecot (Ubuntu Trusty) "dovecot warns about moved ssl certs on upgrade" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1278897

16:07 <arosales> smoser update servercloud-1311-curtin bp
16:07 <smoser> i updated it .
16:07 <smoser> i'll file a ffe today

16:07 <arosales> hallyn follow up on 1248283 from an lxc pov, ping serue to coordinate
16:08 <serue> Done
16:08 <arosales> smoser update cloud-init BP
16:08 <smoser> we'll say same there.

==== Trusty Development ====
The discussion about "Trusty Development" started at 16:10.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/ReleaseSchedule 
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:11)
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-t-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/maas/+bug/1248283 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/horizon/+bug/1259166 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/neutron/+bug/1273877 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dovecot/+bug/1278897 
** ''ACTION:'' follow upon bug 1273877
* '''Blueprints''' (16:22)
** ''LINK:'' http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-t/group/topic-t-servercloud-overview.html 
** ''ACTION:'' gaughen ensure BPs are updated

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)" started at 16:27.

** ''LINK:'' https://code.launchpad.net/~psivaa/ubuntu-test-cases/mod_php-fix/+merge/204273 needs merging

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:35.

** ''LINK:'' https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale12x 

=== Action items, by person ===

* gaughen
** gaughen ensure BPs are updated
* coreycb
** follow upon bug 1273877

=== Announce next meeting date and time ===
Next meeting will be on Tuesday, February 25th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== People present (lines said) ===

* arosales (77)
* jamespage (19)
* psivaa (12)
* smoser (10)
* ubottu (9)
* meetingology (5)
* serue (2)
* zul (2)
* sforshee (1)
* rbasak (1)
* gaughen (1)
* smb (1)

=== Full Log ===
<pre>

 16:03 <arosales> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:03 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Feb 18 16:03:56 2014 UTC.  The chair is arosales. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:03 <meetingology> 

 16:03 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:04 <arosales> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:04 <arosales> I believe there were some from last week, let me grab those

 16:06 <arosales> gaughen follow up with jamespage on bug 1243076

 16:06 <ubottu> bug 1243076 in mod-auth-mysql (Ubuntu Trusty) "libapache2-mod-auth-mysql is missing in 13.10 amd64" [High,Won't fix] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1243076

 16:06 <arosales> gaughen follow up on dbus task for  bug 1248283

 16:06 <ubottu> bug 1248283 in juju-core (Ubuntu Trusty) "juju userdata should not restart networking" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1248283

 16:07 <arosales> jamespage to follow up on bug 1278897 (policy compliant)

 16:07 <ubottu> bug 1278897 in dovecot (Ubuntu Trusty) "dovecot warns about moved ssl certs on upgrade" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1278897

 16:07 <arosales> smoser update servercloud-1311-curtin bp

 16:07 <smoser> i updated it .

 16:07 <smoser> i'll file a ffe today

 16:07 <arosales> hallyn follow up on 1248283 from an lxc pov, ping serue to coordinate

 16:08 <serue> Done

 16:08 <arosales> yes serge please follow up with yourself :-)

 16:08 <serue> (commented as best i can there)

 16:08 <arosales> smoser, serue thanks

 16:08 * jamespage is back after power blip

 16:08 <arosales> smoser update cloud-init BP

 16:08 <smoser> we'll say same there.

 16:08 <arosales> smoser, thanks

 16:08 <smoser> it is more up tod ate than last time.

 16:09 <arosales> that is the outstanding actions

 16:09 <arosales> gaughen, a few bugs outstanding for you

 16:09 <arosales> jamespage, to follow up on bug 1278897 (policy compliant)

 16:09 <ubottu> bug 1278897 in dovecot (Ubuntu Trusty) "dovecot warns about moved ssl certs on upgrade" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1278897

 16:09 <jamespage> not got to that yet

 16:10 <jamespage> working on a few pre-freeze items first

 16:10 <arosales> ack I'll take its appropriately on your radar :-) --thanks

 16:10 <jamespage> it is

 16:10 <arosales> #topic Trusty Development

 16:10 <arosales> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/ReleaseSchedule

 16:11 <arosales> Feature freeze this week !

 16:11 <arosales> Feb 20th

 16:11 <arosales> Beta1 freeze next week (feb 27)

 16:11 <arosales> make sure your code is in or file a ffe

 16:11 <arosales> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:12 <arosales> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-t-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server

 16:12 <arosales> jamespage, smoser are there any particular bugs you would like to call out here or just walk the highs?

 16:13 <jamespage> walk the highs

 16:14 <arosales> ack

 16:14 <arosales> https://bugs.launchpad.net/maas/+bug/1248283

 16:14 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1248283 in juju-core (Ubuntu Trusty) "juju userdata should not restart networking" [High,Triaged]

 16:15 <arosales> I think rbasak marked the dbus as invalid

 16:15 <arosales> and juju-core has the bug targetted for 1.18 which should be in trusty in the next couple of weeks

 16:15 <jamespage> indeed - speaking of which we need the FFe for juju-core

 16:15 <jamespage> I'll do that

 16:16 <arosales> jamespage thanks I think fwreade was also compiling a list of bugs and features that will be landing

 16:16 <arosales> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/horizon/+bug/1259166

 16:16 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1259166 in horizon (Ubuntu Trusty) "Fix lintian error" [High,Triaged]

 16:16 <arosales> zul ^

 16:16 <zul> havent gotten to it

 16:17 <arosales> zul, ack. I'll take its on your radar appropriately

 16:17 <arosales> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/neutron/+bug/1273877

 16:17 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1273877 in neutron (Ubuntu Trusty) "neutron-plugin-nicira should be renamed to neutron-plugin-vmware" [High,Triaged]

 16:17 <zul> arosales:  yep

 16:17 <gaughen> o/

 16:17 <arosales> jamespage are you the neutron resident expert still?

 16:18 <jamespage> yeah - we need to get that in for the next o/s milestone

 16:18 <jamespage> if someone wants to learn how todo a rename its a good example

 16:18 <arosales> takers?

 16:18 <arosales> also this one looks like a good opp

 16:18 <arosales> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dovecot/+bug/1278897

 16:18 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1278897 in dovecot (Ubuntu Trusty) "dovecot warns about moved ssl certs on upgrade" [High,Triaged]

 16:19 <jamespage> that's the policy one

 16:19 <jamespage> I don't think debconf is being used appropriately

 16:20 <arosales> any folks interested in those two bugs?

 16:20 <arosales> gaughen, could you follow up on those two for appropriate owners?

 16:21 <jamespage> coreycb is going to pickup the rename

 16:21 <arosales> #action follow upon bug 1273877

 16:21 * meetingology follow upon bug 1273877

 16:21 <ubottu> bug 1273877 in neutron (Ubuntu Trusty) "neutron-plugin-nicira should be renamed to neutron-plugin-vmware" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1273877

 16:21 <arosales> thanks coreycb

 16:22 <arosales> #subtopic Blueprints

 16:22 <arosales> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-t/group/topic-t-servercloud-overview.html

 16:22 <arosales> jamespage, smoser any BPs you want to hit here?

 16:22 <arosales> I think smoser said he was going to update his I called out last week

 16:23 <smoser> i dont have any specifically.

 16:23 <smoser> in general, people need to just be aware that thursday is feature freeze

 16:23 <jamespage> I'll flag up the openstack charms one

 16:23 <jamespage> charm work is always loaded to back cycle but there are alot of work items on that BP still

 16:23 <jamespage> (and only one reviewer/lander right now)

 16:23 <smoser> if you have features not in, you need to file FFE for those. or postpone.

 16:24 <arosales> curtain, openstack charms, ceph, mysql alt, cloud-init, openstack (general) are all in the "red"

 16:24 <arosales> be a good week to get BPs updated to reflect reality

 16:25 <jamespage> mysql is OK - we have alot in the NEW queue awaiting AA review

 16:25 <arosales> jamespage ack

 16:25 <arosales> and I am sure ceph is ok

 16:25 <jamespage> the only thing that might not make it is percona-server - I've just reviewed Perconas first version of packaging - but it needs a bit of work still

 16:25 <arosales> smoser is following up on curtin and cloud-init

 16:25 <jamespage> arosales, yeah - I  have a few WI's on that BP that will probably drop off post firefly release

 16:26 <arosales> and you already called out openstack*

 16:26 <jamespage> like all the mod_fastcgi stuff

 16:26 <arosales> #action gaughen ensure BPs are updated

 16:26 * meetingology gaughen ensure BPs are updated

 16:26 <arosales> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

 16:27 <arosales> caribou doesn't look to be here

 16:27 <arosales> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)

 16:28 <psivaa> hello from my side:

 16:28 <psivaa> the same failures with smoke tests that i posted last week and they only need test code adjustments:

 16:28 <psivaa> 1. tomcat (control port not starting to listen due to lack of entropy)

 16:28 <psivaa> 2. test_mod_php on lamp server tests

 16:28 <psivaa> 3. minimal virtual installs on amd64 bloarting by about 5 MB

 16:28 <arosales> psivaa, Hello

 16:28 <psivaa> arosales: hello ^

 16:28 <psivaa> i can't do much of the testcode since server developers own it :)

 16:28 <arosales> psivaa, did you try rbask suggestion re entropy from last week?

 16:29 <arosales> and I think jamespage said you could bump the server size by 5mb

 16:29 <psivaa> arosales: i haven't but as i said i can't push to the ubuntu-test-cases/server branch

 16:30 <arosales> and I thought rbask acked the lamp tests?

 16:30 <smoser> psivaa, do you have a merge proposal ?

 16:30 <smoser> one of us can certainly merge it if you have one.

 16:31 <psivaa> smoser: ok, i could do the MP's for the tomcat and the size issue and there is already an MP for the php failure

 16:31 <psivaa> https://code.launchpad.net/~psivaa/ubuntu-test-cases/mod_php-fix/+merge/204273 needs merging

 16:32 <smoser> ok. thanks.

 16:32 <psivaa> thank you and that's all from me

 16:32 <arosales> psivaa, ok so hopefully we can get those resolved this week

 16:33 <psivaa> arosales: ok

 16:33 <arosales> psivaa, ping in ubuntu-sever if you need an ack

 16:33 <arosales> psivaa, thanks

 16:33 <arosales> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

 16:33 <smb> Nothing from my side this week. If there are not questions. Or do you have something sforshee?

 16:33 <sforshee> nope, nothing from me

 16:34 <arosales> ack, looks like no questions

 16:34 <arosales> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)

 16:34 <rbasak> No new updates. Any questions?

 16:35 <arosales> looks like no questions

 16:35 <arosales> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:35 <arosales> Scale 12x later this week. marcoceppi and jcastro there giving talks, be sure to stop by if your in Los Angles

 16:35 <arosales> https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale12x

 16:35 <arosales> any others??

 16:36 <arosales> #topic Open Discussion

 16:36 <arosales> any other topics

 16:37 <arosales> #topic Announce next meeting date and time

 16:37 <arosales> Tuesday 2014-02-25

 16:37 <arosales> Thanks for everyone's time

 16:38 <arosales> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
</pre>
