{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: IRC Team, 30 Jun at 18:01 &mdash; 18:21 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-06-30-18.01.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/IRCC/20130526 minutes of last meeting
==== Review last meetings action items ====
The discussion about "Review last meetings action items" started at 18:05.

** ''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/~m4v is the launchpad page
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/m4v is the wiki page
** ''Vote:'' award membership to m4v (Carried)

==== Open items in the IRCC tracker ====
The discussion about "Open items in the IRCC tracker" started at 18:11.

==== Review Bugs related to the Ubuntu IRC Council ====
The discussion about "Review Bugs related to the Ubuntu IRC Council" started at 18:14.

==== Replace floodbot kick+ban behaviour for webchat users who flood - tsimpson ====
The discussion about "Replace floodbot kick+ban behaviour for webchat users who flood - tsimpson" started at 18:16.

==== Any Other Busines ====
The discussion about "Any Other Busines" started at 18:19.

=== Vote results ===

* award membership to m4v
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 3/0/0)

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* AlanBell (36)
* meetingology (13)
* funkyHat (6)
* Tm_T (6)
* topyli (0)
* Pici (0)

=== Full Log ===

 18:01 <AlanBell> #startmeeting IRC Team

 18:01 <meetingology> Meeting started Sun Jun 30 18:01:16 2013 UTC.  The chair is AlanBell. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 18:01 <meetingology> 

 18:01 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 18:01 <AlanBell> hi, who is here for the IRC team meeting?

 18:01 * funkyHat 

 18:02 <AlanBell> I know Tm_T is here . . .

 18:02 <Tm_T> partly atleast (:

 18:03 <AlanBell> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/IRCC/20130526 minutes of last meeting

 18:05 <AlanBell> #topic Review last meetings action items

 18:05 <AlanBell> I was a bit rubbish with my action, haven't done it yet

 18:05 <AlanBell> that was compiling a list of messages the bots produce and what should be done about them

 18:05 <AlanBell> I will have a crack at it this week

 18:06 <AlanBell> also, I failed to follow up on the email vote for m4v membership /o\

 18:06 <AlanBell> so lets fix that now . . .

 18:06 <AlanBell> https://launchpad.net/~m4v is the launchpad page

 18:06 <AlanBell> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/m4v is the wiki page

 18:07 <AlanBell> and we all know m4v and discussed last meeting as well

 18:07 <AlanBell> so . . . .

 18:07 <funkyHat> Ok

 18:08 <Tm_T> +1

 18:08 <funkyHat> +1

 18:08 <AlanBell> #voters AlanBell funkyHat Pici Tm_T topyli

 18:08 <meetingology> Warning: Nick not in channel: topyli

 18:08 <meetingology> Current voters: AlanBell Pici Tm_T funkyHat topyli

 18:08 <funkyHat> +1

 18:09 <AlanBell> #vote award membership to m4v

 18:09 <meetingology> Please vote on: award membership to m4v

 18:09 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 18:09 <funkyHat> boh!

 18:09 <AlanBell> now you can vote :)

 18:09 <funkyHat> +1

 18:09 <meetingology> +1 received from funkyHat

 18:09 <AlanBell> +1

 18:09 <meetingology> +1 received from AlanBell

 18:09 <AlanBell> Tm_T: you need to revote to be counted

 18:10 <Tm_T> nice lag, sorry

 18:10 <Tm_T> +1

 18:10 <meetingology> +1 received from Tm_T

 18:10 <AlanBell> #endvote

 18:10 <meetingology> Voting ended on: award membership to m4v

 18:10 <meetingology> Votes for:3 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 18:10 <meetingology> Motion carried

 18:10 <AlanBell> yay

 18:11 <AlanBell> #topic Open items in the IRCC tracker

 18:13 <AlanBell> don't think we have any

 18:13 <AlanBell> and no pending emails

 18:14 <AlanBell> #topic Review Bugs related to the Ubuntu IRC Council

 18:14 <AlanBell> we need to do another review of expired members, I should file a bug for that

 18:15 <AlanBell> Unit193 pointed out the script was returning a few results to review, I went through some of them but there is a bit of a list to sort out

 18:15 <AlanBell> but other than that, no current bugs filed

 18:16 <AlanBell> #topic Replace floodbot kick+ban behaviour for webchat users who flood - tsimpson

 18:16 <AlanBell> we had a chat on this topic last meeting, not sure if any progress has been made since then, or if it is still an active proposal

 18:18 <AlanBell> I was going to mail the list about it, I will do that after this meeting

 18:18 <Tm_T> didn't freenode do some changes related to webchat?

 18:19 <AlanBell> Tm_T: yeah, which might mean some of the ban behaviour could change

 18:19 <Tm_T> ml good, yes

 18:19 <AlanBell> #topic Any Other Busines

 18:20 <AlanBell> anyone have any comments or questions?

 18:21 <AlanBell> ok, thanks everyone o/

 18:21 <AlanBell> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
