{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
04:01	dholbach	OK everybody - welcome to the MOTU meeting
04:01	Gloubiboulga	I can only stay ten minutes :/
04:01	dholbach	We try to keep this meeting short, as we all want to get back to fixing the last bugs in Edgy. :-)
04:01	dholbach	Our agenda is quite short, it's over here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Meetings
04:01	dholbach	First point on the agenda is: "Prepare check lists for Universe/Multiverse for release."
04:02	dholbach	In the previous release cycles we always had lists of things we wanted to get done
=== Burgundavia [n=corey@ubuntu/member/burgundavia] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== minghua [n=minghua@danube.mems.rice.edu] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:02	dholbach	like the python transition, the unmet dependency lists, ftbfs lists and other transitions
04:02	dholbach	not to forget: Bug lists!
04:02	dholbach	What do we have on the plate for Edgy release?
04:03	Fujitsu	We ideally need to get a FTBFS list, 'cause an unmet deps. list is trivial...
=== StevenK [n=stevenk@14.5.233.220.exetel.com.au] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:03	dholbach	Ok
04:03	dholbach	1) UnmetDeps list - easy to do, we can massfile bugs on that one
04:03	Fujitsu	Yup.
04:04	dholbach	2) for the FTBFS list we can take the list of failed builds on launchpad
04:04	dholbach	because I think that Adam (infinity) is too busy to do an archive rebuild at this stage.
04:04	Fujitsu	dholbach, not really. A lot of things haven't been built in ages.
04:04	Fujitsu	Yeah, true.
04:04	dholbach	if anybody else has a feasible idea on that one, I'm all ears. :-)
=== sfllaw [i=sfllaw@debian/developer/coleSLAW] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:05	dholbach	Do we have any open transitions we don't get by looking at the unmet deps list?
=== givr1 [n=Florent@APuteaux-152-1-17-31.w82-120.abo.wanadoo.fr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:05	sivang	dholbach: what about the python transition, is it all done ?
04:06	dholbach	sivang: for Universe: I doubt it
04:06	sivang	I see :-/
04:06	dholbach	sivang: doko_ fixed a lot and synced a lot from Debian, but I guess it's not complete (for Universe)
04:06	sivang	yes, I see
04:06	dholbach	Ok - anything else specific for the last days before release?
=== _MMA_ [n=mma@cpe-071-070-203-016.nc.res.rr.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:07	dholbach	(If you can think of anything later on, just mail ubuntu-motu@)
04:08	siretart	dholbach: we have that gnustep transition open
04:08	dholbach	siretart: ah! how many packages does that involve?
04:08	siretart	dholbach: you surely remember a series of UVF exceptions the last dats
04:08	dholbach	siretart: yeah I do - are there other packages involved?
04:08	siretart	dholbach: I'm not sure as I'm not familiar with gnustep at all
04:08	dholbach	I see
04:09	dholbach	I'll follow up with him.
04:09	siretart	I remember a message from debian-release@lists.debian.org, that this transition isn't complete even in debian/etch
04:09	dholbach	I'll write him after the meeting - let's hope we get that done for release
04:09	siretart	ok
04:10	sistpoty	what's that transition about... I remember quite a bunch of gnustep uploads at the beginning of edgy...
04:10	geser	the gnustep transition will need several packages to be rebuilt or synced but I haven't checked in detail yet
04:10	geser	I'm still trying to get all pieces built
04:10	minghua	gnustep transition is almost finished in Debian from what I read from debian-release list
04:11	minghua	some packages are still in NEW
04:11	geser	gnustep-back needs to be built
04:11	sivang	yes, also curious to know what the gnustep transition is about
04:11	sistpoty	maybe s.o. could investigate and post to ubuntu-motu@l.u.c?
04:11	dholbach	Ok, that sounds as if we're on a good way to get it fixed.
04:12	siretart	yes, lets not block the meeting with that transitions. let's move on
04:12	dholbach	For Universe/Multiverse Bugs:         1   75  of 2778 results            is, what I currently see.
04:12	dholbach	What is a good way to address those bugs?
04:12	dholbach	( http://tinyurl.com/p7moy )
04:12	StevenK	dholbach: Close the lot of them, of course.
04:12	dholbach	;-)
04:12	dholbach	Right.
04:13	Fujitsu	Write a script that iterates through and rejects them. Problem solved.
04:13	StevenK	dholbach: Some of those 2778 probably apply to Hoary which can be found and slaughtered.
04:13	Fujitsu	We have a bug-free universe.
04:13	dholbach	I'm sure that a lot of old ones can indeed be rejected.
04:13	Fujitsu	StevenK, probably.
04:13	dholbach	that's rather a task for the opening of edgy+1
04:14	Fujitsu	True...
04:14	dholbach	in the process of uploading a fix for universe and multiverse in the last days we should always make sure to check the bugs in launchpad for that package
04:14	dholbach	that way we can easily find bugs that can be closed with the upload and some even point to the debian bug with a patch
04:14	Fujitsu	I've generally tried to do that for all of my uploads.
04:14	dholbach	Fujitsu: Good work!
04:15	dholbach	1   75  of 157 results     Uni/Multiverse bugs with patches
04:15	dholbach	those are lowhanging fruit, I guess
04:15	siretart	dholbach: I don't really see what we as motu team can decide or discuss about high bugnumbers, besides encouraging to participate in bug squashing sessions
04:15	dholbach	I'll write a mail to ubuntu-motu@ about that later on
04:15	dholbach	siretart: I only try to identify low-hanging fruit
04:16	dholbach	things we can get fixed easily.
04:16	siretart	dholbach: what we can do is to try to create reports about how many bugs we have open, how many are confirmed, important and have a patch, and list them in a report
=== StevenK makes a note to look at some of the bugs with patches when uni work has sent him insane.
04:16	dholbach	siretart: nice idea - that would go well into a MOTU section on UWN
04:16	sistpoty	from taking a glimpse on some bugs, some basic triaging (getting info etc.) might help... maybe we could do a hug day?
04:16	siretart	in the hope that this encourages uploaders actually looking at bugs. debian has a weekly report about RC bugs
04:16	dholbach	sistpoty: sure - sfllaw will be happy to see some people working on universe packages
04:17	dholbach	Ok, I'll write a mail about Universe bugs.
04:17	sistpoty	dholbach: great!
04:17	dholbach	Who wants to massfile bugs on unmet deps?
04:18	dholbach	I have a script for that - but if somebody else wants to do that, that's cool
04:18	Fujitsu	I can do it, if others won't :)
04:18	dholbach	Fujitsu: I think I'll also point to the failed builds on launchpad
04:18	dholbach	Fujitsu: http://daniel.holba.ch/bzr/massfile
04:18	Fujitsu	Thanks.
04:18	sistpoty	would be good to have the packagename in the bug title (i guess that was a script bug last time *g*) ;)
04:18	dholbach	hehe :-)
04:18	dholbach	ok, let's move on - if some of you have clever ideas which bugs/fixes to address - follow up on the mailing list
04:19	siretart	and tag them! :)
04:19	dholbach	2) Find agreement on StableReleaseUpdates for Universe/Multiverse
04:19	dholbach	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates
04:19	Fujitsu	Yes, that's particularly important to me, as I've got an update or two that need doing ;)
04:19	siretart	dholbach: 1st question: do we have a -proposed upload target for universe?
04:19	dholbach	Usually shortly after releases we get lots of requests for updates to <stable>-updated
04:19	dholbach	-updates
04:20	dholbach	siretart: I'm not quite sure, I'll investigate and let you all know.
=== dous [n=dous@ubuntu/member/dous] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:20	sistpoty	just curious: did anyone do a SRU for uni/multiverse recently?
04:20	dholbach	not recently
04:20	siretart	dholbach: is someone only who we can ask? because I think this could be important for our further discussion of this point
04:21	siretart	s/only/online/. gnarf
04:21	siretart	sistpoty: I think LaserJock tried to do one, but mdz told him that we need a process for that first
=== lfittl is now here too, sry for being late
04:21	siretart	sistpoty: thats why we are discussion that here
04:21	dholbach	I asked in #ubuntu-devel
04:22	siretart	thanks
04:22	sistpoty	imo the entry barrier as proposed in SRU-updates is too high for universe...
04:22	dholbach	that's my feeling too, sistpoty
04:22	Fujitsu	siretart, I see an SRU for matplotlib by LaserJock.
04:22	sistpoty	maybe we could get s.th. like motu-uvf in place for SRU policies and just get a final ack after the -proposed upload from ubuntu-archive?
04:22	siretart	Fujitsu: oh. i see
04:22	dholbach	<dholbach> What is the current state of -proposed? Does it work? Does it work for universe and multiverse as well?
04:22	sivang	what's the SRU?
04:22	dholbach	<Kamion> dholbach: working but restricted by policy (StableReleaseUpdates); yes; yes
04:22	dholbach	sivang: STABLE RELEASE UPDATES
04:22	sivang	dholbach: ah, right, sorry ! :-)
04:22	dholbach	*cough* :)
04:23	sivang	hehe
=== StevenK waits for his ears to stop ringing.
04:23	siretart	I like sistpoty's idea (in fact, I wanted to propose something similar)
04:23	dholbach	sistpoty: how do you think the testing process should work?
=== mindspin [n=mindspin@p54B24C3B.dip.t-dialin.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:23	dholbach	... testing part of the process ...
04:24	sistpoty	dholbach: just some ideas so far...:
04:24	sistpoty	only updates allowed with bug numbers
=== mindspin [n=mindspin@p54B24C3B.dip.t-dialin.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Konversation]
04:24	sistpoty	then we could "abuse" the ppl. filing the bugs to participate in testing
04:25	siretart	(they are likely interested in actually testing fixed packages)
04:25	sistpoty	the motu-uvf-alike team would also need to do some basic tests I guess
04:25	dholbach	yeah that's the interesting part of the question: who do we ask to test?
04:25	dholbach	bug reporters: good idea
04:26	siretart	dholbach: the bug submitters and subscribed ppl to that lp bug
04:26	dholbach	motu-uvf: bad idea - too much mails already ;-)
04:26	dholbach	siretart: do you think that's enough?
04:26	siretart	dholbach: let's call that group 'motu-sru'
04:26	sistpoty	yay
04:26	sistpoty	of course the uploader needs to test thoroughly *g*
04:27	siretart	dholbach: I think yes. we cannot afford the same level of testing as in main
04:27	dholbach	and that would be people who agree to do tests in the stable release now and then?
04:27	rmjb	uvf?
04:27	dholbach	rmjb: upstream version freeze
04:27	dholbach	What about mailing them to UWN and announcing them - for people to test and have a look?
04:27	siretart	dholbach: I don't understand, announce what exactly?
04:27	dholbach	that would make sure we have a reasonably big tester community
04:28	dholbach	"fixed packages of <...> available for testing."
04:28	siretart	in form of a report section of UWN? sounds great!
04:28	dholbach	yeah
04:28	minghua	sounds a good idea, but I'm not sure how well that will work
04:28	Fujitsu	Although some bugs already have large communities built up around them, so have a large testing ground already :P
04:28	sistpoty	dholbach: sounds great... maybe we could increase the testing time a little bit (2-4 weaks?)?
04:28	Toadstool	dholbach: and point the testers to the sru bug report, otherwise we'll get a whole load of dupes :)
04:29	sivang	Yes, sounds like UWN would encourage people to do testing.
04:29	siretart	minghua: we have to test. do you have another proposal?
04:29	dholbach	because we need to get thorough testing done: be honest: all of us run the development release and seldomly test stuff in the last stable
04:29	minghua	I have some input method related package I want to propose for SRU, but I doubt many testers are interested in testing them
04:29	sistpoty	dholbach: so that proposed will become a kind of testing *g*
04:29	dholbach	sistpoty: >= 2 weeks - yes, what I thought
04:29	sivang	dholbach: well, setting up a dapper chroot is not hard :)
04:29	siretart	dholbach: how does the -propsed queue work? do uploads get automatically built and published?
04:29	minghua	siretart: not really, but I think the uploader/proposer should be more responsible
04:30	dholbach	sivang: thoroughly using it, is
04:30	dholbach	minghua: we have a cjk-testers team in launchpad - maybe you could subscribe them to that bug?
04:30	dholbach	siretart: yes, in the <stable>-proposed section
04:30	sistpoty	just a side though: we should try to limit new upstream versions though, maybe only for utterly broken packages or small diffs, since these would be a target for -backports imo
04:30	sivang	so, that measn testers will have to have another box runnign dapper..
04:31	minghua	dholbach: a lot of bugs I want to fix have cjk-testers subscribed, not much activity from what I see
04:31	dholbach	sistpoty: agreed
04:31	siretart	dholbach: cool. I imagined that would be a moderated queue, similar to NEW or something
04:31	sivang	sistpoty: indeed, make a lot of sense.
04:31	dholbach	minghua: you could try to prod jono about making the team more active - maybe ask in the loco teams to get people involved there
04:31	Fujitsu	sistpoty, of course.
04:31	minghua	dholbach: sure, I'll think more about this
04:31	dholbach	Wow, looks like we got some good ideas on that one.
04:32	siretart	:)
04:32	minghua	I'm just expressing my interest on SRU for universe here :-)
=== tomveens [n=tomveens@ztn-c-1566b.adsl.wanadoo.nl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:32	sistpoty	for testing, maybe we could make some silly "acks >= n" guidelines for packages, to see if updating in fact makes sense
04:32	dholbach	Anyone wants to add something to it?
04:32	dholbach	minghua: :-)
04:32	freeflying	minghua: anything relate to zh_CN, ubuntu-cn would like test
04:32	minghua	I think strict ack >= n is a good idea
04:33	dholbach	might be a bit tough for obscure packages
04:33	sivang	sistpoty: I'd say not >= , but they will have to provide X benefits on ground which we will update them.
04:33	dholbach	but this is something we'll figure out along the way
04:33	minghua	freeflying: not really, the things I have in my head is scim-chewing and scim-m17n
04:33	minghua	freeflying: but thanks for the information
04:33	sivang	so having something like "Does it fulfill A,B,C and E? okay let's update"
04:33	dholbach	We need to flesh out this process perfectly, so it'll be easy for people to get involved in approving, forwarding, testing, etc
04:33	minghua	freeflying: on the other hand, most zh_CN related scim stuff are in main anyway
04:33	sistpoty	I wouldn't make it a strict policy (as dholbach just mentioned)... but rather a guideline which the sru-team could still override
04:33	freeflying	minghua: but we wtill can test
04:33	dholbach	yeah
04:34	rmjb	testing on stable can be done in a virtual appliance? if users are running development?
04:34	dholbach	Ok - let's put all of this into a wiki page later on and work on it together
04:34	sivang	rmjb: for sure
04:34	minghua	back to the ack >= n thing - if we can't get enough acks, it should mean not many users are interested in this package, shouldn't it?
04:34	siretart	did we agree on a 'motu-sru' team? how many members and what quorum do we want to have?
04:35	sivang	and when Xen is ready in edgy, it will even come out of the box IIRC.
04:35	dholbach	I have the feeling that we won't solve the process entirely today.
04:35	sivang	we need to start with somethign modest,
04:35	sivang	and refine the process as we go
04:35	sistpoty	minghua: it would... but some obscure packages that are utterly broken anyway would get of starved from this... so I'd make it just a guideline which can be overridden...
04:35	sivang	*something
04:36	Fujitsu	dholbach, of course, there is a lot to be decided.
04:36	dholbach	Yes
04:36	sivang	We can start with a very basic set of guidlines, and see what more we require by experience
04:36	rmjb	the sru will also apply to dapper since that's LTS or does that already have something in place?
04:36	sistpoty	minghua: also, testing by s.o. who's really knowing what he's doing is worth more then 5 tests of ppl. who don't have much clue ;)
04:36	minghua	freeflying: you mean ubuntu-cn can still test packages in main, or test packages not about zh_CN?
04:36	dholbach	I'll start on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Processes/SRU later on and will try to make the wiki page so everybody can add their proposal in easily
04:36	dholbach	we should discuss the strict guidelines in another meeting
=== lukas_ [n=lukas@c-68-84-69-12.hsd1.nj.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:36	siretart	or perhaps on the mailing list
04:37	dholbach	good idea too
04:37	sistpoty	+1
04:37	sivang	+1
04:37	Fujitsu	+1
04:37	dholbach	so it gets some eyeballing before we finally agree in a meeting
04:37	freeflying	minghua: we'd like test anything we can do :)
04:37	siretart	next item?
=== bddebian [n=bdefrees@mail.ottens.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:37	minghua	sistpoty: very true.  if some one is willing to be responsible for the upload, then things can be overridden. :-)
04:38	dholbach	MOTU Build Farm and Donation (HW, CPU time, and $) process (JordanMantha)
04:38	dholbach	laserjock is not here
04:38	dholbach	I think we probably should leave this one out for the next meeting - what do you guys think?
04:38	sistpoty	yep
04:38	minghua	is TheMuso here?
04:38	TheMuso	TO be honest, I think its something that should be discussed on the ml.
04:38	siretart	dholbach: perhaps you can give some details about this proposal?
04:38	minghua	the proposal mail to -motu is his
04:38	TheMuso	Its not something thats easily talked about on IRC>
04:38	bddebian	I think some should just send me a PPC, Sparc, and amd64 and be done with it.. ;-P
04:39	siretart	bddebian: I have a spare ultra1 ;)
04:39	dholbach	siretart: I have no idea
04:39	dholbach	siretart: it's his item :)
04:39	siretart	ic
04:40	siretart	hm. the original proposal was from Luke Yelavich
04:40	siretart	dholbach: can we abuse edgy-proposed for that?
04:40	TheMuso	A few of us were talking about it in -motu earlier today, and were throwing ideas around, but due ot the complexity of what might have to be done, I feel it it would be easier on the mailing list.
04:40	dholbach	siretart: for what?
04:40	TheMuso	IMO
04:40	Fujitsu	I think this is fairly important, because I've run into a couple of bugs/FTBFSes in various things that only appear in PPC or [insert other obscure architecture here] . It's pretty much impossible to debug this sort of stuff without access to machines of the target architecture.
04:40	siretart	dholbach: testuploading packages to see if they build on all architectures or for testing of patches?
04:40	Fujitsu	And not all of us have non-x86 machines.
04:40	dholbach	hmrmhrmhmrmhrmhrmhrmhrmhr
04:41	dholbach	I don't like the idea much - the buildds are usually somewhat blocked already
04:41	TheMuso	I wasn't thinking of using the build servers.
04:41	siretart	dholbach: buildds can be prioritized. I imagine that very low priority
04:41	Fujitsu	*cough* openoffice *cough* kde *cough*
04:41	dholbach	not blocked, but you know that other stuff will be delayed
04:41	dholbach	I don't like the idea much
04:42	TheMuso	I am very well aware of their busy schedule.
04:42	dholbach	you can ask on #ubuntu-devel - as it's not my decision
04:42	sistpoty	imo it's not so much the problem to test if a package builds on all arches before a package is uploaded, but rather to get access to arch-xy if there is a build-failer on that arch
04:42	TheMuso	Has everybody here read the original email I sent?
04:42	sistpoty	failure even
04:43	minghua	TheMuso: I read :-)
=== sivang looks for the email
04:43	minghua	I think TheMuso's idea is not really a build farm, but something like Debian's developer's machine for all archs
04:44	minghua	which MOTUs can log in and do test builds or debugging
04:44	minghua	TheMuso: is that correct?
04:44	minghua	and in that case we don't need the official buildds
04:44	minghua	some machines in a MOTU's house works just fine
04:45	TheMuso	minghua: SOmewhat. I was thinking of something where anybody who has hardware can donate its use for building/testing, but on a purely volintary basis.
04:45	Fujitsu	Like what a couple of people do now.
04:45	TheMuso	And have such systems in place so that if a user donates hardware, but has low bandwidth, their systems only build small packages. Same with CPU speed, and times of day.
04:45	TheMuso	Fujitsu: Exactly.
04:46	TheMuso	ajmitch raised some interesting points about security. I'd have to dig back through my -motu logs to find them however.
04:46	_MMA_	Hello all. LaserJock and I talked at some length about this. I have a AMD AM2 4600+ machine that I would like to compile packages on. Currently I cant package. I wanna learn but my current situations gives me limited time to learn new things. So we discussed I could process files without configuring everything.
04:47	_MMA_	I also wanted to donate some $ for hardware.
04:48	dholbach	Can we start getting ideas together on a wiki page for that?
04:48	dholbach	It looks like it's not something we can decide easily
04:48	TheMuso	Thats a good idea.
04:48	sistpoty	hm... just as a side idea: maybe we could also form amd64/sparc/ppc/whatever teams, that have access to that hw and to whom we could assign arch-specific bugs to. usually it's easy for s.o. who has that arch to fix the bug because he will know what's the problem
04:49	StevenK	That's a big assumption.
=== hub [n=hub@toronto-hs-216-138-231-194.s-ip.magma.ca] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:49	sistpoty	well.. usually as in for the easy fixes... of course there are tough tasks, which the team could reject then
04:49	StevenK	I own an sparc64 and a parisc, doesn't mean I know anything about how the software functions in comparsion to an i386
04:49	TheMuso	StevenK: Same with myself and my ppc.
=== phanatic_ [n=phanatic@dsl54009F59.pool.t-online.hu] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:50	rmjb	sistpoty: with this proposal the person with the knowledge of the package can fix the bug since they'll have access to the different arches
04:50	dholbach	we could add a subpage to the wiki about people and their hardware
04:50	sistpoty	rmjb: sure... it was just an extra idea on top of that
04:50	dholbach	and decide on a process to form those teams, etc
04:50	tomveens	wiki idea: need a spokesperson for the page a one point to communicatie with about HW donation
04:51	dholbach	http://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Machines ;-)
04:51	sistpoty	the motu-machines :)
04:51	TheMuso	heh
04:51	dholbach	we can add all the security worries, process ideas, lists, mail addresses, everything to it
04:51	tomveens	who's first?
04:52	dholbach	I suggest we do that before we start to decide on something :)
04:52	dholbach	but it was great to see some ideas thrown into the mix ;-)
04:52	TheMuso	dholbach: Agreed. I just wanted to get it out in the open.
04:52	dholbach	TheMuso: thanks a lot for that.
04:52	TheMuso	np
04:52	dholbach	next time and date?
04:52	dholbach	I'd like to have it after the release
=== lbm [n=lbm@82.192.173.92] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:53	Fujitsu	A couple of days after?
04:53	TheMuso	Does anybody mind if I create the wiki page dholbach suggested above
04:53	dholbach	Fujitsu: sounds good
04:53	Fujitsu	Go ahead, dholbach.
04:53	tomveens	okay
=== DBO [n=DBO@unaffiliated/dbo] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:53	TheMuso	SO I can flesh out my original proposal a little more?
04:53	dholbach	between release and UDS, after?
04:53	Fujitsu	Oops, *TheMuso, not dholbach.
04:54	TheMuso	:)
04:54	dholbach	Ok, we can handle that on the mailing list as well.
04:54	dholbach	Thanks a lot everybody for coming to the meeting!
04:55	TheMuso	np
04:55	sistpoty	thanks for the meeting ;)
04:55	dholbach	Have a good time until the release - I know you're all going to ROCK!
04:55	Fujitsu	THanks for running it :)
=== StevenK [n=stevenk@14.5.233.220.exetel.com.au] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
04:55	dholbach	de rien :)
</pre>
