{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Minutes ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:03.

==== Yakkety Development ====
The discussion about "Yakkety Development" started at 16:03.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule 
** ''LINK:'' http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-server/daily/current/ 
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:05)
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 

A small discussion about the open bugs, but all were considered covered.
Also rharper pointed out that we had the first alpha builds.

==== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)" started at 16:08.

caribou was not able attend this week.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions FROM the QA Team ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions FROM the QA Team" started at 16:10.

We welcomed powersj, but obviously no updates on his first day.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)" started at 16:12.

Nothing to report.

==== Upcoming Call For Papers ====
The discussion about "Upcoming Call For Papers" started at 16:14.

Packaging of DPDK hopefully to go to a DPDK conference in October.

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:15.

Nothing raised.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:15.

A bit of a discussion where to find information and where in IRC to ask for powersj, but surely worth for all.

==== Announce next meeting 12th of July,  same time chaired by nacc then ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting 12th of July,  same time chaired by nacc then" started at 16:18.

nacc will be next chair, for real :-)

==== Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak) ====
The discussion about "Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak)" started at 16:19.

Rbasak was busy in remote participating at debconf.
Therefore he will ping and collect status one by one on #ubuntu-server over the week.

=== People present (lines said) ===

* cpaelzer (56)
* powersj (9)
* rharper (6)
* rbasak (5)
* meetingology (3)
* smb (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:03 <cpaelzer> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:03 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jul  5 16:03:00 2016 UTC.  The chair is cpaelzer. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:03 <meetingology> 

 16:03 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:03 <cpaelzer> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:03 <cpaelzer> checkign the log ...

 16:03 <cpaelzer> no old actions

 16:03 <cpaelzer> #topic Yakkety Development

 16:03 <cpaelzer> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule

 16:03 <cpaelzer> has anyone recent updates on Y development?

 16:04 <rharper> the alphas were posted

 16:04 <cpaelzer> thanks rharper I didn't realizie that yet

 16:04 <cpaelzer> rharper: is there any useful link for the log to refer to?

 16:05 <rharper> #link http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-server/daily/current/

 16:05 <cpaelzer> ah so just the usual place, thanks a lot rharper

 16:05 <rharper> yeah

 16:05 <cpaelzer> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:05 <cpaelzer> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:05 <cpaelzer> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:05 <cpaelzer> lets take a look together if anything important popped up whcih isn't taken care of yet

 16:07 <cpaelzer> most look like in progress

 16:07 <cpaelzer> and for some of the new ones I know that rbasak distributed them to us already

 16:07 <cpaelzer> so I think we are good here for the week

 16:07 <cpaelzer> any bug someone wants to highlight before we continue?

 16:08 <rharper> they all look covered to me too

 16:08 <cpaelzer> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

 16:08 <cpaelzer> caribou: up to you for updates

 16:09 <cpaelzer> I didn't see a o/ from him either so far, maybe he is unavailable

 16:09 <cpaelzer> anybody else a general Server & Cloud bug topic to throw in?

 16:10 <cpaelzer> the week around 4th of july is impressively silent :-)

 16:10 <cpaelzer> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions FROM the QA Team

 16:10 <cpaelzer> you might have realized I changed the usual topic slightly as we now have powersj with us

 16:10 <powersj> :) hey folks

 16:10 <rharper> cpaelzer: =)

 16:11 <powersj> first day, got email going finally, so I will be in contact shortly. Would like to get input from rharper or others around the CI system.

 16:11 <rharper> indeed

 16:11 <powersj> Access, what's there, etc.

 16:11 <powersj> If there are other documents or pointers please send away or let me know!

 16:11 <cpaelzer> reasonable - the overall QA Team will likely also share more of the overall QA strategy things

 16:12 <cpaelzer> powersj: so we should throw CI/QA stuff at you and you sort out what you jump on ?

 16:12 <cpaelzer> good

 16:12 <powersj> cpaelzer, sure. Jon left me with some guidance as well

 16:12 <cpaelzer> good

 16:12 <cpaelzer> in any case (throwing info or not) a big welcome to powersj

 16:12 <cpaelzer> ^^WELCOME^^

 16:12 <cpaelzer> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)

 16:12 <powersj> thanks! glad to be here

 16:12 <smb> Nothing really as in updates. Are there questions?

 16:13 <cpaelzer> no updates means good news in that case

 16:14 <cpaelzer> semms like no questions, thanks smb!

 16:14 <cpaelzer> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers

 16:14 <cpaelzer> I was asked to talk about dpdk packaging on a dpdk conf, but that is already kind of assigned

 16:14 <cpaelzer> anything else regarding CFPs?

 16:15 <cpaelzer> ok

 16:15 <cpaelzer> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:15 <cpaelzer> with jgrimm on vacation there won't be much new events planned, so lets go on

 16:15 <cpaelzer> #topic Open Discussion

 16:15 <cpaelzer> seeing how things went today I guess no - but anything?

 16:16 <powersj> #server best place to ask questions?

 16:16 <cpaelzer> powersj: if you are secretive #server on internal - if you expect anyone else could either benefit or help you #ubuntu-server is surely better

 16:17 <powersj> k thx

 16:17 <cpaelzer> powersj: also if it is rather generic (not server specific) about ubuntu development/packaging #ubuntu-devel is a good place

 16:17 <cpaelzer> powersj: I'd expect the QA people have an own channel as well - at least internally

 16:17 <cpaelzer> in any case starting on #server and being redirected will work for you until you geta feeling where to go with which question

 16:18 <powersj> alright thanks again

 16:18 <cpaelzer> #topic Announce next meeting 12th of July,  same time chaired by nacc then

 16:19 <rbasak> powersj: #ubuntu-quality is the public Ubuntu QA channel.

 16:19 <cpaelzer> rbasak: thanks!

 16:19 <cpaelzer> rbasak: are you ready for the bgu talk ?

 16:19 <rbasak> I was called away before this meeting so wasn't able to prepare for bug updates, sorry. So I propose to do it on IRC over the next few days and not all together today. But if you have updates prepared, feel free to give me them now, and I'll log them and update later (I still haven't caught up from last week :-(

 16:19 <cpaelzer> #topic Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak)

 16:20 <cpaelzer> rbasak: I'll wait til you ping me to collect mine instead of flooding the channel like last week

 16:20 <cpaelzer> rbasak: give me a ping once you get to digest the log of last week

 16:20 <rbasak> OK, thanks!

 16:20 <cpaelzer> rbasak: same probably true for all others

 16:20 <rbasak> Yes, I'll ping around in #ubuntu-server.

 16:20 <rbasak> (probably tomorrow)

 16:20 <cpaelzer> nice

 16:21 <cpaelzer> with that a quick meeting this week, thank you all

 16:21 <cpaelzer> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
