{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=11&day=04&year=2013&hour=&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Nov 4th 2013 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* tyhicks
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* sbeattie
* jjohansen

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Thanks to the following individuals:
** Christian Biamont (christianbiamont) provided a debdiff for precise for xml-security-c (LP: #1192874)
** Felix Geyer (debfx) provided debdiffs for precise-raring for libapache2-mod-fcgid (LP: #1238242)
** Felix Geyer (debfx) provided debdiffs for precise-raring for ejabberd (LP: #1239307)
  Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Actions
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: triage
** catch-up from being at sprint
** process/communicate outcomes from sprint next week
** click-apparmor CI testing
** click-apparmor upload
** sponsor apparmor upload
** mdeslaur:
** weekly role: community
** pending updates
** triage/investigation surrounding ffmpeg and libav
** tyhicks
** !AppArmor
*** apparmor bug fix upload
*** merges
*** apparmor/ecryptfs bug
*** enable yama on mobile kernels
** sarnold
** weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** chrisccouson
** chromium-browser published
** help people get up and running with oxide
** improve the workflow for maintaining the chromium patches in oxide
  jdstrand mentioned syncing up with the phonedations team (particularly rsalveti) and doing armhf benchmarks
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-11-04-16.34.html
