{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting (jib)
* Spec status review (ttx)
** Specs with FeatureFreeze-affected work items:
*** server-lucid-aws-client-libraries: package reviews & uploads (smoser, ttx)
*** server-lucid-contextualization: VMBuilder improvements (soren)
** High specs < 80% completion
*** server-lucid-uec-testing (kirkland)
*** server-lucid-seeds (zul, mathiaz)
** Medium specs < 60% completion
*** server-lucid-daily-vcs (zul)
* Boto 1.9 vs Boto 1.8 for euca2ools
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (soren, hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
* Server Papercuts (ttx)
** Nominations review: https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bugs?search=Search&field.status=New
** Bugfix Goal setting (5 weeks from Alpha3 release to Beta2Freeze)
* Weekly SRU review: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review]]</nowiki> (mathiaz)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Specifications review for Feature Freeze =====

ttx conducted a review of some specifications in preparation for Feature Freeze:

* server-lucid-aws-client-libraries: smoser reported all the relevant projects had been packaged and were waiting from review.

ACTION: ttx to follow up on server-lucid-cluster-stack and server-lucid-asterisk-integration via email

* server-lucid-uec-testing: kirkland mentioned there was one topology left for testing. Everything was on track.

* server-lucid-seeds: mathiaz commented that the next step was to make sure all packages had been demoted to universe. It was also decided to move all the rhcs related items to the cluster-stack blueprint.

* server-lucid-cluster-stack: ivoks reported that all the packages were available in the ubuntu-ha PPA. The next step was to get all the MIR written before FF.

* server-lucid-asterisk-integration: jdmault mentioned that all packages were available in his PPA. He was looking for help to get them uploaded to lucid before FF. Daviey offered some help in sponsoring relevant packages.

===== Boto 1.9 vs Boto 1.8 for euca2ools =====

ttx outlined the issue with euca2ools and boto. The current version of boto in the lucid archive was 1.9 whereas euca2ools had been thoroughly tested with version 1.8. He presented 3 options:
# Fix bugs a they come up, as its not black magic
# Revert to 1.8, and be stuck with an old lib
# Ship both version

After some discussion it was decided to focus on the first option.
 
===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team =====

smoser reported that both -virtual and -ec2 kernels were booting without ramdisks.

===== Server Papercuts =====

ttx conducted the review of the bugs nominated for the server-papercuts project.
This was followed by a discussion about how many bugs should be worked on given the time frame. The goal was to fix 6 to 7 bugs a week given the number of bugs currently opened.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Wednesday, February 24th at 14:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[14:00] <jiboumans> #startmeeting
[14:00] <MootBot> Meeting started at 08:00. The chair is jiboumans.
[14:00] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[14:00] <smoser> here
[14:00] <jiboumans> good afternoon folks (or morning if you're so inclined)
[14:01] <mathiaz> *morning*
[14:01] <jiboumans> today's scribe will be mathiaz (well volunteered, thanks)
[14:01] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Action points from last meeting
[14:01] <MootBot> New Topic:  Action points from last meeting
[14:01] <jiboumans> [ACTION] zul to forward issues about ctbd to jelmer to see if those can be lifted before FF
[14:01] <MootBot> ACTION received:  zul to forward issues about ctbd to jelmer to see if those can be lifted before FF
[14:01] <zul> done
[14:01] <zul> opened bugs in debian
[14:02] <jiboumans> zul: so worst case, ctdb doesn't make it into main?
[14:02] <zul> yes thats the worst case
[14:02] <jiboumans> alright. i can live with that
[14:02] <jiboumans> ACTION: zul to do another call to action for the apport hooks involvement
[14:02] <zul> done
[14:02] <zul> see the blog post on planet ;)
[14:02] <jiboumans> :) any volunteers?
[14:03] <nijaba> zul: url?
[14:03] <zul> http://zulcss.wordpress.com/2010/02/17/apport-for-ubuntu-server/
[14:03] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://zulcss.wordpress.com/2010/02/17/apport-for-ubuntu-server/
[14:03] <jiboumans> ACTION: kirkland to propose a karmic fix for bug 503180 in PPA
[14:04] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 503180 in eucalyptus "[SRU] eucalyptus-cloud doesn't reply to requests (eucalyptus doesn't work after reboot or services restart issues due to upstart networking behavior)" [High,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/503180
[14:04] <kirkland> jiboumans: done
[14:04] <jiboumans> excellent
[14:04] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Spec status review (ttx)
[14:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  Spec status review (ttx)
[14:04] <kirkland> jiboumans: fix confirmed in the ppa
[14:04] <kirkland> jiboumans: pushed to -proposed
[14:04] <ttx> OK, featurefreeze coming up... tomorrow
[14:04] <ttx> Specs with FeatureFreeze-affected work items that I wanted to discuss are:
[14:05] <ttx> server-lucid-aws-client-libraries
[14:05] <ttx> smoser: I completed the review, please have a look at them, ping me when ready if it's still in my time
[14:05] <smoser> ok. ill do that.
[14:05] <ttx> ping /someone else/ if too late
[14:05] <ttx> those needs to be uploaded today, are in pretty good shape methinks
[14:06] <ttx> mathiaz: comments ?
[14:06] <mathiaz> those needs to be uploaded today, are in pretty good shape methinkstoo
[14:06] <ttx> mathiaz: copycat !
[14:06] <ttx> server-lucid-contextualization
[14:06] <jiboumans> soren's out sick today unfortunately
[14:06] <ttx> This one needs soren's completion of a feature in VMBuilder... but that may not happen
[14:07] <ttx> server-lucid-asterisk-integration
[14:07] <ttx> Looking at the blueprint, we seem pretty far on that one
[14:08] <ttx> Lots of things would need to go in before FF
[14:08] <jiboumans> Daviey: ^
[14:08] <jiboumans> and jmdault
[14:09] <ttx> server-lucid-cluster-stack is in a slightly better shape, but still requires some pre-FF action
[14:09] <ttx> nobody from ubuntu-ha around
[14:10] <jiboumans> ttx: let's follow up on both of these via email
[14:10] <ttx> ok
[14:10] <ttx> High specs < 80% completion
[14:10] <Daviey> jiboumans: \o
[14:10] <jiboumans> [ACTION] ttx to follow up on server-lucid-cluster-stack and server-lucid-asterisk-integration via email
[14:10] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ttx to follow up on server-lucid-cluster-stack and server-lucid-asterisk-integration via email
[14:10] <ttx> server-lucid-uec-testing (kirkland)
[14:11] <kirkland> ttx: good; i have one more topo to test today
[14:11] <kirkland> ttx: will be done today
[14:11] <ttx> kirkland: ok, so you'd mark the "A2" tests completed then ?
[14:11] <Daviey> ttx / jiboumans : server-lucid-asterisk-integration is going to be less adventerous than intially planned.. defering to non-lts.
[14:11] <ttx> kirkland: and get ready to test A3 candidates early next week :)
[14:12] <kirkland> ttx: i will
[14:12] <ttx> server-lucid-seeds (zul, mathiaz)
[14:12] <zul> i think its pending on the ha stuff?
[14:12] <jiboumans> Daviey: please update the blueprint to reflect that
[14:12] <mathiaz> ttx: on track. need to check if all relevant packages have been demoted to universe
[14:12] <Daviey> jiboumans: wilco
[14:12] <ttx> the idea would be not to be pending on external specs
[14:12] <mathiaz> ttx: if not more investigation for some package may be required
[14:13] <ttx> mathiaz, zul: so we coud move the ha-related stuff to cluster-stack spec
[14:13] <jiboumans> +1 on that
[14:13] <mathiaz> ttx: done
[14:13] <ttx> mathiaz: your opinion on that ?
[14:13] <ttx> ok
[14:13] <ttx> that leaves ctdb as a potential target
[14:13] <ttx> and the triplecheck everything was done.
[14:13] <ttx> Medium specs < 60% completion
[14:13] <ttx> server-lucid-daily-vcs (zul)
[14:13] <ttx> zul: anythig blocking, or on track ?
[14:13] <zul> on track
[14:14] <ttx> still planning to complete all of it by A3 ?
[14:14] <zul> i hope to get most of it done by a3
[14:14] <ttx> As a general note, try to reflect the work you're doing with work items completion, even if that means rewriting them as you go
[14:15] <ttx> i.e. if you're 90% done on one item but blocking on the remaining 10%,; makes sense to split it between a DONE and a INPROGRESS item
[14:15] <ttx> gives everyone confidence the thing is moving
[14:16] <ttx> jiboumans: I think I'm done, anything to add ?
[14:16] <jiboumans> nope, let's move on
[14:16] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Boto 1.9 vs Boto 1.8 for euca2ools (smoser/ttx)
[14:16] <MootBot> New Topic:  Boto 1.9 vs Boto 1.8 for euca2ools (smoser/ttx)
[14:16]  * nijaba waves at ivoks
[14:16] <ttx> we'll go back to cluster-stack in Open Discussion, time permitting
[14:16]  * ivoks o/
[14:17] <ttx> summary of issue: euca2ools is certified with boto 1.8 and we ship boto 1.9
[14:17] <ttx> three options:
[14:17] <smoser> we have no known issues without fixes.
[14:17] <ttx> 1/ Fix bugs a they come up, as its not black magic
[14:17] <ttx> 2/ Revert to 1.8, and be stuck with an old lib
[14:17] <ttx> 3/ Ship both (if that's possible ?)
[14:17] <jiboumans> -1 on option 2
[14:18] <ttx> Wated to have input on how feasible (3) was
[14:18] <ttx> Wanted, even
[14:18] <ttx> Eucalytpus came up with a list, but it's hardly comprehensive
[14:18] <jiboumans> will upstream take the patches if we do 1/ ?
[14:18] <zul> does ec2-init depend on boto 1.9?
[14:18] <smoser> well i'm sure there are examples of other python libraries with 2 versions in main.
[14:18] <ttx> zul: no
[14:18] <smoser> s/ec2-init/cloud-init/ does not depend on boto 1.9
[14:18] <ttx> zul: but we want to ship with an uptodate boto
[14:19] <ttx> smoser: so you +1 option (1), I gather
[14:19] <zul> gotcha
[14:19] <smoser> i really favor 1
[14:19] <zul> i like 3 but 1 makes more sense
[14:19] <ttx> mathiaz: would (2) or (3) need to be done pre-FF ?
[14:20] <ttx> (if yes, sounds like a sensible case for requestion a FFe)
[14:20] <smoser> we really *should* be fairly confident at this point that our euca2ools are reasonably sufficient, as we use them for our testing of eucalyptus.
[14:20] <kirkland> ttx: i would +1   on option 1, if we can get Eucalyptus on board with us
[14:20] <kirkland> ttx: it's tough going against them on this, though
[14:20] <mathiaz> hm - (3) would be a good candidate for a FFe
[14:20] <jiboumans> smoser: will upstream take the patches if we do 1/ ?
[14:20] <mathiaz> I would be reluctant to grant a FFe for (2)
[14:20] <ttx> kirkland: they have been very much against option (1)
[14:20] <smoser> in each of the 3 cases I'm aware of, It hasn't taken me more than a couple hours to identify the root cause of a bug and come up with a 1.8 or 1.9 compatible fix.
[14:21] <smoser> jiboumans, upstream as Eucalyptus has taken 2 of the 3.  I think they've just not looked at the 3rd yet.
[14:21] <jiboumans> so that makes 1 and 3 viable still
[14:21] <smoser> actually the 3rd (bug 520707) is most easily fixed in boto. much harder to fix it in euca2ools.
[14:22] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 520707 in python-boto "euca-describe-snapshots invalid literal for int() with base 10" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/520707
[14:22] <smoser> but the "real fix" is in Eucalyptus
[14:22] <ttx> ok, so I think we can go (1) and use (3) as a fallback if hell breaks loose
[14:22] <ttx> *but*
[14:22] <jiboumans> ttx: +1
[14:22] <ttx> we need to do some test coverage ourselves as well, or convince eucalyptus to run it for us
[14:22] <ttx> so that (3) is done asap if we decide it's necessary
[14:23] <ttx> getting "some bugs" is not good enough. We need to get "the bugs"
[14:23] <mathiaz> part of the uec-testing spec was to write more test for the euca commands
[14:23] <mathiaz> it boils down to writing more tests for whatever test framework/scripts we go with
[14:23] <ttx> mathiaz: ack
[14:23] <mathiaz> there are ~30 commands IIRC
[14:23] <ttx> other comments ?
[14:24] <smoser> its terribly easy to replace the boto that euca2ools use and test with one or the other
[14:24] <smoser> export PYTHONPATH=$PWD/boto-1.9b
[14:24] <kirkland> perhaps we should keep a boto-1.8 in a PPA?
[14:25] <ttx> kirkland: yes, makes sense
[14:25] <kirkland> like a 50lb bag of rice in a fallout shelter :-)
[14:25] <ttx> ok, moving on...
[14:25] <jiboumans> skipping this weeks 'Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (soren, hggdh)' -- neither are available today
[14:25] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[14:25] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[14:25] <jjohansen> well I don't think I have anything new
[14:26] <jjohansen> smoser how are the new kernels working out?
[14:26] <jiboumans> i was wondering exactly that :)
[14:26]  * smoser claps, as we have -virtual and -ec2 kernels without ramdisks booting
[14:26] <zul> yay!
[14:26] <jiboumans> jjohansen++ smoser++ nice one
[14:26] <mathiaz> smoser: have you looket at the bug I reported about images not working on UEC?
[14:27] <ttx> smoser: pre-A3 cloud images are looking good so far ? Haven't tested them yet
[14:27] <mathiaz> smoser: is this related to the kernel or something else is wrong?
[14:27] <smoser> i think its not related, bug 522292 is to be mentioned there, but I do not think it is related.
[14:27] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 522292 in ubuntu "Lucid UEC image 20100215 unable to start on UEC" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/522292
[14:27] <smoser> ttx, they boot and run well on ec2.
[14:27] <mathiaz> ttx: ^^ - doesn't work on UEC though
[14:27] <smoser> mathiaz, i think its error, somehow the file not getting registered correctly.
[14:27] <ttx> mathiaz: ok, will have a look into that
[14:28] <smoser> maybe tomorrow, as other feature work is done, i'll try to install euca here to have more easily testable.
[14:29] <jiboumans> anything else on the kernel?
[14:29] <ttx> no
[14:29] <jiboumans> thanks jjohansen
[14:29] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Server Papercuts (ttx)
[14:29] <MootBot> New Topic:  Server Papercuts (ttx)
[14:29] <ttx> OK, I hope everyone had the time to quickly look at this week's candidates :)
[14:30] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bugs?search=Search&field.status=New
[14:30] <ttx> Let's fdo the +1 +0 -1 game again
[14:30] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/56679
[14:30] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 56679 in netcfg "provide a method to use a specified MAC-address as the installation device" [Wishlist,Confirmed]
[14:30] <ttx> -1 (installer issue)
[14:30] <jiboumans> -1
[14:30] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/79371
[14:30] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 79371 in cyrus-sasl2 "saslauthd init script does not allow movement of PID" [Low,Confirmed]
[14:30] <ttx> +1...
[14:31] <zul> shouldnt it be converted to upstart?
[14:31] <ttx> zul: that's a way to fix it
[14:31] <zul> +1 then
[14:31] <ttx> zul: thanks for volunteering :P
[14:31] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/165184
[14:31] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 165184 in amavisd-new "amavisd-new + spamassassin: cronjob spams root user" [Medium,Triaged]
[14:31] <ttx> +1, worst case as a doc thing
[14:31] <ivoks> huh?
[14:32] <ttx> since it didn't really reach clear consensus
[14:32] <ttx> ivoks: if use_bayes=0 or something
[14:32] <ivoks> that's a doc thing
[14:32] <jiboumans> +1 # doc fixes are cheap
[14:32] <zul> +1
[14:32] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/182572
[14:32] <mathiaz> +1
[14:32] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 182572 in samba "Samba Fails to Split GECOS on Comma" [Unknown,Confirmed]
[14:32] <ttx> +1
[14:33] <zul> +1
[14:33] <ttx> I kinda like this one :)
[14:33] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/211915
[14:33] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 211915 in amavisd-new "Insecure dependency when using sql for Log Reporting" [Undecided,Confirmed]
[14:33] <zul> fix is upstream
[14:33] <ttx> this one had me go uh?
[14:33] <ivoks> i'll take a look at it
[14:33] <ttx> +0
[14:33] <zul> -1
[14:34] <ivoks> +/-0
[14:34] <ttx> let's keep it for next week
[14:34] <ivoks> :)
[14:34] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/269251
[14:34] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 269251 in bacula "package bacula 2.4.2-1ubuntu4~hardy1 failed to install/upgrade: AbhÃ¤ngigkeitsprobleme - lasse es unkonfiguriert" [Medium,Confirmed]
[14:34] <ttx> +1...
[14:34] <ttx> ivoks: my understanding is that you already have a fix in PPA
[14:34] <zul> not an easy fix imho
[14:35] <ivoks> that was a year ago, i have to look at it
[14:35] <jiboumans> +1
[14:35] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/321091
[14:35] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 321091 in bacula "Probleme de dependance" [Medium,Triaged]
[14:35] <ttx> same for this one, +1...
[14:35] <jiboumans> let's speed this up a bit
[14:36] <ivoks> ttx: +1 same problem as the previous one
[14:36] <jiboumans> +1
[14:36] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/325109
[14:36] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 325109 in bacula "bacula-director-pgsql fails postinst because of missing check for running psql daemon" [Medium,Triaged]
[14:36] <ttx> +1 (same)
[14:36] <ivoks> unfixable
[14:36] <ttx> ah
[14:36] <ttx> -1 then :)
[14:36] <ivoks> we could recommend sql installation by default
[14:36] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/427701
[14:36] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 427701 in openvpn "OpenVPN client always runs" [Wishlist,Triaged]
[14:36] <ttx> +1
=== RoAk is now known as RoAkSoAx
[14:37] <zul> +1
[14:37] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/454566
[14:37] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 454566 in chkrootkit "False positive for SucKit" [Wishlist,Incomplete]
[14:37] <ttx> +0, not sure we should change lousy rootkit detection rules blindly
[14:38] <zul> -1
[14:38] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/494380
[14:38] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 494380 in bacula "mtx-changer.conf is missing in bacula-sd" [Low,Confirmed]
[14:38]  * nealmcb looks around, sleepy-eyed
[14:38] <ttx> +1
[14:38] <zul> +1
[14:38] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/495372
[14:38] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 495372 in bacula "Please upgrade to 3.0.3 for lucid" [Wishlist,Triaged]
[14:38] <ttx> -1 not a papercut
[14:38] <zul> -1 not a papercut
[14:38] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bug/508382
[14:38] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 508382 in bacula "bconsole does not connect to bacula-director" [Medium,Confirmed]
[14:38]  * ivoks hides
[14:38] <zul> +1
[14:38] <ttx> +0
[14:39] <ttx> not so sure about the fix
[14:39] <ttx> OK, I'll update status accordingly
[14:39] <ivoks> build without support for SSL, i guess
[14:39] <ttx> that makes ~20 nominees
[14:40] <ttx> with 5 weeks between A3 and beta2freeze
[14:40]  * ivoks takes bacula and amavisd-new
[14:40] <ttx> I think we should target 5 bugs fixed every week
[14:40] <jiboumans> ivoks++
[14:40] <ttx> ivoks: that's about half of them ! thanks !
[14:40] <ivoks> you all owe me a six pack
[14:40] <ivoks> :)
[14:40]  * kirkland passes ivoks a cold one
[14:40]  * jiboumans starts working out
[14:41] <alexm> ivoks: sorry for bringing you a lot of extra work, let me know if i can help somehow
[14:41] <zul> ivoks: sure the finest american swill coming up ;)
[14:41] <ttx> should we atregt 5/week ? or 6 to have some room for new ones ?
[14:41] <jiboumans> the latter -- more *will* come ;)
[14:41] <Daviey> I think we should have capacity to allow more papercuts this cycle.
[14:41] <ttx> Or I'll just attach all of them to the blueprint and we'll follow completion there
[14:42] <jiboumans> soudns like a plan
[14:42] <jiboumans> moving on
[14:42] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review (mathiaz)
[14:42] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review (mathiaz)
[14:42] <mathiaz> there aren't any bugs nominated for this week
[14:42] <mathiaz> http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[14:42] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[14:42] <mathiaz> ^^ anything SRU worth on this list?
=== dholbach_ is now known as dholbachj
=== dholbachj is now known as dholbach
[14:43] <jiboumans> going once...
[14:43] <ttx> no
[14:43] <zul> the php one maybe
[14:44]  * ivoks ignores sru for now
[14:44] <mathiaz> allright - then - that's all for now
[14:44]  * ttx ignores importance:undecided ones :P
[14:44] <mathiaz> for the SRU review
[14:44] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[14:44] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[14:44] <jiboumans> ttx: you wanted to get back to cluster stack?
[14:44] <mathiaz> ivoks: my good friend!
[14:44] <ttx> Back to the cluster-stack spec, wanted to get some pre-FF status from ivoks
[14:44] <ivoks> eh, beat me
[14:44] <mathiaz> ivoks: what's up with the cluster stack?
[14:44] <ttx> ivoks: looks like you have a few things to complete by the end of today :P
[14:45] <ivoks> as you know, we usually don't need MIRs completed before FF
[14:45] <jmdault> If anyone has the time, I need some feedback/sponsoring for Asterisk
[14:45] <mathiaz> ivoks: are all the packages ready in your PPA?
[14:45] <ivoks> but the thing is that once cluster stack is in main, we could change couple of main packages
[14:45] <jiboumans> jmdault: definitely -- let's discuss right after the cluster stack
[14:45] <ivoks> mathiaz: yeah, i just need to change versions
[14:45] <jmdault> jiboumans: great
[14:45] <ttx> ivoks: what about "create cluster task for tasksel: TODO" ?
[14:45] <ivoks> mathiaz: they are -ubuntu0ppaX for now
[14:46] <ttx> ivoks: sounds like a real feature to me
[14:46] <ivoks> ttx: that's a really easy one and can be completed in 5 minutes
[14:46] <ivoks> ttx: but it can't happen before everything is in main
[14:46] <ivoks> my plan is to finish mirs asap (like in couple of hours)
[14:47] <ivoks> and then i'll need push if that's ok with everybody (security etc) to get them in main before FF
[14:47] <ttx> ivoks: ok, so you still plan to complete it by tahiti's EOD wednesday ?
[14:47] <ivoks> mirs? yes
[14:47] <ttx> the tasksel thing should get a FFe, I think
[14:48] <ivoks> then just a sync from my ppa would be enough
[14:48] <ivoks> ttx: +1
[14:48] <ivoks> tasksel thing, ocfs2-tools and lvm2
[14:48] <ivoks> that can go in FFe
[14:48] <ivoks> everything else before FFe
[14:48] <ivoks> FF
[14:48] <ivoks> i reserved my time today to finish everything
[14:49] <ttx> ivoks: cool
[14:49] <ttx> nothing else from me
[14:49] <ivoks> there's also mail stack that just needs patches to amavis
[14:49] <nijaba> jmdault: wanted to talk about asterix
[14:49] <jiboumans> jmdault: go ahead
[14:49] <jmdault> great
[14:49] <jmdault> The packages are in my PPA
[14:49]  * jiboumans thinks nijaba read too many comics
[14:50]  * nijaba admit jiboumans is not wrong
[14:50] <jmdault> I need to know what steps to do to get them in the distro
[14:50] <ttx> The asterisk spec seems pretty far away from being feature-complete to me, looking at the blueprints work items status
[14:50] <jmdault> It's stuck at the testing status
[14:50] <jmdault> Packages work individually
[14:50] <jmdault> But we need to test the integration
[14:51] <jiboumans> jmdault: it's missing a tasksel, meta packages, gui according to the spec
[14:51] <jmdault> The gui is there
[14:51] <jiboumans> daviey, jmdault: is htat what you're intending to cut?
[14:51] <ttx> "Create tasksel in server for pbx install: TODO" I don't think this one is wanted, since asterisk would not be in main ?
[14:51] <Daviey> jiboumans: I do not believe the integration can be seemless for lucid.
[14:51] <ttx> the metapackage should take care of the "easy install" part, right
[14:51] <jmdault> yes
[14:52] <jmdault> ttx is right
[14:52] <Daviey> ttx: err, mythtv has some tasksel options and that is universe.
[14:52] <nijaba> Daviey: yep, but not a server task that shows up in the installer
[14:52] <jmdault> anyways, the tasksel should just install the meta package
[14:52] <nijaba> Daviey: taskel -s IIRC
[14:53] <ttx> jmdault: so what do you expect FFe for ?
[14:53] <jmdault> Right now, the packages are in my PPA
[14:54] <ttx> so it's a question of review / upload ?
[14:54] <jmdault> yes
[14:54] <jmdault> I can live without the tasksel
[14:54] <jiboumans> anyone with a few spare cycles to give jmdault a hand?
[14:54] <jmdault> But we need to have at least the dahdi and asterisk packages uploaded ASAP
[14:54] <Daviey> jmdault: can you produce a diff or debdiff please?
[14:54] <ttx> our time is getting limited unfortunately
[14:55]  * Daviey will take this out of band with jmdault 
[14:55] <jmdault> Daviey: great
[14:55] <ttx> Daviey++
[14:55] <jiboumans> daviey++ indeed
[14:55] <jmdault> thankx
[14:55] <jiboumans> jmdault: anythign else on asterisk we should discuss here and now?
[14:55] <ttx> jmdault: maybe stgraber can have a look at your packages as well
[14:55] <jmdault> jiboumans: no
[14:56] <jiboumans> ok, any other topics?
[14:56] <jiboumans> going once..
[14:56] <jiboumans> .. twice..
[14:56] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Next meeting Wednesday, Feb 24th, 1400 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting
[14:56] <MootBot> New Topic:  Next meeting Wednesday, Feb 24th, 1400 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting
[14:56] <jiboumans> thanks all for your time
[14:56] <jiboumans> #endmeeting
</pre>
