{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=01&day=05&year=2015&hour=16&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Jan 5th 2014 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* tyhicks
* jjohansen

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Thomas Ward (teward) provided an update for utopic for wireshark (LP: #1397091)  Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: happy place
** snappy
** pending issues
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: triage
** pending updates
** sbeattie
** pie-on-amd64: fix dkms compilation
** apparmor 2.9.1
** pending updates
** sarnold
** weekly role: community
** catchup on email
** pending updates
** !AppArmor patch review
** chrisccoulson
** fix Bug:1398174 - Move search provider defaults from Ubufox to Firefox
** fix Bug:1337506 - FATAL:texture_manager.cc(76)] Check failed: texture_count_ == 0u (1 vs. 0)
** landed !LocationBarController API
** oxide reviews
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** teward mentioned that his work on the wireshark updates is done, and others from the community can focus on other releases
** teward also mentioned that POODLE is now mitigated in nginx in 15.04

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2015/ubuntu-meeting.2015-01-05-17.02.moin.txt
