{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
<pre>
05:01	asac	so we do meet or not?
05:01	mdz	I just got out of a meeting with soyuz folk
05:01	mdz	I did not have the chance to copy activity summaries, but I did create https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DevelTeamMeeting20070503
05:01	mdz	and I do want to talk to everyone about UDS
05:02	mdz	are we all here?
=== dholbach is
05:03	Mithrandir	aye
05:03	cjwatson	kenel I suspect the kernel team won't be, aside from pkl
=== Nafallo [n=nafallo@ubuntu/member/nafallo] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:03	asac	pitti will be here soon
05:03	cjwatson	heno is travelling
05:04	seb128	meeting or not meeting?
05:04	fabbione	meeting
05:04	asac	+1 ;)
05:04	mdz	Scott is also travelling, of course
05:05	mdz	mvo,Riddell,Mithrandir: ping
05:05	dholbach	mvo_: ^
05:05	fabbione	Mithrandir is here
05:06	bdmurray	bryce is travelling atm I think
05:06	dholbach	mvo_ will be here shortly
05:06	mdz	bdmurray: oh?
05:06	cjwatson	oh, yes, bryce is at the LGM
05:06	pitti	hi, sorry for being late
05:06	bdmurray	to Montreal?
05:07	seb128	mdz: he sent a mail on warthogs about travelling 3-4 and 4-5
05:07	mdz	ah, right
05:08	mdz	anyway, my only agenda item is to check in with everyone regarding their preparation for UDS
05:08	mdz	a draft schedule is up at http://people.ubuntu.com/~cjwatson/uds-sevilla/
05:08	mdz	and workshops with no preparation done are outlined in red
=== mvo_ is here
05:08	mdz	that outline disappears when an agenda is added to the XML for the schedule
05:09	seb128	cjwatson: "Apport cooperation with Gnome upstream" is planned on the 10th but fer and bkor (GNOME guys interested in that) are register until the 9th only
05:09	cjwatson	yeah, I'd seen that in scrollback
05:09	seb128	k
05:09	mdz	cjwatson: bryce's don't seem to be done
05:09	cjwatson	give me a moment to see if it can be rearranged
05:09	pitti	we can either move it, or just have that one be scheduled automatically and devote that slot to any other of the 5 apport specs
05:10	iwj	Can I have a slot for the grub boot device identification problem ?
05:10	iwj	slot> Plus participation from people with useful knowledge :-).
05:10	cjwatson	mdz: of the ones that aren't follow-on from MtV, kyle was due to prepare background for X, a while back; I'll check on that when he next checks in
05:10	cjwatson	iwj: can it be autoscheduled?
05:11	iwj	cjwatson: I think I need kernel guys and perhaps someone like you with some installer knowledge.
05:11	cjwatson	seb128: can you /msg me fer and bkor's real names?
05:11	pitti	btw, we can have a free slot at Friday; Riddell and I quickly talked about it, we don't really need a session for Kubuntu restricted manager
05:11	iwj	The alternative to a core scheduled item is a corridor bof I think.
05:12	pitti	maybe we should just run through all them from the top
05:12	cjwatson	iwj: my time is pretty tight, though evand may be able to help to some extent
05:13	iwj	cjwatson: Mmm.
05:13	fabbione	iwj: do you need a generic installer guy or ubiquity?
05:13	iwj	Generic.
05:14	iwj	It's for matching up devices between installation and booting.
05:14	iwj	I mean, between BIOS and Linux, really.
05:14	cjwatson	seb128,pitti: I'll try to arrange some kind of rescheduling of thatt one
05:14	cjwatson	that
05:14	fabbione	iwj: ok.. i might be able to help you there (installer side)
05:14	pitti	cjwatson: encrypted file systems is currently lead by Keybuk; do you think you can take it? it's heavily installer dependent
05:14	mdz	iwj: that sounds like it would be a good subject for a sprint with some upstream bootloader folks
05:15	iwj	mdz: Err, I don't think it warrants a sprint.
05:15	cjwatson	huh, bkor's LP ID is "bugzilla-ubuntu"
05:15	seb128	cjwatson: thanks
05:15	mdz	iwj: then why are we discussing it?
05:15	iwj	And I think the problem is as much a Linux problem (if not more so) than a bootloader problem.
05:15	pitti	cjwatson: well, he works on Gnome bugzilla
05:15	cjwatson	mdz: that would imply grub2; none of the relevant upstream folks care about grub any more
05:15	iwj	I mean, it doesn't warrant a whole sprint.
05:15	iwj	It ought to be discussed in person.  Worth about a bof.
05:15	mdz	cjwatson: I don't see a problem with that
05:15	seb128	cjwatson: weird, I'm not sure if he uses launchpad bug he's the bugzilla.gnome.org admin
05:16	cjwatson	mdz: it's a pretty serious issue actually; there are a huge number of bugs relevant to it
05:16	seb128	s/bug/but
05:16	mvo_	iwj: is that essential about bug #8497 ? or something complettely different?
Launchpad bug 8497 in grub "grub guessed BIOS disk order incorrectly" [Medium,Confirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/8497
05:16	iwj	mvo_: That and the dozens of similar bugs, yes.
05:16	mdz	cjwatson: if it's a serious issue which needs to be resolved, it's worth getting the stakeholders together  and hashing it out properly
05:16	cjwatson	and it could be tied into our UUID changes too in some ways
05:16	cjwatson	mdz: the problem is that we have repeatedly rejected grub2 as not ready yet ...
05:17	iwj	I've just looked at the grub2 code again.
05:17	iwj	It's not ready yet.
05:17	iwj	And it doesn't solve this problem anyway.
05:17	mdz	cjwatson: we are not the only ones with this problem, and it's worth talking to the other people
05:17	mdz	we've had this problem for years now
05:17	cjwatson	I guess I agree, but it might help if we could agree internally what we wanted first!
05:18	mdz	I guess I didn't realize there was a disagreement
05:18	iwj	mdz: It's getting lots more severe, because our Linux device discovery is constantly getting generating less predictable orderings.
05:18	mdz	what is the disagreement?
05:18	iwj	SATA is doing it, particularly.
05:18	mdz	iwj: what does that have to do with grub?
05:19	cjwatson	mdz: not so much a disagreement as that we really have no clue what the desired final answer ought to look like, and I think it's going to take kernel experience as well as bootloader experience; how many people do you want to drag to a sprint about this one subject?
05:19	iwj	The stuff that sets up grub needs to know BIOS disk numbers.  These used to be predictable because Linux and the BIOS used to (mostly) detect stuff in the same predictable order.
05:19	iwj	What cjwatson said.
05:19	mdz	cjwatson: a sprint isn't a punishment, it's a chance to work on the problem
05:20	cjwatson	mdz: I wasn't implying it was, but it's also expensive
05:20	iwj	Can we please have a bof at UDS and then we'll see if we want a sprint or not ?
05:20	mdz	and the fact that we need people with all of the relevant backgrounds is a good reason to plan it, rather than trying to squeeze it into UDS
05:20	iwj	I think we will have most of the relevant knowledge at UDS, or at least a good chance of having.
05:21	cjwatson	I would like to at least talk about it at UDS. Whether it's a hallway-track meeting or something else I don't really care.
05:21	cjwatson	we could put it in the installer forum if you like
05:21	mdz	how about adding a boot loader forum which iwj can host
05:21	cjwatson	there's nothing much concrete scheduled for that yet
05:21	Mithrandir	iwj: it's also the fact that it used to be a problem only with SCSI + IDE, while now it's a problem with PATA + SATA which is a lot more common.
05:21	iwj	The key thing is kernel participation.  The bootloader stuff is fiddly but less complex and I think I can probably cover it.
05:22	iwj	Mithrandir: Right.  And it used to be that if it did go wrong you could write some config to fix it, whereas now it changes every other boot.
05:22	Mithrandir	iwj: yay hardware/BIOS races.
05:22	mdz	iwj: if you want some time with the kernel team to talk through this, then I see no problem with it
05:23	mdz	the entire kernel team will be there, and they will certainly have a spare hour
05:23	cjwatson	I will schedule a forum session involving iwj + kernel team
05:23	mdz	ok
05:23	iwj	Unfortunately I don't have enough SATA disks here to do proper tests but Fabio will perhaps have some experience of BIOS disk order stability (or otherwise) with many-disk SATA setups.
05:23	iwj	cjwatson: Thanks.
05:23	mdz	iwj: has Keybuk talked to you about boot/login with no free disk space?
05:23	iwj	mdz: Yes.
05:23	iwj	I don't think it needs discussion.
05:23	cjwatson	in general though we plan for it to be possible to autoschedule stuff and have that interact nicely with the core schedule
05:23	mdz	iwj: that has a big chunk of background work which doesn't seem to have been done yet
05:23	cjwatson	Keybuk says he has the code for that
05:23	fabbione	iwj: i have no SATA.. only SAS (only sparc) and scsi
05:24	Mithrandir	cjwatson: feel free to add me to that bof too.
05:24	mdz	iwj: I don't think you know that until you've looked at it in more detail
05:24	iwj	It just needs test, discover bug, fix bug or do workaround, rinse, repeat.
05:24	iwj	fabbione: Hmm.
05:24	fabbione	iwj: well plus IDE or PATA or whatever they are called now
05:24	iwj	OK, I'll put out a mail on ubuntu-devel maybe asking for people to report their experiences.
05:24	mdz	iwj: how about doing a comprehensive test, which is what I asked for?
05:25	mdz	this is not a difficult problem to simulate
05:25	mdz	and then if it turns out that there are upstream problems to be resolved, you'll know what questions to ask the GNOME folks at the summit
05:25	mdz	for example
05:26	Mithrandir	mdz: not entirely true, since you don't know what order the BIOS puts the drives in.  Some BIOSes put the boot drive as 0x80, some just don't.  But, it's better to discuss the problem in person.
05:26	cjwatson	Mithrandir: err, I think we're talking about the disk space thing now
05:26	Mithrandir	cjwatson: oh, point.
05:26	mdz	Mithrandir: I have no idea what you're responding to
05:26	Mithrandir	mea culpa
05:26	iwj	mdz: Err, yes, but I don't think a test will tell us very much.
05:26	mdz	iwj: "we'll figure it out as we go" is not a suitable project plan
05:27	mdz	pitti,fabbione: is one of you looking into encrypted filesystems?
05:27	fabbione	mdz: i did some basic research already at MV
05:27	iwj	Can we have encrypted swap at least ?
05:28	pitti	mdz: I made up my mind about cryptsetup, did some experiments, and thought about various possibilities to implement it
05:28	pitti	I think I have a pretty good idea about the subject now and the pro/cons of different approaches
05:28	mdz	pitti: ok, you should have enough background for an agenda
05:28	cjwatson	iwj: it's (a) easy to test on a basic level and start incrementally fixing, (b) possible to write a shim that causes write() and similar to return ENOSPC
05:28	pitti	iwj: that's the easiest thing
05:28	pitti	mdz: right, in fact I already have an agenda here; I guess I just forgot to add it to the bzr
05:28	pitti	will do
05:29	iwj	cjwatson: Right.
05:29	iwj	I've been playing with subterfugue for other reasons and that might well be a starting point for such a shim ...
05:30	mdz	pitti: ok, gerat
05:30	mdz	great
05:30	mdz	Riddell: do you know what needs to be discussed at the Kubuntu/KDE-related sessions?
05:31	Riddell	mdz: some things yes, but I don't have a two hour agenda for the "Kubuntu gutsy plan" slot
05:31	Riddell	it may well we have plenty to talk about for two hours, I just don't know
05:31	Riddell	mdz: I did e-mail agenda items to keybuk when he asked a while ago, but they don't seem to be added to any of the items
05:31	cjwatson	mdz: can I take you off apport-gnome-cooperation if necessary to resolve scheduling contention?
05:31	mdz	Riddell: the agendas don't need to fill the entire time slot, just provide starting points for the discussion
05:31	cjwatson	I still need to go through the stuff Scott forwarded from various people :-/
05:32	mdz	Riddell: ok, if you've sent them to Scott then he'll commit them
05:32	mdz	...or punt them to colin
05:32	Riddell	mdz: is "Kubuntu gutsy plan" expected to end with a spec?
05:32	mdz	Riddell: I cannot say; I did not define it.  didn't the Kubuntu topics come from you?
05:33	mdz	it's marked as a workshop, which would mean yes, it should result in a spec
05:33	Riddell	mdz: yes, but that one was "kde 4 plan" and has now been generalised into "kubuntu gusty plan"
05:33	mdz	and from the title, it sounds like it should have some output, namely a plan
05:34	mdz	Riddell: I'm not picky about the name
05:34	mdz	if you want it to be specifically kde 4, that's fine with me
05:35	mdz	or you can split it into a workshop on kde 4, and a  forum to brainstorm other interesting things to do in Kubuntu
05:35	cjwatson	apport-gnome-cooperation moved to Tuesday
05:35	pitti	splendid
05:36	cjwatson	last thing Tuesday in the otherwise free slot, but you can't have everything
=== pitti adds agenda for encrypted file systems
05:36	mdz	cjwatson: I've started assembling slides for the introduction, and I don't expect to have 90 minutes of talking to do
05:36	mdz	so we can potentially free up some space on sunday
05:37	cjwatson	we're not under *quite* that much pressure yet, but it may come
05:37	cjwatson	we could make how-was-feisty-for-you longer
05:37	cjwatson	it strikes me that there will probably be plenty of material in there
05:38	mdz	that could become a big brainstorming session
05:38	mdz	or we could do a demo
05:39	cjwatson	we already have lots of demo slots
05:39	cjwatson	later in the week, which I think is better really
05:39	mdz	I want to re-emphasize that we need more people devoted to the mobile effort
05:40	mdz	this is perhaps the single most important part of the summit, to get this sorted
05:40	fabbione	mdz: i added my self to the mobile schedule are you requested
05:40	mdz	fabbione: yes, thank you
05:40	mdz	there will be about 5-8 folks coming just to work on that
05:41	mdz	I'll be sending out an announcement about it soon
05:42	mdz	are there any questions about UDS?
05:42	mdz	this will be the first one for some of you
05:43	Riddell	will there be phone conferencing like at MTV?
05:43	mdz	if it's your first summit, it would behoove you to get a briefing on how it works
05:43	pitti	mdz: how do we handle subscription to dynamically scheduled specs?
05:43	mdz	Riddell: I have been told that there will be something similar, yes
05:43	mdz	pitti: just subscribe in launchpad as usual
05:43	pitti	mdz: greedy subscription again, or just ad-hoc on the evening for the next day?
05:44	mdz	pitti: I don't understand the question
05:44	pkl_	mdz: where can I get any briefings. as it's my first summit?  I was planning on picking everthing up when I got ther.
05:45	pitti	mdz: nevermind, if it didn't change, then my question is already answered
05:45	pitti	I overheard something about not subscribing to half a thousand specs this time to ease scheduling or so
05:45	cjwatson	mdz: I'm shortening the intro bits on Sunday and (for now) spreading out how-was-feisty over the break, but it might be best to turn that into two different things
05:45	fabbione	pkl_: get there saturday. offer beer to other developers .. developers will happily talk about the process. WIN
05:45	mdz	pkl_: talk to your line manager if you don't have a mentor to talk to already
05:46	cjwatson	pkl_: I can give you a call shortly after the meeting and we can go over it
05:46	pkl_	I was going to question BenC, as he's not about much at the moment, Saturday evening was my plan.
05:46	mvo	https://blueprints.launchpad.net/sprints/uds-sevilla <- that is the list for dynamically specs, right? or is there more to look at
05:46	iwj	pitti's question AIUI is should we do what we were encouraged to do last time, which is to subscribe to lots of specs we're interested in, or should we leave ourselves out of the scheduler some more and simply turn up to things on the day ?
05:47	pitti	iwj: *nod*
05:47	pkl_	cjwatson: can we move the call to tomorrow?  I need to vote (in the Welsh assembly election and catch a train to Birmingham)?
05:47	mdz	mvo: yes
05:47	cjwatson	pkl_: I will be on a train tomorrow
05:47	pitti	erk, there's 'firewall' again; that's a SoC project
05:47	iwj	Why is winmodem-support on the schedule
05:47	iwj	?
05:47	cjwatson	pkl_: but I'll happily go over it in person with you on Sunday evening
05:47	mdz	iwj,pitti: since subscription doesn't affect scheduling, you're free to do as you like
05:47	pkl_	cjwatson: OK, thanks.
05:47	mdz	subscription means that you'll be notified of state changes on the spec, and you'll have a personal agenda generated by the scheduler
05:48	iwj	Right.  I might do that by hand and eye instead.
05:48	cjwatson	pkl_: sorry, I mean Sat evening
05:48	mdz	iwj: because it's still a big concern for our users?
05:48	iwj	What I mean is is it not working ?
05:49	pkl_	cjwatson: OK, I assumed you meant Saturday :)
05:49	mdz	iwj: no, it is not
05:49	mdz	iwj: and the scope attempted for feisty apparently wasn't complete, either
05:49	iwj	OK, well, fine, let's discuss it at UDS then.
05:49	mdz	iwj: Keybuk has the details and can review this with you
05:50	iwj	Keybuk> Oh, good.
05:50	mdz	ok, anything further on UDS?
05:50	mdz	any non-UDS items to raise?
05:51	pitti	cjwatson: are you fine to sub to encrypted-file-systems for your installer expertise?
05:51	cjwatson	pitti: yes, I think last I looked it conflicted with something but that is not now the case
05:51	fabbione	pitti: i can be there for that. i have experience in partman*
05:52	iwj	pitti: Can you sub me to that ?  I'm trying to get a bit more into the installer and have some fs encryption experience.
05:52	fabbione	pitti: assuming cjwatson will trust me enough :)
05:52	iwj	Or I'll do it myself ...
05:52	pitti	fabbione: that would be nice as well; but we should also integrate it into ubiquity somehow
05:52	pitti	iwj: as you wish, I can do it quickly if you want
05:52	fabbione	pitti: i am pretty sure ubiquity will suck it almost automatically
05:52	iwj	Please.
05:52	cjwatson	fabbione: you are mistaken]
05:53	cjwatson	depending perhaps on how much flexibility there is in "almost"
05:53	cjwatson	evand will need to be there for that; I've subscribed him
05:53	fabbione	cjwatson: well pretty much a lot..
05:53	pitti	iwj: done
05:53	fabbione	cjwatson: of flexibility
05:53	iwj	pitti: Ta.
05:54	cjwatson	fabbione: you're already subscribed to encrypted-filesystems anyway
05:54	cjwatson	at this point, people should feel free to commit agenda items themselvees
05:54	Riddell	do I need to register my specs in launchpad?
05:54	mdz	indeed
05:54	cjwatson	as your managers may well be travelling
05:54	cjwatson	I was due to do a mass spec registration
05:54	Riddell	cool
05:54	cjwatson	or in some cases renaming in the core scheduler
05:54	cjwatson	not quite sure when I'm going to fit that in, but I'll try ...
05:55	cjwatson	sftp://chinstrap/home/warthogs/archives/scott/schedulemaker/ for the recorrd
05:56	mdz	ok, looks like a wrap for the meeting
05:56	mdz	I'm looking forward to seeing everyone this weekend
05:56	mdz	travel safely and get some good sleep
05:56	mdz	thanks, everyone
05:56	fabbione	thanks
05:56	fabbione	cya there
05:56	pkl_	see you all there.
05:56	bdmurray	see you soon
05:56	asac	thanks ... cu all on sat/sun!
05:57	mvo	thanks
05:57	pitti	see you all, safe travels!
05:57	seb128	thanks
05:57	dholbach	thanks
</pre>
