{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': Mon June 6th 2016 16:31 UTC
* '''End''': 16:53 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': Jamie Strandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* sarnold
* !ChrisCoulson
* ratliff

=== Not present ===
* tyhicks
* jjohansen

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** I'd like to announce a couple of changes to the structure of the security team.
** After almost 5.5 years as the manager of the security team, I decided it was time for a change. The security team is too awesome to leave so I'm not going far: I will stay on the security team as a generalist focusing on snappy initially and getting back to generalist duties in due course. :)
** The other change is that I'd like to extend a warm welcome to Emily Ratliff (ratliff) for joining the Ubuntu Security team as manager and I'll be working with her to ensure a smooth transition. If you don't know Emily already, google her ;) She is very talented and accomplished and we are super-excited to have her join Canonical and the Ubuntu Security team. :)
** Thomas Ward (teward) provided debdiffs for trusty-xenial for nginx (LP: #1587577)
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** snappy PR followups (gsettings, input methods)
** snappy interface reviews (modem-manager, ppp, etc)
** seccomp arg filtering follow-ups
** various snapd interface policy updates and investigations
** review tools updates for upcoming snap.yaml changes and various bug fixes
** im-config testing
** docker interface as have time
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: cve triage and community
** libxml2 security updates
** pending security updates
** sbeattie
** weekly role: bug triage
** short week (off starting Wed)
** kernel cve->lp bugs sync script
** build failures for yakkety gcc pie
  {{{#!wiki comment
** tyhicks
** weekly role
  }}}
** jjohansen
** focus on !AppArmor (stacking bugs for 16.04)
** sarnold
** weekly role: happy place
** sprint prep and imagemagick
** !ChrisCoulson
** firefox updates
** chromium ready to sponsor hopefully
** oxide update
** oxide bugs
** ratliff
** new hire duties
** sprint prep
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** teward thanked the security team (and mdeslaur in particular) for sponsoring his debdiffs for nginx

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-06-06-16.31.moin.txt
