{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=12&day=09&year=2013&hour=&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Dec 9th 2013 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* tyhicks
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* sbeattie
* jjohansen

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Thanks to Ritesh Khadgaray (ritz) for providing preliminary patches for pixman for precise-saucy (LP: #1197921). Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Actions
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: happy place
** short week
** pending updates
** work items
** 14.04 planning
** mdeslaur:
** weekly role: triage
** pending updates
** tyhicks
** glodfish kernel hardening
** investigate test failue with test-click-apparmor.py on goldfish with apparmor enabled
** apparmor and dbus uploads for eavesdrop permission
** start on user data encryption work items
** sarnold
** weekly role: community
** !AppArmor patch review
** MIR audits
** chrisccouson
** mozilla updates (firefox/thunderbird)
** chromium-browser
** oxide FTBFS (out of memory when linking). Two relatively easy options to make it work better, and one harder option (building components separately)
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** tyhicks brought up bug:1158500 (auditd fails to add rules when used in precise with -lts-quantal kernel). This will need to be fixed with trusty. Added work item to discuss with kernel team

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-12-09-16.42.html
