{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** smoser follow up on #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server not working
** arosales update QA Team rep to matsubara
* V Development
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (?)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair

=== Minutes ===

==== Summary ====
This weeks meeting focused on identifying critical bugs as Vivid nears Final Beta Freeze (March 26). There was also some good discussion on rounding out Blueprints given the Vivid end-of-cycle is nearing. matsubara[QA] brought up an interesting smoke test Jenkins failure [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1427821] that smb[kennel] help identify as a dup of https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer/+bug/1429849.

Open Compute Summit and OpenPower Summit were also brought up as upcoming Ubuntu Server related events.

==== Info ====
* User Interface Freeze this week
* Final Beta Freeze on March 26

==== Links ====

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseSchedule
* http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mysql-5.6/+bug/1427406
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/neutron/+bug/1429739
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/landscape-client/+bug/1427275
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/juju-core/+bug/1409639
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pacemaker/+bug/1427408
* http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-v/group/topic-v-server.html
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-v-server-core
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-v-openstack-kilo
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-v-openstack-charms
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-v-cloud-init  - smoser
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-v-osci -- beisner
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-v-server
* http://ocpussummit2015.sched.org/event/842f924b7cac2668e652715c79778ee9#.VP8dboHF8h4
* http://ocpussummit2015.sched.org/
* http://openpowerfoundation.org/2015-summit/

===== Meeting Actions =====

* No specific actions identified this week.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, March 17th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:04] <arosales> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:04] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Mar 10 16:04:42 2015 UTC.  The chair is arosales. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:04] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:04] <arosales> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:05] <arosales> smoser follow up on #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server not working
[16:05] <arosales> looks to be working for ubuntu server now, at least there are bugs there
[16:05] <smoser> horay. thanks.
[16:05] <arosales> not sure if they are the correct ones, but there are bug there
[16:05] <arosales> arosales update QA Team rep to matsubara
[16:06] <arosales> this has been updated in the IRC meeting commands
[16:06] <arosales> #topic Vivid Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Vivid Development
[16:06] <arosales> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseSchedule
[16:06] <arosales> #info User Interface Freeze this week
[16:07] <arosales> #info Final Beta Freeze on March 26
[16:07] <arosales> right around the corner
[16:07] <arosales> How are FFE that have been filled going?
[16:08] <arosales> hmm . .  . I hope well, please ping here if there are any that folks are blocked on or that could use some help.
[16:08] <arosales> #subtopic Release Bugs
[16:08] <arosales> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:09] <arosales> got a few highs and criticals listed here
[16:09] <arosales> critical: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mysql-5.6/+bug/1427406
[16:09] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1427406 in mysql-5.6 (Ubuntu Vivid) "data corruption on arm64" [Critical,Confirmed]
[16:09] <arosales> sorry,
[16:09] <arosales> #link https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mysql-5.6/+bug/1427406
[16:10] <arosales> mariadb and mysql issues here
[16:10] <arosales> data corruption :-/
[16:10] <arosales> smoser: jamespage you guys seen this one?
[16:10] <smoser> oh joy.
[16:10] <arosales> arm64 confirmed, uncertain on other archs such as ppc64el
[16:11] <smoser> well, it looks like dannf is looking into it.
[16:11] <smoser> or ate least was.
[16:11] <smoser> but i'll follow up
[16:11] <arosales> smoser: thank you
[16:12] <arosales> #link https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/neutron/+bug/1429739
[16:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1429739 in neutron (Ubuntu Vivid) "neutron-server does not start: OperationalError: (OperationalError) no such table: ml2_vlan_allocations" [High,New]
[16:12] <dannf> smoser: yeah, haven't made any more progress since i found the upstream regression
[16:13] <arosales> this one was assigned to james page.
[16:13] <arosales> jamespage, that is
[16:13] <arosales> coreycb: fyi ^
[16:14] <jamespage> I know will look at it next week
[16:14] <arosales> jamespage: thanks
[16:14] <arosales> #link https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/landscape-client/+bug/1427275
[16:14] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1427275 in landscape-client (Ubuntu Vivid) "clean cloud images of python2" [High,Confirmed]
[16:14] <arosales> smoser: is this one with you?
[16:15] <arosales> I see a branch out there by ~strikov
[16:15] <smoser> its with me, yeah.
[16:16] <arosales> smoser: thanks
[16:16] <arosales> #link https://bugs.launchpad.net/juju-core/+bug/1409639
[16:16] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1409639 in juju-core "juju needs to support systemd for >= vivid" [High,In progress]
[16:17] <arosales> looks like a patch was landed on March 2, I'll comment on what release this is targetted for.
[16:18] <arosales> rbask ^ (for the logs)
[16:18] <arosales> #link https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pacemaker/+bug/1427408
[16:18] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1427408 in pacemaker (Ubuntu Vivid) "pacemaker init.d script lacks runlevel definition" [High,In progress]
[16:19] <arosales> also with jamespage, looks like it is pending release time and patch is identified -- just a reminder for jamespage next week to check with the release team
[16:19] <jamespage> arosales, waiting on the release team for the ack on the FFe for that one
[16:19] <arosales> that covers the critical and highs, please try to get this bugs in before we get too close to beta freeze
[16:20] <arosales> jamespage: thanks for the update.
[16:20] <arosales> #subtopic Blueprints
[16:20] <arosales> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-v/group/topic-v-server.html
[16:21] <arosales> 3 BPs
[16:21] <arosales> all 3 in red atm
[16:21] <arosales> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-v-server-core
[16:22] <arosales> this one is with rbask, not online atm
[16:22] <arosales> look like some have been postponed but need to see how the other 3 in todo are progressing
[16:23] <arosales> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-v-openstack-kilo
[16:23] <arosales> zul: this one is with you
[16:23] <zul> *sigh* keep forgetting
[16:23] <arosales> needs updating, or are some of these items going to be postponed?
[16:23] <zul> ill have a look
[16:23] <arosales> zul: thanks
[16:24] <arosales> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-v-openstack-charms
[16:24] <arosales> with gnuoy
[16:24] <arosales> I think some of these are going to be postponed and gnuoy was working to find out which was were the heaviest hitters
[16:25] <arosales> other BPs not on the tracking:
[16:25] <arosales> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-v-cloud-init  - smoser
[16:26] <arosales> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-v-osci -- beisner
[16:26] <beisner> ahh, updating that as we speak ;-)
[16:26] <arosales> as we approach beta freeze be sure to have BPs updated and/or talk to release team on which ones are going to make it
[16:27] <arosales> beisner: thanks
[16:27] <arosales> for ref the other BPS @
[16:27] <arosales> #link #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-v-server
[16:27] <arosales> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:28]  * arosales doesn't see caribou here atm
[16:28] <arosales> any reps for Server & Cloud bugs?
[16:28] <arosales>  .
[16:28] <arosales> .
[16:28] <arosales> .
[16:28] <arosales> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
[16:28] <matsubara> We have some smoke test failures from jenkins
[16:28] <matsubara> which are being tracked as bug https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1427821
[16:29] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1427821 in Ubuntu "server iso install fails during grub install" [Critical,Confirmed]
[16:29] <matsubara> No assignee though.
[16:29] <matsubara> an example of such failure: http://d-jenkins.ubuntu-ci:8080/job/vivid-server-amd64-smoke-multi-lvm/105/
[16:29] <arosales> smoser: matsubara: do we need to reach out to the founations team?
[16:30] <matsubara> Not sure who should fix that.
[16:30] <smoser> we need to poke. i'll poke.
[16:30] <smb> If it is the same as I saw it seems installer... I had a different bug report too
[16:31] <smb> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer/+bug/1429849
[16:31] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1429849 in debian-installer (Ubuntu) "server-installer: grub installed to wrong target" [Undecided,New]
[16:32] <arosales> smoser: thanks for following, smb thanks for the related info.
[16:32] <arosales> any othe items matsubara ?
[16:32] <matsubara> looks like the same bug. I'll dupe 1427821 against that
[16:32] <matsubara> arosales, that's all from me
[16:32] <arosales> matsubara: thanks
[16:33] <arosales> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
[16:33] <smb> I don't have much. Just as a kind of reminder, there have been questions/reports about bcache which are (as far as I can tell) all waiting on feedback/info from someone who can reproduce things. I cannot do much before or without as I am not sure what to look for or how to reproduce.
[16:33] <arosales> smb:  I think jamespage has been looking at some bcache stuff, he is sprinting this week, but maybe able to get you some data soon-ish
[16:34] <smb> ack. thanks
[16:34] <arosales> smb, any other topics?
[16:34] <jamespage> smb, yeah sorry - I'll ask kickinz1 to try as I think he and smoser are looking at that now
[16:34] <arosales> jamespage: thanks
[16:34] <jamespage> smb, they are working on reproducing the issues virtually
[16:34] <smb> arosales, Nothing else. thanks
[16:35] <arosales> smb: thanks
[16:35] <smb> jamespage, Ok, cool. Just did not see any updates so I thought to bring it up
[16:35] <arosales> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:35] <arosales> http://ocpussummit2015.sched.org/ this week. I think Mark Shuttleworth has a keynote there
[16:36] <arosales> #link http://ocpussummit2015.sched.org/event/842f924b7cac2668e652715c79778ee9#.VP8dboHF8h4
[16:36] <arosales> #link http://ocpussummit2015.sched.org/
[16:36] <arosales> #link http://openpowerfoundation.org/2015-summit/
[16:36] <arosales> OpenPOWER summit next week
[16:36] <arosales> any others ?
[16:36] <arosales> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:37] <arosales> Any other topics?
[16:37] <arosales> #topic Announce next meeting date and time
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date and time
[16:37] <arosales> NEXT MEETING: Tuesday 2015-03-17 at 1600 UTC
[16:37] <arosales> #endmeeting
</pre>
