{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
    Review ACTION points from previous meeting
        Daviey to talk with wider docs team regarding translations (deferred, carry over)
        Daviey to post another followup one euca-dhcp bug. (carry over)
        SpamapS to put his version of ubuntuserver-minutes in directions for writing minutes 
    Natty Development
    Ubuntu Server Team Events

    Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)

    Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

    Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)

    Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
    Open Discussion
    Announce next meeting date and time
        Tuesday, April 5 2011 16:00 UTC 
=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, April 5th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[17:04] <Daviey> #startmeeting
[17:04] <MootBot> Meeting started at 11:04. The chair is Daviey.
[17:04] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[17:04] <robbiew> *\o/*
[17:04] <Daviey> Hellow everyone, and thank you for coming.  Apologies for starting later than scheduled.
[17:04] <kirkland> pom poms, robbiew ?
[17:04] <robbiew> you know it!
[17:04] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[17:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[17:05] <Daviey> Daviey to talk with wider docs team regarding translations (deferred, carry over)
[17:05] <Daviey> -- This is still carried over.
[17:05] <Daviey> Daviey to post another followup one euca-dhcp bug. (carry over)
[17:05] <Daviey> -- scheduled to talk with upstream today via phone.
[17:05] <Daviey> (and yesterday for that matter)
[17:05] <Daviey> SpamapS to put his version of ubuntuserver-minutes in directions for writing minutes
[17:05] <Daviey>  -- looks done
[17:06] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Natty Development
[17:06] <MootBot> New Topic:  Natty Development
=== jj-afk is now known as jjohansen
[17:06] <Daviey> So, we are in Ubuntu Beta 1 hard freeze.
[17:07] <Daviey> Hopefully the ISO building is starting to stabilise, and we should have a potential candidate soon (if not now)
[17:07] <Daviey> We could do with some additional testing of these candidates..
[17:07] <kirkland> Daviey: fyi, the aubergine color got dropped from the beta1 debian-installer :-(
[17:07] <Daviey> http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-server-ubuntu-11.04-beta-1.html
[17:07] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-server-ubuntu-11.04-beta-1.html
[17:07] <kirkland> Daviey: sort of inadvertent fallout of making it configurable
[17:08] <zul> how come?
[17:08] <Daviey> kirkland, that is a shame...
[17:08] <kirkland> Daviey: i'm trying to fix it now
[17:08] <Daviey> kirkland, So that will land after beta 1 now?
[17:08] <kirkland> Daviey: yes, pray that the fix gets accepted for beta2
[17:08] <kirkland> Daviey: cjwatson said that he's not rebuilding debian-installer for beta1 at this point (understandably)
[17:09] <Daviey> kirkland, I hope so!  I liked the aubergine love.  It was in yesterdays ISO - when was it dropped?
[17:09] <kirkland> Daviey: debian-installer rebuilt yesterday, which used the updated newt configuration, where newt's palette is configurable
[17:10] <kirkland> Daviey: and that configuration did not propagate to the debian-installer bits
[17:10] <Daviey> I see, thanks kirkland - is there a new bug / WI that is tracking this?
[17:10] <kirkland> Daviey: i'm trying desparately to get it working
[17:10] <Daviey> kirkland, rocking.
[17:10] <kirkland> Daviey: i honestly haven't had time to file a bug, focused on fixing it ASAP
[17:10] <Daviey> kirkland, ok, sounds good.
[17:10] <kirkland> Daviey: but i thought i'd mention it here, thanks
[17:10] <Daviey> Okay.. regarding our burn down chart..
[17:11] <Daviey> As we are in freeze now, any items that are in main/multiverse need to be adjusted to beta2 - or discussion if they should be dropped.
[17:12] <Daviey> Regarding release bugs... We do have a handful.. they look like they are making progress - so not sure we need to discuss them further here.
[17:12] <Daviey> Does anyone else have any comments for Natty development?
[17:12] <Daviey> moving on
[17:12] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Server Team Events
[17:12] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu Server Team Events
[17:13] <Daviey> Doesn't look like we have any new ones confirmed in the short term.
[17:13] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[17:13] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[17:13] <RoAkSoAx> This Saturday April 2nd. Texas Linux Fest. kirkland and I are presenting
[17:13] <jamespage> Hmm well there is puppet camp at the end of next month
[17:13] <RoAkSoAx> Daviey: ^^
[17:13] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx, ah, thanks!
[17:14] <zul> Openstack Summit next month
[17:14] <Daviey> Yeah, i thought that was > short term. :)
[17:14] <zul> it is short term :)
[17:14] <Daviey> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[17:15] <Daviey> hggdh, the floor is yours, sir
[17:15] <Daviey> hggdh, seems afk... we will come back
[17:15] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[17:15] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[17:16] <Daviey> smb, Are you around?
[17:16] <smb> Yes, a bit late but  I am here
[17:16] <smoser> smb, bug 740658 and bug 741224 have popped up in the last few days.
[17:16] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 740658 in linux-meta-ec2 (Ubuntu) "kernels compiled with"CONFIG_HAVE_UNSTABLE_SCHED_CLOCK=y" lead to weird clock drifts on some CPUs. This may up ending in DOS" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/740658
[17:16] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 741224 in linux-ec2 (Ubuntu) "m1.large instances randomly freezing for 5-15 minutes" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/741224
[17:16] <smb> Mostly being trying to bring lucid-ec2 into shape
[17:16] <smoser> both with a fair amount of helpful information.
[17:17]  * Daviey looks
[17:17] <smoser> just wanted to make sure you'd read through them, one follows through to upstream thread https://patchwork.kernel.org/patch/629361/
[17:18] <smb> I think I had been looking at them. But I cannot say for sure exactly how things were there
[17:18] <Daviey> smb / smoser: So the main issues with EC2 kernel is with Lucid, not Natty?
[17:18] <smb> I need to get back tehere again
[17:18] <smb> Daviey, There is one for natty afaik
[17:18] <smoser> Daviey, the issues are present in all releases.
[17:18] <smoser> :-(
[17:18] <smb> the java not being installable on t1.micro
[17:19] <smb> But other things tend to go quite a bit back
[17:19] <Daviey> smb, is java on t1.micro looking good for Natty?
[17:19] <smb> Daviey, no the other way round
[17:19] <smb> it is not looking good for natty
[17:19] <smb> but I had not yet time to look back into that
[17:20] <Daviey> smb, ok, thanks
[17:20] <Daviey> smoser, anything else for EC2?
[17:20] <smb> There is one set of patches turning up a lot which changes the way interrupts are handled
[17:20]  * hggdh is back from a phone call
[17:20] <smb> unfortunately those are not really triviall to get back to Lucid (not to mention hardy)
[17:21] <smoser> both t1.micro/java and those listed above are at least potentially bugs on all releases.  i fully trust smb, its just a matter of hours in the day, and as he suggests nothing is trivial
[17:21] <smb> But at least natty should be fine in that respect
[17:21] <Daviey> smb, I'm not sure our users would be too concerned with the fix landing in Hardy tbh.
[17:21] <smb> Daviey, there has been asking
[17:21] <smoser> there are some users who are interested in hardy fixes
[17:21] <Daviey> oh.
[17:22] <Daviey> smb, I was trying to make your life easier. :)
[17:22] <smb> Nothing is impossible for the one that not has to do it. :)
[17:22] <zul> has there been an update kernel for hardy yet?
[17:22] <smb> Anyway those may go to Lucid
[17:22] <smb> But then I still have to get that into there as well
[17:23] <Daviey> Okay... are there any pressing issues for non-ec2 kernels atm?
[17:23] <smb> zul, There has been no update to xen speciafically
[17:23] <zul> smb: cool
[17:23] <smb> I am not sure whether there has not been other changes in between though
[17:24] <smoser> kernel related.... john johansen sent a mail to ubuntu-server mailing list
[17:24] <smoser> asking for input on -virtual kernel.
[17:24] <Daviey> yes!
[17:24] <jjohansen> yep
[17:24] <smoser> please, if the -virtual kernel has affected you, please speak up there.
[17:24] <smb> zul, Actually, maybe you want to check whether you got the same amount of patches in your packatge
[17:24]  * jjohansen was waiting to pitch it
[17:24] <Daviey> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2011-March/005348.html
[17:24] <zul> smb: lets take it off line
[17:24] <smb> There may have been something needing fix for a cve but I lost a bit track of time
[17:24] <smb> ok
[17:25] <Daviey> jjohansen, Do you want to speak?
[17:25] <smb> jjohansen, go
[17:25] <smoser> zul, fyi, hggdh has info on hardy kernel updates as well.
[17:25] <jjohansen> Daviey: not really, I was just going to do a one more thing.  The kernel team is looking for kernel input, please reply to the mail, or hunt me down
[17:26] <jjohansen> I think its been covered
[17:26] <Daviey> super, thanks!
[17:26] <Daviey> It's good to see there is not much concern with the tradional kernel for natty..
[17:26]  * Daviey is happy
[17:26] <Daviey> Thanks smb and jjohansen !
[17:26] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[17:26] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[17:27] <Daviey> hggdh, floor is yours, sir!
[17:27] <hggdh> thanks
[17:27] <hggdh> we are busy on ISO testing; also still working on the Euca bug
[17:27] <hggdh> no news there yet
[17:28] <hggdh> smoser: ec2 images ready for ISO testing?
[17:28] <smoser> hggdh, yes.
[17:28]  * Daviey has been working with hggdh to try and resolve the euca bug.
[17:28] <smoser> jamespage, is working on this , we're attempting to test through jenkins with the work eh's done there.
[17:29] <Daviey> jamespage, Do you want to comment on the jenkins testing?
[17:29] <jamespage> yep
[17:30] <jamespage> so I executed a full set of tests this afternoon; its thrown up a couple of minor bugs with the testing framework which I will fix ASAP.
[17:30] <jamespage> Results here -> http://jenkins.qa.ubuntu-uk.org/view/natty-ec2/ if anyone wants to take a look
[17:30] <Daviey> jamespage / smoser: Is this expected to be the primary testing, or will traditional testing still be conducted for b1?
[17:30] <hggdh> jamespage: can we consider these results as the "official beta" results?
[17:31] <hggdh> heh
[17:31] <smoser> leaning torwards this being primary
[17:31] <robbiew> +1
[17:31] <Daviey> That should be a good time saving!
[17:31] <jamespage> They are against 20110329
[17:31] <jamespage> so we will need to run again
[17:31] <hggdh> OK
[17:31] <jamespage> Suggest I fix issues
[17:31] <smoser> (not really much time saving... the other tests were all automated as well)
[17:31] <hggdh> I *think* we now have the final ISO -- the .2
[17:32] <jamespage> and they re-run once we think we have a good image for beta 1
[17:32] <Daviey> (candidate)
[17:32] <Daviey> jamespage, Are they triggered automatically?
[17:32] <hggdh> Daviey: yes indeed, the final, er, candidate
[17:32] <Daviey> heh
[17:32] <jamespage> No - thats intentional as they cost $$ to execute.
[17:33] <Daviey> ok, so smoser pings you to fire them?
[17:33] <jamespage> At the moment they have to be submitted individually (which is a bit of a pain)
[17:33] <jamespage> Yes - thats fine.
[17:33] <Daviey> groovy.
[17:33] <Daviey> Anything else for hggdh, or QA related?
[17:34] <hggdh> .. from me
[17:34] <Daviey> hggdh, super... thanks.. I think we'll be talking more this week. :)
[17:34] <Daviey> moving on...
[17:34] <smoser> well, since we're there.
[17:34] <smoser> hold on
[17:34] <Daviey> smoser, go
[17:34] <smoser> so is there anything anyone knows about that should cause respin of 20110329 uec images ?
[17:35] <smoser> (built on taht date ~ 1:00 am UTC)
[17:35] <smoser> manifest http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/server/natty/current/natty-server-uec-amd64.manifest
[17:36] <Daviey> smoser, Have you already tested those?
[17:36] <smoser> that is what jamespage ran a test on.
[17:36] <Daviey> ah
[17:37] <Daviey> nothing of interest has changed AFAIK.
[17:38] <Daviey> moving on.
[17:38] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team
[17:38] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team
[17:38] <Daviey> We do have quite alot of docs to do before release.
[17:38] <Daviey> We need to review the current documentation.
[17:38] <Daviey> and some people have WI for new docs.
[17:39] <Daviey> [ACTION] Please review the current documentation.
[17:39] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Please review the current documentation.
[17:39] <RoAkSoAx> what about the inclusion of new documentation
[17:39] <Daviey> Hopefully we'll be able to touch some docs before next meeting.. if we comment next meeting what we have done, that will help.
[17:40] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx, Yes, if the current documentation is weak in an area, it needs new documentation :)
[17:40] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[17:40] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[17:40] <RoAkSoAx> Daviey: I mean completely new documentation that I'd like to include
[17:41] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx, Yes, is that on one of the WI's?
[17:41] <RoAkSoAx> Daviey: I would love to include Cluster Docs
[17:41] <RoAkSoAx> Daviey: which I have made available at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ClusterStack/Natty
[17:42] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx, That sounds like a good idea.. do you know how to submit it?
[17:42] <RoAkSoAx> Daviey: nope, that's why I was asking :)
[17:43] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx, Okay, I'll take the action of providing guidance to -server ml.
[17:43] <RoAkSoAx> cool ;)
[17:43] <Daviey> (I need to check with the docs team, anyway)
[17:43] <Daviey> [ACTION] Daviey to talk with docs team about new submissions.
[17:43] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Daviey to talk with docs team about new submissions.
[17:44] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[17:44] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[17:44] <Daviey> Is there anything new here?
[17:44] <Daviey> any new contributors want to say hello? :)
[17:45] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[17:45] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[17:45] <Daviey> Anyone have anything else to add?
[17:46] <robbiew> Daviey is the new Ubuntu Server Technical Lead
[17:46] <robbiew> whoohoo
[17:46] <robbiew> heh
[17:46] <RoAkSoAx> \o/
[17:46] <Daviey> STC. :)
[17:46] <jamespage> \o/ - congrats Daviey
[17:46]  * Daviey blushes.
[17:47] <Daviey> moving on gracefully.
[17:47] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[17:47] <Daviey>     Tuesday, April 5 2011 16:00 UTC
[17:47] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[17:47] <raphink> congrats
[17:47]  * robbiew begins the delegations of time waisting work and meanless duties
[17:47] <robbiew> meaningless
[17:48] <Daviey> oh joy
[17:48] <Daviey> #endmeeting
</pre>
