{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=09&day=22&year=2014&hour=16&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Sep 22nd 2014 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** !AppArmor kernel pull requests have been accepted for distro, mako, flo, manta and goldfish. The distro kernel is in proposed and finding its way to the archive. There is an unrelated issue with goldfish that must be fixed. After that, the phablet kernels will be pushed to the archive together.
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** weekly role: happy place
** !AppArmor
*** last week dominated by kernel landing
*** userspace bug fixes
*** LXC policy
** adjust UCT for derivative branches
** click-reviewers-tools updates
** patch piloting
** mdeslaur
** triage
** pending updates
** sbeattie
** !AppArmor
*** patch reviews
*** bug fixing
** tyhicks
** !AppArmor
*** finish up testsuite fixes
*** bug fixing
** jjohansen
** pending updates
** !AppArmor
*** upstreaming
*** bug fixing
** sarnold (given outside of meeting)
** weekly role: community
** MIR audit
** !AppArmor patch reciew
** chrisccoulson
** finish Bug:1260016
** future proofing the API
** code reviews
** look at Bug:1362543
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-09-22-16.36.moin.txt
