{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
UTC
{{{
16:05	MootBot	Meeting started at 16:05. The chair is heno.
16:05	MootBot	Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
16:05	heno	[TOPIC] UDS activity report - I (heno) should write a summary of the QA sessions at UDS (but I wasn't there) Could those who were please send me 2-3 lines on the main results in QA from UDS?
16:05	MootBot	New Topic:  UDS activity report - I (heno) should write a summary of the QA sessions at UDS (but I wasn't there) Could those who were please send me 2-3 lines on the main results in QA from UDS?
16:06	heno	just a few comments here in the meeting would be good even so I can scrape those together
16:06	heno	I've been trying to pull this out of the air, but failing :/
16:06	bdmurray	I've been quite impressed with how "TEST CASE:" in the description is taking off
16:07	heno	oh, excellent!
16:08	heno	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Specs says the most important stuff really
16:08	heno	(now updated with short descriptions)
16:08	heno	pedro_, ogasawara: any major take-away points from UDS?
16:09	heno	besides the value of meeting everyone
16:09	ogasawara	heno: for me just the feedback on the specs was the most important as well as networking with some of the non-canonical folks
16:09	pedro_	well i do like a lot the graphs i'm really impressive with new ones :-)
16:10	heno	ok. btw, this is intended for a post-UDS write-up to the community
16:10	heno	agreed, much more clear
16:10	heno	ok, thanks, I'll work from that
16:11	heno	[TOPIC] Status of https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/gutsy/+nominations
16:11	MootBot	New Topic:  Status of https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/gutsy/+nominations
16:11	bdmurray	heno: I wrote mdz some bullet points for the UDS closing blurb and will forward them to you
16:11	heno	I promised an update on this
16:12	heno	bdmurray: excellent, just what I need
16:12	heno	The nominated bugs for Gutsy are 290 now, down from 340 when I first looked at this
16:12	heno	so a bit slow going still
16:13	heno	ogasawara: Is it correct that I should basically close all 2.6.22 bugs as wontfix at this point?
16:13	stgraber	hello
16:13	bdmurray	I might be able to whip up a query that could help with the milestoned ones
16:13	heno	(using a copy of your stock response)
16:13	ogasawara	heno: pretty much unless they are security or major show stoppers
16:13	heno	hello stgraber!
16:13	pedro_	hey stephane!
16:14	heno	ogasawara: ok, I've been too soft I guess
16:14	bdmurray	I think with the 2.6.22 it would be best to ask them to test with Alpha 1 when it comes out
16:14	heno	I'll add for them to email ogasawara with any complaints ;)
16:14	ogasawara	:)
16:15	heno	bdmurray: agree, though that is still 2.6.22 though right? or do we have .23 or .24 now?
16:15	heno	ogasawara: ^
16:15	heno	what is the current hardy kernel?
16:15	ogasawara	2.6.22
16:15	ogasawara	I think, just a sec
16:15	bdmurray	There is a 2.6.24 package now though
16:15	bdmurray	with 0 bugs!
16:16	pedro_	I'm using 2.6.22-14-generic on hardy
16:16	heno	and possibly 4 users
16:16	bdmurray	and 0 packages
16:16	heno	ah
16:16	heno	perhaps ask people to test when .24 is being distributed
16:16	heno	and file against it
16:17	ogasawara	yup, I've tagged them hardy-kernel-candidate
16:17	heno	ogasawara: are you proceeding with that on the remaining Gutsy bugs?
16:17	ogasawara	heno: yes
16:18	heno	ok, cool
16:18	heno	[TOPIC] Specs approved for Hardy: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Specs
16:18	MootBot	New Topic:  Specs approved for Hardy: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Specs
16:18	heno	all the specs on that page are now approved
16:19	heno	how should we track their progress within the team? Make it a regular topic in these meetings?
16:20	stgraber	Yes, maybe having a spec status topic every 2 meetings
16:20	ogasawara	sounds find with me
16:20	ogasawara	s/find/fine
16:20	pedro_	stgraber: +1
16:21	bdmurray	+1
16:21	heno	right. We also have a clash with the platform team for this meeting time+location every two weeks
16:22	heno	that again raises the case for changing meeting times every 2 meetings
16:22	heno	so that more people can attend
16:22	heno	I'd propose a later meeting time every two weeks
16:23	heno	attendance can be optional for those in awkward tz, like liw
16:23	pedro_	how much later? a couple of hours?
16:23	heno	right, stgraber you wanted 1800 or 1900?
16:24	stgraber	1900 is better, 1800 is ok
16:24	heno	pedro_: does 1900 work for you?
16:25	pedro_	heno: sure i don't have any problem with it :-)
16:25	heno	ok, cool. I'll email liw about this (he's at a debian QA summit this week)
* dholbach hugs the QA Mafia - you guys deserve it. :-)
* heno hugs dholbach :)
16:26	dholbach	:-)
16:26	heno	ogasawara, bdmurray: you ok with 1900?
16:27	ogasawara	heno: yup, works for me
16:27	bdmurray	heno: no problems where
16:27	heno	[AGREED] every other meeting, starting next week will be st 1900 UTC
16:27	MootBot	AGREED received:  every other meeting, starting next week will be st 1900 UTC
16:27	bdmurray	. . . I am?
16:28	heno	watch out for glitches in the matrix
16:28	heno	[TOPIC] Alpha 1 ISO testing - There is no freeze this time, but the key images should get a basic sanity test (basically check that they boot)
16:28	MootBot	New Topic:  Alpha 1 ISO testing - There is no freeze this time, but the key images should get a basic sanity test (basically check that they boot)
16:28	bdmurray	deja vu
16:28	heno	all over again
16:28	stgraber	btw, fridge should be updated (that way I'll have them added to my evolution, ical rocks)
16:29	heno	the fridge has a poor memory
16:29	heno	as do I, which makes for a poor combination
16:29	heno	any volunteers to make sure the fridge is updated with this?
16:30	heno	it remembers 4 weeks at a time or something
16:31	pedro_	we need to contact corey?
16:31	heno	ok, I'll email the editors and see if that's improved
16:31	pedro_	ah ok
16:31	heno	the editors address I think
16:32	heno	ok, alpha 1 testing
16:33	heno	just pinged slangasek to get his view on what sort of testing level we want for this
16:33	heno	and when it's estimated due
16:33	heno	mhz: greetings!
16:34	stgraber	ok, I'm renamming some milestones on the tracker and will add the Hardy Alpha 1 one just after that
16:34	mhz	hey heno!
16:34	heno	stgraber: great thanks
16:35	heno	I'll ask steve when I catch him and post to the QA list
16:35	stgraber	as we'll now use Alpha and no funny names, it'll be : Hardy Alpha X and I'm renamming Gutsy's to Gutsy Tribe X
16:35	heno	bug again, we'll just do some light testing of this one
16:35	heno	and hour or so of work from each of us on Friday/Monday should do
16:36	heno	any other topics?
16:37	bdmurray	I wanted to mention a tip I rediscoverd
16:37	stgraber	I had a phone call with nand (Nicolas) and we decided that we'll try to have a working improved QA-Poll and QA-Tracker for early 2008
* nand waves
16:37	heno	stgraber, nand: sounds good
16:38	heno	bdmurray: go ahead
16:38	stgraber	currently all the work is done in a devel branch, that's lot of work for re-organizing everything and there will be a lot of things that will be broken for some time there
16:38	heno	right
16:38	bdmurray	So I've stopped assigning bugs to myself that are Incomplete but then it becomes more challenging to find bugs that are Incomplete and 4 weeks old  and without a response
16:39	bdmurray	Unless you have a specific package to query on then you can do something like 'bugnumbers -p linux-source-2.6.22 --status Incomplete --lc="u:brian-murray&d:2007-10-26"
16:40	heno	where --lc is 'last comment' I take it
16:40	bdmurray	heno: that is correct
16:41	bdmurray	This could be handy 4 weeks after today with n-m bugs
16:42	heno	indeed, but with no package?
16:42	heno	the problem becomes churn time I guess
16:43	bdmurray	The janitor should do this automatically someday . . .
16:43	heno	bdmurray: have you filed a wishlist bug for that?
16:43	bdmurray	In regards to "no package" if you mean bugs without a package there are ways around it
16:44	heno	no, I mean when you don't want to specify a pkg
16:45	heno	ok, I think we are done
16:45	bdmurray	I haven't tried it yet but "-l https://bugs.launchpad.net/~brian-murray/+commentedbugs" instead of -p should work
16:46	bdmurray	heno: what is the status of qa.ubuntu.com?
16:46	heno	bdmurray: in limbo (as always). I'll go to London on Tuesday and try to corner the IS team :)
16:47	heno	we are just waiting for a dedicated server
16:47	heno	#endmeeting
16:47	MootBot	Meeting finished at 16:47.}}}
