{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** ALL: please check the SRU tracker for 'needs-verification' bugs
** http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/sru-tracker-bugs.html
* Natty Development
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time
** Tuesday, February 1 2011 16:00 UTC

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====
 
* '''ACTION''' ''SpamapS'' - Add "verify SRU fixes" to the [ServerTeam/GettingInvolved] wiki page.

===== Other Topics =====

* Reviewing the action for ALL to check for verification-needed bugs, the list has remained managable and the process seems mostly to be working.
* Natty Development - Alpha2 is close, some WI's may need to be postponed but nothing specific yet.
* Kernel Team (smb) - EC2 t1.micro and i386 fixes for natty kernel are pending - should be in next kernel
* SpamapS suggested adding an "Upcoming Events" section to the agenda for Ubuntu Server interested people to talk about and coordinate events they'll be attending.
* QA Team (hggdh), Community Team (kim0), and Documentation Team (sommer) representatives were all absent.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, February 1 at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:02] <SpamapS> #startmeeting
[16:02] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:02. The chair is SpamapS.
[16:02] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:02] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:02] <SpamapS> ALL: please check the SRU tracker for 'needs-verification' bugs
[16:02] <SpamapS> How does everyone feel about the needs-verification bugs?
[16:03] <SpamapS> I see that most are getting turned around quickly
[16:04]  * SpamapS taps the mic
[16:04] <SpamapS> this thing on?
[16:04] <hallyn> stupid question:  process-wise, how does someone mark something verified?  just a comment?  a tag?
[16:05] <Daviey> change the tag
[16:05] <hallyn> ie do we need to do something to kick the nxt step in sru process?
[16:05] <hallyn> ok
[16:05] <SpamapS> A comment, the SRU team will accept it by tagging verification-done
[16:05] <Daviey> a comment also helps :)
[16:05] <hallyn> kthx
[16:05] <RoAkSoAx> but isn't it that done but someone in QA?
[16:05] <Daviey> no, RoAkSoAx - that was dropped
[16:05] <zul> it was?
[16:05] <SpamapS> We don't have any QA resources allocated for verifying server SRU's
[16:06] <SpamapS> The requirement is that its done by somebody other than the developer or the SRU team member
[16:06] <Daviey> It used to be the case that QA had to verify it... that was inefficent
[16:06] <Daviey> Although, there have been occassions i have -done, my own fixes - which really, really sucks.
[16:06] <RoAkSoAx> I see.
[16:06] <SpamapS> yeah, it undermines the whole point of verification
[16:07] <SpamapS> so anyway, we can certainly verify eachothers' bugs..
[16:07] <SpamapS> tho its even better if the reporter can do it, or somebody who is affected
[16:08] <SpamapS> anyway, the current process doesn't seem to tax people or be too inefficient, so I think we'll just keep it up. I think we can drop this action item.
[16:08] <Daviey> +1
[16:09] <SpamapS> actually, we should do one thing.. add it here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/GettingInvolved
[16:09] <SpamapS> I'll take that action on myself
[16:09] <Daviey> +1 :)
[16:09] <SpamapS> [ACTION] SpamapS - add SRU verification to ServerTeam GettingInvolved page.
[16:09] <MootBot> ACTION received:  SpamapS - add SRU verification to ServerTeam GettingInvolved page.
[16:10] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Natty Development
[16:10] <MootBot> New Topic:  Natty Development
[16:10] <SpamapS> Anybody have anything big to report?
[16:10] <SpamapS> Seems like our alpha2 chart looks a little behind
[16:11] <SpamapS> is it time to start postponing things?
[16:11] <zul> alot of the stuff already has been postponed
[16:11] <zul> or if you have some little things that can be knocked off do them ;)
[16:12] <SpamapS> right, thats the dip on Jan 13 .. we're still *way* over scope from where we started, at 60 or so work items
[16:12] <smoser> i am making progress.
[16:12] <smoser> i promise
[16:12]  * SpamapS cracks the whip
[16:12] <SpamapS> smoser: back to work!
[16:12] <JamesPage> I've got a few non-Hudson bits and pieces I intend to complete this week
[16:12] <smoser> i'll get a cloud-init in tonight or tomorrow that will move all IN_PROGRESS on https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/cloud-server-n-cloud-init
[16:13] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx, How is the cluster stack spec looking?
[16:13] <SpamapS> \O/
[16:14] <RoAkSoAx> Daviey: well so far I just have one more bug, on which I'm waiting for upstream to give the last word
[16:14] <Daviey> smoser, Don't be afraid to scream for help btw.
[16:14] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx, Oh great
[16:14] <SpamapS> Hey did you guys notice the "development over time" bit at the bottom of the burndown page?
[16:15] <SpamapS> 2011-01-1462 (+10)22 (-37)
[16:15] <Daviey> SpamapS, packageselection-server-n-upstart-server-enhancement are the remaining A2 critical?
=== bjf[afk] is now known as bjf
[16:15] <Daviey> THE remaining, rather.
[16:16] <SpamapS> Daviey: yeah, it'll be done
[16:16] <Daviey> win
[16:16] <SpamapS> I'm not so sure about some of the webscale tech ones .. specifically handlersocket and percona are tricky because they have to build inside the mysql tree
[16:16] <SpamapS> but I'll postpone those if need be
[16:17] <JamesPage> but some proposed licensing changes from Oracle in Hudson may hold things up on the Hudson packaging front :-(
[16:17] <zul> SpamapS: that would be a good idea because its a mess right now
[16:17] <SpamapS> JamesPage: BLOCKED is good when you're waiting on somebody else. :)
[16:18] <SpamapS> Anyway, I think we can move on.
[16:18] <JamesPage> SpamapS: OK
[16:18] <SpamapS> robbiew: any thoughts btw?
[16:18] <robbiew> nope...get'em done
[16:18]  * SpamapS knows robbiew is probably waiting for a highlight to look up from his angry birds
[16:18] <robbiew> or postpone
[16:19] <robbiew> heh
[16:19] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:19] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:19] <robbiew> postponing to alpha-3 is okay...just don't overload it
[16:19] <SpamapS> hggdh: you're up
[16:20] <Daviey> hggdh, I might ask at some point if you fancy testing a Euca Maverick SRU. :)
[16:20] <Daviey> (SRU candidate)
[16:20] <SpamapS> smb: you ready? We can skip hggdh for now...
[16:20] <smb> sort of :)
[16:21] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:21] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:21] <SpamapS> sounds good enough to me, GO
[16:21] <smb> Ok, so the main achievment is fixing bug 686602
[16:21] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 686602 in Pluck CMS "Admin Menu doesn't show in RTL" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/686602
[16:21] <smb> err
[16:21] <smb> EWRONGNUM
[16:22] <smb> Anyways should be the not booting natty on ec2 t1.micro
[16:22] <smb> Apart from that added two other SRU items for Lucid ec2
[16:23] <SpamapS> so i386 t1.micro's work on Natty now?
[16:23] <smb> Well... it will... next time a kernel is uploaded
[16:23] <smb> actually amd64 and i386
[16:23] <SpamapS> right.. next time the team delivers the bags of candy...
[16:23] <robbiew> heh
[16:23] <smoser> nice work on that admin menu, smb
[16:24] <smb> admin menu?
[16:24] <SpamapS> yeah what would we do without Pluck CMS
[16:24] <smoser> so, is there a -13 kernel now ?
[16:24] <smoser> smb, it was a bad joke. from your bad bug paste.
[16:24] <smb> smoser, Currently only my test kernels
[16:24] <smoser> when is -13 due ?
[16:24] <smoser> and will that be in it?
[16:24] <smb> smoser, Doh! :)
[16:25] <smoser> i'm looking forward to natty booting on i386 (which i believe is in -13), and also t1.micro, which i'm not sure if will make -13.
[16:25] <smb> soon
[16:25] <smb> but it will have the fix
[16:26] <smb> Right, there was the one bug about nx protection (i386)
[16:26] <smb> Not sure this made it into the current upload but we turn off that option in the next kernel
[16:26] <smoser> oh great. so we're expecting to be able to boot on all instance types. that is huge.
[16:26] <smb> Upstream seems about to have a real fix for it
[16:27] <smb> I am following that and will re-test as soon as that is there
[16:27] <smoser> current (-12) kernels do not boot on i386 on ec2.
[16:27] <smoser> you rock, mr smb.
[16:27] <smb> Until then we just turn the config option off for i386 virtual
[16:28] <smb> I thanks that is all I had
[16:28] <SpamapS> ok, anybody have more questions?
[16:28] <SpamapS> I don't see sommer or kim0
[16:28] <SpamapS> :(
[16:28] <SpamapS> hggdh: ping?
[16:29] <SpamapS> Ok, well that brings us to...
[16:29] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[16:29] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[16:30] <Daviey> Nothing here
[16:30] <SpamapS> I was thinking of adding one thing to the meeting standard stuff..
[16:30] <SpamapS> upcoming events
[16:30] <SpamapS> Dustin will be at Strata next week
[16:30] <SpamapS> Several other team members will be at events all over the place..
[16:30] <SpamapS> would be good to talk about them here
[16:31] <SpamapS> So, I'll add it to the meeting agenda for next week.
[16:31] <SpamapS> Anything else?
[16:31] <SpamapS> I had one actually
[16:31] <SpamapS> does anybody else notice that natty server boots to a blank screen instead of getty?
[16:31] <hallyn> bring it on
[16:32] <hallyn> i haven't.  i HAVE noticed tha i get the same qeustions 3 ties during install
[16:32] <SpamapS> I haven't tried an ISO more recent than 10 days ago.. but the VMs I've installed from that ISO never boot to getty
[16:32] <robbiew> SpamapS: what graphics card are you using?
[16:32] <hallyn> blank screen on a serial console install?
[16:32] <SpamapS> robbiew: kvm
[16:32] <robbiew> vms...nevemind
[16:32] <SpamapS> :)
[16:32] <JamesPage> SpamapS: well mine did until I tried today but they now seem to be OK
[16:32] <hallyn> who controls the installer?
[16:33] <hallyn> i tried one yesterday and it booted fine
[16:33] <hallyn> console on tty1
[16:33] <hallyn> but i did get repeated questions about location/kbd
[16:33] <SpamapS> Ok.. probably got fixed in the recent plymouth stuff
[16:33] <robbiew> hallyn: cjwatson typically does server installer stuff
[16:33] <zul> have you tried doing alt-f2?
[16:33] <hallyn> ok, maybe i'll talk to him about it next week
[16:33] <hallyn> (i know he's still hip-deep in plymouth :)
[16:33] <SpamapS> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[16:33] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[16:34] <SpamapS> Tuesday, February 1 2011 16:00 UTC
[16:34] <SpamapS> That is all! Thanks everyone
[16:34] <SpamapS> #endmeeting
[16:34] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 10:34.
</pre>
