{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Open Week -- Ask Mark -- Mark Shuttleworth -- Wed, May 4 ===
<pre>
[15:02] <ClassBot> Logs for this session will be available at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/05/04/%23ubuntu-classroom.html following the conclusion of the session.
[15:03] <sabdfl> hello all!
[15:03] <jcastro> ok
[15:03] <jcastro> before we start let me give everyone some tips
[15:03] <jcastro> a) Try to ask something answerable, it's easier than asking questions that are hypothetical
[15:04] <jcastro> b) I'll skip questions that are easily googleable so that people with good questions don't get lost
[15:04] <jcastro> Ok sabdfl, introduce yourself and I'll start when you're ready!
[15:04] <sabdfl> i wholeheartedly agree with (a) :-)
[15:04] <sabdfl> i'm Mark Shuttleworth, and happy to answer any and all questions
[15:05] <sabdfl> especially answerable ones :-)
[15:05] <sabdfl> fire away!
[15:05] <jcastro> QUESTION: Why did you decide to make Ubuntu less customisable (in terms of how it looks, not the lenses, those are great)?
[15:05] <sabdfl> I think you mean Unity, rather than Ubuntu
[15:05] <sabdfl> Ubuntu itself is a superset, has a great deal of customizeability
[15:05] <sabdfl> and many faces - Xubuntu, Kubuntu, Lubuntu etc
[15:06] <sabdfl> with many options across all of them
[15:06] <sabdfl> in Unity, we have a very tight set of options
[15:06] <sabdfl> part of that is because it's a 1.0, and we wanted to focus on the things people will most enjoy, and most need
[15:06] <sabdfl> part of that is because we know every option has a high cost, and not every option is equally used
[15:07] <sabdfl> we also know that the best people to discuss options with are often in a good position to implement them
[15:07] <sabdfl> it's cheap for someone to show up and demand an option, but often they don't stick around for the prototyping, evaluation, discussion, implementation, maintenance
[15:07] <sabdfl> and we have to stick around :-)
[15:07] <sabdfl> as a general meme in design, options are much more expensive than people realise
[15:08] <sabdfl> each option divides the userbase into people who perhaps cannot talk to each other on the phone to help each other through an experience
[15:08] <sabdfl> because they see and do different things
[15:08] <sabdfl> as a developer, you have a LOT of options, some of which involve gconf or dconf or ccsm or patching the code
[15:08] <sabdfl> as an end-user, you are dependent on developers decisions
[15:08] <sabdfl> so, we prioritise the needs of the people for whom we can make the biggest difference
[15:08] <sabdfl> i respect there are other approaches
[15:09] <sabdfl> but i think it's also reasonable to expect respect for the position we take
[15:09] <sabdfl> we certainly have a good and growing community that appreciates those positions
[15:09] <sabdfl> and we'll work with them to make unity even better
[15:09] <sabdfl> not always by adding options, but by testing and deciding what works best
[15:09] <sabdfl> it's also a fallacy that "clever developers need options"
[15:09] <sabdfl> they need robust, usable software just like everyone else
[15:10] <sabdfl> so Unity is as much for developers as end-users
[15:10] <sabdfl> next!
[15:10] <jcastro> QUESTION: Are you statisfied with Unity in the recent Ubuntu version ?
[15:10] <sabdfl> yes, though i recognise there are issues, and i would not be satisfied unless we fixed many of them in 11.10
[15:10] <sabdfl> in the end, when we reviewed bug lists, stability and experience, Unity was the best option for the average user upgrading or installing
[15:11] <sabdfl> there are LOTS of people for whom it isn't the best
[15:11] <sabdfl> but we had to choose a default position
[15:11] <sabdfl> i think we walked that line admirably, i appreciated the open discussion that was had, and it made me more confident in the final position
[15:11] <sabdfl> that decision is best taken by the desktop team, and they were arguing in favour of unity, and they had my support for that
[15:11] <sabdfl> next!
[15:12] <jcastro> QUESTION: will lubuntu become official?
[15:12] <sabdfl> i would like it to, yes
[15:12] <sabdfl> i think the lubuntu team have done excellent work to make sure that it's possible - integrating their processes and output into the main archive
[15:12] <sabdfl> there's a thread on the TB list and I'm behind on mail, we're waiting iirc for comment on tools, like iso testing
[15:13] <sabdfl> from an experience and governance point of view, Lubuntu meets my personal requirements
[15:13] <sabdfl> it has solid leaders, a good track record of delivery, and works in the spirit of Ubuntu
[15:13] <sabdfl> we need to know if there are costs or work to be done on the tools front, but I expect they are manageable
[15:13] <sabdfl> next!
[15:13] <jcastro> Question: When will we see the beautiful Ubuntu monospace font?
[15:13] <sabdfl> this cycle, is my estimate
[15:14] <sabdfl> ask sladen!
[15:14] <sabdfl> but we've given a final view on the basic mono cell structure, now it's design and engineering, and much of the design is done
[15:14] <sabdfl> the engineering is hinting etc
[15:14] <sabdfl> we don't need that for getting it public, so i think there will be a beta soon
[15:14] <sabdfl> paul sladen will have more details
[15:14] <sabdfl> next!
[15:14] <jcastro> QUESTION: what is ubuntu doing to match rolling release model updates (like arch)
[15:15] <sabdfl> i think rolling releases are a very interesting concept
[15:15] <sabdfl> we should discuss this at UDS next week
[15:15] <sabdfl> I know a few distros are embracing the concept
[15:15] <sabdfl> and perhaps it would be appropriate for us too
[15:15] <sabdfl> but i don't have a view, and would be interested to hear opinions, especially the TB
[15:16] <sabdfl> perhaps that will become a standard approach in future for all distros? I would not want us to be behind :-)
[15:16] <sabdfl> next!
[15:16] <jcastro> QUESTION: Hi Mark. How much of a threat is the recent Google patent infringement suit to Canonical, Ubuntu and Linux in general?
[15:16] <jcastro> http://www.engadget.com/2011/04/21/google-ordered-to-pay-5-million-in-linux-patent-infringement-su/
[15:16] <sabdfl> interesting question
[15:16] <sabdfl> just to clarify - it's not Google that's filing suit, it's another company suing big users of Linux
[15:17] <sabdfl> the case has the hallmarks of a quick-and-dirty job, it was filed in a jurisdiction that very typically finds for patent plaintiffs without necessarily really understanding the issues
[15:17] <sabdfl> there appear to be some obvious inconsistencies and problems in the suit, which will get addressed in appeal
[15:17] <sabdfl> and there are related suits, which may undermine the basis of that suit at all
[15:17] <sabdfl> patents are a steaming mess that stifle innovation, rather than supporting it
[15:18] <sabdfl> and in order to change the system, we need mainstream recognition of that
[15:18] <sabdfl> right not, major tech companies all play both sides of this
[15:18] <sabdfl> and they have enough patents in their armories to get by that way
[15:18] <sabdfl> but it's getting crazy even for them
[15:18] <sabdfl> this is one reason why I prefer GPLv3 to v2, it has a nice "calming the waters" effect on patents
[15:19] <sabdfl> which I think few people have really understood
[15:19] <sabdfl> when this really gets crazy, the majors will be pushing FOR v3, not against it :-)
[15:19] <sabdfl> anyhow, I'm not worried about this particular judgment
[15:19] <sabdfl> next!
[15:19] <jcastro> QUESTION: Is the windicators idea completely forgotten? What happened with that?
[15:20] <sabdfl> patches welcome. i think it is needed to fill out the vision, but it's also not critical for *right now* so it's always just fallen off the list for the core team
[15:20] <sabdfl> now we have a growing team of contributors to Unity, perhaps this will get taken on
[15:20] <sabdfl> it should be really straightforward!
[15:20] <sabdfl> next!
[15:20] <jcastro> Question: Hi Mark The pace of change in Ubuntu seems to be getting faster and faster in adopting new ideas and themes. Do you have a future target date to ease up. Or onward ever onward?
[15:20] <sabdfl> well, part of the reason to embrace hard change now was to allow the 12.04 LTS cycle to be more polish and refinement than big-change
[15:20] <sabdfl> beyond that, onward ever upward
[15:21] <sabdfl> we've always tried to make small improvements where we can
[15:21] <sabdfl> not always successfully or brilliantly
[15:21] <sabdfl> but you learn a lot about software if you get all the bug reports, and we certainly are in that position
[15:21] <sabdfl> so it's in my view frustrating for people to argue that Ubuntu is in no position to contribute to the user experience, and that work should "all be done upstream"
[15:22] <sabdfl> upstream often doesn't want to slog through the bug reports :-)
[15:22] <sabdfl> what's changing, is that we're growing our capacity in Ubuntu (and in Canonical) to build credible views on the sorts of changes we think may help, and to implement them
[15:22] <sabdfl> and as a result, the number and scope of those changes is definitely increasing
[15:22] <sabdfl> i don't think that's a change in policy, just a change in capacity
[15:23] <sabdfl> but i recognise it's caught people off guard, as that's crossed a threshold of publicity
[15:23] <sabdfl> not everything we do will turn out to be perfect
[15:23] <sabdfl> but as I said, we're in the position that we see, daily, how people actually use and enjoy (or not) the software
[15:23] <sabdfl> so we're in a credible position to participate
[15:23] <sabdfl> next!
[15:23] <jcastro> QUESTION: How does Ubuntu plan to take advantage of the new offerings of GNOME3, in terms of new approaches or new User Experience. Unity was huge, and that was before GNOME3. What potential improvements are waiting on GNOME3?
[15:24] <sabdfl> i'm looking forward ot having all of GNOME3 in Ubuntu
[15:24] <sabdfl> and I think we'll achieve that in Oneiric
[15:24] <sabdfl> it's certainly a hot topic on the agenda for UDS next week
[15:24] <sabdfl> I also think there continue to be lots of areas of collaboration between work done in GNOME, and Unity, and elsewhere
[15:24] <sabdfl> our default position is to try and make that happen
[15:25] <sabdfl> but also to be willing to go in the direction we think will give end users the best experience, based on evidence
[15:25] <sabdfl> you will certainly be able to have a close-to-vanilla GNOME3 experience in 11.10, and the deltas will be for good reason
[15:26] <sabdfl> contrary to popular belief, even distros that claim to be vanilla, often carry a lot of patches
[15:26] <sabdfl> so i feel that gnome-in-ubuntu will be faithfully conveyed
[15:26] <sabdfl> and there's a great part of the Ubuntu community that cares about that and is invested in making it happen
[15:26] <sabdfl> that's why we have a GNOME3 PPA today
[15:26] <sabdfl> next!
[15:26] <jcastro> QUESTION : What is the criteria for choosing the default applications in ubuntu?
[15:27] <sabdfl> i think i blogged about this when talking about bringing Qt in as a toolkit
=== me is now known as Guest48089
[15:27] <sabdfl> maybe someone can dig up that URL?
[15:27] <sabdfl> in there are the criteria I think matter: user experience, and consistency are both on the list
[15:27] <sabdfl> relationship to Ubuntu and the rest of the apps in Ubuntu-by-default matter too
[15:27] <jcastro>   http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/568
[15:28] <sabdfl> because we can always do the best work where we have the best relationships
[15:28] <sabdfl> collaboration is so much easier
[15:28] <sabdfl> at the end of the day, we want anyone who chooses Ubuntu to feel they got the best experience as a result
[15:28] <sabdfl> this is a very, very tough process every UDS
[15:28] <sabdfl> I don't always agree with the result
[15:29] <sabdfl> but  I respect the process the desktop team (and Kubuntu team and server team) run to make those decisions
[15:29] <sabdfl> and i feel good that pretty much every other option is just an apt-get away
[15:29] <sabdfl> next!
[15:29] <jcastro> QUESTION: how difficult will it be to get overlay scrollbars in 100% of the applications?  right now, the implementation seems to be pretty spotty.  any guestimation on what release will see overlay scrollbars in all applications?
[15:30] <sabdfl> this depends on two things: broadening the overlay-scrollbar API, and hooking it into more toolkits
[15:30] <sabdfl> we're seeing progress on both fronts
[15:30] <sabdfl> part of the rationale for pressing GO in 11.04 was to make the gaps obvious to the audience of developers who can help close them
[15:30] <sabdfl> Cimi has already had quite a few emails from developers asking how they can make the scrollbars work in their apps
[15:31] <sabdfl> so i think it will see active development
[15:31] <sabdfl> i was surprised that we got Firefox, Thunderbird and OpenOffice working with the global menu in 11.04
[15:31] <sabdfl> it all came together because folk stepped up
[15:31] <sabdfl> same is true of scrollbars
[15:31] <sabdfl> so, help wanted and welcome
[15:31] <sabdfl> next!
[15:31] <jcastro> QUESTION: Do you believe in abstract nicks Mark?
[15:32] <sabdfl> it's not something i question on a daily basis :-)
=== same is now known as sergioam
[15:32] <sabdfl> within Canonical, I'm in the "you should pick a nick you like, not FirstnameLastname" camp
[15:32] <sabdfl> next!
[15:32] <jcastro> QUESTION: What are your feelings about the growing number of indicators in the top panel?
[15:32] <sabdfl> i spent a lot of time studying screenshots of people's desktops
[15:33] <sabdfl> i asked folk to send them to me
[15:33] <sabdfl> and some media picked up on that
[15:33] <sabdfl> so i got thousands!
[15:33] <sabdfl> they were very interesting
[15:33] <sabdfl> people put a LOT of stuff in their panel
[15:33] <sabdfl> and partly, the fact that people can do that is something they love
[15:33] <sabdfl> so we have to find a balance
[15:33] <sabdfl> we want the panel to be crisp and clean and useful
[15:33] <sabdfl> which implies fewer icons, and less use of colour, and more MEANINGFUL use of colour
[15:34] <sabdfl> you should be able to glance at the panel and quickly see if there's something which needs your attention
[15:34] <sabdfl> once you can do that, you resent having to stare at it to understand it
[15:34] <sabdfl> so we have category indicators, and will make more of the system indicators into category indicators, to encourage individual tools and apps to fit inside them
[15:35] <sabdfl> thus reducing the number of icons and improving people's ability to understand roughly what's going on in their system
[15:35] <sabdfl> but
[15:35] <sabdfl> if an app or tool really doesn't fit in a category, it's fine for it to be alone on the panel
[15:35] <sabdfl> as an appindicator
[15:35] <sabdfl> i don't think that's cool, if it's just "to have my icon on the panel"
[15:36] <sabdfl> because users most often have no idea what "all those icons" are for, and adding to the problem is not cool!
[15:36] <sabdfl> so if there's a category that works, it should be used
[15:36] <sabdfl> if there really isn't, use an appindicator
[15:36] <sabdfl> next!
[15:36] <jcastro> QUESTION: Are there any plans for more mainstream Ubuntu preinstalls from big name vendors? Currently, I believe only HP and Dell offer a small selection of Ubuntu laptops.
[15:37] <sabdfl> i would not be here today if I didn't think we could get to a world where all the vendors sell free software based machines with Ubuntu on 'em
[15:37] <sabdfl> so yes, there are plans, and credible expectations
[15:37] <sabdfl> next!
[15:37] <jcastro> Question: Will 11.10 cross the limit of 1 CD release?
[15:37] <sabdfl> it's a very good discipline, so no
[15:37] <sabdfl> next!
[15:37] <jcastro> QUESTION: Hi Mr. Mark, When can we see WAYLAND in UBUNTU.
[15:37] <sabdfl> i think you mean "when will it be the default display system"
[15:37] <sabdfl> and the answer is "green"
[15:38] <sabdfl> i think wayland is the most likely basis for future displays across most linux devices
[15:38] <sabdfl> i think it will take the longest of all to get that on the desktop
[15:38] <sabdfl> or something like that
[15:38] <sabdfl> before that, it will happen in particular form factors and devices
[15:38] <sabdfl> maybe a specialised netbook here or there
[15:38] <sabdfl> or ARM smartbook
[15:38] <sabdfl> next!
[15:38] <jcastro> QUESTION: Will there be mainstream advertising, such as commercials, billboards, etc.  in Ubuntu's future?
[15:39] <sabdfl> possibly, though it's not likely to be the most effective way to reach consumers for us, for a long time
[15:39] <sabdfl> next!
[15:39] <jcastro> QUESTION: When oh when can I get my ARM laptop running Ubuntu with an everlasting battery playing HD content?
[15:39] <sabdfl> the everlasting bit is tricky
[15:39] <sabdfl> but "all day long", within 12 months imo
[15:39] <sabdfl> next!
[15:40] <jcastro> QUESTION: what was being in space like?
[15:40] <jcastro> (haven't had a space question in a few years!)
[15:40] <sabdfl> magical
[15:40] <sabdfl> really magical
[15:40] <sabdfl> and one of my crew mates is waiting in Florida for them to fix the shuttle so he can fly again, lucky guy
[15:40] <sabdfl> i was in Russia for the 50th anniversary of Gagarin's flight
[15:41] <sabdfl> it was amazing - and i think with hindsight, the friendships i made in the experience were the best bit
[15:41] <sabdfl> though i would love to fly again, perhaps further
[15:41] <sabdfl> next!
[15:41] <jcastro> A question from Jason De Rose, one of the upstreams to the Novacut editor:
[15:41] <jcastro> QUESTION: any thoughts on how best to push for high quality *open* GPU/APU drivers? are hardware manufactures warming up? for certain workloads (like video editing), the GPU has become extremely important... any advice how, say, a startup developing a video editor could start a productive dialog with hardware mfrs?
[15:41] <sabdfl> the main thing, i believe, is to have the vendors REALLY care about Linux
[15:41] <sabdfl> once that's true, they become more and more susceptible to doing things the linux-friendly way, which is always as open source
[15:42] <sabdfl> if it's a small part of their concerns, they try to find the easiest / cheapest way to check the box
[15:42] <sabdfl> even that might not be easy or cheap
[15:42] <sabdfl> so i'm grateful that, broadly speaking, ATI, nVidia and Intel all take Linux seriously
[15:42] <sabdfl> we should not take that for granted
[15:42] <sabdfl> i'm embarrassed when I see a rant attacking ATI or nVidia for not just doing what "the community wants"
[15:42] <sabdfl> that's not how life goes, in my experience
[15:43] <sabdfl> we need to be more relevant, in more markets
[15:43] <sabdfl> that's why we focus on user experience, so we can have end-users demanding Ubuntu, so in turn we can move up the charts in the hardware vendors minds
[15:43] <sabdfl> next!
[15:43] <jcastro>  QUESTION : for all this development of ubuntu you need lots of people, in what area would yo usay you have plenty and where do you really need more involvement?
[15:43] <sabdfl> wow
[15:43] <sabdfl> i think we need more involvement in core apps
[15:43] <sabdfl> to raise the quality of experience
[15:44] <sabdfl> we've been focusing on Unity, because that's the starting point
[15:44] <sabdfl> but libreoffice, firefox, evolution, thunderbird, and many more all need love!
=== Donna is now known as Guest59476
[15:44] <sabdfl> next
[15:44] <jcastro> QUESTION: is Ubuntu profitable yet?  If not, any ideas on when it will be?
[15:45] <sabdfl> no, and while we have projections which are grounds for confidence, there are also reasons to continue to push the investment faster than it would grow organically
[15:45] <sabdfl> next
[15:45] <jcastro> QUESTION: do u prefer iphone or android?
[15:45] <sabdfl> iphone!
[15:45] <sabdfl> next
[15:45] <jcastro> Saamm: Ubuntu Mono font.  It's currently in design steps needed for moving to beta for the beta team, or more generally (unhinted).  If that's all good it can be hinted for final release on  http://font.ubuntu.com/  Webfonts and Ubuntu 11.10 this cycle.
[15:46] <jcastro> For those wondering (from Paul Sladen)
[15:46] <sabdfl> awesome, thanks jcastro, sladen
[15:46] <jcastro> QUESTION: Will we ever get some concrete numbers of numbers of deployed Ubuntu desktops? (aside from the hard to track ones)
[15:46] <sabdfl> i don't think we could get this even if we added some sort of registration
[15:46] <sabdfl> and if we added registration, lots of users would have reservations
[15:46] <sabdfl> so it's unknowable, and trying too hard to know would hurt!
[15:46] <sabdfl> i think it's many, many millions
[15:47] <sabdfl> we can see for example, in wikimedia's browser stats
[15:47] <sabdfl> it's still only a tiny start on the world of computing
[15:47] <sabdfl> but i think we will make a much bigger dent in time
[15:47] <sabdfl> next!
[15:47] <jcastro> QUESTION: Will Indicator API improved this cycle like missing tool tips and many other things?
[15:47] <sabdfl> the absence of tooltips is a design decision, not an API issue
[15:47] <sabdfl> iirc, the content for the tooltips is actually passed in the API
[15:48] <sabdfl> but we don't display it
[15:48] <sabdfl> the reasons are that more often than not, tooltips end up being more harmful than helpful
[15:48] <sabdfl> if you read code which has lots of tooltips, you'll see
[15:48] <sabdfl> most of them are unneeded
[15:48] <sabdfl> often that are flat out wrong
[15:49] <sabdfl> and it's almost impossible to make them look stylish
[15:49] <sabdfl> so, it's better to say to developers "put more time into the design of your *visible* UI, rather than trying to paper over it with *invisible* tooltips
[15:49] <sabdfl> i understand that's a surprising position to some
[15:49] <sabdfl> but it's backed up by real research and experience
[15:49] <sabdfl> next!
[15:49] <jcastro> QUESTION: What work is being done to make inclusion in USC for 3rd party devs as "easy" (read: well documented) as Android / Apple marketplaces?
[15:50] <sabdfl> this is MPT's area of expertise, with the app review board process and various tools being setup to support it
[15:50] <sabdfl> i'm not up to speed, but perhaps he can be persuaded to shed some light
[15:50] <sabdfl> next!
[15:50] <jcastro> QUESTION: Will the Unity 2D launcher get transperant <---- this might be a good time just to explain what you want to see in 2d for 11.10
[15:51] <sabdfl> i think the need for 2D is to support chips which don't do 3D
[15:51] <jcastro> (and/or give us any tidbits/juicy news on what you want to do for 11.10, as we're running short on time now)
[15:51] <sabdfl> and typically, they also do not do compositing
[15:51] <sabdfl> which is the transparency bit
[15:51] <sabdfl> so, I don't think so
[15:51] <sabdfl> but I may be wrong
[15:51] <sabdfl> i'm really impressed with the unity-2d work
[15:52] <sabdfl> if I'd known it would come together so well, we could have planned to get it into 11.04
[15:52] <sabdfl> kudos to the folk who lead it, and the community that's growing up around Unity
[15:52] <sabdfl> next!
[15:52] <jcastro> QUESTION: ConnMan will replace network-manager-applet on 11.10?
[15:52] <ClassBot> There are 10 minutes remaining in the current session.
[15:52] <sabdfl> this falls into the "I don't have unilateral say on app selection" question, I think
[15:53] <sabdfl> I believe ConnMan has some really important capabilities
[15:53] <sabdfl> and we should give it serious consideration
[15:53] <sabdfl> we would be the first to deploy it very widely, which means the first to run into lots of issues
[15:53] <sabdfl> Google are adopting a (fork/branch) of it for Chrome OS
[15:53] <sabdfl> but it's not ready YET, imo, to be the default
[15:54] <sabdfl> I'd like it to be parallel installable easily, perhaps we can get there for 11.10
[15:54] <sabdfl> help wanted!
[15:54] <sabdfl> next
[15:54] <jcastro> QUESTION: Have there been any Unity design decisions that you think will be revisited now that users have had a chance to use it and respond?
[15:54] <sabdfl> oh yes
[15:54] <sabdfl> there's lots to learn, that can only be learned in reasonable time by getting code into a wide deployment
[15:55] <sabdfl> some decisions I regret and we'll evaluate alternatives, some we'll tweak
[15:55] <sabdfl> it's by no means perfect, and it would be egotistical to suggest otherwise
[15:55] <sabdfl> so everything is on the cards
[15:55] <sabdfl> that said, i think the bulk of it has worked out fantastically
[15:55] <sabdfl> both at an engineering level (compiz, nux) and in the user experience
[15:56] <sabdfl> i'm proud of the guts required by quite a few people to commit to delivery, and the effort that went into it, and the support we've had from so many
[15:56] <sabdfl> it's reassuring that others are following the broad design
[15:56] <sabdfl> and we'll work out the details in round two :-)
[15:56] <sabdfl> next!
[15:56] <jcastro> QUESTION: With the benefit of hindsight, if you could change one thing about Ubuntu since its inception, what would it be?
[15:56] <jcastro> last one!
[15:56] <sabdfl> great question
[15:57] <sabdfl> of course, we can change anything, so this is not a meaningless question
[15:57] <ClassBot> There are 5 minutes remaining in the current session.
[15:57] <sabdfl> i think i would have been clearer about the need for us to have the capacity to implement change
[15:57] <sabdfl> i think if we'd done that from the start, some things would be easier
[15:58] <sabdfl> people would have made fewer accusations of "not contributing", because those who only measure that kind of contribution would have been able to see them from the start
[15:58] <sabdfl> on the other hand, we would have established our willingness and ability to lead as well as follow at the start, which would feel like less of a change now
[15:59] <sabdfl> and perhaps, folk would have been more willing to be collaborative, if that capacity had started before Ubuntu became such a substantial player
[15:59] <sabdfl> i fear that, today, many of these conversations are hugely influenced by competitive dynamics
[15:59] <sabdfl> probably, both ways
[15:59] <sabdfl> nevertheless, here we are
[16:00] <jcastro> Awesome, well thanks for stopping by and answering user questions, I'm sure we'll have plenty of things for next time to talk about 11.10.
[16:00] <sabdfl> we have an *amazing* community, which I think reflects the combination of values, governance and willingness to get the work done efficiently
[16:00] <sabdfl> people want to participate in a place where their contribution will have the biggest impact on the most people
[16:00] <sabdfl> and i think Ubuntu is one such place
[16:00] <sabdfl> thank you!
[16:00] <jcastro> Thanks everyone for contributing questions to this session, now we move on to doctormo, thanks sabdfl!
[16:00] <sabdfl> thanks jorge for the stewardship of the classroom :-)_
</pre>
