{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary ===
 1. Designing use cases testing procedures
** Some work done at AccessibilityTesting
** Coordinating the building of a testing derivative
 1. Possible documentation project: Ubuntufying the [WWW] Abilitynet skill-sheets?
** LukeYelavich has some documentation from Jason Grieves he would like to put forward for examination as some further material for accessibility documentation.
 1. Bounty Ideas -- we should put some ideas forward and advertise them
** High visibility theme
** X-10 support
** Improved software speech synthesis support. See: SpeechSynthesisProposal
** Package ["http://blogs.sun.com/roller/page/wwalker" Orca] -- this is the future of screen reading right? Does it run at all ATM?
 1. Setting up access.ubuntu.com
** Do we want/need this?
** Some work has been done on accessibility themes
 1. Do we want to participate in the Massachusetts ODF campaign?
** Producing and distributing the AT-by-default derivative
 1. New wiki structure (DanielHolbach)
** I added some AccessibilityTeam/* pages, which are linked from AccessibilityTeam.
** I think we need more centralized resources to get us as a team more focused on goals.

=== Log ===
<pre>
03:32 hno73       hello all!
03:32 TheMuso     Welcome Jason. Nice to have you along.
03:32 jsgotangco  hi henrik
=== jgrieves yawns ugg 5 hours of sleep
03:33 TheMuso     Hey Henrik.
03:33 jgrieves    hi Luke :)
03:33 dholbach    hi everybody
03:33 dholbach    everybody had a brief glimpse on
                  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AccessibilityTeamMeetingAgenda ?
03:33 jgrieves    us low vision people need at least 7 hours of sleep to function properly
=== crimsun [i=crimsun@pdpc/supporter/silver/crimsun] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== TheMuso doesn't think it has been updated since he added a few things..
03:33 dholbach    who proposed the first topic?
=== mpt [n=mpt@200-171-140-32.dsl.telesp.net.br] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:34 TheMuso     I think that may have been stuff from last meeting.
03:34 dholbach    oh yes
03:34 dholbach    we proceed to the 2nd item
03:34 dholbach    TheMuso: that's yours, right?
03:34 TheMuso     But did we talk about use cases much, or look into them?
03:35 TheMuso     Should we now?
03:35 dholbach    we can do that as well
03:35 TheMuso     Ok.
03:35 jsgotangco  hrmm
03:35 dholbach    jsgotangco: ...? :)
03:35 hno73       Oh, sorry. I think I proposed most of the points without name :p
03:35 jsgotangco  i like the idea of #2
03:35 jsgotangco  im looking at the site now
03:36 hno73       1-5 really :)
03:36 dholbach    hno73: don't worry :)
                  Jason Grieves, who is fortunate enough to be present at this meeting has been writing
03:36 TheMuso     some documentation about using Ubuntu with the various accessibility apps. You can
                  grab a copy from http://www.themuso.com/ubuntu/accessibility. It is a text file.
03:36 jsgotangco  i have a windows partition i'll experiment on this tommorow
=== zakame [n=zak@ubuntu/member/zakame] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:36 TheMuso     I think we ort to get one or two people to look over it, and wiki it. It is a great
                  starting point.
03:37 zakame      hello all
03:37 TheMuso     jgrieves: Anything you want to add, please do so, or feel free to correct me if I am
                  wrong.
=== jsgotangco bookmarks them
03:37 jgrieves    agreed, i'd like to get some people to work with me on it
03:37 dholbach    is it kind of a test plan?
03:37 jgrieves    we need pictures, more step by step
03:37 dholbach    or a howto?
03:37 jgrieves    descriptions of each preference and how it affects the system
03:37 dholbach    or maybe we could use it for both
03:37 dholbach    jgrieves: it looks fairly comprehensive
03:38 jsgotangco  it does
03:38 jgrieves    dholbach there wasn't much on th eweb, besides Sun's accessiblity guide
03:38 jsgotangco  i can start moving this to code
03:38 dholbach    *nod*
03:38 jgrieves    which was difficult for me to use
03:38 dholbach    it looks cool, maybe something for the doc-team too
=== flint [n=flint@69-164-120-179.sbtnvt.adelphia.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:38 jgrieves    because i need to know what was good for low vision people
03:38 dholbach    jgrieves: well done
03:38 jgrieves    i had to filter through their stuff, and eventually decided to just write my own
03:39 TheMuso     Yeah thats right. The docs for GNOME accessibility are either very hard to find, or
                  out of date.
03:39 jsgotangco  pretty much
03:39 dholbach    *nod*
03:39 TheMuso     ,pst;u
03:39 TheMuso     mostly
03:39 jgrieves    there are some updated items that we can use for user cases
03:39 jgrieves    such as full screen magnification, which i have tested for a couple of hours
03:39 jgrieves    which actually works much better than split screen
03:39 dholbach    i can send a reminder (wiki-ing it) and the link to the mailing list later
03:39 TheMuso     Ok.
03:40 jsgotangco  nice
03:40 hno73       Yeah. It looks great!
03:40 TheMuso     jgrieves: Have you a wiki/launchpad account?
03:40 jsgotangco  i'll start moving this to source too
03:40 jgrieves    yep Luke
03:40 TheMuso     Good.
03:40 hno73       It would be cool to put it on-line and perhaps persuaded he abilitynet people to put
                  it on their site too
03:40 hno73       as an alternative to the Windows guides
03:40 jsgotangco  yes
03:41 jgrieves    yeah it really needs to be dynamic by beling able to click links and such
03:41 hno73       before you know it it will be on the BBC computer help pages
03:41 jgrieves    i.e. in low vision section and want to get ot gnopernicus
03:41 TheMuso     I noticed that some instructions used the terminal. Should we consider putting
                  instructions in for using synaptec?
03:41 mpt         the Windows guides are boringly exhaustive :-)
03:41 hno73       mpt: you think too much so?
03:41 dholbach    added it to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AccessibilityTeam/Links as well
03:41 kjcole      I've dug up another possible resource: National Center for Accessible Media (NCAM) at:
                  http://ncam.wgbh.org/
03:41 TheMuso     Cool.
03:42 mpt         hno73, yeah, last time I looked there were about 30 pages, about 90% being exactly the
                  same in each one
03:42 dholbach    i forgot... which agenda point are we on :)
03:42 TheMuso     AFAIK 2.
03:42 dholbach    ah ok, 2nd, right
03:42 jsgotangco  lol
03:42 hno73       mpt: cool. I'll feed that back to them (or we'll just make ours better)
03:43 linbetwin   hello, everyone! Can anyone participate in this meeting? Hello, Jason! you're the only
                  one I know here
03:43 dholbach    linbetwin: sure, it's public
03:43 dholbach    linbetwin: welcome
03:43 jsgotangco  linbetwin, welcome
03:43 jgrieves    greetings
03:43 TheMuso     linbetwin: welcome. You are a work collegue of Jason's?
03:43 TheMuso     Either way, thanks for joining us.
03:43 linbetwin   no. I wrote to him about gnopernicus
03:44 TheMuso     Ah right.
03:44 dholbach    ok, so we agreed on wiki-ing it and maybe feeding it to the doc-team (jerome)? :)
03:44 jsgotangco  shove it to me
03:44 dholbach    and maybe use it as a starting point for testplans
03:44 TheMuso     Note that this is for breezy I think.
03:44 TheMuso     the doc that is.
03:44 jsgotangco  the doc looks a bit terse but can be improved
03:44 TheMuso     Yeah, a little fleshing out probably. Thats what I thought.
03:45 jgrieves    jsgotangco agreed
03:45 dholbach    shall we proceed the the 3rd item?
03:45 jsgotangco  okay
03:45 TheMuso     Fine with me.
=== jsgotangco will adopt this
03:45 dholbach    ok
03:45 dholbach    next up are bounty ideas
=== jgrieves is adopted
03:45 dholbach    hno73: you mean, real bounties? like paying for them and everything?
03:46 TheMuso     What is X-10 support anyone?
03:46 hno73       dholbach: yeah, we can propose them to the pool right?
03:46 jsgotangco  hmmm
03:46 jbailey     TheMuso, X10 gear I'm familiar with is for home automation.
03:46 hno73       There is/was a dormat AT bounty in there that was too vague
03:46 jsgotangco  should we do specs?
03:46 jsgotangco  jbailey, that evil X10 camera thing that started it all?
03:46 TheMuso     hno73: It was way to big a task.
03:47 jsgotangco  X10 is quite old but reliable
03:47 dholbach    we need specs for those, but we need to split up, what could be TODO items for the
                  team
03:47 hno73       I'v got some X10 hardware I can send to anyone who wants to try
03:47 jbailey     jsgotangco, Dunno.  The X10 stuff I used was for remote power cycling based on serial
                  commands.
03:47 jsgotangco  yeah
03:47 jbailey     jsgotangco, That was about a decade ago, though.
03:47 jsgotangco  that's the X10 alright
03:47 hno73       TheMuso: You mean the one from 6 months ago, or whatever, yeah
03:47 TheMuso     hno73: Yes.
03:48 jbailey     jsgotangco, It's how we did remote power control on the FSFs servers. =)
03:48 jsgotangco  hno73, linux has good X10 support?
03:48 jsgotangco  ohhh
03:48 dholbach    can anybody tell me, what we need to do about x10 in ubuntu?
03:48 jsgotangco  control appliances via ubuntu?
03:49 flint       note that X10 has two standards, the old and the new.
03:49 jsgotangco  the only X10 i have ever used is a camera
03:49 flint       X10 version 1  is an ac line type of unidirectional addressable power control
03:49 kjcole      flint, how new is "new"?
03:49 dholbach    we should first investigate, if there's existing code, we could use
03:49 flint       X10 version 2 is bidirectional and way better
03:49 hno73       so you can use it to switch on lights, open doors, etc. cool stuff for mobility
                  impairment folks
03:50 hno73       attaches with a box to your serial port
03:50 flint       new is my version of new.  EG IBM MVS is "new"
03:50 TheMuso     There is an x10 package in breezy and would be in dapper as well.
03:50 hno73       it's fairly cheap comodity stuff
=== jsgotangco should try that x10 camera downstairs
03:50 flint       hno73, and not all that reliable...
03:50 kjcole      flint, then I'm afraid to ask how old "old" is.
03:50 hno73       there are some simple CLI tools for running the switches
03:51 jsgotangco  cli...
03:51 dholbach    hno73: do you have experience, how well the package works?
03:51 hno73       flint: how's that? you mean with interference on the el-net?
03:51 kjcole      jsgotangco, is that a question? If so Command Line Interface.
                  As I wrote to Jason, I'm trying to use gnopernicus+gnome-mag, but it only follows the
                  text cursor in the rerminal and gedit and it shows some ugly black patches when moved.
03:51 linbetwin   This does not happen in kmag, but kmag doesn't follow text editing at all. I tried to
                  make a demo using istanbul but it didn't work. Is there any hope that will improve in
                  Dapper?
03:51 hno73       I think the simple package works well, but the gui stuff is more random
03:52 jsgotangco  kjcole, nope...i meant i'm not really into cli for this stuff...
03:52 flint       I used X10 years ago under windo$e...
03:52 hno73       See: http://linuxha.sourceforge.net/
03:52 flint       I will look at it under breezy...
03:52 dholbach    linbetwin: if we write bugreports to the gnome folks, then probably
03:52 jgrieves    linbetwin we may have some solutions for you in a bit, Luke is working on a new
                  gnome-mag
03:52 hno73       Linux Home Automation project
03:52 flint       gotcha...
03:52 jsgotangco  ohhh
03:52 jgrieves    linbetwin i'll ping you after meeting
03:52 TheMuso     jgrieves: You referring to the XDamage bug?
03:52 kjcole      jsgotangco, ah.
03:53 jgrieves    Luke yes
03:53 TheMuso     Well nothing more on the bug front has happened yet.
03:53 dholbach    hno73: we should investigate in the links there to know, if there's software we can
                  include? does that make sense?
03:53 jgrieves    may be able to get linbetwin to test package?
03:54 linbetwin   sure, what package?
03:55 hno73       dholbach: sure. I'm sure there is. When I say flaky, I mean, written in Perl, kludgy
                  user interface, etc.
03:55 dholbach    *nod* better than nothing :)
03:55 dholbach    something to start from :)
03:55 hno73       It might be better to take the CLI tools and make a very simple and pretty interface
                  in python
03:55 dholbach    i added it to http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AccessibilityTeam/TODO
03:55 hno73       ... for example. just ideas
03:56 dholbach    what about "high visibility themes"?
03:56 TheMuso     I have been talking back and forth between jgrieves and dholbach  about themes stuff,
                  particularly mouse cursors.
03:56 flint       hno73, the X10 version one el-net had some problem finding the "zero cross" all the
                  time.  Let me revisit this.
03:56 hno73       I don't think we even have large mouse cursors ATM do we?
03:57 jgrieves    dholbach i covered some of that in guide
03:57 TheMuso     hno73: xcursor-themes
03:57 TheMuso     But could do with a bit of work
03:57 dholbach    jgrieves: ok, cool
03:57 jgrieves    yep and a few others i found like a high contrast cursor package
03:57 TheMuso     One other problem is that the cursor returns to normal size when the mouse shows
                  FireFox loading a page.
03:57 dholbach    maybe we could have a accessibility meta-package, which pulls in stuff that might be
                  useful?
03:57 jgrieves    we could develop xcursor-accessibiliy-theme
03:57 dholbach    if we could decide on software, i'd take care of it
03:57 hno73       TheMuso: right, so that 'bit of work' is what needs doing
03:58 jgrieves    dholbach yeah exactly what i was thinking
03:58 TheMuso     hno73: I think so yeah.
03:58 dholbach    cool
03:58 hno73       there are bits floating around on kde-look, etc
03:58 dholbach    i'll add it to todo
03:58 hno73       but we need to bring it together in one place
03:58 hno73       Icons with good contrast
03:58 hno73       large X-cursors, etc
03:58 TheMuso     Yeah. A large black cursor should be created as well.
03:58 jgrieves    hno73 the accessibilty themes are pretty good
03:58 jgrieves    just no cursors
03:59 hno73       jgrieves: OK, cool. so that's 90% done then :)
03:59 jgrieves    if someone wanted to tackle making an ubuntu accessibility theme
03:59 dholbach    it'd be great, if say  a11y-visual  would pull
                  in  gnome-mag  and  xcursor-themes  -  does that make sense?
04:00 jsgotangco  can we package those themes or at least the settings?
04:00 jgrieves    there isn't anything like that of course, reverting to gnome-accessibiiity make it
                  look like gnome simple theme
04:00 TheMuso     dholbach: Yeah but gnome-mag needs a front-end to use it, i.e gnopernicus.
04:00 dholbach    TheMuso: yeah... i was just thinking loudly
04:00 dholbach    :)
04:00 jgrieves    what about an entire accessibity meta package?
04:00 TheMuso     right.
04:00 dholbach    jgrieves: exactly
04:00 jgrieves    brings in everything
04:00 dholbach    i added it to the todo page
04:01 TheMuso     But what if the user doesn't want speech stuff for example.
04:01 jgrieves    turned off by default?
04:01 linbetwin   exactly
04:01 TheMuso     What about if the user wants it?
04:01 kjcole      Speaking of themes: When making icons, make them as unambiguous as possible.  (I don't
                  know what that means practically, but consider it as icons are made.)
04:01 hno73       So now we need a control panel :)
04:01 TheMuso     My point is, a metapackage is not the sollution for everybody.
04:01 jgrieves    Luke, uninstallt?
04:01 dholbach    we can have different meta packages
04:02 TheMuso     Yeah perhaps.
04:02 dholbach    that's why i suggested    a11y-visual
04:02 TheMuso     Yeah that would be ok.
04:02 jgrieves    some low vision users want a magnifier and a screen reader
04:02 hno73       Yeah, I think 4-5 metapavkages are a good idea
04:02 dholbach    DesktopTeam/MetaPackage
04:02 hno73       they can overlap of course
04:02 dholbach    we can use that for discussion
04:02 TheMuso     Indeed.
04:02 jgrieves    we just don't want to overwhelm the choices
04:02 jgrieves    with someoen who might not be familiar with AT
04:02 dholbach    i'm happy to prepare those packages once we have an agreement
04:02 kjcole      For example, I find a magnifying glass for zoom and a pair of binoculars for search to
                  be ambiguous and interchangable... sort of.
04:03 kjcole      (I'm not saying those appear in Ubuntu anywhere, but I know I've seen them somewhere
                  in M$ Windoze apps.)
04:04 hno73       dholbach: cool. I'll do some thinking on DesktopTeam/MetaPackage later as well
04:04 dholbach    hno73: ROCK
04:04 dholbach    we really need to investigate more, if there's other software/themes/... out there, we
                  want to have
04:04 dholbach    this is the right time in the release cycle to get them included and tested
04:05 dholbach    so we have them for dapper
04:05 dholbach    we can test the test-livecds (if you don't want to upgrade to dapper)
04:05 dholbach    oh hang on... those won't be on the testcds
04:05 TheMuso     dholbach: Derivative.
04:05 jgrieves    this would resolve the gnopernicus w/o gnome-mag?
04:06 dholbach    yeah, but this takes time - stuff has to be packaged and uploaded anyways
04:06 dholbach    and this is something, i can do *now*
04:06 TheMuso     True.
04:06 jgrieves    i've answered that 2-3 times on gnome-accessibilty and boards
04:06 hno73       There is also the vmware option for testing
04:06 linbetwin   i can test on dapper
04:06 dholbach    livecd + installing universe packages over the net (synaptic) should be fine too
04:07 dholbach    so if you propose new software, i can try to get it packaged and uploaded
04:07 dholbach    but i need to know what :)
04:07 jgrieves    anyone tried emacspeak?
04:07 dholbach    i opened http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AccessibilityTeam/NewSoftware for that
04:07 TheMuso     jgrieves: I personally don't think emacspeak should be considered for new users just
                  yet.
04:07 dholbach    (those pages are all linked from  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AccessibilityTeam )
04:08 jgrieves    Luke is it in repopsitories at least? i'm thinking of power users
04:08 jgrieves    i'm not even sure i''m "power" enough to use emacs :)
04:08 dholbach    jgrieves: it is
04:08 TheMuso     It is in breezy, so it should be in dapper.
04:08 jgrieves    great thanks
04:09 dholbach    so we agree on looking for accessibility-related software and reporting it on the
                  mailing list?
04:09 TheMuso     For themes/cursors? Yeah.
04:09 dholbach    ^---- *please* :)
04:09 jgrieves    yes
04:09 kjcole      dholbach, should my SpecialNeeds page be somehow moved into the AccessibilityTeam
                  tree?
04:09 hno73       yes
04:09 dholbach    kjcole: seems to make sense
04:09 dholbach    cool
04:09 dholbach    shall we proceed to SpeechSynthesisProposal?
04:10 TheMuso     I am happy to if others are.
04:10 jgrieves    sure, but I think Luke should pass out his home made cookies first
04:10 dholbach    hehe
=== TheMuso passes out cookies to everyone.
=== jsgotangco [n=jsg@ubuntu/member/jsgotangco] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:10 hno73       kjcole: can you look at using it to fles out
                  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AccessibilityTesting/UserGroups ?
04:11 dholbach    hno73: SpeechSynthesisProposal was yours?
04:12 jsgotangco  festival not working good enough?
04:12 hno73       btw, I spoke with someone today who feels that Orca is about 1 year from being
                  useable, so that may get a low priority still
04:12 kjcole      hno73, that looks like a good place for it.
04:12 TheMuso     hno73: The problem with Orca is there is no interface.
04:12 hno73       dholbach: It's Luke's ideas, but with critical comments from me :)
04:12 TheMuso     jsgotangco: It is a lot more sticky than that.
04:12 dholbach    hno73: i'm ready to package and include it anyway
04:13 hno73       dholbach: yay, beeding edge!
04:13 jsgotangco  i see
04:13 dholbach    hno73: i feel that it should be exposed to people, so upstream can get feedback from
                  users
04:13 jsgotangco  true
04:13 hno73       dholbach: yep
04:13 dholbach    hno73: but we don't have to rely on it anyways
04:13 jgrieves    agreed i would like to do some testing with it
04:13 TheMuso     I won't repeat myself. Read that page, the top part at least to understand where I am
                  coming from in regards to speech synthesis.
04:13 hno73       right, but the more we push it the faster it will grow
04:14 TheMuso     hno73: IMO it will end up being better than Gnopernicus.
04:14 jgrieves    it has the ability to script correct?  gnopernicus does not
04:14 hno73       TheMuso: Orca, you mean?
04:14 TheMuso     jgrieves: Correct. It is also getting gnome-mag support as well.
04:15 jgrieves    that's what make Jaws very powerful, if I understand corrrectly
04:15 TheMuso     hno73: Yes.
04:15 jgrieves    TheMuso i was un-aware of that, great
04:15 hno73       and it scripts in python, which is perfect for us
04:15 TheMuso     Indeed.
=== jsgotangco reads
04:16 dholbach    :)
04:16 TheMuso     hno73: You will find that I have placed comments under your comments/queries in the
                  synthesis proposal page.
04:16 flint       dare we groach the holy grail here, speach recognition?
04:16 mpt         rofl
04:16 jgrieves    heh
04:16 hno73       oh, I just now scrolled down :)
04:17 jsgotangco  wow that was a mouthful
04:17 jsgotangco  but nicely written
04:18 dholbach    the kernel discussion (speakup) should be taken with BenC
04:18 flint       oops /groach/approach/  heh
04:18 TheMuso     Yeah. I will bet he won't like the code either.
04:19 hno73       can alternative kernels go in Universe?
04:20 dholbach    hmmmmmmm
04:20 TheMuso     They could, but someone/people would have to rebuild them whenever security updates
                  for mainline came out which is probably not a problem.
04:20 dholbach    alternative kernels are problematic
04:20 dholbach    because they require a lot of tending
04:20 TheMuso     dholbach: That is also true.
04:20 dholbach    (for each security fix, ...)
04:21 TheMuso     dholbach: But if it is only speakup we are introducing, it is just a matter of getting
                  mainline, adding speakup, changing name etc, and rebuild/upload.
04:21 hno73       Yeah, I think we're looking at Launchpad features a year from now for that
04:21 dholbach    TheMuso: generally, yes
04:22 TheMuso     Luckily, speakup can be built as modules. If we can just get it included into the
                  mainline, it won't get in the way for anybody who doesn't need it.
04:22 dholbach    maybe we should have the discussion on ubuntu-devel@
04:22 dholbach    so everybody else (we don't have here) could have his/her say
04:23 hno73       sounds good
04:23 TheMuso     The only problem with inclusion is that speakup is maintained in CVS of all places.
04:23 jgrieves    if the kernel folks at ubuntu are anything like at IBM, they dont like anyone touching
                  their kernel :)
04:23 TheMuso     But it does keep up with current kernel development.
04:24 flint       I am interested in the connection between IBM and speakup, and will look into it
                  offline later
04:24 TheMuso     Anybody else got any thoughts/suggestions? I understand that hno73 wants to break it
                  down, but it is hard to do so because of the nature of the beast.
04:24 dholbach    flint: thank you
04:24 TheMuso     There is no connection between IBM and speakup AFAIK.
04:24 TheMuso     I am on the speakup list and there has been no mention of such things.
04:24 dholbach    i can only repeat myself: if there's something to package, so we can try it out, i can
                  do that
04:25 jsgotangco  go dholbach
04:25 TheMuso     dholbach: If it si speech, it is my baby. :)
04:25 jgrieves    sorry for the confusion flint
04:25 hno73       TheMuso: I will look at it again. These are complex questions.Let's continue on the
                  wiki and mailing list
04:25 TheMuso     Ok good idea.
04:25 dholbach    ok
04:25 dholbach    on the orca item: i will package it
04:25 flint       TheMuso, gotcha, I thought that IBM had donated a lota the code to speakup
04:25 TheMuso     It is one of those things that requires long explanations in emails etc, or face to
                  face talk.
04:26 hno73       ok, on to item 4
04:26 dholbach    TheMuso: i think the spec/wikipage is a good start for discussion
04:26 TheMuso     dholbach: As well as the list.
04:26 jgrieves    anyway we are going to make the instlal more accessible?
04:26 jgrieves    for low vision?
04:26 dholbach    jgrieves: i'm not aware of that at the moment
04:27 jgrieves    posted @ list in resoponse to speakup
04:27 dholbach    if so, we need a proposal
04:27 hno73       UbuntuExpress could help there
04:27 TheMuso     It is a LOT of work.
04:27 jgrieves    its just tough for my friend steve who has 20/1700 who wants to install
04:27 TheMuso     hno73: Yes, but there is still d-i to consider.
04:27 jgrieves    and i dont particuarly like having my nose on the screen either :)
04:27 dholbach    hno73: ++
04:27 hno73       once you are booted in the live session, you can use a highviz theme
04:28 jgrieves    and a magnifier?
04:28 TheMuso     Ok how will a low vision user manage to read the blue and grey/white d-i screens?
04:28 hno73       The great boot vs. desktop debate :)
04:28 TheMuso     hno73: But it is getting to that state that could be a problem.
04:28 dholbach    we need a proposal on how to fix that
04:29 TheMuso     There is only one console magnification tool I know of, and it aint that great.
04:29 hno73       Yeah it needs to be separate proposals and have more detail, but we sre bgetting there
                  :)
04:29 jgrieves    could u use speach for d-i stuff?
04:29 TheMuso     Yes.
04:30 dholbach    that's something we should discuss on the list too (once we have a proposal), because
                  the people who would do the actual work are not here
04:30 jgrieves    i mean if its just ininital stuff, i know steve woudln't mind, that would be pretty
                  slick too
04:30 TheMuso     dholbach: I am willing to help with speech installation/d-i stuff.
04:30 TheMuso     I really should spec out my thoughts and theories on it.
04:30 jgrieves    ok dholbach sounds good
04:30 dholbach    that's cool
04:30 jgrieves    dholbach accessibity-list?
04:30 jgrieves    accessibility
04:31 dholbach    yeah, and once we know where we want to go, we move it to ubuntu-devel@
04:31 jgrieves    ok, Luke are you going to handle both angles on that?
04:31 TheMuso     I will write my thoughts into a proposal/spec in the next day or so.
04:31 TheMuso     jgrieves: Well I haven't seen UbuntuExpress yet.
04:31 dholbach    i think that's something we should keep more in mind during our conversations: 1) what
                  we need to spec, 2) who could do it, and 3) what we can do just now
04:32 dholbach    TheMuso: nobody has :)
04:32 TheMuso     I am only concerned with d-i atm, because the GNOME stuff will fall into place quit
                  easily.
04:32 jgrieves    oh, i haven't either, that's why i was hoping it was more of your experise :)
04:32 hno73       TheMuso: do you think it's possible to split ghat page into at least 2 proposals
                  though?
04:32 hno73       TheMuso: ok, cool
04:32 TheMuso     hno73: Yes I think so. Leave it with me.
04:33 hno73       alright. pt 4
04:33 TheMuso     What would access.ubuntu.com be useful for?
04:33 hno73       If this page ws working now http://gentoo.warthogs.hbd.com:8003/ubuntu/
04:34 jgrieves    docuemtnation, accessibility forums?
04:34 jgrieves    blogs, development?
04:34 hno73       It would show the same multi-theme functionality as this
                  http://www.bbc.co.uk/accessibility/
04:34 hno73       a place to build community and momentum
04:34 TheMuso     Right.
04:35 hno73       and draw in AT people from accross the FOSS world :)
04:35 jgrieves    agreed the gnome-accessibility page is pretty bad
04:35 jgrieves    imo
04:35 jsgotangco  very bad imo
04:35 hno73       Sun has a good AT team, but no major distro has a deducated user-driven project
04:35 hno73       with mailing lists, forums, help pages, etc.
04:36 TheMuso     hno73: And even if we do this, I doubt that they will try to do the same.
04:36 dholbach    i think it's a nice idea, although i think that the team should be better organised,
                  before "we go live"
04:36 jgrieves    with ubuntu being pushed into schools with edubuntu, i think AT will become critical
                  with students iwth disabilties
04:36 TheMuso     Sun's team is more developer focused.
04:36 hno73       It's sort of sticking our flag in the ground
04:36 TheMuso     dholbach: I agree.
=== _mvo_ [n=egon@ip181.135.1511I-CUD12K-01.ish.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:36 dholbach    i don't want to be off-putting (if that's the word)
04:37 jgrieves    dholbach I agree
04:37 TheMuso     Not at all.
04:37 dholbach    but i'll get back to that in pt 6
04:37 hno73       dholbach: no, I see your point. I'm happy to develop this non-live for a few months
04:37 dholbach    cool
=== dholbach hugs hno73
04:37 dholbach    :)
04:37 hno73       we can create content in the current wiki, etc
04:37 dholbach    yeah
04:37 dholbach    i like the idea
04:38 hno73       Timing is important :)
04:38 dholbach    absolutely
04:38 dholbach    point 5?
04:38 TheMuso     I have just had another docs idea, but will bring it up later on the list/wiki.
04:38 hno73       perhaps a month or so before dapper, when actually have some decent packages
04:39 hno73       ok, pt. 5
04:39 jsgotangco  shove all the docs to me :)
04:39 TheMuso     jsgotangco: It is not actual writing as such, well it is, but it isn't if you know
                  what I mean.
04:39 dholbach    massachusetts :)
04:39 jsgotangco  yes
04:39 TheMuso     I will explain it later. A big email is needed for it. :)
04:39 dholbach    flint will be eager to hear abou it
04:40 dholbach    so who knows a bit more about the massachusetts situation?
=== jsgotangco raises hand
=== _jason [n=jason@dhcp0534.hrn.resnet.group.UPENN.EDU] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
                  On the KDE accessibility list today, a member of the KDE a11y team posted a summary of
04:40 TheMuso     the meeting that he was at with others involved in the whole MA ODF mess. The users
                  weren't very interested in UNIX/Linux/GNOME/KDE accessibility. They don't want to
                  change.
04:41 TheMuso     I don't have permission to post it here, but I can ask, and put it up somewhere.
04:41 TheMuso     Even though Office 12 will force change on them.
04:41 dholbach    ok, so no ubuntu massachusetts love for now
04:41 hno73       most people don't want to change, but free CDs that 'just work' can help
04:41 jgrieves    haha
04:41 TheMuso     Yes, but what office suite can we back that works? There are none that work perfectly
                  yet.
04:42 jgrieves    Luke, explain office 12?
04:42 Riddell     TheMuso: you could link to it
04:42 Riddell     http://lists.kde.org/?l=kde-accessibility&m=113391263909828&w=2
=== kjcole shows age:
04:43 TheMuso     Riddell: Ah yes, of course.
04:43 hno73       OK, this was just a random idea for how we might make a splash, but perhaps we should
                  let it pass
                  There was an old TV commercial in the states which had the tag line "You're soaking in
04:43 kjcole      it"... (I can elaborate later) but the point is Windoze users are already migrating
                  slooowly.  Although Linux isn't accepted yet, Firefox, Thunderbird, The GIMP and
                  OpenOffice are all starting to get a lot of airplay on Windoze boxes.
04:43 hno73       We have more technical fish to fry ATM :)
04:44 dholbach    hno73: technical fish :)
04:44 dholbach    but i agree :)
04:44 TheMuso     So do I.
=== hno73 pimps TheOpenCD ;)
=== jsgotangco pimps it too
04:44 kjcole      hno73: Exactly.
04:44 hno73       OK, pt 6?
04:44 dholbach    ok
04:44 dholbach    i created https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AccessibilityTeam
04:44 flint       dholbach, thanks for the info let me persue it from here...
04:44 dholbach    errr made changes to it
04:44 kjcole      (Also The Orchard)
04:45 dholbach    i think we as a team need a bit more organisation
=== jsgotangco pimps the orchard powered by moin
04:45 hno73       wooo
04:45 dholbach    i don't want to be off-putting (as i said), but i think we need to focus more, on what
                  we can actually do or change
04:45 TheMuso     dholbach: Yeah indeed.
04:45 jsgotangco  start cracking a whip to have focus?
04:46 dholbach    that's why i added some pages below "Organisation", where i'd like you to add
                  everything you can think of, to make the situation better
04:46 hno73       Agreed
04:46 TheMuso     We have done so much talking, and haven't really resolved anything conclusively yet.
04:46 kjcole      dholbach: Organization? We don' need no steeeenking organization!
04:46 dholbach    jsgotangco: not at all
=== dholbach hugs kjcole
04:46 dholbach    kjcole: we need some rebels too, of course ;)
04:46 jsgotangco  dholbach: a big stick sometimes helps
04:46 jsgotangco  :D
04:46 zakame      oooh
04:46 dholbach    but i'm happy with our results so far
04:46 dholbach    this is our 2nd meeting
04:46 hno73       So, the wiki pages are a bit of a mess
04:47 dholbach    and we were able to cover a lot of ground (in discussions) already
04:47 jsgotangco  there is very big interest
04:47 TheMuso     Yeah, but we need to get some plans in stone by the next 1 or 2 meetings at the
                  latest.
04:47 dholbach    absolutely
04:47 hno73       shall we agree to move them all into that new structure?
04:47 dholbach    so writing specs, breaking them up into small todo items would be great
04:47 kjcole      dholbach: Having the sub-pages makes things easier to find.  I like it.
04:47 hno73       we should be quite harsh on old material
04:47 dholbach    and if we run into trouble, we should start writing upstream bug reports and monitor
                  them
04:47 dholbach    kjcole: thank you
04:48 dholbach    hno73: you did an awesome job... we shouldn't purge them
=== jbailey_ [n=jbailey@modemcable139.249-203-24.mc.videotron.ca] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:48 TheMuso     me and hno73 were playing with the idea of an a11y team about 6-12 months ago, but
                  never really got it going till now.
04:49 jsgotangco  nice
04:49 kjcole      TheMuso: Critical mass.
=== asw waves to accessibility team. A friend of mine finished law at Harvard. She has run/founded
various disability rights non-profits.
04:49 hno73       dholbach is the super team-building guy :)
04:49 asw         Are you guys into touch with Massachusetts?
04:49 asw         (state government?)
04:49 TheMuso     asw: We do know about it yes.
04:49 asw         yes - but are you talking to them directly?
04:49 TheMuso     The problem is, there is nothing realy ready right now that can be presented as a
                  perfectly usable option.
04:50 jgrieves    exactly
                  i'm happy to serve as a proxy from the team to ubnutu and the packages; as you saw...
04:50 dholbach    i don't have as much time as i'd like to have (i.e. didnt write the meeting minutes
                  yet), so i need advise on what to package, which fix to upload
04:50 asw         TheMuso - Mark (Shuttleworth) or Mako or somebody high level?
04:50 linbetwin   I could help with the wiki. I've got a launchpad account and I can organize Jason's
                  documentation in the wiki.
04:50 dholbach    but i think we can really get a11y into a good shape
04:50 TheMuso     dholbach: Happy to help.
04:50 dholbach    TheMuso: thanks for your efforts
04:50 TheMuso     asw: It is a matter of the tools not being usable for the masses yet.
04:50 jgrieves    linbetwin i beleive jsgotangco will be working on that?
04:51 asw         TheMuso - well, I might help get you guys some funding for bounties.
04:51 asw         Would that help?
04:51 TheMuso     asw: Yes that would greatly help.
04:51 hno73       asw: yes!
04:51 dholbach    asw: we already agreed on writing detailed specs first :))
04:51 linbetwin   jgrieves: ok
04:51 dholbach    who didnt sign up for the mailing list yet? :)
04:51 TheMuso     dholbach: Feel free to contact me if you need help. I am always on IRC< and you have
                  my email address.
04:51 asw         ok - just email me await @ genetics.med.harvard.edu when you have some spec
                  ready.  I'll try and make it happen.  I'm almost always on IRC.
04:51 dholbach    TheMuso: thanks
04:52 jsgotangco  great
04:52 dholbach    i will write a quick summary of the meeting (i made notes of our decisions) this time
                  :)))
04:52 hno73       dholbach: so, in your oppinion is there anything in our wiki pages that qualifies as a
                  decent spec yet?
04:52 TheMuso     dholbach: If I am idoling/sleeping, I should get it when I next check my IRC logs.
04:52 hno73       Or is it still to vague?
=== TheMuso is going to work on the speech proposals.
04:52 dholbach    hno73: we should make a list of our Specs and discuss them on the mailing list (review
                  them as a team again, before proposing them)
04:53 dholbach    AccessibilityTeam/Specs?
04:53 hno73       right
=== dholbach creates it
04:53 TheMuso     damn you are quick.
04:53 jsgotangco  what do you we do with the other specs that were not touched during ubz?
04:53 hno73       asw: cool. I'll email you.
04:53 jbailey     jsgotangco: They can still be worked on, they just aren't likely to be high enough
                  priority for Dapper.
04:53 TheMuso     Examine them, and see if they can be reworked or included elsewhere I guess.
04:55 hno73       I suspect they need to be focused further
04:55 dholbach    ok add all specs to http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AccessibilityTeam/Specs - i linked it from
                  http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AccessibilityTeam
04:55 hno73       made more realistic in terms of time and effort needed
04:55 dholbach    i feel we get better and better, as a team
04:56 dholbach    you guys rock!
04:56 hno73       dholbach: cool. We'll scrape the existing pages
04:56 dholbach    i'm very happy
04:56 jbailey     dholbach: Should they also maybe get linked through launchpad for tracking?
04:56 dholbach    jbailey: can we tag them somehow?
04:56 jbailey     I think teams can have specs.
04:57 dholbach    jbailey: that sounds great
04:57 dholbach    i will investigate in that
04:57 dholbach    they should turn up here, i guess: https://launchpad.net/people/accessibility/+specs
04:58 kjcole      Well, looks like things are wrapping up, and once again, I've missed two hours of paid
                  work to do Ubuntu stuff.  So, time to run. ;-)
04:58 dholbach    :)
04:58 TheMuso     hahaha
04:58 jsgotangco  heh
04:58 dholbach    ok, we will track the specs in launchpad instead
04:58 jsgotangco  i need not sleep
04:58 dholbach    we can use AccessibilityTeam/Specs to add random chat on those specs
04:58 TheMuso     Good idea.
04:59 dholbach    i updated the wiki page
04:59 TheMuso     Shall we defer the decision of next meeting time and day to the list, or shall we take
                  care of that now?
04:59 kjcole      Will move the SpecialNeeds page under the new tree... (and wrap it like a christmas
                  present).
04:59 dholbach    next year?
04:59 hno73       Thanks everyone for being enthusiastic and constructive :)
04:59 dholbach    kjcole: thanks for that
04:59 hno73       now comes productive ...
04:59 jgrieves    jsgotangco: email about documentation?
04:59 dholbach    yeah :)
04:59 jsgotangco  hno73: a minute after this is done?
05:00 jsgotangco  jgrieves: yeah...
05:00 dholbach    yeah, thank you, everybody
05:00 jsgotangco  jgrieves: jgotangco@ubuntu.com if you need to correspond
05:00 hno73       jsgotangco: yep
05:00 jgrieves    jsgotangco thanks, looking forward to working with you
05:00 TheMuso     I am free in two weeks at the same time, but I guess tohers won't be.
05:00 jgrieves    works for me
05:00 jsgotangco  same here
05:00 dholbach    we can discuss next meeting's time on the mailing list, ok?
05:00 hno73       works for me too
05:00 hno73       k
05:01 TheMuso     dholbach: Thats fine, on the list.
05:01 dholbach    cool
05:01 jsgotangco  our LP team needs a cool logo!
05:01 kjcole      2005.12.21? Same time? Works for me.
05:01 dholbach    !
05:01 TheMuso     Some of us can't see it. Don't bother. :)
05:01 jsgotangco  muhahaha
05:01 jbailey     jsgotangco: A big sad face.  It can slowly turn into a happy face as the situation
                  gets better. =)
05:01 jgrieves    TheMuso: lol
05:02 dholbach    we have 18 members on the mailing list already!
05:02 jgrieves    it better be huge whatever itis
05:02 kjcole      The Scream (and we can add audio for those who cannot see it)
05:02 hno73       a cool logo and a signature tune
05:02 TheMuso     hahahahaha
05:02 jsgotangco  jeezz
05:02 hno73       ok, I think we're done :)
05:02 jbailey     First spec: "Making the Launchpad accessibility team pages accessible." =)
05:03 TheMuso     hahaha.
05:03 jgrieves    jbailey pffft who needs accessibility, come on
05:03 hno73       yeah, we need a cool bug #1
05:03 dholbach    i have another idea: how about everybody adds an idea to the test plan on every day
                  until christmas? :)
05:03 TheMuso     I might approach BenC about speakup soonish. Depends on whether he is busy with other
                  kernel stuff. :)
05:03 dholbach    we'd be done with the test plan until christmas
05:03 jsgotangco  bug #1 stop massachusettes?
05:03 TheMuso     lol
05:04 jsgotangco  the 12 days of a11y before christmas?
05:04 hno73       https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AccessibilityTeam/TestPlans
05:04 hno73       cool
05:04 jgrieves    on the first day of Christmmas, TheMuso prepared for me, a gnome-mag package...
05:05 hno73       Let's be specific
05:05 dholbach    haha :)
05:05 TheMuso     jgrieves: Good one.
05:05 jsgotangco  5 braile keyboards....
05:05 TheMuso     4 speech synths
05:05 jgrieves    4 speech synthesizers
05:05 jsgotangco  haha
05:05 hno73       stealing ideas from other projects, ,like gnome, is alowed
05:05 jgrieves    TheMuso ROFL
05:05 dholbach    you guys are great!
05:05 dholbach    thanks everybody... time to go back home again
</pre>
CategoryAccessibilityTeam
