{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** ttx to coordinate testing for Alpha 2
** smoser to train someone on the release team on the cloud image release
** jjohansen to review atop patchset for Alpha3 planning purposes
** Daviey to update #588861, if needed against alpha1
** zul to move the sru tracker code to it's own project
* Maverick development (ttx)
** Blueprints should be near 75% completion now
** Alpha2 <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-server-maverick-alpha-2.html|subcycle status]]</nowiki>
** Alpha2-milestoned <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+bugs?field.milestone=27560|bugs]]</nowiki>
** Alpha2 <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/ubuntuserver/all|ISO testing coverage]]</nowiki>
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
** Bug Bug:588861: "pad block corrupted" error with >=2.6.34 kernel
** atop kernel patch
* Papercuts status (ttx)
** Alpha2 <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+milestone/maverick-alpha-2|iteration status]]</nowiki>
** Alpha3 iteration call for nominations
* Weekly SRU review: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review]]</nowiki> (zul)
** New <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/sru-tracker-bugs.html|SRU Tracker]]</nowiki>
** Move to the new SRU process
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time
** Tuesday 2010-06-29 at 1800 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====

* ttx to coordinate testing for Alpha 2?
***** ttx  was to start Alpha 2 testing coordination during the meeting, so that
was not yet done - carry over.

* smoser to train someone on the release team on the cloud image release?
***** an account on build machine is in the works for cjwatson
***** "training" is mostly written up at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UEC/Images/Publishing

* jjohansen to review atop patchset for Alpha3 planning purposes?
***** handed over to kamal
***** kamal hoped to be done same day
* Daviey to update #588861, if needed against alpha1
***** passed to ccheney and jjohansen, who are finding the first bad kernel
***** jiboumans_ notes this blocks eucalyptus for alpha2
***** ttx notes this is higher priority than atop patchset
* zul to move the sru tracker code to it's own project?
***** https://edge.launchpad.net/server-sru-tracker

===== TOPIC] Maverick development (ttx) =====
ttx pointed to http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-server-maverick-alpha-2.html, and pointed out specs should be around 75%.  Regarding
milestones, he shared
https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+bugs?field.milestone=27560 of
which a few apply to us:

***** bug 588861 in linux (Ubuntu Maverick) ""pad block corrupted" error when trying to register an image with 2.6.34 kernel" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/588861
***** bug 595421 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu Maverick) "Eucalyptus doesn't start with latest stable version of "Groovy"" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/595421
***** bug 588410 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu Maverick) "dynamic block storage should use virtio" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/588410
***** bug 594372 in tgt (Ubuntu Maverick) "MIR: tgt" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/594372
***** bug 574554 in tgt (Ubuntu Maverick) "tgtd needs init script or upstart job" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/574554
********* zul says the upstart script needs to be reiveiwed by the foundations team
***** bug 594509 in irqbalance (Ubuntu Maverick) "irqbalance main process ended, respawning" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/594509

Finally, Alpha2 ISO testing is coming up, and ttx asked us to subscribe
to tests we'd like to run:

***** http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/ubuntuserver/all

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====

hggdh has installed the latest euca on their test rig, and a test was
running.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen) =====

jjohansen reports the EC2 kernel is being problematic, and if a kernel
isn't working by friday then alpha2 may have to use a Lucid based kernel.

===== Papercuts status (ttx) =====

Alpha2 iteration status can be seen at
https://launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+milestone/maverick-alpha-2.  If
you lack time to complete these bugs, you are asked to unassign yourself
so they can be reassigned.

For Alpha3, we are short on nominations.  ttx blogged about it in the
hopes of provoking more:

* http://fnords.wordpress.com/2010/06/21/did-we-fix-all-small-usability-issues-in-ubuntu-server/

===== Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review (zul) =====

Zul says that at UDS in Brussels, there was a session about involving more
people in nominating SRUs by using the mailing list, rather than the team
meeting.  He'd like to start that next week, by sending an email to
ubuntu-server m-l.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer) =====

Nothing to discuss

===== Open Discussion =====

ttx begs or badgers for papercut nominations.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, June 29th at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
	[19:03] <Daviey> #startmeeting
[19:03] <MootBot> Meeting started at 13:03. The chair is Daviey.
[19:03] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[19:03] <smoser> o/
[19:03] <hallyn> k
[19:03] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Approve last weeks minutes as true and accurate
[19:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  Approve last weeks minutes as true and accurate
[19:03] <Daviey> [VOTE] last weeks minutes as true and accurate?
[19:03] <MootBot> Please vote on:  last weeks minutes as true and accurate?.
[19:03] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[19:03] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[19:04] <Daviey> +0
[19:04] <MootBot> Abstention received from Daviey. 0 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 0
[19:04] <ttx> Daviey: and lose all the scribe pleasure to twist reality ? no way
[19:04] <hallyn> +1
[19:04] <MootBot> +1 received from hallyn. 1 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 1
[19:04] <Daviey> (I wrote them)
[19:04] <ttx> +1
[19:04] <MootBot> +1 received from ttx. 2 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 2
[19:04] <ccheney> +0
[19:04] <MootBot> Abstention received from ccheney. 2 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 2
[19:04]  * ccheney was not there
[19:05] <Daviey> ok, moving on
[19:05] <Daviey> [endvote]
[19:05] <MootBot> Final result is 2 for, 0 against. 2 abstained. Total: 2
[19:05] <Daviey> [TOPI
[19:05] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[19:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[19:05] <Daviey> ttx to coordinate testing for Alpha 2?
[19:05] <ttx> will start during this meeting. So not done yet.
[19:05] <Daviey> ok
[19:05] <Daviey> smoser to train someone on the release team on the cloud image release?
[19:06] <smoser> in progress
[19:06] <Daviey> smoser: Will it be done by next meeting?
[19:06] <jiboumans_> smoser: who's the trainee(s)?
[19:07]  * Daviey nudges smoser to hurry :)
[19:07] <smoser> sory, yes, it can be done by alpha2
[19:08] <smoser> i  opened a ticket to get cjwatson an account on our build machine
[19:08] <jiboumans_> smoser: and cjwatson has the spare cycles before alpha2, yes?
[19:08] <smoser> the "training" is mostly written up at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UEC/Images/Publishing
[19:09] <smoser> i would just plan on verifying / improving that during my publishing for alpha2
[19:09] <Daviey> smoser: Is that an action?
[19:09] <smoser> sure. why not
[19:10] <smoser> but that wont be done by next tuesday.
[19:10] <Daviey> [ACTION] smoser to chase IS regarding cjwatson's access and verifying / improving https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UEC/Images/Publishing
[19:10] <MootBot> ACTION received:  smoser to chase IS regarding cjwatson's access and verifying / improving https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UEC/Images/Publishing
[19:10] <Daviey> smoser: ok, but we can check progress next week
[19:10] <Daviey> jjohansen to review atop patchset for Alpha3 planning purposes?
[19:10] <Daviey> jjohansen: Are you here?
[19:10] <jjohansen> right, I had problems with sick kids last week so I handed them off to kamal
[19:11] <jjohansen> he hopes to be done with them today
[19:11] <Daviey> jjohansen: aww, sorry to hear that.. Hope they are dandy now.
[19:11] <jjohansen> doing a lot better thanks
[19:11] <Daviey> jjohansen: Great.. can you ask kamal to email the ubuntu-server mailing list when he has finished?
[19:11] <jjohansen> yes
[19:12] <Daviey> [ACTION] jjohansen to ask kamal to email ubuntu-server mailing list with results of atop patchset
[19:12] <MootBot> ACTION received:  jjohansen to ask kamal to email ubuntu-server mailing list with results of atop patchset
[19:12] <Daviey> Daviey to update #588861, if needed against alpha1
[19:12] <Daviey> bug #588861
[19:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 588861 in linux (Ubuntu Maverick) ""pad block corrupted" error when trying to register an image with 2.6.34 kernel" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/588861
[19:12] <Daviey> This has mainly been passed onto ccheney and jjohansen i believe
[19:12] <ccheney> yes
[19:12] <jjohansen> Right
[19:13] <Daviey> ccheney has been doing some AWESOME testing, and updated his results on the bug, right?
[19:13] <jjohansen> indeed
[19:13] <ccheney> we have tracked it down to between 2.6.32 and 2.6.33 and waiting on 2.6.33rc kernels to test
[19:13] <jiboumans_> note that this is blocking for working eucalyptus on alpha2
[19:13] <Daviey> ccheney / jjohansen: What are the next steps?
[19:13] <jjohansen> there are going to be some bisected test kernels
[19:13] <jjohansen> from either me, tim, or andy
[19:13] <Daviey> jiboumans_: We can revert the kernel for the A2 tests, but it's "less than ideal"
[19:13] <ttx> jjohansen: this has way higher prio than the atop patchset, fwiw
[19:13] <jjohansen> who ever gets to them first
[19:14] <jjohansen> ttx: right, different people working on it
[19:14] <jiboumans_> Daviey: sure, but it means that eucaltypus doesn't work on maverick, which is the point of a2 tests after all
[19:14] <Daviey> jjohansen: Ok.. Any idea of an ETA for the test kernels?
[19:14] <jiboumans_> so yeah, what ttx says; highest kernel issue that ^
[19:14] <jjohansen> I expect there will be some today
[19:14] <ccheney> it shouldn't take me more than a couple hours to find the rc kernel at fault once i have them
[19:14] <Daviey> jjohansen: How will they be communicated?
[19:14] <jjohansen> kernel team just finished a meeting and there is a bit of grind from that
[19:15] <jjohansen> email, with urls, to you and ccheney
[19:15] <ccheney> jjohansen, great :)
[19:15] <jjohansen> and probably attached to the bug as well
[19:15] <Daviey> [ACTION] jjohansen, tim or andy to email ccheney and Daviey with test kernels for bug #588861
[19:15] <MootBot> ACTION received:  jjohansen, tim or andy to email ccheney and Daviey with test kernels for bug #588861
[19:15] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 588861 in linux (Ubuntu Maverick) ""pad block corrupted" error when trying to register an image with 2.6.34 kernel" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/588861
[19:16] <Daviey> jjohansen: Thanks for that
[19:16] <Daviey> zul to move the sru tracker code to it's own project?
[19:16] <zul> yes https://edge.launchpad.net/server-sru-tracker
[19:16] <Daviey> zul: you were waiting for that one, right?
[19:16] <Daviey> zul: great work.
[19:16] <zul> yep :)
[19:16] <Daviey> moving on
[19:16] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Maverick development (ttx)
[19:16] <MootBot> New Topic:  Maverick development (ttx)
[19:16] <Daviey> ttx: wanna shoot?
[19:16] <ttx> sure
[19:16] <ttx> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-server-maverick-alpha-2.html
[19:16] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-server-maverick-alpha-2.html
[19:17] <ttx> So at this point the specs should be around 75%
[19:17] <ttx> Also I need to know if there is anyone that thinks he cannot complete his work items by alpha2
[19:17] <ttx> I'll talk to each of you in 1:1s
[19:18] <ttx> just have a look at the remaining TODo work and assess the remaining time
[19:18] <ttx> On the milestones bugs side...
[19:18] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+bugs?field.milestone=27560
[19:18] <ttx> A few of those apply to us
[19:19] <ttx> Bug #588861
[19:19] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 588861 in linux (Ubuntu Maverick) ""pad block corrupted" error when trying to register an image with 2.6.34 kernel" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/588861
[19:19] <ttx> already mentioned
[19:19]  * Daviey feels that bug is yet to come up in this meeting
[19:19] <ttx> Bug #595421
[19:19] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 595421 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu Maverick) "Eucalyptus doesn't start with latest stable version of "Groovy"" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/595421
[19:19] <Daviey> ^^ pending upload
[19:19] <ttx> Daviey: this one isn't solved ?
[19:19] <ttx> ah ok
[19:19] <Daviey> already in bzr
[19:19] <ttx> Bug #588410
[19:19] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 588410 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu Maverick) "dynamic block storage should use virtio" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/588410
[19:20] <Daviey> ^^ pending upload
[19:20] <Daviey> already in bzr
[19:20] <ttx> Bug #594372
[19:20] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 594372 in tgt (Ubuntu Maverick) "MIR: tgt" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/594372
[19:20] <ttx> (together with Bug #574554)
[19:20] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 574554 in tgt (Ubuntu Maverick) "tgtd needs init script or upstart job" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/574554
[19:20] <ttx> ccheney, zul:  ^
[19:20] <zul> the upstart script needs to be reiveiwed by the foundations team
[19:20] <ttx> Bug #594509
[19:20] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 594509 in irqbalance (Ubuntu Maverick) "irqbalance main process ended, respawning" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/594509
[19:20] <ttx> zul ^
[19:20] <ccheney> tgt mir is waiting on ubuntu-mir
[19:21] <zul> will work on it today
[19:21] <Daviey> ccheney: Any chance you can chase on of them, with a prod?
[19:21] <ttx> ccheney, zul: ok, don't hesitate to nudge them as those have been targeted against alpha2
[19:21] <ccheney> do we have someone we usually use to process them?
[19:21] <ttx> ccheney: no. But pitti was assigning someone to them usually
[19:21] <zul> ccheney: no whoever is assigned to them
[19:21] <ccheney> ok
[19:22] <ttx> Finally, Alpha2 ISO testing coverage
[19:22] <ttx> So the idea is that we split the ISO testing work to have test coverage inside the team
[19:22] <ttx> We need to test : http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/ubuntuserver/all
[19:22] <ttx> Please subscribe to the tests you'd like to run
[19:23] <ttx> and I'll check the holes in the subscription next week.
[19:23] <ttx> hallyn: you'll need to create a QA/ISO testing account if you don't have already one.
[19:23] <Daviey> [ACTION] People to subscribe to the test coverage for http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/ubuntuserver/all
[19:23] <MootBot> ACTION received:  People to subscribe to the test coverage for http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/ubuntuserver/all
[19:23] <ttx> Daviey: thanks
[19:23] <hallyn> ttxi was about to ask...  so that's on amazon?
[19:23] <ttx> hallyn: no
[19:24] <ttx> hallyn: we can talk about it off-meeting
[19:24] <hallyn> k
[19:24] <Daviey> ttx: finished?
[19:24] <ttx> yes
[19:24] <Daviey> cool, thanks ttx
[19:24] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:24] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:24] <ttx> I'll be back
[19:25] <hggdh> hi
[19:25] <Daviey> hey hggdh
[19:25] <hggdh> I have been a bit busy in Lexington
[19:25] <ttx> hggdh: how is the training going ?
[19:25] <Daviey> hggdh: How is
[19:25]  * Daviey cuts short. :)
[19:25] <hggdh> but -- thanks to Daviey -- I have installed the latest euca on our rig, and am right now running a small test
[19:26] <Daviey> hggdh: Awesome.. can you email through the results for that issue?
[19:26] <hggdh> ttx: good. We have decided on some simplifications on the protocol, also
[19:26] <hggdh> Daviey: will do
[19:26] <Daviey> [ACTION] hggdh to email interested parties about the results of the ppa build.
[19:26] <MootBot> ACTION received:  hggdh to email interested parties about the results of the ppa build.
[19:26] <Daviey> Does anyone have any questions or comments for hggdh ?
[19:26] <hggdh> we intend to complete the protocol tomorrow, no new machines crapping out
[19:27] <Daviey> (other than to state hggdh is awesome)
[19:27] <ttx> Daviey: no
[19:27] <Daviey> hggdh: Anything else you want to pass on?
[19:27] <hggdh> no, not right now...
[19:27] <Daviey> ok, great hggdh - thanks for the great testing
[19:27] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:27] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:28] <Daviey> Bug 588861: "pad block corrupted" error with >=2.6.34 kernel - Already covered
[19:28] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 588861 in linux (Ubuntu Maverick) ""pad block corrupted" error when trying to register an image with 2.6.34 kernel" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/588861
[19:28] <Daviey> atop kernel patch - Already covered
[19:28] <ccheney> lol
[19:28] <Daviey> jjohansen: Anything new?
[19:28] <jjohansen> the EC2 kernel is being problematic and we may have to go with a Lucid based kernel for alpha2, if we don't have a working kernel by friday
[19:28] <Daviey> and inverse, anyone have anything else for the kernel team?
[19:28] <Daviey> jjohansen: What is blocking?
[19:28] <jjohansen> on the EC2 kernel?
[19:28] <Daviey> yah
[19:29] <zul> Daviey: xen being a horribly bitch godddess perhaps?
[19:29] <jjohansen> pv-ops works in 3 out of 4 zones
[19:29] <Daviey> zul: noted :)
[19:29] <Daviey> golly, that is crazy.
[19:29] <Daviey> jjohansen: Is there a bug that is chasing the progress of that?
[19:29] <jjohansen> and I just did a port of the Xen patchset to Maverick but it wasn't clean and is having some issues
[19:30] <jjohansen> Daviey: no I haven't opened one for maverick
[19:30] <jjohansen> I will just give me a sec
[19:30] <Daviey> jjohansen: Would you mind raising one, it would be good to help us track the progress.
[19:30] <jjohansen> :)
[19:30] <Daviey> \o/
[19:31] <Daviey> [ACTION] Follow up on bug #TBC - EC2 kernel (jjohansen)
[19:31] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Follow up on bug #TBC - EC2 kernel (jjohansen)
[19:31] <jjohansen> hopefully we will have pv-ops, if not we will be falling back to Xen patchset
[19:31] <Daviey> anyone have anything else for jjohansen ?
[19:32] <Daviey> jjohansen: As ever, your team seems to be doing great work.. I'm sure you'll pull some awesome out of the bag.
[19:32]  * Daviey moves on.
[19:32] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Papercuts status (ttx)
[19:32] <MootBot> New Topic:  Papercuts status (ttx)
[19:32] <Daviey> ttx: your floor
[19:32] <ttx> Alpha2 iteration status: https://launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+milestone/maverick-alpha-2
[19:32] <ttx> We still have a few bugs to nail
[19:33] <ttx> If you think you can't make it, unassign yourself so that I reassign
[19:33] <ttx> That's for Clint and kirkland
[19:33] <ttx> i'll chase up ivoks and nxvl
[19:34] <ttx> asommer is, I think done with his
[19:34] <sommer> :)
[19:34] <ttx> On the alpha3 side...
[19:34] <ttx> We are unfortunately very short on nominations
[19:34] <ttx> I wrote a blog post about it (with a provoking title)
[19:35] <Daviey> ttx: what is the url?
[19:35] <ttx> but so far just a couple new, that's all
[19:35] <ttx> http://fnords.wordpress.com/2010/06/21/did-we-fix-all-small-usability-issues-in-ubuntu-server/
[19:35] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://fnords.wordpress.com/2010/06/21/did-we-fix-all-small-usability-issues-in-ubuntu-server/
[19:35] <ttx> So team members and bystanders, please file and nominate your favorite usability issues
[19:36] <Daviey> ttx: okay, is there an action we can pull out of this?
[19:36] <ttx> Other bloggers could echo my post
[19:36] <Daviey> okay, /me leaves his ACTION stick @ home, and has a pause to thought about that.
[19:37] <Daviey> ttx: moving on?
[19:37] <ttx> sure
[19:37] <Daviey> cool, top work ttx
[19:37] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20revi
[19:37] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20revi
[19:37] <ttx> ew
[19:37] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review (zul)
[19:37] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review (zul)
[19:37] <Daviey> rather
[19:37] <zul> hi
[19:37] <Daviey> hey zul
[19:38] <zul> so there is nothing nominated for the stable releases
[19:38] <zul> and with regards to http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[19:38] <zul> is there anything worth nominating to be backported?
[19:38] <Daviey> (that's good, right?)
[19:38] <zul> yep
[19:39] <zul> i dont have anything does anyone else?
[19:39] <Daviey> zul: so that first link is the pretty New SRU tracker?
[19:39] <ttx> looking
[19:39] <Daviey> zul: In the agenda we've got "Move to the new SRU process".. Can you expand on that?
[19:40] <ttx> zul:  nothing from me
[19:40] <zul> Daviey: yes
[19:40] <Daviey> oh good
[19:40] <Daviey> please do :)
[19:41] <Daviey> zul?
[19:41] <zul> at UDS in brussels we had a session that came up with a new way of getting more people invovled with people nominating SRUs by using the ml rather than the team meeting
[19:41] <zul> sorry i type slow
[19:41] <Daviey> (sorry)
[19:41] <zul> I would like to start that next week
[19:41] <Daviey> zul: How does that start?
[19:42] <zul> Daviey: basically i would fire off a canned email saying that these were fixed last week with instructions on how to nominate them and by the end of the week they would be reviewed by me
[19:42] <Daviey> zul: All of them reviewed by you?
[19:43] <Daviey> zul: Is there a stand by, if you go AWOL?
[19:43] <zul> well i would probably collect which ones are nominated and acuttually do the leg work
[19:43] <zul> is that right ttx?
[19:43] <zul> Daviey: not as yet
[19:43] <ttx> yes
[19:43] <Daviey> ok, that might be a good idea to get organised... which basically means document what you do :)
[19:44] <Daviey> [ACTION] zul to mail the ubuntu-server mailing list with the SRU nomination process, and document his process from there.
[19:44] <MootBot> ACTION received:  zul to mail the ubuntu-server mailing list with the SRU nomination process, and document his process from there.
[19:44] <Daviey> \o/
[19:44] <Daviey> zul: Nice stuff! you rock.
[19:44] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[19:44] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[19:45] <Daviey> sommer is our doc's rock star, any one have anything for him?
[19:45] <Daviey> sommer: Have anything for us?
[19:45] <sommer> I didn't really have anything for this week... things are sailing smooth at this point
[19:45] <Daviey> \o/
[19:46] <Daviey> sommer: Keep on rockin'.  Know that you can contact any of us if you have any concerns during the week.
[19:46] <Daviey> thanks sommer!
[19:46] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[19:46] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[19:46] <sommer> coolio thanks Daviey
[19:46] <Daviey> Nothing here o/
[19:46] <ttx> Nominate papercuts !
[19:47] <zul> sorry computer went bonkers
[19:47] <Daviey> zul: heh
[19:47] <Daviey> ok, moving on
[19:47] <zul> what did i miss?
[19:47] <Daviey> zul: nothing
[19:47] <zul> k
[19:47] <Daviey> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[19:47] <ttx> Daviey: you missed sommer.
[19:47] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[19:47] <Daviey> ttx: huh?
[19:48] <ttx> s/Daviey/zul/
[19:48] <Daviey> [ACTION] Make Daviey sad with the late time of the next meeting.
[19:48] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Make Daviey sad with the late time of the next meeting.
[19:48] <Daviey> Tuesday 2010-06-29 at 1800 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting
[19:48] <ttx> yes, do it again.
[19:49] <Daviey> ttx: sorry?
[19:49] <ttx> let's make you sad again !
[19:49] <Daviey> boohoo
[19:49] <Daviey> thanks all for attending
[19:49] <Daviey> #endmeeting
[19:49] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 13:49.

</pre>
