{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu Open Week - LoCo Teams - Nick Ali - Sat, May 3, 2008 ===
<pre>
=== jcastro changed the topic of #ubuntu-classroom to: Ubuntu Open Week | Information and Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek | How to ask questions: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek/Rules | Ask questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat, prefaced with "QUESTION:" |See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek/JoiningIn to filter out channel noise | "LoCo Teams" - Nick Ali

[20:01] <boredandblogging> Hi folks, welcome to the Ubuntu Open Week LoCo Teams session

[20:01] <boredandblogging> I'm Nick Ali, part of the Ubuntu Georgia US team.

[20:01] <boredandblogging> So lets get started.

[20:02] <boredandblogging> First, what is a LoCo?

[20:02] <boredandblogging> LoCo stands for Local Community.

[20:02] <boredandblogging> LoCos are run by the community, not Canonical. However 
Canonical does support LoCo in various ways that we will cover later.

[20:03] <boredandblogging> Its purpose is to help advocate, develop, and support 
Ubuntu in your local region.

[20:03] <boredandblogging> Advocacy is the most important job of a LoCo. LoCos should 
promote Ubuntu to schools, organizations, companies, and media outlets.

[20:04] <boredandblogging> Usually, there is one LoCo per country. But depending on 
size and population, there may be several per region. For example, the United States 
has one LoCo per state.

[20:04] <boredandblogging> The list of LoCos is available at 
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamList.

[20:05] <boredandblogging> If you find a LoCo in your area, join its mailing list and 
Launchpad team. Introduce yourself on the mailing list and IRC channel.

[20:05] <boredandblogging> All teams welcome new members. You can help out with 
advocacy, supporting new members, helping organize events, translation, and many 
other arenas.

[20:06] <boredandblogging> LoCos have online meetings, usually in IRC, and meet in 
person.

[20:06] <boredandblogging> They organize or participate in events promoting Ubuntu.

[20:06] <boredandblogging> This can be holding install fests after the release of new 
version of Ubuntu or running stalls and booths at conferences or expos.

[20:06] <boredandblogging> What if there is no LoCo in your area?

[20:07] <boredandblogging> See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamHowto on directions on 
how to set up your online presence. Instructions are provided on how to request 
mailing lists and forums, setting up wiki pages and IRC channels.

[20:07] <boredandblogging> If you are interested in starting a LoCo, remember that 
being a leader is more than just setting up your mailing list, IRC channels, etc.

[20:08] <boredandblogging> You will have to motivate all the volunteers in your team 
to participate and get things done.

[20:08] <boredandblogging> Everyone should be involved in some way, and you will need 
to encourage everyone to participate however they feel comfortable and to their 
talents.

[20:08] <boredandblogging> * Communication is key! *

[20:08] <boredandblogging> So, how are LoCos different from existing Linux user 
groups (LUG)?

[20:09] <boredandblogging> The main difference is that LoCos are specifically 
promoting Ubuntu. LoCos are not interested in replacing existing LUGs.

[20:09] <boredandblogging> Instead you should work with LUGs to promote Ubuntu. LUGs 
can be helpful, like getting a place for LoCos to hold meetings.

[20:10] <boredandblogging> LUGs also provide a good starting point for promoting 
Ubuntu. There may be existing LUG Ubuntu users who might be interested in advocating 
Ubuntu.

[20:10] <boredandblogging> Some of you have seen references to approved LoCos. What 
are they?

[20:11] <boredandblogging> Approved LoCos are officials teams that have been 
recognized for their ongoing contributions and their plans for promoting Ubuntu in 
the future.

[20:11] <boredandblogging> Approved LoCos get CDs after every release, hosting for 
their websites (by Canonical), and materials for booths at conferences.

[20:12] <boredandblogging> LoCos wanting to be approved should provide evidence of 
their experience in advocacy, support, exhibitions, translations, etc.

[20:12] <boredandblogging> To find out how to get approved, see 
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoGettingApproved.

[20:12] <boredandblogging> Currently, there are some ongoing changes in how LoCos 
will be approved

[20:12] <boredandblogging> The Community Council was responsible for evaluating LoCos 
and approving them.

[20:13] <boredandblogging> A LoCo Council has been created that will be in charge of 
approvals from now on.

[20:13] <boredandblogging> Can non-approved LoCos get CDs?

[20:14] <boredandblogging> The best way for non-approved LoCos to get CDs is to have 
each LoCo member order a few from shipit, then collect them together and distribute 
them as necessary.

[20:14] <boredandblogging> A common question that is often asked: Having a website 
would help LoCos grow. Why can't non-approved teams have websites?

[20:15] <boredandblogging> Usually LoCos spend too much time trying to figure out 
what tools to use on their websites, how it should look, etc. The time is better 
spent contacting local resources and offering to do presentations or interacting face 
to face.

[20:15] <boredandblogging> Hopefully most teams will work hard and get approved 
quickly, so this should not be a problem :-)

[20:16] <boredandblogging> Another common question: I can't motivate anyone. Everyone 
just idles on IRC!

[20:16] <boredandblogging> This is tough. Many people don't like to take initiative, 
but like to do things. Try giving them a small specific task to do. They might feel 
more involved at that point.

[20:17] <boredandblogging> Just for reference, a good starting point for LoCos is 
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamKnowledgeBase.

[20:17] <boredandblogging> How do run install fests or other real life events?

[20:17] <boredandblogging> The wiki has a wealth of information.

[20:18] <boredandblogging> See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoRunningInstallfests

[20:18] <boredandblogging> and

[20:18] <boredandblogging> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAtConferences

[20:18] <boredandblogging> questions?

[20:20] <boredandblogging> face to face meetings can be a good way to get started

[20:21] <boredandblogging> they may be small at first

[20:21] <boredandblogging> but getting to know fellow ubunteros can help people bring 
together

[20:21] <boredandblogging> and easier to start holding events to promote Ubuntu

[20:22] <boredandblogging> it also allows for better opportunities to find out where 
your local region needs help

[20:22] <boredandblogging> and can take advantage of the LoCo

[20:23] <boredandblogging> join the loco-contacts mailing list to discuss ideas with 
other LoCos or just to bounce ideas off of other LoCos

[20:24] <boredandblogging> to see what has worked for other teams

[20:25] <boredandblogging> Leadership in LoCos can be structured in different ways

[20:25] <boredandblogging> some teams have an individual that runs the team

[20:26] <boredandblogging> some have a small group responsible for the direction of 
the team

[20:26] <boredandblogging> there is no best way, but you should see what works for 
you LoCo

[20:30] <boredandblogging> Synutx asked if the LoCo can provide commercial support to 
companies

[20:31] <boredandblogging> specifically if the business opportunity can be done under 
the LoCo team

[20:32] <boredandblogging> while that really isn't the point of the LoCo team, I 
would probably encourage creating some kind of legal entity

[20:33] <boredandblogging> while probably partnering with Canonical to provide 
partner services

[20:34] <progfou> <smeg0l> QUESTION i like ti get involved on the danish loCo team 
What steps do i need to tke ?

[20:34] <boredandblogging> smeg0l: take a look at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DanishTeam

[20:35] <boredandblogging> i would suggest joining the mailing list, irc channel, and 
forums

[20:35] <boredandblogging> introduce yourself

[20:35] <boredandblogging> see what they need help with

[20:35] <boredandblogging> and ask for what you can help with

[20:35] <boredandblogging> remember, every LoCo needs help

[20:35] <boredandblogging> every time wants to do lots of different projects

[20:36] <boredandblogging> but there is usually a shortage of people

[20:36] <boredandblogging> smeg0l: I'm sure the Danish Team would love to have you

[20:37] <boredandblogging> next?

[20:37] <progfou> <nealmcb> QUESTION: Which locos are setting a good example for 
others to look at?

[20:38] <boredandblogging> nealmcb: take a look at the approved teams in 
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamList

[20:38] <boredandblogging> most of them should be pretty active

[20:39] <boredandblogging> australia and brazil are very active

[20:39] <boredandblogging> also lots of teams in central america

[20:40] <boredandblogging> they are very active in organizing events and holding 
expos promoting Ubuntu

[20:41] <boredandblogging> for example, the nicaragua team just did the FLISOL 2008 
event

[20:41] <boredandblogging> next?

[20:41] <progfou> <Toadinator> QUESTION: I'm going to host a program at my local 
library with another LoCo member (Indiana) to get people to try Ubuntu for one week 
risk free (thank God for Wubi). What are some things I could do to get people 
interested and come?

[20:42] <boredandblogging> progfou: prepare instructions on how to install Wubi and 
hand them out with CDs

[20:42] <boredandblogging> provide URLs for help

[20:42] <progfou> the question was from Toadinator, not mine :-)

[20:42] <boredandblogging> make sure they understand that you are willing to help 
them out

[20:43] <boredandblogging> you might also want to demonstrate the wubi installtion at 
the library

[20:43] <boredandblogging> just so they know what to expect

[20:43] <boredandblogging> if you walk them through it in person, they will be more 

comfortable

[20:44] <boredandblogging> also make sure they have links to the indiana team

[20:44] <boredandblogging> forums, mailing lists, or a contact person

[20:44] <boredandblogging> next?

[20:44] <progfou> <Syntux> QUESTION: What if a LoCo team decided to release a 
Localized distro based on ubuntu, or localization-package to make it more local ie, 
more Jordanian in my case; would that hurt if we call it Jordan/Ubuntu ?

[20:46] <boredandblogging> Syntux: that should be fine...

[20:46] <boredandblogging> lots of LoCos localize for their region

[20:46] <boredandblogging> i'm not sure the name is an issue

[20:46] <boredandblogging> next?

[20:47] <progfou> <Syntux> QUESTION: What if a LoCo team decided to release a 
Localized distro based on ubuntu, or localization-package to make it more local ie, 
more Jordanian in my case; would that hurt if we call it Jordan/Ubuntu ?

[20:47] <progfou> ooops...

[20:47] <progfou> <progfou> QUESTION (mine this time): do you know if canonical would 
sponsorize such localisation?

[20:48] <boredandblogging> what do you mean sponsorize? Like doing official 
translations through Rosetta?

[20:48] <boredandblogging> I would check Launchpad to see if someone has already 
started working with your language

[20:49] <boredandblogging> you can find some marketing material on 
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam

[20:50] <progfou> <nealmcb> QUESTION: Would this be a good time to make a plug for 
the https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam (since there isn't a session this week for 
them)?

[20:50] <boredandblogging> if your LoCos does create some new material, I encourage 
LoCos to put their material on it

[20:50] <boredandblogging> so other LoCos can benefit from it as well

[20:50] <boredandblogging> next

[20:50] <progfou> <nealmcb> QUESTION: Any idea when the new Loco Council will first 
meet to approve new teams?

[20:51] <boredandblogging> the next meeting will be during UDS week actually...

[20:52] <boredandblogging> I'm not sure if it will be taking approval requests then

[20:52] <progfou> <Monika|K> what's UDS week

[20:52] <boredandblogging> but it will be widely announced when the LoCo Council is 
ready

[20:52] <boredandblogging> UDS-Intrepid will be Monday 19th May to Friday 23rd May 
2008

[20:53] <boredandblogging> the LoCo Council is working on logistics, so the approval 
process can be smooth

[20:54] <boredandblogging> and easy for LoCos

[20:54] <boredandblogging> next

[20:54] <progfou> (no other question for now)

[20:54] <progfou> <Monika|K> QUESTION: When a Kubuntu team has active members, a 
forum, a wiki, active IRC, a planet, its own packaging archive, a translation team, 
participates in many local and national Linux conventions and related events with 
boots and talks ... why can it not be a Loco team?

[20:55] <boredandblogging> Monika|K: there is nothing wrong with it being a sub-team 
of a general loco

[20:56] <boredandblogging> but having a separate loco for kubuntu seems too much

[20:56] <jcastro> ~5 more minutes boredandblogging

[20:56] <boredandblogging> too much overlap in resources

[20:57] <boredandblogging> a LoCo can promote Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Xubuntu, etc

[20:57] <boredandblogging> a LoCo doesn't just have to do just gnome Ubuntu

[20:58] <boredandblogging> next?

[20:58] <progfou> (no other question so far)

[20:59] <jcastro> ok that's it for time, thanks Nick!

[20:59] <boredandblogging> thanks everyone
</pre>
