{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Log ====
TX UTC-5
<pre>
(03:05:16 PM) persia: #startmeeting
(03:05:17 PM) MootBot: Meeting started at 20:05. The chair is persia.
(03:05:17 PM) MootBot: Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
(03:05:47 PM) persia: Welcome to the MOTU Meeting for 4th January 2008.  The agenda is available on the wiki.
(03:05:55 PM) persia: [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Meetings
(03:05:56 PM) MootBot: LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Meetings
(03:06:24 PM) Adri2000: hi :)
(03:07:05 PM) persia: Our agenda is empty for today: anyone have any topics they wish to bring up for discussion?
(03:09:40 PM) persia: That makes it easy then.  We've only administration tasks :)
(03:09:55 PM) persia: [TOPIC] Next MOTU Meeting Date
(03:09:55 PM) MootBot: New Topic:  Next MOTU Meeting Date
(03:10:05 PM) persia: Any nominations for date & time?
(03:13:05 PM) persia: In the absence of other proposals, how about 12:00 UTC 18th January?
(03:14:34 PM) ***persia seeks at least one ACK for procedural purposes, as a self-meeting isn't ideal
(03:16:47 PM) nand: persia: Shall I stand up and ack? :)
(03:16:54 PM) ***persia cheers nand
(03:17:16 PM) persia: [AGREED] The next MOTU Meeting will be 12:00 UTC 18th January 2008
(03:17:17 PM) MootBot: AGREED received:  The next MOTU Meeting will be 12:00 UTC 18th January 2008
(03:17:24 PM) nand: :)
(03:17:44 PM) stgraber: :)
(03:18:12 PM) persia: Any volunteers to send announcements for the next meeting (fridge schedule, 2 ML posts (1 week before, 2 days before)?
(03:20:10 PM) persia: [ACTION] persia to send announcements for the next meeting
(03:20:11 PM) MootBot: ACTION received:  persia to send announcements for the next meeting
(03:20:25 PM) persia: Any volunteers to draft minutes of the meeting?
(03:21:29 PM) stgraber: can't MootBot do that ?
(03:22:03 PM) persia: stgraber: It's a matter of changing the MootBot Summary into English on the wiki, and posting it also to the ML.
(03:23:16 PM) persia: An example of the summarised minutes is available from https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Meetings/2007-12-21 (which is not a MootBot interesting link)
(03:25:37 PM) stgraber: I certainly can do that, but I'm not subscribed to the ML, so only works if someone can moderate the mail :)
(03:25:59 PM) persia: [ACTION] stgraber to post minutes
(03:25:59 PM) MootBot: ACTION received:  stgraber to post minutes
(03:26:07 PM) persia: #endmeeting
(03:26:08 PM) MootBot: Meeting finished at 20:26.
</pre>
