{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
03:02 mdz      ok, from the top today
03:02 JaneW    seems just ogra and Mithrandir  are missing still
03:02 JaneW    keybuk gave apologies
03:02 mdz      yes, he has no internet access at his hotel
03:02 JaneW    nod
03:02 mdz      Benc?
03:03 doko     seb128: the ia64 build failure is not mine
03:03 mdz      BenC: you're up first
03:04 BenC     Can you give me 5 minutes, I took a nap and didn't have a chance to write
               yet
03:04 mdz      dholbach: ?
03:04 dholbach apt-get.org:  it's done! (628 FTBFS, 320 reviewed, 73 ready to go), list
               handed to James for syncing
03:04 dholbach example-content:  new tarball uploaded, example-content visibilification
               done, casper changes handed to Mithrandir (guess some love is needed)
03:04 dholbach this week (done):  GNOME 2.13.92, bug triage, apt-get.org
               this week (todo):  more bug triage - gnokii, gnome-phone-manager update and
03:04 dholbach look into making GNOME bluetooth work again, maybe even nautilus-sendto
               with bt
03:04 dholbach next week:  UI sprint
03:04 BenC     thanks
03:04 dholbach important:  popcon would be great to have to prioritize MOTU fixing efforts
=== slomo [n=slomo@ubuntu/member/slomo] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:04 mdz      dholbach: when did the visibilification land?
03:04 dholbach example-content 3-0ubuntu1 uploaded today
03:05 dholbach the changes in casper are pending review from mithrandir
=== ajmitch__ [n=ajmitch@dsl-210-15-201-110-static.QLD.netspace.net.au] has joined
=== Lathiat [i=lathiat@ubuntu/member/pdpc.basic.lathiat] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:05 mdz      dholbach: ping elmo about the RT ticket # for popcon; should be just adding
               an account for tollef
03:05 dholbach mdz: right, will do that.
03:05 mdz      thanks
03:05 mdz      doko: ?
03:05 doko     [this week]
03:05 doko     toolchain-roadmap - final gcj-4.1.0
               openoffice.org - nearing 2.0.2 (oob680m5 snapshot), experiencing more than
               one buildd/soyuz problem, beeing debugged together with infinity, i386 and
03:05 doko     powerpc builds succeeded, amd64 packages, ia32-libs* updated (hi seb128 ;),
               Riddell: please check kde), -l10n still building (12+ hours), should be
               ready for new processing tomorrow.
03:05 doko     [next week]
03:05 doko     toolchain-roadmap - final gcc-4.0.3 (branch now frozen)
03:05 doko     openoffice.org - sparc build, snapshot updates, language specific package
               checks and updates
03:06 mdz      doko: so the oo.o rename is blocked on which bits?
03:07 doko     it's not blocked, it's now waiting on the -l10n build to finish
03:07 infinity Which should go smoothly, just slowly.
03:07 mdz      ok, so no soyuz problem with the binary reparenting?
03:07 doko     then all packages should be unleashed in NEW
03:07 infinity (rothera thinks it only has one CPU right now)
03:07 doko     mdz: no, other problems
03:08 mdz      doko: how big is the current oo.o bug list?
03:08 mdz      doko: everything set for the sprint?
03:08 doko     mdz: have to write the final mail, but otherwise ok.
03:08 mdz      ok
03:08 mdz      thanks
03:08 mdz      fabbione: ?
******** server-candy: added LAMP install target to server CD. Missing/buggy:
03:08 fabbione apache2 for "central snakeoil SSL setup" and kernel -server as default from
               CD install.
******** ubuntu-cluster: OCFS2 kernel update and several hours stress test on
03:08 fabbione upstream request. Waiting their release for new userland to sync with the
               kernel that will allow (finally) full desync later.
******** RLIMIT_PRIO: Colin did upload pam last week, Matthias has the patch for
03:08 fabbione bash (pending upload) and Jeff is preparing glibc (pending upload) so at
               the end i was assigned a task where i had to do nothing other than
               reporting at the meeting.. SCORE! ;)
03:08 fabbione * last week: a lot of bug fixing. Started working on espresso/partman
               changes yesterday.
03:08 fabbione * next week: i will be in holidays friday/monday and tuesday. otherwise i
               will be working on espresso and more bug squashing.
03:08 doko     can't exactly say, more than one source, about ~150?
03:09 mdz      doko: can you get the bash RTPRIO patch in?
03:09 doko     mdz: oops, will do tomorrow
=== bmonty [n=bmontgom@ubuntu/member/bmonty] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:10 mdz      fabbione: thanks
03:10 mdz      infinity: ?
03:10 fabbione mdz: np
******** last week packaging: more initramfs-tools bugfixing, sort out "/var/run
03:10 infinity on tmpfs" issues for several daemons, fix up spiftacity to build, roll up
               PHP security release (will upload after some more testing), and investigate
               other (PEAR, libapreq2) security vulns.
******** lasw week buildd: very constructive remote sprint with cprov to get
03:10 infinity auto-dep-wait and auto-give-back handling in the launchpad buildds, spent a
               fair amount of time tracking down our current build failures, started
               rolling out sparc buildds.
******** next week packaging: Deliver some much needed love/polish to thunderbird,
03:10 infinity investigate how many initramfs bugs I can kill (or reassign to udev/kernel)
               before release without destabilising it in places where it DOES work.
******** next week buildd: finish rolling out sparc build daemons and get sparc
03:10 infinity caught up, work with cprov (no more sprinting, just minor fixes here and
               there) to sort out some other UI and buildd/queue behavioral issues.
03:11 mdz      infinity: what's the status of the auto-dep-wait/auto-give-back
               handling?  work in progress for cprov?
03:11 infinity mdz: It currently works (yay!), but there's no UI representation of it yet
               until the next LP UI rollout.
03:11 mdz      cool
03:11 infinity mdz: But I can assure you that it's functioning on the backend already.
               infinity: mark has requested that splash-down use a reversed progress bar
03:12 mdz      (reversed colors, not direction); could you find out how much work that
               would be?
03:12 infinity (Which was a big blocker before trying to get sparc caught up, since
               caching up without auto-dep-wait is a very long process)
03:13 infinity mdz: Not too much effort, I may have to just add another argument to
               usplash to it knows it's in "down" mode...
03:13 infinity mdz: That wouldn't work in the case where you hit ctrl-alt-del during
               startup, though. :)
03:13 infinity (Which currently works quite smoothly, scarily enough)
03:13 mdz      infinity: lower priority than sparc or buildd fixes, but Mark wants it
               unless we've a reason no t to
03:14 infinity Yeah, I can squeeze it in.  it won't be a destabilising feature, so we can
               get it in reasonably late.
03:14 mdz      ok, thanks
03:14 mdz      iwj: ?
               DefaultApplicationsFirefox: There has been some feedback from the `you have
03:14 iwj      chosen to open ...' suppression.   epiphany and galeon need to disable the
               change which I made by default in gecko; seb128 will be sending a mail
               about this.
               DefaultApplicationsFirefox: No-one says so far that it prevents
03:14 iwj      downloading, although the UI for getting a download is different now which
               has annoyed some people.  If you disagree with the new way please discuss
               it on ubuntu-devel.
03:14 iwj      Firefox maintenance: otherwise fairly quiet.  A few outstanding issues;
               there will be an upload this week of course.
               AutomatedTesting: working on setting up Xen-based virtualisation for
               running tests in (for safe deployment on one of my systems here, and proof
03:14 iwj      of concept for datacentre arrangements).  Defeated: Xen host, grub, mad
               bridge stuff.  Battling: lvm2.  To come: pbuilder, autopkgtest
               changes/improvements.
03:14 iwj      AutomatedTesting: new package name `autopkgtest' is everywhere; old name to
               be deleted RSN.
03:14 iwj      DeveloperDocumentation: no progress this week.
               Bugs backlog: firefox situation is not so bad if I ignore the unconfirmed
03:14 iwj      reports.  In other news, tripped over and fixed an entertaining
               ssh/tcpd/SIGALRM bug today (see my activity report today, RSN).
03:14 iwj      Email backlog: ~12h ish (mixed).
03:14 Kamion   I think the remove-package script is still broken
03:15 iwj      The firefox remove package script ?
=== silbs [n=jane@64-85-50-33.ip.van.radiant.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:15 mvo      iwj: nothing from the pymozembed front?
03:15 Kinnison iwj: I think Kamion means the soyuz archive remove-package script which
               elmo wrote during the deployment sprint.
03:15 iwj      No, I've heard nothing at all from upstream, I'm afraid.
03:15 Kamion   what Kinnison said
03:15 iwj      kinnison: Oh, right :-).
03:15 Kamion   https://launchpad.net/products/soyuz/+bug/32314
03:16 doko     iwj: could you make the alternative priority for x-www-browser higher in
               firefox than in mozilla-browser?
03:16 infinity We install firefox by default, so it makes sense for it to have a lower
               priority.
03:16 iwj      doko: Err, sure.
03:16 infinity I'll just fix your thunderbird bug. :)
03:17 iwj      You mean `so it makes sense for mozilla-browser to have a lower priority' ?
03:17 doko     infinity: firefox should have a lower prio than mozilla?
03:17 infinity doko: besides, I have the same bug here with firefox/epiphany.
03:17 mdz      iwj: ETA for automated testing deployment?  next week perhaps?
03:17 infinity doko: Defaults generally should have the lower alternatives prio..
03:17 infinity With the theory that if you install something else, you actually wanted to
               use it.
03:17 iwj      mdz: If I'm lucky some time next week.  But it depends how ff goes, really.
03:18 iwj      infinity: Um, I'm not sure I agree.
03:18 doko     infinity: well, I have to install mozilla-browser, if want to use eclipse
               ...
03:18 infinity doko: But I'll fix your bug so thunderbird pulls the GNOME preference
               correctly.
03:18 infinity iwj: Well, we can all argue after the meeting, then. :)
03:18 mdz      yes, let's
03:18 iwj      Sometimes the reason something isn't installed by default is because it's
               too big and complicated.
03:18 mdz      iwj: thanks
03:18 mdz      BenC: ?
03:18 iwj      But sometimes it's because we prefer the other thing.
               Dapper Kernel Status: All architectures seem to be stable. There are a few
               problems with PPC Sound on some system types. Work with BenH to resolve
               this. i386 and amd64 seem to be mostly 100%. The only major bugs seem to
03:18 BenC     just be affecting the bug submitter. We are still seeing oopses in
               squashfs, not even on i386. The SquashFS maintainer has contacted me, and
               is trying to resolve what he thinks is an issue with unionfs interaction.
               No ot
03:18 BenC     her major issues to speak of. If anyone knows of any real show stoppers,
               let me know now.
               Issues: Bug maint is really a lot harder with malone. Not sure if it's the
03:18 BenC     newness, I'm really stupid, or Malone just doesn't like me. I haven't taken
               the time to really pin down the usage cases that makes it harder than
               bugzilla.
03:19 mdz      BenC: what's the kernel bug list like?
03:20 mdz      overall?
03:20 BenC     it's stable in size, most of the bugs that have been coming in are getting
               fixed
=== SloMoSnail [n=slomo@p5486F870.dip.t-dialin.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== irvin [n=irvin@ubuntu/member/irvin] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:20 BenC     there are like 5 or 6 breezy regressions
03:20 mdz      no backlog then?
03:20 BenC     not really
               BenC: is the squashfs/unionfs issue
03:21 mdz      https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.15/+bug/32070
               ?
03:21 BenC     I should say, not anymore :)
03:21 BenC     ...
03:21 BenC     yeah
03:22 mdz      ok
03:22 BenC     squashfs maint seems to think it is unionfs corrupting cache tables
03:22 mdz      thanks
03:22 mdz      Kamion: ?
03:22 BenC     which makes sense
03:22 jbailey  mdz: *pout*
               ubuntu-express-copy-filesystem: Working on removing live-only packages;
               mostly done, just waiting on the buildd to deliver an extra manifest file
03:22 Kamion   (discussed with infinity earlier today). After that I only need to arrange
               to copy network configuration over and I think this spec will be
               implemented.
03:22 Kamion   ue-language-packs: Preseeding glue added to support this, and the rest done
               as well. Implemented.
03:22 Kamion   ubuntu-express-base-system: Merged Tollef's fleshed-out keymap page. It's
               QWERTY-only for now and the UI's just a big list of keymaps.
               ue-partitioning-tool: Fabio's working on a disk selector; hearing
03:22 Kamion   encouraging noises. I finally got back to gparted upstream, so we should
               have some movement there soon too.
               next-week: UI sprint. Keep on truckin' through UbuntuExpress/ToDo; expect
03:22 Kamion   to be concentrating on the partitioner. Might need to have another serious
               attack at the NEW queue and anastacia.
=== Kamion idly celebrates getting his first essential-priority spec implemented
03:22 mdz      jbailey: you said ahead of time that you didn't expect to make it
=== dholbach high-fives Kamion for gparted upstream love! :)
03:23 jbailey  mdz: Jane's already been dropped off once or twice in the meeting. Jane has
               my summary, but I'm so far holding in here for questions.
03:23 jbailey  Pastes tend to cause this connection grief.
03:23 JaneW    keybuk: No internet access from Hotel, so I will not be able to attend.
03:23 JaneW    All specs are implemented, so no progress to update anybody on.
03:23 JaneW    Friday: Internet line installed, tested and brought up; lost much of the
03:23 JaneW    afternoon to getting e-mail sorted again and packing for trip.
03:23 JaneW    Monday onwards: Multi-arch sprint in Oslo with Tollef.
=== ajmitch_ [n=ajmitch@port171-25.ubs.maxnet.net.nz] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:24 JaneW    and ftr it's silbs who has dropped off-line (unless you are referring to me
               dropping of - to sleep)
03:24 jbailey  Yes, sorry.
03:24 JaneW    jbailey:
03:24 JaneW    * Last week: At a sprint.  New locales and new glibc uploaded. RLIMIT stuff
               is in, sparc patch is in, timezone fix is in.
03:24 JaneW    * Next week: glibc-2.4 upstream will release.  Will update test packages
               and get them autotested
=== mvo hugs jbailey for the locales upload
=== jbailey melts.
03:25 JaneW    :)
03:25 mdz      jbailey: glibc 2.4 doesn't sound like dapper material at this stage
03:25 jbailey  mdz: It's not.  That the toolchainroadmapng
03:25 mdz      ok, cool
03:25 mdz      thanks for the locales/glibc uploads
03:26 mdz      Kinnison: ?
******** PowerManagementConfiguration: In simple terms the spec is now
03:26 Kinnison 'implemented'. I have integrated a lot of upstream changes and I have
               gotten upstream to take on a significant portion of the changes I made
               locally.
03:26 Kinnison - What remains are bugfixes almost entirely. There are two oddities I'm
               currently investigating.
03:26 Kinnison * General: Had day off for FOSDEM travel; continued investigating core-duo
               for powernowd. Assisted infinity with buildd stuff.
03:26 Kinnison - Also filed bug about building superseded source for infinity/cprov to
               deal with.
******** Future: Fixing bugs in g-p-m, attempt to solve powernowd issue. acpid and
03:26 Kinnison acpi-support may need love, still reading bugs. pbbuttonsd may need love to
               play nicely with g-p-m, or else g-p-m needs the loving.
03:26 Kinnison - Also may end up assisting with bringing up new arch (sparc/hppa?) for
               buildds depending on if cprov/infinity have any problems or not.
******** Blockers: Still waiting on kernel change to get a battery button key
03:26 Kinnison assigned. Upstream g-p-m are triggering battery display events on KEY_WWW
               right now because we can't find a better one.
03:26 Kinnison * Bugs: g-p-m has 33 open; acpid has 3 open; acpi-support has 125 open;
               powernowd has 14 open.
03:26 Kinnison - Can't give more detailed analysis right now because I haven't worked
               through it all yet.
03:26 Kinnison [EOR]
03:27 JaneW    Kinnison: Yay thanks for getting your spec Implemented so swiftly :)
03:27 Kinnison JaneW: Richard Hughes is a fantastic upstream to be working with.
03:27 mdz      Kinnison: could you sit with Kamion sometime soon and see if you can help
               bring espresso on schedule?
03:27 Kinnison mdz: Sure, I could go to his some time this week
03:28 mdz      Kinnison: great, extra hands may help
03:28 Kinnison Kamion: shall we work this out out-of-band?
03:28 mdz      yes
03:28 Kamion   Kinnison: yep, at a more sensible time :)
03:28 Kinnison Kamion: *nod*
03:28 mdz      thanks Kinnison
03:28 mdz      Mithrandir: ?
03:28 Kamion   Kinnison: I'm UI sprinting for some of next week, but I believe perhaps not
               all
03:28 mdz      Kamion: as little as possible
03:29 Kamion   ok
03:29 mdz      is Mithrandir here?
03:30 mdz      JaneW: please follow up with Mithrandir by email, find out what happened
03:30 mdz      mvo: ?
03:30 JaneW    mdz: ok
03:30 mvo      Did:
03:30 mvo      - wrote lp custom-upload-format handler for dist-upgrader and some support
               to generate a matching changes file, in contact the the lp people about it
03:30 mvo      - dist-upgrade work, including some fixes and a local auto-test environment
03:30 mvo      - misc: seeded gdebi
03:30 mvo      - testing/bugs/various updates (g-a-i, update-manager, gdebi, gksu,
               gnome-system-tools, python-apt)
03:30 mvo      "Hot spots"
03:30 mvo      - can we filter out open bug-reports on unsupported packages in malone
               (#33342)?
03:30 mvo      - is the debian bug importer that we had for bugzilla runing?
03:30 mvo      Will do:
03:30 mvo      - work with the lp people to get the dist-upgrader stuff into the archive
03:30 mvo      - fix debconf problem during dist-upgrade
03:30 mvo      - get hold of infinity to get the auto-dist-upgrade test chroot setup
03:30 mvo      - bug fixing
03:30 mvo      - ui sprint next week
03:32 mdz      mvo: I will check into #33342
03:32 mdz      there is currently no debbugs import, but there is a plan for one
03:32 mdz      honestly, my impression is that we get more noise than signal from debbugs
               now
03:32 mdz      the bad bugs mostly get reported independently to us
03:32 mvo      my feeling is that it helped in the past a lot, so it would be nice to have
03:32 dholbach for the gnome bugs it was not so very helpful
03:33 seb128   not, it was no use for desktop stuff
03:33 mdz      quick survey on debbugs import?
03:33 mdz      useful/not useful?
03:33 seb128   not useful
03:33 Riddell  I get all kde debian bugs anyway
03:33 dholbach not useful, sometimes useful packaging bits
03:34 iwj      I'd say not very useful.  When it is you can look in debbugs anyway.
03:34 jbailey  mdz: Not useful, glibc and lkh don't match Debian's.
03:34 pitti    useful
               mdz: Less useful for desktop stuff, since we have a huge desktop following
03:34 infinity of our own, very useful for base/packaging/server stuff, where Debian users
               are plentiful and pedantic.
03:34 mdz      infinity: agreed there; do you think we could usefully filter?
03:35 infinity Not sure, but it might be nice if we could.
03:35 pitti    don't we have tasks for that nowadays?
03:35 Kamion   occasionally useful for the installer, but I track most of the scary stuff
               anyway
03:35 infinity I track Debian bugs for all packages I maintain in Debian, but that doesn't
               come close to all the daemons I touch in Ubuntu.
03:35 pitti    i. e. the importer shoudl create debian tasks maybe, and we can confirm or
               reject them by creating an ubuntu task or not
03:35 Kamion   useful for packages we don't actively track, but not useful for packages we
               do
03:35 mdz      mvo: is the upgrade tool in breezy-updates now?
03:35 doko     useful for toolchain issues
               I think most useful for me would be if it accurately tracked upstream
03:35 jbailey  status, so that if I link to an upstream bugtracker that I actually see
               state changes associated with it.
03:36 mdz      jbailey: that's being fixed
03:36 mvo      mdz: no, because the upgrader itself is not yet in the archive and no
               authentication is in place (because it is not in the archive yet)
03:36 mdz      mvo: is the code written for authentication?
03:36 mvo      mdz: should I ignore that and make it look into people.ubuntu.com/~mvo ?
03:36 mvo      mdz: yes, but disabled
               mvo: yes, if a) it's going to take more than a couple of days to get into
03:36 mdz      the archive, and b) it displays a warning (which it should anyway since
               it's upgrading to a development release)
03:36 mvo      mdz: or rather, if no signature field is set in the meta-release file, it
               will not do checking
03:37 mdz      mvo: once it's there, another call for testing should go out
03:37 mvo      mdz: archive.u.c may happen to the end of the week
03:38 sladen   Kamion: KEY_BATTERY=$KEY_F24
03:38 mdz      mvo: if it doesn't make it by the end of next week, go ahead with people as
               a fallback
03:38 mvo      mdz: ok, thanks
03:38 mdz      thanks mvo
03:38 sladen   Kinnison: KEY_BATTERY=$KEY_F24
03:38 mdz      ogra: ?
03:38 Kinnison sladen: says who?
03:39 infinity sladen / Kinnison: -ECHAN
03:39 mdz      is ogra here?
03:39 JaneW    hmmm, possibly not
03:39 Kinnison infinity: sorry
03:40 sladen   Kinnison: hotkey-setup currently does that mapping for HP's and Dells
03:40 mdz      hrmm
03:40 JaneW    I'll mail ogra
03:40 mdz      thanks
03:40 mdz      CC me, please
03:40 mdz      on both mails
03:41 mdz      pitti: ?
03:41 pitti    status of unimplemented specs:
******** langpacks-desktopfiles: DONE: fix all non-KDE packages which needed
03:41 pitti    manual updating, spec completed; PLAN: discuss the stuff with gnome/fd.o
               upstream
03:41 pitti    * reducing-duplication: DONE: bounty for openldap gnutls12 migration set
               for vorlon; PLAN: gnutls 11->12 transition for all packages
03:41 pitti    general stuff done this week: security updates, bugs, bugs, bugs, and CD
               testing
03:41 pitti    plan:
03:41 pitti    * my spec implementations don't have any apparent big bugs, so I'm going to
               concentrate to utopia related bug fixes first
03:41 pitti    most important outstanding utopia issue ATM is to fix the unmounting, so
               that icons go away when umount finishes, not already when it starts
03:41 pitti    * Sort out power management mess on ppc with Kinnison (pbbuttonsd and g-p-m
               fighting each other)
******** I also have an awful lot of printing bugs, I could use a little help
03:41 pitti    there if anyone is interested; otherwise I'll try to shake the worst ones
               out for dapper
03:41 doko     pitti: gnutls for dapper?
03:41 pitti    doko: yes, switch over the remaining packages
03:41 pitti    all but openldap are trivial
               pitti: If you have ppc printing bugs, I might help shake them out next week
03:42 jbailey  purely out of self interest.  Otherwise it's possible that the bugs I have
               just aren't reported yet =/
03:42 pitti    jbailey: usually they aren't arch specific
03:42 doko     ok, will have to remember to do that for ia32-libs-openoffice.org ...
03:42 pitti    jbailey: which means that they also happen on ppc, so go ahead :)
03:42 dholbach pitti, mdz: i asked smurf but he said he didn't have the time for
               gnutls-openldap
03:42 pitti    vorlon accepted the bounty, right infinity?
03:42 mdz      dholbach: it's ok, we found vorlon
03:43 dholbach ok super.
03:43 pitti    dholbach: see my second line :)
03:43 iwj      pitti: If you need me to help debug gs, let me know.  I delved into it last
               cycle ...
03:43 pitti    mostly cupsys and gnome-cups-manager
03:43 pitti    but thanks for the offer, there might actually be some gs ones, too
03:44 doko     iwj: on ia64 gs is broken (cannot find gs_init.ps)
               pitti: watch out for potential incoming todo items from the localization
03:44 mdz      sprint; I will be there trying to enforce sanity but it's unknown what will
               happen yet
03:44 iwj      doko: do you have a bug # ?  Or just assign it to me.
03:44 infinity pitti: He did, he already has prelimiary patches and is testing them
               locally before he hands 'em over.
03:44 doko     iwj: there is one, will search and assign it
03:44 pitti    infinity: wow, that was quick
03:44 iwj      doko: Thanks.
03:45 infinity pitti: I think he likes the idea of being paid for once. :)
03:45 mdz      infinity: perhaps it will give him a chance to work directly with us and
               see that we are not so evil after all ;-)
03:46 mdz      thanks pitti
03:46 mdz      seb128: ?
               This week: GNOME 2.13.92, updated a bunch of GNOME packages to ship a -dbg,
03:46 seb128   session dialog change for "session lock" uploaded, load of bugs triage and
               fixing
               Todo this week: uploading gconf schemas registration speeding work, work
03:46 seb128   epiphany(galeon) for firefox change, panel submenu asked by Mark, some
               polish on the session dialog, bug triage
03:46 seb128   .
03:46 seb128   Next week: UI sprint
03:46 mdz      seb128: are the panel change and session dialog polish the only bits
               remaining from dapper-desktop-plan?
03:47 seb128   the panel change was not on dapper desktop plan, that's a bug mark opened
               like 2 weeks ago
03:47 seb128   but other way session stuff is the only real point remaining yep
03:47 mdz      ok
03:47 mdz      the panel thing is the Help submenu then?
03:47 seb128   and icons too ...
03:47 seb128   but I'm not an artist so ...
03:47 seb128   mdz: correct
03:48 mdz      seb128: icons are arriving soon
03:48 seb128   the screenshot on the wiki looks nice :)
03:48 mdz      jdub says he will bring them into u-a but will keep you in the loop
03:48 mdz      seb128: thanks
03:49 seb128   k
03:49 mdz      Riddell: ?
03:49 Riddell  done: kubuntu-express: aiming to have initial release on Friday
03:49 Riddell  also: uploading bug fixes from others, testing CDs for GNU/Linux User &
               Developer Magazine
03:49 Riddell  next week: user interface sprint
03:49 mdz      Riddell: how is the kubuntu bug list?
03:50 mdz      Riddell: any change on kubuntu-documentation from last week?
03:50 Riddell  large, we've got a decent bug team now sorting them which is great
03:50 Riddell  major problems are CUPS 1.2 support and various system settings issues
03:51 mdz      ok
03:51 mdz      Riddell: thanks
03:51 mdz      with 9 minutes to spare
03:51 pitti    Riddell: hmm, the library API didn't change, and gnome-cups-manager worked
               with 1.2 even without a rebuild - what are the major issues here?
03:51 mdz      any very quick questions or discussion topics, other business?
03:51 Kamion   Riddell: are you keeping up with merges from espresso trunk?
03:51 Riddell  pitti: KDE uses internal APIs for stuff that didn't have external APIs at
               the time
03:52 elmo     mdz: ARE WE THERE YET?
03:52 Riddell  Kamion: yes, not done so for a couple of days
03:52 mdz      elmo: 50 days or so
03:52 seb128   mdz: when did we get a consensus to use xchat for desktop? :)
               ok, there was some stuff yesterday or so that will affect you - as usual
03:52 Kamion   ask me if you need clarification on what the frontend methods are supposed
               to do
03:52 seb128   mdz: but that's not really a meeting question
03:52 Riddell  pitti: it's looking like the developer won't do the promised 1.2 support in
               time so we may have to have a cups 1.1 package
03:53 pitti    Riddell: ouch
03:53 mdz      seb128: we didn't; we had a consensus that we don't need an IRC client in
               desktop
03:53 seb128   mdz: and xorg bugs list looks not cool ...
03:53 mdz      seb128: fabio will charge into that after espresso
03:53 seb128   oki
03:53 pitti    oh, so we'll ship neither xchat nor x-g?
=== fabbione wisper to mdz that he has only 24h/d.. but will try
03:53 mdz      pitti: correct
03:53 seb128   mdz: where has the "no IRC client" been discussed? Having one doesn't eat a
               lot and can be handy
03:53 mdz      fabbione: I said 'after', not 'while'
03:54 mdz      seb128: we already have gaim
03:54 fabbione mdz: now i feel better :)))
03:54 seb128   gaim is lame for IRC
03:54 mdz      seb128: IRC is sort of a developer / power user thing
03:54 pitti    but most normal users actually use ICQ and such, not iRC
03:54 seb128   "momentum users"? :)
03:55 fabbione mdz, seb128: i will be glad if somebody will start at least closing
               duplicates...
03:55 fabbione that doesn't require my 31337 X skills
03:55 fabbione and it will spare my time later
03:55 mdz      fabbione: perhaps pitti has some time
=== fabbione points is finger towards desktop
03:56 seb128   I barely cope with desktop bugs flood but I can give it a try
03:56 mdz      fabbione: or Kinnison
03:56 infinity I can dupe a bunch and close some obvsiously false reports, I just need to
               find some spare time to do so.
=== mvo can helps after the sprint as well
03:56 mdz      seb128: please, I need you to stay alive at least for the release
03:56 seb128   mdz: ok ok, don't worry :)
03:57 infinity Oh, sure HE gets special "gets to continue living" treatment. :P
=== seb128 intends to stay alive for the release and long time after that :)
03:57 seb128   infinity: :p
03:57 pitti    seb128: after all, we still need you for gnome 2.128 :)
03:57 dholbach mdz: i will bring tollef the good news, that he has popcon access :)
03:58 mdz      ok, official notice: NOBODY DIE
03:58 seb128   pitti: right, and that's quite a long time from now ;)
03:58 Kinnison mdz: aww
=== pitti tries to remember that
=== mvo makes a note to not die
=== Kinnison wonders how long before he can go to bed
03:58 JaneW    mdz: that's so sweet :)
03:58 pitti    but we aren't in a London hotel, so the chances are pretty good :)
03:58 fabbione mdz: WHOOO HOOO
03:58 silbs    Kinnison: you can't die, but you can't sleep either
03:58 fabbione mdz: thanks!
03:58 infinity pitti: <grin>
03:58 mdz      silbs: a spy!
03:58 seb128   Kinnison: if you wait a bit that will be time to wake up and no need to go
               to bed :)
03:58 Kinnison silbs: if I don't go to bed soon, rjek *may* kill me
03:59 mdz      ok, we're clearly finished being productive here
03:59 mdz      adjourned

</pre>
