{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Review ACTION points from previous meeting
Xenial Development

    https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule

    http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 

Assigned bugwork (rbasak)

Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)

Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
Upcoming Call For Papers
Ubuntu Server Team Events
Open Discussion
Announce next meeting date, time and chair

    ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====

No actions to review

===== Xenial Development =====

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule]]</nowiki>

====== Release Bugs ======

http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

http://launchpad.net/bugs/1514731

http://launchpad.net/bugs/1514482

http://launchpad.net/bugs/1510345

http://launchpad.net/bugs/1499620

http://launchpad.net/bugs/1510108

===== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) =====

Nothing to report from caribou

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara) =====

matsubara was not able to attend

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) =====

<arges> Nothing to report. Feed us any bugs.

===== Upcoming Call For Papers =====

None mentioned

===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====

None mentioned

===== Open Discussion =====

Nothing came up

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Wednesday, January 13th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

===== Meeting Actions =====

Meeting chair to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:00] <gnuoy> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:00] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jan  5 16:00:34 2016 UTC.  The chair is gnuoy. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:00] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:00] <gnuoy> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:01] <gnuoy> hmm no action points...
[16:01] <gnuoy> unless I'm missing something
[16:01] <smoser> o/
[16:01] <jgrimm> o/
[16:01] <gnuoy> moving on
[16:01] <gnuoy> #topic Xenial Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Xenial Development
[16:01] <gnuoy> lets take a look at the release schedule
[16:02] <gnuoy> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule
[16:02] <gnuoy> that doesn't seem to be responding for me
[16:02] <gnuoy> ah, there it is
[16:02] <gnuoy> Jan 7 Alpha 1 (Monday, for opt-in flavors)
[16:03] <gnuoy> #subtopic Release Bugs
[16:03] <gnuoy> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:04] <gnuoy> argh, wrong one
[16:04] <gnuoy> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:05] <gnuoy> http://launchpad.net/bugs/1514731
[16:05] <ubottu> Error: Could not gather data from Launchpad for bug #1514731 (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1514731). The error has been logged
[16:05] <gnuoy> http://launchpad.net/bugs/1514482
[16:05] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1514482 in walinuxagent (Ubuntu Xenial) "walinuxagent udev should be included in initramfs" [High,Confirmed]
[16:05] <gnuoy> http://launchpad.net/bugs/1510345
[16:05] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1510345 in cloud-init (Ubuntu Xenial) "[SRU] Cloud Images do not bring up networking w/ certain virtual NICs due to device naming rules" [High,Triaged]
[16:05] <gnuoy> http://launchpad.net/bugs/1499620
[16:05] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1499620 in python-oslo.log (Ubuntu Wily) "[SRU] Unintended assignment of "syslog"" [High,In progress]
[16:05] <gnuoy> http://launchpad.net/bugs/1510108
[16:05] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1510108 in lxc (Ubuntu Xenial) "pre-installed lxc in cloud-image means loss of access to 10.0.X.0/24" [Medium,Triaged]
[16:06] <gnuoy> Two unassigned and apparently dosaboy is dealing with one and the other is incomplete
[16:06] <gnuoy> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:07] <caribou> gnuoy: I'm good, nothing on my side
[16:07] <gnuoy> caribou, ta
[16:07] <gnuoy> anyone got anything for caribou?
[16:08] <gnuoy> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
[16:08] <gnuoy> matsubara, anything from you?
[16:08] <gnuoy> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
[16:08] <arges> Nothing to report. Feed us any bugs.
[16:08] <gnuoy> arges, ta
[16:09] <nacc> gnuoy: i think matsubara is still on vacation
[16:09] <gnuoy> nacc, ok, thanks for the update
[16:09] <gnuoy> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Upcoming Call For Papers
[16:10] <gnuoy> not sure what fosdems deadline is or if anyone had submitted a talk?
[16:10] <gnuoy> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:11] <gnuoy> node that I know of
[16:11] <gnuoy> s/node/none/
[16:11] <gnuoy> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:11] <rbasak> teward: did you have anything?
[16:12] <rbasak> I guess not.
[16:12] <gnuoy> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
[16:12] <gnuoy> Next meeting Tuesday 12th January and your host will be the lovely zul
[16:12] <gnuoy> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[16:12] <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Jan  5 16:12:57 2016 UTC.
[16:12] <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-01-05-16.00.moin.txt
</pre>
