{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
09:00	mdz_	we are short ~5, waiting a minute for stragglers
09:02	mdz_	tardiness abounds
=== iwj [n=ian@xenophobe.extern.relativity.greenend.org.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:02	mdz_	time to get started though
09:02	mdz_	tfheen: you're up
09:02	tfheen	misc: some casper hacking, cleanups after beta, preparations for RC
09:02	tfheen	next week: RC preparations, finishing touches to casper
=== ranf [n=ralfm@dslb-084-058-132-112.pools.arcor-ip.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:02	tfheen	oh, and I'm going to get a new Opera version into -commercial too
09:02	mdz_	tfheen: what's your feeling on the bug list for RC/final?
09:02	tfheen	(security fixes)
09:02	tfheen	mdz_: the list of targeted bugs looks manageable.
09:03	mdz_	tfheen: have you looked over the process doc for RC?
09:03	tfheen	yes, and it looks good.
09:03	tfheen	let's see if the execution works well too. :-)
09:03	mdz_	the key is to make corrections as you go :-)
09:04	tfheen	yeah, I'm going to do that
09:04	mdz_	the checklist starts...3 days ago I think
09:04	tfheen	it starts today, iirc?
09:04	tfheen	with KernelFreeze
09:04	mdz_	ah, correct
09:04	mdz_	and then monday
09:04	tfheen	yeah
09:05	mdz_	ok, thanks
09:05	mdz_	pitti: next
09:05	pitti	Done:
09:05	pitti	* security updates: firefox 1.0->1.5 for breezy (ugh, thanks to all involved), openssl, mono, checked/published lots of updates from Kees
09:05	pitti	* fixed langpack-o-matic infrastructure to work with new SRU policy (upload staging in *-proposed), uploaded new langpacks to dapper-proposed, discussion about publishing/review is ongoing
09:05	pitti	* fixed langpack-o-matic to only generate new versions if something actually changed
09:05	pitti	* taught apport how to run really *fast*
09:05	pitti	* improved apport-retrace script to make use of new ddeb archive, so that you now get symbolic stack traces to the extent possible (depending on ddeb availability); will announce it on u-devel
09:05	pitti	* Beta CD testing
09:05	pitti	* bug fixing sprint
09:05	pitti	Todo:
09:05	pitti	* finish discussion and SRU policy about langpack updates to get updates working again
09:05	pitti	* another bug fixing sprint, catch up with bug triage
09:05	pitti	* some more pending security updates, clean up the backlog of low-profile issues with Kees
09:05	pitti	* care for mysql merge if infinity's workload is too high
09:05	mdz_	pitti: anything on your bug list for final?
09:06	pitti	yeah, quite a number
09:06	pitti	I used the milestone
09:06	mdz_	manageable though?
09:06	pitti	about 15 which are easy
09:06	pitti	yes, the only bug that will need time to fix is the sudo one
09:06	pitti	for the rest I have patches or an easy solution, just a matter of applying and testing them
09:07	keescook	pitti: is that the ssh+sudo terminal bug?
09:07	pitti	I think I can kill them by the end of the week
09:07	mdz_	pitti: are you getting feedback about the ddeb infrastructure
09:07	pitti	keescook: yes
09:07	pitti	mdz_: yes, some; people seem to love it :)
09:07	pitti	and various Debian guys approached me as well
09:07	sivang	morning
09:07	sfllaw	Hurray!
09:07	pitti	but with yesterday's apport-gtk, the ddebs start making real sense
=== sivang is here now
09:08	pitti	erm, s/gtk/retrace/
09:08	mdz_	excellent
09:08	mdz_	pitti: is there a doc which explains to developers how to use it?
09:08	mdz_	it would be useful if bug triagers could decode the crash reports
09:08	pitti	mdz: that's the 'will announce it today' part
09:08	mdz_	pitti: ok, thanks
09:08	pitti	yes, I probably put it into the wiki
09:08	mdz_	heno: next
09:09	heno	a11y for Edgy:
09:09	heno	* onBoard promoted to main but needs seeding to desktop and GOK should be un-seeded. This will save several MB
09:09	heno	* Bugs: GOK crasher (58600) AT-SPI crasher (62446)
09:09	heno	* Live CD: Will test latest Casper settings, Need ubquity orca-as-root hack
09:09	heno	* usability: gnome-at-prefs patch pending to eliminate a11y menu entries in Applications menu (59553)
09:09	heno	*WinFOSS: just some cosmetic cleanups and latest versions of apps (esp. Firefox now in RC)
09:09	dholbach	heno: I'm happy to do the seed change.
09:09	mdz_	was just about to ask ;-)
09:09	dholbach	;)
09:09	heno	dholbach: thanks!
09:09	dholbach	heno: de rien
09:10	mdz_	tfheen: winfoss is one for the checklist; please add it
09:10	dholbach	the gok crasher was X-related, I think
09:10	mdz_	it should have a deadline well in advance of RC
09:10	dholbach	heno: for the at-spi crasher, we should get in touch with William again
09:11	heno	dholbach: sorry William who?
09:11	mdz_	heno: you had a chance to test a11y in beta and those are the only known major issues?
09:11	dholbach	heno: Walker
09:11	heno	mdz_: yes, that's what's on my list
09:12	mdz_	heno: ok, thanks
09:12	heno	several things have been fixed in the past few days
09:12	mdz_	iwj: next
09:12	iwj	package-dependency-field-breaks: reverted the Breakses in edgy (update-manager couldn't be made to cope in time)
09:12	iwj	automated-testing-deployment: Some progress on packaging the Xen/LVM virtualisation scripts.
09:12	iwj	other done: firefox 1.0->1.5 security update for breezy finally done.  Bugs.
09:12	iwj	todo: Bugs and more automated-testing-deployment.
09:12	tfheen	mdz_: done
09:12	mdz_	iwj: ISTR the firefox branding list being a targeted bug; have you had a look at that?
09:12	mdz_	tfheen: thanks
09:12	mdz_	s/list/issue/
09:13	mdz_	"bon echo" -> "firefox"
09:13	iwj	mdz_: Err, no ...
=== freemanen [n=freemane@c83-248-211-211.bredband.comhem.se] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:13	iwj	I was waiting to see what came out of your negotiations with upstream.
09:13	iwj	And secretly hoping the actual 2.0 might make it.
09:13	mdz_	iwj: they're not being very responsive; we're likely to go with what we have for edgy
=== xeros [i=xeros@fan194.internetdsl.tpnet.pl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:13	mdz_	according to upstream there is no need to name the pre-releases Bon Echo
09:14	mdz_	so we don't need to wait for 2.0 for that
09:14	iwj	mdz: So just to be clear, I should arrange for it to be called `firefox' unless I hear from you otherwise ?
09:14	mdz_	(and we need to fix it even if it doesn't come)
09:14	mdz_	iwj: yes, matching dapper
09:14	iwj	mdz: Well, yes, but when 2.0 comes the name will change automatically.
09:14	mdz_	iwj: s/when/if/ :-)
09:14	iwj	Quite.
09:14	mdz_	iwj: ok, thanks
09:14	mdz_	sfllaw: next
=== doko_ is away for 2min
09:15	sfllaw	Done:
09:15	sfllaw	* Set up lab environment to test fixes for *-proposed
09:15	sfllaw	* Verified bug 59228 was fixed
09:15	sfllaw	* Bug triage
09:15	sfllaw	* Hug day
09:15	Ubugtu	Malone bug 59228 in cpio "cpio build glitch breaks Unicode char handling" [Unknown,Fix released]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/59228
09:15	sfllaw	* Pinged cgps about interns
09:15	sfllaw	* Installer testing with cr3
09:16	sfllaw	To do:
09:16	sfllaw	* Hug day
09:16	sfllaw	* Bug triage
09:16	mdz_	sfllaw: there are a few non-mainstream use cases which I think we need to formally QA in advance of RC; please email me and I will fill in the details tomorrow
09:17	sfllaw	mdz_: Writing e-mail as we speak.
09:17	mdz_	sfllaw: since you were in proximity, do you happen to know what's happening wrt cr3 and certification testing?
09:17	sfllaw	I know that they're going to be testing the boxes that Intel has shipped them.
09:18	sfllaw	And that they will try to do all the boxes in the lab on a best effort basis.
09:18	mdz_	ok, that's one of the items I was referring to, but I have a specific list of line items
09:18	mdz_	will follow up via email
09:18	mdz_	thanks sfllaw
09:18	mdz_	doko_: next
09:18	doko_	this week:
09:18	doko_	- openoffice.org - OOo 2.0.4 RC3 packages, splitting out icon styles
09:18	doko_	   and dropping dependency on java-gcj-compat (saving 17MB on the CD).
09:18	doko_	   fix openoffice.org-gcj to work again, updated some needed -java
09:18	doko_	   packages.
09:18	doko_	- toolchain-roadmap: addressing bugs, still outstanding: glibc build
09:18	doko_	   failure on ia64, currently working on it.
09:18	doko_	- toolchain-roadmap+1: prepare gcc-4.1/gcc-4.2, binutils updates.
09:18	doko_	- some fixes for python using packages
09:18	doko_	- other: looking at eclipse update, oprofile sync.
09:18	doko_	next week:
09:18	doko_	- focus on OOo report, python reports.
09:18	doko_	- address glibc build failure on ia64
09:19	Riddell	"saving 17MB" yay :)
09:19	mdz_	doko_: the java-gcj-compat changes are landed now?
=== pitti hugs doko_ for CD space savings
09:19	doko_	mdz_: yes
09:20	mdz_	doko_: well done
09:20	mdz_	doko_: do you expect to see a 2.0.4 final before RC freeze?
09:20	doko_	mdz: it's expected before our RC, let's see how it works
09:21	doko_	final python 2.4.4 is another candidate for an update
09:21	mdz_	doko_: could you follow up with LP folks to see about opening edgy+1 in advance?  last i heard, it was deemed possible but the plan wasn't very concrete
09:22	doko_	ok, will do
09:22	mdz_	doko_: thanks
09:22	mdz_	BenC: next
09:22	BenC	Done:
09:22	BenC	* Most of the way through the dapper kernel post-release changes audit
09:22	BenC	* edgy kernel is about ready. Few more regressions to look at. Upload tomorrow will be for kernel freeze.
09:22	BenC	* started work on edgy+1 kernel
09:22	BenC	* no-boot-loader changes will be uploaded tomorrow with kernel.
09:22	BenC	Todo:
09:22	BenC	* Bug review
09:22	BenC	oops, one liner change to that
09:22	BenC	* edgy kernel is about ready. Few more regressions to look at. Maybe have a few patches by tomorrow, but nothing that will cause an ABI change.
09:22	tfheen	BenC: uh, tomorrow?  Freeze is today, can you get it in today?
09:22	mdz_	BenC: are the regressions targeted?
09:23	BenC	yes
09:23	tfheen	BenC: or is it your tomorrow which is thursday?
09:23	BenC	tomorrow == today for you guys :)
09:23	tfheen	ok, thanks
09:23	BenC	Thursday
09:23	tfheen	hurrah for timezones
09:23	mdz_	BenC: thanks for the intel review, have a conference call tomorrow with them to confirm everything
09:24	mdz_	seb128: next
09:24	BenC	let me know if you need any more info on kernel support
09:24	seb128	Done:
09:24	seb128	- GNOME 2.16.1
09:24	seb128	- beta CD testing
09:24	seb128	- fixed desktop bugs, a bunch with edgy milestone
09:24	seb128	- bug triage
09:24	seb128	To do:
09:24	mdz_	will do
09:24	seb128	- bugs marathon, backlog jumped from 220 to 340 in a week
09:24	seb128	- keep fixing bugs for edgy
09:24	mdz_	seb128: how big is your targeted bug list?  anything which should worry us?
09:25	seb128	edgy bugs list is fairly small (13 desktop-bugs milestoned for edgy atm)
09:25	seb128	no real blocker
09:25	seb128	3-4 bugs I really want to have a look at
09:25	seb128	other are bonus
09:25	mdz_	seb128: you have a lead on that gnome-settings-daemon issue?
09:25	seb128	it's gst_init failing sometime, I've started to try figuring why
09:25	seb128	I want to look at it today
09:26	mdz_	ok, thanks
09:26	mdz_	dholbach: next
09:26	dholbach	Done (since last meeting)
09:26	dholbach	    * gnome 2.16.1
09:26	dholbach	    [* celebrated germany's union]
09:26	dholbach	    * bug triage
09:26	dholbach	    * telepathy packaging
09:26	dholbach	    * artwork packaging ({blubuntu,peace,tropic}-look)
09:26	dholbach	    * motu-uvf
09:26	dholbach	    * motu reviews
09:26	dholbach	    * apt-get.org reviews
09:26	dholbach	To do
09:26	dholbach	    * BUG TRIAGE, BUG FIXING
09:26	dholbach	    * look into Debian fixes
09:26	dholbach	    * a11y team meeting
09:26	dholbach	    * more motu-uvf
09:26	dholbach	    * more apt-get.org reviews (didn't manage as much over the WE as I'd liked)
09:26	mdz_	dholbach: is artwork up to date with the latest from the art team now?
09:27	dholbach	I'll upload tropic after the meeting
09:27	dholbach	but after that, that's all I have
09:27	dholbach	we might add some emblems to human-icon-theme, but fschoep knows more about that
09:27	fschoep	Indeed
09:27	mdz_	dholbach: ok, thanks
09:27	dholbach	(nothing grave at any rate)
09:27	mdz_	Keybuk: next
09:28	Keybuk	Done:
09:28	Keybuk	* CD/Upgrade testing
09:28	Keybuk	* sysvinit: mount /proc/bus/usb again for release, using an awesome recursive bind-mount hack
09:28	Keybuk	* upstart: fixed bug of calling shutdown from runlevel 0 or 6
09:28	Keybuk	* first cut at making nvidia/fglrx only load if needed, infinity working on improvement for nvigia-legacy
09:28	Keybuk	* cleaned up anastacia
09:29	Keybuk	ToDo:
09:29	Keybuk	* inittab migration
09:29	Keybuk	* update readahead lists
09:29	mdz_	Keybuk: _very solid and obviously correct_ awesome recursive bind-mount hack I hope
09:29	Keybuk	mdz_: totally bogus, scary, freaky
09:29	Keybuk	but works
09:30	mdz_	Keybuk: I feel so much better now
09:30	dholbach	. o O { We're all going to die... }
09:30	Keybuk	/proc/bus/usb is a recursive bind-mount of /dev/bus/usb
09:30	Keybuk	with usbfs mounted with restrictive permissions at /dev/bus/usb/.usbfs
09:30	mdz_	Keybuk: any remaining upstart issues to fix for final?
09:30	Keybuk	and a devices symlink in there
09:30	Keybuk	mdz_: just the inittab migration
09:31	mdz_	Keybuk: how scary?
09:31	Keybuk	which bit?
09:31	mdz_	inittab migration
09:32	Keybuk	it's vaguely annoying, because inittab isn't a very well-specified config file
09:32	Keybuk	will have to look for "common patterns" (like commenting out something with getty in its command) rather than actual changes
09:32	mdz_	Keybuk: you are full of good news today
09:32	Keybuk	mdz_: I want you to sleep well tonight ;)
09:32	mdz_	sleep?!
09:32	sivang	heh
09:32	highvoltage	:)
09:32	Keybuk	that's why I threw in the shiny anastacia emptyness
09:33	Keybuk	to make you feel better
09:33	mdz_	Keybuk: satisfied with the archive checklist having put it into practice?
09:33	Keybuk	mdz_: needs adjusting to better deal with NBS I think
09:33	mdz_	Keybuk: how so?
09:34	Keybuk	to find them, check them, arrange for rebuilds if necessary
09:34	mdz_	ok, by all means ;-)
09:34	mdz_	Keybuk: thanks
09:34	mdz_	mvo: next
09:34	Keybuk	also a note that you can't ever satisfy jessica
09:34	mvo	Did:
09:34	mvo	- Beta release testing/bugfixing
09:34	mvo	- Lot of bug triage (beta brought in lots of reports)
09:34	mvo	- dist-upgrader work (edgyQuirks code that will ensure proper python2.4-foo -> python-foo transition and deal with hpijs, fixes, revert support for backports, we will get this in edgy+1)
09:34	mvo	- g-a-i desktop files updated, added desktop-files from CommonCustomization
09:34	mvo	- prepared notifications about non-free drivers (update-notifier url support)
09:34	mvo	- desktopsecure dapper-commercial update
09:34	mvo	- backported gtkhtml to breezy g-a-i because ff1.5 update broke pymozembed
09:34	mvo	- python-apt work (memleak  fixed + nasty crashes due to python2.5 C-API changes)
09:34	mvo	- apt fixes in the i18n code and made the pkgTagFile buffer more dynamic
09:34	mvo	- apt and recent g++ trouble with #pragma debugged with doko (http://gcc.gnu.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=29289)
09:34	Ubugtu	gcc.gnu.org bug 29289 in c++ "[4.1/4.2]  additionally weak symbols referenced/generated" [Normal,Unconfirmed]  
09:34	mvo	- upgrade testing
09:34	mvo	- various fixes uploaded
09:35	mvo	Will do:
09:35	mvo	- more bugtriage/testing/fixes
09:35	mvo	- fix synaptic performance regression (#63171)
09:35	mvo	- fix language-selector problem when new fontconfig fragments are added (#62869)
09:35	mvo	- investigate popcon bug #64122, need access to the apache logs
09:35	Ubugtu	Malone bug 64122 in popularity-contest "Duplicated HOSTID in popcon" [High,Confirmed]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/64122
09:35	mvo	- user notification for non-free drivers(?)
09:35	mdz_	Keybuk: *inappropriate comment suppressed*
09:35	mvo	- look into non-free icons issue of app-install-data (#61076)
09:35	mdz_	mvo: is the dist-upgrader in shape for RC/final?
09:35	mvo	mdz_: yes. we only get bugs about failing postinst etc now
09:36	mdz_	mvo: in main?
09:36	mdz_	are those filed and targeted?
09:36	mvo	and there is a common upgrade issue for people who have installed unofficial compoiz packages
09:36	dholbach	urg urg urg :-(
09:36	mvo	mdz_: yes, I usually reassign those. mostly caused by customization in some way
09:37	mdz_	mvo: you have an RT ticket open for the logs?
09:37	mvo	no, doing that now
09:37	mdz_	ok, thanks
09:37	mdz_	keescook: next
09:37	keescook	Done:
09:37	keescook	* new hire checklist, system access, etc
09:37	keescook	* Beta testing
09:37	keescook	* build environment creation
09:37	keescook	* security reviews: keeping "unchecked" CVE list short
09:37	keescook	* security updates created and released: gdb/all, ffmpeg/dapper,breezy,hoary, xine-lib/dapper,breezy,hoary, kino/hoary
09:37	keescook	* security updates built: bind9, python2.[34]
=== Kamion [n=cjwatson@82-69-40-219.dsl.in-addr.zen.co.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:37	keescook	* security investigated for: libmusicbrainz, libksba
09:37	keescook	* bug triage
09:37	keescook	* minor apport debugging/improvement, patches incorporated by pitti
09:37	Kamion	damnit, sorry, totally forgot ...
09:37	keescook	To do:
09:37	keescook	* security updates pending with pitti: bind9
09:37	keescook	* security updates with build trouble: python2.[34]
09:37	keescook	* security updates for: libmusicbrainz, libksba, awstats
09:37	keescook	* stricter build environment (sbuild+schroot+lvm snapshots)
09:38	mdz_	keescook: build trouble -> related to the update or something else?
09:38	pitti	mdz_: related to the 'spethial' packaging of python
09:38	keescook	it's related to build system changes, I'm assuming.  doko and pitti have a fuller understanding.
09:38	pitti	and to some kernel weirdness in the test suite
09:38	mdz_	nnrrgghhh
09:39	doko_	mdz_, pitti: no failure of a test (just on the buildd's)
09:39	keescook	it's been tracked down, and the first pass at the hoary updates finished okay.
09:39	pitti	(eternal hang in a test that didn't happen in final)
09:39	mdz_	ok
09:39	mdz_	keescook: are you now able to process updates/advisories end-to-end?
09:39	keescook	nope, still going through pitti at the moment.
09:39	pitti	the vendor-sec objection period finished today, I filed an RT for security@u.c. alias
09:40	pitti	I'll also file an RT for jackass access
09:40	mdz_	keescook: as you should be, but you have all the necessary privileges now, yes?
09:40	pitti	but we need to make kees an ubuntu-core-dev for full access, and that needs to go through the official process
09:40	mdz_	or waiting on sysadmin?
09:40	mdz_	ah
09:40	keescook	what pitti said.  :)
09:40	mdz_	pitti: you'll guide kees through the core-dev process?
09:40	pitti	mdz_: of course
09:40	mdz_	ok
09:40	mdz_	thanks keescook
09:40	pitti	already at it
09:40	mdz_	Riddell: next
09:40	Riddell	done: beta release, went very well.  KDE conference, lots of Kubuntu love.
09:40	Riddell	      bug fixing
09:40	Riddell	      KDE 3.5.5 packaging, Qt 4.2 packaging
09:40	Keybuk	keescook: the TB accepts bribes
09:41	Riddell	unblocked: ruby, thanks BenC
09:41	Riddell	todo: finish KDE 3.5.5, Qt 4.2.  KOffice 1.6 also out this week.  UVF exception requests to come
09:41	keescook	Keybuk: I must perfect my beer-over-IRC system.
09:41	mdz_	Riddell: time is very short for major new upstreams at this point; are there high-priority fixes in there?
=== iwj [n=ian@xenophobe.extern.relativity.greenend.org.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:42	Riddell	mdz_: qt 4.2 has some important stuff like not duplicating packages and giving us back qt4 dbus
09:43	mdz_	Riddell: please be thorough with your rationales
09:43	Riddell	nothing vital in kde and koffice, but still plenty of nice fixes
09:43	Riddell	yep
09:43	mdz_	Riddell: targeted bugs for Kubuntu?
09:44	Riddell	mdz_: I'll do some malone targetting today, but making sure accessibility and oem-config work will be there
09:44	Riddell	also if anyone want to fix libnss-mdns to touch nss.switch that would be great
09:44	mdz_	Riddell: ok, please make sure those bugs are targeted by the end of the week
09:44	mdz_	we need to know where we stand
09:44	mdz_	Riddell: thanks
09:45	mdz_	kwwii_: next
09:45	kwwii_	The last weeks I did:
09:45	kwwii_	completely new powermanager icons
09:45	kwwii_	final tweaks on usplash pic, tested on lots of machines - seems to work and look fine.
09:45	kwwii_	windeco button tweaks
09:45	kwwii_	kdm and kslpash pics and config to fix bug and center the logo (fixed https://launchpad.net/bugs/40821)
09:45	Ubugtu	Malone bug 40821 in kdebase "login dialog font is huge on 147 DPI screen" [Low,Fix released]  
09:45	kwwii_	played a bit and finally gave up on the about/help/app-start pages
09:45	kwwii_	next week I plan to do:
09:45	mdz_	kwwii_: is the artwork now final?
09:45	kwwii_	kmenu side image
09:45	kwwii_	kubuntu branded kmenu icon
09:45	kwwii_	web page images
09:45	kwwii_	polishing anything left
09:45	kwwii_	create a wiki page with all final artwork, screens, etc.
09:46	kwwii_	mdz_: very close to it, yes...just polishing left
09:46	mdz_	kwwii_: let's make RC freeze the hard deadline, including polishing
09:46	mdz_	doable?
09:46	kwwii_	hrm, we could come close
09:47	mdz_	kwwii_: we need it finalized; no last-minute changes this time around
09:47	kwwii_	we are not missing anything major anyway...so whatever gets left out is not such a big deal
09:47	mdz_	ok
09:47	mdz_	kwwii_: thanks
09:48	mdz_	fschoep: next
09:48	fschoep	Done:
09:48	fschoep	* community-artwork: conference call with jmak and sabdfl, follow-up tomorrow, wrote down final directions
09:48	fschoep	* firefox-themes-ubuntu: fix bugs, Ian uploaded new package
09:48	fschoep	* art-mailing-list: fix ML moderation, we now have an active team for it again
09:48	fschoep	* theme-teams: did my best to package their work, Daniel is doing the final touches
09:48	fschoep	* fixing bugs
09:48	fschoep	* updating specifications and bugs
09:48	fschoep	Ongoing:
09:48	fschoep	* usplash-artwork: work with Seveas and msikma to get a new design in
09:48	fschoep	* sound-themes: got in touch with cbx33, working on shorter sounds
09:48	fschoep	* community-artwork: creating final designs to sabdfl's liking
09:48	fschoep	* ubuntu-art-polish-human-icons: iterate with Dave on polishing icons, integrating some community crafted icons
09:48	mdz_	fschoep: likewise, make artwork freeze your drop-dead date
09:48	mdz_	er, RC freeze
09:48	fschoep	mdz_: I'll do my best and communicate that plan to sabdfl tomorrow
09:48	mdz_	fschoep: any deliverables from the artwork call for final?
09:49	fschoep	mdz_: I'm not sure if I get that question, can you rephrase it?
09:49	mdz_	fschoep: were there any issues raised during the conference call which must be addressed for final?
09:50	fschoep	mdz_: yes
09:50	mdz_	it sounds like there were, but we need a list
09:50	fschoep	mdz_: the only issue was that the artwork sucks so to speak
09:50	mdz_	please file bugs for each of them and target them to ubuntu-6.10 so that tfheen sees them
09:50	fschoep	mdz_: so we worked this week on solving it
09:50	mdz_	fschoep: I am not amused
09:50	fschoep	mdz_: it wasn't funny
09:51	fschoep	mdz_: so I'll file bugs for the GDM and wallpaper then?
09:51	mdz_	fschoep: anything which is needed for final
09:51	mdz_	and it needs to be complete by RC freeze
09:51	mdz_	barring extraordinary circumstances
09:51	fschoep	mdz_: right, I'll do that
09:52	mdz_	fschoep: ok, thanks
09:52	mdz_	Kamion: next
09:52	Kamion	Done:
09:52	Kamion	  misc: Edgy beta release. Lots of archive admin. openssh security fix. germinate fix to stop it wanting to promote type-handling to main. Renamed "server" to "command-line" install on the alternate CDs.
09:52	Kamion	  sane-installer-keyboard: Extra bits of integration missed earlier, done for beta. Keyboard variant selector in ubiquity. Other minor fixes.
09:52	Kamion	  ubiquity: Fixed to prevent selection of reserved usernames. Now catches file copying errors and displays a more helpful error message, which should cut down the incoming bug flow a lot.
09:52	Kamion	  no-more-devfs: kickseed fix for partition selection required by device name changes.
09:52	Kamion	To do:
09:52	Kamion	  usplash: tasksel enhancements to fix resolution detection on fresh d-i installs still needed.
09:52	Kamion	  ubiquity: Still need to at least analyse gtk-mainloop-crash and invalid-literal-for-int crashes; may be able to at least work around these. Two other major bugs remaining for final (dodgy country selection and broken manual partitioning summary).
09:52	Kamion	  misc: Fix system-config-kickstart, which is broken at the moment and needs a bit of an overhaul.
09:52	Kamion	(I'm going to give the usplash stuff priority)
09:52	mdz_	Kamion: are those important-sounding todo items recorded as targeted bugs?
09:53	Kamion	yes, except for those two crashes because I haven't decided on those yet
09:53	mdz_	ok
09:53	mdz_	have you had a look over the process docs?
09:53	Kamion	briefly, but not yet extensively I'm afraid
09:53	mdz_	ok, best to do it in the throes for the best chance of catching omissions
09:53	Kamion	I've todoed that for myself
09:54	Kamion	yeah
09:54	mdz_	Kamion: how is OEM mode looking?
09:54	Kamion	well, it works now, which is better than beta
09:54	Kamion	still not that pretty, I'm wondering if it's worth fixing up the session startup
09:54	mdz_	I haven't had a look at it lately, but feel free to email me with details if you need opinions
09:55	Kamion	(for the curious, the bug was that importing the oem-config frontend to find out which one to use caused gtk to be imported which caused it to try to talk to the X server before we'd started it)
09:55	mdz_	Kamion: thanks
09:55	mdz_	anything else outstanding?
09:55	sivang	mdz_: i have an update as well
09:55	mdz_	sivang: go
09:55	sivang	hubackup:
09:55	sivang	- backup stage uses the new GUI designed in UDS Paris, including usability improvements and media detection fixes.
09:55	Kamion	I wrote the above hastily, but I think it's complete for me
09:55	sivang	- Working to have a version to to upload early as edgy+1 opens.
09:55	sivang	system clean up tool:
09:55	sivang	- KleanSweap's author now working with me (was excited about me approaching him for Ubuntu). He already produced a perliminary version of a python back end, which we will work  to bug fix, and I'm intending to use for a PyGTK gui. for Kubuntu will use KleanSweap's GUI itself, or we might come up with easier GUI for the simple user, if that is desired.
09:55	sivang	- Old kernel removals are still pending discussion and guidance.
09:56	sivang	DB2:
09:56	sivang	- Finally discovered the culprit for DB2 connection problems on canonical testing hosts.
09:56	sivang	- Now awaiting minor setup needed  on testing hosts. Kurt von Fink forwarded an request email from me to right places, hopefully this will get sorted quick in order to finish.
09:56	mdz_	sivang: you can CC me and kernel-team for input on kernel removal if you need it
09:56	sivang	mdz_: sure thing, will do
09:56	mdz_	that is surely all edgy+1 work now though
09:56	sivang	indeed
09:56	mdz_	sivang: ok, thanks
09:56	mdz_	last call for other business
09:56	ogra	?
09:56	ogra	forgot me ?
09:56	mdz_	ogra: oh, you're here now
09:56	ogra	* last-week:
09:56	ogra	- beta release
09:56	ogra	- new gnome screensaver and powermanager packages
09:56	ogra	- fixed some edubuntu-artwork bugs
09:56	ogra	- identified remaining installer bugs (hardcoded hostname setting, translation regression in german)
09:57	ogra	- identified remaining minor ltsp bugs (#62036 and missing "DO_NOT_SWITCH_VT" in ldm)
09:57	ogra	- had to handle a huge mail bashing flood resulting from http://cniehaus.livejournal.com/27154.html
09:57	ogra	* next week:
09:57	ogra	- fix the remaining installer and ltsp bugs
09:57	mdz_	ogra: i pinged several times
09:57	ogra	- go over screensaver and powermanager bugs, fix the non intrusively fixable ones
09:57	ogra	- fix 640x480 usplash picture (was interim for beta, new scaled down pic there, not packaged yet)
09:57	ogra	- fix a minor student-control-panel bug with pessulus
09:57	ogra	- prepare for RC
09:57	ogra	-----------
09:57	ogra	* sidenotes
09:57	ogra	- we're now allowed to call our ltsp the ltsp 5.0pre version :)
09:57	ogra	- lots and lots of thanks to the bug squad for sorting all the screensaver duplicates !
09:57	ogra	- beta feedback for edubuntu was very positive, all automation seems to work as planned now
09:57	ogra	i was here the whole meeting :)
09:57	ogra	i answered UTC 7:00 in #canonical
09:57	Keybuk	ogra: are you still planning a sysvinit upload, or should I?
09:57	ogra	oh, err, 7:15
09:58	ogra	Keybuk, will do it today, its so small :)
09:58	mvo	I would appreciate opionions for https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/gnome-app-install/+bug/61076 <- we say in http://www.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/components that some non-modifiable bits in main are ok (like fonts)
09:58	mdz_	ogra: edubuntu bugs targeted for final?
09:58	Ubugtu	Malone bug 61076 in gnome-app-install "app-install-data contains non-free icons from multiverse, app-install-data-commercial contains even more unfree stuff" [High,Confirmed]  
09:58	Keybuk	ogra: it's what you do with it, that counts
=== HiddenWolf [n=HiddenWo@136.4.dynamic.phpg.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:58	mdz_	mvo: ->ubuntu-devel@ I'd say
=== mvo appologizes for posting before ogra has finished
09:58	ogra	mdz_, yes, but not all filed ... most are one liner fixes ... got them on my whiteboard
09:58	mvo	mdz_: ok
09:59	mdz_	ogra: please get them in launchpad today
09:59	Kamion	ogra: did you get round to going back through the IRC logs to find out why we hardcoded the hostname in the first place?
09:59	ogra	mdz_, even if i fix them today ?
09:59	Kamion	because I know you must have given me a good enough reason for that - it wasn't something I was keen on
09:59	ogra	Kamion, not yet, that one i'll file
10:00	Keybuk	mvo: are they non-free in the sense that they forbid redistribution or modification of the icon
10:00	mdz_	ogra: doesn't matter, so long as at the end of the day all of the major issues are targeted
10:00	ogra	ok
10:00	Keybuk	or are they just non-free because "the icon lacks source code"
10:00	mdz_	ogra: thanks
10:00	mdz_	right on time
10:00	mdz_	adjourned, thanks everyone
</pre>
