{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** cpaelzer and rbasak to review new triaging section in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase
* Development Release
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
** Active work that may need wider communication
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Upcoming Call For Papers
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase
* Assign daily bug triage for week (powersj, rbasak, nacc, cpaelzer)
* Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak)

=== Minutes ===
=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 06 Sep at 16:00 &mdash; 16:18 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-09-06-16.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:00.

==== Development Release ====
The discussion about "Development Release" started at 16:02.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule 
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qemu/+bug/1541902 
** for awareness, ibm developers seeking to backport some qemu 2.7 functionality specific to ppc64 into our 2.6; will assess risk/viability once we see the patches
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qemu/+bug/1541902 
** sbuild is broken building Yakkety from Xenial; workaround is to no-change backport sbuild from Yakkety
** the same request applies to dpdk
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dpdk/+bug/1539775 
* '''Active work that may need wider communication''' (16:06)
** cpaelzer will come up with a proposal to fix and formalize how we handle qemu machine types, especially in regard to migrations. He asks for anyone who has had issues with kvm migration recently to get in touch

==== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)" started at 16:08.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)" started at 16:09.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)" started at 16:10.

==== Upcoming Call For Papers ====
The discussion about "Upcoming Call For Papers" started at 16:10.

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:11.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:11.

==== Announce next meeting date, time and chair ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date, time and chair" started at 16:13.

==== Assign daily bug triage for week (powersj, rbasak, nacc, cpaelzer) ====
The discussion about "Assign daily bug triage for week (powersj, rbasak, nacc, cpaelzer)" started at 16:14.

==== Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak) ====
The discussion about "Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak)" started at 16:15.

** everyone is self-updating their own status now; some progress reported

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* rbasak (51)
* cpaelzer (12)
* jgrimm (11)
* nacc (5)
* powersj (5)
* ubottu (3)
* meetingology (3)
* smb (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:00 <rbasak> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Sep  6 16:00:24 2016 UTC.  The chair is rbasak. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:00 <meetingology> 

 16:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:00 <rbasak> gaughen_ sends her apologies, so I'm chairing again.

 16:00 <jgrimm> thank you rbasak

 16:00 <rbasak> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:00 <rbasak> cpaelzer and rbasak to review new triaging section in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

 16:01 <cpaelzer> o/

 16:01 <rbasak> I have reviewed, and I think it looks good. Thanks powersj for cleaning that up!

 16:01 <powersj> np thanks for the review

 16:01 <cpaelzer> I have as well and I liked it pretty much

 16:01 <cpaelzer> I thought on more detail sometimes, but then that would divert attention too much

 16:01 <cpaelzer> the links from there are good for that

 16:02 <rbasak> Thanks cpaelzer!

 16:02 <rbasak> #topic Development Release

 16:02 <rbasak> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule

 16:02 <rbasak> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:02 <rbasak> Any comments on Yakkety's progress?

 16:02 <rbasak> I noticed sbuild is broken building Yakkety from Xenial. The easiest fix seems to be to be a no-change backport of sbuild from Yakkety.

 16:03 <jgrimm> for awareness, ibm developers seeking to backport some qemu 2.7 functionality specific to ppc64 into our 2.6

 16:03 <jgrimm> will assess risk/viability once we see the patches

 16:04 <jgrimm> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qemu/+bug/1541902

 16:04 <ubottu> Error: Could not gather data from Launchpad for bug #1541902 (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1541902). The error has been logged

 16:04 <rbasak> #info for awareness, ibm developers seeking to backport some qemu 2.7 functionality specific to ppc64 into our 2.6; will assess risk/viability once we see the patches

 16:04 <rbasak> #link https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qemu/+bug/1541902

 16:04 * rbasak is going to try and have ubottu write the minutes for him this time

 16:04 <cpaelzer> About the same is true if you s/qemu/dpdk/ on jons lines in regard to bug 1539775

 16:04 <ubottu> Error: Could not gather data from Launchpad for bug #1539775 (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1539775). The error has been logged

 16:04 <rbasak> #info sbuild is broken building Yakkety from Xenial; workaround is to no-change backport sbuild from Yakkety

 16:05 <jgrimm> ubottu broken?

 16:05 <ubottu> jgrimm: I am only a bot, please don't think I'm intelligent :)

 16:05 <rbasak> #info the same request applies to dpdk

 16:05 <rbasak> #link https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dpdk/+bug/1539775

 16:05 <rbasak> Thanks cpaelzer and jgrimm. Any other comments for Yakkety development?

 16:06 <rbasak> #subtopic Active work that may need wider communication

 16:06 <rbasak> Are you doing anything that should be communicated more widely?

 16:06 <cpaelzer> yes

 16:06 <jgrimm> :)

 16:06 <cpaelzer> just a secdon to write here

 16:07 <cpaelzer> I'll come up with a proposal to fix and formalize how we handle qemu machine types, especially in regard to migrations

 16:07 <cpaelzer> I'd ask - if there is anyone out there that had issues in regard to kvm migration recently please contact me

 16:07 <rbasak> #info cpaelzer will come up with a proposal to fix and formalize how we handle qemu machine types, especially in regard to migrations. He asks for anyone who has had issues with kvm migration recently to get in touch

 16:08 <rbasak> Thanks cpaelzer!

 16:08 <rbasak> Anything else?

 16:08 <cpaelzer> I had talked to most internal Teams now and processed old cases, but any extra portion of real life makes such a proposal better

 16:08 <rbasak> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

 16:08 <rbasak> caribou sends his apologies. Does anyone else have anything for this topic?

 16:09 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)

 16:09 <rbasak> powersj: o/

 16:09 <powersj> Working through automated ISO tests again due to additional new failures seen, triaging those.Continue bug triage today and scheduled out for the next couple months. Starting weekly Monday hangout next week to triage together. Need to meet up with rharper re: curtin ipv6 testing for next steps and plan. No updates on RT tickets (RT is down)

 16:09 <rbasak> And does anyone have any questions for powersj?

 16:09 <rbasak> Thanks powersj!

 16:09 <jgrimm> thanks

 16:10 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)

 16:10 <rbasak> Any questions to/from the kernel team?

 16:10 <smb> Nothing new... still ... from

 16:10 <rbasak> OK, thanks smb!

 16:10 <rbasak> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers

 16:11 <rbasak> Any upcoming CfPs?

 16:11 <rbasak> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:11 <rbasak> Any upcoming events?

 16:11 <rbasak> #topic Open Discussion

 16:11 <rbasak> AOB?

 16:12 <jgrimm> new engineer on server team

 16:12 <jgrimm> brauner primary focus on LXD/LXC and friends.

 16:13 <rbasak> Welcome brauner!

 16:13 <rbasak> AOAOB?

 16:13 <rbasak> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 16:14 <rbasak> The next meeting will be on Tue Sep 13 16:00:00 UTC 2016. gaughen_ will chair.

 16:14 <rbasak> #topic Assign daily bug triage for week (powersj, rbasak, nacc, cpaelzer)

 16:14 <powersj> This week's schedule M-F is: rbasak, powersj, nacc, cpaelzer, rbasak - any issues? rbasak going to do weekend still?

 16:15 <rbasak> Yes, sorry I haven't done it yet. I'll catch up today or tomorrow. No issues.

 16:15 <cpaelzer> ok for me

 16:15 <nacc> fine by me

 16:15 <powersj> brilliant

 16:15 <powersj> sounds like we are good

 16:15 <rbasak> #topic Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak)

 16:15 <rbasak> I think people are self-updating their status now. Are we making progress?

 16:15 <jgrimm> yes, i've updated spreadsheet this week

 16:16 <cpaelzer> all I did in the past week, no new progress yet

 16:16 <nacc> rbasak: i think we are probably in a good place to upload the bacula fixes -- the one person who reported an issue with the PPA has not responded in a few weeks and others have reported successful testing

 16:16 <nacc> rbasak: which would clear several bugs off my backburner

 16:16 <rbasak> nacc: sounds good!

 16:17 <jgrimm> nacc, \o/

 16:17 <rbasak> Thank you for working on that.

 16:17 <nacc> np

 16:17 <rbasak> I guess we're done for today then. Any other comments on bug assignments?

 16:17 <nacc> i've got a few php bugs that came in while i was on vacation that i plan on putting on the list, but otherwise i'm good

 16:18 <rbasak> #info everyone is self-updating their own status now; some progress reported

 16:18 <rbasak> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
