{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
* Weekly SRU review: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review]]</nowiki> (mathiaz)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time
** New proposed meeting time starting the Maverick cycle: Tuesday 6 pm UTC

=== Minutes ===

===== Weekly SRU review =====

Lucid has been added to the list of nominations to be reviewed while intrepid was removed (being EOL). The list of bugs fixed in the last 9 days has also been fixed and can again be used in the SRU weekly review.

A session about SRU improvement has been scheduled at the next UDS.

===== UDS Maverick =====

There is a <nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-m/track/cloud_and_server/|tentative schedule]]</nowiki> available on the summit website.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Due to UDS the meeting has been canceled next week.

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, May 19th at 18:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[19:02] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[19:02] <MootBot> Meeting started at 13:02. The chair is mathiaz.
[19:02] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[19:02] <mathiaz> I'll be the scribe this week
[19:02] <mathiaz> Today's magnificent agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[19:03] <zul> whoo
[19:03] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] # Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[19:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  # Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[19:03] <mathiaz> Last week minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20100428
[19:03] <mathiaz> # hggdh, zul to get their release note/early SRU bugs known to ttx
[19:04] <zul> i was going to bring them up at the meeting today
[19:04] <mathiaz> zul: we'll cover the lucid SRU in the relevant topic later in the meeting
[19:04] <zul> k
[19:04] <mathiaz> and release notes are too late
[19:04] <mathiaz> # ALL to mark DONE or POSTPONED the remaining work items for 10.04 by Thu 29 April EOD
[19:05] <mathiaz> I hope the final lucid burndown charts looked good ;)
[19:05] <mathiaz> ttx: ^^?
[19:05] <mathiaz> # hggdh to outline testing bottlenecks for UEC testing UDS sessions
[19:05] <ttx> mathiaz: done
[19:05] <Daviey> i *think* i've achieved my objectives ;)
[19:05] <zul> boo!~
[19:05] <mathiaz> hggdh: ^^ have you dumped your ideas in the relevant blueprints for UDS?
[19:06] <mathiaz> that's all for last week minutes
[19:06] <mathiaz> jjohansen: hggdh: around?
[19:07] <mathiaz> nope - ok - let's move on
[19:07] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Weekly SRU review
[19:07] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly SRU review
[19:07] <zul> so
[19:07] <mathiaz> I've updated the wiki page to list lucid nominations
[19:07] <mathiaz> and remove interpid now  that it's EOL
[19:08] <mathiaz> dapper, hardy, jaunty nominations are empty
[19:08] <mathiaz> for karmic: bug 494084
[19:08] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 494084 in image-store-proxy "arch parameter is not passed by the image proxy during image install from store" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/494084
[19:08] <mathiaz> bug 572317
[19:08] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 572317 in image-store-proxy "image-store does not support images without a ramdisk" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/572317
[19:08] <mathiaz> zul: let's go through the nominations lists first
[19:09] <mathiaz> zul: and then we'll discuss your list of bugs?
[19:09] <zul> sure
[19:09] <mathiaz> smoser: how important are these bugs^^ for karmic?
[19:10] <smoser> arch bug is not as important as "no-ramdisk" bug
[19:10] <smoser> but no-ramdisk is required if you want to run (correctly) lucid image store images on karmic uec
[19:10] <smoser> so the intent was to piggy back the arch change also in an update
[19:11] <jjohansen> oops, /me slips in
[19:11] <mathiaz> smoser: ok - I'll accept both bugs for lucid and karmic then
[19:12] <mathiaz> so for lucid
[19:12] <mathiaz> there are 5 bugs nominated
[19:12] <mathiaz> bug 573345
[19:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 573345 in dovecot "dovecot-postfix references cmusieve as a mail plugin" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/573345
[19:12] <mathiaz> bug 195480
[19:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 195480 in libvirt "libvirt: virsh -c qemu+ssh://host.example.com/session connects to 'system', not session" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/195480
[19:13] <mathiaz> FYI you can get the LP query from the KnowledgeBase wiki page
[19:13] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#Team%20policy
[19:13] <mathiaz> ^^ SRU weekly review
[19:13] <mathiaz> which ones should be accepted for a SRU in lcuid?
[19:14] <zul> 458637 shouldnt
[19:14] <zul> its not fixed upstream afaik
[19:14] <zul> 573345 needs a bit more research
[19:15] <zul> 562832 was upload but didnt get process for some reason so that should be objected
[19:15] <mathiaz> bug 573345 seems straight forward
[19:15] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 573345 in dovecot "dovecot-postfix references cmusieve as a mail plugin" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/573345
[19:16] <mathiaz> zul: what do you mean by objected?
[19:16] <zul> mathias: sorry reejcted
[19:16] <Daviey> 573345 seems a valid sru
[19:17] <mathiaz> Daviey: right - I've accepted the nomination
[19:18] <mathiaz> zul: bug 562832 - does this mean that DRBD is currently broken in lucid?
[19:18] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 562832 in drbd8 "module drbd8 update kernel from 2.6.32-16 to 2.6.32-20" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/562832
[19:18] <zul> mathiaz: if you rebuild it manually no
[19:19] <mathiaz> zul: oh ok
[19:19] <mathiaz> zul: so not SRU worth
[19:19] <mathiaz> I'll decline the bug
[19:19] <zul> mathiaz: it would be nice to have that fixed though
[19:19] <mathiaz> zul: right - we're looking at SRU nominations
[19:20] <mathiaz> zul: declining an SRU doesn't mean it won't be fixed in the development version
[19:20] <mathiaz> bug 195480
[19:20] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 195480 in libvirt "libvirt: virsh -c qemu+ssh://host.example.com/session connects to 'system', not session" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/195480
[19:21] <mathiaz> doesn't seem SRUable for now as still not fixed in maverick
[19:21] <mathiaz> so declining
[19:21] <mathiaz> and last bug on the list: bug 512110
[19:21] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 512110 in krb5 "gssd regression, "Program lacks support for encryption type"" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/512110
[19:22] <mathiaz> doesn't seem SRUable for now
[19:22] <mathiaz> and there is a workaround in the bug
[19:22] <mathiaz> declining
[19:23] <mathiaz> allright - that's all for the lucid nominations
[19:23] <mathiaz> I've produced a last-week bug fix list
[19:23] <mathiaz> http://people.canonical.com/~mathiaz/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.2010-05-04.html
[19:23] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~mathiaz/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.2010-05-04.html
[19:23] <mathiaz> which is of course rather short given it was release week :)
[19:24] <mathiaz> anything SRU worth on this?
[19:24] <mathiaz> well - I guess not
[19:24] <mathiaz> since they've all been fixed in *lucid*
[19:24] <mathiaz> zul: any other bugs on your SRU plate?
[19:24] <zul> yep
[19:25] <zul> these ones are in process
[19:25] <zul> bug 572262
[19:25] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 572262 in nut "[SRU] libusb_get_report: error sending control message: Operation not permitted" [Medium,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/572262
[19:25] <mathiaz> zul: where do you keep track of them?
[19:25] <zul> bug 567043 573206
[19:25] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 567043 in php5 "[SRU] [lucid] php5 segfault when calling mysqli_options()" [Medium,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/567043
=== huntlogger is now known as apachelogger
[19:25] <zul> im keeping track of them locally
[19:26] <zul> and have a script that pulls down all of the bugs that are nominated for a particular release
[19:26] <mathiaz> zul: great
[19:26] <zul> in the uds session i want to talk about how to keep better track of them and make it more vissible
[19:27] <mathiaz> zul: totally
[19:27] <mathiaz> zul: I'm glad to hear there will be UDS session dedicated to that subject
[19:27] <mathiaz> anything else to add the SRU front?
[19:27] <zul> nope
[19:28] <mathiaz> let's move on
[19:28] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] UDS Maverick
[19:28] <MootBot> New Topic:  UDS Maverick
[19:28] <mathiaz> so we're planning UDS next week
[19:28] <mathiaz> I hope all blueprints have been registered
[19:28] <mathiaz> jiboumans has been working on the schedule
[19:29] <mathiaz> http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-m/track/cloud_and_server/
[19:29] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-m/track/cloud_and_server/
[19:29] <mathiaz> ^^ this is the current *tentative* schedule
[19:29] <mathiaz> it *will* change
[19:29] <mathiaz> but you can already get a taste of what we'll discuss and when
[19:29] <Daviey> it *will* break ;)
[19:30] <mathiaz> any questions on UDS?
[19:31] <mathiaz> nope - let's move on then
[19:31] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open discussion
[19:31] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open discussion
[19:31] <mathiaz> any other questions?
[19:32] <zul> nope
[19:32] <mathiaz> allrighty then
[19:32] <mathiaz> let's wrap up
[19:33] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[19:33] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[19:33] <mathiaz> given we'll be at UDS next week
[19:33] <mathiaz> I suggest we cancel next week meeting
[19:33] <zul> skip it
[19:33] <Daviey> +1
[19:33] <mathiaz> we'
[19:33] <mathiaz> we'll come back in *two* weeks, same place same time?
[19:34] <mathiaz> we'll come back in *two* weeks, same place same time.
[19:34] <mathiaz> thanks for attending
[19:34] <Daviey> thanks mathiaz
[19:35] <mathiaz> and I'll see some of you next week in Belgium!
[19:35] <mathiaz> have safe travels
[19:35] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
</pre>
