{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Logs ====
TZ UTC+1
<pre>
05:02	mdz	all here now?
05:02	cjwatson	does somebody else know about the gcc 4.2 thing who can talk about it?
=== ogra is all here, no parts missing
05:03	Mithrandir	I can talk a little bit about it, but I can't answer all of the questions about it.
05:04	cjwatson	I'll adjust the agenda
05:04	kylem	perhaps we could have a supplemental meeting when doko returns about it?
05:04	pitti	would indeed quite a lot of effort, now that we synced most of Debian and such
05:04	Mithrandir	that would be better.
05:05	cjwatson	pitti: sounded like we weren't talking about rebuilding everything
05:05	pitti	ah, ok
=== pitti hopes this doesn't involve another C++ ABI transition
=== ogra was about to ask that
05:05	shawarma	Oh, the horror!
05:05	Mithrandir	pitti: gcc has stopped with those, AIUI
05:05	mdz	ok
05:05	ogra	shawarma, great opportunity to get new blood into MOTU ;)
05:06	shawarma	ogra: Keyword being "blood"
05:06	ogra	(thnk positive :) )
05:06	mdz	first off, we should welcome two new Canonical folks making their first appearances at a development meeting
05:06	shawarma	o/
05:06	fabbione	FIRE!
05:06	fabbione	BLOOD!
05:06	fabbione	:P
=== pitti starts a Laola wave
05:06	mdz	evand and shawarma
=== evand waves
05:07	Hobbsee	mmm...blood
=== ogra welcomes evand and shawarma
=== asac waving
05:07	Mithrandir	welcome!
05:07	evand	thanks Matt.  I look forward to working with all of you.
05:07	Riddell	hi evand
05:07	fabbione	welcome guys
05:07	ogra	shawarma, that was about time
05:07	Riddell	hi shawarma
05:07	dholbach	welcome evand, welcome shawarma :-)
05:07	mathiaz	welcome onboard
05:07	BenC	welcome all
05:07	seb128	welcome
=== agoliveira says welcome to evand and shawarma
05:07	shawarma	ogra: :)
05:07	bdmurray	welcome
05:07	shawarma	Thanks for the warm welcome!
05:07	mdz	evan joins us from the wilds of the mideastern US, working on ubiquity developpment
05:07	evand	Thanks everyone
=== Keybuk hugs evand and shawarma
05:08	ogra	ubiquity or ubiquity and d-i ?
05:08	mdz	shawarma joins us from a town in the small country of Denmark whose name I can't pronounce
05:08	mdz	to work on Ubuntu Server
05:08	evand	ogra: I intend to have a hand in both
05:08	fabbione	ROFL
05:08	ogra	evadcool, i just want to know whom to poke in case :)
05:08	fabbione	mdz: nobody can... if that makes you feel any better :)
05:08	pitti	srvr?
05:08	mdz	pitti: ha
05:08	shawarma	pitti: :)
05:08	Keybuk	shawarma: random question;  do you prefer Soren or Sren for the spelling of your first name?
05:08	ogra	heh
05:09	shawarma	Keybuk: Soren's less like to break :)
05:09	Mithrandir	but Sren is the proper speling
05:09	fabbione	or Soeren
05:09	shawarma	Indeed.
=== agoliveira hope Soren as I have no idea how to do the "/ + o"!
05:09	fabbione	= oe
05:09	pitti	we managed , too
=== iwj 's client doesn't seem to do UTF-8 at all.
05:09	Mithrandir	agoliveira: compose-/-o
05:10	Mithrandir	or compose-o-/
05:10	mdz	iwj: time to join the 21st century?
=== agoliveira :)
05:10	asac	iwj: sarge :)?
05:10	cjwatson	iwj: /set term_charset "utf-8"
05:10	mdz	I will be forced to nominate one of my keys to be a compose key now
05:10	shawarma	I've got a big certification thing fro Brainbench that says "Sxren Hansen". Since then, I've gone with Soren.
05:10	iwj	mdz: No, I'm always hoping to be one century behind.
05:10	Mithrandir	mdz: caps lock is a good one.
05:10	kylem	Sxren is pretty metal.
05:10	mdz	Mithrandir: I use that. a lot.
05:10	seb128	fabbione: oe =
05:11	shawarma	seb128: no. ae =
05:11	iwj	Have we got a real agenda ? :-)
05:11	shawarma	seb128: Ah, sorry.
05:11	mdz	we do, it's in the wiki as always
05:11	pitti	Mithrandir: caps lock makes an invaluable Esc key
05:11	mdz	and this warm welcome was part of it :-)
05:11	shawarma	url, please?
05:11	fabbione	seb128: in danish written lang is different from compose stuff
05:11	mdz	next up, Keybuk re: Gutsy sprint
05:11	Keybuk	yup
05:11	BenC	you mean "party at millbank"?
05:11	Keybuk	you should all have the mail from Claire now
05:11	seb128	fabbione: in french we use  :p
05:12	Keybuk	please ensure that you've got your travel arrangements booked as early as possible
05:12	Keybuk	late booking may involve paying for cost differences
05:12	Keybuk	also make sure you book the cheapest travel (eyas can give you a price for comparison if you're booking on your own), taking a more expensive option may also involve paying the cost difference
05:12	Mithrandir	as in, we should just book already?
05:12	Keybuk	</reminder from claire>
05:12	kwwii	one question: how long does it take to get to heathrow from the hotel?
05:13	Keybuk	we're not sure where the hotel is yet
05:13	mdz	kwwii: tfl.gov.uk
05:13	Keybuk	it may be the K&K, in which case it's about 45 mins with no tube changes
05:13	Keybuk	or it may be at the Rochester, in which case it's about 1h with changes
05:13	Keybuk	or it may be at the secret Claire hotel wants me to try
05:13	kwwii	right, thanks :-)
05:13	Keybuk	and I don't know where that is
05:13	Keybuk	oh
05:13	Keybuk	and please don't look suspicious when arriving at the building
05:13	mdz	Keybuk: do hotels often want you to try Claires?
05:13	BenC	wow, makes for hasty mornings
05:13	agoliveira	Brazilains are a bit afraid of the London tube ;)
05:13	Keybuk	there are lots of men with guns next door <g>
05:14	fabbione	ehheh
05:14	mdz	BenC: they're both closer to the office than that
05:14	pitti	Keybuk: gulp
05:14	Keybuk	(the building next door to Millbank is the headquarters of the British Secret Service)
05:14	mdz	I thought they were across the river
05:14	dholbach	haha
05:14	bdmurray	sweet
05:15	cjwatson	it's MI5, not 6, no?
05:15	kwwii	I remember walking there from the KK, it is not that far
05:15	Keybuk	right
05:15	Keybuk	MI-6 is the building on the river bank opposite Millbank
05:15	mdz	the long and the short of it is, don't delay planning your travel. book now.
=== agoliveira is thinking about Tom Clancy's books
05:15	Keybuk	MI-5 is the building next door
=== kwwii is booking as we speak
05:16	mdz	Keybuk: upriver or down?
05:16	shawarma	Does anything interesting happen Friday night, or should I be on my merry way home?
05:16	mdz	shawarma: we will go out, one way or another
05:16	shawarma	mdz: I'll book for Saturday, then. :)
05:17	Keybuk	mdz: depends on the tide <g>
05:17	agoliveira	Nice. I'm booking for saturday anyway.
05:17	BenC	if we're bowling again, let me know so I can bring my uber cool ball and shoes
05:17	mdz	ok, next agenda item is from Mithrandir and pitti :-)
05:17	mdz	gutsy release management
05:17	agoliveira	BenC: I aways bring both
05:17	Mithrandir	so, who wants to be RM? :-P
05:17	pitti	I was sort of voluntold
05:17	agoliveira	BenC... balls :P
05:17	cjwatson	pitti has agreed to take on a certain amount of the release management work, at least for the time being
05:18	cjwatson	and with help from those of us who have done it before
05:18	Mithrandir	of course.
05:18	ogra	BenC, poker cards ?
05:18	pitti	Mithrandir: how much of your total work time took that so far?
05:18	BenC	ogra: always :)
05:18	ogra	yay :)
05:18	cjwatson	he already has archive admin access, and I'm arranging for cdimage access
=== seb128 hugs pitti
05:18	mdz	I suggested a conference call to begin the training process
05:19	mdz	to be continued at the sprint
05:19	Mithrandir	pitti: most of it.  It's not a problem to make it take up at least full-time, but I think we can make do with less, especially if we split the efforts somewhat.
05:19	pitti	(since I'm not exactly bored all the time ATM)
05:20	Mithrandir	agreed, you'd need to find somebody, or get somebody to be voluntold, to take on some of your duties.
05:20	shawarma	What was the URL for the agenda?
05:21	mdz	shawarma: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DevelTeamMeeting20070531
05:21	Mithrandir	if people are interested in release management, please do speak up since having an actual team would be good.
05:21	pitti	Mithrandir: so, can we have that conf call next week?
05:21	seb128	Mithrandir: and that somebody will need somebody else to take on some of his duties, etc... ? ;)
05:21	shawarma	mdz: cheers
05:21	cjwatson	pitti: as early as possible, perhaps tomorow
05:21	cjwatson	tomorrow
05:21	Riddell	I'm interested in release management of course
05:21	pitti	cjwatson: sure
05:21	Mithrandir	pitti: that would work fine with me.
05:21	mdz	Riddell: you should be on the call as well
05:22	Riddell	sure
05:22	mdz	ok, that's the end of the pre-selected agenda
05:22	Mithrandir	we have an upcoming tribe release next week, so that'll be a good training.
05:22	pitti	right; so, tomorrow then
05:22	mdz	is there other business for the meeting?
05:22	cjwatson	on which note, stuff is looking pretty good for Tribe 1, the alternate install CD is approaching workingness
05:23	heno	pitti: count me as part of the team for release testing
05:23	cjwatson	for the desktop CD, we're blocked on sysadmin taking action on livefs build script tweaks at the moment
05:23	BenC	FYI, the next kernel upload is expected to be Tribe 1
05:23	agoliveira	Can anyone tell the newcomers what is Tribe 1?
05:23	cjwatson	agoliveira: first milestone release of Gutsy
05:23	BenC	barring any unforseen "omg all your machines will die" type things
05:23	pitti	heno: that would be much appreciated
05:23	ogra	cjwatson, btw i fixed the persistent live mode for my classmate script ---
05:23	ogra	...
05:23	agoliveira	cjwatson: Thanks
05:24	cjwatson	agoliveira: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/GutsyReleaseSchedule
05:24	pitti	BenC: will the next kernel upload be apport compatible again?
05:24	mdz	agoliveira: it's the bit which isn't described in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment#head-edd418c43178ce21e3d72fc6e35b1a0892175cf3
05:24	pitti	seb128: oh, and should we enable apport again for gutsy now?
05:24	mdz	yet :-)
05:24	seb128	pitti: no
05:24	BenC	pitti: Oooh, it wasn't going to be, but I can toss in the changes real quick since they are tested
05:24	bdmurray	pitti: not yet I think
05:24	seb128	pitti: wait an another week please ;) I don't want to come back from holidays with a zillion of desktop bugs :p
05:24	pitti	BenC: if you could check /usr/share/apport/testsuite/test-apport kernel before upload, that would be great
05:24	Hobbsee	mdz: sounds like an doc update needed then
05:25	BenC	pitti: notes, thanks
05:25	seb128	pitti: maybe after GNOME 2.19.3?
05:25	pitti	bdmurray, seb128: alright
05:25	mdz	Hobbsee: it's one of those things I noted should be written into it, but didn't have time to write up
05:25	pitti	BenC: thank you
05:25	pitti	seb128, bdmurray: whenever you guys say that the time is right
05:25	BenC	*noted
05:26	mdz	ok
05:26	mdz	anything else?
05:26	BenC	how many ppl on distro team now?
05:26	mdz	about 25
05:26	bdmurray	pitti: when did it get turned on for Feisty?
=== pitti hopes to see some of you guys at LinuxTag
=== dholbach hugs pitti
05:26	pitti	bdmurray: it was on all the time, I think
05:27	mdz	ok, sounds like we should wrap up the meeting
05:27	cjwatson	mdz: damn, I have to update my "about 20" stock answer
05:27	mdz	if there's anything else, please raise on the appropriate mailing list
05:27	pitti	bdmurray: but I'd really like to see the CrashReporting spec implemented before
05:28	BenC	bye everyone
05:28	mdz	adjourned, thanks all
</pre>
