{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
UTC
{{{
17:05	heno	#startmeeting
17:05	MootBot	Meeting started at 18:05. The chair is heno.
17:05	MootBot	Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
17:05	stgraber	hi bdmurray
17:05	heno	just one topic today: 8.04
17:06	heno	we have been testing kvm and wubi for some critical issues in #ubuntu-testing
17:07	heno	It looks like we should have candidate images some time this evening
17:07	heno	that will be a bit tight for full validation by Thursday but it should work
17:07	heno	provided there are no more surprises
17:08	liw	until the candidate images are out, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/ISO/FixValidation is a good todo list, right?
17:08	heno	the kvm issue has not been pinned down completely, but the bug has been confirmed to live in kvm
17:08	davmor2	heno: I'll not be able to download till tomorrow so I'll hit wubi and M-a first then start picking up the tests not being hit.
17:08	heno	which is less bad than a kernel bug would be as we can SRU a kvm fix
17:09	heno	liw: indeed
17:09	stgraber	heno: with enough caffeine that shouldn't be a problem validating all of them by thursday :)
17:09	stgraber	heno: should the priority of the kvm bug changed from critical to high then ?
17:10	heno	I wonder if any items should be moved from the RC to the Final table?
17:10	heno	stgraber: IMO yes
17:11	heno	pedro_, ogasawara_, bdmurray: can you look at Testing/ISO/FixValidation to see if we should move some entries from RC to final?
17:12	ogasawara_	heno: sure
17:12	davmor2	heno: I recon we should be done by lunch time thursday latest
17:12	heno	in fact should we just move all those that haven't been tested (most)?
17:12	pedro_	heno: sure no problem
17:12	liw	davmor2, lunch time in what time zone? :)
17:13	davmor2	utc
17:13	heno	I expect Steve aims to release Thursday morning PST
17:13	pedro_	heno: yes, i've moved the gtk-sharp crash to final , but i think that the others ones can be moved too in order to have a real test on them, ill do it
17:13	heno	or PDT, whatever it is now :)
17:14	heno	how many of those have test cases?
17:14	liw	heno, that's US west coast time?
17:15	heno	liw: yes
17:15	bdmurray	liw: yeah! US west coast!
=== johnc4511 is now known as johnc4510
17:15	heno	team OR spirit :)
17:15	pedro_	most of them have a good description so it should be easy to test them
17:16	liw	so that's maybe around utc late afternoon or early evening, I guess
17:16	heno	pedro_: ok, cool
17:16	heno	does anyone have other topics, relating to 8.04 or otherwise?
17:17	davmor2	liw: tends to be that the us is available for chat around 4-ish so hopefully 3-4 hours after we finish every test
17:18	heno	... seems not
17:18	heno	ok, let's get get back to testing
17:19	davmor2	:D
17:19	heno	the Fix validation list is a good place to start
17:19	heno	as is setting up VMs and such that will be useful in the testing crunch
17:19	heno	syncing CDs also
17:20	heno	#endmeeting
17:20	MootBot	Meeting finished at 18:20.}}}
