{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
TZ UTC-4
<pre>
(02:01:22 AM) doko: good morning
(02:01:24 AM) evand: haha
(02:01:30 AM) Hobbsee: morning doko
(02:01:36 AM) ***Hobbsee has done more bug squishing.
(02:01:58 AM) james_w: morning all
(02:01:59 AM) ***ogra_cmpc has done less sleeping
(02:02:09 AM) bryce: Hobbsee: I was going to say, do you live in los angeles or something?
(02:02:24 AM) ***bryce waves to all
(02:02:26 AM) Hobbsee: bryce: not unless i've moved continents without noticing, no...
(02:02:48 AM) Hobbsee: and in the unlikely event of that, id' prefer to see Europe, not the US.
(02:04:24 AM) bryce: Hobbsee: not much fire out the window in Europe, but in the US we have either the damnation and brimstone kind on the right coast, or the torching your SUV kind on the left
(02:04:47 AM) ***slangasek hehs
(02:05:05 AM) doko: hmm, am I 1h too early?
(02:05:18 AM) slangasek: I don't think so... :)
(02:05:33 AM) ogra_cmpc: doko, i think colin slept in :)
(02:05:50 AM) slangasek: well, let's make use of the time, eh?  How's everybody's hardy bugs doing? :)
(02:05:58 AM) ArneGoetje: maybe he forgot to switch DST on... :D
(02:06:10 AM) slangasek: don't think so, it's the second week of DST for him :)
(02:06:13 AM) Hobbsee: bryce: tasty.
(02:06:20 AM) james_w: ooh, I've got one for ya.
(02:06:21 AM) ogra_cmpc: he was around until 2am (whichis 6h ago)
(02:06:24 AM) evand: things look OK, though I have a fair amount that I need to get done later today to be happy going into FinalFreeze.
(02:06:31 AM) james_w: bug 153625
(02:06:32 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 153625 in ca-certificates "update-ca-certificates error. ca-certificates.crt empty (with pt_BR locale)" [High,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/153625
(02:07:02 AM) slangasek: james_w: "for us"?  Are we still not done with that? :)
(02:07:16 AM) james_w: pitti was helping with me with it, but as he is away collaborating this week he asked me to find another sponsor.
(02:07:24 AM) james_w: slangasek: I wish we were.
(02:07:36 AM) bryce: I put prev/next buttons on http://people.ubuntu.com/~bryce/Xorg/status_current.html, and flipping through the pages, things are definitely going in the right direction for X, but still a few more left to go
(02:10:36 AM) ***bryce is very thankful for actively involved community members
(02:10:55 AM) TheMuso: Still got users with pulseaudio issues... Tracking svn to see if there any more useful fixes we may want, and going to see what is being done for fedora 9.
(02:13:33 AM) asac: TheMuso: firefox + flash-nonfree crashes frequently because of this pulseaudio thing. i suspect that its related to libflashsupport.
(02:13:53 AM) asac: maybe there is a libflashsupport update? or fedora has patches?
(02:13:56 AM) TheMuso: asac: Yeah possibly...
(02:14:13 AM) asac: TheMuso: without pulseaudio it works great - which is why i never noticed it
(02:14:13 AM) TheMuso: asac: I'll have a look later. I'll add it to my TODO list.
(02:14:17 AM) ogra_cmpc: asac, libflashsupport is only needed for networked connections
(02:14:27 AM) TheMuso: ogra_cmpc: How so?
(02:14:42 AM) ogra_cmpc: pulse works fine without it if you run it locally
(02:14:48 AM) asac: ogra_cmpc: without libflashsupport sound doesn't work ... at least that was reported before someone added it as hard dependency
(02:15:17 AM) ogra_cmpc: its a workaround for a bug where pulse leaves filehandles open on networked connections that have an alsa endpoint
(02:15:29 AM) ArneGoetje: asac: got my message about flash and scim?
(02:15:36 AM) asac: ArneGoetje: yeah.
(02:15:45 AM) asac: ArneGoetje: so the free implementations don't work?
(02:15:52 AM) ArneGoetje: asac: correct
(02:16:01 AM) ogra_cmpc: (have qa look at  the package description, i linked the bug in it)
(02:16:04 AM) ArneGoetje: asac: and I suspect that's not a scim problem.
(02:16:15 AM) asac: ogra_cmpc: ogra_cmpc what does "networked connections" meanin this context?
(02:16:32 AM) ogra_cmpc: asac, non local :)
(02:17:28 AM) asac: ogra_cmpc: i understand what networked means ;)
(02:17:40 AM) ogra_cmpc: at least thats how i learned about libflashsupport two releases ago ... we should at least run a test without it, i dont think it does anything useful on local connections
(02:17:43 AM) cjwatson: ugh, apologies I'm late - the alarm clock said it was 6:55 :-/
(02:17:56 AM) cjwatson: thanks for starting without me
(02:18:06 AM) ***ogra_cmpc had his mobile ready to call at :30
(02:18:17 AM) james_w: hi cjwatson
(02:18:23 AM) bryce: heya cjwatson
(02:18:52 AM) asac: hi cjwatson
(02:18:58 AM) cjwatson: james_w: ouch at 153625 still being active
(02:19:37 AM) james_w: cjwatson: yep, every time I touch it it seems to get worse, so I'm going to stop poking it so much.
(02:20:22 AM) cjwatson: oh, just the double question thing
(02:20:25 AM) cjwatson: I think you're doing fine
(02:20:25 AM) ogra_cmpc: asac, my prob  is that i never tried it outside of ltsp befiore hardy and someone pulled it in as a dep because we use it in ltsp ... but i'm really not sure its relevant if pulse isnt running on localhost
(02:20:38 AM) asac: ouch
(02:20:41 AM) ogra_cmpc: s/isnt/is/
(02:21:10 AM) asac: ogra_cmpc: well ... i had several complains before it was a dep that sound didn't work without it
(02:21:14 AM) cjwatson: on my side, there are still quite a few installer bugs on https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy/+bugs which I've been trying to attack
(02:22:02 AM) ogra_cmpc: asac, well, if you can relate it to that then i think its fine ...
(02:22:33 AM) ogra_cmpc: (i dont think it does any harm either, it just closes stale filehandles )
(02:22:58 AM) asac: ogra_cmpc: it caues frequent crashes
(02:23:11 AM) asac: ogra_cmpc: just go to youtube and play like 10 files
(02:23:25 AM) ogra_cmpc: thast what i'm doing every day to test the classmate
(02:23:30 AM) ogra_cmpc: it doesnt crash here
(02:23:51 AM) TheMuso: asac: I'll try it later and see what I get.
(02:23:52 AM) asac: ogra_cmpc: maybe its a race you don't see on your system ;)
(02:23:53 AM) ogra_cmpc: the OEM team is pretty focused on flash :)
(02:24:20 AM) asac: TheMuso: yeah ... its reported to happen if you hit back while playing and then forward again . do that until you get a crash
(02:25:12 AM) TheMuso: asac: Ok.
(02:26:06 AM) cjwatson: Do we need to install libflashsupport by default?
(02:26:14 AM) asac: thats the question
(02:26:15 AM) TheMuso: I think its only used for flash-nonfree.
(02:26:21 AM) cjwatson: or is it the converse, that things get worse when it *is* installed?
(02:26:33 AM) asac: yeah ... its not installed by default, but its installed whenever you install flashplugin-nonfree
(02:26:34 AM) ogra_cmpc: cjwatson, thast what we're discussing
(02:26:44 AM) TheMuso: The only way we'll really know is to play something through pulse while using flash without libflashsupport
(02:27:00 AM) cjwatson: ah, right, I'd missed the rdepends
(02:27:05 AM) asac: TheMuso: right. thats the use case that was broken before libflashsupport
(02:27:10 AM) TheMuso: asac: Right.
(02:27:39 AM) ogra_cmpc: the question is, do we *need* to route flash through pulse at all
(02:27:53 AM) TheMuso: ogra_cmpc: If users are playing music and want to play a flash game for example, yes.
(02:27:56 AM) ogra_cmpc: alsa should handle it directly just fine
(02:28:08 AM) TheMuso: ogra_cmpc: Unless pulse is busy doing something with the alsa device.
(02:28:14 AM) TheMuso: And, pulse talks directly to the hardware, and not through dmix.
(02:28:15 AM) asac: ogra_cmpc: then why do we need pulse? :)
(02:28:20 AM) ogra_cmpc: TheMuso, i thought we have the dmix backend active anyway
(02:28:36 AM) TheMuso: ogra_cmpc: No. Pulse uses hal to detect sound devices, then interfaces with them directly.
(02:28:36 AM) ogra_cmpc: asac, for the ding and doing sounds of your desktop
(02:29:13 AM) ogra_cmpc: right, but pulse is also able to use dmix in the backend
(02:29:26 AM) TheMuso: ogra_cmpc: Yes, but not if you use the hal module, which requires manual configuration.
(02:29:32 AM) ogra_cmpc: meh
(02:30:27 AM) TheMuso: This is also why some sound cards don't work with pulse. Either because they use a different sample format to what pulse uses, or they have non-standard mixer element n ames.
(02:30:30 AM) ogra_cmpc: asac, pulse is there because the libgnome devs dont manage to get a gestreamer backend working for libgnome
(02:30:48 AM) ogra_cmpc: thats the only real reason for it
(02:30:55 AM) asac: ogra_cmpc: damn. and now everyone has to suffer :/
(02:31:23 AM) ogra_cmpc: there were patches for libgnome->gstreamer ... i have no idea what they decided for pulse
(02:31:24 AM) TheMuso: ogra_cmpc: Pulse is much more useful than that, but it still has teething problems.
(02:31:33 AM) ogra_cmpc: s/what/why
(02:31:53 AM) asac: actually until pulse appeared i thought that sound servers were scheduled to die :/
(02:31:57 AM) TheMuso: ogra_cmpc: GNOME still doesn't use pulse directly. It uses the esound compatibility layer.
(02:32:01 AM) ogra_cmpc: TheMuso, it does a job most soundcards can do themselves ...
(02:32:18 AM) TheMuso: ogra_cmpc: Correctino, it does a job that dmix does. Most sound cards can't play more than one sample stream simultaneously.
(02:32:22 AM) TheMuso: correction
(02:32:29 AM) TheMuso: Anyway, we're getting OT.
(02:32:32 AM) ogra_cmpc: yeah
(02:32:39 AM) asac: yeah ... -> -devel
(02:33:06 AM) cjwatson: Right; are there any other fires people would like to point out in terms of Hardy bug-fixing at the moment?
(02:33:07 AM) asac: anyway, i think we should consider to drop libflashsupport from depends of flashplugin-nonfree
(02:33:20 AM) ogra_cmpc: make it a recommends
(02:34:23 AM) TheMuso: Is the config file prompt with bash-completion on upgrades known about?
(02:34:30 AM) asac: ogra_cmpc: suggests ;)
(02:34:36 AM) ogra_cmpc: or that :)
(02:34:37 AM) ***TheMuso checks for a bug.
(02:34:43 AM) cjwatson: damn, I just noticed that but assumed that I had actually edited the file and forgotten about it
(02:34:46 AM) slangasek: TheMuso: sure, bug #210013
(02:34:46 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 210013 in bash "bash-completion config replacement prompt on upgrade from gutsy to hardy" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/210013
(02:35:14 AM) TheMuso: Right.
(02:35:34 AM) slangasek: hmm, currently unassigned; I think I can squeeze that one onto my schedule later this week if need be
(02:35:51 AM) doko: yes, can do this today or tomorrow
(02:36:04 AM) slangasek: doko: ok, I'll assign it to you instead then?
(02:36:10 AM) bryce: cjwatson: kees and I noticed a variety of HAL/USB breakages (cameras, scanners, et al) lately.  Maybe this is already known?
(02:36:25 AM) TheMuso: Well I can reproduce bug 91814, but simply lowering the priority of the question doesn't help, and I don't yet have any ideas at this point... Still looking however.
(02:36:25 AM) doko: but where do we want to put the old file, if the upgrade conflicts?
(02:36:25 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 91814 in openssl "libssl0.9.8 config asking me 'which services should be restarted to make them use the new lbraries?'" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/91814
(02:36:45 AM) cjwatson: bryce: do you have any references?
(02:37:00 AM) doko: slangasek: I don't care, I'll ping you tonight
(02:37:17 AM) slangasek: doko: I believe the customary procedure, if the user has modified the file before it was transferred to the new package, is to let the conffile prompt happen
(02:38:06 AM) bryce: cjwatson: I've one for the scanner (moment), but am just curious in general if there are widespread USB issues or if I'm just special
(02:38:31 AM) cjwatson: it isn't something I've heard about, but Ubuntu is too big for me to have heard of everything :)
(02:38:45 AM) slangasek: bryce: there've been recent (milestoned) bugs regarding scanner detection and permissions, does that sound familiar?
(02:38:47 AM) cjwatson: pitti might be better-informed in this case
(02:38:57 AM) bryce: slangasek: yep!
(02:39:01 AM) slangasek: yes, pitti's been actively working on scanner-related bugs in hal
(02:39:12 AM) cjwatson: the scanner group was taken out of the system at installation time
(02:39:16 AM) ***slangasek nods
(02:39:22 AM) cjwatson: as in, we used to add the user to the scanner group, but don't any more
(02:39:24 AM) slangasek: in favor of polkit
(02:39:26 AM) bryce: here we go, bug #211569
(02:39:27 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 211569 in hal "xsane won't start unless run as root (Epson Perfection 1240)" [Medium,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/211569
(02:39:44 AM) cjwatson: if it's too hard to fix the rest of the system, we could revert that
(02:40:11 AM) cjwatson: though it would need a release note at least
(02:40:16 AM) cjwatson: (for upgrades from beta)
(02:40:32 AM) slangasek: this may fall into the realm of bugs we can't get all the feedback we need in time for release
(02:40:37 AM) cjwatson: that bug was filed from an upgraded system
(02:40:44 AM) cjwatson: so surely the scanner group would still have been there
(02:40:51 AM) slangasek: because of the need to identify individual USB IDs that need to be added
(02:41:07 AM) slangasek: cjwatson: scanner group is still there, but is no longer used for setting the device ownership, so...
(02:41:30 AM) bryce: I just ran as root and got my tax forms scanned and all is good.  but it surprised me to have that issue.  then I saw my camera also didn't work (which has _always_ worked with ubuntu), which made me think it might be worth bringing up.
(02:41:32 AM) cjwatson: right, I was just referring to the installer change
(02:42:07 AM) cjwatson: perhaps other people could check whether their cameras still work? I should check mine
(02:42:17 AM) TheMuso: I should check my scanner also.
(02:42:26 AM) slangasek: bryce: right, best to discuss this with pitti in the morning (since I believe he's still on US/Central time)
(02:42:55 AM) cjwatson: I'll flag it with Keybuk to make sure he's aware
(02:42:56 AM) ***bryce nods
(02:43:51 AM) cjwatson: I agree that releasing with busted scanning and camera support would be pretty embarrassing
(02:44:51 AM) cjwatson: ok, before we finish, I sent out a link to https://wiki.canonical.com/DistroTeam/Platform/8.10, which has a few general preliminary themes for the 8.10 UDS, and various other bits and pieces I'd like to get cleared up
(02:45:35 AM) cjwatson: Jorge is going to be contacting participants soon with a summary of the issues we plan to raise, and something akin to a call for papers
(02:46:18 AM) cjwatson: Does anyone have anything else substantial that they'd like to put on that list from the start?
(02:46:46 AM) TheMuso: I've been pondering doing an a11y review of all our desktop tools, but not sure if it could be done in a cycle...
(02:46:54 AM) TheMuso: As in all the tools we've added/written.
(02:47:07 AM) doko: dropping i486 & i586 support
(02:47:53 AM) cjwatson: TheMuso: happy to start somewhere
(02:48:19 AM) TheMuso: cjwatson: Yeah, likely theres not much to be done, but I think it could do us no harm.
(02:48:24 AM) evand: ubiquity visual refresh? (artwork and slideshow), more work towards finishing the espresso spec.
(02:50:32 AM) TheMuso: And theres also changing speech backend for orca, but I don't think thats big/important enough for that page. I will be specing that in any case.
(02:50:58 AM) cjwatson: oh, I should say a brief word on how we're doing scheduling for the next UDS
(02:51:22 AM) cjwatson: to avoid all the general confusion around it, we aren't going to be using the auto-scheduler
(02:51:45 AM) cjwatson: we will have manually scheduled tracks, as we did the last time
(02:52:01 AM) cjwatson: we will also have a few rooms (I think 2-4 depending on the day) which will be available for whiteboard scheduling
(02:52:16 AM) cjwatson: a bit like FOSSCamp last time
(02:52:58 AM) cjwatson: of course the output should still be recorded in Launchpad, and it does no harm to register a spec in advance in order to set the scope of the discussion you want to have
(02:58:19 AM) doko: I'll put python3 on this list, hopefully getting more than one person in this room ...
(02:59:16 AM) cjwatson: I'd be interested to know what its performance characteristics are like
(02:59:53 AM) doko: not worse than 2.x
(03:00:00 AM) cjwatson: ok, thanks, I've added the above to the list
(03:00:05 AM) cjwatson: and it's time
(03:00:16 AM) cjwatson: sorry again I was late, and thanks all
(03:00:20 AM) TheMuso: thanks.
(03:00:21 AM) doko: ahh, and maybe the whole security related toolchain stuff, but I'll have to talk with infinity
(03:00:25 AM) ogra_cmpc: thanks
(03:00:33 AM) asac: thanks!
(03:00:33 AM) evand: thanks
(03:00:38 AM) james_w: thanks all.
(03:00:39 AM) cjwatson: doko: things like PIE you mean?
(03:01:00 AM) doko: cjwatson: yes, coming with a 10% performance penalty
(03:01:17 AM) slangasek: thanks!
(03:01:28 AM) bryce: thanks
</pre>}
