{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


This is the '''1st''' meeting of the '''IowaTeam''', starting at 20:00 CST and finishing at 21:00 CST

== Attendance ==

Please type PRESENT when the meeting starts to indicate who is online and paying attention.

'''Active Attendees:'''
* !AtomicSpark
* godbyk
* kwierso
* Iowan
* viyyer

== Agenda ==
When adding agenda items please "sign" them, place ``@``SIG``@ after each of your items.If you won't be in attendance, please describe your item and wishes in detail otherwise those items may not be effectively discussed.

* Start discussions on the Ubuntu Global Jam

== Minutes ==
* !AtomicSpark, kwierso, Iowan, and viyyer will try to attend the next <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam#Training%20Sessions|Ubuntu Global Jam training session]]</nowiki> to get ideas for our !LoCo.
* Either !AtomicSpark or Iowan will contact our Des Moines area members to encourage local participation in the Ubuntu Global Jam.

== Guide Lines ==
The meeting moderator will ensure key points are discussed. Key points from the Agenda will be noted by <code>[TOPIC] Agenda item</code>. When ideas are put forward to be considered they should be noted by <code>[IDEA] Idea</code>. The meeting moderator will indicate the final state of each topic by <code>[ACTION] Action being taken</code>. This should signify that the topic is discussed and the meeting is moving forward. The meeting moderator will use special tags to start and end the meeting and its recording. Please see <nowiki>[[ScribesTeam-MootBot| MootBot]]</nowiki> for details on specific tags.

== IRC LOGS ==
<pre>
19:58 -!- Iowan [~allen@97-127-151-204.cdrr.qwest.net] has joined #ubuntu-us-ia
19:58 -!- Iowan [~allen@97-127-151-204.cdrr.qwest.net] has quit [Changing host]
19:58 -!- Iowan [~allen@ubuntu/member/Iowan] has joined #ubuntu-us-ia
19:59 -!- viyyer [~viyyer@thames.mum.edu] has joined #ubuntu-us-ia
20:00 < viyyer> PRESENT
20:00 < viyyer> did I miss anything?
20:00 < kwierso> viyyer: Not that I've seen
20:00 < Iowan> PRESENT
20:00 < viyyer> kwierso, cool
20:01 < kwierso> PRESENT, I guess
20:01 < viyyer> :)
20:01 < viyyer> AtomicSpark, ??
20:01 < viyyer> paultag, ??
20:02 < Iowan> AtomicSpark: Are you moderating?
20:03 < AtomicSpark> Oh hi!
20:03 < AtomicSpark> Sorry I was nose-deep in VB.net
20:04 < viyyer> AtomicSpark, erg
20:04 < AtomicSpark> I know right :(
20:05 -!- Irssi: #ubuntu-us-ia: Total of 8 nicks [1 ops, 0 halfops, 0 voices, 7 normal]
20:05 < Iowan> Anyone else want to be officially counted?
20:06 < viyyer> godbyk, ??
20:06  * godbyk wakes up
20:06 < godbyk> what's up?
20:06 < viyyer> godbyk, welcome to the meeting for ubuntu IA loco
20:07 < godbyk> Oh! Cool.
20:07 < viyyer> godbyk, welcome to the meeting for ubuntu IA loco IRC meetup
20:07 < godbyk> PRESENT, then. :)
20:09  * AtomicSpark jabs Iowan
20:09 < viyyer> ok . who has the agenda for the meeting?
20:09 < Iowan> So, weclome all to the first IA Loco meeting
20:09 < viyyer> ye
20:09 < viyyer> !!!
20:09 < Iowan> Sorry about typing - someone jabbed me...
20:10 < Iowan> My agenda is pretty sparse this evening - AtomicSpark  - what's on your list?
20:11 < AtomicSpark> We need to discuss the Ubuntu Global Jam
20:12 < Iowan> OK - what would/should we do as a group?
20:12 < AtomicSpark> Need to find out who is able to participate, who can meet in what locations, and if not IC/CR, who is going to lead that regional group.
20:12 < Iowan> I haven't done one - do we need to arrange a meeting place (or so)?
20:13 < Iowan> I presume the other major regional team would be DM area
20:13 < godbyk> One of the projects I'm helping with was just mentioning the other day about wanting to get folks to help during Global Jam.
20:13 < AtomicSpark> There are a few "jam howto" meetings coming up in the #ubuntu-locoteams. I'll have to browse Planet Ubuntu for the times.
20:14 < godbyk> I don't know if any of you are interested in it.  But it's writing a getting-started guide for Ubuntu.
20:14 < kwierso>  17 Feb - 1800 UTC
20:14 < kwierso>
20:14 < kwierso> How to run a jam
20:14 < kwierso> 26 Feb - 2100 UTC
20:14 < kwierso>
20:14 < kwierso> How to run a jam
20:14 < AtomicSpark> More info on what the ubuntu global jam is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam
20:14 < kwierso> 6 Mar - 1900 UTC
20:14 < godbyk> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-manual
20:14 < kwierso>
20:14 < kwierso> How to run a jam
20:14 < kwierso> 10 Mar - 2100 UTC
20:14 < kwierso>
20:14 < kwierso> How to run a jam
20:14 < AtomicSpark> kwierso: pastebin/link!
20:14 < kwierso> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam#Training%20Sessions
20:15 < kwierso> didn't think it would format that badly with copy/paste
20:15 < AtomicSpark> There we go. I believe they added a few saturday sessions as well.
20:16 < Iowan> I, for one, need to do some in-depth research before our next meeting...
20:16 < AtomicSpark> Basically we'd get together, install Lucid a bunch, find bugs, submit them. Those with skills may help fix bugs or write documentation for lucid.
20:16 < AtomicSpark> Everything goes!
20:17 < kwierso> Think we could get a chatlog from their Feb 17 session?
20:19 < godbyk> kwierso: I don't see one here: http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2010/02/17/
20:19 < AtomicSpark> I'm sure it's logged. It's not a "ubuntu" channel, so they must store it elseware.
20:19 < kwierso> http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode
20:19 < AtomicSpark> There we go.
20:19 < kwierso> http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/2010/02/17/
20:20 < AtomicSpark> I'll try to attend the next meeting and take some notes.
20:21 < kwierso> here's the loco log: http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/freenode/2010/02/17/%23ubuntu-locoteams.html
20:21 < AtomicSpark> Iowan: Do you think you can attend too?
20:21 < Iowan> I'd like to - depends on time
20:22 < viyyer> well.. the times and dates seem to tight  for me to participate.
20:22 < AtomicSpark> Noon and 3PM?
20:22 < kwierso> feb 26 is at 3PM Central Time
20:23 < AtomicSpark> I can make that one.
20:23 < Iowan> 3pm is "probable"
20:23 < kwierso> doesn't seem like much happened at yesterday's session
20:24 < Iowan> So that's next Friday...
20:24 < godbyk> Doesn't look like we missed anything.
20:24 < kwierso> "<jcastro> jcg, really the most important thing right now is to figure out where you're going to have it"
20:25 < AtomicSpark> I'm currently working on trying to get a classroom at kirkwood reserved. I don't think we can be there Sunday though.
20:25 < viyyer> kwierso, will try for 12 pm on friday.
20:25 < AtomicSpark> I'll have to bribe a teacher ;3
20:26 < kwierso> I should be able to at least sit in on the session, barring conflicts with family events
20:28 < viyyer> AtomicSpark, this is cool I mark the dates lets see how it works out.
20:28 < kwierso> Unless I get a major influx of money, I won't be able to travel anywhere for the Jam in march, as I won't have a driveable car.
20:28 < AtomicSpark> kwierso: Where do you live?
20:29 < kwierso> north of fort dodge
20:29 < AtomicSpark> Well you may always join via IRC!
20:29 < kwierso> AtomicSpark: Yeah, I think that's as much as I'd be able to participate
20:30 < AtomicSpark> Hmm. Iowan we need to figure out and make a list of where everyone lives.
20:31 < kwierso> Doesn't the loco page have a map that plots locations?
20:31 < viyyer> Iowan, want to call callout here ?
20:31 < Iowan> Yes, It'd be handy if that had been in membership records
20:31 < Iowan> Sure - then it'd be on IRC record
20:31 < Iowan> Iowa City
20:32 < AtomicSpark> kwierso: Kind of. Some members have it hidden or dont have it set.
20:32 < AtomicSpark> Iowa City also.
20:32 < godbyk> Ames
20:32 < viyyer> Fairfield
20:32 < viyyer> IA ofcourse
20:33 < kwierso> https://launchpad.net/loco-directory ?
20:34 < AtomicSpark> What about it?
20:35 < Iowan> What else is on our agenda for tonight?
20:35 < Iowan> Do we need to start planning a web page in addition to the wiki?
20:35 < AtomicSpark> I don't believe so.
20:36 < Iowan> Pizza delivery seems unlikely...
20:37 < viyyer> Iowan, pizza??
20:37 < AtomicSpark> kwierso: how far are you from des moines?
20:38 < kwierso> AtomicSpark: it's usually a 1.5-2 hour drive, assuming I have a car that can travel more than 1 mile without overheating
20:38 < kwierso> 70-80 miles, I think?
20:40 < viyyer> kwierso, overheating in this weather :)
20:40 < AtomicSpark> viyyer: Could you make it to IC March 26th - 28th?
20:41 < viyyer> AtomicSpark, IC ??
20:42 < AtomicSpark> Iowa City
20:42 < viyyer> iowa city :)
20:43 < viyyer> just guessed .. I have classes on saturday afternoon :( my prof doesn't take it lightly :(
20:43 < viyyer> I will keep track in through IRC :)
20:43 < AtomicSpark> What about Friday or Sunday?
20:44 < viyyer> AtomicSpark, can try for sunday as I find a ride :)
20:44 < kwierso> Iowa City is considerably further than Des Moines for me, at least
20:44 < AtomicSpark> kwierso: This is true.
20:45 < Iowan> There are several members in DM area - perhaps we will hear from them before then
20:45 < AtomicSpark> Hopefully :)
20:45 < Iowan> We'll need someone from that area to set up a place
20:46 < kwierso> If I do get working transportation before then, I might be able to convince some former roommates from my time at Simpson College to let me spend the weekend in their apartment.
20:46 < AtomicSpark> Indeed. Will have to appoint a temporary regional leader for the event.
20:47 < kwierso> If I can do that, I'd be quite willing to help out with doing something in the DM area
20:47 < Iowan> Volunteer world be even better!
20:47 < AtomicSpark> Naw I was going to force someone to do it ;)
20:47 < Iowan> *would
20:48 < kwierso> AtomicSpark: That's truly the Linux spirit in action!
20:49 < viyyer> AtomicSpark, as we call in delhi lug. you are volunteered :)
20:50 < AtomicSpark> Anyways, I will try to attend that session and figure out what a new loco can do and get some advice on getting things moving. I will also try to send out an email to our des moines members and hear from them.
20:51 < viyyer> AtomicSpark, great.
20:51 < AtomicSpark> And Iowan can bring pizza. :)
20:52 < Iowan> to Des Moines?
20:52 < AtomicSpark> No.
20:52 < Iowan> Whew!
20:53 < kwierso> Iowan: the locoteams IRC session next friday, I think
20:54  * AtomicSpark gives the mic to Iowan and grabs a drink
20:54 < Iowan> I can eat pizza here at my desk next Friday - if that'll help...
20:54 < Iowan> What else to discuss on this - our first meeting?
20:54 < viyyer> Iowan, are you into pizza delivery ??
20:55 < Iowan> Not by choice...
20:55 < viyyer> hehe
20:55 < Iowan> Like my overtime - it'd be unpaid
20:56 < viyyer> Iowan, interestingly not many active lugs in there south east iowa area
20:56 < Iowan> KCC-IC has a computer club, but dunno what they do
20:56 < Iowan> They're on my "to contact" list
20:57 < Iowan> IC-LUG merged with CR-LUG - haven't followed much lately
20:58 < viyyer> hmm.. there is a quad cities lug too
</pre>
