{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Log ====
UTC TZ -4
<pre>
(10:00:41 AM) pitti: so, everyone on board, let's start
(10:00:57 AM) MacSlow: Hobbsee, I hoped to be able to "disguise" that not really understanding english and thus messing up ;)
(10:01:07 AM) pitti: first, actions from previous meeting
(10:01:09 AM) pitti: [14:54]         --> markm (markmurphy@yttrium.canonical.com)                       by assignee
(10:01:13 AM) pitti: argh, sorry
(10:01:15 AM) Hobbsee: MacSlow: heh
(10:01:18 AM) ***pitti kicks c&p
(10:01:25 AM) pitti: seb128 to hand out desktop team bugs to people as necessary
(10:01:31 AM) pitti: seb128: how does the desktop bug front look like?
(10:01:47 AM) pitti: this is hardly a measurable item, so I'm just curious
(10:01:54 AM) seb128: pitti: depends of the perspective
(10:02:05 AM) seb128: lot of "would be nice", no really stoppers though
(10:02:11 AM) seb128: s/really/real
(10:02:18 AM) pitti: so, mostly targets of opportunity
(10:02:22 AM) seb128: yes
(10:02:25 AM) pitti: great
(10:02:32 AM) seb128: some annoying issues that we should fix though
(10:02:58 AM) pitti: but, under control?
(10:03:32 AM) pitti: * Keybuk to get contract for compiz bugs sorted
(10:03:39 AM) seb128: well, as said no stopper
(10:03:40 AM) pitti: does anyone happen to know something about this?
(10:03:51 AM) seb128: too many issues to fix everything myself though
(10:03:51 AM) MacSlow: pitti, no clue
(10:03:58 AM) seb128: but we knew it from the start
(10:04:01 AM) pitti: ok, let's ask Scott next week
(10:04:13 AM) seb128: pitti: scott told me the contract details were being sorted
(10:04:24 AM) pitti: seb128: right, it's a matter of prioritizing mostly, and hand off some important ones to other team members
(10:04:29 AM) pitti: seb128: great
(10:04:34 AM) seb128: pitti: right
(10:04:44 AM) seb128: as said we knew from the start it would be though ride this cycle
(10:04:58 AM) ***pitti looks at the action list and pats seb on the back
(10:05:00 AM) seb128: and that's why we will keep fixing those issue until 8.04.1
(10:05:01 AM) pitti: * seb128 to fix the labelling of the menu items which are not right and warn translators about the change
(10:05:15 AM) pitti: seb128: you'll stay on hardy until .1, too, BTW?
(10:05:19 AM) seb128: yes
(10:05:29 AM) pitti: I remember that we discussed some of those last week
(10:05:47 AM) pitti: especially transmission, etc., right?
(10:06:10 AM) seb128: pitti: the menu items are half done, the transmission bittorent client is not but that's because some guys are working on getting the next version which has the change or on backporting changes and I'm letting them do the work there
(10:06:28 AM) seb128: I'll check with jdong
(10:06:30 AM) pitti: great
(10:06:51 AM) pitti: seb128: vinagre does not have a name in the menu
(10:07:09 AM) pitti: that seems a little inconsistent, all others in Internet have one
(10:07:13 AM) pitti: but *shrug*
(10:07:13 AM) seb128: ah right
(10:07:17 AM) pitti: the description is quite nice
(10:07:22 AM) seb128: will talk to upstream about this one
(10:07:30 AM) pitti: better than just the name, as for transmission
(10:07:52 AM) pitti: seb128: so, it's vinagre and transmission; the rest looks fairly ok, do you have something else?
(10:07:52 AM) seb128: right
(10:08:03 AM) seb128: right, only those now
(10:08:17 AM) seb128: you can consider it as done
(10:08:18 AM) pitti: accessoires is consistently without an app name
(10:08:39 AM) pitti: the multimedia one is a bit shuffled, but bearable IMHO
(10:08:43 AM) seb128: transmission is waiting for upload and vinagre is a target of opportunity but not really important, no need to keep it on the meeting actions list
(10:08:47 AM) MacSlow: pitti, hm... there's "Tracker Suche"
(10:09:01 AM) pitti: seb128: agreed
(10:09:04 AM) pitti: MacSlow: hm, good point
(10:09:19 AM) pitti: should be "Document search" maybe?
(10:09:26 AM) MacSlow: pitti, shouldn't that be changed too... I mean get rid of "Tracker" there... just "Desktop Suche"?
(10:09:38 AM) seb128: will look to this one too
(10:09:53 AM) MacSlow: pitti, it should be a bit more borad... as it will also find email and IM-conversations
(10:09:55 AM) seb128: but all that seems a bit late to break translations and I'm not sure about it
(10:10:02 AM) seb128: maybe we should just delay to next cycle
(10:10:17 AM) pitti: well, vinagre doesn't matter so much, agreed
(10:10:20 AM) seb128: anyway that's not something worth bothering the whole team about again, I just wanted to have opinions on the topic
(10:10:26 AM) pitti: but people won't know what transmission is, or tracker
(10:10:31 AM) pitti: ok
(10:10:42 AM) seb128: transmission is fixed upstream and the change will go to hardy
(10:10:45 AM) pitti:  * seb128 to use applications, system tools again
(10:10:49 AM) MacSlow: seb128, pitti: "Tomboy Notizen" is of a similar kind... "Tomboy" needs to be skipped there too.
(10:10:52 AM) pitti: hm, not sure about that one
(10:11:01 AM) pitti: MacSlow: ah, heh, I have that uninstalled
(10:11:03 AM) seb128: pitti: about what one?
(10:11:15 AM) MacSlow: seb128, pitti: maybe just go for "Notizen" there.
(10:11:18 AM) seb128: system tools?
(10:11:23 AM) pitti: seb128: apps, system tools; AFAIR that is too intrusive?
(10:11:33 AM) seb128: how intrusive?
(10:11:39 AM) pitti: like, changing it now in hardy
(10:11:40 AM) seb128: I moved gnome-system-monitor there
(10:11:45 AM) seb128: and we have the hardware testing thing
(10:11:50 AM) pitti: ah, that
(10:11:52 AM) pitti: right
(10:11:54 AM) pitti: so, done
(10:11:56 AM) seb128: yes
(10:12:00 AM) pitti:  * asac (action by proxy) to drop nm-tool menu entry
(10:12:08 AM) MacSlow: seb128, I've it (g-s-m) show up twice here.
(10:12:10 AM) pitti: ok, simple thing, it's just dropping the .desktop (or hiding it)
(10:12:11 AM) seb128: slangasek did it this morning
(10:12:28 AM) seb128: MacSlow: weird
(10:13:11 AM) pitti: I just have it once
(10:13:23 AM) MacSlow: seb128, but that's on my desktop which i only recently upgraded to hardy... from gutsy... that machine only was freshly installed once... around dapper iirc
(10:13:35 AM) pitti: Riddell: how do things look at the KDE front, OMG-bug-wise?
(10:13:36 AM) ***MacSlow checks on the laptop
(10:13:40 AM) MacSlow: which is a fresh install
(10:14:20 AM) Riddelll: pitti: pretty good
(10:14:28 AM) pitti: yay hardy :)
(10:14:45 AM) Riddelll: a couple of notable issues, both with fixes in progress
(10:14:49 AM) pitti: . o O { it seems to me we had fewer major problems this time, right? }
(10:14:59 AM) pitti: great, that covers the outstanding items
(10:15:02 AM) pitti: http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogasawara/qa-hardy-list-archive/sort-by-package/desktop-buglist.html
(10:15:14 AM) pitti: does anyone feel the need to walk through that again?
(10:15:15 AM) seb128: pitti: I've some thing I'm really no happy about if you want issues ;-)
(10:15:28 AM) seb128: the new screen capplet for example
(10:15:35 AM) pitti: or is everyone happy with the bugs on that? in the sense of "yes, they'll be fixed by release"?
(10:15:56 AM) seb128: need to escalade that to slangasek or something though
(10:15:59 AM) pitti: seb128: you mean the screen resolution thing?
(10:16:05 AM) seb128: yes
(10:16:08 AM) seb128: the xrand1.2 capplet
(10:16:18 AM) pitti: that's what we'll get in favor of dropping displayconfig-gtk menu item, right?
(10:16:25 AM) seb128: yes
(10:16:37 AM) seb128: it replaces the old capplet and displayconfig-gtk
(10:16:41 AM) mrevell-lunch is now known as mrevell
(10:16:46 AM) pitti: hm, I only ever use it in vmware, which misdetects the resolution, and it works surprisingly well
(10:16:55 AM) seb128: the issue is that it has no "try and revert" mode and write directly changes
(10:17:06 AM) pitti: ah, unlike displayconfig-gtk
(10:17:13 AM) seb128: so which means, boot an ati box, try to rotate the screen  and say bye to ubuntu
(10:17:26 AM) seb128: your xorg will be corrupted
(10:17:41 AM) pitti: ah, and it saves the mode for next time
(10:17:43 AM) pitti: bummer
(10:17:47 AM) seb128: and restarting will not help since it writes the user configuration
(10:17:55 AM) seb128: so you are good to reinstall
(10:18:08 AM) seb128: that will get us very bad reviews imho
(10:18:09 AM) pitti: is there a bug report about it? I agree that we should get this fixed
(10:18:35 AM) seb128: yes, assigned to bryce and milestoned but he doesn't seem to be wanting to fix it for hardy
(10:18:36 AM) pitti: "apply" should switch to new mode and have you confirm it within 15 seconds or so, otherwise flip back, right?
(10:18:42 AM) seb128: he says that's not easy with the current design
(10:18:46 AM) kwwii: at least make a backup copy of the old config :-)
(10:18:53 AM) seb128: and he wrote to the redhat guys who wrote the code but got no reply
(10:19:06 AM) seb128: pitti: yes
(10:19:15 AM) pitti: what's the name of that source package? or the bug#?
(10:19:24 AM) seb128: bug #197673
(10:19:28 AM) ubotu: Launchpad bug 197673 in gnome-control-center "gnome-display-properties should revert change automatically if not acknowledged" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/197673
(10:19:54 AM) seb128: I've milestoned it
(10:20:11 AM) seb128: but I really think it should be escalated somewhere and considered as a blocker
(10:20:15 AM) pitti: ah, no 'resolution' in subject, that's why I didn't find it
(10:20:20 AM) pitti: seb128: I agree
(10:20:50 AM) pitti: I'll add some suggestions to the bug after the meeting
(10:20:54 AM) seb128: thanks
(10:20:56 AM) pitti: let's discuss that afterwards, shall we?
(10:21:02 AM) seb128: sure
(10:21:16 AM) pitti: everyone else happy with the desktop bug list?
(10:21:34 AM) seb128: seems alright to me
(10:21:58 AM) pitti: kwwii, MacSlow ?
(10:22:07 AM) pitti: much of it are mvo-isms
(10:22:13 AM) kwwii: pitti: yeah, I have a couple of things but I am on top of them
(10:22:18 AM) pitti: gret
(10:22:23 AM) kwwii: pitti: the example-content stuff will not be updated though it seems
(10:22:33 AM) kwwii: the company never got around to it, not sure what is up there
(10:22:37 AM) pitti: kwwii: oh, why not? at least some s/feisty/hardy/ at least?
(10:22:57 AM) kwwii: pitti: to be honest, because we were going to get a company to do it I left it alone
(10:23:08 AM) pitti: rightly so
(10:23:12 AM) kwwii: I guess once the gdm and icon stuff is done I can take a whack at it if there is still time
(10:23:17 AM) MacSlow: pitti, well working on #151395 (sort of part of desktop-effects-profiles) and trying to solve #199380 and #204994.
(10:23:18 AM) pitti: but maybe we can do at least some small tweaks, like update the release name
(10:23:32 AM) kwwii: pitti: right
(10:23:59 AM) pitti: any other agenda items?
(10:24:38 AM) MacSlow: *shrugg*
(10:24:40 AM) pitti: 3
(10:24:42 AM) kwwii: nothing from me
(10:24:43 AM) seb128: pitti: yes
(10:24:44 AM) pitti: 2
(10:25:06 AM) ***pitti hugs seb128
(10:25:07 AM) seb128: grrr, I had something I wanted to mention but I don't remember what know
(10:25:15 AM) ***pitti chuckles
(10:25:18 AM) MacSlow: 1
(10:25:19 AM) seb128: ah
(10:25:19 AM) MacSlow: :)
(10:25:22 AM) kwwii: hehe, must not have been important
(10:25:26 AM) seb128: shares-admin against nautilus-share
(10:25:40 AM) pitti: 0:1, I'd say?
(10:25:41 AM) ogra_cmpc: time to resort to post-it's on your screen :)
(10:25:45 AM) seb128: we are moving to nautilus-share which user the samba usershare thing
(10:25:51 AM) seb128: right
(10:25:56 AM) seb128: my concern is upgrades
(10:26:09 AM) seb128: if we drop shares-admin what happens to people who configured shared under dapper?
(10:26:11 AM) pitti: n-share doesn't alter smb.conf, while s-a does, I suppose
(10:26:17 AM) seb128: they are left without a way to unshare those?
(10:26:22 AM) seb128: yes
(10:26:33 AM) seb128: s/shared/shares
(10:26:38 AM) pitti: seb128: how does n-share save its configuratin?
(10:26:41 AM) seb128: I'm not sure how much consideration we have for those
(10:27:06 AM) seb128: pitti: under /var/lib/samba/usershares
(10:27:15 AM) seb128: that's one file by share there
(10:27:41 AM) pitti: so it still uses some gksu'isms to store a global configuration?
(10:27:43 AM) pitti: or is it per-user?
(10:27:44 AM) seb128: do you think we should try to consider some automatic migration?
(10:28:00 AM) pitti: if it's a global config, it would certainly be nice
(10:28:04 AM) seb128: neither of those
(10:28:19 AM) seb128: available to sambashare members
(10:28:28 AM) pitti: oh, another system group, yay
(10:28:32 AM) seb128: yes
(10:28:47 AM) pitti: which users aren't in by default
(10:28:47 AM) seb128: and samba add admin users to this group automatically on upgrade
(10:29:05 AM) seb128: 		for USER in `getent group admin | cut -f4 -d:`; do
(10:29:05 AM) seb128: 			adduser "$USER" sambashare
(10:29:05 AM) seb128: 		done
(10:29:11 AM) seb128: ^ samba.postinst
(10:29:58 AM) pitti: hm, sounds like an automatic upgrade is at least possible
(10:30:14 AM) pitti: I think we shuold discuss that with our resident Samba expert slangasek
(10:30:21 AM) seb128: ok
(10:30:27 AM) ***pitti <- samba noob :/
(10:30:35 AM) seb128: do we consider that as a stopper to drop shares-admin meanwhile?
(10:30:55 AM) seb128: I'm not sure how much we are concerned by those on upgrades from dapper
(10:31:04 AM) pitti: (or gutsy)
(10:31:11 AM) pitti: IMHO pretty much
(10:31:19 AM) seb128: right
(10:31:29 AM) seb128: I've some other migration concerns but less important
(10:31:43 AM) seb128: those being the .Trash content and the gnomevfs servers
(10:31:52 AM) pitti: seb128: can you do the initial discussion with Steve, and then we'll discuss the implementation?
(10:31:55 AM) seb128: but that's not really meeting material
(10:31:59 AM) seb128: alright
(10:31:59 AM) pitti: maybe on u-devel?
(10:32:10 AM) seb128: let's wait for him to be around
(10:32:18 AM) seb128: other quick other question
(10:32:22 AM) pitti: (u-d@, not #u-d)
(10:32:31 AM) seb128: what's going theme wise in hardy?
(10:32:42 AM) ***pitti looks at kwwii
(10:32:52 AM) seb128: scott said that hardy will uses ubuntulooks, is somebody working on reverting the changes?
(10:33:06 AM) kwwii: seb128: the gdm will look very close to how it is now (sabdfl still needs to sign off on it)
(10:33:10 AM) ogra_cmpc: we dont go with murrine ?
(10:33:26 AM) kwwii: it will use ubuntulooks, there were several things which did not look good enough in murrine or clearlooks
(10:33:31 AM) ***ogra_cmpc changed the edubuntu themes with beta to use murrine
(10:33:35 AM) kwwii: I do have a new gtkrc for ubuntulooks though
(10:34:02 AM) ogra_cmpc: s/with/pre/
(10:34:09 AM) kwwii: we will aim to get a new theme in for +1
(10:34:13 AM) seb128: kwwii: are you waiting on sponsoring?
(10:34:25 AM) seb128: kwwii: or do you still have changes to do?
(10:34:32 AM) kwwii: seb128: yes, if we use a different theme we need someone to work on it
(10:34:36 AM) kwwii: ahhh
(10:34:48 AM) kwwii: seb128: no, I just need to get all the packages ready and ping you and pitti
(10:34:51 AM) kwwii: :-)
(10:34:54 AM) seb128: speaking about the changes to use ubuntulooks again there
(10:35:16 AM) seb128: that should be an ubuntu-artwork upload to change the default there
(10:36:34 AM) kwwii: hrm, ok I will add that to my list...I talked to mvo about it and I thought he took care of it
(10:36:46 AM) ogra_cmpc: kwwii, is there still a depenmdency that pulls the murrine engine in or do i need to pull it via edubuntu-artwork if i still want it ?
(10:36:58 AM) seb128: kwwii: well, if you don't have pending changes I can do this one
(10:37:12 AM) seb128: ogra_cmpc: human-theme has a depends on it
(10:37:18 AM) kwwii: ogra_cmpc: you will need to set a dependency, I doubt we will ship another theme we do not use unless there is extra space
(10:37:31 AM) ogra_cmpc: seb128, yes, but it didnt sound like that would stay
(10:37:36 AM) kwwii: seb128: the u-art stuff should be final
(10:37:56 AM) seb128: kwwii: ok, I'll just do the change to use ubuntulooks again then, ok?
(10:38:09 AM) kwwii: seb128: cool, I owe you one :-)
(10:38:19 AM) seb128: ;-)
(10:38:37 AM) pitti: so, did I get that right now:
(10:38:40 AM) seb128: pitti: ok, I'm done talking, no extra item to discuss ;-)
(10:38:42 AM) pitti: ACTION: seb128 to initiate a discussion about shares-admin -> nautilus-share upg
(10:38:43 AM) pitti: rade migration with slangasek on u-devel@
(10:38:46 AM) pitti: ACTION: seb128 to prepare theme change back to ubuntulooks
(10:38:48 AM) pitti: ACTION: kwwii to look into updating important bits of example-contents for Hardy
(10:38:50 AM) pitti: , primarily release name
(10:39:01 AM) pitti: sorry for bad line breaks
(10:39:06 AM) seb128: the seb128 actions are alright
(10:39:29 AM) kwwii: seb128: now that I think about it we also need to put the screensaver image in u-art as well
(10:39:41 AM) pitti: ACTION: everyone hug seb128 for single-handedly combatting the desktop
(10:39:50 AM) ***ogra_cmpc hugs seb128 
(10:40:02 AM) pitti: same for Riddel for KDE, I think :)
(10:40:07 AM) kwwii: seb128: I cannot think of a better place to put it, it is just one svg
(10:40:19 AM) seb128: kwwii: did you discuss that with ted?
(10:40:20 AM) pitti: ok, anything else to be discussed?
(10:40:28 AM) seb128: no
(10:40:32 AM) kwwii: seb128: yes
(10:40:38 AM) ***MacSlow hugs seb128 and feels bad seeing him tackling it alone
(10:41:10 AM) pitti: ok, then KTHXADJOURNED :)
(10:41:11 AM) pitti: thanks everyone
</pre>
