{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
TZ UTC+1
<pre>
05:11	BenC	This is going to be quick actually
05:12	zul	just lurking
05:12	BenC	Team status: you guys one to shoot a one or two liner on anything you're working on?
05:13	BenC	tossing back a pint doesn't count either :)
05:13	rtg_	Audio hibernate
05:13	pkl_	well that's been my main activity the last five days over Glastonbury
05:13	amitk	Intel poulsbo patches
05:13	pkl_	livecd, unionfs 2.0
05:14	cr3	KVM access and reporting hardware information on certification.canonical.com for Tribe-2 certification round
05:14	amitk	fixing up wiki instructions for reporting kernel bugs
05:14	kylem	display bugs
05:14	rtg_	madwifi in l-r-m
05:15	BenC	Anything you guys need help with, any issues we maybe need to address?
05:15	amitk	being a general busybody - to try and figure out what is what in ubuntu
05:16	BenC	amitk: we'll consider that one on-going :)
05:16	BenC	Now if I can just figure out how to pull up a list of distro-qa bugs on linux-source-2.6.22
05:16	cr3	BenC: I may need your feedback this week about the relevance of the hardware reported on certification.canonical.com
05:17	BenC	cr3: Ok...do you want to setup a time with me to talk about that? Steve is supposed to be getting me a salesforce account so I can add the hardware the kernel team has
05:17	BenC	and I'll probably need some training on how to use it
05:18	cr3	BenC: last week, I managed to get some salesforce changes committed so that I can integrate synchronize the hardware in salesforce and certification.canonical.com
05:19	cr3	BenC: so, you and your team might not even need to deal with salesforce at all
05:19	cr3	BenC: I'll ping sg about it to make sure he agrees
05:19	BenC	cr3: mdz wants me to track all of our hw and its location
05:19	BenC	and we very much need to
05:19	cr3	BenC: yep, that'll be done automatically with this integration
05:20	BenC	how will you guys even know what hw we have? :)
05:20	cr3	BenC: I totally agree, keeping hardware in multiple locations is a pain: salesforce, wiki, etc.
05:21	cr3	BenC: anyways, we'll follow up on this topic outside this meeting :)
05:21	BenC	cr3: sure thing
05:21	BenC	Well, I'm having problems figuring out distro-qa, or if it was renamed
05:22	BenC	Ah, think I have it
05:23	BenC	Hmm, no qa bugs on 2.6.22
05:23	BenC	4 on 2.6.20 though
05:23	BenC	https://bugs.launchpad.net/~canonical-qa/?field.searchtext=linux-source-2.6.20&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=New&field.status%3Alist=Confirmed&field.status%3Alist=In+Progress&field.status%3Alist=Incomplete&field.status%3Alist=Fix+Committed&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch=&field.has_no_package=
05:24	BenC	there's the nice long URL
05:24	BenC	Only two are publicly visible
05:24	BenC	kylem: you know anything about 119977?
05:25	BenC	or bug #119976
05:25	ubotu	Launchpad bug 119976 in linux-source-2.6.20 "All the task previous are killed after resumed from S3 on Santa Rosa with Crestline" [High,Confirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/119976
05:25	BenC	both are crestline/santa rosa related
05:25	kylem	no. i can't test it, since mine doesn't have an acpi bios.
05:26	kylem	s/test/reproduce/
05:26	BenC	kylem: do we need to address them in feisty, and has the submitter tested them in gutsy?
05:28	kylem	it seems to be feisty fom reading the bug report.
05:28	BenC	well I know it's against feisty, but do you think we need to worry about fixing them there :)
05:28	kylem	no, we should focus on gutsy for now.
05:29	BenC	Ok, can you request they test with tribe-2 then?
05:29	kylem	sure.
05:29	BenC	If you think we wont fix them for feisty, then maybe mark them "Wont fix"
05:29	BenC	kylem: thanks
05:30	BenC	Bulk of the meeting is done...any one have anything they want to toss in before we cut out?
05:30	pkl_	nope
05:31	BenC	Ok, then everyone have a good week...the kernel team will be reporting from london on the next meeting :)
05:31	zul	not from the community...
05:32	BenC	thanks everyone
</pre>
