{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu Open Week - Introduction - Jono Bacon - Mon, Nov 2nd, 2009 ===
<pre>
[15:01] <jono> oi oi folks :)
[15:01] <fuller9box> can i record sessions that i cannot attend? If so how plz - thanks
[15:01] <sebsebseb> hi jono
[15:02] <jaytheblogger> Hi Jono
[15:02] <fuller9box> hi jono
[15:02] <virusuy> hi joaopinto
[15:02] <ejat> hi jono :)
[15:02] <virusuy> hi jono
[15:02] <sebsebseb> fuller9box: this room gets logged
[15:02] <jpds> fuller9box: Logs will be available at irclogs.ubuntu.com
[15:02] <airurando> hi jono
[15:02] <jono> lets give it a minute for late folks to arrive
[15:02] <jono> particularly with the time zone changes around the world
=== Milyardo_ is now known as Milyardo
[15:02] <jcastro> Thanks everyone for showing up!
[15:02] <jcastro> already almost 200 people!
=== txwikinger2 is now known as txwikinger
[15:03] <fuller9box> sebsebseb, jpds - thanks 4 that
[15:03] <sebsebseb> fuller9box: np
[15:03] <jono> good to see all these folks arriving :)
[15:03] <openweek9> hi
[15:03] <Bush> is there voice I am unaware of or is it all text? (I have never used IRC anything)
[15:03] <jono> Bush, it will be just text
[15:04] <Bush> Sweet and thank you
[15:04] <virusuy> Bush: if you want to ear jono's voice, go to twit.tv :P
[15:04] <jono> virusuy, lol
[15:04] <X3MBoy> Bush: depend of your client, but it's just text in escence...
[15:05] <openweek9> let's go people
=== pleia2 changed the topic of #ubuntu-classroom to: Welcome to Ubuntu Open Week! https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek | Current Session: Introduction - Jono Bacon
=== jcastro changed the topic of #ubuntu-classroom to: Welcome to Ubuntu Open Week! https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek || All questions go in #ubuntu-classroom-chat
=== openweek5__ is now known as udp
=== udp is now known as tehwin
[15:07] <jono> alright
[15:07] <jono> I think we are about ready
[15:08] <jono> so before we begin, lets see where everyone is from
[15:08] <jono> folks, let me know the town and country you are living in
[15:08] <Dig> [be]
[15:08] <virusuy> jono: I'm from Uruguay !!!
[15:08] <DilbertDave> Exmouth, UK
[15:08] <gabriele> [it]
[15:08] <dutchie> worcester, UK
[15:08] <openweek3_> Germany Hagen
[15:08] <Rohirrim> Mumbai, India
[15:08] <openweek8_> Vancouver BC
[15:08] <TheFunkbomb> CT, USA
[15:08] <openweek9__> Tienen, BE
[15:08] <zakaria> Jakarta, Indonesia
[15:08] <mauri1> Im from Uruguay
[15:08] <miquel_puig> Barcelona, Catalonia
[15:08] <SplitHorizon> Jacksonville, FL USA
[15:08] <openweek9> Aberdeen, UK
[15:08] <nameiner> Raleigh, NC
[15:08] <akgraner> Union Mills, NC
[15:08] <jedler> Leopoldshoehe, Germany
[15:08] <manouche> York, UK
[15:08] <DRice> jono, hanover, germany
[15:08] <tyche> Fountain Hills, Arizona, USA
[15:08] <syzygy> los angeles, ca, usa
[15:08] <der_karle> Germany, Paderborn
[15:08] <LeChacal> Flint, MI, USA
[15:08] <Milyardo> Flint, Michigan
[15:08] <ejat> Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
[15:08] <airurando> Athy, Co. Kildare, Ireland.
[15:08] <SjB> London, Ontario, CAN
[15:08] <Bush> Fairchild Airforce base Wa {US}
[15:08] <esomeprazole> Philippines
[15:08] <eny_> Tallinn, Estonia
[15:08] <ion> Tampere, Finland
[15:08] <Dineren> KS, USA
[15:08] <pyrosrock> Melbourne, Australia
[15:08] <jtniehof> Brookline, MA, US (going to be Boston in about an hour when I go to work)
[15:08] <sebsebseb> Near Bristol England
[15:08] <h00k> WI, USA
[15:09] <k0m0d0> Amsterdam, NL
[15:09] <chruck> Greenville SC
[15:09] <lifer999> Toronto, Canada
[15:09] <JonyBlaze> Norfolk,VA,USA
[15:09] <yos> Akko, Israel
[15:09] <ScottK> Ellicott City, MD, USA
[15:09] <dwiasharialdy> bandung, indonesia
[15:09] <Marcelo> Argentina
[15:09] <jono> awesome!
[15:09] <fuller9box> south london
[15:09] <jono> thanks for letting me know folks
[15:09] <LaserJock> Hanscom AFB, MA, USA
[15:09] <cstudent> Portsmouth, OH
[15:09] <rrnwexec> Vancouver BC, Canada.
[15:09] <IdleOne> Good morning and happy UOW
[15:09] <Loisha> switzerland
[15:09] <Mindfulgeek> Boston, MA
[15:09] <jono> I am from the Bay Area in California, and it is rather early here :)
[15:09] <prabodha1> Colombo, Sri Lanka
[15:10] <charlie-tca> Boise, Idaho, USA
[15:10] <tavish> delhi, india
[15:10] <jono> so, welcome to Ubuntu Open Week everyone!
[15:10] <Spajderix> Legnica, Poland
[15:10] <sebsebseb> IdleOne: Or afternoon or whatever, depending on time zone
[15:10] <openweek4__> Hi everyone
[15:10] <Dig> Antartica! It's cold
[15:10] <PabloRubianes> Montevideo, Uruguay
[15:10] <jono> for those of you who are new to Ubuntu Open Week, I am going to explain how the week works
[15:10] <IdleOne> sebsebseb: yup :)
[15:10]  * funkyPants sits on jono 
[15:10] <jono> I am going to discuss the concept of the week, where you can find out more and how you can get involved
=== funkyPants is now known as funkyHat
[15:11] <snap-l> Macomb, MI
[15:11] <jono> Ubuntu Open Week was created a number of cycles back as a means in which we can introduce new members of our community to many of the skills of how you contribute
[15:12] <jono> the goal is simple: we provide a week of IRC tuition sessions, you good people join and learn the awesome content, and you can take these skills and contribute to Ubuntu
[15:12] <jono> we have an absolutely phenomenal community, which is underlined by a strong sense of family
[15:13] <jono> together we work on Ubuntu and what connects us together in many cases is a strong sense of the Ubuntu ethos - a deep running feeling of working on something that can benefit many people around the world
[15:14] <jono> we want to encourage as many people to join our family and indulge in that ethos, and Ubuntu Open Week was designed to make this possible
[15:14] <jono> now, a key attribute in our community is that we want to build a diverse community - you don't have to be a superstar programmer to get involved in Ubuntu
[15:14] <jono> we have many sub-communities, each of which cover a diverse range of skills
[15:15] <jono> these include documentation, development, translations, advocacy, testing, art and more
[15:15] <jono> together each of these sub-communities knits together to work on Ubuntu and the result is not only each release every six months, but also the incredible global community that we have come together to build
[15:16] <Arex> i was thinking about getting involved in packaging, but I only have a small bit of programming experience, what do you think?
[15:16] <canthus13> j/ignore #ubuntu-classroom +JOINS +PARTS +QUITS
[15:16] <jcastro> Arex, all questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat please, we're in the middle of a session now
[15:16] <jono> for those of you who don't know me, my name is Jono Bacon, and I work at Canonical as the Ubuntu Community Manager, and my job is to help build a strong, enabled, productive and fun community like this
[15:16] <IdleOne> Arex: www.ubuntu.com and click on the get involved link for more info
=== openweek6__ is now known as Epoxy
=== Epoxy is now known as Epoxx
[15:17] <jono> on my team I have dholbach: Daniel Holbach, jcastro: Jorge Castro, and dpm: David Planella - if you have any questions this week about anything Ubuntu related, I encourage you to contact them
[15:17] <jono> so, this is how it works
[15:18] <jono> if you take a look at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek you will see a grid filled with discussion sessions
[15:18] <faberglas> j/ignore #ubuntu-classroom =JOINS =PARTS =QUITS
[15:18] <jono> each of those discussions sessions will take place in this channel
[15:18] <jono> one of our incredible community members will deliver the session over IRC, just like this
[15:18] <jono> they will type the information and you can read it
[15:18] <Loisha> j/ignore #ubuntu-classroom =JOINS =PARTS =QUITS
[15:19] <jono> now, you should also join #ubuntu-classroom-chat
=== yofel_ is now known as yofel
[15:19] <jono> you can join it by typing: /join #ubuntu-classroom-chat
[15:19] <jono> in that channel you can discuss the session as it progresses
[15:19] <jono> folks, please *do not* discuss anything in here
[15:19] <jono> if you do, you very may well get kicked out by one of the ops
[15:20] <jono> keep *all* discussion in #ubuntu-classroom-chat
[15:20] <jono> I now expect a discussion to begin about my beard
[15:20] <ninadsp> /ignore #ubuntu-classroom +JOINS +PARTS +QUITS
[15:20] <jono> I am cool with that :)
[15:20] <jono> :P
[15:20] <jcastro> If it gets out of hand we'll +m the channel, but then it's less fun
[15:20] <jono> indeed
[15:20] <jcastro> so please remember to show courtesy to the current speaker
=== openweek9__ is now known as FunnyBeard
[15:20] <jono> with each session, attendees typically want to ask questions
[15:20] <jono> the way this works is simple
=== tehwin is now known as jonos_beard
[15:21]  * FunnyBeard likes to sit on jono's face :p
[15:21] <jono> in #ubuntu-classroom-chat ask a question using 'QUESTION' at the beginning
[15:21] <jono> here is an example:
[15:21] <jono> QUESTION: Why are Iron Maiden the greatest band that has ever existed, ever?
=== aim1159_ is now known as aim1159
[15:22] <jono> remember, you should keep *all* questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat
[15:22] <rbscycle> QUESTION: will there be a fix for Flash update for the PPC?
[15:22] <jono> as the session progresses, the session leader will pick out questions and answer them in here
[15:22] <jono> rbscycle, as I just said, don't ask questions in here, but in #ubuntu-classroom-chat
[15:22] <jono> so an example answer:
[15:23] <BluesKaj> howdy
[15:23] <jono> (a real question, strangely:)
[15:23] <jono> <jonos_beard> QUESTION: Why is jono's beard so awesome
[15:23] <jono> no-one really knows, it has been spoken about by generations, yet the original awesomeness is unclear
[15:24] <jono> so thats it folks, simple as that
[15:24] <jono> we have a stack of sessions going on this week, and you can always see the schedule at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek
[15:24] <jono> you can also see logs of the sessions at irclogs.ubuntu.com
[15:25] <jono> so, we have a little bit of time available for questions (in #ubuntu-classroom-chat) - any questions I can answer?
[15:25] <openweek4__> QUESTION:How can i increase the video memory of ubuntu in virtual box
=== openweek8__ is now known as spidey
[15:26] <jcastro> (some other info real quick while people queue up questions)
[15:26] <jono> <rrnwexec> QUESTION: Are we limiting the scope of questions in this session?
=== tavish is now known as tavish_scott
[15:26] <jcastro> We have a brochure at the site now if you want to print a schedule
[15:26] <jcastro> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek
[15:26] <jono> all questions are welcome :)
[15:26] <jcastro> also, the calendar is broken so we're fixing that now
[15:26] <jono> jcastro, ahhh yes, thanks Jorge, I forgot to mention that
[15:26] <akgraner> <Solarion> QUESTION: how can small LOCOs overcome their smallness? Inter-distro collab? Wider-area aggregation? Other?
[15:26] <jono> <Mindfulgeek> QUESTION: Where do you see the biggest need for help is?
[15:27] <pompeyrodney> can anyone tell me if a non destructive format is posible please?
[15:27] <jono> akgraner, I will post them in here
[15:27] <jono> Mindfulgeek, we need help everywhere
=== spidey is now known as spideysam
[15:27] <jono> Mindfulgeek, but I am personally really keen to see us have more packagers involved in the project :)
=== spideysam is now known as register
=== openweek5__ is now known as Satisfaction
=== register is now known as Guest8716
[15:28]  * akgraner blushes.. turns help button down a notch or two and steps away from the caffeine
[15:28] <jono> Solarion, as for LoCo smallness, I don't think a LoCo needs to grow any bigger than it feels it needs to, but to grow it should focus on encouraging more local Ubuntu members to join, and use this membership to do good work, and then go on to work with other groups such as LUGs
[15:28] <sks> I HAVE INSTALLED UBUNTU 9.10 AND MY GRUB VERSION SEEM TO BE VERSION 1.97~beta4
[15:28] <sks> is this correct???
[15:28] <MooDoo> sks: probably the wrong place to ask right now :)
[15:28] <dholbach> sks: do you think you can ask that question in #ubuntu-classroom-chat?
[15:29] <jono> <jrwren_> QUESTION: I'm not familiar with some of the words on the Schedule, could you define Byobu and WIOS ?
[15:29] <sks> im sorry
[15:29] <mhall119|work> might want to mute non-ops in this channel
[15:29] <jono> a quick google should help - byobu is a screen-like facility which is particularly useful for sysadmins
[15:29] <jcastro> jrwren_, also, there are descriptions in the PDF on the wiki page with more information on the session.
[15:29] <jono> and WIOS means Women In Open Source
[15:30] <sebsebseb> sks: yes that's  fine, also #ubuntu is for support
[15:30] <jono> <jbicha> QUESTION: is Canonical still losing money? if they are, do you have an estimate for when they'll break even?
[15:31] <jono> Canonical is still working towards profitability, and we are making great strides in that direction, as for timescales, I don't really have any informationI can provide
[15:31] <jono> <MenZa> QUESTION: What is the average airspeed velocity of a laden European swallow?
[15:31] <jono> erm, next question...
[15:31] <jono> <jaytheblogger> jono: QUESTION : I'm interested in packaging a new flavor of linux for hardcore gamers and game developers.  as a newbie, what are my chances, and how should I go t about it?
[15:32] <jono> sounds awesome!
[15:32] <jono> there are lots of docs online about creating derivatives
[15:32] <jono> I would recommend you contact the Ubuntu Studio, Kubuntu or Xubuntu folks to ask them for some pointers
[15:32] <jono> <zakaria> QUESTION: I'm a small time sysadmin. Sometime I make a script collection to install and configure server. What is the best way to share those script with another Ubunteros? Is there a place for this?
[15:33] <jono> I am not aware of a standard place myself, but you may want to post to the ubuntu-server mailing list and ask :)
[15:33] <jono> <yos> QUESTION: what does packaging involve ?
[15:34] <jono> in a nutshell, packaging involves taking a piece of software that has been released in source code form, adding some additional files that specify how the package works and generating a package that works using the Debian packaging system
[15:36] <jono> the way most packagers get involved is by adding a package to the sponsorship queue - this is where you create a package and an existing ubuntu developers offers input and upload it on your behalf if it is of suitable quality
[15:36] <jono> if you want more help on this, join #ubuntu-motu on Freenode
[15:36] <jono> or talk to dholbach - he can help :)
[15:36] <jono> <X3MBoy> QUESTION: Is the IRC classroom used in other communities or is an Ubuntu community invention???
[15:37] <jono> we were the first to come up with an open week, and I havent seen many other communities do it :)
[15:37] <jono> sorry folks, I have a phone call, jcastro can you continue for a moment
[15:37] <jcastro> QUESTION: so does one have to be a coder to package ?
[15:37] <jcastro> Not really
[15:37] <jcastro> though for more advanced things it helps if you know how to apply and test patches
[15:38] <jcastro> I expect a review of your package won't go far if you don't know how to do things like that
[15:38] <jcastro> however there are other tasks in packaging you can do without that
[15:38] <jcastro> that's a great question for daniel and james during the thursday sessions on becoming an ubuntu developer
[15:39] <jcastro> QUESTION: Does Ubuntu have automated testing for QA? How about collaborations with vendors to ensure that the hardware works reliably across upgrades?
[15:39] <jcastro> I can't answer this, but there will be QA sessions throughout the week
[15:39] <jcastro> QUESTION: Why did we make the switch to empathy/telepathy so soon?
[15:39] <jcastro> there is a session on the entire telepathy stack on Friday
[15:40] <jcastro> but the short answe there is audio/video support, and upstream collaboration
[15:40] <jcastro> QUESTION: When will GNOME utility to configure the pop-up messages? Why in the 9.10 release messages that pop up one position lower than the message sound?
[15:40] <jcastro> as far as I know this is a design decision and the notifications are not designed to be configurable
[15:40] <jono> ok backl
[15:40] <jono> back
[15:41] <jono> just finding my place
[15:41] <jcastro> Ok, please reask your question in -chat if I missed it
[15:41] <jcastro> and remember to preface your question with QUESTION: so we don't miss it!
[15:42] <jono> ok
[15:42] <jono> sorry about that folks
[15:42] <jono> it appears some people don't know about Open Week
[15:42] <jono> :)
[15:42] <jono> <rrnwexec> QUESTION: How would you rate the health of the Ubuntu community as compared with other distro's?
[15:43] <jono> I think we are in really good shape - while there are always things we need to fix and improve, there is a great sense of morale in the community, we are seeing regular growth, and I think everyone is hugely proud of the Karmic release
[15:44] <jono> <mugginz> QUESTION: Is there a possablility of Samba being shipped in a functional state by default?  Packages installed, etc.
[15:44] <jono> not sure, that is a question for #ubuntu-server methinks
[15:44] <jono> <mhall119|work> QUESTION: the docs on creating derivative distros is outdates with the new GDM and XSplash, when will they be updated?
[15:44] <jono> I haven't reviewed the docs recently, so I am not sure
[15:44] <jono> <joaopinto> QUESTION: Audio is clearly the worse area on Ubuntu 9.10, judging from a support request perspective, is there a plan on which the community can participate ? Bug reporting is clearly not sufficient
[15:46] <jono> I wouldn't necessarily say it is the worst area, but it could do with some love - if people want to help, the best thing to do is to understand our audio infrastructure and join us as a developer, helping to fix bugs and ensure that audio is rocking in ubuntu
[15:46] <jono> we are also keen to have bug reports on audio and have folks join our testing community to build stronger tests for our audio sub-system
[15:47] <jono> <zakaria> QUESTION: When 9.10.1 released?
[15:47] <jono> I am not seeing anything on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LucidReleaseSchedule yet, so I am not quite sure
[15:48] <jono> a date may not have been set yet
[15:48] <jono> <jbicha> QUESTION: what's your favorite Karmic feature?
[15:48] <jono> I love the fact that we ship Empathy and its audio/video/screensharing support
[15:50] <jono> <honza> QUESTION: What is the preferred programming language for developing applications for Ubuntu?
[15:51] <jono> for creating new apps, we often recommend Python - there is an awesome tool called Quickly which helps you get up and running quickly - it creates an example applications and eases how you write code, create user interfaces, commit to bazaar and generate packages
[15:51] <jono> see wiki.ubuntu.com/Quickly for details
[15:51] <jono> I have written a few apps with it - it is awesome
[15:51] <jono> <Mindfulgeek> QUESTION: Do you recommend upgrading or a clean install?
[15:52] <jono> upgrade works great for me :)
[15:52] <jono> <bigbrovar> QUESTION: There is a sense among kubuntu users that not enough is been done to being it on per with ubuntu in area of features and stability what is your take on this.
[15:53] <jono> Kubuntu is an awesome community distribution - Canonical hires the always wonderful Riddell to work on Kubuntu, and much of the underlying foundation of Ubuntu also applies to Kubuntu too, but it sounds like there may be a resourcing issue in not having enough hands on deck in the community to work on Kubuntu
[15:53] <jono> I would recommend that the Kubuntu community works together to build outreach to get more developers involved if there is a feeling that there are not enough hands on deck
[15:54] <jono> maybe we should have a Kubuntu Developer Week?
[15:54] <jono> our developer weekend
[15:54] <jono> with IRC sessions about packaging KDE for Kubuntu?
[15:54] <jono> <mhall119|work> QUESTION: jono, how are the book sales going?  Is your publisher still happy with making it available for download?
[15:55] <jono> (mhall119|work is referring to my recent book on building community called The Art of Community which is available to buy but also available for free download at http://www.artofcommunityonline.org/get/)
[15:56] <jono> the book seems to be doing well, I am just really happy with the ratings on amazon.com - I am not sure about book sales globally, but it seems to be doing well, and O'Reilly are happy that it is available to download - in fact, book sales went *up* when I made it available for download :-)
[15:56] <jono> <hardyl> QUESTION: How will the "ship-it" program change?
[15:56] <jono> see http://blog.canonical.com/?p=264 for details
[15:57] <jono> ok folks, one more
[15:57] <jono> <shadeslayer> QUESTION:Why is it that KDE does not get as much attention as GNOME does,for eg : www.ubuntu.com looks really professional,while www.kubuntu.org looks haphazard
[15:57] <jono> GNOME is the chosen desktop for Ubuntu, and KDE is the chosen desktop for Kubuntu
[15:58] <jono> Ubuntu is the primary distribution that Canonical funds, and hence ubuntu.com includes much of the information there - Kubuntu is an awesome community developed distribution
[15:58] <jono> I think kubuntu.org looks awesome, and the Kubuntu community have done a wonderful job producing such a fantastic distro and the website and brand around it
=== root is now known as Guest33888
[15:59] <jono> if you feel it could improved, feel free to get in touch with Riddell and I am sure he would welcome the help :-)
[15:59] <jono> ok folks, my time is up, thanks so much for coming to this opening session and I look forward to the rest of the week!
[15:59] <jono> have a great week!
[15:59] <jcastro> ok thanks jono

</pre>
