{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* T Development
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

Pretty straightforward meeting given 14.04 release is still pretty fresh in our minds, and ODS was last week.  Great Demo at UDS! Utopic Unicorn is underway way (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseSchedule) the first Alpha release scheduled for June 26th, and vUDS on June 12th. Server team blueprints are also in progress with the topic blueprint (https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-u-server_ already created and dependencies being posted to it. 

The Bugs we covered were:
* Launchpad bug 1319555 in ec2-api-tools (Ubuntu Utopic) "update out-dated ec2-api-tools for 12.04" [High,New]
* Launchpad bug 1315052 in lxc (Ubuntu Utopic) "lxc-attach from a different login session fails" [High,Triaged]
* Launchpad bug 1317587 in clamav (Ubuntu Utopic) "ClamAV 0.98.1 is Outdated" [High,In progress]
* Launchpad bug 1317811 in linux (Ubuntu) "Dropped packets on EC2, "xen_netfront: xennet: skb rides the rocket: x slots"" [Medium,In progress]
 

===== Meeting Actions =====

No specific actions given.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, May 27th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:01] <arosales> Hello
[16:01] <gnuoy> \o
[16:01] <rbasak> o/
[16:01] <rharper> o/
[16:01] <arosales> I'll be chairing the server team as I forgot to send minutes last week
[16:01] <jamespage> o/
[16:01] <matsubara> o/
[16:02] <sforshee> o/
[16:02] <beisner> o/
[16:02] <arosales> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:02] <arosales> come on bot
[16:02] <arosales> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:02] <coreycb> o/
[16:03] <arosales> #endmeeting
[16:03] <arosales> #startmeeting
[16:03] <lutostag> o/
[16:03] <arosales> hmm looks like the bot may be sick today
[16:03] <arosales> anyone know of any ways to kick it ?
[16:04] <rbasak> Looks like meetingology isn't online at all.
[16:04] <arosales> ok I'll continue without the bot today
[16:04] <rbasak> AlanBell: help?
[16:05] <arosales> rbasak: should I hold one for a sec?
[16:05] <rbasak> arosales: I guess he's not online, and I'm not sure who to ask. Best to proceed without I guess.
[16:05] <gaughen> o/
[16:05] <arosales> rbasak: ok and thanks for the thelp
[16:06] <arosales> *help
[16:06] <gaughen> arosales, you're up again?
[16:06] <arosales> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:06] <arosales> no actions from last week
[16:06] <arosales> it was a pretty brief call with it being post release and folks at ODS
[16:06] <arosales> gaughen ya I forgot to send minutes so I am up again this week
[16:07] <arosales> #topic Utopic Development
[16:07] <arosales> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseSchedule
[16:07] <arosales> so we have the client sprint going on this week
[16:07] <arosales> vUDS is June 12, mark your calenders
[16:07] <arosales> Alpha 1 at the end of June on the 26th
[16:07] <arosales> #subtopic Release Bugs
[16:08] <arosales> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-u-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:08] <arosales> 3 high bugs under server
[16:08] <arosales> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ec2-api-tools/+bug/1319555
[16:08] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1319555 in ec2-api-tools (Ubuntu Utopic) "update out-dated ec2-api-tools for 12.04" [High,New]
[16:08] <arosales> smoser: utlemming ^
[16:09] <smoser> i'll triage that.
[16:09] <arosales> looks like utlemming is working
[16:09] <smoser> oh, yeah. looks like it
[16:09] <arosales> #link https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxc/+bug/1315052
[16:09] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1315052 in lxc (Ubuntu Utopic) "lxc-attach from a different login session fails" [High,Triaged]
[16:10] <arosales> looks like hallyn did some triaging ealier this month
[16:10] <arosales> hallyn: any comments here?
[16:10] <hallyn> fixed upstream
[16:11] <arosales> hallyn: sounds like you are wating for the lxc fixes pushed as well but testing is looking ok
[16:11] <arosales> re comment 2
[16:11] <arosales> hallyn: will you be working to bring those into trusty and utopic, not current owners atm
[16:12] <hallyn> updated the status
[16:12]  * arosales refresh
[16:12] <hallyn> stgraber will merge those in with regular merge of stable
[16:12] <hallyn> i expect he'l be doing that next week
[16:12] <arosales> hallyn: ah ok, thanks
[16:12] <hallyn> (both for utopic and trusty)
[16:12] <arosales> good stuff, thanks for the update and bug status udpates
[16:12] <arosales> #link https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/clamav/+bug/1317587
[16:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1317587 in clamav (Ubuntu Utopic) "ClamAV 0.98.1 is Outdated" [High,In progress]
[16:13] <arosales> looks like scott kitterman has that in progress
[16:13] <arosales> that covers the high, any other bugs folks would like to bring up here?
[16:14] <arosales> #subtopic Blueprints
[16:14] <arosales> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-t/group/topic-u-servercloud-overview.html
[16:14] <arosales> not found . . . .
[16:14] <arosales> gaughen, smoser, jamespage: are utopic blueprints made?
[16:15] <jamespage> inprogress
[16:15] <arosales> ack
[16:15] <arosales> given you guys have been sprinting and at ODS _completely_ understandable
[16:15] <arosales> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:15] <gaughen> arosales, yes - https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-u-server
[16:16] <arosales> gaughen: ah nice
[16:16] <arosales> I'll update the IRC command link
[16:16] <arosales> gaughen: any points you would like to cover re blueprints?
[16:17]  * arosales doesn't see caribou around . . .
[16:17] <arosales> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
[16:17] <psivaa> arosales: We had some issues on smoke test infrastructure for utopic. it's now fixed and i'm going to kick the runs now.
[16:17] <arosales> good to here there were fixes :-)
[16:18] <psivaa> :)
[16:18] <gaughen> arosales, like jamespage said they are a work in progress
[16:18] <arosales> gaughen: ok, and thanks for the link
[16:18] <arosales> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
[16:18]  * beisner thanks psivaa 
[16:18]  * smb looks surprised and removes the towel
[16:18] <smb> For EC2 there is some discussion upstream for network issues of newer kernels (3.8+) which drop packets if fragments are, err, too fragmented. Not final outcome, yet. And on a side note, I might be getting more "dangerous" soon as I succeeded in getting a few more upload rights.
[16:19] <smb> That would be all if there are no questions
[16:19] <arosales> smb are you working with smoser or utlemming on the EC2 network issues in 3.8+?
[16:20] <smb> arosales, No I was asking Xen / kernel upstream
[16:20] <smoser> smb, is there a bug for this ?
[16:20] <smb> yes
[16:20] <smb> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1317811
[16:20] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1317811 in linux (Ubuntu) "Dropped packets on EC2, "xen_netfront: xennet: skb rides the rocket: x slots"" [Medium,In progress]
[16:21] <arosales> smb thanks for the update
[16:21] <arosales> smb: good luck on the additional upload rights too :-)
[16:21] <arosales> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:21] <arosales> everyone rested from ODS?
[16:21] <arosales> great demo btw
[16:22] <gaughen> not sure I'm rested but I'm ready for resting this holiday weekend, arosales
[16:22] <arosales> +1 to thtat
[16:22] <arosales> that
[16:22] <arosales> any other upcoming events?
[16:22]  * arosales not aware of any so I'll move on.
[16:22] <arosales> #topic Open Discussion
[16:22] <arosales> any other topics
[16:23] <arosales> ok sounds like all topics covered then :-)
[16:23] <gaughen> nope
[16:23] <arosales> #topic Announce next meeting date and time
[16:24] <arosales> NEXT MEETING: Tuesday 2014-05-27 at 1600 UTC
[16:24] <smoser> thank you arosales
[16:24] <arosales> thanks all for attending
[16:24] <arosales> #endmeeting
</pre>
