{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** ''ACTION:'' Daviey set priority on s-cycle BPs
** ''ACTION:'' Daviey follow up on missing BPs from overview s-topic
* Saucy Development
** Release Tracking Bug Tasks - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-s-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
** Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-saucy/group/topic-saucy-servercloud-overview.html
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===
=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 09 Jul at 16:00 &mdash; 16:40 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-07-09-16.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:00.

==== Saucy Development ====
The discussion about "Saucy Development" started at 16:04.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/ReleaseSchedule 
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:05)
** ''LINK:'' http://people.canonical.com/~rbasak/delta.html 
** ''ACTION:'' rbasak to land delta report to lp:ubuntu-reports, Daviey to deploy
** ''LINK:'' http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/proposed-migration/update_output.txt 
** ''ACTION:'' zul has willfully volunteered to review and document what is blocking server related saucy-proposed migration excuses, with joy.

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:29.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)" started at 16:33.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)" started at 16:35.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)" started at 16:36.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:37.

==== Announce next meeting date and time ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date and time" started at 16:39.

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items ===

* rbasak to land delta report to lp:ubuntu-reports, Daviey to deploy
* zul has willfully volunteered to review and document what is blocking server related saucy-proposed migration excuses, with joy.

=== Action items, by person ===

* Daviey
** rbasak to land delta report to lp:ubuntu-reports, Daviey to deploy
* rbasak
** rbasak to land delta report to lp:ubuntu-reports, Daviey to deploy
* zul
** zul has willfully volunteered to review and document what is blocking server related saucy-proposed migration excuses, with joy.

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Daviey (53)
* yolanda (37)
* rbasak (14)
* jamespage (13)
* ubottu (8)
* arosales (6)
* psivaa (6)
* zul (5)
* meetingology (5)
* smoser (4)
* doko (3)
* smb (2)
* adam_g (2)
* roaksoax (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:00 <yolanda> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jul  9 16:00:13 2013 UTC.  The chair is yolanda. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:00 <meetingology> 

 16:00 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 16:00 <Daviey> o/

 16:00 <yolanda> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:00 <yolanda> arosales to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase for meeting of 25 June

 16:01 <yolanda> any update?

 16:01 <jamespage> o/

 16:02 <roaksoax> o/

 16:02 <yolanda> Daviey to speak to Percona about Saucy inclusion

 16:03 <Daviey> yolanda: 25 June still not done.  I'll work with arosales after this

 16:03 <Daviey> yolanda: I haven't spoken to percona this week.  Will do THIS week

 16:04 <yolanda> ok, let's leave as pending then

 16:04 <yolanda> any other pending topics?

 16:04 <Daviey> Nope

 16:04 <yolanda> #topic Saucy Development

 16:04 <yolanda> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/ReleaseSchedule

 16:05 <yolanda> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:05 <yolanda> Daviey, any update with that?

 16:05 <arosales> sorry, joined a little late

 16:05 <arosales> here now

 16:05 <Daviey> First.. the Release Schedule

 16:05 <Daviey> DebianImportFreeze / Alpha2ish

 16:05 <Daviey> Would be good to be up to date on sync's and merges for then.

 16:06 <Daviey> rbasak has graciously fixed my delta report

 16:06 <arosales> yolanda, I think rbasak put in a new process that he is carrying forward. I will ensure the wiki has the minutes from my chair'ing for historical reasons

 16:06 <Daviey> http://people.canonical.com/~rbasak/delta.html

 16:06 <rbasak> Note: I haven't cronned that. I generated it earlier.

 16:06 <Daviey> We should try over this next week to reduce our delta with Debian

 16:07 <yolanda> rbasak, are you doing something automatic?

 16:07 <Daviey> #ACTION rbasak to land delta report to lp:ubuntu-reports, Daviey to deploy

 16:07 * meetingology rbasak to land delta report to lp:ubuntu-reports, Daviey to deploy

 16:07 <rbasak> yolanda: I intend to, but I haven't done it yet.

 16:07 <rbasak> ack

 16:08 <yolanda> i could help a bit with merges and syncs this week also

 16:08 <jamespage> Daviey, +1 to that

 16:09 <Daviey> Shall we look at, http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-s-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server

 16:09 <Daviey> bug 1124384

 16:09 <ubottu> bug 1124384 in cloud-init (Ubuntu Saucy) "Configuration reload clears event that others jobs may be waiting on" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1124384

 16:09 <Daviey> smoser: Are we expecting a cloud-init upload soon?

 16:09 <smoser> yes.

 16:09 <Daviey> I noticed that Debian is carrying a delta

 16:10 <smoser> that one is fixed in raring ..

 16:10 <smoser> oh?

 16:10 <Daviey> smoser: http://ftp-master.metadata.debian.org/changelogs//main/c/cloud-init/cloud-init_0.7.2-1_changelog

 16:11 <Daviey> Might be worth checking if we can fold anything interesting

 16:11 <Daviey> bug 1196921

 16:11 <ubottu> bug 1196921 in vim (Ubuntu Saucy) "updating packages to lua5.2 in main" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1196921

 16:11 <smoser> yeah. thanks.

 16:12 <Daviey> rbasak: You had thoguths on transitions such as this.  Is it worth just uploading a new rrdtool and see what breaks?

 16:12 <Daviey> (i feel evil suggesting that)

 16:13 <Daviey> adam_g: bug 1183634 ?

 16:13 <ubottu> bug 1183634 in cheetah (Ubuntu Saucy) "cheetah pkg does not depend on markdown, but egg requires.txt does" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1183634

 16:13 <rbasak> Sorry poor connection here

 16:13 <adam_g> Daviey, progressing, slowly. security team just started moving on the python-markdown MIR

 16:14 <adam_g> Daviey, should be good once thats done

 16:14 <Daviey> Super!

 16:14 <Daviey> I see they last touched it 20 hours ago.. so making progress

 16:15 <Daviey> bug 1170393, jamespage

 16:15 <ubottu> bug 1170393 in quantum (Ubuntu Saucy) "Quantum services should be respawned by upstart if necessary" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1170393

 16:15 <jamespage> catching up on openstack this week

 16:16 <rbasak> Daviey: I don't follow. It looks like we're up-to-date with Debian on rrdtool?

 16:17 <Daviey> rbasak: No, that isn't the problem.. there is a lua transition needed, and that package is marked as depending on it

 16:17 <Daviey> Feels very similar to the ruby and mysql issues we had.. Keeps getting deferred, then someone does it blindly.. and that prompts issues to be flushed out.

 16:18 <rbasak> Daviey: oh, so a no change rebuild?

 16:18 <Daviey> rbasak: yah

 16:18 <rbasak> I have less objection to someone blindly doing a no change rebuild, since that shouldn't introduce any new issues that didn't already exist

 16:18 <rbasak> If I were doing it I'd test it first though

 16:19 <Daviey> ok

 16:19 <Daviey> zul: Do you know why apache2 is still held?

 16:19 <Daviey> (saucy-proposed)

 16:20 <rbasak> There's a big pile of breakages it would cause. I looked today - it looks like almost everything is waiting on Debian

 16:20 <zul> Daviey:  yeah one packaging is blocking it, its being fixed in debian

 16:20 <Daviey> zul: which package?

 16:20 <rbasak> zul: it looked like many more than one to me

 16:20 <rbasak> http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/proposed-migration/update_output.txt

 16:20 <zul> Daviey:  dont remember off the top of my head

 16:21 <rbasak> I counted 62 source packages in there

 16:21 <zul> uwsgi

 16:21 <Daviey> Does someone want to volunteer to get to grips of proposed migration issues this week?

 16:22 <Daviey> I'm seeing more server seed issues on excuses.html than we'd like

 16:22 <Daviey> zul: Fancy it  ^^ ?

 16:23 <zul> Daviey:  sure

 16:23 <zul> Daviey:  not really but ill do it

 16:23 <Daviey> #ACTION zul has willfully volunteered to review and document what is blocking server related saucy-proposed migration excuses, with joy.

 16:23 * meetingology zul has willfully volunteered to review and document what is blocking server related saucy-proposed migration excuses, with joy.

 16:23 <yolanda> !

 16:24 <yolanda> Daviey, any more bugs to review?

 16:24 <Daviey> bug 1196979 , jamespage - can you summarise ?

 16:24 <ubottu> bug 1196979 in ow-util-ant-tasks (Ubuntu Saucy) "[MIR] libasm4-java (b-d of jarjar)" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1196979

 16:24 <jamespage> transition

 16:24 <jamespage> I have it on my list

 16:24 <Daviey> ok, thanks

 16:25 <Daviey> rbasak: bug 1031680 , been a bunch of discussion. Do we have a plan?

 16:25 <ubottu> bug 1031680 in nagios-plugins (Ubuntu Raring) "check_apt always report 0 critical updates" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1031680

 16:26 <rbasak> Daviey: I'm happy with the plan xnox described on the ML. It needs someone to actually do it, though.

 16:26 <Daviey> rbasak: ok, thanks.

 16:26 <Daviey> Any more bugs?

 16:26 <Daviey> Blueprints.. Don't think we need to review them this week.

 16:27 <Daviey> Would like to check on.. juju-core, is there any progress on getting an update into saucy ?

 16:27 <Daviey> jamespage: ^ ?

 16:27 <jamespage> Daviey, I pinged mgz today - 1.1.1 of golang is now in saucy (I jumped the Debian maintainer and pushed a point release in myself)

 16:27 <Daviey> Super!

 16:28 <jamespage> mgz is going to work on that with davecheney ~soon

 16:28 <jamespage> end of this week latest I hope

 16:28 <Daviey> A General note.  Please make sure that if you are working on something, anything, it is captured as a WI.

 16:28 <jamespage> ^^^ that all is

 16:28 <Daviey> There are too many 0% progresses for the cycle and a 100% (!)

 16:28 <jamespage> also remember a work item can be a bug linked to a blueprint as well

 16:29 <Daviey> EOF, thanks

 16:29 <yolanda> ok

 16:29 <yolanda> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:29 <yolanda> i received emails for OpenStack summit and free registration codes

 16:30 <yolanda> shall we register so soon?

 16:31 <Daviey> yolanda: Yes, do register :)

 16:31 <Daviey> I haven't done so yet.

 16:31 <yolanda> ok

 16:31 <Daviey> But a bunch of ~ubuntu-server people are going to Openstack Summit in Honk Kong, November.

 16:31 <Daviey> But a little early to declare it

 16:32 <yolanda> any other events?

 16:32 <arosales> OSCON coming up at towards the end of the months

 16:32 <Daviey> None in the short term, i don't think

 16:32 <arosales> OSCON = ~july 22~

 16:33 <yolanda> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)

 16:33 <psivaa> I am in for plars for this week

 16:33 <psivaa> Just a couple of bugs affecting the smoke tests, jdstrand and apw were working on them

 16:33 <psivaa> bug #1197484 and bug #1195710

 16:33 <ubottu> bug 1197484 in isc-dhcp (Ubuntu) "Connection requests to saucy server VMs from a precise host fail after fresh VM installs" [High,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1197484

 16:33 <psivaa> :)

 16:33 <ubottu> bug 1195710 in linux (Ubuntu Saucy) "'Kernel bug - invalid opcode: 0000 [#1] SMP' is reported at 'Preparing linux-image-extra-3.10.0-0-generic' stage of multi-lvm installations of amd64 saucy server " [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1195710

 16:33 <smb> The last one being worked on by apw

 16:34 <psivaa> jdstrand said he will look into the first one

 16:34 <yolanda> ok

 16:34 <yolanda> anything else for psivaa?

 16:34 <psivaa> that's all from us this week

 16:35 <yolanda> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

 16:35 <smb> Not much from me. Xen-4.3 is in progress and the usual funny bugs.

 16:35 <yolanda> any question for smb?

 16:36 <yolanda> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)

 16:36 <rbasak> Nothing new to report. Any questions for me?

 16:36 <doko> jamespage, are you involved with the Debian go policy?

 16:36 <doko> are don't you care?

 16:36 <Daviey> rbasak: Looking forward to learning what comes out of Connect when you return :)

 16:37 <jamespage> doko, not really but I think i may have to start....

 16:37 <yolanda> #topic Open Discussion

 16:37 <doko> jamespage, cool, lets chat about this next week

 16:37 <yolanda> any other topics to brig?

 16:37 <yolanda> bring?

 16:38 <jamespage> doko, yes - lets do that

 16:38 <yolanda> anything else?

 16:39 <yolanda> ok, so let's finish

 16:39 <yolanda> #topic Announce next meeting date and time

 16:39 <arosales> thanks for chairing yolanda :-)

 16:39 <yolanda> next meeting will be on 16th of July

 16:39 <yolanda> adam_g will be chairing

 16:39 <jamespage> so long as yolanda gets all the paper work out by then :-)

 16:40 <yolanda> sure :)

 16:40 <yolanda> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
