{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu Open Week - Introduction to Launchpad - Matthew Revell - Thu, Oct 25, 2007 ===
see also <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/openweekgutsy/LP_Introduction1|Monday session]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
16:08 < mrevell> Hello and thanks for attending this session which is an introduction to Launchpad.
16:08 -!- mode/#ubuntu-classroom [+v mrevell] by popey
16:09 <+mrevell> Over the next hour, I'll tell you what Launchpad is, what you can do with it and a little about its role in the Ubuntu community.
16:09 <+mrevell> Please post questions to #ubuntu-classroom-chat. I'll answer questions at the end of the session.
16:09 <+mrevell> I'll also tell you when you can attend other Launchpad sessions during Ubuntu Open Week and about other sessions we've had that you can read in the UOW logs!
16:10 <+mrevell>  
16:10 <+mrevell> So, what is Launchpad?
16:10 <+mrevell>  
16:10 <+mrevell> Launchpad is a suite of tools that help you to take part in free software projects. There are six main Launchpad applications, each dealing with different parts of the development and life of a free software project.
16:10 <+mrevell> They are:
16:10 <+mrevell> * Bug tracker - https://bugs.launchpad.net/
16:10 <+mrevell> * Code hosting - https://code.launchpad.net/
16:10 <+mrevell> * Translations - https://translations.launchpad.net/
16:10 <+mrevell> * Answers (user support) - https://answers.launchpad.net/
16:10 <+mrevell> * Blueprint (feature planning) - https://blueprints.launchpad.net/
16:11 <+mrevell> * Soyuz (package and distribution management) - more about Soyuz later.
16:11 <+mrevell> Projects can pick and choose which applications they want to use but the more of Launchpad that a project uses, the more useful it becomes.
16:11 <+mrevell>  
16:11 <+mrevell> Launchpad and Ubuntu
16:11 <+mrevell> --------------------
16:11 <+mrevell>  
16:11 <+mrevell> The Ubuntu community makes extensive use of Launchpad.
16:11 <+mrevell> Ubuntu's bugs are tracked in Launchpad:
16:11 <+mrevell> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu
16:11 <+mrevell> You can translate Ubuntu using Launchpad:
16:11 <+mrevell> https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu
16:11 <+mrevell> If you need help with Ubuntu, you can ask a question using Launchpad.
16:12 <+mrevell> Or, if you want to contribute back to the Ubuntu community by helping other people, you can answer their questions:
16:12 <+mrevell> https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu
16:12 <+mrevell> You can propose new features and see future plans for Ubuntu:
16:12 <+mrevell> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu
16:12 <+mrevell> Other projects use Launchpad too. For example, the Bazaar version control system, the Exaile media player, the Zope web framework and others.
16:12 <+mrevell> People in Launchpad
16:12 <+mrevell> -------------------
16:13 <+mrevell>  
16:13 <+mrevell> Before you can start using Launchpad, you need a Launchpad account.
16:13 <+mrevell> Signing up for one is easy. All you need is a working email address.
16:13 <+mrevell> You can find out how to create your Launchpad account in our guide at:
16:13 <+mrevell>  
16:13 <+mrevell> https://help.launchpad.net/CreatingYourLaunchpadAccount
16:13 <+mrevell>  
16:13 <+mrevell> Having your own Launchpad account will allow you to log into the Ubuntu wiki, use the Canonical shop, order ShipIt CDs and more. It's pretty important if you want to take part in the Ubuntu community.
16:13 <+mrevell> Once you've got your account, you can personalise it with information about yourself and a couple of photos!
16:14 <+mrevell> Launchpad isn't Facebook, though :-) Adding this sort of information to your profile can be really useful.
16:14 <+mrevell>  
16:14 <+mrevell> Let's take a look at a real-life Launchpad user profile:
16:14 <+mrevell>  
16:14 <+mrevell> https://launchpad.net/~alanpope
16:14 <+mrevell>  
16:14 <+mrevell> If you're logged into Launchpad, you can see a short personal statement from Alan, how to contact him and some of what he has worked on in Launchpad.
16:14 <+mrevell> Launchpad is great at bringing free software people together
16:15 <+mrevell> For example: if I come across a feature blueprint that Alan has filed, and I like his idea, I may want to help out. Let's say his idea is to create a new Ubuntu application for tracking information about Elvis impersonators.
16:15 <+mrevell> I want to help him flesh the idea out, so I click on his name on the blueprint page and it takes me to his Launchpad profile.
16:15 <+mrevell> On his profile page, I find out how to contact him, what other things he's been working on and I even get an idea of what he looks like!
16:15 <+mrevell> (Take a look at https://launchpad.net/~matthew.revell if you really want to see my picture.)
16:16 <+mrevell> Now, Alan is no longer a meaningless name but he's a person I can start working with.
16:16 <+mrevell> By clicking the tabs at the top of his profile, I can even see what he's been up to in each different part of Launchpad.
16:16 <+mrevell> Clicking the "Answers" tab, I see that he frequently answers people's support requests:
16:16 <+mrevell> https://answers.edge.launchpad.net/~alanpope/
16:16 <+mrevell> Not only can someone with a Launchpad account contact other people but they can also take on certain roles, such as:
16:16 <+mrevell>  
16:16 <+mrevell> * bug contact
16:16 <+mrevell> * project driver
16:16 <+mrevell> * official translator.
16:16 <+mrevell>  
16:17 <+mrevell> They can also create and join teams.
16:17 <+mrevell>  
16:17 <+mrevell> Teams in Launchpad
16:17 <+mrevell> ------------------
16:17 <+mrevell>  
16:17 <+mrevell> So, Alan and I get together and decide that we want to work on our new Elvis impersonator tracker. We've also met some other people who want to get involved.
16:17 <+mrevell> We create a team at:
16:17 <+mrevell>  
16:17 <+mrevell> https://launchpad.net/people/+newteam
16:17 <+mrevell>  
16:17 <+mrevell> You can see an example of a real team at:
16:17 <+mrevell>  
16:17 <+mrevell> https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-wiki
16:17 <+mrevell>  
16:17 <+mrevell> It looks much like a person's profile. You can also see who is a member of the team, either as a list:
16:17 <+mrevell>  
16:18 <+mrevell> https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-wiki/+members
16:18 <+mrevell>  
16:18 <+mrevell> or as a group photo:
16:18 <+mrevell> https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-wiki/+mugshots
16:18 <+mrevell> Just like people, teams can also be members of other teams.
16:18 <+mrevell> This makes it easy to create a structure for a project or initiative within Launchpad.
16:18 <+mrevell> The Ubuntu Wiki team is a member of the Ubuntu Documentation Project team, as you can see here:
16:18 <+mrevell> https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-wiki/+participation
16:18 <+mrevell> Teams are like people in other ways.
16:19 <+mrevell> They too can, for example, act as a project or Ubuntu package's bug contact.
16:19 <+mrevell> This means that whenever a new bug is filed against that project or package, everyone in that team is notified.
16:19 <+mrevell> Those team members also get the permissions of a bug contact, such as setting certain restricted bug statuses.
16:19 <+mrevell>  
16:19 <+mrevell> Blueprints
16:19 <+mrevell> ----------
16:19 <+mrevell>  
16:19 <+mrevell> Remember earlier I mentioned blueprints?
16:20 <+mrevell> Well, just like blueprints in the world of architecture, Launchpad blueprints help to turn an idea into something a little more concrete.
16:20 <+mrevell> Blueprints are a flexible way for people to set out an idea, optionally with details of how they'd implement it.
16:20 <+mrevell> Let's take a look at an example:
16:20 <+mrevell> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/free-flash
16:20 <+mrevell> Each blueprint can have a:
16:20 <+mrevell> * "Drafter" - the person who is responsible for setting out the idea
16:20 <+mrevell> * "Assignee" - the person who is going to implement the ideas set out in the blueprint
16:20 <+mrevell> * "Reviewer" - the person who'll check the work on the blueprint.
16:21 <+mrevell> You can see these in the top right of the page, along with an implementation status, priority and a definition.
16:21 <+mrevell> That last one is important because it can only be set by the project drivers. So, although anyone can create a blueprint, it's the project's drivers who get to choose its priority etc.
16:21 <+mrevell> There's something else in the top-right, too: the "series-goal".
16:21 <+mrevell> Launchpad helps projects and distributions to plan their releases in a number of ways.
16:22 <+mrevell> A distro-series or release-series is a major line of development.
16:22 <+mrevell> In Ubuntu's case, Gutsy is one of these distro-series
16:22 <+mrevell> An important link on the blueprint page is "Read the full specification".
16:22 <+mrevell> Launchpad Blueprint isn't designed to replace the wikis, mailing lists and other ways that projects use to organise themselves.
16:22 <+mrevell> Instead, it helps track useful meta-data about the information held on these wikis.
16:23 <+mrevell> So, the Ubuntu wiki is where the Ubuntu community stores the meat of its blueprints.
16:23 <+mrevell> There's more to say about blueprints but we don't have time in this session.
16:23 <+mrevell> Join us at 17.00 UTC on Friday to learn more about Blueprint.
16:23 <+mrevell> However, before we leave blueprints, I'd like to point out the small white cross on a red background; it looks like a Swiss flag.
16:24 <+mrevell>  
16:24 <+mrevell> Mentoring
16:24 <+mrevell> ---------
16:24 <+mrevell>  
16:24 <+mrevell> Remember I said earlier that Launchpad helps free software people to work together?
16:24 <+mrevell> Mentoring is a fantastic example of just how Launchpad does it.
16:24 <+mrevell> Let's say I see the blueprint we've been looking at.
16:24 <+mrevell> Imagine I'm a keen but inexperienced developer.
16:24 <+mrevell> I really want to help implement a free Flash player for Ubuntu. I don't know where to start though.
16:25 <+mrevell> However, I see that Alexander Sack is offering to mentor people on this.
16:25 <+mrevell> I click his name and I'm taken to a page listing his blueprints.
16:25 <+mrevell> Another click on the "Overview" tab and I can find out how to contact him.
16:25 <+mrevell> Now, Alexander can help me learn how I can use my skills to help progress this blueprint and to learn the ways of the Ubuntu community.
16:25 <+mrevell> Each offer of mentoring is linked to a particular Launchpad team.
16:26 <+mrevell> This makes it easy to find offers that you're particularly interested in.
16:26 <+mrevell> Ubuntu's Mozilla team, for example:
16:26 <+mrevell> https://edge.launchpad.net/~mozillateam/+mentoring
16:26 <+mrevell> Both bug reports and blueprints can have offers of mentoring.
16:26 <+mrevell>  
16:26 <+mrevell> Bug Tracker
16:26 <+mrevell> ------------
16:26 <+mrevell>  
16:26 <+mrevell> For many people in the Ubuntu community, reporting and managing bugs accounts for a lot of the time they spend using Launchpad.
16:26 <+mrevell> Let's take a look:
16:26 <+mrevell>  
16:26 <+mrevell> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu
16:26 <+mrevell>  
16:27 <+mrevell> Reporting bugs using Launchpad's web interface is pretty easy.
16:27 <+mrevell>  
16:27 <+mrevell>  Simply type in a summary of the bug you've found and Launchpad will search all existing bug reports to check that the bug hasn't already been reported.
16:27 <+mrevell>  
16:27 <+mrevell> If you see that the bug has already been reported, you can subscribe to it and get email updates when something changes.
16:27 <+mrevell>  
16:27 <+mrevell> However, if the bug hasn't been reported, all you need do is describe what you found in more detail.
16:27 <+mrevell>  
16:28 <+mrevell> A member of the Ubuntu bugs team will try to confirm that you bug exists and give it an appropriate importance level.
16:28 <+mrevell>  
16:28 <+mrevell> Other people can also add comments or upload screenshots and other attachments to help the relevant developers understand the problem.
16:28 <+mrevell> You can also use the bug tracker through its email interface.
16:28 <+mrevell>  
16:28 <+mrevell> This makes it particularly easy to automate your use of the bug tracker or may be of interest if you prefer not to use the web interface.
16:28 <+mrevell>  
16:29 <+mrevell> There's something else that's particularly special about the way Launchpad deals with bugs.
16:29 <+mrevell>  
16:29 <+mrevell> Briefly: bugs in free software can pop up almost anywhere.
16:29 <+mrevell> This is partly because free software projects share code and rely on libraries provided by other projects.
16:29 <+mrevell>  It's also true that if you find a bug whilst using Ubuntu, that bug may have originated in, for example, code provided by the Firefox or OpenOffice.org projects.
16:30 <+mrevell> Launchpad makes it easy for different communities to work together on the same bug.
16:30 <+mrevell> If you want to know more about this or any other part of the bug tracker you can attend our session dedicated to Launchpad's Bug Tracker at 19.00 UTC today
16:31 <+mrevell> and read the log of the Bug Triage session - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/openweekgutsy/BugTriage
16:31 <+mrevell> Earlier I said that if projects use more than one Launchpad application, Launchpad actually becomes more useful to them.
16:31 <+mrevell> One of way is bug-branch links. Developers can upload code to Launchpad and mark it as a fix for a particular bug.
16:31 <+mrevell>  
16:32 <+mrevell> Code hosting
16:32 <+mrevell> ------------
16:32 <+mrevell>  
16:32 <+mrevell> Launchpad works with the Bazaar version control system. Bazaar is a distributed version control system.
16:32 <+mrevell> That means everyone has their own code repository (called a branch in Bazaar terms).
16:32 <+mrevell> Unlike with CVS or Subversion, you don't need special permissions to start work on someone else's code.
16:32 <+mrevell> Instead, you create your own branch and work on that.
16:32 <+mrevell> It's then easy for the project to merge your changes back into the original branch.
16:32 <+mrevell> And hosting a branch publicly is really easy.
16:32 < harkonen> QUESTION: so to draft a project, do you have to have any real plan for how it's going to get done or can it potentially be just a raw idea?
16:33 <+mrevell> harkonen: I'll answer questions at the end of the session, thanks.
16:33 <+mrevell> All you need is a standard web server and you can also do it through Launchpad.
16:33 <+mrevell> Launchpad makes Bazaar even more useful.
16:33 <+mrevell> One of the problems with distributed version control is that it can be hard to find all the branches associated with your project.
16:33 <+mrevell> Launchpad solves that. It has a browsable code catalogue for each project.
16:33 <+mrevell> Anyone can register their branch to show up in your project's branch list.
16:34 <+mrevell> You can see how active each branch is, read the developer's commit messages and create your own branch at any time.
16:34 <+mrevell> Importantly, Launchpad can either directly host the branches or mirror them.
16:34 <+mrevell> This means they're always available for anyone to create their own branch.
16:34 <+mrevell> Take a look at the branches for Ubuntu's Update Manager: https://code.launchpad.net/update-manager
16:34 <+mrevell> You can see the main branch but people have also created their own branches to work on their priorities.
16:34 <+mrevell> Bazaar makes it really easy for development to take different directions, while Launchpad helps make sure it's all accessible from one place.
16:35 <+mrevell> Now, take a look at the Bazaar project's branches: https://code.launchpad.net/bzr
16:35 <+mrevell>  Notice the small bug icons?
16:35 <+mrevell> If you create a branch to fix specific bugs, you can link the branch to the relevant bug reports. The bug icons indicate there's a link.
16:35 <+mrevell> With a link between a bug report and the branch that fixes it, everyone can now easily get hold of a bug's solution.
16:36 <+mrevell> On that page you can also see several branches registered to the Bazaar Developers team. These are team branches.
16:36 <+mrevell> They're hosted centrally, on Launchpad, and only members of the Bazaar Developers team can commit to them.
16:36 <+mrevell> Team branches are ideal for working together on a major line of development. Anyone can still create their own copy, though.
16:36 <+mrevell> Finally, Launchpad can make a continuous import of almost any CVS or Subversion repository hosted on the internet.
16:36 <+mrevell> This means that you can create your own Bazaar branch of the code and your own line of development.
16:37 <+mrevell> With Bazaar's bzr-svn plugin, and the appropriate commit access, you can even commit your code back to Subversion repositories.
16:37 <+mrevell> You can find out more about hosting code with Launchpad in the session after this - i.e. here at 18.00 UTC .
16:37 <+mrevell>  
16:37 <+mrevell> Translations
16:37 <+mrevell> ------------
16:37 <+mrevell>  
16:38 <+mrevell> Launchpad Translations, formerly known as Rosetta, takes the pain out of translating software into different languages.
16:38 <+mrevell> Let's take a quick look at Ubuntu's Translations page:
16:38 <+mrevell>  
16:38 <+mrevell> https://translations.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu
16:38 <+mrevell>  
16:38 <+mrevell> There you get a quick overview of how well Ubuntu 7.10 (Gutsy) has been translated into many different languages.
16:38 <+mrevell> Much of the free software world uses GNU's GetText.
16:38 <+mrevell>  Developers put markers in their code to show where a GetText should insert a string of interface text.
16:39 <+mrevell> GetText uses a certain file format to store translated strings. Although it's simple enough to edit this format by hand, the truth is that translators shouldn't have to be coders.
16:39 <+mrevell> Launchpad shields translators from the underlying complexities and gives them a simple web interface.
16:39 <+mrevell> Launchpad currently works with 243 languages and has more than 820,000 strings in its database.
16:39 <+mrevell>  
16:39 <+mrevell> Naturally, the same phrases occur in the interfaces of many applications.
16:39 <+mrevell>  
16:39 <+mrevell> When someone is translating an application, Launchpad checks its database to see if it has already seen those strings in that language. If it has, it suggests them to the translator.
16:40 <+mrevell> Launchpad also gives teams different ways to ensure they get the right balance between control of translations and encouraging community participation.
16:40 <+mrevell> From fully open - where anyone can translate - to totally restricted, where only pre-appointed translators can make translations and suggestions.
16:40 <+mrevell> Of course, development work usually starts on a new release while the stable release is still in use.
16:41 <+mrevell> Launchpad allows multiple translation efforts to take place concurrently for the same project.
16:41 <+mrevell> So, translation can begin on a new release and continue on the stable release.
16:41 <+mrevell> You can find out more about Launchpad Translations at 16.00 UTC tomorrow.
16:41 <+mrevell>  
16:41 <+mrevell> Answers
16:41 <+mrevell> -------
16:41 <+mrevell>  
16:41 <+mrevell> Mailing lists and web forums are traditionally where free software projects answer user support questions.
16:41 <+mrevell> However, it can be difficult to capture that knowledge and make it easily available to the community.
16:41 <+mrevell> Some people are also intimidated by mailing lists or the initiation rituals of some forums :)
16:42 <+mrevell> Launchpad's Answer Tracker is a simple way for people to ask questions about a project.
16:42 <+mrevell> Anyone can offer an answer and the original questioner can highlight the answer they found most useful.
16:42 <+mrevell> Members of a project's community can sign up to be support contacts, meaning they receive an email each time a new question is asked about that project.
16:42 <+mrevell> Support contacts can also identify which questions are FAQ. FAQ - along with a good answer - are then easily searchable and available to anyone.
16:42 <+mrevell> People can ask questions in their own language(s). Support contacts can choose to receive notification of questions asked in their preferred languages.
16:43 <+mrevell> Importantly, all of the questions and answers are easily searchable, meaning that they build into a knowledge-base for the project.
16:43 <+mrevell>  
16:43 <+mrevell> Personal Package Archives
16:43 <+mrevell> --------------------------
16:43 <+mrevell>  
16:43 <+mrevell> Before I continue, you can find out more about using Launchpad Answers in the Ubuntu community in the logs of popey's session at:
16:44 <+mrevell> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/openweekgutsy/LP_TroubleshootAnswers
16:44 <+mrevell>  
16:44 <+mrevell> So, Personal Package Archives
16:44 <+mrevell>  
16:44 <+mrevell> Remember earlier I spoke about Soyuz? Well, this is the part of the Launchpad that helps put Ubuntu together.
16:44 <+mrevell> The part of Soyuz you're most likely to come across is Personal Package Archives.
16:44 <+mrevell> With Personal Package Archives (PPA), you can build and publish binary Ubuntu packages for multiple architectures simply by uploading an Ubuntu source package to Launchpad.
16:45 <+mrevell> If you've got a Launchpad account, you've signed the Ubuntu code of conduct and you've got an GPG key in your Launchpad profile, you can get your own PPA.
16:45 <+mrevell> Your PPA gives you:
16:45 <+mrevell>  
16:45 <+mrevell> * An APT repository of up to 1 gigabyte for material licensed in accordance with the PPA Terms of Use.
16:45 <+mrevell> * Binary packages built for x86 and AMD64 architectures against Ubuntu.
16:45 <+mrevell> * A web front-end where Launchpad users can browse and search for your packages.
16:45 <+mrevell>  
16:45 <+mrevell> You can find out how to use your PPA at:
16:45 <+mrevell> https://help.launchpad.net/PPAQuickStart/
16:45 <+mrevell> and in our session at 15.00 UTC tomorrow (i.e. Friday).
16:46 <+mrevell> This is one of the most exciting areas of development for Launchpad at the moment.
16:46 <+mrevell> PPA is in beta at the moment, so you'll need to join the Launchpad Beta Testers team.
16:46 <+mrevell> In fact, I'd recommend that to everyone. Find out how in our guide:
16:46 <+mrevell> https://help.launchpad.net/JoiningLaunchpadBetaTesters
16:46 <+mrevell> There's so much to tell you about Launchpad. I've just about covered the basics.
16:46 <+mrevell> So, please do join us for the remaining Launchpad sessions this week and come visit us on the launchpad-users mailing list at:
16:47 <+mrevell> http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/launchpad-users
16:47 <+mrevell>  
16:47 <+mrevell> Okay, I'll dip into the -chat channel to find your questions. Just a moment.
16:47 <+mrevell> <harkonen> QUESTION: so to draft a project, do you have to have any real plan for how it's going to get done or can it potentially be just a raw idea?
16:48 <+mrevell> harkonen: If you want to sketch out some ideas and use Blueprint to help track, for example, who else is involved, then that's no problem.
16:49 <+mrevell> harkonen: Launchpad doesn't enforce any particular project management methodology on you. Instead, Blueprint helps you track ideas, feature specs, as chunks of work.
16:49 <+mrevell> <lardarse> QUESTION: How does Bazaar handle edit conflicts? With everyone having their own version of the code, doesn't that create more of them?
16:51 <+mrevell> lardarse: Nice nick. A great deal of development effort has gone into Bazaar's merge handling. I'm not a Bazaar developer but we do have a specific Bazaar session tomorrow (Friday) at 19.00 UTC.
16:52 <+mrevell> <mbt> QUESTION:  When will the LaunchPad product be open-sourced, and why isn't it an open-source project already?
16:52 <+mrevell> mbt: Let me delve into the Launchpad Q&A session logs from Tuesday and I'll quote the answer that one of the Launchpad team leaders, Kiko, gave
16:53 <+mrevell> There has actually been a lot of discussion about OSSing LP internally as of late, but still no concrete decision in terms of dates and time
16:53 <+mrevell> <@kiko> it is a difficult decision for many of the stakeholders
16:53 <+mrevell> 18:31 <@kiko> so no promises, just allusions to possibilities; sorry.
16:54 <+mrevell> mbt: So, I plan has always been to open Launchpad and we will. I don't know when, though.
16:54 <+mrevell> s/I plan/our plan
16:54 < mbt> Thank you.
16:54 <+mrevell> mbt: But it is something that we recognise as important and that we're working towards.
16:54 <+mrevell>  QUESTION:  Is there a Bazaar tutorial for someone who is already familiar with using Subversion or another non-distributed RCS?
16:55 <+mrevell> mbt: Take a look at: http://bazaar-vcs.org/BzrSwitching
16:56 <+mrevell> <bahadunn> QUESTION: Any chance of launchpad ever supporting git for code repositories?
16:58 <+mrevell> bahadunn: I may have to come back to you on that. I was hoping to get a colleague who works directly on that part of Launchpad, but he's unavailable right now.
16:58 <+mrevell> <edenbeast> QUESTION: with regards to 'mentoring' can you just do search for "these projects offer mentoring" instead of looking at specific projects to see if they offer it? (like a general search for those who want to help but don't have any particular app in mind?)
16:58 < bahadunn> mrevell: ok thanks
17:00 <+mrevell> edenbeast: At the moment, no. But that would be a good addition to mentoring. Thanks. I'll make a note of that and put it forward as a suggestion.
17:00 <+mrevell> bahadunn: Ah, my colleague mwhudson is preparing an answer.
17:01 < bahadunn> mrevell: cool
17:01 <+mrevell> bahadunn: ""It is unlikely that Launchpad will support hosting git branches at all soon.  But it's possible that we'll support importing from git, in a similar way to how we import from Subversion and CVS today"
17:02 <+mrevell> Any further questions? We have another six minutes.
17:02 <+mrevell> Up next is a session on the Launchpad Bug Tracker. Then after that we have a session on Launchpad Code Hosting.!
17:02 <+mrevell> <edenbeast> QUESTION: do unanswered blueprints fade after a certain time?
17:04 -!- popey changed the topic of #ubuntu-classroom to: Ubuntu Open Week info: Information and Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek | Ubuntu classroom transcripts: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ClassroomTranscripts | Please ask questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat not here | Current Session: Managing Ubuntu bugs in Launchpad
17:04 <+mrevell> edenbeast: Well, there aren't really "unanswered" blueprints. However, blueprints are generally listed by the priority they've been assigned. So, if the project you're working with doesn't assign it a priority, or gives it a low priority, it'll appear lower in searches.
</pre>
