{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting (jib)
* Beta1 / beta2 targets feedback (jib)
* Alpha3 status review (ttx)
** Alpha3 targeted bugs
** ISO testing
** Alpha3 remaining work items
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (soren, hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
* Server Papercuts (ttx)
** Nominations review: https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bugs?search=Search&field.status=New
* Bugzapping during betas (kirkland)
* Weekly SRU review: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review]]</nowiki> (mathiaz)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===
===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting (jib) =====
* ttx followed up on server-lucid-cluster-stack and server-lucid-asterisk-integration via email, but did not get status on asterisk-integration.

===== Beta1 / beta2 targets feedback =====
* If you haven't gotten a list of items you expect to be spending time during beta1/beta2, please get that list to Jos by end of day (Wed, Feb 24). The beta1 planning is going on this week.

===== Alpha3 status review =====
* no more alpha3 targetted bugs now.  No more expected changs.
* Please test ! <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/ubuntuserver/all|ISO tracker]]</nowiki> has exactly what to test.
* Itemized review (See irc log)
 
===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (soren, hggdh) =====
* hggdh is heartedly welcomed to the server team.  We are elated to have you.
* Discussion of 2 mysql test failures, 
** ssl tests consistently fail, all of them: due to expired certificates
** one SQL test (or two) fail on different output

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen) =====
* JJohansen is planning on playing a bit with pv_ops kernel on ec2.  This would *really* rock, as it would remove the need for our specific -ec2 kernel.
* smoser mentions that with bug 428692 there will be new karmic kernels and image refresh on ec2 hopefully sometime soon.

===== Server Papercuts (ttx) =====
* Nominations at https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bugs?search=Search&field.status=New
* bug 211915, is doc-only (per ttx), ttx+1. 
* bug 325109, ivoks promises verification of fix in his ppa by Friday.
* bug 508382, ivoks promises verifcation of test by friday

===== Bugzapping during betas (kirkland) =====
* similar in principle to papercuts, bugzapping is an initiative to proactively go out and fix server bugs the blueprint is here: https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-lucid-bug-zapping. basically, we'll take 3 - 4 weeks of the remaining time left in Lucid. each of those weeks will be dedicated to a set of related packages such as:
** database (mysql, postgres)
** LAMP-stack-stuff (apache2, php5)
** virtualization (libvirt, qemu-kvm, virt-manager)
** java
* each day of the has a specific set of tasks assigned
** Monday is *total* bug triage, which means we should enlist the help of triagers
** tue - fri, we work on fixing bugs that are in the Triaged state, focusing on the High ones, or particularly easy ones.  we commit to bzr branches.  and one or more core devs/motu sponsor the package for upload and then we enlist the help of testers
* '''[ACTION]''' kirkland to publish tentative bugzapping roadmap. Currently at https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-lucid-bug-zapping

===== Weekly SRU review (mathiaz) =====
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review
* hardy nominations will all be declined by Mathiaz (bug 293000 and bug 252245 declined because not yet fixed in lucid). ttx did give +1 to bug 293000
* Time was short so intrepid and karmic skipped.
* Bugs fixed last week: http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html 

===== Open Discussion =====
* dholbach requests sponsoring help http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sponsoring/

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Wednesday, March 3rd at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[14:00] <MootBot> Meeting started at 08:00. The chair is ttx.
[14:00] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[14:00] <ttx> I'll chair this meeting, Jos lurks but can't chair.
[14:01] <ttx> Recently updated: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[14:01] <ttx> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[14:01] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[14:01] <ttx> ACTION: ttx to follow up on server-lucid-cluster-stack and server-lucid-asterisk-integration via email
[14:01] <ttx> been there, done that.
[14:01] <ivoks> :)
[14:01] <ttx> i didn't get updated status from asterisk-integration though
[14:02] <ttx> maybe we'll talk about it later during open discussion.
[14:02]  * nijaba waves
[14:02] <ttx> [TOPIC] Beta1 / beta2 targets feedback
[14:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  Beta1 / beta2 targets feedback
[14:03] <ttx> Jos asked the Canonical team to submit any ideas we might have overlooked for beta1/beta2 targets
[14:03] <ttx> So far only smoser answered
[14:03] <ttx> Please reply by the end of the day if yo uintend to.
[14:03] <Daviey> \o
[14:03] <kirkland> ttx: can you clarify?
[14:03] <ttx> The beta1/beta2 plan should be finalized this week.
[14:04] <ttx> kirkland: If you think there are things that should be done for beta1/beta2 that our planning did not already take into account, please send an email to jos/me
[14:04]  * Daviey wonders why Jos only wants Canonical team input.
[14:04] <jiboumans> Daviey: i don't :) I asked the canonical team last week already
[14:04] <jiboumans> another call here for everyone's input
[14:05] <ttx> jiboumans: thanks for the precision.
[14:05] <Daviey> ta :)
[14:05] <kirkland> thanks for the clarification
[14:05] <ttx> [TOPIC] Alpha3 status review
[14:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  Alpha3 status review
[14:05] <mathiaz> ttx: what's the list of specification you're working on for beta1?
[14:06] <ttx> mathiaz: see milestones in https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~jib/+specs?searchtext=server-lucid
[14:06] <mathiaz> ttx: I've got some work items I'd like to do on some packages
[14:06] <mathiaz> ttx: but they don't necessarly fit in a blueprint
[14:07] <ttx> beta1 allocates 1/3 of work time to do test/bugfix on general packages
[14:07] <ttx> beta2 allocates 2/3 of work time to that.
[14:07] <ttx> mathiaz: so we planified that.
[14:07] <mathiaz> ttx: how to record the fact that work needs to be done on such package?
[14:08] <mathiaz> ttx: or is it just: go and test packages?
[14:08] <ttx> mathiaz: at that point it's freeform.
[14:08] <ttx> mathiaz: but I agree we could use some tracker...
[14:08] <mathiaz> ttx: for now I've added WI to some of the blueprints
[14:08] <mathiaz> ttx: (mainly things related to puppet and slapd)
[14:09] <mathiaz> ttx: but it doesn't really fit in the scope of the blueprint
[14:09] <ttx> I think they should be tracked separately
[14:09] <ttx> mathiaz: we'll clarify that, might end up creating a blueprint for "stuff"
[14:09] <mathiaz> ttx: ok
[14:10] <ttx> that doesn't fit into papercuts or another one
[14:10] <ttx> other questions ?
[14:10] <mathiaz> ttx: the timeline for beta1 planning is end of week?>
[14:10] <ttx> beta1 subcycle starts Friday :)
[14:10] <ttx> so we should have a plan by that time.
[14:11] <ttx> ok, moving on to...
[14:11] <ttx> [TOPIC] Alpha3 status review
[14:11] <MootBot> New Topic:  Alpha3 status review
[14:11] <ttx> No more alpha3 targeted bugs that I know of
[14:11] <ttx> ISO testing is up
[14:11] <ttx> Please test the latest candidate
[14:11] <ttx> it's not expected to change anymore.
[14:11]  * kirkland is on it!
[14:12] <ttx> Alpha3 remaining work items
[14:12] <ttx> kirkland: Perform UEC tests on A3 candidate
[14:12] <kirkland> ttx: doing it as we speak
[14:12]  * zul waves
[14:12] <ttx> mathiaz: Test and debug installation from an iso / Follow with IS on mamoncillo state
[14:13] <ttx> mathiaz: does that need to happen before A3 ?
[14:13]  * nijaba ping le service mktg de canonical pour prÃ©parer de t-shirts ubuntu taile barbie :P
[14:13] <mathiaz> ttx: nope
[14:13]  * nijaba says osrry, wrong chan
[14:13] <ttx> mathiaz: do you expect it to be completed by A3 ?
[14:13] <mathiaz> ttx: I hope so - expect for mamoncillo
[14:13] <mathiaz> ttx: that's out of my hands
[14:14] <ttx> mathiaz:  	Move libpam-ccreds to main ?
[14:14] <kirkland> mathiaz: i think we can live without it?
[14:14] <kirkland> mathiaz: we have enough machines to do each of the 3 topos, right?
[14:14] <mathiaz> ttx: this is in the hand of the mir team now
[14:14] <mathiaz> kirkland: correct
[14:14] <ttx> mathiaz: ok
[14:14] <kirkland> ttx: mamoncillo is not a blocker
[14:14] <ttx> smoser: add run-instance-and-* commands -- I suggest we drop that ?
[14:15] <smoser> yeah
[14:15] <smoser> :-(
[14:15] <ttx> soren: Triage and fix relevant bugs for VMBuilder in Lucid
[14:15] <ttx> soren: still planning to complete as many as you can until tomorrow ?
[14:15] <soren> All triaged.
[14:15] <soren> Almost all fixed.
[14:15] <ttx> soren: great!
[14:16] <soren> ...and the day is still young :)
[14:16] <soren> http://surl.dk/77e/
[14:16] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://surl.dk/77e/
[14:16] <ttx> zul: Write MIR and update package for main requirement for ctdb
[14:16] <ttx> I think that one will be dropped, not in shape for main at this point ?
[14:16] <ivoks> not in shape?
[14:16] <zul> no, talking to ctdb upstream as well
[14:16] <ivoks> ah, and i was looking forward to that
[14:17] <ttx> zul: daily-vcs: we'll talk about that together after meeting
[14:17] <zul> ttx: cool
[14:17] <ttx> any questions ?
[14:18] <ttx> anything about alpha3 milestone subcycle you want to share ?
[14:18] <ttx> ok, moving on...
[14:18] <zul> i like turtles
[14:18] <ttx> btw, smoser is the scribe, I forgot to mention
[14:18] <smoser> whoops
[14:18] <soren> zul: Yeah. Crunchy.
[14:18]  * smoser starts scribing
[14:19] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (soren, hggdh)
[14:19] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (soren, hggdh)
[14:19] <ttx> soren, hggdh : o/
[14:19] <hggdh> heh
[14:19]  * soren looks around
[14:19] <hggdh> I still have to find my bearings ;-)
[14:19] <jiboumans> hggdh: welcome to the fold :)
[14:19] <ttx> hggdh: welcome :)
[14:19] <hggdh> thank you.
[14:19] <ttx> hggdh: running already ?
[14:19] <mathiaz> hggdh: welcome aboard!
[14:20] <hggdh> A question -- the regression thingie -- what to do when a package fails?
[14:20] <zul> yell
[14:20] <ttx> hggdh: not sure I get the question... File a bug, fix it ?
[14:20] <hggdh> (in this case, mysql, 2 -- or 3 -- different issues)
[14:20] <ttx> ah
[14:20] <ttx> automated build failures
[14:20] <hggdh> yes, sorry
[14:21] <ttx> hggdh: I think it's appropriate to mention the build failure and basic investigation results here
[14:21] <hggdh> OK. There goes:
[14:21] <ttx> so that someone can say "i'll look into that one"... hopefully.
[14:22] <ttx> So you're talking about the mysql automated rebuild/testsuite run that currently fails.
[14:22] <hggdh> mysql is failing on two different areas (1) ssl tests consistently fail, all of them; (2) one SQL test (or two) fail on different output
[14:22] <soren> The SSL tests are due to the SSL certs shipped in the package having expired.
[14:22] <mathiaz> hggdh: ssl test: check that the certificate is up-to-date
[14:23] <zul> (1) it needs a patch from our bzr tree (2) havent looked at
[14:23] <ttx> hggdh: is it the usua ltest  certificate expiration issue ?
[14:23] <ttx> heh
[14:23] <ttx> I'm late.
[14:23] <soren> mdeslaur has a patch for that.
[14:23] <zul> can anyone upload to that ppa?
[14:23] <soren> I don't know what the other problem is. I haven't really investigated.
[14:24] <hggdh> ttx no, timeouts. Sounds like there is no SSL to work on
[14:24] <ttx> zul: looking into that as part of the mysql dailyvcs work ?
[14:24] <mathiaz> hggdh: some of the mysql tests are time sensitive - so depending on the load of the ppa, the test suite may fail
[14:24] <hggdh> hum. Might impact SSL due to processing reqs
[14:24] <zul> ttx: kind of
[14:24] <hggdh> but all of them?
[14:26] <ttx> ok, we'll not debug that one now, please continue that discussion on #ubuntu-server
[14:26] <soren> hggdh: The server might not start its SSL port if it knows that the cert is expired.
[14:26] <ttx> anything else from QA, for QA ?
[14:26] <ttx> hggdh will contact some of you for information, please help him get up to speed
[14:26] <ttx> that includes UEC testing.
[14:27] <ttx> For the record, hggdh is the successor of soren in the QA team, dedicated to server.
[14:27] <mathiaz> hggdh: \o/!
[14:28] <ttx> ok, let's move on to our other friends, the kernel team...
[14:28] <ivoks> hggdh: hello there
[14:28] <dholbach> Just a very quick note: I'd appreciate if you could help out with sponsoring a bit - I added an indication of packagesets to http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sponsoring/ so it will show you if something is server related, if you want to review anything else on the list, that'd great too! we need to get the list shorter again! THANKS!
[14:28] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[14:28] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[14:28] <ttx> dholbach: spammer !
[14:28] <ttx> jjohansen: HI
[14:28] <dholbach> ttx: I thought id fitted quite well into the pause, but thanks :)
[14:29] <jjohansen> well, I am going to be taking another stab at a pv-ops based kernel for EC2
[14:29] <ttx> we also have friends in the community team, as you can see.
[14:29] <zul> jjohansen: good luck :)
[14:29] <ttx> jjohansen: sounds like a noble and worthy goal.
[14:30] <jjohansen> iff then we may want to end up switching kernels out from under you
[14:30] <jjohansen> we should know by friday one way or the other
[14:30] <ttx> jjohansen: ok, keep us posted.
[14:30] <smoser> jjohansen, ooh
[14:30] <smoser> i'm interested in pvops, hip hop horray
[14:31] <jjohansen> yep will definitely keep you posted
[14:31] <ttx> Anything else for our kernel friend ?
[14:31] <smoser> one other thing in this arena, its eems we'll soon have a karmic kernel refresh available.
[14:31] <zul> jjohansen: want me to bounce ideas off of you?
[14:31] <smoser> as bug 428692 is moving to karmic-updates
[14:31] <jjohansen> zul: sure that would be nice
[14:31] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 428692 in linux-ec2 "ec2 kernel needs CONFIG_BLK_DEV_LOOP=y and other config changes" [Medium,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/428692
[14:32] <jjohansen> smoser: finalyy
[14:32] <jjohansen> s/finalyy/finally/
[14:33] <ttx> mvcing on to...
[14:33] <jjohansen> I don't think there is anything else from kernel
[14:33] <ivoks> ttx: mvc
[14:33] <ttx> [TOPIC] Server Papercuts (ttx)
[14:33] <MootBot> New Topic:  Server Papercuts (ttx)
[14:33] <ttx> Nominations review: https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bugs?search=Search&field.status=New
[14:33] <ttx> Only three bugs this week
[14:34] <ttx> mostly those we didn't manage to decide on yet
[14:34] <ivoks> gosh...
[14:34] <ttx> bug 211915
[14:34] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 211915 in amavisd-new "Insecure dependency when using sql for Log Reporting" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/211915
[14:34] <ttx> This one is purely doc, I'd +1 it
[14:34] <ttx> but that hardly is a usability issue
[14:35] <ttx> takes a special type of paper to be cut by it
[14:35] <ttx> anyone else has an opinion on that one ?
[14:35] <ivoks> hm...
[14:36] <ttx> ok, let's keep it for one more week, then... on to bug 325109
[14:36] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 325109 in bacula "bacula-director-pgsql fails postinst because of missing check for running psql daemon" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/325109
[14:36] <ivoks> it would be great if amavis would read hostname from the system
[14:36] <ttx> ivoks: you mention it's fixed in your PPA, is that true ?
[14:37] <ivoks> ttx: we talked about this last week; i didn't have time to check it
[14:37] <ivoks> ttx: i promise to do that by friday
[14:37] <ttx> ok, just comment on the bug :)
[14:37] <ttx> bug 508382
[14:37] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 508382 in bacula "bconsole does not connect to bacula-director" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/508382
[14:37] <ivoks> same thing, friday
[14:38] <ttx> ok, tx
[14:38] <ttx> So feel free to assign yourself the ones you're inetersted in
[14:38] <ttx> We'll start fixing those next week.
[14:38] <ttx> (feel free to take a head start, like soren did)
[14:38] <zul> yay soren
[14:38] <ttx> Questions on papercuts before we move on ?
[14:39] <ivoks> soren is an alien, anyway
[14:39] <ttx> [TOPIC] Bugzapping during betas (kirkland)
[14:39] <MootBot> New Topic:  Bugzapping during betas (kirkland)
[14:39] <ttx> kirkland: howdy
[14:39] <soren> bah
[14:39] <kirkland> similar in principle to papercuts, bugzapping is an initiative to proactively go out and fix server bugs
[14:39] <kirkland> the blueprint is here: https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-lucid-bug-zapping
[14:40] <kirkland> basically, we'll take 3 - 4 weeks of the remaining time left in Lucid
[14:40] <kirkland> each of those weeks will be dedicated to a set of related packages
[14:40] <kirkland> such as:
[14:40] <kirkland>  * database (mysql, postgres)
[14:40] <kirkland>  * LAMP-stack-stuff (apache2, php5)
[14:40] <kirkland>  * virtualization (libvirt, qemu-kvm, virt-manager)
[14:40] <kirkland>  * java
[14:40] <ttx> kirkland: so that will run through the beta1 and beta2 subcycles, right
[14:40] <kirkland> ttx: right
[14:41] <kirkland> each day of the has a specific set of tasks assigned
[14:41] <kirkland> Monday is *total* bug triage
[14:41] <kirkland> which means we should enlist the help of triagers
[14:41] <kirkland> tue - fri, we work on fixing bugs that are in the Triaged state
[14:41] <kirkland> focusing on the High ones, or particularly easy ones
[14:42] <kirkland> we commit to bzr branches
[14:42] <kirkland> and one or more core devs/motu sponsor the package for upload
[14:42] <kirkland> and then we enlist the help of testers
[14:42] <ttx> kirkland: so we should have a more detailed plan by next week ?
[14:42] <kirkland> we should plan on having a final "upload" by thursday
[14:42] <kirkland> and spend friday regression testing
[14:42] <kirkland> ttx: sure
[14:43] <mathiaz> kirkland: is there a wiki page that outlines the whole process?
[14:43] <kirkland> ttx: basically, i'll have the package sets/schedule set
[14:43] <kirkland> ttx: the process is well documented already in the blueprint
[14:43] <kirkland> mathiaz: it's all in https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-lucid-bug-zapping right now
[14:43] <ttx> kirkland: send it for comments before the meeting, some might want to adjust times because they won't be present
[14:43] <mathiaz> kirkland: to make sure that anyone jumping into the ship any day knows what is the current focus
[14:43] <kirkland> ttx: mathiaz: ack
[14:44] <kirkland> ttx: mathiaz: i'll add a wiki page, and post to ubuntu-devel@ and ubuntu-server@
[14:44] <ttx> [ACTION] kirkland to publish tentative bugzapping roadmap
[14:44] <MootBot> ACTION received:  kirkland to publish tentative bugzapping roadmap
[14:44] <kirkland> ttx: the one week that is for certain is Mar 22 - 26 will be Eucalyptus/euca2ools
[14:45] <ttx> [ACTION] ivoks to review the remaining bacula/amavisd papercuts for feasability
[14:45] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ivoks to review the remaining bacula/amavisd papercuts for feasability
[14:45] <kirkland> ttx: as mathiaz and I will be on site at Eucalyptus Systems, and this idea is based on something similar mathiaz and I did with nurmi for Eucalyptus during the Karmic cycle
[14:45] <ttx> ok.
[14:45] <ttx> Other questions for kirkland on the bugzapping effort ?
[14:45] <randa> msg/ marianna hi
[14:45] <jiboumans> fwiw, i've taken the liberty to update the spec with that date
[14:45] <kirkland> ttx: for the record, we fixed some 75 bugs in about 4 days last time we did this!
[14:46] <kirkland> jiboumans: thanks
[14:46] <ttx> let's set new records.
[14:46] <ttx> We should also get upstream help if we can.
[14:46] <ttx> (for packages other than eucalyptus)
[14:46] <kirkland> ack
[14:46] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review  (mathiaz)
[14:46] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review  (mathiaz)
[14:47] <mathiaz> I've updated some of the urls
[14:47] <ttx> mathiaz: hey. haven't had time today to review the nominations, so you're on your own :)
[14:47] <mathiaz> so there are more bugs to review
[14:47] <mathiaz> dapper hasn't any bugs
[14:47] <ttx> mathiaz: you have 8 minutes :)
[14:48] <mathiaz> hardy has 5 nomination
[14:48] <mathiaz> bug107224
[14:48] <mathiaz> bug 107224
[14:48] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 107224 in mysql-dfsg-5.0 "mysql-server preinst script stops running mysql" [Unknown,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/107224
[14:48] <mathiaz> bug 191884
[14:48] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 191884 in libnss-ldap "wrong id behaviour on a system with LDAP" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/191884
[14:48] <mathiaz> bug 252245
[14:48] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 252245 in samba "unable to connect to windows network pc's" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/252245
[14:48] <mathiaz> bug 293000
[14:48] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 293000 in debian "hardy: openssh-server oom_adj can lead to denial of service" [Unknown,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/293000
[14:48] <mathiaz> bug 157215
[14:48] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 157215 in ntp "[jaunty] Synchronizing with a time server does not work when time difference is greater than several hours" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/157215
[14:49] <ttx> 252245: -1, not even "solved" in lucid
[14:50] <mathiaz> well only bug 293000 is fixed released
[14:50] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 293000 in debian "hardy: openssh-server oom_adj can lead to denial of service" [Unknown,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/293000
[14:50] <ttx> mathiaz: shouldn't that be a prerequisite ?
[14:50] <mathiaz> ttx: yes
[14:50] <mathiaz> so I'll decline all other bugs
[14:51] <ttx> even 293000 is not fixed in lucid
[14:52] <mathiaz> well - it's fixed released in debian
[14:53] <mathiaz> ok so anyone to comment on the hardy nominations?
[14:53] <mathiaz> if not - I'll decline all of them
[14:53] <ttx> mathiaz: +1 on 293000, it's probably fixreleased in lucid
[14:53] <mathiaz> on the basis that bugs should be fixed released in lucid first
[14:54] <ttx> mathiaz: ack
[14:54] <mathiaz> I'll skip the other lists as we running out of time
[14:54] <ttx> yes
[14:54] <mathiaz> and there a bunch of bugs
[14:54] <mathiaz> one last list to review:
[14:55] <mathiaz> http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[14:55] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[14:55] <mathiaz> the bugs that have been fixed last week
[14:55] <ttx> everyone: please review the lists before the meeting starts, so that you can participate in that discussion
[14:55] <mathiaz> anything worth?
[14:56] <ttx> nothing stood it on my quickreview
[14:56] <mathiaz> me neither
[14:56] <ttx> stood out ?
[14:56] <mathiaz> allright then
[14:56] <ttx> ok, thx mathiaz !
[14:56] <mathiaz> that's all for now
[14:56] <ttx> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[14:56] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[14:57] <ttx> ivoks, jmdault: anything not completed on your specs by tomorrow needs to be adjusted: moved to FFe/beta1 or dropped
[14:57]  * dholbach mentions http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sponsoring/ again :)
[14:57] <jmdault> ttx: I updated the spec
[14:58] <ttx> jmdault: oh! I missed that, thanks !
[14:58] <ivoks> ttx: ok
[14:58] <ttx> dholbach: are we particularly sucking at this game, or are you just after everyone ?
[14:58] <dholbach> have a look at the list - it's HUGE
[14:58] <jmdault> ttx: the feedback I received so far was "Forget about the extra features, stick to Debian upstream as close as possible"
[14:58] <dholbach> and there's a lot of good fixes waiting in there
[14:59] <jmdault> ttx, I'll work with Debian long term instead
[14:59] <dholbach> ttx: so it's not YOU particularly :)
[15:00] <ttx> dholbach: ah :)
[15:00] <ttx> jmdault: I think it was a very short cycle to pull this off.
[15:01] <Daviey> jmdault: integration can diverge, and that is something that can be more Ubuntu specific as i don't think Debian's audience will appreciate it. But generally, small delta :)
[15:01] <ttx> ok, next meeting, same place, same time, next week.
[15:01] <ivoks> +1
[15:01] <ttx> anything else to add ?
[15:01] <Daviey> not here
[15:02] <ttx> ok, thanks everyone.
[15:02] <jiboumans> not here either. thanks ttx for covering
[15:02] <ttx> #endmeeting

</pre>
