{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting Meeting, 27 Jan at 16:03 &mdash; 16:24 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2015/ubuntu-meeting.2015-01-27-16.03.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:03.

** ''ACTION:'' gaughen to establish new qa-team point of contact for server team

==== Vivid Development ====
The discussion about "Vivid Development" started at 16:06.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseSchedule 
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:08)
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openvpn/+bug/1385851# 
* '''Blueprints''' (16:12)
** ''LINK:'' http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-v/group/topic-v-server.html 

==== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)" started at 16:16.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)" started at 16:16.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)" started at 16:18.

** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openvswitch/+bug/1408972 

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:21.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:22.

==== Announce next meeting date and time ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date and time" started at 16:23.

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* gaughen
** gaughen to establish new qa-team point of contact for server team

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* jamespage (71)
* gaughen (8)
* smoser (5)
* rbasak (4)
* arges (4)
* meetingology (4)
* ubottu (3)
* beisner (3)
* coreycb (2)
* caribou (2)
* smb (1)

=== Full Log ===

<pre>
 16:03 <jamespage> #startmeeting

 16:03 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jan 27 16:03:07 2015 UTC.  The chair is jamespage. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:03 <meetingology> 

 16:03 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:03 <arges> smoser: what do i need to do?

 16:03 <gaughen> smoser I don't see arges on the list, I see arosales next

 16:03 <smoser> tab complete failure

 16:03 <jamespage> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:03 <smoser> sorry arges

 16:03 <jamespage> gaughen to establish new qa-team point of contact for server team -- gaughen and beisner discussing - keeping as ACTION point

 16:04 <jamespage> gaughen, hows that coming on?

 16:04 <gaughen> it's not really moving. I need to ping Evan again. beisner provided additional on what we are looking for from his team.

 16:04 <jamespage> ok carry that forward for now then

 16:04 <jamespage> #action gaughen to establish new qa-team point of contact for server team

 16:04 * meetingology gaughen to establish new qa-team point of contact for server team

 16:05 <jamespage> and then I had to

 16:05 <beisner> o/ hi all

 16:05 <jamespage> jamespage to answer question in bug 1410363 in response to smb

 16:05 <ubottu> bug 1410363 in linux (Ubuntu) "partition table updates require a reboot" [High,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1410363

 16:05 <jamespage> that mysteriously disappeared again - I can't repro atm - if it appears back we'll get smb access

 16:06 <jamespage> #topic Vivid Development

 16:06 <jamespage> OK so lets take a look

 16:06 <jamespage> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseSchedule

 16:06 <jamespage> we just past alpha2; next milestone is feature freeze on the 19th feb so make sure any major version bumps get in before them

 16:06 <jamespage> I think we have at least:

 16:07 <jamespage> mysql 5.6 (rbasak)

 16:07 <jamespage> and I know I keep harping on about tomcat8 as well

 16:07 <jamespage> hey rbasak - we where just talking about you :-)

 16:07 <jamespage> we just past alpha2; next milestone is feature freeze on the 19th feb so make sure any major version bumps get in before them

 16:07 <jamespage> mysql 5.6 (rbasak)

 16:07 <gaughen> jamespage, was talking to rbasak this morning an d he's a bit worried about making tomcat8 happen

 16:07 <gaughen> mysql5.6 is well on it's way.

 16:07 <jamespage> gaughen, sounds like I might have a bit of plane work todo

 16:08 <jamespage> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:08 <jamespage> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-v-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:08 <jamespage> a couple of cloud init bugs (both confirmed and high)

 16:08 <jamespage> a juju bug for systemd support which I know upstream are working on

 16:09 <jamespage> a committed heat fix and....

 16:09 <jamespage> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openvpn/+bug/1385851#

 16:09 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1385851 in openvpn (Ubuntu Vivid) "OpenVPN only supports TLS v1.0" [Medium,Confirmed]

 16:09 <gaughen> smoser,  you have a handle on the cloud-init ones?

 16:09 <smoser> yeah. i'm aware.

 16:09 <jamespage> anyone have a handle on the openvpn issue?

 16:10 <jamespage> does everyone know how to get bugs on that report?

 16:11 <coreycb> no

 16:11 <jamespage> Hint: raise a vivid task for a bug that the server team has on its list of bugs

 16:11 <jamespage> you may only be able to nominate depending on permissions - pester a core-dev to get it accepted.

 16:12 <gaughen> I know a core-dev!

 16:12 <jamespage> ok  - moving on

 16:12 <coreycb> thanks

 16:12 <jamespage> #subtopic Blueprints

 16:12 <jamespage> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-v/group/topic-v-server.html

 16:12 <jamespage> wow alot of todo still

 16:13 <jamespage> gnuoy`, pls can you re-check your work items - 0% is a little worrying.

 16:13 <jamespage> gnuoy`, maybe the 15.01 release this week is a good checkpoint

 16:14 <jamespage> rbasak, hows things looking on the general server bluepint?

 16:14 <jamespage> we talked mysql and tomcat already

 16:14 <jamespage> - looks like there are some corosync pacemaker updates we need todo

 16:15 <rbasak> Yeah.

 16:15 <gaughen> jamespage, when I talked with rbasak earlier he was worried about the ntp by default item and the dpdk one

 16:15 <jamespage> rbasak, I have a technical interest in dpdk so would be happy to look  at that if that helps

 16:15 <rbasak> I realised php5 needed a transition to 5.6 so have thrown it all at vivid-proposed just now to see what sticks.

 16:15 <jamespage> rbasak, my feel is that its not quite ready for packaging yet

 16:15 <rbasak> Apart from the concerns gaughen mentioned I think we're in good shape.

 16:16 <jamespage> rbasak, ack

 16:16 <jamespage> ok moving on

 16:16 <jamespage> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

 16:16 <rbasak> jamespage: if you could look at dpdk, that'd be great. I was going to ask kickinz1|afk to take a look but he's unexpectedly away now.

 16:16 <jamespage> caribou, anything from you this week

 16:16 <jamespage> ?

 16:16 <caribou> jamespage: nothing CTS wise but I have just synced makedumpfile with networked kernel dumps

 16:16 <jamespage> caribou, +1 awesome

 16:16 <jamespage> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)

 16:17 <caribou> I should make a note to have this added to the Release Notes

 16:17 <jamespage> I guess  we can skip this for now  - unless beisner want to raise anything?

 16:17 <beisner> pretty much focused on 15.01 openstack charm release this week

 16:18 <beisner> will review qa/ci team isotracker results and raise any issues found

 16:18 <jamespage> beisner, great

 16:18 <jamespage> thanks

 16:18 <jamespage> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)

 16:18 <smb> Nothing specific I know of. I saw smoser mention some resizefs issues on our channel which should get followed up on. Anything else?

 16:18 <arges> smb: i'm looking at that now. its a userspace issue

 16:19 <smoser> smb, they're not kernel related. arges i copied ted tso on the bug . :)

 16:19 <arges> smoser: oh

 16:19 <arges> cool, even better

 16:19 <smoser> if we reproduce on debian and forward the bug there, he probably will respond quickly.

 16:20 <jamespage> I know the kernel team has a 3.13 ovs fix for us to test - we'll plug that into serverstack just as soon as 15.01 charm release is out of the way this week

 16:20 <jamespage> anything else kernel related

 16:20 <jamespage> ?

 16:20 <jamespage> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openvswitch/+bug/1408972

 16:20 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1408972 in linux (Ubuntu) "openvswitch: failed to flow_del (No such file or directory)" [High,Confirmed]

 16:21 <jamespage> ...

 16:21 <jamespage> ok

 16:21 <jamespage> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:21 <jamespage> any events planned that folks are attending?

 16:22 <jamespage> nope - OK - I suspect gaughen and I won't be here next tuesday so sending apologies in advance

 16:22 <jamespage> #topic Open Discussion

 16:22 <jamespage> open floor...

 16:23 <jamespage> ok

 16:23 <jamespage> moving on

 16:23 <jamespage> #topic Announce next meeting date and time

 16:23 <jamespage> next tuesday

 16:23 <jamespage> so that will be...

 16:23 <jamespage> 3rd February 2015 at 1600 UTC

 16:23 <gaughen> I don't think arosales will be here next week

 16:23 <jamespage> see you all then...

 16:24 <jamespage> #endmeeting
</pre>

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
