{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
*** (carried forward) arosales to follow up with Norvald regarding SRU
*** arosales create a overview topic bp for servercloud 

* Saucy Development
** Release Tracking Bug Tasks - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-s-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
** Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-saucy/group/topic-saucy-servercloud-overview.html
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====

Arosales expected to have the new burndown chart by the end of the day.

==== Saucy Development ====

There were no critical release bugs at thie moment.  Daviey asked that
everyone take another look to make sure blueprints are all correct.

** ''ACTION:'' everyone look over blueprints one more time

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars) ====

There were some failures late last week with the server image, but those
are all good now except the floodlight test, which kernel team will bisect
for.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) ====

Regression testing against dkms packaging is still todo.  smb was waiting
for a list of dkms packages, Daviey wanted all.  jibel had mentioned having
a prototype ready.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak) ====

No new updates or questions.  No updates yet on go 1.1 in saucy on arm,
so rbasak was going to look into that.

** ''ACTION:'' rbasak to follow up on go 1.1. saucy arm issue

==== Open Discussion ====

There was some discussion on post-meeting work not being regularly done
by meeting chairs.  Since everything is nicely documented in the server
guide, it was agreed that a weekly reminder to the meeting chair to
follow the steps therein would be useful.

** ''ACTION:'' rbasak consider telling hallyn to add a todo item to meeting checklist to remind meeting chair about the wiki page checklist.

=== Action items ===

* (carried over) arosales: create a overview topic bp for servercloud
* everyone look over blueprints one more time
* rbasak to follow up on go 1.1. saucy arm issue
* rbasak consider telling hallyn to add a todo item to meeting checklist to remind meeting chair about the wiki page checklist.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, June 18 at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[15:57] <jamespage> o/
[15:57] <roaksoax> o/
[15:58] <zul> hola
[15:59] <marcoceppi> o/
[16:00] <hallyn> o
[16:00] <arosales> hello
[16:00] <smb> o
[16:01] <hallyn> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:01] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jun 11 16:01:05 2013 UTC.  The chair is hallyn. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:01] <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:01] <hallyn> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:01] <adam_g_> o/
[16:01] <Daviey> o
[16:01] <hallyn> (carried forward) arosales to follow up with Norvald regarding SRU
[16:01] <arosales> hallyn, I still have to todo to create a server cloud burndown.  I am working on it now. should have an a topic by eod.
[16:01] <arosales> hallyn, that one can be removed
[16:01] <hallyn> cool, thanks
[16:02] <Daviey> arosales: thanks
[16:02] <hallyn> arosales create a overview topic bp for servercloud
[16:02] <hallyn> oh that's that
[16:02] <hallyn> arosales: the bp one can be removed, wht about the SRU item?
[16:02] <arosales> hallyn, reverse
[16:02]  * hallyn confused
[16:02] <hallyn> ok
[16:02] <arosales> sru can be removed
[16:02] <arosales> topic can stay
[16:03] <arosales> to ensure I get it done :-)
[16:03] <hallyn> but you intend to get that done today
[16:03] <arosales> hallyn, correct
[16:03] <hallyn> #action (carried over) arosales: create a overview topic bp for servercloud
[16:03] <meetingology> ACTION: (carried over) arosales: create a overview topic bp for servercloud
[16:03] <hallyn> #topic Saucy Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Saucy Development
[16:04] <hallyn> Release Tracking Bug Tasks - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-s-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
[16:04] <hallyn> there are 4 critical bugs in that link
[16:04] <hallyn> bug 1175028
[16:04] <ubottu> bug 1175028 in mongodb (Ubuntu Saucy) "Mongodb links GPL code with SSL" [Critical,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1175028
[16:04] <Daviey> defer
[16:04] <Daviey> currently being discussed by TB
[16:04] <hallyn> ok, bug 1176686
[16:04] <ubottu> bug 1176686 in qtchooser (Ubuntu Raring) "qtchooser does not properly work with multiarch" [Critical,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1176686
[16:05] <hallyn> is that server?
[16:05] <Daviey> hallyn: nah
[16:05] <hallyn> ok, bug 969733
[16:05] <ubottu> bug 969733 in oss4 (Ubuntu Precise) "oss4-dkms 4.2-build2005-2ubuntu1: oss4 kernel module failed to build (cp: cannot stat `/lib/modules/3.2.0-23-generic/source/include/linux/limits.h': No such file or directory)" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/969733
[16:05] <hallyn> also not server i'm guessing
[16:06] <hallyn> ok, so nm the critical ones - anything you wanted to bring up here, Daviey?
[16:06] <Daviey> Nope. :)
[16:06] <Daviey> Things seem to be progressing well.
[16:06] <Daviey> Just really, make sure bluepritns are totally nailed. :)
[16:07] <hallyn> are there any that are worrying you?
[16:07] <Daviey> And do add WI's as more stuff appears
[16:07] <Daviey> hallyn: not specifically
[16:07] <hallyn> hm, yeah i might have some WIs to add...
[16:07] <hallyn> ok, do you want an action to do one more once-over on all our blueprints,?
[16:08] <hallyn> #action everyone look over blueprints one more time
[16:08] <meetingology> ACTION: everyone look over blueprints one more time
[16:08] <hallyn> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:08] <hallyn> anything coming up?
[16:08] <Daviey> Nothing I can think of..
[16:08] <Daviey> arosales: know of anything?
[16:09] <hallyn> ok, moving on
[16:09] <hallyn> #tpic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)
[16:09] <hallyn> bleh
[16:09] <hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)
[16:09] <hallyn> plars: all well?
[16:09] <plars> nothing big from me at the moment, there were some failures late last week with the server image
[16:09] <plars> but all is well now
[16:09] <plars> except the floodlight test still of course
[16:09] <arosales> Daviey, for events just oscon coming up
[16:09] <hallyn> awesome.  questions for plars?
[16:09] <plars> kernel team has a kernel to bisect for that
[16:10] <plars> going to try to get to it this week if I can, but the other guy that does production qa (psivaa) is out right now
[16:10] <plars> so I'm covering a lot at the moment
[16:10] <plars> will get to it as soon as I can
[16:10] <hallyn> thanks, plars
[16:10] <Daviey> plars: Thanks for the update
[16:10] <hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:10] <smb> Kernel is good (until we slap in 3.10 at least). Questions?
[16:10] <hallyn> your irc comment pasting reflex time may be better than the brake reflex time of most drivers around here
[16:10] <Daviey> smb: Are kernel uploads being regression tested against dkms packages yet?
=== vanhoof_ is now known as vanhoof
[16:11] <smb> Daviey, Have you told us which?
[16:11] <smb> Officially I mean
[16:11] <smb> Or better plars
[16:11] <Daviey> smb: When this was last discussed, i suggetsed all dkms packages
[16:12] <hallyn> *
[16:12] <plars> smb: jibel mentioned yesterday that he has a prototype of this, not sure on the details other than that
[16:12] <Daviey> At least having a documented history of when the regression was introduced has value.
[16:12] <smb> This would be a few and maybe not all with a naming scheme to detect and not necessarily server related
[16:12] <Daviey> plars: Oh splendid.  Can you find out the details for next weeks meeting please?
[16:13] <plars> Daviey: why wait a week? I'll either send smb an email, or have jibel do it since he's closer to the action on that piece
[16:13] <Daviey> smb: Right, it's not actually that many.  Listing the reverse dependencies of dkms itself should suffice
[16:13] <smb> plars, Sounds good
[16:13] <hallyn> no action needed for that?
=== log is now known as Logan_
[16:14] <hallyn> ok, moving on
[16:14] <Daviey> plars: pls keep me in the loop
[16:14] <hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
[16:14] <rbasak> Nothing new to report. Any questions for me?
[16:14] <hallyn> hi rbasak
[16:14] <jamespage> rbasak, is the go 1.1 issue in saucy resolved now?
[16:14]  * jamespage is being lazy
[16:14] <rbasak> Oh, good question. I don't think there's been any progress on it. I need to follow up.
[16:15] <Daviey> rbasak: How are the arm saucy images looking?
[16:15]  * rbasak makes a note
[16:15] <hallyn> #action rbasak to follow up on go 1.1. saucy arm issue
[16:15] <meetingology> ACTION: rbasak to follow up on go 1.1. saucy arm issue
[16:15] <hallyn> thanks, moving on in 3,
[16:15] <hallyn> 2, 1,
[16:15] <hallyn> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:16] <hallyn> anything?
[16:16] <rbasak> o
[16:17] <rbasak> Just a note for meeting chairs, while they're all here.
[16:17] <rbasak> There's been some confusion lately about what needs to be done after a meeting.
[16:17] <Daviey> good thinking
[16:17] <hallyn> There's a good list in the Knowledgebase
[16:17] <rbasak> I just wanted to point out that the steps are enumerated at the bottom of https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase
[16:17] <rbasak> Right.
[16:17] <hallyn> yes, everyeone please follow that and fill in if anything is missing
[16:18] <hallyn> I think we've done a good job of keepign it uptodate
[16:18] <hallyn> thanks rbasak.  is there anything in particular that isn't being done?
[16:18] <hallyn> (regularly)
[16:18] <Daviey> specifically, "move yourself to the back" hasn't been done for a while it seems
[16:18] <rbasak> Sometimes minutes aren't being done also.
[16:19] <rbasak> It causes confusion in subsequent meetings, since action items go missing or are from older meetings that have already been resolved.
[16:19] <hallyn> i think it might help if we say it should be done by either thu or friday
[16:19] <rbasak> I think it's just due to all chairs not knowing that the process is documented.
[16:19] <rbasak> So now it's documented :)
[16:19] <hallyn> once it gets into monday, i think ppl feel that it's too late
[16:20] <hallyn> but i'll wait for someone else to recommend that :)  moving on?
[16:20] <Daviey> +1
[16:20] <rbasak> I think part of the problem is that individually we chair quite infrequently
[16:20] <hallyn> feels frequent to me :)
[16:20] <rbasak> A reminder at the end of the meeting might help. Perhaps we could add it as a standing action item in the agenda?
[16:20] <Daviey> rbasak: Fancy being the resident chair? :)
[16:21]  * hallyn takes a step back and admires rbasak's team spirit
[16:21] <hallyn> :)
[16:21] <rbasak> As resident chair, I delegate the task of doing this week's minutes to hallyn :-P
[16:21] <hallyn> rbasak: a remidner at most should consist of a pointer to the wiki page
[16:21] <Daviey> +1, super
[16:22] <Daviey> remember, moin minutes are generated courtesy of meetingology.
[16:22] <hallyn> yeah but i prefer manually generated, actually meaningful notes
[16:22] <hallyn> moin generated ones aren't actually helpful imo.  just to fill in a chekcmark in your todo list
[16:22] <Daviey> True.
[16:22] <rbasak> I use the moin notes as a starting point
[16:23] <rbasak> But one step at a time. Step 1: do something for the minutes. Anything.
[16:23] <Daviey> The chair can take care to word their action points suitably to make a more useful autogenerated moin output
[16:23] <hallyn> #action rbasak consider telling hallyn to add a todo item to meeting checklist to remind meeting chair about the wiki page checklist.
[16:23] <meetingology> ACTION: rbasak consider telling hallyn to add a todo item to meeting checklist to remind meeting chair about the wiki page checklist.
[16:23] <rbasak> I'll do it now :)
[16:23] <hallyn> INVALID
[16:23] <hallyn> all right, moving on,
[16:23] <hallyn> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
[16:24] <Daviey> same time, same place?
[16:24] <hallyn> That'll be next tuesday, June 18 at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.
[16:24] <hallyn> thanks, everyone.
[16:24] <arosales> thanks for charing hallyn :-)
[16:24] <Daviey> thanks for chairing hallyn
[16:24] <hallyn> #endmeeting
</pre>
