{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=09&day=19&year=2011&hour=28&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Sep 19th 2011 17:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:30 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* micahg
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* bliss

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Review of any previous action items
* Announcements
** Thanks to zooko and jtaylor for their help on security updates for the community supported tahoe-lafs last week. Great job! :)
** kees departure and new points of contact
** userspace/toolchain hardening to sbeattie
** kernel publication to mdeslaur for now
** kernel hardening to #ubuntu-hardened until kernel security position is finalized
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** Weekly role: triage
** MIRs
** work items
** pending updates
** mdeslaur
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** kernel workflow
** iso testing
** sbeattie
** Weekly role: community
** pending updates
** iso testing
** micahg
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** tyhicks
** pending update
** get up to speed on CVE tracker
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** sbeattie mentioned it would be helpful for people to confirm open CVEs in the devel release
** [ACTION] jdstrand to update highlighted packages to also mention UCT in general

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2011/ubuntu-meeting.2011-09-19-17.07.moin.txt
