{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
 09:01 mdz        let's begin
 09:01 mdz        Riddell, you're up first
 09:01 Riddell    done:
 09:01 Riddell    kubuntu-express: is now working up to partitioning stages
 09:01 Riddell    kubuntu-dapper-roadmap: flight 4 released, new
                  kubuntu-default-settings with a lot of tweaks
 09:01 Riddell    kubuntu-system-tools: guidance 0.6.1 uploaded, now sets a Xft
                  DPI
 09:01 Riddell    specs:
 09:01 Riddell    langpacks-desktopfiles-kde: new pending review, likely aim for
                  dapper + 1
 09:02 Riddell    kubuntu-launchpad-integration: moved target to dapper + 1
 09:02 Riddell    kubuntu-system-tools: still pending review by mdz (was waiting
                  on usability report)
 09:02 Riddell    kubuntu-package-manager: adept-installer in, looking nice
 09:02 Riddell    next week: kubuntu-express
 === janimo [n=jani@Home03207.cluj.astral.ro] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
 === jdub [n=jdub@ppp121-112.static.internode.on.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
 09:02 mdz        Riddell: as of last week, none of your goals were
                  implemented.  have any of them progressed to implemented now?
 09:02 mdz        today is feature freeze, the DAY OF RECKONING
 === pitti shivers
 09:03 Riddell    kubuntu-system-tools and kubuntu-dapper-roadmap are
                  implemented pending debugging
 09:03 JaneW      none of them are implemented in LP yet...
 === sivang joins pitti in shiverring
 09:04 mdz        Riddell: simplify-kde?
 === Keybuk puts the heating on
 09:04 sivang     Keybuk: thanks :)
 09:04 Riddell    oh ys, kubuntu-default-settings should have been under
                  simplify-kde, so that's implemented as of this morning
 09:05 seb128     hello
 09:05 JaneW      hi seb128
 09:05 seb128     mdz: pong, sorry 5 min late ...
 09:05 mdz        Riddell: also, there are kubuntu-related bounties outstanding,
                  yes?
 09:05 mdz        seb128: no problem, JaneW/dholbach passed on your message
 09:06 Riddell    adept-installer and adept-notifier are in
                  Riddell,JaneW: sounds like the two of you should chat and
 09:06 mdz        arrive at a final status for each of these, as of feature
                  freeze
 09:07 JaneW      mdz: ok. Riddell: just say when.
 09:07 mdz        for any partially complete specs, identify the pieces which
                  fell out
 09:07 Riddell    .deb installer is not yet done
 09:07 Riddell    JaneW: yep, tomorrow morning maybe
 09:07 mdz        sivang?
 09:07 sivang     mdz: yes, am here
 09:07 mdz        sivang: the reckoning is upon you
 09:08 JaneW      Riddell: ok, ping when you are in
 === mkastelik [n=mkasteli@ayu88.neoplus.adsl.tpnet.pl] has joined
# ubuntu-meeting
                  mdz: okay, I've still got work to complete the goal, I have
 09:08 sivang     ran into a bad IO problem that delayed completion. I would
                  require 2 more days, if not approved, I will continue in
                  universe.
 09:08 sivang     mdz: (the issue is solved)
 09:09 JaneW      Riddell: try to make it before I get the report out (before
                  about 11:00UTC)
                  sivang: I did review your email, and while I see no reason why
 09:09 mdz        development should not continue past feature freeze, the
                  decision as to whether to promote the application to the
                  desktop must be taken today based on its current status
 09:09 Riddell    JaneW: ok
 09:09 sivang     mdz: then I would say it cannot be promoted today, not based
                  on the current status. :-/
 09:09 Keybuk     what's the spec?
 09:10 sivang     HomeUserBackup
 09:10 sivang     mdz: two more days would have looked differently, but today
                  it's not ready.
                  sivang: dapper is our most conservative release so far; we
 09:11 mdz        need to make decisions based on known quantities, not
                  projections
 09:11 sivang     mdz: I understand fully.
 09:11 mdz        ok, thanks
 09:11 mdz        looking forward to seeing it flourish in the future
                  mdz: I will be happy with your decision, and will be happy to
 09:11 sivang     work to completion inuniverse. if you may find it suitable for
                  inclusion past FF, that would rock as well.
 09:12 mdz        seb128?
                  bug-flood: bug day, lot of bug triage and interaction with
 09:12 seb128     upstream. bug triage is under control but we still have quite
                  a lot of them to actually fix
 09:12 seb128     video-playback: implemented, mail for testing has been send to
                  the ubuntu-devel-announce list (thanks Daniel)
                  dapper-desktop-plan: workspace switcher applet with tooltip
                  uploaded, screenshot of session dialog change pointed by mail
 09:12 seb128     to mark (waiting for a reply to use the patch), investigated
                  using a custom GTK theme for GDM theme (some changes for that
                  went upstream after discussion with them, we may want some
                  other small changes ... easy to do)
                  mdz: can you make a formal comment regarding the specs in
 09:12 JaneW      braindump - is it acceptable to shunt them straight though to
                  implemented? Or *must* they be signed off as approved first?
 09:12 seb128     tomorrow: will look on panel changes for dapper-desktop-plan
                  (session menu and new support submenu)
 09:12 seb128     .
 09:12 seb128     next week: GNOME 2.13.92, bug fixing and triage, work on the
                  desktop UI changes if required
 09:12 sivang     mdz: thank you :)
                  JaneW: has to be decided on a case-by-case basis; if the spec
 09:12 mdz        is in braindump, that is a problem regardless of whether
                  something was implemented
 09:13 seb128     s/bug/bugs :)
 09:13 mdz        seb128: is it realistic for dapper-desktop-plan to be finished
                  tomorrow?
 09:13 mdz        it is an essential priority spec
 09:13 seb128     mdz: depending of what you call "finish" ... stuff like icons
                  are missing and I'm in no way an artist
 09:13 seb128     ie: don't count on me to design them
 09:14 seb128     and I wait for a reply from Mark for the session dialog
 09:14 seb128     lock or no lock
 09:14 infinity   Icons are surely not required until the artwork freeze...
                  seb128: ok, please go over the spec with JaneW and identify a)
 09:14 mdz        what is complete, b) work remaining for you, c) work which is
                  blocked on external people/factors
 09:14 seb128     mdz: ok, will do
 09:14 JaneW      mdz: noted
 09:14 seb128     infinity: right, but they are part of the spec :)
 === comfrey [n=comfrey@h-64-105-87-234.sttnwaho.covad.net] has joined
# ubuntu-meeting
 === infinity nods.
 09:14 mdz        thanks, it's a large one and we need a fine-grained review
 09:15 seb128     agreed
 === mkastelik [n=mkasteli@ayu88.neoplus.adsl.tpnet.pl] has joined
# ubuntu-meeting
 09:15 mdz        pitti?
 09:15 seb128     I'll mail tomorrow morning with the details for it
 09:15 pitti      status of unimplemented specs:
********** langpacks-desktopfiles: DONE: fixed the majority of packages
 09:15 pitti      which don't use cdbs+gnome.mk; PLAN: do remaining 25ish manual
                  package fixes, discuss the stuff with gnome/fd.o upstream
********** reducing-duplication: DONE: mizilla and python2.3 in
 09:15 pitti      universe;  PLAN: gnutls 11->12 transition for all packages but
                  openldap; BLOCK: need help with openldap
 09:15 pitti      * automated-problem-reports, automatic-printer-conf, firewall:
                  no blocks, no time, deferred to dapper+1
 09:15 pitti      general stuff done this week:
 09:15 pitti      * managed to keep up with security updates (insane amount of
                  stuff currently)
 09:15 pitti      * libpng3 transition for main, libpng3 source package can go
                  as soon as seb128 uploads new gnome-panel
 09:15 pitti      * postgresql-common with SSL snakeoil cert support
 09:15 pitti      * dapper langpacks coordination and discussion; almost there
 09:15 pitti      * derootification of the most important hal addons
 09:15 pitti      * some NetworkManager-related fixes
 09:15 pitti      general stuff planned next week:
 09:15 pitti      * even more security updates (I need to grab infinity for PHP
                  and apache2)
 09:15 pitti      * bug fix sprint, now that FF is in effect
 09:16 infinity   We have an apache2 update now?  Woo.
 09:16 mdz        pitti: what are the manual fixes for langpacks-desktopfiles?
 09:16 infinity   pitti: Mail me about that one.
 09:16 pitti      mdz: .desktop and .server files need the gettext-domain
                  attribute
 09:16 pitti      mdz: cdbs' gnome.mk adds it automatically
                  As for the openldap gnutls thing, that requires actual
 09:16 infinity   development effort.  My quick (30 minute) attempt to port the
                  openssl shim in London resulted in... Not much.
 09:16 pitti      mdz: but all packages which ship a desktop file and not use
                  gnome.mk/cdbs must be fixed manually
 09:17 mdz        pitti: when do you estimate it can be completed?
 09:17 pitti      mdz: 2 days maybe
 === poningru [n=poningru@n128-227-58-62.xlate.ufl.edu] has joined
# ubuntu-meeting
 09:17 pitti      mdz: the change is mostly trivial, though
 09:17 pitti      just a lot of work to cope with many packages
 09:17 mdz        can anyone assist pitti with some extra hands to churn through
                  those remaining packages?
 09:17 pitti      the actual code changes are pretty stable for weeks now
 09:18 Keybuk     I can when back from Oslo
 09:18 mdz        Keybuk: you leave sunday? how about tomorrow?
                  pitti: there is a new GNOME next week, we can update for that
 09:18 seb128     while uploading new versions if that makes things easier for
                  you
 09:18 pitti      seb128: I did all gnome stuff
 09:18 seb128     oki
 09:18 pitti      gnome is easy, mostly cdbs :)
 09:18 jbailey    \o/
 09:18 seb128     righty
 09:18 Keybuk     mdz: can do a limited amount tomorrow, given limited
                  connectivity, but yes
 === pitti hugs Keybuk
 09:19 janimo     pitti, I'll update the xfce apps if they need this too
 09:19 mdz        please try to finish it off by the end of the week so we can
                  close the book on that one
 09:19 pitti      janimo: great
 09:19 pitti      mdz: yes
 09:19 mdz        pitti: openldap...sounds like we may not be able to do that
                  bit
 09:20 pitti      right, I fear we need to keep gnutls11 just for that one
                  If I find a round tuit, I'll hit openldap harder, but I don't
 09:20 infinity   want to keep the old gnutls just for one app if we can help
                  it.
 09:20 mdz        if we need to keep it anyway, then it's not worthwhile to
                  spend time transitioning the other packages
 09:20 dholbach   smurf wanted to do something for the gnutls transition he told
                  me - I can ask him wrt to openldap
                  I can try recruiting vorlon to help out (he wrote the shim in
 09:20 infinity   questoin that needs porting, and Debian will need to make the
                  transition anyway)
 09:21 mdz        dholbach: ok, get him in touch with pitti and see if he can
                  help this week
 09:21 pitti      external help would be appreciated
 09:21 dholbach   ok
 09:21 pitti      timing is important, though, I guess
 09:21 mdz        we can offer a bounty on it if it can be done on time
 09:21 mdz        pitti: likewise for the desktopfiles work if you can recruit
                  someone
                  The shim is lightweight enough that it either works, or it
 09:21 infinity   doesn't.  So it's a no-brainer to include it if it can get
                  done at all.
 09:21 JaneW      pitti: let me know if you have anyone in mind... for a bounty
 09:22 infinity   I just didn't have the time to look closely enough at it.
 09:22 pitti      yes, will think about it
 09:22 mdz        in any case, finalize the status on it by the end of the week,
                  identifying any items within the spec which weren't completed
 09:22 pitti      although we should be able to do it on our own without the
                  bounty overhead
 09:22 mdz        (work with JaneW on it)
 09:22 pitti      yep
 09:22 mdz        pitti: we are very busy :-)
 09:22 mdz        thanks pitti
 09:22 mdz        ogra?
 === mdz pokes ogra in the ribs
********** thin-client-memory-usage: no way to make nbd-server create
                  swap files on the fly before feature freeze, started working
 09:24 ogra       on a patch to have it ready for dapper+1, apart from that (and
                  possible improvements through including dash needs more
                  testing for dapper+1), the spec is implemented
 09:24 ogra       * gnome-screensaver-default-image: xscreensaver package work
                  done, jdub wants to do the artwork related stuff
********** general: lots and lots of ltsp merges and patch reviews, nbd
                  swap sadly dropped not doable in time, added the missing
 09:24 ogra       yaboot bits, two days of heavy flight4 work, finished the
                  screensaver package split, first edubuntu-docs package done
                  with an initial little howto (sits in NEW)
********** next-week: documentation and artwork package work for
                  edubuntu, get the last bugs out of the package and use more
 09:24 ogra       sane defaults for the theme selector. triage my bugs. get more
                  testing for the last ltsp merges. find out why late command in
                  the edubuntu installer seems not to work (no ssh keys in the
                  installed system)
 09:24 ogra       yes ?
 09:24 mdz        ogra: you were lagged, I guess
 09:24 ogra       didnt my paste get through ?
 09:24 dholbach   it did
 09:24 ogra       ah
 09:25 ogra       i *am* lagged
 09:25 mdz        ogra: screensaver is complete except for providing the set of
                  images?
 === ogra pokes bcm43xx
 09:25 ogra       mdz, the package jdub wanted to care for is missing
 09:25 ogra       but thats minor
 09:25 mdz        what package?
 09:25 doko       ogra: no screensaver preview?
 09:26 ogra       he wasnt happy with me splitting out
                  ubuntu-artwork-screensaver
 09:26 jdub       mdz: a pacakge for a set of screensaver images
 09:26 ogra       mdz, i splitted it from ubuntu-artwork ...
 09:26 jdub       ogra: more that i'd prefer it to be useful first, and a
                  separate source package
 09:26 ogra       seems that wasnt desired :)
                  JaneW: so we'll consider the development complete but continue
 09:26 mdz        to track for artwork (due by UI freeze, coordinate with
                  silbs/jdub/etc.)
 09:26 JaneW      mdz: ok
 09:27 mdz        thanks ogra
 09:27 mdz        mvo?
 09:27 mvo        Did:
                  - default-apt-sources: implemented as described in
 09:27 mvo        http://wiki.ubuntu.com/DefaultAptSources
                  (apt/aptitude/synaptic uploaded to dapper)
                  - gnome-app-install: updated to latest desktop files, added
 09:27 mvo        help (thanks docteam), added support for "pseudo" desktop file
                  (eg. gstreamer plugins, severs), fix some issues with kde
                  (theme, description)
 09:27 mvo        - grub splash changes reverted (should we automatically undo
                  all of it)
 09:27 mvo        - wrote some more content for the ImproveLanguageSelector spec
                  (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LanguageSelectorImprovements)
                  - dist-upgrade: latest version backported to breezy,
 09:27 mvo        release-notes screen more useful, supports clickable links now
                  etc, tested upgrade (and nagged people)
 09:27 mvo        Will do:
 === kleeman [n=richard@ool-44c155e3.dyn.optonline.net] has joined
# ubuntu-meeting
 09:27 mvo        - bugfixing
 09:27 mvo        - get the upgrade-tool tarball into the archive.u.c (currently
                  living on people.u.c)
 09:27 mvo        - ask for promotion of gdebi to main
 09:27 mvo        - get the automatic-distupgrade infrastructure in place (with
                  the help of infinity)
                  mvo: have you tried out the installer on a non-networked
 09:28 Kamion     machine since implementing default-apt-sources, to see if it
                  does the right thing?
 09:28 pitti      no grub splash? it caused too many bugs?
 09:28 Kamion     as we discussed, it should do automatically, but needs
                  checking
 09:28 Kamion     pitti: right
 09:28 mdz        pitti: correct, where "too many bugs" was "some bugs we don't
                  know how to fix"
 09:28 mvo        Kamion: no, not yet, only on a normal system
 09:28 Kamion     several machines couldn't display anything
 09:28 mvo        pitti: yes. too risky
 09:28 mdz        mvo: third-party-packages?
 09:29 mvo        mdz: implemented, the problem is we don't really have any that
                  are available in a external repository
 09:29 JaneW      mdz: are we going to track language-selector-improvements on
                  the report?
 09:29 mdz        JaneW: not as yet
 09:29 mvo        mdz: the deb installer should work (gdebi) needs promotion
 09:29 JaneW      mdz: ok
 09:29 mdz        JaneW: but I do want mvo to think on it, given sabdfl's
                  comments
 09:30 mdz        mvo: anything blocking the promotion?
 09:30 JaneW      mvo: thanks from getting default-apt-sources out of red :)
 09:30 mvo        mdz: no
 09:30 mdz        mvo: is release-upgrades implemented or no?
 09:31 mdz        mvo: I don't see gdebi in anastacia
 09:32 infinity   It's not seeded.
 09:32 mvo        mdz: it is implemented, it's not yet on archive.u.c (because I
                  need to talk to the lp people first)
 09:32 mvo        mdz: sorry, gdebi is not yet part of ubuntu-desktop
 09:32 mdz        mvo: ok, please proceed with seeding/promotion/metapackages
                  and then update it to implemented via janew
 09:33 mvo        mdz: will do that, thanks
                  mvo: regarding release-upgrades, if it is too complex to do
 09:33 mdz        the infrastructure work immediately, we can set up a separate
                  something.ubuntu.com which provides a simple web space
 09:33 mdz        mvo: please find out what is possible and report back via
                  janew tomorrow
 09:34 mdz        it is essentially complete, but we need to continue to track
                  its deployment in production as far as infrastructure
 09:34 mdz        thanks mvo
 09:34 mvo        mdz: I think it should be possible to use a similar mechanism
                  as the cd uploads
 09:34 mdz        Mithrandir?
                  misc: got up to speed on espresso development.  I feel
 09:34 Mithrandir reasonably confident in hacking around there now and the
                  keyboard configurator is coming along nicely.
 09:34 Mithrandir next week: some more espresso hacking, sprint with Scott
 09:34 Mithrandir blocked on: nothing for next week, still haven't access to
                  popcon.ubuntu.com
 09:34 Kamion     Mithrandir: we need to decide what you're working on after
                  keymap support - or you can just grab something, whatever
 09:35 mdz        Mithrandir: congrats on having all of your targets implemented
                  early
 09:35 Mithrandir mdz: thanks. :-)
 09:35 Kamion     (as a reward, have some more targets! ;-))
 09:35 doko       Mithrandir: ia32-* packages need updating
 === Keybuk hands Mithrandir a gold star from the stationery cupboard
 09:35 Mithrandir doko: file bugs, assign to me, please.
 === fabbione hands over X to Mithrandir
 09:35 mdz        Mithrandir,Kamion: is there still an unresolved issue
                  regarding the keymap selection in the boot loader?
 09:35 Mithrandir mdz: there was a bit of confusion regarding the placement of
                  the choice, but I think Kamion resolved that
 09:35 mdz        Mithrandir: I think doko said oo.o2-amd64 needed attention
 09:36 Kamion     mdz: no, I don't believe so
 09:36 simira     Mithrandir: are you talking about "my" kbd-trouble now?
 09:36 mdz        ok
 09:36 Kamion     well
 09:36 Mithrandir mdz: as in the spec or as in the package?
 09:36 Kamion     there is a question of whether the language choice should
                  automatically select a keymap too
 09:36 mdz        Mithrandir: the package
 09:36 doko       Mithrandir: either the spec (native) or the package (i386)
 09:36 Kamion     at present if you select the French language it immediately
                  shifts you into the French keymap
 09:36 Mithrandir doko: native has been deferred as of last meeting.
                  I'm on the fence about that, because there are some languages
 09:37 Kamion     where multiple very different keymaps are available (e.g.
                  French vs. French Canadian)
 09:37 mdz        yes, native isn't there yet and we aren't in a position to
                  push it
 09:37 Kamion     however, it's very easy to switch the autoselection on and off
 09:37 Kamion     (in the code I mean)
 09:37 mdz        Kamion: sounds like something to include in a Flight
                  announcement and ask users whether it DTRT for them
 09:37 mdz        ok
 09:38 mdz        thanks Mithrandir
 09:38 mdz        JaneW: any notes from lathiat/krstic?
 09:38 pitti      Kamion: autoselection == automatic default, or it won't even
                  ask you for the keyboard any more?
 09:38 mdz        it looks like avahi will need to be an optional add-on for
                  dapper purposes
 09:38 JaneW      nope, krystic's goal is deferred and I will mail Lathiat
 09:38 JaneW      mdz: I have been pinging Lathiat but he is not responding (in
########## u-d)
 09:38 mdz        JaneW: no need to mail him, I don't think
 09:39 Kamion     mdz: the discussion came up after Flight 4 already, although I
                  can mention it more clearly
 09:39 mdz        has to be deferred at this point
 09:39 JaneW      mdz: what's is happening with zeroconf?
 09:39 mdz        Kamion: and no clear consensus?
 09:39 Kamion     pitti: automatic default, but it also takes immediate effect
                  in the boot loader
 09:39 mdz        JaneW: deferred, we have unresolved issues and it's too late
                  to do much about it
 09:39 Kamion     mdz: not as yet, it's a young discussion
 09:39 JaneW      mdz: ok I'll change the ststus in LP
 09:39 mdz        Kamion: ok, perfect then
 09:39 mdz        Kinnison?
 09:40 Kinnison   * PowerManagementConfiguration
 09:40 Kinnison      * Spec rewritten and approved
 09:40 Kinnison      * 90% implemented.
 09:40 Kinnison      * Remaining: Hibernate-button support
 09:40 Kinnison   * General
 09:40 Kinnison      * Fixed race condition between autologin desktop and
                  powernowd
 09:40 Kinnison      * Made it so that gnome-screensaver responds to KEY_COFFEE
 09:40 Kinnison      * Soyuz package test set for Celso
 09:40 Kinnison      * Helped with launchpad rollout hiccoughs on Tuesday
 09:40 Kinnison   * Next week
*********** Hibernate button support for gnome-power-manager (Needs
 09:40 Kinnison   FF exception in theory, or I can class it as a bugfix, there
                  is a bug about this already)
 09:40 Kinnison      * Bug fixing for gnome-power-manager
 09:40 Kinnison      * I imagine I'll attack more of the powernowd bugs and
                  other powermanagement
 09:40 mdz        Kinnison: assessment of power-management-configuration with
                  regard to The Reckoning?
 09:40 Kinnison   stuff.
 09:40 JaneW      Kinnison: thanks for sorting that spec out :)
 09:40 Kinnison   mdz: as I said, 90% implemented, the remaining item is the
                  hibernate button
 09:40 mdz        Kinnison: can you get the hibernate button resolved tomorrow?
 09:40 Kinnison   mdz: I can probably write support on the ferry yes
 === LaserJock_ [n=LaserJoc@ubuntu/member/laserjock] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
 09:41 mdz        Kinnison: ferry?
 09:41 Kinnison   mdz: I'm going to fosdem tomorrow, as per our previous
                  agreement
 09:42 mdz        Kinnison: not on StaffCalendar
 09:42 Kinnison   mdz: I haven't hit submit yet, I've done everything else
 09:42 mdz        I can't even keep my own schedule in my head, much less 16
                  others :-P
 === ranf [n=ranf_@dslb-084-058-143-231.pools.arcor-ip.net] has joined
# ubuntu-meeting
 === Kinnison grins
 === BenC [n=bcollins@debian/developer/bcollins] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
 09:43 pitti      Hi BenC
 09:43 Kinnison   mdz: is the rest enough?
 09:43 BenC       hello, sorry for being late, lost track of time working on
                  some things
 09:43 mdz        Kinnison: hopefully polish off power-management-configuration
                  with a minimum of lateness, and then get cracking on bugs
 09:43 Kinnison   mdz: Yep, I'll do that
 09:44 mdz        Kinnison: please set up package bug contacts for appropriate
                  stuff if you haven't already
 === Kinnison has put himself as bug contact on g-p-m
 09:44 mdz        Kinnison: powernowd, the laptop team, etc.
 09:44 iwj        mdz: We seem to be running rather late ...
 09:44 mdz        iwj: yes
 09:45 mdz        not entirely unexpected considering the freeze
 09:45 ogra       Kinnison, btw, i'd vote for hughsie (g-p-m upstream) for the
                  most responsive upstream ....
 09:45 mdz        but we'll do the best we can
 09:45 mdz        thanks Kinnison
 09:45 mdz        Keybuk?
 09:45 Kinnison   mdz: Will do
 09:45 Keybuk     streamlined-boot: written up, and marked as implemented (If I
                  give it any more cap'n, she's gonna blow)
                  mountall needs a good kicking in the output dept, but Debian
 09:45 Keybuk     has exactly the same bugs so I've been opportunistically
                  waiting for them to fix it
                  network-magic: changes to network manager done, and it's been
 09:46 Keybuk     moved to main; there still remains the big question of whether
                  to put it on the CD or install by default
 09:46 infinity   It irritates the crap out of me (I mount a LOT of filesystems
                  on boot), so I may just fix it one day before I scream.
 09:46 Keybuk     udev seems stable, the ifrename stuff is working perfectly, so
                  I'm going to get rid of the _clashed debugging thing soon
 09:46 mdz        Keybuk: we need to take a decision on that shortly
 09:47 Keybuk     yeah, my inclination is to install by default on the LiveCD
                  but not on in desktop
 09:47 infinity   I use NetworkManager daily now, and I still vote for it *NOT*
                  being in the desktop by default.
 09:47 mdz        Keybuk: that is an excellent idea
 09:47 mdz        Keybuk: that way we can get some testing for it and still roll
                  it back
 09:47 fabbione   infinity: +1
 09:47 Keybuk     we could put it in ship
 09:47 Keybuk     (for the real install)
 09:47 pitti      ship++
 09:47 Keybuk     or just leave it in suppored
 09:47 mdz        Keybuk: let's get it on the live CD straight away
 09:48 infinity   I'll seed it to live right now.
 09:48 Keybuk     ok, can someone make that change ... neither data centre
                  machines let me in right now
 09:48 mdz        Keybuk: ideally what we want is a sabdfl-style "turn it on and
                  see if it smokes"
 09:48 Mithrandir Keybuk: you still ignore stuff in /etc/network/interfaces,
                  right?  So I should just stop generating that?
 09:48 mdz        but adding it to the metapackages is difficult to roll back
 09:48 Keybuk     Mithrandir: it now doesn't ignore an interface that's "auto
                  ethX" and just "iface ethX inet dhcp"
 09:48 Keybuk     it will ignore it if the auto is missing, it's static, or
                  there are any other options (like wireless-essid)
 09:48 ogra       also if the user installs with espresso it will be the
                  default, no ?
 09:48 Kamion     that was a GOOD chance - makes my life much easier
 09:49 Kamion     ogra: no
 09:49 mdz        Keybuk: if you can think of a way to get it into desktop by
                  default and gracefully roll back, let's do that too
 09:49 Keybuk     but yes, you could stop generating that
 09:49 mdz        need to move on though
 09:49 mdz        Keybuk: thanks
 09:49 mdz        Kamion?
                  ubuntu-express-base-system: Language and timezone pages both
                  done (the latter using the Evolution map widget;
 09:49 Kamion     http://people.ubuntu.com/~cjwatson/tmp/espresso-location.png),
                  and Tollef's almost done with the keymap page. Nearly there on
                  the major missing bits of UI!
 09:49 Mithrandir Keybuk: ok.  Good.  I'm writing that out.
 09:49 Keybuk     mdz: otherwise I think all my specs are implemented :)
 09:49 Kamion     ue-gnome-ui: I'm part-way through the "Ready to install" page;
                  shouldn't take much longer.
                  ubuntu-express: Unimplemented status (counting only things on
                  the to-do list that I think come under features rather than
                  bugs): keymap support, language pack support, some of the
 09:49 Kamion     partitioning changes, yaboot support, half-decent localisation
                  (text that comes from the debconf database is localised, but I
                  need a small debconf change before I can make that apply to
                  everything), and preseeding glue.
                  misc: Flight CD 4, including Espresso. Bug reports have been
                  coming in at a fairly steady trickle, mostly about dodginess
 09:49 Kamion     in the partitioner. Quite a bit of ftpmastery (NEW wasn't
                  quite clear by feature freeze, but it was a lot better than it
                  was three days ago).
                  next-week: Espresso language pack support, dealing with
 09:49 Kamion     removing live-only packages, yaboot support; then continue
                  with the to-do list.
 09:49 mdz        Keybuk: please have your update typed up in advance next time
                  :-P
 09:50 Keybuk     mdz: I did, on the wrong machine, heh
 09:50 mdz        Mithrandir: which of the UE todo items are on your plate now?
 09:50 Keybuk     for some reason my MAD CRAZY madwifi-ng hack to have an ath0
                  and ath1 on different networks isn't playing ball this evening
 09:50 mdz        Kamion: how is the UE test feedback from flight 4 so far?
 09:50 Kamion     at present, only keymap, but I expect to hand off others
 09:50 Mithrandir mdz: I'll finish up the keyboard selector.
 09:51 Mithrandir mdz: after that, it's going to be next week.
 09:51 mdz        Kamion: ok, figure with JaneW what makes sense as far as
                  tracking your combined progress
 09:51 Kamion     mdz: see "misc:" - mostly that the partitioner is very flaky,
                  and known espresso-grub bugs
 09:51 Mithrandir mdz: but I'll coordinate with Kamion about it.  I'm sure he
                  has a big list for me. :-)
 09:52 Kamion     however I've not been paying a lot of attention to the bug
                  list while there's feature work still to do
 09:52 mdz        ok
 09:52 Kamion     some of them will disappear naturally anyway
 09:52 mdz        Kamion: let's have a UE heart-to-heart tomorrow or early next
                  week
 09:52 Kamion     right
 09:52 mdz        thanks
 09:52 mdz        jbailey?
 09:52 Kamion     tomorrow's fine by me
********** ToolchainRoadmapNg: Some of my testing has been stalled by
 09:52 jbailey    support work.  I'm still aiming for a rebuild request after my
                  sprint next week.
********** Other: Same support work has stalled some of my glibc bug
 09:52 jbailey    fixing. The critical ones are the timezone breakage and adding
                  RLIMIT_RTPRIO.
 09:53 fabbione   jbailey: ETA for glibc?
 09:53 BenC       jbailey: does the kernel support RTLIMIT_RTPRIO?
 09:53 fabbione   it's blocking bash and pam my side
 09:53 mdz        jbailey: anything dapper-targeted that we need to know about?
 09:53 doko       jbailey: there's one more glibc hppa fix needed
 09:53 fabbione   BenC: from > .12
 09:53 BenC       ok
 09:53 doko       fabbione: you're doing the bash RTLIMIT_RTPRIO side?
 09:53 jbailey    mdz: The timezone is dapper targetted, breaks upgrade tool.
 09:53 jbailey    fabbione: I can do the RTLIMIT stuff in a separate upload and
                  get it done quickly.
 09:53 fabbione   doko: if you want do it, i am ok with it
 09:54 fabbione   jbailey: ok
 09:54 Kamion     fabbione: I already did the PAM RLIMIT_RTPRIO change
 09:54 mdz        jbailey: ETA?
 09:54 jbailey    doko: 'k.  Are we building hppa again now?
 09:54 Kamion     it's just hacked to #define them itself
 09:54 fabbione   Kamion: MEH no.,.
 09:54 fabbione   Kamion: there is more than that
 09:54 fabbione   the patch is dirty
 09:54 doko       fabbione: please send me a patch, have an upload pending ...
 09:54 fabbione   doko: ok
 09:54 mvo        jbailey: I *could* do ugly hacks to work around the zimezone
                  question, but if I can avoid it ...
 09:54 jbailey    mdz: Before I leave for the sprint to avoid lagging it past
                  there.
 09:54 jbailey    mdz: So before Sunday evening.
 09:54 mdz        JaneW: did I CC you on the RTLIMIT_RTPRIO stuff? if not,
                  please remind me to forward you the thread
 09:54 Kamion     fabbione: er, ok, I poked at it and it looked fine; ->
########## ubuntu-devel and tell me what you're on about? :)
 09:55 mdz        jbailey: ok, thanks
 09:55 mvo        jbailey: let me know if I can help with the tz stuff
 09:55 mdz        iwj: next
 09:55 JaneW      mdz: not that I can recall...
 09:55 Kamion     I just saw the bug, I didn't know multiple other people were
                  working on it already
 09:55 doko       jbailey: don't know, but it makes python and perl throw bus
                  errors
 09:55 jbailey    mvo: Mostly it'll just be testing to make sure your upgrade
                  tool is happy.
 09:55 mvo        jbailey: I'm happy to do testing for you
 09:55 jbailey    mvo: Thanks.
 09:56 siretart   BenC: pam needs to be patched for RTPRIO as well, the patch is
                  really small and as attachment in malone
 09:56 mdz        iwj: ping
 09:56 iwj        ...
 09:56 iwj        DefaultApplicationsFirefox: Final change for this made -
                  turning off the `You have chosen to open ...' dialogue.
                  DefaultApplicationsFirefox: I have had some comments that this
                  question is necessary for security, or that it is needed to
 09:56 iwj        sometimes allow the user to override a website to let them
                  download a file rather than opening it.  I will be posting
                  about this to ubuntu-devel tomorrow.  If you have an opinion,
                  please participate there.
 09:56 iwj        AutomatedTesting: no change to code since last report, not
                  blocked; now planning local test build on Xen virtual machine.
                  AutomatedTesting: piuparts looks like it doesn't really want
 09:56 iwj        to be integrated; it has its own chroot-handling etc., so it
                  really ought to be run separately.
                  Firefox maintenance: otherwise relatively quiet.  Still a
                  conffile prompt needing sorting out.  I've had representations
 09:56 iwj        about -fno-strict-aliasing: currently we compile with
                  -fstrict-aliasing as a consequence of -O2; if someone has a
                  crash that goes away with -fno-.. we should turn that back on
                  again.
 09:56 iwj        DeveloperDocumentation: Editing work in progress (slow).
                  Bugs backlog: Awful.  I think I'm going to stop looking in
 09:56 iwj        detail at unconfirmed firefox reports except to reply when
                  appropriate to the emails as they come in.
                  Bugs backlog: What's the status of the Malone searching and
 09:56 iwj        display UI problems/improvements ?  (Malone #29569, #30846,
########## 29678)  Bugfixing during freeze is going to be seriously
                  hampered unless our tools improve quickly !
 09:56 iwj        Bugs backlog: Email backlog: ~24h.
 09:56 mdz        iwj: d-a-f implemented, then?
 09:57 iwj        mdz: Yes.
 09:57 iwj        Modulo complaints like infinity's.
 09:57 doko       iwj: turning off the dialogue seems to be controversial?
 09:57 mdz        if there are any mime types where we're not doing the right
                  thing with this setup, those are bugs
 09:57 mdz        we'll discuss on the list
 09:57 iwj        Right.
 09:57 mdz        doko: the sab does not consider it controversial ;-)
 09:57 Kamion     siretart: already done, see #ubuntu-devel
 09:57 doko       well, then ... ;-)
                  iwj: speaking of which, it's been requested that we do the
 09:57 mdz        same thing to thunderbird.  not sure if it uses the same
                  system, but please look into it (maybe with Mithrandir?)
 09:58 iwj        mdz: Sure.  I can supply the patch, which is nice and small.
 09:58 iwj        (I don't know Thunderbird at all, so we'll need a TB expert to
                  handle that end of it.)
 09:58 infinity   mdz: I've been doing tbird, not Tollef.
 09:58 mdz        iwj: regarding automated-testing, can we consider the system
                  itself to be complete and the remaining work deployment?
 09:58 mdz        infinity: ok, sure
                  iwj: Your patch should apply cleanly (ish), but we'll wait for
 09:59 infinity   the outcome of the flamewar.  (The GNOME/MIME patch already
                  applies, I've tested)
 09:59 iwj        mdz: Yes, I think so.  That would be one way of looking at it.
 09:59 mdz        iwj: that's the way of looking at it where it isn't late ;-)
 09:59 iwj        The whole testing thing is an ongoing process really so it's
                  difficult to pick a time when we say it's `complete'.
 09:59 iwj        not late> Sure :-).
 09:59 mdz        iwj: for dapper it's about the low-hanging fruit.  if we're
                  actually test-installing stuff, that's already a huge benefit
 09:59 iwj        It's certainly at the point now where other people besides
                  Ubuntu can deploy it.
 09:59 mdz        we knew we wouldn't have a huge wealth of tests yet
 09:59 mdz        ok
 09:59 mdz        iwj: thanks
 10:00 mdz        infinity?
                  splash-down: Implementation for this has landed and is
 10:00 infinity   working.  A few bugs will need to be ironed out (some text
                  flicker, and making sure we survive for the last few seconds
                  of the shutdown), but it's pretty much working as-is.
                  last week distro: initramfs-tools hacking (including fixing a
                  longstanding conffile editing and dist-upgrade bug), Berkeley
 10:00 infinity   DB Java support fixes, new fglrx upstream in LRM, ssl-cert
                  upload for unified snakeoil setup (server-candy), new Samba
                  upstream version, and some other random bugfixes and triaging.
 10:00 iwj        I'll keep work on it, obviously.
                  last week buildd/soyuz: Again, spent a lot of time hunting
                  down broken builds, spent time talking with cprov about how
 10:00 infinity   we're going to fix the buildds to do what we want/need.  Spent
                  some time discussing translation handling with pitti, who now
                  seems to have things underway with cprov/carlos to get things
                  happening The Right Way.  \o/
                  next week distro: Time to start on hardcore bug
                  triaging/fixing.  First target for me is cleaning up and
 10:00 infinity   polishing Thunderbird, which is shiny enough in its new
                  upstream version, but obviously rough around the edges.  Also,
                  get auto-distupgrade testing tested and running for mvo.
                  next week buildd/soyuz: I've arranged to spend time next week
                  doing (remote) pair-programming with cprov (approved by mdz
 10:00 infinity   and kiko), so we can fix some of the more glaring outstanding
                  issues that are eating my time (auto-dep-wait handling,
                  dep-wait removal in the queuebuilder, and auto-give-backs are
                  the top three moles to whack)
 10:00 pitti      infinity: does that also include s/mozilla-tbird/tbird/?
 10:00 pitti      infinity: asac asked me about this
 10:01 mdz        I guess pitti covered reducing-duplication
                  pitti: asac and I wanted to do it (and we had a branch where
 10:01 infinity   it was being worked on), but I fear mdz will veto it now that
                  FF is upon us...
 10:01 pitti      infinity: I talked with him wrt totally broken locale package
                  support
 10:01 mdz        pitti: what's the rationale for renaming it?
 10:01 pitti      but no result yet
 10:01 infinity   mdz: Comments?  If the tbird rename can land *REALLY QUICKLY*
                  is it still a go?
 10:01 pitti      mdz: same as m-firefox, trademarkish issues
                  mdz: Same rationale as renameing firefox, the mozilla
 10:02 infinity   foundation would really, really like us to (trademark
                  violation)
 10:02 mdz        infinity: I don't have enough information; would the two of
                  you send me the details via email?
 10:02 pitti      mdz: not that *I* would be overly interested in it, I just
                  thought we have to
 10:02 mdz        best answer for now is "maybe"
 10:02 mdz        please include details about which packages are affected; the
                  fewer the better
 10:02 iwj        infinity: You've had actual official contact from Mozilla
                  Foundation people saying they want us to rename it ?
 10:02 infinity   mdz: I'll pow-wow with asac and see how quickly we think we
                  can land it, then mail you with details.
 10:03 mdz        thanks
 10:03 infinity   iwj: We, as in both Debian and Ubuntu have has in the past,
                  yes.
 10:03 mdz        heno/dholbach: example-content?
 10:03 infinity   s/has/had/
                  example-content: another update, Music files included as well
 10:03 dholbach   - no idea, how to proceed with the visibilification (answers
                  on ubuntu-devel@ were rather undecided)
 10:03 iwj        infinity: OK.
********** example-content: the example files them selves are comming
 10:03 heno       along fine. I haven't made much progress on the integration
                  with Rhythmbox playlists and adding pictures to gthumb, etc.
 10:03 dholbach   hopefully jdub is still awake and can give some input
 10:03 ogra       dholbach, its 9pm where he is ...
 === lfittl [n=lfittl@83-65-245-16.dynamic.xdsl-line.inode.at] has joined
# ubuntu-meeting
********** accessibility: not an official dapper-goal, but worth
 10:04 heno       mentioning that some very cool stuff has come together this
                  week, mainly thanks to TheMuso
 10:04 ogra       dholbach, he *should* be awake ;P
 10:04 seb128     ogra: jdub is not always respecting the local timezone though
                  :)
 10:04 ogra       hehe
                  dholbach: ok, need to resolve the visibilification by the end
 10:04 mdz        of this week.  if the desktop team cannot come to a decision,
                  I will have to ask the sab ;-)
 10:05 fabbione   guys we are already running out of time. can we please skip
                  extra commetns and speed up?
 10:05 dholbach   mdz: sounds good.
 10:05 ogra       seb128, he's on jdub-time you mean :)
 10:05 mdz        fabbione: we'll do the best we can; there is a lot to sum up
                  given FF
 10:05 jdub       dholbach: i want directories in users's home with symlinks to
                  example content dirs
 10:05 mdz        fabbione: you're up
 10:05 seb128     dholbach: take a decision, or I'm not sure we will like the
                  one the sab will take :p
 10:05 fabbione   Since we are in Feature Freeze the report is to be considered
                  "final" for features:
 10:05 fabbione   (Jane I kept a similar and complete struct as last time, so it
                  should be easy to parse)
********** server-candy: "Ship a Server Test Suite on the CD":
                  deferred. "Third party software inclusion": we have a list of
                  apps submitted by community that needs to be reviewed
 10:05 fabbione   (licence) and in case packaged. "central snakeoil SSL setup":
                  missing 2 packages. "Create an MD5 checker for the Ubuntu
                  Installer rescue mode": deferred. All code has been done.
                  Admins did not deliver #723. "Provide a RCS /etc out of the
                  box" deferred to dapper+1 (too ma
 10:05 fabbione   ny issues have been raised to be done in a proper way in such
                  short time).
********** ubuntu-cluster: Usual round of redhat cluster suite
                  updates.  SLURM - deferred (licence issues and no time to port
                  it to gnutls), DRBD - deferred (it's basically only x86* and
 10:05 fabbione   it has a bunch of annoying limitations to be really useful),
                  LVS (ipvsadm and keepalived) - packages moved to main (need to
                  check if they are on CD), ganglia - deferred (pkgs are old and
                  missing a lot of love. Ivoks did an amazing race against time
                  to get them do
 10:05 fabbione   ne with no luck).
 10:05 fabbione   * last week: a lot of server-candy and ubuntu-cluster work.
 10:05 fabbione   * next week: Start heavy bug squashing (yes yes.. including X,
                  ok??).
 10:05 dholbach   jdub: ok, let's chat about that afterwards
 10:05 seb128     jdub: I'm with you on that one
 10:06 jdub       seb128: we just have to fight for supremacy over Kamion ;)
 10:06 seb128     :)
 10:06 mdz        fabbione: ok, thanks
 10:06 mdz        doko?
 10:06 doko       [this week]
                  - openoffice: update rosetta import, new kurdish package, OOo
 10:06 doko       test builds, test builds, test builds, gnome-integration
                  patches, 2.0.2rc2 uploads
 10:06 doko       - java-roadmap/native-gcj: gij/gcj-4.1 update, eclipse update,
                  some package rebuilds
 10:07 doko       - other: db4.x debugging & fixes, some syncs, zope/schooltool
                  related uploads
 10:07 doko       [next week]
 10:07 doko       - openoffice: 2.0.2 rc5, upload of related packages
 10:07 doko       - final toolchain packages
                  if you guys did it only for the first user and users created
 10:07 Kamion     with user-admin, and not for those created with
                  adduser/useradd on servers with 10000 users, we might be
                  closer to agreement
 10:07 doko       - review selection of python modules for the desktop
 10:07 doko       [status}
                  - openoffice-gnome: partially implemented. Implemented: no
 10:07 doko       more focus stealing, gnome-file-selector (needs more fixes ->
                  martink, next week). Not implemented: copy-and-paste behaviour
                  (help needed), use of gnome-personal-defaults
                  - openoffice-amd64: doesn't currently build. Mithrandir:
 10:07 doko       updated control/rules files for i386 binaries on
                  ronne:~doko/ooo/2.0.2/amd64
 10:07 doko       - openoffice-l10n: package renaming is done, needs testing.
                  - toolchain-roadmap is implemented, pending the uploads of the
                  final release versions (4.1.0, 4.0.3, 3.4.6), the latter
 10:07 doko       pending approval from jbailey. The upstream releases are
                  scheduled for February.  Should that one be set to
                  implemented?
                  - python-roadmap was "completed" last week, but we decided not
                  to  upload it to dapper, therefore the handful of uploads to
                  drop python2.3. I'm building a test repository on p.u.c, so
 10:07 doko       people can test it, and its ready for our next transition to
                  2.5. Planning to  have an external python2.5 repository for
                  dapper (outside of dapper). Delayed this week due too OOo
                  work. low priority target. Still pending: The update to
                  2.4.3.  Sho
 10:07 iwj        I'm afraid I really have to go now or I might miss my
                  dinner.  I'll review the log tomorrow.
 10:07 doko       uld that one be set to implemented?
                  - native-gcj: works for eclipse and OOo (the latter still i386
 10:07 doko       only).  Adding these doesn't affect the other packages. needs
                  testing, working OOo packages without a native gcj package
                  have priority.
 10:07 mdz        iwj: ok
 10:07 jbailey    doko: 3.4.6 is waiting on my approval?
 10:08 doko       jbailey: that glibc still builds (but there no more C related
                  changes, just C++)
 10:08 mdz        doko: no release dates yet from upstream?
 10:08 jbailey    doko: Ah, okay.   Are the packages just on p.u.c for testing?
 10:09 doko       mdz: all estimated for next week. trying to get updates ...
 10:09 doko       ... on this information
 10:09 mdz        doko: I have emails with you with details; will follow up
                  there
 10:09 doko       mdz: thanks
 10:10 mdz        doko: so python-roadmap is partially implemented, some parts
                  deferred
 10:10 doko       mdz: yes, we decided two weeks ago to not include it in dapper
                  anymore
 10:10 mdz        final status for java-roadmap?
 10:10 mdz        doko: (yes, clarifying final status for JaneW)
 10:10 doko       implemented, without -doc packages (API documentation)
 10:11 mdz        ok
 10:11 mdz        thanks
 10:11 mdz        dholbach?
 10:11 dholbach   apart from example-content and a11y-improvements:
 10:11 dholbach   this week (done): bug triage, random fixes
 10:11 dholbach   this week (todo): more bug triage, finish off apt-get.org
 10:11 dholbach   next week (todo): new GNOME, more bug triage
 10:11 mdz        specs all implemented, thanks
 10:11 dholbach   :)
 10:11 mdz        dholbach: any good feedback from the test plan announcement?
 10:12 dholbach   lots of bug reports :)
 10:12 mdz        how was bug day?
 10:12 JaneW      doko: java roadmap?
 10:12 dholbach   and people in #ubuntu-bugs
 10:12 mdz        JaneW: <doko> implemented, without -doc packages (API
                  documentation)
 === kleeman [n=richard@ool-44c155e3.dyn.optonline.net] has joined
# ubuntu-meeting
                  i think it was on an all time high, although seb and i agreed
 10:12 dholbach   to set up goals for the desktop bug squashers to have work
                  during the weeks (and not only on bug days)
 10:12 JaneW      mdz: ah there it is, thanks
 10:12 dholbach   to have more of permanent action
 10:13 dholbach   we need a bug squashers team page and stuff like that to make
                  it more formal and a bigger team
 10:13 dholbach   (team shirts and stuff like that ;)))
 10:13 mdz        heh
 10:13 mdz        sounds good, thank
 10:13 mdz        s
 10:13 mdz        BenC?
 10:13 BenC       community-server-hardware-testing: Pretty much implemented.
                  Announcement was sent out.
                  Work this week: Bugs and more bugs. Trying to classify all the
 10:13 BenC       breezy->dapper regressions. Purchased and setup an amd64-k8
                  system to help with a few of the "x86_64 only" bugs.
                  Work next week: Mostly work on regression type bugs. There's
 10:13 BenC       quite a few crashes that didn't happen in Breezy. I'm going to
                  be setting up a lot of one-on-one's with bug submitters via
                  IRC to help speed up the dev cycle, testing patches, etc.
 10:13 sivang     dholbach: we need #ubuntu-qa maybe :)
 10:14 doko       dholbach: for bug squashing ... please consider to change the
                  reportbug email address to something that launchpad can handle
                  BenC: the remainder of server-hardware-testing is to collect
 10:14 mdz        information from the community on which hardware they are
                  testing, and track test results through the release cycle
 10:14 mdz        so that should be ongoing
 10:14 BenC       correct
                  Can everyone try to get their final FF status updates and spec
 10:14 JaneW      reviews etc to me by 12:00 UTC tomorrow please, so the report
                  is not too delayed.
 10:14 dholbach   doko: that was already agreed on and requires launchpad xmlrpc
                  changes (and changes of reportbug) iirc
 10:14 mdz        likewise for preventing-hardware-support-regressions; any
                  feedback there from that announcement?
 10:15 BenC       nothing really
 10:15 mdz        "we need to know if your hardware still works with Dapper; if
                  not, don't complain later"
 10:15 BenC       haven't checked the wiki to see if there is anything submitted
                  yet
 10:15 BenC       still going through bug reports, so there may be something
                  there
 10:15 BenC       and no real way to tell if the bug report was the result of
                  the announcement :)
                  BenC: we should include a blurb in every Flight announcement
                  with text equivalent to the above; this needs to be very
 10:16 mdz        visible to users and let them know that it is their
                  responsibility to help us test; it is the only way for us to
                  provide any likelihood that their systems work well
 10:17 mdz        "OR ELSE"
 10:17 BenC       mdz: who sends those announcements?
 10:17 mdz        BenC: Kamion
 10:17 BenC       I'll write something up to ammend it
 10:17 BenC       ok
 10:17 mdz        I believe he has a wiki page where things can be added
 10:17 mdz        which are then rolled into the announcements
 10:17 Kamion     not really, I usually look at the last one I sent
 10:17 BenC       heh
 10:17 Kamion     if you mail me text I'll make sure to include it
 10:18 doko       Kamion: when does the next flight fly?
 10:18 doko       (planned)
 10:18 Kamion     doko: I only just did one, I need to get some work done now
                  ;-)
 10:18 mdz        Kamion: a wiki page would be a good idea, rather than having
                  you sort through emails
 10:18 Kamion     doko: but I guess next week or the week after
 10:18 Kamion     mdz: fair enough, I'll try to establish one
 10:18 jdub       mdz: i spoke to Kamion earlier this week about sorting out a
                  better system for this
 === jdub is going to help iut with that
 10:18 mdz        ok, we're over time (but not as far as I'd feared), so we
                  should wrap up
 10:19 doko       Kamion: I'd like to have OOo 2.0.2 rc5 there ...
 10:19 mdz        we'll see how JaneW's report looks to get the overview, but in
                  general, it looks like we did very well this time around
 10:19 mdz        with regard to choosing achievable targets
 10:19 JaneW      mdz: yes it's looking very green *grin*
 10:19 JaneW      mdz: yes I think a better selection was made
 10:19 BenC       congrats to all, jobs well done
 10:19 mdz        adjourned, thanks everyone and congratulations
 
</pre>
