{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=03&day=21&year=2011&hour=28&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|Tue March 28th 2011 17:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:30 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* micahg
* jjohansen
* jdstrand

=== Not present ===
* kees

=== Agenda ===
* Review of any previous action items
** saw that sbeattie uploaded apparmor 2.6.1. Thanks!
** Blackhat/Defcon registration done
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** Weekly role: triager
** short week this week and next (off Friday through Tuesday inclusive)
** libvirt and openldap
** archive admin for Beta
** kees
** Weekly role: community
** mdeslaur
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** beta iso testing
** sbeattie
** Weekly role: happy place
** new updates
** iso testing
** micahg
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** Comodo aftermath
* Miscellaneous and Questions
** self-evaluations are done. I need to do my part now
** all work items tied to natty's release are completed. Great job everyone! :)
** Questions:<pre>
< micahg> when does the review for the testing libraries[sic] (QRT) start? next week?
< jdstrand> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/ReleaseCycle#Regression%20Testing
< jdstrand> ^ that says kernel and glibc should be happening now
< jdstrand> the rest fall post-beta
< jdstrand> kees and/or sbeattie have traditionally done the kernel/glibc ones
< jdstrand> and I'm pretty sure they have been done all the way along
</pre>

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/
