{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* Oneiric Development
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)
* Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===
===== Oneiric Development =====
Request to test beta-2 and to get final fixes in.
At this point Oneiric should be usable, and if not, we need people to file bugs to get us there.

===== Ubuntu Server Team Events =====
Ubuntu Server Team representatives would be at <nowiki>[[ODS|http:--summit.openstack.com]]</nowiki> and PuppetConf.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====
SpamapS had a question regarding SRU for bug 750371.  hggdh did not seem available.  Listed as an Action.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) =====
 Discussion entailed
** BugId:854829
** BugId:854050
** BugId:790712
** BugId:818177
** new -virtual-extras package that is headed to oneiric, including the modules that are not included in the -virtual-image package.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander) =====
Utlemming had been doing work on the arm images at http://cloud-images.ubuntu.com .  These images are close to being bootable in qemu. bug 852225
 seems to prevent their full function.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community =====
No discussion.
===== Open Discussion =====
Ran out of time on discussion regarding triage of bugs initiated by SpamapS.

===== Announce next meeting date and time =====

===== Meeting Actions =====

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, May 31st at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:01] <Ursinha> hmm. hello?
[16:01] <smoser> o/
[16:01] <smb> \o
[16:01]  * Ursinha pokes Daviey 
[16:02] <adam_g> \o
[16:02] <Daviey> hello!
[16:03]  * hallyn still waiting for laptop to boot.  damned vgscan race
[16:03] <Daviey> smoser: are you chairing?
[16:03] <smoser> i figured it might be about my turn to do that
[16:03] <smoser> i suppose i can
[16:03] <Daviey> smoser: well it is your pop queue turn :)
[16:03] <smoser> k
[16:04] <smoser> here we go
[16:04]  * Daviey notes that he and rbasak are in a call, so might not be fully here.
[16:04] <smoser> #startmeeting
[16:04] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Sep 20 16:04:07 2011 UTC.  The chair is smoser. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.
[16:04] <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[16:04] <SpamapS> smoser: you forgot to name it. ;)
[16:04] <smoser> how?
[16:04] <smoser> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[16:04] <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Sep 20 16:04:56 2011 UTC.
[16:04] <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2011/ubuntu-meeting.2011-09-20-16.04.moin.txt
[16:05] <SpamapS> smoser: it takes an argument
[16:05] <smoser> whats our meeting?
[16:05] <SpamapS> Ubuntu Server Team Meeting
[16:05] <smoser> #startmeeting Ubuntu Server Team Meeting
[16:05] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Sep 20 16:05:27 2011 UTC.  The chair is smoser. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.
[16:05] <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting Meeting | Current topic:
[16:05] <SpamapS> lol
[16:06] <smoser> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting Meeting | Current topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:06] <smoser> no action points.
[16:06] <smoser> so thats a free pass onto....
[16:06] <smoser> [TOPIC] Oneiric Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting Meeting | Current topic:  Oneiric Development
[16:06] <Daviey> As you all must know by now we are in Beta2 freeze.
[16:07] <Daviey> With it shipping this Thursday.
[16:07] <smoser> Yes, only the great ones are allowed to upload, like zul.
[16:07] <Daviey> This is a great chance to get testing of the iso in as many ways possible.
[16:07] <Daviey> Also, we need to consolidate bugs that need fixing
[16:07] <Daviey> I notice smoser has been busy raising and fixing some nova issues, do you have any news on them landing?
[16:08] <Daviey> smoser: No, everyone can still upload.. just main fixes need to be b2 crticial.
[16:08] <smoser> i landed more changes in nova milestone branch in the past 4 days than i'd care to admit to
[16:08] <Daviey> i noticed.
[16:08] <Daviey> http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html <- any bugs that need to be decalred there?
[16:08] <smoser> but, i'm actually pretty excited about nova's state.
[16:08]  * AlanBell goes to fix a bug in the topic handling code to prevent Meeting Meetings
[16:09] <zul> they should be in the archive today hopefully
[16:09] <Daviey> smoser: Action AlanBell to that pls :)
[16:09] <SpamapS> Daviey: I'm pretty convinced that bug 653405 is "fixed" .. but we need somebody to confirm that.
[16:09] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 653405 in rabbitmq-server (Ubuntu Oneiric) "rabbitmq-server fails to start if hostname is unresolvable or has changed since first starting" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/653405
[16:09] <Daviey> I could also do with some help with things that need release noting.
[16:09] <Daviey> So if you have anything, please raise it :)
[16:10] <Daviey> hmm
[16:10] <Daviey> someone was looking at that earlier this week
[16:10] <Daviey> was it lynxman ?
[16:10] <smoser> Daviey, ...
[16:10] <smoser> bug 854614 should be on our release list
[16:10] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 854614 in nova (Ubuntu) "metadata service local-hostname is not fqdn" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/854614
[16:10] <SpamapS> Daviey: also bug 831628 is fixed but sitting in the b2 freeze queue so will land after b2 I think.
[16:10] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 831628 in squid (Ubuntu) "squid upstart script doesn't check for filesystems" [Low,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/831628
[16:10] <smoser> this is something that JuJu views as being important.
[16:11] <Daviey> smoser: 854614 i tagged just before this meeting, thanks
[16:11] <lynxman> Daviey: wasn't me, we just need to confirm that the new version of Erlang and rabbitmq 2.5.0 works as intended
[16:11] <smoser> yeah.
[16:11] <SpamapS> Also I think we can stop tracking bug 829063 unless my concerns were addressed
[16:11] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 829063 in glance (Ubuntu) "should use SSL by default" [Wishlist,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/829063
[16:12] <Daviey> SpamapS: Considering how bad squid has been on upgrades, is this one worth landing for b2?
[16:12] <Daviey> As in, get it in early?
[16:12] <macer1> Hello, is this ubuntu server team meeting?
[16:12] <zul> SpamapS: the glance ssl stuff is still being reviewed upstream
[16:12] <smoser> macer1, it is.
[16:12] <smoser> welcome
[16:13] <SpamapS> Daviey: all the problems on upgrade were caused by the old upstart scripts.. hasn't been a problem since the change to use -N and drop 'expect fork' from what I can tell.
[16:13] <SpamapS> Daviey: but, if squid is not on the CD.. then yeah why not land it now?
[16:13] <Daviey> SpamapS: hmm, i thought we had to double tap an SRU for that fix?
[16:14] <Daviey> SpamapS: ok, will look the package over after the meeting
[16:15] <Daviey> Triage, Triage, Triage - not just step 1 :)
[16:15] <Daviey> smoser: move on?
[16:15] <smoser> yep
[16:15] <smoser> the other thing is ...
[16:15] <smoser> we are testing ISOs very soon.
[16:16] <smoser> Daviey, are you aware of anything that would prevenet testing of $MEDIA ?
[16:16] <smoser> utlemming would likely be interested as i believe he expects to start testing cloud-images today
[16:16] <Daviey> smoser: the candidate posted will amost certainly not be final
[16:16] <smoser> gold
[16:16] <adam_g> we should probably free up the QA test cluster from our openstack testing?
[16:16] <Daviey> So testing is still useful, don't hold out.
[16:16] <smoser> moving on then.
[16:17] <smoser> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting Meeting | Current topic:  Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:17] <Daviey> adam_g: The test cluster could really do with streching it to the limits.
[16:18] <smoser> The Openstack Developer Summit [http://summit.openstack.org] is in 2 weeks
[16:18] <Daviey> wow, really only two weeks away
[16:18] <Daviey> happy days.
[16:18] <smoser> UDS is actually not far off, especially if you're expecting to get flights and travel accomodations
[16:18] <zul> hopefully i can make it ;)
[16:18]  * smoser writes a memo to self to get flights
[16:18] <smoser> anything else to note ?
[16:19] <adam_g> puppetconf is this week
[16:19] <Daviey> I'll be at the London release party 13th October
[16:19] <rbasak> It seems that I'll be there too!
[16:19] <adam_g> lynxman and i will likely be giving lightning talk on juju + ubuntu server
[16:19] <Daviey> rbasak: nonoes.
[16:19] <zul> release party = booze up
[16:19] <robbiew> adam_g: sweet
[16:20] <SpamapS> Who all will be at the Openstack Dev summit btw?
[16:20]  * SpamapS raises hand
[16:20]  * adam_g <-
[16:20]  * zul me
[16:20]  * smoser raises hand
[16:20]  * SpamapS raises ttx's hand
[16:20] <zul> <-- already submitted a proposal
[16:20] <smoser> also i suspect that ttx and soren to will be there. kirkland also.
[16:20] <smoser> ok. enough chitchat. moving on.
[16:20]  * kirkland waves a thumbs up
[16:20] <smoser> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:21] <smoser> hggdh, ^
[16:21] <Daviey> o/
[16:21] <SpamapS> I have a question about getting SRU verification help on the occasional important bug..
[16:22] <SpamapS> mdeslaur was asking if we could finish the squid SRU bug 750371 so he didn't have to supersede it and I didn't know how to get it onto our QA team's radar
[16:22] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 750371 in squid (Ubuntu Maverick) "squid causing /var to stay busy during shutdown" [High,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/750371
[16:23] <SpamapS> hggdh: ideas?
[16:23] <robbiew> :/
[16:24] <smoser> ok. then.
[16:24] <smoser> [ACTION] hggdh and SpamapS to discuss SRU verification work for bug 750371 at next meeting or before
[16:24] <meetingology> ACTION: hggdh and SpamapS to discuss SRU verification work for bug 750371 at next meeting or before
[16:24] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 750371 in squid (Ubuntu Maverick) "squid causing /var to stay busy during shutdown" [High,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/750371
[16:24] <smoser> anyone else have anything here ?
[16:25] <smoser> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:25] <smb> Since there was Plumbers two weeks ago and /me on holiday last week there is not much new. Still not completely happy with Xen HVM and filed bug 854829 just now. Also trying to see whether bug 854050 is somehow reproducable. And if it is whether an updated kernel would help. People seem to have a habbit of using the ami of an release without updating.
[16:25] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 854829 in xen (Ubuntu) "[Oneiric] Xen HVM: transmit timeouts on emulated 8139cp device" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/854829
[16:25] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 854050 in linux (Ubuntu) "BUG at /build/buildd/linux-2.6.38/mm/swapfile.c:255" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/854050
[16:25] <smoser> smb, yeah, sorry to have dumped that swap bug on you.
[16:26] <smoser> and the slew of mis-data that is the aws forums
[16:26] <Daviey> bug 790712
[16:26] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 790712 in linux (Ubuntu Oneiric) "20110531 i386 server ISO: order 5 allocation failure during install" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/790712
[16:26] <smb> smoser, no worries, just one of those which seem to happen "sometimes"
[16:26] <smoser> one happy event on that, though, the original reporter of that hit a hang
[16:26] <smoser> and called Amazon on support
[16:26] <Daviey> bug 818177
[16:26] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 818177 in udev (Ubuntu) "HP DL380G5 root disk mounted read-only on boot and boot fails" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/818177
[16:26] <smoser> they told him "hardware failure"
[16:27] <smoser> Daviey, smoser there are udev issues in the ramdisk.
[16:27] <smoser> this is unfortunately nothing new.
[16:27] <Daviey> ugh
[16:28] <smoser> at least my personal feeling is that several of the "rarely does not boot" bugs are a result of udev not behaving correctly.
[16:28] <Daviey> smb: What server related kernel things do you think are viable to land before kernel freeze?
[16:28] <Daviey> lol
[16:28] <SpamapS> smoser: seems to be most often triggered by very high end storage
[16:29] <Daviey> So yes, what else do you think you can land as of 5 days ago? :)
[16:29] <smb> Daviey, Not sure that I got anything that is close pending atm
[16:29] <smoser> smb, i've just been asked for bug 761809. i would like to have that landed for oneiric.
[16:29] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 761809 in linux (Ubuntu) "Quota modules are missing from the package" [Undecided,Expired] https://launchpad.net/bugs/761809
[16:29] <smb> smoser, Is that the virtual package?
[16:29] <smoser> yes.
[16:29] <adam_g> SpamapS: negative. i hit bug #818177 anytime LVM xists ontop of my low end commodity  stuff
[16:29] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 818177 in udev (Ubuntu) "HP DL380G5 root disk mounted read-only on boot and boot fails" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/818177
[16:29] <Daviey> yes
[16:30] <smb> smoser, apw has been working on having an extra package with all the other stuff. Would that be enough?
[16:30] <Daviey> smb: ogasawara added the aufs kernel module to the virtual package recently, seems we need a repeat
[16:30] <smoser> adam_g, SpamapS well some less common ratio of processor:disk-speed:disk-turn-on speed
[16:30] <Daviey> \o/
[16:30] <Daviey> we didn't know that
[16:31] <ogasawara> Daviey, smb: that was prior to the extras virtual package existing
[16:31] <smoser> smb, well that would in fact be good. but he told me to go jump in a lake once before.
[16:31] <smoser> when i asked for that.
[16:31] <smoser> would that land in oneiric ? smb?
[16:31] <smoser> oh. ogasawara is it *in* oneiric ?
[16:31] <smb> ogasawara, I think its checkid in now, right?
[16:31]  * smoser gets a clue
[16:31] <smb> checked-in*
[16:32] <apw> it is fix committed but not uploaded yes
[16:32] <ogasawara> smb: yep, committed.  not uploaded.
[16:32] <smoser> apw, that rocks.
[16:33] <SpamapS> So sounds like we need to do some intense race hunting in the initrd
[16:33] <smoser> since i have the kernel team here
[16:33] <ogasawara> smb: we have a 1 week window between beta-2 and final freeze that I'm going to plan one final kernel upload (pending approval from the release team)
[16:33] <smoser> do you think that that bug above would be acceptable for a lucid SRU ?
[16:33] <smb> Sounds a bit with the hint about a combination of lvm and slow disk...
[16:33] <ogasawara> smb: so if we need to add anything, best to do it now.
[16:34] <smoser> i'm asked by gondai in ubuntu-server.  ie, could we sru inclusion of -virtual modules for quota
[16:34] <smb> smoser, Which of the above being Lucid?
[16:34] <smoser> bug
[16:34] <smb> ogasawara, I understand if we have the extra package there is things ok
[16:34] <smoser> bug 761809
[16:34] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 761809 in linux (Ubuntu) "Quota modules are missing from the package" [Undecided,Expired] https://launchpad.net/bugs/761809
[16:34] <smoser> is what i was talking about.
[16:35] <smb> Oh so those are missing in lucid
[16:35] <smb> Probably there an inclusion of the modules is simpler
[16:36] <smoser> right.
[16:36] <smoser> i absolutely agree, but we could get that done ?
[16:36] <smb> yes
[16:36] <smoser> apw, you recently marked the task for "investigate missing modules" as DONE
[16:36] <smoser> did you add/remove anythign ?
[16:37] <apw> smoser, i don't recognise that WI title ...
[16:37] <smoser> looking
[16:37] <smoser> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-kernel-o-version-and-flavours
[16:37] <smoser> [apw] Investigate pulling 'excluded' modules for -virtual into a new binary package/udebs: DONE
[16:37] <smb> Think that was the one assigned to me and more of a for oneirc thing
[16:37] <smb> which we stopped when having the extras for that
[16:37] <apw> smoser, yes that is the one which triggered the -extras pacage
[16:38] <smoser> so is -extras *everything* such that -virtual + -virtual-extras == -server ?
[16:38] <apw> smoser, -virtual != -server, but other than that yes
[16:38] <smb> smoser, There still is a difference in what is compiled in
[16:39] <smb> (at least)
[16:39] <smoser> yeah. ok.
[16:39] <apw> the main difference is things like xeny-ness, otherwise we'd tell you to install -server
[16:39] <smoser> so i would consider all future bugs of "give me this module in -virtual" much lower priority
[16:39] <smoser> but still sometimes valid
[16:39] <smoser> ie, the aufs module and such, should be in -virtual and not require the additional 100MB of stuff
[16:40] <smoser> anyway
[16:40] <apw> smoser, you'll have to try even harder to convince us to let them in, we'll likely want to take things out to slim things down
[16:40] <smoser> i think we've beaten this.
[16:40] <smoser> apw, right.
[16:40] <smoser> i like it
[16:40] <smoser> thank you.
[16:40] <smoser> that brings us to
[16:40] <smoser> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (NCommander)
[16:40] <smoser> NCommander, around ?
[16:41] <smoser> i believe that utlemming has made some recent progress around arm
[16:41] <smoser> and maybe even zul
[16:41] <smoser> just if you wanted to brag a bit
[16:41] <Daviey> and rbasak
[16:41] <zul> smoser: im good
[16:41] <smoser> i'll brag for utlemming
[16:41] <smoser> because i think it is seriously cool
[16:41] <Daviey> NCommander: When you read this, please can you explain why you are unable to attend this slot?
[16:41] <smoser> you can now download our cloud-images from http://cloud-images.ubuntu.com and they will "just work" under qemu arm
[16:42] <jamespage> w00t
[16:42] <smoser> so if you want to just see an arm thing run, you can.
[16:42] <Ursinha> that's cool
[16:42] <smoser> yes.
[16:42] <rbasak> great!
[16:42] <smoser> ok.
[16:42] <smoser> moving on
[16:42] <smoser> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions from the Ubuntu Community
[16:43] <Daviey> zul: How is openstack on arm looking?
[16:43] <zul> Daviey: uh...good
[16:43] <Daviey> How is our fine community looking?
[16:43] <Daviey> (Please don't all answer at once)
[16:43]  * zul watches tumbleweeds go one by
[16:44] <utlemming> smoser: the arm qemu images are actually broken due to a kernel bug
[16:44] <smoser> boooo
[16:44] <Daviey> :(
[16:44] <utlemming> smoser: the fix has been committed, but the latest images don't have the kernel fix
[16:44] <apw> utlemming, which bug ... so i can add it to the 'why we want to upload' list, and for which branch
[16:45] <utlemming> sure...give me a minute to look it up
[16:45] <utlemming> a working qemu image can be fetched from http://people.canonical.com/~ben/images/arm.img.gz for those who want to play with one that is about a week old.
[16:46] <utlemming> Bug #852225
[16:46] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 852225 in linux (Ubuntu Oneiric) "ARM kernel writing 32bits to 16 bit register" [Undecided,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/852225
[16:46] <rbasak> That's a great bug title :)
[16:46] <smb> Think that one went into master
[16:46] <Daviey> Oneiric SRU?
[16:47] <smb> Daviey, Close to release. You have to really argue now
[16:47] <Daviey> smb: nah
[16:47] <smoser> "doesn't boot"
[16:47] <apw> ogasawara, ^^ that lends weight to your upload argument
[16:47] <ogasawara> apw: indeed.  /me makes a note.
[16:48] <utlemming> it only affects qemu though
[16:48] <Daviey> The arm cloud images are not part of the offical release this cycle, unless i am mistaken.
[16:48] <Daviey> If they get fixed post release as an SRU, seems reasonable
[16:48] <smb> Daviey, Mainly its a switch to not just dump stuff in but to already switch over to a more stable more with reviewing things
[16:48] <apw> but they are important
[16:48] <smoser> well, we will let ogasawara argue that appropriately. it seems we have good representation, and i trust the participants.
[16:49] <smoser> lets move on
[16:49] <Daviey> +1
[16:49] <Daviey> can we go home?
[16:49] <smoser> i am winning for longest meeting in quite some time.
[16:49] <smoser> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting Meeting | Current topic:  Open Discussion
[16:49] <zul> i like turnips
[16:49] <SpamapS> +1
[16:49] <Ursinha> lol
[16:49] <jamespage> I'm a swede man myself
[16:50] <AlanBell> Daviey: fix committed
[16:50] <SpamapS> I was reading the launchpad-dev mailing list yesterday, and I saw that they have a very interesting triage process... they do not use Medium as a priority.
[16:50] <Daviey> Thanks for your input Serge
[16:50] <Ursinha> SpamapS, yes, that discussion is indeed really interesting
[16:50] <smoser> SpamapS, a link would be helpful
[16:50] <SpamapS> Critical means it has to be worked on now. High means it has to be worked on Next. Everything else is Low
[16:50] <Daviey> We are /close/ to that.
[16:51] <Daviey> Medium is almost the 'next' High stuff.
[16:51] <Ursinha> they're discussing possibly using high and medium as they almost don't do that today
[16:51] <SpamapS> I'd give you a link but the archive seems 2 days behind.
[16:52] <Ursinha> Daviey, that's how I see it too.
[16:52] <smoser> moving on then.
[16:52] <rbasak> I got the impression that Low means probably will never be worked on unless someone has a specific interest, and Medium is the general work queue
[16:53] <rbasak> (from being new to the process on the server team, not launchpad-dev)
[16:53] <smoser> i would agree with rbasak .
[16:53] <smoser> i really dont think its all that important
[16:53] <Daviey> rbasak: yeah.
[16:53] <Daviey> Crticial means, panic - all hands on deck.
[16:53] <SpamapS> Anyway, our Medium queue just for triage is massive.. and I feel like we should look at being honest that we may not ever get to it, so its a Low issue in our *work* priority.
[16:54] <Daviey> smoser: you don't think the importance is importiant?
[16:54] <SpamapS> Daviey: he gives it a Low priority is all
[16:54] <smoser> i would give imprtance a 'low' importance
[16:54] <Daviey> Anyway, you don't have to use the full hour for the meeting btw.
[16:54] <smoser> i'm not kidding.
[16:54] <smoser> we need some way to flag stuff that really matters.
[16:54] <smoser> currently that is either 'critical' or getting it onto Daviey's list
[16:54] <rbasak> smoser: as long as importance gets set, so critical stuff is separated out quick
[16:54] <SpamapS> smoser: High is just that.
[16:54] <Daviey> end meeting?
[16:55] <smoser> SpamapS, so what are we discussing ?
[16:55] <smoser> i work on bugs that are quite reasonably 'Low' before i work on ones that are 'High' at times.
[16:55] <SpamapS> pushing most things we'd normally say are "Medium" down to Low and possibly reviewing the queue more often to put them in Won't Fix status.
[16:56] <smoser> the key point above was that if someone thinks it needs fixing and works on it it will get fixed.
[16:56] <smoser> i'll agree with "wont fix"
[16:56] <smoser> but daviey wants to go home
[16:56] <smoser> so i'm not giving any more fuel to the fire
[16:56] <smoser> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | Ubuntu Server Team Meeting Meeting | Current topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[16:56] <smoser> Tuesday 2011-09-27 at 16:00 UTC
[16:57] <smoser> SpamapS, Ursinha i do apologize for not giving you as much time as you wanted.
[16:57] <smoser> but i really do think that everyone wants to go
[16:57] <Ursinha> that's ok
[16:57] <smoser> and i think we have another meeting scheduled next week, with another open discussion section next week.
[16:57] <smoser> #endmeeting
</pre>
