{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
   04:01 mdz        today, for variety, we go in case-sensitive ascending order by nick
   04:01 ogra       (or better with that specific broadcom card)
   04:01 mdz        Kamion: you're up first
   04:01 Kamion     haha, ok
   04:01 Kamion     ue-partitioning-tool: Leftover from Dapper, approved. 5 days.
   04:01 Kamion     revive-tasksel: Approved. Since this is basically yanking code back in sync with Debian and writing a bit of glue, I expect about 4 days of work allowing for a bit of initial testing.
   04:01 Kamion     sane-installer-keyboard: Approved. I reckon about 10 days, given that upstream has volunteered to do some of the hard bits (yay). Have given primary responsibility for this to Tollef, although I'm sure I'll still do the odd bit of work on it.
   04:01 Kamion     no-more-devfs: Approved. I'm estimating about 3 days of work to clear this all u
   04:01 Kamion     p. If we time it right then we can do it in cooperation with Debian (needs to be
   04:01 Kamion     after etch d-i beta 3, which is "soon", but also needs to miss UVF by as little
   04:01 Kamion     as possible).
   04:01 Kamion     seed-cleanup: Drafting; will finish soon. Remaining germinate change is about a day's work.
   04:01 Kamion     ubiquity-advanced-partitioner: Still drafting, but I'll finish that this week. Calling this 20 days; may need to drag in help, at least from a KDE person for the Qt interface.
   04:02 Kamion     misc: Merges, merges, merges. Also hideously behind on e-mail; don't expect me t
   04:02 Kamion     o have read anything on non-announcement mailing lists.
   04:02 Kamion     oops, apologies for crappy line-wrapping
   04:03 mdz        Kamion: you have 5 targets approved for edgy so far, though seed-cleanup needs fleshing out
   04:03 Kamion     what one did I miss?
   04:03 mdz        how many more of those do you expect to be able to take on for edgy?
   04:04 Kamion     or was that counting ubiquity-advanced-partitioner?
   04:04 Kamion     the above comes to about 7 weeks of development time in total
   04:04 Kamion     I may have room for some of langpacks-on-cd
   04:04 mdz        the ones targeted for edgy currently are ue-partitioning-tool, revive-tasksel, no-more-devfs, seed-cleanup and ubuntu-meta-from-bzr [implemented]
   04:04 mdz        Kamion: so is the list above the ones you think will fit?
   04:04 Kamion     yeah
   04:05 mdz        I think sane-installer-keyboard was recently approved; isn't on the edgy list yet
   04:05 mdz        please target it to edgy
   04:05 Kamion     sane-installer-keyboard is targeted to edgy, but I gave it to Tollef
   04:06 mdz        ah, there it is
   04:06 Kamion     I've thrown ubiquity-advanced-partitioner at edgy too
   04:06 mdz        I am sorted by assignee
   04:06 mdz        ok
   04:06 mdz        Kamion: thanks
   04:06 mdz        Keybuk: next
   04:06 Keybuk     automake-transition: Approved.  our spec has appeared to fuel the Debian maintainer into doing much of the work; we should get this one for free.
   04:06 Keybuk     teardown: Approved.  Tested at the conference, changes to ubuntu-desktop dependencies can be done once they've been merged, other packages as and when they come up.  Estimated only a day of work to make the changes listed in the spec (they're already done on my laptop).
   04:06 Keybuk     libata-for-all-ata-disks: Approved.  Will approach this once the merges are out of the way and the kernel patch is in, perfecting the migration is expected to take the bulk of the time, as is testing the new drivers.
   04:06 Keybuk     boot-message-logging: Approved.  Makes sense to implement it in pair with
   04:06 Keybuk     replacement-init: Drafting/Approval tennis with Kamion, making sure this is specified right first.  The scope of this specification is deliberately limited for edgy to just replacing /sbin/init and the companion tools.  The specification also contains a hard deadline that must be reached by FeatureFreeze for it to not be deferred.  I believe that this scope is reachable with a high degree of confidence in the implementation and changes by Featu
   04:07 Keybuk     reFreeze.  I expect this to be the bulk of my work for the edgy timeframe.
   04:07 Keybuk     dash-as-bin-sh: Implemented
   04:07 Keybuk     other: the all-new merge-o-matic now running
   04:07 mdz        Keybuk: doesn't dash-as-bin-sh need an upgrade transition?
   04:07 Keybuk     mdz: elaborate?  one was not defined in the spec
   04:07 mdz        Keybuk: I saw your upload to change the debconf default, but that won't affect upgrades, no?
   04:08 jbailey    I saw it come in today and it switched it here.
   04:08 Keybuk     it won't affect upgrades if someone had already installed dash ... but then if somebody had done that, they probably set it as the default anyway
   04:08 fabbione   meh
   04:08 Kamion     it will affect upgrades from systems that didn't previously have dash installed
   04:08 Keybuk     dash wasn't previously installed by default
   04:08 Kamion     Keybuk: not true, it was a dependency of initrd-tools
   04:08 Kamion     so fresh installs of <=breezy will have it
   04:08 mdz        yes, pretty much all of my systems have it installed
   04:09 mdz        anyway, ->offline
   04:09 Keybuk     ah, that wasn't known
   04:09 mdz        Keybuk: what's your guess about the doability of replacement-init?
   04:09 Keybuk     in that case, yes, upgrades from systems with dash already installed need to be adjusted
   04:09 ogra       i have it too nd this machine has only seen dapper
   04:09 Keybuk     mdz: should be both doable, stable and everyone actually confident about it -- the scope is deliberately limited to just replacing init and the standard initscripts and not requiring *any* other changes
   04:10 mdz        Keybuk: and there's no existing init we can adopt rather than NIHing it?
   04:10 Keybuk     I've set hard deadlines in the spec
   04:10 Keybuk     mdz: there isn't, sadly :-/
   04:10 Keybuk     I looked at every single one
   04:10 Keybuk     welcome to elaborate offline on that
   04:10 Keybuk     (it would be too much of a discussion here)
   04:10 mdz        ok
   04:11 mdz        you should have your hands reasonably full with that
   04:11 Keybuk     yes, I arranged my other specs on the basis I would have
   04:11 mdz        Keybuk: thanks
   04:11 mdz        Mithrandir: next
   04:11 Mithrandir optimized-live-cd-layout-for-faster-boot: implemented, just needs to get the list to Adam (post his vacation) and merging into the kernel proper.  Shaved a good 40 seconds off the live cd boot time
   04:11 Keybuk     (heh, and I had these answer's pre-prepared with C&P :p)
   04:11 Mithrandir misc: merges, catching up after Paris, reviewed ubuntu-edgy-cluster, some SoC mentoring
   04:11 Mithrandir other specs: no progress
   04:11 Mithrandir next week: merges, merges, merges, hopefully get some live cd hacking in there too
   === Mithrandir steals Keybuk's apostrophe.
   04:12 ogra       Mithrandir, hey, thats mine i he only borrowed it !
   04:13 mdz        Mithrandir: so on your edgy list, you have (remaining) sane-installer-keyboard, live-cd-stacked-filesystems, live-cd-write-as-you-go, livecd-sessions
   04:13 Mithrandir mdz: yes, and I want to get the live-cd-share-live-cd one in too.
   04:13 mdz        Mithrandir: is that awaiting review?
   04:13 Mithrandir yes
   04:13 infinity   live-cd-stacked-filesystems needs ot be assigned to both Tollef and I, somehow. :)
   === licio [n=licio@ubuntu/member/licio] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:14 infinity   (That won't be too much time for my end though, once he's told me how his end looks)
   04:14 mdz        you could create a team for it, but I think that would only confuse things
   04:14 infinity   Barring kernel problems on buildds or other hilarity.
   04:14 mdz        if the chunks are big enough, split the spec.  if not, just pass it from one of you to the other
   04:14 BenC       "there are no kernel problems"
   === infinity nods.
   04:14 fabbione   BenC: ++
   04:15 mdz        Mithrandir: ok, sounds like a good set of stuff. should be fun
   04:15 mdz        Mithrandir: thanks
   04:15 Mithrandir I certainly hope so.
   04:15 infinity   BenC: Will you stand by that when I tell you that I'll be using squash and union on buildds multiple times per day without rebooting?
   === lukketto [n=lukketto@host36-99.pool8257.interbusiness.it] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:15 mdz        BenC: oops, I had your nick capitalization wrong in my list; you should have been first of course ;-)
   04:15 mdz        BenC: you're up
   04:15 BenC       go now? :)
   04:15 BenC       libata-for-all-ata-disks: STARTED: Alan's patch is now in the kernel. Waiting for changes to base-files, and boot loaders for upgrades before enabling modules (I'll start on boot loaders, Keybuk has said he'll do the base-files changes to update /etc/fstab)
   04:15 BenC       linux-kernel-crash-dump: NOT STARTED (still in review). Looks like kdump is what we will be going with. Getting the mechanics right will take the most time on implementing this.
   04:15 BenC       speakup-inclusion: DONE: Kernel modules are in and building on all but hppa and sparc. This is done for my part. The rest of the work is userspace (unable to update status of spec).
   04:15 BenC       kernel notes: 2.6.17 final is now in edgy. Linux-restricted-modules was just uploaded, and will be followed by linux-meta soon. This will make 2.6.17 the default kernel in edgy after today (let the bug reporting begin).
   04:15 BenC       ABAT (automated testing): x86 runs are almost ready to go. PPC64, is in the works. Regression, LTP and benchmark testing will be included in runs now.
   04:16 Keybuk     BenC: are the modules disabled?  if we have a list, I can blacklist them so we can enable them in the kernel source and just have them disabled from user-space
   04:16 BenC       infinity: that's not a kernel "problem", that's the kernel being tainted :P
   04:16 mdz        can someone on the review team commit to giving l-k-c-d a look today?
   04:16 BenC       Keybuk: I'll send you a list then
   04:16 mdz        fabbione: would you review it?
   === rikai [i=rikai@pool-72-65-108-190.ptldme.east.verizon.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === lukketto [n=lukketto@host36-99.pool8257.interbusiness.it] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   04:17 Mithrandir linux-kernel-crash-dump seems not to be targetted for edgy?
   04:17 mdz        Mithrandir: I've not been targeting specs which aren't approved yet
   04:17 mdz        though some were targeted before paris inadvertently
   04:17 Mithrandir oh, ok
   04:18 Mithrandir mdz: I can review it.
   04:18 mdz        Mithrandir: ok, thanks
   04:18 Mithrandir (unless fabio wants to)
   04:18 mdz        BenC: does your workload seem like a good balance to you?  you should have plenty of spare bandwidth to spend on bugs and tracking upstream
   04:18 Mithrandir BenC: do you want comments on IRC or inline in the spec?  Either is fine with me.
   04:19 BenC       mdz: Yeah, I think I'll be pretty good with specs and time for bug reporting
   04:19 BenC       mdz: If I fall behind on one or the other, I'll let you know
   04:19 BenC       Mithrandir: inline is best
   04:19 Mithrandir BenC: ok
   04:19 mdz        BenC: thanks
   04:19 mdz        doko: next?
   04:20 doko       - this week:
   04:20 doko         - edgy: edgy-toolchain-roadmap: binutils update, preparing gcc-4.1 update
   04:20 doko         - edgy: preparing python sync/resync from unstable
   04:20 doko         - dapper/edgy: OOo, updating ooo-build to current 2.0.3 milestones, resyncing with debian packaging, updating ubuntu patches, fixing new build failures. (would love to have the dapper-proposed-updates staging area ready)
   04:20 doko         - a bit of SoC admin stuff
   04:20 doko         - still to do this week: finish edgy+1-toolchain-roadmap, java-roadmap, time estimations.
   04:20 doko         - looking at python2.5 for edgy (upstream release planned for Aug 8), idea: "support" 2.4 and 2.5 for edgy, decide in a test environment, if we can safely switch the default (which would be after UVF).
   04:20 doko       - next week: syncs, syncs, syncs
   04:20 fabbione   mdz: sorry i have a waterpipe exploded! brb
   04:20 mdz        doko: it looks like none of your specs are approved yet; what's holding them back?
   04:20 mdz        fabbione: argh!
   04:20 pitti      doko: with the new python infrastructure, can we easily switch the default now?
   04:21 mdz        fabbione: at least you were at home when it happened ;-)
   04:21 sivang     heh
   04:21 doko       mdz: didn't set the toolchain specs back to "for review". the "tracking-versions" spec was approved, but made a LP spec
   04:22 doko       the packaging-hints was given back from review, waiting for a second review
   04:22 mdz        doko: ok, the hard deadline is next week's meeting; don't wait until the last minute
   04:22 mdz        doko: if you are having trouble getting reviews, let me know
   04:22 doko       pitti: yes, but I would like to wait for the rc
   04:22 doko       mdz: ok
   04:23 mdz        doko/pitti: is ssp going to land as part of the early toolchain updates?
   04:23 pitti      mdz: yes, just waiting for the sparc libc problem
   04:23 doko       mdz: yes, we're waiting for sparc
   04:23 mdz        gar
   04:23 pitti      mdz: but the patch is there now, just needs bootstrapping AFAIK
   04:23 mdz        doko: let's go over your workload once your specs are finalized
   04:23 infinity   Doesn't need a bootstrap, per se, just a couple of normal uploads.
   04:23 mdz        doko: thanks
   04:23 mdz        fabbione is next but is dealing with a water crisis and has my sympathies
   04:24 mdz        heno: are you here?
   04:24 doko       mdz: one more thing is OOo 2.0.4 for edgy, release planned for Sep 4 ...
   04:24 heno       * livecd-access - Review. started working on new boot screen
   04:24 heno       * access.ubuntu.com - Review. first draft page ready
   04:24 heno       * sok: Chris Jones the SoC student responsible for it is here now (totroise_) so he might say a few words about it. I think we're ready to make an Edgy package soon though.
   04:24 heno       * all other specs: still drafting
   04:24 heno       * Next week: Help the new webmaster write a plan of action and find his way around
   04:24 mdz        doko: might be possible
   04:24 Keybuk     mdz: "a water crisis"?  did somebody's waters break?
   04:24 mdz        Keybuk: <fabbione> mdz: sorry i have a waterpipe exploded! brb
   04:24 Keybuk     ah
   04:25 tortoise_  Hi currenly the simple onscreen keyboard is in a working but unpolished state.  It needs keyboard definitions and is missing some features.  It is designed with flexibility in mind.  Layout is defined in svg files which can be made in Inkscape.  Keys are then mapped in a seperate .SOK xml file.
   04:25 tortoise_  More info and screenshot here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Accessibility/Projects/SOK
   04:26 Mithrandir tortoise_: it'd be really nice if it'd pick up the keyboard definitions from XKB.
   04:26 mdz        heno: I know that for some of your specs, someone else is intending to do the implementation. is the assignee on your specs up-to-date all around as far as what you will be implementing vs. others?
   04:27 tortoise_  Mithrandir: I was planning on sriting a script to convert from the GOK definitions
   04:27 infinity   Mithrandir: Noting that XKB also has the (bizarre) capability to draw keyboards based on its keymaps, too.
   04:27 ogra       guys !
   04:27 Mithrandir infinity: yup.
   04:27 heno       mdz: the compi-mag one needs my other SoC student to sort out his LP acct so I can assign it to him
   04:28 heno       mdz: the forum one I'm not quite sure who will take charge of, otherwise they are fine
   04:28 mdz        heno: forum-integration?  that's marked informational; if there's real work to do, that flag should be cleared
   04:29 heno       mdz: ok, that's fine too then
   04:29 mdz        informational specs won't be tracked during the weekly meetings, release milestones, etc. since it's assumed there's no real work to do
   04:29 mdz        ok
   04:29 mdz        heno: thanks
   04:29 mdz        I have an emailed update from Riddell
   04:29 mdz        done: merges for about half of KDE done, on track to get main done by
   04:29 mdz        end of next week.
   04:29 mdz        also: Proofreading Kubuntu specs. Google half term reports, don't forget if you're a mentor
   04:29 mdz        next week: merges
   04:29 mdz        specs: several still to be reviewed
   04:30 mdz        he has a handful of specs approved and targeted for edgy, but a bunch remaining to be reviewed.  I'll go over them with him when he's back
   04:30 mdz        infinity: next?
   04:30 infinity   I'd like to apologise in advance for my distro specs being largely in unapproved states.  I spent the majority of the week in Paris wrangling with the soyuz guys (which was very productive), but obviously have some distro slack to pick up as soon as I get back from VAC.
   04:30 infinity   larger-livefs: Approved, work not yet begun, should be trivial once seed changes happen.
   04:30 infinity   early-userspace: Still needs to finish drafting, nothing there should be unrealistic for edgy.
   04:30 infinity   livefs-build-speedups: Will draft on the internal wiki if anyone cares, otherwise it will "just happen".
   04:30 infinity   ubuntu-server-tasks: Still needs polish before approval, will do when I get back.
   04:31 infinity   various soyuz-related specs: Most of these are approved or pending approval, and work is ongoing with the soyuz folks to make them happen in the timeframes we require.
   04:31 infinity   last week: Monday was a complete loss, due to travel (my SIN->MEL flight was horribly delayed, and I got home in time to set up my laptop and pass out), spent the last two days mangling buildds to get the world as sane as possible before I leave.
   04:31 infinity   next week: VAC all week.
   04:31 infinity   week after next: Clean up all the above unapproved specs and get time estimates set correctly (and begin work on the more urgent ones)
   04:31 mdz        infinity: earnly-userspace is marked informational; is that accurate?
   04:31 mdz        early, even
   04:31 infinity   mdz: Clearly not, I didn't set that flag.  I'[ll unset it.
   04:31 Mithrandir infinity: week after next, I want you too, for the first milestone release.
   04:31 infinity   Same with ubuntu-server-tasks, for that matter.
   04:31 infinity   Mithrandir: You have me for that, I can multitask. :)
   04:32 Mithrandir that's an early warning for everybody.  First milestone release in approximately two weeks.
   04:32 mdz        infinity: given your holiday, there isn't much time to get your specs reviewed and approved by the deadline.  you'll need to nag the review team
   04:32 Keybuk     note for those not reading their e-mail yet, I'm emergency-holographic-adam next week for the buildds
   04:32 mdz        Mithrandir: please update EdgyReleaseSchedule with the tentative date
   04:32 infinity   mdz: I'm good at nagging people.  It's in my job description.
   04:33 mdz        infinity: ok, thanks
   04:33 mdz        iwj: next?
   04:33 iwj        done: package-dependency-field-breaks step 1: Made dpkg reject Breaks.
   04:33 iwj        doing: automated-testing-deployment: Fighting Xen again.
   04:33 iwj        todo: package-dependency-field-breaks: Implement Breaks properly (anyone who wants me to expedite this please let me know).
   04:33 iwj        todo: xen-edgy: Pick up and help out (some community work is happening on this already).  Note in this context that sid's kernels now have Xen support.
   04:33 iwj        todo: Firefox merge.
   04:33 doko       Keybuk: should/can I help with the python/zope syncs/overwrites next week?
   04:33 iwj        soon BLOCKED: xen-edgy: will soon be wanted for automated-testing-deployment, I think; I don't want to spend too much effort on my own ad-hoc setup.
   04:33 iwj        Edgy specs not yet touched by me: xen-edgy (see above); suggest-packages-for-filetypes (mvo has been looking at a bit of this though - thanks).
   04:33 iwj        BLOCKED?: merges: Is there a way to claim merges yet ?  Isn't this essential to avoid duplicated work ?
   04:33 iwj        REMINDER: meeting times: Please email iwj@ubuntu.com your current timezone, normal Ubuntu working times and sleep times, by 23:59:59 UTC on 2006-06-30.  If you don't then we'll set the meeting schedule without the necessary information to adapt to your comfort or convenience!
   04:33 Kamion     for general information, the milestone CDs are hereby known as "Knot CD <N>"
   04:33 ogra       :)
   04:33 Keybuk     doko: I'm not sure I understand your question
   04:34 mdz        iwj: there isn't a proper way to claim merges yet, but in practice there are few of us and it hasn't been much of a problem
   04:34 Kamion     there have been a couple of clashes this cycle
   04:34 Keybuk     doko: oh, yes, sorry; I follow -- need to chat to mdz
   04:34 iwj        mdz: Well, I'll start on firefox tomorrow in the confident expectation no-one will have done it yet and see what people say then.
   04:34 Kamion     relatively few compared to the sheer number though
   04:34 mdz        in my response to scott on -devel I proposed that the clashes might not be worth the overhead of using malone
   04:34 iwj        It'll get worse as the todo list gets shorter.
   04:35 infinity   Two people already blew a couple of hours each on the vim merge (which is really the fault of whoever didn't merge it with the innital toolchain, as has been tradition.. :P)
   04:35 mdz        that's one we'll neet to discuss outside of the meeting; there's a thread on -devel
   04:35 iwj        mdz: OK.
   04:35 mdz        we have the option of using malone, or the tool that MOTU has, or doing something else
   04:35 iwj        I just wanted to raise it.
   04:36 mdz        iwj: don't forget to merge the theme stuff when updating firefox
   04:36 iwj        You mean the change to the default theme ?
   04:36 fabbione   bah
   04:36 fabbione   re
   04:36 fabbione   mdz: i think i can yes
   04:36 mdz        iwj: on your edgy list are   automated-testing-deployment, xen-edgy, breaks and filetypes
   04:36 fabbione   mdz: (review the spec)
   04:36 mdz        fabbione: mithrandir offered already
   04:36 iwj        mdz: Yes.
   04:36 Keybuk     \o/ Braeks
   04:36 fabbione   mdz, Mithrandir: ok thanks
   04:37 iwj        Keybuk: Your speling is Broekn.
   04:37 Mithrandir could we tell the person who did the merge last time that we're doing it?  That should generally lead to very few clashes.
   04:37 Keybuk     iwj: yeah, my cymraeg showing there, sorry
   04:37 mdz        iwj: does that match your plans, or do you expect to finish/claim any others?
   04:37 Keybuk     Mithrandir: the person who did the large change is listed on the status page
   04:37 iwj        iwj: I expect to finish those unless something goes badly wrong.
   04:37 iwj        If I finish early I'll help out someone who looks desperate.
   04:37 Mithrandir Keybuk: exactly, so it's easy to find out and.
   04:37 mdz        iwj: have you done time estimates for those?
   04:38 iwj        mdz: Yes, but time estimates are quite rough.
   04:38 Mithrandir s/and/who/
   04:38 mdz        I can't find the LP view which tells me at the moment
   04:38 iwj        I was reasonably generous.
   04:38 iwj        So it probably looks like they don't all fit.
   04:38 mdz        PS, for anyone looking for advice on estimates, I thought http://www.joelonsoftware.com/articles/fog0000000245.html was pretty good
   04:38 iwj        The main risk is to the Xen stuff because of the dependencies.
   04:39 Keybuk     mdz: "take whatever value you think is appropriate, then multiply by PI" ?
   04:39 BenC       iwj: Has zul been in touch with you about xen?
   04:39 mdz        iwj: are you or mvo going to do filetypes?  I'm not fussed either way really
   04:39 iwj        BenC: Yes.
   04:39 BenC       iwj: Great, hopefully he can help get that going
   04:39 mdz        Keybuk: LP doesn't support irrational numbers in that field
   04:39 iwj        mdz: We're splitting it between us; there are a couple of things he said would be much quicker for him.
   04:39 mvo        mdz: bits are implemented already, but bits are missing (caching for example)
   04:39 iwj        BenC: Quite.  He sounds very keen.
   04:40 Keybuk     mdz: aren't all time estimates inherently irrational?  </OT>
   04:40 mdz        har
   04:40 mdz        iwj: ok, thanks
   04:40 jbailey    iwj: I didn't look at the xen specs, but the glibc stuff isn't perfect yet.  libc6-xen conflicts libc6-686 and I need to fix that.
   04:40 mdz        mvo: next
   04:40 mvo        Specs for edgy:
   04:40 mvo        Aprroved:
   04:40 mvo        - cdrom-based-dist-upgrades
   04:40 mvo        - dependency-removal
   04:40 mvo        - recommends-support
   04:40 mvo        - command-not-found-magic
   04:40 mvo        In review:
   04:40 mvo        - smartpm
   04:40 mvo        - apt-ddtp
   04:40 mvo        - language-selector-improvements
   04:40 mvo        - gai-popcon (popcon data for gnome-app-install)
   04:40 mvo        Drafting:
   04:40 iwj        jbailey: Nice.  I'm not at that stage yet but that's the kind of thing we're going to trip over.
   04:40 mvo        - enabling-additional-components  (apt-get handling for universe/multiverse packages open)
   04:40 mvo        Did:
   04:40 mvo        - spec work
   04:40 mvo        - gnome-app-install work (popcon integration, search result ranking, mime-search)
   04:40 mvo        - apt work (auto-removal branch, misc stuff)
   04:40 mvo        - smart work (bugs, commit-log added, looked into auto-removal)
   04:40 mvo        - Google Summer of code
   04:40 mvo        Next week:
   04:40 iwj        jbailey: ATM I'm doing a hideous thing with dpkg-divert to disable TLS.
   04:40 mvo        - get missing specs in shape
   04:40 mvo        - summer vacation next week (from 5 Jul - 20 Jul)
   04:41 mdz        mvo: the caching in g-a-i seems obvious enough not to need a spec; do you agree?
   04:41 mdz        mvo: we just shouldn't forget about it
   04:41 jbailey    iwj: Not possible in edgy, sorry.
   04:41 Kamion     mvo: enabling-additional-components> s/ubiquity, debian-installer/apt-setup/
   04:41 mdz        oh, you've done it already
   04:42 Kamion     mvo: that was disabled by policy, but if mdz's happy with enabling it by default then it's trivial to do ...
   04:42 mvo        mdz: its not as easy as initally hoped because a simple pickle can't be used - currently g-a-i uses pyxdg to build the menu. but we will not forget
   04:42 mvo        Kamion: yes, mdz was in the discussion when it came up
   04:42 mdz        mvo: language-selector-improvements was targeted for edgy pre-paris, but is in review.  is it doable for edgy given your other work?
   04:42 Kamion     I guess warning command-line users covers it
   04:42 Kamion     ok
   04:43 mvo        mdz: I really hope so, maybe we can find someone from the community, it shouldn't be too hard to do
   04:43 mdz        it seems like a lot of per-locale legwork which will be difficult to do quickly
   04:43 mdz        let's talk about it after
   04:44 mvo        ok
   04:44 mdz        mvo: thanks
   04:44 mdz        ogra: next
   04:44 ogra       * last-week: merged debians ltsp bzr tree, fixed all breakage and made the package work again. merged gcompris, packaged new gnome-screensaver, started lots of smaller merges
   04:44 ogra       * list of merges i plan to do this week: atomix, dhcp3, fuse, iptraf, kdeedu, kino, nessus-plugins, pwgen, rss-glx, tuxmath, tuxpaint, xfonts-terminus, xscreensaver (shout if you already work on something there)
   04:44 ogra       * next-week: finishing merges from above list, starting spec work, SoC review, sorting ltsp branches
   04:44 ogra       * specs:
   04:44 ogra       - ltsp-dhcpd-autogeneration: (approved, started), thinclient-local-devices (approved, started)
   04:44 ogra       - student-control-panel-completion: (needs Review, started in dapper already)
   04:44 ogra       - ltsp-daily-image-tarballs: (in Review, needs DC infrastructure, elmo contacted)
   04:44 ogra       - ltsp-management-gui: (Braindump, beta available, need to transfer the text to the wiki, pet project of mine will do it in spare time if needed)
   04:44 ogra       - ltsp-convergence: (this is rather an ongoing process beyond edgy, not a real spec, will track process status via LP)
   04:44 ogra       - ltsp-netboot-enhancement: (not a spec, rather a bugfix, will track status via LP)
   04:44 ogra       The other ltsp related specs are assigned to rodrigo on request
   === rodarvus nods
   04:45 mdz        ogra: which of your remaining unapproved specs are most likely to get finalized by the deadline?
   04:45 ogra       mdz, student-control-panel
   04:46 ogra       daily image tarballs as well since jammcq and sbalneav are waiting for it ...
   04:46 mdz        ogra: ltsp-daily-image-tarballs wasn't on the Paris list, so please target it to edgy so that it's on our radar
   04:46 ogra       oki
   04:46 mdz        it'll go on the proposed list
   04:46 ogra       added
   04:47 mdz        ltsp-netboot-enhancement is (correctly) marked obsolete
   04:47 mdz        ogra: ok, thanks
   04:47 mdz        pitti: next
   04:47 pitti      apt-get-debug-symbols: created pkg-create-dbgsym package with dh_strip wrapper; mostly ready and working, just fails on a few corner cases; ETA 1 day to extend the test suite for the failing cases and fix them, then upload; then the ball is in the Soyuz field (estimated 15 mandays)
   04:47 pitti      automated-problem-reports: played with various possibilities to save a stack frame (memory dump, shrinking core dump file) so that we can generate the bt later; not quite there yet; I'll get a nonoptimal solution working very soon, though; I hope I'll manage to get an initial working backend next week; our minimal gnome desktop frontend is easy (~ 1 day)
   04:47 pitti      gcc-ssp: more testing with various packages, good results; coordinated with fabbione and doko, changing gcc needs to wait for libc fix and bootstrapping on sparc; shouldn't be long any more (2 days?)
   04:47 pitti      automatic-printer-conf: not started, I do not have a particular urge (nor time) to aim this at edgy
   04:47 pitti      firewall: pinged Carsten again, he promised to report back and provide something for edgy; no progress so far
   04:47 pitti      gnome-mount: packaged gnome-mount 0.4 and played with it; policy GUI is not implemented yet, and handling of encrypted devices requires newer (yet unreleased) hal. However, this radically changes infrastructure and currently adds a crackful things; this is still disputed upstream, too; likely needs to be postponed; mdz, can you please remove the edgy flag?
   04:47 pitti      auto-unmount-notifications: not started yet; not intrusive, so I'll deal with it after I'm done with my archive-wide specs; can someone please review and approve the spec?
   04:47 pitti      printer-sharing: nothing done so far; either we hack gnome-cups-manager (patch is available and tested already), or we consider using RedHat's printer config tool (python, and a lot of good stuff, but requires quite large code modifications); I do not really have time to care for this right now; community effort would be appreciated, I'll talk with ivoks and Kagou
   04:47 pitti      general stuff done this week:
   04:48 pitti      - caught up with security updates after Paris
   04:48 pitti      - merges go full steam ahead
   04:48 pitti      - SoC: had some discussion meetings with student, slow progress
   04:48 pitti      plan for next week:
   04:48 pitti      - do SoC mid-term review
   04:48 pitti      - complete my merges
   04:48 pitti      - some minor security updates
   04:48 pitti      - catch up with bug mail (largely neglected since before Paris; I know, I'm a slacker, sorry)
   04:48 mdz        Keybuk: could you review auto-unmount-notifications?
   04:48 pitti      (sorry for the size)
   04:48 fabbione   pitti: my local gcc build is running the test suite as we speak.. theoretically by tomorrow everything should be sorted
   === pitti hugs fabbione
   04:48 Kamion     pitti: I don't remember anything about apt-get-debug-symbols being on the Soyuz radar for edgy when infinity and I sat down with the Soyuz guys in Paris to thrash it out
   04:48 Keybuk     mdz: yes, sure
   04:48 mdz        pitti: so your projected edgy list is apt-get-debug-symbols, automated-problem-reports, gcc-ssp, gnome-mount, auto-unmount-notifications
   04:48 mdz        Keybuk: thanks
   04:49 pitti      Kamion: hm, Adam and I had a long talk with the soyuz guys; I hope it didn't fall off completely
   04:49 pitti      mdz: I want to remove the edgy tag for gnome-mount, but I can't
   04:49 mdz        pitti: seems like it could be a lot, considering your security workload
   04:49 pitti      mdz: hal is currently too crackful
   04:49 mdz        pitti: I don't think it's possible to clear that field due to a bug
   04:49 Kamion     infinity: did I forget it?
   04:50 pitti      mdz: ssp and auto-umount-nots are easy, and I mostly did the work for debug symbols already
   04:50 mdz        pitti: you'll need to get a Launchpad DBA to fix it probably
   04:50 pitti      mdz: so I think my workload should be fine (I think I also need to care for printing stuff *shudder*)
   04:50 mdz        pitti: automated-problem-reports is fairly big
   04:50 pitti      yes
   04:50 mdz        pitti: have you done time estimates?
   04:50 infinity   Kamion: I believe that we (pitti, me, soyuz team) agreed that if it couldn't squeeze into the edgy timeframe, it would be targetter at edgy+1.
   04:50 pitti      mdz: yes, should all be in blueprint
   04:51 Kamion     ok
   04:51 mdz        hopefully we will find security help for you during edgy; the job posting is up now
   04:51 pitti      mdz: I estimate 10 days for the basic stuff we agreed on in the spec
   04:51 pitti      mdz: saw that, thanks *crosses fingers*
   04:51 mdz        pitti: ok, thanks
   04:51 mdz        Keybuk wanted to say a few words about MOM I believe
   04:52 Keybuk     I did
   04:52 Keybuk     just to make sure everybody knows all about it
   04:52 Keybuk     we have a new mom this cycle
   04:52 mdz        we're adopted?
   04:52 Keybuk     https://merges.ubuntu.com/main.html
   === fabbione will talk later
   04:52 Keybuk     that's the list of outstanding merges
   04:52 mdz        fabbione: sorry, forgot that we skipped you
   04:52 fabbione   mdz: no problem.. i can go after Keybuk
   04:53 Keybuk     when doing a merge, you'll notice the output format is different too
   04:53 Keybuk     rather than the hideous ".dropped" patch and stuff
   04:53 mdz        (if everyone were present, we would have run out of time for sure, I expect...)
   04:53 Kamion     what are the colours?
   04:53 pitti      merges> can be agree that the default claimer is the one noted on the merges page and that we prenotify a person when we do another merge?
   04:53 Keybuk     you now just get a bzr-style conflict marker or  .UBUNTU/.DEBIAN for binaries
   04:53 Keybuk     Kamion: package priority
   === pygi [n=pygi@83-131-238-78.adsl.net.t-com.hr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:53 Kamion     oh, explains why mine are all on top
   04:53 Keybuk     pitti: I think that's a reasonable idea
   04:53 mdz        Keybuk: when does a package get removed from the outstanding list?
   04:53 jbailey    Keybuk: Will this be kept running through the whole cycle this time?  It's nice to see what's been updated when doing bug fixing.
   04:53 Keybuk     mdz: the mom run after the source has been uploaded to Ubuntu
   04:54 Keybuk     mom is running ~6 hours
   04:54 Keybuk     I may move that to hourly if all goes well
   04:54 Keybuk     jbailey: yes!
   04:54 mdz        Keybuk: I mean, we should prioritize packages which haven't been merged at all yet
   04:54 ogra       mdz, didnt you miss rodarvus ?
   04:55 Keybuk     mdz: right, it's a bit tricky to "record" that ... one would have to record a merge being struck from the list ... which if a new Debian upload happened, etc.
   04:55 Keybuk     I am willing to discuss an implementation though
   04:55 mdz        ogra: I didn't have a chance to brief him so he doesn't have the usual update, but am talking ot him out of band
   04:55 mdz        Keybuk: I think we could fake it using dates
   04:55 Keybuk     any questions or problems with merges, please let me know"!
   04:56 Keybuk     there's one "known bug" which is sometimes a file that has .UBUNTU/.DEBIAN doesn't show up as "C*" -- but this will be obvious
   04:56 Keybuk     that's fixed for future merges
   04:56 mdz        ok
   === pitti still misses 3-way diffs
   04:56 mdz        fabbione: go
   04:56 fabbione   * sparc: released dapper. Working on testing a gcc fix for sparc64 to fix a FTBFS of glibc that will unleash ssp stuff for pitti and doko.
   04:56 fabbione   * ubuntu-edgy-cluster: Working on GFS2 userland new deps (openais) and coordinating with upstream for a release date. Addressing some 32/64/endianess problems and getting all our patches upstream to reduce the maintainance load (5/8 are up already).
   04:56 fabbione   * specs: ubuntu-edgy-cluster splitted and it's pending approval (Mith should have give it the review tag after mdz's give-back), sparc64-port is still drafting (i had to prioritize the toolchain stuff). Internal specs are waiting for final approval.
   04:56 fabbione   * last week: all of the above and done some work on dapper installer in preparation of a point release to fix install on sbus machines.
   04:56 fabbione   * next week: finish with gcc, complete the sparc64-port specs, libparted check on sparc for Kamion, dovecot regression from breezy to dapper, possibly merges. My wife looks like a whale and moves as such. Expect me to disappear anytime now.
   04:58 mdz        fabbione: good luck!
   04:58 fabbione   mdz: thanks
   04:58 ogra       yeah
   04:58 mdz        fabbione: mubuntu?
   04:58 fabbione   mdz: yes. that's internal one in your inbox
   04:58 mdz        ok, will have a look
   04:58 sivang     fabbione: Mazal Tov :-)
   04:59 fabbione   sivang: if that's a swear word you better run away! :P
   04:59 mdz        fabbione: do you think you will be able to finalize your specs before you have to go?
   04:59 fabbione   mdz: i want to finalize them yes.. i have no idea what mother nature decide for my wife
   04:59 fabbione   it's really too unpredictable to say
   === Florob [n=Florian@xdsl-81-173-229-222.netcologne.de] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   05:00 mdz        fabbione: ok, let me know if you need help there
   05:00 mdz        and we're out of time
   05:00 fabbione   mdz: ok thanks
   05:00 mdz        anything else, ->-devel
   05:00 mdz        adjourned, thanks all
 
</pre>
