{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
   
   09:01 Keybuk       ok,
   09:01 Keybuk       mjg59: ping
   === JanC [n=janc@lugwv/member/JanC] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   09:01 Keybuk       mdz has sent apologies, he's at the theatre tonight
   09:01 Keybuk       sabdfl is in asia, and I would be fired for making any
                      implications about thai ladyboys
   09:01 Keybuk       uh ^L^L^L
   09:01 Keybuk       :D
   09:01 sivang       Keybuk: hehe
   === hunger [n=tobias@p54A623F9.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined
## ubuntu-meeting
   === dholbach [n=daniel@82.109.136.125] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   09:04 Keybuk       hmm, no response from mjg59 ... will give him a few
                      minutes
   === allee [n=ach@allee.exgal.mpe.mpg.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   09:05 mjg59        Hi
   === olemke [n=olemke@p5489426C.dip.t-dialin.net] has joined
## ubuntu-meeting
   09:06 Keybuk       aha
   09:06 Keybuk       right
   === sivang this TB meeting is starting slow :)
   09:06 Keybuk       mjg59: got a whiskey ready?
   09:06 mjg59        Not as yet
   09:06 mjg59        I'll find one if it becomes necessary
   09:06 Keybuk       I have a beer, which I'm already part the way through
   09:06 Keybuk       so this should be a nice ride
   09:06 Keybuk       so let's get this show on the rode
   09:06 Keybuk       Core Developer Candidates
   09:06 Keybuk       jjmmma ?
   09:07 Keybuk       dsaa ?
   09:07 Keybuk       Kinnison ?
   09:07 Keybuk       debankur ?
   === Kinnison [n=dsilvers@haddenham.pepperfish.net] has joined
## ubuntu-meeting
   09:07 Keybuk       none of those have applied for membership or motu, so
                      will be rejected
                      Kinnison: ah, just in time... you need to apply for
   09:08 Keybuk       ubuntu-members and ubuntu-dev before you can apply for
                      ubuntu-core-dev
   09:08 Kinnison     Right
   09:08 Stormx2      Hey! A meeting :P I'll just watch.
   09:08 Kinnison     so I need to do the wiki etc?
   09:08 Keybuk       right
   09:08 Kinnison     Okay, I'll do that next week
   === Kinnison goes back to soyuz
   09:08 Keybuk       ubuntu-members are considered by the Community Council
   09:08 fabbione     *cough*
   09:08 Keybuk       so you'll need to go before them
   09:08 Kinnison     thanks for the official info
   09:09 Kinnison     Keybuk: aye, thanks
   09:09 lucas        (next CC meeting is next tuesday)
   === Kinnison nods lucas
                      Kinnison: I'll leave your application in the list
   09:09 Keybuk       though, rather than reject, seeing as you actually
                      showed up :)
   09:09 Kamion       work with MOTU is usually considered favourably by the
                      CC, by the way
   09:09 Kamion       although we know you anyway, which obviously helps :)
   09:09 fabbione     Kinnison FOR PRESIDENT!
   === sivang hugs Kinnison
   09:09 Keybuk       ok, Ubuntu Developers
   09:10 mjg59        Daniel has plenty of code already in the archive, and
                      he's worked well with existing members, so...
   09:10 Keybuk       lmanul ?
   09:10 Kinnison     Keybuk: sorry, I was working on some soyuz code and
                      lost track of time
   09:10 Kamion       mjg59: yeah
   09:10 Keybuk       freeflying ?
   09:10 sivang       mjg59: lol
   09:10 Keybuk       batt ?
   09:10 Keybuk       anyone know Ivailo Ivanov ?
   09:10 dholbach     lmanul is in #ubuntu-desktop - I called him.
   09:10 mjg59        dholbach: Thanks
   09:11 Keybuk       let's give him a few seconds
   09:12 Riddell      freeflying not on IRC, didn't discuss applying for
                      membership with me as I remember
   09:12 sivang       ah, tb is approving membership now as well?
   09:12 Keybuk       no, cc does that
   09:12 sivang       ah , ok
   09:13 Keybuk       ok, let's carry on
   09:13 Riddell      memership to ubuntu-dev team I ment
   09:13 Keybuk       if lmanul comes in, we can deal with him then
   09:13 Keybuk       Riddell: you're up
   09:13 mjg59        "deal with"
   09:13 mjg59        Sounds ominous
   09:14 Riddell      Keybuk: this wasat the MOTU meeting and they referred
                      it here
   09:14 Keybuk       ok, please take the floor; it's your agenda item
   09:14 Riddell      if a program is "GPL two or later" do we put a link in
                      debian/copyright to the GPL symlink or the GPL-2 files
   09:14 mjg59        Ha
   09:14 Keybuk       my immediate hunch is that Debian will deal with this
                      far better than we will
   09:14 Keybuk       and that they're more paranoid about such things
   09:14 Riddell      policy didn't have anything much to say
   09:14 mjg59        Yeah, this is something that's going to have to be
                      dealt with in Debian
   09:15 mjg59        It's not a problem we've really had before
   09:15 Keybuk       I don't think we should do anything different to them
   09:15 Riddell      I think MOTU just want something consitent
   09:15 Keybuk       we can certainly talk with them, but I think whatever
                      they decide goes
   09:15 mjg59        Since GPL3 doesn't exist yet, leaving it pointing at
                      GPL2 now isn't an issue
   09:15 Keybuk       Riddell: do you want to lead the dialogue with
                      appropriate Debian people?
   === lmanul [n=manu@dan75-4-82-239-58-38.fbx.proxad.net] has joined
## ubuntu-meeting
   09:15 Riddell      Keybuk: I'd have no idea who they were
   09:15 Keybuk       debian-policy might be a start
   09:15 mjg59        lmanul: Hi - we've just jumped ahead to the next agenda
                      item, we'll come back to you in a minute
   === tseng [n=tseng@unaffiliated/tseng] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   09:16 Riddell      could do
                      Sure. I'd recommend discussing it in Debian for now,
   09:16 mjg59        and then us (and all the other derivatives) following
                      suit
   09:16 Keybuk       also debian-legal, as there may be implications, etc.
   09:16 Keybuk       mjg59: I agree
   === Amaranth [n=travis@ubuntu/member/amaranth] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   09:16 Riddell      ok, I'll do that
   09:16 mjg59        Riddell: Ok, cool
   09:17 Keybuk       cool, lmanul welcome!  you've applied to join the MOTU?
   09:17 lmanul       Huh... I'm a bit surprised actually
   09:17 Keybuk       oh?
   09:17 dholbach     :-)
   09:17 tseng        i think i twas a dholbach recruiting scheme
   09:17 lmanul       dholbach: told me there was something going on here so
                      I came in
   09:17 Keybuk       you clicked the "join the ubuntu-dev team" button in
                      Launchpad
   09:17 dholbach     tseng: hahaha, lmanul just became member for his
                      rocking work on the dekstop theme
   09:18 dholbach     s/theme/team
   09:18 lmanul       Woops
   09:18 lmanul       Did I made one extra click ? :-p
   09:18 Keybuk       lmanul: would you like to be considered for joining the
                      team? :)
   09:18 lmanul       make
   09:18 lmanul       The MOTU Team ?
   09:18 Keybuk       indeed
   09:18 lmanul       Well, sure
   09:18 tseng        Keybuk: i havent seen any packaging experience from him
                      to justify MOTUness
   09:18 lmanul       But, huh...
   09:18 sivang       wh wouldn't ? :)
   09:18 Keybuk       have you worked much with them yet?
   09:18 lmanul       I've never packaged anything :)
   09:19 Keybuk       certainly your UI work is familar to us all
   09:19 lmanul       Thanks :)
                      ok, I suggest your next step if you wish to take it is
   09:19 Keybuk       to work with the MOTU on packaging work, using their
                      REVU system and sponsored uploads
   09:19 lmanul       I'm not sure I have what it takes to become a MOTU...
                      Do I ?
   09:19 lucas        lmanul: are you actually interested in joining MOTU ?
   09:19 lucas        (you are not forced too ;)
   09:19 lmanul       lucas Sure, I am interested
   09:19 lmanul       But I don't remember adding myself to any wiki list
   09:20 Keybuk       ok, then I suggest chatting to dholbach and ogra, etc.
   09:20 lmanul       Not sure I'm ready for that :)
   09:20 lucas        lmanul: it was on launchpad
   09:20 lmanul       All right
                      lmanul: we use Launchpad to track applications; you
   09:20 Keybuk       must have clicked the "Join this team" button on the
                      ubuntu-dev page
   09:20 Keybuk       that proposed you and added you to the agenda for this
                      meeting :)
   09:20 ogra         lmanul, would be cool if you could direcly work on the
                      packages with your patches ;)
   09:20 lmanul       Keybuk: That's possible, I didn't know ubuntu-dev =
                      MOTU :)
   09:20 lmanul       ogra: Sure !
   09:20 ogra         but i think a bit training is required ;)
   09:20 Keybuk       ok, we'll leave him in your delicate hands then
   09:21 lmanul       Ok, so I guess I'll get some packaging experience and
                      come back after that ? :)
   09:21 ogra         :)
   09:21 ogra         yup
   09:21 lmanul       Sorry for disturbing the meeting :p
   09:21 Keybuk       no worries
   09:21 mjg59        lmanul: No problem :)
   09:21 Keybuk       Riddell: you again by the looks of it
   09:21 Riddell      yo
   09:21 Keybuk       xine vs. gstreamer?
   09:21 Riddell      this was whether kubuntu dapper should ship with xine
                      or gstreamer
   09:21 Riddell      breezy used gstreamer 0.8
   09:21 Keybuk       what do you think?
                      To be honest, I'm not entirely sure that Ubuntu should
   09:22 mjg59        ship with gstreamer as the default video framework this
                      time around...
   09:22 Riddell      but 0.8 is obsolete and amarok/kaffeine are not yet
                      ported to gstreamer 0.10
   09:22 ogra         dapper uses gstreamer0.10
   09:22 ogra         so we'd have to support both for 3 years
   09:22 Riddell      shipping kubuntu dapper with an obsolete gstreamer for
                      3 years support isn't good
   09:22 ogra         yup
   09:22 dholbach     It'd be good if we had Test data on either of them.
   09:23 ogra         is xine a sane option to use instead ?
                      my experience with xine is that it's not really any
   09:23 Keybuk       better than gstreamer until you add the non-free stuff
                      and windows dlls
                      other option is me porting kaffeine to gstreamer 0.10
   09:23 Riddell      (possible but will probably take lots of time) and
                      hoping amarok gets ported in time
   09:23 mjg59        Keybuk: gstreamer0.10 can't currently have those added
   09:23 tseng        Keybuk: compared to gst 0.10, I agree
   09:23 Riddell      and we have I believe a shippable xine in main now
   09:23 mjg59        There isn't even an asf demuxer
   09:23 ogra         Riddell, sounds not like it could be done before
                      feature freeze
   09:23 Keybuk       Riddell: xine is in universe right now
   09:24 Riddell      ogra: quite probably not
   09:24 mjg59        Keybuk: libxine1 is in main
   09:24 Keybuk       so there are security and support implications
   09:24 Keybuk       ah libxine-main1
   09:24 mjg59        Yeah
   09:24 Keybuk       sorry, I missed that
   09:24 Riddell      libxine-dev is main
   09:24 Riddell      and hoary has xine
   09:24 Keybuk       my initial gut would be to try and keep one sound/video
                      framework through all of the derivatives if possible
                      Riddell: Personally, I think you should make the
                      decision based on functionality and achievability.
   09:25 mjg59        Right now we're looking at supporting libxine and
                      gstreamer for dapper, and nobody seems to be pushing
                      for xine to be dropped.
   09:25 Riddell      Keybuk: yep, that's why I changed to gstreamer for
                      breezy
   09:25 mjg59        Riddell: gst0.8 is obviously not an option
   09:25 Riddell      it seems like a step backwards to go back to xine
   09:25 Riddell      but practicalities get in the way
   09:25 mjg59        Keeping gst0.8 would mean supporting 3 media frameworks
   09:26 mjg59        And 0.8 is pretty much dead upstream
   09:26 Amaranth     mjg59: completely dead
   09:26 mjg59        Amaranth: Not entirely. Ronald has discussed providing
                      some basic level of support.
   09:26 Amaranth     mjg59: i thought he was just going to get one last
                      release out
                      if we chose xine, there's not much work to do. What
   09:27 lucas        about trying to use gst 0.10 for 2 weeks and decide
                      during the next TB meeting ? we could always switch
                      back to xine by then.
   09:27 ogra         lucas, feature freeze is near
   09:27 Riddell      lucas: can't use gstreamer 0.10 for two weeks, the
                      programs just are not ported
   09:27 ogra         lucas, Riddell already said it takes to long
   09:27 sivang       ogra: 23 feb right?
   09:27 lucas        I meant: try to work with upstream to get it ported in
                      time ;)
                      amarok may be out by the end of feb, kaffeine it seems
   09:27 Riddell      like I'd have to do myself, and i'm no expert in the
                      area
   09:28 ogra         sivang, i cant tell from the top of my head
   09:28 ogra         sivang, but around this date ...
   09:28 mjg59        Riddell: Realistically, if gst0.10 isn't an option,
                      then go with xine.
   09:28 ogra         (release schedule will tell you ;) )
   09:28 lucas        23rd
   09:28 lucas        https://launchpad.net/people/bg+
                      Most of the GNOME stuff already uses gstreamer
   09:28 dholbach     internally - and that's not only rhythmbox and totem,
                      it's gnome-media, gnome-applets, sound-juicer, ...
   09:28 lucas        rah
   09:28 lucas        https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DapperReleaseSchedule
   === zul [n=chuck@CPE0006258ec6c1-CM000a73655d0e.cpe.net.cable.rogers.com]
   has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   09:28 tseng        to be clear are we talking about gst 0.10 for gnome and
                      xine for kde?
   09:28 mjg59        Riddell: There's no point in shipping a crippled
                      desktop for the sake of consistency
   09:28 mjg59        tseng: Yes
   09:28 tseng        or xine everywhere
   09:29 Keybuk       tseng: just considering kde at this point
   09:29 mjg59        The former. I don't think anyone's discussed migrating
                      gnome.
   09:29 tseng        mjg59: thanks.
   09:29 ogra         tseng, OMG
   09:29 Riddell      mjg59: I think that's what I'm hoping someone would
                      tell me
                      it's disappointing to go back to xine in various ways
   09:29 Riddell      but if that's what has to be done then it's the best
                      thing
   09:30 mjg59        Riddell: The other options are all worse
                      I think this sort of thing is going to be an inevitable
   09:30 mjg59        consequence of our release timing not being very in
                      line with KDE's
   09:31 dholbach     How much work would xine as "Plan B" be?
   09:31 Riddell      dholbach: what would plan A be then?
   09:31 ogra         heh
   09:31 dholbach     Porting to gst0.10?
   09:31 mjg59        dholbach: If the porting hasn't started, it's entirely
                      unrealistic
   09:31 ogra         dholbach, i think its rather the other way around
   09:31 mjg59        There's significant differences in the API
   09:31 Amaranth     dholbach: that'd be porting two large applications in
                      less than a month
   === dholbach didn't check the API.
   09:32 Riddell      it's quite a change
   09:32 lucas        is sbody familiar with the work to do ?
   09:33 Riddell      lucas: there's a document for how to do it, but it's
                      not trivial
   09:33 mjg59        lucas: It is not realistic to do the ports in the time
                      available
   09:33 mjg59        Not if we want adequate testing
   09:33 lucas        okay
   09:33 Amaranth     yeah, shipping a broken amarok would not be good
   === Kinnison [n=dsilvers@haddenham.pepperfish.net] has left
## ubuntu-meeting []
   09:33 Riddell      so if xine isn't a problem to ship I think we'll go
                      with that, and look at gstreamer 0.10 for dapper + 1
   09:33 lucas        so there's no choice, really :-)
   09:33 Amaranth     not really, no
   09:33 mjg59        Riddell: I think that's the only realistic option. Does
                      anyone disagree?
   09:34 Riddell      sorted, thanks all
   09:34 Keybuk       I agree
   09:34 mjg59        Ok. Next item?
   09:34 Keybuk       next is lucas
   09:34 lucas        Repository of old source packages
   09:34 lucas        I summarized the issue on the Agenda
   09:35 lucas        https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TechnicalBoardAgenda
                      ok, basically this is to solve the issue where MoM
   09:35 Keybuk       sometimes doesn't have the Debian base version to hand
                      when doing a merge ?
   09:35 lucas        yup
   09:35 Keybuk       it's probably worth stating at this point that it's not
                      an easy problem
   09:36 lucas        I'm not sure I understand where the problems are: it
                      doesn't seem that difficult to me
   09:36 Keybuk       you need to keep a copy of every source package since
                      the Debian base as well
   09:36 Keybuk       because you can't predict what the next Debian base
                      version will be
   09:36 Amaranth     i thought this is what the morgue was for
   09:36 Keybuk       and the simple fact is it's hard to get every source
                      package from Debian
   09:36 ogra         Amaranth, yes
   09:36 Keybuk       some of them are simply missing
   09:36 ogra         Amaranth, but the morgue ran out of space once ...
   09:36 sistpoty     Keybuk: is anything like this planned for LP?
   09:37 Amaranth     ogra: and now is completely dead, afaics
   09:37 lucas        Keybuk: how can source packages be missing from debian
                      ?
   09:37 Keybuk       lucas: because the maintainer uploads -1
   09:37 Keybuk       then the next day uploads -2, -3, -4 and -5
   09:37 Kamion       ogra: different morgue
   09:37 Keybuk       only -5 will be published in the Debian FTP sites
   09:37 Kamion       it's the Debian morgue that matters here
   09:37 ogra         Kamion, ah
   09:37 Keybuk       -2, -3 and -4 will be missing
   09:38 lucas        ah, yes
   09:38 Amaranth     Keybuk: but we'd only end up using -1 or -5, right?
   09:38 Keybuk       Amaranth: that should be true, but it sometimes isn't
   09:38 lucas        but I see the system as : copy everything + expire what
                      we no longer need
   09:38 Kamion       Amaranth: not necessarily, especially if the Debian and
                      Ubuntu maintainers are the same
   09:38 Kamion       or if the Ubuntu maintainer pulls from incoming
   09:38 Keybuk       and the simple fact is we already do this
   09:38 Amaranth     hrm
   09:38 Keybuk       and actually do it in such a way that -2, -3 and -4
************ are* available to us too
   09:39 Keybuk       and we still miss some sometimes
   09:39 lucas        having you investigated the reasons for this ?
   09:39 lucas        It seems that we miss a lot of them
   09:39 Keybuk       not fully
   09:40 Keybuk       it's not really something I've had time for
   09:40 Keybuk       we tend to fix mom at the start of each distro cycle
   09:40 Keybuk       and by the end it's not working well
   09:40 Kamion       perhaps time investigating why would be better spent
                      than time duplicating the existing system ...
   09:40 Kamion       (to lucas)
   09:41 Keybuk       we used to use snapshot.debian.net as an archive of old
                      debian packages
   09:41 Keybuk       but that crashed
   09:41 lucas        ok, but then, how can I help investigating this ? :)
   09:41 Keybuk       so we've since used a morgue published by the Debian
                      FTP masters
                      lucas: pick a package for which it picked an older
   09:41 Keybuk       version that it should, and try to find out when that
                      version was published, and whether it was mirrored to
                      Debian's mirrors, etc.
   === zyga [n=zyga@ubuntu/member/zyga] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   09:42 lucas        Keybuk: is MoM's source available somewhere ?
   09:42 Keybuk       no, MoM is not open source
   09:42 Keybuk       mostly because it's very crap code
   09:42 Keybuk       and totally unfit for release to the world
   === Kamion tries to remember enough about the innards of katie to remember
   whether packages that are superseded while still in the accepted queue end
   up in the morgue
   09:43 Kamion       I'm sure they should ...
   09:44 lucas        Keybuk: could I have a copy of the code then ? so I
                      could understand the inner workings better
   09:44 Keybuk       lucas: I'd have to talk to Mark about it, you may have
                      to sign an NDA, etc.
   09:44 Keybuk       it's not that clever, it just downloads the packages
                      and diffs them
   09:44 Keybuk       it's almost certainly not a mom bug
   09:45 Keybuk       but a problem at Debian's end
   09:45 lucas        opensourcing MoM would be great to enhance
                      collaboration with debian
   09:45 lucas        since it would help make it more useful for debian
                      maintainers too
   09:45 lucas        (is MoM in charge of generating "scott's patches" too ?
   09:45 Keybuk       no, a program called NDA does that
   09:46 Keybuk       tbh
   09:46 Keybuk       looking at the problem right now
   09:46 Keybuk       it's simply that Debian's morgue has run out of disk
                      space again
   09:46 lucas        ok
   09:46 Kamion       /dev/cciss/c0d0p7    690834712 689351076   1483636 100%
                      /org
   09:46 Keybuk       they only have up to 2005-11-07 published
   09:47 Keybuk       :p
   09:47 Kamion       so it has
   09:47 Keybuk       there we go then
   09:47 lucas        so, back to my initial proposal, it might still be a
                      good idea to have our own morgue
   09:47 Keybuk       I'll make it a personal task to go speak to the Debian
                      FTP master and arrange for another go
   09:47 Kamion       when does snapshot.d.n date back to?
                      Kamion: dunno, I got bored of trying to find out
   09:47 Keybuk       because it still claims to have the files and just 404s
                      them
   09:48 Keybuk       obviously this is all kinda moot since merge-fest is
                      now over until the feisty cycle
   09:48 lucas        because doing MOTU work when you don't have the base
                      version really is a PITA
   09:48 Kamion       it claims 2005/03/13
   09:48 Kamion       do mom/nda try snapshot.debian.net to see if it works?
   09:48 Keybuk       Kamion: no, not currently, because Python's urllib
                      doesn't handle 404s :)
   09:48 Kamion       fixing that might help a lot
   09:49 Amaranth     urllib2?
   09:49 Keybuk       Amaranth: that was more complicated and less well
                      documented <g>
   09:50 Amaranth     Keybuk: sure, but urllib is also mostly dead
   09:50 lucas        using snapshot.d.n or the ftpmaster's morgue doesn't
                      seem like a solution on the long term to me ...
   09:50 Kamion       seems like a perfectly good solution to me, actually
   09:50 Kamion       I mean, AIUI, we're basically rsyncing the Debian
                      morgue locally, aren't we?
   09:50 Keybuk       mjg59: ?
   09:51 Keybuk       Kamion: pretty much, yes
   09:51 lucas        well, if it runs out of space regularly without use
                      noticing
   09:51 lucas        there's no point in using it
   09:51 Kamion       there's no difference between that and "keeping our own
                      morgue", other than acquisition method
   09:51 Amaranth     perhaps i way of marking ubuntu changes in the package
                      itself could work?
   09:51 Kamion       once != regularly
   09:51 Amaranth     so you wouldn't need the original
   09:51 lucas        two times already
   09:51 Kamion       the last time MOM failed it was because snapshot.d.n
                      broke
   09:51 Kamion       AIUI
   09:52 mjg59        I'm afraid I don't know enough about MOM to have strong
                      opinions on this
   09:52 Keybuk       Amaranth: that would require a new source format, etc.
                      using two different sources should be adequate
   09:52 Kamion       redundancy, if Keybuk fixes the inability to handle
                      404s
                      mjg59: big evil hacky python script, downloads three
   09:52 Keybuk       versions, mashes them together with diff and patch to
                      make a fourth
   09:52 Kamion       well, two plus the various others that are already
                      tried
   09:52 mjg59        Keybuk: Yeah
   09:52 Keybuk       it's nowhere near as clever or useful as everyone
                      thinks it is
   09:53 Amaranth     three versions?
   09:53 Keybuk       Amaranth: Current Ubuntu, Current Debian, Common Base
   09:53 Amaranth     oh, new debian, ubuntu, original debian
   09:54 lucas        Keybuk: couldn't you talk with mark about opensourcing
                      MoM and NDA ?
   09:54 lucas        so other people could work on improving them
   09:54 Keybuk       lucas: it's not so much a Mark issue, it's a me issue
   09:54 Keybuk       I seriously don't believe the code is any kind of fit
                      state to release
   09:54 lucas        I didn't talk about release
   09:54 Keybuk       releasing implies support
   09:54 lucas        just put it in bzr somewhere
   09:54 Keybuk       it implies accepting patches
   09:55 ajmitch      it implies people asking 'wtf?' about parts of the code
                      imo having MoM reports at hand is a nice addon but not
   09:55 sistpoty     absolutely necessary to do merges; but I guess that
                      many other MOTU's think different about that.
   09:55 lucas        so it's better to have a not-so-good MoM ?
   09:55 sivang       Keybuk: maybe this could be rewritten from scratch ?
                      ;-)
   09:55 Keybuk       lucas: I don't really see how it's useful to anyone
                      either, tbh
   09:55 Keybuk       it's full of very Ubuntu-specific coe
   09:55 Keybuk       like filing bugs in Malone
   09:56 Keybuk       sivang: it's been "to be replaced by something in
                      Launchpad" for a while now
   09:57 lucas        I've heard quite a lot of comments about nda's output
                      not being considered very helpful by debian maintainers
   09:57 sivang       Keybuk: ah, I see. I guess this should come rather
                      quick then not now Soyuz is pushed to landing.
   09:57 Keybuk       lucas: nobody's ever made them to me
   09:57 lucas        (like: it doesn't list source packages by maintainer)
                      clearly the output of any automated tool is going to be
   09:57 Kamion       less useful than people reporting bugs with patches
                      manually
   09:57 Kamion       although, yes, source packages by maintainer would be
                      useful to me even :)
   09:57 Keybuk       lucas: no, but it provides something for Debian to
                      write their own page like that
   09:58 Keybuk       http://people.ubuntu.com/~scott/patches/PATCHES
   09:58 Keybuk       ^ was added at Debian's request so they could build
                      systems around "the current Ubuntu patch set"
   09:58 Keybuk       the Debian PTS uses it, for example
                      it's far easier for Debian to write things to their
   09:58 Keybuk       taste than to file bugs, and have us do it when we have
                      time
   09:59 lucas        my point is not about debian collaboration. It's about
                      nda/mom not being as good as they could be.
   09:59 Keybuk       they do the job well enough
   10:00 Keybuk       everything could be better
   10:00 Keybuk       but at some point you have to stop polishing and move
                      on
   10:00 lucas        ok
   10:00 lucas        I'm not really satisfied, but I think we can move to
                      next point
   10:01 lucas        since nothing else is going to get out of this one
   10:01 Keybuk       I'll happily take suggestions for improvement via
                      e-mail, if they're good ideas
   10:01 Keybuk       but yes
   10:01 Keybuk       let's move on
   10:01 Keybuk       any other business?
   10:02 Keybuk       ok then
   10:02 Keybuk       see you all in two weeks, everyone
   10:03 dholbach     see you Keybuk :-)
   === dholbach hugs Keybuk.
   10:04 ogra         Keybuk, thanks for running the meeting :)
   
</pre>
