{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* Xenial Development
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Assigned bugwork (rbasak)
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Upcoming Call For Papers
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

Thomas Ward <teward> will merge nginx 1.9.6 soon, which introduces http2. Apart from that it was a quiet meeting.

===== Meeting Actions =====

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, Nov 10th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
 16:00 <matsubara> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Nov  3 16:00:25 2015 UTC.  The chair is matsubara. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:00 <meetingology> 

 16:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:00 <matsubara> Hi there, welcome to this week's Server Team meeting!

 16:00 <matsubara> who's around today?

 16:01 <thedac> o/

 16:01 <arosales> o/

 16:01 <teward> i'm alive but don't have anything to really add just yet :P

 16:01 <matsubara> FWIW, I'm leading today in place of hallyn

 16:01 <teward> (I lurk these usually)

 16:01 <arosales> thanks for covering my chair while I was out

 16:02 <matsubara> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:03 <matsubara> I don't think there are any action points from the previous meeting. IIRC last week one was cancelled due to ODS

 16:03 <matsubara> so let's move on

 16:03 <matsubara> #topic Xenial Development

 16:04 <matsubara> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule

 16:04 <matsubara> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule

 16:04 <matsubara> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:04 <matsubara> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:04 <matsubara> not sure if that URL is working at all

 16:04 <matsubara> I'm updating the links on the fly as those are not up to date at the wiki page

 16:04 <teward> looks fine to me

 16:05 <teward> 3 bugs on that tracker according to what i see

 16:05 <teward> (that are ubuntu-server marked(

 16:05 <teward> (oops lag, i meant the URL not working issue)

 16:05 <matsubara> yep

 16:06 <matsubara> the critical one is already assigned, the high one is in progress

 16:06 <matsubara> and there's medium lxc one

 16:07 <matsubara> which is part of the work done due to another critical lxc bug discovered just after the release

 16:07 <matsubara> so I think that's all covered and people are aware of what needs to be done.

 16:07 <matsubara> moving on

 16:08 <matsubara> #topic Assigned bugwork (rbasak)

 16:08 <matsubara> rbasak, around?

 16:09 <matsubara> ok, I'll take that as no, so moving on

 16:09 <matsubara> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

 16:10 <matsubara> caribou is not around either, so let's move on. We can come back later on

 16:10 <matsubara> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)

 16:11 <matsubara> I don't have any updates

 16:11 <matsubara> unless there are any questions, I'll move on

 16:11 <matsubara> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)

 16:12 <arges> matsubara: no updates from the kernel team! thanks

 16:12 <matsubara> thanks arges!

 16:12 <matsubara> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers

 16:13 <matsubara> I don't think there's any

 16:13 <matsubara> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:14 <matsubara> UOS is happening, so checkout the schedule for server & cloud related things: http://summit.ubuntu.com/uos-1511/

 16:15 <matsubara> #topic Open Discussion

 16:15 <matsubara> anything?

 16:15 <matsubara> 3

 16:15 <matsubara> 2

 16:15 <teward> nginx 1.9.6 will be merged as soon as I get off my lazy butt.  Introduces http2, so many will be happy to see that.

 16:15 <teward> that's all :)

 16:15 <matsubara> oh, thanks for the update teward!

 16:16 <teward> yup

 16:16 <matsubara> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 16:16 <matsubara> same date and time next week and the chair will be hallyn

 16:16 <matsubara> and I guess that's all

 16:16 <matsubara> thanks everyone!

 16:16 <matsubara> #endmeeting

</pre>
