{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
   10:12 Keybuk      ok, shall we start at the top then
   10:12 Keybuk      sfllaw: you're proposed for ubuntu-core-dev
   10:12 Keybuk      and you're at the top of my list, so you get to go first :)
   10:12 sfllaw      Hmm...  I don't know what to say outside of what I said to the Community Council.
   10:12 sfllaw      I've been a Debian Developer since April 2003.  I'm upstream maintainer for a few pieces of software and package more that just those.
   10:12 sfllaw      I've been doing Ubuntu work for about two weeks now and have been steadily triaging through bug reports.  I expect to do this for as long Canonical pays me and probably after that.
   10:13 sfllaw      Ask me questions.
   10:13 sfllaw      Please?
   10:13 ogra        will you pay us beer in paris ?
   10:13 fabbione    sfllaw: do you like beer?
   10:13 ogra        *lots* of beer ?
   10:13 fabbione    we love it :)
   10:13 ogra        :)
   10:13 azeem       ogra: there's no good beer in Paris, d'oh
   10:13 sfllaw      I do.  I have a fondness for Qubec beers.
   10:14 sfllaw      And ones from a small University town in Waterloo.
   10:14 fabbione    +1 for sfllaw
   10:14 ogra        azeem, ah, damned, right its the wine country
   10:14 Keybuk      sfl: do you support the quebecistani separatist movement?
   === sivang prefers wine
   10:14 bddebian    Wow, two weeks of bug triaging?  Can I apply then? :-)
   10:14 mjg59       sfllaw: What will you be doing with main?
   10:14 sfllaw      Keybuk: I am apolitical.
   10:14 ogra        anothe +1 for sfllaw then :)
   10:14 jbailey     *lol*
   10:14 jbailey     Simon does cook *Very* well.
   === dholbach_ [n=daniel@i577B29F9.versanet.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:14 jbailey     Even vegan food. =)
   10:14 azeem       sfllaw: is it true that you are part of a group which calls itself `THUG'?
   10:14 highvoltage wine is not an emulator?
   10:15 cbx33       The Hug User Group ?
   10:15 Keybuk      (For those just floating by, sfllaw works for Canonical and is in charge of Ubuntu QA)
   10:15 mjg59       Could we have a little less in the way of background noise, please?
   10:15 sfllaw      mjg59: I hope to be sponsoring bugfixes into main, that I have vetted.  As well, I hope to package various debugging tools that I will write.  And, of course, to upload my own packages which I will maintain in parallel to my Debian ones.
   10:15 mdz         (sorry, was drawn into the kernel discussion in progress)
   10:15 sfllaw      azeem: I am no longer.  We're now called CHUG.
   10:16 mjg59       sfllaw: Which Debian packages do you maintain which would be appropriate for main? (or are we talking about universe here as well?)
   10:16 sfllaw      wvdial and wvstreams are the canonical examples.
   10:17 ogra        heya, what about tvtime ?
   10:17 sfllaw      Is that in main?
   10:17 mdz         no
   10:17 sfllaw      Sweet.
   10:17 ogra        nah
   10:17 mdz         ogra: he was answering mjg59's question
   10:18 mjg59       sfllaw: wvdial isn't really (well, at all) integrated into the desktop right now. Do you have any interest in trying to improve the state of dialup?
   10:18 sfllaw      I do.
   10:18 mjg59       Excellent. How? :)
   10:18 sfllaw      This weekend, I found the fix to the bug in WvStreams that hung autodetection.
   10:18 Keybuk      I'd be especially grateful of any dial-up integration assistance you could provide
   10:18 mdz         indeed, that is an area where we have known deficiencies due to Ubuntu developers having broadband :-P
   10:18 sfllaw      So that's a start.
   10:18 Keybuk      do you know much about ISDN?
   10:18 sfllaw      Sadly nothing about ISDN.
   10:18 sfllaw      I understand jbailey does.
   10:18 sfllaw      And he lives, like five minutes away.
   10:19 mjg59       sfllaw: Other areas of interest include trying to improve winmodem setup and the like
   10:19 mjg59       It'd be good to have that working to the legally practical extent
   10:19 sfllaw      That would excellent.  I have to caution you that my primary responsibility is still QA.
   10:19 mjg59       Obviously
   10:19 sfllaw      But I would be happy to work in this direction, as it's something I've wanted to do for WvDial for a while.
   10:20 mdz         sfllaw: I'd love to see a launchpad team devoted to dialup support, to which the relevant bugs could be directed
   10:20 mdz         I expect that if you sent out a call to the community, folks would join up
   10:20 mdz         teams are a good way to create a focal point for that kind of work
   10:20 mjg59       sfllaw: On another note, wvdial isn't really the model of a modern UI - exposing things like "stupid mode" to the user is somewhat confusing :)
   === zakame would join, as he's on a winmodem
   10:21 sfllaw      mjg59: All I have to say in its defence is that it was excellent at the time it was written...
   10:21 mdz         (wvdial hasa UI?)
   10:21 mjg59       sfllaw: I'm not going to disagree in the slightest
   10:21 sfllaw      WvDial has suffered from its age.
   10:21 highvoltage a ui, probably not a gui :)
   10:21 ivoks       mdz: gnome-ppp
   10:21 pitti       does any country apart from Germany actually use it?
   10:22 sfllaw      I know people use it with IRDA and Bluetooth cellphones.
   10:22 ivoks       pitti: wvdial?
   10:22 mdz         pitti: ISDN or wvdial?
   10:22 mjg59       Ok, I think I'm done. Anyone else?
   10:22 sfllaw      And that's in North America.
   10:22 ogra        ISDN
   10:22 ivoks       ISDN is popular in Croatia too
   10:22 Mithrandir  not that uncommon in .no either.
   10:22 zakame      ivoks: which fortunately I'm now ITA'ing in Debian atm
   10:22 fabbione    and in some parts of italy too
   10:22 highvoltage and in south africa
   10:22 Mithrandir  (but I tend to solve the problem by throwing an ISDN router in between. :-)
   10:22 highvoltage i'm connected with wvdial right now
   10:23 mjg59       No, really, can we please focus on the agenda rather than veering off into unrelated tangents?
   10:23 ivoks       zakame: :)
   10:23 sfllaw      Any other questions?
   10:23 mdz         highvoltage: hmm, another dialup team member raises his hand ;-)
   10:23 mjg59       mdz: Keybuk: Anything else?
   10:23 crimsun     sfllaw: this may not lie in the scope of bug hunting, but do you envision automating strace, backtraces, and the like?
   10:23 mdz         not from me
   10:23 Keybuk      nothing fro me
   10:23 mdz         votes?
   10:23 Keybuk      +1
   10:24 mjg59       +1
   10:24 sfllaw      crimsun: I do.
   10:24 fabbione    +1
   10:24 sfllaw      I haven't yet written specs for these tools yet.
   10:24 mdz         +1 here based on Debian and Ubuntu involvement and high expectations ;-)
   10:24 sfllaw      But I've done similar things on a smaller scale.
   === dholbach congratulates sfllaw!
   === dholbach hugs sfllaw!
   10:24 sfllaw      mdz: Aww.  That's so sweet of you.
   === sfllaw hugs dholbach
   10:24 ogra        yay sfllaw !!
   10:24 dholbach    yoooohoooooo!
   10:24 zakame      rock on sfllaw ! :D
   10:24 sfllaw      Thanks.
   10:24 pitti       mdz: ISDN
   10:24 bddebian    w00t sfllaw, the Official Task Master
   10:24 ivoks       i see you allready huged before :)
   10:25 mjg59       fabbione: Dude, you don't seem to be on the tech board? :)
   === mvo [n=egon@p54A6492E.dip.t-dialin.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:25 cbx33       congrats sfllaw
   10:25 pitti       welcome sfllaw
   === jbailey ^5's Simon
   === dholbach points to the stand of sfllaw merchandise in the back.
   10:25 sfllaw      mjg59: When are those appointments coming up?  Next week?
   10:25 fabbione    mjg59: so? i like sfllaw , is that a problem`??? :)
   10:25 mjg59       sfllaw: Appointments?
   === sivang recommends not messing with fabbione
   10:25 mdz         fabbione: not a problem in itself, but it's confusing during the meeting :-)
   10:26 mjg59       Ok. Who's up next?
   10:26 Keybuk      zul is next
   10:26 Keybuk      (for main)
   10:26 zul         ok..
   10:26 mjg59       zul: Cool. Can you introduce yourself?
   10:26 bddebian    What the?..
   10:26 zul         my name is ChuckShort and I have been using linux in one form or another for the past 10 years
   10:27 zul         i been using ubuntu since hoary and i have been contributing since then as well.
   10:27 zul         i am a member of the kernel team where i been helping out with patches, external drivers, bug triaging and some support
   10:28 zul         i also helped out with the bug squad doing uploads to universe with various fixes, i also been trying to help out with grub as well
   10:28 fabbione    i can speak up as witness for zul work
   10:28 highvoltage cool. chuck uses linux!
   10:28 zul         im also a member of the laptop team
   10:28 fabbione    at least for the kernel part
   10:28 mdz         zul has been a member of MOTU since September
   10:28 bddebian    highvoltage: :-)
   10:29 fabbione    he did quite a job...
   10:29 mdz         unless that's when we migrated into launchpad, in which case it's been longer ;-)
   10:29 ogra        and did a huge amount of fixes already
   10:29 Keybuk      you've certainly touched a fair number of packages
   10:29 zul         i also obeen bugging people about ubuntuce or embedded ubuntu
   10:29 fabbione    and Dear TC please approve zul so he can stop nagging me to be to a TC meeting :P
   10:29 zul         and i was at ubz as well
   10:29 zul         hehe
   10:29 mjg59       zul: So, what would you be doing in main?
   10:30 Keybuk      zul: and what would you like to do in main?
   10:30 Keybuk      heh, snap
   10:30 zul         mdz: i done more work with bugzilla :)
   10:30 fabbione    anyway.. joking aside.. i think he can manage quality wise to keep up with our standards
   10:30 zul         i would like to continue with the kernel team, i want to help out maintain the dapper kernel once dapper has been released
   10:30 fabbione    and he has always been there
   10:30 zul         as well as varous bugfixing and vetting bug fixes into main
   === Hirion [n=hirion@draugr.de] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   10:31 zul         oh yeah i was also a gentoo developer where I maintained apache for gentoo before i got burned out
   10:31 mdz         zul: what do you think we can do to help effectively triage kernel bugs?  it is one of the highest volumes of new bugs we have
   10:32 zul         mdz: basically keep doing what i have been doing asking questions and providing test modules for users to try
   10:33 sfllaw      zul: Hmm.  Could we go beyond that?  Looking at our bug triage rates, we're slipping behind the rate of bug filing.
   10:33 zul         for example if user has a problem with the sky2 module i would try to find a patch or create a patch and put it somewhere where users can try it out
   10:33 zul         sfllaw: true
   10:33 mdz         zul: it seems that at present, there are many bugs which do not even see a response (e.g., reports which need to be asked for more info), I'm referring to that problem more so than getting the bugs fixed
   === BenC [n=bcollins@debian/developer/bcollins] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:33 zul         sfllaw: i havent had a chance to look a lot of kernel bugs because of real life commitments recently
   10:34 zul         but in the past i try to be as prompt as possible
   === vincent_ [n=vincent@85.69.101.147] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:35 mdz         BenC: we're discussing zul's application, and in the process, the question of how to address the problem of kernel bug triage
   10:35 BenC        should I address zul or kernel bugs first?
   10:36 BenC        my comments on kernel bugs will probably me much more lengthy :)
   10:36 zul         mdz: i think the amount of volume of kernel bugs that we have now are old stale bug reports that users never get back to us
   10:36 mdz         BenC: zul; in fact we should probably defer the other conversation until later in the meeting after applications are processed
   10:36 zul         ok not a problem
   10:37 BenC        ok, in regards to zul, he's worked quite a bit with the kernel team
   10:37 BenC        for the most part, he is very capable of handling the technical, and social aspects of working with the team. Always asks questions when he needs to and is receptive to comments and criticism
   10:38 bddebian    zul has been helping quite a bit with Universe bugs too
   10:38 ogra        and with grub iirc
   10:38 BenC        I've only had a few occasions to comment on his work, but after talking with him about the issues, he's produced better work, so his willingness to learn is definitely there
   10:39 BenC        zul: are you paying me by the word, or just for the end result? :)
   10:39 fabbione    BenC: LOL
   10:39 zul         lol
   10:40 zul         end result..*ssh* :)
   10:40 mdz         mjg59,Keybuk: any further questions?
   10:40 mdz         I would like to talk about kernel bugs, but later
   10:40 zul         as BenC said i am very willing to learn and i think i have come a long way from where I started
   10:40 Keybuk      none for me
   10:40 mjg59       No, I'm good
   10:40 mdz         ok, votes
   10:41 mjg59       +1 from me
   10:41 mdz         +1, strong recommendations all around and substantial body of good quality contributions
   10:41 Keybuk      +1
   10:41 mdz         zul: congratulations and welcome
   10:41 dholbach    congratulations zul!
   === pitti hugs zul
   10:41 fabbione    zul: welcome to hell!
   10:41 zul         wohoo...thanks..
   === fabbione grins
   === sfllaw hugs zul.
   10:41 sfllaw      Welcome to the club!
   10:41 zul         fabbione: been there done that
   === highvoltage shakes zul's hand
   === zul does a jig
   10:42 mdz         there was one more applicant, yes?
   10:42 Keybuk      and last up (for main) we have zakame
   10:42 BenC        zul: cash, no checks
   10:42 Keybuk      thanks for being patient :)
   10:42 zul         BenC: beer good?
   10:42 Keybuk      mdz: gah, stop clicking before me <g>
   10:42 BenC        beer and marlboros :)
   10:42 zul         hehe
   10:42 ogra        yay zul :)
   10:43 mdz         Keybuk: you approved sfllaw for the wrong team :-P
   === Bluekuja [n=andrea@ubuntu/member/bluekuja] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:43 zakame      way to go zul! :D
   10:43 mdz         zakame: you're up next
   10:43 sfllaw      mdz: I don't mind.  Add me to more.
   10:43 zakame      ok
   10:43 Seveas      sfllaw: collecting emblems?
   10:43 Keybuk      mdz: I did?  I approved him for both
   10:44 mdz         Keybuk: I did -core-dev, and then you did -dev
   10:44 Keybuk      well, I approved him for -dev on the basis you did -core-dev
   10:44 Keybuk      right
   10:44 bddebian    w00t zul
   10:44 Keybuk      zakame: would you like to introduce yourself?
   10:44 mdz         -core-dev implies membership in -dev
   10:44 mdz         anyway, right
   10:45 Keybuk      mdz: it does, but then I always figure that -core-dev may be lost without losing -dev ... so people should be in both, in case they resign from main but stay on in universe *shrug*
   10:45 ogra        why wasnt he in -dev ?
   10:45 zakame      Yes, I'm ZakElep, currently fixing bug 6548 as I write this :)
   10:45 Ubugtu      Malone bug 6548 in gxmms "Panel Icon is Missing [gxmms-bmp]  (Dapper)" [Normal,In progress]  http://launchpad.net/bugs/6548
   10:45 ogra        as an all time uploader
   10:45 mdz         ogra: sfllaw
   10:45 ogra        oh
   10:45 ogra        k
   === ogra should stop fiddling with liveCDs during meetings
   10:46 sfllaw      ogra: You're working too hard.  :)
   10:46 ogra        :P
   10:46 BenC        FYI, I am typing up some notes on kernel bugs, so when we are ready to discuss, someone just ping me so I can lay it out
   10:46 sfllaw      zakame: You should probably tell us more about your application.
   10:46 mdz         BenC: ok
   10:47 mdz         zakame: tell us about what you have been working on so far, and what you would hope to do as a core developer
   10:47 zakame      I have been on the Ubuntu team since October 2005, and since then I have been working on various things for the distro, including translations, bug fixing and triage, and now I feel that its time for me to up the ante by working on doing and coding feature specs for ubuntu :)
   10:48 zakame      sfllaw, mdz: sorry, my dialup's laggy :/
   10:48 Keybuk      and what in main particularly irks or interests you, that you would like to work on?
   10:48 Keybuk      . o O { dial-up support? :p }
   10:48 bddebian    heh
   10:49 zakame      I have been noticing the comments on bugs lately in the devel list, and as a result I have been reasearching for putting together a 'smart' bug reporting tool
   === mdz murmurs something about dh_iconcache...
   10:49 ogra        the famous dholbach_iconcache :)
   10:49 sivang      hehe
   10:50 zakame      yes, I am also doing work for DhIconCacheChanges, currently in Universe, but I would like to help on main too :D
   === bddebian too
   10:51 zakame      and yes, DialUpSupport too, as I have said earlier... I'm on a linuxant right now using the free liceense, and yes, 'tis a bit crappy doing work under a 14.4, but still it works
   10:51 mdz         zakame: what sort of features do you have in mind for main?
   === sabdfl [n=mark@ubuntu/member/pdpc.silver.sabdfl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:53 sabdfl      erk
   10:54 sabdfl      sorry, i thought we were on at 23h00 UTC
   10:54 zakame      mdz: lots; for some, I would like it to have better support for non-broadband users like me,
   10:54 zakame      hi sabd
   10:54 mdz         sabdfl: zakame was just telling us how he would like to spec out how to improve out-of-the-box dialup support in Ubuntu
   10:54 sabdfl      sounds good!
   10:55 mdz         zakame: have you made any sponsored uploads to main?
   10:55 zakame      mdz: I also want it to have better printing preferences imrpovements; there has been some cases other users have pointed me on, since I'm the debian packager for gtklp
   10:55 sabdfl      i realised the meeting was underway when I got to the LP mails telling me sfllaw was a new dev - welcome aboard :-)
   10:55 sivang      LOL
   10:56 sabdfl      zakame: are you tracking upstream's plans for gtk printing prefs?
   10:56 zakame      mdz: none at the moment, but I have pending debdiffs to upload for dh_iconcache
   10:56 Keybuk      sabdfl: tsk, ignoring your IRC pings, eh? :)
   10:57 sfllaw      sabdfl: Thanks!
   10:57 ogra        LP needs a ping interface :)
   10:58 mdz         zakame: are you a Debian developer?
   10:58 zakame      sabdfl: not yet, sorry, as in between doing ubuntu work I am also doing some real life stuff teaching for our summer camp :)
   10:58 sivang      ogra: an SMS interface :)
   10:58 highvoltage hmmm.. a meeting reminder thingy would be nice... perhaps a fridge function instead?
   10:58 zakame      mdz: I am currently on the NM queue waiting foran NM
   10:58 zakame      err AM
   10:58 pitti       highvoltage: it's already there, subscribe to the fridge calendar
   10:58 BenC        zakame: Good luck with that :)
   10:58 mdz         sabdfl: I've mailed you a copy of the log for zakame prior to your arrival
   10:59 zakame      sabdfl: I have been looking on the printing specs on LP though, but I haven't considered them fully
   10:59 zakame      BenC: thanks
   === raphink [n=raphink@ubuntu/member/raphink] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:02 mdz         zakame: most of the work that I've seen of yours has been high-volume but trivial changes, like dh_iconcache and syncs from Debian.  The former is mostly a large one-time transition, and the latter doesn't require any upload privileges.  Can you tell us what motivated you to apply for upload privileges to main?  what do you plan to upload?
   11:03 sabdfl      hey raphink, great work with KDE at LinuxTag
   11:03 raphink     thanks sabdfl :)
   11:04 sabdfl      zakame: would you be willing to avoid a core set of packages initially (stuff that might directly affect install or boot?)
   11:06 zakame      sabdfl: if it is too intrusive, yes
   11:06 sabdfl      zakame: can you give me an example of "too intrusive"?
   11:06 sabdfl      and how would you get a non-intrusive change reviewed?
   === TobSiCret [n=tobias@hnvr-d9b8eb87.pool.mediaWays.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === Tonio_ [n=tonio@tonio.planetemu.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:08 Keybuk      I'm not sure I'm happy with that idea ... if someone isn't ready to touch anything in main, they should stay in universe
   11:08 Keybuk      being able to upload to main is because you can be trusted to work on packages that directly affect install and boot
   11:09 sivang      Keybuk: one specific package comes into my mind ;-)
   11:09 mdz         Keybuk: I agree; it's as much work to make that decision on a per-package bases as to review and sponsor the uploads
   11:09 sabdfl      Keybuk: i don't know i think it's worth having guys who are confident to work quickly on light-touch issues
   11:09 zakame      I see... ok, I suppose I will hold on thatfor now :)
   11:10 sabdfl      i think its possible to exercise good judgement on that front
   11:10 sabdfl      not commenting on zakame per se but i think if someone has energy, good judgement, and a good track record in MOTU then it's worth giving them the opportunity
   11:11 Keybuk      if someone has a good track record in MOTU, then I generally don't see any obstacle for main upload
   === rikai [n=kitty@pool-72-65-103-151.ptldme.east.verizon.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:11 Keybuk      we're sliding away from the point here, however
   11:11 Keybuk      anyone got any further questions for zakame?
   11:11 mjg59       zakame: Do you feel not having main upload privileges is currently preventing you from doing things you want to do?
   11:12 sabdfl      zakame: can you list any bugs you would be confident to fix and upload to main?
   === BenC [n=bcollins@debian/developer/bcollins] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:14 sabdfl      ok, zakame, i think you need to come back in early edgy
   11:15 sabdfl      zakame: also, try picking out some fixes to main issues and running those past sfllaw
   11:15 Keybuk      sabdfl: a -1 from you then?
   11:15 sabdfl      as debdiffs
   11:15 sabdfl      Keybuk: yes, for now
   11:15 Keybuk      other votes?  mdz? mjg59?
   11:15 mjg59       I'd agree with Mark for the moment
   === BenC [n=bcollins@debian/developer/bcollins] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:15 sabdfl      i like zakame's style but think i'd like to see examples of main patches beforehand
   11:15 zakame      zakame: thanks :D
   11:16 mdz         I would prefer to see zakame working with a core dev to sponsor uploads, to get some substantial experience and review there
   11:16 sabdfl      zakame: keep track of all the work you do in universe too, so you can point us at a neat list
   11:16 Keybuk      I agree also; I'm happy with zakame's work so far, but would like to see more "non-trivial" uploads to his name before approving him for main
   11:16 Keybuk      sabdfl: LP does that for us :)  https://launchpad.net/people/zakame/+packages  this LP thing is great, you should try it out! :D
   === BenC [n=bcollins@debian/developer/bcollins] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:17 zakame      sabdfl: of course, I shall do so in my wikipage :)
   11:17 mdz         zakame: would you be willing to start on your proposed work in main through a sponsor, and reapply at a later date?
   11:17 fabbione    zakame: show this guys some balls and help me with X
   11:17 fabbione    ;)
   11:18 zakame      mdz: yes, I'd be happy to :D
   11:18 sabdfl      Keybuk: pity about the UI, the guy who did that must suck ;-p
   11:18 zakame      fabbione: I take it you will be my sponsor :D
   11:18 sabdfl      looks perfect!
   11:18 sabdfl      who's up next?
   11:18 Keybuk      sabdfl: it's improving all the time, imo
   11:18 fabbione    zakame: if you are ready tio sweat yes
   11:18 zul         sabdfl: i think thats it
   11:19 zakame      fabbione: I'm on it then :D
   11:19 mdz         zakame: glad to hear it, thanks
   11:19 sabdfl      hey zul - benc has been telling me about your great work on the kernel
   === yosch [n=yosch@lns-bzn-55-82-255-158-47.adsl.proxad.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:19 mdz         that's it for core
   11:19 mdz         are there MOTU applicants pending?
   11:19 zul         sabdfl: thanks its nice to hear
   11:19 fabbione    zakame: cool
   11:19 zakame      mdz: it's no problem for me:) I take it as a good lesson to look back to :)
   11:19 mdz         sabdfl: funny you should mention it...
   11:20 mdz         ah, you got the mail already of course
   11:21 Keybuk      mdz: none that I can see
   11:21 mdz         there are 15 pending applications for ubuntu-dev
   11:21 mdz         but most of them are old
   11:21 mdz         if anyone is here to apply, please speak up
   11:21 sivang      I am
   11:21 sivang      sorry, been away form the machine
   11:22 Keybuk      I could swear I got an e-mail about sivang today
   11:22 Keybuk      yet LP shows he applied 2005-10-04
   11:22 sivang      I reapplied today
   11:22 sivang      so this makes sense
   11:22 sivang      can I go on?
   11:22 mdz         LP bug?
   11:22 mdz         sivang: yes, go ahead
   11:23 sivang      mdz: don't think so :)
   11:23 sivang      anyways,
   11:23 sivang      I am Sivan Greenberg,
   11:23 sivang      been with Ubuntu since roughly october 2004 (before warty)
   11:23 Keybuk      dholbach: can you mail Peter Norman Greenfield and do your reminding them that they need to show up at TB meetings thing?  And probably that he needs to work with the MOTU before applying
   11:23 sivang      since done I have done a long way in my view,
   === BenC_ [n=bcollins@72.169.114.90] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:24 sivang      I have started with documentation , slowly but surely learning the development ways in ubuntu. Although my universe record is not that big, I have done some non trivial patches and mofications for packages in main
   11:24 Keybuk      sivang: you're certainly a face we're used to seeing on the channels
   11:24 sivang      like:
   11:24 sivang      gnome-cups-manager
   11:24 sivang      gnome-system-tools
   11:24 sivang      system-tools-backends
   11:24 dholbach    Keybuk: I mailed all of the guys.
   11:24 sivang      irssi
   11:24 highvoltage oooh, irssi
   11:24 dholbach    Keybuk: I'll try to make sure to give all of them a month to answer and if they don't we can drop them from the list.
   11:25 sivang      liblpint-bonobo - the launch[pad integration library for bonobo
   11:25 sivang      (for this I created the lib itself, packaging was done by someone else)
   11:25 sivang      and recently created the package for my python application,
   11:25 sivang      based on the specifciation from UBZ HomeUserBackup (hubackup in universe)
   11:25 Keybuk      You've even touched sysvinit, iirc?
   11:26 sivang      indeed
   11:26 sivang      ;-)
   11:26 ogra        Keybuk, sivang was lacking packaging knowledge for quite some time but did awesome work on patches, recently he jumped on MOTU and also does packages now
   11:26 Keybuk      who sponsored that one for you, ooi?
   11:26 sivang      and I will never forget what you said wrt to my patch there :)
   11:26 Keybuk      what did I say?
   === ogra cheers for sivang ...
   === sivang tries to recall the exact phrase
   11:26 sabdfl      sivang: have you worked closely with any MOTU developers or core devs in particular?
   11:26 Keybuk      (I'm entirely aware it may be me who sponsored it ... my memory is not what it was)
   11:27 sivang      sabdfl: yes, pitti, seb128, mvo, and recently slomo who helped me get my pakcage in universe
   === ogra remembers sivang working with pitti, dholbach, mvop
   11:27 sivang      bddebian also helepd with reviews
   11:27 pitti       yep, I uploaded several fixes from Sivan
   11:27 sivang      I also worked with pitti on the DB2 packaging, even sent a couple of patches
   11:28 dholbach    I had a look at hupbackup, but somebody else took it to improve and upload after me.
   11:28 sivang      Keybuk: never patch debian/. using the patch system, (or from within debian.) IIRC  ? is that so? :)
   11:28 Keybuk      ahh
   11:28 Keybuk      I get quite passionate about that :)
   11:28 sabdfl      i'm certainly convinced of sivang's commitment, but can't comment on packaging skills. pitti, mvo, seb128?
   11:28 sivang      Keybuk: indeed :)
   === pontifex [n=pontifex@84-45-197-14.no-dns-yet.enta.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === popey [n=popey@84-45-197-14.no-dns-yet.enta.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:29 sivang      oh, and just today I Helped slomo with tray icons transpernacy patches,
   11:29 sivang      which are still pending review at http://muse.19inch.net/~sivan/tray_icon/
   11:29 pitti       from my experience, Sivan learns slowly, but steadily; he is cautious and I trust him to not do stuff he's unsure about without asking
   11:29 seb128      I think that sivang has some good willing but still lot to learn too ...
   11:30 pitti       and his enthusiasm is remarkable
   11:30 Keybuk      any further questions for sivang?
   11:30 Keybuk      mdz, mjg59 ?
   11:30 mdz         yes
   11:31 sivang      ALl I can say my performance in studying will be much improved from now on, I feel I am really managing to tackle things more neatly and quickly then before. I guess that comes over time of experience on the project.
   11:31 sabdfl      +1 from me for sivang then
   11:31 mdz         sivang: while developing your backup application, you waited a long time before uploading your packages, rather than developing them incrementally within Ubuntu.  why did you choose this approach?
   11:32 mdz         in a collaborative project, it is important to work transparently, by making your work visible throughout the development process
   11:33 sivang      mdz: looking back, I feel I had been a bit harsh on myself. I felt it was not appropriate to release the project to the wild in the condition it was then. regardless of that, I registered the branch in LP and tried to interest other memebers of the team (community wise) in the project, but did not get too much resonse.
   11:34 sivang      mdz: again, the branch was available and viewable, even through LP's revision control
   11:34 sivang      https://launchpad.net/people/sivan/+branch/hubackup/devel-main
   11:34 mdz         very few people will go to your LP page and check out a bzr branch, compared to having a package in universe
   11:35 mdz         the "release early, release often" mantra is key to what we do
   11:35 sivang      I agree, this is correct. Feeling it was not appropriate at that time to put in as a package in universe, I approached people or respoded to peopel who showed interest in the specificaiton. This might have been a mistake.
   11:35 highvoltage mdz: sorry for asking a possibly off-topic and ignorant question, but shouldn't a package be of a certain quality first before it goes into universe?
   === Keybuk hides ... I can't really comment here ... I never upload anything I work on until I'm happy with it <g>
   11:36 raphink     highvoltage: this is why REVU exists
   11:36 sabdfl      highvoltage: that's why we need.... Personal Package Archives! Coming SOON to a Launchpad near YOU
   11:36 highvoltage yay!
   11:36 Keybuk      sabdfl: are they?  \o/
   11:36 sivang      mdz: I was not happy with the application until it fulfilled it's main functionaly. when it did so, I released the package to universe.
   11:36 sabdfl      Keybuk: sure, ask Kinnison
   11:36 mdz         highvoltage: it should have a basic level of functionality; it does not need to be feature complete or bug-free
   11:36 sivang      (including the important bits)
   11:36 Keybuk      exxxxcellent, one of the remaining blockers for HCT that
   === Keybuk shall send a sarcastic mail to mbp for not keeping him updated <g>
   11:37 zakame      sabdfl: coolness!
   11:37 mdz         sivang: you asked for your package to be included in the release, even though it had not been uploaded yet (meaning you did not feel it was ready for people to even test yet)
   11:37 sivang      mdz: dealing with application that can screw one's home folder and CDs I felt proper testing should be done prior and after completing the main functionality.
   11:37 sabdfl      can we come to a decision on sivang?
   11:37 sabdfl      sivang: reasonable - did you publish it outside the archive?
   11:38 sivang      sabdfl: outside the bzr branch you mean?
   11:38 sabdfl      yes, as debs people could test
   11:39 sivang      mdz: I believed I could make it for this release, I admit I had wrong esitmated the time to reach the the point where it could be presented to people. assuming so without publishing debs for testing was wrong, that's true.
   11:39 sivang      sabdfl: no :-/
   11:39 sivang      sabdfl: for intersted people, I instructed to bzr branch it, and then test it.
   11:40 mdz         sivang: thanks for the explanation; I wanted to understand your thinking because you seemed confused about why it couldn't be included
   11:40 mdz         sivang: I've seen now that it's in universe, you're already getting good feedback
   11:40 sivang      mdz: I believe I was, I was too optimistic about how much time would need to get from one milestone to the other, which flawed my judgment.
   11:41 sivang      mdz: I know more then know how every small detail in a spec, can result in days of implementation. this fact should be of warning for us.
   11:41 mdz         I'm finished with my questions
   11:41 sivang      (now)
   11:41 sivang      mdz: yes, I did got some nic feedback and interest
   11:42 mdz         votes regarding sivang for ubuntu-dev?
   11:42 sabdfl      +1
   11:42 mdz         +1
   11:42 Keybuk      +1 from me
   11:43 sivang      mdz: (the gui needs more work, though :p)
   11:43 mjg59       +1, yes
   11:43 ogra        yay, welcome sivang
   11:43 pitti       sivang: congratulations! you have waited so long :)
   11:43 mdz         sivang: welcome to the team
   === sivang faints
   11:43 zakame      congrats sivang!
   === mvo congrats sivang
   11:43 ogra        yeah, well deserved after all this time
   11:43 lifeless    congrats sivang
   11:44 sabdfl      well done sivang
   === ogra remembers talking to sivang about maintainership in mataro :)
   === sivang takes some time to relax the excitment and comes back to hug everyone
   11:44 sabdfl      i remember your excitement in mataro!
   === sivang hugs all
   11:44 sabdfl      it's been a great road so far
   === sivang thanks all
   11:44 highvoltage congrats sivang
   11:44 Keybuk      I think that's everybody now?
   11:44 sabdfl      very well done
   11:44 sivang      sabdfl: been amazing road!
   11:44 ogra        yeah, well done
   11:44 mdz         Keybuk: yes, and we've run long already
   11:44 sivang      thanks all fo the cherring, and thanks mdz for the more then in place questions
   11:44 mdz         any last-minute business to discuss?
   11:45 sivang      pitti: thank you!
   11:45 sabdfl      is ubuntu-dev a member of ubuntumembers yet?
   11:45 ogra        didnt BenC want to discuss kernel bug handling ?
   11:45 mdz         after the TB meeting is adjourned, we're going to have a discussion about kernel QA on #ubuntu-kernel with BenC & co.
   11:45 sabdfl      looks like it isn't
   11:45 ogra        ah
   11:45 ogra        :)
   11:45 BenC        ok
   11:45 mdz         sabdfl: is that what the CC resolved?
   11:45 sivang      ogra: we also talked about that you need to understand the make file language hand by hand :)
   11:45 sabdfl      i believe so, yes
   === BenC [n=bcollins@debian/developer/bcollins] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Ex-Chat"]
   11:45 ogra        sivang, hehe, yes
   11:46 sabdfl      in other words, this group should also be considering substantial-and-sustained contribution
   11:46 sabdfl      but i think that's implicit, even for ubuntu-dev
   11:46 sabdfl      as sivang just found out :-)
   11:46 dholbach    good night
   11:46 ogra        night dholbach
   11:46 sivang      sabdfl: :-)
   11:46 mvo         night dholbach
   11:46 zakame      gn8 dholbach
   11:46 sabdfl      night all
   11:46 pitti       bye folks
   11:46 highvoltage good night!
   11:46 seb128      'night dholbach
   11:46 zakame      bye all
   === pitti [n=pitti@ubuntu/member/pitti] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Ex-Chat"]
   11:46 mdz         sabdfl: I wasn't present and haven't read the log yet, but if that was their decision, I'm happy for ubuntu-dev to be added to ubuntu-members
   11:47 sabdfl      done
   11:48 sabdfl      i'd like to do this for any team which has a robust structure and leadership
   11:48 sabdfl      and in the case of large groups, like the forums, governance
   11:49 mdz         ok
   11:49 mdz         we've been here long enough :-)
   === zul [n=chuck@CPE0006258ec6c1-CM000a73655d0e.cpe.net.cable.rogers.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:49 mdz         adjourned, thanks everyone

</pre>
