{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 17 May at 16:05 &mdash; 16:27 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-05-17-16.05.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:06.

No ACTION points from previous meeting.

==== Yakkety Development ====
The discussion about "Yakkety Development" started at 16:07.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule
** ''LINK:'' https://merges.ubuntu.com/main.html
** ''ACTION:'' nacc to announce v1 importer to ubuntu server world
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:11)
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

* nacc reported that his new git importer was nearly ready for testing. Useful for those on server team that have adopted common git based merge process. Took action to send email list with documentation/examples/call for testing.
* Example import
''LINK:'' https://git.launchpad.net/~nacc/ubuntu/+source/open-vm-tools/log/?h=ubuntu/devel

==== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)" started at 16:13.

* nacc is working Launchpad bug 997172 in smbldap-tools (Ubuntu) "smbldap-config.pl not installed" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/997172
* ,needs to understand whether SRU would allow for addition of an executable, will follow up with channel or rbasak

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)" started at 16:18.

Nothing to discuss.

==== Upcoming Call For Papers ====
The discussion about "Upcoming Call For Papers" started at 16:19.

No interesting CFPs. PyCon is at end of May.

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:21.

None.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:21.

jgrimm has been unsubscribing "Ubuntu Server" from Openstack packages (with approval from Openstack team), as that team has been split off for quite a while. Makes various reports much more useful as each team can find their 'work' (bugs, merges, etc). Next will be to audit remaining Ubuntu Server packages for packages that Openstack isn't subscribed to yet, but probably should be.

teward made everyone aware that he'd put out a call for testing in maybe a week - installation, and upgrade-from-current-version - for nginx.

==== Announce next meeting date, time and chair ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date, time and chair" started at 16:26.

Next meeting is Tuesday 2016-05-24 at 1600 UTC .. jamespage to chair

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* nacc
** nacc to announce v1 importer to ubuntu server world

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* jgrimm (41)
* nacc (23)
* cpaelzer (8)
* smoser (4)
* meetingology (4)
* teward (4)
* ubottu (1)
* caribou (1)
* smb (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:05 <jgrimm> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:05 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue May 17 16:05:32 2016 UTC.  The chair is jgrimm. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:05 <meetingology> 

 16:05 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:06 <jgrimm> hi folks!!  i think there are a few people out this week or busy.

 16:06 <jgrimm> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:07 <jgrimm> No action points listed. cool

 16:07 <jgrimm> #topic Yakkety Development

 16:07 <jgrimm> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule

 16:08 <jgrimm> good time to get some merges in of course..

 16:08 <nacc> to that end, the importer is almost done for v1

 16:08 <jgrimm> #link https://merges.ubuntu.com/main.html

 16:08 <nacc> i'm verifying manually a few example merges

 16:08 <nacc> example imports, rather

 16:09 <nacc> while it might get deleted, you can see one example here: https://git.launchpad.net/~nacc/ubuntu/+source/open-vm-tools/log/?h=ubuntu/devel

 16:09 <jgrimm> nacc, do you plan to send an email out to ml, with instructions/examples/request for help testing?

 16:09 <nacc> smoser: --^ you might esp. be interested as that is a full history, of sorts

 16:09 <nacc> jgrimm: yep, i'll 'announce' when v1 is ready, i'll need to discuss with rbasak too if we're going to setup a staging project before moving to usd officially

 16:10 <nacc> jgrimm: feel free to give me an action for that

 16:10 <smoser> nacc, that is awesome!

 16:10 <jgrimm> #action nacc to announce v1 importer to ubuntu server world

 16:10 * meetingology nacc to announce v1 importer to ubuntu server world

 16:10 <jgrimm> when rdy of course. :)

 16:11 <jgrimm> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:11 <nacc> smoser: i'm still verifying it's correct, which is slow & manual, and i think open-vm-tools in particular had a break in the history (hence there's an orphan'd tag in th emiddle)

 16:11 <smoser> nacc, is '%' a : ?

 16:11 <nacc> smoser: but it handles syncs and merges properly, i think, so that's something :)

 16:11 <smoser> Merge with import/2%10.0.7-3227872-2

 16:11 <nacc> smoser: yes, that's the dep-14 translation

 16:11 <smoser> ok.

 16:11 <jgrimm> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server

 16:12 <nacc> ~ -> _ and % -> :

 16:12 <nacc> smoser: --^ (from http://dep.debian.net/deps/dep14/)

 16:12 <nacc> smoser: we're going to update git-dsc-commit accordingly too

 16:13 <jgrimm> moving on..

 16:13 <nacc> ack

 16:13 <jgrimm> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

 16:13 <caribou> nothing to report this week

 16:13 <jgrimm> thanks caribou

 16:13 <nacc> so i have one server bug for xenial -- related to samba

 16:13 <nacc> LP: #997172

 16:13 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 997172 in smbldap-tools (Ubuntu) "smbldap-config.pl not installed" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/997172

 16:13 <teward> o/ (late)

 16:14 <nacc> it's fixed upstream by http://svn.gna.org/viewcvs/smbldap-tools/trunk/Makefile.in?r1=155&r2=156&

 16:14 <nacc> but i'm not sure that's an acceptable thing to SRU? it shouldn't lead to any regression, as the perl script simply isn't present right now...

 16:14 <jgrimm> nacc, cool. 2012 filed bug.

 16:15 <nacc> but serverguide is broken/not possible to fix without that bug being resolved (and in fact mentions that bug explicitly as the reason it's wrong :)

 16:16 <jgrimm> nacc, i haven't read full bug.. what would be reason for not SRUing it?

 16:16 <nacc> jgrimm: i wasn't sure if there were rules about adding a new executable to the contents of a package already published

 16:17 <nacc> jgrimm: i guess it's going somewhere into /usr/share/doc, so maybe it shouldn't be too big of a deal

 16:17 <nacc> jgrimm: just wanted to double-check and then i'll fix the bug and serverguide

 16:17 <jgrimm> nacc, sounds good

 16:17 <jgrimm> anyone else?

 16:18 <cpaelzer> IMHO - regression potential is the main question, and that seems low to none

 16:18 <jgrimm> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)

 16:18 <smb> Nothing new this week. So far the Yakkety kernel still is a rolled forward Xenial one.

 16:18 <jgrimm> thanks smb

 16:18 <jgrimm> any questions for kernel team?

 16:18 <nacc> cpaelzer: ack, thanks

 16:19 <jgrimm> moving on

 16:19 <jgrimm> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers

 16:20 <jgrimm> not seeing anything interesting on lwn CFP calendar

 16:20 <jgrimm> pycon is coming up at end of month

 16:21 <jgrimm> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:21 <jgrimm> #topic Open Discussion

 16:21 <teward> just to put this out there, i'll be putting out a call for testing in maybe a week - installation, and upgrade-from-current-version - for nginx.

 16:22 <jgrimm> thanks teward

 16:22 <jgrimm> so one thing i've meant to mention is that I've started unsubscribing 'Ubuntu Server Team" from openstack packages.

 16:22 <teward> i'm almost finished getting a merge prepped, but before I push it in, I need more than my own basic tests - i'll send to ubuntu-server ML when that's ready

 16:22 <jgrimm> thanks

 16:22 <teward> yep  :)

 16:23 <cpaelzer> jgrimm: I also saw you went into discussion with the openstack Team for cases where it is not 100% clear if it is server or openstack

 16:23 <cpaelzer> jgrimm: will you do that for all packages that you consider "openstack"?

 16:24 <cpaelzer> like rabbitmq this week IIRC

 16:24 <cpaelzer> last week

 16:24 <jgrimm> cpaelzer, there will be some packages that we jointly support

 16:24 <jgrimm> rabbitmq is probably all ours tho as independently useful

 16:24 <cpaelzer> jgrimm: nice, this will help the bug overview - Thank!

 16:25 <jgrimm> cpaelzer, yes.. it cleans up a bunch of reports to make them actually useful for both of our teams

 16:25 <cpaelzer> the general clarification - not that "we" got rabbitmq :-)

 16:26 <jgrimm> :)

 16:26 <jgrimm> anyone else?

 16:26 <jgrimm> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 16:27 <jgrimm> Tuesday 2016-05-24 at 1600 UTC  .. jamespage to chair

 16:27 <jgrimm> and that's a wrap. Thanks folks!

 16:27 <cpaelzer> thanks jgrimm, o/ everybody

 16:27 <jgrimm> #endmeeting
