{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** ALL: please check the SRU tracker for 'needs-verification' bugs
** http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/sru-tracker-bugs.html
** ACTION: robbiew to review ServerTeam wiki
** ACTION: Kernel team to follow up on Bug:661294
** ACTION: JamesPage to arrange URL for Hudson CI Server
** ACTION: spamaps to talk to his friend to try and get more info on Bug #684304
** ACTION: zul to request feedback on the install-service blueprint to the mailing list
* Natty Development
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====
* [ACTION]: robbiew to review ServerTeam wiki [carried over]
* [ACTION] Daviey to try to reproduce bug 661294
* [ACTION] spamaps to confirm bug #684304 on borrowed DL360 G5
* [ACTION] hggdh to tell smb about how to get at machines
* [ACTION] zul to request feedback on the install-service blueprint to the mailing list (carry over)
* [ACTION] smoser to write a blog entry on how to use grub 'fallback' with our images.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, April 14th at 18:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:00] <smoser> ok. weell, its that time of day again
[16:00] <RoAkSoAx> o/
[16:00] <SpamapS> \O/
[16:00] <smoser> err... week.
[16:00] <smoser> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:01] <SpamapS> smoser: take us out Mr. Sulu
[16:01] <smoser> how do i "start meeting " ?
[16:02] <SpamapS> you say <pound>startmeeting
[16:02] <SpamapS> or for some.. <hash>startmeeting
[16:02] <zul> mmmm...hash
[16:02] <smoser> #startmeeting
[16:02] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:02. The chair is smoser.
[16:02] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:02] <robbiew> o/
[16:02]  * robbiew will lurk today....call in 30min
[16:02] <ScottK> \o
[16:02] <smoser> hm.. seems my clever trick to get someone else to scribe has failed.
[16:03] <JamesPage> smoser: nice try :-)
[16:03] <smoser> fyi, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam/MootBot has such info
[16:03] <smoser> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:03] <smoser>  * ALL: please check the SRU tracker for 'needs-verification' bugs  [http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/sru-tracker-bugs.html]
[16:04] <SpamapS> Imre Gergely has been *heroic* in verifying server SRU's
[16:04] <smoser> it looks like i need to take a look at that.
[16:04] <smoser> and i will.
[16:04] <smoser> thanks to Imre
[16:05] <smoser>  * ACTION: robbiew to review ServerTeam wiki
[16:05] <smoser> robbiew, ?
[16:05] <robbiew> yeah..yeah...slowly but surely
[16:05] <robbiew> keep it
[16:05] <robbiew> damn it!
[16:05] <smoser> [ACTION]: robbiew to review ServerTeam wiki [carried over]
[16:05] <MootBot> ACTION received: : robbiew to review ServerTeam wiki [carried over]
[16:05] <smoser>  * ACTION: Kernel team to follow up on bug 661294
[16:05] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 661294 in linux (Ubuntu) "System lock-up when receiving large files (big data amount) from NFS server" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/661294
[16:06] <smoser> jjohansen, smb ?
[16:06] <smb> I added some potential debuuging steps today
[16:06] <smb> Though that is the one I am not able to reproduce
[16:07] <SpamapS> smb: there are 2 users who are reproducing it consistently, right?
[16:07] <smb> I think yes. A third one has opened another bug as he thinks it might be a too different setup
[16:08] <smb> bug 688437
[16:08] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 688437 in linux (Ubuntu) "NFS load locks processes and mounts" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/688437
[16:08] <Daviey> smb: Would it help if we try and reproduce it?
[16:08] <smb> Daviey, Sure, it helps to know what exactly triggers it
[16:09]  * Daviey will try this.
[16:09] <smb> The second bug seems to have some vmware involved. (at least on a quick look)
[16:09] <smoser> Daviey, you want an action ?
[16:09] <Daviey> smoser: Yeah... i have rouble with committment without an action item.
[16:09] <smoser> [ACTION] Daviey to try to reproduce bug 661294
[16:09] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Daviey to try to reproduce bug 661294
[16:10] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 661294 in linux (Ubuntu) "System lock-up when receiving large files (big data amount) from NFS server" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/661294
[16:10] <smoser> hope that helps your rouble.
[16:10] <Daviey> smoser: Yeah, that has changed my life for the better... thanks :)
[16:10] <smoser> It sounds to me like smb has a handle on it.  if anyone else can add reproduce, that would be nice.
[16:11] <smoser>  * ACTION: JamesPage to arrange URL for Hudson CI Server
[16:11] <Daviey> ^ done
[16:11] <JamesPage> Done: http://hudson.qa.ubuntu-uk.org:8080
[16:11] <smoser> JamesPage, ^
[16:11] <JamesPage> Cheers Daviey!
[16:11] <smoser> gracias.
[16:11] <Daviey> hah
[16:11] <hggdh> FWIW, I have seen other bugs with a hang on remote FS, and a kernel trace involving sys_sync
[16:12] <SpamapS> JamesPage: any reason that has to run on 8080 ?
[16:12] <JamesPage> SpamapS: only my lack of time to make it run on port 80 - will do by the end of the week
[16:12] <SpamapS> JamesPage: btw, that is amazing. ;)
[16:13] <hggdh> SpamapS: not really, but now we have the firewall set, and I would rather not mess with it
[16:13] <Daviey> to be fair, the subdomain only went live about 30 mins ago... give JamesPage a break :)
[16:13] <hggdh> JamesPage: mind the firewall...
[16:13] <JamesPage> hggdh - will do
[16:13] <smoser>  * ACTION: spamaps to talk to his friend to try and get more info on Bug 684304
[16:13] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 684304 in linux (Ubuntu Natty) "cciss module does not identify resources" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/684304
[16:13] <smb> btw it is not only cciss that has problems
[16:14] <hggdh> just tried the options given by smb, but no luck (and a kernel trace)
[16:14] <SpamapS> smb: oh?
[16:14] <smb> hggdh, yep just saw it
[16:14] <smb> sadly no luck
[16:14] <SpamapS> I just spoke with him yesterday and he has the hardware in the rack but not hooked up to the network yet.. should be getting a DL360 G5 with ILO support to play with.
[16:14] <smb> SpamapS, Yes, there is something odd going on here, all of the pcie root ports have msi not enabled and no drivers bound
[16:15] <SpamapS> so carry that one forward, but maybe carry it forward as "spamaps to confirm bug #684304 on borrowed DL360 G5"
[16:15] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 684304 in linux (Ubuntu Natty) "cciss module does not identify resources" [High,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/684304
[16:15] <hggdh> smb: you are aware that you can play with the machines, right?
[16:15] <smoser> [ACTION] spamaps to confirm bug #684304 on borrowed DL360 G5
[16:15] <MootBot> ACTION received:  spamaps to confirm bug #684304 on borrowed DL360 G5
[16:15] <smb> hggdh, No, you probably need to make me aware offline
[16:16] <hggdh> ack
[16:17] <smoser> [ACTION] hggdh to tell smb about how to get at machines
[16:17] <MootBot> ACTION received:  hggdh to tell smb about how to get at machines
[16:17] <smoser> next is
[16:17] <smoser>  * ACTION: zul to request feedback on the install-service blueprint to the mailing list
[16:17] <zul> not done
[16:18] <Daviey> smoser: Is that a topic shift, or a warning what is the next stop?
[16:18] <smoser> topic shift.
[16:18] <smoser> [ACTION] zul to request feedback on the install-service blueprint to the mailing list (carry over)
[16:18] <MootBot> ACTION received:  zul to request feedback on the install-service blueprint to the mailing list (carry over)
[16:18] <smoser> moving on
[16:18] <smoser> [TOPIC] Natty Development
[16:18] <MootBot> New Topic:  Natty Development
[16:18] <smoser> robbiew, are you leading this topic ?
[16:19] <Daviey> I have one thing relevant under that topic....
[16:19] <Daviey> Did everyone see the FTBFS email?
[16:19] <JamesPage> Yep
[16:19] <kirkland> Daviey: yup
[16:19] <robbiew> sure...I'll start with I need someone to represent us in the weekly status meeting
[16:19] <zul> ill do it
[16:20] <Daviey> robbiew: rota? :)
[16:20] <SpamapS> Daviey: indeed, looks like there are a few still left.
[16:20] <kirkland> Daviey: one question about that ... what's difference between that and Lucas Nussbaum's?  that yours focuses on server packages, perhaps?
[16:20] <Daviey> kirkland: mine is JUST the server seed.
[16:20] <kirkland> Daviey: okay
[16:20] <robbiew> zul: thnx
[16:21] <kirkland> robbiew: what does that entail?
[16:21] <smoser> so everyone should take a look at that and see if they can't knock off a few ftbfs.
[16:21] <robbiew> Daviey: as long as the rotation doesn't involve me...I'm fine with it
[16:21] <Daviey> robbiew: heh.
[16:21] <robbiew> kirkland: means keeping https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/ReleaseStatus/Natty up-to-date
[16:21] <Daviey> robbiew: assume this is the release meeting?
[16:21] <Daviey> ah yes.
[16:21] <robbiew> mostly just tracking the bug stuff
[16:21] <kirkland> robbiew: ah
[16:21] <robbiew> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/ReleaseStatus/Natty/Detail is generated from a script
[16:21] <kirkland> robbiew: okay cool;  zul -- it's all yours :-P
[16:21] <robbiew> and pulls into https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/ReleaseStatus/Natty
[16:22] <robbiew> lol
[16:22] <Daviey> zul: If you want a hand, lemme know. :)
[16:22] <ScottK> Daviey: Server seed or server package set?
[16:23] <SpamapS> robbiew: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/ReleaseStatus/Natty/Detail doesn't exist
[16:23] <zul> Daviey: ack
[16:23] <smoser> anything else here ?
[16:23] <robbiew> SpamapS: add an "S"
[16:23] <Daviey> ScottK: Seed
[16:24] <kirkland> zul: (yeah, i'm happy to back you up too)
[16:24] <ScottK> OK.  I thought there were Universe packages in there, but OK.
[16:24] <robbiew> SpamapS: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/ReleaseStatus/NattyDetail
[16:25] <SpamapS> ah
[16:25]  * kim0 knocked off 2 ftbfss 
[16:25] <smoser> anything else here ?
[16:25] <smoser> hggdh, you're on
[16:25] <smoser> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:25] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:25] <hggdh> I am still dead in the water re. testing UEC
=== Pendulum_ is now known as Pendulum
[16:26] <robbiew> hggdh: is this to do with that kernel bug
[16:26] <hggdh> I have requested two machines to be set local, but right now I simply cannot test any
[16:26] <hggdh> robbiew: yes
[16:26] <robbiew> smb is supposed to be looking at it
[16:26] <hggdh> the only machines I currently have access to -- the UEC test rig have not been working on Nattty
[16:27] <robbiew> was on patch pilot yesterday
[16:27] <hggdh> this is blocking UEC testing
[16:27] <smb> right, robbiew pinged me yesterday and I checked what I could about it
[16:28] <hggdh> apart from that... JamesPage, myself, and others have been adding tests under Hudson. Contributions are welcome (and machines to run them under)
[16:28] <smb> So atm we don't have anything new
[16:28] <smoser> hggdh, i dont think it will affect you (my test was that it did not affect lucid UEC) but bug 688773 affects euca2ools on natty with python2.7
[16:28] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 688773 in euca2ools (Ubuntu) "euca2ools give 'SignatureDoesNotMatch' error" [Undecided,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/688773
[16:28] <smb> But maybe when I know how to play remotely
[16:28] <hggdh> smoser: I will add it in to test when I can
[16:29] <hggdh> thank you
[16:29] <smoser> hggdh, well, if it fails, it will fail all over the place, as you wont be able to upload images :)
[16:29] <smoser> anything else, hggdh ?
[16:29] <hggdh> heh
[16:29] <hggdh> no, I am done, smoser
[16:30] <smoser> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:30] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:30] <smb> There are more? :)
[16:30]  * smoser claps for smb and bug 651370
[16:30] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 651370 in linux (Ubuntu Maverick) "ec2 kernel crash invalid opcode 0000 [#1]" [Medium,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/651370
[16:31] <smoser> and i'm under the impression that bug 667796 is soon to be fixed
[16:31] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 667796 in linux (Ubuntu Maverick) "kernel only recognizes 32G of memory" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/667796
[16:31] <smb> Thanks, though I think that was still jjohansen at work
[16:31] <smb> smoser, right that one is simply the option
[16:31] <smoser> and also that jjohansen is epxecting to push bug 614853 into lucid (with the wonderful patch attached there)
[16:31] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 614853 in linux-ec2 (Ubuntu) "kernel panic divide error: 0000 [#1] SMP" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/614853
[16:31] <smb> its in the next proposed kernel
[16:32] <smb> I hope so, though we would need to ask him
[16:32] <smoser> all in all, i'm quite happy. i expect to have refreshed maverick images as soon as that one gets into maverick-proposed
[16:32] <smb> I had been tied up severely by a support escalation and another nfs bug
=== Sarvatt_ is now known as Sarvatt
[16:33] <jjohansen> smb: no its not yet, and I believe its likely causing another bug
[16:33] <smoser> and hiping for lucid update this week, which will include lucid images that can be booted with pv-grub
[16:33] <smoser> s/hiping/hoping/
[16:33] <smb> (or to say which was another nfs bug)
[16:33] <smoser> that will make jjohansen and smb's life easier, as pv-grub makes kernel testing much easier.
[16:33] <jjohansen> \o/
[16:33] <SpamapS> I haven't tried natty on ec2 yet.. is it working?
[16:33] <smoser> [ACTION] smoser to write a blog entry on how to use grub 'fallback' with our images.
[16:33] <MootBot> ACTION received:  smoser to write a blog entry on how to use grub 'fallback' with our images.
[16:33] <smb> except micro it should by now
[16:34] <smb> SpamapS, ^
[16:34] <smoser> SpamapS, natty boots on non-t1.micro
[16:34] <smoser> and... possibly (if ami-2470864d works) we have an hvm image now (cluster compute)
=== emma is now known as em
[16:35] <smoser> smb, jjohansen the other bug that I see getting hit in maverick is bug 613273
[16:35] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 613273 in linux (Ubuntu) "kernel panic on ec2 in system_call_fastpath" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/613273
[16:35] <SpamapS> ack
[16:35] <smoser> although my "in system call fastpath" description is probably competely bogus
[16:35] <smb> well it only means in a system call
[16:36] <smoser> right. not generally helpful.
[16:36] <smoser> so thats all from me...
[16:36] <smb> I will update the description when I know more
[16:37] <smb> There was one I was looking at today which had mostly screenshots as jpg which is hard to reassemble in mind
[16:37] <smoser> smb, i can provide more console logs (i think) if necessary from https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-on-ec2/ubuntu-on-ec2/ec2-test-results
[16:37] <smoser> anyone else have anything for kernel team ?
[16:38] <smoser> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[16:38] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[16:39] <smoser> mr sommer ?
[16:39] <sommer> hey all, don't have anything new this week
[16:39] <sommer> should have time to works on docs soon
[16:39] <sommer> :-)
[16:39] <smoser> any one have questions for the great sommer ?
[16:40] <SpamapS> sommer: wb!
[16:40] <smoser> if not, then we move onto kim0
[16:40] <smoser> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
[16:40] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Ubuntu Community Team (kim0)
[16:40] <kim0> Hey everyone
[16:40] <kim0> Daviey has agreed himself to be bugged about identifying venues for community contributions to cloud related projects
[16:40] <kim0> Such venues will be featured on the cloud portal, and regularly advertised on our communication channels (blogs, twitter, FB, IRC events ...etc), with the aim of hopefully attracting more contributors
[16:40] <kim0> I think it shouldn't be overly technical, however still fairly challenging
[16:40] <SpamapS> kim0: have you linked to harvest from the cloud portal yet btw?
[16:41] <SpamapS> kim0: last time I looked, harvest was pretty low on server specific stuff to do
[16:41] <kim0> I think I need a good way to link cloud stuff to harvest first
[16:41] <kim0> the portal is only cloud btw ..
[16:41] <SpamapS> the cloud is the server is the cloud ;)
[16:42] <kim0> not sure .. cloud seems to be part of server for me
[16:42] <kim0> anyway, @everyone, if you think something cloudy you're working on, is a good candidate for community contributions, please send suggestions to me kim0@ubuntu.com
[16:42] <zul> well....a cloud would be nice if you have something to run in it
[16:42]  * kim0 hugs Daviey for all the help
[16:42] <smoser> for anyone not aware, kim0 is making some really nice blog posts that can be seen there on the http://cloud.ubuntu.com or at http://foss-boss.blogspot.com/
[16:42] <Daviey> kim0: Ubuntu One is personal cloud... covering that? :)
[16:42] <kim0> Daviey: I guess it would count :)
[16:43] <kim0> smoser: and screencasts
[16:43] <kim0> which brings up the other topic
[16:43] <smoser> i really liked http://foss-boss.blogspot.com/2010/11/ubuntu-server-in-ec2-cloud-easy.html
[16:43] <kim0> any suggestions on "trainings" or screencasts
[16:43] <smoser> kim0, one thing... you should be syndicated on "cloud planet" if you are not already
[16:43] <kim0> you guys think would be useful
[16:43] <kim0> please flood me
[16:43] <SpamapS> There is no 'cloud' section of harvest, and the ubuntu-server section has *one* package.. erlang
[16:44] <kim0> smoser: where is that ? isn't that the one on the portal ?
[16:44] <smoser> hm.. i guess you handled it.
[16:44] <kim0> smoser: yep ..
[16:44] <smoser> nijaba, used to have it.
[16:44] <smoser> ok. good.
[16:44] <kim0> aha yeah .. I'm on that
[16:44] <kim0> SpamapS: I can add a cloud section to harvest
[16:44] <kim0> I'd just need you guys to point at some jobs
[16:44] <kim0> the community can help with
[16:44] <kim0> that's really all for me .. don't forget .. flood me :)
[16:45] <smoser> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[16:45] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[16:45]  * RoAkSoAx has an announcement to make!
[16:45]  * kim0 makes drum roll
[16:45] <RoAkSoAx> The Cluster Stack is Finally in Main!!
[16:45] <kim0> woohooo
[16:45] <nijaba> \o/
[16:45] <SpamapS> oohhhh snap
[16:45] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx: Awesome!!
[16:45] <RoAkSoAx> Next steps are to enable some missing features, update to latest versions, and continue with the research on HA for UEC
[16:46] <nijaba> RoAkSoAx really rocks
[16:46] <RoAkSoAx> and will announce it via blog post and ML later today
[16:46] <kim0> RoAkSoAx: awesome
[16:46] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx: Does it need better docs?
[16:47] <RoAkSoAx> Daviey: well I wanna get docs into the server guide
[16:47] <RoAkSoAx> that's also what I've planned for this cycle
[16:47] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx -> talk with sommer... :)
[16:47] <smoser> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[16:47] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[16:47] <sommer> I'll help definitely
[16:47] <smoser> next meeting: Tuesday 2010-12-21 at 1600 UTC
[16:48] <Daviey> sommer: \o/
[16:48] <smoser> i'm sure it will be well attended, since lots of people will have more time for such things since they'll be taking vacation.
[16:48] <SpamapS> yeah the community will probably show up in droves. ;)
[16:49] <zul> ill be on vacation :)
[16:49] <JamesPage> me too :-)
[16:49] <Daviey> zul: Great... turn up as a community member :)
[16:49] <zul> Daviey: umm....no :)
[16:49] <kim0> hehe
[16:49] <smoser> #endmeeting
[16:49] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 10:49.
[16:49] <SpamapS> quick, shut it down!
[16:49]  * zul is going to go see tron that day
[16:49] <RoAkSoAx> lol
[16:49] <sommer> yay for tron!
[16:50] <RoAkSoAx> i could have watched it yesterday if I haven;t had to graduate
[16:50] <SpamapS> boo for sark!
[16:50] <SpamapS> RoAkSoAx: congrats!
[16:50] <Daviey> RoAkSoAx: priorities!
[16:50] <RoAkSoAx> thanks ;)
</pre>
