{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #ubuntu-meeting: ubuntu-server-team, 23 Aug at 16:00 &mdash; 16:17 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-08-23-16.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:01.

* '''rbasak update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting/IRCCommands to match correct urls''' (16:01)
* '''smoser: remember to take yourself off the chair list''' (16:02)

==== Yakkety Development ====
The discussion about "Yakkety Development" started at 16:02.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule 
* '''Release Bugs''' (16:02)

==== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)" started at 16:05.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)" started at 16:05.

** ''LINK:'' https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/ 
** ''ACTION:'' powersj  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)" started at 16:08.

==== Upcoming Call For Papers ====
The discussion about "Upcoming Call For Papers" started at 16:09.

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:14.

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:16.

==== Announce next meeting date, time and chair ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date, time and chair" started at 16:17.

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* powersj
** powersj to coordinate updating of triaging section in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* gnuoy (46)
* jgrimm (26)
* smb (9)
* nacc (8)
* powersj (7)
* meetingology (4)
* rharper (3)
* smoser (1)
* caribou (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:00 <gnuoy> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Aug 23 16:00:34 2016 UTC.  The chair is gnuoy. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:00 <meetingology> 

 16:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 16:00 <powersj> o/

 16:00 <nacc> o/

 16:00 <jgrimm> o/

 16:01 <gnuoy> I'll just give late arrivals a minute

 16:01 <smoser> o//

 16:01 <rharper> o/

 16:01 <gnuoy> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:01 <gnuoy> #subtopic rbasak update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting/IRCCommands to match correct urls

 16:01 <gnuoy> They looked good to me

 16:01 <gnuoy> I think that is done

 16:01 <jgrimm> gnuoy, rbasak is out this week

 16:01 <gnuoy> ack, ta

 16:01 <jgrimm> but agreed

 16:02 <gnuoy> #subtopic smoser: remember to take yourself off the chair list

 16:02 <jgrimm> lol

 16:02 <gnuoy> he did!

 16:02 <rharper> heh

 16:02 <gnuoy> #topic Yakkety Development

 16:02 <gnuoy> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule

 16:02 <jgrimm> post FF obviously

 16:02 <gnuoy> yep

 16:02 <gnuoy> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:03 <gnuoy> I see no link for that, there used to be didn't there?

 16:03 <jgrimm> oh.. yes, but i think rbasak was going to replace with a more useful link

 16:03 <gnuoy> ah, ok

 16:04 <gnuoy> Does anyone want to point at any bugs in particular?

 16:04 <nacc> probably woudl have been http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server prior

 16:04 <gnuoy> ta

 16:04 <jgrimm> nacc, yeah.. but that's mostly useless for a variety of reasons

 16:04 <nacc> jgrimm: yep, agreed

 16:04 <gnuoy> I'll move on unless someone wants to bring anything up here?

 16:05 <gnuoy> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)

 16:05 <jgrimm> i'm good.

 16:05 <gnuoy> any set of bugs or bug that anyone wants to bring up  here ?

 16:05 <caribou> nothing special this week

 16:05 <gnuoy> kk

 16:05 <gnuoy> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)

 16:05 <gnuoy> #link https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/

 16:05 <powersj> Working on an 'lxctest' wrapper for integration testing for cloud-init and curtin. Check in on various bugs and tickets this morning. Triage later, need to sync with nacc on who is doing what.

 16:06 <gnuoy> tip top

 16:06 <jgrimm> powersj: cpaelzer will be back tomorrow.. i want to rope him into the triage fun as well

 16:06 <powersj> jgrimm, ok! happy to have more help :)

 16:06 <nacc> jgrimm: should we take an action item ( powersj, myself or rbasak) to update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase 's triaging section at some point?

 16:06 <jgrimm> nacc, yes!

 16:07 <nacc> i'm 99% sure the schedule, e.g., is wrong

 16:07 <powersj> ah yes we were going to use friday's meeting to update that, but got to busy wtih triage

 16:07 <gnuoy> nacc, I don't know how to assign action to multiple people!

 16:07 <powersj> Give it to me

 16:07 <jgrimm> nacc, i was just doing some updates to the wiki today to remove old cruft .. so timely observation

 16:07 <jgrimm> thanks powersj

 16:07 <gnuoy> #action powersj  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

 16:07 * meetingology powersj  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

 16:07 <nacc> someone asked to join it on #ubuntu-server recently

 16:07 <gnuoy> powersj, thanks

 16:07 <nacc> powersj: thanks!

 16:07 <powersj> np

 16:08 <powersj> nacc, let's chat after this

 16:08 <nacc> powersj: +1

 16:08 <gnuoy> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)

 16:08 <smb> The 4.6 kernel update for yakkety unfortunately got delayed due to tooling/archive issues. I would expect a new attempt soonish, but I said something like that before

 16:09 <smb> The new libvirt-2.1.0 went up as planned

 16:09 <gnuoy> thanks for the update smb

 16:09 <gnuoy> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers

 16:09 <gnuoy> i dont have anything and no one else speaking up

 16:09 <jgrimm> smb, is there usually a corresponding update to python-libvirt needed?

 16:10 <jgrimm> smb, i haven't checked just noticed that versions seemed to be somewhat lockstepped in the past

 16:10 <smb> jgrimm, hm... probably that might have slipped through the cracks

 16:11 <jgrimm> smb, cool.. may not be relevant just a thought that crossed my mind reviewing outstanding merges

 16:11 <smb> jgrimm, Not sure either whether my limited upload rights are including that

 16:11 <smb> jgrimm, I guess it should be done

 16:11 <jgrimm> smb, if you don't have time let me know.. i'll find someone

 16:12 <smb> jgrimm, I think its not so much time as can do it

 16:12 * smb is no core-dev

 16:12 <jgrimm> smb, only has a single ubuntu patch.. hopefullly an easy merge

 16:13 <gnuoy> apologies for the trigger happy topic change

 16:13 <gnuoy> anyone know of any calls for papers?

 16:13 <jgrimm> smb, no worries, just let me know if you want to take or pass along

 16:13 <smb> jgrimm, I think I opt for pass along

 16:13 <jgrimm> smb, :)

 16:14 <jgrimm> thanks for tackling libvirt!

 16:14 <smb> yw

 16:14 <jgrimm> gnuoy, ok, i'm done

 16:14 <gnuoy> ta

 16:14 <gnuoy> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:14 <gnuoy> i'm giving this 15 seconds or so before moving to open dicsussion

 16:14 <jgrimm> linuxcon is on this week

 16:15 <gnuoy> anyone here attending?

 16:15 <jgrimm> good number of folks are there or presenting.  stgraber being one

 16:15 <gnuoy> kk

 16:16 <gnuoy> #topic Open Discussion

 16:16 <jgrimm> nada for me

 16:17 <gnuoy> on we go then

 16:17 <gnuoy> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair

 16:17 <gnuoy> next meeting will be Tuesday 2016-08-30 at 1600 UTC

 16:17 <gnuoy> chair will be rbasak

 16:17 <jgrimm> thanks gnuoy!

 16:17 <rharper> gnuoy: thanks!

 16:17 <gnuoy> Shall I skip the "ssigned merges/bugwork" topic ?

 16:17 <jgrimm> gnuoy, yep!

 16:17 <gnuoy> excellent

 16:17 <gnuoy> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
