{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
02:53	jsgotangco	mm let's wait a bit before we start
02:57	jsgotangco	are we set?
02:57	jjesse	i am :0
02:58	jsgotangco	great let's aim for quality then
02:58	jsgotangco	heh
02:58	kjcole	Here physically and virtually, but on my schedule, not mentally. ;-)
02:58	jjesse	is it too early to be here mentally kjcole
02:58	jjesse	?
02:58	jsgotangco	kjcole: are you on campus?
02:58	kjcole	Yep.
02:59	dholbach	do you have the agenda somewhere?
02:59	jsgotangco	ok
02:59	jsgotangco	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocteamMeetingAgenda
02:59	jsgotangco	who's here?
02:59	jjesse	me
=== jsgotangco -> Jerome Gotangco
02:59	kjcole	jsgotangco: Perhaps I should say I'm on MY campus: Gallaudet University...
=== dholbach is Daniel Holbach
03:00	kjcole	kjcole = Kevin Cole
03:00	Treenaks	kjcole: -color please
=== bshumate is Brian Shumate
03:01	jsgotangco	err anyone else?
=== jsgotangco grabs bhuvan
=== bhuvan [n=ubuntu@b14.gw.maa.collab.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== bhuvan [n=ubuntu@b14.gw.maa.collab.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
03:02	jsgotangco	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocteamMeetingAgenda is our agenda
03:02	dholbach	mdke told me, that my attendance was required regarding the future packaging of the ubuntu docs?
=== bhuvan [n=ubuntu@b14.gw.maa.collab.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== bhuvan [n=ubuntu@b14.gw.maa.collab.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
03:02	jsgotangco	i believe so
03:02	jsgotangco	hmm what's wrong with bhuvan
03:02	jsgotangco	anyways
03:02	jsgotangco	dholbach: are you in charge of the packaging now?
03:03	dholbach	yes
03:03	jsgotangco	or will you be mentoring someone?
03:03	jsgotangco	awesome...
03:03	dholbach	i had a brief look at the complete source of the svn, but was not able to figure it out yet
03:03	dholbach	i will investigate a bit more at the weekend
=== bhuvan [n=ubuntu@b14.gw.maa.collab.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:03	jsgotangco	okay bhuvan seems to be having problems on connecting
=== Riddell is JonathanRiddell
03:03	dholbach	regarding the one-source-package-story: i heard it somewhere and thought it was decided on already
03:04	jsgotangco	bhuvan: you ok now?
03:04	bhuvan	yeah
03:04	bhuvan	yes
03:04	jsgotangco	ok let's tackle 1 and 3 first since bhuvan will be leaving soon
03:04	bhuvan	any feedbacks/suggestions about w.u.c/ServerGuide ?
03:04	jsgotangco	bhuvan current wrote the spec for the server guide
03:04	jsgotangco	its located at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerGuide
03:04	jsgotangco	i haven't read it yet but it looks pretty comprehensive based on the TOC
03:04	bhuvan	today i wish to discuss about the topics, finalize couple of terminologies we may use in our serverguide
03:05	bhuvan	ok
03:05	dholbach	bhuvan: with whom do you work on this?
03:05	jsgotangco	bhuvan: do you plan to diverge from MAIN repos?
03:05	jjesse	bhuvan: just scanned it and it looks good
03:05	bhuvan	jsgotango, no
03:05	jsgotangco	ok so its all MAIN stuff then
03:05	bhuvan	dholbach, it's based on rhel admin guide
03:05	bhuvan	jsgotango, yes
03:06	bhuvan	jjesse, ok
03:06	jsgotangco	bhuvan: who are you working with at the moment, do you have a draft already?
=== jsgotangco just svn up
03:06	bhuvan	jsgotangco, no
03:06	jsgotangco	bhuvan: can we know your whole name if you don't mind?
03:06	bhuvan	i do've a template at http://puggy.symonds.net/~bhuvan/ubuntu-doc/build/generic/serverguide/C/  
03:07	dholbach	bhuvan: you might want to talk to fabbione, because he works on the server edition on the distro side
03:07	bhuvan	Bhuvaneswaran Arumugam
03:07	bhuvan	dholbach, sure
03:07	jsgotangco	shit my seat just fell
03:07	dholbach	bhuvan: and infinity, but i'm not quite sure
03:07	bhuvan	dholbach, ok
03:08	jsgotangco	yes
03:08	jsgotangco	anyways
03:08	jsgotangco	bhuvan has been contributing a lot with patches and stuff
03:08	bhuvan	and one page template at, http://puggy.symonds.net/~bhuvan/ubuntu-doc/build/generic/serverguide/C/serverguide-all.html
03:08	jsgotangco	i'd like to request svn access for him...
03:09	jsgotangco	bhuvan: what else do you need to help you on the project?
03:09	jsgotangco	resources, etc.?
03:09	bhuvan	jsgotangco, ok .. but, before that let me discuss about the terminologies we may use in our server guide
03:10	jsgotangco	okay
03:10	jsgotangco	shoot
03:10	kjcole	A question from someone new to the whole process: I keep seeing svn.  bzr/launchpad not ready enough for prime time? (Or am I so new to this that the question doesn't make sense?)
03:10	bhuvan	first, the editor. the choices are vi/vim/emacs. i prefer vim
03:11	ogra	i dont think we ship a plain vi
03:11	jsgotangco	kjcole: we've been using svn from the very start, a bzr transition will take time and planning and we'll need the lp team's help
03:11	Riddell	kjcole: at the time svn was set up baz had a steep learning curve.  bzr should be really good now but I think this cycle will stick with svn
03:11	dholbach	bhuvan: what do you mean? like rteferring to an editor in examples and such?
03:11	jsgotangco	kjcole: but we're going there
03:11	jsgotangco	how about nano?
03:11	jsgotangco	its pretty easy enough even for newbies imo
03:11	ogra	at least that the default
03:11	kjcole	I was going to mention nano...
03:12	Riddell	bhuvan: quanta, kate and presumably gedit are also choices
=== mgalvin [n=mgalvin@host-66-202-95-170.spr.choiceone.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:12	jsgotangco	Riddell: for servers? heh
03:12	ogra	Riddell, depends if you want to write the guide for servers with GUI
03:12	bhuvan	dholbach, i meant the editor we use to configure
03:12	bhuvan	dholbach, ie.. to edit conf files
03:12	bhuvan	Riddel, server wont have X. so we cant rely on gedit
03:12	jsgotangco	bhuvan: i'd go for nano, its pretty easy for beginners
03:12	ogra	jsgotangco, for edubuntu (a server distro) it would be appropriate
03:13	dholbach	i would say "edit bla file" and maybe in the first paragraph mention howtos for the editors *shrug*
03:13	kjcole	(If nano's in the mix a "-bkw" would be a useful default/alias somewhere.)
03:13	jsgotangco	vi/vim is like a chapter on linux in a nutshell :)
03:13	jsgotangco	and probably make a back up of the default conf files first before editing..
03:14	bhuvan	jsgotangco, ok
03:14	Riddell	bhuvan: I would assume nano then but have small chapters for vim and emacs as well
03:14	bhuvan	dholbach, i prefer to be specific with the editor to use
03:14	dholbach	yeah, that was merely my own opinion ;)
03:14	bhuvan	dholbach, ok
03:14	jsgotangco	bhuvan: maybe mention that in the beginning that you're going to use nano but you're free to use any editor...
03:14	jsgotangco	at least you'll have a scope/limitation on the editor part
03:14	bhuvan	jsgotangco, ok
03:15	bhuvan	ok
03:15	jsgotangco	k anything else bhuvan?
03:15	bhuvan	next, package manager
03:15	bhuvan	choices are apt-get/aptitude. i prefer apt-get
03:16	jjesse	it would make sense on the server to use apt-get, no gui is instaleld by default
03:16	ogra	me too, but aptitude is far more beginner friendly
03:16	kjcole	(Sorry: -Bkw (-B=backup, -k=kill from cursor to line end instead of entire line, and -w=no unsolicited wordwrapping.)
03:16	bhuvan	jjesse, i agree
03:16	jsgotangco	aptitude at least has a gui of sorts
03:17	jjesse	why is aptitude considered more newbie friendly?  when i started using linux it was debian and i learned apt-get
03:17	bhuvan	jjesse, me too..
03:17	Riddell	I could never get the hang of aptitude
03:17	jjesse	me either
03:17	ogra	jjesse, imagine a win 2000 adim in such a environment
03:17	ogra	*admin
03:17	Riddell	bhuvan: will there be a general introduction to the command line chapter?
03:17	bhuvan	imo, if he is used to command line, then apt-get would be a cake-walk
03:17	jjesse	ogra i am a windows admin
03:17	ogra	he'd kiss your feet for at least some gui love
03:17	jjesse	that's what i do for a living
03:17	Riddell	ogra: he's want to use adept/synaptic then
03:17	bhuvan	Riddel: general introduction ?
03:18	Riddell	jjesse's dirty secret :)
03:18	ogra	jjesse, but *you* know debian based systems ...
03:18	jsgotangco	your toc contains aptitude or maybe its still wip?
03:18	jjesse	but i started using linux after i was a windows admin
03:18	Riddell	bhuvan: yeah, introducing GUI users to the command line
03:19	bhuvan	in any case, we may give an introduction about all possible package manager
03:19	ogra	jjesse, sure, i mean the guy who heard about linux and wants to try out the one a friend recommended it to him... to probably adopt it for his setup
03:19	bhuvan	Riddell, ok
03:19	jsgotangco	well apt is definitely more popular than aptitude...
03:19	ogra	sure
03:19	kjcole	Will the average admin use much more than update, upgrade, dist-upgrade and install?  (Once in a while remove or clean.)  Doesn't seem too complex...
03:19	bhuvan	so, shall we decide on apt-get ?
03:20	jjesse	+1 from me
03:20	jsgotangco	i'd go for apt
03:20	ogra	as i said intially, i prefer it personally... but for newcomers i'd suggest aptitude ..
03:20	bhuvan	cool
03:21	jsgotangco	ok so we're cool on apt?
03:21	Riddell	+ 1 for apt, -1 for aptitude including for beginners
03:21	jjesse	heck if its in the guide then the "newbies" will learn apt :)
=== jane_ [n=JaneW@wbs-146-188-200.telkomadsl.co.za] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:21	bhuvan	ok
03:21	jsgotangco	nice
03:21	bhuvan	next regarding contribution ?
03:21	jsgotangco	sure
03:21	jsgotangco	contribution on what?
03:21	bhuvan	i may cover most part of sys conf/network related applications
03:21	bhuvan	any takes for windows networking/misc stuffs ?
03:22	bhuvan	s/takes/($1)ers
03:22	jsgotangco	samba for example?
03:22	bhuvan	jsgotangco, exactly
03:22	jsgotangco	hmmm if you can finalize your TOC i can make a draft of samba stuff...
03:23	jjesse	as a windows admin i can look into it
03:23	bhuvan	cool
03:23	jsgotangco	and probably some on bind and dncp
03:23	bhuvan	ok
03:23	bhuvan	hope you meant dhcp ?
03:23	jsgotangco	yes
03:23	Riddell	bhuvan: the synaptic chapter should really be an adept chapter when included in kubuntu, I wonder if it's possible to use profiles for that
03:24	bhuvan	Riddell: i guess, we're going to have one generic server guide
03:24	jjesse	Riddell: if i recall we tried to use profiles at one time and it messed things up?
03:24	jsgotangco	bhuvan: are you planning to add gui stuff? i assume this is all cli
03:24	jjesse	bhuvan: the doc would be included on the kubuntu install if the person typed server at the install
03:24	ogra	Riddell, you'll stay with adept ?
03:25	Kamion	apt-get/aptitude> note that aptitude provides a perfectly good command-line replacement for apt-get; consider that as well as its UI
03:25	Riddell	bhuvan: yes, kubuntu docs should include the server guide, synaptic is the only chapter I can see that ought to be changed somehow, not a huge issue though
03:25	jjesse	for kubntu yeah we will
03:25	Riddell	ogra: of course, why not?
03:25	jsgotangco	ogra: will the default edubuntu install still have gnome running on the server?
03:25	bhuvan	Riddell, good point. we can include it
03:25	ogra	jsgotangco, yes
03:25	bhuvan	any target date to freeze the toc ?
03:26	ogra	jsgotangco, it needs a installed desktop...  (no need for a running one though... but gdm doesnt cost much)
03:26	jsgotangco	bhuvan: there's no LTSP on the TOC
03:26	bhuvan	jsgotangco, ok
03:26	ogra	Riddell, its UI reminds on bugzilla :)
03:27	jsgotangco	lol
03:27	bhuvan	jsgotangco, i'll add
03:27	jsgotangco	bhuvan: great
03:27	jsgotangco	what else
03:27	bhuvan	i repeat, any target date to freeze the toc ?
03:27	jsgotangco	mgalvin: anything to say on the server doc?
03:27	jsgotangco	bhuvan: its your call
03:27	kjcole	This is where I should probably dig myself a bigger hole: Jeff Elkner and I are theoretically working on an Edubuntu Cookbook based on the tuxLab Howto...  The LTSP stuff will be in there, no doubt.
03:28	jsgotangco	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerGuide looks good at the moment
03:28	bhuvan	jsgotangco, ok
03:28	ogra	kjcole, thats fine ...
03:28	bhuvan	fine
03:28	jsgotangco	kjcole: sure
03:28	jbailey	kjcole: Cookbook?  "How to fry your thin client: Just add water"
03:28	bhuvan	guess, we can move on to (3)
03:28	dholbach	haha :)
03:28	jjesse	1
03:28	ogra	kjcole, the server guide they are talking about is rather "how do i install all ltsp stuff manually on a non-edubuntu"
03:28	jsgotangco	ok since bhuvan will be leaving let's jump to 3
03:28	jjesse	doh wrong window
03:29	ogra	kjcole, while edubuntu comes preconfigured ;)
03:29	jsgotangco	Quicktour - XML or HTML
03:29	jsgotangco	?
03:29	bhuvan	yeah, we're maintaining the html version in our svn
03:29	mgalvin	jsgotangco: I have only been partly following the meeting, is the server guide going to be about ubuntu-server or ubuntu as a server
03:29	bhuvan	imo, it's odd. let's convert it into xml ?
03:30	jsgotangco	mgalvin: ubuntu-server
03:30	jjesse	i thought it was about ubuntu-server
03:30	bhuvan	+ howto use ubuntu as a complete server
03:30	mgalvin	ok, just clarifying for myself, thnx
03:30	jsgotangco	bhuvan: mgalvin has been working on "instant server" along with fabbione and others you might want to talk with them too
03:30	Riddell	ubuntu-server doesn't have synaptic then
03:31	bhuvan	jsgotangco, yeah, i'm aware of it
=== Hirion [n=Hirion@p5487F41D.dip.t-dialin.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:31	bhuvan	jsgotangco, sure i'll
03:31	jsgotangco	ok can we jump on 3 then?
03:31	bhuvan	i already had :)
03:31	jsgotangco	ok
03:31	jsgotangco	what's wrong with the html
03:31	jsgotangco	:)
03:31	Riddell	what's the issues for XML or docbook?  HTML can't be translated easily presumably but docbook needs clever stylesheets and might restrict layout?
03:32	bhuvan	it looks odd, let's convert it into xml and maintain the uniformity accross the repo
03:32	jsgotangco	i believe its in xhtml so its can be translated
03:32	mgalvin	i don't have any suggestions atm, i will read the meeting log when i have time and post any comments to the list (i am busy back and forth a bit atm)
03:32	bhuvan	xml gives flexibility to convert between html/pdf ..
03:32	bhuvan	if need be..
03:32	jsgotangco	but if its going to be converted to xml, it can be flexible
03:33	bhuvan	mgalvin, thankx
03:33	bhuvan	jsgotangco, yes
03:33	jsgotangco	it was converted before, but its a very simple document really
03:33	jsgotangco	but anyways,
03:33	jbailey	The html issue is that there's no trivial way to associate other languages with it.  In docbook, you can have multiple omf files that give links to the right languages.
03:33	jsgotangco	jbailey: right...
03:33	jbailey	So it's not the document itself so much as the things *using* the documents.
03:33	jsgotangco	scrollkeeper lovely :)
03:33	jbailey	Right.
03:34	jsgotangco	anyayws, docbook always was the choice we're smart enough to transform any xml document :)
03:34	bhuvan	so, we can maintain xml ?
03:34	jbailey	That said, if what you're producing is documentation, there shouldn't be so much need for crazy styling - docbook is good enouhg to produce books. =)
03:34	jsgotangco	yes
03:34	jbailey	It's mostly when you're doing things like the firefox about page that converting from docbook will always suck.
03:34	bhuvan	cool
03:34	jjesse	i think the only question is how the quicktour will look then right?
03:35	jsgotangco	jjesse: sure but that would be voodoo css then heh
03:35	jsgotangco	we have 5 more months
03:35	jsgotangco	ok so we settled on xml then
03:35	jsgotangco	its only 1 document
03:35	jsgotangco	:)
03:35	bhuvan	jsgotangco, thankx
03:36	bhuvan	* time to start to "HARRY POTTER and the gobert of fire"
03:36	jsgotangco	bhuvan: can you update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocteamProjects to reflect your changes
03:36	jsgotangco	lol
03:36	jsgotangco	thanks bhuvan
03:36	jsgotangco	we'll request svn access for you
03:36	bhuvan	jsgotangco, ok
03:36	bhuvan	jsgotangco, ok
03:36	jsgotangco	bhuvan: have your gpg key ready
03:36	bhuvan	jsgotangco, yes
03:36	bhuvan	in lp
03:36	jsgotangco	yes
03:36	jsgotangco	ok we go back to 2
03:37	jsgotangco	Packaging - single source package to be used for {edu}{k}ubuntu? (mdke and dholbach)
03:37	bhuvan	bye bye
03:37	jsgotangco	dholbach?
03:37	dholbach	yeah... it was my misunderstanding... i thought that "one source package for all the docs" was decided on already
03:37	jsgotangco	does this mean all docs will be in one package?
03:37	dholbach	if there are no shared chapters between docs, it might make sense to have them separately
03:38	ogra	edubuntu will have pretty specific docs
03:38	jsgotangco	yeah
03:38	jjesse	as will kubuntu
03:38	dholbach	no... one source package can build a huge lot of binary packages
03:38	jsgotangco	this doesn't make sense to me really
03:38	jjesse	we aren't profilling
03:38	ogra	so a additional edubuntu-docs package should be fine
03:38	jsgotangco	they only have shared libs on svn
03:38	jsgotangco	but not on the doc itself
03:38	dholbach	i'm talking about a SOURCE package :)
03:38	Riddell	there are shared docs too, like server guide
03:38	jbailey	You can also make an ubuntu-docs-common
03:38	jbailey	For shared bits
03:38	dholbach	yeah
=== dholbach hugs jbailey
03:39	jbailey	Just make sure you update the DapperStandardsBase bits if you do that, please.
03:39	Riddell	although, kubuntu might want different stylesheets and output compated to ubuntu
03:39	jbailey	For branding, we specifically said that ubuntu-docs could be overridden.
03:39	jsgotangco	very different stylesheets
03:39	dholbach	yeah... let's just drop the idea
03:39	jsgotangco	jbailey: because its possible that oems would want to do their own docs right?
03:39	dholbach	it was my misunderstanding, sorry
03:39	jbailey	jsgotangco: Right.
03:39	ogra	the -coomon package idea sounds very cool
03:40	ogra	*-common
03:40	jsgotangco	yes
03:40	dholbach	ogra, Riddell: so the three of us will take care of the packages?
03:40	jsgotangco	we can dump all the libs and license stuff on -common i guess
03:40	ogra	dholbach, i'll care for edubuntu-docs
03:40	dholbach	cool
03:40	Riddell	dholbach: ok, but if you set up e.g. scripts to do weekly uploads then mind and include us
03:40	jbailey	How I would do it, I think, for a -common would be to have that in a separate repo, decide on those styles and lock 'em down early if you can.  Any change to those will start to affect a lot of packages.
03:41	dholbach	Riddell: same goes for you :)
03:41	jsgotangco	jbailey: the -common would probably start on the svn itself...
03:41	jjesse	i would be fore setting up styles and everything, that way i wouldn't have to always bug riddell over and over again :)
03:42	jsgotangco	is *-common good for us?
03:42	jsgotangco	or needs further discussion
03:43	jbailey	I think further.
03:43	jjesse	well are we going to have diff
03:43	jjesse	sorry
03:43	jjesse	wrong window
03:43	jbailey	I've seen people say 'yay' and people say 'kubuntu and ubuntu might want different styles'
03:44	ogra	edubuntu as well :)
03:44	jsgotangco	ok
03:44	Riddell	I don't think -common would work with different styles
03:44	jsgotangco	its a good base of discussion though
03:45	jsgotangco	ok so we'll move this on the list then
03:45	ogra	Riddell, do you use lsb-release ?
03:45	jsgotangco	Removal of "K" from the front of Kubuntu documents
03:45	jsgotangco	?
03:46	Riddell	ogra: for what?
03:46	jsgotangco	like my original kquickguide.xml?
03:46	ogra	Riddell, to set it to Kubuntu insterad of Ubuntu
03:46	kjcole	Well, the wiki allows me to change styles, and lots of HTML comes with alternate styles...  Is it a silly idea to have multiple styles and some scripts for each variant (k-, edu-) set a default style while offering up the alternatives?
03:46	ogra	Riddell, see lsb_release -a
03:47	jsgotangco	jjesse: ?
03:47	Riddell	ogra: no, the kubuntu /etc/lsb-release file is the same as for ubuntu
03:47	ogra	Riddell, we could add a debconf setting to select the right style based on lsb-release, if we both would start setting the right value there
03:47	jjesse	sorry work called missed
03:47	jsgotangco	jjesse: removal of K?
03:47	Riddell	yes please :)
03:48	jsgotangco	does it bork the doc?
03:48	Riddell	the documents are already in the kubuntu directory as a namespace
03:49	Riddell	also the Makefile targets are hard to understand acronyms like kak, which should be changed to e.g.  make about-kubuntu
03:49	Riddell	I think that affects the ubuntu docs too, it's just a wee thing to make it less user friendly
03:50	jsgotangco	well that's true and kak sounds like turd
03:50	Riddell	yep :)
03:51	Riddell	so that's agreed, just a question of if me or jjesse does it and does the ubuntu Makefile follow
03:51	jsgotangco	anyways, i was just having fun back then when i did the kname on the doc
03:51	Riddell	ah hah, it's all jsgotangco's fault :)
03:51	jsgotangco	heh
03:51	jjesse	sorry back from work
03:52	jsgotangco	the kname doesn't really affect much of the doc itself unless there were some magic involved that i didn't see at all :)
03:52	jjesse	like i said over email only thing to do would be to change the make file and rename the docs on svn right?
03:52	jsgotangco	yes basically
03:52	Riddell	jjesse: yes.  so me or you to do it?
03:52	jsgotangco	they don't link back to the other docs
03:53	jjesse	i can do it today
03:53	Riddell	groovy
03:53	Kamion	ogra: NOOOOO
03:53	jjesse	it looks like a slow day at work :)
03:53	Kamion	ogra: lsb-release is not going to be polluted by debconf madness
03:53	jsgotangco	ok that's settled then
03:53	jsgotangco	Moving locale C --> en?
03:53	jsgotangco	hmmm
03:53	jsgotangco	this is a gnome thing
03:53	jsgotangco	dholbach: ping?
03:54	dholbach	pong
03:54	jsgotangco	is locale C really required instead of en?
03:54	Kamion	ogra: nor can it possibly return different values for Ubuntu and Kubuntu, since both are built out of the same archive
03:54	dholbach	jsgotangco: what do you want to change?
03:54	ogra	Kamion, i dont want to pollute it, i wanted to read from it
03:54	jbailey	The C locale is the fall back one.
03:54	jbailey	en isn't usually the fallback.
03:54	Riddell	Kamion: and presumably same for edubuntu
03:55	jsgotangco	jbailey: this messes up other installs say FR?
03:55	jsgotangco	if the fallback isn't C?
03:55	jbailey	Well, you'd have to teach scrollkeeper that the fallback was en instead.
03:55	Kamion	Riddell: yes, hence ogra should know this
03:55	jsgotangco	jbailey: nice
03:56	jsgotangco	that'll probably bork the other upstream stuff then
03:56	dholbach	why would you want to change it in the first place?
03:57	jsgotangco	well one member raised it before
03:57	dholbach	mh
03:57	jsgotangco	i think it messes up transformation of sorts
03:57	jsgotangco	don't really remember the technical details
03:57	jsgotangco	we can move this to list
03:57	dholbach	i see
03:57	jbailey	I'd be inclined to put it with a "provide technical reasons, come again soon"
03:58	jsgotangco	jeff schering isn't here...
03:58	jsgotangco	jbailey: i'll make a comment on that then
03:58	jsgotangco	anyways
03:58	jsgotangco	not much members came anyways
03:58	jsgotangco	i'd like to discuss docteam member stuff
03:58	jsgotangco	and get opinion from those here
03:58	jsgotangco	:)
03:58	dholbach	if there's nothing you want with me right now, i'd leave to grab something to eat and take my dog out
03:59	jbailey	dholbach: Woking the dog?
03:59	jsgotangco	dholbach: cool i think we're done
03:59	jsgotangco	dholbach: don't work your dog man
03:59	dholbach	jbailey: errrr no :)
03:59	jsgotangco	poor murphy
03:59	ogra	jbailey, hey, we are not in chinatown anymore
03:59	dholbach	...
03:59	dholbach	this is the right time to leave :)
03:59	ogra	heh
03:59	dholbach	see you later guys and thanks for the meeting
03:59	jsgotangco	anyways
03:59	jsgotangco	https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-doc has the current membership
04:00	jsgotangco	obviously its restricted membership
04:00	jsgotangco	but i'd like to ask if its reasonable that we make members with svn access to sign the coc
04:00	jsgotangco	mandatory :)
04:00	jsgotangco	besides we upload too in ubuntu servers
04:01	jbailey	I would be inclined to simply restrict svn commit access to members.
04:01	jbailey	Anyone who's contrib'd a bunch of things can qualify as a member.
04:01	jjesse	i think members should sign the CoC
04:01	jjesse	but don't give svn access to all members
04:01	jsgotangco	jbailey: of course...but i'm inclined that team members sign the coc too
04:01	jjesse	not all members commit correct?
=== Riddell notes dual use of word "member" here
04:01	jbailey	Riddell: Right, sorry.
04:02	jbailey	I meant, restrict SVN commit to Ubuntu members.
04:02	jsgotangco	jbailey: ahhhh
04:02	jbailey	And encourage folks who are active contributors to get their Ubuntu membership anyway, since it integrates them into the Ubuntu community in general.
04:02	kjcole	In my blundering around in launchpad, I've created teams that were probably better left uncreated, one of which was the Edubuntu Cookbook team.
04:02	jsgotangco	good point
04:03	jsgotangco	kjcole: sure go crazy in lp anyways...
04:03	jjesse	or like the team of all jonathans that one day i was a member of :)
04:03	kjcole	So, speaking of docs, there needs to be more Launchpad docs for people like me. ;-)
04:03	Riddell	jjesse: you arn't any more?  changed your name?
04:03	jsgotangco	jbailey: i probably got 1 or 2 people in the team list with commit access but not an ubuntu-member though...
04:04	jsgotangco	kjcole: well https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocteamProjects has a sampling of current work
04:04	jsgotangco	(Edubuntu used to be there btw)
04:04	jbailey	jsgotangco: Right, but if they've contributed enough to get svn access, then they've certainly done enough to become an Ubuntu member
04:05	jsgotangco	sure if it interests them at all (one don't)
04:05	jbailey	Do you really think it would be a blocked?
04:05	jbailey	blocker, rather?
04:06	jsgotangco	not really, but i'd have them sign the coc since they do work in ubuntu servers for one
04:06	jsgotangco	being a -member is their own choice
04:06	Riddell	only blocking would be a time issue, 2 weeks to next CC meeting then however long to get an SVN account is a hassle
04:06	jsgotangco	but any current -member can easily get svn access sure
04:07	jjesse	boss was around, Riddell i'm no longer amember of that team
04:07	jjesse	i didn't change name or antying
04:08	jsgotangco	what team?
04:08	jjesse	the all jonathan's team
04:08	Riddell	jjesse: I don't seem to be either, wonder where it's gone
04:08	jsgotangco	lol ok
04:08	jjesse	didthe team get deleted?
04:08	jsgotangco	anyways
04:08	jsgotangco	this needs more discussion
04:08	jsgotangco	and more ubuntu-doc members
04:08	jsgotangco	its probably a good cc topic too, not just for ubuntu-doc but for other teams
04:08	Riddell	I agree with jbailey though, just make sure everyone is an ubuntu member
04:09	jjesse	can i just say that AS/400 query sucks
04:09	jbailey	jjesse: This isn't news. =)
04:09	jbailey	But sometimes I miss green text on a black background. =)
04:09	jjesse	not news for me either, but i hate working w/ it :(
04:09	jbailey	jsgotangco: Will you bring it up with the CC?
04:09	jjesse	they want to move here from green screen to in the web browser
04:09	jsgotangco	Riddell: that's really a good suggestion and makes sure the one who commits actually went through the acid test
04:10	jsgotangco	jbailey: i need to ask the other guys (burgundavia, mdke, rob, etc.)
04:10	jbailey	jsgotangco: And the you don't necessarily need to worry about CoC for people without SVN because it's always getting filtered through someone who has.
04:10	Riddell	jjesse: ah https://launchpad.net/people/jouuamaoe
04:10	jjesse	i would vote for svn access go to members
04:10	jjesse	my subscription has been deactivated
04:10	jsgotangco	ubuntu-members is already settled they're whitelisted then
04:11	jsgotangco	the question now is svn access be restriected to ubuntu-members, meaning potential contributors need to become an ubuntu-member
=== jsgotangco is warming up on the thought just now...
04:12	jjesse	based on the amount of patches they submitted to the mailing list they would be good canidates for inclusion to ubuntu-members, shows theyare dedicated
04:12	jsgotangco	yes
04:12	jsgotangco	kjcole: what's the plan on the cookbook?
04:13	kjcole	Sorry, stepped away for a minute.
04:13	kjcole	jsgotangco: Plan? We don't need no stinking plan!
04:13	jsgotangco	that's the spirit!
04:14	jsgotangco	bshumate: you there mate? you got any questions while we're still here?
04:14	jsgotangco	we can wrap up now
04:14	jsgotangco	hmm
04:14	jsgotangco	alright
04:14	Riddell	has any work started on the ubuntu desktop doc?
04:14	kjcole	Honestly, I don't know.  As I mentioned at the Edubuntu meeting two days ago, I wasn't at the table when I got committed to doing it.  (I was off in another room with the LTSP people.)
04:14	bshumate	i am here...no questions.  very professional bunch ya got here!
04:15	bshumate	jsgotangco: can i e-mail you later with any other questions though?
04:15	jsgotangco	Riddell: last time i looked at it, a lot of screenshots got moved
04:16	jsgotangco	bshumate: sure dude
04:16	kjcole	So, I'm learning about things like XML, docbook, LTSP, revision management, and oh... Edubuntu.  None of which I've used.  Jeff who's the other member of the team has at least used LTSP.
04:17	jsgotangco	kjcole: i started with zero too last year when i joined the project really
04:17	jsgotangco	anyways we had a good meeting
04:17	jsgotangco	hopefully the next will have more people (mdke, burg, etc.)
04:17	jjesse	Riddell: i've started a little on the kubuntu desktop guide but nothing ready to be commited
04:18	kjcole	Well, I'm willing, and hopefully able, just not quite ready.  Soon though.
04:18	jsgotangco	i'll post the minutes tommorow
04:18	jsgotangco	next meeting in 2 weeks, 22:00UTC!!!!
04:18	jjesse	keep the launchpad calendar updated
04:18	kjcole	See ya.
04:18	jsgotangco	oh crap dec. 2
04:18	jsgotangco	i'll be in seoul
04:18	jsgotangco	jeezz
04:18	jsgotangco	anways
04:18	jsgotangco	dec. 2, 2200UTC!
04:19	jsgotangco	adjourned!

</pre>
