{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** gaughen to raise sessions of vUDS
* T Development
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

Jamespage pointed out that "we are in freeze - release team are reviewing all uploads to main components; universe still going through on auto BUT you still need FFe's for major bumps in function."

Beisner is running iso tests and has found some regressions in maas (bug 1298559).  Everyone who has time is encouraged to go through iso tests - "find and fix bugs, test isos, deploy openstack, run clouds, test stuff and MAKE IT GREAT"  (-Jamespage).

Everyone is asked to make sure their blueprints are uptodate.

Psivaa pointed out that lvm d-i installs are currently failing (bug 1300072).  Beisner points out "workaround is F4 to minimal installation, then it proceeds.".

Hallyn asked that anyone using qemu in trusty give the 2.0 candidate (in ppa:ubuntu-virt/candidate) a go, as we are hoping to push that into trusty the moment upstream pushes the release.

===== Meeting Actions =====

ACTION Serge to drop the arm server item from agenda

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, May 31st at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:01] <hallyn> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:01] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Apr  1 16:01:40 2014 UTC.  The chair is hallyn. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:01] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:01] <hallyn> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:01] <hallyn> gaughen to raise sessions of vUDS.
[16:01] <hallyn> gaughen: ^ ?
[16:02] <gaughen> hallyn, that is so 3 weeks ago
[16:02] <hallyn> gaughen: someone should have updated that :-)
[16:02] <hallyn> excelelnt, done,
[16:02] <gaughen> who could that be?  ;-)
[16:02] <hallyn> #topic T Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: T Development
[16:02] <hallyn> who wants to take this?  jamespage?
[16:02] <zul> i blame menudo
[16:03] <jamespage> ok
[16:03] <gaughen> zul don't go blaming ricky martin
[16:03] <jamespage> soooo.....
[16:03]  * hallyn makes a note to lsiten to some menudo on youtube
[16:03]  * rharper runs away
[16:03] <jamespage> we are now in final freeze - release team are reviewing all uploads to main components; universe still going through on auto BUT you still need FFe's for major bumps un function
[16:04] <hallyn> wait, i thought final freeze was apr  8?
[16:04] <hallyn> 9
[16:04] <jamespage> sorry - not final freeze - just freeze
[16:04] <jamespage> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-t-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:04] <hallyn> ok :)
[16:04] <hallyn> (phew)
[16:05] <jamespage> quite a few bugs should close out today/tomorrow as the rc1 for icehouse goes through
[16:05] <jamespage> we have one major bug for MAAS install off iso (well found beisner)
[16:05] <jamespage> but I can't actually find the bug now
[16:05] <jamespage> gah
[16:05] <zul> then it doesnt exist then
[16:06] <hallyn> bugcount--
[16:06] <jamespage> bug 1298559
[16:06]  * zul sticks his finger in his ears and goes lalalala
[16:06] <ubottu> bug 1298559 in maas (Ubuntu) "Internal Server Error after installing MAAS from Trusty daily ISO" [Critical,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1298559
[16:06] <jamespage> yikes!
[16:06] <jamespage> anyway - roaksoax is on it
[16:06] <beisner> fyi i'm running other server iso tests manually as we meet/speak/type.
[16:07] <jamespage> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-t/group/topic-t-servercloud-overview.html
[16:07] <jamespage> beisner, ++
[16:07] <jamespage> thanks
[16:07] <beisner> welcome!
[16:07] <jamespage> I appreciate everyone is real busy but sometime between now and release do take time to review your blueprints and update WI's
[16:08] <jamespage> and think about what did not get done this cycle and need to be done next cycle
[16:08] <jamespage> but other than that - find and fix bugs, test isos, deploy openstack, run clouds, test stuff and MAKE IT GREAT
[16:08] <hallyn> q - if something is blocked past released, do we leave it 'blocked' or mark it 'postponed'?
[16:08] <jamespage> hallyn, that's all
[16:08] <jamespage> hallyn, I'd postpone it
[16:08] <hallyn> (blocked is more informative but seems to count against us in the tally)
[16:09] <hallyn> ok
[16:09] <jamespage> I generally use POSTPONED when I write my next BP
[16:09] <hallyn> thanks jamespage, moving on
[16:09] <jamespage> as the catchup itsm
[16:09] <hallyn> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:09] <caribou> hallyn: nothing particular here this week
[16:09] <hallyn> thanks, moving on,
[16:09] <hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
[16:09] <psivaa> hallyn: nothing much to report this week except:
[16:09] <psivaa> for information, lvm d-i installs are failing due to bug #1300072
[16:09] <psivaa> and applogies for not informing about the holiday last week
[16:09] <ubottu> bug 1300072 in parted (Ubuntu Trusty) "LVM installation fails - regression with parted 2.3-17" [Critical,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1300072
[16:10] <hallyn> yikes
[16:10] <beisner> psivaa, i just hit that on an iso install
[16:10] <hallyn> was about to say beisner is sure to hit that :)
[16:11] <hallyn> ok, any questions for psivaa ?
[16:11] <hallyn> if not, moving on,
[16:11] <hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
[16:11] <smb> Xen/xl and libvirt in T mostly working now. Some bits of polish missing (mainly a plan to be nice and allow migration of the xend managed domains to <something else>).
[16:11] <hallyn> do you have any updates for libvirt source pkg planned?
[16:11] <beisner> psivaa - workaround is F4 to minimal installation, then it proceeds.  :/
[16:11] <smb> hallyn, loosely
[16:12] <hallyn> (ok wem ight want to chat out of band to coordinate)
[16:12] <psivaa> beisner: ack, was detected in manual installs and smoke. i think the release team is working on a fix. thx
[16:12] <smb> hallyn, ok
[16:12] <hallyn> any questions for smb?
[16:13] <hallyn> ok thanks smb, moving on,
[16:13] <hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
[16:13] <rbasak> Nothing new to report. If there are no questions, I propose to drop this item from the agenda in future meetings, since this is usually an empty topic now.
[16:13] <hallyn> any objections?
[16:13] <zul> nope
[16:13] <hallyn> #action Serge to drop the arm server item from agenda
[16:13] <meetingology> ACTION: Serge to drop the arm server item from agenda
[16:14] <hallyn> thanks, moving on,
[16:14] <hallyn> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:14] <hallyn> going once,
[16:15] <hallyn> (i suspect with upcomgin release and subsequent sprint we don't have anything :)
[16:15] <hallyn> so going twice,
[16:15] <hallyn> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:15] <hallyn> so if anyone who regularly uses qemu has not yet tested the 2.0 candidate, i'd suggest doing so soon,
[16:16] <caribou> hallyn: anything particular to be attentive about ?
[16:16] <caribou> hallyn: I'll take it for a spin
[16:16] <hallyn> caribou: just makign sure everything still works for you,
[16:16] <caribou> hallyn: ok, will check
[16:16] <hallyn> thanks, bc i'm quite certin it'll be going on at this point,
[16:17] <hallyn> so if there are regressions we haven't hit yet it'd be good to find them
[16:17] <hallyn> there have been quite a few people testing, some bugs shaken out, so i think we're in good shape
[16:17] <hallyn> ok, any other topics?
[16:17] <hallyn> going once,
[16:17] <hallyn> going twice,
[16:17] <hallyn> then it only remains to
[16:17] <hallyn> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
[16:18] <hallyn> That'll be Tuesday April 8, usual time, usual place,
[16:18] <hallyn> with the illustrious rbasak chairing
[16:18] <hallyn> thanks everyone
[16:18] <hallyn> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[16:18] <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Apr  1 16:18:37 2014 UTC.
[16:18] <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-04-01-16.01.moin.txt
</pre>
