{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Dev Week -- Introduction to Quickly -- mterry  -- Wed, Aug 29th, 2012 ===
<pre>
[15:01] <mterry> Hello!
[15:01] <mterry> My name is Michael Terry, and I'm a maintainer of Quickly
[15:02] <mterry> I usually give introduction to Quickly talks during App Developer Week, but I'm also doing one this week, let me know in ubuntu-classroom-chat if you'd like things to be more toward the technical details of Quickly or not
[15:02] <mterry> So I'll start with a quick overview of Quickly and where we are now, what our plans are for 12.10 and 13.04
[15:02] <mterry> So Quickly is at core a way to get started developing very quickly
[15:03] <mterry> And not have to worry too much about packaging or how to get your app into Ubuntu
[15:03] <mterry> We make some opinionated choices (like Python, GTK+) that Ubuntu recommends, so that we can offer a better experience
[15:03] <mterry> But there are plenty of other "templates" that Quickly offers to do other things (like HTML5 or flash)
[15:04] <mterry> So why use Quickly or get involved with Quickly?
[15:04] <mterry> Well, I guess the reason to use it is for the above -- if you don't care about packaging and just want to get started  :)
[15:04] <mterry> If you're interested in contributing to Quickly, ask questions in the chat room and I can answer and explain
[15:05] <mterry> Always things to do, and we just started planning a bunch of work for 13.04
[15:05] <mterry> So, in 12.04, there are three templates: the normal Python+GTK one, a command line interface one, and a flash game one
[15:05] <mterry> There are also HTML5, Qt, Qt Quick, and a Unity Lens ones maintained by the community
[15:06] <ClassBot> eklok asked: can you work with Quickly via terminal and GUI?
[15:06] <mterry> Right now, it's designed to be used via the terminal only
[15:06] <mterry> But Michael Hall worked on a GTK frontend for it
[15:06] <mterry> quickly-gtk I believe
[15:06] <mterry>  https://launchpad.net/quickly-gtk
[15:07] <ClassBot> skizobass asked: Can you use Eclipse, PyDev for write a Python App with Quickly and then publish in the Software Center?
[15:07] <mterry> Yes and no
[15:07] <mterry> So we don't have integration with Eclipse or PyDev as such
[15:07] <mterry> But you could write such an app and stick it inside of a Quickly project with a small amount of work, I believe
[15:08] <mterry> What Quickly gives you is a skeleton project
[15:08] <mterry> And if you threw away some of the code it gives you and stick yours in, you'd get most of the benefits of Quickly that way
[15:08] <ClassBot> ben72 asked: in 12.04 quickly is the package to get right?
[15:09] <mterry> Yes
[15:09] <ClassBot> FlowRiser asked: What is the current workflow of Quickly ?
[15:09] <mterry> So let's say you want to start a project
[15:09] <mterry> You open a Terminal
[15:09] <mterry> You run "quickly create ubuntu-application test-project"
[15:10] <mterry> The ubuntu-application part there is choosing which template to use.
[15:10] <mterry> In our case, we want the default-ubuntu-recommendation, which is Python+GTK
[15:10] <mterry> Then, it will create a skeleton project and launch it
[15:10] <mterry> Close it out, "cd test-project", and you're sitting in your new project
[15:11] <mterry> You can now edit your code with "quickly edit" or package it with "quickly package".  I'll get to these commands in a bit
[15:11] <ClassBot> skizobass asked: Can you write and organize the code (classes, packages, etc) like Eclipse in Quickly?
[15:11] <mterry> I'm not sure how Eclipse is organized.  Hold on
[15:11] <mterry> The default skeleton gives you one directory/Python-module for your code
[15:12] <mterry> And also one Python module that it owns with boilerplate code
[15:12] <mterry> You put all your code in your module and Quickly's wrapper will call into it
[15:12] <mterry> So, as above, if you wanted to import an existing project into Quickly, you would replace that one module with your code
[15:13] <mterry> But as far as classes go, yes, Python and Quickly both encourage one-class-per-file
[15:13] <mterry> But you can do anything you want.  It's not as strictly enforced as, say, Java
[15:13] <ClassBot> nja asked: Will you be covering some Python in this session?
[15:13] <mterry> I hadn't planned to, no.  I think there are better resources than me for that
=== irfan_ is now known as van
[15:14] <mterry> OK, there are no more questions, so I'll start diving into using Quickly more
[15:14] <mterry> Before I forget, Quickly also has a built-in tutorial
[15:14] <mterry> If you don't want to listen to me blather
[15:14] <mterry> Run "quickly tutorial" in your project directory
[15:15] <mterry> But let's continue with my blathering
[15:15] <ClassBot> FlowRiser asked: I see that most of the languages you use require no compiling of the code; is there any chance we'll see a Cpp and GTK template?
[15:15] <mterry> That's certainly a possibility
[15:15] <mterry> But not something we've done yet
[15:15] <mterry> Quickly's template system lets someone write such a template easily
[15:15] <mterry> It just hasn't been done
[15:15] <mterry> We had some progress on a Vala template, which is compiled
[15:16] <mterry> But we've found in general, new users prefer non-compiled languages like HTML or Python
[15:16] <ClassBot> peaceisin asked: For using quickly, one need to know how to program in python?
[15:16] <mterry> Yes, at least for the default recommended template
[15:16] <mterry> Actually, for all the shipped templates.
[15:16] <mterry> But again, that's not necessarily true in the future
[15:17] <mterry> But is now
[15:17] <ClassBot> coalitians asked: Quickly is in python?
[15:17] <mterry> Yes.  Both the skeleton project and Quickly itself
[15:17] <ClassBot> BebopSteve asked: On "quickly edit," is there anything special about that?  Or can you just use a text editor of your choice
[15:17] <mterry> You can use the editor of your choice.  You can set either EDITOR or QUICKLY_EDITOR environment variables to change it
[15:17] <ClassBot> NickE asked: Does Quickly support Python 3 development?
[15:17] <mterry> Not yet
[15:18] <mterry> We want to support it, but it's looking like that will happen for 13.04
[15:18] <ClassBot> chilicuil asked: does quickly support all data bases?, or do I need to use libraries?
[15:18] <mterry> For that, you don't need special Quickly support
[15:18] <mterry> Just import the appropriate Python modules and go crazy
[15:19] <mterry> Quickly doesn't limit your choices of how you write your app.  It's just a wrapper around it, to provide some integration support into Ubuntu
[15:19] <mterry> OK
[15:19] <mterry> So another useful command to change your app, is "quickly design"
[15:19] <mterry> Which will bring up Glade, a GUI editor
[15:19] <mterry> How to use Glade is a whole 'nother talk, but it tries to be a point-and-click interface builder
=== thotp_ is now known as thotp
[15:20] <mterry> It helps to understand GTK a bit when using it
[15:20] <mterry> But the basic idea is that you can make new widgets in the pane on the left, place them in the middle, and adjust properties of widgets in the bottom right
[15:20] <ClassBot> chilicuil asked: Quickly is intent to produce desktop apps or Web ones?
[15:20] <mterry> Right now, desktop apps
[15:21] <mterry> We do have an HTML5 template in the community bundle that kind of blurs that a bit
[15:21] <mterry> But it
[15:21] <mterry> But it's still designed for the desktop (runs Python underneath)
[15:21] <ClassBot> green7 asked: Do we need to know GTK to use Quickly?
[15:21] <mterry> Yes, for the default template
[15:22] <mterry> Like for Glade
=== Unknown12290 is now known as waa3
[15:22] <ClassBot> nja asked: Where would you recommend we learn Python?
[15:22] <mterry> Dive Into Python is very good
[15:22] <mterry> http://www.diveintopython.net/
[15:23] <mterry> OK
[15:23] <mterry> So let's say you're comfortable with Glade and have made some changes (and we can come back to it)
[15:23] <mterry> If you want to see what your project looks like now, run "quickly run"
[15:24] <mterry> Which will load all your edited files and show you the current project state
[15:24] <mterry> One neat trick Quickly does is that when you add a widget, you frequently want to respond to user events on it
[15:24] <mterry> Like clicks or whatever
[15:24] <mterry> So Quickly makes it easy
[15:25] <mterry> If you add a widget named button1
[15:25] <mterry> You can just write a method in your window class called on_button1_clicked(self, widget, data=None)
[15:25] <mterry> And do what you need there
[15:25] <mterry> Quickly will notice that and hook up the widget to your method
[15:25] <mterry> You need to use the on_WIDGETNAME_SIGNALNAME format
[15:26] <mterry> And the signature will change depending on the signal type
[15:26] <mterry> See the GTK documentation for details on a given signal
[15:26] <ClassBot> green7 asked: Is there a difference between packaging and quickly run?
[15:26] <mterry> Yes
[15:26] <mterry> So quickly run is just a quick spot-check
[15:26] <mterry> It runs all the files from where they are in your project directory
[15:27] <mterry> But quickly package actually creates a Debian package file
[15:27] <mterry> Which you can install into your system if you're root
[15:27] <mterry> So let's say we ran 'quickly package' on our test-project program
[15:27] <mterry> It would give us a file like ../test-project_0.1_all.deb
[15:27] <mterry> We could then run "sudo dpkg -i ../test-project_0.1_all.deb" and install our new program
[15:28] <mterry> You'd see it show up in the dash and everything
=== yofel_ is now known as yofel
[15:28] <mterry> Before you seriously start packaging your app though, it's best to fill out some of the information in the 'setup.py' file
[15:28] <mterry> Like homepage and author
[15:28] <mterry> And to run "quickly license" to specify what the license of your program is
[15:29] <mterry> Because that's all important information before you start distributing it to other people
[15:29] <mterry> So let me talk about packaging a bit
[15:29] <mterry> Let's say we think this default app is amazing
[15:29] <mterry> And we want to distribute it to some friends
[15:30] <mterry> Well, first, you should test it locally with quickly package
[15:30] <mterry> Make sure that it installs fine
[15:30] <mterry> But if you want to share with a wider community, you might want to set up a PPA
[15:30] <mterry> Launchpad lets you have your own PPA where you can put packages and people can download them as you update the PPA
[15:31] <mterry> Let's say you've done that already (I can go into details if desired)
[15:31] <mterry> You'll also need GPG keys set up
[15:31] <mterry> And SSH keys
[15:31] <mterry> Launchpad has documentation on this
[15:31] <mterry> https://help.launchpad.net/YourAccount/ImportingYourPGPKey
[15:32] <mterry> https://help.launchpad.net/YourAccount/CreatingAnSSHKeyPair
[15:32] <mterry> But OK, let's say we've got our PPA set up
[15:32] <mterry> Then running "quickly share --ppa mterry/testing" will package up our project and upload it to my (mterry's) 'testing' PPA
[15:33] <mterry> quickly share will use a testing version like 0.1public1
[15:33] <mterry> Not a nice version
[15:33] <mterry> But it's because quickly share is best for uploading in-progress versions for wider testing
[15:33] <mterry> When you are ready to release for real, use "quickly release"
[15:33] <mterry> This will put it in a PPA but update the version to something nice like 12.08
[15:34] <mterry> Let me pause for questions
[15:34] <ClassBot> nja asked: What Python editor would you recommend?
[15:34] <mterry> I'm a luddite and like just simple gedit
[15:34] <mterry> So I may not be the best person to ask
=== marius is now known as Guest7295
[15:34] <mterry> I'm not even sure what other people would recommend
[15:34] <mterry> Chat room can help out I bet
[15:35] <mterry> OK, so I quickly covered share and release
[15:35] <mterry> Which are the two ways Quickly offers to share your project around via a PPA
[15:35] <mterry> But let's say you've finished really polishing your app and it's great now
[15:36] <mterry> You want to get it into the Ubuntu Software Center
[15:36] <mterry> Then you can use "quickly submitubuntu"
[15:36] <mterry> Which will also upload into a PPA
[15:36] <mterry> But will make various packaging changes that are required for Ubuntu Extras packages
[15:37] <mterry> If you want to test such changes locally, you can also run "quickly package --extras" to get a local Debian package file that also has those changes
[15:37] <mterry> (basically, it puts your application inside /opt instead of sprinkled around the filesystem like in /usr/bin and /usr/share)
[15:37] <ClassBot> green7 asked: Is Quickly recommended over usual PyGTK programming?
[15:37] <mterry> For an app that you want to share with other Ubuntu users, yes
[15:38] <mterry> But Quickly is really just a shell around usual PyGTK programming
[15:38] <mterry> It helps with packaging and integration, and a little bit of magic like I mentioned between Glade and your code
[15:38] <ClassBot> ironhalik asked: What's the backward compatibility situation like with Quickly and users using older Ubuntu releases? Are there any issues?
[15:39] <mterry> Should be small
[15:39] <mterry> Quickly injects a bit of code into your app (in, e.g., the test_project_lib/ folder)
[15:39] <mterry> So that will stay constant as you backport your app to older releases
[15:39] <mterry> The only thing that might cause problems is dependencies
[15:40] <mterry> So if you depend on a newer version of a package, or a package that didn't exist in older releases, obviously that's going to be a problem
[15:40] <mterry> But I believe Quickly itself should work well into the past.  12.04's version uses gobject-introspection for it's GTK/Python bindings
[15:41] <mterry> I don't know how far that goes back.  Like, I bet it doesn't work well in 10.04
[15:41] <mterry> But it should for 11.10 at least
[15:41] <ClassBot> gigix asked: Does Quickly binds your app strictlty to Ubuntu
[15:41] <mterry> No.  Not your app itself.
[15:41] <mterry> It offers different ways of making your life in Ubuntu easier
[15:41] <mterry> Like making a Debian package file and uploading to PPAs
[15:42] <mterry> But your code itself should not require Ubuntu features
[15:42] <ClassBot> FlowRiser asked: What are some good GTK resources ?
[15:42] <mterry> http://developer.gnome.org/ has some
[15:42] <mterry> http://developer.gnome.org/gtk3/stable/ is an API overview
[15:43] <mterry> And http://developer.ubuntu.com/resources/ has some
[15:43] <ClassBot> marcosb asked: Ruby template is on schedule?
[15:43] <mterry> Nope
[15:43] <mterry> :-/
[15:43] <mterry> I don't know who's working on one
[15:43] <mterry> But it's not on my radar
[15:44] <ClassBot> ben72 asked: is there a way to make quickly work with python 3 manually even though it's not supported? Yesterday we learned python 3 is the way to go for new applications. :)
[15:44] <mterry> Good question
[15:44] <mterry> Quickly is unfortunately lagging here
[15:44] <mterry> I agree Python3 is the way to go
[15:44] <mterry> But we couldn't get all our features working with it in time.  Notably, the packaging of your app
[15:45] <mterry> So you can certainly start a new Quickly app
[15:45] <mterry> And then port it to Python
[15:45] <mterry> 3
[15:45] <mterry> (Should be real simple)
[15:45] <mterry> But
[15:45] <mterry> You'll lose the ability to run "quickly package", share, release, or submitubuntu
[15:45] <mterry> :(
[15:46] <mterry> But you can take the Python2 packaging that Quickly would give you
[15:46] <mterry> (if you run quickly package before porting to Python 3)
[15:46] <mterry> Then modify the debian/ directory to work with Python 3 yourself
[15:46] <mterry> Then don't run "quickly package" youself...
[15:47] <mterry> You'll at least have the benefit of not having to start from scratch
[15:47] <mterry> Quickly can give you all the Python2 packaging and code and you can update to work with Python3
[15:47] <mterry> You just can't use Quickly's packaging support going forward
[15:47] <mterry> :(
[15:47] <mterry> OK
[15:48] <mterry> Quickly has a few other neat features
[15:48] <mterry> Like "quickly save"
[15:48] <mterry> Which will save all your changes into a version control system called bzr (bazaar)
[15:48] <mterry> Kind of like checkpointing your code after a set of related changes
[15:48] <mterry> You can use bzr directly (like "bzr diff") to see your current changes and such
[15:49] <mterry> bzr is great, and it integrates with Launchpad.  Like you can do "bzr push lp:~mterry/+junk/test-project"
[15:49] <mterry> To push all your code into Launchpad (under my account -- obviously change for your account)
[15:50] <mterry> +junk is just a trick Launchpad has to let you upload without having to choose a project
[15:50] <mterry> If you've registered your project in Launchpad, you can use it's name instead
[15:50] <mterry> But anyway, that's all Launchpad stuff, not Quickly stuff!
[15:50] <mterry> Just wanted to mention quickly save
[15:50] <ClassBot> There are 10 minutes remaining in the current session.
[15:50] <mterry> Another neat trick is "quickly add dialog new-dialog"
[15:51] <mterry> Let's say you want to add a save dialog or error dialog or something like that.  A common enough operation that Quickly gives a little help
[15:51] <mterry> It will create the code for you and add it to Glade (but you have to close Glade and relaunch with "quickly design")
[15:51] <mterry> And run "quickly edit" again to open up the new files
[15:51] <mterry> You'll see your new dialog in code and in Glade
[15:52] <mterry> Then just import it in your main window with "from project_name.DialogName import DialogName"
[15:52] <mterry> And instantiate it with "d = DialogName()"
[15:52] <mterry> You can use "quickly help" to see all the commands available and help for individual commands too
[15:52] <mterry> Like "quickly help save"
[15:52] <ClassBot> skizobass asked: When you create a new dialog with Quickly. How you separated the script from the main script?
[15:53] <mterry> Quickly will create a new python file in (e.g.) test_project/
[15:53] <mterry> So if you ran "quickly add dialog hello"
[15:53] <mterry> It will create a test_project/HelloDialog.py file
[15:53] <mterry> (I think I got that name right)
[15:53] <ClassBot> nja asked: Is there anything like .toString() in Python?
[15:53] <mterry> Yes
[15:54] <mterry> str()
[15:54] <mterry> so let's say I have an object
[15:54] <mterry> o
[15:54] <mterry> I do str(o)
[15:54] <mterry> to get a string
[15:54] <ClassBot> skizobass asked: Quickly separate the code automatically for each dialog ?
[15:54] <mterry> Yes, if you use the "quickly add dialog" command
[15:54] <mterry> You don't have to do that yourself
[15:54] <mterry> You can organize your code all you want when you write it
[15:54] <mterry> But when Quickly makes them, that's what it does
[15:55] <mterry> OK, I only have a few minutes left
[15:55] <mterry> I know this was a little scattered, but hopefully you have a better idea what Quickly is
[15:55] <mterry> And why you might want to use it
[15:55] <ClassBot> There are 5 minutes remaining in the current session.
[15:56] <mterry> Again, I recommend "quickly help" and "quickly tutorial" for exploring on your own
[15:56] <mterry> And http://developer.ubuntu.com/resources/app-developer-cookbook/all-recipes/ has some neat things you can do
[15:56] <mterry> As does all of  http://developer.ubuntu.com/resources
=== norbi is now known as Guest81889
[15:57] <mterry> Seems like no more questions.  Thanks everyone!
[15:58] <ClassBot> nja asked: In python, is it possible to have the same constructor with different arguments?
[15:58] <mterry> Yes and no
[15:58] <mterry> You'd use the same method
[15:59] <mterry> But you can have optional arguments like __init__(option1=None, option2=None)
</pre>
