{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

08:59 pitti      Hi
09:00 JaneW      hello
09:00 dholbach   hi
09:00 jbailey    *yawn*
09:00 doko       good morning
09:00 JaneW      jbailey: what's the time there?
09:00 jbailey    03h00
=== infinity [n=adconrad@loki.0c3.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:00 JaneW      ouch
09:00 daniels    kamion's our glorious leader today, innit?
=== mvo [n=egon@ip181.135.1511I-CUD12K-01.ish.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== iwj [n=ian@xenophobe.extern.relativity.greenend.org.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:01 JaneW      yup
09:01 JaneW      so should be swift and to the point \0/
09:01 pitti      jbailey: you would certainly agree to shifting the whole cycle 3 hours backwards, right? :)
09:01 daniels    JaneW: you appear to have an overly big head ;)
09:01 daniels    pitti: no way man, that means I get meetings at 0400
09:02 jbailey    pitti: I don't see how it would matter.  It would just make the next one 4am, wouldn't it?
09:02 jbailey    Or is it a 6 hours rotation?
09:02 JaneW      it was 4am for me last week :P
09:02 JaneW      is kamion here yet?
09:02 doko       daniels: you don't have meetings at 4am? we should change that ;-P
09:02 jbailey    pitti: My goal is to go out dancing on these nights and do my update from my 770 at some access point.
09:02 doko       Kamion has vacations?
09:03 infinity   Yes.
09:03 daniels    doko: no tany more I don't
09:03 infinity   And if you try to take them away from him, he WILL hurt you.
09:03 daniels    jbailey: six-hour rotation
09:03 pitti      jbailey: great idea
09:03 Mithrandir infinity: he was going to show up today for the meeting, AIUI.
09:03 JaneW      I shall start with my best BenC impersonation...
09:04 ogra       *yawn*
09:04 JaneW      BenC Hey. I don't think I'm going to be able to stay awake another 1.5 hours
09:04 JaneW      BenC here's my status:
09:04 JaneW      BenC * Major work this past week: Processed over 400 bugs on the kernel (all of them), closing ~175 (either by fixing, confirming they were fixed or closing because of inactivity). Needed this to be done before Flight 2 so that it was easier to process incoming bug reports.
09:04 JaneW      BenC * testing-server-hardware: Not started: Need to begin putting together the test suite.
09:04 JaneW      BenC * preventing-hardware-support-regressions: BLOCKED: Automated build system is under development. However, the free space on concordia is not stable enough to use (fluctuates daily). Current i386 build environment takes 3+Gigs (build+git-repo+ccache).
09:04 JaneW      BenC * ubuntu-server-kernel: In progress: Mostly done. Just need to add a server target for non-i386 architectures. These are much more simplistic than than the i386 kernels. Should be included with the next kernel upload (2.6.15-9.11).
09:04 JaneW      everyone happy with that?
09:05 infinity   Ecstatic.
09:05 JaneW      daniels: you want me to cut and paste you too?
09:05 daniels    yeah :)
09:05 daniels    ta
09:06 JaneW      daniels: this week: xorg rc3, fix a few FTBFSes, chase down bizzare xorg-server bug that makes it unusable on i810, start on making xserver-xorg maintainer scripts more clear, fix xvfb bugs, take the plunge and upgrade to udev new world order
09:06 JaneW      next week: leave tomorrow, fix xorg-server harder, continue on making scripts clear
09:06 JaneW      x-roadmap: keep on truckin'
09:06 JaneW      blocked: none
09:06 JaneW      xorg-server bug  -- core server bug that renders the whole thing unusable, and the inbuilt backtrace stuff doesn't give any BT at all, and gdb hangs when I attempt to attach to it.  \o/
09:06 JaneW      x-raodmap: Mostly there, just tracking continued version updates.  keep on truckin'
09:06 daniels    yeah, so that makes the server a no-go for now.  i'm trying to track it down with the other upstream guys at the moment.
09:06 JaneW      I know, why don;t I just do the meeting on my own!
09:06 infinity   JaneW : Sure, I'll /msg you my update. :)
09:06 daniels    release roadmap for xorg has us doing rc4 ... right now, actually, otherwise known as 'rc seriously'.
09:07 JaneW      daniels: that sounds pretty bad, is there a resolution in sight?
09:07 doko       daniels: do you know the status of the name sync of the gl/glu packages in unstable/dapper?
09:07 daniels    so we should be done with that fairly soon.  so hopefully the server will be fixed, which will fix a whole lot of bugs people are currently blaming on nautilus, and then I can get to fixing the scripts.
09:07 daniels    JaneW: yeah, it's only within the last two weeks, so we've got a fairly small target in terms of finding the culprit.
=== artnay [i=jirig@shell.evtek.fi] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:07 JaneW      daniels: ok good
09:07 infinity   daniels : Oh, also, xserver-common needs to get built from somewhere other than xorg sources.  The core -> common dep was stuck in as a stopgap because the world broke without it.
09:08 JaneW      side-track are ALL merges done yet?
09:08 daniels    doko: i'm working with gravity, the general view is that we'll do a, er, nmu of mesa sooner rather than later.
=== pitti did
09:08 daniels    infinity: xserver-common will cease to exist the next time I upload xorg.  what's the actual issue? missing /etc/X11/X?
09:08 doko       daniels: thanks!
09:08 JaneW      ok dholbach
09:08 infinity   daniels : Missing X binary, missing dexconf.
09:08 dholbach   merges: http://tinyurl.com/dgvf2
09:09 dholbach   * inclusion-of-docs: uploaded an improved update to dapper - breezy-update yet to come
09:09 dholbach   * formal-test-plans: some clarification on the pages, is wiki/Testing now - more Tests and more Media tests to come (Media meeting today)
09:09 dholbach   * this week done: gnome 2.13.3, bugs
09:09 dholbach   * this week to come: more bugs, {motu,media,desktop} team meeting, talk at umeet.uninet.edu
09:09 dholbach   * next week: bug day, more bugs, merges?
09:09 infinity   daniels : The latter being particularly crucial, the former breaking GDM's default config.
09:09 JaneW      dholbach: thanks
09:09 daniels    infinity: *shrug*, xserver-xorg should dep it for dexconf and xorg-common should dep it for the symlink.  but dexconf is moving over to xserver-xorg anyway.
09:09 JaneW      doko
09:09 doko       this week:
09:09 doko       - toolchain-roadmap: minor updates (binutils, gcj-4.1), amd64-biarch (still blocked)
09:09 doko       - toolchain-dapper+1: blocked by preparation of wanna-build and buildd infrastructure (currently ongoing)
09:09 doko       - openoffice.org: support work
09:09 doko       - merges: doing more merges not on the list; we don't have merge reports where debian and ubuntu have different tarballs (will be addressed before next merge before UVF (Keybuk)).
09:09 doko       next week:
09:09 doko       - python-roadmap: python-central update (delayed again)
09:10 JaneW      doko: openoffcie is listed as proposed - is it a Dapper Goal?
09:10 JaneW      doko: and java roadmap is still not approved...
09:11 doko       JaneW: I hope it is, but that spec is informational anyway. I'll prepare separate topics for the next report
09:11 JaneW      but it's low priority
09:11 JaneW      doko: ok thanks
09:11 mvo        JaneW: can I go last please? I mixed up times
09:11 JaneW      mvo: sure
09:11 daniels    (s/xorg-common/xserver-xorg-core/ in my last sentence.  headdesk.)
09:12 JaneW      ok fabbione : * server-candy: announce is out, community is growing fast. md5sum
09:12 JaneW      client did his first run yesterday. Upload to the archive will happen
09:12 JaneW      relatively soon. It is blocked by a couple of bugs, one missing feature
09:12 JaneW      and admins to create the server side. Wrote the PostfixCandy spec for
09:12 JaneW      mdz but it looks like not doable. /etc in RCS has been discussed with
09:12 JaneW      bzr guy. New spec wrote to address the remaining issues.
09:12 JaneW      * ubuntu-cluster: no progress this week. Still needs testing! People
09:12 JaneW      should help a bit here.
09:12 JaneW      * probe-for-root-filesystem: no progress this week.
09:12 JaneW      * boot-from-usb: blocked by probe-for-root-filesystem.
09:12 JaneW      * merges: zlib - still pending libc6-i386-dev, one minor pending but
09:12 JaneW      it's no hurry at all.
09:12 JaneW      * last week: a lot of md5sum client and server-candy work, prepared for
09:12 JaneW      today's talk.
09:12 JaneW      * next week: keep going server-candy full speed. kernel security.
09:12 JaneW      hopefully finish some cluster tests and start working on new cluster
09:12 JaneW      crack. Friday 16th i will start a bit later than usual but i will pick
09:12 JaneW      up the hours the same day.
=== Sepheebear [n=SepheeBe@cpe-68-175-48-109.nyc.res.rr.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:13 infinity   JaneW : Me next?
09:13 JaneW      infinity: hit it
09:13 infinity   last week:
09:13 infinity   - Did almost nothing I said I'd do last week, instead concentrating on making sure *-desktop and *-live were installable, so we could build CDs, getting linux-restricted-modules into shape, as well as other bugfixings and odds and ends.
09:13 infinity   - Made vga16fb and usplash default to a more sane resolution that seems to work well for everyone, this became the default in Flight-2.
09:13 infinity   next week:
09:13 infinity   - Getting the toolchain-dapper+1 stuff going for doko on the buildds
09:13 infinity   - Everything else I said I'd do last week, but didn't.
09:13 JaneW      haha
09:13 JaneW      iwj
09:14 iwj        Firefox maintenance:  Working on a new release right now, to ship libnspr/libnss from firefox, and other fixes.  BreezyFirefoxStartPageTranslation didn't happen and Matthew East and I haven't quite settled on the scheme for Dapper.
09:14 iwj        DefaultApplicationsFirefox: no change since last report.  Firefox needs more other work too.
09:14 iwj        AutomatedTesting:  I have implemented the first part (basic chroot-using virtualisation script).  Will probably pick up the rest after Christmas.  It would still be nice to have that straw man from Robert Collins.
09:14 iwj        ThinClientLocalDevices: spec is still in Drafting.  *BLOCKED*
09:14 iwj        DeveloperDocumentation: Not started, not blocked.
09:14 iwj        Holiday: tomorrow (Friday) is my last working day of 2005.
09:14 pitti      iwj: yay nspr/nss ;)
09:14 dholbach   pitti++
09:14 iwj        pitti: It's real joy there in the build system, I can tell you.
09:14 infinity   <laugh>
09:14 daniels    build systems are all shit.
09:14 pitti      everything in ffox is real joy, I believe
09:14 JaneW      cool
09:14 JaneW      jbailey:
09:15 jbailey    * ToolchainRoadmap: Delayed from last week to this week.  doko found a bug in my assumptions (I had forgotten about ldconfig biarch love.  Decided to do LinuxThreads/NPTL biarch for this too.  Both are now passing all tests.  Now that flight-2 is out, should be next 24h.
09:15 jbailey    * ToolchainRoadmapNg: After the glibc biarch, will start to evaluate glibc needs. Want to start collecting feedback on dropping pre-i686 per  outstanding issues .
09:15 jbailey    * General: glibc merge delayed by this as announced previously.  Punting grub bugs also delayed - it was a busy week.  This week, I plan to see which of the locale bugs were fixed with the Belocs merge.  I have a slight suspicion that it's all of them.  Oh yeah, and OMG, it's 3am.
09:15 JaneW      jbailey: no it;s not it 3:15 :P
09:15 JaneW      jdub??
09:15 jbailey    JaneW: Sure, you can include that under my status. =)
09:15 iwj        Can I suggest at this point that Matthew East and I should talk to langpack/rosetta maintainer about BreezyFirefoxStartPageTranslation and what to do for dapper ?
09:16 JaneW      iwj: sure, 'do it'
09:16 infinity   iwj : That would be a pitti and a Carlos, probably.
09:16 iwj        infinity: Ah, thanks :-).
09:16 pitti      yep
09:16 jbailey    iwj: I'd like to catch up with what that issues are, because for Breezy it seemed unsolvable.
09:16 pitti      probably me
09:16 JaneW      jdub has example-content, via e-mail he said: Yeah, sorry - too much traveling to attend the meetings or get anything done on it. I plan to start doing stuff on it as soon as I return home from OSDC , and will hopefully get a huge chunk of it done before Christmas break.
09:16 iwj        mdke: AYT?  Let's not have it now but when is good for you ?
09:17 JaneW      kamion: still not here?
09:17 JaneW      I'll get an e-mail update from him...
09:17 iwj        Isn't he on holiday still ?
09:17 dholbach   JaneW: i will talk to jdub about that... we need it for the media-related parts of formal-test-plans
09:17 Mithrandir iwj: "still" as in, "for the last 12 hours", yes.
09:17 JaneW      yes, he said he was going to pop in for the meeting, might be sleeping though...
09:17 doko       jbailey, infinity: looks like I should put some toolchain work on my plan for next week ;)
09:18 JaneW      dholbach: yes please do, might spur him along...
09:18 dholbach   JaneW: i hope so :)
09:18 JaneW      keybuk?
09:18 iwj        mithrandir: I mean, since the last time we asked about him :-).
09:18 JaneW      ok I'll be keybuk too: udev-roadmap: done; we're pretty much at the stage where the bugs we're
09:18 JaneW      finding are turning out to be kernel bugs rather than udev bugs now.
09:18 JaneW      hardware-activation: having some issues with network interface
09:18 JaneW      activation, making sure we bring up things like static tun/ppp/etc.
09:18 JaneW      interfaces without blocking on ethernet which are handled by udev, but
09:18 JaneW      nothing serious
09:18 JaneW      streamlined-boot: underway, was waiting on Flight 2 and now that's out
09:18 JaneW      will be uploading bits over the next few days
09:18 JaneW      network-magic: various discussions, have a keen guy looking at the
09:18 JaneW      atheros issues for us
09:19 JaneW      krstic?
09:19 JaneW      lathiat?
09:19 JaneW      sivang?
09:19 JaneW      Mithrandir?
09:19 JaneW      anyone?
09:19 Mithrandir openoffice-amd64: no changes
09:19 Mithrandir live-cd-performance: progress with the simplified live cd, as in, I have bootcharts and we can start chopping time off the boot by making changes such as unionfs vs devmapper, cloop vs squashfs, etc.
09:19 Mithrandir one-true-path: no progress
09:19 Mithrandir simplified-livecd: in place, working, released with flight 2.  Needs polish and cleanups as well as usplash integration
09:19 Mithrandir media-integrity-check: no changes, but now unblocked.  Should be trivial
09:20 Mithrandir network-authentication: no progress
09:20 Mithrandir general: I've been working on the simplified live cd infrastructure.  It has come a long way and is pleasant to work with and easy to test.  Some pieces are still missing.
09:20 Mithrandir next week: some vacation, but before that I'll look at getting simplified live finished up, and if that goes well, continue with media-integrity check and poke at the live-cd-performance stuff
09:20 iwj        Oh, Kamion says he'll be in this meeting.
09:20 Mithrandir blocked on: nothing in particular, I have plenty of stuff to do until I get from VAC
09:20 iwj        I mean, in warthogs.
09:20 sivang     JaneW: hi, I'm here. been way busy at work, there hasn't been much changes since last time, I hope to be able to do some work on it on weekend time.
09:20 JaneW      Mithrandir: so your block is gone..?
09:20 Mithrandir JaneW: yes.
09:20 JaneW      sivang: ok great, thanks
09:20 JaneW      Mithrandir: good.
09:20 Mithrandir JaneW: at least, no blocks I'm aware of.
09:21 JaneW      ogra: you're next and sorry for missing yesterday's meeting - we must talk after this...
09:21 ogra       * thin-client-sound: 95% implemented, code submitted to mdz for review, spec corrected accordingly, awaiting approval
09:21 ogra       * thin-client-local-devices: no progress
09:21 ogra       * thin-client-memory-usage: no progress
09:21 ogra       * thin-client-faster-startup: fine on recent HW http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogra/edubuntu/dapper-20051212-1.png, spec changes awaiting approval
09:21 ogra       * gnome-screensaver-default-image: pinged mark about images, no answer yet, will ping again :)
09:21 ogra       * general: X breakage on the thin clients turned out to be only trident needs stilla debug session, mdz's suggestions for thin client sound implemented, flight2 tested on amd64/i386, themeable ldm finished, approved and included, ltsp multiarch patch approved and in dapper, no progress on new edubuntu-artwork yet, no more hwdb-client work yet. inspect X autodetection on thin clients for possible speedups per mdz suggestion not done
                 yet, only found
09:21 ogra       that most of the preseed fixes we got from debian are not working at all. found that thin clients cant NFS mount anymore with the new dhcpd we ship due to a silly RFC (No. 2131) interpretation of the "siaddr" field by dhcpd upstream.
09:21 ogra       next weeks plans: nag mark more for gnome-screensaver-default-image space pics, implement thin-client-memory-usage (which will also fix the powerpc bug for ltsp), fix up edubuntu-artwork, find out if the preseeding X stuff is solvable and solve it for the options where possible, trident X debugging, hwdb-client bugfixing. find solution for upgrades of dhcpd.
09:22 daniels    which speedups?
09:22 ogra       daniels, X ?
09:22 daniels    x autodetection, yes
09:22 sivang     that shifting times thingy is killing me...
09:22 sivang     (of the meetings)
09:22 ogra       mdz wants to put the debconf communicate call into one call instead of 20
09:22 ogra       zhaz should speed up quite a bit
09:22 pitti      ogra: dhcpd upgrade breaks?
09:23 ogra       pitti, yes, for nfs mounted root filesystems
09:23 JaneW      ogra: no movement on spec approvals yet? Still waiting on mdz for reviews?
09:23 ogra       pitti, http://wiki.ltsp.org/twiki/bin/view/Ltsp/DhcpdSiaddr
09:23 pitti      ogra: omg, dhcp disturbs nfs? that sounds scary
09:24 ogra       JaneW, mem usage is approved, sound is done ... but mdz had no time before holiday to review and faster startup needs minor changes
09:24 ogra       pitti, it is ... :/
09:24 ogra       JaneW, for local devices i still need mdz and sbalneav to get together
09:24 JaneW      ogra ok thanks.
09:25 JaneW      damn, has that not happened yet?!
09:25 ogra       nope
09:25 JaneW      ogra: the need is high, but it doesn't sem to be getting prioritized...
09:25 JaneW      *sigh*
09:25 JaneW      pitti: next
09:25 pitti      not much to say this week, but
09:25 pitti      this week: heaps of security updates, main inclusion reviews, and a few bits of package fixes, etc; no time to pursue specs
09:25 pitti      next week: get PHP security update done with Adam, catch up with my long neglected bug mail, try to debug printing stuff a little
09:25 pitti      automatic-printer-conf: PLAN: investigate hal-cups-utils from Fedora for exporting cups configuration to hal
09:26 ogra       JaneW, it it (and always was) a low/mid prio spec
09:26 ogra       *it is
09:26 pitti      however, there are some more security updates to do, so there won't be much spec work next week either
09:27 pitti      *grumble* ffmpeg *grumble*
09:27 seb128     pitti: hint for next week: avahi promotion :p
09:27 JaneW      pitti: ok thanks *pat pat*
09:27 JaneW      seb128:
09:27 Riddell    ooh, yes please on avahi
09:27 seb128     hide-admin-tools-to-users: has been implemented previous week but the summary of the previous meeting has no mention of what I wrote on it, should I mention it again?
09:27 Kamion     d'oh, sorry I'm late, slept in
09:27 seb128     video-playback: gstreamer0.10 uploaded, gst-plugins-base0.10 almost ready: will be uploaded today, will continue on that next week
09:27 seb128     other: GNOME 2.13.3
09:27 seb128     next week: video-playback and dapper-desktop-plan
09:27 Kamion     I'll give my update at the end
09:28 pitti      yay gst 0.10
09:28 seb128     hi Kamion
09:28 pitti      Morning Kamion
09:28 JaneW      Kamion: thought that was the case. np... we have continued ;)
09:28 pitti      JaneW: cool, gst 0.10 removes the gstreamer-audio-backend blocker
09:28 seb128     pitti: with gst0.10 you can read songs without gap when switching :)
09:28 JaneW      seb128: short and sweet...
09:28 JaneW      pitti: great
09:29 seb128     s/read/play/
09:29 JaneW      Riddell: ?
09:29 Riddell    last week: kdebindings, kdevelop packaging, xpdf security, simplify-kde, flight-2 testing, revu, finished merges, kubuntu-package-manager design discussions
09:29 Riddell    next week: kubuntu-system-tools, hide-admin-tools-to-users, kubuntu-documentation packaging, poking KDE MOTU into getting all KDE universe packages installable, investigate getting KDE to work with CUPS 1.2
09:29 dholbach   and the kubuntu hug day! :)
09:29 Riddell    dholbach: especially important
09:29 dholbach   .-)
09:30 pitti      eek, zombie smiley
09:30 JaneW      ok just mvo and kamion left ... and then merge nagging :P
09:31 mvo        did:
09:31 mvo        - AutomaticUpgrades: update-manager/python-apt with the required support is in the archive. The actual upgrade tool still needs more work
09:31 mvo        - AutomaticUpdates: integrated into the apt cron job, not yet upload (will do this today)
09:31 mvo        - ThirdPartyPackages: big cleanups in GnomeAppInstall, the code is really a mess. Initial support for channels is in (jbailey bzr is the example channel)
09:31 mvo        - some spec work about "PimpMyLanguageSelector" with jdub
09:31 mvo        - some cmd-not-found work, big problem: "alternatives", very hard to parse, but
09:31 mvo          required to give useful results for e.g. emacs
09:31 mvo        - HideAdminTools/DapperDesktopPlan spec work for update-notifier
09:31 mvo        - DapperDesktopPlan work for notification-daemon
09:31 mvo        need opinion:
09:31 mvo        - should the "automatic security upgrades" stuff be backported to breezy (in a seperate repository) so that people can test it more easily?
09:31 mvo        blocking:
09:31 mvo        - support for package recommends: waiting on mdz for a decision
09:31 mvo        will do:
09:31 mvo        - more work on gnome-app-install/ThirdPartyPackages spec
09:31 JaneW      now that's an update!
09:32 JaneW      thanks mvo: sme of your others have been hard to decode ;)
09:32 pitti      mvo: backported to a private archive on people?
09:32 mvo        pitti: yes
09:32 pitti      well, can't hurt in any way :)
09:32 dholbach   JaneW: mvo deserves a golden star now, right? :)
09:32 pitti      since there aren't security updates for dapper yet
09:32 mvo        the problem is that we have no dapper-security currently, so it's a bit hard to test it on dapper :)
09:32 pitti      at least not proper ones, just regular uploads
=== mvo agrees with pitti
=== JaneW hands mvo a virtual GoldStar (tm)
09:33 Kamion     I'd go for private archive for now and a post to ubuntu-users@
=== rob1 [n=Robert@ubuntu/member/rob1] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:33 jbailey    With Soyuz will those be created at the start of the dev cycle?
09:33 jbailey    I suspect they probably ought to be to make testing things like this possible.
09:33 Kamion     jbailey: dapper-{security,updates} already exist *now*
09:33 Kamion     there's just nothing in them
09:33 JaneW      Riddell: any progress on getting your specs approved?
09:33 jbailey    Ah, okay.
09:33 infinity   Yes, the lack of packages in them makes it hard to test automatic upgrades. :)
09:34 Kamion     ue-gnome-ui: Discussed accessibility requirements with Henrik.
09:34 Kamion     ubuntu-express-bootloader: Was blocked for almost the entire week on the lack of a live CD. I have that now, but only as of yesterday, so just started on getting a reasonable test environment here.
09:34 jbailey    Quick!  Someone find a php hole! =)
=== jbailey hides.
09:34 Kamion     cd-bootloader: Lots of bootloader SHINY done in the form of gfxboot-theme-ubuntu; deployed in Flight CD 2. This is now implemented with the exception of keymap selection; that's blocked until I know what kind of input simplified-live-cd expects here. Some bugs reported but nothing major yet.
09:34 Kamion     misc: Flight CD 2 done, which took way too long. Helped Tollef out with casper/initramfs a bit, and eventually decided to switch to simplified-live-cd.
09:34 Kamion     blocked: There aren't enough hours in the day to do Flight CD 2 and real work.
09:34 infinity   jbailey : Fixing about 10 right now.
09:34 pitti      jbailey: I have heaps of them
09:34 Mithrandir Kamion: simplified-live-cd will do with what I get ATM.. at least, I think so.
09:35 Kamion     Mithrandir: (I think passing kbd-chooser/method= as we would for d-i should be fine?)
09:35 Mithrandir Kamion: yes
09:35 pitti      Kamion: just saw gfxboot today, shiny!
09:35 Kamion     ok
09:35 Riddell    JaneW: not really, kubuntu-express is pending review from Kamion, who is now on holiday.  kubuntu-package-manager bounty needs approval/decline from mdz who is also on holiday
09:35 Mithrandir Kamion/pitti: I might want a little bit of hand-holding to generate locales correctly for live.
09:35 pitti      we urgently need a locales discussion
09:35 jbailey    Kamion: Is the flight-2 time stuff that all needed to be done anyway, or is there more that the rest of us need to do to avoid blocking you?
09:35 JaneW      Riddell: ok, hopefully we can get them sorted in early Jan then...?
09:35 pitti      with Kamion, jbailey, doko, and me
09:35 Kamion     Riddell: ah, I hadn't noticed kubuntu-express, will have a look at a free point
09:36 Kamion     jbailey: was mostly horribly blocked on the lack of a live CD
09:36 JaneW      ok let's talk merges http://tinyurl.com/dgvf2
09:36 Mithrandir JaneW: just a sec
09:37 jbailey    pitti: Scheduled it for any afternoon for you guys and I'm easily there.
09:37 Kamion     jbailey: possibly a little more initiative somewhere could've been taken on getting that done, but I can't really complain because it was all stuck behind the new kernel nonsense for ages
09:37 Mithrandir I'm wondering if we should have small freezes around the time when we try to get the live cd out, since we too often end up in situations where the live fs generation fails
09:37 Kamion     I would like to have more people randomly testing CD images, though
09:37 Kamion     as in, not just before release - as we discussed before
09:37 Mithrandir which is _really_ annoying when we're trying to release a cd and busy fixing other stuff.
09:38 Kamion     casper changes now involve rebuilding the live filesystem, as of simplified-live-cd
09:38 dholbach   Kamion: i burned the whole bunch and will get some tests done today
09:38 daniels    Mithrandir: i think just saying 'don't upload shit that will break shit' and compelling everyone to comply via social means will be better than hard freezes
09:38 Kamion     dholbach: thanks
09:38 pitti      I tested today's live, will test today's install, too
09:38 Mithrandir daniels: possibly, but we didn't even do that, which meant having random gnome packages uploaded broke the world underneath our feet.
09:39 Kamion     yes, hard freezes have the bad side-effect that once you start one everybody expects you to release something soon
09:39 daniels    Mithrandir: so try that?
09:39 Kamion     which might not be appropriate depending on how broken the result is
09:39 Kamion     and it really does impede everyone else's work a lot
09:39 Mithrandir can we just try "soft freezes", then?
09:40 sivang     Kamion: we need to gather some more people around doing specifically that (testing cd images) , ideally from the community. I would have helped, but currently work stuff don't let me get to it.
09:40 jbailey    Kamion: I'd suggested it before but not seen any interest, but I think maybe an "installfest day" once a month like dholbach does with the bug days might be effective?
09:40 Kamion     I would like it if people uploading packages could try to arrange that those uploads will break as little as possible if they're built on only some architectures
09:40 jbailey    Kamion: Then you know you could set aside that day knowing that you'll mostly be collecting bug reports and triaging errors, etc.
09:40 pitti      especially not pull in new packages from universe
09:40 Kamion     jbailey: I strongly think it needs to be spread out, not concentrated; we already have installfests just before releases
09:40 dholbach   jbailey: i will work more on the testing plan and try to announce it big
09:40 jbailey    Kamion: I was thinking like monthly.
09:41 Kamion     jbailey: the problem we have is that we don't find out about problems often enough
09:41 daniels    (or just ask kamion if you have world-endingly breaking stuff to upload.  i was about to upload 169 packages right as he was trying to release flight 2.)
09:41 dholbach   i thought about enumerating the "topics" in the testplan, so people could refer to them in bugs and we could better keep track of those numbers
09:41 jbailey    Kamion: For me alot of the time it just doesn't occur to me to test the CD mid-release.  There's always other tasks that have to be done.
09:41 Kamion     jbailey: I don't want to arrange that I only find out about problems blocking my (supposedly) two-weekly CD releases on a monthly basis. :-)
09:41 seb128     Mithrandir: when there is a new GNOME every 2 weeks and it take 3 days to package we can't really say "wait a few days before uploading it may break something"
09:41 Kamion     seb128: if it didn't break so badly when i386 builds but powerpc is lagging a bit, that would be lovely
09:42 Kamion     there are a lot of tight arch: all <-> any dependencies
09:42 Mithrandir seb128: I care less about segfaults and application breakage than pure uninstallability.
09:42 ogra       JaneW, that bugzilla search is broken ....
09:42 infinity   seb128 : Uploading really wasn't a big deal, it was just horribly timed.  If someone had asked you to wait 4 hours, it would have been fine.  So, y'know, "oops". :)
09:42 seb128     Kamion: right, but I consider that an archive bug ...
09:42 dholbach   ogra: i did it, what's wrong?
09:42 ogra       JaneW, or MOM is ...
09:42 Kamion     oh, for goodness' sake, I guess we'll never get anything done then
09:42 seb128     infinity: I'm fine to wait 4 hours if somebody say so, it's just not easy to guess ;)
=== Kamion declares all his bugs archive bugs and goes home. :-)
09:42 dholbach   Kamion: what do you mean?
09:42 dholbach   haha :)
09:43 doko       seb128: no, that's packaging, which you can work around
09:43 elmo       seb128: dude, be realistic, the archive has been like that since Debian started
09:43 ogra       dholbach, there are merges that are no merges (i.e. we have newer versions, see kino)
09:43 infinity   seb128 : The next time we seem to be on a "we want installable livefs's" warpath, I'll be sure to try to warn you.
09:43 seb128     infinity: thanks
09:43 elmo       seb128: it might be nice if the archive didn't work that way, but it doesn't, and it's not ging to get fixed anytime soon
09:43 dholbach   ogra: talk to mom :)
09:43 JaneW      http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/buglist.cgi?bug_status=UNCONFIRMED&bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_status=REOPENED&bug_status=NEEDINFO&bug_status=UPSTREAM&bug_status=PENDINGUPLOAD&field0-0-0=product&type0-0-0=substring&value0-0-0=merging&field0-0-1=component&type0-0-1=substring&value0-0-1=merging&field0-0-2=short_desc&type0-0-2=substring&value0-0-2=merging&field0-0-3=status_whiteboard&type0-0-3=substring&value0-0-3=merging&order=
09:43 JaneW      map_assigned_to.login_name,bugs.resolution
09:43 elmo       (err, s/doesn't/does/)
09:43 ogra       dholbach, i do :)
09:43 seb128     elmo: yeah, but changing the whole GNOME to not do that is not trivial neither
09:44 Mithrandir I think we should move on to merges now..
09:44 pitti      JaneW: are we supposed to catch up with the new merges? that's an awful lot of work at the current time
09:44 doko       pitti: and the list is incomplete
09:44 seb128     I thought merges were low priority for now?
09:44 Kamion     I didn't expect us to be prioritising merges right now, no
09:44 seb128     and we had to catch up again before freeze
09:45 pitti      ok, *phew*
09:45 seb128     s/had/will have/ rather :)
09:45 pitti      I thought that had changed, since JaneW wants to nag about it :)
09:45 Kamion     UVF isn't until 19th January
09:45 JaneW      ok so are all the old ones done then?
=== JaneW is v happy to NOT nag
09:45 jbailey    Ugh, only 1month to UVF?
09:45 Kamion     not all, but most of them are
09:46 ajmitch    are the merge bugs with assignee as debzilla free to take?
09:46 seb128     they were previous week before starting the automatic bugs again no?
09:46 Kamion     I count nine old ones
09:46 doko       Kamion: we still haven't merged all packages at least once, the ones with differing tarballs in unstable/dapper are missing. is it too late to touch these just before UVF?
09:46 Kamion     ajmitch: yes
09:46 ajmitch    (within reason)
09:46 ogra       mdz said explicitly that merge bugs should be set to P5 prio
09:46 ajmitch    ok
09:46 Kamion     doko: Scott said there was a whole *one* of those that MOM hadn't reported
09:46 ogra       so i didnt expect to prioritize them now
09:46 doko       Kamion: oh, I didn't know that
09:46 Kamion     so that issue doesn't concern me at the moment
09:46 pitti      ogra: new merge bugs only, not the old ones
09:46 Kamion     doko: he said it to you :-)
09:47 ogra       and MOM filed bugs for packages that are never in ubuntu ...
09:47 ogra       *newer
09:47 Kamion     everyone, please do check for merge bugs with bugzilla ids less than 20000
=== doko hides, didn't see that ...
09:47 ogra       (see my comment about kino)
09:47 dholbach   ogra: it'S about merging, not about newer stuff
09:48 Kamion     those are the old ones: Riddell has 1, infinity 3, doko 2, pitti 1, jbailey 1, fabbione 1
09:48 ogra       dholbach, there isnt anything to merge ... it should sort out the 0 byte patches ... i guess there are more
09:48 Kamion     I realise they're all the really hard ones
09:48 pitti      cdrtools is still broken
09:48 pitti      I won't upload it
09:48 Kamion     pitti: hmm?
09:48 jbailey    Kamion: glibc is intentionally delayed (per status report)
09:48 pitti      blocked: new upstream version does not work as normal user
09:48 pitti      ^ status whiteboard
09:48 Kamion     pitti: is that still true as of the most recent Debian upload?
09:49 dholbach   ogra: then merge the changelog, or sync if there's nothing to be changed
09:49 pitti      Kamion: I didn't test it in the last week, I'll do again
09:49 ogra       dholbach, ??
09:49 Kamion     the last one dates from 2005-12-04
09:49 ogra       dholbach, what should i sync with a 0 byte merge patch ?
09:49 dholbach   ogra: merge manually?
09:50 infinity   Kamion : Mine are all intentionally delayed, as reported last week.
09:50 ogra       dholbach, 0 == zero byte, there is not even a changelog entry to merge ...
09:50 pitti      Kamion: the changelog doesn't seem to indicate any fixes in that direction, but I'll try
09:50 infinity   Kamion : Though I could merge Thunderbird just to shut up MOM while I work on 1.5
09:50 doko       Kamion: gjdoc: sync requested
09:50 Kamion     and fabbione's is still blocked behind i386 biarch I believe
09:51 dholbach   ogra: you don't need to teach me, what 0 means - there were changes in debian - i looked at it a while ago
09:51 Kamion     ok, any other business?
09:52 JaneW      no additional meetings were requested
09:52 JaneW      does anybody need to list a required discussion?
09:52 pitti      we need the locales discisson
09:52 pitti      but that can be informal
09:52 pitti      we just need to settle a time
09:52 jbailey    pitti: Need to pick a time for it, though.
09:52 daniels    would X breakage next week be a particular problem to anyone?
09:52 JaneW      should I note it?
09:52 Kamion     I'm off these two days, and next Wed/Thu/Fri; is everybody involved around on Monday?
09:53 pitti      jbailey, Kamion, doko: would this afternoon be fine for you?
09:53 daniels    not code breakage, just as I attempt to reshuffle the configuration madness into something that isn't shit
09:53 Kamion     oh, Mithrandir isn't IIRC
09:53 seb128     daniels: I prefer having a working X to get GNOME work done, but that's just me :)
09:53 Kamion     pitti: no, I'll be out of the house
=== dholbach -> phone
09:53 pitti      Kamion: Monday would work for me
09:53 pitti      jbailey, doko: Monday 1500 UTC?
09:53 Mithrandir Kamion: I'm around on Monday, yes.
09:53 doko       pitti: Monday is ok
09:53 daniels    seb128: that wasn't a general question, that was more a 'is there anything specific next week that means I should wait for a week or so'
09:53 pitti      great
09:53 Kamion     ok by me
09:53 jbailey    pitti: FIne for me.
09:53 pitti      cool
09:53 JaneW      who all is it Kamion, pitti, doko?
09:53 seb128     daniels: oh k, not afaik so :)
09:53 JaneW      and Mithrandir
09:53 pitti      JaneW: yes
09:54 Kamion     JaneW: and jbailey
09:54 mvo        pitti: does it touch language-selector?
09:54 pitti      mvo: *could*, not sure
09:54 pitti      mvo: wanna join?
09:54 ogra       dholbach, so i should make a changelog entry that reads "nothing merged" and upload a new ubuntu version? what for ?
09:54 mvo        might be a good idea if it does, yeah :)
09:54 pitti      seb128: hm, I can't add anything to my evo calendar
09:55 pitti      mvo: is 1500UTC on monday fine for you?
09:55 mvo        yes
09:55 jbailey    pitti: Make sure you have the right calendar selected.
09:55 Kamion     daniels: next week's not too bad; I *was* thinking of a very quick CD release next week in case live CD issues in Flight 2 need fixed up before the holidays
09:55 seb128     pitti: I can't even switch to the calendar tab
09:55 jbailey    pitti: It's sometimes non-obvious.
09:55 Kamion     but that will be early next week by necessity (vacation time and all), if it happens at all
09:55 ogra       dholbach, sorry, but i dont get what you want ...
=== pitti slaps jbailey
09:55 pitti      jbailey: no, my evo freezes right after starting it
09:55 infinity   Kamion : If you end up on the LiveCD warpath again next week, warn me.
09:56 Kamion     will do
09:56 Mithrandir Kamion: flight 2.1 on Monday or Tuesday would be nice.
09:56 jbailey    pitti: Smacking me around isn't like to get me to help you fix it, my friend. =)
09:56 Kamion     I might just delegate it :-)
09:56 Mithrandir since I'm hoping we can have language selection and such in there
09:56 pitti      jbailey: heh, sorry, that was meant for evo upstream :)
09:56 infinity   Uh oh.
09:56 infinity   Kamion : The word "delegate" scares me, when I know how many people in the cdimage group aren't on vacation... :)
09:56 Kamion     So it should. ;-)
09:57 infinity   Kamion : Unless you meant you were delegating to Riddell. :P
09:57 seb128     pitti: I'm supposed to get a patch to try within an hour
09:57 pitti      seb128: <3
09:57 seb128     pitti: and the "within an hour" is from half and hour ago
09:57 Riddell    I'm not in cdimage group yet as far as I know
09:57 infinity   Riddell : Dang.
09:57 Riddell    oh, actually maybe I am
09:57 Kamion     uid=2552(jriddell) gid=2500(warthogs) groups=2500(warthogs),2504(cdimage),2511(porting_team)
09:57 Kamion     are so
09:58 infinity   Ah-ha!
=== infinity takes next week off.
=== Riddell feels the delegation
09:58 JaneW      ok me goes to update report...
09:58 JaneW      Kamion: go 'home' ;)
09:58 pitti      thanks guys
09:58 Kamion     JaneW: thanks for chairing; I *did* set my alarm to 7:30, honest ... I think my body knows it's on vacation.
09:59 jbailey    "Dave, this conversation can serve no purpose anymore. Goodbye."
=== infinity [n=adconrad@loki.0c3.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
09:59 Kamion     thanks everyone, have a great holiday
09:59 pitti      Kamion: enjoy your holidays, have a merry christmas
09:59 Kamion     Spend some time *away* from the computer (and that's me talking). :-)
09:59 JaneW      Kamion: it's ok really. relax and take a break - you deserve it!
09:59 ogra       haha
10:00 pitti      must ... fix ... bugs *nng*
=== lbm [n=lbm@cpe.atm4-0-1301006.0x50a0824e.vgnxx6.customer.tele.dk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== pitti [n=pitti@ubuntu/member/pitti] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Ex-Chat"]
10:00 mvo        have fun Kamion
=== seb128 [n=seb128@ubuntu/member/seb128] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Ex-Chat"]
10:01 ogra       Kamion, enjoy your holiday and thanks again for the liveCDs :)
10:01 daniels    Kamion: okay.  upgrades would probably be the issue rather than fresh installs.
=== iwj [n=ian@xenophobe.extern.relativity.greenend.org.uk] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
=== daniels [n=daniels@amnesiac.heapspace.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
10:01 Kamion     elmo: incidentally, taking alex out of the cdimage group might be nice for my nerves
10:02 Kamion     I keep seeing it and going "WTF?"
10:03 dholbach   sorry, got a phone call about linuxdays.lu

</pre>
