{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': Mon May 4th 2015 16:33 UTC
* '''End''': 16:58 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': Jamie Strandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* jjohansen
* sarnold
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* tyhicks

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Andreas Cadhalpun (andreas-cadhalpun) provided a debdiff for vivid for ffmpeg (LP: #1436296)
** Unit 193 (unit193) provided a debdiff for trusty and utopic for icecast2 (LP: #1449771)
** Felix Geyer (debfx) provided debdiffs for trusty-vivid for pdns (LP: #1450037)
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** attend UOS
** seccomp SRU
** seccomp policy regeneration on policy updates
** ubuntu-core-security SRU
** review tools updates for snaps
** mdeslaur
** short week
** weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** sbeattie
** weekly role: community
** attend UOS
** apparmor and rsyslog SRU
** apparmor upload for wiley (will look at the recent Debian upload for that)
** gcc pie testing (few more test rebuilds, then can proceed with benchnmarking)
  <pre> comment
** tyhicks
** weekly role: cve triage
** circle back to a number of things that were ignored during the ramp up to the Vivid release
** finish kernel patches for AppArmor kernel keyring mediation
  </pre>
** jjohansen
** cleaning up the domain transition bits and hunting bugs, improving, extending or writing new regression tests around that
** sarnold
** weekly role: triage
** OpenStack security updates: still having issues with charms in testing lab, but working through them
** attend UOS
** chriscoulson
** short week
** branch reviews (eg, camera)
** media-permissions branch
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2015/ubuntu-meeting.2015-05-04-16.38.moin.txt
