{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** ''ACTION:'' ALL, please look to hijack a dep-8 test from https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-r-seeded-qa-workflow  (Daviey, 16:24:44)
** ''ACTION:'' arosales to follow up with Norvald regarding SRU  (Daviey, 16:28:55)
** ''ACTION:'' zul to review complexity of packaging perconia for Ubuntu NEW  (Daviey, 16:30:30)
** ''ACTION:'' Smoser to reach out to juju-core and discuss what integration with ubuntu image meta data can be done for Raring.  (Daviey, 16:34:33)
** ''ACTION:'' Daviey to follow up on bugs bug 1160373 and bug 1160378  (Daviey, 16:40:14)
* Raring Development
** Release Tracking Bug Tasks - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
** Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-raring/group/topic-raring-servercloud-overview.html
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair

=== Minutes ===

Meeting started by rbasak at 16:00:07 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-04-09-16.00.log.html
.

==== Meeting summary ====

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* ''ACTION:'' (carried forward) arosales to follow up with Norvald regarding SRU  (rbasak, 16:04:15)
* ''ACTION:'' zul to send notes from review of  complexity of packaging perconia for Ubuntu to the ubuntu-server list  (rbasak, 16:06:16)
* ''ACTION:'' (carried forward) smoser to reach out to juju-core and discuss what integration with ubuntu image meta data can be done for Raring.  (rbasak, 16:06:56)

* Raring Development
** Release Tracking Bug Tasks  (rbasak, 16:07:51)
*** ''LINK:'' http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server   (rbasak, 16:07:59)
** Blueprints  (rbasak, 16:13:11)
*** ''LINK:'' http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-raring/group/topic-raring-servercloud-overview.html   (rbasak, 16:13:18)

* Ubuntu Server Team Events

* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)
** ''LINK:'' http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/testcases/1461/info   (plars, 16:20:19)
** ''LINK:'' http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/testcases/1462/info   (plars, 16:20:19)
** ''LINK:'' http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/testcases/1463/info   (plars, 16:20:19)

* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)

* Open Discussion

* Announce next meeting date and time

Meeting ended at 16:36:50 UTC.

=== Action items ===

* (carried forward) arosales to follow up with Norvald regarding SRU
* zul to send notes from review of  complexity of packaging perconia for Ubuntu to the ubuntu-server list
* (carried forward) smoser to reach out to juju-core and discuss what integration with ubuntu image meta data can be done for Raring.

=== Action items, by person ===

* arosales
* * (carried forward) arosales to follow up with Norvald regarding SRU
* smoser
* * (carried forward) smoser to reach out to juju-core and discuss what integration with ubuntu image meta data can be done for Raring.
* zul
* * zul to send notes from review of  complexity of packaging perconia for Ubuntu to the ubuntu-server list

=== People present (lines said) ===

* rbasak (55)
* jamespage (41)
* plars (24)
* ubottu (8)
* smb (7)
* Daviey (7)
* meetingology (6)
* zul (5)
* roaksoax (4)
* utlemming (4)
* arosales (3)
* smoser (2)
* hallyn (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:00:07 <rbasak> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:00:07 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Apr  9 16:00:07 2013 UTC.  The chair is rbasak. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:00:07 <meetingology> 

 16:00:07 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 16:00:15 <rbasak> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:00:32 * rbasak ALL, please look to hijack a dep-8 test from https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-r-seeded-qa-workflow (Daviey, 16:24:44)

 16:00:33 <Daviey> o/

 16:00:39 <arosales> hello

 16:00:53 <Daviey> jamespage: can you summarise that BP?

 16:01:04 <Daviey> should it be postponed in all?

 16:01:05 <smoser> o/

 16:01:28 <jamespage> OK - so I went through my WI's and postponed stuff I won't get to in the next 3 days

 16:01:33 <jamespage> as the is my time window

 16:02:10 <jamespage> adam_g, roaksoax, zul, rbasak all have WI's as well - please can you review and POSTPONE or implement prior to 13.04 pls

 16:02:28 <zul> ack

 16:02:39 <hallyn> (i actually do to, which i'll postpone)

 16:02:48 <rbasak> OK

 16:03:06 * rbasak arosales to follow up with Norvald regarding SRU (Daviey, 16:28:55)

 16:03:06 <jamespage> hallyn, sorry - missed you off the list

 16:03:52 <arosales> rbasak, I still need to catch up with norvald

 16:04:15 <rbasak> #action (carried forward) arosales to follow up with Norvald regarding SRU

 16:04:15 * meetingology (carried forward) arosales to follow up with Norvald regarding SRU

 16:04:24 * rbasak zul to review complexity of packaging perconia for Ubuntu NEW (Daviey, 16:30:30)

 16:04:41 <rbasak> (thanks arosales)

 16:04:52 <zul> did that i have my notes somewhere

 16:05:07 <zul> where should I send my notes

 16:05:11 <arosales> rbasak, thanks

 16:05:29 <Daviey> zul: notes?

 16:05:30 <rbasak> How about the Ubuntu server list? Would that be suitable?

 16:05:38 <rbasak> And where do we go from here for that?

 16:05:43 <zul> Daviey:  about the percona review

 16:05:45 <zul> rbasak:  sure

 16:05:55 <rbasak> Thanks zul!

 16:05:57 <Daviey> Ah, ubuntu-server list sounds GREAT

 16:06:16 <rbasak> #action zul to send notes from review of  complexity of packaging perconia for Ubuntu to the ubuntu-server list

 16:06:16 * meetingology zul to send notes from review of  complexity of packaging perconia for Ubuntu to the ubuntu-server list

 16:06:23 * rbasak Smoser to reach out to juju-core and discuss what integration with ubuntu image meta data can be done for Raring. (Daviey, 16:34:33)

 16:06:38 <smoser> not done. will do today.

 16:06:46 <rbasak> OK. Thanks smoser!

 16:06:56 <rbasak> #action (carried forward) smoser to reach out to juju-core and discuss what integration with ubuntu image meta data can be done for Raring.

 16:06:56 * meetingology (carried forward) smoser to reach out to juju-core and discuss what integration with ubuntu image meta data can be done for Raring.

 16:07:03 * rbasak Daviey to follow up on bugs bug 1160373 and bug 1160378 (Daviey, 16:40:14)

 16:07:05 <ubottu> bug 1160373 in xen (Ubuntu) "Support for APIC Virtualization in Xen" [Wishlist,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1160373

 16:07:07 <ubottu> bug 1160378 in xen (Ubuntu) "TSC offset support for Xen" [Wishlist,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1160378

 16:07:24 <Daviey> Fix released (thanks smb, zul)

 16:07:34 <rbasak> Great. Thanks!

 16:07:43 <rbasak> #topic Raring Development

 16:07:51 <rbasak> #subtopic Release Tracking Bug Tasks

 16:07:59 <rbasak> #link http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server

 16:08:18 <rbasak> jamespage: would you like to go through these, please?

 16:08:22 <jamespage> ok

 16:08:43 <jamespage> bug 1157918

 16:08:45 <ubottu> bug 1157918 in horizon (Ubuntu Raring) "Network selection tab when starting instance renders incorrectly" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1157918

 16:09:01 <jamespage> assigned to me - the ubuntu theme for horizon is still broken - I need to hassle huwshimi

 16:09:25 <jamespage> roaksoax, bug 1064527 and bug 1073463

 16:09:28 <ubottu> bug 1064527 in maas (Ubuntu Raring) "detect_ipmi needs improvement. detects non-existant device in nested kvm" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1064527

 16:09:29 <ubottu> bug 1073463 in maas (Ubuntu Raring) "User-configurable files are not installed in /etc" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1073463

 16:09:38 <jamespage> roaksoax, likely to be fixed for raring?

 16:09:52 <jamespage> rbasak has bug 1162139

 16:09:53 <ubottu> bug 1162139 in mysql-5.5 (Ubuntu Raring) "mysql-5.5 still built using GCC-4.4, should be built with the default GCC" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1162139

 16:10:16 <rbasak> I'm made some progress but am still looking at it. None of the possible ways forward look easy

 16:10:33 <jamespage> rbasak, ack

 16:10:35 <jamespage> and bug 1163768

 16:10:37 <ubottu> bug 1163768 in ntp (Ubuntu Raring) "ntp ftbfs in raring" [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1163768

 16:10:39 <rbasak> I may have to come back and say that a raring target is unrealistic

 16:11:00 <rbasak> I Looks like the ntp ftbfs is fixed

 16:11:49 <roaksoax> jamespage: detect_ipmi I have a fix for it...

 16:11:50 <jamespage> indeed - closing bug

 16:12:06 <roaksoax> jamespage: the latter, I talked to bigjools and needs upstream support to be able to do that as it is not just packaging

 16:12:07 <rbasak> Thanks!

 16:12:12 <jamespage> and finally bug 1121874

 16:12:14 <ubottu> bug 1121874 in mysql-5.5 (Ubuntu Raring) "MySQL launch fails silently if < 4MB of disk space is available" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1121874

 16:12:41 <rbasak> This is relatively trivial, assuming that we're happy with the log going to /var/log/upstart, since that's the only place we can log to from an upstart job that I could see (am I correct)?

 16:12:56 <jamespage> rbasak, sounds good

 16:12:56 <rbasak> If so, I'll fix with the bigger mysql bug fix, or just on its own if I don't get that done

 16:13:11 <rbasak> #subtopic Blueprints

 16:13:18 <rbasak> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-raring/group/topic-raring-servercloud-overview.html

 16:13:21 <jamespage> sweet

 16:13:45 <jamespage> roaksoax, OK - defer the config files one for raring I suggest

 16:13:50 <rbasak> It looks like a lot of outstanding WIs need to be marked postponed?

 16:14:10 <roaksoax> jamespage: indeed

 16:14:33 <rbasak> jamespage: are there any blueprints you'd like to go through?

 16:15:25 <jamespage> looking

 16:16:34 <jamespage> nope

 16:16:51 <rbasak> OK. Thanks for going through them and the bugs!

 16:17:00 <rbasak> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:17:01 <jamespage> as you state postpone anything that ain't going to happen in the next few days

 16:17:17 <jamespage> openstack design summit in portland next week

 16:17:22 <jamespage> LOADS of people going

 16:17:29 <Daviey> +1!

 16:17:49 <rbasak> Any other events?

 16:18:20 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)

 16:18:26 <plars> hi

 16:18:31 <rbasak> plars: hello! Any updates from you? Or does anyone have any questions for plars?

 16:18:35 <plars> So I have a couple of things

 16:18:41 <plars> mostly on the subject of iso testing

 16:18:51 <plars> I tried to run the iscsi tests for raring beta

 16:18:58 <plars> and got the unauth mode to pass on one of them

 16:19:19 <plars> but for all the rest, it hung for me on reboot and I was unable to complete the tests

 16:19:20 <jamespage> plars, do you use my helper scripts?

 16:19:25 <plars> jamespage: yes

 16:19:46 <jamespage> more than likely bugs then

 16:19:49 <plars> jamespage: I'm *fairly* certain I'm running them correctly, but couldn't see an easy way to debug anything past "it doesn't boot"

 16:19:53 <jamespage> I'll take a quick run through

 16:19:58 <plars> I was wondering if I could get some help with that

 16:20:04 <plars> thanks

 16:20:14 <plars> On the subject of MAAS tests:

 16:20:19 <plars> http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/testcases/1461/info

 16:20:19 <plars> http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/testcases/1462/info

 16:20:19 <plars> http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/testcases/1463/info

 16:20:47 <plars> I was able to run through the first one mostly - though either I was not finding some options in MAAS (possible since I've not used it much before) or the tests need a lot of updating

 16:21:17 <plars> Is there a MAAS expert on the team that could help review the tests and make sure they are valid for what's currently in raring?

 16:21:29 <jamespage> roaksoax, please could you help plars out this this?

 16:21:47 <roaksoax> jamespage: definitely, it was on my todo for this week

 16:22:04 <plars> Finally, there's a whole lot of ec2 tests on http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com Can someone  see that those are attempted when we get to the release candidate?

 16:22:07 <jamespage> roaksoax, great

 16:22:18 <plars> I'd like to get the server stuff as close to 100% covered as possible for the raring release

 16:22:29 <plars> this would be the week leading up to April 25

 16:22:36 <jamespage> plars, sure - utlemming normally deals with the ec2 testing

 16:22:42 <plars> awesome

 16:22:44 <plars> that's all I have

 16:23:08 <rbasak> Thanks roaksoax and jamespage for helping plars with QA.

 16:23:09 <utlemming> plars: that tests are running

 16:23:17 <plars> jamespage: I'll also try the iscsi tests again on todays image, so if you get something different from me then we'll know it must be something on my end

 16:23:18 <utlemming> plars: they are on the build server jenkins instance

 16:23:30 <utlemming> plars: but IS has yet to enable pushing them to the public instance

 16:23:37 <utlemming> plars: I'll get with you on the EC2 testing

 16:23:39 <jamespage> utlemming, do we need to disable them in the old QA setup?

 16:23:39 <plars> utlemming: fair enough

 16:23:47 <plars> utlemming: ok, sounds good

 16:23:50 <rbasak> Thanks utlemming!

 16:24:01 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

 16:24:04 <smb> Nothing to report this week (nothing I can remember at least ;-P). Would there be questions?

 16:24:23 <rbasak> Thanks smb. Does anyone have any questions?

 16:24:45 <jamespage> smb, do you know if there are plans

 16:24:55 <smb> there are many

 16:24:56 <jamespage> smb, to provide the raring 3.8 kernel on precise

 16:25:02 <jamespage> like with did with 3.5?

 16:25:23 <smb> jamespage, Yes I afaik that is the plan

 16:25:47 <jamespage> smb, hmm - OK - I think we need to consider what we do with the important DKMS packages for server

 16:26:09 <jamespage> I'd like to table that we look at upgrading things like openvswitch to the latest releases that support 3.8

 16:26:31 <jamespage> I'm concerned that we are going to get into cherry pick hell trying to keep up with kernels every 6 months

 16:26:48 <jamespage> i.e. openvswitch would bump to 1.9.0 in 12.04 for example

 16:27:32 <smb> jamespage, that might be simpler to keep up with than just fixing the build issues. openvswitch might be more affected there than other dkms packages

 16:28:22 <smb> iscsi_target could be another one to look for, though the block layer changes a little slower imo

 16:28:25 <jamespage> smb, OK - I'll draw up a list an review/propose where we might go next then :-)

 16:28:31 <smb> jamespage, ack

 16:28:42 <rbasak> OK. Thanks smb!

 16:28:46 <rbasak> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)

 16:28:52 <jamespage> smb, it needed an update for raring :-)

 16:29:06 <smb> jamespage, slower not not... :-P

 16:29:26 * jamespage stops hijacking rbasaks session

 16:29:44 <rbasak> I have no updates. I'd like to just mention though that my mongodb patch is just a workaround to make it work. I need to look again at actually making it performant - I suspect I destroyed ARM performance in my alignment workaround.

 16:29:46 <rbasak> Any questions for me?

 16:30:17 <rbasak> I guess not.

 16:30:20 <rbasak> #topic Open Discussion

 16:30:47 <rbasak> I had one question. Are we tracking outstanding merges to make sure that we don't ship (or are at least aware of) packages that are older than Debian?

 16:31:13 <rbasak> I did exim4, and have puppet upload pending review, both of which picked up bugfixes from Debian

 16:34:36 <jamespage> I've not been that hot on it lately

 16:34:49 <jamespage> its hard to track due to the mixture of sources from unstable and experimental

 16:35:40 <rbasak> I wondered if we should keep a list of what Debian version of a package we're happy with for each package

 16:36:02 <rbasak> Then it might be easier to track it, and for a Debian revision we've opted not to merge, we won't be bothered by it.

 16:36:07 <rbasak> Anyway, just a thought for next cycle maybe.

 16:36:13 <rbasak> Any other items for open discussion anyone?

 16:36:40 <rbasak> #topic Announce next meeting date and time

 16:36:47 <rbasak> The next meeting will be at Tue, 16 Apr 2013 16:00:00 +0000. The chair will be yolanda.

 16:36:50 <rbasak> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
