{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
TZ UTC+1
<pre>
09:55	sistpoty	hi dholbach and somerville32
09:55	somerville32	hey : )
09:55	Adri2000	hi
09:56	ScottK	Hello.
09:56	lionel	hi
10:02	ajmitch	well, agenda is fairly empty, noone's here
10:02	Toadstool	hi everybody
10:02	ajmitch	hi
10:02	sistpoty	let's get started, shall we?
10:02	ajmitch	oh good, sistpoty is awake ;)
10:03	sistpoty	hehe
10:03	sistpoty	(partly awake... got up before 10am, new record *g*)
=== ajmitch was awake sometime around 5am
10:03	Adri2000	10am, wow! :p
10:04	dholbach	ok
10:04	ajmitch	dholbach!
10:04	dholbach	is the agenda new?
10:04	dholbach	hey ajmitch
10:04	ajmitch	do we have anything to talk about?
10:04	dholbach	the charter's on there
10:04	sistpoty	erm.. that item was left over from the last agenda
10:04	ajmitch	apart from the release, and gutsy
10:04	dholbach	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Meetings
10:04	dholbach	ok
10:04	dholbach	I have only one small item:
10:04	ajmitch	release freeze?
10:05	dholbach	the motu-uvf team needs to clean out all bugs and get things uploaded or rejected properly
10:05	dholbach	and we should do that RSN
10:05	ajmitch	ok
10:05	dholbach	we have quite a bunch hanging in a limbo state
=== ajmitch waits for LP
10:05	dholbach	that's all I can see for now
10:06	ajmitch	there don't seem to be that many on the assigned bugs page
10:06	dholbach	subscribed?
10:06	dholbach	the less the better
=== ajmitch has mainly been looking at the assigned bugs
10:06	ajmitch	LP is slow enough as it is :)
10:07	dholbach	what else? is there any use having another universe hug day before release?
10:07	dholbach	nice to get LP cleaned up and patches submitted for either release or for SRUs, but will we have time for that?
10:07	ajmitch	are we going to have a freeze in the last week?
10:07	ScottK	We could have a reject all the left over breezy bugs day next week!
10:08	sistpoty	erm... sorry, I'm a little slow today. I can't see any subscribed bugs of motu-uvf?
10:08	dholbach	ajmitch: i suppose so
10:08	ajmitch	sistpoty: it could be LP failing again :) I just got proxy errors trying to view bugs
10:08	dholbach	ScottK: sounds good, but that's something we can clean up after release :)
10:09	sistpoty	ajmitch: maybe... it only tells me: "There are currently no open bugs." (with the +subscribedbugs page)
10:09	ScottK	OK.  I may get started ahead of time.
10:09	dholbach	sistpoty: ok, seems there are only ten
10:10	sistpoty	ah, k
10:10	ajmitch	of those that are in limbo - sysv_rc_bootsplash, wxwidgets2.8, texmacs
10:10	dholbach	ajmitch, siretart, slomo, crimsun and I will take a look at them
10:11	dholbach	anything else we should discuss before release?
10:11	rmjb	any adjustments in the way MOTU work for gutsy?
10:11	ajmitch	targetting the rc bugs list still?
10:11	sistpoty	we did have the idea of a harder freeze, with *all* uploads needing to be approved by motu-uvf... are we doing this right now actually?
10:11	ajmitch	dholbach: make that 8 on the uvf list
10:12	dholbach	rmjb: that we'll discuss after release - atm we'll focus on the release
10:12	rmjb	dholbach: ok
10:12	ajmitch	ok to reject wxwidgets2.8 uvfe?
10:12	dholbach	rmjb: but if you have suggestions, it'd be nice to hear about them - the mailing list might be good to discuss things there
10:12	dholbach	ajmitch: ok
10:12	dholbach	ajmitch: thanks
10:13	dholbach	sistpoty: atm, all uploads get reviewed and checked by the archive admins - dunno how they decide if they wave them through or not
10:13	siretart	hi folks - sorry for being late
10:13	sistpoty	huhu siretart
10:13	ajmitch	it'd be best to clarify things with the archive admins then if they ask
10:13	dholbach	hey siretart
10:13	ajmitch	hey siretart
10:13	dholbach	ajmitch: yeah
10:13	sistpoty	dholbach: so it's just regular uploading from the motu pov, right?
10:14	dholbach	atm, yes
10:14	sistpoty	ok
10:14	dholbach	not sure if it's going to change in the remaining 7 days
10:14	dholbach	I feel most of us have been quite conservative with their fixes
10:14	dholbach	ie small unmetdeps fixes, etc
10:14	sistpoty	not quite sure if it's worth the overhead... *shrug*
10:15	sistpoty	(to change policy now)
10:15	dholbach	yeah
10:15	dholbach	ok.... what else? anything we should definitely take care of for the release?
10:15	siretart	dholbach: I've asked Tollef about the idea we had regarding removing binary packages with broken deps. The idea got rejected, do you happen to know why?
10:16	dholbach	no no idea
10:16	sistpoty	let me check the logs... he stated a reason back when I asked him
10:16	ajmitch	yay
10:16	ScottK	The sneaky solution would be a new source package that you know will FTBFS.
10:17	Lutin	ScottK: the former binary version would stay in the archive though
10:17	ScottK	Oh.  Nevermind then.
10:19	sistpoty	hm... can't find it in my logs :(... iirc the reasons were the overhead for archive admins (it would result in binary new packages) and that it would be quite surprising to have a sru package in binary new
=== ajmitch should have looked closer at texmacs awhile ago
10:20	siretart	hm. fair enough
10:21	ajmitch	the RC bug in debian was only in the version in experimental
10:23	dholbach	ok
10:23	dholbach	anything else?
10:23	ajmitch	short meeting, I like it
10:24	ajmitch	next meeting date?
=== snille [n=snille@1-1-4-38a.apv.sth.bostream.se] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["If]
10:24	sistpoty	two weeks from now?
10:24	dholbach	2 weeks?
10:24	dholbach	sounds good to me
10:24	sistpoty	:)
10:25	ajmitch	rotate time or not?
10:25	dholbach	next time :)
=== ajmitch won't be able to make it if it's at 0800UTC on the 26th
10:25	dholbach	it's not 8 utc atm
10:26	ajmitch	no, but we talked about changing it by 12 hours each time to be fair to people like australians :)
10:26	dholbach	next time then :)
10:26	sistpoty	fine with me :)
10:26	ajmitch	k
10:27	ajmitch	which means 2 meetings from now, will be during UDS :)
10:27	ajmitch	but dholbach_ won't mind that :)
10:27	sistpoty	hehe
10:27	dholbach_	but I can update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTUMenuHeader again :)
10:28	dholbach_	looks like i missed some part of the conversation
10:28	ajmitch	08:26 < ajmitch> k
10:28	ajmitch	08:27 < ajmitch> which means 2 meetings from now, will be during UDS :)
10:28	sistpoty	the menu header is cool btw :)
10:28	dholbach	yeah
10:28	dholbach	ok good
10:28	dholbach	everybody happy?
10:28	dholbach	who mails fridge-devel@ and others?
=== ajmitch is overjoyed
10:29	sistpoty	does that mean that you volunteer ajmitch? *g*
10:29	dholbach	he's so happy, he can't stop himself :)
10:29	sistpoty	hehe
10:29	ajmitch	who do I have to contact?
10:30	ajmitch	motu list, fridge-devel, devel-announce?
10:30	dholbach	fridge-devel@ ubuntu-devel@ ubuntu-motu@
10:30	dholbach	yeah, or like that
10:31	ajmitch	alright, will do
10:31	ajmitch	thanks for showing up :)
10:31	dholbach	super
10:31	sistpoty	thanks everyone
10:31	dholbach	adjourned :)
=== ajmitch has his passport ready now
10:31	ajmitch	since I had to find the number :)
</pre>
