{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** rbasak to drive migration to ubuntuserver.org
** smoser follow up with rbasak re bug 972077 
* Quantal Development
** Release Bugs - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html
** Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-quantal/ubuntu-server.html
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====
* arosales to correct "pieces" on ubuntu server blog
** completed by rbask
* arosales to follow up with rbask on finding the correct home for the Ubuntu Server blog.
* jamespage, utlemming, and smb to discuss image bloat, in reference to discussion around dropping -virtual kernel; re bug 1009553
* jamespage to follow up with hallyn on servercloud-q-server-iso-tests-review
* utlemming to follow up with rbasak on getting armhf images using highbank

===== Other topics =====
* Add 12.04.1 development section for jamespage and smoser to give updates on.
* arosales asked folks to integrate https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BlueprintSpec into the white board section of blueprints.
* hggdh also reported that UTAH is getting ready to have some tests ported.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, June 19th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:00] <arosales> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:00] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jun 12 16:00:52 2012 UTC.  The chair is arosales. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:00] <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:01] <arosales> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:01] <arosales> rbasak: how is the migration to ubuntuserver.org going?
[16:02] <rbasak> I had assumed that was a joke action. I have no knowledge of ubuntuserver.org or anything surrounding it whatsoever.
[16:02] <arosales> I think that was in reference to our server team blog, correct
[16:02] <smoser> hm.. funny. it probably was a joke action and then got carried over too.
[16:03] <smoser> nice. for shame on whoever chaired last week.
[16:03] <arosales> If so, are there any objections about where the blog current lives?
[16:03] <rbasak> I would just like to see the typo fixed, which is how I ended up with the joke action
[16:03] <m_3> rbasak: I think you were dissing the site and got volunteered by the meeting chair :)
[16:03] <arosales> rbasak: where is that typo again?
[16:03] <rbasak> In the headline
[16:03] <rbasak> peices
[16:04] <arosales> ah ok, here https://ubuntuserver.wordpress.com/
[16:04] <arosales> rbasak:  did you want to follow up with jamespage and see who has access and get that corrected?
[16:05] <arosales> rbask, if not I can.
[16:05] <jamespage> arosales, rbasak: I think I might have access
[16:05] <rbasak> I don't think it's worth me being involved. I know nothing about it, and am not sure what I can add
[16:05] <rbasak> (apart from another cook for the broth)
[16:05] <arosales> ok, I will follow up
[16:05] <SpamapS> o/
[16:06] <arosales> #action arosales to correct "pieces" on ubuntu server blog
[16:06] <meetingology> ACTION: arosales to correct "pieces" on ubuntu server blog
[16:06] <arosales> smoser:  did you have a chance to follow up with rbasak on bug 972077
[16:07] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 972077 in apt (Ubuntu) "apt repository disk format has race conditions" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/972077
[16:07] <smoser> rbasak, ping, re 972077
[16:07] <smoser> (no, i didn't. but i will)
[16:07] <arosales> ok thanks smoser
[16:07] <arosales> #topic Precise Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Precise Development
[16:07] <arosales> bugs
[16:07] <arosales> http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html
[16:07] <arosales> bug https://launchpad.net/bugs/974584
[16:07] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 974584 in sysvinit (Ubuntu Quantal) "Semaphores cannot be created in lxc container" [High,Triaged]
[16:08] <arosales> hallyn: were you taking a look at this one ^
[16:08] <arosales> bug 920197
[16:08] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 920197 in python-webob (Ubuntu Quantal) "[SRU] webob last stable version 1.1.1 response header bug" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/920197
[16:09] <arosales> zul: and jamespage this one queued up correctly for SRU in 12.04.1?
[16:09] <jamespage> yep
[16:09] <zul> yep
[16:09] <arosales> cool thanks zul and jamespage
[16:09] <arosales> bug 1001846
[16:09] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1001846 in cobbler (Ubuntu) "cobbler fails to install with error code 1" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1001846
[16:09] <hallyn> hm, yeah, i dropped the fix for bug 974584 both in debian and ubuntu bugs, i don't have upload rights...
[16:09] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 974584 in sysvinit (Ubuntu Quantal) "Semaphores cannot be created in lxc container" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/974584
[16:10] <arosales> smoser: I think you were looking for more info on this one did airtonix give what was needed?
[16:10] <hallyn> think the debian maintainer got sick of me
[16:10] <arosales> hallyn: thanks for the update on 974584
[16:10]  * smoser re-looks
[16:10] <arosales> hallyn: let us know if you don't get a response soon
[16:10] <arosales> smoser: thanks
[16:11] <arosales> bug https://launchpad.net/bugs/1009294
[16:11] <smoser> hm... roaksoax is not around. i think there is enough info in that bug to move forward.
[16:11] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1009294 in Ubuntu Precise "Grub update breaks automated dist-upgrade scripts on AMI images" [High,Fix committed]
[16:11] <arosales> smoser: looks like you had the todo here to get the fix commited. Is that now in the ubuntu cloud images?
[16:12] <arosales> well catch roaksoax later on the cobbler bug
[16:12] <arosales> bug 880339
[16:12] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 880339 in mysql-5.5 (Ubuntu Precise) "AppArmor profile needs update" [Medium,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/880339
[16:12] <smoser> someone should verify images are fixed for that cloud image bug
[16:12] <smoser> and we need to refresh the 12.04 images.
[16:13] <utlemming> smoser: I can do that...
[16:13] <SpamapS> arosales: that one is a dupe of one that I'm working on
[16:13] <arosales> jamespage:  I think you were tracking bug 880339, is that now fixed?
[16:13] <utlemming> smoser: and I plan on re-spinning precise ASAP
[16:13] <SpamapS> arosales: I think we can drop it from the list, having been incomplete without a response for so long
[16:13] <arosales> utlemming: could you help with verifying the fix smoser commited?
[16:13] <utlemming> arosales: yup
[16:13] <arosales> utlemming: thanks
[16:13] <hallyn> arosales: i've got a note in my tickler to bug ubuntu-devel on thu if no action from maintainer
[16:14] <jamespage> arosales, yes - SpamapS please could you ensure the bug that you are working on has a task for precise and is targetted to 12.04.1
[16:14] <arosales> #action drop 880339 from bug list â€” no response
[16:14] <meetingology> ACTION: drop 880339 from bug list â€” no response
[16:14] <SpamapS> arosales: no action needed
[16:14] <arosales> thanks SpamapS
[16:14] <arosales> ah, ok :-)
[16:14] <SpamapS> arosales: its already closed as Invalid actually
[16:14] <SpamapS> there was a recent response.. that the user had screwed it up themselves
[16:15] <arosales> I'll make sure to remove the subscription of ubuntu server team too
[16:15] <Daviey> (sorry for speaking out of turn.. but the ubuntuserver.org blog transition wasn't a joke action.. it needs to happen, and rbask wanted to see it improved.)
[16:15] <arosales> bug 993291
[16:15] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 993291 in nis (Ubuntu Quantal) "[SRU] package nis 3.17-32ubuntu1.2 failed to install/upgrade: invoke-rc.d: unknown initscript, /etc/init.d/nis not found." [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/993291
[16:16] <arosales> jamespage: looks like 993291 is tracking ok, correct?
[16:16] <jamespage> arosales, yeah - I just picked that up
[16:16] <arosales> jamespage: ok, thanks
[16:16] <arosales> bug 1009553
[16:16] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1009553 in ubuntu-meta (Ubuntu) "jeos install oversized" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1009553
[16:17]  * jamespage is unsurprised
[16:17] <arosales> jamespage:  is this one a result of just droping -virtual kernel?
[16:17] <arosales> any fix needed?
[16:17] <jamespage> well its always close to the line - but yes that does seem to be the problem this release
[16:17] <Daviey> Well, we should dive for extra opportunities to reduce it's size
[16:18] <Daviey> but growth is expected.
[16:18] <jamespage> I'm not sure TBH - I though the -virtual piece was going to be managed with additional module packages
[16:18] <jamespage> which is the bulk of the oversize ATM
[16:18] <jamespage> ~60MB I think
[16:18] <jamespage> smb`, any opinion on ^^
[16:18]  * smb` tries to catch up
[16:19] <utlemming> jamespage: -virtual did indeed get dropped...and the kernel bloat in the AMI's is ~200M as a result
[16:19] <jamespage> utlemming, sounds about right :-)
[16:19] <arosales> in parallel for bug 920197, zul is that progressing as expected?
[16:19] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 920197 in python-webob (Ubuntu Quantal) "[SRU] webob last stable version 1.1.1 response header bug" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/920197
[16:20] <zul> arosales: no it needs some work still which im doing this afternoon
[16:20] <smb`> utlemming, Why there would be a virtual meta which only consists of the smaller part
[16:20] <utlemming> smb: is there a -virtual meta then?
[16:21] <arosales> zul: ok thanks. Make sure to ping smoser or jamespage both on the 12.04.1 team if any assistance is needed.
[16:21] <smb`> utlemming, linux-generic-meta -> linxu-image-generic + linux-image-extra-generic   vs. linux-virtual-meta -> linux-image-generic
[16:21] <zul> arosales: ack
[16:21] <jamespage> smb`, utlemming: sounds like we are bloating out to much
[16:21] <jamespage> arosales, please action smb, utlemming and I to discuss offline
[16:21] <jamespage> well online but not in this meeting :-)
[16:22] <utlemming> +1, we'll discuss this right after
[16:22] <smb`> jamespage, At least that is the theory, we need to reality check but, yes put up an action
[16:22] <arosales> #action jamespage and utlemming to discuss dropping -virtual kernel; re bug 1009553
[16:22] <meetingology> ACTION: jamespage and utlemming to discuss dropping -virtual kernel; re bug 1009553
[16:22] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1009553 in ubuntu-meta (Ubuntu) "jeos install oversized" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1009553
[16:22] <arosales> utlemming: jamespage and smb thanks
[16:22] <jamespage> ta
[16:22] <arosales> bug 1008537
[16:22] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1008537 in webkit (Ubuntu) "[FTBFS] Segmentation fault during tests" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1008537
[16:22] <arosales> failed to build
[16:23] <arosales> may be similar to bug https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/968308
[16:23] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 968308 in openjdk-6 (Ubuntu) "Opening Eclipse workbench causes SIGSEGV" [Undecided,Confirmed]
[16:23] <arosales> anyone interested in taking a look ?
[16:24] <arosales> webkit and sphinx
[16:24] <arosales> any interested folks?
[16:25] <Daviey> i'll investigate it.
[16:25] <arosales> Daviey: thanks
[16:25] <arosales> moving onto blueprints http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-quantal/ubuntu-server.html
[16:25] <arosales> so we got some good work items documented, and dependencies liked to topics.
[16:26] <arosales> please take a look if the dependency linkage looks correct for your blueprint
[16:26] <arosales> also be sure to be implementing the blueprint spec into blueprints, jamespage do you have a link handy?
[16:27] <jamespage> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BlueprintSpec
[16:27] <arosales> jamespage: thanks
[16:27] <jamespage> I do - thanks skaet!
[16:27] <arosales> Any other items on blueprints?
[16:28]  * arosales forgot the two topics under quantal dev
[16:28] <hallyn> hm, in https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-q-server-iso-tests-review, i hope someone will explain to me what that action item assigned to me is
[16:29] <arosales> jamespage:  can you assist hallyn with work items on the ISO tesing?
[16:29] <jamespage> hallyn, arosales: yep
[16:29] <arosales> #action jamespage to follow up with hallyn on servercloud-q-server-iso-tests-review
[16:29] <meetingology> ACTION: jamespage to follow up with hallyn on servercloud-q-server-iso-tests-review
[16:29] <arosales> jamespage: thanks
[16:29] <hallyn> thx
[16:29] <arosales> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:29] <arosales> jim is at  http://static.usenix.org/events/config10/index.html
[16:30] <arosales> this week
[16:30] <arosales> Velocity coming up in a couple of weeks.
[16:30] <arosales> any other events?
[16:30] <jamespage> I pretending to be hazmat at EuroPycon at the start of July
[16:30] <arosales> cool, should be fun pretending to be hazmat :-)
[16:30] <SpamapS> jamespage: I can't wait to see your beard :)
[16:31] <arosales> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[16:31] <arosales> hggdh: Any updates from QA?
[16:31] <jamespage> SpamapS, I'm working on that :-)
[16:32] <jamespage> hggdh, whats the current status on UTAH?
[16:32] <arosales> perhaps hggdh isn't around at the moment. hggdh please feel free to comment if you return.
[16:32] <arosales> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:32] <arosales> smb`:  how is the kernel looking?
[16:33] <smb`> Mostly harmless...
[16:33] <arosales> any questions for smb` ?
[16:33] <arosales> thanks smb`
[16:34] <arosales> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
[16:34] <rbasak> Calxeda's Highbank machine is now enabled in Quantal! We're planning a more detailed announcement on this soon, including installation instructions. MAAS support for this machine is now the next step.
[16:34] <rbasak> Any questions for me?
[16:34] <arosales> woot :-)
[16:35] <arosales> no other questions for rbasak
[16:35] <arosales> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Open Discussion
[16:35] <utlemming> rbasak: so we need to get together
[16:35] <utlemming> and get the armhf images using the Highbank then
[16:36] <arosales> Daviey: I'll follow up with rbasak on seeing how we can get our server team blog moved to the correct home. I have an action items to correct the spelling so I'll investigate the move with rbask.
[16:36]  * rbasak just wanted the typo fixed!
[16:36] <rbasak> That'll be <5 minutes for someone with access, right?
[16:37] <Daviey> rbasak: we need to move it regardless
[16:37] <Daviey> rbasak: You volunteered AIUI.
[16:37] <rbasak> Where should it go?
[16:37] <arosales> #action utlemming to follow up with rbasak on getting armhf images using highbank.
[16:37] <meetingology> ACTION: utlemming to follow up with rbasak on getting armhf images using highbank.
[16:37]  * rbasak didn't volunteer. He just asked for the typo to be fixed.
[16:37] <Daviey> rbasak: canonical hosted.. under that domain (owned by canonical)
[16:37] <m_3> prob a good idea to talk to jcastro about it
[16:38] <Daviey> rbasak: just need to raise an RT and get IS to setup wordpress under that domain.
[16:38] <Daviey> and migrate content... can you take that?
[16:38] <rbasak> Who has access to the current wordpress?
[16:38] <rbasak> To migrate content I'll want access
[16:38] <Daviey> rbasak: it's wordpress.org.. so all of us.
[16:38] <Daviey> err, .com
[16:38] <rbasak> Credentials?
[16:38] <Daviey> rbasak: anyone on the team can have an account
[16:38] <rbasak> Who has admin access?
[16:39] <Daviey> rbasak: If you don't have one, i can add you.
[16:39] <rbasak> Please
[16:39] <Daviey> rbasak: lets take this offline.
[16:39] <arosales> ok, thanks Daviey
[16:39] <arosales> Any other topics to discuss?
[16:40] <arosales> ok, thanks for everyone's time
[16:40] <arosales> #topic Announce next meeting date and time
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[16:40] <jamespage> o/
[16:40] <jamespage> I had one actually
[16:40] <arosales> Tuesday 2012-06-19 at 1600 UTC
[16:40] <arosales> jamespage:  go
[16:40] <jamespage> OK - so smoser and I and representing the server team for the 12.04.1 release
[16:41] <Daviey> so don't mess it up.
[16:41] <jamespage> we have a regular catchup with all of the other 12.04.1 folk every 2 weeks
[16:41] <jamespage> I spent some time updating zul's reports - http://people.canonical.com/~jamespage/server-sru/precise-sru.html
[16:42] <jamespage> it you come across any bugs that should be SRU'ed please raise tasks for precise and target them to 12.04.1 - that way they will appear in the report
[16:42] <jamespage> assigning someone or an upload being accepted into -proposed results in them moving to 'inflight'
[16:43] <jamespage> I'd also like to have a regular slot in the meeting as well
[16:43] <jamespage> not to review the entire report but to focus on any problematic bugs...
[16:43] <jamespage> oh - http://people.canonical.com/~jamespage/server-sru/ contains series based reports for all supported releases as well
[16:43] <arosales> perhaps after the quantal development section
[16:43] <jamespage> that would make sense to me
[16:44] <arosales> #action arosales to add 12.04.1 Development section
[16:44] <meetingology> ACTION: arosales to add 12.04.1 Development section
[16:44] <arosales> jamespage: and smoser 	thanks for rep'ing server in the 12.04.01 team
[16:45] <arosales> any other items to discuss
[16:45] <arosales> Next meeting is Tuesday 2012-06-19 at 1600 UTC. Thanks for attending, and bearing with me ;-)
[16:45] <arosales> #endmeeting
</pre>
