{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=03&day=12&year=2012&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Mar 12th 2012 18:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 18:30 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* micahg
* jjohansen

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Thanks
** Kilian Krause (kilian) provided debdiffs for oneiric for fex (DSAs 2414)
  Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Review of any previous action items
** ACTION: jdstrand to setup ubuntu-security-staging ppa and communicate to team: done
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** happy place
** MIR audit catch-up
** embargoed issue
** short week (Friday off)
** mdeslaur
** Weekly role: community
** embargoed issue
** mysql point release updates went out. Will be monitoring for bugs
** pending updates
** sbeattie
** Weekly role: triage
** essential work items (!AppArmor userspace bugs/work items)
** micahg
** Weekly role: happy place
** finish icedtea regression
** mozilla update
** webkit
** tyhicks
** Weekly role: happy place
** finish fix for LP: #842647 (ecryptfs)
** pending updates
** jjohansen
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** apparmor bug fixes
** work items
** !AppArmor 2.8 beta 3 probably late week
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** None

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-03-12-18.00.html
