{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
01:57	Seveas	let me poke the CC
=== padmawan_ [n=padmawan@202.59.168.29] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:57	Seveas	mako_, ping
01:57	amachu	how should i start presenting?
01:58	Riddell	amachu: wait for the meeting to start
01:58	Seveas	amachu, when you're up you can briefly introduce the team (prepare a few lines in a text editor so you can paste them), then the CC will ask questions
01:58	amachu	ok...
01:58	Hobbsee	Seveas: s/ask questions/start grilling/g
01:58	Belutz	Seveas, could you ask the CC that indonesian loco team agenda to be moved first? because i'm in the middle of something
01:58	Fujitsu	Hobbsee, that's the TB, not CC :P
01:59	Hobbsee	Fujitsu: they both do.  just about different things
01:59	Belutz	Seveas, if it is possible
01:59	Seveas	Belutz, so am I (I'm actually at EUROOscon and the keynote is about to start)
01:59	ajmitch	Seveas: who's giving the keynote today?
01:59	jsgotangco	EuroOSCON ROCK
01:59	Fujitsu	Hobbsee, the CC barely grills.
01:59	Hobbsee	Fujitsu: hmmm....true
01:59	Belutz	Seveas, so we are busy right now :)
=== imtheface [i=usr187@deo220-11.java.net.id] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:01	Seveas	ajmitch, morning kynote was tim oreiully and tor norretranders, afternoon is steve coast and adrian holovaty
=== leleobhz [n=leleobhz@unaffiliated/leleobhz] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:01	leleobhz	dudanogueira: ?
=== pitti [n=pitti@ubuntu/member/pitti] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== Belutz [n=belutz@ubuntu/member/belutz] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== fajran [n=iang@125.161.128.76] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== phanatic [n=phanatic@ubuntu/member/phanatic] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== Belutz [n=belutz@ubuntu/member/belutz] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:06	Seveas	Hmm, the CC seems to be rather absent
=== elmo [n=james@83-216-156-21.jamest747.adsl.metronet.co.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:06	elmo	sorry I'm late
=== omera [n=ron@212.49.92.139] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:06	Seveas	elmo, you're the first of the CC to arrive
02:06	elmo	err, oh
=== gnomefreak still working on what im gonna say :) they can take thier time
02:06	dudanogueira	Seveas, im here :)
02:06	Belutz	welcome elmo
02:06	Seveas	elmo, if sabdfl is at EUROOscon already, he's within a few meters from me ;)
02:07	brendonjt	elmo, :kia ora (hi)
02:07	elmo	Seveas: he's not
02:07	jsgotangco	heh
=== Kamping_Kaiser [n=kgoetz@easyubuntu/docteam/kgoetz] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:07	elmo	but he's out of the office, atm, probably won't make it
02:07	elmo	i'll start ringing folks I guess
02:07	Seveas	thank you
02:08	Seveas	elmo, many of the "old agenda item" people showed up today
02:08	elmo	kamion is on his way, ETA 10 mins - sorry about this, folks
02:09	Seveas	YAY
02:09	lophyte	10mins? sweet, I have time to eat breakfast
02:09	Seveas	statment in the current keynote: "Open systems are a done deal, eg Ubuntu"
02:10	Fujitsu	Yay :)
=== brendonjt makes coffee to stay awake it after midnight
02:11	elmo	and mako's on his way now
02:11	Seveas	elmo, you rock
02:11	Fujitsu	Yay :)
02:11	amachu	Seveas: have we started?
02:12	Seveas	amachu, no, we are waiting for two more members of the council
02:12	amachu	Seveas: ok, Thank You
=== mak|away is now known as mak
02:14	mako_	greetings
02:15	Seveas	hi mako_
02:15	Fujitsu	Hey mako.
02:15	jsgotangco	hey
02:15	ajmitch	hello mako
02:15	brendonjt	mako:  kia ora hi there
02:15	mako	mak: this is going to make nick completion a bit difficult
02:15	Fujitsu	mako, yeah
=== mak is now known as makl10n
02:15	Belutz	jsgotangco: hi, remember me? :D
=== Mugunth [n=chatzill@125.16.130.66] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:16	jsgotangco	Belutz: of course, my indonesian friend ;)
02:16	jsgotangco	Belutz: let's chat in private ;)
02:16	Belutz	jsgotangco: ok :)
02:17	dudanogueira	hello all :)
02:17	makl10n	have you satarted the CC meeting?
02:17	Fujitsu	makl10n, not quite yet.
02:18	Seveas	makl10n, we're still waiting for one member of the council
02:18	Seveas	who is supposed to arrive soon
02:18	makl10n	We'll I've a class to take , it will be finish within 30 minutes. So, I want to come back again.
02:19	Seveas	makl10n, ok, the meeting lasts for about two hours so 30 minutes is ok
02:20	makl10n	Seveas: if the CC looks for me (mak), tell 'em I'll be back, the fact I've applied
02:21	makl10n	Seveas: I'll be back
=== vijay [n=vijay@125.16.130.66] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== makl10n is now known as mak|will
=== mak|will is now known as mak|away
=== padmawan [n=padmawan@202.59.168.29] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:22	brendonjt	padmawan, : hey there
02:22	padmawan	hi
=== Ubugtu [n=bugbot@ubuntu/bot/ubugtu] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== Kamion [n=cjwatson@83-216-156-196.colinw664.adsl.metronet.co.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:24	Kamion	right, sorry about that, I was moving house bits in my lunch break and forgot about the meeting
02:24	Seveas	Kamion, welcome
02:24	Seveas	mako, elmo: ping, we're complete
02:24	brendonjt	kamion: hi there
02:25	Belutz	let the meeting begin :)
02:25	mako	alright
02:25	elmo	here
02:25	Kamion	oh, I thought you'd have started
02:25	Kamion	oh well
02:25	Seveas	The agenda will start with locoteams today, IRC item is waiting for sabdfl and one of the apllicants for translation coordinator just left for 30 minutes
02:26	Kamion	what about the ubuntu-desktop-effects item? that's further up the agenda than locoteams
02:26	mako	sounds goof
02:26	mako	good even
02:26	Seveas	Kamion, ah sorry, missed it
02:26	gnomefreak	we can do that whenever
=== mindspin [n=mindspin@pD95FFC54.dip.t-dialin.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:26	DBO	gnomefreak, earlier would be better
=== pygi [n=pygi@89-172-198-139.adsl.net.t-com.hr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== Quinn_Storm can handle whenever
02:26	Kamion	I'm assuming that the ubuntu-desktop team don't want this on ubuntu-desktop?
02:26	Kamion	dholbach: ?
=== Seveas will have to leave too, i want to give a \o/ for elkbuntu (Melissa Draper) before I do so
02:27	Kamion	noted
02:27	Kamion	(though detail would be good :-))
=== pygi cheers for elkbuntu ^_^
02:27	gnomefreak	Kamion: made the team to take the load off of the -desktop team
02:27	elkbuntu	:)
02:27	dholbach	Kamion: on the mailing list? in the channel? I don't quite follow?
02:28	Kamion	dholbach: on the mailing list - I'm assuming it would be too much clutter to have aiglx/compiz/etc. discussion there?
02:28	Kamion	but would like confirmation
02:28	dholbach	we could try and see where it goes
02:29	DBO	Kamion, on top of that most of the discussion would not be relevant to whats actually in the official ubuntu repos
=== superm1 [n=supermar@68-115-81-248.dhcp.roch.mn.charter.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== Gnomonic [n=gnomonic@130.225.208.156] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:30	amachu	so, have we started?
02:30	gnomefreak	we grew from 10 members to 82 members in a weeks time if that continues like that i think it would be alot of foreseen clutter on the -desktop list
=== quail-laptop [n=quail@unaffiliated/quaillinux/x-000001] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:31	jsgotangco	whoa
=== Hobbsee cheers for elkbuntu too, then goes afk
02:31	mako	yeah, wow :)
02:31	Kamion	gnomefreak: that sounds reasonable
02:32	pygi	elkbuntu: when is it your turn?
02:32	Kamion	it sounds far enough off-charter for the existing lists that a new list is reasonable
02:32	Kamion	elmo: is the current process to RT mailing list creation requests?
=== GazzaK [n=Gary@87.127.39.240] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:33	elmo	Kamion: mail mailman@lists.ubuntu.com, yeah (which goes to RT)
02:34	amachu	This is sriramadas, contact person for TamilTeam from Chennai, India. We formed the team with two members on 06-Aug-06 with two members. We are now 12 in number. We have started translating Ubuntu to Tamil.
02:34	Kamion	amachu: please wait until you're called
02:34	amachu	ok
02:34	Kamion	we'll get to you :)
02:34	amachu	Sorry for that.. :-)
02:34	Kamion	gnomefreak: OK, could you send your new list request to the address elmo gave, then?
02:34	gnomefreak	Kamion: yes sir ty
02:34	Kamion	it seems relatively uncontroversial
02:35	Kamion	righto, next - locoteams
02:35	Kamion	Sri Lanka?
02:35	Kamion	or has that been incorporated into Tamil?
=== thekorn [n=markus@a81-14-184-200.net-htp.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:36	amachu	Kamion: No..
=== Niwatori [n=Niwatori@125.163.25.4] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:37	Kamion	ok, Sri Lanka not here
02:37	Kamion	Northeastern US?
=== Quinn_Storm [n=quinn@pool-71-253-28-35.pitbpa.east.verizon.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Konversation]
=== sigurdga [n=sigurdga@248.80-202-221.nextgentel.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:38	Kamion	nope
02:38	Kamion	Tamil
02:38	Kamion	amachu: ok, you're up now :)
02:38	amachu	Hi
02:39	amachu	We formed the Tamil team with two members on 06-Aug-06. We are now 12 in number. We have started translating Ubuntu to Tamil.
02:39	amachu	Our language is spoken by 65 million people around the world. Tamil Nadu in India, Srilanka, Singapore are the countries with Tamil as official languages.
02:40	amachu	Today myself and Mukunth, ome of our team member has represented here
02:40	Kamion	Any interesting stories to tell about the take-up of Ubuntu in Tamil-speaking regions?
02:41	amachu	yes..
02:41	amachu	We have started taking Ubuntu to kids in T Nagar...
02:41	amachu	a locality in Channai, India
=== gri3fon [n=chatzill@124.195.1.134] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:41	amachu	We educate kids on Computing using ubuntu
02:42	Mugunth	Hi All, this is Mugunth from tamil team
=== hunmaat2 [i=maat@webidea.hu] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:42	amachu	We plan to take Ubuntu to Schools
02:42	amachu	and our Team is represented across two nations, India and Sri Lanka
=== licio [n=licio@ubuntu/member/licio] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:43	amachu	We had a Demo of Ubuntu installation
02:43	amachu	in chennai, and people were amazed to see their language in computer..
=== siccness [i=siccness@CPE-138-217-14-244.vic.bigpond.net.au] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:43	Kamion	Oh, so proprietary OSes like Windows aren't translated into Tamil?
02:44	amachu	this happened at L&T infotech, a software company in Tamil..
02:44	mako	i thought they were
=== philwyett [n=philip@80-195-142-67.cable.ubr02.wiga.blueyonder.co.uk] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:44	amachu	Yes, Windows have recently launced Tamil version
02:44	amachu	but its unpopular
02:44	amachu	hardly two months since they released that version
02:45	Kamion	aha
02:45	Kamion	so not quite get there first, but get there better ... :-)
02:45	amachu	yes for sure...
02:45	amachu	But we can make it up...
02:46	amachu	since the majority of masses here cannot afford to buy windows
02:46	amachu	thats where we have an edge...
=== sloof3|arr [n=sloof3@72.20.218.20] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== nixternal [n=nixterna@ubuntu/member/nixternal] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== otis [n=ron@62.24.99.62] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== gnomefreak cheers for elkbuntu (have to run out for a bit)
02:47	amachu	we do have our own mailing list for conversation
02:48	Kamion	ok, we seem to have run out of questions :)
02:48	amachu	Kamion: means?
02:48	Kamion	very happy to see your enthusiasm, and glad to hear that there's another region where we stand a chance of becoming dominant in IT before Microsoft does
02:49	mako	alright then
02:49	amachu	:-), now we need official recognition... as translators of Ubuntu in Tamil
02:49	Kamion	unless anyone has any objections, I think that's the Tamil team approved
02:49	amachu	we need an URL, and forum
=== azeem [n=mbanck@host109.natpool.mwn.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:49	mako	.ne
=== mako nods to Kamion
02:49	Kamion	URL as in a domain?
02:49	mako	alright, next team
02:49	Kamion	hang on
02:50	mako	Kamion: i saw it
02:50	dudanogueira	amachu, good job! i wish you luck on our daily battle :)
02:50	amachu	Thank You...
02:50	Kamion	elmo: do we (Canonical) deal with locoteam domains now, or is smurfix still doing it?
02:50	amachu	Cheers...
02:50	mako	i thought the plan was to shift that to jono
02:50	Belutz	amachu: Cheers :)
02:50	Kamion	works for me but I don't know how far along he is
=== mako nods
02:51	Kamion	actually, we should grab jono in here
02:51	mako	i don't either
=== ringe [n=runar@80-89-35-2.network.itconnect.no] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== jono [n=jono@88-107-0-133.dynamic.dsl.as9105.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:51	elkbuntu	hes on his way
02:51	amachu	we need to host our team details... on web
02:51	jono	just one sec guys
02:51	phanatic	amachu: you should subscribe to loco-contects@l.u.c if you haven't done it yet :)
02:51	Kamion	13:50 < Kamion> elmo: do we (Canonical) deal with locoteam domains now, or is smurfix still doing it?
02:51	Kamion	13:50 < mako> i thought the plan was to shift that to jono
02:51	Kamion	13:50 < Kamion> works for me but I don't know how far along he is
02:51	phanatic	loco-contacts* sorry
02:51	Kamion	for the Tamil team
02:51	jono	ok back
02:52	nixternal	Canonical does hosting as well http://chi.ubuntu-us.org is Canonical hosting
02:52	elmo	sorry
02:52	jono	afaik I am not dealing with LoCo resources
02:52	elmo	was talking to sabdfl
02:52	jono	I am just helping get the teams working
02:52	elmo	kamion: smurfix is still doing it
=== sabdfl [n=sabdfl@ubuntu/member/pdpc.silver.sabdfl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:52	elmo	at least on a technical side
02:52	sabdfl	hi all
02:52	Fujitsu	Hi sabdfl :)
02:52	jono	hey sabdfl
02:52	nixternal	hiya sabdfl
=== Yann2 [n=Yann@sirius.cetril.org] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:52	phanatic	hi sabdfl
02:52	amachu	so should we contact smurfix?
02:52	Seveas	(smurfix is implementing a DIY thing for that)
02:52	Belutz	hi sabdfl
02:53	jono	I think smufix is on vacation right now
02:53	Seveas	he is
02:53	Hobbsee	hi sabdfl
02:53	Scr3W_W0rM	hello sabdl
02:53	nixternal	i went through RTS for Ubuntu Chicago
02:54	amachu	Kamion: Who has to move our Team to the main table in the LocoTeam, page
02:54	jono	I have kicked some initial discussion off about centralising LoCo resources where possible
02:54	jono	amachu, I am working on getting teams accepted
02:54	Kamion	amachu: you should be able to do that yourself
02:54	amachu	ok...
02:54	Kamion	assuming this is a wiki page
02:54	amachu	Thank You..
02:54	nixternal	jono: speaking of LoCo, I was told I should chat with you as well for 'mentoring', when you get time of course
02:55	jono	nixternal, cool, who told you ?
02:55	nixternal	i wish i could remember ;)
02:55	sabdfl	nicely ducked :-)
02:55	nixternal	haha
02:55	amachu	jono: can u guide us?
02:55	jono	heh
02:55	jono	amachu, sure
02:55	jsgotangco	welocme back
=== hs_ [n=hs@202.152.240.238] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
02:55	jono	I am building a check list of things that LoCo teams should set up and then I am going to get all pending teams to satisfy that checklist and move them to accepted
02:55	amachu	jono: what should do from now on...
02:56	jono	amachu, we can talk about this seperately so as not to impede the meeting :)
02:56	amachu	jono: Yes sure
02:56	Seveas	where are we in the meeting?
02:56	amachu	shall i say good bye now...
02:56	mako	jono: yes
02:56	jono	amachu, I will /msg you soon
02:56	mako	jono: that sounds pretty sane
02:57	Belutz	Seveas: may i go first?
02:57	mako	smurf was using something very similar, at least early on
02:57	Seveas	(Belutz: I'm not in charge of the schedule)
02:57	amachu	jono: how do contact u? my mail id shriramadhas@gmail.com
02:57	jono	amachu, jono AT ubuntu DOT com :)
02:57	jono	amachu, drop me an email with the details and I will get onto it :)
02:57	mako	jono: our question here is: can infrastructure issues that locos have to be pushed off to you
02:58	mako	jono: doesn't mean you have to solve them, but at least help point people to the right place
02:58	mako	or places
02:58	amachu	Thank You..
02:58	jono	mako, sure, I can help point them in the right direction
02:58	jono	mako, I am working on some better docs on the LoCo pages to help with this to, so we can point people at the docs
02:58	jono	the LoCo pages are....erm...artistic...shall we say :P
02:59	jono	they need poking with a stick :)
02:59	jsgotangco	hah
02:59	ajmitch	how diplomatic
02:59	sabdfl	very glad to have jono working to document and clarify the loco process
=== Fujitsu suggests Hobbsee.
02:59	Belutz	Kamion: can Indonesian Loco Team go first after this? because i have other meeting to attend to
02:59	Hobbsee	say what?
02:59	jono	sabdfl, :)
02:59	Fujitsu	sabdfl, certainly.
03:00	elkbuntu	Hobbsee, your poking stick, dear.
03:00	Kamion	Belutz: sure
03:00	Hobbsee	oh, the long and pointy stick.  yes.
03:00	Belutz	Kamion: thanks
03:00	Fujitsu	Hobbsee, yes.
03:00	jono	for LoCo people in here, keep an eye on loco-contacts - I will be posting a message soon about getting teams accepted
03:00	Hobbsee	<offtopic>I want the email address longpointystick@ubuntu.com too </offtopic>
03:00	mako	jono: sounds good, thanks
03:00	imtheface	okok jono!
03:01	Belutz	jono: will do
03:01	jono	Hobbsee, damn you! :)
03:01	Hobbsee	jono: :P  
03:01	jono	incidentally, sorry I was late to the this meeting, a meeting overrun
03:02	Belutz	may i begin now?
03:02	Kamion	yes, I think we're done with the previous item
03:02	Belutz	ok, thanks Kamion
03:03	Belutz	Hi All, I'm Andi Darmawan, i'm the contact person for Indonesian LocoTeams
03:03	Belutz	we are here to apply for recognised status for the Indonesian LoCo Team (http://ubuntu-id.org). We've been active in Ubuntu since the team was formed about a year ago.
03:03	Belutz	Various efforts have been done. We have provided infrastructures for the local users to grow - website, mailing list, forum, documentation. We strive to create a comfortable place where anyone can get information on Ubuntu, have a honest discussions, get help, exchange experiences, solve problems, and so on.
03:03	Belutz	We have also participated in a few conferences, then several people from Cidepok have also organized two Edubuntu conferences & instalfest. And currently we've managed the project to distribute Ubuntu repository in form of DVDs
=== mak|away is now known as makl10n
03:04	Belutz	due to expensive Internet access in our country, this will help the users in Indonesia, so they can install many applications in Ubuntu without have to connect into Internet (except for the updates of course). We have many plans for the future, including writing a book on Ubuntu targeted for everyone in Indonesia.
03:04	makl10n	the CC meeting started?
=== padmawan_ [n=padmawan@202.59.168.29] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:05	Belutz	there are some members who focused on edubuntu also, you can check it at this site http://toosa.oo-linux.com/weblog/index.php?op=Default&postCategoryId=17&blogId=3 (in Indonesian)
03:05	sabdfl	Belutz: thank you for this contribution so far! what can we do to help you accelerate?
03:05	Belutz	Indonesian Loco teams have been appeared on Cnet Asia recently, you can check it at this site http://asia.cnet.com/reviews/blog/toekangit/0,39056105,61953558,00.htm
03:05	sabdfl	i have to step afk for a while, will read scrollback
=== imtheface cheerleader for Indonesian Team
03:06	Belutz	sabdfl: we need to be the official ubuntu team for indonesia, so we could speak on behalf of ubuntu
03:06	Kamion	makl10n: some time ago, yes
03:06	sabdfl	Belutz: is there any other team right now?
03:06	jsgotangco	Belutz: you sure its not just in jakarta? ;)
03:06	Seveas	(makl10n: I asked for the translation item to be moved down in the agenda so you wouldn't be left out)
03:07	Belutz	sabdfl: yes they are, imtheface, fajran, harry_sufehmi, Niwatori, and others
03:07	makl10n	Seveas: Thanks
03:07	jono	Belutz, you progress is impressive
03:07	imtheface	https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-l10n-id --> translation team
03:07	hs_	Hi, I just would like to show the achievements with the Indonesian schools :
03:07	hs_	First Edubuntu installfest : http://toosa.oo-linux.com/weblog/index.php?op=ViewArticle&articleId=25&blogId=3
03:07	Belutz	jsgotangco: most of the members are in jakarta, but we ship the DVD repos nation wide
03:07	hs_	Second Edubuntu installfest : http://toosa.oo-linux.com/weblog/index.php?op=ViewArticle&articleId=30&blogId=3
03:07	jsgotangco	impressive
=== Chousuke [i=choubaka@ihme.org] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:07	sabdfl	imtheface: how do you feel about Belutz's team taking on an official role? is there good coordination between the different teams?
03:08	hs_	On the second installfest, participants from as far as 600 km away came to join in.
03:08	Belutz	sabdfl: actually i'm proposing imtheface aka Andy Apdhani to be the Team Leader :)
03:08	hs_	second that
03:08	imtheface	:)
03:08	sabdfl	ok, so you're saying there are informal teams, and you'd like to create an official team that draws from those guys
=== jonh_wendell [n=wendell@200165128200.user.veloxzone.com.br] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:09	sabdfl	sounds good to me. have you worked with jono yet?
03:09	Belutz	sabdfl, yes, so there could be one official teams
03:09	jono	Belutz, I recommend we have a chat about your work
03:09	imtheface	yes, i've follow discussion on loco mailing list!
03:10	sabdfl	if jono is happy with the state of the team, organisation, leadership, website, mailing lists, goals... then +1 from me
03:10	Belutz	sabdfl: i don't think i have chat with jono, but my friend imtheface who recently make contact with other loco team
03:10	sabdfl	i need to step afk for real now!
03:10	sabdfl	will read scrollback
=== sabitha [n=admin@222.124.76.168] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:10	jono	Belutz, I would like to have a discussion to discuss the specifics if possible, as I am not familiar with your team
03:11	Belutz	jono: will do :)
03:11	jono	Belutz, how do the informal teams work together?
03:12	Belutz	jono: actually they moved alone at first, but we ask them about joining us, because some of the informal teams doesn't know about loco teams
03:12	sabitha	i iiiiiiiiiiiiiihiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
03:12	jsgotangco	sabitha: bless you
03:12	sabitha	:)
03:12	jono	Belutz, when you say informal teams, are these Ubuntu teams or Linux User Groups?
03:12	Belutz	jono: if we could be as one, we could make the activities nation wide
03:13	imtheface	and currently I've made contact with them so we can work together with them side by side
03:13	jono	Belutz, yes
03:13	Belutz	jono: they are not LUG and not Ubuntu Teams, but they promote ubuntu and edubuntu
03:13	jono	right
03:13	sabitha	brb
03:13	jono	Belutz, has anyone applied to be the official team before from these informal groups?
03:13	jsgotangco	Belutz: id is a very large place, is that even feasible
03:14	Belutz	jono: not yet as far as i know
=== vincent_ [n=vincent@85.69.101.147] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:14	jsgotangco	ive experinced this as well
03:14	jsgotangco	for groups wayyy down south
03:14	Belutz	jsgotangco: it is feasible, as long as we communicate and work each other :)
03:14	jono	Belutz, ok, well +1 from me, I am happy to make you an official team :)
03:14	jsgotangco	i let them use loco resources, ie., website, etc.
=== kenyanteam [n=ron@212.49.87.99] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:14	Belutz	jono: thanks :)
03:15	jono	Belutz, I think you need to take special care to get all the informal teams communicating together well and preferably on the same mailing list and IRC channel
03:15	Belutz	jsgotangco: thanks for all your support :)
03:15	jsgotangco	yeah
03:15	imtheface	same here jsgotangco!
03:15	Belutz	jono: yes, our mailing list becoming more active everyday
03:15	jono	Belutz, awesome :)
03:15	imtheface	jono, already in progress!
03:15	jsgotangco	the thing is, you don't need to influence the actions of far flung teams, as long as the goals are much the same collectively
03:15	jono	then sure, I am happy to make you an official team
03:15	imtheface	they've join to our mailing list!
03:16	jsgotangco	but sometimes these informal groups look into guidance
03:16	jsgotangco	that's where you guys come in ;)
03:16	Belutz	jsgotangco: that's why we persuade them to join us :)
=== harry_sufehmi [n=hs@202.152.240.202] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== leleobhz [n=leleobhz@BHE200139184016.res-com.wayinternet.com.br] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:16	jsgotangco	yeah
03:16	imtheface	jono, many thanks then!
03:16	imtheface	harry_sufehmi, welcome back!
03:16	imtheface	also cheers jsgotangco
03:17	jono	imbrandon, :)
03:17	jono	oop
03:17	jono	oop
03:17	jono	oops
=== imbrandon looks up
03:17	jono	argh
03:17	imbrandon	heh
=== jonh_wendell [n=wendell@200165128200.user.veloxzone.com.br] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Saindo"]
03:17	jono	imtheface, :)
03:17	Belutz	:)
03:17	mako	alright
03:17	jono	Belutz, I will move the team to the official table now
03:17	Belutz	jono: so, what should we do next?
03:17	harry_sufehmi	hi imtheface, hope I didn't miss anything important
03:18	imtheface	jono, sorry didn't make it to the loco-meeting yesteday!
03:18	jono	imtheface, no worries
=== Chousuke [i=choubaka@ihme.org] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
03:18	jono	Belutz, I will move you to the official table and you are now considered official :)
03:18	imtheface	harry_sufehmi, u miss the whole things
03:18	Niwatori	harry: you missed the approval fanfare :P
03:18	kenyanteam	hi, i'm here to represent kenya loco team
03:19	Scr3W_W0rM	:)
03:20	Belutz	thanks to jono and all CC members :)
03:20	Belutz	we will do our best to promote ubuntu in indonesia
03:20	harry_sufehmi	thanks all
03:20	jono	Belutz, do keep me updated with how you get on :)
=== AmyJ [n=AmyJ@221.217.222.65] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:21	Belutz	jono: i will, your email is jono @ u.c ?
03:21	dudanogueira	Belutz, wish you luck
03:21	jono	Belutz, yes
03:21	Belutz	dudanogueira: thanks :)
03:21	AmyJ	hi freeflying
=== raphink [n=raphink@ubuntu/member/raphink] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:21	jsgotangco	yay
03:21	freeflying	AmyJ: hey
03:21	Belutz	jono: ok, i'll note that
03:21	Belutz	Cheers for Indonesian LoCo Teams :)
03:21	jsgotangco	\o/ ubuntu-id \o/
03:21	Belutz	jsgotangco: thanks :)
03:22	makl10n	Cheers for Indonesian LoCo Team from me too
03:22	Scr3W_W0rM	Cheeers...
03:22	Niwatori	thx jsgotangco
03:22	Belutz	ok, i have to attend another meeting, thanks again all :)
03:22	fajran	thanks all!
=== unfknblvbl [n=unfknblv@dsl-202-72-170-229.wa.westnet.com.au] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:22	jono	Belutz, also see #ubuntu-locoteams :)
03:22	Belutz	jono: will do :)
03:23	Belutz	bye all :)
=== Belutz [n=belutz@ubuntu/member/belutz] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
=== gri3fon [n=chatzill@124.195.1.134] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:24	elmo	so, err, where are we up to?
03:24	Hobbsee	how late will this meeting run?   will we have a 3 hour meeting or something?
03:25	Hobbsee	elmo: heh.  poke someone to talk
03:25	Kamion	well, I have to step out in an hour's time for twenty minutes or so, so I hope not
03:25	Kamion	ok, Bangladesh was next in the normal ordr
03:25	Kamion	order
=== Hobbsee wonders who usually chairs this thing.
03:25	Kamion	then Ukraine, Kenya, Hungary
03:25	Kamion	any of those here?
03:25	Kamion	Hobbsee: kind of magical floating chair
=== patroclus [n=frigaut@CPE-58-168-84-147.nsw.bigpond.net.au] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Ex-Chat"]
03:26	elmo	sometimes it floats off without someone attached
=== Huahua [n=hua_@122.0.230.71] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:26	phanatic	Kamion: Hungary present
03:26	Hobbsee	Kamion: right...it seems that whoever's sitting on it today needs a good poking, before everyone falls asleep :P
=== hunmaat2 [i=maat@webidea.hu] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:26	Kamion	phanatic: ok, please carry on
03:27	phanatic	Hi everyone, I'm Szilveszter Farkas, the contact person for the Hungarian LoCo Team. Please let me introduce our team in a few words. The whole story began with the Translation Team, which was formed at the end of August 2005 after translating the entire (unofficial) Breezy Guide. Since then we organized many Translation Weekends to accelerate the localization of Ubuntu.
03:27	phanatic	The next step was the founding of the Hungarian Ubuntu Community homepage (ubuntu.hu) in the middle of December 2005. We set up a Wiki-based site, so anyone can contribute (there are dozens of howtos available). A forum is also available, we have more than 550 members as of today, and many of them are very active. We have a crew who are hanging around on IRC to help other people as well (#ubuntu-hu). There are two mailing lists current
03:27	phanatic	ly: one for the translators and one for the community.
03:27	phanatic	In February 2006, a member of our team introduced Ubuntu both on TV and radio (smaller, non-profit stations).
03:27	phanatic	In the mean time we also helped out on other IT forums in Hungary to help the beginners getting started with Ubuntu.
03:27	phanatic	We have also localized the Ubuntu and Kubuntu Desktop CDs, and found sponsors for mirroring them.
03:27	phanatic	The latest news is that we are organizing an Ubuntu Conference in Budapest (with the kind support from Canonical). We invited many well-known developers to present their contributions, and there are also talks in Hungarian to beginners, professionals and business people. (Almost 200 people registered to attend.) More info on that: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/545 - We plan to give away 100s of {U,Ku,Edu}buntu CDs, and also ordered a p
03:27	phanatic	lenty of laptop stickers. Oh, and everybody is invited to both the conference and the Edgy release party after that ;)
=== Seveas [n=seveas@ubuntu/member/seveas] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:29	jono	phanatic, this all sounds great
03:29	phanatic	jono: thanks
03:29	jono	phanatic, was it you who mailed me about speaking at the conference?
=== siaya [n=ron@212.49.90.3] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:31	phanatic	jono: i don't think so
03:31	jono	ahh
03:31	phanatic	jono: that must have been another conf
03:31	jono	:)
03:32	hunmaat2	And a more latest news is that we are upgrading our community site. We want to make (and have made for test) a hungarian ubuntu planet-like drupal site and a wiki module for it, migrating our old forum and ubuntu-guide-based documentation.
03:32	jono	well your team certainly gets a +1 from me
03:32	phanatic	jono: thanks a lot :)
=== tourach [n=tourach@c-redpill-1.ataco.se] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:33	phanatic	i hope the others agree too
=== RedKrieg [n=RedKrieg@ip-216-54-8-243.coxfiber.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:34	Seveas	anything else needed from/for the hungarian team or can we move on?
=== Niwatori [n=Niwatori@125.163.25.4] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
03:35	mako	alright then
03:35	elmo	looks fine to me
03:35	jono	do the CC members want to vote or are they happy?
03:35	mako	yes, seems find
03:35	jono	ok cool
03:36	Seveas	I want to speak on behalf of RolandoBlanco
03:36	mako	Seveas: ok
03:36	Seveas	I've been e-mailing him and sadly tuesday is a very bad day for him
=== suzan229 [n=suzan@203.189.240.250] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:36	Seveas	if we can have a meeting on wednesday, at a same time for him (south america) he can show up
03:36	mako	Seveas: every day and time is bad for some people
03:37	makl10n	suzan229: hello...
03:37	Seveas	mako, agreed, but having one meeting on a wednesday won't hurt, would it?
03:37	suzan229	makl10n: sorry for late
03:37	suzan229	:-)
03:37	makl10n	suzan229: it's okay. the Translation / Localization agenda not yet started
03:38	mako	Seveas: except that we'll all forget it :)
03:38	suzan229	mak110n: That's good. So I'm not late. :-)
03:38	makl10n	suzan229: hang around. okay?
03:38	jono	ok, I will make the Hungarian team official if there are no objections
03:38	mako	well you are late, but this has been a long meeting
03:38	Seveas	mako, give me a list of phone numbers and I'll be stalking
03:38	suzan229	makl10n: ok
03:38	mako	jono: go ahead
03:38	jono	cool
03:38	jono	phanatic, congrats! :)
03:38	mako	Seveas: we can talk about it at the end of this meeting when we plan the next one
03:39	mako	lets move on
03:39	Seveas	mako, ok
=== RedKrieg [n=RedKrieg@ip-216-54-8-243.coxfiber.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:39	Seveas	kirjanov denis?
03:39	phanatic	jono: thanks, we'll try hard to keep you happy :)
03:39	jono	:)
03:39	Seveas	(btw: I mailed ALL the people with old items on the agenda, those who don't show up today can imho be removed)
03:39	Seveas	Neal Bussett, Flannel?
=== siaya [n=ron@212.49.92.107] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== kelemengabor [n=kelemeng@dsl5402BD1D.pool.t-online.hu] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:40	thoreauputic	oh, i hope Flannel makes it - he has been quite helpful on #ubuntu
03:40	Hobbsee	Seveas: IRC is set to away
03:41	Seveas	y3dips, Ahmad Muammar?
03:41	thoreauputic	maybe he went to sleep ;p
03:41	Hobbsee	[23:40]  [Whois]  Flannel has been idle for 4 hours, 7 minutes, and 36 seconds.
03:41	Hobbsee	thoreauputic: quite likely.
03:41	Hobbsee	Seveas: [23:41]  [Whois]  _y3dips[0xff]  has been idle for 5 hours, 1 minute, and 30 seconds.
03:41	Hobbsee	Seveas: who's next?
03:41	Seveas	thoreauputic, he said he would make it -- he can always reapply later. Being removed from the agenda merely means that we have a smaller agenda ;)
03:42	Seveas	Brendon Toogood brendon8
03:42	brendonjt	kia ora
03:42	johnlittle	good
03:42	thoreauputic	Seveas: good point - lets move on
03:42	thoreauputic	:)
03:42	brendonjt	hello
03:42	Seveas	Hi brendonjt
03:42	Seveas	Please introduce yourself to us and the CC
03:42	brendonjt	my name is brendon toogood and from new zealand
03:43	Kamion	Brendon had an e-mailed endorsement from a local computer technician he's worked with, saying that he's been a staunch supporter and advocate of Linux in the area
03:43	brendonjt	i have been using ubuntu  since dapper but have been using linux for a number of years,since the release of dapper, and alot of my work
03:44	Hobbsee	brendonjt: do you have a wiki page here?
03:44	brendonjt	has been un-noticed except by the endorsement for the it tech who emailed the cc
03:44	brendonjt	wiki/Brendon8
03:45	mako	right
=== whitesoft [n=whitesof@200.8.21.134] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:45	brendonjt	my wiki page might not be as flash or set out as flash as others but i  use all my spear time promoting ubuntu and teaching people how to use it and have been in the #ubuntu channel
=== Burgwork [n=corey@ubuntu/member/burgundavia] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:45	whitesoft	Hello!
03:46	mako	but work in advocating gnu/linux more generally alone does not cross the threshhold of participating in *ubuntu*
=== Hobbsee kicks the wiki
=== nixternal watches as the wiki kicks back
03:46	Seveas	hi whitesoft, good you could make it!
03:46	mako	whitesoft: yes, definitely
03:46	whitesoft	Thanks!
03:47	brendonjt	i have been promoting ubuntu not just linux and have made flyers and the likes around my small town to promot and get people in volved even took the live cd to a school to show off how powerful it is and got positive response
03:48	Seveas	brendonjt, you'll have to excuse me for being blunt, but the CC is looking for a sustained and significant contribution and your wiki page does not show such a contribution
03:48	brendonjt	Seveas, : yes true i have problems with wording myslef  it is a health problem  i am more hands on
03:49	mako	brendonjt: right, but the only testimonial you have does not demonstate involvement in *this* community
03:49	Seveas	brendonjt, how active are you in the NZ locoteam?
03:50	brendonjt	i am involved as we are going to be relaunching it and am involved with the people there who are to to relaunch it
03:50	brendonjt	some of them are here
03:50	mako	brendonjt: great
03:51	Seveas	brendonjt, that's very good -- this means that in a few weeks or months you WILL have made a visible contribution to the Ubuntu community
=== Gnomonic [n=gnomonic@130.225.208.156] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
03:51	Seveas	the NZ team should be kicking the AU teams ass imho
03:51	mako	brendonjt: what wi would recommend is that you continue your involvement in the loco, and then come back with few testimionaisl from folks on the loco and that you have worked with in ubuntu as part of that
03:51	elkbuntu	hey!
=== thoreauputic eyes Seveas
03:51	thoreauputic	;)
=== siccness glares at Seveas :)
03:52	Hobbsee	Seveas: they dont have big enough feet
=== Fujitsu prods Seveas with a big poker.
03:52	mako	brendonjt: so work closely with jono which you should be doing already with the loco and he should be willing to help tell you when you're going to be ready to head back here
03:52	mako	lets move on
=== Hobbsee attacks Seveas with her long pointy stick.
03:52	brendonjt	Seveas, : but the way it was launched was pretty dim compared to what it should have been, i only discovered it by google had no idea at the stage it even exsisted
03:52	dudanogueira	:)
=== connorhu [n=connor@82.131.234.135.pool.invitel.hu] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
03:52	Seveas	next up is whitesoft
03:52	Seveas	who could make it after all
03:53	Seveas	brendonjt, help making it grow and you'll get a kiss from Hobbsee
03:53	Hobbsee	now hey!!!
03:53	brendonjt	huh?
=== suzan229 [n=suzan@203.189.240.250] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Ex-Chat"]
03:53	Hobbsee	you most certainly will not
03:53	Kamion	brendonjt: that does sound like a good reason to relaunch with a bit more fanfare
=== Hobbsee thumps Seveas
=== suzan229 [n=suzan@203.189.240.250] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:53	thoreauputic	oh dear..... i fear there has been a motion against the chair ;)
03:53	Seveas	whitesoft, ?
03:53	whitesoft	Plese, sorry for m poor english ;)
03:54	brendonjt	yip only got a few weeks to help out  as i am starting back at work  up at 4am till 4am
03:54	whitesoft	Hello, my name is Rolando Blanco (www.blanco.net.ve) I'm System Engeneer, works with Ubuntu since warty, I discover it browsing the net...
03:54	whitesoft	...How in my country, de gob. do mandatory the use of Linux in the desktop, then I try ubuntu. and be loved whit it.
03:54	whitesoft	I forgot Hasefroch, then changa me mind and my work only Linux,
03:54	whitesoft	How UBUNTU if for Huma, then I decide us it...
=== otis [n=ron@212.49.92.221] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:56	Seveas	Is anyone from the latino american team around to vouch for whitesoft ?
03:57	Seveas	The ubuntu.org.ve site looks nice, how involved are you with it right now whitesoft?
03:59	mako	yes, it is pretty impressive
=== deTux [n=deTux@220-244-90-158.static.tpgi.com.au] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
03:59	Seveas	ok, next sessions are starting here, so unfortunately I'll be away again
03:59	whitesoft	Rigth now I just bring support and teach Ubuntu Linux
03:59	whitesoft	May be someone, ask what can I do for Ubuntu, Welll...
03:59	whitesoft	...You can check www.ubuntu.org.ve this is the site of the LoCo VenezuelanTeam
04:00	whitesoft	Rigth now, Matt and me are working to change to www.ubuntu-ve.org too
04:00	whitesoft	Questions?
=== fajran [n=iang@125.161.128.76] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
=== R3Ndy [i=Kriesmar@202.150.125.159] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== deTux [n=deTux@220-244-90-158.static.tpgi.com.au] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
=== lucychili [n=lucychil@ppp114-112.lns1.adl4.internode.on.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:02	Hobbsee	elmo, Kamion questions?
04:02	Hobbsee	jono:?
04:02	thoreauputic	anyuone?
04:02	bimberi	sigh
=== sfair [n=sfair@dma03.feg.unesp.br] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:03	Kamion	I'd really like to hear something from other Latin American Ubuntu folks
04:03	Kamion	about how whitesoft is doing
04:03	makl10n	thoreauputic: on which agenda the meeting going on. for the time being
04:03	mako	whitesoft: looks really good
04:03	mako	but i'd love to hear from others
04:06	Kamion	Would it be possible to get somebody else on the Latin American team to e-mail in an account of what you've been doing, and we can review that next time (in your absence, if necessary)?
04:06	mako	yes that's fine
04:06	mako	whitesoft: it's good that you've showed up, you don't need to do ita gain
04:07	mako	but it would be good to collect a couple testimonials before we make a decision to approve the membership request
04:07	whitesoft	I m the creator of this, In fact, I host it, and register it, this was a very nice experience, beacause, I did it only me, just along, then every day some one come and join the team
04:07	whitesoft	rigth now, we are more then 500 people, have 3 web administrators, have an IRC channel, and a mailing list, was greate just in 4 mounth
04:07	whitesoft	every body join it, but jus may be official member how sign the Code of Conduct
04:07	whitesoft	who sig, (sorry)
04:07	whitesoft	We are not JUST an other Comunity,,,
04:07	whitesoft	... we say that we are a Fraternity...
04:07	whitesoft	The official mane of our organization is...
04:07	whitesoft	... Fraternity Ubuntu Linux of Venezuela.
04:07	whitesoft	We most to try to operate every time whit the COC and try to NO talk bad about any other Operative System...
04:08	whitesoft	Ok, thank you to all.
04:08	mako	whitesoft: great, thanks for showing up
04:08	jono	sorry was on the phone
04:08	Hobbsee	jono: seems that *everyone* was.
=== gsuveg [n=me@227-003.dyn-fa.pool.ew.hu] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:08	gsuveg	re
=== ogra [n=ogra@ubuntu/member/ogra] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:09	mako	alright
04:09	mako	who is next on the schedule
04:09	Hobbsee	mako: looks like dudanogueira and elkbuntu are here and active, for a start
04:09	Kamion	whitesoft: very glad to hear that, and it sounds like you're doing a good job - we just like to hear from other people with regard to community-building work
04:09	Hobbsee	most of the others seem to be away
04:09	Hobbsee	perhaps we process them first?
04:09	elkbuntu	johnlittle is around also
04:09	johnlittle	n/me is not away
04:09	EdgyEft	dudanogueira is next
=== lophyte is not away either
04:09	dudanogueira	here!
04:10	Hobbsee	[00:06]  [Away]  john_little is away: I'm busy
04:10	Hobbsee	[00:06]  [Whois]  john_little has been idle for 2 hours, 46 minutes, and 10 seconds.
04:10	evand	I am here as well
04:10	elkbuntu	wrong johnlittle ;)
04:10	dudanogueira	can start?
04:10	Hobbsee	heh.  your whois' lie then
04:10	mako	alright
04:10	EdgyEft	dudanogueira: please do
04:10	dudanogueira	Its a daily battle. As i borned in a small city, i havent the information necessary for technology freedom. Moved to a bigger city for studing (4 years now!, Gratuating in Public Affairs Management with focus on technology) and for a good work on webdevelopment. Now i finally have tech freedom :)
04:10	dudanogueira	It doesn't came from the college, i had to learn it on the hard way: already on a job. So, i feel the need to spread the free software philosophy and possibilities wherever i can: at colleges, friends, work, partners and on. Its the key for a tech freedom country.
04:10	dudanogueira	In my natal city (a very poor one), i have to admit, its getting better all the time. In 26/10 we gonna have an event in a new college from there, and they called us (ubuntu-br-mg) for talking about software libre, and of course, ubuntu. ;). We'll have workshops, radio and newspappers interview, and a lot more. Wait for photos! It will be the trhird event that i unnoficially represents Ubuntu.  More Details in my Profile: http
04:10	dudanogueira	://wiki.ubuntu.com/DudaNogueira
04:10	whitesoft	Excelent, just remember please, that in the Launchpad and in the site, I identify my self like rolando, see you Bye...
04:11	dudanogueira	Some cool links: http://barraroumi.wordpress.com/2006/08/29/iii-festival-software-livre-da-bahia-fotos/, http://blog.licio.eti.br/?p=21, http://fotos.ubuntubrasil.org/v/1UbuntuBeerH/
04:11	mako	dudanogueira: thanks
=== milisdad [n=dad@202.59.168.29] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:11	mako	dudanogueira: i'm checking out the links/wiki
04:11	mako	elmo:
04:11	mako	elmo: "Author on Brazilian Ubuntu Planet"
04:12	mako	elmo: improvement this time :)
04:12	Seveas	:D
04:12	dudanogueira	mako, unfortunately, my fellows coudnt be present in a great number, as they had to work
04:12	nixternal	lol mako
04:12	mako	dudanogueira: can you provide a link to your brazilian forum posts?
04:12	mako	like a summary or a place we can view them?
04:13	dudanogueira	mako, owk, im grabbing it
04:13	mako	thanks
04:13	Seveas	dudanogueira: that actually is not too bad, the -br crowd was rather noisy last time
04:14	mako	well, it's nice to have someone
04:14	dudanogueira	Seveas, yeah. -br people here is very active
04:14	mako	if folks can't come, they are welcome to send testimionaisl to community-council@list.u.c
04:14	Seveas	-br must be the locoteam with most Ubuntu members
04:14	dudanogueira	mako, cant find how to index all the posts
04:14	mako	Seveas: yeah, probably
04:15	sfair	Seveas, and we wanna be the most active too :-)
04:15	dudanogueira	mako, already granted licio, Ubuntuser, OgMaciel and other testimonials, that will be sent later
04:15	sfair	may I say some words about dudanogueira?
04:16	Seveas	sfair: please
04:16	sfair	mako, http://planeta.ubuntubrasil.org/author/35 (dudanogueira's posts)
=== j_ack [n=rudi@p508DC1CD.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:16	mako	sfair: those are not forums posts
=== sabitha [n=admin@222.124.76.168] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Leaving"]
04:16	mako	sfair: those are planet posts, i already saw that
04:16	sfair	as a member of ubuntu-br-doc i'd like to say that we have good guys working here and duda is one of them
04:16	sfair	he does an excelent job, helping us to improve our wiki... he also helps doing translations
04:16	sfair	mako, sorry
04:16	mako	sfair: that's useful, thanks
=== suzan [n=suzan@203.189.240.250] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:17	mako	dudanogueira: can you at least point me to your user profile in the forums?
04:17	dudanogueira	mako, it should be here: http://ubuntu.linuxval.org/smf/index.php?action=profile;u=4543;sa=showPosts
04:17	sfair	and dudanogueira also has a great job spreading the ubuntu spirit as he said in his wikipage
04:17	dudanogueira	sfair, thank you :)
04:17	Kamion	dudanogueira: out of interest, what have you been doing with the accessibility team?
04:18	Seveas	Nome:  bit_doidao
04:18	Seveas	Mensagens: 24 (0,329 por dia)
04:18	Seveas	Posio: Usurio Ubuntu
04:18	Seveas	Data de registo: 07 de Julho de 2006, 12:02
04:18	Seveas	ltima visita: Hoje s 11:16
04:18	Seveas	(from his profile)
04:18	dudanogueira	Kamion, as i "converted" my mother, i listen her complains and experiences. From now i coudnt help a lot
04:19	dudanogueira	but its on my plans to make some suggestions. Simple things that bothers beginner users
04:19	jsgotangco	that's not accessibility related
04:19	Kamion	accessibility => disabled users
04:20	dudanogueira	Kamion, owk, maybe i misunderstood the initial concept.
04:20	jsgotangco	you might want to check out NUN (New User Network)
=== alvonsius [n=alvonsiu@222.124.24.91] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:21	Seveas	anyone have questions for dudanogueira ?
04:22	Kamion	you seem to have done a fair bit of translation work though, along with the rest of the pt_BR cabal :)
04:22	dudanogueira	any questions?
04:22	mako	dudanogueira: wait, so you've posted only 24 messages on that account
04:22	mako	that's fine
04:22	mako	but it doesn't seem like that would qualify as an active contributor
04:22	mako	especially since it's over several months
04:22	dudanogueira	mako my focus is on wiki and translating the educational apps
=== wastrel [n=wastrel@dsl254-127-242.nyc1.dsl.speakeasy.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:23	mako	that's fine
04:23	mako	but on your wiki page, you claimed an active role in the forums and i'm not really finding that
04:23	dudanogueira	and also spreading the free software phisolophy in related events
04:24	dudanogueira	mako, active in the server talk area, and this area isnt so active. But i have one eye on there, and every question i try to solve as i can :)
=== suzan [n=suzan@203.189.240.250] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Ex-Chat"]
=== ubuntu-word [n=perdana@222.124.24.91] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:26	Seveas	More questions?
04:26	mako	dudanogueira: have you done your translation through rosetta
04:26	Kamion	I have to go and pick my stepson up from school; I'll be back in about 15 minutes
04:26	Kamion	please do continue without me and I'll vote belatedly if necessary
04:26	Seveas	Kamion: ok
04:26	dudanogueira	mako, some stuffs are translated in rosseta, but the mainly content is translated in our wiki, also produced too
04:27	dudanogueira	in rosetta i give a focus on educational softwares
04:27	mako	dudanogueira: can you point to some wiki pages that you are proud of that you have helped do?
04:27	dudanogueira	mako: http://wiki.ubuntubrasil.org/VoipNoUbuntu
04:27	mako	dudanogueira: your wiki page is good in that it lists a lot of things that you ahve worked on but without links it makes it very hard to verify most of your claims
04:28	mako	which it's our responsibility to do :)
04:28	dudanogueira	its a article for using Voip on Ubuntu, as far as the VOIP operators doesnt say that linux is suported.
04:28	mako	cool, looking now
04:28	mako	any others that come to mind?
=== rikai [n=Administ@unaffiliated/rikai] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:28	dudanogueira	mako, translated the iptables and restriceted formats (looking in to it)
04:29	Kamping_Kaiser	sorry to interupt, but i have to go. heres my *woot* of support for elkbuntu . *woot elkbuntu *
=== lbm [n=lbm@82.192.173.92] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:29	dudanogueira	and also the SubGruposRegionais, that is a try to map all the brazilian user on a per city basis
04:29	jsgotangco	this is probably the longest CC meeting of all time
04:29	mako	i know
04:29	thoreauputic	jsgotangco: I think a serious look at limiting time spent on each issue would help...
04:30	siccness	^
04:30	mako	yes
=== neutrinomass [n=pandis@ppp5-98.adsl.forthnet.gr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:30	Seveas	jsgotangco: thoreauputic, meta-discussions like this don't help
04:30	dudanogueira	wiki.ubuntubrasil.org/SubGruposRegionais, wiki.ubuntubrasil.org/FormatosProprietarios
=== ..[topic/#ubuntu-meeting:Ubugtu] : Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 20 Sep 12:00 UTC: Edubuntu | 21 Sep 15:00 UTC: Ubuntu Development Team | 26 Sep 20:00 UTC: Technical Board | 27 Sep 20:00 UTC: Edubuntu | 28 Sep 23:00 UTC: Ubuntu Development Team
04:30	thoreauputic	Seveas: meta discussions may not help, but this meetinghas been a farce, sorry
04:32	mako	dudanogueira: but much of those pages are not translated
04:32	mako	at least the last one
04:32	mako	dudanogueira: it looks good but i'm going to want to see a few more testimonials
04:32	dudanogueira	mako, strange. it was 100% translated
04:32	mako	really?
04:33	mako	dudanogueira: look at wiki.ubuntubrasil.org/FormatosProprietarios
04:33	dudanogueira	as far as i can remember
04:33	dudanogueira	already on there
04:33	mako	only up until  Real Media
04:33	mako	and http://wiki.ubuntubrasil.org/SubGruposRegionais is just a list
04:33	mako	anyway, i'd really like to have a few more testimonials
04:33	mako	especially because you come from a team with so many members
04:34	mako	there's really not excuse not to
=== Huahua [n=hua_@122.0.230.71] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:34	mako	:)
04:34	Seveas	Looking at the info for the Formatos page, dudanogueira didn't doo too much on it
04:34	mako	dudanogueira: and try to provide links and example for all of the things on your wiki page
04:34	dudanogueira	Seveas, we are working on it
04:34	dudanogueira	also http://wiki.ubuntubrasil.org/Iptables
=== MKR [n=mkr@h25.201.140.67.ip.alltel.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== Linuturk_yaaarr [n=Linuturk@mail.faia.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:35	jsgotangco	pretty good lp karma though, if not only recently
04:35	Seveas	dudanogueira: pleasee collect dome testimonials from others
04:35	Seveas	mako: I propose to move forward
04:35	mako	please
04:36	dudanogueira	mako, Seveas sure :)
04:36	mako	i need to be at work in like -1 hour :)
04:36	Seveas	evand: you're on
04:36	evand	Hi, I'm Evan Dandrea.  My Launchpad page is https://launchpad.net/people/evand.  I was one of the students working for Ubuntu in this year's Summer of Code.  I am working on adding migration assistance to debian-installer and Ubiquity.
04:36	evand	This project enables users to import user accounts, documents, and a variety of settings from their previous operating systems.  This project has made it into Universe for Edgy, though it is not included in the installer as it wasn't ready for mass use at the cutoff.
04:36	evand	Going forward I'm aiming for inclusion on the CD for Edgy+1 as well as Vista and OS X support.
04:36	mako	evand: who was your mentor?
04:36	jsgotangco	Kamion was your mentor no?
04:36	evand	mako: Kamion
04:37	evand	jsgotangco: correct
04:37	mako	did Kamion suggest that you apply for membership?
04:37	evand	I brought it up with him, but he was willing to support it.
04:37	mako	that's a pretty high endorsement
04:37	evand	I know :)
04:37	jsgotangco	and his project is in edgy
04:38	evand	as a source package, yes
04:38	mako	yes
04:39	evand	Kamion did say he would speak on my behalf, but as he said above he's a bit tied up at the moment.
04:40	Seveas	evand: do you mind if we postpone you until he's back?
04:40	evand	Seveas: Not at all
04:40	Seveas	evand: thank you, let's move on then, johnlittle is up next
04:41	johnlittle	Hi all. I will try to make this brief
04:41	johnlittle	My name is John Little. I've been an Ubuntu user and advocate since Warty. I'm a member of the Marketing Team, where among other things I work on the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter. I have blogged about Ubuntu in various locations since its initial release. My personal blog is ranked by Technorati as the second most authoritative Ubuntu blog. Continued...
04:41	johnlittle	More recently, I've created Ubuntu Video (http://www.ubuntuvideo.com) and it is the focus of much of my Ubuntu-related work. I'm also providing technical feedback to the Fridge editors and if all goes well will eventually be able to get access and help them with some Drupal administration issues that will help with SEO and site maintenance. My wiki address is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JohnLittle. Let the grilling begin.
04:41	Seveas	Any marketing/fridge people around for cheering?
04:41	bimberi	\o/ for johnlittle, in particular the fantastic Ubuntu Video site and i'm aware of his strong contributions to the marketing team over the last two months (at least).  I'm also aware that he sat through an excruciating CC meeting while applying for membership ;p
04:42	thoreauputic	:)
=== Huahua [n=hua_@122.0.230.71] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:42	elkbuntu	he's done alot with the marketing group, yeah
04:42	mako	evand: i'm happy with membership FWIW
04:42	evand	thanks mako
=== Seveas kicks the wiki
04:42	nixternal	johnlittle has done so much from an advocational aspect for Ubuntu in such a short time.  He has helped out a lot with the UWN, created a new project on his own, and merged it with Ubuntu Marketing, Ubuntu Video. He is a ++ candidate IMHO and would be an assett to Ubuntu and the community
04:42	elkbuntu	we're trying to get burgwork and nixternal currently
04:43	Seveas	nixternal: thanks a lot
04:43	mindspin	nixternal: ++
04:43	mako	johnlittle: great work!
04:43	mako	i hadn't seen ubuntuvideo before
04:43	johnlittle	Thank you
04:43	mako	suprisingly
04:43	nixternal	Ubuntu Video totally kicks arse!
=== RadiantFire [i=40093ae1@gateway/web/cgi-irc/irc.jpgclan.com/x-7900fb38865ce9ae] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:43	mako	a littlea nnoying it can't be played without flash, but that's not really your fault
04:44	nixternal	he has even put up his own money as a bounty to receive some killer videos!
04:44	johnlittle	theres a flash fee section on the right sidebar
04:44	johnlittle	free
04:44	mako	oh really!
04:44	mako	cool
04:44	thoreauputic	mako: actually IIRCsome can be played with ffplay for instance ( flv?)
04:45	mako	yes,
04:45	johnlittle	Part of the goal is to get people to push videos out to google video and youtube..hence the flash part
=== mako stops watching videos and goes back to the meeting
04:45	mako	corey burger sent a testimonial over email as well
04:45	nixternal	haha
04:45	mako	I have also worked with John Little as part of the Marketing Team and
04:45	mako	have been very pleased with John's work and communication skills. John
04:45	mako	started Ubuntu Video (ubuntuvideo.com) before he even found out about
04:45	mako	the Marketing Team, but after some communication with him, quickly
04:45	mako	came to help us out. He has also thrown himself into helping create
04:45	mako	the Ubuntu Weekly News and have nothing but praise for his efforts in
04:46	mako	that area. You can read more about John at
04:46	mako	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JohnLittle
04:46	mako	johnlittle: anyway, great and original contributions
04:46	johnlittle	Thanks again
04:46	mako	johnlittle: stuff we've never seen before :)
=== nalioth [i=nalioth@freenode/staff/ubuntu.member.nalioth] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:46	mako	i'm happy with johnlittle for membership
04:46	mako	elmo: ?
04:46	nixternal	plus he interviews politicians!  he is our way into congress ;)
04:46	elmo	ack
04:47	mako	johnlittle: great 2/3, Kamion will weigh in when he returns
04:47	Seveas	ok, Lie_Ex
04:47	Kamion	back
04:47	Lie_Ex	Here.
04:47	mako	Lie_Ex: wait
04:47	mako	lets finish with evand first
04:47	evand	Thanks
04:48	mako	Kamion: want to say a word about evand since you worked with him?
04:48	Kamion	I'm happy with John Little too
04:48	Kamion	impressive testimonials
04:48	Seveas	johnlittle: congratulations!
04:48	johnlittle	Woot! Thanks
04:49	bimberi	congrats johnlittle :)
=== ubuntu-word [n=perdana@222.124.24.91] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
04:49	nixternal	congrats johnlittle
04:49	Kamion	yeah, I worked with Evan this summer; very competent development work, quick understanding of the infrastructure involved, and the migration assistant will (when ready) be an excellent tool for attracting switchers
04:49	Kamion	which I believe is a substantial part of Evan's motivation
04:50	Kamion	I saw Evan around a little bit before the summer of code, and he's willing and eager to continue contributing after it
04:50	Seveas	sounds good
04:51	Kamion	while Evan did bring it up with me, I also expressed a desire that he go for membership while writing up his final Google report, before reading what he'd written
04:51	Kamion	so I was pleased that it occurred to both of us
04:51	evand	Ah, I forgot about that, sorry.
04:51	Kamion	I can't remember if I mentioned it, but no worries anyway
04:52	mako	great :)
=== alvonsius [n=alvonsiu@222.124.24.91] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:52	mako	well i'm happy with evand with membership
04:52	Kamion	so, er, slightly obviously, evand++ for membership, and I'd like to see him go for MOTU as well
04:52	evand	will do
04:52	Seveas	elmo: ?
04:53	Seveas	elmo will catch up, we really should move on
04:53	Kamion	nod
04:53	Seveas	(unless anyone protests)
04:53	Seveas	Lie_Ex: please paste your introduction
04:54	evand	Kamion: thanks for the kind words
04:54	Lie_Ex	Hi,all.I'm Chinese,Lie Ex is my English name.
04:54	elmo	ack
04:54	Lie_Ex	I've been a Linux desktop user for 2+ years and started using Ubuntu from Breezy.Before 4 months I joined zh_CN translation team.
04:54	Kamion	evand: no problem, and looks like elmo agrees, so you're in
04:54	Seveas	elmo: merci, evand: congrats!
04:54	evand	great!  Thanks everyone!  Sorry to interrupt Lie_Ex.
04:55	Seveas	are there some l10n-zh-cn people around to testify?
04:55	Lie_Ex	I'm charge of the tranlastion of basement apps now.
=== alvonsius [n=alvonsiu@222.124.24.91] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
04:56	mako	your translation work looks very impressive
04:56	Kamion	basement> base system?
04:56	Lie_Ex	My wiki page:https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lie_ex
04:56	mako	the KDE booklet that you put together does as well, although it's not directly related to work in the ubuntu community
04:56	Lie_Ex	Kamion: e.g:coreutils/quota/rpm and so on.
04:56	mako	Lie_Ex: many of your rosetta translations seem to be in kde apps?
04:57	mako	Lie_Ex: still your interest?
04:57	Kamion	right
04:57	Lie_Ex	mako: Yes,and for working.
04:57	freeflying	Seveas: me
04:57	Kamion	you said you were interested in coordinating translation; is anyone filling that role at present?
04:57	Seveas	freeflying: any comments/testimonials about Lie_Ex are welcome, so please speak up :)
04:58	Kamion	or do you mean the localisation/translation team leader post?
04:58	freeflying	Lie_Ex: have done many translation on launchpad, we all appreciate with her work
04:58	Lie_Ex	Kamion: It looks that we're lacking of the person now.
04:59	freeflying	Seveas: Kamion  and we think Lie_Ex is the right now for l10n-zhcn
=== Lie_Ex Maybe I made some grammar error.:P
05:00	Seveas	sounds good
05:00	Lie_Ex	Kamion: Meanwhile I try to spread Ubuntu/Kubuntu to my company,the effect looks well.
05:01	Seveas	any other questions?
=== thoreauputic [n=prospero@ubuntu/member/thoreauputic] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:01	Kamion	I'm happy
05:01	Seveas	1 down
05:01	Seveas	mako, elmo?
05:03	mako	sorry, called away there for a moment
05:03	nixternal	;)
05:03	Seveas	argh, ok, sorry about the pinging folks
05:03	mako	phone call :)
05:03	Seveas	irssi got the better of me
05:03	mako	but yeah, i'm happy with Lie_Ex
05:03	popey	heh
05:03	mako	great translation work
05:03	Lie_Ex	thx.:)
05:04	Seveas	ok, elkbuntu please start your introduction while we wait for elmos vot
05:04	Seveas	e
05:04	elkbuntu	Hi, I'm Melissa Draper, aka elkbuntu. You may have heard of me in conjunction with the Ubuntu Counter (http://www.ubuntucounter.org) or the surveys (http://surveys.geekosophical.net) that are currently being done. I'm also the LoCo Contact for the Australian LoCo and lately I've been working with jono on a LoCo Mentoring pilot/feasibility case study. I've also done a bit of support stuff and so forth in #ubuntu and on the
05:04	elkbuntu	-users mailing list, but lately I have focused on the abovementioned things. My wiki page is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MelissaDraper and my launchpad is https://launchpad.net/people/melissa
05:04	Hobbsee	yay elkbuntu!
05:04	Fujitsu	elkbuntu has been doing a terrific job of running the Australian Team.
05:04	johnlittle	Elkbuntu hardly needs props from me..but shes done awesome work
05:04	bimberi	elkbuntu is doing a great job as LoCo-au team contact - maintaining the momentum established by her predecessor.  Then there's the work with the marketing team and the ubuntu counter and, just recently, the ubuntu surveys.  She has been and will be a great asset to this community.
05:05	Fujitsu	The counter and surveys are fantastic too!
05:05	thoreauputic	elkbuntu is also a great contributor on IRC
05:05	jsgotangco	we can now all bow to her ubuntu-au majesty
05:05	siccness	Indeed, thoreauputic.
05:05	Fujitsu	jsgotangco, yup.
=== gnomefreak cheers for elkbuntu :)
05:05	nixternal	Melissa Rocks!  Need we say more than "Ubuntu Counter". This little project blew up and became fairly popular, and has helped tremendously from a marketing standpoint. Plus you have her work with the Aussie team. Excellent member candidate and w/o a doubt another asset to the community!
05:05	elkbuntu	wow.. thanks guys
05:05	mako	corey burger also sent a very positive testimonial about elkbuntu
05:05	jrib	I know elkbuntu basically because of the counters and surveys, they seem to have generated a lot of discussion on digg and the likes.  She seems really comitted!
05:05	lucychili	+++ from kamping kaiser siccness and me
05:06	bimberi	and the fact that we've stayed around this late to cheer her on demonstrates the esteem in which we hold her :)
05:06	mako	yes :)
05:06	rikai	Indeed.
05:06	siccness	Heh
05:06	thoreauputic	bimberi: it does indeed :)
=== Fujitsu yawns... It's 1am.
05:06	elmo	ack lie_ex
05:06	nixternal	truth be told, she threatened the Aussies w/ physica bodily harm if they didn't stay
05:06	lucychili	sorry siccness thought youd scarpered =)
05:06	Seveas	elmo: merci
05:06	Seveas	Lie_Ex: welcome to "the club"
05:06	elmo	(sorry, was AFK)
05:06	mako	elkbuntu: great work :)
05:06	rodarvus	dude, elkbuntu is probably the new record holding person for most chering in a CC meeting :)
05:06	freeflying	Lie_Ex: congrats
05:07	siccness	Heh, I did, but wanted to support elkbuntu
05:07	bimberi	congrats Lie_Ex!
05:07	elkbuntu	nixternal, of course you know this since you're aussie, right ;)
05:07	mako	elkbuntu: i'm looking forward to your loco mentoring work with jono
05:07	Seveas	is anyone doing LP duty today?
05:07	mako	Seveas: i can do it after the meeting
05:07	nixternal	nope, im a lonely chicago`ite or something like that ;)
05:07	rodarvus	*cheering
05:07	Seveas	mako: thanks
05:07	Kamion	elkbuntu's work and testimonials are impressive, and I'm especially pleased to see somebody else working on general locoteam coordination
05:07	mako	elkbuntu: you have my support
=== rikai whistles loudly in support of elkbuntu.
05:07	Lie_Ex	Seveas: Well,thank you for ratify.
05:08	thoreauputic	in addition to her great work, elkbuntu helps to keep a good atmosphere in the channels
05:09	nalioth	+1 for elkbuntu
05:09	johnlittle	and she rounds up puppies for Corey Burger
05:09	thoreauputic	heh
05:09	elkbuntu	johnlittle, he demanded kittens for the recommendation
05:09	johnlittle	:)
05:09	Kamion	elmo: how about you?
05:09	elmo	ack
05:09	Fujitsu	Yay :)
05:09	elkbuntu	:)
05:09	nixternal	woohoo!! Ubuntu Marketing 2/2! Congratulations elkbuntu and johnlittle!!!
05:10	johnlittle	Congrats!
05:10	Fujitsu	Congrats elkbuntu :D
05:10	Seveas	elkbuntu: thanks for rocking so hard and being fast in the meeting
05:10	bimberi	\o/ elkbuntu
05:10	elkbuntu	thanks everyone!
05:10	siccness	Congrats elkbuntu
05:10	Hobbsee	yay elkbuntu!
05:10	Fujitsu	bimberi, agreed!
05:10	siccness	now i can go to bed :)
05:10	Seveas	superm1: you're up
05:10	mindspin	congrats
05:10	freeflying	elkbuntu: congrats
05:10	nixternal	lol
05:10	nixternal	doh
05:10	Seveas	lol
05:10	Hobbsee	heh
05:10	thoreauputic	elkbuntu: well done :)
05:10	Fujitsu	Hahahaha.
05:10	nixternal	break it down one time
05:10	rikai	elkbuntu: congrats
05:10	Seveas	ok, lophyte please go first
=== superm1 [n=supermar@68-115-81-248.dhcp.roch.mn.charter.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:10	siccness	lol
05:10	Seveas	ah wait
05:10	jsgotangco	heh au folks are holding on at this hour
05:10	Fujitsu	Seveas, he went to bed.
05:10	Seveas	superm1: try not to flood ;)
05:10	nixternal	Seveas: lophyte had to split
05:10	superm1	whoops got booted for flooding
05:10	gnomefreak	congrats elkbuntu :)
05:10	Fujitsu	*away, not to be
05:11	superm1	ill try agin
05:11	Fujitsu	*bed
05:11	rikai	Seveas: he had to leave.
05:11	superm1	Hi everyone, I'm Mario Limonciello (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/superm1).  I've been a long time Gentoo user, and converted to beign an Ubuntu user the last year.  I switched because I was helping set up linux for a friend, and wanted something very user friendly for them.  I hadn't used Ubuntu, but heard raving reviews about how great it was.
05:11	Fujitsu	jsgotangco, yeah..
05:11	superm1	Once I set it up for her, I acknowledged why it was so great and began to start using it myself.  Since then, I've tried to give back to the community in helping people on the forums, even going through and mining beginner posts every so often for quick answers to help them with.  I have taken an interest in compiz/xgl, and maintaining a HOWTO on compiz.net for setting it up a bit differently then most people.  All along
05:11	superm1	As newer versions were released in Ubuntu, packaging started to fall behind.  Earlier this year, I wanted to try to do something to help this situation.  I learned how to package in debian format and properly packaged a mythtv 0.19-fixes branch to match the current Gentoo revision at the time.
05:11	superm1	Since then, I have tried to keep up on the packaging up through the recent 0.20 release.  The most recent build is now a sync from debian-multimedia along with a patch from my own personal repository for gnome-screensaver support.  I'm looking to become an Ubuntu member to join the MOTU's, and be able to help get newer software like MythTV into Ubuntu sooner, so we dont go through a release that misses a new version of som
05:12	Kamion	oh, we need to deal with those debian-multimedia syncs ...
05:12	superm1	haha
05:12	Fujitsu	Kamion, yes you do.
05:12	Seveas	superm1: your wiki page doesn't really show any significant contribution to Ubuntu -- did you bring any -ca or -marketing people to cheer for you?
05:13	nixternal	hmm
05:13	superm1	Unfortunately, I didn't bring anyone along.  I was asking some MOTUs to join, but they said they couldn't make it
05:13	superm1	I've tried to present my repo however I could
05:13	mako	he's done a bunch of work on the multimedia stuff.. but most of seem slike it's still in the process of transitioning into the project
05:13	Kamion	I think that's mostly not his fault
05:14	Kamion	but sure
=== mako nods to Kamion
05:14	mako	superm1: do you have testomials
05:14	Kamion	(multimedia syncs tend to require lots of review due to the prevalence of dodgy licensing/patents)
=== cbx33 [n=pete@ubuntu/member/cbx33] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:14	superm1	Just people on the forums saying thanks and such for putting repos up really
05:15	superm1	And then imbrandon thanked me for helping get mythtv into revu so soon
05:15	superm1	after marrilat finished his package
05:15	superm1	I've searched around the net and seen my repos put up for some myth howtos even.  in languages I don't know how to read :)
05:16	jsgotangco	yeah that happens
05:16	jsgotangco	you just get surprised at the same time happy to know
05:16	superm1	yea
05:17	mako	superm1: lets wait until a few more people get a chance to take a look at it
05:17	superm1	k
05:17	mako	superm1: with a few testimonials and a continued role of maintaining the packages, you should be a no-brainer
05:17	mako	superm1: work with jono to make sure he's comfortable with the state of the app
05:17	superm1	Ok
05:17	mako	superm1: and when he gives a nod, come on back :)
05:17	mako	cool
05:17	superm1	sounds good to me
05:18	Seveas	WE MADE IT
05:18	Seveas	the end of the agenda :)
=== GazzaK faints
05:18	elkbuntu	yay!
05:18	Seveas	now to determine date & time of the next one
05:18	Seveas	Oct 3, but which time?
05:18	elmo	how about a 2 year break instead of 2 weeks?
05:19	Seveas	elmo: heh
05:19	elkbuntu	nice try
=== gsuveg [n=me@227-003.dyn-fa.pool.ew.hu] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["access]
05:19	Seveas	elmo: I'll be e-mailing the CC about some proposals to shorten the meetings
05:19	jsgotangco	heh
05:20	Seveas	mako/elmo/kamion: any time proposals?
05:20	GazzaK	wiring up to electric chairs with remote switches?
05:20	elmo	I'm easy
05:21	elmo	early evening this time? like 5pm UTC or so?
05:21	mako	yes
05:21	Seveas	ack
05:21	mako	that sounds fine
05:21	mako	let me put it in my calendar
05:21	mako	i forgot to put todays
05:21	elmo	Kamion: ok for you too?
05:21	mako	great
05:22	Kamion	yes, that's ok
05:22	Kamion	(sorry, was called away by veg box delivery)
05:22	Seveas	see you all next time people, I'll edit the agenda later today
05:22	Kamion	also, I should mention that I e-mailed notice that I'd like to retire from the CC
=== makl10n [n=makl10n@59.152.90.138] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:22	Seveas	thanks to all (and the CC in particular) for lasting
05:23	Kamion	assuming Mark accepts that, I expect that there'll need to be some kind of new CC member election
05:23	Kamion	(since my two-year term is up, and I think others can probably do a better job than me by now)
05:24	Seveas	Kamion: I'd like to propose jono as candidate
05:24	Kamion	Jono was also one of my proposals
05:24	Kamion	however, nominations are Mark's decision
05:24	Seveas	true
05:24	Kamion	anyhow, I need to go and clean up a spill
05:24	Seveas	have fun, see you in 2 weeks!
05:25	makl10n	so the meeting is over
05:25	Seveas	makl10n: yes, finally
05:25	gnomefreak	makl10n: yes
05:25	jsgotangco	makl10n: finally
05:25	rikai	Later CC people, thanks for putting up with all that. :)
05:25	makl10n	Seveas: the CC meeting is finished
05:26	makl10n	what about the Localization / Translation Team Leader agenda
05:26	Seveas	makl10n: oh damn
05:26	nixternal	LOL
05:26	Seveas	makl10n: I doubt that the CC has enough energy for that right now, and og and the LP crew are also missing
05:26	makl10n	hmm...
05:26	dudanogueira	Seveas, one of the proposed members for translation leader isnt here, OgMaciel :(
05:27	Seveas	makl10n: my apologies for forgettingto bring it up earlier
05:27	Linuturk_yaaarr	just accept them all ;p
05:27	makl10n	its.. Okay. I watched how busy you were
05:27	makl10n	:P
05:27	makl10n	Seveas: I can realize you had the longest meeting ever for CC
05:28	Seveas	there was a longer one
05:28	Seveas	once
05:28	mako	yes, sorry, i'm done for the day
05:29	mako	with this meeting at least :)
</pre>
