{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Update Ebox to 1.3 - chuck
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Asterisk =====

Daviey announced he had built Asterisk 1.6 and made it available from the <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-voip/+archive/asterisk-1.6-testing|Ubuntu VOIP team PPA]]</nowiki>. There was some discussion about the dependencies: openh323 is already while pwlib seems to be broken in karmic. More investigation is required to check whether the pwlib package should be merge from Debian or the Ubuntu version should be fixed.

===== Server tips : implementation =====

Daviey reported he had created an <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-server-tips|ubuntu-server-tips project]]</nowiki> as well as <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server-tips|a team]]</nowiki>. A package is also available from the <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server-tips/+archive/ppa|Ubuntu server tips PPA]]</nowiki> with code available from <nowiki>[[https://code.edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server-tips/ubuntu-server-tips/fortunes-ubuntu-server-tips|a bzr branch]]</nowiki>. Testing and review is welcome. There was some discussion on internationalizing the package and its content.

===== Update Ebox to 1.3 =====

zul proposed to update the ebox packages to the latest version - 1.3. foolano reported he would prepare some packages and ask for sponsorship to get them included in karmic.

ACTION:  foolano to prepare new ebox packages for review

===== SRU weekly review =====

The server team conducted a review of <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~mathiaz/multi-package-bug-reports-fix-released.ubuntu-server.2009-08-10.html|the list of bugs that had been fixed over the week]]</nowiki> and discussed which one should be considered for an SRU. 

This weekly review is one activity of <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20resources|the updated SRU process]]</nowiki> put in place in the Server team. 

ACTION: mathiaz to create the list of server bugs nominated for supported releases

ACTION: mathiaz to create the accepted candidates list

ACTION: mathiaz to include the bugs lists in the meeting announcement

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, August 18th at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:08] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[16:08] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:08. The chair is mathiaz.
[16:08] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:08] <soren> o/
[16:08] <Daviey> \o
[16:08] <ttx> o/
[16:08] <zul> hi ho
[16:08] <nijaba> o/
[16:08] <mathiaz> today's agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:08] <ivoks> greetings from http://www.init.hr/dev/2009-08-11-164518.jpg
[16:09]  * sommer tentatively here
[16:09] <Daviey> ivoks: nice.
[16:09] <sommer> ivoks: haaa :)
[16:09] <The_Toxic_Mite> Hello
[16:09] <zul> ivoks: grumble grumble
[16:09] <soren> ivoks: Where's that?
[16:09] <mathiaz> last week minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20090804
[16:09] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Asterisk
[16:09] <MootBot> New Topic:  Asterisk
[16:09] <mathiaz> Daviey: what's the state of the stack?
[16:10] <Daviey> Okay.. i've built 1.6 in ppa
[16:10] <mathiaz> Daviey: did you come up with a list of packages to be updated?
[16:10] <mathiaz> Daviey: and which order?
[16:10] <Daviey> https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-voip/+archive/asterisk-1.6-testing
[16:10] <Daviey> pwlib as shown there, and openh323
[16:10] <Daviey> without those being updated, asterisk will not get past the ./configure stage of the packaing build
[16:11] <mathiaz> Daviey: are these packages in Debian unstable?
[16:11] <Daviey> yes. although i used debian svn packaging iirc.. but yes, similar or same as unstable
[16:12] <mathiaz> Daviey: AFAICT pwlib is not part of unstable
[16:12] <soren> 1.10.10-3 is in unstable.
[16:13] <soren> and testing.. :)
[16:13] <mathiaz> ah right - my bad - I was doing an incorrect search
[16:13] <Daviey> http://packages.debian.org/sid/libpt-1.10.10
[16:13] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://packages.debian.org/sid/libpt-1.10.10
[16:14] <mathiaz> Daviey: 1.10.10-2ubuntu3 is in karmic
[16:14]  * ivoks has too big lag, so i can't participate in the meeting
[16:15] <mathiaz> Daviey: is 1.10.10-3 required to build asterisk 1.6?
[16:15] <Daviey> mathiaz: I'm not sure if the current binary is busted due to needing rebuilt, or if it needed upgrading.
[16:15] <Daviey> rebuild*
[16:17] <Daviey> hmm.. interesting.. http://changelogs.ubuntu.com/changelogs/pool/universe/o/openh323/openh323_1.18.0.dfsg-9build1/changelog <-- openh323 was another issue.. and that has just been rebuilt
[16:17] <Daviey> so that is probably no longer an issue
[16:17] <mathiaz> Daviey: does that mean that all build dependency of asterisk 1.6 are there in karmic?
[16:18] <Daviey> pwlib needs either upgrading or a rebuild
[16:19] <Daviey> I'm not sure which tbh.. i think it is a merge it needs.
[16:19] <Daviey> we last merged ~23 Jun 2008
[16:19] <mathiaz> Daviey: why is the current pwlib package broken in karmic?
[16:20] <Daviey> When trying to build asterisk against it, it complains of MANY BOOL linker errors
[16:20] <Daviey> considering debian are quite active (http://packages.debian.org/changelogs/pool/main/p/pwlib/pwlib_1.10.10-3/changelog), ours would seem quite stale.
[16:22] <mathiaz> Daviey: right. I'm not sure I completly understand what debian did in their last upload.
[16:23] <mathiaz> Daviey: I'm not sure that merging is the best option as it seems it may require a library transition
[16:23] <mathiaz> DaNEW Package libpt-dev -> libpt-1.10.10-dev & libpt-1.10.10-doc
[16:23] <mathiaz> It seems that the pwlib package state needs to be sorted out first
[16:24] <mathiaz> in order to be able to build asterisk correctly
[16:24] <mathiaz> Daviey: is the pwlib package from the ubuntu-voip team a straight rebuild of Debian?
[16:24] <Daviey> hmm
[16:24] <mathiaz> Daviey: or does it contain the ubuntu diff?
[16:25] <Daviey> straight build from Debian
[16:25] <mathiaz> Daviey: right - so I'd suggest to look into a merge of pwlib
[16:25] <mathiaz> Daviey: may be the ubuntu patches have been integrated in debian
[16:25] <mathiaz> Daviey: or figure out why the current version of karmic is broken and try to fix it
[16:26] <mathiaz> Daviey: contact the last ubuntu uploader and merger could be helpfull
[16:26] <Daviey> mathiaz: tbh, we (as in Ubuntu) don't do a whole lot for the Asterisk stuff.
[16:26] <mathiaz> Daviey: I'd also recommend to delete openh323 from the PPA
[16:27] <mathiaz> Daviey: to make sure it's not needed in karmic.
[16:27] <Daviey> well i'll experiment building locally, and repush a good result.
[16:27] <mathiaz> Daviey: ok.
[16:27] <mathiaz> Anything else to add on this topic?
[16:27] <Daviey> http://changelogs.ubuntu.com/changelogs/pool/universe/a/asterisk/asterisk_1.4.21.2~dfsg-3ubuntu2/changelog <-- the last *ubuntu upload was from a debian.org email address :)
[16:27] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://changelogs.ubuntu.com/changelogs/pool/universe/a/asterisk/asterisk_1.4.21.2~dfsg-3ubuntu2/changelog <-- the last *ubuntu upload was from a debian.org email address :)
[16:28] <Daviey> Hmm
[16:28] <Daviey> i was hoping the other chap would have been online..
[16:28] <mathiaz> ok - let's move on
[16:28] <Daviey> ok
[16:28] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Server tips : implementation
[16:28] <MootBot> New Topic:  Server tips : implementation
[16:28]  * Daviey needs a rest :)
[16:28] <mathiaz> any report on the packaging effort?
[16:28] <Daviey> yep
[16:28] <Daviey> I've made a basic package, and put it in a PPA
[16:29] <nijaba> \o/
[16:29] <Daviey> I've created a LP project, and a LP Team
[16:29] <mathiaz> Daviey: links?
[16:29] <Daviey> https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server-tips
[16:29] <Daviey> https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-server-tips
[16:29] <nijaba> Thanks Daviey
[16:29] <Daviey> Currently i am the owner, although i am aware it's not my project really.. and i am happy to hand over ownership to whoever wants it.
[16:29] <Daviey> or rather, the server teamw ants
[16:30] <Daviey> https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server-tips/+archive/ppa <-- basic package
[16:30] <Daviey> and the source is in bzr
[16:30] <Daviey> https://code.edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server-tips/ubuntu-server-tips/fortunes-ubuntu-server-tips
[16:30] <mathiaz> Daviey: great.
[16:30] <mathiaz> What's the next step then?
[16:31] <Daviey> I need to introduce translations.. and i am happy that won't be too much of an issue
[16:31] <nijaba> mathiaz: test and upload?
[16:31] <mathiaz> To get a new package in the archive: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/NewPackages
[16:31] <Daviey> fortune doesn't have native support for other languages.. however, it won't be a major issue.. we just request it in a slightl;y different way
[16:31] <nijaba> Daviey: you can count on me for testing.  I've just sent a request to join the team so that I'll get email from the ml
[16:32] <Daviey> I was thinking of including a shell script to get a locale fortune, with the package.. comments?
[16:32] <Daviey> nijaba: it's your pet project, do you want to be the team owner?
[16:32] <nijaba> Daviey: I don't care, but if you feel more confortable that way, go ahead
[16:33] <Daviey> i'm easy :)  either way.. I just don't want to tred on your toes.
[16:33] <mathiaz> Daviey: there were some discussions about integrating with update-motd
[16:33] <nijaba> Daviey: not even close to my toes :P
[16:33] <mathiaz> it seems that more testing from the PPA can be done at this stage.
[16:33] <mathiaz> anything else to add on this topic?
[16:33] <Daviey> mathiaz: yeah.. so should my package ship the script to return a locale correct (or default to english if no translation), or should that be seperate?
[16:34] <mathiaz> Daviey: I don't know for now. It may be better to ask the question on the ubuntu-server@ ml outlining what the issue is.
[16:34] <Daviey> As in.. should that script incluide the update-motd magic?
[16:34] <mathiaz> let's move on as we have other things to talk about
[16:34] <Daviey> wilco
[16:35] <mathiaz> anything related to last week minutes?
[16:35] <mathiaz> nope - let's move on.
[16:35] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Update Ebox to 1.3
[16:35] <MootBot> New Topic:  Update Ebox to 1.3
[16:35] <mathiaz> zul: ^^?
[16:36] <zul> so javier sent a launchpad request to update ebox to version 1.3 and i thought it would be a good idea since we tell people to use ebox for a server gui
[16:36] <zul> and the version we had in jaunty was quite old
[16:37] <zul> i hope javier would be here to explain it more but I dont think he is
[16:37] <davmor2> zul: 0.12
[16:37] <zul> yes its old
[16:37] <Daviey> old, but still working.. or old as in busted?
[16:37] <soren> He's on his way.
[16:37] <zul> old as in not shiney
[16:37] <foolano> hi guys
[16:38] <soren> o/
[16:38] <soren> :)
[16:38] <foolano> yeah, i filed the bugs to request an upgrade.
[16:38] <davmor2> I've had a quick play with the 1.2 version from the site and it has loadsa features that are missing from the ubuntu repo version
[16:38] <foolano> i'll request sponsorship during this week
[16:38] <foolano> i've the packages ready i just need to polish a few things
[16:39]  * nealmcb waves at foolano
[16:39] <zul> foolano: ill volunteer to upload them for you
[16:40] <foolano> zul: great :)
[16:40] <Daviey> \o/
[16:40] <foolano> they'll be ready during this week for sure
[16:40] <zul> sure just ping me when they are ready for review
[16:40] <foolano> zul: and i expect not to nag you very often afterwards ;)
[16:40] <zul> \o/
[16:41] <foolano> i'll follow the usual sponsorship process, and i'll ping you when it's ready :)
[16:41] <mathiaz> [ACTION] foolano to prepare new ebox packages for review
[16:41] <MootBot> ACTION received:  foolano to prepare new ebox packages for review
[16:41] <mathiaz> great - anything else on this topic?
[16:42] <foolano> just one more thing
[16:42] <foolano> i can email the ubuntu-server list to tell you guys the new modules we have developed, and see if there is some interest to upload some of them
[16:42] <mathiaz> foolano: seems like a good plan
[16:43] <foolano> great :)
[16:44] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] SRU weekly review
[16:44] <MootBot> New Topic:  SRU weekly review
[16:44] <Daviey> mathiaz: Did you get the method of getting a http list of SRU packages related top -server?
[16:45] <Daviey> s/top/to/
[16:45] <mathiaz> there is a new section in the Knowledge base about the SRU process.
[16:45] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20resources
[16:45] <mathiaz> and here is the list of bugs that have been fixed release last week:
[16:45] <mathiaz> http://people.canonical.com/~mathiaz/multi-package-bug-reports-fix-released.ubuntu-server.2009-08-10.html
[16:45] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~mathiaz/multi-package-bug-reports-fix-released.ubuntu-server.2009-08-10.html
[16:45] <mathiaz> ttx: ^^
[16:46]  * Daviey pleased.
[16:46]  * ttx looks
[16:46] <mathiaz> ttx: let's go throught the list
[16:47] <mathiaz> and nominate relevant ones
[16:47] <ttx> sure.
[16:47]  * zul raises his hand for vblade
[16:47] <mathiaz> bug 407324
[16:47] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 407324 in freeradius "/etc/init.d/freeradius stop don't work" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/407324
[16:48] <mathiaz> ^^ seems like a good candidate for SRU
[16:48] <ttx> mathiaz: maybe we should filter out wishlist items ?
[16:48] <mathiaz> if it can verified for hardy
[16:49] <mathiaz> ttx: if you click on importance it will be sorted
[16:49] <mathiaz> ttx: by importance
[16:49] <ttx> makes sense :)
[16:49] <mathiaz> ttx: bug 385475?
[16:49] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 385475 in likewise-open5 "[Karmic] Likewise-Open 5 fails to authenticate users" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/385475
[16:49] <ttx> not, this is karmic-only
[16:50] <ttx> regression due to krb-1.7 different gssapi
[16:50] <mathiaz> ttx: ok
[16:50] <mathiaz> bug 223440
[16:50] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 223440 in vblade "vblade discovery doesn't work" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/223440
[16:50] <mathiaz> bug 223387
[16:50] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 223387 in vblade "vblade doesn't create /var/run/vblade" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/223387
[16:50] <mathiaz> ^^ these two seem SRU worthy
[16:50] <mathiaz> zul: ^^?
[16:51] <Daviey> Thanks for taking care of them zul
[16:51] <mathiaz> Daviey: to be clear - this process is just to accept bugs
[16:51]  * ttx realizes we should have a look at the list *before* the meeting
[16:52] <mathiaz> Daviey: it doesn't mean that they will be fixed
[16:52] <ttx> and propose our favorites during the meeting
[16:52] <Daviey> oh sure.
[16:52] <mathiaz> Daviey: there is still a lot of work that needs to be done
[16:52] <mathiaz> Daviey: and anyone can participate
[16:52] <mathiaz> We're just going through the list of fixed released bug from last week to make sure relevant are considered for SRU
[16:53] <mathiaz> it doesn't mean that they will end up as an SRU
[16:53] <ttx> yes, the vblade stuff seems a good candidate
[16:53] <ttx> as is the freeradius stop one
[16:54] <mathiaz> so it seems that bug 223440, bug 223387, bug 407324 are SRU worthy
[16:54]  * ScottK waves
[16:54] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 223440 in vblade "vblade discovery doesn't work" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/223440
[16:54] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 223387 in vblade "vblade doesn't create /var/run/vblade" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/223387
[16:54] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 407324 in freeradius "/etc/init.d/freeradius stop don't work" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/407324
[16:54] <mathiaz> for which release?
[16:54] <ttx> well, I'll let zul comment on the vblade ones
[16:54] <ttx> the issue is, we need to reproduce them before nominating them, I guess
[16:54] <mathiaz> ttx: I don't think so
[16:55] <mathiaz> ttx: we just need to track them
[16:55] <nealmcb> mathiaz: I like that list and process a lot!  http://people.canonical.com/~mathiaz/multi-package-bug-reports-fix-released.ubuntu-server.2009-08-10.html
[16:55] <mathiaz> ttx: part of the SRU process is to be able to reproduce it
[16:55] <zul> the ones selected right should be SRUable
[16:56] <mathiaz> ttx: if it's not possible to create a good SRU report then we'll remove the bug from the accepted bugs
[16:56] <mathiaz> it seems that we still need to decide for which release they should nominated
[16:56] <ttx> then I'd do hardy for both.
[16:57] <mathiaz> ttx: both == all the three bugs?
[16:57] <ttx> yes
[16:57] <ttx> zul: the vblade bugs importance isn't set
[16:58] <mathiaz> ttx: ok - I'll nominate all the three bugs for hardy
[16:58] <mathiaz> ttx: and accept them
[16:59] <ttx> so the idea is tat everyone should review the list ahead of the meeting and propose his favorites in the meeting. this is not just a game between mathiaz and me :)
[16:59] <zul> heh
[16:59] <ttx> We'll also review nominations on server packages in general, we just miss the report as of now.
[16:59] <mathiaz> ttx: right. We're missing a couple of reports/bug lists for now
[16:59] <ttx> well, zul played too.
[16:59] <nijaba> could mathiaz add the list to the server meeting announce, asking for people to review prior to the meeting?
[17:00] <ttx> nijaba: good idea
[17:00] <mathiaz> nijaba: sure - I can update the mailing list announcement
[17:00] <ttx> "SRU poker"
[17:00] <mathiaz> Right - so I've nominated the three bugs
[17:00] <mathiaz> next week I'll try to get the other list done
[17:01] <mathiaz> (the list of server bugs nominated for supported releases)
[17:01] <nijaba> ttx: I don't have a translation for "Pouilleux Masacreur (de bug)", but it is more like it :D
[17:01] <mathiaz> and also the accepted candidates list
[17:01] <mathiaz> so that we can review the state of all the SRUs
[17:02] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz to create the list of server bugs nominated for supported releases
[17:02] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to create the list of server bugs nominated for supported releases
[17:02] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz to create the accepted candidates list
[17:02] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to create the accepted candidates list
[17:02] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz to include the bugs lists in the meeting annoucement
[17:02] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to include the bugs lists in the meeting annoucement
[17:03] <mathiaz> anything else on the topic of SRU mgmt?
[17:03]  * Daviey is happy.. that is all
[17:04] <mathiaz> ok - let's wrap up
[17:04] <Daviey> Before we wrap up the meeting, can i throw one more thing out there?  For ubuntu-server-tips.. we needs many more suggestions.. it's kinda sparse at the moment.
[17:04] <Daviey> sparse = boring and perhaps useless.
[17:04] <mathiaz> Daviey: right - I'd suggest to ask for more contributions on the ubuntu-server@ ml and may be a blog post
[17:04] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[17:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[17:05] <Daviey> mathiaz: wilco
[17:05] <mathiaz> same time, same place, next week?
[17:05] <ttx> worksforme
[17:05] <Daviey> !wfm | ttx
[17:05] <ubottu> ttx: Common Sense: Just because you can, does not mean you should (and especially recommend to others). Think before you do. "Works for me" does not mean it is ok. The latest version of everything is not always useful if you aim for stability. Please see http://geekosophical.net/random/worksforme/
[17:05] <Daviey> :)
[17:06] <mathiaz> all right then
[17:06] <ttx> Daviey: I didn't mean it's OK for everyone, just that it's ok for me.
[17:06] <mathiaz> same time same place next week
[17:07] <mathiaz> and don't forget we're gearing up for alpha4 this thursday
[17:07] <Daviey> ttx: i know.. :)
[17:07] <mathiaz> testing is welcome
[17:07] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
[17:07] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 11:07.
</pre>
