{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Review progress made on the specification listed on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Open Discussion.
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== Review ServerGuide for Intrepid =====

sommer updated the virtualization parts of the server guide: the vmbuilder and JeOS sections have been merged. Most of the content has now been updated for the Intrepid release.

ACTION: mathiaz to update the support section

===== Ubuntu vm builder =====

nijaba has updated the tutorial. In the process a couple of bugs have been found. Most of them are minor though.

===== KVM =====

kirkland triaged a lot of kvm and libvirt bugs and stated that kvm seemed to be working better than it ever had in intrepid. mathiaz asked about support for virtio block devices. kirkland hasn't tested that use case yet.

===== Ubuntu Server Survey =====

nijaba reported that the <nowiki>[[http://survey.ubuntu.com/|ubuntu server survey]]</nowiki> had reached 3000 responses. The launch plan has also been completed.

===== DRBD =====

ivoks nailed down the issue with DRBD in intrepid. The userspace tools have to be upgraded to 8.2.6 to match the kernel module version. A FFexception request has been prepared.

mathiaz asked if the collaboration with the Kernel Team on DRBD could be improved. Whenever the kernel module is updated in the Ubuntu kernels  the user space tools also need to be updated. ivoks mentioned that the packaging of the userspace tools should be improved during the next release cycle. mathiaz suggested to discuss this issue during the next UDS.

===== Bacula SRU =====

ivoks fixed the bacula segfault in hardy. One tester reported that it was working correctly now.

ACTION: zul to look into SRUing bacula sigsegv - bug 227613

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, October 14th at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:06] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[16:06] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:06. The chair is mathiaz.
[16:06] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:06] <mathiaz> Today's amazing agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:06] <kirkland> o/
[16:07] <mathiaz> Last meeting minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20080930
[16:07] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Review ServerGuide for Intrepid
[16:07] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ServerGuide for Intrepid
[16:07] <mathiaz> sommer: what's the state of the virtualization sections?
[16:08] <sommer> mathiaz: should be good to go
[16:08] <sommer> mathiaz: we merged the vmbuilder and jeos sections, based on nijaba's wiki guidle
[16:08]  * sommer guide
[16:09] <nijaba> o/
[16:09] <sommer> so I think we got in all the new/updated content for intrepid
[16:09] <mathiaz> zul: did you get a chance to review the new virtualization section?
[16:09] <zul> mathiaz: no I havent
[16:09] <mathiaz> sommer: is there some time to update the support section?
[16:09] <sommer> mathiaz: we can ask for a freeze exception
[16:09] <mathiaz> sommer: I can prepare a branch with the update.
[16:10] <mathiaz> sommer: Do you know how well the serverguide is translated?
[16:10] <zul> mathiaz: hopefully today
[16:10] <sommer> mathiaz: I don't think I can really judge that... only speaking english
[16:11] <sommer> mathiaz: I think there was a message this morning about some issues with the process though
[16:12] <mathiaz> sommer: right - I saw some messages on ubuntu-doc@
[16:12] <sommer> mathiaz: so I think there's a good chance of getting an exception
[16:12] <mathiaz> sommer: ok - so I'll prepare a branch
[16:12] <mathiaz> sommer: and send it to you
[16:13] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz to update the support section
[16:13] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to update the support section
[16:13] <sommer> mathiaz: cool, thanks
[16:13] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Ubuntu vm builder
[16:13] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu vm builder
[16:13] <mathiaz> nijaba: what's the state of the tutorial update?
[16:14] <nijaba> mathiaz: it is finished, but we have a couple bugs to fix in vmbuilder for it to completely work
[16:14] <mathiaz> nijaba: have you filed bugs?
[16:14] <nijaba> mathiaz: yep, do you want the bug #?
[16:14] <mathiaz> nijaba: nope
[16:15] <mathiaz> nijaba: are they targeted for intrepid?
[16:16] <nijaba> mathiaz: not yet, but they could/should
[16:17] <mathiaz> nijaba: are these bugs showstoppers or minor annoyance?
[16:18] <nijaba> mathiaz: not show stopper; iti is just the -c option that does not work
[16:18] <nijaba> -c: specify a configuration file other thant the default
[16:18] <mathiaz> nijaba: ok. That's not so bad then.
[16:19] <mathiaz> nijaba: anything else you've noticed during your testing of vm-builder?
[16:19] <nijaba> mathiaz: not that have not been fixed already
[16:19] <RoAkSoAx> sommer: i could help judging the translation of spanish server guide
[16:20] <mathiaz> nijaba: ok thanks.
[16:20] <mathiaz> while we're on the topic of virtualization
[16:20] <sommer> RoAkSoAx: cool it's all done through launch pad
[16:20] <mathiaz> kirkland: have you seen anything important in kvm/libvirt?
[16:20] <kirkland> mathiaz: it seems to be working better than it ever has in intrepid
[16:21] <kirkland> mathiaz: haven't seen any showstopping bugs opened since i've been watching the queue (2 weeks) backing up soren
[16:21] <mathiaz> kirkland: do you know if virtio devices are supported in intrepid?
[16:21] <kirkland> mathiaz: i fixed a bunch, and sent a bunch upstream, against kvm and virt-manager
[16:21] <kirkland> mathiaz: i don't think so
[16:22] <mathiaz> kirkland: I remember we had to pull something out related to virtio just before hardy was released.
[16:22] <mathiaz> jdstrand: do you remember the issue with virtio in hardy?
[16:22] <kirkland> mathiaz: i'm sorry, i don't know much about virtio ... i can come up to speed, if necessary
[16:22] <RoAkSoAx> sommer: rosetta?
[16:22] <mathiaz> IIRC it was related to block devices
[16:23] <sommer> RoAkSoAx: yes
[16:23] <jdstrand> IIRC virtio was pulled for block devices, bit the virtnet (?) is still in place
[16:23] <jdstrand> s/bit/but/
[16:23] <RoAkSoAx> sommer: ok, i will take a look at it during this week :)
[16:23] <zul> mathiaz: it was slow when we were testing the isos with encrypted disks wasnt it?
[16:24] <mathiaz> right - virtnet is working (but not during installer)
[16:24] <mathiaz> zul: it would lock up the guest IIRC
[16:24] <zul> mathiaz: yes
[16:24] <mathiaz> zul: or at least the installation would be verrryyy slow
[16:25] <zul> mathiaz: have you seen that in intrepid yet?
[16:25] <mathiaz> zul: not yet.
[16:25] <mathiaz> but my guests are running with an ide bus instead of virtio bus
[16:25] <mathiaz> and I'm still running on a hardy host.
[16:25] <mathiaz> kirkland: you may wanna test that on an intrepid host
[16:25] <kirkland> mathiaz: what's that?
[16:26] <kirkland> mathiaz: "that" .. ?
[16:26] <mathiaz> kirkland: running guests with a virtio disk instead of an ide bus
[16:26] <mathiaz> kirkland: I'll show you after the meeting how to do that.
[16:26] <kirkland> mathiaz: cool, thanks
[16:27] <mathiaz> anything else related to virtualization in intrepid?
[16:27] <kirkland> mathiaz: not from me
[16:28] <mathiaz> ok - let's move on then
[16:28] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Server Survey
[16:28] <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu Server Survey
[16:28] <mathiaz> kirkland: thanks for the post
[16:28] <mathiaz> nijaba: still going well?
[16:28] <nijaba> mathiaz: yes, great !
[16:28] <nijaba> we passed the 3000 responses
[16:29] <mathiaz> nijaba: has the launch plan been completed?
[16:29] <mathiaz> nijaba: you mentionned last week that some items were left
[16:29] <nijaba> mathiaz: yes it has
[16:29] <kirkland>  |^o
[16:30] <mathiaz> nijaba: great.
[16:30] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] DRBD
[16:30] <MootBot> New Topic:  DRBD
[16:30] <mathiaz> ivoks has been working on this issue and found the problem.
[16:30] <mathiaz> it was a change in the kernel id.
[16:31] <zul> ivoks is here? if not...ffe has been asked havent followed up on it yet
[16:31] <mathiaz> so we don't need to upgrade the driver and the userspace tools to a new rc version.
[16:31] <zul> no
[16:31] <mathiaz> zul: have you filed the FFe?
[16:31] <zul> mathiaz: we need to upgrade the userspace tools  to 8.2.6
[16:31] <mathiaz> zul: ah ok.
[16:32] <mathiaz> zul: I though we just had to change the id in 8.0.12.
[16:32] <zul> no I talked to ivoks about this yesterday and the userspace and kernel has to be the same
[16:32] <zul> hi ivoks
[16:32] <ivoks> hi
[16:33] <ivoks> (sorry for being late; business)
[16:33] <mathiaz> ivoks: just in time ! we were talking about drbd
[16:33] <mathiaz> ivoks: thanks for the good work on that one.
[16:33] <ivoks> all right
[16:33] <ivoks> no problem
[16:33] <ivoks> i don't know if zul talked about the problem
[16:34] <ivoks> and if you are interested, i could give you a quick explanation
[16:34] <mathiaz> ivoks: I mentionned the kernel id thing
[16:34] <zul> ivoks: I did the basics but if you want to go more in depth be my guest
[16:34] <mathiaz> ivoks: well - you don't have to. The most important thing is that we have solution
[16:34] <ivoks> only if others need to know :) bottom line is that we should keep our eyes on it, since this could happen again (drbd isn't upstream yet, so they aren't in sync)
[16:34] <mathiaz> ivoks: the tools still have to be updated to 8.2.6?
[16:35] <ivoks> mathiaz: yes
[16:35] <mathiaz> and the FFe has been filed.
[16:35] <ivoks> (drbd isn't in kernel)
[16:35] <mathiaz> ivoks: you mean in the upstream kernel. The Ubuntu kernel team adds it to the ubuntu kernel?
[16:36] <ivoks> mathiaz: correct
[16:36] <mathiaz> ivoks: ok - and whenever they do that they forget to update the userspace tools?
[16:37] <ivoks> mathiaz: basicaly, kernel team didn't do anything; drbd's ID was taken by framebuffer module in linus's tree
[16:37] <ivoks> mathiaz: i've told drbd upstream to watch out for that; they weren't aware this happened
[16:37] <mathiaz> ivoks: right - but IIRC there was also a mismatch during the hardy cycle
[16:37] <zul> nope
[16:38] <ivoks> mathiaz: no, drbd in hardy and in upstream have same ID
[16:38] <ivoks> there wasn't that frame buffer module :)
[16:38] <mathiaz> ivoks: but it seems that there isn't a strict dependency between the version in the kernel and the userspace tool
[16:38] <mathiaz> ivoks: right - I'm talking about the version of the kernel module and the user space tools
[16:38] <ivoks> mathiaz: yes, both for version of drbd and ID number
[16:38] <mathiaz> ivoks: not that very specific problem.
[16:38] <ivoks> drbd kernel and drbd userspace must be of same version
[16:39] <ivoks> since tools are built with kernel headers
[16:39] <mathiaz> ivoks: ok - IIRC it wasn't the case at some point in the hardy release cycle.
[16:39] <ivoks> there is one problem in package we should work on for intrepid+1
[16:40] <mathiaz> ivoks: and since the kernel team pulls in a new version of drbd there should be a way to sync the userspace tools too
[16:40] <ivoks> mathiaz: right... current problem is that userspace tools come with kernel module source, and build against it
[16:40] <zul> mathiaz: we should probably look at dkms for packagin in intrepid+1
[16:40] <ivoks> mathiaz: we should make that userspace build against our kernel headers
[16:41] <mathiaz> right - it seems that this topic should be discussed with the kernel team.
[16:41] <ivoks> anyway, for intrepid everything is ok if new userspace is uploaded
[16:41] <mathiaz> ivoks: great!
[16:41] <mathiaz> ivoks: we'll discuss the state of DRBD for jaunty during the UDS with the kernel team then.
[16:41] <ivoks> no need to stall the meating with this
[16:42] <ivoks> mathiaz: well... i hope so :D
[16:42] <mathiaz> ok - That's all I had from last week's meeting.
[16:42] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open discussion
[16:42] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open discussion
[16:43] <mathiaz> anyone?
[16:43] <ivoks> me, again :)
[16:43] <ivoks> fwiw if you remember, last time i mentioned that bacula thing
[16:44] <mathiaz> ivoks: I'm not sure what you refering to
[16:44] <ivoks> reporter reported that patched version fixed the thing, so if anyone is interested in pushing this update in hardy, be my guest :)
[16:44] <ivoks> mathiaz: just a sec
[16:44] <zul> ivoks: is it in your ppa?
[16:44] <ivoks> zul: yes
[16:44] <mathiaz> ivoks: it's related to a -bacula-postgres segfaulting right?
[16:44] <zul> ivoks: cool Ill have a look then
[16:45] <ivoks> bug #227613
[16:45] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 227613 in bacula "[SRU] SIGSEGV in bacula-fd" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/227613
[16:45] <ivoks> mathiaz: it's related to at least 3 bugs
[16:45] <mathiaz> [ACTION] zul to look into SRUing bacula sigsegv - bug 227613
[16:45] <MootBot> ACTION received:  zul to look into SRUing bacula sigsegv - bug 227613
[16:46] <mathiaz> ivoks: anything else relatedt to bacula?
[16:46] <ivoks> atm no
[16:46] <mathiaz> ivoks: have you got a chance to test bacula in intrepid?
[16:46] <ivoks> mathiaz: not yet, but i will
[16:47] <ivoks> mathiaz: my plan is to test bacula and red hat cluster suite
[16:47] <ivoks> drbd is ok (with new update)
[16:47] <mathiaz> ivoks: great - thanks.
[16:47] <mathiaz> Anything else to add?
[16:48] <mathiaz> There isn't any new Freeze taking effect this week
[16:49] <mathiaz> so we're still in FeatureFreeze, UserInterfaceFreeze and DocumentationFreeze
[16:49] <mathiaz> Next week will be KernelFreeze
[16:50] <mathiaz> so testing, testing and testing is welcome
[16:50] <mathiaz> on all sort of hardware you can have access to
[16:51] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:51] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:51] <mathiaz> next week, same time, same place?
[16:51] <Koon> same (modified) time ?
[16:52] <nealmcb> modified?
[16:52] <ivoks> modified?
[16:52] <mathiaz> 15:00 UTC
[16:52] <Koon> ignore me
[16:52] <nealmcb> I guess in some countries daylight time is happening soon
[16:52] <ivoks>  /ignore Koon
[16:52] <ivoks> well, UTC is UTC
[16:52]  * Koon just realized this meeting occured at the usual time.
[16:52] <nealmcb> and vice versa....
[16:53] <nealmcb> so pay attention....
[16:53] <mathiaz> all right - same place same time next week
[16:53] <sommer> coolio
[16:53] <ivoks> ok
[16:54] <mathiaz> Koon: and we'll unmodify the not-modified schedule of this meeting for you
[16:54]  * Koon hugs mathiaz
[16:54] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
</pre>
