{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': Mon Aug 22nd 2016 16:32 UTC
* '''End''': 16:58 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': Tyler Hicks (tyhicks)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* jjohansen
* !ChrisCoulson
* ratliff

=== Not present ===
* sarnold

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** None
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** implement lxd-support snappy interface
** work with desktop team on snappy browser policy
** high priority policy bugs
** snappy PR reviews
*** udisks2/pluggable-storage (close to landing)
*** docker (making progress)
*** fwupd (making progress)
*** systemd interaction
*** serial-port
*** dbus-app
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: cve triage
** libidn updates
** harfbuzz updates
** patch piloting
** investigate regression in qemu update and published new update
** security updates
** sbeattie
** weekly role: happy place
** embargoed issue
** apparmor code reviews
** fix PIE related build failures
** security update
** tyhicks
** weekly role: community
** land policy adjustment for app-specific oxide shm files (LP: #1260103)
** shim code review
** seccomp complain mode
** review tools work for squashfs bugs
** jjohansen
** Linux Security Summit
** !AppArmor profile reloading oops (LP: #1579135)
** !AppArmor stacking bugs for 16.04
*** fix signal mediation issue when stacking is used across namespaces
** continue working with desktop team to get an acceptable gsettings mediation design
  <pre> comment
** sarnold
** weekly role: bug triage
** MIR audits
** snappy exploration
  </pre>
** !ChrisCoulson
** catch up from vacation
** firefox 48.0.1 update
** document instructions for doing flash updates
** converged device <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/oxide/+spec/converged-device-support|features]]</nowiki> for oxide
** ratliff
** learning the bug triage role
** unity 8 MIRs
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** jasper has been demoted from main
** sbeattie finished moving QRT to git and is in the process of moving debian2ubuntu to git

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-08-22-16.32.moin.txt
