{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** (none)
* Wily Development
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Upcoming Call For Papers
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair

=== Minutes ===

* caribou wrote a blog post about curtin/maas customization: http://caribou.kamikamamak.com/2015/06/26/custom-partitioning-with-maas-and-curtin-2/ and is working on a kernel crash dump subordinate charm
* no meeting actions
 

===== Meeting Actions =====

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, Jul 14th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
<meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jul  7 16:00:14 2015 UTC.  The chair is matsubara. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
<meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
<arosales> o/
<matsubara> hello there, welcome to this week's Ubuntu server meeting!
<ddellav> \o
<matsubara> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
<matsubara> no action items from last meeting
<matsubara> #topic Wily Development
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Wily Development
<matsubara> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseSchedule
<matsubara> #subtopic Release Bugs 
<matsubara> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
<matsubara> Wily Alpha 2 by the end of the month. 
<teward> o/
<jamespage> o/
<matsubara> there's a security bug, high importance and no one assigned.
<kickinz1> o/
<matsubara> bug 1453738
<ubottu> bug 1453738 in ecryptfs-utils (Ubuntu Wily) "installer in LVM mode sets up broken encrypted swap, using duplicate unencrypted swap" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1453738
<matsubara> is that bug something someone in the server team should take on?
<matsubara> looks like it's well understood and some ubuntu developers are discussing in the bug report. let's move on
<matsubara> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
<caribou> a few things
<caribou> wrote a blog post on Curtin/Maas customization; comments welcomed
<caribou> http://caribou.kamikamamak.com/2015/06/26/custom-partitioning-with-maas-and-curtin-2/
<caribou> & working on a kernel crash dump subordinate charm
<caribou> all for me, thanks
<matsubara> Thanks caribou
<matsubara> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
<matsubara> nothing new to report from me
<matsubara> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) 
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
<smb> Hi and hm, nothing right now. Are there questions/new issues?
<matsubara> No questions for smb, it seems. Thanks smb.
<matsubara> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Upcoming Call For Papers
<matsubara> ODS Tokyo is open for submissions
<matsubara> other than that, anything other conferences happening soon?
<matsubara> I guess no, let's move on
<matsubara> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
<matsubara> no server team event
<matsubara> #topic Open Discussion
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
<matsubara> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
<matsubara> same time next week, coreycb will chair
<matsubara> thanks everyone
<matsubara> #endmeeting
<jamespage> ta matsubara
* meetingology has changed the topic to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
<meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Jul  7 16:11:44 2015 UTC.
<meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2015/ubuntu-meeting.2015-07-07-16.00.moin.txt
</pre>
