{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=03&day=19&year=2012&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Mar 19th 2012 18:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 18:30 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* micahg
* jjohansen

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Thanks
** Julian Taylor (jtaylor) provided a debdiff for oneiric for super (LP: #954579)
  Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Review of any previous action items
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** triage
** MIR audit catch-up continued
** install audits
** mdeslaur
** Weekly role: happy place
** ca-certificates-java issue
** pending updates
** sbeattie
** Weekly role: community
** essential work items (!AppArmor userspace bugs/work items)
** micahg
** Weekly role: happy place
** patch pilot
** finish icedtea regression
** thunderbird update
** webkit
** tyhicks
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** ecryptfs bug #842647
** jjohansen
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** apparmor bug fixes
** work items
** push mount rules up to lkml
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** sbeattie asked about QRT testing for precise: how to handle this time around?
** jdstrand mentioned fix as we see them and as the QA team reports problems
** mdeslaur and sbeattie agreed
** also agreed that for QRT scripts that are part of our team's acceptance criteria (eg, apparmor, ufw), these should be run and fixed more frequently

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-03-19-18.08.html
