{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
05:01 janimo       Gloubiboulga: no news on netswitch yet
05:01 Gloubiboulga janimo, nothing new
05:01 janimo       btw is it using /etc/n/interfaces or some custom config of its own?
05:02 janimo       from the website it seems it aims to be like network manager
05:02 Gloubiboulga it uses its own config iirc
05:02 janimo       ah, hmm it may not be good for main after all if it does not do things the
                   debian way
=== jbrockmeier [n=jzb@c-67-164-187-12.hsd1.co.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:03 janimo       shall we wait for soumyadip ?
05:04 janimo       let's start then
05:04 nomed        janimo, we wait him to discuss localisation issues
05:04 janimo       1) panel plugins
05:04 nomed        yep
05:04 Gloubiboulga we can move the 2nd item to the end if he's late imo
05:04 Gloubiboulga ok, just a quick look at those plugins
05:04 janimo       the plugins not uploaded so far are those which do not seem to work
05:04 janimo       for all of us
05:05 janimo       weather and diskperf are in this categpry
05:05 Gloubiboulga except the clipman plugin
05:05 janimo       the rest are not yet ported
05:05 janimo       I uploaded clipman today :)
05:05 Gloubiboulga ok :)
05:05 janimo       dii not update the wiki though
05:05 Gloubiboulga xkb is ready, I can package it quickly
05:05 nomed        janimo, Gloubiboulga it's strange that weather works fine here
05:05 janimo       Gloubiboulga: cool I just wanted to ask you about it
05:05 nomed        was it in breezy ?
05:06 janimo       nomed: yes
05:06 janimo       it wass buggy though
05:06 Gloubiboulga for all the not-yet-ported plugins, the author are working on them
05:06 janimo       I could not change kb layout using it
05:06 janimo       Gloubiboulga: great
05:06 Gloubiboulga except lua plugin
05:06 janimo       Gloubiboulga: that's irrelevamt to most users
05:06 janimo       too techincal
05:06 janimo       so not a priority
05:06 Gloubiboulga ok, so we can just forget it I guess
05:07 janimo       right, or package it if it gets ported
05:07 Gloubiboulga yep
05:07 janimo       prioroty is weather/dsikperf/xkb
05:07 janimo       especially xkb for localisation
05:07 janimo       screenshot plugin seems not to be a good idea as upstream said
05:07 Gloubiboulga xkb will soon be packaged :)
05:07 janimo       so I may juts make it an executable
05:08 janimo       Gloubiboulga: I know, I just wanted to stress that it's the most important
                   plugin issing right now IMO
05:08 janimo       Gloubiboulga: I loooked in goodies svn two days ago and saw nothing
05:08 Gloubiboulga ok
05:08 janimo       so assumed xkb is no worked on
05:08 Gloubiboulga janimo, the author emailed me this morning that it's ready
05:09 janimo       great
05:09 janimo       anything else to add for plugins?
05:09 janimo       if not 3) archiver
05:09 Gloubiboulga we should remove datetime and xfce4-toys from the archives imo
=== jozmak [n=mak@h66-201-246-249.gtcust.grouptelecom.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:09 janimo       Gloubiboulga: datetime is replaced too?
05:09 nomed        and add a meta pkge ?
05:09 janimo       with toys I agree it is just not easy to remove from the arch
05:09 nomed        with all the working plugins ?
05:09 janimo       busy admins
05:10 Gloubiboulga janimo, datetime is not working iirc, and there are similar plugins with the
                   panel
05:10 janimo       nomed, lets' wait till it's clear which plugins make it to dapper
05:10 nomed        k
05:10 janimo       I add the plugins one by one to xubunt-desktop so we know explictely what is
                   tested and deemd ok for default install
05:11 janimo       Gloubiboulga: ok, there are some other xfce pkgs which need purging from the
                   arch will need to ask for all of them in the same time
05:11 Gloubiboulga ok
05:11 janimo       the old 4.2 plugins + toys
05:11 janimo       old xfprint xfdesktop if they are still there, xterminal
05:12 janimo       old package names which we used in hoary
05:12 janimo       3)archiver
05:12 nomed        ok
05:12 nomed        the devel is working actively on it during these days
05:12 nomed        the release 0.4 will be just when iso support will be fixed
05:13 nomed        in the mean time i asked him to use a version control
05:13 janimo       you mention thunar plugin for 0.4 to in the wiki
05:13 janimo       is that so?
05:13 nomed        he's happy with bzr at the end
05:13 nomed        yep
05:13 janimo       good
05:13 janimo       so will he take care of integrating the plugin? I did not look at it
05:13 nomed        he'll add an --extract opt
05:13 nomed        and he will work on thunar plugin then
05:13 janimo       oh but we do the thunar bits right?
05:13 janimo       ok
05:13 nomed        then ..
05:14 nomed        i think we should pkge it from bzr
05:14 nomed        help him on solving issues
05:14 janimo       ok
05:14 janimo       I agree
05:14 nomed        then 0.4 should be ready for dapper
05:14 janimo       we still have to test if it is stable, does not eat data
05:14 janimo       and this kind of stuff
05:14 nomed        janimo, he sent me new two patches
05:14 janimo       since it is a potentially destructive app
05:15 nomed        now it should be mostly bug free
05:15 janimo       nomed, let's wait for bzr if he promised Monday
05:15 nomed        the known bugs are gone
05:15 janimo       which were they btw?
05:15 nomed        i'll have a gmail chat session with him
05:15 nomed        i'll help him on that
05:15 nomed        i'll mail you when ready
05:15 janimo       ok
05:15 janimo       I just noticed the png not found warnig at start
05:15 nomed        janimo, adding files to an archive
05:16 nomed        for the 2 3 times
05:16 nomed        had some issues
05:16 nomed        not anymore
05:16 Gloubiboulga janimo, netswitch author has just confirmed, he doesn't use
                   /etc/network/interfaces
05:16 janimo       hmm, it would have been better if he released now so we can test and then
                   fix the iso handling :)
05:16 janimo       Gloubiboulga: thanks
05:17 janimo       hmm, I would have preferred to be an equivalent of gnome-net-setting without
                   gnome libs instead of a whole new
05:17 nomed        janimo, k i'll ask for it
05:17 janimo       incompatible way :)
05:17 nomed        i think a 0.3.1 or something like that should be a problem for hi
05:17 nomed        m
05:17 janimo       0.3.1 is the last AFAIK
05:17 janimo       4) Dapper Look
05:17 janimo       our weak point ;)
05:17 nomed        hehehe
05:18 janimo       it's good we have 6 more weeks
05:18 nomed        the dapper-look chan is not really active
05:18 nomed        anymore
05:18 janimo       to wait for soemone to do the artwork :)
05:18 nomed        but that guy told me he had something ready
05:18 janimo       maybe even upstream releases 4.4 by then
05:18 nomed        i was not on irc during the week end
05:18 nomed        i hope to meet him soon
05:19 janimo       but once we have ISOs I think there's going to be more contributions in this
                   area for sure
05:19 janimo       which leads us to 5)
05:19 janimo       ISO images
05:19 Gloubiboulga is there something scheduled for this ?
05:19 janimo       they are approved but still blocked
05:19 janimo       appreved to be supported by canonical so they can go to main
05:20 nomed        janimo, we should have it soon
05:20 janimo       which is what I thogh was the case so far but was not apparently
05:20 nomed        i think we should fix something in capser for xubuntu
05:20 nomed        casper
05:20 janimo       so we need the pakcages in main than they can build CD-s there are more
                   people doing that now besides Colin Watson
05:20 janimo       nomed: what?
05:20 nomed        janimo, will xubuntu have even a livecd ?
05:21 janimo       nomed, I sure hope so
05:21 janimo       and an espresso installer
05:21 nomed        it's possible we should fix something on them
05:21 nomed        casper and espresso
05:21 janimo       what exaclty ?do you know something specific or wondering
05:22 janimo       espresso shoulf be gtk only
05:22 nomed        i've seen casper has some scripts for gnome stuff ..
05:22 nomed        i need to take a deeper look on that ..
05:22 nomed        but there are gnome specific scripts
05:22 janimo       I hope it just looks ate the livecd seed and does the right thing
05:22 nomed        and maybe xfce needs some too
05:22 janimo       since it works for kde I think it's not gnome dependent
05:23 janimo       as soon as we start doing install cd-s I'll take a closer look to the live
                   seeds
05:23 janimo       I did not pay much attention to them
05:23 janimo       only to the desktop seed
05:23 Riddell      the gtk side of espresso does stuff with turning off gconf, but nothing very
                   gnome specific
05:24 janimo       Riddell: thanks
05:24 nomed        i've seen it but i didn't check the code very well ..
05:24 janimo       anyway since that is the livecd it may even use some small gnome bits as
                   long as it does not install them ;)
05:25 janimo       so the conclusion is flightX will be available but I cannot estimate when
05:25 nomed        janimo, i was thinking on configuration stuff
05:25 janimo       since it depends on when packages will be put in main
05:25 janimo       nomed, yes/
05:25 janimo       ?
05:26 nomed        janimo, i'll take a deeper look on that during the week end and i'll be more
                   specific
05:26 janimo       nomed, unrelated: if you like pyxfce you may want to package the bindings
05:26 janimo       also the pyexo stuff
05:26 nomed        janimo, yep it would be cool ..
05:26 janimo       that would sit well with the whole ubuntu line ;)
05:26 nomed        but maybe for dapper +1 ?
05:26 janimo       nomed, sure
05:27 janimo       shouildn't be hard though
05:27 janimo       just a small matter of packaging ;)
05:27 nomed        yep
=== janimo remembers some very frustrating times with such 'small matters of packaging'
05:28 nomed        ehehe
05:28 janimo       anything else?
05:28 Gloubiboulga :)
05:28 janimo       besides 6) future meetings
05:28 nomed        i having that time
05:28 nomed        friday is fine for me
05:28 janimo       ok I think we could have a fixed weekly schedule for future meetings
05:29 nomed        i agree
05:29 Gloubiboulga yep, I agree too
05:29 janimo       Friday may not be good for some people
05:29 janimo       we should chose a day we have small chances to overlap with other meetings
05:29 janimo       edubuntu has their every Wed
05:29 janimo       any prefs regarding day/hour?
05:30 janimo       what to exclude?
=== j_ack [n=nico@p508D90E7.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:30 nomed        i have no problems if i know that in time
05:30 Gloubiboulga same for me
05:31 janimo       even during the day? 12-16utc) ?
05:31 Gloubiboulga except tuesday 13-17 UTC and friday before 15 UTC
05:32 janimo       Ok let;s have them on Wed 14 UTC
05:32 janimo       an hour after edubuntu
05:32 janimo       if we show up next time we can keep the same schedule from now on
05:32 nomed        ok
05:32 Gloubiboulga fine with me
05:32 ogra         janimo, talk to the a11y team
05:32 janimo       ogra: they have fixed schdule too?
05:33 ogra         they usually have theirs after ours, but no fixed schedule
05:33 janimo       hmm soon ubuntu-meeting wil need a scheduler
05:33 janimo       ogra, thanks for th eheadsup
05:33 ogra         Seveas is working on it ;)
=== cassidy [n=cassidy@f1-pc174.ulb.ac.be] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:34 janimo       ogra, do otrher teams have their fixed days?
=== soumyadip [n=soumyadi@59.93.199.109] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:34 Seveas       janimo, poke the fridge team with your schedule and Ubugtu will know it
05:34 Seveas       (ogra: no it's finished so I'm no longer working on it ;))
05:34 ogra         janimo, most have ...
05:34 janimo       Seveas,we thought we may have a somewhat fixed schedule
05:35 nomed        janimo, Gloubiboulga soumyadip is here
05:35 janimo       so we dont; forget poking each week :)
05:35 nomed        2. Localisation Issues <--
05:35 janimo       soumyadip: hi, we'll talk about scim in  a few minutes
05:35 ogra         Seveas, nah, thats only the first step ... calendaring isnt a full
                   scheduling solution yet ;)
05:35 Gloubiboulga hi soumyadip
=== srid [n=srid@unaffiliated/srid] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:35 soumyadip    hi janimo Gloubiboulga
=== G0SUB [n=ghoseb@ubuntu/member/g0sub] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== srid [n=srid@unaffiliated/srid] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Nirvana:]
05:37 janimo       lets' try nex Wed at 14 utc and if it conflicts we postpone it to Thu
05:37 janimo       soumyadip: let's talk about scim & co
=== No1Viking [n=Viking@h-83-140-104-3.ip.cust.port80.se] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:38 soumyadip    janimo, right
05:38 janimo       do you have a list of packages which we need in xubuntu so they provide out
                   of the box functionality for indic langs
05:38 janimo       the one you sent to th elist is that?
05:38 soumyadip    no that was for scim
05:38 soumyadip    IIRC
=== soumyadip checking
05:38 janimo       yes
05:38 janimo       what else is needed
05:39 janimo       I know next to 0 about this subject :(
=== lfittl [n=lfittl@83-65-244-94.dynamic.xdsl-line.inode.at] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
05:39 soumyadip    we also need the ttf-indic-fonts metapackage, that pulls in all the
                   individual font packages
05:39 soumyadip    we need to look into a couple of aspell packages
05:39 janimo       what is the status of ubuntu/kubuntu re this subject
05:40 janimo       is this the frentic work in progress at the l10n sprint ?
05:40 G0SUB        janimo: much more than that ...
05:40 soumyadip    janimo, nah, most of the packages are already in Ubuntu
05:40 soumyadip    janimo, we are currently trying to fix a rendering problem on OO2
05:40 janimo       GOSUB, I hope the sprint is much more than that not that we need much more
                   than the sprinters are working on
05:41 soumyadip    janimo, well we did solve a rendering issue with firefox
05:41 janimo       soumyadip: OO2 does not directly concern xubuntu
05:41 soumyadip    ah yes
05:41 janimo       soumyadip: so we need to pick the packages which gnome/ubuntu installs for
                   indic languiages and we;re fine?
05:41 soumyadip    janimo, you asked about the frenetic work :)
05:41 soumyadip    yup
05:41 janimo       soumyadip: ah, ok :)
05:42 soumyadip    janimo, apart form one small thing about the locales
05:42 janimo       translations for xfce apps?
05:42 janimo       I think we'll add language chooser
05:42 soumyadip    janimo, well translations are conducted by individual language teams
05:42 soumyadip    janimo, great
05:43 janimo       when xubuntu packages go to main, the plan is (was) to add them to
                   langpack-base
05:43 soumyadip    janimo, since the language teams work autonomously, not all languages are
                   translated completely
05:43 G0SUB        soumyadip: is XFCE in Rosetta yet?
05:43 soumyadip    G0SUB, no
05:43 janimo       since they are relatively small
05:43 soumyadip    janimo, ok
05:43 G0SUB        better get those in then
05:43 soumyadip    janimo, I started work on some translations
05:43 janimo       not in rosetta bc the policy is AIUI do not put stuff in rosetta if upstream
                   does not use rosetta
05:44 soumyadip    G0SUB, that is not for me to decide
05:44 janimo       and xfce is not using it
05:44 janimo       soumyadip: great, are you coordinating with xfce i18n
05:45 janimo       although if dapper got imported in rosetta may mean that we can use it for
                   packages indep of upstream
05:45 janimo       I am not sure
05:45 soumyadip    janimo, no, I'm currently translating .po files and sending them over to
                   Runa Bhattacharya, who is the contact for Bengali i18n
05:45 janimo       soumyadip: apps in general you mean not just xfce?
05:45 soumyadip    janimo, no XFCE specific
05:46 soumyadip    I started work on thunar
05:46 janimo       and Runa sends to xfce then?
05:46 soumyadip    janimo, correct
05:46 janimo       soumyadip: great
05:47 janimo       so input methods, fonts , aspell and language packs
                   well the bengali translation team is divided between India and Bangladesh,
05:47 soumyadip    so importing into rosetta would be beneficial for Bengali at least as people
                   from both countries could work collaboratively
05:47 janimo       of these only input methods is trickier than the latin locales right?
05:47 soumyadip    janimo, does XFCE concern itself with hunspell ? there are hunspell
                   dictionaries too
05:47 soumyadip    janimo, yup
05:48 soumyadip    janimo, all of them are covered by scim-tables-additional
05:48 janimo       soumyadip: they don;t have any app that uses a spell checker afaik
05:48 soumyadip    janimo,  ok
05:48 janimo       is abiword covered?
05:48 Seveas       ogra, true, but this channel is not nearly full enough to need a complete
                   scheduler
05:48 soumyadip    janimo, Indic rendering in Abiword is hopelessly broken
05:49 janimo       upstream problem?
05:49 soumyadip    janimo, yup
05:49 janimo       So I guess OO will be used even with xubuntu?
05:49 soumyadip    if the user so decides
05:49 janimo       well if rendering is broken and user wants indic rendering :)
05:49 soumyadip    exactly
05:50 janimo       OT: how is koffice in this regard
05:51 Riddell      janimo: which?
05:51 janimo       indic rendering
05:51 Riddell      same as all the rest of KDE
05:51 janimo       meaning ? :)
05:52 Riddell      I've not heard any complains apart from Kate, so I assume it works
05:52 soumyadip    janimo, well I personally haven'ty tested KDE at all
05:52 janimo       Riddell: why don;t you ship koffice instead of oo?
05:52 janimo       soumyadip: ok, I was just curios if oo had some advantages afetr all
05:52 janimo       anything else to discuss?
                   janimo: koffice lacks a number of features, kword isn't perfectly WYSIWYG,
05:53 Riddell      koffice 1.4.0 was quite unstable and their MS import filters are not as good
                   as openoffice (except kspread) and export filters are non-existant
05:53 janimo       so meeting next week Wed 14UTC
05:53 janimo       Seveas, can you put it on the fridge ^
05:53 janimo       thanks
05:53 Riddell      we do ship krita on the CD from koffice
05:54 janimo       Riddell: thanks
05:54 soumyadip    janimo, ok, I'll play around to see if there are any more issues
05:54 janimo       ok thanks everyone we meet next Wed
05:54 nomed        cu next Wed
05:54 nomed        janimo, one question ...
05:54 Gloubiboulga cu
05:55 G0SUB        Gloubiboulga: :)
05:55 janimo       nomed: sure
05:55 Gloubiboulga hey G0SUB :)
05:55 Seveas       janimo, I'm no fridge person, poke fridge-devel@lists.ubuntu.com
05:55 nomed        wouldn't it be possible to have an xubuntu cd using the pkge that are
                   already in main ?
05:55 janimo       Seveas: aha I thought you were
05:56 janimo       nomed: only gnome/lde are in main :)
05:56 janimo       that's why we dont; have a CD yet
05:56 nomed        and just for xubuntu team ?
05:56 nomed        ubuntu has already released 5 cds ..
05:57 nomed        i hope we'll not have too much issues on xubuntu cds :/
05:57 janimo       you mean a cd with packages in universe then?
05:57 nomed        yes
05:57 janimo       nomed, I hope so too
05:57 janimo       but I don;t want to start building and uploading CDs myself
05:58 janimo       since it needs bandwidth a lot of time
05:58 nomed        i undesrtand
05:58 janimo       and mostly skillz :)
05:58 janimo       which I am not sure is the best time for me to start learning now
05:58 janimo       especially since the CD;s should be done any day now (TM)
05:58 nomed        ok
05:58 janimo       but I'll ask Colin again
=== No1Viking [n=Viking@h-83-140-104-3.ip.cust.port80.se] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
06:00 nomed        so cu next Wed :)
06:00 nomed        ciao

</pre>
