{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Weekly SRU review.
* Review progress made on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap| Roadmap]]</nowiki>.
* Open Discussion.
* MIR for ubuntu-fortunes and default install? - nijaba
* Agree on next meeting date and time.

=== Minutes ===

===== FFE for bacula =====

ivoks reported that bacula 3.0.X was available from the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-bacula/+archive/ppa|ubuntu-bacula team PPA]]</nowiki>.

===== Asterisk =====

Daviey announced that the Asterisk stack in karmic had been updated to 1.6. Discussion is still going with the Debian maintainers about the dkms version of dhadi. Testing is welcome.

jmdault added that asterisk-addons needed a Feature Freeze Exception. A bunch of other packages (eg asterisk gui) will be made available from the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-voip/+archive/asterisk-1.6-testing|ubuntu-voip team PPA]]</nowiki>.

ACTION: Daviey to follow up with the Asterisk Debian maintainers about adopting dkms for dahdi

ACTION: Daviey to call for testing of Asterisk 1.6

===== SRU Weekly review =====

The different bug lists were reviewed during the meeting.

ACTION: mathiaz to produce a list of accepted bugs for packages related to the ubuntu-server team.

===== MIR for ubuntu-fortunes and default install =====

nijaba proposed to file a MIR and get the fortunes-ubuntu-server package installed by default.

ACTION: nijaba to write up a MIR and file a FFe for fortunes-ubuntu-server

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, September 8th at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:01] <mathiaz> #startmeeting
[16:01] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:01. The chair is mathiaz.
[16:01] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:01] <mathiaz> Today's agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:02] <mathiaz> last week's meeting minutes: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Server/20090825
[16:02] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] FFE for bacula
[16:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  FFE for bacula
[16:02] <mathiaz> so we decided we would not push bacula 3.0.X in karmic
[16:03] <mathiaz> but instead make it available in a ppa
[16:03] <ikonia> mathiaz: any reason ?
[16:03] <ikonia> (not agruing, curious)
[16:03] <mathiaz> ikonia: to late in the release cycle
[16:03] <mathiaz> https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-bacula/+archive/ppa
[16:04] <Daviey> mathiaz: will it be mentioned in the ubuntu-server-guide?
[16:04] <ikonia> mathiaz: is it not better to hold it back until next release/later rather than introduce another PPA from an end user point of view ?
[16:04] <mathiaz> ^^ seems that ivoks pushed the packages in a ppa
[16:04] <nijaba> o/ (sorry to be late)
[16:04] <ikonia> a lot is being pushed into PPA's at the moment (not just server teams stuff)
[16:05] <mathiaz> Daviey: I don't think so - there is no official support/maintainance for bacula 3.0.X in karmic
[16:05] <Daviey> ok
[16:05] <mathiaz> we're just making it available to interested users
[16:05] <Daviey> sounds wise.
[16:05] <ikonia> mathiaz: that's not how it normally works though, but that's a supportability discussion for another meeting
[16:06] <mathiaz> ikonia: the official bacula version in karmic will by 2.4
[16:06] <ikonia> mathiaz: that's great, I have no problem with that
[16:07] <mathiaz> allright - anything else to add on the topic (bacula 3.0.X)?
[16:07] <mathiaz> nope - let's move on
[16:08] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Asterisk
[16:08] <MootBot> New Topic:  Asterisk
[16:08] <mathiaz> what's the state of this?
[16:08] <mathiaz> Daviey: ^^
[16:08] <Daviey> mathiaz: jmdault's changes are pushed
[16:08] <mathiaz> Daviey: did you get a chance to follow this?
[16:08] <mathiaz> Daviey: have all the packages been updated?
[16:08] <Daviey> mathiaz: it's all resolved.. no hiccups
[16:08]  * ivoks o/
[16:08] <Daviey> mathiaz: yes.
[16:08] <mathiaz> Daviey: so Asterisk 1.6 is in karmic
[16:08] <Daviey> mathiaz: However, there was poor success with getting dahdi-dkms into debian :(
[16:09] <Daviey> mathiaz: yes
[16:09] <Daviey> mathiaz: so for karmic, we are carrying the dkms ourselves
[16:09] <mathiaz> Daviey: great - thanks for giving a short status.
[16:09] <mathiaz> Daviey: that's fine. As long as discussion is still going with Debian
[16:09] <mathiaz> Daviey: we may be able to convince in time for the next release.
[16:10] <Daviey> mathiaz: gone quiet.. but will keep the issue going.
[16:10] <mathiaz> anything else to add on the Asterisk front?
[16:10] <Daviey> (that is an ACTION :) )
[16:10] <mathiaz> [ACTION] Daviey to follow up with the Asterisk Debian maintainers about adopting dkms for dahdi
[16:10] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Daviey to follow up with the Asterisk Debian maintainers about adopting dkms for dahdi
[16:10] <Daviey> mathiaz: not really, some people have mentioned instability in the version that is there (debian unstable version).. so call for testing would be prudent.
[16:11] <mathiaz> Daviey: sure - a blog post can be helpfull
[16:11] <Daviey> yeah.. i have some pretty large sites with asterisk 1.4/1.6.. i could try them and see if they go bang :)
[16:12] <mathiaz> Daviey: we've moved to bug fixing mode in karmic - it doesn't mean it's rock solid yet
[16:12] <mathiaz> testing is the main focus now
[16:12] <Daviey> yep.
[16:12] <mathiaz> [ACTION] Daviey to call for testing of Asterisk 1.6
[16:12] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Daviey to call for testing of Asterisk 1.6
[16:13] <mathiaz> great - let's move on.
[16:13] <Daviey> great.
[16:13] <mathiaz> that's all I had from last week minutes
[16:13] <mathiaz> anything else to add?
[16:13] <ivoks> bacula?
[16:13] <ivoks> i was late :/
[16:13] <mathiaz> ivoks: pushed to the PPA
[16:13] <ivoks> right
[16:13] <ttx> ivoks: yes, you were :P
[16:14] <mathiaz> ivoks: which was the ACTION from last meeting
[16:14] <mathiaz> ivoks: anything else to add on this front?
[16:14] <ivoks> nope...
[16:15] <mathiaz> great - let's move on then
[16:15] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Weekly SRU review
[16:15] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly SRU review
[16:15] <ttx> yay
[16:15] <mathiaz> http://people.canonical.com/~mathiaz/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[16:15] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~mathiaz/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[16:15] <Daviey> \o/
[16:15] <mathiaz> last week fixed bug^^
[16:15] <mathiaz> anything worth considering for an SRU?
[16:16] <Daviey> jmdault: o/
[16:16] <jmdault> hello, sorry I'm late
[16:17] <mathiaz> does't seem anything worthy on this list
[16:17] <ttx> nothing worth nominating on my side
[16:17] <Daviey> none of them shout out as SRU worthy IMO.
[16:18] <mathiaz> let's move on to the next list:
[16:18] <mathiaz> http://us-dappernominated.notlong.com/
[16:18] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://us-dappernominated.notlong.com/
[16:19] <ttx> those were here last week, istr we said we'd accept them
[16:19] <mathiaz> ok - accepting them now
[16:20] <mathiaz> next: http://us-hardynominated.notlong.com/
[16:20] <mathiaz> doesn't seem SRU worthy to me
[16:20] <ttx> we discussed them last week and decided to decline them iirc
[16:20] <mathiaz> allright - declining them then
[16:21] <mathiaz> next: http://us-intrepidnominated.notlong.com/
[16:22] <mathiaz> ivoks: bug 282876?
[16:22] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 282876 in drbd8 "drbd doesn't start on boot" [Medium,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/282876
[16:22] <ivoks> let me look
[16:22] <ttx> Those were here last week as well... istr we decided to accept them
[16:22] <Daviey> bug 257682, was certainly there last week.
[16:22] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 257682 in bind9 "dig compiled without -DDIG_SIGCHASE!" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/257682
[16:23] <ivoks> mathiaz: this was fixed in jaunty
[16:23] <mathiaz> ivoks: right - should it tried to SRU in intrepid?
[16:23] <ivoks> mathiaz: i'll have to check, we didn't have problems with drbd starting on intrepid
[16:24] <mathiaz> ivoks: right - we'll accept it
[16:24] <ivoks> ok
[16:24] <mathiaz> ivoks: it doesn't mean we'll have to fix it intrepid
[16:24] <ivoks> sure
[16:25] <mathiaz> ivoks: the next step is to try to make sure it's reproducable on intrepid
[16:25] <mathiaz> ivoks: one of the outcome may be that it's SRU worthy afterall
[16:25] <mathiaz> so - seems like all the intrepid bugs should be accepted
[16:26] <mathiaz> let's move on to the last list: http://us-jauntynominated.notlong.com/
[16:28] <ttx> this one should be refused
[16:28] <ttx> if it's in Jaunty it's not the same bug
[16:28] <mathiaz> allright - that's all for the list of nominated bugs
[16:28] <mathiaz> the next step is to review the list of accepted bugs and check on the assigned ones
[16:28] <mathiaz> I haven't had time to compile such a list relevant to the ubuntu-server team
[16:29] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz to produce a list of accepted bugs for packages related to the ubuntu-server team.
[16:29] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to produce a list of accepted bugs for packages related to the ubuntu-server team.
[16:29] <mathiaz> anything else to say on the SRU weekly review?
[16:30] <mathiaz> ok - let's move to the next topic
[16:30] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] MIR for ubuntu-fortunes and default install
[16:30] <MootBot> New Topic:  MIR for ubuntu-fortunes and default install
[16:30] <mathiaz> nijaba: ^^?
[16:31] <nijaba> well, I was wondering if it was a good time to file a mir for our tips
[16:31] <Daviey> So, fortunes-ubuntu-server is no in karmic.. some slight reshuffling with the packages.. but it's there
[16:31] <nijaba> Daviey: how do you feel about this
[16:31] <Daviey> more tips would be good before being default install IMO
[16:31] <mathiaz> Daviey: what's the name of the package?
[16:31] <Daviey> but otherwise, i think it would be great.
[16:32] <Daviey> nijaba: fortunes-ubuntu-server
[16:32] <Daviey> nijaba: initially it was 2 packages, one for the fortunes and the other for the scripts
[16:32] <nijaba> Daviey: I don't think quantity is that important
[16:32] <Daviey> nijaba: repitition might make it rather pointless.
[16:33] <nijaba> Daviey: well, maybe, but I am not sure people will look at them every time they login anyway
[16:33] <mathiaz> what would be the end user experience on a default install?
[16:33] <Daviey> However, i'm expecting a few more uploads before karmic release.. so it might be a good idea to MIR it sooner rather than later, and still expet to update it's cookies.
[16:33] <nijaba> mathiaz: just a couple lines of tips added to the motd
[16:34] <nijaba> mathiaz: note that we remved quite a few line of legal blurb after first loging
[16:34] <kirkland> so we have some newly freed up space in the motd, since we only display the warranty once
[16:34] <Daviey> mathiaz: keeping in mind that the currentl plan is to hide the copyright notice once a user initially logs in.
[16:34] <kirkland> we've basically freed up 6-7 lines
[16:34] <kirkland> the tip would nicely fit in that space
[16:34] <mathiaz> so whenever someone logs in a default karmic server, they'd see the warranty message, then the landscape-sysinfo messages and then a fortune?
[16:34] <nijaba> nope, the prio would be 60
[16:35] <nijaba> mathiaz: so sysinfo would be last
[16:35] <kirkland> it might be just a little late in karmic to try and put this into the default server install
[16:35] <kirkland> mathiaz: only see the warranty on first login
[16:35] <mathiaz> kirkland: ok
[16:35] <kirkland> mathiaz: on *each user's* first login
[16:35] <mathiaz> Daviey: how fortunes are there?
[16:35] <Daviey> err, good question
[16:35] <Daviey> ~30
[16:35] <nijaba> kirkland: this is done, right?
[16:35] <kirkland> nijaba: well, updates-available and reboot-required would be last
[16:35] <nijaba> kirkland: right
[16:35] <mathiaz> kirkland: why would it be too late?
[16:36] <kirkland> nijaba: yes, warranty stuff is already in karmic
[16:36] <kirkland> mathiaz: well, it would require an FFE
[16:36] <Daviey> mathiaz: there are 32 committed, in the package
[16:36] <nijaba> kirkland: so it is just a package couple package to seed after the mir is done, right
[16:36] <kirkland> mathiaz: that's all i'm saying, really
[16:36] <Daviey> socertainly enough for 1 per day, each month :)
[16:36] <kirkland> nijaba: yes, it's not hard
[16:36] <kirkland> nijaba: MIR, add to the default ubuntu-server seed -- technically that's all
[16:37] <nijaba> kirkland: agreed
[16:37] <nijaba> kirkland: so do we have an agreement that it should be done?  if so I'll gladly file the MIR
[16:37] <Daviey> so, should we try and put it in the default seed?
[16:37] <kirkland> nijaba: i think so... here's why ...
[16:38] <kirkland> nijaba: 1) we've freed up some space in an 80x24 motd (with the warranty stuff only printed once)
[16:38] <kirkland> nijaba: 2) the performance/runtime impact is negligible
[16:38] <kirkland> nijaba: 3) it is a friendly, nice ubuntu-ish differentiator
[16:39] <Daviey> it's actually quite ground breaking stuff.. i can't think of any other enterprise server distro that offers helpful tips.
[16:39] <kirkland> nijaba: so, +1 vote from me... get the MIR + FFE written, approved, and seeded into the default ubuntu install
[16:39] <nijaba> ttx: do you agree?
[16:39] <Daviey> On the other side, if it is somewhat unpopular.. it's easy enough to pull in karmic+1.
[16:40] <kirkland> Daviey: it's easy enough to pull by beta
[16:40] <Daviey> kirkland: very true.
=== bjf is now known as bjf-afk
[16:40] <kirkland> Daviey: it would be nice to get it into alpha5/alpha6 and see if anyone craps themself
[16:40] <nijaba> kirkland: I do know how to file a MIR, but not an FFe
[16:40] <ttx> I'd go for karmic+1 with UDS discussion
[16:40] <Daviey> kirkland: +1
[16:41] <ttx> but if someone wants to file a FFe for it, why not
[16:41] <mathiaz> nijaba: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FreezeExceptionProcess
[16:42] <Daviey> Whilst on the server-tips discussion, it would be really nice to have some more tips from the server team :)
[16:42] <kirkland> Daviey: yeah, sorry, i've been meaning to throw some out there
[16:42] <Daviey> nijaba: did you get a chance to chase the short urls, froma few meetings ago?
[16:42] <kirkland> Daviey: can we braindump these on you, and you clean them up, commit them?
[16:43] <Daviey> kirkland: it's "hard" to think of useful ones, i know from myself.
[16:43] <Daviey> kirkland: raising a bug on LP, works quite well
[16:43] <nijaba> Daviey: I did, and I think we have an agreement that it would be nice, but no timeframe for im^plementation
[16:43] <Daviey> then, the description field can be edited.
[16:44] <Daviey> https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-server-tips
[16:45] <mathiaz> allright - anything else to add on this topic?
[16:45] <Daviey> no :)
[16:45] <nijaba> mathiaz: ok, so I'll fill a MIR and an FFe before next meeting
[16:45] <Daviey> nijaba: great!
[16:46] <mathiaz> [ACTION] nijaba to write up a MIR and and file a FFe for fortunes-ubuntu-server
[16:46] <MootBot> ACTION received:  nijaba to write up a MIR and and file a FFe for fortunes-ubuntu-server
[16:46] <mathiaz> let's move on
[16:47] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[16:47] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[16:47] <delphiexile> ok
[16:47] <delphiexile> what about the meeting today
[16:47] <mathiaz> jmdault: Daviey reported that the Asterisk had been updated to 1.6 in karmic
[16:47] <mathiaz> jmdault: thanks for driving this
[16:47] <Daviey> (and jmdault's changes are merged)
[16:47] <jmdault> mathiaz: yes
[16:47] <jmdault> dahdi and asterisk are fully merged
[16:48] <mathiaz> jmdault: cool - next step: call for testing
[16:48] <jmdault> I'll have to file a FFE for asterisk-addons though, but that's minor
[16:49] <mathiaz> jmdault: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FreezeExceptionProcess
[16:49] <jmdault> mathiaz: what's the best way to get attention?
[16:49] <mathiaz> jmdault: follow the process outlined above?
[16:49] <mathiaz> jmdault: is the package in universe or main?
[16:49] <Daviey> jmdault: I was planning on blogging it, which will be on planet.ubuntu.com
[16:49] <jmdault> Daviey: great
[16:49] <jmdault> mathiaz: in Universe
[16:49] <mathiaz> jmdault: ok - so ask ScottK about getting the exception
[16:49] <jmdault> ok
[16:50] <mathiaz> jmdault: he is handling server related packages for the motu-release team
[16:51] <mathiaz> anything else to add to the discussion?
[16:51] <jmdault> no
[16:52] <jmdault> Daviey: keep me in touch for the blog post
[16:52] <Daviey> jmdault: wilco, welcome to help me construct this :)
[16:52] <jmdault> of course
[16:53] <jmdault> mathiaz: oh, yes, I got another thing to add. I have a bunch of extra packages that will not make it into Karmic, but will be uploaded in the ubuntu voip ppa
[16:53] <mathiaz> jmdault: what kind of packages?
[16:53] <jmdault> like the asterisk gui, it's promising, but it needs work
[16:54] <Daviey> jmdault: so promising, that digium don'teven ship it on there distro anymore :)
[16:54] <jmdault> and I have extra sound files (spanish and french), but ideally, they should be in Debian as well
[16:55] <Daviey> great.
[16:56] <jmdault> Daviey: if there's no gui, I have to tell the receptionist to ssh into asterisk, and edit users.conf by hand.. ;-)
[16:56] <Daviey> :)
[16:56] <mathiaz> allright - anything else to add before we wrap up
[16:56] <mathiaz> ?
[16:56] <jmdault> nope
[16:56] <Daviey> not i
[16:56] <ivoks> nope
[16:56] <mathiaz> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:57] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[16:57] <mathiaz> next week, same time, same place?
[16:57] <Daviey> as always :)
[16:57] <jmdault> yup
[16:57] <ttx> ok
[16:57]  * alexm is sorry for being missing for a while
[16:58] <mathiaz> all right then.
[16:58] <mathiaz> see you all next week, same place, same time
[16:58] <alexm> ok
[16:58] <mathiaz> don't forget iso testing for alpha5
[16:58] <mathiaz> that is scheduled for this Thursday
[16:58] <mathiaz> iso candidates are already up and waiting for testing
[16:59] <mathiaz> http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/
[16:59] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/
[16:59] <mathiaz> thanks
[16:59] <mathiaz> #endmeeting
</pre>
