{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by AlanBell at 10:59:20 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-01-14-10.59.log.txt
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* welcome and introductions from the new IRC Council
** announcement of the chair of the IRCC  (AlanBell, 11:07:55)
** the empty seat  (AlanBell, 11:09:38)

* Welcoming #lubuntu
''LINK:'' http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2012/01/06/lubuntu-call-for-operators/   (AlanBell, 11:15:23)

* Review last meetings action items
** topyli to finally mail council about the operator recruitment process  (AlanBell, 11:35:09)
** topyli to ask if eir can be tweaked to ignore floodbots  (AlanBell, 11:37:52)

* Open items in the IRCC tracker

* Review Bugs related to the Ubuntu IRC Council
** bug 892501 Floodbots - need a re-write to be under ubuntu operator team control - ikonia  (AlanBell, 11:46:46)
''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/floodbot   (AlanBell, 11:48:21)
** bug 892500 eir is still not fit for purpose in #ubuntu -ikonia  (AlanBell, 11:51:32)
''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-bots?field.searchtext=[eir]   (AlanBell, 11:52:00)

''ACTION:'' ircc to move eir control channel to -ops-monitor if this will preserve existing ban timeouts  (AlanBell, 12:20:47)
** bug 912783 IRC votes and surveys go to the ubuntu members which excludes some operators - LJL  (AlanBell, 12:22:17)
** bug 884671 Ubuntu IRC operator recruitment is slow and ungainly - jussi  (AlanBell, 12:27:19)
** bug 913541 there are a number of people with Ubuntu IRC cloaks who have expired from the ubuntumembers group - AlanBell  (AlanBell, 12:43:40)
** bug 887544 No measurable data on ban resolving process in #ubuntu-ops - jussi  (AlanBell, 12:44:56)
** bug 916247 devel wiki on ubottu.com needs some attention - AlanBell  (AlanBell, 12:48:07)
** bug 788503 IRC Guidelines too #ubuntu centric - tsimpson  (AlanBell, 12:49:59)

* Definition of where official announcements from the IRCC will be made for those with a need for no discussion but announcements - jussi

* Any Other Business
''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/irclog2html/+bug/914553   (funkyHat, 12:57:42)

Meeting ended at 13:02:32 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* ircc to move eir control channel to -ops-monitor if this will preserve existing ban timeouts

=== People present (lines said) ===

* AlanBell (187)
* LjL (66)
* Pici (55)
* topyli (49)
* oCean (28)
* Myrtti (25)
* ikonia (24)
* funkyHat (23)
* ubottu (11)
* Unit193 (6)
* bkerensa (6)
* meetingology (4)
* ts2 (2)

=== Full Log ===

 10:59:20 <AlanBell> #startmeeting IRCC team meeting

 10:59:20 <meetingology> Meeting started Sat Jan 14 10:59:20 2012 UTC.  The chair is AlanBell. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 10:59:20 <meetingology> 

 10:59:20 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 10:59:31 <AlanBell> hi all, who is here for the meeting o/

 10:59:42 <funkyHat> Ã´/

 10:59:42 <Myrtti> o/

 10:59:43 <oCean> o/

 10:59:45 * Pici waves

 11:00:19 <bkerensa> 0/

 11:01:36 <AlanBell> Hello and welcome to the first team meeting of the new IRC Council

 11:01:47 <Pici> woo

 11:01:58 <AlanBell> I would like to start the meeting by thanking our predecessors for all that they have done over the past few years, and in particular thanking them for their assistance during the handover

 11:02:03 <Unit193> ]o

 11:02:16 <AlanBell> jussi, elky, topyli, tsimpson, nhandler thanks very much

 11:02:20 <LjL> :)

 11:02:27 <AlanBell> and special congratulations jussi on the new baby \o/ \o/

 11:02:35 <LjL> \o/

 11:02:39 <bkerensa> \o/

 11:02:46 <Pici> :)

 11:02:51 <AlanBell> #topic welcome and introductions from the new IRC Council

 11:03:54 <AlanBell> topyli will be along in a sec, but the new council is Pici topyli funkyHat and myself

 11:04:18 <AlanBell> Pici: funkyHat: want to say who you are?

 11:04:30 <Pici> I think you all know me by now.

 11:04:47 <Pici> Or at least, I hope so ;)

 11:04:52 <AlanBell> :)

 11:05:02 <AlanBell> I am the leader of the Ubuntu-UK loco team, and I do a bit for the Accessibility team

 11:05:35 <AlanBell> I am not an op in the core channels so I have been running about learning stuff over the last couple of weeks

 11:05:35 <Pici> Anyway, feel free to give me a pm at any time if you want to take about anything. I'm always available.

 11:05:50 <funkyHat> Hi, I'm Matt Wheeler. I've been an operator in #ubuntu-offtopic for quite a while now, and I'm also slowly working on my packaging skills with the intention of joining the MOTU team, but university is taking first priority at the moment

 11:06:04 <AlanBell> topyli: hi topyli, who are you?

 11:06:22 <ts2> aren't there supposed to be 5 members (and Hello!)

 11:06:30 <funkyHat> I'm pretty much always idling on here too, so feel free to pm me as well. I have nice hats â¡â¢)

 11:06:41 <LjL> ts2: i think not enough applied

 11:06:41 <AlanBell> ts2: yes, will get to that in a sec

 11:06:52 <ts2> ok

 11:06:58 <Myrtti> ts2: we couldn't enough blood from the fourth one to make them weak enough to apply

 11:07:02 <AlanBell> here is the agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/IrcCouncil/MeetingAgenda

 11:07:05 <Myrtti> s/fourth/fifth/

 11:07:08 <topyli> i'm juha siltala. i'm an op in #ubuntu-offtopic and a couple of loco channels (i think still) i used to be in the previous council

 11:07:55 <AlanBell> #subtopic announcement of the chair of the IRCC

 11:08:00 <Pici> Oh, I guess I should state my name for the record like everyone else.  Benjamin Rubin, op in lots of channels, was on the council before the last, etc.

 11:08:00 <topyli> i'm pretty easy to reach on irc, so go ahead and bother me :)

 11:08:16 <AlanBell> I lost the game of rock-paper-scissors and as a forfeit I ended up as chair of the IRCC

 11:08:23 <AlanBell> There is no particular reason why we have to have one chair throughout the term of this council, so we might shuffle things about at some stage

 11:08:26 <AlanBell> but right now I am happy to be the

 11:08:30 <AlanBell> chair

 11:08:44 <bkerensa> \o/

 11:08:50 <topyli> great!

 11:08:54 <AlanBell> !return | AlanBell

 11:08:54 <ubottu> AlanBell, please see my private message

 11:09:05 <oCean> haha

 11:09:07 <topyli> eh

 11:09:12 <topyli> heh even!

 11:09:23 <funkyHat> â¢) AlanChair

 11:09:38 <AlanBell> #subtopic the empty seat

 11:09:50 <AlanBell> As you may have gathered, the IRCC should be 5 people and we have 4.

 11:10:08 <AlanBell> We will leave the seat empty for the time being, our colleagues from the Community Council will be assisting us in the short term

 11:10:28 <AlanBell> we hope to hold an election to fill the remaining seat during the Q cycle.

 11:10:49 <AlanBell> That post would be set to expire at the same time as the current council so it would be a slightly shorter term than normal

 11:11:31 <AlanBell> any comments on that plan?

 11:11:34 <LjL> for the record, i don't see it as a very pressing matter

 11:12:04 <oCean> Agreed, I think the way AlanBell describes is just fine

 11:12:26 <topyli> theoretically it can lead to tricky votes though, but that's why we have a chairman

 11:13:16 <AlanBell> yeah, I am not really anticipating a deadlock on anything, but if we do I would certainly want the opinion of our CC advisors before using the casting vote

 11:13:29 <Pici> Agreed.

 11:13:34 <topyli> yes

 11:14:32 <AlanBell> ok, slight change to the agenda has been requested and I am bumping the #lubuntu item up to the top to allow people to get away

 11:14:40 <AlanBell> #topic Welcoming #lubuntu

 11:14:50 <bkerensa> :)

 11:14:51 <Pici> Hi #lubuntu!

 11:15:05 <AlanBell> we have put out the call for ops for the #lubuntu channel which is great

 11:15:17 <Myrtti> finally :-P

 11:15:23 <AlanBell> http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2012/01/06/lubuntu-call-for-operators/

 11:15:55 <topyli> i think the nomination period ends right about now, wo we should have ops soon

 11:16:03 <AlanBell> looks like 12 people found their way through the application process to hit the join button https://launchpad.net/~irc-lubuntu-ops/+members

 11:16:10 <Unit193> Oh, right. Hello

 11:16:35 <Myrtti> AlanBell: btw jussi is still listed as an admin of that?

 11:16:36 <AlanBell> after the meeting we will mail the IRC discussion list with the list of names and links to wiki pages and invite comments from the existing ops

 11:17:02 <AlanBell> Myrtti: refresh the page ;)

 11:17:11 <Myrtti> good good

 11:17:13 <Pici> Of course people are free to make commentary to the IRCC directly if they feel it more appropriate.

 11:17:20 <Myrtti> I had been wondering about that fr a week or so now

 11:17:40 <AlanBell> yes, please email us directly or pop into #ubuntu-irc-council

 11:18:55 <AlanBell> I think we should go through and make our decisions some point this week

 11:19:18 <Myrtti> I would like to make a request

 11:19:22 <Pici> Sure.

 11:20:17 <Myrtti> would the IRC council consider the possibility of allowing the applicants to see the comments others have left after the nominations, anonymised if needed, if they so request?

 11:20:53 <Myrtti> I'd personally benefit from hearing what others think I may need to improve on

 11:21:02 <bkerensa> +1

 11:21:04 * AlanBell ponders

 11:21:20 <Myrtti> I don't need a reply to that now, just tossed it out there

 11:21:41 <Unit193> That'd help, if I knew them at all they could PM me (best to do it when mi"M more awake)

 11:22:06 <topyli> if we decide to do so, we should mention this when requesting comments

 11:22:15 <LjL> topyli: yes

 11:22:19 <Pici> Constructive critisicm is good, I don't see any obvious downsides at the moment.

 11:22:24 <Pici> topyli: and that

 11:22:25 <AlanBell> ok, people are encouraged to leave comments and testimonials on wiki pages, or pass private comments to the council - which I think would not be expected to be passed on, however when we accept / decline people we can pass feedback to them

 11:22:47 <AlanBell> I think if someone is being declined we should explain why

 11:23:04 <Myrtti> the reason I'm asking this is that when I applied for -server ops I got nothing on the wiki page

 11:23:28 <Unit193> I'd even like to know what I can work on if I am accepted

 11:23:32 <Pici> Agreed. I think the decline comments have either been very vague or non-existant as of late.

 11:23:44 <AlanBell> Myrtti: you are still in the pending queue for server ops

 11:23:59 <Myrtti> AlanBell: possibly, I haven't checked

 11:24:04 <AlanBell> I have :)

 11:24:05 <Pici> Myrtti: We're aware that the current queues are something that we need to work.

 11:24:06 <topyli> we could tidy up the comments even to the point of just listing bullet points or something

 11:25:02 <AlanBell> ok, so this week we will be accepting a bunch of operators into the induction period

 11:25:04 <Myrtti> anyway, as an active ops on #ubuntu I'm used to getting negative, nonconstructive criticism all the time, but it's the constructive I've not had for years

 11:25:19 <topyli> heh

 11:25:35 <AlanBell> and we want to be a bit more organised about induction this time

 11:26:16 <AlanBell> we will be assigning mentors as we have done in the past, but we are also going to organise a number of training sessions in -classroom

 11:26:31 <AlanBell> stuff like how to set bans, extbans, IPV6 bans etc

 11:26:37 <AlanBell> how to mediate with problem users

 11:26:44 <LjL> good idea

 11:26:48 <AlanBell> how the bots work

 11:26:57 <oCean> +1

 11:27:10 <AlanBell> even bots not currently used in #lubuntu, when they have 1600 idlers they might well want floodbots

 11:27:12 <Myrtti> sounds like a good idea even for current ops

 11:27:21 <Myrtti> of other channels

 11:27:29 <Pici> Aye

 11:27:32 <AlanBell> yes, they would be open to all

 11:27:52 <topyli> lecturers are obviously most welcome :)

 11:28:26 <LjL> i'd like to nominate myself for that, will have a talk with you about it latert

 11:28:31 <Myrtti> call for lecturers in the mailing list?

 11:28:45 <Myrtti> or is this it :-P?

 11:28:51 <AlanBell> yeah, but we need to have a chat about the topics to cover in a bit more detail

 11:29:24 <Myrtti> I'll volunteer for Irssi basics if such is deemed as interesting to people

 11:29:32 <AlanBell> great

 11:29:50 <AlanBell> so yes we will do a call for instructors, perhaps with some specific topics we want to include

 11:30:13 <AlanBell> and some people might be voluntold

 11:30:23 <Pici> Hopefully not though ;)

 11:30:26 <Unit193> Yeah, that'd be interesetngi to attend as long as wit was  a good time (irssi one)

 11:30:40 <AlanBell> Pici: it is an akgranerism I just wanted to use ;)

 11:30:45 <Pici> AlanBell: ;)

 11:32:06 <Myrtti> perhaps a Google poll /similar would be good to have to get a feeling on what might be wanted in addition to the basics

 11:32:30 <LjL> why Google? we have Launchpad, and it provides such fines polls!

 11:32:33 <AlanBell> so in summary, please comment on the applicants to help us decide (and decide who needs which mentor), the new ops will be invited into -ops (where they will be advised to be slient in the short term) and -ops-team and have bantracker access

 11:32:57 <AlanBell> and we will be doing a structured training course

 11:33:16 <AlanBell> looking at dates, it seems the induction will basically run to the Precise launch date which is nice

 11:33:47 <AlanBell> any more to say on the topic of welcoming #lubuntu and the new ops?

 11:34:06 <funkyHat> I'll just say welcome as well â– â–Žâ¢)

 11:34:54 <AlanBell> ok, thanks Unit193, feel free to stick around or wander off o/

 11:35:02 <AlanBell> #topic Review last meetings action items

 11:35:09 <AlanBell> #progress topyli to finally mail council about the operator recruitment process

 11:35:15 <Unit193> Right, thanks AlanBell! I'll read the rest when I wake up

 11:35:31 <AlanBell> well we have been kind of discussing this one a bit

 11:35:56 <topyli> i haven't mailed the council, so this is not done

 11:36:31 <AlanBell> we have a bug for this topic, I would be quite happy to just have comments on that

 11:36:33 <Pici> We have been looking at metrics from the last few rounds of recruitment drives

 11:37:22 <AlanBell> I think we should park this action, and come back to it when we get to reviewing bug 884671 in a minute

 11:37:23 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 884671 in ubuntu-community "Ubuntu IRC operator recruitment is slow and ungainly" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/884671

 11:37:52 <AlanBell> #progress topyli to ask if eir can be tweaked to ignore floodbots

 11:37:59 <AlanBell> heh, you did this :)

 11:38:17 <topyli> done! yeah!

 11:38:28 <Myrtti> booyah

 11:38:40 <AlanBell> the response was unenthusiastic

 11:38:51 <Pici> Not surprising imo.

 11:38:55 <topyli> it was. but patches are welcome

 11:39:18 <AlanBell> I never understood this request tbh, eir dealing with floodbot bans is a good thing right?

 11:39:28 <AlanBell> just eir shouldn't ban the floodbots

 11:39:31 <LjL> AlanBell: eir actually nags the floodbots though

 11:39:42 <topyli> LjL: you also had a plan B of some sort, making the floodbots ignore eir :)

 11:39:55 <LjL> yeah. i just wonder one thing

 11:40:08 <LjL> is it actually helpful for eir to spell out each mute that the floodbots do?

 11:40:17 <LjL> i think it does, and found it quite annoying in -ops-team

 11:40:29 <funkyHat> Yes I was going to say, the other issue is how much eir is flooding -ops-team

 11:40:55 <AlanBell> ok, lets move on from this action which was done, and come back to eir/floodbots in a sec with the bugs

 11:41:06 <AlanBell> #topic Open items in the IRCC tracker

 11:41:30 <AlanBell> we have closed an action which was a duplicate of the lauchpad bug about eir

 11:41:40 <AlanBell> there was an old appeals process, did that get closed topyli?

 11:42:49 <topyli> it sort of did. the user is not convinced, but i don't think we can improve our decision to please them even more

 11:43:11 <AlanBell> ok, and their ban has been resolved anyway

 11:43:43 <topyli> it is, the user just sometimes still complains about it being there in the first place

 11:44:00 <topyli> but that's a different problem

 11:44:19 <AlanBell> ok, can we close it without the system sending them a mail to remind them about it?

 11:44:29 <topyli> yes, close it

 11:44:50 <topyli> we'll get to bantracker zero!d

 11:44:55 <AlanBell> last activity on that was in November

 11:45:14 <AlanBell> yup, then we have nothing in the private tracker at all

 11:45:54 <topyli> but now we have lots of launchpad bugs :)

 11:45:59 <AlanBell> yes

 11:46:13 <AlanBell> if anything comes back in the tracker we will mention it in a future meeting

 11:46:31 <AlanBell> but launchpad bugs are the way forward

 11:46:38 <AlanBell> #topic Review Bugs related to the Ubuntu IRC Council

 11:46:46 <AlanBell> #subtopic bug 892501 Floodbots - need a re-write to be under ubuntu operator team control - ikonia

 11:46:47 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 892501 in ubuntu-community "Floodbots - need a re-write to be under ubuntu operator team control" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/892501

 11:46:54 <AlanBell> Fix committed \o/

 11:47:10 <AlanBell> I am very pleased to announce that the floodbots will go through a managed process of being open sourced

 11:47:21 <topyli> there are beginnings of a project to get on with this

 11:47:27 <Pici> yay

 11:47:31 <oCean> nice

 11:47:42 <AlanBell> The first step happened this week when we worked with LJL to set up a launchpad project for them

 11:47:51 <AlanBell> Canonical have provided private code hosting and a small team will work with LJL to get the code ready for wider public scrutiny.

 11:48:01 <AlanBell> The first commit of the floodbot code was done on Tuesday

 11:48:21 <AlanBell> https://launchpad.net/floodbot

 11:48:47 <LjL> I'd like anyone who would like to work on the floodbots code to get in contact with the IRC Council or me.

 11:49:07 <AlanBell> yup, that would be great

 11:49:33 <AlanBell> I think we now have a good strategy for the future of the floodbots and I believe the concerns expressed in this bug are now resolved

 11:50:21 <topyli> i agree

 11:50:58 <AlanBell> any further high level comments about the floodbots? we can discuss details at a later meeting I think

 11:51:30 <AlanBell> ok, moving on

 11:51:32 <AlanBell> #subtopic bug 892500 eir is still not fit for purpose in #ubuntu -ikonia

 11:51:34 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 892500 in ubuntu-community "eir is still not fit for purpose in #ubuntu" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/892500

 11:52:00 <AlanBell> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-bots?field.searchtext=[eir]

 11:52:25 <AlanBell> I have been trying to understand eir a bit, and what it does, and what it should do

 11:53:21 <AlanBell> and I have been trying a few different experiments, figuring out how we can make the messages more useful by linking them to the bantracker etc

 11:53:32 <LjL> I'd much rather see ubottu managing these things than eir. If the FloodBots not being "under operator team control" was a problem, then I don't see how eir is any better in this.

 11:53:38 <AlanBell> also discovered that when it does a nagflood it maxes out at 10 messages

 11:53:44 <Pici> I personally think that its features should be folded into ubottu (either new bantracker or old).  The current implementation is a bit clunky and of course we don't have direct control.

 11:54:31 <oCean> I agree with LjL and Pici

 11:54:41 <AlanBell> I think now eir is configured reasonably well, and being used reasonably well, but still doesn't add a huge amount of value

 11:55:11 <AlanBell> it seems that the floodbots could be extended to tidy up their own bans or ubottu could be extended to do the good bits of what eir does

 11:56:22 <AlanBell> improving eir and contributing back enhancements to freenode is an appealing concept, but fewer bots seems like a less complicated architecture

 11:56:53 <Pici> I think thats something that most of us can agree with

 11:57:05 <oCean> Indeed, integrating both bots is never going to be easy, and probably needs effort on both bots

 11:57:37 <LjL> What is it exactly that ubottu and the floodbots don't do yet?

 11:57:49 <oCean> LjL: remind us of expired bans

 11:57:54 <funkyHat> Annoy the ops in -team ;D

 11:58:05 <LjL> Doesn't ubottu does that in PM though?

 11:58:23 <topyli> funkyHat: a noble cause! :)

 11:58:50 <oCean> right, on a per-op basis. The nagging in the team channel, so ops could see each others bans, is not a feature requested by ops but by the ircc originially i think

 11:59:20 <LjL> Well, I suppose nagging everyone has a purpose, but in my opinion it just means that everyone will ignore all the spam.

 11:59:28 <LjL> To me, doing it in PM seems much cleaner.

 11:59:47 <LjL> If an op wants to review someone else's bans, they can still do it through the bantracker.

 12:00:25 <oCean> I agree, and I still like to know whether we are responsible for each others bans or not, and to what extent

 12:01:31 <AlanBell> I think the policy is that people don't "own" bans as such

 12:01:55 <Pici> Agreed.

 12:02:06 <topyli> do the bans pile up less now though? that was the original purpose i think

 12:02:34 <oCean> topyli: yes, there's a nice trend http://status.nullcortex.com/other/other/ircbans.html

 12:02:45 <Pici> I think they've improvd that. ^^

 12:02:48 <topyli> i think there are less panic situations about full trackers

 12:03:02 <Pici> Definitely that as well.

 12:03:16 <LjL> topyli: ubottu was also changed to remind us of bans, though, as mentioned. How much is it eir and how much is it ubottu?

 12:03:30 <funkyHat> Would it be possible to have some bot give a list of bans periodically in -team, ideally with more than one ban per message?

 12:03:50 <funkyHat> So we would still get the reminders, but with significantly reduced annoyance?

 12:03:51 <topyli> LjL: that's true

 12:04:10 <LjL> funkyHat: To what purpose? You can get at the bans with a /mode b, and if you cram them into one message, there won't be space for any comments about them so what's the added value?

 12:04:38 <oCean> funkyHat, LjL : that's what I intended with my script, this overview hold more (useful i hope) information

 12:04:43 <LjL> yes

 12:04:55 <LjL> indeed, I was going to ask - what about *statistics* in #ubuntu-ops-team instead?

 12:05:02 <LjL> not the individual bans, but information about the status

 12:05:03 <funkyHat> LjL: I'm thinking of something similar to eir's current behaviour, where it nags about recent bans or bans that haven't been put on a quiet list

 12:05:21 <oCean> LjL: exactly, a per-op reminder and general stats in -team

 12:05:57 <LjL> funkyHat: I think we'd get the same complaints we have now about eir. Ops won't accept something that they feel has no added value to just peeking the banlist.

 12:06:00 <Pici> Much to the chagrin of the bot coders, I think we may need to play with a few implementations to see what works best.

 12:06:16 <AlanBell> agreed

 12:06:25 <AlanBell> bit of prototyping and experimenting

 12:07:02 <oCean> Really? Shouldn't we just start with requirements?

 12:07:13 <AlanBell> where is the fun in that?

 12:07:21 <topyli> hehe

 12:07:27 <LjL> I lean on the prototyping and experimenting

 12:07:41 <AlanBell> anyhow, please file requirements as bugs here: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-bots?field.searchtext=[eir]

 12:07:42 <oCean> really? isn't that what got us in this situation?

 12:07:53 <Pici> oCean: Of course. But we know that sometimes whats described in features doesn't always translte well to practice.

 12:07:53 <funkyHat> LjL: hm ok. I would find that less annoying than the current behaviour, but if it's going to still annoy others just as much then there's no point

 12:07:53 <oCean> a requirement as a bug?

 12:08:09 <AlanBell> oCean: yes

 12:08:16 <AlanBell> so they can be tracked and discussed

 12:08:19 <LjL> oCean: I don't think so. What got us in this situation was prototyping and experimenting that kind of failed, but which was still pushed.

 12:08:21 <funkyHat> Yes that's pretty standard practise for software development ;)

 12:08:31 <funkyHat> (requirements as bugs)

 12:08:41 <AlanBell> tag it [eir] for the time being even though it might not end up implemented in eir

 12:10:03 <AlanBell> ok, I think until the next meeting we should keep eir, whilst actively tinkering with other plans, make sense?

 12:10:36 <LjL> I'm not so sure. What about we tentatively remove eir and "advertize" ubottu's ability to remind of bans, and see if the banlist grows?

 12:11:09 <oCean> Yes, I'm all for removing it

 12:11:15 <AlanBell> dunno, what does everyone think? speak now . . .

 12:11:21 <funkyHat> I agree with LjL, we've had quite a long time of "testing" eir and people still aren't happy with it. Lets test not having it and see what goes wrong

 12:11:55 <topyli> afaik eir also has handy autoremove timeouts, which ubottu doesn't

 12:12:22 <AlanBell> ah, it also has a load of them in it's memory right now

 12:12:34 <Pici> I personally have been using those autoremove things, and I've noticed that a number of other ops do as well.

 12:12:56 <Pici> Despite the spam, I find that a worthwile feature.

 12:12:58 <LjL> Is it possible then to just remove some of the nagging from #ubuntu-ops-team?

 12:13:21 <AlanBell> we could maybe shut it up, or move the control channel?

 12:13:44 <LjL> #ubuntu-ops-monitor would be a more fit place in my opinion

 12:13:48 <LjL> It's a more "opt in" channel

 12:13:50 <Pici> LjL: me too

 12:14:00 <Pici> er, mine too

 12:14:10 <AlanBell> right now if someone set a %~30d eir will have it on the todo list to remove that, I wouldn't want to remove eir right now and have that not happen

 12:14:23 <LjL> That's a valid point.

 12:14:52 <oCean> AlanBell: there's bans set #~365d - we have to wait at least 1 year?

 12:15:09 <LjL> oCean: Well, no, it would "simply" require a transfer to ubottu

 12:15:19 <AlanBell> oCean: not too worried about # it is the % I want to happen

 12:15:56 <oCean> AlanBell: nvm the # or %, it's as LjL says, at one point we have to transfer it.

 12:16:15 <LjL> Well, oCean, we simply can't do it right now, ubottu doesn't have the code for *that* yet

 12:16:22 <oCean> I understand

 12:16:43 <oCean> Ok, best choice seems to be to leave eir in the channel then

 12:17:03 <AlanBell> ok, so should we find out if we can move the eir control channel to -ops-monitor and maybe turn down the nag frequency to 24 hours or something?

 12:17:09 <topyli> let's see if we can make it more quiet one way or another, but leave it

 12:17:22 * bkerensa must depart to bed (4:17am) gnight

 12:17:24 <LjL> AlanBell: I don't care how frequent it is as long as it's in #ubuntu-ops-monitor personally

 12:17:46 <Pici> LjL: Is there any problem with eir sending notices to -ops-monitor?

 12:17:59 <oCean> AlanBell: please note that the nag frequency is the same as the frequency that eir uses to actually remove

 12:18:15 <LjL> Pici: technical problems you mean? There shouldn't be, but if the floodbots act up, it should be easy to fix them

 12:18:29 <AlanBell> bots shouldn't react to notices (that is what they are for)

 12:18:34 <Pici> LjL: okay

 12:18:48 <LjL> AlanBell: Well, the floodbots do react to notices in #ubuntu, by banning the noticer :)

 12:18:55 <AlanBell> heh, OK

 12:18:57 <topyli> moving the nags seems like the best solution that would let people who want to see them still enjoy them

 12:19:05 <funkyHat> +1

 12:19:31 <AlanBell> ok, lets find out if we can do that without it forgetting its current todo list for #ubuntu

 12:19:32 <LjL> AlanBell: Unfortunately or whatever, there is a difference between what the RFC say and what people use notices for...

 12:20:27 <oCean> Can I ask if generating my overview every now and then is useful?

 12:20:47 <AlanBell> #action ircc to move eir control channel to -ops-monitor if this will preserve existing ban timeouts

 12:20:47 * meetingology ircc to move eir control channel to -ops-monitor if this will preserve existing ban timeouts

 12:20:52 <AlanBell> oCean: yes, it is

 12:21:00 <LjL> is

 12:21:15 <oCean> Ok, does it need some form of pw protection?

 12:21:24 <AlanBell> ok, lets move on to the next bug

 12:21:38 <LjL> oCean: i wouldn't think so, it's all info that can be obtained from /mode b, no?

 12:21:48 <oCean> LjL: no, not the expiry times

 12:21:57 <LjL> Ah, I see.

 12:22:00 <LjL> Maybe that does.

 12:22:15 <oCean> Ok, I'll look into that, let's continue

 12:22:17 <AlanBell> #subtopic bug 912783 IRC votes and surveys go to the ubuntu members which excludes some operators - LJL

 12:22:19 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 912783 in ubuntu-community "IRC votes and surveys go to the ubuntu members which excludes some operators" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/912783

 12:22:29 <AlanBell> we have discussed this internally and with the CC

 12:23:18 <AlanBell> there are two slightly separate questions here, voting and the survey

 12:23:22 <AlanBell> the irc Members group was set up specifically for voting and we want Ubuntu Members to have a say in the governance of Ubuntu

 12:23:43 <topyli> ultimately it's up to the CC who are included in the electorate, not us. but surveys are another thing

 12:24:06 <AlanBell> if you are an op in a core channel then that is a significant and sustained contribution to Ubuntu and you would be well placed to apply for membership through the IRCC or another membership body

 12:25:21 <AlanBell> the recent survey was deliberately sent to the IRC Members, but future surveys if we do them could be sent to all members, all ops, ops of specific channels or any other arbitary group that seems sensible at the time based on what we want to ask

 12:26:15 <LjL> Please consider the possibility of more actively encouraging ops to become members, then, and make it clear they don't have to feel embarrassed if their only contribution appears to be being an op.

 12:26:28 <AlanBell> yes, lets do that

 12:26:38 <Pici> aye aye

 12:26:50 <topyli> yes

 12:27:05 <AlanBell> ok, so we will add a comment to that effect to the bug and close it off I think

 12:27:14 <LjL> Ok.

 12:27:19 <AlanBell> #subtopic bug 884671 Ubuntu IRC operator recruitment is slow and ungainly - jussi

 12:27:20 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 884671 in ubuntu-community "Ubuntu IRC operator recruitment is slow and ungainly" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/884671

 12:27:55 <AlanBell> this is how the core ops team has grown over the last 2 years http://people.ubuntu.com/~alanbell/coreops.png

 12:28:02 <AlanBell> about 4 people per release cycle

 12:28:33 <topyli> we certainly don't want the process to discourage people from applying. where it does, we should of course fix it

 12:28:34 <AlanBell> we currently have 23 applications pending for core channels (which includes existing ops, and probably people we would decline)

 12:29:04 <AlanBell> I am thinking that we should use the #lubuntu induction as a model and move to a more release cycle based regular thing across all channels

 12:29:47 <AlanBell> so each release we would process the pending queues for all channels and then run an induction/training for the new intake all together

 12:29:48 <topyli> sometimes we just need ops and sometimes we don't, though

 12:30:05 <LjL> I was honestly thinking of a move in the opposite direction, i.e. going back (*additionally*, not as a substitute to the process!) to actively "pinging" people who the council finds fit, and making the process as smooth as possible for them.

 12:30:08 <AlanBell> so we might end up overstaffed in a few areas

 12:30:14 <AlanBell> how is that a bad thing?

 12:30:41 <LjL> I've been here for some time, and while of course things have changed and cannot be treated the same way as before, I guarantee that the old way of appointing ops had its share of advantages.

 12:31:35 <LjL> I certainly wouldn't make it a *more* process-driven thing than it is now.

 12:31:50 <topyli> AlanBell: well it would be a good problem to have if anything, i suppose .)

 12:31:54 <AlanBell> LjL: I can certainly see us encouraging some people to apply, I am just thinking of making it more regular and predictable and in line with the cadence of the release cycle

 12:32:14 <LjL> AlanBell: But why? If someone can be a good op *now*, and the Council knows that, why wait?

 12:32:39 <AlanBell> LjL: at the moment we keep people "like Myrtti in -server" hanging for so long in the queue that they forget they are there

 12:33:13 <AlanBell> LjL: so that we can do a more organised induction

 12:33:18 <LjL> AlanBell: Well, then maybe you aren't all so convinced they should be good ops, or something. I don't know - what's stopping you from accepting or declining?

 12:33:33 <Myrtti> the what huh?

 12:33:37 <ikonia> -server is crazy

 12:33:44 <ikonia> for some reason we won't put ops in it ???

 12:33:53 <ikonia> I've sat on the list for about 18 months now

 12:34:12 <funkyHat> I think I'm on the pending list for -server too, heh

 12:34:23 <oCean> I'm too, I think...

 12:34:34 <AlanBell> LjL: applications from existing ops we could probably process very fast and as they happen

 12:34:39 <Pici> I think we need to actively work the list, not wait for a new cycle.

 12:34:45 <LjL> Pici: +1

 12:34:50 <oCean> +1

 12:34:57 <ikonia> it would be helpful to decline people who are not fit quicker

 12:35:02 <ikonia> rather than making them go through the song and dance

 12:35:17 <ikonia> be a bit more common sense rather than ticking boxes

 12:35:31 <topyli> well, in principle nothing prevents us from giving ops to anyone we like as it. we just haven't done so

 12:35:33 <Pici> ikonia: I was just going to say something like that

 12:35:42 <topyli> as it is*

 12:35:51 <ikonia> topyli: -ops is a great example of that

 12:35:52 <LjL> topyli: Is there a particular reason then?

 12:36:31 <ikonia> I was told to go through the whole application process, update my wiki all that sort of stuff to get ops in -ops, and to be honest, it just seemed like a waste of time as at that moment, we where empty handed

 12:36:36 <ikonia> in the same way for server

 12:36:58 <ikonia> at the time I applied -server was getting hit with issues, but the processes was a total waste of time

 12:37:04 <topyli> i can't remember why we don't. i do know why the process ended up like it is, but i don't know how we stopped the "old way"

 12:37:04 <ikonia> rather than applying common sense

 12:37:33 <AlanBell> ok, I think we need common sense and a fast process for existing ops adding more channels

 12:37:41 <LjL> Seriously, "good" people will burn out before they have a chance of getting ops. It's happening.

 12:37:59 <ikonia> exactly

 12:38:09 <ikonia> you get fed up of trying to push it/get the issue resolved

 12:38:30 <LjL> And tight processes like this always end up scarying away "good" people who don't like to brag, and attract sillier people instead.

 12:38:32 <ikonia> but the opposite is also true,

 12:38:34 <ikonia> someone like bacta can apply for ops and be told to go through the proces

 12:38:36 <Pici> I say we work the queues every meeting and look at our procedures for adding existing ops on-the-fly

 12:38:38 <ikonia> rather than just saying "no, that's not going to happen"

 12:39:02 <funkyHat> Pici: +1

 12:39:13 <Pici> or before every meeting, or some other sane but regular cycle

 12:39:27 <ikonia> isn't there a team owning this ?

 12:39:28 <AlanBell> getting it regular is what I am aiming for

 12:39:35 <ikonia> eg: when someone applies, deal with the request

 12:39:58 <LjL> Pici: That's fine, but please please also don't sleep on people you spot in #ubuntu or anywhere who you think are good, and as AlanBell says, "voluntell" them.

 12:40:05 <AlanBell> "When the Ubuntu IRC Council notices the need to have more operators in a particular channel or channels, they will send an email to the ubuntu-irc mailing list."

 12:40:17 <AlanBell> that is the level of current regularity

 12:40:37 <Pici> Working the queues != asking for more ops

 12:40:46 <LjL> AlanBell: Getting it regular also risks meaning closing the door to some lovely irregularities. I hope you don't want that to happen.

 12:42:04 <funkyHat> I think whatever "policy" we have on the process we can still make common sense exceptions, like ikonia said

 12:42:18 <Pici> (We've been at this for nearly two hours now :/)

 12:42:19 <LjL> The fact you all have been chosen for this IRC Council position *does* mean you're trusted to know who deserves being dragged into being an op.

 12:42:20 <AlanBell> LjL: it is the epic long waits on the pending list I want to stop

 12:43:24 <AlanBell> ok, lets move on from this now, we can revisit at the next meeting and add comments to the bug in the mean time. We will be doing some recruitment in the very short term with #lubuntu

 12:43:33 <ikonia> just noticed my -server join request has expired

 12:43:40 <AlanBell> #subtopic bug 913541 there are a number of people with Ubuntu IRC cloaks who have expired from the ubuntumembers group - AlanBell

 12:43:42 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 913541 in ubuntu-community "there are a number of people with Ubuntu IRC cloaks who have expired from the ubuntumembers group" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/913541

 12:43:54 <LjL> We used to have a script to check that, does it still work?

 12:44:06 <AlanBell> about 19 people we need to clean up and nhandler detailed the process for us

 12:44:15 <AlanBell> LjL: yeah, works a treat

 12:44:43 <AlanBell> not much to discuss on this bug, we will be dealing with it and update on the situation next meeting

 12:44:56 <AlanBell> #subtopic bug 887544 No measurable data on ban resolving process in #ubuntu-ops - jussi

 12:44:58 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 887544 in ubuntu-community "No measurable data on ban resolving process in #ubuntu-ops" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/887544

 12:45:45 <Pici> Is this really an issue?

 12:45:45 <AlanBell> there has been a bit of debate on this bug, the concensus appears to be that it is hard to make any measurements and the value of them is a bit questionable

 12:46:18 <AlanBell> I am inclined to close it until someone comes up with something they want to measure and a plan of how to do so

 12:46:27 <topyli> no progress, but also no hurry. some interesting/useful data could probably be generated, but i'm not exactly sure what

 12:47:09 <LjL> There's no harm in keeping stuff open if the idea is still... open, I think

 12:47:18 <AlanBell> maybe we could set it to opinion or something to indicate it is on hold rather than closed

 12:47:30 <topyli> yes

 12:47:52 <Pici> [wishlist]?

 12:47:53 <AlanBell> great, moving on

 12:48:03 <AlanBell> Pici: makes sense

 12:48:07 <AlanBell> #subtopic bug 916247 devel wiki on ubottu.com needs some attention - AlanBell

 12:48:09 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 916247 in ubuntu-community "devel wiki on ubottu.com needs some attention" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/916247

 12:48:35 <AlanBell> we appear to have a somewhat spam filled mediawiki instance kicking about

 12:49:11 <Pici> I'd like to see this moved to wiki.u.c

 12:49:14 <AlanBell> I would propose we evacuate any decent content (technical stuff about the bots mostly) to wiki.ubuntu.com and shut down this wiki

 12:49:19 <funkyHat> +1

 12:49:50 <topyli> agreed

 12:49:54 <AlanBell> ok lets do that and update next meeting

 12:49:59 <AlanBell> #subtopic bug 788503 IRC Guidelines too #ubuntu centric - tsimpson

 12:50:00 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 788503 in ubuntu-community "IRC Guidelines too #ubuntu centric" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/788503

 12:50:06 <LjL> I would also out of courtesy discuss it with tsimpson...

 12:50:10 <Pici> +1, but I'd like to hear from ts2 and jussi as to why i

 12:50:14 <Pici> yes

 12:50:28 <AlanBell> agreed LjL

 12:50:59 <topyli> there is the guidelines draft and it's improved, but it still needs a bit of love

 12:51:22 <AlanBell> ok, don't think I have seen that, lets review it and try and close this one next meeting

 12:51:38 <Pici> sounds good to me

 12:51:55 <AlanBell> that is the end of our bug review \o/

 12:52:16 <AlanBell> future meetings will be shorter

 12:52:24 <AlanBell> #topic Definition of where official announcements from the IRCC will be made for those with a need for no discussion but announcements - jussi

 12:52:46 <AlanBell> this was added by jussi, not sure he is available right now

 12:53:11 <Pici> I don't see why this can't be done on the mailing list and perhaps in the topic of -ops and -irc

 12:53:14 <AlanBell> basically we will announce things in a meeting, and on the mailing list

 12:54:05 <Myrtti> not -ops-team?

 12:54:21 <AlanBell> I think we should leave this item on the agenda for the next meeting when maybe jussi is available, there is some more text on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/IrcCouncil/IRCteamproposal

 12:54:26 <Myrtti> there's people in there that aren't idling on -ops

 12:54:28 <Pici> Myrtti: thats good too

 12:54:29 <AlanBell> Myrtti: yes, that too

 12:54:49 <Myrtti> and vice versa, so all three would probably be good

 12:55:11 <topyli> they should also end up in the team reports, for future generations to cherish

 12:55:17 <AlanBell> yeah, I think he was encouraging us to set up a blog/twitter thing, which I am not overly keen on

 12:55:43 <AlanBell> IRC seems the natural medium for the IRCC to make announcements on

 12:56:19 <topyli> we do blog about stuff and it ends up on planet

 12:56:27 <AlanBell> yup

 12:56:32 <ikonia> "just banned a user, lol"

 12:56:34 <ikonia> twitter.....really ?

 12:56:42 <LjL> topyli: Maybe you could just agree to tag stuff relevant to the IRC Council with a standard tag?

 12:57:02 <topyli> we could. i've been ucing 'ircc' myself

 12:57:19 * Pici is running low on laptop (and huamn) energy.

 12:57:26 <AlanBell> lets park this idea to the next meeting, suggestions and comments welcome in the mean time

 12:57:28 <topyli> ikonia: :)

 12:57:29 <AlanBell> #topic Any Other Business

 12:57:33 <funkyHat> I have a quick one, dax pointed out that external links on irclogs.ubuntu.com should have rel="nofollow". I submitted a fix to irclog2html, which has been accepted, we could easily patch our local copy pending a new release

 12:57:42 <funkyHat> https://bugs.launchpad.net/irclog2html/+bug/914553

 12:57:43 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 914553 in irclog2html "URL replacement should set rel="nofollow"" [Wishlist,Fix committed]

 12:57:53 <AlanBell> good one, yes

 12:57:55 <funkyHat> I also wrote a one-liner to fix the existing logs

 12:58:05 <funkyHat> Who has access to the server to apply that?

 12:58:39 <AlanBell> um, an rt request perhaps?

 12:58:53 <Pici> We'd need to get this implemented with rt, wich probably isn't going to be too keen on not using a repo provided update

 12:59:06 <Pici> although it doesn't hurt to try

 12:59:18 <AlanBell> ok, lets add that one to our todo list to update for the next meeting

 12:59:22 <LjL> Last meeting (or the one before the last) I mentioned whether it would be a good idea for a bot to tell banned users about their ban and relevant stuff (like how to appeal and how NOT to appeal), I don't suppose it has been considered further?

 12:59:55 <AlanBell> LjL: don't think it has been considered further, but we can add it to the next meeting

 12:59:56 <ikonia> certainly a good idea to point them to -ops

 13:00:06 <ikonia> don't think throwing stuff like !appeals at each ban is wise

 13:00:11 <topyli> LjL: it hasn't, but i like the idea

 13:00:23 <LjL> ikonia: i was thinking of a custom and well-thought message.

 13:00:51 <LjL> which would mainly point them to -ops and tell them how to behave there.

 13:00:55 <ikonia> LjL: pretty worth while

 13:01:40 <LjL> (technically, the floodbots could do it easily)

 13:01:50 <AlanBell> I like that idea, will add it as a feature bug in the cloud of eir related requirements

 13:01:57 <Pici> uh oh, laptop is beeping at me now.

 13:02:06 <AlanBell> ok, any more items?

 13:02:14 <AlanBell> 3

 13:02:18 <AlanBell> 2

 13:02:23 <AlanBell> 1

 13:02:26 <LjL> WAIT

 13:02:27 <Pici> Nothing from me, but will review the minutes after I wake up further later ;

 13:02:28 <LjL> no, nothing

 13:02:30 <Pici> )

 13:02:32 <AlanBell> #endmeeting
