{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

   03:34 janimo       hi all
   03:35 Gloubiboulga hey janimo :)
   03:35 janimo       no agenda for today :)
   === MidMark [n=MidMark@host-84-221-196-191.cust-adsl.tiscali.it] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   03:35 Gloubiboulga nop
   03:36 Gloubiboulga I've pinged nomed on #xubuntu
   03:36 janimo       ok I'll just shortly describe what I am working on now and if anyone has quetsions go ahead
   03:37 janimo       so uploaded Gloubiboulga's goffice patch, is needed for both gnumeric and abiword to install without gnome deps
   03:37 janimo       am updating the packages one by one towards xfce 4.4beta2
   03:37 janimo       and closing lp bugs which have fixes upstream
   03:38 janimo       will need to get the final artwork and doc packages in this week.
   03:39 janimo       still need to look at the cdbs packages we want to have -gtk binaries biult from
   === nomed [n=nomed@host124-124.pool872.interbusiness.it] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:39 nomed        hi all
   03:39 janimo       hi nomed
   03:39 Gloubiboulga hi there nomed
   03:40 Gloubiboulga I'll attach a new gnumeric patch on the LP bug in a few minutes
   03:41 Gloubiboulga I've had some feedback from french users on the ubuntu-fr forum
   03:41 Gloubiboulga most of them would like to see volumes mounted in /media on the desktop
   03:42 Gloubiboulga windows partitions for example
   03:42 janimo       yeah I had that feedback too
   03:42 Gloubiboulga is it something planned upstream?
   03:42 janimo       does gnome/nautilus do that?
   03:42 nomed        i told it :P
   03:42 janimo       nomed, form someone else too :)
   03:42 nomed        janimo, yep
   03:42 Gloubiboulga janimo, I think nautilus does this
   03:42 janimo       Gloubiboulga: upstream has no plans usually ;)
   03:42 Gloubiboulga hehe
   03:43 janimo       but not for 4.4 I think
   === spikeb [n=spikeb@207-118-209-65.dyn.centurytel.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:43 nomed        janimo, i mean that xfdesktop sould read fstab and proc/mounts even ..
   03:43 janimo       and only those in /media or anything in fstab?
   03:43 nomed        not just removable hal devices
   03:43 janimo       nomed, it's a thunar issue rather xfdesktop
   03:43 janimo       as the latter uses thunar vfs for this
   03:43 nomed        true
   03:44 janimo       so if thunar had those in it's shortcuts...
   03:44 janimo       maybe file a requesns against thunar in xfce bugzilla?
   03:44 janimo       not sure if this was discussed or not before
   === Sergi0 [n=serge@ip227-28-166-62.adsl.versatel.nl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:44 nomed        janimo, i guess it's too late :(
   03:44 janimo       especially on the liveCD it would be nice to show the mounatble partitions
   03:45 janimo       nomed, we should not underestimate benny's speed ;)
   03:45 nomed        benny will not implement it on the stable release i'm afraid
   03:45 nomed        we can try ..
   03:45 janimo       I am not sure how complicated it is though
   03:45 janimo       anyway it can be a request and implemented for etch or thunar 1.0 or whatever
   03:45 nomed        it may introduce complexity and bugs on a stable code
   03:46 Mithrandir   janimo: https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/casper/+bug/16356 is the bug for the live cd, fwiw.
   03:46 janimo       true
   03:46 Ubugtu       Malone bug 16356 in casper "LiveCD does not mount hard disk partitions (yet)" [Wishlist,Unconfirmed]
   03:46 janimo       Mithrandir: oh, but otherwise it is planned to have them all mounted?
   03:46 janimo       autmatically?
   03:47 nomed        Mithrandir, the problem is that xfce doesn't show those partitions even on installed system :(
   03:47 nomed        and even if mounted
   03:47 janimo       xfce is evil
   03:47 Mithrandir   janimo: possibly.  I'm not too sure I want to mount, say, ext3 since the machine might be suspended in which case we end up with data loss
   03:48 janimo       nomed: thunar already parses fstab in case hal-pmount does not work, or to double check something I forgot so the code is there
   03:48 janimo       but there may be UI and other issues, rather that code complexity
   03:48 nomed        janimo, in this case could be a little step
   03:49 nomed        strange benny didn't add it yet
   03:50 janimo       ok anything else?
   03:50 janimo       nomed so regarding the new theme, you talk to jmak and when you both agree I upload ok?
   03:50 nomed        ok
   03:50 janimo       and I say stick to clearlooks instead of ubuntulooks
   03:50 nomed        janimo, why ?
   03:50 janimo       someone mentioned in the art list the latter uses cairo
   03:51 janimo       that's a good enoug reason if true
   03:51 janimo       enough
   03:51 nomed        janimo, and clearlooks ?
   03:51 spikeb       clearlooks uses cairo as well
   03:51 nomed        yep
   03:51 janimo       ok, than he was not well informed
   03:51 nomed        and it fast anyway it seems ..
   03:51 janimo       and me neither apparently
   03:51 nomed        it's even
   03:52 janimo       but I don;t like the blue contour around selected items in jmak;s latest proposal
   03:52 janimo       it is disturbing at first at least
   03:52 janimo       I added ubuntuloooks to xubuntu-desktop anyway
   03:53 janimo       but I'd like we stuck with a default look already :)
   03:53 nomed        janimo, what is that blue contour ?
   03:53 nomed        i don't see it :/
   03:53 janimo       jmak, sent me a gtkrc
   03:53 spikeb       it'd be most logical to use ubuntulooks as the default - least amount of work
   03:53 janimo       I droped in in .usr/share./themes
   03:54 janimo       and highlighted items have a blue glow ariund them
   03:54 nomed        spikeb, agree
   03:54 nomed        janimo, i agree here too
   03:54 janimo       spikeb: is using clearlooks more work?
   03:54 nomed        that's what i told to jmak
   03:54 nomed        and what i'd like to correct
   03:54 nomed        and even to use a ligther blue for selected items
   03:54 janimo       and the scrollbars also have some sci-fi blueish effects too
   03:54 spikeb       janimo: i meant as opposed to making something else - not clearlooks vs ubuntulooks
   03:55 nomed        the text is black and that blue is too dark
   03:55 nomed        spikeb, that's sure :)
   03:55 janimo       spikeb: right, we now just talk of whetherit's wort chosing ubuntulooks over clearlooks which is the default now
   03:55 nomed        we'll not code a new engine .. i guess
   03:55 spikeb       ahh ok
   03:55 nomed        even if i think it could be needed a notification-daemon theme
   03:55 janimo       I very much like current theme
   03:56 janimo       although I very much like anything I start using for more than a few days
   03:56 nomed        janimo, that is ?
   03:56 nomed        default clearlooks ?
   03:56 janimo       clearlooks, yes
   03:56 nomed        janimo, my idea was to have same theme
   03:56 nomed        clearlooks
   03:56 nomed        meaning .. same colors
   03:56 janimo       right, + gtkrc settings
   03:56 nomed        but using ubuntulooks
   03:56 janimo       what is the difference?
   03:56 nomed        ubuntulooks is ubuntu engine
   03:57 janimo       right, but from a user POV?
   03:57 nomed        well .. i guess they considered some usability and accessibility stuff ..
   03:57 janimo       we may need some more info on the reason for ubuntulooks, and the diffs between them
   03:57 janimo       it's package deskkription is the same as clearlooks'
   03:58 janimo       we don't aim to be as polished as ubuntu, since we don;t have as many resources now
   03:58 nomed        janimo, ex .. i like very much the ubuntulooks scrollbar ..
   03:58 janimo       so I'd prefer spending time on uploading bugfixes :)
   03:58 nomed        it's really much better then the clearlooks one
   03:59 janimo       ok, I'll try ubuntulooks myslef
   03:59 nomed        janimo, if you selected jmak theme you're already using it
   === bimberi [n=bimberi@ubuntu/member/pdpc.active.bimberi] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:59 spikeb       polish should come later - making it work should come first :)
   03:59 janimo       so you and jmak, post a gtkrc theme to the list when ready (not to me personally)
   03:59 nomed        janimo, yep
   03:59 janimo       and tell poeple where to put it and how to try it out
   03:59 janimo       then after some informal poll we see
   04:00 janimo       I dont' want to keep uploading artwork which changes a bit every couple days :)
   04:00 janimo       it takes too much time
   04:00 nomed        janimo, my idea was to sync it with tango and icon naming utils update
   04:00 janimo       agreed
   04:00 nomed        as the patch has been sent ..
   04:00 nomed        and it should be integrated soon
   04:00 janimo       ok, than we just wait till taht arrives
   04:01 janimo       as for the tangerine extras discussion, again whatever you/dholbach/art list decides
   04:01 janimo       as long as it's a common decision which affects ubuntu too I am fine with it
   04:01 nomed        janimo, this is an endles loop :)
   04:01 janimo       I just don;t want to package a new theme just for us
   04:02 ogra         nomed, dont worry it will go on over the releases ;)
   04:02 nomed        dholbach, waits you and Gloubiboulga + artists suggestion ..
   04:02 janimo       tango is just fine, and if you have the fix for the settings manager even better
   04:02 nomed        i wait dholbach ..
   04:02 nomed        and so on ..
   04:02 dholbach     janimo: i'd be happy to hear something on the ubuntu-art list
   04:02 nomed        ogra, hehe i hope :)
   04:02 janimo       dholbach: hear what?from me? :)
   04:03 janimo       I am not sure what else needs imporving as I am pretty happy with current xubuntu icon/artwork
   04:03 janimo       and unhappy about some bugs I'd like to fix ;)
   04:03 dholbach     ok
   04:03 dholbach     same here
   04:03 dholbach     oh well
   04:03 dholbach     i'll talk with andreasn about it
   04:03 janimo       dholbach: so if tangerine/tango is common to ubuntu/xubuntu I go with whatever ubuntu decides
   04:03 spikeb       i dont know how much my input matters, but i'm rather happy with what i see so far regarding the look
   04:03 nomed        janimo, xubuntu artwork is not "homogeneus"
   04:04 dholbach     it's just that i don't want to make decisions on something i don't have an overview over and do unnecessary work, if I can evade it
   04:04 janimo       nomed: right, so we need some more polish but only if it does not take up resources from more important work
   04:04 dholbach     that's why I asked ubuntu-art
   04:04 dholbach     i'm pretty packed with work as it is
   04:04 janimo       that's why I am happy to let you and jmak decide and ping me with final stuff
   04:04 janimo       after the input from xubu users is ok
   === licio [n=licio@ubuntu/member/licio] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:04 nomed        i think if it was possible to install from Tangerine/*/apps
   04:05 nomed        to Tango/*/apps
   04:05 nomed        that would solve everything ..
   04:05 dholbach     if somebody does a list and says: "we're ok with the change, please do it", I can do that
   04:06 spikeb       sounds to me like everyone wants an art freeze
   04:06 nomed        dholbach, a list of "tango-icon-theme-apps.install" ?
   04:06 dholbach     nomed: things that need moving from tangerine to some more common package
   04:06 nomed        dholbach, ok
   04:06 nomed        it should be not that difficult
   04:06 dholbach     I'm out for a walk (and some deserved icecream :-) ). Follow up on the mail or ping me privately.
   04:06 janimo       nomed: thanks
   04:06 dholbach     nomed: thanks
   04:06 nomed        whatever is in Tangerine but not in tango
   04:06 nomed        i'll do that
   04:07 dholbach     cool
   04:07 janimo       nomed, so we keep using tango ok?
   04:07 janimo       + these extras you will list
   04:07 dholbach     nomed: if you can follow up on the list with that, I'd be grateful, as it will need discussion
   04:07 nomed        janimo, this was decided no ? :)
   04:07 janimo       I never know when it comes to icon themes :)
   04:07 nomed        dholbach, it seems ppl are not really interested on it
   04:07 nomed        but yes
   04:07 nomed        i'll try to do that with lapo and andreas
   04:07 dholbach     nomed: thanks.
   04:08 dholbach     rock
   04:08 dholbach     see you guys later!
   04:08 janimo       dholbach: by
   04:08 janimo       e
   04:08 janimo       ok anything else to discuss?
   04:08 nomed        well ..
   04:08 nomed        ogra, maybe you can help me here
   04:08 ogra         ?
   04:08 nomed        i'd like to add some spec for edgy ..
   04:08 nomed        xubuntu stuff
   04:09 nomed        as it's full of spec we can't implement for dapper but we wouldn't forget for edgy
   04:09 nomed        i tried to figure out in LP how to do that ..
   04:09 nomed        but it's not really clear
   04:09 nomed        should i just write a wiki page ..
   04:09 nomed        and care of it later ?
   04:10 Gloubiboulga (if there's no more discussion for dapper I'm off for a moment...)
   === doc__ [n=doc@CPE-72-128-84-225.wi.res.rr.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === j_ack [n=nico@p508D89BE.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === doc__ [n=doc@CPE-72-128-84-225.wi.res.rr.com] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   04:14 nomed        ok need to go now cu later
   === nomed [n=nomed@host124-124.pool872.interbusiness.it] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["/etc/init.d/nomed]
   04:14 janimo       by
   04:14 janimo       end of meeting I guess
   04:15 janimo       have a nice day all

</pre>
