{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** Previous meeting (July 1st) actions:
*** None
  
* U Development
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

Submission deadline for ODS abstracts is this coming Monday.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, June 29th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:04] <hallyn_> #startmeeting
[16:04] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jul 22 16:04:15 2014 UTC.  The chair is hallyn_. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:04] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
[16:04] <kickinz1> o/
[16:04] <hallyn_> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:04] <hallyn_> none afaics
[16:04] <hallyn_> #topic U development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: U development
[16:04] <hallyn_> smoser, jamespage: ^
[16:04] <matsubara> o/
[16:04] <beisner> o/
[16:04] <jamespage> o/
[16:04] <gaughen> hallyn_, I'm actually here. thank you for running it though
[16:05] <hallyn_> thought you were suppoed to be out wildernessing or something
[16:05] <hallyn_> anything to be said on U development
[16:06] <hallyn_> (there used to be links to release critical bugs in the agenda...)
[16:06] <hallyn_> ok, moving on
[16:06] <hallyn_> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:06] <hallyn_> no caribou here, so moving on
[16:06] <hallyn_> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (psivaa)
[16:06] <hallyn_> hey psivaa
[16:07] <psivaa> hallyn_: hey
[16:07] <psivaa> hallyn_: not much to update :)
[16:07] <hallyn_> psivaa: ok, so regarding the utah problems with machine reboot;  unless you've solved it,
[16:08] <psivaa> hallyn_: it's not 100% solved. but things are much better without us changing anything
[16:08] <hallyn_> oh, well that's good :)
[16:08] <psivaa> yea, thanks a lot for your inputs
[16:08] <hallyn_> np - moving on then,
[16:08] <hallyn_> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
[16:09] <hallyn_> sforshee: i need to get aroudn to testing your fuse-in-userns kernel (it's built in a ppa)...
[16:09] <hallyn_> adding that to my list right now..
[16:09] <sforshee> hallyn_: well I'm working on changes from upstream feedback anyhow
[16:10] <hallyn_> yeah, but i want to see how it performs inside a container :)
[16:10] <hallyn_> so i can tell smoser how cool it really is
[16:10] <hallyn_> hm, smb is not here
[16:10] <hallyn_> sforshee: anything to say in smb's place about general kernel status wrt server?
[16:11] <sforshee> no, I can't think of anything
[16:11] <hallyn_> cool - keep rockin' on then :)  moving on,
[16:11] <hallyn_> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:11] <hallyn_> anything coming up in the next month?
[16:11] <hallyn_> lxc sprint is in a little *over* a month...
[16:12] <hallyn_> doesn't jamespage always know of some upcoming event?
[16:12] <hallyn_> moving on,
[16:12] <hallyn_> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Open Discussion
[16:12] <jamespage> nothing springs to mind - the submissions deadline for ods is mondau
[16:13] <hallyn_> jamespage: next monday?  we should prolly talk about what we've got on wed then
[16:13]  * hallyn_ hopes someone adds that to that agenda
[16:13]  * hallyn_ waits another half-minute for any open discussion to break out
[16:14] <hallyn_> ok, moving on,
[16:14] <hallyn_> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
[16:14] <hallyn_> that'll be Tuesday July 29, 16:00 UTC, with either gaughen or rbasak chairing
[16:14] <gaughen> hallyn_, well next Tuesday I really am out
[16:15] <hallyn_> rbasak it is then :)
[16:15] <gaughen> so I'll have to move myself on the schedule
[16:15] <hallyn_> i'll move yo uto the next week
[16:15] <gaughen> because I'll be unavailable the next time too
[16:15] <hallyn_> ok :)
[16:15] <gaughen> I'm a trouble maker!!!!
[16:15] <hallyn_> all right - have a good day everyone
[16:15] <hallyn_> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[16:15] <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Jul 22 16:15:38 2014 UTC.
[16:15] <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-07-22-16.04.moin.txt
</pre>
