{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

TZ UTC+6
<pre>
05:05	mdz	ok, we're already behind, let's get started
05:06	cjwatson	BenC and rtg are still travelling so are excused
05:06	mdz	cjwatson: they're both still traveling
05:06	cjwatson	I'd forgotten that extended to today
05:06	mdz	(Riddell) Are the changes needed for abbatoir's oem installer going to get in? If not should we try for a basic qt 4 port?
05:06	cjwatson	I've been working on that today
05:06	Riddell	question to cjwatson
05:06	Riddell	ooh?
05:07	cjwatson	should be done RSN; I'd like that to get in
05:07	mdz	what is abbatoir's oem installer?
05:07	Riddell	ok, excellent, we'll wait for that then
05:07	cjwatson	oem doesn't see much testing until beta anyway, realistically
05:07	cjwatson	mdz: it's a rework of the oem-config kde ui
05:08	mdz	Riddell: is that all?
05:08	Riddell	yes thanks
05:08	mdz	(iwj) Is anyone doing regular rebuild testing ? autopkgtest could do this quite easily - atm I've explicitly disabled that by telling it to test the binaries from the archive rather than doing a build. Should I turn this on ? If I do it's not likely to go through the alphabet very fast but it will give us a chance to argue about what to do with the notifications.
05:09	mdz	iwj: this is supposed to be provided by Canonical IS on a periodic basis; there's a rough outline of a process in the wiki
05:09	iwj	There's also the question of whether we want to test the binaries actually in the archive, or ones built specially.
05:09	pitti	would it be possible to do it the other way round?
05:09	mdz	iwj: they set up a katie/wanna-build instance and use that
=== mvo does semi-automatic install tests
05:09	pitti	i. e. add autopkgtest to our already existing rebuild tests
05:09	pitti	?
05:09	mdz	potentially, yes
05:09	iwj	mdz: https://wiki.canonical.com/RebuildTestProcess ?
05:09	tfheen_	there has been some recent trouble with the last couple rounds of rebuild testing, and it should ideally happen in a fairly tight timeframe.
05:09	iwj	Sounds a bit ad-hoc.
05:10	mdz	iwj: cf. "rough outline" above
05:10	iwj	mdz: Right.
05:10	iwj	pitti: That's a definite possibility, yes.
05:10	mdz	I saw in #-devel that there is some doubt about whether the testing has begun?
05:10	tfheen_	also, that process is just the interface, it's not how it's implemented.
05:10	iwj	NB that autopkgtest tends to do it one package at a time; that wiki page seems to suggest a from-ground up rebuild of everything (from some known bootstrap?)
05:10	iwj	mdz: I haven't been reading #-devel much today.
05:11	mdz	tfheen_: right, that part needs to be provided by IS
05:11	mdz	tfheen_: there was to have been a rebuild test on 8 Feb.
05:11	mdz	did that happen?
05:11	iwj	My cron job ran for the first time last night but basically no packages have tests so it's just makework.
05:11	iwj	AFAIAA only dovecot and mawk have tests so far.
05:11	tfheen_	mdz: last time I spoke with Adam (which admittedly is some time ago) the last round of rebuild testing happened, but I haven't actually gotten the results anywhere.
05:11	mdz	iwj: how so?  is it not installing and uninstalling the packages and checking the results?
05:12	mdz	tfheen_: it seems unlikely that nothing failed
05:12	tfheen_	mdz: something is bound to have failed, I have just failed to get in touch with Adam.  I'll try again, this time cc-ing elmo.
05:12	mdz	tfheen_: CC me as well
05:12	tfheen_	sure
05:12	iwj	mdz: Well, atm it has optimised out the install the package step since there aren't any tests.
05:13	mdz	iwj: it should not do that
05:13	iwj	I could change the command-line arguments to make it install the packages unconditionally.
05:13	tfheen_	ACTION: tfheen to get rebuild test results, To: \infty; Cc: mdz, elmo
05:13	mdz	installing the package is one of the most valuable tests of all, intrinsically
05:13	iwj	mdz: Right.
05:13	mvo	iwj: what scope do you currently test? main only?
05:13	iwj	I think I should perhaps talk to the IS people about what these rebuild tests consist of ?
05:13	mdz	and removal, too, since that isn't tested as often in the field
05:13	iwj	mvo: Yes.
05:13	tfheen_	basically having something like piuparts would be useful.
05:13	iwj	mdz: Right.
05:14	iwj	tfheen_: I haven't yet looked seriously at cannibalising piuparts (or indeed reimplementing it if that's quicker).
05:14	iwj	But it would be a nice fit.
05:14	mdz	someone ran piuparts over the archive a little while ago, and found a stack of failures
05:14	mdz	the output was a bit difficult to work with though
05:15	tfheen_	piuparts doesn't pay attention to dependencies, so cascading can easily give false positives.
05:15	mdz	hrm
05:15	tfheen_	(say x11-common isn't clean, anything depending on x11-common would be marked as unclean)
05:15	mdz	oh, I see
05:15	dholbach	http://www.nabble.com/FTBFS-and-piuparts-failures-lists-for-feisty-t3159699.html
05:15	iwj	tfheen_: Ah.  I do have some tracking of what things might be responsible but it's probably not quite strong enough to avoid all consequetial false positives.
05:15	ogra_	it also needs proper blacklisting ...
05:16	mvo	I have some code as part of the auto-upgradetester that tests installability of large amounts of packages (basily testing a feisty->feisty upgrade)
05:16	ogra_	ltsp-client isnt installable outside a chroot ... but puiparts tries it anyway ...
05:16	mdz	mvo: oh, that's useful
05:16	mdz	mvo: is that running in the DC yet?
05:17	mvo	mdz: this one is pretty new, it runs on my machine currently
05:17	mdz	mvo: but the regular upgrade test is in the DC now?
05:17	mvo	mdz: but i plan to move it over soon
05:17	mvo	mdz: yes, it runs regularly with hicups sometimes
05:17	mvo	it was e.g. bitten by the xorg priority bug
05:17	iwj	I haven't had a reply to my RT ticket about autopkgtest in the DC (not that surprising, since it was long and will involve some decisions).
05:17	mdz	that's good
05:18	mvo	endless loops in maintainer scripts currently need resolving by hand
=== mvo needs to write some watchdog code for this
05:18	Keybuk	iwj: what is the RT# ?
05:18	mdz	I need to have a look through what's in RT
05:18	mdz	ACTION: mdz to review RT queue
05:18	iwj	Keybuk: 26993
05:18	iwj	It's been err about a week.
05:18	iwj	No, two.
05:19	iwj	endless loops> kill the Xen VM :-).
05:19	tfheen_	yeah, xen makes that a lot easier.
05:19	mvo	iwj: I need to "borrow" the xen bits from you
05:19	mdz	ok, so tollef is going to follow up regarding the rebuild test.  ready to move on?
05:20	iwj	mvo: Sure, they don't need borrowing - there're two interfaces.
05:20	mdz	cjwatson/bdmurray: outstanding actions?
05:20	iwj	mdz: So the answer to my Q is no, I shouldn't do rebuild tests.  But I should do installs.
05:20	cjwatson	mailed the list earlier regarding those
05:20	mvo	iwj: lets talk about this offline :)
05:20	iwj	mvo: Right.
05:21	mdz	iwj: the answer is that they're supposed to happen by other means, but we need to reconfirm.  we may find that we need to do them ourselves somehow
05:21	mdz	Riddell,tfheen_: KDE 4 in NEW?
05:21	iwj	mdz: OK.  I'll not start doing them until someone tells me otherwise.
05:21	mdz	Ubugtu: thanks
05:21	iwj	ACTION: iwj to tell autopkgtest to install things even if they have no tests to run.
05:21	cjwatson	bugsquad docs in UbuntuDevelopment are written (though still a bit rough; bdmurray had comments), I investigated 63175 a bit, talked with scott, and then scott asked mvo to do the rest
05:22	mdz	Riddell: is that blocking anything for beta?
05:22	Riddell	mdz: no, although libkexiv2 will (blocks new digikam)
05:22	tfheen_	iwj: if we don't have better control of the rebuild tests for feisty+1, I would like us to do it internally.
05:22	iwj	tfheen_: Right.
05:23	mvo	cjwatson: I have no news on 63175 yet, sorry
05:23	mdz	Riddell: and the new upgrader definitely needs to be in and tested for beta
05:23	Riddell	I agree
05:23	cjwatson	mvo: it was about an hour or two ago, that's fine ;-)
05:23	pitti	(FYI, new KDE dist-upgrader is in edgy-proposed now)
05:23	mvo	:)
05:24	mdz	mvo: do you (have cycles to) test Kubuntu upgrades?
05:24	tfheen_	there was a licence question about libkexiv2, but that has been resolved to my satisfaction now, so it just needs to be waved through.
05:24	mvo	mdz: its on my list for sru-verification, I will do it this week
05:25	Riddell	tfheen_: I didn't hear about that, looking forward to having it waved through
05:25	pitti	mvo: NB that one 'works for me' is not enough for me in the KDE dist-upgrader case; I want at least ten different success reports
05:25	tfheen_	Riddell: or rather, digikam, the jasper / jpeg2k patent issue.
05:26	mvo	pitti: I have read that, I plan to be one of the ten :)
05:26	Riddell	we have people in #kubuntu-testers eager to help testing it
05:26	Riddell	tfheen_: oh, right yes
05:26	mdz	should be straightforward to arrange testing now that it's in -proposed
05:26	mdz	cjwatson: what's the final outcome on the ubiquity advanced partitioner for feisty?
05:27	cjwatson	it's in, disk bar will have to wait 'til next time
05:27	cjwatson	it's reasonably usable without, and certainly better than the old partitioner
05:27	cjwatson	if necessary I'll work around problems with explanatory text
05:28	mdz	doko/pitti: will the maintainer field changes be completed for beta?
05:28	cjwatson	there's one bit of validation I need to add for beta, and some issues with formatting swap and such, but it's largely ok
05:28	doko	mdz: yes
05:28	pitti	mdz: yes, as long as doko finishes his rebuilds soon
05:28	pitti	doko: what's your ETA?
05:28	mdz	ok, good
05:28	doko	pitti: doday
05:28	doko	bah
05:28	pitti	I need to do ~ 40 rebuilds
05:28	mdz	pitti: is your livefs change request in RT?
05:29	pitti	mdz: no, it's not
05:29	pitti	I was going to ask who else can access this script
05:29	mdz	pitti: I think it ought to be
05:29	pitti	ok
05:29	mdz	pitti: I expect that anyone with root can
05:29	pitti	it started out with a simple 'yes, I'll do it later' change, sorry
05:29	mdz	what we want for that is for the scripts to be in bzr
05:29	mdz	so we can just ask for merges
05:29	doko	door bell ...
05:30	mdz	I need to put that in RT myself; didn't hear back the last time I emailed
05:30	mdz	ACTION: mdz to file livefs->bzr issue in RT
05:30	pitti	TBH I didn't make too much good experiences with RTing stuff
05:30	mdz	kwwii: what are these new ooo icons?  something which fits better with everything else I hope?
05:30	pitti	but I'll do it to get a number anyway
05:31	kwwii	mdz: yeah, they are human on top of tango
05:31	heno	the new ooo icons are sweet
05:31	kwwii	mdz: really cool because we are the first ones to release them
05:31	dholbach	mdz: they should be in the archive now - just start oowriter
05:31	mdz	pitti: is restricted-manager on track for beta?  that's when it will see the most testing
05:31	mdz	dholbach: I've had oowriter running for weeks ;-)
05:31	pitti	mdz: today I got it to configure nvidia with a single click
05:32	pitti	but I need someone with ATI to tell me the necessary steps
05:32	mdz	very nice, I like the splash too
05:32	tfheen_	mdz: iirc, the livefs.sh script is in baz.
05:32	cjwatson	it is
05:32	Keybuk	pitti: ATI shouldn't be hooked into the desktop effects button
05:32	pitti	r-m itself works reasonably so far, but it needs desktop-effects integrations
05:32	mdz	pitti: that's excellent
05:32	pitti	Keybuk: but certainly r-m should be able to configure the fglrx driver?
05:32	Keybuk	pitti: yup, definitely
05:33	mdz	pitti: I'll be among the first to test that once it's in the archive; my desktop is now nvidia
05:33	Keybuk	mdz: ouch, you have my sympathy
05:33	pitti	Keybuk: I thought about sth. like a generric 'restricted-manager --check-for-better-driver'
05:33	ogra_	poor boy
05:33	mdz	pitti: this meeting would be a good place to ask for an ATI tester
05:33	bdmurray	I have an ATI card
05:33	mdz	I have an ATI chipset in my laptop, but it doesn't require fglrx
05:33	mdz	I suppose I could still test though
05:33	mvo	I have one in my laptop
05:33	mdz	pitti: does it also support undoing its changes?
=== ogra_ could only test with an r200 which si supported poorly by both drivers
05:33	pitti	mvo: you are voluntold :)
05:34	seb128	I can do testing on my desktop
05:34	pitti	mdz: yes, if you disable the driver, you'll get back to the previous one
05:34	asac	iirc i have ati in my laptop as welll ... i could use that for testing as it needs to be wiped anyway at some point.
05:34	pitti	mdz: well, right now it's s/previous/nv for nvidia/
05:34	ogra_	pitti, that also handles the fglrx mesa breakage ?
05:34	pitti	ogra_: as I said, ATM it does not do *anything* to configure fglrx
05:34	cjwatson	livefs> lamont DOT jones AT canonical DOT com--2005-master/livecd-rootfs--mainline--0.27 in /home/warthogs/archives/lamont DOT jones AT canonical DOT com--2005-master, AFAIK
05:35	Keybuk	ogra appears to be volunteering to help :p
05:35	mdz	pitti: I seem to recall the script for fglrx going missing or never quite being written
05:35	ogra_	Keybuk, i'm willing to help testing :)
=== pitti wonders where restricted-manager 0.3 went to -- I uploaded it hours ago
05:35	tfheen_	cjwatson: the current one on the buildds should be extracted for comparison.
05:35	mdz	cjwatson: that's obsolete; there are changes in production which aren't in revision control
05:35	cjwatson	plausible
05:35	mdz	that's what I heard from infinity
05:35	Keybuk	pitti: it's published
05:36	pitti	oh, indeed; ah, I only have the de. mirror for universe
05:36	pitti	mdz: happy testing then
05:36	mdz	pitti: it should be almost identical to nvidia
05:36	mdz	swap drivers, install the GL libraries
05:36	mdz	afaik, I've never used it
05:37	mvo	IIRC there is some option that needs to be set for fglrx to make it work
05:37	pitti	mdz: no magic driver options and such? anyway, I'll figure it out, plenty of testers above :)
05:37	Keybuk	mdz: then curse about once a week when your X server dies at the worst possible moment :-/
05:37	ogra_	mdz, ati doesnt work anymore as long as fglrx is installed ...
05:37	mvo	    Option "Composite" "false"
05:37	ogra_	fglrx replaces the GL lobs and hogs them
05:37	ogra_	*libs
05:37	pitti	mvo: that doesn't sound quite right for compiz OOTB :/
05:37	ogra_	so you cant easily switch back and forth without uninstalling fglrx
05:38	Keybuk	pitti: compiz doesn't work with fglrx
05:38	pitti	ogra_: same with nvidia; r-m now installs the required packages
05:38	pitti	and removes them again
05:38	ogra_	ah, cool
05:38	mdz	ogra_: nvidia is the same
05:38	seb128	I'll likely use the no-tfp patch for compiz to make it work with fglrx
05:38	bdmurray	Is there any good pretty desktop documentation?
05:38	tfheen_	or we could rework the modules so r-m does the alternatives handling rather than nvidia-glx itself
05:38	pitti	Keybuk: ah, that's why you only want nvidia integration into desktop-effects?
05:38	mvo	pitti: the recipt I send you worked for install/remove?
05:38	Keybuk	pitti: exactly
05:38	pitti	Keybuk: good to know
05:39	pitti	mvo: yup, works fine
05:39	pitti	mvo: (recipe, btw)
05:39	Keybuk	fglrx doesn't support the necessary bits to make composite and compositors work
05:39	mdz	seb128: oh? interesting
05:39	mdz	seb128: is that the same patch used in beryl?
05:39	Keybuk	if your card is supported by the ati driver, it's always better than fglrx
05:40	mdz	tfheen_: yes, in feisty+1 we're likely to want to have the drivers all preinstalled, but this is a good incremental step
05:40	seb128	mdz: yes
05:40	pitti	Keybuk: anyway, I think we should bundle this special knowledge into r-m and make the --check-for-composite-driver-whatever DTRT
05:40	pitti	Keybuk: and just call this in d-e
05:40	Keybuk	*nods*
05:40	mdz	pitti: so I should wait for restricted-manager 0.3 and test that with desktop-effects?
05:41	pitti	mdz: r-m 0.3 is in feisty, and as I said, it's not yet intertwined with desktop-effects; you have to start it from the menu so far
05:41	mdz	pitti: oh, I thought you said you uploaded it but didn't see it enter the archive
05:41	pitti	mdz: that was wrong, I looked at the German mirror
05:41	mdz	ah
05:41	pitti	I usually don't need universe crack of the minute
05:42	mdz	heh
05:42	mdz	ok, is there any other business for the meeting?
05:42	ogra_	yes
05:42	heno	iso testing
05:42	ogra_	any word about SoC from our management or CTO ?
05:42	ogra_	:)
05:42	Riddell	doko said he was doing it
05:42	cjwatson	I have something as well re launchpad downtime from kiko
05:43	cjwatson	doko and Keybuk are handling SoC jointly
05:43	doko	ogra_: doing that ...
05:43	Keybuk	ogra: we're participating as usual; doko and I will be jointly managing it
05:43	ogra_	Keybuk, doko thanks for taking it ! :)
05:43	doko	Keybuk: let's schedule a phone call for tomorrow please
05:43	mdz	they'll send out announcements when there is something to announce
05:43	ogra_	i didnt know if we do it at all this time
05:43	Keybuk	doko: jinx, just /msg'd you the same thing
05:43	ogra_	there was no talking about it anywhere, thats why i asked
05:43	mdz	(heno) We should do a round of ISO testing before beta freeze to flush out some bugs early. (see Testing/Matrix)
05:44	Keybuk	ogra: it's only just been announced by Google
05:44	heno	from my email to the distro list: We've decided to start beta testing early this cycle! The idea is to get
05:44	heno	some ISO testing done before the beta freeze to flush out some bugs
05:44	heno	before the release crunch.
05:44	heno	...
05:44	heno	For the first (pre-beta-freeze) test cycle, please download daily images
05:44	heno	in the period Friday-Monday, and test as you normally would with the
05:44	heno	milestone candidates.
05:44	ogra_	Keybuk, well, leslie is already pretty busy on the SoC list ;)
05:44	mdz	it seems like a good idea to do a quick validation test before we freeze, so that we can chase out obvious bugs before we enter the beta release crunch
05:44	Keybuk	ogra: really? she's supposed to be away this week <g>
05:44	mdz	the idea is that we do this just like we do for beta/RC/final, with everyone doing a few test cases
05:45	ogra_	haha
05:45	mdz	so that the round of testing during the freeze goes more smoothly
05:45	mdz	heno: so will you match people up with a set of test cases based on their hardware?
05:46	heno	I've made a start here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Matrix
05:46	mdz	oh, good
05:46	heno	but it needs some feedback
05:46	mdz	ACTION: everyone to confirm their test cases on Testing/Matrix
05:47	mdz	heno: I don't think I'll be able to test WinFOSS this time around, since I'm not in the office (no windows at home)
05:47	heno	That was one of my questions: who has windows? :)
05:47	tfheen	I do, I guess I could do winfoss
05:47	Riddell	I do
05:48	ogra_	i have winfoss ... but no windows :)
05:48	heno	and should I be testing all my own winfoss work? (is that good policy?)
05:48	mdz	heno: if needed, we can certainly buy a couple of copies
05:48	heno	ok, I can of course test, but should not be the only one
05:49	heno	thanks Riddell, tfheen
05:49	iwj	heno: You seem to have me down for amd64 but I don't have one.
05:49	mdz	is everyone clear on the testing plan?  you should look at the matrix and make sure that you're capable of doing your test cases
05:49	ogra_	i'll find people in the community for edubuntu winfoss ...
05:49	heno	I'll shuffle things around a bit more
05:49	mdz	heno: will you send out a pointer to the test candidate once it's in place?
05:49	heno	yes
05:50	mdz	ok, sounds good
05:50	Keybuk	note: I've hassled mdy again about our vmware licences,
05:50	Keybuk	no luck though
05:50	heno	except this time there is no specific candidate iso
05:50	heno	(but for beta, etc there will be)
05:50	mdz	heno: hmm, I guess it's not strictly necessary
05:50	heno	just 'a recent daily'
05:51	mdz	to serve as a dry run for the testing process itself and distribution of test cases, and to chase out the obvious bugs
05:51	tfheen_	noting down which version you're testing is still useful, though.
05:51	mdz	Keybuk: who's lacking?
05:51	asac	i am not really sure about all test cases ... erase disk for instance :/
05:52	mdz	asac: as it's a rather popular one with real users, it does need to be thoroughly tested
05:52	heno	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/InstallMethods
05:52	mdz	if hardware is the issue, we can discuss that
05:52	heno	That needs fleshing out too
05:52	asac	probably should get an extra disk i guess
05:52	ogra_	hmm, heno whats the DVD winfoss testcase for the edubuntu add-on CD ?
05:52	heno	with more detailed instructions for each test
05:53	mdz	heno: should probably refer to Testing/Short
05:53	ogra_	cjwatson, do we build a DVD from the add-on stuff ?
05:53	heno	ogra_: don't know, is there no such thing?
05:53	ogra_	not afaik
05:53	Keybuk	mdz: everyone, but you who bought one yourself
05:53	heno	mdz: right, I'll merge and clean up
05:53	cjwatson	ogra_: add-on should be included in the regular DVD; no pointt building a separate one
05:53	iwj	asac: Get one of those removeable caddy drive tray things.
05:53	ogra_	but i might be wrong, thats why i ask cjwatson
05:53	iwj	Or just open the box :-).
05:53	cjwatson	Keybuk: I have my own as well
05:53	asac	iwj: yeah :)
05:54	Keybuk	mdz: the ones on the ISVLicences page have all expired, as they were issued incorrectly by vmware
05:54	heno	ACTION: heno to improve ISO testing documentation
05:54	ogra_	cjwatson, so i assume there is no winfoss on the DVD, is there ?
05:54	mdz	Keybuk: I need to talk to mdy about something else, will ask him about that as well
05:54	cjwatson	ogra_: hmm, probably not at the moment but that's actually a bug
05:54	ogra_	oh, ok
05:54	mdz	ACTION: mdz to ask mdy about vmware licenses
05:54	cjwatson	ogra_: feel free to check and file it
05:54	pitti	asac: having two HDs in the computer is nice anyway for distributing access etc.
05:54	ogra_	so itws a valid testcase then, thanks
05:54	cjwatson	door, brb
05:55	heno	ogra_: I was in doubt about the new edubuntu images, please make corrections
05:55	asac	pitti: I alrady have two :) ... still need to sort things out and maybe get a third
05:55	mdz	ok, it sounds like we're fairly clear on the pre-testing procedure
05:55	ogra_	heno, will do, to be honest i havent tested any DVD yet
05:55	mdz	any other business for the meeting?
05:55	cjwatson	yes
05:55	bdmurray	I was curious about bug 75681
05:55	cjwatson	kiko asks whether they can take lp down early tomorrow morning
05:56	bdmurray	cjwatson: is that UTC?
05:56	tfheen_	I'm fine with that, given that I'm on vac tomorrow.
05:56	mdz	I get a server error on https://launchpad.net/bugs/75681
=== mvo gets it too
05:56	bdmurray	whoops, all of lp seems to be down now
05:56	iwj	It seems broken.
05:56	cjwatson	launchpad is falling over and they think postgresql 8.2 will improve things
05:56	bdmurray	it is about a boot-time race condition with mdadm
=== dholbach starts hacking bughelper--LP-timeout--support
05:56	mdz	bdmurray: email the list about it instead I guess
05:56	seb128	<kiko> *** We're doing some online maintenence work on Launchpad -- the site will be slow and unstable for a few minutes ***
05:57	iwj	bdmurray: I'm probably the person to talk to about that.
05:57	mdz	bdmurray: ubuntu-devel, even
05:57	cjwatson	they say the downtime will be 7:30-9:30 UTC; if it's not then, then the next window would be 4:30 UTC on Saturday, but they don't want to hold off until then if they can avoid it
05:57	iwj	I'd be quite keen to chat real-time with a user who has the symptoms.
05:57	cjwatson	I asked if it could be earlier in the morning tomorrow, but apparently not
05:57	bdmurray	iwj: The submitter is kees and I have the symptoms too
05:57	mdz	that time is OK with me
05:57	cjwatson	so I said I'd bring it up here as it affects most of us in Europe
05:57	iwj	bdmurray: Excellent :-).  (err)
05:57	iwj	bdmurray: Talk after the meeting ?
05:58	bdmurray	iwj: sounds good
05:58	mdz	it sounds like an urgent situation
05:58	cjwatson	any objections, speak now or forever hold your peace
05:58	heno	== LP meeting report ==
05:58	heno	There was some discussion about the recent performance issues and oopses. They are investigating oopsec reports and system logs. No conclusions yet. One theory is the translation timeouts are hogging server CPU, in which case that will pass.
05:58	Keybuk	cjwatson: do they have to wait until then? :p
05:58	cjwatson	hah
05:58	heno	just though I'd post that
05:58	heno	seemed relevant
05:58	cjwatson	16:32 <kiko> well, we could do it at 4:30 UTC saturday, BUT, it means that a) launchpad will still be slow until at least then and b) the poimport script, required to opening feisty translations, will not run until then.
05:58	cjwatson	16:32 <kiko> I would much prefer doing it tomorrow
05:58	cjwatson	16:35 <cjwatson> I'll ask in the meeting
05:59	mdz	heno: thanks
05:59	cjwatson	ok, I'm hearing no objections, so I'll tell kiko yes
05:59	mdz	right
05:59	mdz	cjwatson: please mark the distro-team calendar as well
05:59	mdz	...and that's our time
06:00	mdz	thanks, everyone
06:00	mdz	adjourned
</pre>
