{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting (jib)
* Beta1 status review (ttx)
** <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/ubuntuserver/all|ISO testing]]</nowiki> test coverage
** Remaining <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-server-ubuntu-10.04-beta-1.html|Beta1 work items]]</nowiki>
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
** Bug Bug:531823 - Lucid guests oops in kvm_leave_lazy_mmu during boot
** Bug Bug:527208 - ec2 instance fails boot, no console output on c1.xlarge
* Server Papercuts (ttx)
** End Status for beta1: https://launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+milestone/lucid-beta-1
** Status for beta2: https://launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+milestone/lucid-beta-2
** Nominations review: https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bugs?search=Search&field.status=New
* Bugzapping status (kirkland)
* Server documentation status (ttx, sommer)
* Server team upload rights (Daviey, mathiaz)
* Weekly SRU review: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review]]</nowiki> (mathiaz)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====
* Mathiaz to discuss with cjwatson about ubuntu-server upload team
** [ACTION] mathiaz to discuss with cjwatson about ubuntu-server upload team
* hggdh to remove mysql5.0 and question atlas in the build regression test rig
** mysql 5.0 has been removed, but no time to search for the owner of atlas (but no big deal)
* ttx to blog about the beta-1 campaign so far, to trigger new candidates
** http://fnords.wordpress.com/2010/03/17/server-papercuts-beta1-round-finished/
* ttx to bring up status of server doc in an email thread
** Done on ubuntu-server ML, will talk about status later in the meeting

===== [TOPIC] Beta1 status review =====
* ISO testing test coverage, the current candidates are expected to be final, unless someone finds a valuable kitten killer
** http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/ubuntuserver/all
* remaining Beta1 work items
** http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-server-ubuntu-10.04-beta-1.html
** good shape, most should be completed today

===== [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====
* hggdh will take up the second Monday slot for Daily bugtriage
* No questions

===== [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen) =====
* we have a kernel that boots for Bug:527208, still have config revisions todo, but we should have a general test kernel later today
* Bug:531823 is also fixed, or at least workarounded, smb gets all the credit there

===== [TOPIC] Server Papercuts (ttx) =====
* beta1 round is now finished
** 10 fixes, 2 postponed and 2 invalid
* beta2 only has 7 targets right now
** note that we should fix them before Beta2Freeze

===== [TOPIC] Bugzapping status (kirkland) =====
* last week samba was quite effective, even though it was mostly triaging
** we went down from >170 to <100 samba bugs
* next week will be eucalyptus and euca2ools
* mysql for the last week of March

===== [TOPIC] Server documentation status (ttx, sommer) =====
* http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/
* should be reviewed for blatant errors
* DocumentationStringFreeze is next week, unfortunately

===== [TOPIC] Server team upload rights (Daviey, mathiaz) =====
* postponed to next week

===== [TOPIC] Weekly SRU review (mathiaz) =====
* there aren't any bugs nominated for the previous releases

===== [TOPIC] Open Discussion =====
* Server upload privileges
** <Daviey> mathiaz: It seems to be something that should be implemented to be forward facing.  Although it doesn't concern many people, it will.  I should mention that the first team to be given upload privilidges for a package set consisted (and still does) of one person, who is already a MOTU/Cor

===== [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time =====
* Same time, same place

=== Log ===
<pre>

[14:00] <MootBot> Meeting started at 09:00. The chair is ttx.
[14:00] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[14:00] <ttx> Today's lucky scribe is: kirkland
[14:00] <ttx> Agenda is at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[14:01] <ttx> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[14:01] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[14:01]  * kirkland strts typng lk a crt rprtr
[14:01] <ttx> * Mathiaz to discuss with cjwatson about ubuntu-server upload team
[14:01] <mathiaz> ttx: nothing new on this front
[14:01] <smoser> \O
[14:01] <zul> yo
[14:01] <mathiaz> ttx: persia actually offered some help on this topic
[14:02] <ttx> mathiaz: ok, I'll reschedult it for next week ?
[14:02] <mathiaz> ttx: yes - hopefully I'll get some time by then
[14:02] <ttx> [ACTION] mathiaz to discuss with cjwatson about ubuntu-server upload team
[14:02] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to discuss with cjwatson about ubuntu-server upload team
[14:02] <ttx> * hggdh to remove mysql5.0 and question atlas in the build regression test rig
[14:03] <ttx> hggdh: ?
[14:03] <hggdh> mysql 5.0 has been removed, I had not time to search for the owner of atlas (but no big deal).
[14:03] <ttx> ok
[14:03] <ttx> * ttx to blog about the beta-1 campaign so far, to trigger new candidates
[14:03] <ttx> Done at http://fnords.wordpress.com/2010/03/17/server-papercuts-beta1-round-finished/
[14:03] <ttx> * ttx to bring up status of server doc in an email thread
[14:04] <ttx> Done on ubuntu-server ML, will talk about status later in the meeting
[14:04] <ttx> [TOPIC] Beta1 status review
[14:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  Beta1 status review
[14:04] <ttx> First, ISO testing test coverage
[14:04] <ttx> http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/ubuntuserver/all
[14:04] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/ubuntuserver/all
[14:04] <ttx> So the current candidates are expected to be final, unless someone finds a valuable kitten killer
[14:05] <ttx> Get your ISO testing engines ready
[14:05] <ttx> You know your targets :)
[14:05]  * hggdh would like help on testing UEC
[14:05] <ttx> hggdh: maybe after meeting on #ubuntu-server
[14:06] <hggdh> roj
[14:06] <mathiaz> hggdh: I'll give you some help on that front
[14:06] <ttx> Other questions about Beta1 ISO testing
[14:06] <ttx> ?
[14:06] <ttx> Now, remaining Beta1 work items
[14:06] <ttx> See http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-server-ubuntu-10.04-beta-1.html
[14:07] <ttx> server-lucid-ec2-ebsroot (smoser): 2 work items remaining
[14:07] <ttx> are they expected to be complete by tomorrow or should they be postponed ?
[14:07] <smoser> postone i guess.
[14:07] <ttx> smoser: that's about release automation ?
[14:08] <ttx> that doesn't change the deliverables, right
[14:08] <smoser> yes for promote-daily is release automation. does not change deliverables.
[14:08] <ttx> what about ebs-root daily cleaner ?
[14:08] <smoser> and it actually (should) works just is less efficient than it could be
[14:08] <ttx> it's a cleanup cronjob ?
[14:08] <smoser> the cleaner, as it is right now, i'll just manually have to unregister things.
[14:09] <ttx> ok
[14:09] <smoser> yeah, the daily builds roll off
[14:09] <ttx> smoser: ok, please update work items accordingly
[14:09] <smoser> ok
[14:09] <ttx> (mark them postponed)
[14:09] <ttx> server-lucid-uec-testing (mathiaz,kirkland,hggdh): 4 work items left
[14:10] <kirkland> ttx: i can handle those today/tomorrow
[14:10] <mathiaz> ttx: the multi-network infra will be postponed to post-beta1 as I'm still debugging the automation
[14:10] <ttx> mathiaz: ok
[14:10] <hggdh> I will get help from mathiaz (thank you!) and will get the tests donew
[14:10] <mathiaz> ttx: and the test rig is currently used for beta1 testing
[14:10] <ttx> mathiaz: is it possible to run tests manually for multi-networ;k validation ?
[14:11] <ttx> ok, I'll run those tests on my rig then.
[14:11] <mathiaz> ttx: the tests can be run automatically - the problem is to *setup* the whole multi-network infrastructure
[14:11] <mathiaz> ttx: on the hardware available in the test rig
[14:11] <ttx> mathiaz: ack.
[14:12] <ttx> server-lucid-apt-mirror-ec2 (ttx): 1 work item remaining
[14:12] <ttx> That one is mostly an IS spec, now that they confirmed no change in images will be needed
[14:12] <ttx> They are still testing their new infrastructure, so that should be deferred
[14:12] <ttx> server-lucid-bug-zapping (kirkland): one work item remaining
[14:13] <kirkland> ttx: yup, will announce eucalyptus/euca2ools for next week
[14:13] <ttx> kirkland: ok.
[14:13] <ttx> server-lucid-puppet-uec-ec2-integration (mathiaz): 4 work items remaining -- is it just some leftover of the -> beta2 retargeting or do you still plan to work on those by tomorrow ?
[14:14] <mathiaz> ttx: planning to work on those today and tomorrow
[14:14] <ttx> not 4, but 9, sorry :)
[14:14] <mathiaz> ttx: it mostly is about setting up an infrastrucutre, playing with it and documenting it
[14:14] <ttx> mathiaz: so only the testsuite fixes have been postponed, right ?
[14:14] <mathiaz> ttx: yes - I've retargeted the whole BP to beta2
[14:15] <mathiaz> ttx: which moved away the bugs from beta1
[14:15] <ttx> that makes linked bugs appear to beta2
[14:15] <ttx> yes
[14:15] <mathiaz> ttx: (and improved the beta1 burned down chart :))
[14:15] <ttx> We also have qa-lucid-cloud-test (smoser): 2 work items left
[14:15] <smoser> those are definitely POSTPONE. i will update.
[14:15] <ttx> Not ours, but...
[14:15] <ttx> ok
[14:15] <ttx> Sounds all good to me
[14:16] <ttx> Comments/questions ?
[14:16] <zul> i still like turtles
[14:16] <mathiaz> zul: are you testing the latest beta1 candidates?
[14:16] <zul> mathiaz: yep
[14:17] <mathiaz> zul: great - I won't test them as I plan to do the puppet tests instead
[14:17] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[14:17] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[14:17] <ttx> hggdh: hello
[14:17] <ttx> team: hggdh will take up the second Monday slot for Daily bugtriage, so give him a hug :)
[14:18] <zul> yay!
[14:18] <ttx> That should help zul in cleaning up the list after friday/sat/sun :)
[14:18] <hggdh> heh
[14:18]  * kirkland high fives hggdh 
[14:18] <ttx> hggdh: any news to report ?
[14:19] <hggdh> not much for today. Life is good.
[14:19] <hggdh> Tests have been expanded for ISO
[14:19] <hggdh> so I would like feedback; also, feedback on which tests should be required is appreciated
[14:20] <ttx> hggdh: Looks like we should have EBS-root specific entries in the ISo tracker for beta2
[14:20] <hggdh> note that the SAMBA test *requires* a login to the system to work. No remote ssh via preseed, please
[14:20] <ttx> hggdh: currently only the 'instance' root store AMIs are exposed
[14:21] <hggdh> ttx: er. Begging pardon, what is EBS-root, and the rest?
[14:21] <ttx> hggdh: we now produce two types of deliverables on EC2
[14:21] <ttx> But http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/ubuntuserver/all only mentions one type
[14:22] <ttx> see http://uec-images.ubuntu.com/lucid/20100317/ for all deliverables
[14:22] <ttx> You have "ebs" and "instance" types in that last list
[14:22] <ttx> the ISO tracker only has entries for the "instance" types
[14:22] <hggdh> k, will look at it
[14:22] <smoser> hggdh, ebs root (elastic block store) give an instance that can be powered off, and powered back on without losing data. instance-store data is lost on root partition on poweroff
[14:22] <ttx> hggdh: I think ara has the keys to modify that
[14:23] <smoser> ebs root is a new deliverable (as of beta1) for ubuntu.
[14:23] <hggdh> ttx indeed must be done by ara
[14:23] <ttx> hggdh: anything else ?
[14:23] <ttx> questions for hggdh ?
[14:23] <hggdh> no, I am good (and submerged in Things To Do)
[14:24] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[14:24] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[14:24] <ttx> hggdh: thanks
[14:24] <ttx> jjohansen: hi
[14:24] <jjohansen> hi
[14:24] <jjohansen> so we have a kernel that boots for Bug #527208
[14:24] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 527208 in linux-ec2 "ec2 instance fails boot, no console output on c1.xlarge" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/527208
[14:25] <jjohansen> I still have config revisions todo, but we should have a general test kernel later today
[14:25] <ttx> jjohansen: that's great news !
[14:25] <ttx> jjohansen: thanks for your work on this.
[14:26] <ttx> I see https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qemu-kvm/+bug/531823 is also fixed, or at least workarounded
[14:26] <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 531823 in linux "[lucid] All linux guests oops in kvm_leave_lazy_mmu during boot (9.04, 9.10, 10.04)" [High,Fix released]
[14:26] <jjohansen> ah, yeah smb gets all the credit there
[14:26] <ttx> jjohansen: thank him for us -- that one was deadly annoying for at least my testing :)
[14:27] <jjohansen> will do
[14:27] <ttx> jjohansen: anything else ?
[14:27] <jjohansen> I can't think of anything else atm
[14:27] <ttx> team: questions for jjohansen ? any funny bug to throw at our kernel friends ?
[14:28]  * mathiaz randomly picks one of the 2030092 opened bugs against linux
[14:28] <ttx> ok, moving on then :)
[14:28] <ttx> [TOPIC] Server Papercuts (ttx)
[14:28] <MootBot> New Topic:  Server Papercuts (ttx)
[14:28] <ttx> The beta1 round is now finished
[14:28] <ttx> 10 fixes, 2 postponed and 2 invalid
[14:29] <ttx> beta2 only has 7 targets right now
[14:29] <ttx> note that we should fix them before Beta2Freeze
[14:29]  * zul goes nominate some more today
[14:29] <ttx> https://launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+milestone/lucid-beta-2
[14:29] <ttx> you can already book your favorite ones
[14:29] <ttx> remember those are easy to fix bugs and a great way to get involved in Ubutu development
[14:30] <ttx> since the server team will help in sponsoring your proposed branches
[14:30] <ttx> Nominations review:
[14:30] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+bugs?search=Search&field.status=New
[14:30] <ttx> Hmm, none.
[14:30] <ttx> Last time I looked there was one
[14:31] <ttx> anyway :)
[14:31] <ttx> Please nominate some, the idea was to have between 10 and 14 targets
[14:31] <ttx> Questions ?
[14:32] <ttx> [TOPIC] Bugzapping status (kirkland)
[14:32] <MootBot> New Topic:  Bugzapping status (kirkland)
[14:32] <kirkland> ttx: next week will be eucalyptus and euca2ools
[14:33] <kirkland> ttx: we're going to burn down as many euca bugs as possible
[14:33] <ttx> last week samba was quite effective, even though it was mostly triaging
[14:33] <ttx> kirkland: hopefully you will discover new bugs as well :)
[14:33] <kirkland> ttx: that counts for a lot
[14:33] <kirkland> ttx: dedicated triage time
[14:34] <ttx> we went down from >170 to <100 samba bugs, fwiw
[14:34] <ttx> with the help of the HugDay team
[14:34] <kirkland> ttx: helps us sift through the data
[14:35] <ttx> kirkland: do you have bugzapping targets for beta2 ?
[14:35] <kirkland> ttx: nothing official yet
[14:35] <ttx> ok
[14:35] <mathiaz> ttx: mysql for the last week of March
[14:35] <kirkland> ttx: i think we still need to spend some time on libvirt too
[14:35] <mathiaz> ttx: just before Beta2 freeze
[14:35] <kirkland> mathiaz volunteers!  \o/
[14:35] <ttx> kirkland: yes, that would be a good idea, at least a two-day so that good triage can be done
[14:36] <ttx> kirkland: I recommend combining with a BugDay, see pedro to organize that.
[14:36] <ttx> Other questions for kirkland ?
[14:37] <kirkland> ttx: will do
[14:37] <ttx> [TOPIC] Server documentation status (ttx, sommer)
[14:37] <MootBot> New Topic:  Server documentation status (ttx, sommer)
[14:37] <ttx> sommer: around ?
[14:38] <ttx> So I sent an email last week about the status of the server guide...
[14:38] <ttx> http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/
[14:38] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/
[14:38] <ttx> This should be reviewed for blatant errors
[14:38] <ttx> DocumentationStringFreeze is next week, unfortunately
[14:38] <ttx> So the sooner the better
[14:39] <ttx> Fixes can be proposed as ubuntu-doc branches, but I think they accept unformatted patches as well
[14:40] <ttx> So please spend some of your limited time checking out the current doc, especially where you know things have changed
[14:41] <ttx> example:  egrep '(vmx|svm)' /proc/cpuinfo --> kvm-ok
[14:41] <ttx> Questions about that ?
[14:42] <ttx> Moving on, then :)
[14:42] <ttx> [TOPIC] Server team upload rights (Daviey, mathiaz)
[14:42] <MootBot> New Topic:  Server team upload rights (Daviey, mathiaz)
[14:42] <ttx> postponed to next week, I assume
[14:43] <mathiaz> nothing from me
[14:43] <mathiaz> Daviey: do you have specific questions you'd like to have answers for?
[14:44] <ttx> Let's move on, we'll see his answer in Open Discussion :)
[14:44] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly SRU review (mathiaz)
[14:44] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly SRU review (mathiaz)
[14:45] <mathiaz> there aren't any bugs nominated for the previous release
[14:45] <mathiaz> *releases*
[14:45] <mathiaz> http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[14:45] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[14:45] <mathiaz> ^^ anything worth from bugs fixed last week?
[14:46] <mathiaz> ttx: zul: on the samba front?
[14:46] <ttx> Nothing important enough
[14:46] <ttx> (at least from me)
[14:46] <mathiaz> kirkland: on the qemu-kvm front?
[14:46] <zul> nothing from me
[14:46] <kirkland> mathiaz: nope
[14:47] <mathiaz> ok - then
[14:47] <mathiaz> that's all for now
[14:47] <mathiaz> I'm planning to work on improving the SRU workflow
[14:47] <mathiaz> zul: I'll shoot an email to sync up with your current practice
[14:48] <zul> mathiaz: ok
[14:48] <ttx> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[14:48] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[14:48] <ttx> Daviey: you're back ?
[14:49] <Daviey> \o
[14:49] <Daviey> Is this regarding the upload priv?
[14:49] <mathiaz> Daviey: yes
[14:49] <mathiaz> Daviey: do you have specific questions you'd like to have answers for?
[14:49] <ttx> Daviey: <mathiaz> Daviey: do you have specific questions you'd like to have answers for?
[14:50] <Daviey> mathiaz: It seems to be something that should be implemented to be forward facing.  Although it doesn't concern many people, it will.  I should mention that the first team to be given upload privilidges for a package set consisted (and still does) of one person, who is already a MOTU/Core
[14:51] <ttx> On another subject, UDS-M has been announced. If you want sponsorship to visit lovely Brussels, the deadline is on March 26th.
[14:51] <mathiaz> Daviey: agreed. It's on my radar
[14:51] <mathiaz> Daviey: I just need some time to get through it.
[14:51] <ttx> And procedure is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-M/Sponsorship
[14:51] <Daviey> okay, i'm happy to leave it with mathiaz :)
[14:51] <Daviey> That is me done, thanks :)
[14:52] <ttx> Anything else, anyone ?
[14:52] <zul> nyet
[14:52] <ttx> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[14:52] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[14:53] <ttx> not in my power to change, so next week, same place, same UTC time.
[14:53] <Daviey> super.
[14:53]  * kirkland is happy the meeting was 1 hour later for him
[14:53] <ttx> #endmeeting
[14:53] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 09:53.

</pre>
