{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

   10:02 mdz         anyway, let's get started
   10:02 mdz         BenC: care to start us off?
   10:02 JaneW       mdz: I'll prod him about it
   10:02 BenC        - Kernel status: Stabalizing on all platforms. Lots of major bugs fixed in the last uload (20.30).
   10:02 BenC        - Bug status: Way behind. Recent flight release along with the few days vacation left me behind. Catching back up over this weekend.
   10:03 mdz         yes, in my sweep I've come across quite a few kernel bugs which haven't been looked at yet
   10:03 mdz         maybe a kernel-oriented bug day would help?
   10:03 fabbione    +1
   10:03 BenC        yeah, probably
   === olemke [n=olemke@iup.physik.uni-bremen.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:03 Keybuk      BenC: any hope of fixing the PHP subsystem bug?
   10:03 Keybuk      because that's quite a critical one
   10:03 dholbach    bug day next week friday
   10:03 fabbione    PHP???
   === tikipaniki [n=chatzill@83-131-66-223.adsl.net.t-com.hr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:03 BenC        Keybuk: done in 20.30
   10:03 Keybuk      at least, for those of us who don't have Mactels
   10:03 BenC        PNP
   10:04 mdz         modprobe php
   === infinity shudders.
   10:04 Keybuk      20.30 ?
   10:04 fabbione    [kphp/0]
   10:04 BenC        last kernel upload
   10:04 Keybuk      ah
   10:04 mdz         dholbach: can you work with the kernel team to assemble some basic docs for kernel bug triage?
   10:04 infinity    Keybuk: The current kernel seems to make PNP happy.
   10:04 dholbach    mdz: i will do that
   10:04 mdz         thanks
   10:05 mdz         dholbach: next?
   10:05 dholbach    icon-mission: tangerine hit Universe, hope to get Dave's icons for Human soon
   10:05 dholbach    this week (done): bug triage, bug fixing, icon-cache stuff
   10:05 dholbach    this week (todo): more bug triage, preparing Universe for Release
   10:05 dholbach    next week: more bug triage, bug day, GNOME 2.14.1
   === lmanul [n=manu@dan75-4-82-239-58-38.fbx.proxad.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:06 mdz         I saw some 2.14.1 already, were they early?
   10:06 seb128__    no, that's time
   10:06 dholbach    no... just some urgent bug fixes in between 14.0 and 14.1
   10:06 seb128__    1 month since 2.14.0
   10:06 mdz         ok
   10:06 mdz         dholbach: how are you coping with the bug volume?
   10:07 dholbach    ok-ish... i would have to work twice the time to get "it done"
   10:07 mdz         what is the most time-consuming part?
   10:07 dholbach    it's just the volume
   10:07 JaneW       dholbach: you can tutor me on bug triage, now that most goals are implemented there's less status update chasing etc
   10:07 mdz         too many incoming bugs to look at?
   10:08 infinity    JaneW: That would be lovely.
   10:08 dholbach    you need to have overview over all the bugs... so i coudn't pick a part and say that's the problem, yes, it's quite a lot these days
   10:08 seb128__    mdz: yeah, really lot of desktop bugs for the number of people working on them
   === kagou [n=kagou@84.6.192.55] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:08 dholbach    JaneW: yeah, i can do that :-)
   === mvo thinks that we get a lot of bugs overall
   10:08 iwj         Many of the bug reports seem of very low quality, too.  You can spend a lot of time in back-and-forth with the submitter.
   10:08 mdz         seb128__,dholbach: if you know someone good in the community, we're going to be hiring
   10:09 seb128__    QA guy or desktop guy?
   10:09 mdz         seb128__: yes
   10:09 mdz         ;-)
   10:09 dholbach    mdz: thanks a lot... i'll keep an eye on our community people
   10:09 seb128__    :)
   10:09 seb128__    noted
   10:09 mdz         iwj: in my sweep, the overall bug quality has not been so bad really
   10:09 iwj         Maybe I'm just expecting too much.
   10:09 mdz         usually only one round of additional info
   10:10 infinity    (with notable exceptions)
   10:10 seb128__    most of the desktop bug are fine, maybe not on first try but people are responsive usually and willing to provide informations required
   10:10 mdz         I'm seeing relatively few support requests submitted as bug reports
   10:10 Keybuk      my main problem with bug reports, at least in the areas I touch, is the user mis-identifying the problem and having to stop them doing their quick fix so you can figure out what the real problem is
   10:10 Keybuk      is anybody going through the support requests?  jbailey I guess?
   10:10 Kamion      mine is related, it's users misidentifying problems as dupes
   10:10 mdz         Keybuk: dunno
   10:10 Seveas      mdz, myself, robitaille, carthik, kenny duffus and a few others are triaging a lot - About 10% of the bug reports is low quality afaict but 50% needs work
   10:10 iwj         The worst ones are the `firefox crashes' ones which are pretty much support requests and pretty much always turn out to be due to Flash (spit).
   10:11 mdz         Seveas: yes, thanks for the help
   10:11 Seveas      Keybuk, I am subscribed to all new support requests now, so are a few other community members
   10:11 mdz         post-Dapper we'll do some work on bug reporting tools
   10:11 Keybuk      Kamion: yeah, I have that a lot too; users with more time jumping onto a bug report with theirs and making it almost impossible to get information out of the original submitter without misleading information about something that's really a different bug
   10:11 dholbach    "firefox crashes" = support request?
   10:11 mdz         so that we can get more information up front, automatically collected
   10:11 mdz         e.g., reportbug
   10:11 mdz         which would help with that class of bugs
   10:11 seb128      and automatic debug bt!
   10:11 seb128      :)
   10:12 mdz         mmmm
   10:12 mdz         ok, moving on
   10:12 mdz         thanks dholbach
   10:12 dholbach    de rien
   10:12 Kamion      dholbach: if it's related to some insane thing they installed into their firefox but forgot to mention, it can be, yes
   10:12 mdz         doko: next?
   10:12 doko        - openoffice.org: found and fixed the rosetta import failure (nearly all strings marked as translated), uploads pending db update, fixed packages for ia64, working on breezy backport packages, other fixes, started occassional trunk builds.
   10:12 doko        - long font discussions: switch of default fonts to metric compatible fonts objected by our gnome attorney, now proposed to introduce the Times/Helvetica aliases again (will change back to "ugly" fonts in firefox, Diziet is currently investigating). looks we cannot have both.
   10:12 doko        - printing bugs: coordinated with pitti, prepared new libusb, foomatic-db, hplip, all new upstream, still testing.
   10:12 iwj         dholbach: Yes.  I've got a form for telling people that now.  `Sorry, that should be a support request and anyway it'll be the fault of Flash'.  Only a bit longer.
   10:12 doko        - other: look at various python testsuite failures, together with `anthony, libffi update, prepared python2.5a1 packages for gustavo.
   10:12 mdz         pitti: speaking of which, what is the latest on rosetta import/export for dapper?
   10:13 mdz         doko: db update?
   10:13 pitti       mdz: details in my report, but it's working in principle now
   10:13 doko        ohh, and found out about another 1 year old package (no debian updates): graphviz
   10:13 doko        mdz: yes message strings
   10:13 mdz         ok, will discuss then
   10:13 pitti       mdz: rosetta only has about 30% of total translations, but these are good now
   10:13 iwj         fonts: We can have both if we can teach our fontconfig setup to distinguish between `I need a font with the same metrics as the one I asked for' and `I don't really care about the metrics'.
   10:13 mdz         doko: gnome attorney?
   10:13 doko        mdz: seb128, who else ;)
   10:14 seb128      and jdub :p
   10:14 mdz         jdub said he liked the idea, no?
   10:14 seb128      no
   10:14 seb128      Nimbus as default Sans alias will just make lot of desktop ugly on update
   10:14 doko        seb128: jdub agreed on the ML, but then disagreed on the channel
   10:14 iwj         Yesterday I concluded I'd have to add an <if ...> construct or something because you can't make aliases conditional.  I'll look at it with fresh eyes today.
   10:14 seb128      people will complain loud
   10:14 mdz         "Agree. Thanks for the summary."
   10:14 mdz         is what jdub said
   10:14 pitti       Nimbus--
   10:14 ogra        urgh
   10:14 ogra        Nimbus oon the *desktop* ??
   10:15 ogra        thats a print font ...
   10:15 seb128      maybe he didn't mesure that any people who ever played with the font capplet will got GNOME using Nimbus with that change
   10:15 seb128      since that's user setting and will not follow a schemas change
   10:15 doko        fontconfig doesn't differentiate between screen and printer
   10:15 mdz         hmm, ok, I need to look into the font issue more deeply and discuss on the list
   10:15 iwj         What doko said.  Very annoying and needs fixing.
   10:15 seb128      and we don't want GNOME UI using Nimbus, really
   10:15 ogra        doko, yes, thats why we decided to keep very in breezy
   10:15 ogra        *vera
   10:16 iwj         I agreed with doko that I'd look into it and post a plan to -devel.
   10:16 doko        mdz: seb128 said, that gnome only font changes will not take effect for existing users
   10:16 mdz         doko: what do our printing upstreams use for bug tracking?
   10:16 iwj         (Well, the printing/screen thing.)
   10:16 mdz         probably most of these are upstream issues and we should build a relationship there
   10:16 doko        mdz: sf resources, didn't look for cups
   10:17 iwj         gs is a mess because of the approximately three versions.
   10:17 mdz         from what I saw the last time I looked at it, we should standardize on gs-esp
   10:17 doko        iwj: is there still a reason to keep these? in the past gs-gpl wasn't the newest
   10:17 mdz         because we care about it primarily for printing
   10:18 iwj         gs-esp is sometimes quite a bit older than gs-gsp in core RIP stuff.
   10:18 iwj         For example in Breezy our gs-esp was nasty and crashy, really.
   10:18 mdz         -gpl you mean?
   10:18 iwj         No, -esp.
   10:18 Kamion      "gs-gsp"
   10:18 iwj         We had gs-esp 7.something and gs-gpl 8.something.
   10:19 iwj         I'm tempted to suggest using gs-gpl as distiller and then feeding to gs-esp for the cases where the gs-gpl drivers aren't so good.
   10:19 mdz         iwj: -gpl rather than -gsp I meant
   10:19 mdz         unless there is yet another ;-)
   10:19 Keybuk      if only we could fold it all into poppler :)
   10:19 iwj         Yes, gpl, not gsp.
   10:19 mdz         if only gs could sort itself out and be one upstream...
   10:19 mdz         anyway, thanks doko
   10:19 mdz         fabbione: next?
   10:20 iwj         The one upstream have that stupid licensing model.
   10:20 fabbione    * server-candy: Missing/buggy: apache2 for "central snakeoil SSL setup" and kernel -server as default from CD install. No other progresses.
   10:20 fabbione    * ubuntu-cluster: There will be no ocfs2-tools release. Done a lot for clvm and multipath-tools (from fixing kernel bugs, down
   10:20 fabbione    to rearrange parts of the cluster boot sequence). Missing one bug fix in multipath-tools (that i am aware of at least).
   10:20 fabbione    * last week: mainly cluster work, some X bug fixing and a bit of sparc love.
   10:20 fabbione    * next week: bug squashing (mainly X).
   10:20 mdz         fabbione: what's this about apache2?
   10:20 fabbione    mdz: pending on infinity's love, is to get ssl working out of the box
   10:20 mdz         is -server as default a non-trivial change?
   10:20 infinity    It's an upload I need to make to Debian, and his weekly meeting reminders serve to remind me for about 5 minutes before I forget again. :)
   10:21 fabbione    mdz: -server us on Kamion's court.. and it's not exactly trivial
   10:21 Kamion      mdz: not rocket science, but not trivial either
   10:21 Kamion      it's a bit messy in base-installer
   10:21 mdz         Kamion: can someone other than you do it?
   10:21 infinity    fabbione: Can you remind me about apache2 sometime this week that isn't "in the middle of the meeting"? :)
   10:21 fabbione    infinity: sure...
   10:21 infinity    (Though I was going to wait for 2.0.56 to release upstream, but that seems to be taking its sweet time)
   10:21 Kamion      mdz: maybe. I wrote all the surrounding code though :)
   10:22 mdz         fabbione: X needs serious love
   10:22 Kamion      it's bug 31474
   10:22 fabbione    mdz: yes we already discussed this.
   10:22 mdz         most of it looks upstreamish but there is a lot to forward
   10:22 Keybuk      ... did anyone else just do a half-second wait for Ubugtu there?
   10:22 mdz         who can give fabio a hand?
   10:23 ogra        i'm already digging on some ati vs radeon bugs
   10:23 mdz         heno: how are you with Malone?
   10:23 infinity    mdz: I'm triaging some X bugs here and there, but my workload is reasonably high enough that I can't dive headlong into it without ignoring other areas.
   10:23 Seveas      (Keybuk, bugsnarfer is disabled in here)
   10:23 ogra        and i'd like to jump in on dexconf
   10:23 heno        mdz: I've been using it a bit
   10:23 heno        OOo bugs mainly :)
   10:23 infinity    ogra: If you can hack dexconf without (dear lord) making it any worse, more power to you.
   10:24 mdz         heno: I think there's a lot of good that could be done just by reading through the bugs and talking with fabio
   10:24 mdz         without diving deep into the technical side of things
   10:24 fabbione    ogra: do you plan some reasonable amount of work on dexconf or just to fix ati vs radeon?
   10:24 infinity    mdz: About 20 seconds after dapper releases, I would like to be able to set aside some company-sponsored time to sit down with David Nusinow and make sure our packaging and Debian's converge to a point where lots of these bugs can be part of a larger community problem.
   10:24 ogra        infinity, at least small things like making the mouse protocal preseedable again (i wont do intrusive stuff in dapper)
   10:24 doko        heno: I did see the reports :-)
   10:24 mdz         infinity: indeed
   10:25 heno        mdz: ok, so triaging X bugs, yep I'll have a look
   10:25 fabbione    heno: cool
   10:25 ogra        fabbione, i wanted to have dexconf working as good as it can without intrusive changes ... rewriting it for dapper+1 would be a future target
   10:25 mdz         eek, we're not doing very well on time
   10:25 mdz         fabbione: thanks
   10:25 ogra        err +2
   10:25 mdz         heno: anything to present for your part?
   10:25 infinity    mdz: David and i have a reasonably good relationship as it stands, so I'll just need the go-ahead to do so, and Etch and dapper+1 should look much more similar, X-wise.  I hope.
   10:25 heno        * example-content DONE: Complete appart from a few screenshots in the documents and presentations that need updating
   10:25 heno        * winfoss DONE: The layout has been given a complete overhaul for dapper, borrowing design elements from the desktop (icons and colours). A new version was uploaded on Monday. I consider it complete appart from fresh screenshots that will be needed once the Ubuntu desktop has settled. See: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WinFOSS
   10:25 heno        * winfoss TODO: Modify the new skin for kubuntu and coordinate app selection with Riddell
   10:25 heno        * accessibility: I'm waiting for certain key packages to be seeded to the live CD so it can be tested
   10:26 Keybuk      heno: welcome aboard the team, btw
   10:26 mdz         infinity: seems completely appropriate
   10:26 heno        thx :)
   10:26 mdz         heno: who are you working with to get the seeding done?
   10:26 Kamion      mdz: Mithrandir
   10:26 heno        it was Tollef
   10:26 mdz         ok
   10:27 heno        but I take it he is away
   10:27 Kamion      yeah
   10:27 mdz         infinity: would you help heno with that in Tollef's stead?
   10:27 Kamion      he'll be back on Friday
   10:27 mdz         oh, friday as in tomorroW?
   10:27 mdz         hmm, yes
   10:27 Kamion      er
   10:27 infinity    mdz: Yeah.
   10:27 Kamion      Monday
   10:27 infinity    More likely Monday. :)
   10:27 mdz         monday
   10:27 infinity    Unless he works Friday night, "just cause".
   10:27 dholbach    do we have enough space for additionaly a11y stuff on the CDs?
   10:28 infinity    Either way.
   10:28 Kamion      dholbach: "not sure"; that's why they haven't just been added
   10:28 infinity    heno: I can help, if you need it.
   10:28 dholbach    (there's one bug report about accessibility-themes added to the CDs)
   10:28 mdz         dholbach: these are the questions we need to answer as part of the seeding process ;-)
   10:28 Kamion      Mithrandir was researching the size changes
   10:28 heno        It's not urgent. I just don't want it to fall between the cracks
   10:28 dholbach    :-)
   10:28 mdz         infinity: appreciated
   10:28 heno        infinity: thanks
   10:28 mdz         heno: thanks, and welcome again
   10:28 mdz         infinity: next?
   10:28 infinity    last week buildd: Same old, same old, tracking build failures.  Again, can I ask people to pretty please test before they upload?  Please?
   10:28 Kamion      and, if they don't all get seeded, working with the a11y guys to work out which are the highest priorities
   10:28 infinity    last week distro: Participate in the Flight-6 release, bugfixes and updates for LRM, MySQL, net-snmp, put on my jbailey hat and started triaging and local hacking on glibc and initramfs updates, transitioned to new libmysqlclient with different symbol versioning.
   10:28 infinity    next week buildd: Setting up livefs builds for Xubuntu, getting dapper-autotest underway, and tracking down more universe build failures.
   10:28 infinity    next week distro: Should be uploading glibc and initramfs, perhaps several times for the latter, as well as upstream version bumps for samba and subversion, and attacking more major bugs assigned to me over this last week.
   10:29 mdz         infinity: is there a spec in the launchpad pipeline for streamlining build failure->bug report?
   10:29 Keybuk      infinity: do you understand the glibc packaging?
   10:29 infinity    Keybuk: Intimately.
   10:29 infinity    mdz: Not one that I've written yet, I probably should.
   10:29 Keybuk      good, I  need to pick your brains then
   10:29 mdz         infinity: are you a bug contact for glibc now?
   10:29 infinity    mdz: I am.
   10:29 mdz         ok
   10:29 iwj         infinity: Lucky you :-).
   10:29 Keybuk      I can't work out how the hell to change the init script settings for nscd
   10:30 mdz         infinity: mysql transition is complete with your recent uploads?
   10:30 infinity    That's on my list of stuff to fix next week anyway.
   10:30 infinity    mdz: In theory, if none of it fails.  I'll follow that up tonight and tomorrow.
   10:30 mdz         ok
   10:30 mdz         thanks infinity
   10:30 mdz         iwj: next?
   10:30 iwj         Bugfixing: nice collection of bug reports to try to fix, working through them atm.
   10:30 iwj         Firefox: nice collection of bug reports to try to fix.
   10:30 iwj         Firefox: Still having lots of reports of unwanted back/forward due to horizontal scrolling.  I thought that was fixed with an x.org config change ?  Anyone know what I should tell these users ?
   10:30 iwj         Last week: was on holiday.
   10:30 iwj         AutomatedTesting,DeveloperDocumentation: no progress since I got back.
   10:31 iwj         It would be nice if pango/cairo weren't so dog slow, too.  I have a bug report which is an endless bitch-fest from people complaining that our ff is much slower than upstream.
   10:31 lifeless    iwj: FWIW I want to have a good look at the automated testing stuff once bzr is fully done for dapper
   10:31 mdz         I've been seeing a lot of unconfirmed/unanswered firefox bugs in my sweep going back a few months; did those not make it to you properly?
   10:32 iwj         I don't have time to answer unconfirmed ff bugs.
   10:32 iwj         I could do that but then I wouldn't be doing anything else.
   10:32 mdz         someone needs to respond to those reports; they shouldn't be ignored
   10:32 iwj         I answer them if they look like they could turn into a bugfix.
   10:33 mdz         most of the ones I saw seemed like they should just go upstream
   10:33 mdz         we certainly can't fix them all, but we should respond
   10:33 seb128      forwarding upstream is good
   10:33 doko        yes, an upstream status in malone would be nice (so you know that you did, which could be done)
   10:33 iwj         I could write a few more form letters: `please take this upstream' and `should be a support request' maybe.
   10:33 seb128      so there is a reply and upstream knows about them
   10:33 Keybuk      doko: add a bug watch
   10:33 mdz         iwj: if you can invest some time in a firefox bug triage howto, we can make it a bug day focus
   10:34 pitti       doko: open an upstream task
   10:34 fabbione    iwj: if they did customize their X config, there is nothing i can do
   10:34 fabbione    iwj: they will have to add the line manually
   10:34 seb128      pitti: upstream task should be used only for bugs forwarded
   10:34 fabbione    iwj: or ask them to reconfigure
   10:34 doko        Keybuk, pitti: yes, but the appear in your list of open reports again (unsorted)
   10:34 pitti       seb128: yes, that's what I mean
   10:34 mdz         iwj: that also helps to recruit people to help on an ongoing basis
   10:34 seb128      pitti: they will make possible to open a task only if you have a upstream bug to point
   10:34 seb128      k
   10:34 pitti       doko: true
   10:34 iwj         fabbione: Is there a standard answer that explains this or should I write one ?
   10:34 mdz         iwj: given some direction on how to help, we can send out a call for help
   10:34 iwj         fabbione: The bug is a bit full of discussion.
   10:35 mdz         seb128: upstream tasks without upstream bugs are still useful, e.g. if there is an upstream bug contact
   10:35 iwj         upstream tasks etc.> I asked the LP people and they wanted me to open an upstream task and set the Ubuntu task to rejected.
   10:35 fabbione    iwj: well no, there is no standard answer..
   10:36 iwj         But of course there's (in this case) no upstream bug contact or anything so that doesn't really work.
   10:36 mdz         iwj: that's fair, but only if upstream actually hears about the bug along the way
   10:36 Keybuk      I quite like to leave them as just Confirmed; that way I can still check in on them and see how upstream are doing with their ignoring of the bug
   10:36 Keybuk      same as Needs Info really, handy to be in the list so you can check whether the reporter has given the info you wanted yet
   10:36 mdz         I'm talking with LP folks about an email-based semi-automatic bug forwarding mechanism
   10:36 mdz         also in the long term pipeline is semi-automatic filing of upstream bugs in their bug trackers
   10:36 pitti       would be nice; click on 'create upstream bug', enter your upstream bz credentials, done (or so)
   10:36 iwj         Tread carefully.  It would be so easy to make ourselves very unpopular.
   10:36 mdz         but that has hairy issues to be resolved
   10:37 seb128      mdz: you can't edit an upstream task with current launchpad, and by discussing on #launchpad they said it should always have an upstream bug watched
   10:37 Keybuk      can you register new bugzillas yet?
   10:37 seb128      you can for ages now
   10:37 mvo         or new sf bugtrackers?
   10:37 seb128      I think sf works too
   10:37 dholbach    sf  bug trackers are problematic
   10:37 mdz         iwj: my proposal is more or less equivalent to what we already do manually, just making the legwork more automatic in terms of collecting info into an email and providing a space for the explanation
   10:37 Seveas      mvo, sf bugtrackers are impossible to integrate
   10:37 mdz         but that's a mailing list discussion
   10:37 seb128      dholbach: I though kiko made them work?
   10:38 mdz         Keybuk: yes, I've done several
   10:38 Seveas      you need magic numbers for them to work
   10:38 mdz         please do register new bug trackers as you go
   10:38 mdz         seb128: they "work" in that you can get bug links, but I don't think you get status info
   10:38 mdz         anyway, we're short on time
   10:38 iwj         mdz: mailing list discussion> Right.  Also it must be discussed with the upstream tracker's owners.
   10:38 mdz         thanks iwj
   10:38 mdz         Kamion: next?
   10:38 Keybuk      mdz: where?  I've not found that link
   10:38 Kamion      ubuntu-express-base-system: Network configuration done. Started working on propagating keyboard selection to the installed system.
   10:38 Kamion      ubuntu-express: Merged component packaging into espresso proper, which means that I will no longer be blocked on problems of the form "I don't want to create yet another binary package for this".
   10:38 Kamion      misc: Helped Tollef out with Flight 6. Fixed a couple of frequently-reported yaboot bugs and sorted out FAT/NTFS mount options, which were huge causes of annoyance for migrating users. Made all the uploads for updated Breezy CD images, though blocked on some archive issues. Set up Xubuntu CD images (apparently right first time).
   10:38 Kamion      next-week: Finish propagating keyboard selection to installed system. choose-mirror/apt-setup should be easy now that component packaging has been reorganised, so I'll do that next. Better hostname defaults. Fix reboot step. Chase up a few bits of work I've delegated. After that I think I'll be happy enough with Espresso's functional state for the Dapper beta release.
   10:39 mdz         Keybuk: https://launchpad.net/malone/bugtrackers/
   10:39 mdz         Keybuk: "register bug tracker"
   10:39 Keybuk      ah, I was trying to find it from the "+ Upstream" thingy
   10:39 mdz         Kamion: I have some handwritten notes from my last espresso run that I'd like to review with you tomorrow
   10:39 Seveas      (Kamion: xubuntu f-6 works like a charm indeed)
   10:39 Kamion      mdz: sure
   10:40 mdz         how did flight 6 go behind the scenes?
   10:40 ogra        pretty lengthy this time
   10:40 mdz         is the process scaling to more people and reducing your workload?
   10:40 ogra        the preparation took longer than others i found
   10:41 Kamion      ogra: it only took longer because there was a necessary and protracted investigation of a single bug
   10:41 mdz         Kamion: do you feel that we're getting enough espresso testing?
   10:41 infinity    It actually would have been reasonably smooth, had it not been for mkisofs angering us.
   10:41 ogra        Kamion, ah, i wasnt around for two days, didnt get that
   10:41 mdz         I haven't come across too many bug reports in my sweep
   10:41 Kamion      mdz: scaling> yes, seems to be working pretty well with the unholy trinity of Mithrandir, infinity, and me
   10:41 Kamion      mdz: I did relatively little this time round actually, I was mostly just being debian-cd code monkey
   10:41 mdz         infinity: are you up to speed on sync processing?
   10:42 infinity    mdz: No, since it was just announced that the tool works again.  I need to poke elmo about how it works.
   10:42 infinity    (Or even what it's called)
   10:42 Kamion      mdz: I'm getting plenty of reports of the things that affect everyone, and I'm keeping them fairly well-triaged for the most part. I'm not getting so much of the things that only affect certain classes of users (e.g. keyboard layouts, odd partition layouts, etc.) but that's to be expected
   10:42 Kamion      infinity: sync-source.py
   10:43 mdz         Kamion: ok, thanks
   10:43 infinity    Kamion: scrpits/ftpmaster?
   10:43 mdz         Keybuk: next?
   10:43 Keybuk      last week: bugs, siretart and I made wpasupplicant identical in Debian and Ubuntu and all fluffy and stuff
   10:43 Keybuk      next week: bugs, nm bug day planned, ftp lessons with Kamion
   10:43 Keybuk      n-m: latest problem is that because it's running on the Live CD it means you can't configure a static IP, or bring up ppp, etc. because NM reverts whatever you do
   10:43 Kamion      mdz: I think it's adequate testing for now. Any more and I'd be swamped with duplicates of the things that affect everyone.
   10:43 Kamion      infinity: yeah, or on lp_archive's $PATH
   10:43 mdz         Keybuk: any decent feedback from its presence on the live CD?
   10:43 mdz         Keybuk: I've no objection to dropping it
   10:43 Keybuk      mdz: yeah, mostly bad, sadly
   10:43 mdz         Keybuk: we're beyond hope of adding it to desktop, right?
   10:44 Keybuk      definitely beyond hope
   10:44 mdz         ok
   10:44 Kamion      Keybuk: dropping it from the live CD would also avoid a hairy espresso problem
   10:44 mdz         let's do it
   10:44 Keybuk      you can add it to desktop, but I'm sure as hell not being bug contact for it if you do that <g>
   10:44 mdz         Keybuk: thanks
   10:44 Kamion      because at present it removes network-manager from the installed system because it's a live-CD-only thing
   === infinity goes to unpop the trunk.
   10:44 mdz         JaneW: mithrandir's update?
   10:44 Kamion      which confuses people who've managed to set up their networking with n-m
   10:44 Keybuk      I'm glad we tried it, but it's just not ready or mature enough yet
   10:44 JaneW       Mithrandir: misc: released flight-6, tested i2o support in the installer, bug triage, vacation
   10:44 JaneW       next week: more vacation, espresso hacking, bug triage
   10:44 JaneW       blocked on: nothing in particular
   10:44 JaneW       Not a very exciting update, but flight-6 took most of my time and energy last week.
   10:45 pitti       Keybuk: so, is it still a thing for main then?
   10:45 mdz         Keybuk: if there isn't already a "here's how to install NM with g-a-i" doc in the wiki, please talk to the doc team about creating one
   10:45 Keybuk      pitti: I think we can at least "support" it
   10:45 Keybuk      mdz: there is I believe
   10:45 infinity    pitti: I'll move it from live to supporter in all seeds right now.
   10:45 Keybuk      I'll check with Corey
   10:45 mdz         since many people will want to try it even if it isn't ready for prime-time, we'll want to mention it in the beta announce
   10:45 pitti       infinity: maybe ship, but yes
   10:45 mdz         JaneW: thanks
   10:45 seb128      infinity: ship would be nice
   10:45 mdz         mvo: next?
   10:45 infinity    pitti: Fair.  ship it is.
   10:45 Keybuk      mvo: it's still in g-a-i, right?
   10:45 mvo         Did:
   10:45 mvo         - bug triage/fixes
   10:45 mvo         - dist-upgrader authentication sorted (thanks to Daniel Silverstone for his help), bugfixing in u-m
   10:45 mvo         - auto-dist-upgrade test setup runing on my test i386
   10:45 mvo         - gnome-app-install dekstop file updates, better runtime duplicates detection, fixing
   10:45 mvo         - update-manager dist-upgrade from dapper->dapper+1 planing, sabdfl suggested to just skip it
   10:46 mvo         - update-manager breezy backport finished, waits for #36022
   10:46 mvo         - update-notifier fixes (and a bad upload), better debugging support for hook problems
   10:46 mvo         Will do:
   10:46 mvo         - more bugfixing/bug triage (still lacking behind)
   10:46 mvo         - hopefuly upload update-manager into breezy-updates
   10:46 mvo         - language-selector-qt missing langpack detection
   10:46 mvo         Blocked:
   10:46 mvo         - python-vte moving to breezy-updates/main: #36022
   10:46 mvo         - sysadmin setup for the auto-dist-upgrade
   10:46 mvo         Keybuk: n-m? yes
   10:46 mdz         mvo: we need the upgrader in breezy for beta
   10:46 Kamion      mdz: blocked on launchpad bug as mvo says
   10:46 mdz         ah, you already commented on the bug
   10:47 mdz         I'll chase it with kiko also
   10:47 mvo         mdz: even if it python-vte is not in breezy-upates/main?
   10:47 mdz         mvo: I thought that was a prerequisite?
   === jsgotangco [n=jerome@ubuntu/member/jsgotangco] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:47 mvo         mdz: yes, that is why I was asking :)
   10:47 mdz         mvo: any interesting results from the auto-dist-upgrade test?
   10:48 mvo         mdz: sabdfl suggested to just not offer dapper->dapper+1 upgrades by defualt
   10:48 mdz         mvo: s/suggested/requested/ for sabdfl btw ;-)
   10:48 mvo         haha
   10:48 mvo         right
   === mvo needs to learn more about the subtle aspects of english
   10:48 mvo         mdz: nothing interessting on i386 from the auto-dist-upgrade tests, works very well currently
   10:49 mdz         but certainly we need to allow the user to explicitly request an upgrade and use our nice new tool
   10:49 mvo         yes, I think I'll just add a gconf-key or a commandline option (or both)
   10:49 mdz         can you send me an email with your proposed solution?
   10:49 mdz         ok
   10:49 mdz         mvo: thanks
   10:49 mvo         because we will have power-users who will want to upgrade
   10:49 mdz         ogra: next?
   10:49 mvo         thanks
   10:50 mdz         ogra: hello?   we'll come back to you
   10:50 mdz         pitti: next?
   10:50 ogra        * general: flight 6, more edubuntu-artwork work, bughunt (the "screensaver activates regardless of user input" seems fixed, someone who can reproduce the flickering is working on a patch (these were my two worst bugs))
   10:50 ogra        * next-week: more bughunt, edubuntu and ltsp documentation, waiting for some pre-final artwork from the design company for edubuntu-artwork to finish the package, do some tests to find out if separate langpacks for kdeedu probably solve the space problem on the edubuntu CD
   10:50 ogra        * additionally: due to some big bad changes in life, my GF and i will have to give up the house move to the other side of the country and have to solve a lot of additional stuff. so please bear with me the next time, my RL will get very very weird and dizzy for some months...
   10:50 ogra        err
   10:50 mdz         ah, there you are
   10:50 ogra        sorry
   10:50 mdz         ogra: I just got the "screensaver activates regardless of user input" issue today, oddly enough on a desktop
   10:50 mdz         I thought it was suspend-related
   10:51 mdz         but later it went away
   10:51 ogra        it is g-p-m related
   10:51 ogra        is the system up to date with my tonights change  ?
   10:51 mdz         ogra: very sorry about the big badness
   10:51 ogra        g-s-s has a so called emergency lock thats set after suspend ...
   10:51 mdz         keep me informed of your plans and let me know if I can help
   10:52 mdz         thanks ogra
   10:52 ogra        mdz, it has some positive aspects (i can tell you not not a meeting)
   10:52 mdz         pitti: next?
   10:52 pitti       reducing-duplication: no progress since last week
   10:52 pitti       general stuff done this week:
   10:52 pitti       * security updates
   10:52 pitti       * bug triage and bug fixing
   10:52 pitti       * started to attack the cups mess; 1.2rc1 doesn't work at all for us; if KDE gets ported RSN, I'll stick with our svn snapshot and merge upstream bug fixes; if not, I seriously consider reverting to 1.1.23 (discussion welcome)
   10:52 pitti       * langpacks: built first test version with Rosetta data, get rosetta+buildd merging/import mostly automated now, automatically create statistics and daily report; rosetta is still missing about 2/3 of all translations (a huge part of that is KDE), but the exported ones look good now
   10:52 pitti       plan for next week:
   10:52 pitti       * new langpacks for dapper (with Rosetta love)
   10:52 pitti       * get cupsys into a better shape
   10:52 pitti       * bugs, bugs, bugs
   10:52 mdz         pitti: care to look at gs with iwj under the heading of reducing-duplication?
   10:52 pitti       mdz: sure
   === pitti adds to TODO list
   10:53 mdz         Riddell: I didn't receive an email about kdeprint, is one forthcoming?
   10:53 doko        pitti: ugh, should we coordinate with the debian printing team? they stabilize with the 1.1 release as well?
   10:53 mdz         pitti: are the missing translations due to that issue where many templates need to be manually approved?
   10:53 pitti       doko: kmuto and I work on the 1.2 branch mainly
   10:53 mdz         there's a debian printing team?
   === bmonty [n=bmontgom@wsip-68-15-230-31.om.om.cox.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   10:54 pitti       mdz: no, KDE translations are shipped separately; carlos fixed the import AFAIUI, now it's a matter of backlog
   10:54 mdz         pitti: where are the statistics and daily report published?
   10:54 Riddell     mdz: he's said he'll think about how he can find the time and get back soon, I'll e-mail him again to press him on the issue
   10:54 pitti       mdz: http://people.ubuntu.com/~pitti/langpacks/rosetta-buildd-diff-report.txt, and daily spam to launchpad@
   10:54 mdz         Riddell: just let him know that it makes a difference in some time-critical decisions we need to make
   10:55 Riddell     mdz: yep
   10:55 mdz         I am very behind on launchpad@
   10:55 mdz         thanks pitti
   10:55 mdz         Riddell: next?
   10:56 Riddell     done: KDE Espresso, getting quite usable now
   10:56 Riddell     also: flight 6, bugfixes, e-mailing with Gael Duval, kubuntu-docs update, knetworkmanager testing
   10:56 highvoltage 10:55 < mdz> thanks pitti
   10:56 Riddell     next week: KDE Espresso
   10:56 pitti       highvoltage: ?
   10:56 mdz         Riddell: I saw a lot of unconfirmed kde bugs in my sweep, any problems there?
   10:56 mdz         as elsewhere, I made explicit assignments where it looked like a bug had fallen through the cracks
   10:56 highvoltage pitti: sorry, kid in the office who decided he wants to play with my laptop
   10:57 Riddell     mdz: lack of time mostly, espresso being the priority just now, I'll try and triage them soon
   10:57 mdz         there seems to be at least one person in the community helping triage kubuntu bugs
   10:57 mdz         but there is a large backlog
   10:58 mdz         maybe ask the community for help?
   === steko [n=steko@generic-nat.unisi.it] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Sto]
   10:58 mdz         Riddell: thanks
   10:58 Riddell     yes, bug days have brought in some good community help, I should make sure it's clear to them where they can help most
   10:58 mdz         seb128: next?
   10:58 seb128      This week: load of bug triage (bug mails backlog almost clean now), started really working at fixing some bugs, packaged gaim 2.0beta3 (package on people.ubuntu.com), did some bug fixing and package patching
   10:58 seb128      ...
   10:58 seb128      Next week: GNOME 2.14.1, will update wiki desktop TODO page with bugs and tasks that would be nice for contributors, keep catching up with coming bug mails and patching
   10:59 mdz         where is the wiki page?
   10:59 dholbach    http://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam
   10:59 mdz         perhaps we should collect all of the areas where we need help and make one big call to the community
   10:59 seb128      https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/TODO
   10:59 dholbach    and ../TODO and ... :)
   11:00 seb128      we started it but it lacks content
   === Keybuk [n=scott@syndicate.netsplit.com] has left #ubuntu-meeting [""]
   11:00 mdz         we've identified a few areas during this meeting
   11:00 seb128      bug catchup is done, I've tagged lot of stuff with dapper milestone
   === Keybuk [n=scott@syndicate.netsplit.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   11:00 Keybuk      oops
   11:00 mdz         Keybuk: we're almost done, but not quite ;-)
   11:00 seb128      now I can make lists for contributors, and start assigning
   11:00 Keybuk      I closed a couple of tabs, and x-chat jumped through them in random order
   11:00 mdz         seb128: sounds good
   11:00 mdz         seb128: thanks
   11:00 mdz         Kinnison: next?
   11:01 Kinnison    gnome-power-manager (PowerManagementInterface): Uploaded 2.14.0-0ubuntu1 after flight6 was done, continued reading CVS changelogs and diffs.
   11:01 Kinnison    launchpad: provided mvo with a way to test the signed dist-upgrader stuff. Worked out how to fix the d-i handling to support pockets. Wrote tests for uploader for from a while back.
   11:01 Kinnison    gparted: tried to work out why with the installer-mode patch the new gparted breaks. Not yet worked it out.
   11:01 Kinnison    otherwise: Solving bugs which mdz throws at me mostly. Many are difficult to reproduce. I have a reasonable amount of these on the go.
   11:01 Kinnison    publisher: Investigated where the time is taken in the publisher and wrote detailed report for kiko and mdz.
   11:01 Kinnison    lp-ongoing: Enhance the test set I added to exercise more of the uploader's decision paths. Merge the sign dist-upgrader stuff and the d-i pocket support. Possibly look at the publisher from a speedup PoV depending on priorities.
   11:01 Kinnison    distro-ongoing: gparted ui bug; continue squashing the set of random bugs. Review the bugs open on g-p-m, try to get enough for upstream to do g-p-m 2.14.1 for us. Again, I'll try and do some espresso UI stuff if I can.
   11:01 Kinnison    [end]
   11:01 mdz         Kinnison: can you look into the lp bug blocking mvo?
   11:01 Kinnison    mvo: bug number?
   11:01 JaneW       sivang: ping?
   11:02 mdz         Kinnison: was in his update
   11:02 mdz         35022
   11:02 mdz         36022 even
   11:02 mdz         I'm hoping it's shallow
   11:02 Kamion      (the d-i pocket support is needed for updated breezy CD images BTW)
   11:02 Kinnison    mdz: Should be fairly shallow, sure
   11:02 Kinnison    Kamion: is that now a priority?
   11:03 Kamion      Kinnison: the critical bug about it was opened a couple of weeks ago, if that counts :P
   11:03 mdz         Kinnison: if you can provide some analysis I'm sure that would speed things
   11:03 mdz         is cprov back?
   11:03 Kinnison    I don't know when cprov is due back
   11:03 Kamion      Kinnison: I think mvo's stuff is higher-priority though
   === Kinnison worked out what was needed for the d-i pocket support, and the change-override pocket support should be fairly shallow
   11:03 Kamion      Kinnison: (assuming that, if necessary, a change can be monkeyed when we need it)
   11:03 mdz         ok
   11:03 Kinnison    Kamion: ook
   11:03 mdz         we're out of time
   11:03 mdz         thanks Kinnison
   11:04 mdz         anything else, follow up via email
   11:04 mdz         good time-of-day, all

</pre>
