{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
   
   09:00 mdz        good morning everyone
   09:01 mdz        JaneW: any update from ajmitch?
   === doko [n=doko@217.205.109.249] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   09:01 JaneW      no
   09:01 Kamion     Diziet is on his way
   09:02 mdz        ok
   09:02 mdz        BenC: you're up
   09:02 BenC       community-server-hardware-testing: Announcement was held
                    off until daily-builds are more automated.
                    kernel bug work: 14394 - cdrecord/k3b/kernel issues, bugs
   09:02 BenC       related to ipw2200 firmware errors, firware related bug,
                    bugs related to SMP regressions on amd64
   09:02 BenC       additonal, daily builds will be automated starting
                    tomorrow
                    BenC: the announcement shouldn't be contingent on the
   09:03 mdz        daily builds; users can start testing using the kernel in
                    Dapper
   09:03 mdz        please send it out today
   09:03 BenC       ok
   === iwj [n=ian@xenophobe.extern.relativity.greenend.org.uk] has joined
## ubuntu-meeting
   09:03 pitti      hi Ian
   === JaneW will mail ajmitch for an update
   09:04 iwj        pitti: Ug.
                    BenC: apart from daily builds,
   09:05 mdz        preventing-hardware-support-regressions had some other
                    components, like calling on users to test
   09:05 mdz        BenC: did that happen as well?
   === slomo [n=slomo@ubuntu/member/slomo] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   09:06 BenC       yeah, that was a second announcement that needs to go out
   09:06 mdz        ok, that should be marked as in progress until all of the
                    steps are complete
   09:06 BenC       that one was contingent on daily builds needing to work
                    :)
   09:06 mdz        thanks BenC
   09:06 mdz        dholbach: ?
   09:06 BenC       right, I'll revert that
   === robitaille [n=robitail@ubuntu/member/robitaille] has joined
## ubuntu-meeting
   09:06 dholbach   example-content: first bits and pieces packaged and
                    uploaded, is in NEW
   09:06 dholbach   this week (done): visited London, caught a cold, tried to
                    catch up with bugs, random other bits
   09:06 dholbach   this week (todo): more bugs
   09:06 dholbach   next week: GNOME 2.13.91 (beginning of the week), bug day
                    (end of the week), apt-get.org review
   09:07 mdz        dholbach: just a cold rather  than the death plague?
   09:07 dholbach   Yeah, just a cold, nothing that prevents me from working.
                    :-)
   09:07 mdz        if you don't rest, it will last longer
   09:07 dholbach   I'll be fine, it isn't that bad.
   09:08 mdz        dholbach: have the test-plans been announced to the
                    community?
   09:08 dholbach   Not yet. I will do it asap.
                    dholbach: also include a note in the next Flight
   09:09 mdz        announcement that users who want to test can use the
                    provided test plans
   09:09 dholbach   Right.
   09:09 mdz        thanks
   09:09 mdz        doko?
   09:09 doko       [status]
   09:09 doko       - no changes from last week, besides
   09:09 doko       - openoffice.org: one more test build, computer at home
                    unreachable at the moment
   09:09 doko       [this week]
   09:09 doko       - vacation day
   09:09 doko       - dropping python2.3
   09:09 doko       - bug tracking work
   09:11 mdz        doko: are you back at home now, or still in london?
   09:11 doko       mdz: still in London, going back to Berlin tonight
   09:11 mdz        will dropping python2.3 involve rolling out
                    python-central, or using the old approach?
                    pycentral will be used for private modules at the moment,
   09:12 doko       there are still concerns, which I discussed yesterday
                    with elmo and Kamion
   09:12 doko       proposing these on debian-python first
   09:12 mdz        private modules?
   09:12 doko       the change involves dropping dependencies on the
                    interpreter for pure modules
   09:13 doko       modules outside the default sys.path, like mailman
   09:13 doko       those which need to be recompiled changing the default
                    python version.
   09:13 mdz        I feel uncertain about rolling out pycentral at this
                    point in dapper
   09:13 mdz        what are the risks?
   09:14 mdz        it would need to be well sorted by feature freeze
                    no risks, I can collect my changes on p.u.c., and then we
   09:15 doko       can decide if we upload it, if it's stable enough for
                    dapper
   09:15 mdz        I mean the risks of the implementation itself, not our
                    strategy for rolling it out
   09:16 mdz        build failures? broken packages?
   09:16 mdz        do we need a new Zope when dropping python 2.3?
                    pycentral at that point just recompiles stuff, when you
   09:17 doko       change the default python version, nothing more. I don't
                    see how this can break packages. otoh, it doesn't have a
                    visible value for the end user
   09:17 doko       we would need zope2.9, but there's no plone yet for 2.9
   09:17 mdz        ok, we need to move on.  please send me an email with
                    details of your plan and links to the debian discussion
   09:17 mdz        thanks doko
   09:17 mdz        fabbione?
   09:17 doko       so just lets keep 2.8 with the existing plone in uinverse
   09:18 doko       mdz: ok
   09:18 fabbione   * server-candy: switch to ssl-cert-snakeoil certificate
                    is in progress.
*********** ubuntu-cluster: working on update for redhatcluster
   09:18 fabbione   suite. A lot of our patches have gone upstream and we got
                    some bug fixes from upstream pushed to us.
   09:18 fabbione   * boot-from-usb: implemented.
*********** last week: return from distro sprint, kernel security
   09:18 fabbione   (warty/breezy/dapper, hoary not affected) and fixed a
                    regression upgrading from hoary to breezy/dapper (pending
                    upload on -security queue). Being sick one day.
*********** next week: ocfs2 updates, complete the ssl-cert-foo
                    transition, cleanup ssl-cert package to be more user
   09:18 fabbione   friendly (core was done before starting the transition).
                    Fix a couple of bugs in partman-auto-lvm since it is
                    getting decent testing around now. Get kernel server on
                    server CD if infrastructure to build cd is in place.
   09:18 pitti      fabbione: what's the status of the new ssl-certs? my new
                    postgresql-common is still pending
   09:18 mdz        fabbione: boot-from-usb was already implemented last
                    week; you can exclude it from further status updates
   09:19 fabbione   pitti: that's part of the "make it user friendly"
   09:19 fabbione   mdz: ok.
   09:19 pitti      fabbione: heh :)
                    fabbione: someone I know wrote
   09:20 mdz        [1]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Installation/LVMOnRaid ; would
                    you review it for correctness?  perhaps it could become
                    the basis for a test plan
   09:20 fabbione   mdz: ok i will try to do it
   09:21 fabbione   i am slightly overloaded
   09:21 mdz        fabbione: it's low priority; just keep it in mind for
                    when you have a spare moment
   09:21 mdz        thanks fabbione
   09:21 fabbione   mdz: ok
   09:21 mdz        JaneW: infinity's update?
   09:21 fabbione   i already found a bunch of errors... *sigh*
   09:22 JaneW      one sec
                    infinity: last week: tail end of the distro sprint, lots
                    and lots of traveling home (hey, can we have the next
                    sprint in Australia? <bat lashes>), some initramfs-tools
   09:22 JaneW      hacking locally, tidying up LRM to hand it over to BenC,
                    preparing PHP security updates, learning the ropes of the
                    new buildd infrastructure, and helping with some hiccups
                    therein.
                    next week: not entirely sure, actually, but I have a
   09:22 JaneW      feeling it will involve a lot of back and forth with
                    cprov to make sure the LP buildds do exactly what we want
                    them to do, when we want them to do so.
                    splash-down: A mostly-working implementation is running
   09:22 JaneW      on my laptop, but doesn't quite behave as I'd like it to,
                    so I need to hack a bit of extra intelligence into
                    usplash itself before I polish this off and upload it.
   09:23 JaneW      pitti will give the update for reducing-duplication...
   09:23 mdz        ok
   09:23 mdz        I would like to see the splash-down implementation before
                    it goes in
   09:23 JaneW      ok, will note that in report and convey to infinity
   09:23 mdz        thanks JaneW and infinity
   09:23 mdz        iwj?
                    AutomatedTesting: Initial phase complete and published in
                    dapper and sid.  Discussions with Debian have been
   09:23 iwj        encouraging regarding the per-package tests.  It's not
                    clear when to call the goal complete, as it's more of an
                    ongoing project, but a clear milestone has been reached.
                    AutomatedTesting: Next: I need a discussion with some
                    sysadmins and/or Launchpad people to capture their
   09:23 iwj        requirements for wiring autopkgtest into the build
                    machinery.  I also need to consider generic (non
                    package-specific) tests like those provided by piuparts.
                    Firefox: New upstream (stability/security), new Debian
   09:23 iwj        version (incorporating many of our patches, so our diff
                    is shrinking).
   09:24 iwj        Firefox: pygnome crash not fixed, reported upstream :-/.
                    DeveloperDocumentation: Just started.  Currently I'm
   09:24 iwj        reviewing the existing Debian Dev. Ref. document and
                    planning the redaction process to make the UDR.
                    DefaultApplicationsFirefox: no change since last
   09:24 iwj        report.  I aim to revisit this this coming week to make
                    sure that everything that can sensibly be done is
                    finished before feature freeze.
   09:24 iwj        Bugs backlog: awful.
   09:24 iwj        Email backlog: none
                    iwj: can I get that demo/transcript of autopkgtest?  or
   09:24 mdz        better, maybe put up a wiki page with information on how
                    to drive it so that everyone can try it out
   09:25 iwj        There's a transcript in my {ubuntu,debian}-devel post.
   09:25 mdz        I'm behind on lists; please forward me a copy
   09:25 iwj        Done.
                    JaneW: package-dependency-fix is deferred; we don't want
   09:26 mdz        to make intrusive changes to the packaging toolchain for
                    dapper
   09:26 mdz        thanks iwj
   09:26 mdz        Kamion?
   09:27 JaneW      mdz: ok, noted
   09:27 Kamion     cd-bootloader: Localised help done. Implemented.
                    cd-build-process: Parallelisation by image type
                    implemented; as predicted, it does not provide a
                    performance win, although it may be convenient.
   09:27 Kamion     Implemented. (If we desperately need to get install+live
                    ISO build time down beyond the current 20 minutes, I can
                    backport changes from Debian that eliminate the
                    apt-ftparchive bottleneck, but that will take some work.)
                    ubuntu-express: Done the API shakeups mentioned last
                    week; still working on the actual non-blocking debconf
   09:27 Kamion     handling to fix the UI. Not much else this week due to
                    illness, not having sorted out my test machine after
                    getting back from London, and clearing other stuff out of
                    the way.
                    misc: Have been receiving basic training on ftpmaster
                    work in Soyuz; I can do some NEW queue processing but
   09:27 Kamion     can't do override changes yet (including main<->universe
                    changes and removals); please ask elmo for the latter.
                    Disabled archive-copier by default.
   09:27 Kamion     next-week: Really kill off the Espresso UI responsiveness
                    problems and start in on the rest of its to-do list.
   09:27 mdz        Kamion: does the parallelisation at least give us all the
                    builds in one directory?
   09:27 Kamion     no
   09:27 Kamion     that's a quite separate job
   09:28 mdz        oh
   09:28 Kamion     and is in fact easier if it's serial
   09:28 mdz        gah
   09:28 Kamion     I can look at that if you want, it's just not what the
                    spec asked for :-)
   09:29 mdz        yes, I'm noticing that didn't make it into the spec,
                    though we have talked about it
   09:29 Kamion     should be a few hours' work
   09:29 mdz        since UBZ
   09:29 mdz        Kamion: do you have some notes about the soyuz tools that
                    you could send me?
   09:29 mdz        I need to get up to speed on that as well
   09:29 Kamion     I can send you the IRC transcript, yes
   09:30 mdz        thanks
                    sorting out test machine> embarrassingly I left the power
   09:30 Kamion     cable for it in London :-( will go out and get a spare
                    today
   09:30 mdz        Kamion: have you handed off some espresso bits to
                    Mithrandir?
                    mdz: I don't feel there just yet, I need to poke the
   09:31 Mithrandir system a bit more; hopefully for next week or in a few
                    days.
   09:31 mdz        ok
   09:31 mdz        thanks Kamion
                    mdz: he's coming up to speed, but I haven't explicitly
   09:31 Kamion     said "you work on this" yet; I'll explicitly hand
                    something off today and he can work on it when it's
                    convenient
   09:31 mdz        where is Keybuk?
   09:31 JaneW      I don;t think keybuk is in...
   09:32 mdz        no email update?
   09:32 JaneW      no, sorry
   09:32 JaneW      I'll mail him now
   09:32 mdz        thanks
   09:32 mdz        need to know especially about network-manager
   09:33 mdz        Mithrandir?
   09:33 Mithrandir probe-for-root-filesystem: implemented
                    live-cd-performance: no further progress, need to do lzma
   09:33 Mithrandir testing.  Waiting for Scott to produce readahead
                    infrastructure
                    simplified-livecd: some further work done in London, It's
                    currently missing stackable file systems (which should
                    make building the CDs a bit quicker) and suspend to disk
   09:33 Mithrandir (pending a patch from me to be tested).  I'm wondering if
                    it should encrypt all the swap too, to not possibly leave
                    private data behind.  Keymapper still not there.  We need
                    customisation docs, I get daily mails on how to customise
                    the cd.
                    faster-networked-x-through-nx: no progress, some sabdfl
   09:33 Mithrandir interest.  We might want to get this spec beefed up and
                    ship nomachine nx stuff in universe
                    misc: cleaning up some amd64 stuff, such as getting
   09:33 Mithrandir ddcprobe working, reading up on espresso to be able to
                    help Colin, some bug gardening
                    blocked on: have been blocked on bits of LP not working
   09:33 Mithrandir as expected (debootstrap broke) and the live cd build
                    failing (which has now been fixed).  Still no access to
                    popcon.u.c
   09:33 Mithrandir next week: get rest of specs cleaned up, get going on
                    espresso
   09:34 JaneW      mdz: you meen network-magic?
   09:34 mdz        JaneW: network-manager is the piece of network-magic
                    which matters
   09:34 JaneW      mdz: right, ok
                    Mithrandir: please ensure that the next Flight includes
   09:34 mdz        test instructions for probe-for-root-filesystem; should
                    be an exciting feature for the community
   09:34 Mithrandir mdz: will do.
   09:35 Mithrandir mdz: it's only enabled on installations to removable
                    devices, though, but I guess they're not that uncommon
   09:35 Kamion     Mithrandir: at least basic handling of the keymap passed
                    by gfxboot would be good even if we don't get keymapper
                    Mithrandir: please make espresso your highest priority
   09:35 mdz        now; the existing improvements in simplified-livecd and
                    live-cd-performance are already looking very good for
                    dapper
   09:36 mdz        Mithrandir: yes, we want users to test installation to
                    USB devices and such
                    Kamion: yeah, that's my thought as well.  I think just
   09:36 Mithrandir getting the minimal support in should be a few hours
                    work.
   09:36 mdz        it's been a requested feature for a while
   09:36 Kamion     [we need some kind of keymap handling in
                    simplified-live-cd as a dependency of espresso]
   09:36 Mithrandir mdz: ok.
   09:36 mdz        thanks Mithrandir
   09:37 mdz        mjg59?
                    I'd love comments on the encrypted swap for live cd idea,
   09:37 Mithrandir though.  Thought about it while walking through the snow
                    yesterday
   09:37 JaneW      mjg59 doesn;t appear to be around either - will mail him
                    too
                    mdz, power management is implemented so far ... aprat
   09:37 ogra       from normal bugfixing and a lid mode to lock the screen
                    it should be fine
   09:38 mdz        ogra: is someone working on the screen locking bit?
   09:38 pitti      ogra: we still need to clean up the ppc side
   09:38 ogra       mdz, me and mjg59 as fallback if i dont make it ...
   09:39 ogra       pitti, i thought you did that already
   09:39 JaneW      the spec is still in drafting and mjg59 siad 'hal may
                    need some loving now'
   09:39 pitti      ogra: partly
   09:39 pitti      ogra: I made pmi not require pbbuttonsd any more
   09:39 ogra       mdz, we have a sabdfl bug open about it ... so i consider
                    it somewhat prioritzed
   09:39 JaneW      who is going to complete the spec and/or get it approved?
   09:39 pitti      but we still install pbbuttonsd by default
   09:40 mdz        ogra: about what? powerpc or screen locking?
   09:40 ogra       pitti, that should be handled by mvo's tool
   09:40 mdz        the screen locking issue is a regression from breezy, so
                    it needs to be fixed regardless
   09:40 ogra       mdz, lid -> screenlock
   09:40 ogra       #29881
   09:40 pitti      ogra: no, I mean, it still does some important things,
                    like CD ejection and tap keybard handling
   09:40 mdz        mvo: next?
   09:40 mvo        ogra: can you give me details what is required after the
                    meeting please
   09:40 mvo        Did:
   09:40 mvo        * third-party-packages:
   09:40 mvo          - gnome-app-install gui improvements (new-look branch)
   09:40 mvo          - menu-data file updates
   09:40 mvo          - non-root mode
   09:40 mvo          - uploaded
   09:40 pitti      erm, s/keyboard/mousepad/
   09:40 mvo        * release-upgrades:
   09:40 mvo          - various bugfixes, more flexible rules
   09:40 mvo          - non-interactive Dist-Upgrader ready
   09:41 mvo        * misc:
                      - new update-manager that fixes a anoying
   09:41 mvo        focus,  problem, fix a apt regression with install and
                    --print-uris, usual bugtriage etc
   09:41 mvo        Will do:
   09:41 mvo        - revert update-notifier back to use libgamin instead of
                    gnome-vfs to fix 100% cpu consumation bug
   09:41 mdz        mvo: what remains before third-party-packages is
                    implemented?
   09:41 mvo        - talk to infinity about a chroot for the automatic
                    dist-upgrade testing
   09:41 mvo        mdz: we hardly have any 3rd party channels yet, so it
                    gets little testing
   09:41 mdz        are upgrades from breezy working again so that further
                    release-upgrades testing is possible?
   09:41 pitti      mvo: we need to talk about translations in the desktop
                    files shipped in g-a-i
   09:41 mvo        but otherwise I think we are more or less done
   09:41 mdz        mvo: we have a test channel, though, right?
   09:42 Riddell    mvo: we need to split the .desktop files and icons from
                    g-a-i for the new adept simplified installer
   09:42 mvo        mdz: yes, a skype test-channel and jbaileys
                    mdz: dist-upgrades should work again, there was a
   09:42 mvo        linux-restricted-modules upload yesterday (nvidida was
                    borken)
   09:42 mvo        pitti: ok
   09:42 mvo        Riddell: ok, will it use the same bits?
   09:43 Riddell    mvo: yes, it does
   09:43 mvo        Riddell: nice, I'll do that then next week
   09:44 Riddell    thanks, let me know when you have and I'll check it works
                    with adept
   09:44 mdz        mvo: are test reports still coming in for
                    release-upgrades?
   === Lathiat [i=lathiat@ubuntu/member/pdpc.basic.lathiat] has joined
## ubuntu-meeting
   09:44 mvo        mdz: yes, but less now
   09:44 pitti      still any major failures?
   09:44 mvo        I'll update the backport to the latest code and ask for
                    another testing run
   09:45 mdz        ok
   09:45 mvo        I don't think anything major, a lot was fixed over the
                    last week
   09:45 mdz        thanks mvo
   09:45 JaneW      hi Lathiat, just in time for an update...
   09:45 mdz        ogra?
*********** thin-client-memory-usage: kernel image handling
   09:45 ogra       implemented (dropping of l-r-m from thin clients), only
                    missing bit is nbd swap
*********** thin-client-faster-startup: wrapped all preseed values
   09:45 ogra       to not call debconf-communicate if not necessary, only
                    missing bit is initscript handling
   09:45 ogra       * gnome-screensaver-default-image: no work done
*********** general: tons of ltsp merges, bugfixes and small
                    enhancements, powerpc can bootstrap thin clients now
   09:45 ogra       (still some yaboot bits missing to make it fully work),
                    xscreensaver fixes, serial mouse autodetection: no
                    valuable feedback yet, usplash-on-thin-clients spec
                    (infinity): implemented
*********** next week:  finish ltsp nbd implementation, finish init
                    script handling in ltsp, finish powerpc support for ltsp,
                    flight4 preparation, more ltsp merges (its really nice to
   09:45 ogra       see that debian speeds up to match feature freeze with
                    their ltsp enhancements for us, even if there is no urge
                    for them), implement a "lock only" mode for
                    gnome-powermanagers lid function (sabdfl bug #29881).
   === slomo [n=slomo@dslb-084-061-183-138.pools.arcor-ip.net] has joined
## ubuntu-meeting
                    ogra: ok, please prioritize completion of the
   09:46 mdz        thin-client-* specs over other small features for ltsp;
                    need to finish those off
   09:46 mdz        powerpc support is also low priority
   09:46 ogra       mdz, i was planning to have that done this week ...
   09:46 Lathiat    hi jane
   09:46 JaneW      ogra: :)
   09:46 JaneW      ogra: then you can create some gnome apps to replace the
                    KDE ones :P
   09:46 ogra       i have ppc working locally (pitti tested it in london)
                    its just a small amount of work
   09:47 mdz        ogra: once they're complete, ask the LTSP guys for
                    feedback since they were driving the requirements
   09:47 Riddell    JaneW: bah
   09:47 ogra       will do
   09:47 mdz        thanks ogra
   09:47 mdz        Lathiat: do you have an update prepared?
   09:48 Lathiat    mdz: not prepared but i can hammer something out quickly
   09:48 mdz        Lathiat: I'll come back to you at the end
   09:48 mdz        pitti?
   09:48 Lathiat    ok
   09:48 pitti      this week so far:
*********** evaluated scim for main inclusion and functionality,
   09:48 pitti      integrated its modules into language-support for OOTB
                    support for Asian languages
   09:48 pitti      * changed PowerPC's pmi to not depend on pbbuttonsd any
                    more
   09:48 pitti      * improved sudo hint, added manpage
   09:48 pitti      * some bug fixes
*********** caught up with lots of stuff that got deferred in the
   09:48 pitti      sprint week (email, bounty review, security updates, bug
                    mail)
   09:48 pitti      status of unimplemented specs:
*********** reducing-duplication: DONE last week: Dropped MySQL 4.0
                    and 4.1, Gnome 1, OpenSSL 0.9.7; converted most packages
   09:48 pitti      to db4.3; still TODO: actual demotion of mysql 4.1, only
                    one openldap version (hard!), gnutls11->12 (mostly easy,
                    but openldap still needs 11), split enigmail to drop
                    mozilla (infinity), drop python 2.3 (doko)
*********** langpacks-desktopfiles: DONE: nothing last week, BLOCK:
   09:48 pitti      zyga needs to send me his current patches for
                    langpacks-desktopfiles; if that does not happen RSN, I'll
                    just do it from scratch; PLAN: finish this by next week.
*********** firewall: DONE: almost finished negotiating the bounty
   09:48 pitti      with carstenh, with 95% probability this will be deferred
                    to dapper+1; BLOCK: final approval by mdz
   09:48 pitti      * automated-problem-reports, automatic-printer-conf: no
                    blocks, no time, deferred to dapper+1
   09:48 pitti      other stuff next week:
   09:48 pitti      * release the pile of pending security updates, BLOCK:
                    working -security uploads
   09:48 pitti      * fix breakage of Georgian langpacks in breezy-updates,
                    BLOCK: breezy-updates uploads
   09:48 pitti      * catch up with bug triage some more
*********** find out why tbird locale packages don't work, upload
   09:48 pitti      m-t-locale-all source package, drop obsolete locale
                    source packages
   09:49 mdz        pitti: are you getting information from the SIL guys or
                    elsewhere regarding which scim modules we should use?
   09:49 pitti      (sorry, got a bit lenghty this time)
   09:49 pitti      mdz: yes, I cooperated with freeflying
   09:49 pitti      mdz: he knows about that stuff really well
                    JaneW: please get an update from infinity regarding the
   09:49 mdz        enigmail work which is blocking demotion of mozilla; that
                    will be a big win for reducing-duplication
                    pitti: sabdfl asked me to add input method support in
   09:50 mvo        language-selector, maybe we can talk about that after the
                    meetig
   09:50 mdz        pitti: who is freeflying?
   09:50 JaneW      mdz: will do
   09:50 pitti      mvo: already done through the support packages
   09:50 mdz        pitti: sabdfl basically wants to remov ethe distinction
                    between support and pack in the selector
   09:50 pitti      mdz: he hangs around in #u-devel quite often and is
                    involved heavily in scim development
                    pitti: do you think we should try to add the scim stuff
   09:50 mvo        automatically to the users session ? or is this not
                    required
   09:50 freeflying mdz: hi I'm from china
   09:50 mdz        pitti: I mean what is freeflying's real name?
   09:50 Riddell    freeflying is leader of cjk-testers on launchpad and has
                    helped me lots getting CJK support in kubuntu
   09:50 pitti      mdz: I replied to his current email, btw
   09:51 Riddell    real name Hou
   09:51 mdz        freeflying: hello and thanks
   09:51 pitti      mdz: Zhengpeng Hou
   09:51 pitti      mvo: scim itself will be installed in ubuntu-desktop,
                    it's pretty small
   09:51 mdz        pitti: the only remaining bit of langpacks-desktopfiles
                    is .server files, right?
   09:51 pitti      mvo: but the modules are really big, that's why I made
                    them l-support dependencies
   09:51 pitti      mdz: right
   09:52 mdz        if that doesn't make it, it's still a success for dapper;
                    that bit is low priority
   09:52 pitti      mdz: zyga already has some code, but not yet uploaded
   09:52 pitti      I didn't reach him recently
   09:52 mdz        if zyga makes it, good, if not, that's ok
   09:52 pitti      mdz: yes, I agree; but it should be cheap to fully
                    complete it
   09:52 mdz        thanks pitti
   09:52 mdz        seb128?
                    this week: catching up with bugs and mails from previous
   09:52 seb128     week, some GNOME updates, tracked some issues with the
                    current GNOME and forwarded them upstream
   09:52 seb128     .
   09:52 seb128     next week: GNOME 2.13.91, dapper-desktop-plan
   09:52 pitti      mdz: and it involves a fair bit of package rebuilds
   09:52 mvo        pitti: I guess it must still be activated by the user
                    somehow?
   09:53 pitti      mvo: let's talk after meeting
   09:53 mdz        seb128: have you talked with sabdfl about his UI sprint?
   09:53 seb128     what UI sprint?
   09:53 mdz        ok, that's a 'no'
   09:53 mdz        I'll send email
   09:53 seb128     thanks
   09:53 JaneW      heh
   09:53 mdz        thanks seb128
   09:54 mdz        sivang: any update?
   09:54 Lathiat    im leaving shortly so if i could go next
   09:54 mdz        Lathiat: go ahead
   09:54 JaneW      I don't think sivang is here
   09:54 Lathiat    for network-manager
   09:54 JaneW      will mail him too
   09:54 Lathiat    has it yet been decided is thats being done in dapper?
   09:54 mdz        Lathiat: no
   09:54 Lathiat    or is that still pending?
   09:55 ogra       waiting for more feedback from tests
   09:55 Lathiat    ok
                    tests looked quite good last week, but it still needs
   09:55 pitti      some work (like ignoring /etc/network/interfaces devices
                    and such)
   09:55 mdz        Lathiat: do you have an update on your own work to
                    present?
   09:55 Lathiat    done:
   09:55 Lathiat    * avahi is in main, recently updated to 0.6.6
   09:55 Lathiat    not done:
   09:55 Lathiat    * waiting on status of networkmanager integration
                    regarding zcip config
   09:55 Lathiat    * is not set to not listen on network by default, need
                    some more discussion with
   09:55 Lathiat    others about the exact way to do this (not installing vs
                    not listening)
   09:55 Lathiat    * gnome dialog to activate/deactivate not done, pending
                    interface listen changes
   09:55 Lathiat    , blocking on above
   09:55 ogra       pitti, and its going mad if you have two running
                    interfaces at the same time ...
   09:55 mdz        the consensus before was that we should have a simple way
                    to enable it in the desktop
   09:56 mdz        perhaps via that applet that displays available services?
   09:56 Lathiat    mdz: right, there was alos discussion of doing it per
                    interface etc
   09:56 Lathiat    and then integrating it into network-admin
   09:56 Lathiat    as opposed to "on/off"
   09:56 mdz        I don't think it needs to be that fancy, just on/off
   09:56 Lathiat    that woudl be good, because the interface stuff needs
                    more work on the avahi side which isnt done yet
   09:56 Lathiat    thats largely a matter of a /etc/default file
   09:57 mdz        is there an existing dialog where we can add a toggle?
   09:57 Lathiat    i'll look into doing that this week
   09:57 mdz        where it would be appropriate?
   09:57 Lathiat    mdz: hrm
   09:57 mdz        seems awkward to add a whole new preference dialog just
                    for this
   09:57 Lathiat    i dont think so
   09:57 Lathiat    mdz: true, but im not sure where itd fit
   09:57 Lathiat    i suppose the network admin
   09:57 Lathiat    could get an extra tab
   09:57 mdz        yeah ,was just looking there
   09:57 mdz        I think that would be reasonable
   09:57 mdz        seb128, what do you thinkx?
   09:57 Lathiat    i dont have a gnome desktop handy right this second to
                    look myself
   09:57 mdz        s/x//
   09:58 Lathiat    i'll look into it this week and discuss and report next
                    week?
   09:58 seb128     a network-admin tab seems fine to me
   09:58 mdz        ok, sounds good
   09:58 seb128     maybe on the second tab
   09:58 mdz        thanks Lathiat
   09:58 mdz        Riddell?
   09:58 seb128     there is just the hostname atm
   09:58 Riddell    kubuntu-express: got a good chunck ported from gtk, give
                    it another week and it might be done
                    also: getting ipod slave to work, fixing kdelibs to
   09:58 Riddell    ignore Gnome's new autostart files, get kde
                    network-manager working (but needs CVS network-manager so
                    not for dapper)
   09:58 Riddell    todo: kubuntu-express, flight 4
   09:58 mdz        Lathiat: please discuss with seb128 and the desktop team
                    and get a consensus; shouldn't take long
   09:58 Lathiat    mdz: sure
   09:58 Riddell    (where done in kubuntu-express there means matching the
                    gtk frontend)
   09:59 Kamion     I was about to say. :)
   09:59 mdz        Riddell: cool, any screenshots of kubuntu-express?
   09:59 Riddell    mdz: yes, see my blog (on planet)
   09:59 ogra       on his blog :)
   === Lathiat [i=lathiat@ubuntu/member/pdpc.basic.lathiat] has left
## ubuntu-meeting ["cheers"]
   09:59 mdz        nice
   10:00 mdz        Riddell: thanks, looking forward to more
   10:00 mdz        Kamion: quick outlook for flight 4?
   === sivang is here
   10:00 mdz        (we're out of time)
                    Everyone: Please all let me know if you have status
   10:00 JaneW      changes to your goals so I can update them. Alternately
                    change them yourself in LP, and I'll pick it up.
   10:00 Kamion     mdz: need to sort out my test machine before I know the
                    state of current images
   10:00 Kamion     so I guess next week
   10:00 mdz        ok
   10:00 mdz        sivang: if you have a prepared status update to paste, go
                    ahead
   10:00 JaneW      sivang: shoot if you have an update, I'll grab it for
                    report
   10:00 JaneW      or mail me if you prefer
   10:00 mdz        otherwise mail janew
                    mdz: mainly, some more improvments for the utility
   10:01 sivang     classes, I'm now researching to ue threads to implement
                    the burner class, and then move on to finish the GUI.
   10:01 pitti      is that backup?
   10:01 mdz        presumably
   10:01 sivang     pitti: yes, home-user-backup
                    I had hoped for the firewall spec last week, but it
   10:01 JaneW      doesn;t look like it will happen for dapper without more
                    of a concerted effort.
   10:01 mdz        sivang: think you'll have something ready to present for
                    feature freeze?
   10:02 mdz        JaneW: it needs a lot of work
   10:02 sivang     mdz: I'm going to cut down to minimum stuff that can be
                    dropped for a first version, and then see
   10:02 mdz        ok
   10:02 mdz        we're out of time
   10:03 mdz        thanks, everyone
   10:03 mdz        adjourned
   10:03 JaneW      mdz: yes I figured :/
   10:03 sivang     thanks mdz
   10:03 JaneW      thanks mdz
   10:03 JaneW      report should be sent out later today
   

</pre>
