{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
* Raring Development
** Release Bugs - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html
** Release Tracking Bug Tasks - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
** Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-quantal/group/topic-raring-servercloud-overview.html
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time
=== Minutes ===

Meeting started by arosales at 16:04:23 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-12-04-16.04.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html   (jamespage, 16:07:18)
''ACTION:'' move to http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server for release bug tracking  (arosales, 16:08:34)
''ACTION:'' deprecate http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html  (arosales, 16:08:47)

* Raring Development
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RaringRingtail/ReleaseSchedule   (arosales, 16:09:59)
** Release Bugs  (arosales, 16:14:04)
''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#serverÂ    (arosales, 16:14:34)
''ACTION:'' arosales update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting/IRCCommands with new release bug link of Â http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#serverÂ   (arosales, 16:15:21)
''ACTION:'' roaksoax to review MAAS bugs, and sync with upstream  (arosales, 16:18:05)
''LINK:'' http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-raring/ubuntu-server.html   (arosales, 16:23:47)
''ACTION:'' arosales to investigate why status tracker is not picking up servercloud area  (arosales, 16:24:30)
''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server?searchtext=servercloud+r   (arosales, 16:27:30)
''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server?searchtext=servercloud+r   (arosales, 16:27:35)
''ACTION:'' jamespage, smoser: we need to review/approve the final few BPs for the release and then retarget  (arosales, 16:32:01)
''ACTION:'' jamespage, arosales confirm if https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+upcomingwork should be used in ubuntu-server team IRC meeting for BP status  (arosales, 16:32:54)

* Ubuntu Server Team Events

* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)

* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/Specs/QuantalLTSEnablementStack (#9)  (smb, 16:39:31)
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/Specs/QuantalLTSEnablementStack   (arosales, 16:40:28)

* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)

* Open Discussion

* Announce next meeting date and time

Meeting ended at 16:50:44 UTC.

=== Action items ===

* move to http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server for release bug tracking
* deprecate http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html
* arosales update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting/IRCCommands with new release bug link of Â http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#serverÂ 
* roaksoax to review MAAS bugs, and sync with upstream
* arosales to investigate why status tracker is not picking up servercloud area
* jamespage, smoser: we need to review/approve the final few BPs for the release and then retarget
* jamespage, arosales confirm if https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+upcomingwork should be used in ubuntu-server team IRC meeting for BP status

=== Action items, by person ===

* arosales
* * arosales update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting/IRCCommands with new release bug link of Â http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#serverÂ 
* * arosales to investigate why status tracker is not picking up servercloud area
* * jamespage, arosales confirm if https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+upcomingwork should be used in ubuntu-server team IRC meeting for BP status
* jamespage
* * jamespage, smoser: we need to review/approve the final few BPs for the release and then retarget
* * jamespage, arosales confirm if https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+upcomingwork should be used in ubuntu-server team IRC meeting for BP status
* smoser
* * jamespage, smoser: we need to review/approve the final few BPs for the release and then retarget
* **UNASSIGNED**
* * move to http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server for release bug tracking
* * deprecate http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html
* * roaksoax to review MAAS bugs, and sync with upstream

=== People present (lines said) ===

* arosales (116)
* jamespage (23)
* smb (16)
* hggdh (13)
* meetingology (10)
* smoser (7)
* ubottu (4)
* zul (3)
* Daviey (2)
* !TheLordOfTime (1)
* rbasak (1)
* m_3 (1)
* jimbaker (1)
* utlemming (1)

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, Dec 11st at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
16:04:23 <arosales> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team

 16:04:23 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Dec  4 16:04:23 2012 UTC.  The chair is arosales. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 16:04:23 <meetingology> 

 16:04:23 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 16:04:39 <arosales> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting

 16:05:13 <arosales> hmm, where the action points updated from the previous meeting . . . ?

 16:05:20 <arosales> Daviey to fix the release bugs report

 16:05:24 <jamespage> thats the one

 16:05:32 <arosales> everyone look through http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server

 16:05:37 * jamespage proposes we scrap that report

 16:05:48 <jamespage> its actually working aside from the fact it says 'Quantal'

 16:06:04 <jamespage> but we are not using the subscribe ubuntu-server-release method any more

 16:06:08 <arosales> hmm is the release team using that report still?

 16:06:18 <jamespage> use this report instead: http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server

 16:06:36 <jamespage> arosales, thats not the report Daviey is mean't to be fixing

 16:06:54 <jamespage> arosales, thats this one -http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html

 16:07:08 <arosales> jamespage: to confirm what report were you suggesting to scrap?

 16:07:18 <jamespage> http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html

 16:07:46 <arosales> and that was the one Daviey was going to review, correct?

 16:08:10 <jamespage> he was going to fix yes

 16:08:34 <arosales> #action move to http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server for release bug tracking

 16:08:34 * meetingology move to http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server for release bug tracking

 16:08:41 <zul> i like that one less nova/openstack bugs

 16:08:47 <arosales> #action deprecate http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html

 16:08:47 * meetingology deprecate http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html

 16:09:04 <arosales> jamespage: is that the correct actions?

 16:09:08 <Daviey> +1, i agree with that

 16:09:11 <jamespage> +!

 16:09:16 <jamespage> +1 even

 16:09:34 <arosales> ok, got those logged as actoins

 16:09:41 <arosales> *actions :-)

 16:09:49 <arosales> #topic Raring Development

 16:09:59 <arosales> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RaringRingtail/ReleaseSchedule

 16:10:14 <arosales> Alpha one coming up

 16:10:49 <arosales> Daviey: do we need to notify the release team of server participating in A1, or is that just for flavors?

 16:10:56 <jamespage> which server is not opting in to right?

 16:10:57 <arosales> December 6th

 16:10:58 <arosales> Alpha 1 (for opt-in flavors)

 16:11:31 <arosales> sounds like we need to opt in too then .. .

 16:11:48 <arosales> jamespage: to confirm server is _not_ going to opt into A1, correct?

 16:12:03 <jamespage> correct AFAIK

 16:12:14 <arosales> any other comments on A1?

 16:12:15 <smoser> i dont think we've had this discussion. i dont see a strong reason for a fire drill.

 16:12:38 <jamespage> +1

 16:12:39 <smoser> but my general feeling is that milestones are useful targets. but not if they're 2 days from now.

 16:12:57 <arosales> thats reasonable

 16:13:10 <arosales> smoser: so we should plan on A2 then?

 16:13:11 <arosales> February 7th

 16:13:12 <arosales> Alpha 2 (for opt-in flavors)

 16:13:29 <smoser> i would say we should definitely opt in to a feb 7 date.

 16:13:42 <arosales> utlemming: not cloud images will also not opt in for A1, but lets plan on A2 to be in-line with server

 16:13:47 <arosales> s/not/note/

 16:14:01 <jamespage> sounds sane to me

 16:14:01 <arosales> onto bugs

 16:14:04 <smoser> worthy note, next set of cloud images should reliably boot. thakns to mountall fix.

 16:14:04 <arosales> #subtopic Release Bugs

 16:14:12 <jamespage> smoser, \o/

 16:14:13 <utlemming> arosales: ack

 16:14:34 <arosales> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server

 16:14:51 <arosales> since we are deprecating http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/release-bugs.html

 16:15:21 <arosales> #action arosales update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting/IRCCommands with new release bug link of Â http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server

 16:15:21 * meetingology arosales update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting/IRCCommands with new release bug link of Â http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server

 16:15:57 <arosales> jamespage: smoser: should we at least step through the critical and maybe high bugs?

 16:16:07 <arosales> bug http://launchpad.net/bugs/1081212

 16:16:09 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1081212 in maas (Ubuntu Quantal) "The address of the API in pserv.conf (tftp/generator) is http://localhost/MAAS/api/1.0/pxeconfig/" [Critical,Triaged]

 16:17:02 <arosales> looks to be fixed in trunk and 1.2 mass, but uncertain of Ubuntu

 16:17:17 <arosales> Daviey: ^

 16:17:25 <smoser> arosales, i'd say that the maas bugs are probalby not worth going through here.

 16:17:31 <jamespage> arosales, I'd ask roaksoax for general comment on the maas bugs; most of then are in hand upstream

 16:17:38 <jamespage> and will land in the stablization release

 16:18:05 <arosales> #action roaksoax to review MAAS bugs, and sync with upstream

 16:18:05 * meetingology roaksoax to review MAAS bugs, and sync with upstream

 16:18:22 <arosales> 1064224 is maas

 16:18:23 <Daviey> arosales: hola

 16:18:36 <arosales> 1069734 is maas

 16:18:53 <arosales> sorry /me just noticed the package column . .

 16:19:11 <arosales> so all these bugs are mass on the server list except http://launchpad.net/bugs/671065

 16:19:13 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 671065 in dovecot (Ubuntu) "deliver broken because dovecot.conf uses !include_try" [Medium,In progress]

 16:19:20 <arosales> and http://launchpad.net/bugs/1066845

 16:19:21 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1066845 in nova (Ubuntu Raring) "nova-novncproxy is not running; Suggest: novnc should be Depends" [Low,Triaged]

 16:20:10 <arosales> 671065 looks like it wasn't going to be fixed in Quantal, any ideas on Raring?

 16:20:40 <arosales> jamespage: It looks like you commented on it being to late for Quantal and bumping to Raring

 16:20:52 <jamespage> arosales, I'll take it

 16:21:18 <arosales> ivoks was also working on it.

 16:21:48 <arosales> zul any comments on 1066845

 16:21:55 <arosales> low priority . .  .

 16:22:05 <zul> arosales: should already be fixed in raring

 16:22:36 <arosales> zul: could you please update the bug with that info?

 16:22:43 <zul> yep

 16:22:52 <arosales> thanks

 16:22:57 <arosales> thats it for bugs.

 16:23:04 <arosales> unless anyone has any others.

 16:23:47 <arosales> ok moving on

 16:23:47 <arosales> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-raring/ubuntu-server.html

 16:24:14 * arosales noticed http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-raring/ wasn't picking up the servercloud area

 16:24:30 <arosales> #action arosales to investigate why status tracker is not picking up servercloud area

 16:24:30 * meetingology arosales to investigate why status tracker is not picking up servercloud area

 16:25:20 <arosales> the "todos" are currently staying below the trend line, which is nice

 16:26:09 <arosales> actually the topics at http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-raring/ubuntu-server.html don't look correct

 16:26:37 <arosales> hmm status tracker doesn't look to be in a healthy state, I don't think we can trust the info atm.

 16:27:30 <arosales> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server?searchtext=servercloud+r

 16:27:32 <arosales> sorry

 16:27:35 <arosales> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server?searchtext=servercloud+r

 16:28:01 <arosales> and possibly https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+upcomingwork

 16:28:20 <arosales> if the BPs are targetted correctly ;-)

 16:28:36 <arosales> assuming the BPs are targetted correctly

 16:28:48 <arosales> WI due for A1 (dec 6) look to be done

 16:29:03 <arosales> as there are none ;-)

 16:29:17 <arosales> juju-core as some upcoming for dec 13

 16:29:57 <arosales> any BPs folks want to bring up here?

 16:30:22 <arosales> btw: smoser, jamespage: Daviey: are you guys targetting BPs?

 16:30:28 <jamespage> arosales, yes

 16:30:43 <jamespage> but they need to be reviewed as the month ones did not exists when we did it first time

 16:30:56 <arosales> cool, so perhaps https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+upcomingwork may be a good review of upcoming work that needs addressed . ..

 16:30:57 <arosales> thoughts?

 16:30:59 <jamespage> Daviey, smoser: we need to review/approve the final few for the release and then retarget

 16:31:11 <smoser> yeah.

 16:31:38 <arosales> who would like the action there?

 16:31:46 <smoser> me is fine

 16:31:47 <jamespage> yes please

 16:32:01 <arosales> #action jamespage, smoser: we need to review/approve the final few BPs for the release and then retarget

 16:32:01 * meetingology jamespage, smoser: we need to review/approve the final few BPs for the release and then retarget

 16:32:17 <arosales> ok, any BPs folks would like to bring up?

 16:32:54 <arosales> #action jamespage, arosales confirm if https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+upcomingwork should be used in ubuntu-server team IRC meeting for BP status

 16:32:54 * meetingology jamespage, arosales confirm if https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+upcomingwork should be used in ubuntu-server team IRC meeting for BP status

 16:33:19 <arosales> moving to next topic

 16:33:21 <arosales> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events

 16:33:59 <jimbaker> scalex cfp deadline is next monday (dec 10)

 16:34:07 <arosales> negronjl: will be at Lisa Dec 9-14 doing a BOF (http://www.usenix.org/event/lisa12/cfp/)

 16:34:15 <m_3> ah, thanks for the reminder jim

 16:34:45 <arosales> m_3: and jcastro at scale it looks like from https://juju.ubuntu.com/Events/

 16:34:57 <arosales> any other events for server?

 16:35:19 <arosales> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)

 16:35:31 <hggdh> hi

 16:36:02 <hggdh> no real news, except that I want to look at the ec2 test automation to drive kernel tests. Will chat with jamespage later on

 16:36:07 <hggdh> ..

 16:36:13 <arosales> hggdh: is that via UTAH?

 16:36:25 <hggdh> arosales: no, it is outside UTAH

 16:36:55 <hggdh> arosales: move to UTAH will depend on the kernel team

 16:37:06 <arosales> hggdh: is cloud deployments on UTAH's road map?

 16:37:42 <hggdh> arosales: it is beneath the horizon right now, but it has been considered

 16:38:04 <arosales> hggdh: ok, thanks for the update. We'll also ask smb about kernel and utah in the next topic :-)

 16:38:10 <arosales> any questions/comments for hggdh?

 16:38:11 <hggdh> heh

 16:38:26 <arosales> thanks hggdh for the update

 16:38:31 <arosales> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)

 16:38:33 <smb> Hello. I wanted to bring up two things. First to clarify the slight confusion I was causing last time with respect to rolling kernel. So the ISOs for 12.04.2 will have the quantal kernel and quantal x stack but that is under the name of enablement stack, not the rolling kernel as I incorrectly brought up.

 16:39:06 <smb> The plan with rolling kernel updates really has been put back.

 16:39:24 <hggdh> smb: so default kernel keeps the same, correct?

 16:39:31 <smb> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/Specs/QuantalLTSEnablementStack  (#9)

 16:39:32 <arosales> smb: so folks can keep on the precise kernel, and still get updates

 16:39:54 <smb> If they use the 12.04 or 12.04.1 cds for install and upgrade yes

 16:40:08 <smb> When using the 12.04.2 cds they get the newer kernel

 16:40:17 <arosales> smb: great, thanks for the clarification

 16:40:26 * hggdh is quite confused now

 16:40:28 <arosales> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/Specs/QuantalLTSEnablementStack

 16:40:31 <smb> Ok, the second thin, I am not sure it was already discussed

 16:40:40 <smb> (brain unfortunately has multitasking issues)

 16:40:53 <smb> So right now Xen-4.2 is in raring-proposed

 16:41:22 <smb> This causes xen-api (xcp-xapi) to have issues because the xl api is incompatible

 16:41:40 <smb> And this is probably also keeping nova back in proposed

 16:42:29 <smb> AFAIK this is known to the xcp guys but until resolved everything is kept back in proposed

 16:42:35 <smb> ..

 16:42:39 <arosales> hggdh: any clearer now?

 16:42:47 <hggdh> aye

 16:43:08 <arosales> I think the important piece for server is point 9 in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/Specs/QuantalLTSEnablementStack

 16:43:25 <hggdh> but I do not see much difference from before -- new installs get the new kernel, updates from 12.04/12.04.1 get the old

 16:43:43 <arosales> in that folks can continue to use the precise kernel and get updates

 16:44:07 <smb> I think the big difference is what and how things get enforced. The rolling kernel plan would have moved people automatically

 16:44:11 <arosales> I think the main point is an LTS getting non-LTS stack option (ie rolling)

 16:44:42 <hggdh> yes, and the need to support both on all

 16:45:20 <arosales> smb: ya forcing folks to upgrade their LTS kernel would have been a bit scary, thanks for keeping the option to stay on the precise kernel.

 16:45:54 <arosales> smb: hggdh had a question regarding UTAH and kernel testing

 16:46:08 <smb> yep

 16:46:20 <arosales> smb: is kernel team going to be using UTAH in their testing?  (perhaps smb can provide some more context)

 16:46:38 <arosales> sorry perhaps hggdh can provide more context :-)

 16:46:48 <smb> arosales, I can forward that question to the people doing it

 16:46:50 <smb> :)

 16:46:58 <arosales> smb: ok thanks

 16:47:08 <arosales> any other questions for smb?

 16:47:22 <hggdh> I do not think the kernel team is looking at porting to UTAH right now

 16:47:43 <arosales> smb: thanks for the update

 16:47:48 <arosales> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)

 16:48:04 <rbasak> The highbank installer is broken in quantal and we should have a fix shortly (bug 1084106). Nothing else to report. Any questions for me?

 16:48:05 <arosales> rbasak: any news on the ARM front ?

 16:48:07 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1084106 in The Eilt project "highbank installer broken" [Undecided,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1084106

 16:48:33 <arosales> I'll take it no further questions for rbasak.

 16:48:38 <arosales> rbasak: thanks for the update.

 16:48:47 <arosales> #topic Open Discussion

 16:49:37 <arosales> any topics folks would like to discuss

 16:49:50 <arosales> going 1 . .

 16:49:51 <arosales> 2 . .  .

 16:49:53 <arosales> 3. . .

 16:50:03 <arosales> #topic Announce next meeting date and time

 16:50:03 <TheLordOfTime> guess not :P

 16:50:10 <arosales> :-)

 16:50:23 <arosales> next meeting is: Tuesday 2012-12-11 at 1600 UTC

 16:50:38 <arosales> thanks for joining, and your time

 16:50:44 <arosales> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
</pre>
