{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
  1. gnuoy move meeting to openstack-meeting channel
  2. gnuoy to update testing for multi-release upgrade testing
* State of Development for next Charm Release
* High Priority Bugs
* Openstack Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/OpenStackCharmsChairActions

=== Minutes ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====

gnuoy carried forward the action to move this meeting

gnuoy will write mojo specs for multi-release upgrade testing as part of the 1607 release

==== State of Development for next Charm Release ====

* SSL layer changes mostly landed
* DNS HA landed
* Keystone v3 enabled dashboard up for review

==== High Priority Bugs ====

Nothing came up

==== Openstack Events ====

Call to start working on ODS talk submissions. Ideas included:

* 101 sessions for Juju
* openstack specific charming session
* sriov session 

==== Announce next meeting date, time and chair ====

same time, same place (maybe) and tinwood is down to chair

==== Meeting Actions ====
** gnuoy move meeting to openstack-meeting channel

=== Log ===
<pre>
[17:02] <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Jun 29 17:02:37 2016 UTC.  The chair is gnuoy. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[17:02] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | openstack-charms-meeting | Current topic:
[17:02] <gnuoy> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | openstack-charms-meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[17:03] <gnuoy> #subtopic gnuoy move meeting to openstack-meeting channel
[17:03] <cargonza> o/
[17:03] <gnuoy> YEs, well we're here, so I haven't
[17:03] <cholcombe> o/
[17:03] <cargonza> gnuoy, it seems that this timeslot is filled by another meeting in the openstack-meeting channel.. just an fyi...
[17:03] <gnuoy> #subtopic gnuoy to update testing for multi-release upgrade testing
[17:04] <gnuoy> cargonza, ah. ok, thanks for the info
[17:04] <gnuoy> I'll probably do the testing update as part of the 16.07 prep tbh
[17:04] <gnuoy> #topic State of Development for next Charm Release
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | openstack-charms-meeting | Current topic: State of Development for next Charm Release
[17:04] <gnuoy> SSL layer stuff mostly landed.
[17:04] <thedac> DNS HA landed \o/
[17:04] <gnuoy> \o/
[17:05] <gnuoy> tip top
[17:05] <tinwood> \o/
[17:05] <cargonza> nice!
[17:05] <icey> woot
[17:05] <gnuoy> Keystone v3 support for the dashboard up for review. Interestingly to get it to work I had to add a relation from the dash to the db
[17:06] <gnuoy> Ah, on that subject does anyone know of an Openstack charm which has some logic like:
[17:06] <gnuoy> If config option A is enabled then Relation X is needed
[17:06] <gnuoy> I need to reflect that in the workload sttaus code ^
[17:06] <tinwood> Strangely, I've done that with Barbican and the hsm for testing.
[17:06] <thedac> Can that be expressed in a context?
[17:07] <gnuoy> thedac, yes it could
[17:07] <gnuoy> I guess thats my answer
[17:07] <gnuoy> thanks
[17:08] <gnuoy> Oh, and we need Openstack upgrade support to get into the layers before 16.07
[17:08] <thedac> also, Apparmor profiles are a WIP
[17:08] <gnuoy> ah, yes
[17:08] <gnuoy> #topic Release Bugs
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | openstack-charms-meeting | Current topic: Release Bugs
[17:08] <gnuoy> #link https://goo.gl/HJjORI
[17:09] <gnuoy> not much shift there, lets try and get that number down for next week
[17:09] <gnuoy> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | openstack-charms-meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[17:10] <gnuoy> Anyone got anythong they'd like to openly discuss?
[17:10] <thedac> I think the topic submission for Openstack Summit is coming up quick
[17:10] <gnuoy> Right, we need ideas
[17:11] <coreycb> o/
[17:11] <gnuoy> I wonder if we could do some 101 sessions for Juju?
[17:11] <thedac> good idea. Make it official
[17:12] <thedac> And an openstack specific charming session
[17:12] <gnuoy> yeah
[17:12] <coreycb> those are good ideas
[17:12] <coreycb> do we know when the deadline is?
[17:12] <gnuoy> We need an sriov session but I don't have the background for that tbh
[17:13] <thedac> July 13th according to beisner
[17:13] <cargonza> nfv/sdn specifics also??
[17:13] <coreycb> thedac, ok
[17:14] <gnuoy> I guess nfv and sriov would probably go together
[17:14] <thedac> #link https://www.openstack.org/summit-login/login
[17:14] <thedac> strangely that is the correct link ^^
[17:16] <gnuoy> ok, well any ideas lets collate them even if you don't end up doing the talk
[17:16] <gnuoy> anymore items?
[17:17] <gnuoy> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | openstack-charms-meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
[17:17] <gnuoy> same time, same place (maybe) and tinwood is down to chair
[17:17] <tinwood> okay, sounds good.
[17:17] <gnuoy> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[17:17] <meetingology> Meeting ended Wed Jun 29 17:17:45 2016 UTC.
[17:17] <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-06-29-17.02.moin.txt
</pre>
