{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** (jgrimm) clean up rls-x and add back to agenda
** (jamespage) checkin with old iscsitarget users on relevancy with new kernels
* Development Release
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
** Active work that may need wider communication
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
* Upcoming Call For Papers
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair

=== Minutes ===

==== Review ACTION points from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Review ACTION points from previous meeting" started at 16:02.

** DONE:  (jgrimm) clean up rls-x and add back to agenda
** No Status: (jamespage) checkin with old iscsitarget users on relevancy with new kernels

==== Yakkety Development ====
The discussion about "Yakkety Development" started at 16:04.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule 
** '''Release Bugs''' (16:05)
** ''LINK:'' http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server 

** Release week! Critical bugs focus! 

==== Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou) ====
The discussion about "Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)" started at 16:06.

** clamav + llvm-3.6 issue fixed.

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)" started at 16:09.

** ''LINK:'' https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/
** ISO sizes back to expected sizes (gcc changes)
** Focusing on Yakkety ISO testing. 
** QEMU/KVM Live-migrating testing now live.
 

==== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee) ====
The discussion about "Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)" started at 16:10.

** Nothing to report/discuss.

==== Upcoming Call For Papers ====
The discussion about "Upcoming Call For Papers" started at 16:11.

** FOSDEM CFP end of month. 

==== Ubuntu Server Team Events ====
The discussion about "Ubuntu Server Team Events" started at 16:12.

** DPDK summit (cpaelzer will be there)
** OpenStack Summit 

==== Open Discussion ====
The discussion about "Open Discussion" started at 16:14.

** Release notes.  Fill out in Wiki. 
** nacc to send email to ML about rebasing merges by EOW

==== Announce next meeting date, time and chair ====
The discussion about "Announce next meeting date, time and chair" started at 16:23.
===== Meeting Actions =====

** No new items. 

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, October 18th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.  powersj will be chair. 

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:01] <jgrimm> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:01] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Oct 11 16:01:24 2016 UTC.  The chair is jgrimm. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:01] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:02] <rbasak> o/
[16:02] <jgrimm> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:02] <jgrimm> (jgrimm) clean up rls-x and add back to agenda
[16:02] <jgrimm> done. fixed up wiki and irc cut &paste
[16:02] <jgrimm> (jamespage) checkin with old iscsitarget users on relevancy with new kernels
[16:03] <jgrimm> jamespage, ^^ anything new here ^^
[16:03] <smoser> o/
[16:04] <jgrimm> will leave that one on the agenda for next week update then. ..
[16:04] <jgrimm> #topic Yakkety Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Yakkety Development
[16:04] <jgrimm> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule
[16:05] <jgrimm> obviously been a busy last several weeks for everyone!
[16:05] <jgrimm> #subtopic Release Bugs
[16:05] <jgrimm> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-y-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:06] <jgrimm> nothing changed there.
[16:06] <jgrimm> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:06] <caribou> clamav + llvm-3.6 issue is fixed, now available
[16:07] <jgrimm> ah.. thanks for chasing that
[16:07] <caribou> debian has dropped llvm use until upstream supports llvm-3.8
[16:07] <jgrimm> interesting
[16:07] <caribou> so we may elect to do the same for Z & drop llvm-3.6
[16:07] <jgrimm> that  sounds very reasonable
[16:08] <caribou> support for 3.8 might come in before we release Z
[16:08] <caribou> nothing else for me
[16:08] <jgrimm> either is fine.
[16:08] <jgrimm> thanks caribou
[16:09] <jgrimm> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (powersj)
[16:09] <powersj> Final (?) ISO testing for yakkety. All yakkety ISOs are back below the 703Mb limit! Have some final things to close on there with the fonts-android package re: bug 1626245
[16:09] <ubottu> bug 1626245 in fonts-android (Ubuntu) "[MIR] fonts-android" [High,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1626245
[16:09] <powersj> Need to complete yakkety ppc64el ISO testing. nacc: if you have your CLI history to speed this up, that would be great. I want to automate these architectures for the next release.
[16:09] <powersj> ppc64el slave is back up and running. Not sure what happened, but slave was not in a happy state starting on Thursday. I will be updating it and other slaves today.
[16:09] <powersj> Today, ppc64el setup for qemu/libvirt migration testing; rest of the week will be on cloud-init integration testing. Fin.
[16:09] <jgrimm> excellent.
[16:09] <jgrimm> any questions for powersj?
[16:10] <jgrimm> #link https://jenkins.ubuntu.com/server/
[16:10] <jgrimm> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee)
[16:10] <rharper> o/
[16:11] <jgrimm> anyone from kernel team around?
[16:11] <jgrimm> moving on
[16:11] <jgrimm> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Upcoming Call For Papers
[16:12] <jgrimm> FOSDEM CFP deadline end of month
[16:12] <jgrimm> anything else?
[16:12] <jgrimm> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:13] <jgrimm> cpaelzer has a DPDK summit soon.
[16:14] <jgrimm> and of course openstack summit
[16:14] <jgrimm> anything else?
[16:14] <jgrimm> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:15] <rharper> I saw rbasak poke about release notes; but wasn't sure if we were coordinating things with other teams, like foundation;
[16:16] <rharper> I'm specifically thinking about netplan, systemd, cloud-init and other things that have been shifting aroudn
[16:16] <rbasak> We should coordinate that in #ubuntu-release
[16:17] <rharper> ok, but within our team did we maybe collect volunteers or have jgrimm volunteer us to write something up about our various items
[16:17] <rharper> thinking any updates to the packages we do; dpdk, qemu/libvirt, uvt-kvm (\o/) ;
[16:17] <cpaelzer> I already added a section for ovs-dpdk
[16:17] <nacc> powersj: yeah, i'll ping you after the mtg?
[16:17] <cpaelzer> dpdk changes don't qualify
[16:17] <jgrimm> rharper, indeed, last couple times i've had someone come ask me for the package updates and anything else we think worth mentioning
[16:18] <rharper> the wiki page looks rather sparse under Ubuntu Server, I suppose it shouldn't be that empty
[16:18] <powersj> nacc, please
[16:18] <rharper> ok
[16:18] <cpaelzer> we can at least add the generic got updated see changelog for qemu/libvirt/dpdk
[16:19] <cpaelzer> I'd volunteer writing dpdk/qemu/libvirt
[16:19] <jgrimm> thanks cpaelzer
[16:19] <cpaelzer> jgrimm: would you start a gdoc where we all put our stuff in?
[16:19] <cpaelzer> and share with the team
[16:19] <jgrimm> cpaelzer, yep.
[16:20] <jgrimm> LXD will have an update, as well as, cloud-init
[16:20] <cpaelzer> rharper: and smoser: can already start poking for the "shifting around things" today for the who-writes-what
[16:21] <jgrimm> ok, anything else to discuss on this subject?
[16:21] <rharper> I'm happy to write some stuff; I think we need a short list of topics worth mentioning
[16:21] <rharper> jgrimm: I'm good
[16:21] <rbasak> uvt-kvm> no actual updates for Yakkety, since it was post-FF. The PPA has some updates, and I'll upload them in Z.
[16:21] <jgrimm> cool, tx
[16:22] <jgrimm> #topic Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Assigned merges/bugwork (rbasak)
[16:22] <rbasak> I thought we moved this topic back into Yakkety development? I have no comments, please continue self-serve! Any questions?
[16:22] <rbasak> We are in final freeze now, so expect no uploads until Z I guess.
[16:23] <rbasak> And it'll soon be merge time again, from next week.
[16:23] <smoser> Z horay!
[16:23] <jgrimm> yep
[16:23] <jgrimm> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
[16:23]  * nacc plans on an e-mail to the team for rebasing merges by EOW
[16:23] <jgrimm> nacc, ack
[16:24] <jgrimm> same time & channel.  next up powersj
[16:24] <powersj> oooo
[16:24] <powersj> something else to learn :)
[16:24] <cpaelzer> it is just the check if you can copy and paste :-P
[16:24] <jgrimm> heh. its not too painful.
[16:25] <jgrimm> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[16:25] <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Oct 11 16:25:01 2016 UTC.
[16:25] <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-10-11-16.01.moin.txt
</pre>
