{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{{{
04:05	jono	sorry, was delayed
04:05	jono	so, who is here for the meeting?
04:05	ubuntugeek	hey martin, hows the forum working out
04:05	zarul	me
04:05	morgs	me too
04:05	Seveaz	me (as spectator)
04:06	dinda	dinda, aka Belinda from Texas and Ubuntu Women
=== BlueT_ Matthew Lien, leader of Ubuntu-TW
04:06	looksaus	me
04:06	ubuntugeek	me as me
04:06	jono	cool
04:06	BlueT_	me
04:06	beuno	great, seems it's the most active LoCo on there by far, everyone es pretty happy about having a spanish forum
04:06	beuno	me
=== imtheface Andy from Indonesian Team
04:06	effie_jayx	me
04:06	jono	is joey here?
04:06	imtheface	hi all
04:06	ubuntugeek	Great, i am pretty pleased how well the loco forums are doing there.
04:06	effie_jayx	Efrain Valles for the Venezuela Team
04:06	morgs	Morgan Collett for the South African Team
04:07	jono	seems joey is not around
04:07	mruiz	Miguel Ruiz -> Chilean Team
04:07	beuno	we're pleased too  ;D    -  I might take a few minutes of our time later if you can spare it about a small bug on the tagging system
04:07	ubuntugeek	sure no problem..
04:07	jono	ok, who suggested the loco communications item?
04:07	effie_jayx	ME
=== beuno Martin Albisetti from the Argentina LoCo
04:08	looksaus	jono, before we start, it might be interesting to to make a summary of what was discussed (either through gobby or one volunteer)
04:08	jono	looksaus: this meeting is logged
04:08	looksaus	something that can be easily digested by al locoteams list readers...
=== beuno volunteers
04:08	jono	if someone wants to summarise it, that would be great
04:08	beuno	I can right it up in spanish and english
04:08	looksaus	beuno, that would be splendid!
04:08	jono	in fact, it would be awesome to have regular meeting summaries posted to loco-contacts after each meeting
04:08	jono	thanks beuno
04:08	beuno	np
04:09	jono	so, loco communication
04:09	jono	who added that?
04:09	effie_jayx	me
04:09	effie_jayx	I added InterloCo comunication
04:09	jono	what do you mean by that effie_jayx?
04:10	effie_jayx	ok... to avodi fragmnetation... I think more contact from other loCo within a region is a good way
04:10	jono	right, so what kind of region?
04:10	effie_jayx	jono,  lok at south america
04:10	jono	in a country? in a continent?
04:10	mruiz	for example, comunication between latin american LoCo
04:10	effie_jayx	ajam
04:10	looksaus	you mean because of the language barrier?
04:10	mruiz	yes
04:10	beuno	same speaking language LoCo's would be a good example
04:11	looksaus	(towards using the EN speaking list)
04:11	jono	there has been some discussion about uniting loco teams at a language level as well as a country level
04:11	beuno	they might tend to duplicate translation efforts
04:11	jono	the difficult thing here is that there is no single rule we can apply for how things are divided up
04:12	jono	for example, in the US, it makes sense to divide things at a state level
04:12	jono	but it would not make sense to divide the UK at a country level for example
04:12	effie_jayx	sure but as a whole latin america is a big group of peope...
04:12	effie_jayx	and in the past week
04:12	beuno	maybe some centralized place wher everyone can put what they're working on
04:12	beuno	and what they've done
04:13	effie_jayx	the teams have joined in a very nice way but without folloing a blueprint or previous experience
04:13	looksaus	there is of course a real danger of fragmentation in the sense of
04:13	BlueT_	beuno: sounds nice
04:13	looksaus	spanish speaking teams growing into a kind of isle
04:13	beuno	that way before starting a proyect you can check out if someone is already puruing it, and help them out
04:13	looksaus	that doesn't communicate enough with the non-spanish speaking world
04:14	effie_jayx	looksaus interesting that you mention
04:14	looksaus	how would you stimulate these teams to communicate with the rest of the world?
04:14	effie_jayx	I am new to the loCo team work
04:14	beuno	that would be a great idea, group LoCo's by language and have some sort of intercomunication between them, someone willing to translate what's going on
04:14	effie_jayx	and I am here representing my loco
04:14	mruiz	these are latin america teams: Argentina, Bolivia, Colombia, Chile, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Espan~a, Mexico, Peru, Venezuela
04:15	beuno	but also, Spain, which happens to be in a different continent
04:15	effie_jayx	when I brought the question to jono
04:15	jono	so how do we think we can improve communication?
04:15	jono	it seems to me that geographically close teams should start out be just engaging in communication
04:15	nejode	i'm with you effie_jayx
04:16	effie_jayx	jono,  we need to follow a path to better communication within ourselves (loco teams in lat america)
04:16	effie_jayx	and we turned to you to ask if there is a
04:16	jono	effie_jayx: how many teams are in latin america?
04:16	effie_jayx	aprecendet...
04:16	effie_jayx	around 11
04:17	effie_jayx	and we need to keep ourselves oriented to what the loCo's in europe are doing
04:17	looksaus	effie_jayx, would it make sense to create comm infrastructure based upon common language, rather than geography?
04:17	jono	right, so there 11 teams in the same refion?
04:17	jono	region
=== beuno just found out the spanish team seems to think they englobe all latin america "Spain and Latin America"
04:17	looksaus	because that seems to be the barrier not to participate directly in the general loco list right?
04:18	effie_jayx	looksaus,  part of it... yes...
04:18	beuno	I agree, language is the barrier, not geographical location
04:18	jono	yes
04:18	BlueT_	agree
04:18	jono	the real key here is language
04:19	beuno	I count 8 LoCo teams listed that speak spanish
04:19	mruiz	the main idea is to coordinate between latin american LoCo
04:19	jono	I think we need to think of ways in which we can unite similar languages but maintain their own location
04:19	beuno	spanish-speaking LoCo's  ;D
04:19	jono	we don't want language connections to fragement the general community though
04:20	looksaus	jono, maybe if you remember the discussion we had last week
04:20	looksaus	we can grab some solution from there
04:20	beuno	jono, that's why I think maybe we can have ppl in charge of comunicating to the other languages
04:20	effie_jayx	jono, we want to help out send the message...
04:20	beuno	summing up every 2 weeks or something like that
04:20	effie_jayx	jono,  nejode and I come from the venezuela team...
04:20	effie_jayx	jono, and there ... people have just begun to discover all the LoCo team related stuff.
04:21	BlueT_	jono: just like ubuntu-zh includes ubuntu-tw, ubntu-cn and ubuntu-hk ?
04:21	effie_jayx	new vs arpoved and the benefits of being aproved
04:21	looksaus	like... if you create a mailing list for spanish speaking teams, add a header or footer to lure users to the main international list
04:21	beuno	I don't think that you *need* to have all spanish speaking ppl in one mailing list
04:21	effie_jayx	and the benefits of being talknig to people that have the same issues all around the world ... not to invent the wheel again
04:22	jono	sorry reading up
04:22	jono	I am in the office today, keep getting called
04:22	looksaus	beuno, I'm just suggesting how a communications channel between spanish speaking locoteams should be closely connected to the international one
04:23	beuno	looksaus, ooh, sorry
04:23	effie_jayx	looksaus,  most certainly ... we will look into ir
04:23	beuno	like have *regional* LoCo meetings
04:23	beuno	and then International
04:23	looksaus	there might be more ways than this header/footer idea for a mailing list
04:23	mruiz	time ago, I proposed my Spanish Planet Ubuntu idea (https://launchpad.net/products/ubuntu-website/+ticket/1664) to improve comunication between latinamerican LoCo Teams
04:23	beuno	so one representative from each region (language) meet
04:23	looksaus	mruiz, very good idea!
04:23	effie_jayx	looksaus,  you are right... and I hope you can understand we want to all stay put to the international comunity
04:24	looksaus	of course, just thinking about ways to do so
04:24	effie_jayx	looksaus,  but not as 1 from chile ,, 2 from venezuela, 3 from argentina ) but as a group
04:24	jono	right
04:24	jono	so we need to divide this problem into the language and country level
04:25	jono	brb phone
04:25	effie_jayx	so we can better pass down the information that comes from the mothership (locoteams) :D
04:25	beuno	yes, sounds like the most reasonable
04:25	lophylap	oh, loco meeting.. damn, totally forgot about that one
04:26	effie_jayx	so
04:26	jono	back
04:26	zarul	lol
04:27	jono	backok
04:27	jono	I think there is a very obvious need for language connections
04:27	effie_jayx	looksaus,  I am really intereste in your insight and this is a question that came up 2 weeks a go in the LoCo teams presentaion by elkbuntu
04:27	jono	it makes sense for those with similar languages to work together
04:27	beuno	maybe all same speaking language teams vote for 1 representative among them
04:27	jono	but isnt that just a translation effort?
04:27	BlueT_	all the chinese language LoCo has already solved this problem :p
04:28	jono	BlueT_: how?
04:28	looksaus	i think not just a translation effort... lots of people don't have the skills to express themselves in EN
04:28	BlueT_	jono: we had aleady have our channel and mailing list
04:28	beuno	jono, part of the problem is translation, but part of it might be centralizing information (and this applies to all LoCo's)
04:28	jono	beuno: hang on a sec, centralising translated docs?
04:28	jono	or all docs?
=== beuno scrolls
04:29	BlueT_	jono: geo-depend problem are solved by LoCo channels and mailing lists
04:29	beuno	<beuno> maybe some centralized place wher everyone can put what they're working on
04:29	jono	beuno: thats the ubuntu wiki
04:29	effie_jayx	jono, ajam...
04:29	looksaus	beuno, and the locoteams mailing list
04:29	jono	and for generic loco documentation, that does in the loco knowledge base
04:29	jono	looksaus: indeed
04:29	BlueT_	jono: ubuntu-zh channel and mailing list are for all chanese LoCo
04:29	beuno	but is there somewhere I can go and see "ok, I'm not going to translate the CoC because the venezuela team already did"
04:30	BlueT_	jono: to solved language-depend problems
04:30	jono	beuno: nope, but this is more of a rosetta problem
04:30	jono	I don't think we can solve this at a policy level
04:30	looksaus	jono, the problem is getting those who are not comfortable speaking/reading EN to see what happens in the rest of the world
04:30	jono	it is indeed a problem, but I think we need to feed more content through rosetta and allow loco teams to subscribe to languages
04:30	looksaus	and to push out what happens in theirs
04:30	effie_jayx	jono,  at the same time it is our issue... cuz my Loco
04:31	jono	looksaus: I understand, and I agree
04:31	beuno	well, at a policy level what I think might solve it is having "regional" (language) meetings, and have 1 or 2 ppl represent them in international meetings
04:31	beuno	defeating the language barrier
04:31	looksaus	beuno, we're too much a volunteer group to rely on that
04:31	jono	looksaus: but then again, why would a french speaker in canada care about what is happening in france?
04:31	mruiz	bueno, in Chilean Wiki we have the spanish CoC
04:32	beuno	mruiz, http://www.uluga.com.ar/wiki/CoC
04:32	beuno	;D
04:32	beuno	see what I mean
04:32	looksaus	jono, because it might actually be a very good idea that is also interesting to someone in Denmark
04:32	BlueT_	jono: it had been worked for a year :)
04:32	mruiz	bueno, http://wiki.ubuntu-cl.org/FirmandoElCodigoDeConductaComo
04:32	jono	looksaus: I think this is too big a problem to solve with an open process like we have - there is no way to update locos of interest with informaton that is specific to a particular context
04:32	jono	unless I am not understanding the problem?
04:33	jono	BlueT_: what has? explain what you did
04:33	effie_jayx	jono, the proble goes beyond the language...
04:33	BlueT_	23:29 < BlueT_> jono: geo-depend problem are solved by LoCo channels and mailing lists
04:33	BlueT_	23:29 < BlueT_> jono: ubuntu-zh channel and mailing list are for all chanese LoCo
04:33	beuno	mruiz, oh, we translated the CoC itself, you translated "how to sign it"
04:33	BlueT_	23:30 < BlueT_> jono: to solved language-depend problems
04:33	mruiz	bueno, http://wiki.ubuntu-cl.org/CodigoDeConducta/Version1.0.1
04:33	jono	BlueT_: right, so problems for a specific team are solved on their mailing list and channel?
04:33	beuno	;D
04:33	BlueT_	jono: yes
04:33	beuno	then we both duplicated efforts on that
04:34	jono	effie_jayx: where else is the problem?
04:34	BlueT_	jono: and we're building a co-maintain wiki site
04:34	jono	BlueT_: right, and every team has their own list and channel? what is the problem?
04:34	effie_jayx	jono,  I am thinking people are not understanding the ubuntu culture ...
04:34	jono	so is the problem we are discussing, how we solve two teams with the same language translating the same things, because they never knew they were doing it?
04:34	effie_jayx	or they are living it in their own way... which is good
04:34	beuno	I think having a language-based list and channel doesn't solve anything if it's not organized to take advantage of it
04:34	effie_jayx	but in my loco
04:35	effie_jayx	things were being done truth a lug
04:35	jono	if the problem is the one I listed above, then that is a Rosetta issue, and not something we can solve
04:35	BlueT_	jono: approved LoCo members will hang on both side (LoCo channel and co-maintain channel)
04:35	jono	I think we can make strides to improve communication between teams where possible, and I like the idea of having a general mailing list for languages
04:35	effie_jayx	which help keepping it a float for a while ... but not counting with some language councelor really made it difficul
04:35	jono	BlueT_: sorry, co-maintain channel?
04:36	looksaus	my understanding of the problem is: x spanish speaking locoteams have a lot of information to share, but few of the members are good EN speakers
04:36	beuno	looksaus, that sums it up
04:36	looksaus	so a lot of information doesn't come down from the locoteams list, and doesn't go up to the locoteams list
04:36	BlueT_	jono: ooops.. i don't know how to explain it... just like #ubuntu-some-language
04:36	jono	BlueT_: right, so you mean an IRC channel for a language
04:37	BlueT_	jono: core members of ubuntu-tw, ubuntu-cn, and ubuntu-hk will all on both #ubuntu-CC and #ubuntu-ZH (ZongHua)
04:37	jono	looksaus: right, so the problem is how to better integrate non-EN speakers into the community
04:37	mruiz	looksaus, this is the real language problem!
04:37	looksaus	absolutely
04:37	effie_jayx	jono,  yessss :
04:37	effie_jayx	:D
04:37	beuno	jono, exactly what I had in mind
04:38	BlueT_	jono: those people share informations on the channel
04:38	looksaus	so what I was proposing was to have some spanish communication channel that stimulates those spanish speakers who _are_ proficient in english to make sure information flows from and to the main (EN speaking) channel
04:39	zarul	that is a good idea
04:39	jono	looksaus: I agree its a problem, but its impossible to solve - there is no process or structure we can create to get everyone involved, other than manding english as the normal language for communication, which we do now
04:39	jono	looksaus: I think that it would be difficult to have ambassadors who speak english to feed non-english content back upstream
04:39	beuno	jono, maybe part of the LoCo instructions on how to manage a LoCo can intruct that team leaders should have fluent communication between them
04:39	Seveaz	jono: we coulda ll learn esperanto...
04:40	looksaus	jono, not formally appointed people
04:40	jono	I think we should encourage each loco team to have an english speaker though
04:40	beuno	once they are in communication then the rest of the info will flow by itself
04:40	jono	you know, it sucks that we have to always talk in english for a bunch of people, but there is no other way around it
04:41	ypsila	pruhust
04:41	jono	right now we require english as the language, but I think we only require english for interaction with the wider loco team project
04:41	jono	so the loco can talk entirely in their own language, but only need to use english when talking to the wider project
04:41	effie_jayx	jono,  we are not bothered by all the English... believe me ...
04:41	jono	effie_jayx: right
04:42	effie_jayx	jono,  75 % of the content on the internet is in English
04:42	BlueT_	jono: absolutly
04:42	beuno	I don't think that's where the problem should be solved, I think we need to make sure somehow the information gets passed around enough
04:42	jono	beuno: what information and passed where?
04:42	looksaus	jono, no matter how you turn it, a spanish speaking channel is going to grow anyway
04:42	jono	looksaus: I never said I didnt want that?
04:43	jono	I am happy for any language channel to grow, thats fine
04:43	BlueT_	looksaus: just register it from ChanServ
04:43	looksaus	no, of course not, but the thing we should do is make sure the relevant information discussed there gets passed around
04:43	effie_jayx	looksaus,  but people could keep an eye on it... and make shure the efforts for streamlining things in loCo's around the wolrd don't leave the spanish people behind
04:43	looksaus	stimulate that
04:43	beuno	jono, if all the spanish speaking LoCo's have some sort of *standarized* communication then at least they all know what's going on between them. They're always going to be english speaking memebers that will bring those issues up in the wider project of the LoCo's
04:43	looksaus	exactly what I'm trying to suggest practival solutions for
04:43	jono	looksaus: sure, and again, I agree, but how do we do that? we can't just assign people to do it for us, it never works, so how do we do it in a natural way?
04:44	looksaus	jono, like we discussed for not fragmenting newsletter and active core for 1 loco...
04:44	beuno	yeap
04:44	jono	looksaus: what do you mean?
04:44	beuno	1 member per LoCo to comunicate with all the rest of same-language speaking ones
04:44	looksaus	one useful step would be to add a header/footer to every mailing list message of this spanish list
04:44	jono	sorry, I think I have missed bits of discussion here
04:44	beuno	that's all
04:44	looksaus	that encourages participation to the intl list
04:45	jono	right
04:45	looksaus	clearly pointing to the intl list in the mailing list definition
04:45	looksaus	things like that
04:45	jono	I think in the project now, it is clear that locos should be reading loco-contacts
04:46	Ma1kel	SUSE 10.2 FOR LIVE
04:46	Ma1kel	j/k
04:46	jono	looksaus: what do you mean for the newsletter?
04:46	looksaus	err, we assembled a list of +-100 people who were not interested in following the intense communication on the locoteam list
04:47	looksaus	but they were interested in ubuntu related activities in Belgium
04:47	jono	ahhh, the -announce thing
04:47	looksaus	yes
04:47	jono	right, I am with you
04:47	jono	sorry
=== jono is going nuts! :P
04:47	looksaus	:)
04:47	looksaus	join the club :p
04:47	ypsila	:-D
04:47	Ma1kel	Yea guys thinking about adding a Slab menu for Feisty?
04:47	Ma1kel	*You
04:48	beuno	how about having a LoCo regional meeting to discuss this, manually contact all of them, and see what ideas popup?
04:48	effie_jayx	beuno, sounds ok
04:48	zarul	yea, that will make things easier
04:48	jono	well I think the discussion of -announce lists is something we could discuss at the next meeting
04:48	zarul	and it will solve a lot of things, including the timezone issue
04:49	looksaus	ok (just mentioned it because of similarities with the native language loco comm channels)
04:49	jono	I think a general -announce list may be a good idea
04:49	jono	for the loco teams, that is
04:50	effie_jayx	ok
04:50	mruiz	jono, can we vote for meeting date and hour?
04:50	jono	my concern is that if every loco has an -announce list, we balloon the number of lists, and it may fragment discussion, unless each -announce list can only have a single poster
04:51	jono	mruiz: nope, we set them fortnightly
04:51	mruiz	:-(
04:51	jono	mruiz: so the next one is two weeks today
04:51	beuno	jono, that's what I'm thinking, one person per LoCo
04:51	looksaus	jono, maybe better keep this for next meeting... getting close to going overtime...
04:51	looksaus	?
04:51	jono	yeah
04:51	ubuntu_demon	hey
04:51	jono	lets defer this to the next meeting, good work chaps :)
04:51	mruiz	good bye jono
04:51	effie_jayx	:D
04:52	looksaus	beuno, you still feel like summarising this mess? :)
04:52	beuno	lol
04:52	jono	mruiz: I am staying for the CC meeting :P
=== looksaus too
04:52	mruiz	jono, me too :P
04:52	jono	mruiz: :)
04:52	LoudMouthMan	theres a meeting ?
04:52	beuno	who should I send it to?
04:52	jono	LoudMouthMan: :)
04:52	mruiz	LoudMouthMan, LoCo meeting
04:52	jono	beuno: send it to me
=== BlueT_ same here
04:53	Ma1kel	8 minutes till meeting
04:53	jono	heya MikeB-
04:53	Ma1kel	The idea is jerking me off right here
04:53	looksaus	hi MikeB- !
04:53	beuno	jono, email address?
04:53	Seveaz	Ma1kel: behave
04:53	MikeB-	hello all
04:53	looksaus	beuno, or the list...
04:53	jono	beuno: jono AT ubuntu DOT com
04:54	beuno	looksaus, I'll send it to jono first to make sure it's OK
04:54	jono	I think regular meeting summaries with rock :)
04:54	beuno	I don't mind doing summeries at all
=== looksaus too! you rock beuno
=== beuno ;D
04:55	mruiz	that's a good idea
04:55	ubuntu_demon	MikeB = Mike Basinger or Mike Braniff ?
04:55	MikeB-	Mike Basinger}}}
