{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=05&day=21&year=2012&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Mat 21st 2012 18:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 18:30 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* micahg
* jjohansen

=== Not present ===
* mdeslaur

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Felix Geyer (debfx) provided a debdiff for pidgin-otr (LP: #1000363)
 Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Review of any previous action items
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** Weekly role: triage
** finish work items review
** pending update
** embargoed issue
** pending updates
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** sbeattie
** Weekly role: community
** pending updates
** AppArmor SRU and work items
** micahg
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** mozilla/apparmor SRU fixes
** patch pilot
** tyhicks
** Weekly role: happy place
** upstream ecryptfs fixes
** pending update
** short week
** jjohansen
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** finish time estimates on work items
** push !AppArmor kernel updates upstream and into 12.10
** !AppArmor work items
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** There are a lot of merge opportunities for packages listed in http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/d2u/. Performing these updates is a great way to help Ubuntu and bolster your developer application. 
** jj has too many work items. We will handle this in the coming week
** [ACTION] desktop team requested that our regular mozilla testing happen by a certain date. micahg will coordinate with them on the date and perform the testing

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-05-21-18.23.html
