{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** jgrimm to update/clean up blueprint
** smb to clarify if kernel team handles kerneloops package
* Xenial Development
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule
** http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-x-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
* Assigned bugwork (rbasak)
* Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
* Upcoming Call For Papers
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

jgrimm did some clean ups to the server blueprint. He asked to keep the action so he can do further clean ups to it next week.

smb didn't get clarification from kernel team about ownership of kerneloops package but they synced the package anyway.

===== #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara) =====

matsubara working on open-iscsi dep8 tests to avoid regressions such as bug https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/open-iscsi/+bug/1553017

===== #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges) =====

smb hopes to help lamont fix a bind/dhcp issue

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, Mar 22nd at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:00] <matsubara> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:00] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Mar 15 16:00:02 2016 UTC.  The chair is matsubara. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:00] <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:00] <matsubara> Hi there! Welcome to the server meeting!
[16:00] <matsubara> who's here today?
[16:00] <cpaelzer> Hi matsubara - o/
[16:00] <matsubara> rharper and jgrimm-vac are off on holidays
[16:00] <caribou> o/
[16:00] <arges> o/
[16:01]  * jgrimm-vac lurks  
[16:01] <matsubara> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:01] <matsubara> I found only two actions from last week's meeting.
[16:02] <matsubara> ACTION: jgrimm to update/clean up blueprint
[16:02] <matsubara> ACTION: smb to clarify if kernel team handles kerneloops package
[16:03] <matsubara> I also take the opportunity to thank jgrimm-vac for running last week's meeting. It was my turn but I got disconnected by ISP
[16:03] <jgrimm-vac> no worries!
[16:03] <jgrimm-vac> i've made some cleanups in the blueprint, but keep it as action for me
[16:04] <matsubara> Ok, thanks
[16:04] <matsubara> #action: jgrimm to update/clean up blueprint
[16:04] <meetingology> ACTION: : jgrimm to update/clean up blueprint
[16:04] <matsubara> smb, hi there, just in time. We had an action for you from last week's meeting.
[16:04] <matsubara> ACTION: smb to clarify if kernel team handles kerneloops package
[16:05] <smb> matsubara, so while not clear its synced now
[16:05] <matsubara> smb, great. thanks!
[16:05] <matsubara> so, no more actions, let's move on
[16:05] <matsubara> #topic Xenial Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Xenial Development
[16:05] <matsubara> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule
[16:06] <matsubara> Docstring freeze this week and next week final beta freeze
[16:06] <matsubara> #subtopic Release Bugs
[16:06] <matsubara> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-w-tracking-bug-tasks.html#ubuntu-server
[16:08] <matsubara> ok, we have a couple of bugs there in new state
[16:08] <matsubara> one is high
[16:08] <matsubara> http://launchpad.net/bugs/1508874
[16:08] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1508874 in nova-lxd (Ubuntu Xenial) "Please disable cpu resource configuration" [High,New]
[16:08] <matsubara> but that's likely to be under the openstack team turf
[16:09] <matsubara> and a new one for the lxc team which has been triaged as medium: http://launchpad.net/bugs/1533833
[16:09] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1533833 in lxc (Ubuntu Wily) "unprivileged lxc containers won't start, need to put sessions into "pids" cgroup controller" [Medium,New]
[16:09] <matsubara> looks like everything is under control there.
[16:09] <matsubara> let's move on
[16:09] <matsubara> #topic Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Server & Cloud Bugs (caribou)
[16:10] <caribou> matsubara: nothing particular to bring up
[16:10] <matsubara> thanks caribou
[16:10] <matsubara> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (matsubara)
[16:11] <matsubara> I'm working on dep8 tests for open-iscsi to avoid regressions such as https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/open-iscsi/+bug/1553017
[16:11] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1553017 in open-iscsi (Ubuntu) "Unable to deploy xenial on MAAS / resolv.conf not populated" [High,Fix released]
[16:11] <matsubara> other than that, nothing else to report.
[16:11] <matsubara> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb, sforshee, arges)
[16:11] <smb> No news for kernel I believe. Still hoping to help lamont to fix bind/dhcp otherwise
[16:11] <matsubara> thanks smb
[16:12] <matsubara> #topic Upcoming Call For Papers
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Upcoming Call For Papers
[16:13] <matsubara> any events that we should be aware and perhaps submit papers?
[16:13] <matsubara> I guess not
[16:13] <matsubara> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:14] <matsubara> No events that I'm aware of soon
[16:14] <matsubara> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:15] <matsubara> Further discussion? anyone?
[16:15] <matsubara> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
[16:16] <matsubara> Ok, so next meeting in the same time and same channel, next week. That will be the 22nd at 1600UTC. Chaired by the gaughen
[16:17] <cpaelzer> thanks matsubara
[16:17] <cpaelzer> \o
[16:17] <matsubara> thank you all!
[16:17] <matsubara> #endmeeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds: Please leave swords by the door | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendars | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
[16:17] <meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Mar 15 16:17:31 2016 UTC.
[16:17] <meetingology> Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2016/ubuntu-meeting.2016-03-15-16.00.moin.txt
</pre>
