{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Log ===
TZ UTC+6
<pre>
09:00	ajmitch	hi
09:00	geser	hi
09:00	dholbach	heya
09:00	TheMuso	Hey all.
09:00	siretart	hey folks!
09:00	lfittl	hello everybody
09:00	shawarma	Hi!
09:01	Lure	hi
09:01	Toadstool	heya!
09:01	morty	Hello
09:01	dholbach	Ok, let's start off with the meeting
09:01	dholbach	First point on the agenda: "SRU Policy evaluation. How can we make it more efficient an worthwhile?"
09:01	ajmitch	Mithrandir had some suggestions about that
=== Mithrandir waves.
09:02	sistpoty	hi
09:02	dholbach	sistpoty added some suggestions for that at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Meetings
09:02	ajmitch	we have a lot of packages stuck in testing
09:02	ajmitch	hi Mithrandir :)
09:02	sistpoty	erm... I didn't add the suggestions :P
09:03	sistpoty	however I agree that we have many pacakges stuck in testing... I actually wanted to do some figure for the next sru-report, but the trend seems obvious already
09:03	ajmitch	"lots"
09:03	dholbach	how many are those?
09:03	sistpoty	dholbach: I don't have the figures yet...
09:04	ajmitch	sistpoty: since your last report, do you know of any being let into -updates?
09:04	Mithrandir	dholbach: enough that people try to sneak in bugfixes as backports instead of going through the SRU dance.
09:04	sistpoty	ajmitch: at most one, but I don't remember exactly
09:04	Mithrandir	when people are trying to do that, it means doing the right thing (SRU) is harder than doing the wrong thing (backport)
09:04	crimsun	one thing that has bugged me about universe SRU is that ours is apparently more stringent than main's. Requiring 5 ACKs seems a bit far-flung.
09:05	sistpoty	yep
09:05	sistpoty	do I read the first proposal right, to skip -proposed entirely?
09:05	Mithrandir	crimsun: agreed, that seems a bit over the top.  Especially given that you won't ever see core packages such as X or the kernel in a universe update.
09:06	crimsun	I would not feel comfortable skipping release-proposed
09:06	sistpoty	(also there some really easy ones with trivial changes/or mere rebuilds)
09:06	Mithrandir	I think the ideas added there was from some suggestions I threw out without really thinking them through last night, so they might be crackful.
09:06	crimsun	however, we should consider dropping the 5-ACK requirement
09:06	dholbach	Ok, we have the following suggestions:     * Just have motu-sru ack then upload to -updates
09:06	dholbach	    * Go back to old policy where SRU didn't need approvals, just MOTU uploads. Perhaps still using -proposed for higher risk or high profile updates.
09:06	dholbach	    * Form testing team to get testing done faster. The current bottleneck seems to be mostly in getting testing.
09:06	dholbach	    * (ADDED) Reduce the number of ACKs.
09:06	siretart	crimsun: like in requiring 2 or 3 ACKs or dropping it entirely?
09:07	sistpoty	hm... ideally I'd like to see every motu being able to upload directly to -proposed, and have the checking done only prior to -updates
09:07	sistpoty	however that comes with another problem:
09:07	dholbach	Apart from reducing the number of ACKs, I think the testing team is a very good idea.
09:07	Mithrandir	the idea of the first one was to have the current process, but upload to -updates and not -proposed and thereby have -updates be the testing and the safe area.  It means we can get fixes in quite a bit quicker, but also that enabling universe -updates might open you to lightly/not tested fixes.
09:07	ajmitch	sistpoty: I thought that's how it was meant to be now
09:07	sistpoty	ajmitch: no, it's still going through -proposed first
09:07	crimsun	dholbach: / siretart: dropping a 5-ACK requirement seems like a good idea if we get an SRU verification team (similar to main's) in place
09:08	sistpoty	well the other problem we have is that most of the updates are not done by motu's but rather by motu-hopefuls
09:08	crimsun	in essence, replacing the 5 ACKs with 1
09:08	Mithrandir	remember that creating another team does not magically increase the amount of manpower available.
09:08	ajmitch	sistpoty: they have to be checked by 1 MOTU anyway then
09:08	ajmitch	especially when you get the same people in 5 teams
09:09	sistpoty	ajmitch: yep... currently that's motu-sru doing the checks
09:09	sistpoty	ajmitch: however I'd also like to have *one* person responsible for an update, so that would probably suggest to transfer the responsibility to the motu sponsoring
09:09	sistpoty	(which could then as well be bad)
09:09	ajmitch	that's what a sponsor should do anyway :)
09:10	\sh	sistpoty: how many StableReleaseUpdates do we have daily/weekly/monthly?
09:10	siretart	\sh: enough. really..
09:10	ajmitch	\sh: and how many don't get done because of the long slow process?
09:10	crimsun	right. I propose we drop the 5-ACK requirement and just have the sponsoring MOTU check it.
09:10	sistpoty	\sh: currently I'd say ~2 per week, with 26 currently ongoing
09:10	crimsun	(we should be making this more lightweight instead of adding another team)
09:10	ajmitch	crimsun: agreed
=== siretart feels some general concent to crimsun's propsal
09:11	sistpoty	\sh: however when we first introduced the policy, the numbers where far higher
09:11	siretart	consent, even.
09:11	ajmitch	crimsun: so make -proposed open for all uploads, and have 1 signoff before it gets pushed to -updates?
09:11	Mithrandir	given that universe is so lightly covered before release, I think we will always have a fairly high amount of SRUs done to fix critical bugs there, so we should just plan for that.
09:12	dholbach	was the -proposed stage the bottleneck?
09:12	Toadstool	ajmitch: how do you determine whether it can be signed off or not? wait for someone to confirm there's no regression?
09:12	crimsun	ajmitch: a step forward, yes. We should keep the minimum aging period, though.
09:12	Mithrandir	dholbach: many updates seem to get into -proposed, but never get uploaded to -proposed.
09:12	sistpoty	dholbach: currently it is (or rather the testing phase there)
09:12	ajmitch	dholbach: it seems to be
09:12	Mithrandir	uh, never get uploaded to -updates
09:13	crimsun	Toadstool: the minimum aging period combined with testing should alleviate that
09:13	dholbach	ok, so making -proposed open for all uploads does not really help the problem, right?
09:13	ajmitch	Toadstool: having at least 1 person testing is helpful
09:13	ajmitch	dholbach: depends if you still want motu-sru approving anything for -proposed
09:13	sistpoty	at which point would motu-sru then review the diffs? or not at all?
09:14	\sh	sistpoty: thinking about manpower and time: how many packages are tested and checked from the sru team during one week? (also thinking, that this work is lost from the normal motu work)
09:14	dholbach	I think that having an initial check is a good thing
09:14	sistpoty	\sh: sru-team currently doesn't test updates, but only reviews the debdiffs
09:14	sistpoty	\sh: and this happens (apart from a few exceptions) very timely
09:15	siretart	since we have enough members now, it seems.
09:15	crimsun	motu-sru shouldn't block release-proposed IMO. Making fixes widely available via release-proposed ASAP seems like a good idea.
09:15	sistpoty	Mithrandir: is it possible from a lp side to have uploads to -proposed pass through as is?
09:16	sistpoty	crimsun: I agree
09:16	Mithrandir	sistpoty: it'd require manual action from an archive team member, but doing that either when prodded or on archive days would be fine.
09:17	\sh	siretart: well, but checking the debdiffs, doesn't mean that the package is alright. And if there are no users who are actively testing, it won't get uploaded to -updates, right? so the workload of checking debdiffs is useless somehow, until there is at least one user who tells us: "Package works for me" , or did I misunderstood something? :)
09:17	sistpoty	ok
09:17	ajmitch	afaik there are 3 archive days a week no, so that's no blocker
09:17	sistpoty	\sh: right. because of that we have the stage in -proposed
09:18	sistpoty	\sh: however checking the debdiffs is not useless actually ;)
09:18	dholbach	requiring the sponsor to test and having a team of testers test it would help with that step, wouldn't it?
09:19	sistpoty	sure, it would, but also lowering the number of acks needed would as well
09:19	dholbach	that's what I meant: one sponsor ACK, one testing team ACK
09:20	dholbach	that's just a proposal - you guys who work on the motu-sru team know better than I do, if it makes sense.
09:20	sistpoty	how about the following: any motu can upload to -proposed. one member of sru needs to give green lights for -updates + 5 works for me within 5 days, 3 within 10 days and > 10 days needs another ack from motu-sru (to sort out simple stuff like rebuilds from tougher updates)?
09:20	Toadstool	dholbach: so motu-sru approval is not required anymore in your proposal?
09:20	\sh	sistpoty: you know what I mean, checking the debdiff, but no one to test, the package will not leave -proposed, so the work is "vertane zeit" ( I don't know the english translation)
09:21	crimsun	Ok, so how does this proposal sound?  1) Remove the pre-upload-to-proposed ACK requirement (make -proposed open to ubuntu-dev without motu-sru approval).  2) The sponsoring ubuntu-dev member is responsible for gathering testing with 2 ACKs, which must be documented on the LP bug and in the final -updates changelog.  3) The minimum aging period of 7 days in -proposed remains.  4) motu-sru goes away.
09:21	sistpoty	\sh: hehe, you mean because no update actually makes it, right? *g*
09:21	\sh	sistpoty: yepp
09:21	sistpoty	\sh: sure
09:21	dholbach	Toadstool: that's a different question :)
09:22	Mithrandir	crimsun: sounds fine with me.
09:23	ajmitch	crimsun: I like it
09:23	crimsun	From my perspective in motu-sru, we've really only encountered a few true discussion-worthy ones. The remainders are trivial "oh, looks good, +1".
09:23	siretart	crimsun: how many testers do have to confirm the fix with your proposal?
09:23	Toadstool	crimsun: looks good.
09:23	dholbach	crimsun: I like it too.
09:23	crimsun	siretart: two (including the ubuntu-dev sponsor and one tester)
09:23	Mithrandir	of course, people are allowed to ask for second opinions if they feel an update needs more review.
09:24	crimsun	Mithrandir: precisely
09:24	rmjb	can ubuntu-qa assist with testing?
09:24	sistpoty	crimsun: I generally like to see normal motu's more involved in sru's and take more responsibility there. sounds great for me
09:24	dholbach	rmjb: we could ask ubuntu-bugsquad@ for help with that
09:25	crimsun	anyone else have thoughts on the proposal given above, and/or can we "vote"?
09:25	sistpoty	let's vote
09:25	ajmitch	+1 for crimsun's proposal
09:25	sistpoty	+1
09:25	\sh	crimsun +1 :)
09:25	dholbach	+1 too
09:26	TheMuso	+1
09:26	crimsun	+1
09:26	Toadstool	+1
09:26	ajmitch	sounds like it's approved, what's next on the list? :)
09:26	sistpoty	how do we do the transition for this policy?
09:27	siretart	+1 and +1 :)
09:27	sistpoty	unsubscribe motu-sru from all bugs and subscribing universe-sponsors for the ones which don't have a motu as assignee?
09:27	ajmitch	sistpoty: find everything with 2 ACKs & get it pushed to -updates
09:27	dholbach	We need to document it and announce it to the public, especially to the TB.
09:27	crimsun	sistpoty: sounds good for starters
09:28	Mithrandir	ajmitch: somebody needs to actually do the uploads, though.
09:28	siretart	can we just remove the group 'motu-sru'?
09:28	ajmitch	excellent one *less* team :)
09:28	ajmitch	Mithrandir: ah true, they don't get manually shoved across, do they?
09:28	crimsun	siretart: that sounds good
09:28	sistpoty	well, I'd like to see all SRU's from non-motus which have been sponsored by motu-sru being taken care for... then we can remove motu-sru ;)
09:29	sistpoty	but I guess I'll do some uploads to -updates after the meeting ;)
09:29	Mithrandir	ajmitch: they need to be uploaded.
09:29	dholbach	Nice. I'll update the Freeze Exception page and write an announcement.
09:29	sistpoty	great dholbach
09:29	sistpoty	ok, next item?
09:30	dholbach	jono asks: "From asking around, it seems the project needs help with (a) outreach and getting new people involved (b) getting people excited about MOTU and (c) defining some direction for the project. Is this a fair assessment?"
09:30	dholbach	I'm not sure it's a good idea to discuss it in a meeting, since we could spend quite some time in here talking about the topic.
09:31	dholbach	What do you think about having some minutes of brainstorming as 'data collection' for another meeting or discussion on the mailing list?
09:31	TheMuso	dholbach: I would have to agree.
09:31	\sh	dholbach: I think a better question is: how are the other community driven projects solving this problems? mostly a hen and egg problem ;)
09:31	crimsun	I propose we migrate that discussion ubuntu-motu@ .
09:31	dholbach	\sh: It's definitely another question. :)
09:31	sistpoty	I guess it might make sense to have jono here to actually discuss it, but brainstorming sounds good
09:31	crimsun	+to
09:31	siretart	just one small point here:
09:32	siretart	this weekend, at chemnitzer linux tage, I had a talk about developer communities in ubuntu
09:32	dholbach	siretart: nice - you have some slides up somewhere? :)
09:32	siretart	the ppl were quite impressed about that we have so few developers for so many packages
09:32	siretart	and that ubuntu is such a young distro
=== ajmitch still feels we're constantly stretched
09:33	dholbach	I hope you all feel patted on the back.
09:33	siretart	dholbach: sure, get them at http://wiki.tauware.de/blog:clt2007 - directly: http://wiki.tauware.de/_media/blog:ubuntu_communities.odp?id=blog%3Aclt2007&cache=cache
09:33	\sh	siretart: regarding MOTU or complete ubuntu-dev?
09:33	siretart	german, though
09:33	siretart	\sh: both
09:33	ajmitch	dholbach: most of the thanks should probably go to debian, though
=== rmjb would like to help... but is overwhelmed with all that is needed to be known
09:33	siretart	keep in mind it was a 30min talk, I couldn't go into details
09:34	ajmitch	rmjb: that's part of what we need to discuss - how to get people involved that can't spend several hours a day on it :)
09:34	sistpoty	rmjb: #ubuntu-motu is a good starting place ;)
09:34	crimsun	ajmitch: (right, given the ratio of merge to syncs)
09:34	siretart	however, I really think we have way too few developers, espc. in universe land. I  don't have concrete ideas however how to fix this
09:34	\sh	the difference is: doing OSS work for a living, and get money for it, or just do it as a hobby...
09:34	dholbach	ajmitch: MOTU is doing a very good job, but we're standing on the shoulders of giants. :-)
09:35	siretart	personal package archives could improve things. is there any news on this topic?
09:35	ajmitch	siretart: we have quite a few developers, but most are inactive
09:35	ajmitch	we talked recently about sending out a nice email to inactive motus inviting them to get involved again
09:35	crimsun	testing for SRU in -proposed is a good way to get involved, too
09:35	siretart	ajmitch: right. I'm talking about 'active' developers. but it's quite hard to define 'active' contributors.
09:35	sistpoty	yep... and we need to make more things clear on the mailing lists imho... so that casual hopefuls know what's going on even if they're not on irc
=== ajmitch isn't particularly active
09:36	dholbach	ajmitch: gpocentek and I are working on that
09:36	TheMuso	One thing I've noticed is that if one is out of the loop too long, it can take a while to catch up to the latest goings on.
09:36	dholbach	ok let's start to mention problems and possible solutions as bullet points for 3-4 minutes - try not to get too deep into discussions
09:36	TheMuso	Because things change so fast.
09:36	Toadstool	true
09:36	sistpoty	TheMuso: right
09:36	ajmitch	dholbach: great
09:36	crimsun	As for one route to bring in hopefuls:  it would be nice to have instructions for setting up various release chroots to help with testing. I can work on that.
09:36	sistpoty	* motu-school sessions
09:37	dholbach	* activity on the mailing list
09:37	ajmitch	* finding a place to start working
09:37	dholbach	* more patting on the back
09:37	Toadstool	(more hugs? :)
09:37	dholbach	* (a) outreach and getting new people involved
09:37	dholbach	*  (b) getting people excited about MOTU
09:37	TheMuso	sistpoty: Thats the impression I've got a couple of times when I have been gone for a while in the past, and have come back to help out again, and found myself having to find out the latest happenings.
09:37	dholbach	;-)
09:37	rmjb	there seem to be diff types of MOTU, mergers, bug fixsers, packagers, maybe different pages for these different types of tasks?
09:38	\sh	* spreading curiosity to the people / * why should I work on Ubuntu, and what are the benefits for me and my daily life
09:38	rmjb	at least to help hopefuls ease into tasks
09:38	dholbach	* better structured documentation
09:38	\sh	I mean it serious...those questions I get here in my office..."why are you working on ubuntu, if you don't earn money with it"
09:38	TheMuso	Could the packaging guide possibly be improved?
09:39	ajmitch	TheMuso: if there's someone willing to improve it, sure
09:39	dholbach	more (team work - not administrative) teams
09:39	TheMuso	I have never really looked at it myself, but people may be daunted by it.
09:39	crimsun	TheMuso: yes, and there's work on that
09:39	rmjb	the packaging guide is good... the end could have some tips and tricks though
09:39	sistpoty	* monthly summary of all policy changes + todo list on the mailing list?
09:40	Toadstool	sistpoty: that'd be great
09:40	dholbach	* more scheduled QA sessions
09:40	crimsun	(random thought: why don't we turn the packaging guide into a cookbook, ala the O'Reilly series?)
09:40	xerosis	* mentors to ease new people in
09:40	bddebian	We have mentors
09:41	sistpoty	xerosis: we have mentors already... maybe that's in a too less prominent place on the wiki`
09:41	sistpoty	? even
09:41	dholbach	ok, maybe let's close the list here - this should be a good start for more discussions among our team and with jono - let's move on.
09:41	xerosis	apologies
09:41	siretart	dholbach++
09:41	TheMuso	I think some MOTUs that don't currently mentor should consider doing it at some point.
09:41	sistpoty	dholbach: +1
09:41	dholbach	Let's have a look at our TODO lists.
09:41	sistpoty	(and I should stop mentoring, as I'm a particular bad mentor :P)
09:41	dholbach	sistpoty mentions "what's missing (php4-transition? what else)"
09:42	dholbach	xerosis: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Mentors
09:42	sistpoty	dholbach: well, php4 is about to be removed... let me look at the mail back again
09:42	dholbach	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/TODO
09:42	dholbach	didn't we have a unmetdeps list somewhere?
09:42	dholbach	or somebody who agreed to file a bunch of bugs on it?
09:42	\sh	php4-transition to 20050606+lfs?
09:43	dholbach	Is somebody here who'd like to do that?
09:43	\sh	I already uploaded many php4 packages to rebuild on latest php4 api change
09:43	dholbach	\sh: we're talking about removal
09:43	\sh	dholbach: ah
09:43	sistpoty	https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-motu/2007-February/001288.html
09:43	tonyyarusso	crimsun: (would it be able to cover everything that way?  Seems pretty good as is)
09:43	crimsun	tonyyarusso: offband to -motu, please
09:44	dholbach	What's missing on  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/TODO ?
09:45	dholbach	Is somebody here who'd like to file a bunch of unmetdeps bugs?
09:45	ajmitch	results of an archive rebuild (yet to come)
=== ajmitch was going to, but hasn't yet
09:45	dholbach	ajmitch: do you know what's the status there?
09:45	dholbach	ajmitch: (archive rebuild)
09:45	ajmitch	no idea about archive rebuild
09:45	sistpoty	there was some smaller thing as well iirc, but I cannot remember exactly what it was
=== ajmitch could still do unmet deps bugs if you really wish
09:46	dholbach	that'd be nice
09:46	sistpoty	ajmitch: that'd be great
09:46	dholbach	http://daniel.holba.ch/bzr/massfile/
09:46	ajmitch	yeah I have that checked out somewhere
09:46	dholbach	:)
09:46	dholbach	anything else we're missing on that list?
09:47	dholbach	did anybody spend some time to tag bugs as 'bitesize' or 'packaging'?
09:47	dholbach	should we call out a Universe HUG DAY or something?
09:47	bddebian	Probably a good idea
09:47	sistpoty	dholbach: sure... was just about to mention that ;)
09:47	dholbach	rock
09:47	dholbach	who does it? :)
09:47	crimsun	dholbach: that would be a good idea, and it's an easy way to get people involved this week
09:47	TheMuso	sorry guys, gotta run.
09:47	ajmitch	dholbach can distribute hugs
09:48	dholbach	hehe :)
09:48	sistpoty	hehe
09:48	dholbach	ok, ajmitch will file unmetdeps bugs, I'll try to find out what's up with the rebuilds
09:49	dholbach	who'd join Universe HUG DAY to work through universe bugs?
09:49	dholbach	who'd announce it?
09:49	bddebian	I would try to join (work has been brutal lately)
09:49	crimsun	I'm up for working on tagging universe bugs as bitesize/etc.
09:49	sistpoty	I'll try my best, but currently I need to cancel many tasks due to my thesis :(
09:50	dholbach	ok, I'd join in as well
09:50	dholbach	friday?
09:50	crimsun	Friday sounds good
09:50	dholbach	I can write the announce
09:50	dholbach	anything else for the TODO list?
09:50	Toadstool	hmm, i'll try to join too
09:50	sistpoty	I guess everone should just add s.th. if he finds another thing, ok?
09:50	dholbach	ok
09:51	Toadstool	(quite busy at work though)
09:51	dholbach	siretart asks "What to do with broken packages we know about?"
09:51	ajmitch	dholbach: blog it on planet :)
09:52	bddebian	dholbach / siretart: Like?
09:52	siretart	we had another example today: xserver-xgl:
09:52	dholbach	"there are packages, which we know that we won't be able to fix them before release. This includes e.g. unmet dependencies. Can we do better than leaving them in the release?"
09:52	bddebian	Ahh
09:52	Toadstool	dholbach: remove'em from the archive? :)
=== Toadstool hides
09:53	crimsun	concerning xserver-xgl: I'll look at it tonight, since I have access to hardware that would be affected
09:53	siretart	bddebian: xserver-xgl got broken by the xorg 7.2 upload to main, and the diff to current git head is way too big to review
09:53	dholbach	I don't think we should try to find a too easy solution to the problem in five minutes of a meeting.
09:53	Mithrandir	Toadstool: that is painful when we next time sync from Debian.
09:53	siretart	bddebian: other packages include packages with unmet deps
09:53	Toadstool	Mithrandir: yeah I know, just kidding
09:53	Mithrandir	we've so far fixed unmetdeps in SRUs, which I think is sane enough.
09:54	ajmitch	crimsun: thanks
09:54	sistpoty	yep... and sometimes contributors contribute fixes for sru's :)
09:54	siretart	I don't have any concrete proposal, I just find it sad that we release with so many broken package, and for many, we know that they are broken
09:54	dholbach	I'm not sure there's a general answer to the question.
09:54	crimsun	we should really push to get those RC fixes from Debian in before feisty release
09:55	siretart	I compare with debian, where broken packages get removed before release. but that's not really applicable to ubuntu, I know
09:55	Toadstool	if the amount of really broken packages stays reasonably low, we can take care of them with SRUs, right?
09:55	sistpoty	I guess we should try to remove packages that are broken which have been removed from debian some time ago
09:55	crimsun	unmet deps can be resolved via SRU, so I'm not really worried. Perhaps we should start with known _regressions_ from edgy first.
09:55	ajmitch	siretart: that's because they're removed from testing, but can be left in unstable
09:55	Mithrandir	siretart: we don't have testing (as in the distribution)
09:55	siretart	ajmitch: right
09:56	Mithrandir	we could maybe remove the binaries..
09:56	dholbach	sistpoty: i think that happens regularly (debian-removed -> ubuntu-removed)
09:56	siretart	Mithrandir: we don't have some other solution either
09:56	siretart	Mithrandir: removing binaries sounds like a good idea to me!
09:56	sistpoty	dholbach: iirc there are some left... maybe if they have ubuntu changes?
09:56	dholbach	sistpoty: dunno
09:56	Mithrandir	siretart: it'll require binary NEW then, which is significantly less work than source NEW.
09:56	Mithrandir	siretart: I'd need to discuss it with the archive team.
09:56	ajmitch	siretart: btw about xserver-xgl - the majority of the debdiff is the nasty bundled mesa copy
09:57	sistpoty	siretart: removing the binary sounds like a good idea
09:57	dholbach	ajmitch: that's info we need in the bug report :)
09:57	ajmitch	dholbach: it's already in the diffstat :)
09:57	siretart	Mithrandir: I'd expect binary removals to happen really short before release. binary new shouldn't be too much of a problem at the beginning of the release cycle
09:58	Mithrandir	siretart: uh, have you looked at NEW when we start syncing from Debian?
09:58	siretart	Mithrandir: it's long, I assume :)
09:58	siretart	Mithrandir: but do you really do an extensive NEW review for every NEW package from debian?
09:59	dholbach	so there's only the possibility to remove binary packages as a reasonable measure it seems.
09:59	Mithrandir	siretart: I've done so so far at least, yes.  But as I said, binary NEW is a lot less work than source NEW.
09:59	siretart	I imagine
09:59	Mithrandir	(since it doesn't require checking all licences, just making sure the packages are somewhat sane)
10:00	sistpoty	ok, I guess we'll just wait for a resolution from ubuntu-archive on this one, right?
10:00	dholbach	right
10:00	ajmitch	ok, so next meeting time?
10:00	dholbach	any other business?
10:00	ajmitch	:)
10:00	sistpoty	Mithrandir: can you inform us of the result please?
10:00	bddebian	yeah, I need a raise ;-P
10:00	Mithrandir	sistpoty: yes.  Can you mail me reminding me to do so?
10:01	sistpoty	Mithrandir: sure, or I'll just ping you :P
10:01	dholbach	ok, no other business - how about in three weeks?
10:01	ajmitch	ok, what time of day?
10:01	dholbach	so we keep on rolling with the MC meeting
10:01	sistpoty	erm... wasn't there some overlapping with TB meeting (or was that MC meeting)?
10:01	crimsun	after 20:00 if in 3 weeks
10:02	ajmitch	sistpoty: with TB
10:02	Mithrandir	sistpoty: sure, that's fine.  It's just that it's 22:00 here now and I was planning on heading to bed soonish, not work. :-)
10:02	crimsun	because TB is at 20:00 in 3 weeks
10:02	ajmitch	Mithrandir: I'll poke you about f-spot uvf tomorrow then :)
10:02	Mithrandir	ajmitch: sure
10:02	dholbach	let's do it before TB then
10:02	dholbach	:)
10:02	crimsun	18:00?
10:02	ajmitch	dholbach: or +- 12 hours
10:02	dholbach	sounds good to me
10:03	ajmitch	to allow people in australia to make it to the meeting
10:03	sistpoty	ajmitch: yep, rotating seems like a fair thing to do
10:03	sistpoty	8.00 UTC?
10:03	dholbach	fine with me too
10:04	ajmitch	sounds fair
10:04	sistpoty	+1 here as well
10:04	sistpoty	<-- needs to get up really early then :P
10:04	Toadstool	late meeting but fair :) +1
10:04	ajmitch	sistpoty: you'll live :)
10:04	sistpoty	hrhr
10:04	bddebian	heh
10:04	dholbach	WFM
10:05	dholbach	who writes the announce?
10:05	sistpoty	hm... WFM always reminds me of WTF *g*
10:05	sistpoty	I can do it
10:05	dholbach	ok, excellent
10:05	sistpoty	btw.: is anyone doing the minutes?
10:05	dholbach	thanks everbody for showing up to the meeting :)
10:06	ajmitch	thanks
10:06	bddebian	Thanks.  Sorry I'm not as "involved" lately :'-(
10:07	crimsun	sistpoty: I started but got volunteered for another meeting here. Can you do them?
10:07	sistpoty	crimsun: ok, will do
10:07	crimsun	thank
10:07	crimsun	+s
10:07	LaserJock	sorry guys, really late
10:07	dholbach	you ROCK
10:07	sistpoty	bddebian? you *not* involved? then I'm completely away from the project :P
10:08	bddebian	pfft :-)
10:08	bddebian	LaserJock: Just in time ;-P
10:09	LaserJock	all over?
10:09	Toadstool	yep
10:09	ajmitch	LaserJock: yep, just finished
</pre>
