{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

Items we will be discussing:

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting.
* Beta release
** Remaining beta-targeted bugs:
** Bug:432154 (kirkland)
** Bug:429106 (smoser)
** Bug:438747 - Instances do not run because /var/run/eucalyptus/net is missing
** Bug:438602 - Autoregistration sometimes fails (?)
** Release process remaining actions:
** vmbuilder: using seeds, publishing toolchain version in manifests
** MIR all non-main packages used in images (smoser)
** Publish ec2-version-query in a appropriate place (soren)
** Automate image publishing and ec2-version-query refresh (smoser)
* Review progress made on the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap|Roadmap]]</nowiki>:
** Eucalyptus remaining <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/eucalyptus|bugs]]</nowiki> (ttx)
** UEC images, including review of <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=uec-images|active bugs]]</nowiki> (smoser)
** EC2 AMIs, including review of <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=ec2-images|active bugs]]</nowiki> (smoser)
** Virtual appliance
** Reference appliance (kirkland)
** Image store (niemeyer)
** Other specs from the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-Roadmap|Roadmap]]</nowiki>
* Assigned and to-be-assigned bugs: http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-server-assigned-bug-tasks.html (ttx)
* Weekly SRU review (mathiaz)
* 2009 Server survey status and call for action. (nijaba)
* Open Discussion
* Agree on next meeting date and time

=== Minutes ===

===== Virtual appliance =====

kirkland mentioned he moved away from a moodle to a gobby server appliance. He also added that we needed to figure out how to make appliances out of packages that had critical debconf questions. It's a generic problem and requires admin input on package installation. For the appliance to be useful all configuration should be web driven after instantiation. He asked whether the debconf web frontend could be used for that. cjwatson acknowledged that there was one although it wasn't very good.

niemeyer reported that the proxy was in a pretty good state now. Work on the server side is required and he is waiting on the server infrastructure for this. He also noted that the server side can be faked with fakestoreapi.py for testing purposes.

ACTION: niemeyer to send mathiaz and nurmi a mail with details on how to test the image-store-proxy integration with fakestoreapi.py.

===== Asterisk stack =====

Daviey reported that Asterisk 1.6rc2 had been uploaded to karmic.

===== vmbuilder =====

smoser reported that vmbuilder used the seeds to build the list of packages to include in the UEC images. mdz asked that vmbuilder's version be included in the manifest. This turns out to be less straightforward as vmbuilder trunk branch is currently used to build images.

===== Automate image publishing and ec2-version-query refresh =====

smoser reported that the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UEC/Images/Publishing|image publication process]]</nowiki> was somehow automated. He started to write <nowiki>[[http://smoser.brickies.net/git/?p=misc-starter-tools.git|some scripts]]</nowiki>. The goal is moving towards being ready to work right away on image publication automation as soon as we get some access to amazon from data center.

ACTION: ttx and smoser to review the automation of the image publication process.

===== Roadmap review / Eucalyptus =====

kirkland put a huge effort into triaging <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/eucalyptus|eucalyptus bugs]]</nowiki> - the list is usable again.

ttx mentioned that the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Eucalyptus|Eucalyptus help page]]</nowiki> was outdated especially in the Installer integration section. He asked for help on refreshing the content based on the <nowiki>[[http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Install/ServerEConfig|test cases]]</nowiki>. alexm offered to review the doc while Daviey will try to update parts of it.

ACTION: kirkland to fix bug 438747, maybe bug 438602, package and push a respin with that package in

===== Roadmap review / UEC - EC2 bugs =====

smoser reported that <nowiki>[[http://tinyurl.com/yazgzzf|all bugs targeted to beta with ec2-images or uec-images in a tag]]</nowiki> were fixed as far as he knew.

zul mentioned that amazon had released a new version of ec2-api-tools which added better ebs and vpn support. ttz suggested it was probably too late for the karmic release cycle. zul could just make them available in a ppa and upload it for lucid.

ACTION: smoser to open bugs to cover kernel/ramdisk GPL reqs and renaming

ACTION: ttx to test UEC images + UEC kernel/ramdisk on karmic UEC

===== Assigned and to-be-assigned bugs =====

ACTION: ttx to see if some bugs assigned to soren need urgent reassignment

===== Weekly SRU review =====

mathiaz conducted the weekly SRU review and relevant bugs have been accepted. He also reminded that the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20resources|updated SRU workflow]]</nowiki> in the Ubuntu Server team was using package branches to prepare SRU. sbeattie mentioned he was interested in participating at the review stage making sure that both the package changes (via a merge proposal) as well as the SRU report were in good shape before the upload to the archive.

===== 2009 Server survey status and call for action =====

nijaba announced he had updated the 2009 Server survey. A <nowiki>[[http://admin.barcet.com:8084/limesurvey|test server]]</nowiki> is available for reviewing the updated questions. Bugs should be <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-survey/+filebug|filed in LP]]</nowiki> against the server-survey project.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

soren started <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2009-September/003351.html|a discussion]]</nowiki> on the ubuntu-server mailing list about a new time and date for the meeting. Daviey suggested to use <nowiki>[[http://www.doodle.com/|doodle]]</nowiki> to conduct a poll.

ACTION: Daviey to setup a doodle poll and send the url to the ubuntu-server@ mailing list.

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, October 6th at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:03] <ttx> #startmeeting
[16:03] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:03. The chair is ttx.
[16:03] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:03] <zul> its like people are doing aerobics
[16:04] <ttx> Agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Meeting
[16:04] <ttx> [TOPIC] Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:04] <ttx> ACTION: Daviey to get his Asterisk 1.6RC2 update sponsored
[16:05] <ttx> no Daviey
[16:05] <Daviey> ttx: that was same day as the meeting :)
[16:05] <ttx> ok cool
[16:05] <ttx> ACTION: soren to clear out status for ec2-version-query publication
[16:05] <ttx> ACTION: soren to automate updating of ec2-version-query" (once publication is resolved)
[16:06] <ttx> soren is away, anyone knows the status of this ?
[16:06] <ttx> slangasek, maybe ^
[16:06] <ttx> ACTION: kirkland to open discussion on how to best solve the remaining configuration options on Moodle appliance
[16:06] <kirkland> ttx: is that from last week?
[16:06] <ttx> heh, yes
[16:06] <ttx> well, carried on from the week before
[16:07] <kirkland> ttx: for the prototype, i moved away from a moodle appliance for now, to a gobby server
[16:07] <ttx> ok.
[16:07] <kirkland> ttx: generically, we need to figure out how to make appliances out of packages that have critical debconf questions
[16:07] <ttx> I might have some time tomorrow to do appliance testing, if the eucalyptus front calms down
[16:07] <kirkland> ttx: that's a generic problem, which requires admin input on package installation
[16:07] <ttx> ACTION: kirkland to get help from soren and smoser on proper UEC-compatible image generation
[16:08] <ttx> ACTION: kirkland to discuss with niemeyer and nurmi about image store integration testing
[16:08] <kirkland> ttx: for the appliance to be useful, all configuration should be web driven, after instantiation, according to mdz
[16:08] <Daviey> kirkland: I'm happy to help aswell if that is wanted.
[16:08] <kirkland> Daviey: thanks
[16:08] <kirkland> cjwatson: is there a web frontend for debconf?
[16:08] <kirkland> cjwatson: i seem to recall you saying at some point that various frontends can be bolted onto debconf....
[16:08] <zul> yes there is i think we discussed it at the sprint in aalborg
[16:08] <ttx> kirkland: soren mentionned a web frontend, yes
[16:09] <cjwatson> there is, though it's not very good
[16:09] <kirkland> ttx: all of those actions have been pre-empted by getting UEC to work in Karmic Beta
[16:09] <cjwatson> I think it is minimally functional
[16:09] <kirkland> cjwatson: could you just send me a pointer to it, when you get a chance?
[16:09] <ttx> kirkland: ok.
[16:09] <cjwatson> kirkland: it's in the debconf package itself
[16:09] <ttx> ACTION: soren to update to latest euca2ools
[16:09] <mathiaz> kirkland: we should work on the appliance stuff next week
[16:09] <kirkland> cjwatson: ah, okay, thanks.
[16:09] <kirkland> mathiaz: agreed
[16:09] <ttx> I replaced soren on that one.
[16:10] <kirkland> ttx: we need a running cloud before we can test images ;-)
[16:10] <ttx> ACTION: soren to add image-generation-toolchain version numbers to manifests
[16:10] <ttx> kirkland: working on it :)
[16:10] <ttx> I don't think this was done...
[16:10] <kirkland> ttx: yup, me too :-)
[16:10] <ttx> Two actions on missing MIRs:
[16:10] <ttx> ACTION: zul to follow up on the UEC/EC2 packages MIR status
[16:10] <ttx> ACTION: smoser to file one bug for the fact that the images include unsupported packages
[16:10] <zul> done
[16:11] <zul> ec2-init is in main
[16:11] <smoser> that was done. bug 434744.
[16:11] <ttx> ok
[16:11] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 434744 in ubuntu "ec2 and uec images contain packages not in main" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/434744
[16:11] <ttx> ACTION: ttx to file bug about providing ec2-* command names which call euca2ools
[16:11] <ttx> bug 435140
[16:11] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 435140 in euca2ools "euca2ools should provide ec2-* symlinks/alternatives" [Wishlist,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/435140
[16:11] <ttx> ACTION: mdz to sync with kirkland on Virtual appliance status
[16:11] <ttx> That was done, he communicated basic requirements, methink
[16:12] <kirkland> ttx: i think we're in sync
[16:12] <ttx> ACTION: ttx to poke QA team about omitting untargeted wishlist bugs from the buglist and add something to those pages which tell you who to contact about them
[16:12] <kirkland> ttx: you can action mathiaz and I to work on appliance creation/generation next week in Austin
[16:12] <ttx> I did poke Brian Murray by email, without much result at that point.
[16:12] <ttx> kirkland: we'll do that when we'll see appliance status in roadmap
[16:12] <kirkland> k
[16:12] <ttx> ACTION: mathiaz to involve sbeattie in the Weekly SRU review process
[16:13] <mathiaz> ttx: talked to him last week in Portland
[16:13] <Daviey> ttx: hmm, i thought the previous meeting it was decided that ec2-* shouldn't be symlinked or similar to euca2ools as it wasn't quite compatiable at this stage?
[16:13] <mathiaz> ttx: he is interested in being part of the process
[16:13] <ttx> Daviey: the bug is the place to discuss that.
[16:13] <mathiaz> ttx: I'll talk about that more during the SRU weekly review
[16:13] <Daviey> oh, ok :)
[16:13] <ttx> [TOPIC] Beta release: Remaining beta-targeted bugs
[16:13] <MootBot> New Topic:  Beta release: Remaining beta-targeted bugs
[16:14] <ttx> is nurmi back ?
[16:14] <ttx> I prefer to have him around for that one. Lets do the next one first
[16:14] <ttx> [TOPIC] Beta release: Release process remaining actions
[16:14] <MootBot> New Topic:  Beta release: Release process remaining actions
[16:14] <ttx> * vmbuilder: using seeds, publishing toolchain version in manifests
[16:15] <ttx> I think nobody had time to work on that...
[16:15] <nijaba> ttx: did not see any cmmit to do this in vmbuillder
[16:15] <ttx> we might push that back to RC.
[16:15] <zul> ttx: what is involved?
[16:16] <ttx> zul: making vmbuilder use seeds (or germinate results) to build its package list... and generate manifests that include the vmbuidler version used, among other things
[16:17] <ttx> I think its a little late for beta anyway.
[16:17] <ttx> MIR all non-main packages used in images (smoser)
[16:17] <zul> ttx: i might take a a crack at it
[16:17] <ttx> zul: I know the seeds were pushed.
[16:17] <ttx> * MIR all non-main packages used in images (smoser)
[16:17] <ttx> that was done...
[16:17] <smoser> vmbuilder does use seed uec-images
[16:18] <smoser> err.. whatever that seed was called.
[16:18] <ttx> ah.
[16:18] <smoser> mdz had asked that vmbuilder's version be included in the manifest
[16:18] <ttx> smoser: that's not done yet, right
[16:18] <smoser> that is less straighttforward, as we're currently building with vmbuilder trunk.
[16:19] <ttx> ok, that might slip to RC.
[16:19] <ttx> * Publish ec2-version-query in a appropriate place (soren)
[16:19] <smoser> that has yet to happen
[16:19] <smoser> afaik
[16:21] <ttx> * Automate image publishing and ec2-version-query refresh (smoser)
[16:22] <smoser> not done.
[16:22] <nurmi> o/
[16:23] <ttx> smoser: is image publishing automated in /some/ways ?
[16:24] <smoser> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UEC/Images/Publishing
[16:24] <smoser> "some"
[16:24] <ttx> ok, we'll need to review that.
[16:24] <smoser> i spent yesterday working on some publish scripts. http://smoser.brickies.net/git/?p=misc-starter-tools.git
[16:25] <smoser> with the goal of moving towards being ready to work right away as soon as we get some access to amazon from data center
[16:25] <ttx> ok.
[16:25] <ttx> Anything that needs to be done on the release management side for beta release ?
[16:26] <ttx> [TOPIC] Beta release: Remaining beta-targeted bugs
[16:26] <MootBot> New Topic:  Beta release: Remaining beta-targeted bugs
[16:27] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/432154
[16:27] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 432154 in qemu-kvm "dynamic block device attach/detach not functional with karmic KVM" [High,In progress]
[16:27] <ttx> kirkland: I think this one should be untargeted now
[16:27] <kirkland> ttx: i agree
[16:27] <ttx> please retarget to next
[16:27] <kirkland> ttx: done
[16:27] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/429106 (smoser)
[16:27] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 429106 in vm-builder "kernel and initramfs should be available for uec" [Medium,Fix committed]
[16:28] <ttx> smoser: it's disputed if it's really a good idea right now, right ?
[16:28] <smoser> that is fix-commited, and images are available, although not ideally named for client pulling (or documentation)
[16:29] <smoser> i dont think its disputed. slangesek just impllied that we need to make sure we can fulfill gpl source requirements on the stuff
[16:29] <ttx> smoser: is there a bug open to track that ?
[16:29] <smoser> is marked committed and not released because its not in vmbuilder that is in karmic
[16:29] <smoser> i guess i should open 2 bugs.
[16:29] <ttx> (the gpl reqs)
[16:29] <smoser> 1 for gpl reqs
[16:29] <smoser> 1 for renaming output or re-ordering
[16:30] <ttx> [ACTION] smoser to open bugs to cover kernel/ramdisk GPL reqs and renaming
[16:30] <MootBot> ACTION received:  smoser to open bugs to cover kernel/ramdisk GPL reqs and renaming
[16:30] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/438747
[16:30] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 438747 in eucalyptus "Instances do not run because /var/run/eucalyptus/net is missing" [High,Triaged]
[16:30] <ttx> That one is the latest eyucalyptus issue uncovered in my testing
[16:30] <ttx> its quite easy to fix and is needed for beta
[16:31] <ttx> though I might need someone to push the fix, upload get the exception and the respin
[16:31] <ttx> since I intend to have some evening left
[16:31] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/438602
[16:31] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 438602 in eucalyptus "Autoregistration sometimes fails" [High,Fix released]
[16:31] <ttx> This one is more tricky
[16:31] <ttx> We want autoregistration to work for beta
[16:32] <ttx> but... whatever we do it seems that eucalyptus randomly fails to accept it
[16:32] <mathiaz> ttx: yeah - I ran into the same issue
[16:32] <mathiaz> ttx: none of my test installs actually worked correclty
[16:32] <ttx> nurmi: any clue ?
[16:32] <ttx> We run registration after getting some response from port 8443
[16:32] <mathiaz> ttx: I suspect an issue with the upstart job
[16:33] <nurmi> ttx: the last UEC iso I tried last night was kind of hard to figure out
[16:33] <ttx> nurmi: yes, try the 20090929.2
[16:33] <mathiaz> ttx: ex: the walrus-registration would start and failed but the cc-registration job would not even start
[16:33] <nurmi> ttx: okay, i'll try that
[16:34] <ttx> nurmi: if I run "sudo eucalyptus stop / sudo eucalyptus start" 10 times in a row, it would succeed to autoregister the 8th time
[16:34] <kirkland> mathiaz: ttx: fwiw, i just installed fresh; walrus successfully auto registered; cluster did not
[16:34] <ttx> kirkland: yes, that's what I got with 20090929.2
[16:35] <ttx> cluster and sc fail
[16:35] <nurmi> ttx: i think i need the latest iso, my 'start eucalyptus-cloud' commands were hanging forever yesterday
[16:35] <kirkland> ttx: confirmed
[16:35] <ttx> kirkland: could you debug that with nurmi and push the fix if you find any ?
[16:35] <mathiaz> kirkland: is there a log file in /var/log/eucalyptus/cc-registration?
[16:35] <ttx> at that point I'd say if we don't manage to fix it today, it should be a beta known issue
[16:35] <nurmi> interesting, the only difference between walrus and cc/sc is that the cc/sc registration commands require a 'cluster name'
[16:36] <mathiaz> kirkland: I would first make sure that the upstart job is started correclty
[16:36] <nurmi> i.e. euca_conf --register-cluster <cluster-name> <ip>
[16:36] <kirkland> mathiaz: that log does not exist
[16:36] <ttx> nurmi: it also uses localhost instead of the IP
[16:36] <mathiaz> kirkland: right - I suspect that the upstart job is not even started
[16:36] <mathiaz> kirkland: I'd add a pre-script to check whether the job is actually started
[16:36] <ttx> which might be the reason, actually.
[16:37] <mathiaz> kirkland: and bug Keybuck about debugging upstart
[16:37] <ttx> let's not debug that during the meeting
[16:37]  * mathiaz agrees
[16:37] <nurmi> ttx: ah, well, that is most likely the issue; in upstream, you cannot register 'localhost', as we discussed a few days ago; mdz said that ubuntu had patched the system to allow localhost registration
[16:37] <kirkland> ttx: okay, so i'll debug the cc auto registration
[16:37] <mathiaz> kirkland: we can debug this later
[16:37] <kirkland> ttx: and sync with mathiaz and nurmi
[16:37] <ttx> kirkland: might make sense to try to use the walrus IP inside cc and sc-registration.conf
[16:37]  * nurmi agrees
[16:37] <ttx> lets talk about that later
[16:38] <ttx> Anything else that should be targeted for beta ?
[16:38] <ttx> Hopefully, nothing...
[16:38] <ttx> [TOPIC] Roadmap review / Eucalyptus
[16:38] <MootBot> New Topic:  Roadmap review / Eucalyptus
[16:38] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/eucalyptus
[16:39] <ttx> thanks to a huge triage effort by kirkland, the buglist is actually usable now.
[16:39] <ttx> we dalready discussed what could be brought after beta for the release
[16:40] <ttx> I'm more scared by the bugs we don't know (the ones we find in testing)
[16:40] <ttx> [TOPIC] Roadmap review / UEC - EC2 bugs
[16:40] <MootBot> New Topic:  Roadmap review / UEC - EC2 bugs
[16:40] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=uec-images
[16:40] <ttx> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=ec2-images
[16:40] <ttx> smoser: comments ?
[16:41] <smoser> http://tinyurl.com/yazgzzf link is "all bugs targetted to beta with ec2-images or uec-images in a tag"
[16:41] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://tinyurl.com/yazgzzf link is "all bugs targetted to beta with ec2-images or uec-images in a tag"
[16:42] <smoser> all of those are fixed as far as i know
[16:43] <zul> i just like to bring up that amazon has released a new version of ec2-api-tools which add better ebs and also adds vpn support I was going to ask for a FFE but I dont know how well it works with eucalyptus
[16:43] <ttx> smoser: sounds good. I did not have time to carefully review them
[16:43] <smoser> the most difficult bug of anything still open is bug 428692
[16:43] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 428692 in ubuntu "ec2 kernel needs CONFIG_BLK_DEV_LOOP=y and other config changes" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/428692
[16:44] <ttx> zul: I think that's not for beta anyway... and maybe not for release
[16:44] <zul> ttx: I can just throw it in a ppa and upload it for lucid
[16:44] <smoser> the only karmic related bug there with medium or > priority that isn't on track for being fixed in karmic is bug 407949
[16:44] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 407949 in ec2-init "ec2-init: ec2-set-defaults needs better defaults for non US/EU regions" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/407949
[16:44] <ttx> zul: that won't hurt.
[16:45] <zul> ttx: okie dokie
[16:45] <ttx> smoser: I tested images on my karmic UEC today, worked. I still have to test the kernel/ramdisk you produce though
[16:46] <ttx> smoser: thanks for the update.
[16:46] <ttx> [TOPIC] Roadmap review: Virtual appliance
[16:46] <MootBot> New Topic:  Roadmap review: Virtual appliance
[16:46] <ttx> kirkland, niemeyer: what's the plan ?
[16:46] <smoser> i think we're actually looking pretty good now (although i fear i've said that bfore)
[16:47] <kirkland> ttx: i'm confident gobby will work well
[16:47] <kirkland> ttx: as it has a very hands off, unattended installation
[16:47] <niemeyer> ttx: The proxy should be in pretty good state now..
[16:47] <kirkland> ttx: mdz raised a question about persistent storage configuration, which i have not yet solved
[16:47] <kirkland> ttx: but that's the case for most any appliance
[16:47] <ttx> kirkland/niemeyer: at one point you need to sync on how to intgerate one with the other
[16:47] <mathiaz> niemeyer: did you get a chance to look at bug 436896?
[16:47] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 436896 in image-store-proxy "Signature tests are disabled - gpg command calls should use homedir option" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/436896
[16:47] <ttx> integrate, even
[16:47] <niemeyer> ttx: I just have to work a bit on the server side.. waiting for the server infrastructure for this
[16:48] <kirkland> ttx: as for moodle, wordpress, others, we need to establish the process by which we handle debconf
[16:48] <ttx> niemeyer: any ETA on infra ?
[16:48] <niemeyer> mathiaz: Oh yeah, thanks for reporting this.. I'll provide you with a fix in the next couple of days
[16:48] <kirkland> ttx: i'm going to have a look at the web frontend for debconf that colin mentioned
[16:48] <niemeyer> ttx: Not really.. should already have been made available by now, so at any time
[16:48] <ttx> kirkland: ok. You mentioned a sprint ?
[16:48] <mathiaz> niemeyer: the key is to test without a ~/.gnupg/ directory
[16:48] <niemeyer> mathiaz: Cool, I'll make sure to check this out
[16:48] <mathiaz> niemeyer: and making sure that it's not created afterwards
[16:49] <niemeyer> mathiaz: Any other issues about 1.0, or is it all good?
[16:50] <mathiaz> niemeyer: well - I haven't been able to complete a full test
[16:50] <mathiaz> niemeyer: as there isn't a server side yet
[16:50] <mathiaz> niemeyer: is the fakeproxy actually able to push images?
[16:50] <niemeyer> mathiaz: Cool, please note that you can fake the server side
[16:50] <niemeyer> mathiaz: The fakestoreapi.py can fake the server side entirely
[16:51] <kirkland> ttx: potentially a mini sprint
[16:51] <niemeyer> mathiaz: I'll send you and nurmi a mail later with details on how to test this
[16:51]  * ttx adds a few missing actions...
[16:51] <kirkland> ttx: mathiaz will be in Austin anyway
[16:51] <mathiaz> niemeyer: ok - thanks.
[16:51] <kirkland> ttx: i'm trying to convince nurmi to come down too :-)
[16:51] <nurmi> niemeyer: nod, thanks
[16:51] <kirkland> ttx: i reckon the 3 of us could kick some post-beta butt
[16:51] <niemeyer> nurmi: I've seen your mail, btw, was just catching up after holidays to send you these details
[16:51] <ttx> [ACTION] kirkland to fix bug 438747, maybe bug 438602, package and push a respin with that package in
[16:51] <MootBot> ACTION received:  kirkland to fix bug 438747, maybe bug 438602, package and push a respin with that package in
[16:51] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 438747 in eucalyptus "Instances do not run because /var/run/eucalyptus/net is missing" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/438747
[16:51] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 438602 in eucalyptus "Autoregistration sometimes fails" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/438602
[16:51] <nurmi> kirkland: actively working on it :)
[16:52] <kirkland> nurmi: ack ;-)
[16:52] <niemeyer> nurmi: I have a new assignment to do a few tweaks in the UI.. we should catch up about this at some point
[16:52] <ttx> [ACTION] ttx to test UEC images + UEC kernel/ramdisk on karmic UEC
[16:52] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ttx to test UEC images + UEC kernel/ramdisk on karmic UEC
[16:52] <nurmi> niemeyer: thank you, I can't wait to check it out
[16:52] <ttx> [TOPIC] Other specs from the Roadmap
[16:52] <MootBot> New Topic:  Other specs from the Roadmap
[16:52] <niemeyer> nurmi: I hope to have a patch by the end of the week for appreciation
[16:53] <ttx> I think at that point only the late specs (that we covered) are to be considered
[16:53] <ttx> especially with asterisk done, iiuc
[16:53] <nurmi> niemeyer: sounds good, please send me email if you're blocking or could use testing/integration
[16:54] <ttx> [TOPIC] Assigned and to-be-assigned bugs
[16:54] <MootBot> New Topic:  Assigned and to-be-assigned bugs
[16:54] <ttx> http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-server-assigned-bug-tasks.html
[16:54] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/team-assigned/canonical-server-assigned-bug-tasks.html
[16:54] <niemeyer> nurmi: Awesome, thanks a lot
[16:55] <ttx> I'll have a look at the bugs assigned to soren to see if something needs to be reassigned before he comes back
[16:55] <ttx> [ACTION] ttx to see if some bugs assigned to soren need urgent reassignment
[16:55] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ttx to see if some bugs assigned to soren need urgent reassignment
[16:56] <ttx> any other comments on that list ?
[16:56] <ttx> [TOPIC] Weekly SRU review (mathiaz)
[16:56] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly SRU review (mathiaz)
[16:57]  * ttx lies back and enjoys mathiaz taking over
[16:57] <ttx> (please :)
[16:57] <mathiaz> right - so let's go through the list of bugs
[16:57] <mathiaz> http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[16:57] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[16:57] <zul> the nut init script bug is probably a good candidate for jaunty i have to check though
[16:58] <mathiaz> any bugs worth SRU in the list?
[16:58] <mathiaz> zul: bug number?
[16:58] <mathiaz> bug 416182
[16:58] <zul> #416182	
[16:58] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 416182 in nut "nut init script reports incorrect status" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/416182
[16:58] <Daviey> Wow eucalyptus is a large part.
[16:58] <mathiaz> Daviey: yeah - that's kirkland's work
[16:58] <mathiaz> Daviey: we can probaly ignore most of them
[16:58] <ttx> yes we can
[16:59] <zul> mathiaz: none of the php5 ones
[16:59] <mathiaz> there is bug 404394
[16:59] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 404394 in kvm "qcow2 corruption regression" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/404394
[16:59] <mathiaz> kirkland: ^^ which I've hit on my server
[16:59] <mathiaz> kirkland: (hardy - with the kvm 84 backport)
[16:59] <mathiaz> kirkland: I can't use karmic guest + qcow2 + virtio
[17:00] <mathiaz> zul: bug 424719?
[17:00] <ubottu> Bug 424719 on http://launchpad.net/bugs/424719 is private
[17:00] <kirkland> arg
[17:00] <kirkland> mathiaz: i haven't had much time to look at that
[17:01] <kirkland> s/much/any/
[17:01] <mathiaz> kirkland: understood
[17:01] <zul> mathiaz: yeah its a bit hard to reproduce though for SRU testing
[17:01] <mathiaz> allright - any bugs apart the nut init script SRU worthy from the list above?
[17:01] <Daviey> Does that one need to be private?
[17:01] <zul> just a sec
[17:02] <zul> Daviey: it isnt now
[17:02] <mathiaz> zul: bug 416182 would be worth accepting for which release?
[17:02] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 416182 in nut "nut init script reports incorrect status" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/416182
[17:02] <mathiaz> zul: hardy?
[17:02] <zul> jaunty i think
[17:02] <mathiaz> zul: and what's the importance?
[17:02] <zul> low
[17:02] <Daviey> thanks zul
[17:03] <mathiaz> zul: ok - jaunty+low -> we can live with it
[17:03] <mathiaz> anything else?
[17:03] <zul> nope
[17:03] <zul> not from me
[17:03] <mathiaz> ok - let's move on to the next list
[17:04] <mathiaz> http://us-hardynominated.notlong.com/
[17:04] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://us-hardynominated.notlong.com/
[17:04] <mathiaz> nothing
[17:04] <mathiaz> http://us-dappernominated.notlong.com/
[17:04] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://us-dappernominated.notlong.com/
[17:04] <mathiaz> nothing
[17:04] <mathiaz> http://us-intrepidnominated.notlong.com/
[17:04] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://us-intrepidnominated.notlong.com/
[17:04] <mathiaz> nothing
[17:04] <mathiaz> http://us-jauntynominated.notlong.com/
[17:04] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://us-jauntynominated.notlong.com/
[17:05] <Daviey> wouldn't seem SRU worthy to me?
[17:05] <mathiaz> bug 356905
[17:05] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 356905 in rabbitmq-server "rabbitmq-server: new upstream release fixes serious bugs " [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/356905
[17:06] <zul> uh...its fixed in jaunty
[17:07] <mathiaz> zul: right - declining
[17:07] <mathiaz> that's all for the nominated bugs
[17:07] <mathiaz> let's move on to the next list
[17:07] <mathiaz> http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/acceptedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[17:07] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/acceptedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[17:07] <mathiaz> this is the list of accepted bugs that have an assignee
[17:08] <mathiaz> ie someone working *actively* on preparing an sRU
[17:08] <mathiaz> zul: what's the state of all your bugs?
[17:08] <zul> most of those are in -proposed and need testers
[17:08] <mathiaz> kirkland: bug 332156
[17:08] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 332156 in kvm "Network issues with hardy guests/hosts, using default nic and virtio" [Medium,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/332156
[17:08] <mathiaz> kirkland: still working on an SRU for it?
[17:08] <kirkland> mathiaz: no, not really
[17:09] <kirkland> mathiaz: should be fixed in the backport
[17:09] <kirkland> mathiaz: i'll note it
[17:09] <mathiaz> kirkland: ok - and unassign yourself from the bug if necessary
[17:09] <Daviey> hmm, are we allowed to fix release via backport?
[17:10] <kirkland> Daviey: not usually
[17:10] <kirkland> Daviey: but for kvm, i've been doing so, as these bugs are not fixable otherwise
[17:10] <mathiaz> zul: bug 382136?
[17:10] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 382136 in samba "Smbd startup failure caused by a failure to create an NT token for the guest account." [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/382136
[17:10] <zul> i need to look at that again
[17:12] <mathiaz> ok - that's all for this list
[17:12] <mathiaz> on to the next
[17:12] <mathiaz> https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+requestedreviews
[17:12] <ttx> ew
[17:12] <Daviey> 404?
[17:12] <mathiaz> https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+activereviews
[17:13] <mathiaz> so no one is using pkg branches for reviews
[17:13] <ttx> mathiaz: no more lists ?
[17:13] <mathiaz> ttx: nope - I ran out
[17:13] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20resources
[17:13] <ttx> [TOPIC] 2009 Server survey status and call for action. (nijaba)
[17:13] <MootBot> New Topic:  2009 Server survey status and call for action. (nijaba)
[17:13] <mathiaz> ttx: ah - no
[17:13] <mathiaz> ttx: I just wanted to reiterate
[17:14] <nijaba> ttx: so I have prepared a new version of the survey
[17:14] <mathiaz> ttx: that we're trying to use package branches for SRU
[17:14] <nijaba> ttx: and it is now time for review
[17:14] <nijaba> background: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Survey
[17:14] <ttx> nijaba: who should review ?
[17:15] <nijaba> aynone interested in the community
[17:15] <nijaba> I have put a test server in place: http://admin.barcet.com:8084/limesurvey
[17:15] <ttx> yay, let's slashdot that
[17:15] <nijaba> bugs should be reported on https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-survey/+filebug
[17:15] <Daviey> nijaba: suggestions to https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-survey/+filebug ?
[17:16] <ttx> Daviey: you read minds
[17:16] <nijaba> Daviey: yes please
[17:16] <ttx> nijaba: anything else ?
[17:16] <nijaba> nope
[17:16] <ttx> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[17:16] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[17:16] <ttx> I've one thing I forgot to mention in the agenda
[17:17] <ttx> About https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Eucalyptus
[17:17] <ttx> its quite outdated especially now that we push usage of the UEC installer from the CD
[17:17] <ttx> if someone has some time to refresh it...
[17:17] <ttx> see http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Install/ServerECluster
[17:18] <ttx> http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Install/ServerENode
[17:18] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Install/ServerENode
[17:18] <ttx> and http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Install/ServerEConfig
[17:18] <Daviey> ttx: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Eucalyptus is still valid for Jaunty, so perhaps the pages need to be forked.. for a karmic and jaunty one?
[17:18] <ttx> the last part shoudl probably be rewritten from the perspective of running imaghes from a client rather than from the cluster itself
[17:18] <ttx> Daviey: "Note: Please see Eucalyptus-Jaunty for documentation covering Eucalyptus on Ubuntu 9.04. "
[17:19] <ttx> at the top of the page
[17:19] <Daviey> "whoops"
[17:19] <ttx> those testcases should help in getting started
[17:19] <ttx> we refresh those instructions to correspond to the moving status in eucalyptus
[17:20] <ttx> anyone up to the challenge ?
[17:20]  * ttx ponders writing a blog post after beta
[17:20] <ttx> Any other subject for Open Discussion ?
[17:20] <Daviey> Yes!
[17:20]  * alexm offers himself as doc tester
[17:21] <alexm> i'm interested in eucalyptus but i don't know where to start :(
[17:21] <ttx> alexm: the test cases should get you there. Minus the critical bugs we still have to fix :)
[17:21] <Daviey> I'll try and contribute to the wiki page, but i can't commit to doing the whole thing.
[17:22] <alexm> s/doc tester/doc reviewer/
[17:22] <ttx> Daviey: ok, we'll do it wikistyle
[17:22] <ttx> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[17:22] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[17:22] <Daviey> Currently we are installing -pae on 32bit and -server on amd64.. However, we don't install the linux-headers for the kernel installed/
[17:22] <Daviey> ttx: wait 1
[17:22] <ttx> done
[17:22] <alexm> ttx: we're talking about test cases running on karmic, i guess
[17:22] <Daviey> dkms isn't installed by default.. and when dkms IS installed on a server it installs the -generic kernel
[17:22] <Daviey> this is bad.
[17:23] <ttx> alexm: karmic on karmic on karmic, yes
[17:23] <alexm> ok, thanks :)
[17:23] <Daviey> bug 433712 is related
[17:23] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 433712 in ubuntu-meta "DKMS should be available on the ubuntu-server CD pool" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/433712
[17:23] <Daviey> damn you kirkland
[17:24] <ttx> Daviey: is there a bug filed on that specific issue ?
[17:24] <Daviey> ttx: no, only came to light this morning and wasn't sure how to proceed.
[17:24] <kirkland> Daviey: huh?
[17:24] <Daviey> kirkland: sorry, i thought you fixed the issue just now.. as the status has changed to Fixed Released
[17:25] <kirkland> Daviey: no i just marked it fix released, since dkms is already on the server cd
[17:25] <kirkland> Daviey: which is what superm1 was askign for
[17:25] <Daviey> kirkland: sure.
[17:26] <Daviey> but installing dkms doesn't pull in the correct kernel for what the server iso installs.
[17:26] <ttx> Daviey: if there is a persisting bug, just file one, please
[17:26] <mathiaz> Daviey: right - kirkland run into the same issue with the kvm backport in hardy
[17:26] <Daviey> ttx: will do.
[17:26] <ttx> [TOPIC] Agree on next meeting date and time
[17:26] <MootBot> New Topic:  Agree on next meeting date and time
[17:26] <kirkland> yeah
[17:26] <mathiaz> Daviey: AFICT there isn't a way to fix it in apt
[17:26] <ttx> soren started a discussion about moving the time of the meeting.
[17:27] <ttx> I'd like all the usual suspects to submit their preferences, otherwise we might pick up a time that will not please you
[17:27] <Daviey> could http://www.doodle.com/ help with this?
[17:27] <ttx> Daviey: certainly.
[17:28]  * ttx frowns at entering his email in one more place
[17:28]  * alexm hasn't replied because thinks that key team members should speak first
[17:29] <ttx> now that the discussion started on the list, its probably good to continue on the list
[17:29] <alexm> ttx: there's no need to register for using doodle
[17:30]  * mathiaz agrees
[17:30] <ttx> If Doodle is ok with everyone... Daviey could you reply to the thread and set it up ?
[17:30] <Daviey> wilco
[17:30] <ttx> mathiaz: with what ?
[17:30] <mathiaz> Daviey: I'm not sure how doodle will help
[17:30] <mathiaz> Daviey: you'd have to enter 24 different options
[17:30] <mathiaz> Daviey: and we'd have to vote for each of them
[17:30] <ttx> that's 2 * -1 against Doodle, lets do it UTC + ML style
[17:30] <Daviey> mathiaz: you put in the time that is suitable(s)
[17:31] <mathiaz> Daviey: http://www.doodle.com/BSP6n4bmdzyg5c3g
[17:31] <mathiaz> Daviey: that seems like the creator of the poll creating the different options
[17:32] <mathiaz> I'll reply to the ML thread.
[17:32] <mathiaz> and then someone can sort it out
[17:32] <Daviey> ok
[17:33] <ttx> ok then
[17:33] <ttx> #endmeeting
</pre>
