{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** Daviey send call for alpha-2-ish testing
** jamespage to milesone documentation updates [carryover]
** jamespage discuss QA representation at Server TeamMeeting
* Raring Development
** Release Tracking Bug Tasks - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
** Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-raring/group/topic-raring-servercloud-overview.html
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====
* jamespage to milesone documentation updates [carryover]
* serge to update server meeting docs to reflect palrs representing qa
* serge to consider putting the obsolete_conffiles.log url in weekly triaging knowledgebase section

===== Review ACTION points from previous meeting =====
* Daviey send call for alpha-2-ish testing

It was decided not to send an alpha-2 call for testing, but to wait for beta instead.
Daviey mentioned that matsurba has kindly offered to help with dep-8 tests.

===== Raring Development =====

Daviey thinks we look a little further behind than we actually are, and asks that
everyone take a look to make sure their blueprints are uptodate.  If you'd like
to mark some items postponed, please first talk to Daviey, jamespage or smoser.

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars) =====

plars will be taking hggdh's place representing QA.

plars noted that conffile failures no longer raise individual bugs, but rather are reported at https://jenkins.qa.ubuntu.com/view/Raring/view/Smoke%20Testing/job/raring-upgrade-quantal-server/ARCH=amd64,LTS=non-lts,PROFILE=server-tasks,label=upgrade-test/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/results/obsolete_conffiles.log

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb) =====

smb re-advertised  http://people.canonical.com/~smb/lucid-ec2-ng/

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, March 5th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
10:01 < hallyn> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
10:01 < meetingology> Meeting started Tue Feb 26 16:01:04 2013 UTC.  The chair is hallyn. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
10:01 < meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
10:01 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
10:01 < hggdh> ~Ã´~
10:01 < jamespage> o/
10:01 < hallyn> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
10:01 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Review ACTION points from previous meeting
10:02 < hallyn> Daviey send call for alpha-2-ish testing 
10:02 < hallyn> didn't see this?
10:02 < Daviey> Ugh. I thought we dropped that.
10:02 < hallyn> Daviey: last week it was re-added.  should we drop it?
10:03 < hallyn> wait for a beta to do CFT?
10:03 < Daviey> hallyn: Yes please.. but i will gladly send a reminder to ask people to test
10:03 -!- soypirate [~soypirate@75.94.81.12] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:03 -!- redtape-renegade [~redtape@178.16.15.26] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:03 -!- roaksoax [~wo@ubuntu/member/roaksoax] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:03 < Daviey> matsurba has kidnly offered to help with dep-8 tests BTW.
10:03 < Daviey> kindly*
10:03 < hallyn> cool
10:03 < hallyn> (i have 2 i'm still supposed tow rite)
10:03 < jamespage> \o/
10:03 < hallyn> moving on,
10:03 < hallyn> jamespage to milesone documentation updates [carryover] 
10:03 -!- arosales [~arosales@70.114.163.113] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:04 -!- pinky [~brianchid@209.117.47.248] has quit [Quit: Ex-Chat]
10:04 < jamespage> hallyn, I need to refresh my memory as to what that means
10:04 < jamespage> but please carryover for the time being
10:04 < hallyn> jamespage: i think it meant going through blueprints looking for doc updates, and adding milestones to them?
10:04 < hallyn> ok
10:04 < jamespage> hallyn, yeah - I think so
10:04 < hallyn> ACTION: jamespage to milesone documentation updates [carryover]
10:05 < hallyn> jamespage: though it was in the context of server guide, so not sure
10:05 -!- davidcalle [~david@LVelizy-156-45-31-19.w80-11.abo.wanadoo.fr] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:05 < hallyn> jamespage discuss QA representation at Server TeamMeeting 
10:05 < jamespage> yes - hggdh is here today and plars will be attending from now onwards...
10:05 < plars> hallyn: I'll be taking that over
10:05 -!- genii-around [~quassel@ubuntu/member/genii] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:05 < jamespage> plars, welcome!
10:06 -!- yolanda [~yolanda@88.8.194.136] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:06 < hallyn> cool, so i'll update that in the server meeting knowledgebase page
10:06 < hggdh> and I am disconnecting from representing QA :-)
10:06 < hallyn> #action serge update server meeting docs to reflect palrs representing qa
10:06 < meetingology> ACTION: serge update server meeting docs to reflect palrs representing qa
10:06 < hallyn> hggdh: :(
10:06 < plars> s/palrs/plars
10:06 < hallyn> plars: welcome :)
10:06 < plars> thanks!
10:06 < hallyn> plars: sorry, fingers cold, hard typing
10:06 < arosales> yes hggdh :-(
10:07 < arosales> but welcome plars :-)
10:07 < hallyn> ok moving on,
10:07 < hallyn> #topic Raring Development
10:07 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Raring Development
10:07 < hallyn> Release Tracking Bug Tasks - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-r-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server 
10:07 < hallyn> jamespage: Daviey: one of you want to take th is, or should i go over them?
10:07 < hallyn> well i'll start,
10:07 < hallyn> bug 1092715
10:07 < ubottu> bug 1092715 in qemu-kvm (Ubuntu Raring) "udevadm trigger --action=change not working in quantal and raring" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1092715
10:08 < hallyn> the kvm bug *should* be worked around now,
10:08 < hallyn> jamespage: can you confirm that?
10:08 < jamespage> hallyn, I'll check
10:08 < hallyn> or... is that only in 1.4.0 (which is still pending my pushing)
10:08 < hallyn> jamespage: thanks
10:08 < hallyn> bug 1044503
10:08 < ubottu> bug 1044503 in maas (Ubuntu Raring) "kernel command line is not easily customizable" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1044503
10:08 < Daviey> hmm, i thought that was fixed now
10:08 < hallyn> smoser: ?
10:09 < hallyn> fixed in the project but not the package, looks like
10:09 < Daviey> smoser: does bug 901600 not solve bug 1044503 ?
10:09 < ubottu> bug 901600 in grub2 (Ubuntu Quantal) "Allow /etc/default/grub overriding via /etc/default/grub.d/" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/901600
10:09 -!- Ursinha [~Ursinha@ubuntu/member/ursinha] has quit [Ping timeout: 255 seconds]
10:09 < smoser> i think hally's assesment is correct wrt 1044503.
10:09 < Daviey> Oh, duh.. the bug title confused me
10:10 < hallyn> so that'll end up in the pkg before long?
10:10 < hallyn> will assume so.  bug 1064527 - roaksoax ?
10:10 < smoser> i'd hope we'll get something in raring... but most focus on maas has been on backport.
10:10 < ubottu> bug 1064527 in maas (Ubuntu Raring) "detect_ipmi needs improvement. detects non-existant device in nested kvm" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1064527
10:10 < hallyn> smoser: thx
10:11 -!- rsalveti [~rsalveti@unaffiliated/rsalveti] has quit [Ping timeout: 272 seconds]
10:11 < hallyn> roaksoax: around?
10:11 < roaksoax> hallyn: here
10:12 < hallyn> any progress on that bug?  seems to be stalled since october?
10:12 < roaksoax> hallyn: well we haven't really found a way to do it.. so there's no progress
10:12 -!- Ursinha-afk [~Ursinha@177.133.174.120] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:12 -!- herton [~herton@unaffiliated/herton] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:12 < hallyn> ok, thanks...
10:12 < hallyn> bug 1073463
10:13 < ubottu> bug 1073463 in maas (Ubuntu Raring) "User-configurable files are not installed in /etc" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1073463
10:13 -!- Ursinha-afk is now known as Ursinha
10:13 -!- Ursinha [~Ursinha@177.133.174.120] has quit [Changing host]
10:13 -!- Ursinha [~Ursinha@ubuntu/member/ursinha] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:13 < hallyn> not owned by anyone,
10:13 < hallyn> anyone want to volunteer to look at it?
10:13 < roaksoax> i;ll take it
10:13 < hallyn> cool, thanks
10:13 < roaksoax> but I think that bug doesn't belong there
10:14 < roaksoax> that belongs upstream
10:14 -!- rsalveti [~rsalveti@unaffiliated/rsalveti] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:14 < hallyn> ok - you can re-target?
10:14 < roaksoax> hallyn: yes, I'll catch up with bigjools about it first
10:14 < hallyn> great
10:14 < hallyn> bug 1122206
10:14 < ubottu> bug 1122206 in quantum (Ubuntu Raring) "l3_agent destroys all namespaces on init, even if router_id is set" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1122206
10:15 < hallyn> fix released in quantum project, not pkg...
10:15 < hallyn> i assume we're jsut waiting - moving on unless someone shouts
10:15 < hallyn> bug 1132302
10:15 < ubottu> bug 1132302 in drbd8 (Ubuntu Raring) "drbd8-utils are not compatible with kernel 3.8" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1132302
10:16 < hallyn> looks like rbasak has that handled :)  thanks rbasak 
10:16 < rbasak> np. Just waiting on the reporter to test, and if it's OK then we can upload
10:16 -!- SergioMeneses [~same@ubuntu/member/sergiomeneses] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:16 < hallyn> two medium bugs, tempted to skip them,
10:16 < hallyn> well there is bug 1100920 whic his fix committed,
10:16 < ubottu> bug 1100920 in cloud-init (Ubuntu Raring) "In Ubuntu 12.10, the legacy 'user' cloud-config option is not handled properly" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1100920
10:17 < hallyn> and then bug 1113821 - zul or i just needs to fix that in libvirt (same fix as in lxc)
10:17 < ubottu> bug 1113821 in libvirt (Ubuntu Raring) "libvirt-bin deletes /etc/dnsmasq.d/libvirt-bin on upgrade" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1113821
10:17 < hallyn> oh i own it :)
10:17 < hallyn> tsk tsk
10:17 < hallyn> ok, moving on,
10:17 < hallyn> Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-raring/group/topic-raring-servercloud-overview.html 
10:18 < hallyn> arosales: Daviey: did you want to say somethin gon blueprints?
10:18 -!- coolbhavi [~bhavani@ubuntu/member/coolbhavi] has quit [Quit: Leaving]
10:18 < Daviey> Only the usual :)
10:18 < Daviey> Make sure they are accurate, we look a little behind where i think we actually *are*
10:18 < Daviey> So everybody should check that bluepritns assigned to them are in accurate state
10:19 < Daviey> (and talk with elither myself, or jamespage or smoser about defering thing)
10:19 < hallyn> Daviey: meaning at this point we should talk to you before deferring anything,
10:19 < hallyn> or ping you if we have questions?
10:20 < Daviey> yeah.. ideally not just defer things.. disucss with me, or scott or james.. first
10:20 < hallyn> ok
10:20 < hallyn> moving on,
10:20 < hallyn> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
10:20 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Ubuntu Server Team Events
10:20 -!- amachu [~Thunderbi@182.72.174.182] has quit [Quit: amachu]
10:20 -!- freeflying [~freeflyin@114.244.250.186] has quit [Ping timeout: 248 seconds]
10:21 < hallyn> anything to mention here?
10:21 < Daviey> none come to mind.
10:21 < hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
10:21 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
10:21 < hallyn> three cheers for hggdh ?
10:22 < hallyn> plars: 
10:22 < plars> Hi
10:22 < hallyn> hey :)
10:22 < plars> Just a couple of things
10:22 < plars> 1. LXC failures
10:22 < plars> https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-test-cases/+bug/1130029
10:22 < ubottu> Ubuntu bug 1130029 in Ubuntu Test Cases "testcase: test_lxc_api returns error in raring lxc server smoke tests" [High,Confirmed]
10:23 < plars> hallyn: you seem to have a mp for this at https://code.launchpad.net/~serge-hallyn/ubuntu-test-cases/server-lxc2/+merge/150491
10:23 < hallyn> merge proposal is pending to fix that
10:23 < hallyn> yup
10:23 < hallyn> (though i'm still getting the hang of utah, still testing locally, might have more changes coming)
10:23 < plars> If someone can get that reviewed and in soon, we'd like to test it out.  I was talking to psivaa this morning about it and he thinks there may be other issues lurking once we get past this one
10:24 < hallyn> plars: who has the rights to review that?
10:24 < plars> I'm not as well aware of what's going on with this bug, so if he or you want to discuss what further steps might be needed, that would be useful
10:24 < plars> hallyn: it seems to be pointed at https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server-dev right now
10:24 < hallyn> ?
10:25 < hallyn> ok will fix that, thanks :)
10:25 < plars> but as far as merging it, anyone in the https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-test-case-dev group could do it
10:25 < hallyn> no here it says lp:ubuntu-test-cases/server
10:25 -!- carif [~mcarifio@eth3.bismuth.canonical.com] has quit [Quit: Ex-Chat]
10:25 < hallyn> oh you mean reviewer
10:25 < plars> hallyn: I'm talking about the reviewer
10:25 < plars> right
10:25 < hallyn> i just used the default
10:26 < plars> ubuntu-server-dev is the default reviewer?
10:26 < plars> odd
10:26 < hallyn> is that something that should be changed in the ubuntu-test-case lp settings?
10:26 < plars> perhaps
10:26 -!- lalatenduM [~lalatendu@122.166.163.146] has quit [Ping timeout: 255 seconds]
10:26 < plars> I'll talk to others about it, but since it's a test for lxc, I figured it was something that you wanted reviewed by ubuntu-server-dev
10:26 < hallyn> ok thanks we'll straighten the mp out - moving on?
10:26 < plars> it made sense to me at least
10:26 < plars> ok
10:26 < hallyn> oh i see, ok
10:26 < plars> only other thing I wanted to raise (and it's minor) is conffile failures
10:26 < hallyn> no perhaps ubuntu-lxc
10:26 < plars> ex. https://jenkins.qa.ubuntu.com/view/Raring/view/Smoke%20Testing/job/raring-upgrade-quantal-server/ARCH=amd64,LTS=non-lts,PROFILE=server-tasks,label=upgrade-test/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/results/obsolete_conffiles.log
10:27 < hallyn> not ubuntu-server-dev
10:27 < plars> These are no longer reported as individual bugs
10:27 < plars> but we get a good log of them in the test runs that can be referred to
10:27 -!- noy [~Noy@wesnoth/developer/noy] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:28 < plars> We realize that they are low priority as bugs go, and in some cases they stack up to dozens that would need to be tracked against every daily test run indefinitely.  So if you have some cycles and want to clean them up, it would be useful
10:28 < hallyn> these are confiles no longer used by cups in raring?  
10:28 < plars> apparently not
10:28 < plars> or if they are, their location changed
10:29 -!- freeflying [~freeflyin@114.244.250.186] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:29 < hallyn> and so they should be handled by the packaging somehow.  k.  does someone go look at those log pages regularly?
10:29 < hallyn> do they get emailed somewhere?
10:30 < plars> hallyn: not currently, but they always end up in the same place, so they are pretty easy to find
10:30 < plars> hallyn: the url I pointed to will take you to the lastSuccessfulBuild in jenkins and show you the current obsolete_conffiles log
10:30 < hallyn> perhaps that url s hould be added to the server team knowledgebase weekly bug triaging section
10:31 < hallyn> the url may be consistent, but if noone is in the habit of looking at it, bugs won't get raised...  course you're right about low prio,
10:31 < plars> hallyn: that sounds reasonable - we were looking for a better way of dealing with these and nobody wanted spam about it, but I don't think it makes sense to ignore them entirely. So just making you aware
10:31 < hallyn> ok, thanks
10:31 < hallyn> #action serge consider putting the obsolete_conffiles.log url in weekly triaging knowledgebase section
10:31 < meetingology> ACTION: serge consider putting the obsolete_conffiles.log url in weekly triaging knowledgebase section
10:31 < plars> hallyn: the problem with bugs is it got to be quite a lot of overhead - in this case with one or 2 it's not so bad, but in others you're talking 30-40 bugs that have to be updated across each daily test run
10:32 < plars> ...for something that just gets ignored
10:32 < plars> sanity kicked in at some point
10:32 < hallyn> plars: yup :)
10:32 < plars> that's all from me
10:32 < hallyn> plars: thanks
10:32 < hallyn> moving on,
10:32 < hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
10:32 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
10:32 < smb> Hello, I would like to take this opportunity to re-advertise for http://people.canonical.com/~smb/lucid-ec2-ng/ ... I know not very subtly but I am a developer and not a sales guy. :-P Otherwise raring kernel ddebs will be actually usable after next upload (in case anybody actually was wondering why the heck they were so small).
10:32 < smb> Oh, one other thing: have not run into this myself but it seems
10:32 < smb> that recent raring kvm/qemu packages are a bit insulted if
10:32 < smb> post-install does not get /dev/kvm. This might not be the "normal"
10:32 < smb> case but it is possible to have the kvm package installed and dual
10:32 < smb> boot between xen and non-xen mode and its also possibleto do a
10:32 < smb> dist-upgrade in xen dom0 which won't allow for /dev/kvm...
10:33 < smb> Beside that, any questions? :)
10:33 < smoser> smb, i'm confused about /dev/kvm
10:33 < hallyn> smb: the /dev/kvm bit *should* be fixed, please shout at me if you see it again
10:33 < smoser> right.
10:33 < smb> hallyn, Ah ok, it was a few days ago
10:34 < smoser> hallyn, that is bug 1103022 ?
10:34 < ubottu> bug 1103022 in udev (Ubuntu) "70-udev-acl.rules needs to put g+rw on /dev/kvm" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1103022
10:34 < hallyn> smoser: no
10:34 < hallyn> smoser: it was a bug from my bad fixing of that one
10:34 < hallyn> smoser: if /dev/kvm did not exist, getfacl failed, causing postinst to fail
10:34 < smoser> ah. k.
10:34 < smb> Ah ok, as said it wasn't me and it was probably last week
10:35 < hallyn> smb: feb 20 the fix went up
10:35 < hallyn> so yeah shout at me if you see it again.  thx
10:36 < hallyn> lucid-ec2-ng - i assume the right folks know what that means :)
10:36 < smb> hallyn, sure. will do :)
10:36 < smb> hallyn, I suppose yes.
10:36 < hallyn> thanks, smb.  moving on,
10:36 < hallyn> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
10:36 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
10:36 < rbasak> Nothing new to report. Any questions for me?
10:37 < hallyn> sounds like no, moving on,
10:37 < hallyn> #topic Open Discussion
10:37 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Open Discussion
10:38 -!- mdeslaur is now known as random_nickname
10:38 -!- random_nickname is now known as mdeslaur
10:38 < hallyn> anything to discuss?
10:38 < hallyn> if not,
10:38 < hallyn> hggdh: o/  see you around!
10:38 < hallyn> #topic Announce next meeting date and time
10:38 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
10:39 < hallyn> Next meeting will be same time, 16:00 UTC on March 5.
10:39 < hallyn> thanks all,
10:39 < hallyn> #endmeeting
10:39 -!- meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology
10:39 < meetingology> Meeting ended Tue Feb 26 16:38:30 2013 UTC.
10:39 < meetingology> Minutes (wiki):        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-02-26-16.01.moin.txt
10:39 < meetingology> Minutes (html):        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2013/ubuntu-meeting.2013-02-26-16.01.html
--- Log closed Tue Feb 26 10:39:12 2013
</pre>
