{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Agenda ===

* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** (carried over) arosales: create a overview topic bp for servercloud
** everyone look over blueprints one more time
** rbasak to follow up on go 1.1. saucy arm issue
** rbasak consider telling hallyn to add a todo item to meeting checklist to remind meeting chair about the wiki page checklist
* Saucy Development
** Release Tracking Bug Tasks - http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-s-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
** Blueprints - http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-saucy/group/topic-saucy-servercloud-overview.html
* Ubuntu Server Team Events
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
* Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date, time and chair
** ACTION: meeting chair (of this meeting, not the next one) to carry out post-meeting procedure (minutes, etc) documented at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase

=== Minutes ===

===== Meeting Actions =====

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, May 31st at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:01] <roaksoax> #startmeeting ubuntu-server-team
[16:01] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Jun 18 16:01:49 2013 UTC.  The chair is roaksoax. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[16:01] <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic:
[16:01] <roaksoax> #topic Review ACTION points from previous meeting
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Review ACTION points from previous meeting
[16:02] <roaksoax> (carried over) arosales: create a overview topic bp for servercloud
[16:02] <arosales> http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-s/group/topic-s-servercloud-overview.html
[16:02] <roaksoax> arosales: o/! ^^
[16:02] <arosales> roaksoax, done
[16:02] <roaksoax> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-s/group/topic-s-servercloud-overview.html
[16:02] <Daviey> arosales: hurray!
[16:03] <Daviey> super job.
[16:03] <roaksoax> moving on: everyone look over blueprints one more time
[16:03] <roaksoax> so I'm guessing that we all looked at our BP's once again
[16:03] <roaksoax> moving on
[16:03] <roaksoax> #action rbasak to follow up on go 1.1. saucy arm issue
[16:03] <meetingology> ACTION: rbasak to follow up on go 1.1. saucy arm issue
[16:03] <roaksoax> rbasak: any updates?
[16:03] <arosales> sorry for the delay on the topic bp
[16:04] <Daviey> roaksoax: MAAS is still needing completion ?
[16:04] <Daviey> smoser: FPI?
[16:04] <roaksoax> Daviey: needs the user stories
[16:04] <jamespage> o/
[16:05] <smoser> hm.
[16:05] <rbasak> Sorry for the delay. I've just been catching up with infinity in #ubuntu-devel.
[16:05] <rbasak> His view is that we need to fix golang, and then modify dpkg-shlibdeps to pick up the ELF header slightly differently. So still in progress.
[16:06] <roaksoax> ok then
[16:06] <roaksoax> let's move on
[16:06] <roaksoax> rbasak consider telling hallyn to add a todo item to meeting checklist to remind meeting chair about the wiki page checklist
[16:06] <rbasak> Is there any particular need that we need this fixed faster than a proper fix? I have a workaround in mind that may work, but we don't want to spend time on it unless there's an urgent need.
[16:06] <rbasak> Done
[16:06] <rbasak> I put the reminder at the end of the agenda.
[16:06]  * smoser moved that from draftingo to review
[16:07] <Daviey> and approved.
[16:07] <roaksoax> ok, so let's move on
[16:07] <roaksoax> #topic Saucy Development
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Saucy Development
[16:07] <roaksoax> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/ReleaseSchedule
[16:07] <roaksoax> So I'm guessing that everybody saw the email about the changes in the Release Schedule
[16:08] <roaksoax> and FF has been moved to BetaFreeze
[16:08] <roaksoax> any other updates anyone would like to raise, or I shall move on to the release bugs
[16:09] <roaksoax> #subtopic Release Bugs
[16:09] <roaksoax> #link http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/rls-mgr/rls-s-tracking-bug-tasks.html#server
[16:09] <roaksoax> bug #1188788
[16:09] <ubottu> bug 1188788 in quantum (Ubuntu Raring) "Meta bug for tracking Openstack 2013.1.2 Stable Update" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1188788
[16:09] <roaksoax> any updates?
[16:10] <roaksoax> adam_g_: ^^
[16:10] <roaksoax> zul: ^^
[16:10] <Daviey> That i believe is blocked on me.
[16:10] <Daviey> Requires SRU review, was superseded by a security upload
[16:11] <adam_g_> roaksoax, ya just waiting to get approved out of queue into -proposed
[16:12] <roaksoax> Awesome. MAAS bugs #1171418 #1171988  are also waiting to be approved
[16:12] <ubottu> bug 1171418 in MAAS 1.2 "MAAS fails to power up machines when trying to install nodes" [High,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1171418
[16:12] <roaksoax> bug #1162139
[16:12] <ubottu> bug 1162139 in mysql-5.5 (Ubuntu Raring) "mysql-5.5 still built using GCC-4.4, should be built with the default GCC" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1162139
[16:13] <roaksoax> this seems target to raring and should probably be re-targetted to saucy
[16:13] <roaksoax> any thought
[16:13] <Daviey> Oh, most certainly
[16:13] <rbasak> Debian have agreed to drop the gcc-4.4 build dep now.
[16:14] <rbasak> So we either wait for Debian, or jump ahead.
[16:14] <roaksoax> rbasak: I believe this would need your verification:
[16:15] <roaksoax> bug #1173265
[16:15] <ubottu> bug 1173265 in facter (Ubuntu Raring) "facter fails to run from rebuilt source package" [Undecided,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1173265
[16:15] <roaksoax> and bug #1170325
[16:15] <ubottu> bug 1170325 in facter (Ubuntu Raring) "Facter 1.6.X not considering Qemu/KVM virtual type" [Undecided,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1170325
[16:15] <rbasak> The former is easy to verify: it built.
[16:15] <rbasak> The latter is trickier. Does anyone have a suitable machine?
[16:15] <rbasak> I used a hack to test my proposed upload for quantal and raring, but it doesn't work with precise.
[16:16] <roaksoax> boomer, anyone would like to verify that one?
[16:17] <roaksoax> in the meantime, bug #1172742
[16:17] <ubottu> bug 1172742 in cloud-init (Ubuntu Raring) "maas datasource fails if no user-data" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1172742
[16:17] <roaksoax> smoser: any updates?
[16:18] <roaksoax> alright I guess he might have stepped out for a bit
[16:18] <roaksoax> let's move on
[16:18] <roaksoax> #subtopic Blueprints
[16:18] <roaksoax> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-saucy/group/topic-saucy-servercloud-overview.html
[16:19] <roaksoax> #link http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-saucy/group/topic-s-servercloud-overview.html
[16:19] <roaksoax> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-server-app-banner-updates
[16:20] <roaksoax> zul: ^^
[16:20] <roaksoax> yolanda: ^^ any updates?
[16:20] <zul> no
[16:20] <smoser> no updates to that bug.
[16:20] <yolanda> i'm dealing with server banners, mostly with dovecot, bind9
[16:20] <yolanda> there is a pending MP for dovecot
[16:21] <roaksoax> alright
[16:21] <roaksoax> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-juju-2-delivery
[16:21] <roaksoax> jamespage: any updateS?
[16:21] <jamespage> roaksoax, not really - Ill be working with the juju team this week to a) get py juju removed from saucy
[16:21] <jamespage> and by get the latest juju-core uploaded
[16:22] <roaksoax> \o/
[16:22] <roaksoax> awesome then!
[16:22] <roaksoax> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-openstack-charms-ha-v2
[16:22] <Daviey> jamespage: shall i just go ahead and remove pyjuju now?
[16:22] <jamespage> yeah
[16:22] <jamespage> I acked the bug
[16:22] <Daviey> ta
[16:23] <roaksoax> on the HA stack side, I discussed with the debian maintainer about the new upstream changes and the things that we would need to consider dropping soonish, and he wasn't so keen on doing it now
[16:23] <m_3> RIP juju-0.7
[16:23] <roaksoax> so it seems that we might keep support for older stuff longer, but will be moving the charms to the newer stack options
[16:24] <roaksoax> should be pretty straight forward though
[16:24] <roaksoax> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-openstack-hypervisor
[16:24] <roaksoax> zul: ^^ updates?
[16:24] <zul> nope
[16:24] <roaksoax> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-openstack-havana
[16:24] <zul> working on windows image testing
[16:24] <roaksoax> zul: ^^
[16:24] <zul> ill update it today
[16:25] <roaksoax> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/servercloud-s-cloud-archive
[16:25] <roaksoax> zul: ^^
[16:25] <roaksoax> err
[16:25] <roaksoax> jamespage: ^^
[16:25] <roaksoax> any updates?
[16:26] <jamespage> I've started on docs for the SRU process
[16:26] <jamespage> but its still wip - should be done this week
[16:26] <jamespage> havana cloud archive is open btw
[16:26] <roaksoax> awesome!
[16:26] <jamespage> which reminds me - we need a blast on getting everything lined up in staging
[16:26] <jamespage> http://reqorts.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server/cloud-archive/havana_versions.html
[16:27] <Daviey> Users have started asking about Havana in UCA
[16:27] <jamespage> zul, is that something you can coordinate over the next 24 hrs?
[16:27] <jamespage> it would be nice to flush something through to proposed on thurs/friday
[16:28] <zul> jamespage:  yeah im just finishing off quantum fbtfs today
[16:28] <zul> been distracted with other things
[16:28] <jamespage> excellent
[16:29] <roaksoax> alright! Any other BP
[16:29] <roaksoax> alright! Any other BP that any of you would like to discuss?
[16:29] <roaksoax> guess not then
[16:29] <roaksoax> #topic Ubuntu Server Team Events
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Ubuntu Server Team Events
[16:29] <roaksoax> any upcoming events?
[16:30] <Daviey> None. Move on :)
[16:30] <arosales> not any in the next weeks
[16:30] <arosales> OSCON is the next up on July 22
[16:30] <m_3> poolside siesta doesn't count?  harumph
[16:31] <roaksoax> heh
[16:31] <arosales> m_3, it does if there is an invite
[16:31] <arosales> :-)
[16:31] <roaksoax> ok, let's move on then
[16:31] <roaksoax> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (plars)
[16:31] <roaksoax> plars: any updates?
[16:31] <plars> hi
[16:31] <plars> yes, one thing I wanted to ask about
[16:32] <plars> we recently had some issues with lxc and ceph tests
[16:32] <plars> ceph was supposed to be disabled I think, but the job got accidentally recreated when some jenkins refresh scripts ran
[16:32] <plars> but had been running fine since then
[16:32] <plars> but I think I heard that jamespage said that it was flaky and not to be trusted?
[16:32] <jamespage> yes indeed
[16:32] <hallyn> yeah it's being pulled
[16:33] <plars> lxc is working fine again, but it is a similar situation?
[16:33] <hallyn> plars: no it's not a similar situation
[16:33] <plars> ok, we'll pull ceph from our scripts that regenerate the jobs too if we're sure we don't want those
[16:33] <hallyn> plars: the lxc failures i believe were due to either utah or hw problems
[16:33] <plars> is there no replacement?
[16:33] <hallyn> plars: I could never reproduce the lxc failures locally
[16:33] <plars> ok, fair enough
[16:34] <hallyn> plars: this cycle I want to move the distro lxc tests into upstream, and then probably move them out of utah
[16:34] <plars> hallyn: you mean as autopkgtests?
[16:34] <hallyn> not yet sure what i mean
[16:34] <plars> heh
[16:34] <hallyn> other than upstream lxc git tree woudl have the tests
[16:34] <plars> ok, but I still think it would make sense to run them in the image right? to validate what's installed?
[16:35] <hallyn> somehwere, yes
[16:35] <hallyn> but it would then amount to pulling down the tree and running make distro-test or something
[16:35] <plars> ok, just let me know if there are any changes and I'll remove the ceph tests from our script unless there are plans to update/replace them
[16:35] <hallyn> plars: yup, thx
[16:35] <plars> that's it from me
[16:36] <roaksoax> thank you plars
[16:36] <roaksoax> let's move on
[16:36] <roaksoax> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (smb)
[16:36] <smb> As mentioned last week the Saucy kernel will move to 3.10. If things go like intended the upload will happen end of this week when dkms testing has been done. Repeat: Saucy kernel will be 3.10. And ogasawara has some more notes on dkms testing...
[16:36] <Daviey> smb: Do you know where these notes are?
[16:36] <ogasawara> so I wanted to inquire if the dkms package the server team cares about has been tested?
[16:36] <Daviey> ogasawara: No.
[16:36] <smb> Daviey, There ^
[16:36] <ogasawara> also, could I get that list of dkms packages you guys care about as well?
[16:37] <ogasawara> as I want to pass that along to QA for the automated testing we're trying to set up
[16:37] <Daviey> ogasawara: That is super, I will make sure you get the list by EOD>
[16:37] <Daviey> Thanks.
[16:37] <ogasawara> Daviey: thanks.  will you guys be able to test with the 3.10 kernel before we upload?
[16:38] <lifeless> openvswitch-datapath-dkms :)
[16:38] <ogasawara> Daviey: or should we just plan to upload and deal with any fallout?
[16:38] <jamespage> lifeless, indeed - that won't work
[16:38] <jamespage> but I can pick up testing of that
[16:38] <Daviey> ogasawara: It would be really nice if between kernel and QA team a simple apt-get install openvswitch-datapath-dkms, could be done
[16:38] <jamespage> (and the fixes)
[16:38] <ogasawara> Daviey: I was hoping that would be a task you're team would own
[16:39] <ogasawara> Daviey: and we provide the test kernel
[16:39] <ogasawara> Daviey: https://launchpad.net/~kernel-ppa/+archive/pre-proposed
[16:39] <Daviey> ogasawara: I was more hoping that between kernel and QA team it could be done :)
[16:39] <ogasawara> Daviey: it would appear we are at an impass :)  maybe we can sort off line.
[16:39] <Daviey> But sure, OK.  But going forwards it would be great if it could be handled between your teams
[16:40] <ogasawara> Daviey: going forward we indeed will work with QA.  But that will just be for the initial build and install testing.  We'll still look to team and maintainers to fix up any issues.
[16:40] <Daviey> ogasawara: right, resolving issues we are happy to do
[16:40] <Daviey> but early warning, would be nice if the issues were fed to us from QA/kernel
[16:41] <ogasawara> Daviey: so for us to do that now without the automation in place yet, I need your package list
[16:41] <Daviey> Yes sir.  But sure, OK - this kernel we'll do.. and get serious about automating it between us.
[16:42] <ogasawara> Daviey: thanks
[16:42] <Daviey> Superb
[16:42] <roaksoax> Awesome outcome. Let's move on then!
[16:42] <roaksoax> #topic Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Weekly Updates & Questions regarding Ubuntu ARM Server (rbasak)
[16:42] <rbasak> Nothing new to report. Just the golang armhf FTBFS in bug 1187722 that is ongoing. Is there any particular need for which we need this fixed faster than the proper fix? I have a workaround in mind that may work, but we don't want to spend time on it unless there's an urgent need.
[16:42] <ubottu> bug 1187722 in golang (Ubuntu) "dpkg-shlibdeps fails on armhf ELF binaries that do not define architecture specific information" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1187722
[16:43] <rbasak> I'll assume it can wait for a proper fix then?
[16:44] <rbasak> Any other questions for me?
[16:44] <rbasak> Linaro Connect is 8-12 July BTW. I'll be going.
[16:44] <rbasak> I guess no questions then. Thanks roaksoax!
[16:44] <roaksoax> thank you!
[16:44] <roaksoax> #topic Open Discussion
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Open Discussion
[16:44] <roaksoax> anyone has something to share with us?
[16:45] <roaksoax> i guess not
[16:45] <roaksoax> #topic Announce next meeting date, time and chair
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Ubuntu Meeting Grounds | Calendar/Scheduled meetings: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs | Meetingology documentation: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology | ubuntu-server-team Meeting | Current topic: Announce next meeting date, time and chair
[16:45] <roaksoax> same time and place
[16:45] <Daviey> Thanks roaksoax
[16:46] <roaksoax> the next chair according to the list is arosales
[16:46] <roaksoax> arosales: you';ve been selected to be our chair next week :) Thanks in advance
[16:46] <roaksoax> I'll end this
[16:46] <roaksoax> #endmeeting
</pre>
