{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=02&day=27&year=2012&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Feb 27th 2012 18:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 18:30 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* micahg
* jjohansen

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Thanks
** Andreas Moog (amoog) provided debdiffs for maverick-oneiric for gypsy (LP: #690323)
** Zubin Mithra (zubin-mithra) provided a debdiff for maverick for dhcpcd (LP: #931036) 
  Your work is very much appreciated and will keep Ubuntu users secure. Great job! :)
* Review of any previous action items
** [ACTION] sbeattie to follow up on qrt bugs from QA team
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** last week added quite a bit to UCT for better secure-testing integration
** community
** pending updates
** patch pilot
** archive admin catch-up
** MIR audit catch-up
** embargoed issue
** mdeslaur
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
** pushed out python-httplib2
** mysql micro-release updates prepared
** sbeattie
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
*** trouble with current openjdk on older releases not building on pandas. This should be fixed in a micro-release update of openjdk in -proposed that the next security update will pull from
** essential work items
** micahg
** Weekly role: happy place
** webkit
** chromium FTBFS
** pull in upstream change for firefox 11 FTBFS on powerpc
** icedtea6 regression Bug:927282
** tyhicks
** Weekly role: triage
** pending updates
** send upstream the fix for Bug:842647. After that is up, only one easy bug fix left for precise
** jjohansen
** Weekly role: happy place
** pushing apparmor kernel work upstream
** bug fixing some issues that surfaced with 2.8beta1 upload
** adding tests and other bugs fixes
** push dbus packages toa  ppa
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions
** None

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-02-27-18.02.html
