{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
 08:58 mdz         is everyone here?
 08:58 Riddell     good morning
 08:58 mjg59       Morning
 08:58 dholbach    hello
 08:58 Mithrandir  ehlo
 === Mez waves
 === pitti waves to mdz
 08:58 seb128      hi
 08:59 ajmitch     evening
 08:59 Kamion      morning
 08:59 mvo         hello
 08:59 doko        good morning
 09:00 ogra_ibook  *yawn*
 09:00 mdz         JaneW: ping?
 === iwj [n=ian@xenophobe.extern.relativity.greenend.org.uk] has joined
# ubuntu-meeting
 09:01 mdz         fabbione,Keybuk,infinity,BenC,daniels: ping
 09:01 Keybuk      yeah, I'm here ;)
 09:01 fabbione    mdz: pong
 09:01 JaneW       pong
 09:01 infinity    pong.
 09:01 JaneW       hi all
 === fabbione needs 2 minutes to write up
 09:02 pitti       hey JaneW, how are you
 09:02 mdz         does anyone know if BenC is about?
 09:02 JaneW       pitti: good thanks and you?
 09:02 pitti       fine
 09:02 JaneW       mdz: he is not but I have an update from him
 09:02 Keybuk      mdz: he only just joined #u-d
 09:02 fabbione    mdz: he should. he knew the meeting was today
 09:02 JaneW       mdz: I have an update from daniels and sivang too
 09:02 mdz         Keybuk: his client rejoins every 20 minutes or so due to
                   network problems
 09:03 mdz         JaneW: did he send you an update because he had a reason he
                   couldn't be here?
 === Mez [n=Mez@ubuntu/member/mez] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
 09:04 JaneW       mdz: there was no explanation or comment, just the update, -
                   testing-server-hardware
 09:04 mdz         JaneW: I see, please paste what you have for BenC and daniels
 09:04 JaneW       BenC
 09:04 JaneW       preventing-hardware-support-regressions: Build system tested,
                   will start
 09:04 JaneW       pushing builds this week. Afterwards will announce to the
                   community for
 09:04 JaneW       testing.
 09:04 JaneW       ubuntu-server-kernel: Done (marked implemented in lp).
 09:05 JaneW       Daniels
 09:05 JaneW       x-roadmap: x11r7 final in, polishing xorg source package for
                   imminent
 09:05 JaneW       post-fl3 upload
 09:05 JaneW       misc: broken laptop screen and dsl hilarity make for
                   interesting
 09:05 JaneW       availability, generally smsable within reasonable hours
 09:05 mdz         JaneW: what about testing-server-hardware?
 09:05 JaneW       like I said above... his report was -testing-server-hardware
 09:05 JaneW       I did e-mail and ask about it tho
 09:06 mdz         oh, I thought you were saying he gave an update for
                   testing-server-hardware specifically
 09:06 Kamion      oh you mean "minus" rather than a bullet
 09:06 mdz         ok
 09:06 JaneW       yes sorry, the hyphens confussed the issue
 09:07 mdz         ok
 09:07 mdz         dholbach: next
                   formal-test-plans: talked with BenC about
                   hardware-regressions, added Instructions on how to report
                   bugs from testing, referred to DebuggingProcedures; needs
 09:07 dholbach    fleshing out, but i consider the pages 'ready to go' - media
                   testing needs test files, jdub didn't want to have
                   example-content used for this, we'll link to test files from
                   Media/Testing
 09:07 dholbach    this week (done): package updates, bug triage, bug day, some
                   merges
 09:07 dholbach    this week (todo): motu meeting, more merges, bug triage
 09:07 dholbach    next week: bug triage, more package updates, merges, starting
                   apt-get.org reviews
 === ealden [n=ealden@ipdial-167-232.tri-isys.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
 09:07 mdz         dholbach: what's the reason not to use example-content?
                   mdz: jdub considers it as something "for end users" not for
 09:08 dholbach    "developers", although i said, that i didn't want to ship all
                   sorts of broken stuff, he didnt like the idea
 09:08 mdz         dholbach: it's something we'll include in the default
                   install, it's natural to use it for testing
 09:09 dholbach    he gave me the idea of investigating in the test files of the
                   gstreamer development team
 09:09 mdz         ok
 09:09 mdz         thanks dholbach
 09:09 dholbach    de rien
 09:09 mdz         doko: next?
 09:09 Kamion      that sounds like it would test the things that already work?
 09:09 doko        this week:
                   - openoffice.org: 2.0.1 packages built on breezy (for
 09:09 doko        breezy-updates?), start merging with unstable, renaming the
                   packages
 09:09 doko        - python-roadmap: python-central update, preparing snapshot
                   version for testing
 09:09 doko        - toolchain-roadmap: ia64 fixes, prepare for amd64 biarch
                   update
                   - other: syncs/merges, updates to new upstream versions,
 09:09 doko        eclipse update (needs mozilla-dev update), half yearly ISDN
                   updates, happy about ronne's disk space
 09:09 Kamion      or do they have an a-priori good spread of test files?
 09:09 doko        next week:
 09:10 doko        - openoffice.org: sync week, i.e. dictionary and locale
                   support (kurdish merge)
 09:10 doko        status:
 09:10 doko        - toolchain-roadmap: amd64-biarch (blocked on fixing a glibc
                   amd64-i386 self-bootstrap)
 09:10 doko        - toolchain-dapper+1: blocked by preparation of wanna-build
                   and buildd infrastructure (no change)
 09:10 mdz         dholbach: ping me sometime tomorrow to chat about it if there
                   is still a question, we need to keep going
 09:10 doko        - openoffice-gnome: not started, need an update from martink
 09:10 doko        - openoffice-help: implemented (no change)
 09:10 doko        - openoffice-spellchecking: not started (no change)
 09:10 doko        - native-java-gcj: infrastructure is ready, packaging of -gcj
                   binary packages not started
                   - java-roadmap: mostly done, pending are eclipse updates
 09:10 doko        (blocked by firefox-dev/mozilla-dev) and the native-java-gcj
                   support
 09:10 doko        - python-roadmap: proposal implemented, testing outside the
                   archive now.
 09:10 dholbach    mdz: ok
 09:10 mdz         doko: renaming = openoffice.org2 -> openoffice.org?
 09:10 doko        yes
 09:10 mdz         is there any real value in that?  it will complicate upgrades
                   we cannot support dictionaries for both versions (1 and 2),
 09:11 doko        so we have to either derive for all dictionary package from
                   debian, or make the name change as well
 09:12 mdz         doko: is the biarch bootstrap an infinity task?
 09:12 doko        I don't think the change will be that complicated for the end
                   user
 09:12 mdz         doko: please talk with mvo about how it should be handled in
                   the upgrade tool
 09:12 doko        mdz: currently Mithrandir is looking at it
                   we've already gone openoffice.org -> openoffice.org2 in
 09:12 Kamion      previous releases, going back should be relatively
                   straightforward I'd expect
 09:12 infinity    mdz: I took over the "fixing glibc" task from jbailey while
                   he's off galavanting.
 09:12 doko        mdz: will take the upgrade with mvo
 09:13 infinity    mdz: Mithrandir had a poke last night, I'm back at it today
                   to see where it went wrong. :)
 09:13 Kamion      doko: are we using the python-support work being done in
                   Debian now?
 09:13 Kamion      (or working with them, I guess)
 09:13 mdz         Kamion: .org -> .org2 was sort of a mess; if they now
                   conflict that will be easier but still
 09:13 doko        Kamion: not yet, I'm talking with Joss about merging the two
 09:13 mdz         doko: is the help system bounty completed?
                   ok, great, there was a lot of good analysis of the problem
 09:14 Kamion      domain on #debian-release (which you saw, I know) so sharing
                   that would be good
 09:14 doko        mdz: from my point of view, yes, it does build. hope, it will
                   not break for 2.0.2 ;)
 09:15 mdz         doko: ok, please send me a reminder to deal with the payment
 09:15 doko        mdz: ok
 09:15 mdz         thanks, doko
 09:15 mdz         fabbione: next
********** server-candy: system-integrity-check: fixed performance
 09:15 fabbione    issues. Deploy is blocked on admins (rt: #723). Started other
                   activities l
 09:15 fabbione    ike collecting 3rd party pkgs and so on.
********** ubuntu-cluster: full upgrades of currently supported
 09:15 fabbione    suites. Performed some tests and bug fixes
                   (redhat-cluster-suite). Missing to test OCFS2.
 09:15 fabbione    * probe-for-root-filesystem: no progress. Probably needs
                   reassigment to somebody else.
 09:15 fabbione    * boot-from-usb: implemented.
 09:15 fabbione    * merges: zlib - still pending libc6-i386-dev, one merge
                   (partman-auto-lvm) is pending but nothing scary or urgent.
 09:15 fabbione    * last week: server-candy, ubuntu-cluster, boot-from-usb.
********** next week: vac. Tomorrow i will be merging the last bits
 09:15 fabbione    around and testing OCFS2 so there will be no need for updates
                   at the next
 09:15 fabbione    meeting.
 09:16 infinity    fabbione: Is the zlib merge just pending on that as a
                   build-dep, but otherwise done?
 09:16 fabbione    infinity: no it needs to be done from scratch
 09:16 mdz         Mithrandir: do you have some free bandwidth to help finish
                   off probe-for-root-filesystem?
                   fabbione: If so, you can reassign the merge to me, give me
 09:16 infinity    your sources, and I'll make sure it's sorted within minutes
                   of the biarch stuff being unbroken.
 09:16 Mithrandir  mdz: sure, I can probably reuse some casper stuff.
 09:16 fabbione    infinity:  i will reassign the bug, but i have no sources.
 09:16 infinity    fabbione: Oh, if it's Real Effort(tm), then you're welcome to
                   keep it. :)
 09:16 Mithrandir  mdz: give me a minute to skim the spec before giving it to me
 09:16 mdz         Mithrandir: great; the remaining piece is just to have it
                   mount by uuid I think.  fabbione can fill you in
 09:16 fabbione    infinity: it needs to go in before UVF and i won't be here
                   next week
 09:17 infinity    fabbione: Oh, then reassign it, yes.
 09:17 mdz         fabbione: enjoy your vacation, have a good rest
 09:17 fabbione    mdz: assuming we are going, yes thanks :)
 09:17 fabbione    infinity: yup
 09:17 Mithrandir  mdz: looks simple enough.
 09:17 mdz         fabbione: you will take the time off even if you do not
                   travel, right?
 09:17 fabbione    Mithrandir: i will talk to you about it after the meeting
 09:17 fabbione    mdz: yes, but i will be around if we don't travel.
 09:17 Mithrandir  mdz: I need to get my USB hard drive back, but that should be
                   today or tomorrow or so.
 09:18 mdz         Mithrandir: ok
 09:18 mdz         fabbione: thanks
 09:18 mdz         infinity: next
 09:18 fabbione    welcome :)
 09:18 infinity    Last week:
********** reducing duplication: Got MySQL 5.0 in, did some rapid
 09:18 infinity    bugfixing to get the packaging sane. (have joined the Debian
                   MySQL team to make sure it gets enough polish)
********** usplash-initramfs: Implement dirty hack for this that seems
 09:18 infinity    to work fine.  Eventually needs more work to do it "right" in
                   usplash itself.
********** misc: security, initramfs bugfixing, new LRM, new PHP,
 09:18 infinity    livefs changes for Mithrandir, random
                   installability/buildability fixes in line with ongoing buildd
                   maintenance.
 09:18 infinity    Next week:
 09:18 infinity    * reducing duplication: Begin rebuilding all of main to use
                   libmysqlclient15, and kick MySQL 4.x to universe
 09:18 infinity    * splash-down: Should have time to get this one in this week.
********** misc: - glibc amd64-i386 biarch needs bootstrapping (but
                   first, an irritating bug that Tollef and I spent several
                   hours on last night needs to be hunted and killed) - need to
 09:18 infinity    merge subversion_1.3 for the masses (doko's request, but I
                   agree we want it for release) - need to hunt down a kernel
                   frequency_scaling bug that's preventing my laptop from
                   working at full speed. :)
 09:18 mdz         the last update has a note for us to discuss mysql 5.0; I
                   think we're in agreement there per email conversations
 09:19 infinity    <nod>  I'd say so.
 09:19 doko        infinity: any note about db4.4, or do we go with 4.3?
 09:19 infinity    I think we'll stick with 4.3
 === pitti agrees
 09:20 pitti       well, most packages should play well with any version, so if
                   we need to upgrade, there are no blockers
                   Sleepycat's upstream support is good (for EVER), so there's
 09:20 infinity    no concern there, and 4.4 is completely untested in
                   Debian/Ubuntu, so I don't want to risk it.
 09:20 mdz         infinity: sounds like we can call usplash-initramfs
                   implemented
 09:20 infinity    But 4.3 and 4.4 both have versioned symbols, so if we need to
                   bring it in, it probably won't hurt anyone to have a mix.
 09:20 mdz         infinity: livefs changes includes squashfs images?
 09:20 infinity    (I'd prefer not to have a mix)
 09:20 infinity    mdz: Yes, we have squash.
 09:21 mdz         cool
                   mdz: On amd64 right now, will turn it on on the other arches
 09:21 infinity    as soon as we've had a successful amd64 build that we've
                   tested and know works. :)
 09:21 mdz         Kamion: should be trivial to switch the daily builds to use
                   squashfs, yes?
 09:21 infinity    mdz: Already done.
 09:22 Kamion      mdz: already done
 09:22 mdz         is there a build available with the change?
 09:22 Kamion      (and yes, was trivial except for me getting it wrong the
                   first time)
 09:22 Mithrandir  mdz: it's also a trivial per-arch switch, so we can switch
                   ppc back to cloop if we deem unionfs too unstable
 === ealden_ [n=ealden@ipdial-189-46.tri-isys.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
 09:22 Kamion      mdz: on amd64, yes, but it doesn't boot yet for other reasons
 09:22 infinity    mdz: Yes, but it's broken due to initramfs messing up.  I'll
                   build again after the meeting.
 09:22 mdz         ok, looking forward to testing that
 09:22 mdz         thanks infinity
 09:22 mdz         iwj: next
                   AutomatedTesting:  Making reasonable progress on
                   implementation.  Tester core is about half-done now.  From
 09:23 iwj         last week: Apparently the IBM LTC are interested in this too
                   and there's going to be a call (organised by Malcom Yates I
                   think) - but this has all gone quiet.
                   Firefox maintenance:  The package isn't quite so hopeless
 09:23 iwj         since my upload at the end of last week.  Not working on it
                   this week (so as to get AutomatedTesting done).
 09:23 iwj         DefaultApplicationsFirefox: no change since last report.  I
                   will pick this up properly when AutomatedTesting is done.
 09:23 iwj         DeveloperDocumentation: Not started, not blocked.
 09:23 iwj         Email and bugs backlog: moderate.
 09:23 mdz         iwj: what remains on DefaultApplicationsFirefox again?
 09:23 iwj         It's basically still buggy.
 09:23 mdz         hmm
 09:23 iwj         For example, it's hard to select a non-default application.
 09:24 mdz         did you have a chance to do that examination of epiphany?
 09:24 iwj         And I'm told it has a security problem with .desktop files.
 09:24 mdz         a security problem?
 09:24 doko        iwj: does Firefox maintenance include mozilla maintainance as
                   well (at least until mozilla-dev is installable again)
 === pitti doesn't know anything
 09:24 iwj         Apparently you can download them and then clicky clicky gnome
                   will run them.
 09:24 iwj         doko: It does in the sense that I'm not doing it this week.
 09:25 iwj         Yes, we ought to talk about mozilla.
 09:25 seb128      right, GNOME will display the Name= of the .desktop as title
                   and use the Icon= and run whatever command is used
 09:25 pitti       ouch
 09:25 iwj         I haen't looked at epiphany yet.  That definitely counts as
                   ff maintenance :-).
 09:25 mdz         do we need mozilla in main?
 09:25 ogra_ibook  pitti, ouch ?
 09:25 seb128      pitti: we had this discussion on ubuntu-devel some months ago
                   I think
 09:25 ogra_ibook  pitti, you can only run existing apps
 09:25 infinity    mdz: No, it's on its way out.  Once I split enigmail,
                   nothing's holding it in.
 09:26 seb128      ogra_ibook: like rm -rf ...
 09:26 Kamion      ogra_ibook: with arbitrary arguments, and gksudo is an
                   existing app
 09:26 mdz         ok
 09:26 ogra_ibook  oh, yes
 09:26 iwj         I made nspr and nss come out of ff to try to get mozilla out
                   of main.
 09:26 mdz         doko: so mozilla-dev shouldn't be blocking anything, no?
 09:26 ogra_ibook  silly me
 09:26 pitti       seb128: hm, I don't remember that
                   mdz: currently eclipse doesn't work with firefox 1.5, ok
 09:26 doko        that's universe, but currently mozilla-dev isn't even
                   installable, and firefox-dev doesn't built on amd64 and ia64
 09:27 iwj         The 64-bit problem I will fix but not until next week.
 09:27 mdz         ok
 09:27 seb128      pitti: what epy issue?
 09:27 iwj         This only affects things that embed ff.
 09:27 ogra_ibook  pitti, in the beginning of breezy there was a discussion
                   about autostart on CDs, i think it inherited from this one
 09:28 mdz         iwj: do you have an ETA for something basically functional
                   for automated testing?
 09:28 pitti       ogra_ibook, seb128: let's discuss that in #u-devel
 09:28 iwj         That depends on how badly ff eats me next week, I think.
 09:28 seb128      pitti: Date: Mon, 03 Jan 2005 18:55:21 -0500, Subject: Scary
                   .desktop behaviour
 09:28 seb128      pitti: for the security issue
                   It's possible I'll finish it and produce something
 09:28 iwj         playable-with the end of this week but I'm not promising
                   that.
 09:29 mdz         ok
 09:29 mdz         thanks iwj
 09:29 mdz         Kamion: next
 09:29 iwj         Of course there's hardly any tests.  Just one example for now
                   that I'm playing with, sitting on my hard disk.
                   ue-partitioning-tool: Got partman running under espresso,
                   which makes the autopartitioning screen work. Basic progress
 09:29 Kamion      bar handling and chaining to gparted implemented. Some bug
                   fixes still required to make it all flow smoothly enough to
                   use, but we're getting close. Various UI changes in partman
                   will be needed further down the line.
                   ubuntu-express-copy-filesystem: Tollef has made /rofs
 09:29 Kamion      available to me with the unmodified file system; I've changed
                   the espresso code to use it. Agreed hook scheme for casper to
                   propagate configuration.
                   cd-bootloader: Killed scary timeout clock, fixed some video
 09:29 Kamion      mode menu bugs, and fixed syslinux to clear the screen
                   properly when switching back to text mode. Still to do: help
                   text and keymap support.
                   misc: Helped switch live CDs to squashfs (with Adam/Tollef).
                   I'm preparing Flight CD 3 now; exact ETA unknown but
 09:29 Kamion      obviously ASAP; help with testing appreciated, especially for
                   Kubuntu/Edubuntu; broken live CD boot process being fixed (we
                   hope) at the moment.
 09:29 Kamion      blocked: nothing much
                   next-week: merge catch-up; get espresso up to the point where
 09:29 Kamion      I can do a test install as long as I avoid the UI bugs
                   (should be feasible, I think)
 09:30 mdz         Kamion: what's the plan for the keymaps in cd-bootloader?
 09:30 Riddell     Kamion: I should test today's dailys for kubuntu on all
                   arches then?
 09:31 ogra_ibook  Riddell, you should do that every day :P
                   mdz: waiting for keymapper to switch to X keymaps (Tollef's
 09:31 Kamion      looking at this), then scrape out the list of keymaps in much
                   the same way as we do for locales and stick them in a menu
 09:31 infinity    Riddell: Test the installation CDs, don't bother with Live
                   until someone gives a go-ahead in #ubuntu-devel.
 09:31 Kamion      Riddell: what infinity said
                   Kamion: for flight 3, please poll everyone for items which
 09:31 mdz         should be included in the release announcement, especially
                   new features which are ready to test, and infrastructure
                   which needs to be regression-tested
 09:31 Kamion      mdz: if feasible and I have time, limit the keymap menu to
                   those optimal for the current locale
 09:31 Kamion      mdz: ok, I'll see if I can track down the guy who did that
                   excellent wiki page for Flight 2
 09:32 Kamion      DapperFlight2
 09:32 mdz         Kamion: did the flight 2 announcement go to -users and -devel
                   as in the past?
 09:32 mdz         Kamion: I'm thinking we should start announcing them on
                   -announce
 09:32 Burgundavia Kamion, DapperFlight3 already exists and has content going in
 === dholbach_ [n=daniel@i577B06D0.versanet.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
 09:32 Kamion      rah, DapperFlight3 already exists
 09:32 Kamion      Burgundavia: yeah, just noticed :)
 09:32 dholbach_   sorry, flew out
 09:32 Kamion      mdz: -users and -devel-announce, and I've been warning that
                   it might be just -devel-announce in the future
                   Riddell / ogra_ibook / everybody who cares about live cds:
                   it's very, very important to keep -desktop installable, else,
 09:32 Mithrandir  you won't get new live images and stuff breaks.  Also, make
                   sure to merge seeds, since we've seen that cause live
                   failures with user-setup.
 09:33 Kamion      I'm vacillating on that; a lot of people on -users aren't on
                   -devel-announce
 09:33 Kamion      Mithrandir> merge seeds *and* upload -meta to cope
 09:33 ogra_ibook  Mithrandir, yup, known here ...
 09:33 Kamion      (since the live CD build process relies on -meta)
 09:33 mdz         Kamion: a lot of the people who we want to regression-test
                   the Flight CDs are not on -devel-announce
 09:34 mdz         and people want to hear more on -announce
 09:34 dholbach    fridge-devel too :)
 09:34 Kamion      mdz: oh right, you actually mean -announce
                   Kamion: That could be changes, but since livefs builds are
 09:34 infinity    about the only real-world automated test we have right now to
                   prove that the metapackages work...
 09:34 Kamion      ok, can do; ubuntu-announce and fridge-devel then?
                   Riddell, ogra_ibook: you should be merging your seeds
 09:35 mdz         regularly, e.g. if you see an ubuntu-meta upload there are
                   probably changes you need to merge
 09:35 Kamion      infinity: yeah
 09:35 mdz         Kamion: sounds good
 09:35 mdz         Kamion: thanks
 09:35 mdz         Keybuk: next
 09:35 ogra_ibook  mdz, yup, i normally do ...
                   urgent-reboot-notification: Stole this spec off the nobody it
 09:35 Keybuk      was assigned to (it was linked from the udev-roadmap) and
                   implemented it.
 09:35 Keybuk      streamlined-boot: in progress;  have designed new readahead
                   stuff
                   network-magic: ifupdown mods finished, need to test and
 09:35 Keybuk      upload.  network-manager still blocked on infinity
                   (madwifi-ng) and jbailey (libc resolved patch)
 09:35 Keybuk      next week: the same, but more so; merges
 09:36 mdz         Keybuk: is there anything further in streamlined-boot which
                   has much regression potential?
 09:36 mdz         readahead should be pretty tame in that respect
 09:36 Keybuk      mdz: no, it's mostly just careful adjusting and tweaking
 09:36 Mithrandir  Keybuk: uh, you're doing evil stuff to readahead?  What's
                   that?
 09:36 Keybuk      *checks his board*
 09:36 Keybuk      nope, definitely all the scary stuff is done
 09:36 Keybuk      Mithrandir: will discuss out-of-band if you like
 09:36 mdz         Keybuk: now that jbailey is finished with the biarch work, he
                   shouldn't be holding a lock on glibc anymore, no?
 09:37 mdz         should be ok to upload that patch
 09:37 Keybuk      mdz: aye, he said he'd do it a few weeks ago, then two weeks
                   ago, then one week ago
 09:37 Mithrandir  Keybuk: please, since I have evil plans for readahead magic
                   for the live cds.
 09:37 Keybuk      :p
 09:37 infinity    I have the current lock, actually.
 09:37 Keybuk      Mithrandir: ok, then we should definitely talk; straight
                   after this meeting?
 09:37 Mithrandir  Keybuk: sure
 09:37 infinity    Keybuk: If the patch is sane, toss it to me, and I'll put it
                   in the "fix the bloody biarch bootstrap" upload.
 09:37 mdz         infinity: ok, perhaps you can merge that ptach along teh way
                   then
 09:37 mdz         it's been discussed and agreed upon already
 09:37 infinity    Rock.
 09:38 infinity    Keybuk: Patch and/or bug# SVP.  My INBOX wants love.
 09:38 Keybuk      infinity:
 09:38 Keybuk      http://sources.redhat.com/ml/libc-alpha/2004-09/msg00130.html
 09:38 mdz         Keybuk: thanks
 09:38 pitti       Keybuk: does NM have a realistic change to make it before
                   feature freeze?
 === LoneVVolf [n=lonevvol@213.164.22.2] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
 09:38 mdz         Lathiat: do you have anything to report on zeroconf?
 09:38 Keybuk      pitti: depends on infinity
 09:38 Keybuk      pitti: but I don't see why not
 09:38 mjg59       NM is mostly a problem due to the kernel support at the
                   moment
 09:39 mdz         Mithrandir: next
 09:39 Mithrandir  openoffice-amd64: no progress
                   live-cd-performance: squashfs images are now produced, should
 09:39 Mithrandir  speed up the cd a fair bit.  Readahead/inotify hacks are
                   being worked on, but not there yet.
 09:39 Mithrandir  one-true-path: no progress
 09:39 Mithrandir  simplified-livecd: almost there.  keyboard selection is
                   missing, espresso integration is missing
 09:39 Mithrandir  network-authentication: no progress, doubtful it'll make
                   feature freeze
 09:39 Mithrandir  livecd-squashfs: implemented
 09:39 Mithrandir  livecd-unionfs. implemented, but has problems on
                   powerpc.  I'm working on it with BenC.
 09:39 Mithrandir  misc: done a bit of d-i keyboard hackery so we can hopefully
                   switch to using X keymaps in both console and X.
 09:39 Mithrandir  Blocked on: nothing, I have plenty to do and work is
                   progressing
 09:39 Mithrandir  This week: Get simplified-livecd done, help Colin with
                   Flight3, hopefully some live-cd-performance hacking
 09:39 mdz         Mithrandir: let's drop network-authentication officially
 09:40 Mithrandir  mdz: defer for dapper+1, I guess, not drop?
 09:40 mdz         Mithrandir: drop from dapper, yes
 09:40 Mithrandir  sure
 09:40 mdz         Mithrandir: looking good, thanks
 09:40 JaneW       mdz: I just mailed you an update from krstic...
 09:40 mdz         mjg59: power-management-configuration?
 09:41 mjg59       mdz: gnome-power-manager is ready, dbus is dealt with
 09:41 mdz         mjg59: you wanted some help from pitti?
                   The two things that are needed are (a) libpam-foreground
 09:41 mjg59       integration (discussion on -devel didn't get very far, I'd
                   like some more feedback) and (b) support for hal to execute
                   privileged code
 09:42 mdz         ok, let's talk about that after I've slept
 09:42 mdz         mvo: next
 09:42 ogra_ibook  mjg59, look at my dmidecode patch from dapper
                   (b) is basically cutting and pasting some code from hald into
 09:42 mjg59       a daemon that runs as root and has some generic dbus glue,
                   but I don't have time right now
 09:42 ogra_ibook  mjg59, err, hoary, sorry
                   Mithrandir: I think you can count casper/espresso integration
 09:42 Kamion      as part of ubuntu-express-copy-filesystem, not
                   simplified-livecd, for purposes of marking the latter
                   implemented
 09:42 mvo         Did:
 09:42 mvo         * apt support for multiple signatures on the release file
********** gnome-app-install fixes, supports license display/accept
 09:42 mvo         screen for proprietary apps and per channel apt-keys now
                   [ThirdPartyPackages]
 09:42 mvo         * Dist-Upgrade tool:
 09:42 mvo           - more reliable meta-pkg detection/fixing missing one,
                   should work on broken caches as well
 09:42 mdz         Kamion: agreed
 09:42 Mithrandir  Kamion: ok
 09:42 mvo           - more sanity checking after it calculated the upgrade (are
                   the meta-pkgs still installed etc)
 09:42 mvo           - better error detection/handling on e.g. network
                   problems
 09:42 mvo           - logs it's activities
 09:42 mvo           - various hoary->breezy test-upgrades
 09:42 mvo         [AutomaticUpgrades]
********** updated the apt-get.org fetching/test-building script (with
 09:42 mvo         dholbach) and ran a first test-run through all the stuff
                   available on apt-get.org (291 repos scanned, 393 successful
                   builds, 825 failed)
 09:42 mvo         Next week:
 09:42 mvo         - work on the ThirdPartyPackages spec (add key support to the
                   channels)
 09:42 mvo         - work on the AutomaticUpgrades
 09:42 mdz         mvo: is the dist-upgrade tool in reasonable enough shape for
                   community testing?
 09:43 mvo         mdz: very close. what would we test it on? hoary->breezy?
 09:43 mdz         mvo: sure, or breezy->dapper
                   mvo: just get some exercise for the infrastructure.  write a
 09:44 mdz         simple howto and post to -devel-announce with a call for
                   testers
 09:44 mvo         yes, that sounds good, I'll do that
 09:44 mdz         need to hurry to finish in time
 09:44 mdz         mvo: thanks
 09:44 mdz         ogra_ibook: next
 09:44 ogra_ibook  * thin-client-sound: implemented (thank you pitti, for the
                   gstreamer magic!)
 09:44 ogra_ibook  * thin-client-local-devices: dropped
********** thin-client-memory-usage: worked on forced 16bit xorg mode
 09:44 ogra_ibook  (not preseedable, as most of the xorg settings). looked at
                   nbd and the implementation for network swapping.
 09:44 ogra_ibook  * thin-client-faster-startup: worked on the initscript
                   handling, did more initramfs testing.
 09:44 ogra_ibook  * gnome-screensaver-default-image: no progress, still need
                   pictures ....
********** general: done some further work on ltsp-build-client and
 09:44 ogra_ibook  ltsp-update-kernels (yaboot and kernel stuff) for ppc,
                   getting edubuntu-artwork in shape, preparing for flight3, did
                   some more dhcpd tests for the --next-server stuff
********** next week: flight3 testing, missed the nfs timeout
 09:44 ogra_ibook  bugsqashing i had planned for last week, will do it this
                   week, last xscreensaver merge work before UVF, getting all
                   the local bits and pieces of ltsp into shape.
 09:45 mdz         ogra_ibook: any leads on the nfs timeout issue?
 09:45 ogra_ibook  not yet
 09:45 ogra_ibook  as i said, i missed the time for debugging
 09:45 mdz         ogra_ibook: if you haven't already, arrange to talk with BenC
                   about it
 09:45 ogra_ibook  since its a bug its not critical for feature freez
 09:45 mdz         it seems awfully like a kernel issue
 09:45 Riddell     ogra_ibook: what happened with thin-client-local-devices?
 09:45 ogra_ibook  Riddell, postponed
 09:46 mdz         Riddell: the spec was never complete, it needs much more
                   discussion and design woru
 09:46 mdz         work
 09:46 ogra_ibook  mdz, yes, i suspect the same
 09:46 mdz         ogra_ibook: thanks
 09:46 mdz         pitti: next
                   last week: caught up with a lot of security updats, caught up
 09:46 pitti       with bug triage, lots of urgent bug fixes, main inclusion
                   reviews
 09:46 pitti       no progress on specs (ENOTIME), but for JaneW's overview I'll
                   give the current status of the non-implemented specs:
                   firewall: long-outstanding bounty proposal, I do not know
 09:46 pitti       about mdz's approval status; no news from carstenh for quite
                   a while now
                   automatic-printer-conf: DONE: dynamic USB printer recognition
 09:46 pitti       implemented due to cupsys 1.2beta; TODO: gnome UI integration
                   requires to evaluate hal-cups-utils from Fedora, port it to
                   Ubuntu, do integration and tests; no blocks, no progress
                   langpacks-desktopfiles: DONE: implemented for .desktop files;
 09:46 pitti       PLAN: outstanding for .server files (will try to look into
                   this next week)
 09:46 pitti       plan next week: get an agreement about sudo help approach in
                   TB, last steps to throw mozilla out of main
 09:47 mdz         pitti: is there an actual proposal for firewall?
 09:47 mdz         scope of work and price?
 09:47 pitti       mdz: hm, carsten sent one ages ago, I have to look again
                   (don't remember any more)
 09:47 mdz         pitti: ok, if it's something I lost track of over the
                   holidays, please resend
 09:48 pitti       mdz: no price, but scope etc. is there
 09:48 mdz         pitti: thanks
 09:48 mdz         seb128: next
 09:48 seb128      dapper-desktop-plan: default panel configuration changed,
                   "add to panel" changes will be uploaded today
                   other: load of bug triage, pushed some GNOME changes/patches
 09:48 seb128      upstream before the feature freeze, GNOME changes (pygtk
                   splitted to pyobject/pygtk, etc)
 09:48 seb128      next-week: dapper-desktop-plan, continue bug triage
 09:49 mdz         seb128: which other parts of dapper-desktop-plan are still
                   pending?  can you estimate the completion of the spec?
                   seb128: I saw that mjg59 posted some concerns which I think
 09:49 mdz         were aimed at dapper-desktop-plan, please make sure that
                   sabdfl sees and responds
 09:49 seb128      40% complete when the add to panel changes land today
 09:50 seb128      that's menus-revisited
 09:50 seb128      (mjg59 mail)
 09:50 mdz         oh, even so
 09:50 seb128      yeah, will do that
 09:50 mdz         thanks seb128
 09:50 mdz         sivang: ayt?
 09:50 seb128      for dapper-desktop-plan there is some applet hacking that
                   should be easy, and then the gdm changes
 09:51 mdz         Riddell: next
                   done: KDE security fixes, shipping breezy CDs, bug day
 09:51 Riddell     recruitment and support, CD testing, final few libstdc++
                   transition packages
 09:51 Riddell     zeroconf: avahi support added
 09:51 Riddell     kubuntu-express: browsing the current sources, touching up my
                   pykde skills
 09:51 Riddell     kubuntu-roadmap-dapper: CKJ support now complete (question,
                   should scim etc go into main?)
 09:51 Riddell     next week: flight 3, qtparted changes for kubuntu-express,
                   sudo wrapper
 09:51 mdz         Riddell: I'm happy for scim to enter main given inclusion
                   reports
 09:51 mdz         Riddell: I'm less clear on what we need to do with it once
                   it's there, beyond installing it by default
 09:52 Riddell     mdz: we have them so I'll link them from the to be reviewed
                   list
 09:52 doko        we be interesting to know how to test/use it ...
 09:52 pitti       Riddell: I have a pending main inclusion report for scim
 09:52 Riddell     I don't know if it should be installed by default since most
                   users don't use it, maybe ship only
 09:52 mdz         I've seen some email from a fellow who is interested in
                   helping us with input methods
 09:53 mdz         I'll see if he can provide some instruction about
                   testing/using it
 09:53 ogra_ibook  oh, main inclusion, any chance i see gobby reviewed pitti ?
                   its a listed goal for edubuntu
                   Riddell: the gparted --installer changes are (back) in now;
 09:53 Kamion      emulating that general approach for kubuntu-express would
                   probably be good
 09:53 Riddell     Kamion: that's the plan
 09:53 pitti       ogra_ibook: no problem security wise, I'm just scared of bug
                   reports that complain about broken documents :)
 09:53 Kamion      Riddell: does Qt support anything like GtkPlug/GtkSocket for
                   inter-process widget embedding?
 09:53 ogra_ibook  pitti, forward them to me :)
 09:54 Riddell     Kamion: I'm not sure exactly what that is, KDE has kparts
                   Riddell: the dist-upgrade tool is designed to make it easy to
 09:54 mvo         plug a new interface to it, we should talk about this after
                   the meeting
 09:54 Kamion      Riddell:
                   http://developer.gnome.org/doc/API/2.0/gtk/PlugSocket.html
 09:54 dholbach    Riddell: wasn't there a blog entry recently about embedding
                   qt in gtk and vice versa?
 09:55 mdz         Riddell: thanks for the update
 09:55 mdz         JaneW: any questions or concerns for the last 5 minutes?
 09:55 mdz         or anyone else?
 09:56 JaneW       I was going to raise the TC local devices issue, but after
                   mails earlier I think it's not necessary
 09:56 JaneW       I'll give sivang's update...
 09:56 mdz         JaneW: I am going to throttle flint the next time I see him
 09:56 JaneW       mdz: thank-you ;)
 09:56 JaneW       Sivan
 09:56 JaneW       Updates:
 09:56 JaneW       1)Already working on the main backup application GUI together
                   with finishing utility components.
 09:56 JaneW       2)Finished the media device detection code. (to offer a user
                   to choose among available media targets to backup to).
                   3)I expect to be able to finish the project before FF which
 09:56 JaneW       is 23rd February. That should give me a month to QA and test
                   the work. (As well as by other community members)
 09:56 JaneW       Todo:
 09:56 JaneW       1) Finish main application GUI and startup stuff.
                   2) Write code to allow notification through notify-daemon
                   about backup intervals. I had set up wrapping up libnotify
 09:56 JaneW       for python usage for this, but this may be dropped if time
                   does not allow it and I will use the gross hack of having
                   pre-made C binaries per the 2 notificatios I need there
                   instead.
 09:56 JaneW       3) Code the dar integration bits.
 09:57 JaneW       4) Code the mkisofs / cd burning bits.
 09:57 mdz         ok
 09:57 JaneW       sorry the above is for: home-user-backup
 09:57 mdz         right
 09:57 mdz         ogra_ibook: how does edubuntu look for flight 3?
 09:57 JaneW       please could everyone make sure their specs are up to date in
                   LP
 09:57 mdz         Riddell: and kubuntu?
 09:58 JaneW       I know most ppl have been good at updating statuses etc
 09:58 JaneW       also not everyone finished the est dev days and expectation
                   of delivery, we should still try to complete that
 09:58 Mithrandir  I wish launchpad had a way to say "this is 50% completed"
 09:58 mdz         JaneW: have you made progress with someone on the LP team as
                   far as getting a spec report export implemented in launchpad?
 09:58 ogra_ibook  mdz, should be fine ... -desktop was broken for a while, i'm
                   just pulling the first isos
 09:58 Mithrandir  some sort of rudimentary progress tracking.
 09:58 Riddell     mdz: should be fine, I just need to test the CDs
 09:58 JaneW       last thing, the meeting for the week of the sprint, can we
                   make it a sane local time instead of 2am?
 09:58 Mithrandir  now, stuff jumps from "approved" to "done".
 09:59 Kamion      JaneW: should the estimated dev days be remaining or
                   from-start-of-project?
 09:59 mdz         Riddell: have you tested some recent dailies?
 09:59 pitti       Mithrandir: you can use the whiteboard
 09:59 JaneW       mdz: no I haven;t taken that further, is everyone happy with
                   the report format and content?
 09:59 JaneW       Mithrandir: I did ask for a WIP at least
 === vincent_ [n=vincent@85.69.101.91] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
 10:00 mdz         JaneW: I'd prefer that the old and new statuses were in
                   separate cells
 10:00 Kamion      JaneW: start of the working day would be good
 10:00 mdz         it's hard to read as is
 10:00 Kamion      (for sprint meeting)
 10:00 JaneW       Kamion: I think from start to finish for consistency
 10:00 Kamion      JaneW: ok, so what should we be updating?
                   mdz: been testing lives, which have had the authentication
 10:00 Riddell     issue, should be working ok now after seed merge but yet to
                   test today
 10:00 Kamion      likelihood of completion?
 10:00 Kamion      (and I agree, it gets a bit mad otherwise)
 10:00 pitti       JaneW: hm, I adapted mine to be the 'days left', not the
                   'total days'
                   JaneW: we also need that access control fix for targeting
 10:00 mdz         specs to a release, so that launchpad can be authoritative
                   for that
 10:00 mdz         JaneW: please follow up with kiko, find out who we should
                   talk to about spec tracker stuff since mark will be too busy
 10:01 mdz         and that's a wrap
 10:01 mdz         thanks, everyone
                   Kamion: expectation of delivery (i.e. will the thing get
 10:01 JaneW       done?) and estimated dev days (how long it;s expected to
                   take)
 10:01 mdz         and good night
 === iwj [n=ian@xenophobe.extern.relativity.greenend.org.uk] has left
# ubuntu-meeting []
 10:01 fabbione    night mdz
 10:01 mvo         good night mdz
 10:01 fabbione    cya later
 10:01 JaneW       mdz: ok I'll pick it up again...
 10:01 ogra_ibook  night mdz
 10:01 dholbach    good night mdz
 10:01 JaneW       last thing, the meeting for the week of the sprint, can we
                   make it a sane local time instead of 2am?
 10:01 pitti       thanks folks, bye
 10:01 Kamion      09:00 < Kamion> JaneW: start of the working day would be good
 10:02 pitti       JaneW: yes, pleeeeease :)
 10:02 JaneW       Kamion: ah right good, I opted for 10am, shall we make it
                   9am?
 === Seveas [n=seveas@ubuntu/member/seveas] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
 10:02 Kamion      I imagine we'll be doing start-of-day things anyway?
 10:02 Kamion      9am+coffee = 10am, so I don't mind
 === Keybuk [n=scott@descent.netsplit.com] has left #ubuntu-meeting [""]
 10:02 JaneW       we'll need to decide if it's verbal, with report, or IRC as
                   usual
 10:03 fabbione    i suggest verbal
 10:03 infinity    verbal = violence.
 10:03 sivang      mdz: here now
 10:03 JaneW       depends how many on-line ppl want to listen in
 10:03 fabbione    so we can kill each other
 10:03 fabbione    :)
 10:03 infinity    Which is fine, so long as I make sure I'm not blocking anyone
                   by then.
 10:03 fabbione    infinity: ++
 10:03 Burgundavia JaneW, please keep it online
 10:03 sivang      ah bad, too late ..:-/
 10:03 mvo         verbal has the disadvantage that external people can't follow
                   it
 10:03 infinity    Point.
 10:04 dholbach    i think we'll have quite a lot of verbal interaction anyway
                   :)
 === pitti imagines 15 people sitting next to each other and talking over IRC -
 funny
 10:04 JaneW       Burgundavia: I am happy to means I can  cut 'n paste - less
                   typing for me!
 10:04 ogra_ibook  why keeping it online, the reports are public
 10:04 infinity    Online also makes it easier to hack in the background when
                   you're not the focus of attention. :)
                   verbal+minutes is fine too, but I think the minuter would be
 10:04 Kamion      somewhat overloaded with the volume of information in a
                   distro team meeting
 10:04 infinity    It's like two hours for the price of one!
 10:04 Mithrandir  verbal with paintball guns sounds good.  So you shoot people
                   if they block you and stuff.
 10:04 Kamion      ogra_ibook: the conversation's useful too ...
 10:04 Seveas      pitti, we sort of had that on the Ubuntu NL spurt, but with 7
                   people ;)
 10:04 JaneW       pitti: we do that normally anyway!
 10:04 Kamion      Mithrandir++
 === fabbione will take his cluebat in London
 10:04 pitti       JaneW: I don't :)
 10:05 ogra_ibook  Kamion, true ...
 === JaneW will take rubber rocket with elastic launcher...
 10:05 dholbach    guys, you are agressive - didn't you have time to relax?
 10:05 mvo         HUG DAY!
 10:05 pitti       Mithrandir: you should keep them alive enough for them to be
                   able to finish the stuff you wait for
 10:05 dholbach    tsssss
 10:05 Mithrandir  pitti: paintballs don't kill.  They just hurt.
 === Mez [n=Mez@ubuntu/member/mez] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
 === infinity [n=adconrad@203-214-4-60.dyn.iinet.net.au] has left
# ubuntu-meeting []
 10:06 pitti       JaneW: 'rubber rocket', I see. The Orion shop calls them a
                   bit differently :)
 10:06 JaneW       LOL
 10:06 sivang      JaneW: Thank you for reporting for me, in my absence :)
 10:06 pitti       JaneW: anyway, 10am is probably sane, after the initial talks
                   and tea
 10:06 dholbach    JaneW: i was reminded on sabdfl's latex lotion the moment you
                   talked about it ;)
 === sivang thought everybody forgot about that already :)
 10:07 ajmitch     dholbach: hehe :)
 10:07 sivang      ah ah
 10:07 pitti       ok, back to work. thanks to everybody
 === pitti [n=pitti@ubuntu/member/pitti] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Ex-Chat"]
 10:07 JaneW       bye
 === sivang goes to read scrollback
 10:07 JaneW       pitti: what's ENOTIME?
 10:08 Mithrandir  JaneW: no time available
 10:08 mvo         JaneW: it just means Error No Time
 10:08 JaneW       oic, I was thininking 'not enough time' or suchlike
 10:08 Kamion      pretty much the same
 10:08 dholbach    JaneW: E<BOLDLETTERS> are usually made up "error messages" :)
 10:08 JaneW       ta
 10:08 Kamion      (or real libc error codes, sometimes ...)
 10:09 Kamion      (e.g. my house is ENOSPC)
 10:09 JaneW       EFNF
 
</pre>
