{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=07&day=25&year=2011&hour=28&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Jul 18th 2011 17:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:30 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* kees
* jdstrand
* jjohansen
* mdeslaur
* micahg
* sbeattie

=== Not present ===
* None

=== Agenda ===
* Review of any previous action items
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** Weekly role: triager
** pending updates
** attempting a dbus/apparmor upload with just the stubs
** attempting a couple of apparmor profiling work items
** training class
** archive admin
** kees
** Weekly role: community
** go through oss-security for kernel CVEs since MITRE is behind
** work with kernel team on bug sync tool
** mdeslaur
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates (several, one embargoed)
** patch pilot
** sbeattie
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending update
** !AppArmor work items
** micahg
** Weekly role: happy place
** pending updates
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/pkg/smilutils.html|smilutils]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/2009/CVE-2009-0385.html|CVE-2009-0385]]</nowiki> 
** <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/pkg/libglpng.html|libglpng]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/2010/CVE-2010-1519.html|CVE-2010-1519]]</nowiki> 
** <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/pkg/ntop.html|ntop]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/2009/CVE-2009-2732.html|CVE-2009-2732]]</nowiki> 
** <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/pkg/ziproxy.html|ziproxy]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/2010/CVE-2010-1513.html|CVE-2010-1513]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/2010/CVE-2010-2350.html|CVE-2010-2350]]</nowiki> 
** <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/pkg/ccid.html|ccid]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/2010/CVE-2010-4530.html|CVE-2010-4530]]</nowiki>
* Miscellaneous and Questions
** jdstrand out of town for two weeks starting Monday (conference/holiday)
** kees at conference next week
** bliss brought up the idea for identifying/auditing/hardening certain packages in Ubuntu. Ideas for process will be taken to the ubuntu-hardened mailing list. May include wiki, bugs, etc. jdstrand said once packages are identified, could highlight in the 'Highlighted packages' section
** sbeattie discussed openjdk updates and whether to issue a -1 and wait for armel for a -2. Consensus was 'yes, sounds good'

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/
