{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Open Week -- Helping LoCo Teams Help themselves - Laura Czajkowski  -- Mon, Oct 11 ===
<pre>
[16:01] <czajkowski> Aloha, Greetings from the Ubuntu LoCo Council, in case some of you are unfamiliar with us there are 6 of us elected by the CC for a 2 year term to help loco teams, approve and re approve teams and be there to mediate when necessary.  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil   I'm here today to talk to you about how teams can help themselves and to possible give you some ideas on how to improve or if you are looking at settin
[16:01] <ClassBot> Logs for this session will be available at http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2010/10/11/%23ubuntu-classroom.html following the conclusion of the session.
=== shriekout is now known as shriek
[16:01] <czajkowski> up a team what you could be doing to help the process along.
=== shriek is now known as Guest36033
[16:01] <czajkowski> We idle in #ubuntu-locoteams and if you are looking for us you can say loco-council or loco council and that pings us.  Also by contacting us on email  loco-council<at>lists.ubuntu.com.   We're elected to help people and come from various backgrounds and are active in our teams plus on other Ubuntu related teams.  So if you do need us just ask we want to help
=== Guest36033 is now known as shriekout
[16:02] <czajkowski> So some helpful resources for teams, we do notice there are a lot of active teams out there but there are others who do need some guidelines and often just having a simple set of guidelines can help a team operate better/more smoothly.
[16:02] <czajkowski>  We set up a Best Guidelines and Practices wiki, and it has been translated but we're always looking for more translations:
[16:02] <czajkowski> These are only suggestions we'd encourage all teams to do but we also appreciate some teams do it differently, however we have found that these checklists DO WORK and those teams that follow them, are active and visible teams. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/LoCoTeamsBestPracticesandGuidelines
[16:03] <czajkowski> does anyone have any questions so far?
[16:03] <czajkowski> It's broken down into a monthly to do list
[16:03] <czajkowski> and a cycle based list
[16:03] <czajkowski> this will help teams get organised.  I am a firm believer in lists!
[16:04] <czajkowski> you can make a list and then cross off or action people to help with areas and share out tasks, sharing our tasks is the best way for a team to happy and active. no point in taking it all on board!
[16:05] <ClassBot> RibPreto-Brasil asked: what are LoCo teams?
[16:06] <czajkowski> RibPreto-Brasil: A loco team is a group of ubuntu enthuastics
[16:06] <czajkowski> who meet or talk on IRC mailing lists on Ubuntu related topics
[16:07] <ClassBot> mhall119 asked: where can I find a LoCo team near me?
[16:07] <czajkowski> we have this great facality called the Loco directory http://loco.ubuntu.com/
[16:08] <czajkowski> and here it lists all of the loco teams that we have at present
[16:08] <czajkowski> it also lists their contact details
[16:08] <czajkowski> events they are running
[16:08] <czajkowski> and how to get in contact with them
[16:08] <czajkowski> it's extremely useful!
[16:08] <ClassBot> drcooper asked: Is there a minimum number of members necessary to set up a LoCo Team ?
[16:08] <czajkowski> drcooper: nope there isn't
[16:09] <czajkowski> the more the merrier!
[16:10] <czajkowski> people getting together to work on Ubuntu is always encouraged!
[16:10] <czajkowski> Did you know that twice a month the LoCo Council meet? We run a loco health check once a month which is more of an informal discussion session, we encourage people to add topics they'd like more information on, or would like other teams to discuss and we try and get some feed back.
[16:10] <czajkowski> Anyone can add a topic to the health check we just ask you to please turn up for the meeting.  Next cycle if there is still interest in the session we could look at changing or rotating the meeting session ?  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/LoCoHealthCheck
[16:10] <czajkowski> the idea of these sessions is to get discssion happening, give feedback on items such as the guidelines and best practices
[16:10] <czajkowski> or the Loco directory
[16:11] <czajkowski> or how to get members more involved
[16:11] <ClassBot> yantraShilpi asked: I'm assuming increasing LoCo activity is very important. Is there a compilation evangelization tools and ideas for increasing LoCo activity?
[16:11] <czajkowski> yantraShilpi: Not as such
[16:12] <czajkowski> we have a vast network, and you have the loco -contacts mailing list
[16:12] <czajkowski> and #ubuntu-lococontacts channel
[16:12] <czajkowski> and the microblogging #tag #locteams
[16:12] <czajkowski> ways of communicating with other teams and getting people to give you feedback on discussion items
[16:13] <ClassBot> drcooper asked: Could you brief us on the mandatory activities to be taken up by a LoCo team to qualify as an official one
[16:13] <czajkowski> drcooper: good question, while there are no offical mandatory activities being active by having monthly meetings
[16:14] <czajkowski> or getting disucssions happening on your mailing list or fourms
[16:14] <czajkowski> if possible going to events or organaning your own events all count
[16:14] <czajkowski> drcooper: having just 2 people doing this makes it a bit harder to approve having 10 people makes it easier
[16:15] <czajkowski> sorry to clarify earlier the #tag is #locoteams
[16:15] <czajkowski> The Council meets once a month for the approval and re approval of teams. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/TeamApprovalGuidelines  and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/LoCoTeamReApproval
[16:15] <czajkowski> If  you are going through one of these processes, you can ask us to have a look at your application prior to the event this makes it easier on all parties and we can give you some pointers if you are missing information.
[16:15] <czajkowski> If you are being re approved this is a standard process that will happen after about 2 years and you just have to go through the same process as before and show us you are still being active.
[16:15] <czajkowski> Have details on your application
[16:16] <czajkowski> name of team how many are in the team launchpad page irc page etc
[16:16] <czajkowski> Have photos! and links to blog posts or mailing list annoucements
[16:16] <czajkowski> tell us what you've done, don't expect us to go through your mailing list loking for  the information
[16:17] <czajkowski> How can we tell if you're active?
[16:17] <czajkowski> Things teams can do to show how active you are doing, TAKE PHOTOS ! I cannot stress how helpful this is to you and to the council to be able to see the event happened! It also is a great way to tell others about the work you are doing as a photo often can show or explain things better than words.
[16:17] <czajkowski> BLOG! about the event once it's in the stages of being planned! Tell people about it! Tell people after the event happened! Let people know how it went!
[16:17] <czajkowski> use the microtag #locoteams it shows up on the loco directory (LD) and also encourages others to try similar events
[16:18] <czajkowski> TEAM REPORTS!!!! TELL the rest of the Ubuntu community about the work you are doing, an easy way to do this  and yes it is easy telling me it's not easy doesn't work :)
[16:18] <czajkowski>  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TeamReportsCreate a team reporting section under your team heading page, and each month get a person to create the main reporting month ie. OCTOBER and get them to add the basic content to it,
[16:18] <czajkowski> ie. Team meeting, Ubuntu hour, activity on the mailing list etc and then get them to post it to the team mailing list and ask people to add content to it.  Team reports will be part of the approval and re approval application as of next cycle!
[16:18] <czajkowski> Leading by example we do our own team reports! https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/TeamReports
[16:19] <czajkowski> there are over 140 loco teams!
[16:19] <czajkowski> as of last month only 28 did team reports :(
[16:19] <czajkowski> we could spread the Ubuntu word so much more if teams told one another what they are doing
[16:19] <czajkowski> it helps and encourages others to try similar activites
[16:20] <czajkowski> Team issues:
[16:20] <czajkowski> If a team is having a issue, try and resolve the matter internally or talk to the team leader or point of contact.  IF this fails do come talk to us.  We are a 3rd party and want to help, there is no shame in coming to us, nobody should be made to feel bad for coming to us either. We idle in a few team channels which we are working on helping.
[16:20] <czajkowski> as I said earlier on we idle in #ubuntu-locoteams and if you say loco-council it pings us
[16:21] <czajkowski> we can discuss things in there or we can discuss items privately
[16:21] <czajkowski> if teams are having issues with domain names, Mailing lists trademarks issues if you come to us first we can help with those also
[16:22] <ClassBot> xuacu asked: QUESTION: Could team reports be integrated in team pages of the LoCo Directory?
[16:22] <czajkowski> xuacu: there has been a bug logged about this
[16:22] <czajkowski> we have develoeprs who would like to see this happen also
[16:22] <czajkowski> but at present it has not been worked on
[16:22] <czajkowski> the LD Developers are always looking for help
[16:23] <czajkowski> http://loco.ubuntu.com/about/
[16:23] <czajkowski> and welcome patches and volunteers to work on the project
[16:23] <czajkowski> Any more questions ?
[16:24] <czajkowski> There are numerous teams listed on http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/
[16:24] <czajkowski> if there is none near you or close by
[16:25] <czajkowski> join #ubuntu-locoteams and chat with others
[16:25] <czajkowski> or join a channel of a team near by or of the same language and meet others
[16:26] <ClassBot> AlanBell asked: should loco teams be a legal entity with a bank account etc?
[16:26] <czajkowski> hmmm
[16:26] <czajkowski> so some teams depending on their location have had to do this
[16:26] <czajkowski> but honestly, I don't see a need for it unless you are handing large sums of money
=== yoroy is now known as yoroy_aardappele
[16:27] <czajkowski> if you are going to selling t-shirts or items to raise funds for your team that's one thing
[16:27] <czajkowski> but becoming a legal entitiy is a lot more work and not always needed imo
[16:27] <ClassBot> michael_k asked: Sometimes we run very short of people. Any suggestion on operating on a skeleton crew?
[16:28] <czajkowski> michael_k: ok, what I'd suggest here is spread some of the core items among the people
[16:28] <czajkowski> have a team contact
[16:28] <czajkowski> that's the main priority or someone who can relied upon to pass information from the loco contacts mailing list to your team so they are up to date
[16:28] <czajkowski> that person can chair your meetings
[16:29] <czajkowski> also when you have meetings, PLEASE PLEASE post the minutes of the meeting and outcomes to your mailing list or forum this helps get others interested and also for people who may not be able to make the meeting
[16:29] <czajkowski> have someone if possible to do the team report each month that way it gets done
[16:29] <czajkowski> I understand that some teams are small, mine is also but we share the tasks out
[16:29] <czajkowski> we have a person over the mailing list
[16:30] <czajkowski> the website
[16:30] <czajkowski> and it works well
[16:30] <ClassBot> Pernig asked: Where and who would be my first point of contact to get involved in an existing Loco team?
[16:31] <czajkowski> Pernig: I'd go first to http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ and find the team closest to me, so in this example I'll pick my team http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ie
[16:31] <czajkowski> I can see here their channel is #ubuntu-ie their wiki page and who their team contact is
[16:31] <czajkowski> I can either mail them asking for information or join their channel
[16:31] <czajkowski> any more questions ?
[16:32] <ClassBot> brousch asked: Our LoCo events are much larger than typical LUG meetings in the area. How can I help the LUGs without making it seem like Ubuntu is trying to take over the LUG?
[16:32] <czajkowski> brousch: yup I see that happens a lot.
[16:32] <czajkowski> what I'd suggest is inviting them to an event
[16:33] <czajkowski> perhaps if you hold an Ubuntu hour
[16:33] <czajkowski> extend an invitation to them
=== luis__lopez is now known as luis_lopez
[16:34] <czajkowski> also ask them if they are having an event can you join
[16:34] <czajkowski> it works both ways
=== yoroy_aardappe-1 is now known as yoroy_piepers
[16:35] <czajkowski> also on the LD you can see where global events are located http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/326/detail/
[16:35] <czajkowski> which is great if you are travelling and want to stop by and visit
[16:36] <czajkowski> Any more thoughts/questions ?
[16:37] <ClassBot> brousch asked: How can a LoCo get more shwag from Canonical?
[16:37] <czajkowski> well  APPROVED Teams will now get a once off gift from CAnonical
[16:37] <czajkowski> a banner and a table cloth with Ubuntu branding on them
[16:37] <czajkowski> there are also conference packs for teams and items in them vary if you are an approved or unapproved teams
[16:39] <czajkowski> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAtConferences
[16:42] <czajkowski> I'd also suggest hanging out in #ubuntu-locoteams  it's a useful channel
[16:43] <czajkowski> and a great way to meet other Ubuntu members from teams
[16:43] <czajkowski> bounce ideas off one another and see what teams are doing
[16:45] <czajkowski> Any other comments?
[16:45] <czajkowski> I know a lot of teams are working really hard with their activites
[16:45] <czajkowski> and doing a great job
[16:45] <czajkowski> but we're here to help and ask for advice, so if you've not run an event before just ask
[16:46] <czajkowski> If there are no other comments or questions I guess we can finish up ?
[16:47] <czajkowski> ok thanks folks
[16:47] <czajkowski> hope this has helped
[16:48] <ClassBot> X-Man89 asked: Is there any guides on running Ubuntu Hour events?
[16:48] <czajkowski> xuacu: wiki.ubuntu.com/Hour
[16:48] <czajkowski> not really
[16:48] <czajkowski> just pick a venue
[16:48] <czajkowski> date
[16:48] <czajkowski> time
[16:48] <czajkowski> stick to it!
[16:48] <czajkowski> and meet up and chat
[16:49] <czajkowski> what we've found has worked is picking a topic sometimes and discussing it
[16:49] <czajkowski> so in the past I've shown the LD and asked folks to try it and then they submitted bugs :) so it worked
[16:50] <ClassBot> BigWhale asked: Sorry, I just arrived and if this was already answered I apologize. Recently I started to coordinate the effort for Slovenian LoCo. I noticed that somebody was already doing that before me and their request was rejected at that point. Is there anyone who could help with some basic guidelines about what else it is to be done before we apply for another review. I'd hate to be rejected and would need to wait for two more years
[16:50] <czajkowski> BigWhale: well that sounds like 2 people are doing a smilar job
[16:50] <czajkowski> what I'd suggest is talking to them and seeing how far their efforts have gotten them and possibly team up and help
[16:51] <ClassBot> There are 10 minutes remaining in the current session.
[16:51] <czajkowski> and if you have any issues come talk to myself and the others itnet7 popey leogg and paultag on irc
[16:51] <czajkowski> BigWhale: does that help ?
[16:52] <czajkowski> BigWhale: any issues come talk to us and we'll talk and help.
[16:53] <czajkowski> documenting your work for approval helps grately!
[16:53] <czajkowski> keeping a copy of blog post
[16:53] <czajkowski> or links to media should be included in your application
[16:54] <czajkowski> Ok that's me done for today, I'm back again tomorrow if you want to know how to get more involved in the Ubuntu community from being a user :)
[16:54] <czajkowski> Thanks folks
[16:55] <ClassBot> There are 5 minutes remaining in the current session.
[16:57] <Riddell> ** Kubuntu talk in 5 minutes
[16:58] <czajkowski> hmmm
</pre>
