{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting ===
* '''Who''': SecurityTeam
* '''When''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=11&day=24&year=2014&hour=16&min=30&sec=0&p1=0|Mon Nov 24th 2014 16:30 UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''End''': 17:00 UTC
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': JamieStrandboge (jdstrand)

=== Attendance ===
* jdstrand
* mdeslaur
* sbeattie
* tyhicks
* chrisccoulson

=== Not present ===
* jjohansen
* sarnold

=== Agenda ===
* Announcements
** Felix Geyer (debfx) provided debdiffs for precise-utopic for quassel (LP: #1388333)
** Otto Kekäläinen (otto) provided debdiffs for precise-utopic for mariadb-5.5 (LP: #1391676)
** Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) provided debdiffs for precise-utopic for kde-runtime (LP: #1393479)
** Jonathan Riddell (Riddell) provided debdiffs for precise-utopic for webkitkde (LP: #1393479)
  Thanks to everyone for providing these updates. Your work is very much appreciated and will keep our users secure. Great job! :)
* Weekly stand-up report (each member discusses any pending and planned future work for the week)
** jdstrand
** short week
** weekly role: community
** click-reviewers-tools updates
** embargoed issues
** mdeslaur
** weekly role: happy place
** clamav
** patch piloting
** pending updates
** sbeattie
** short week
** gcc pie-by-default-on-amd64 patches, polishing and testing those
** !AppArmor reviews
** tyhicks
** !AppArmor cache code a library
** Bug:1362469 - !AppArmor unrequested reply protection generates unallowable denials
** chrisccoulson
** chromium update testing/sponsored upload
** finish https://code.launchpad.net/~chrisccoulson/oxide/top-header-controls
** Bug:1326070 - Add support for context menus
* Highlighted packages
 The Ubuntu Security team will highlight some community-supported packages that might be good candidates for updating and or triaging. If you would like to help Ubuntu and not sure where to start, this is a great way to do so. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures for details and if you have any questions, feel free to ask in #ubuntu-security. To find out other ways of helping out, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved. The highlighted packages for this week are:
** Miscellaneous and Questions

=== Log ===
Logs available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-11-24-16.34.moin.txt
