{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

   03:29 janimo           shall we start now?
   03:29 nomed            hi janimo Gloubiboulga
   03:29 Gloubiboulga     yep
   03:29 nomed            i'm ready
   03:29 janimo           ok 1)xarchiver
   03:29 nomed            ok
   03:29 janimo           just saw a mail on xfce-devel
   03:30 janimo           they are heavily rewriting it seems
   03:30 janimo           I wonder if it will be ready on time
   03:30 nomed            janimo, yes
   03:30 nomed            but even improving it
   03:30 nomed            they'll not use glade file anymore for ex
   03:30 janimo           any ETA?
   === juliux [n=juliux@ubuntu/member/juliux] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Verlassend"]
   03:30 Meyer            eheheh
   03:31 nomed            janimo, now it doesn't depend on "old" upstreamers ..
   03:31 nomed            well just on them
   03:31 janimo           "old"?
   03:31 janimo           what is new now?
   03:31 nomed            janimo, yes ... there are 2 more
   03:31 janimo           when do you think we could package it?
   03:31 nomed            one is fixing the gui
   03:32 janimo           if they get it ready in a month it may be too late for dapper :(
   03:32 nomed            janimo, they told me last week ..
   03:32 nomed            janimo, i know
   03:32 janimo           I'd have prefrerred a fixed 0.3.x release
   03:32 nomed            i'm waitin an answer from upstreamer
   03:32 janimo           so we can package/review/main/CD
   03:32 nomed            janimo, me too
   03:32 janimo           I think I'll upload 0.3.9 you packaged last time
   03:33 janimo           so we go in parallel with reviewing
   03:33 nomed            as soon as they'll answer i'll send a mail to xubuntu-devel
   03:33 janimo           or do they rewrite it all?
   03:33 janimo           ok thanks
   03:33 nomed            janimo, that would be the best i guess
   03:33 janimo           what they seem to be doing now is optimising
   03:33 janimo           xarchiver already seemed pretty fast and useful
   03:33 nomed            yes
   03:34 janimo           ok 2)icon theme
   03:34 janimo           any news from tango artists?
   03:34 janimo           tango is now in main we could just make that default and be done
   03:34 nomed            janimo, he's working on some icons
   03:35 nomed            janimo, i think we can have a complete xubuntu-tango icons theme
   03:35 bur[n] er        i'm all for tango as the default :)  it was the compelling reason to be here this morning
   03:35 janimo           nomed, ETA?
   03:35 nomed            but as i'm not the one workin on it ... i can just report what he told me
   03:35 janimo           yes, but we should know how to plan as we are getting short on time
   03:35 nomed            janimo, "soon"
   03:36 nomed            janimo, i know
   03:36 janimo           most changes going into xubuntu are getting as restricted as the rest if we want a quality release
   03:36 nomed            but we can't do anything more then wait
   03:36 janimo           that's what canonical wants too, so we cannot keep on adding features sadly :)
   03:36 nomed            and use ROdent in case it'll not be ready
   03:37 bur[n] er        even tango-icon-theme package as it stands now is better than rodent
   03:37 janimo           nomed, well I'll add tango to default install anyway
   === Hobbsee [n=Hobbsee@ubuntu/member/hobbsee] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Bye!]
   03:37 janimo           nomed, defaut tangoi is surely better no than rodent?
   03:37 nomed            yes
   03:37 janimo           so I'll add that
   03:37 nomed            janimo, what i'll do is to create links to missing icon names
   03:37 nomed            in case new icons will not be ready ..
   03:38 nomed            i checked it and most of the icons are already there
   03:38 janimo           do you know of icons in tango-icon-theme which are missing for xfce?
   03:38 nomed            if you do not consider xfce4-terminal pref icons for ex
   03:38 janimo           is that not app specific?
   03:39 janimo           as long as we have a consistent and complete icon theme I'm content
   03:39 nomed            http://foo-projects.org/~jasper/ICONTHEMES
   03:39 nomed            janimo, mainly it's just a problem of creating links to existing icons ..
   03:39 nomed            as most of them have just different names
   03:40 nomed            if not all ..
   03:40 janimo           ok
   03:40 janimo           do we need to create this is the tango icon package?
   03:40 janimo           taking it up with upstream tango?
   03:40 janimo           or solved within xfce somehow?
   03:41 nomed            janimo, two ways
   03:41 janimo           the icons I noticed missing are suspend hibernate
   03:41 nomed            1) send patches to upstreamers ..  as
   03:41 nomed            icons and missing icon-naming entry in the "spec"
   03:42 nomed            2) have the xubuntu icons theme including just those icons
   03:42 nomed            janimo, i'll ask to lapo
   03:42 nomed            and i'll try to get him here for next meeting
   03:42 janimo           2) should matter for upstream xfce I guess
   03:43 janimo           so for 1) there are icon names in xfce which may have to get into the naming spec right?
   03:43 nomed            it would be better yes
   03:43 nomed            but not needed
   03:44 nomed            janimo, i would just be able to use inkscape
   03:44 nomed            really
   03:44 nomed            :)
   03:44 janimo           do you think it's hard to convince tango upstream?
   03:44 janimo           or why do we have to consider our own package?
   03:44 nomed            janimo, well ...
   03:45 nomed            better to consider our own
   03:45 janimo           xfce upstreams position should matter on this, I am not clear about it
   03:45 nomed            and see if it'll be possible to include them in tango if posible
   03:46 nomed            janimo, benny told me he would be happy to have xfce icons included in those specs
   03:46 nomed            but there are too much variables here
   03:46 nomed            xfce upsrteamer ..
   03:46 nomed            tango and spec upstreamer
   03:46 nomed            xubuntu artist
   03:46 janimo           we should not be a variable here, just use best of what upstreams agreed upon
   03:47 nomed            at this stage we should take care of xubuntu-icons
   03:47 janimo           xubuntu artist should do additional not replacement  work
   03:47 nomed            yes
   03:47 janimo           well but if they are not ready we cannot do that :)
   03:48 nomed            janimo, the additional work could be then included into official releases ..
   03:48 nomed            of spec and icons
   03:48 nomed            as the artist is involved in tango proj
   03:48 janimo           yes, that's what I am saying, but included so we can use it. not after we include it
   03:48 janimo           which icons are we missing do you have a list?
   03:49 janimo           that link above?
   03:49 nomed            that's one link yes
   03:49 nomed            and here the one other ..
   03:49 nomed            http://www.dsslive.org/mediawiki/index.php/Roadmap-0.3-1:XfceTheme
   03:50 nomed            janimo, mainly there are those two you told
   03:50 janimo           suspend/hibernate?
   03:51 nomed            yes
   03:51 nomed            and one icon for the pager
   03:51 nomed            and taskbar too if i'm not wrong
   03:51 janimo           we won't make a new icon package just for 3 icons?! :)
   03:51 nomed            janimo, no that's sure :)
   03:51 janimo           panel plugin icons?
   === Florob [n=florian@xdsl-81-173-229-81.netcologne.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === jurjenst [n=jurjen@levelscity.demon.nl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   03:51 nomed            janimo, yep
   03:52 Gloubiboulga     there's a lot of missing icons for the plugins
   03:52 janimo           suspend/hibernate will probably be local to xfce4-session since the other icons in the dialog are there so that's checked
   03:52 nomed            but from what i've understood those icons are needed even for other DMs
   03:52 nomed            Gloubiboulga, yep ..
   03:52 janimo           Gloubiboulga: yes, or more likely their desktop file does not reference them
   03:52 janimo           susp/hib is not in the spec now so it definitely post dapper anyway
   03:52 nomed            but taskbar and pager could be considered as general DMs icons
   03:52 nomed            more then apps icons
   03:53 janimo           app specific ones we solve in apps
   03:53 janimo           nomed, where do taskbar and pager need to show up? so I can check what we are missing now
   === jsgotangco raises hand
   03:53 janimo           jsgotangco: this is not edubuntu :)
   03:54 janimo           you have to wiggle your mouse tail
   03:54 jsgotangco       heh just one quick Q
   03:54 janimo           to conform to _our_ logo :)
   03:54 jsgotangco       janimo: are you still going to derive gnome-app-install?
   03:54 nomed            janimo, i'm refering to icons that are in Settings manager
   03:54 janimo           jsgotangco: if someone gets to do it maybe
   03:54 janimo           are you pro or con?
   03:54 nomed            janimo, those icons are hardcoded somehow ...
   03:54 jsgotangco       janimo: ok if its get done, ping me up i'll update the help files
   03:54 nomed            we'll need to patch it i guess ..
   03:54 janimo           nomed, oh yes those need fixing
   === jsgotangco would like to see something like that for xubuntu
   03:55 janimo           jsgotangco: you need it for documenting it?
   03:55 nomed            they use just icons from hicolor theme
   03:55 nomed            if i'm not wrong
   03:55 jsgotangco       janimo: change strings too if needed
   === jsgotangco checks latest bzr
   03:55 janimo           jsgotangco: ok then. I'll see to it.it should be easier to do than update-manager
   03:56 janimo           jsgotangco: thanks
   03:56 jsgotangco       oh yeah
   03:56 jsgotangco       janimo: its the start of the holidays so plenty of time to look into such
   03:56 janimo           :)
   03:56 jsgotangco       on my side
   03:57 janimo           nomed, those icons in settings manager need to be bugs against that package upstream if they do not work
   03:57 janimo           so they make fallback for them or correct the paths
   03:57 janimo           I noticed preferred apps does not have icon here
   03:57 freeflying       sorry , who is incharge of xubuntu's seed
   03:57 janimo           freeflying: me
   03:58 freeflying       janimo: do you hae anyproblem with cd space ?
   03:58 janimo           yes, too much free space
   03:58 janimo           :)
   03:58 freeflying       s/hae/have
   03:58 nomed            janimo, it's because that icons ahs been removed from tango icon theme ..
   03:58 nomed            if you're using it
   03:58 freeflying       janimo: then , okey
   03:58 nomed            benny is the only one using the spec
   03:58 janimo           nomed, recently?
   03:58 nomed            not really
   03:58 janimo           freeflying: what do you want to suggest for the CD?
   03:59 nomed            but that icon exists .. we'll need just to add it again ..
   03:59 freeflying       janimo: I worried about the space firstly , now It's okey
   03:59 janimo           nomed, they must have had a reason to remove it?
   03:59 nomed            janimo, sure .. but i do not know
   03:59 janimo           freeflying: we're at 435M out of 650-700 so we're doing well
   === ..[topic/#ubuntu-meeting:Ubugtu] : Current meeting: Xubuntu | Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 13 Apr 14:00 UTC: Dapper Development Status | 18 Apr 21:00 UTC: Community Council | 19 Apr 12:00 UTC: Edubuntu | 19 Apr 14:00 UTC: Xubuntu
   04:00 janimo           will probably add more stuff
   04:00 nomed            it was the package-manager icon
   04:00 janimo           nomed, is that icon present in rodent?
   === jozmak [n=mak@h66-201-246-249.gtcust.grouptelecom.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:00 freeflying       janimo: then add language-pack for zh_CN :)
   04:00 nomed            janimo, i do not think
   04:01 nomed            it was in the old spec
   04:01 janimo           freeflying: sure. We'll add many language packs, right now is whatever I merged from ubuntu seeds.
   04:01 janimo           Do ubuntu not ship zh_CN on CD?
   04:01 freeflying       janimo: not support-pack
   04:01 janimo           freeflying: do chinese users need OOo too ?
   04:02 nomed            janimo, are u sure it's not in exo pkge ?
   04:02 freeflying       janimo: ya,
   04:02 freeflying       janimo: you wanna use OOo in xubuntu ?
   04:02 janimo           nomed, did not look
   04:02 nomed            http://svn.xfce.org/svn/xfce/libexo/trunk/icons/48x48/preferences-desktop-default-applications.png
   04:02 nomed            janimo, yes it is
   04:03 nomed            malone ? :)
   04:03 nomed            it was just a concidence :)
   04:03 janimo           nomed, so why does setting dialog not pick it up?
   04:04 janimo           freeflying: not installing OO by default, but since there is space on the CD it will probably be shipped.
   04:04 freeflying       janimo: why not goffice
   04:04 nomed            janimo, i think you forgot to install it
   04:04 janimo           since I understood that it's the only office that has decent asian langiage support
   04:05 janimo           nomed, oh in that case cool I'll fix it
   04:05 janimo           :)
   04:05 nomed            ehehe
   04:05 janimo           freeflying: we install abiword by default
   04:05 janimo           and hopefully gnumeric too soon
   04:06 janimo           but I understood they do not handle well at least the Indian languages
   04:06 freeflying       janimo: if I decide , I will use koffice , :) ,but it's xubuntu
   04:06 freeflying       janimo: same for Chinese
   04:07 janimo           freeflying: so we install goffice because it's small and probably ship OOo just in case
   04:08 janimo           nomed, so the conclusion is: add tango to xubuntu default now
   04:09 janimo           keep in touch with tango artist
   04:09 nomed            janimo, i'll do that
   04:09 janimo           ok, thanks
   04:09 nomed            but i'n not the one that can use inkscape ...
   04:09 janimo           I wonder if xfce upstream devs seem to use tango why do they still keep rodent as default in release
   04:09 nomed            i can't promise anything ...
   04:10 nomed            even if i feel i can trust that guy
   04:10 janimo           nomed, why do you need to use inkscape? :)
   04:10 nomed            janimo, to tell you ... we'll have tango complete and ready for xubuntu
   04:10 nomed            :)
   04:10 nomed            but i can't
   04:10 janimo           ah, np
   04:10 janimo           I think we will have it complete but maybe not too shiny
   === No1Viking [n=Viking@h-83-140-104-3.ip.cust.port80.se] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:11 janimo           tango-icon-them + fixes in our apps shoukld be enough
   04:11 nomed            yep .. i think so
   04:11 bur[n] er        == leaps and bounds better than rodent ;)
   04:11 janimo           we just have to avoid missing/broken incons
   04:11 janimo           I prefer the gnome/human icon theme I think :)
   04:11 janimo           at least for the showdesktop icon
   04:12 janimo           that;s the only one I am sure changes between themes :)
   04:12 janimo           the others I do not always notice
   04:12 janimo           ok 3) color theme poll
   04:12 nomed            ohhh ...
   04:12 janimo           seems like blue is ok after all
   04:12 nomed            this stuff is driving me crazy
   04:12 nomed            janimo, yep
   04:12 janimo           nomed ?
   04:12 nomed            +1 for me
   === luzi_away is now known as luzi
   04:13 nomed            janimo, it needs to be better organized
   04:13 janimo           since nobody came forward with green or steel
   04:13 janimo           otr anything else
   04:13 janimo           nomed, one page per colour theme in the wiki
   04:13 janimo           do you think something more elaborate?
   04:13 janimo           hi luzi
   04:13 luzi             hi guys! just finished class...
   04:14 nomed            hi luzi
   04:14 nomed            janimo, if we'll have a pool
   04:14 nomed            we can't have wiki pages showing same stuff
   04:14 nomed            i mean
   04:15 janimo           poll would just link to the pages
   04:15 nomed            https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DapperXubuntuLook
   04:15 nomed            luzi, has been the first one to add stuff :)
   04:15 janimo           oh so steel has proponents
   04:15 janimo           good
   04:15 nomed               DapperXubuntLookProposalGray <-- here
   04:16 nomed            if each person will have his own page i guess it could be a caos
   === bur[n] er votes for luzi's contribution :)
   04:16 janimo           looks nice
   04:16 nomed            in case there will be many ..
   04:16 janimo           not for each person, but for each theme
   04:16 nomed            luzi, me too
   04:16 nomed            i like that very much
   04:16 janimo           if more people want steel they have to subpoll among themselves which to put forward
   04:16 janimo           I like it too
   04:16 nomed            https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DapperXubuntuColorScheme
   04:16 nomed            here is what i proposed
   04:16 janimo           luzi, that's enough detail I think since it gives an idea
   04:17 nomed            i mean just the layout
   04:17 janimo           nomed, that's good too but the attachments do not show
   04:17 nomed            it 's important to have svgs too
   04:17 nomed            janimo, yes .. there aren't :)
   04:17 janimo           but svg or not is the same when looking at it
   04:17 nomed            you have to upload them
   04:17 janimo           we just want to see how they'd look
   04:17 janimo           ah ok
   04:18 janimo           ah ok, so this starting page and then link to the detailed pages as the steel one
   04:18 janimo           seems ok to me
   04:18 luzi             so when are we going to have the vote?
   04:18 janimo           nomed, would you announce this on the list?
   04:19 nomed            janimo, i did it already
   04:19 janimo           luzi, we should decide now when to vote
   04:19 nomed            but i guess it 's better if you do that :D
   === doc_ [n=doc@CPE-72-128-84-225.wi.res.rr.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:19 janimo           nomed, ok not read it yet
   04:19 janimo           so let's give a few days for people to propose themes
   04:19 janimo           then have a voting for a few days
   04:19 nomed            janimo, one i wouldn't be heavy ...
   04:20 nomed            but ..
   04:20 janimo           heavy?
   04:20 nomed            we need at least one svg image of the logo
   04:20 nomed            so people can work on the same
   04:20 janimo           nomed, I see
   04:20 janimo           do we not have the original mouse in SVG?
   04:20 nomed            janimo, here is the point
   04:20 nomed            no
   04:20 luzi             https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XubuntuArtwork?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=xubuntu_logo.svgz
   04:20 janimo           although I think a png can be modified just as fine
   04:20 nomed            does it work for you ?
   === Turicas [i=justen@20151135160.user.veloxzone.com.br] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:21 nomed            janimo, umm
   04:21 janimo           broken link here
   04:21 nomed            let's say or gimp image or svg
   04:21 janimo           it's gzipped probbaly that;s why
   04:21 janimo           nomed, I am fine with any
   04:22 luzi             firefox tries to display it as xml, that's why. just save to file.
   04:22 janimo           I assumed people who know these tools can work with anything
   04:22 janimo           especially if it's only colour changes not anything more elaborate
   04:22 janimo           luzi, what image is the steel logo based on?
   04:23 janimo           svg?
   04:23 janimo           gray I mean
   04:23 luzi             the link i just gave
   04:23 nomed            luzi, thanks now i got it
   04:23 janimo           ok
   04:23 janimo           there's also an usplash needed
   04:23 nomed            luzi, could you attach it to that page
   04:23 nomed            https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DapperXubuntuColorScheme
   04:24 janimo           it would be better imho if all colour variants used the same images otherwise
   04:24 janimo           so the difference is not in other elements
   04:24 janimo           how does that sound?
   04:24 janimo           it may be that some things only 'work' with some colours I don;t know
   04:24 nomed            janimo, sure
   04:24 nomed            that's the way in my opinion
   04:25 luzi             fine with me
   04:25 nomed            to use same "patterns" and hex colors
   04:25 janimo           anyway later on with wallpapers people have more freedom
   04:25 janimo           we need to see how the logo/usplash/gdm theme looks
   04:25 janimo           luzi, so with an usplash that entry could be complete
   04:26 luzi             i'll try to get a usplash for "gray" done
   04:26 janimo           luzi, thanks
   04:26 nomed            i liked luzi colors since the beginning
   04:26 nomed            i could already vote for it i guess
   04:26 janimo           OT: btw does anyone else remember if in xfce 4.2 you could change kb shortcuts
   04:26 janimo           now they are greyed out
   04:26 luzi             they are not really my colors, i took them from the xfce.org page
   04:27 janimo           I asked on xfce-dev but no answer yet
   04:27 nomed            janimo, yes you could
   04:27 janimo           nomed, and now it does not work right?
   04:27 nomed            modify the default and save it with a different name
   04:27 nomed            janimo, there was a discussion about this
   04:27 janimo           nomed, but in 4.2 it used to be easier
   04:27 janimo           nomed, oh on the list?
   04:27 nomed            yes
   04:27 nomed            xfce-dev
   04:27 janimo           hmm I must have missed it
   04:27 nomed            they decided to use a different approach
   04:28 nomed            but i do not like that much how it is now
   04:28 janimo           do you have some pointers (time period, subhect)
   04:29 janimo           nomed, we will vote in LP officially even if you know you choose the gray :)
   04:29 nomed            ehehe
   04:30 nomed            Shortcut plugin 4.4
   04:30 nomed            Subj ...
   04:30 janimo           nomed, ok thanks
   === ..[topic/#ubuntu-meeting:Ubugtu] : Current meeting: Xubuntu | Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 13 Apr 14:00 UTC: Dapper Development Status | 18 Apr 21:00 UTC: Community Council | 19 Apr 12:00 UTC: Edubuntu | 19 Apr 14:00 UTC: Xubuntu | 20 Apr 20:00 UTC: Dapper Development Status
   04:30 nomed            if that's what you meant
   04:30 janimo           jsgotangco: is about ubuntu final now in doc svn?
   === luzi [n=luzi@dhcp-202-73-vpn.unizh.ch] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:31 janimo           I saw today browser-startpage got removed/renamed
   04:32 Gloubiboulga     janimo, I have to go, is there something else we should discuss?
   04:32 janimo           Gloubiboulga: no
   04:32 Gloubiboulga     ok
   04:32 janimo           see you later, bye
   04:32 nomed            bye Gloubiboulga
   04:32 jsgotangco       janimo: yes its already in rosetta
   04:32 Gloubiboulga     I'll be back monday...
   04:32 Gloubiboulga     cu
   === zul [n=chuck@ubuntu/member/zul] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   === wo_anderer [n=pauli@217-162-139-8.dclient.hispeed.ch] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:33 jsgotangco       jsgotangco: i could fork it and create something for xubuntu if you want to
   04:33 janimo           luzi, xubuntu about should be close to ready for rosetta right?
   04:33 janimo           jsgotangco: thanks
   04:33 jsgotangco       ahh someone alreayd doing it
   04:33 janimo           jsgotangco: I think luzi has something alreday based on that
   04:33 jsgotangco       cheers
   === jsgotangco finishing up the one for edubuntu
   04:33 janimo           ok, anything else?
   04:34 luzi             i didn't do anything to the browser-startpage. i think it could use a few changes.
   04:35 janimo           luzi, I saw that was renamed in ubuntu to about-ubuntu I think
   04:36 janimo           luzi, yes it;s the original doc written when a guide was not planned. it's there since breezy
   04:36 nomed            any idea for xubuntu.org ?
   04:36 luzi             ok, have to check about-ubuntu when i get home
   04:37 nomed            and it would be nice to be here too
   04:37 nomed            http://art.ubuntu.com/ ..
   04:37 janimo           luzi, thanks
   04:37 janimo           nomed, good point I was about to bring that up
   04:37 janimo           we need someone to make the page
   04:37 janimo           anything minimal but decent
   04:38 nomed            janimo, should it be just a css hack ?
   04:38 janimo           and get the webmaster access to the canonical server which hosts it
   04:38 janimo           nomed, quite possibly I am very clueless wrt web authoring
   04:38 janimo           s/wrt/also wrt/ ;)
   04:39 janimo           nomed, I think a plone skin is what they say
   04:39 janimo           I see kubuntu and edubuntu have quite an identity
   04:39 janimo           we could but later on
   04:39 janimo           it would b great if for beta (20 Apr) we had xubuntu.org pointing to something similar to the firefox startpage at leats
   04:40 nomed            janimo, it looks just a modified css ..
   04:40 janimo           with links on the side to the other ubuntus
   === jurjenst [n=jurjen@levelscity.demon.nl] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   04:40 nomed            but bhoo
   04:41 nomed            we should ask to the person who made k|edu|ubuntu
   04:41 janimo           wow for art.ubuntu.com
   04:41 nomed            i see sometimes they show same pages
   04:41 janimo           well, anything that is not ugly and has xubuntu info on the front page would do for now
   04:42 janimo           I'll inquire canonical people to see who could upload the material once we have it
   04:42 nomed            janimo, it would be better to have first of all the template
   04:43 janimo           nomed, do you have time/interest in this?
   04:43 nomed            but mainly a person that could work on it :/
   04:43 janimo           I guess  not :)
   04:43 nomed            janimo, not in this period
   04:43 janimo           understandable
   04:44 luzi             if it's just a CSS, it would be easy
   04:44 nomed            luzi, i guess it'll be
   04:44 nomed            luzi, check edubuntu and kubuntu
   04:44 nomed            edubuntu has something more ...
   === GNAM [n=giocauno@host86-241.pool80183.interbusiness.it] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:45 nomed            but the template seems the same
   04:45 janimo           nomed, in the https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DapperXubuntuColorScheme page
   04:45 janimo           do you have alink to the specific big page for each entry>
   04:45 janimo           ?
   04:45 Riddell          luzi: it's not
   04:45 janimo           that'd be easier than those attachements
   04:46 nomed            janimo, view ?
   04:46 Riddell          it's an html file with a debian alternatives setting
   04:46 luzi             Riddell, how would we go about to make our own? where to get information?
   04:46 janimo           nomed, that;s only the wallpaper, I thought about the whole 'gray' entry page
   === slomo [n=slomo@ubuntu/member/slomo] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
   04:47 nomed            janimo, no but you have all the stuff linked in that table row
   04:47 nomed            it's the same ..
   04:47 Riddell          luzi: just look at the pre and post install scripts in kubuntu-docs and do something similar in the appropriate xubuntu package
   04:47 janimo           nomed, I see. but more click :)
   04:47 nomed            well yes
   04:47 janimo           Riddell: talking about the website not the firefox about page :)
   04:47 nomed            but less pages
   04:47 janimo           for xubuntu.org
   04:48 nomed            anyway .. i'll add a link to [Luzi]
   04:48 janimo           thanks
   04:50 nomed            janimo, check that page now
   04:50 janimo           nomed good ;)
   04:52 nomed            ok
   04:53 nomed            what i'll do is to send an email as soon as i'll have more infos about xarchiver
   04:53 luzi             janimo, did you see the message on xfce mailing list about people feeling uncomfortable that Xubuntu packages Xfce stuff that is not released yet?
   04:53 nomed            and maybe tomorrow i'll start a page to show the needed icons ...
   04:53 janimo           luzi, that;s not people generally , that's the grumpiest xfce dev
   04:53 nomed            luzi, i've seen it ... and ..
   04:54 nomed            that's what i was going to say :)
   04:54 janimo           so I only worry about bugs we may have not the 4.3 tag on it
   04:54 luzi             ok
   04:54 janimo           he seems like a good guy but sometimes just behaves like that
   04:55 janimo           nomed, ok wrt xarchiver
   04:55 janimo           wow, bling on LP
   04:55 janimo           new menus
   04:56 nomed            janimo, well .. i've never seen an email by him saying .. "i'm sorry but ..." :)
   04:56 janimo           nomed, deep inside everybody is a good guy/gal
   04:56 janimo           :)
   04:56 janimo           just does not show it
   04:56 janimo           wlel maybe there are a few exceptions ;)
   04:56 nomed            eheheh
   04:57 nomed            ohhh launchpad now has an aqua theme :)
   04:57 nomed            really nice anyway
   04:57 jsgotangco       janimo: epiphany doesn't like it though
   04:58 janimo           jsgotangco: does not like what?
   04:58 jsgotangco       the new menu bling
   04:58 jsgotangco       it extends to the whole width of the browser in epi
   05:01 nomed            janimo, last question ...
   05:01 janimo           aha
   05:01 janimo           mgalvin: hello
   05:01 nomed            why wouldn't you move gdm theme to xubuntu-artwork ?
   05:01 janimo           thanks for the doc
   05:01 janimo           nomed, I am willing to , it just not up in the TODO
   05:02 janimo           now that ivman is not in by default default settings have less reason to live
   05:02 nomed            yep
   05:02 mgalvin          janimo: hi
   05:02 janimo           mgalvin, answered your mail
   === mgalvin goes to read email
   05:02 janimo           mgalvin: we surely want and will to help out with that
   === highvoltage [n=Jono@196.36.161.235] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
   05:03 janimo           Matt is writing a xubuntu intro as he has for ubuntu flights
   05:03 mgalvin          janimo: great! thanks! :)
   05:04 janimo           luzi, it probably has things in common with the desktop guide
   05:04 janimo           you're both in the doc team, can collaborate :)
   05:04 janimo           https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XubuntuDapperBeta
   05:04 mgalvin          i am going to try and make sure all the officially supported derivs have a beta tour and all future tours as well
   05:05 janimo           mgalvin: nice
   05:05 mgalvin          cool i will talk with luzi about it more
   05:05 mgalvin          i will mail the list in a bit about it too
   05:05 janimo           mgalvin: is the tour supposed to have a bird's eye view of the stuff or more task oriented?
   05:05 luzi             ok, looks nice!
   05:05 janimo           I guess the latter is for the guide
   05:06 jsgotangco       janimo: tours are much nicer if it has user benefits instead of features
   05:06 mgalvin          birds eye mostly but i do not strictly adhear to that...
   05:06 mgalvin          anything very notable
   05:06 mgalvin          but mostly birds eye of the desktops
   05:06 jsgotangco       mgalvin: yeah like a mouse running on a spinning logo
   05:06 janimo           ;)
   05:06 mgalvin          :)
   05:07 janimo           xfce 4.4beta1 is due next week hopefull
   05:07 janimo           y
   05:07 janimo           their announcement may have some notable things which can be borrowed
   05:07 janimo           for other non-xfce stuff, hmm
   05:07 mgalvin          cool, i will keep an eye out for it, maybe i will just subscribe to their lists later
   05:08 janimo           goffice probably
   05:08 janimo           mgalvin: I can send you a link unless you areinterested in duscussion there
   05:08 janimo           when it is out I mean, no need to subscribe just for that
   05:09 mgalvin          if you can send me a link that would be best
   05:10 janimo           mgalvin: ok

</pre>
