{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
09:00	mdz	good afternoon
09:01	dholbach	good evening
09:01	cjwatson	I can't be here for the TB meeting, but I'd like to express support for Timo Aaltonen; he's been useful on d-i work in the past and has expressed interest in helping out with installer merge work
09:01	cjwatson	what I've seen of his work has been competent
09:01	cjwatson	anyway, got to run, sorry for the drive-by
09:02	mdz	I'm not sure we'll be able to hold a meeting today; Scott is at LCA and I haven't heard from Mark or Matthew whether they're available
09:03	dholbach	Mark is most probably not - he said so in a mail.
09:03	mdz	Scott did say that he would be here, though it's 7am in sydney
09:04	mdz	I'm trying to reach folks now
09:04	mc44	mdz: Matthew is at LCA too
09:07	mdz	if Scott turns up, then we'll hold a meeting, otherwise I'm afraid we'll have to cancel due to lack of quorum
09:14	mdz	OK, I'm afraid I haven't been able to reach any other members of the Tech Board, so this meeting will need to be postponed
09:14	mdz	I apologize for any inconvenience
09:15	mdz	it's unlikely to happen this week due to LCA
09:15	mdz	next week may or may not be a possibility due to the sprint
09:15	mdz	watch -devel-announce for any changes
09:16	dholbach	thanks mdz for trying
</pre>
