{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
05:00	cjwatson	let's get started, then
05:01	cjwatson	hope you all had a good Christmas break
05:01	cjwatson	and that everyone is now plugging away towards feature freeze :-)
05:01	cjwatson	which is disturbingly soon
05:01	cjwatson	we'll go in wiki page order

05:02	cjwatson	BenC: you're first
05:02	BenC	...
05:02	BenC	:: Specs
05:02	BenC	* driver-device-manager: Kernel patched with disable-auto-binding capability sent to Keybuk for udev integration. UI being worked on.
05:02	BenC	* driver-backports: Empty linux-backports-modules-2.6.20 uploaded. Empty packages being built for all kernels on all arches. Next linux-meta upload will have the linux-image-* meta packages depending on these so all systems will download it.
05:02	BenC	* ubiquity-driver-updates: NO PROGRESS.
05:02	BenC	:: Work for past week
05:02	BenC	* 2.6.20-rc4 went in for Herd 2.
05:02	BenC	* 2.6.20 bug reports are increasing gradually, hopefully a sign of increased testing and not increased instability. Lots of the bug reports are retests of ones already reported in prior releases, so aren't regressions. Also, 2.6.20 seems to be closing quite a few bugs from edgy/dapper.
05:02	BenC	* Testing of paravirt-ops with VMI patches.
05:02	BenC	:: Work for next week
05:02	BenC	* Get decent driver-device-manager UI ready for sprint demo.
05:02	BenC	* ubiquity-driver-updates needs progress.
=== doko just noticed that the atheros driver isn't working
05:03	cjwatson	did I remember to ask you about linux-kernel-crash-dump when we spoke yesterday?
05:03	cjwatson	I didn't seem to take notes about it if I did :-(
05:03	BenC	yeah, and I forgot to add it
05:04	BenC	not much to say
05:04	BenC	I need to get the userspace ready, and I have the scripts for it, just need time
05:04	cjwatson	ok
05:04	cjwatson	Keybuk: is the udev integration in your update, or can you comment on it now?
05:05	Riddell	Keybuk said he was having a light IRC day today
05:05	cjwatson	he's around
05:05	Keybuk	cjwatson: udev integration will be done at the sprint
05:06	Keybuk	it's not much work, and would greatly benefit from having people around to help with
05:06	BenC	Keybuk: is the patch doing what it needs to do?
05:06	Keybuk	BenC: I have no idea
05:06	Keybuk	I haven't tested it yet
05:06	cjwatson	there are specs depending on that, aren't there?
05:06	Keybuk	cjwatson: no specs as such, just a general desire to have it
05:06	BenC	Keybuk: driver-device-manager depends on it
05:06	BenC	the UI can't really do what it needs as spec'd without the changes to udev/kernel
05:07	BenC	otherwise I just have a mod-param editor :)
05:07	Riddell	BenC: are you keeping any kind of UI independence in mind when writing driver-device-manager?
05:08	BenC	Ridell: I (ab)used hal-driver-manager as a base, which is pygtk...the core functions are a python class though, so the UI is independent
05:09	Riddell	that sounds sane, I have a kde-hal-device-manager so a potential future KDE frontend wouldn't be too hard
05:09	cjwatson	ok, let's move on and take the rest to #ubuntu-devel

05:09	cjwatson	next is me
05:09	cjwatson	ubiquity-advanced-partitioner: Initial version merged just before Christmas; invokable with 'ubiquity --new-partitioner'. See ubuntu-devel@ for caveats (not pretty, slow, etc.). Please test.
05:09	cjwatson	ubiquity-release-notes: Implemented.
05:09	cjwatson	ubiquity-automation: Started looking at switching over to GtkAssistant, which obsoletes a lot of the most horrible stuff in ubiquity.frontend.gtkui. Unfortunately glade-3 crashes a bit too much in the presence of this widget. Sent a patch to gtk+ upstream; waiting until that's released before proceeding.
05:09	cjwatson	misc: Recruitment, management/HR intro meeting in London, chatting with folks I manage, and lots of other stuff.
05:10	cjwatson	also spent a pile of today cleaning up unexpected Herd 2 issues
05:10	sfllaw	cjwatson: Thanks for the HR followup.  I had a friend say he was finally re-contacted after a few months.
05:11	Mithrandir	cjwatson: do we know who'll be taking over your installer work?
05:11	BenC	Mithrandir: are you volunteering? :)
05:11	ogra	would you mind holding a little 1-2h workshop in oslo about it ?
05:11	ogra	(it == d-i)
05:11	Mithrandir	BenC: I'm doing release management and archive admin, so no.
=== fabbione removes installer bits from his report
05:12	Riddell	cjwatson: what's the status of ubiquity slideshow and migration assistant?
05:13	iwj	How about holding a kind of d-i induction thingum at the sprint ?
05:13	cjwatson	sure, I can try
=== ogra would like to know more about d-i and probably take some small responsibilities ... but surely not the maintenance of it all
05:13	cjwatson	Riddell: slideshow> no progress, migration-assistant> Evan says it should be mergeable soon
05:13	iwj	cjwatson: You could count me in too.
05:13	cjwatson	I'll add it to the agenda
05:14	cjwatson	sfllaw: we're gradually cranking through the backlog
05:14	cjwatson	phone; somebody go next

05:15	dholbach	i guess that's me
05:15	dholbach	wiki order?
05:15	ogra	wiki order :)
05:15	sfllaw	dholbach: Go.
05:15	dholbach	Done
05:15	dholbach	* GNOME 2.17.5
05:15	dholbach	* catching up with loads of mails
05:15	dholbach	* bug triage
05:15	dholbach	* artwork packaging coaching - first user!
05:15	dholbach	* work on the art-builder
05:15	dholbach	* worked on bughelper (holiday hacking)
05:15	dholbach	To do
05:15	dholbach	* finish prio 1 goals for art-builder and help write some documentation
05:15	dholbach	* more bug triage
05:15	dholbach	* work on bughelper and finish the new file format (and write documentation on how to use it)
05:16	Riddell	dholbach: what's bughelper?
05:16	dholbach	bughelper will be a tool that hopefully everybody in the bugsquad will empty his/her brain in to
05:16	sfllaw	*plop*
05:16	Riddell	bit harry potter that :)
05:16	dholbach	so that you can run     bughelper <LP URL>   and it gives out messages on certain bugs
05:17	dholbach	like bugs they might be dups of, general questions you might want to ask, etc
05:17	ogra	so its an xml-rpc client for malone ?
05:17	dholbach	atm it does HTML
05:17	dholbach	but we hope to get xml dumps soon
05:17	cjwatson	expediency++
05:17	dholbach	thanks a lot heno for starting it
05:18	mvo	empty brain? its strong liquor?
05:18	heno	just did the first brain dump :)
05:18	ogra	cjwatson, was that a name suggestion ?
05:18	dholbach	Riddell: we'll have harry potter release names for it - thanks for the suggestion :-)
05:19	dholbach	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugHelper
05:19	sfllaw	dholbach: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spells_in_Harry_Potter
05:19	dholbach	sfllaw: I know them all ;-)
05:19	dholbach	sfllaw: seb128 too :)
05:19	sfllaw	OMG.
05:19	seb128	cjwatson: can I go next? my update is quite similar to Daniel's one, and I've to go around 16:45utc, not sure that will be my turn before
05:19	cjwatson	seb128: yes
05:19	cjwatson	dholbach: thanks (and thanks for bughelper, I continue to hope to use it soon :-))

05:19	cjwatson	seb128: go
05:19	seb128	Done:
05:19	seb128	GNOME 2.17.5
05:19	seb128	started bugs and mails catching up
05:19	seb128	gstreamer updates for easy-codec-installation
05:19	seb128	.
05:19	seb128	Next week:
05:19	seb128	keep catching up with bugs and mails
05:19	seb128	work on tab-consistency
05:20	seb128	work on easy-codec-insallation
05:20	seb128	review compiz patches and update to the new version
05:21	mvo	seb128: what is that plan with tab-consitency? will you try to push some api changes upstream?
05:21	seb128	mvo: let me look at it before pushing things upstream, but yes, I would not like to have to keep distribution specific changes for it
=== mvo nods
05:22	seb128	mvo: we can have a look at it during the sprint if you are interested ;)
05:22	cjwatson	the API in the spec doesn't look totally un-upstreamable
05:22	mvo	seb128: I am
05:22	cjwatson	has GTK upstream API-frozen yet?
05:22	cjwatson	if so we should at least try to agree it with them for the future ...
05:22	seb128	cjwatson: GNOME 2.18 will ship with GTK 2.10.n and I doubt they will change that for 2.10
05:23	seb128	we can keep patches until 2.12 though
05:23	seb128	yeah, I'll speak with them before doing anything
05:23	cjwatson	oh, of course, GTK 2.10 has already finished, right
05:24	cjwatson	seb128: thanks

05:24	cjwatson	fabbione: next
05:24	fabbione	Done:
05:24	fabbione	* sparc64-installer: implemented. fixed 2 bugs after archive freeze that didn't make the cd. Need to test one more installation case that did occour to my head only today and requires to download some Solaris iso's.
05:24	fabbione	* streched my wings on -certification/-support procedures. LP privileges and stuff like that.
05:24	fabbione	* sparc64-stabilization: spent a day debugging parted_server crash on Niagara.
05:24	fabbione	* sparc64-64-bit-apps: fixed glibc sparc64 libpthread linking. SRU is waiting QA and the usual 7 days staging in -proposed.
05:24	fabbione	* ubuntu-feisty-ha-cluster: updated openais. redhat-cluster-suite pending archive re-opening. GFS1 is still doomed. Upstream is not porting to .19/.20 yet because it's a royal mess but they will have to do it.
05:24	fabbione	* sparc64-niagara-ssl-accelerator: needs reassignment.
05:24	fabbione	* integrity-check: needs reassignment.
05:24	fabbione	* tested different kernel bits. (HI BEN! :))
05:25	fabbione	TODO
05:25	fabbione	* test ubuntu-feisty-ha-cluster. cleanup redhat-cluster-suite init scripts a bit. tons of init updates from upstream needs merging.
05:25	fabbione	* prepare for Oslo.
05:25	cjwatson	Keybuk: reassignment's probably within your team, unless the niagara stuff belongs with kernel folks?
05:25	fabbione	cjwatson: niagara -> kernel
05:26	Keybuk	cjwatson: it's a kernel thing; but we haven't yet discussed who it would be perfect for
05:26	cjwatson	fabbione: does anyone in the team other than you have the hardware?
05:26	Keybuk	obviously that person would need the Niagara hardware
05:26	fabbione	cjwatson: Montreal has 2 Niagara
05:26	cjwatson	kylem: are you interested?
05:26	fabbione	and there is no need to have hw in place. remote access is fine
05:27	cjwatson	I don't think it would be high priority for Kyle, but if he has a bit of time ...
05:27	kylem	cjwatson, i've not looked into it since uds, so can i say something non-committal, like "tentatively"? :)
05:27	fabbione	kylem: no changes since.
05:27	cjwatson	kylem: sure, I won't hold you to it
05:27	cjwatson	kylem: but if you could investigate and let me know roughly how much work you think it would be, that would be good
05:28	kylem	ok.
05:29	cjwatson	fabbione: thanks

05:29	cjwatson	heno: next
05:29	heno	* multi-lingual-speech -- good progress on the gnome-speech eSpeak driver
05:29	heno	* gdm-accessibility -- Upstream testers report Orca sworking with GDM
05:29	heno	* a11y-other -- gnome-mag should be rebuilt with composite
05:29	heno	* a11y-future -- started working with a group at TU Karlsruhe that has just received govt. funding to improve a11y in Ubuntu
05:29	heno	* forum-based ISO testing - 40-odd people have 'signed up' to test, though only 2 ISO test has come in so far. The fast turnover of testing may be a problem. Post-release testing has it's value too at this early release, so I'll encourage that to help build a team. See: http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=201
05:29	heno	* forum-other -- I attended to first Forum Council meeting and continue to work with the Forum Ambassadors team.
05:29	heno	* launchpad-contact - If you haven't done so already, please add you favourite small LP bugs to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DevelTeamLPWishList -- I've also invited matthewrevell along today for Q&A
05:30	matthewrevell	Hello
05:30	dholbach	heno: I'll have a look at gnome-mag
05:30	cjwatson	I'm hoping to review the ISO testing work after Herd 2 is out
05:31	cjwatson	I think time is probably too short to familiarise myself with it first, this time round
05:31	heno	cjwatson: I'm sure it will need some tweaking
05:31	cjwatson	though I'll have a glance in case there's anything obvious
05:31	heno	I would expect a gradual start
05:31	cjwatson	Karlsruhe> I have an item on the distro sprint agenda to make contact with them while we're all there
05:32	heno	I'm keeping my eye on new reports coming in
05:32	cjwatson	we should make an effort to draw them into our development community
05:32	heno	cjwatson: perhaps two days after their meeting, that will be a very busy time for them
05:32	heno	they are still figuring out what to do
05:33	heno	My father will make a presentation on my behalf there
05:33	cjwatson	heno: feel free to CC me on discussions with them; I'd like to keep informed on that
05:33	heno	cjwatson: cool, will do
05:34	cjwatson	matthewrevell: we'll get through the usual updates, and come to you at the end, if that's ok
05:34	matthewrevell	cjwatson: Yeah, that sound s great
05:34	cjwatson	heno: thanks

05:34	cjwatson	iwj: next?
05:34	Keybuk	I have a paste from iwj, if he's not here?
05:35	cjwatson	Keybuk: go ahead, for speed
05:35	pitti	<iwj> Hi.  I'll try to keep at least half an eye on here ... <= not enough eyes, apparently
05:35	Keybuk	Done: gnome-app-install-codecs - this is now pretty much implemented but it needs to be properly deployed and integration tested.  mvo is reviewing my changes.  Thanks also to Tim Mueller and seb for their work on easy-codec-installation (the upper of the two layers in this linked pair of specs).
05:35	Keybuk	To do: automated-testing-deployment - just picked this up today again.  Thanks to mvo for helpful contributions regarding integration with apt.
05:35	Keybuk	Blocked: winmodem-support - Decision needs to be made (by Tech board?) about nonfree drivers.  (Please let us not go down the binary driver rathole on this one!)
05:35	Keybuk	Unchanged since before Christmas: consistent-login-screen.
05:37	Keybuk	iwj: the decision about non-free drivers has already been made
05:37	pitti	what was the outcome?
05:37	Keybuk	where there is no free alternative, we will ship non-free drivers and/or firmware in restricted
05:38	cjwatson	s/will/may/
05:38	ogra	as we always did ?
05:38	cjwatson	the decision was that we will decide on a case-by-case basis
05:38	cjwatson	(if that makes sense)
05:38	cjwatson	we didn't take a blanket decision to ship all possible non-free drivers for which there is no free alternative
05:39	cjwatson	at least, that's my fairly clear memory from the call ...
05:39	cjwatson	we can take the drivers discussion elsewhere, I suppose, for when iwj gets back
05:39	cjwatson	iwj: thanks

05:40	cjwatson	Riddell: next
05:40	Riddell	done: herd 2 ready to go
05:40	Riddell	      kubuntu-update-manager: started, progressing well, although not got to the more tricky parts yet
05:40	Riddell	      kubuntu-feisty-ubiquity: qt 4 port complete and working well
05:40	Riddell	todo: kubuntu-update-manager
05:40	mvo	Riddell: is there anything to look at/merge for kubutnu-update-manager yet?
05:40	Riddell	mvo: not yet, probably after the weekend though
05:41	mvo	Riddell: nice! we should have a session at oslo together too
05:41	Riddell	definately
05:42	cjwatson	Riddell: thanks

05:43	cjwatson	kylem: next
05:43	kylem	Done:
05:43	kylem	  * Merged backports into the -proposed kernels
05:43	kylem	  * linux-source-2.6.17 (2.6.17.1-50.50) uploaded to edgy-proposed
05:43	kylem	  * linux-source-2.6.15 (2.6.15-50.60) uploaded to dapper-proposed
05:43	kylem	  * sky2 patches for {edgy,dapper}-security
05:43	kylem	  * scsi-scan patch for dapper-security
05:43	kylem	In Progress:
05:43	kylem	  * MODULE_FIRMWARE annotations for drivers in ubuntu/
05:43	kylem	Todo:
05:43	kylem	  * Merge dapper-security into dapper-proposed kernels and re-upload
05:43	cjwatson	(is kwwii still attending these meetings?)
05:43	cjwatson	hmm, I should check that Soyuz will be able to handle -proposed >> -updates
05:44	cjwatson	in terms of versions
05:44	Mithrandir	cjwatson: I have a RL meeting in about 15 minutes, can I go after Kyle?
05:44	Riddell	cjwatson: no kwwii at the moment, but may well be again soon
05:44	cjwatson	Mithrandir: yes
05:44	cjwatson	Riddell: ok
05:45	cjwatson	Mithrandir: if you could review the -proposed uploads at the next convenient time, that would be good
05:46	cjwatson	kylem: thanks

05:46	cjwatson	Mithrandir: next
05:46	Mithrandir	network-roaming: poked at it, simple enough, got preempted by herd 2
05:46	Mithrandir	changelog-closes-bugs: to be done at sprint
05:46	Mithrandir	grub2: to be given to iwj; no progress
05:46	Mithrandir	misc: herd 2 almost there, source NEW almost completely emptied
05:46	Mithrandir	there's a bunch of archive stuff to do; I'll do that once I'm done with herd 2.
05:46	kylem	Mithrandir, ignore the one in dapper-proposed, i need to upload a new one b/c i forgot the security.
05:46	cjwatson	$beer{Mithrandir}++ for source NEW
05:46	Riddell	Mithrandir: ETA for herd 2?
05:46	Mithrandir	Riddell: tonight, assuming I can find somebody to test ppc desktop CD.
05:46	Mithrandir	else, tomorrow
05:47	Riddell	Mithrandir: I'll download it now, I want to get this thing out :)
=== pitti will test it as soon as it arrives
05:47	Mithrandir	kylem: ignore or reject?
05:47	Mithrandir	Riddell: yay, thanks.
05:48	Mithrandir	publisher run is almost finished, I'll build livefs-es and the live ISOs after that.
05:48	cjwatson	Mithrandir: thanks, good luck with the rest of the milestone
05:48	kylem	Mithrandir, whichever.

05:48	cjwatson	pitti: next
05:48	pitti	Done:
05:48	pitti	* bug-reporting-tool: version with manual apport file upload is in feisty; version with Launchpad cloakroom upload is ready in apport-cloakroom branch, waiting for Malone to actually get along with those blobs (Bjorn asserted that this will work by the sprint)
05:48	pitti	* increase-hwdb-participation: some initial discussion with cjwatson and ogra, need more discussion with cjwatson; <rant>This is a very poor spec without any implementation bits *at all*; how did this make it to approved?</rant>
05:48	ogra	i have to see how myuch time my ill dog demands from me, but if i find time i'll test as well
05:48	pitti	* lots of apport refactorization and UI redesign: now it's much more robust code, ui workflow is covered by regression tests, and easily portable to other UIs (Qt/CLI/etc.)
05:48	pitti	* SRU bug 59946 (gnome-system-tools): uploaded fix for regression in g-s-t to -proposed; waiting for cjwatson to accept upload
Ubugtu	Malone bug 59946 in gnome-system-tools "Admin tools require admin group membership" [High,Fix committed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/59946
05:48	pitti	* SRU bug 72125 (tzdata): edgy is in -proposed; dapper upload done, needs to be accepted
Ubugtu	Malone bug 72125 in tzdata "Daylight Saving changes in Western Australia" [High,In progress]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/72125
05:48	pitti	* took a look at printerdrake for making a test Ubuntu package; unfortunately the Mandrake lib is unbuildable on Ubuntu, so for redesigning the UI we need to use Mdk live CDs
05:48	pitti	* lots of apport and hal bug fixing
05:48	pitti	* got through my some-2000 bug emails, and went through all hal bugs, triaged them, and fixed the low-hanging fruit
05:48	pitti	* herd-2 testing on amd64 and powerpc
05:49	pitti	To Do:
05:49	pitti	* update langpacks for stables (this was postponed due to some Rosetta bugs, but they are fixed now); I need -proposed guru love for that again
05:49	pitti	* finish g-s-t and tzdata SRUs, do similar SRU for python-tz
05:49	pitti	* fix broken PtP cameras in edgy-proposed
05:49	pitti	* do pending security uploads while Kees is on LCA
05:49	pitti	* do my share of universe merges
05:49	pitti	* apport: abstract and refactor ubuntu specific bits (dpkg, malone) into separate classes, call for a discussion with Gnome, KDE, and some other distros about more widespread adoption
05:49	pitti	* holiday from next Wednesday to Friday, will be on the sprint on time, though
05:50	cjwatson	pitti: increase-hwdb-participation> ogra would really be a better person for further discussion; it was initially assigned to me because we thought it would be an installer spec, but it turned out not to be; ogra knows much more about the hwdb bits than I
05:51	pitti	cjwatson: I know; I mainly refered to negotiating the set debconf key, figuring out which users to notify/how to set a global lock, etc.
05:51	cjwatson	ah, right, sure, any time you like
05:51	ogra	cjwatson, but thats only about providing a popup on new nstalls
05:51	pitti	cjwatson: if we have some time at the sprint, we can do it htere
05:51	ogra	hwdb-overhaul might be my terrain
05:51	cjwatson	SRUs> bugger. I have the next hour free and WILL do those two then.
05:52	cjwatson	pitti: sprint> sure, sounds good
05:52	cjwatson	pitti: thanks
=== pitti hugs cjwatson for his tireless SRU processing

05:52	cjwatson	doko: next
05:52	doko	last and this week:
05:52	doko	- openoffice.org: updates to 2.1, prepared security updates
05:52	doko	   for breezy, dapper (not necessary for edgy), ooo-amd64 need
05:52	doko	   to be done.
05:52	doko	- feisty-toolchain: build binutils from FSF sources again,
05:52	doko	   update gcc-4.1 to current CVS. 4.1.2 will be released end
05:52	doko	   of January. Evaluated demoting gcc-3.4 (g77) to universe,
05:52	doko	   requires more work (replacing with gfortran); doesn't look
05:52	doko	   appropriate for feisty anymore.
05:52	doko	- feisty-toolchain+1: prepared gcc-4.2 packages, gcc-4.1
05:52	doko	   packages without binaries built by gcc-4.2, updated gcc-snapshot,
05:52	doko	   prepared packages after the gcj-eclipse merge into main
05:52	doko	   line.
05:52	doko	   now needs the archive and buildd support for the test rebuilds
05:52	doko	- python: prepared upgrade to python2.5 immediately after herd2
05:52	doko	- other: some upstream updates for main, prepared main inclusion
05:52	doko	   reports for java, candidate interview
05:52	doko	next week:
05:52	doko	- update python to 2.5 (2.5.1 will be released end of January)
05:52	doko	- update and test isdn (one of the negative things in the review
05:53	doko	   of the c't magazine)
05:53	Mithrandir	gtg, will read backlog
05:53	ogra	does python2.5 mean we'll get a last minute transition ?
05:53	doko	last minute?
05:53	pitti	I thought we don't need such transitions any more?
05:53	cjwatson	doko: are you aware of the state of rebuild testing? I think we were supposed to have one soon
05:54	ogra	doko, feature freeze is feb 8th ...
05:54	doko	we change the default to 2.5, rebuild some ppackages
05:54	cjwatson	if it's "immediately after herd2" that's well before FF
05:54	ogra	how much is "some" ?
05:54	doko	cjwatson: no; we should have one after herd2, and after that one, we did plan for a testing rebuild
05:56	cjwatson	doko: thanks

05:56	cjwatson	mvo: next
05:56	mvo	Did:
05:56	mvo	- upgrade testing (automatic, update-manager -d, apt-get)
05:56	mvo	- dapper-commercial/edgy-commercial opera reivew/upload
05:56	mvo	- realplay testing for edgy-commercial, needs a full testsuit run before it can enter edgy-commercial
05:56	mvo	- use auto-installed information in g-a-i when applications are removed
05:56	mvo	- some initial process space separation for the dist-ugprader
05:56	mvo	- command-not-found fixes and uploaded new version. feels good, do we want to get it into main and enable it by default?
05:56	mvo	- fixes to the automatic-dist-upgrade testing system, more runs, but still no deployment in the data-center
05:56	mvo	- CommonCustomizations features added/bugs fixed (mostly in g-a-i) and trying to contact the automatix2 guys
05:56	mvo	- some hacking on the apt mirror download method
05:56	mvo	- synaptic hacking for the AlwaysEnableUniverseMultiverse spec
05:56	mvo	- popcon sru for #51149
05:57	mvo	Will do:
05:57	mvo	- finish synaptic/g-a-i modifications for AlwaysEnableUniverseMultiverse
05:57	mvo	- get realplayer into edgy-commerical
05:57	mvo	- resolve the last open issues for CommonCustomizations
05:57	mvo	- more work on dist-upgrader-fixes
05:57	dholbach	command-not-found++
05:57	cjwatson	mvo: I'm not happy with command-not-found in main until https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/command-not-found/+bug/67726 is fixed ...
Ubugtu	Malone bug 67726 in command-not-found "wrong exit code" [High,Confirmed]
05:57	iwj	mvo: Did you take a look at those g-a-i changes ?  Do you want to or shall I just upload and fix them if they break ?
05:57	pitti	. o O { isn't that simply a matter of sys.exit(1)? it should always fail AFAICS }
05:58	mvo	cjwatson: right, that one will be fixed
05:58	cjwatson	pitti: it's not difficult, but needs to be done
05:58	iwj	No, exit status 127 not 1.
05:58	pitti	ok, just checking whether I missed something
05:58	iwj	Think `diff'./
05:58	mvo	iwj: I ahd a look yesterday, they looked good, but I didn't test them
05:58	iwj	s,/,,
05:58	cjwatson	yes, 127 is bash's existing exit code
05:58	mvo	iwj: I'm fine with you just uploading them, we can deal with any fallout
05:58	iwj	mvo: Right, OK.  I've done some testing and I think we're still early enough in the cycle that a bit of minor breakage would be OK.
05:58	pitti	iwj: well, right, 'some constant that matches the shell behaviour'
05:58	iwj	Willdo.
05:58	iwj	pitti: sys.exit(127).
05:59	mvo	iwj: if you wait until tomorrow I can give it some testing tonight
05:59	iwj	Sure.
=== cjwatson notes 127 in the bug
=== mvo will fix it right after the meeting
05:59	cjwatson	ok, we're getting very short on time
05:59	cjwatson	mvo: thanks

05:59	cjwatson	ogra: next
06:00	ogra	* last week:
06:00	ogra	- finished jetpipe (new ltsp printserver) pondering to split out a separate pkg, seems it makes sense to have a jetdirect forwarder for other purposes as well
06:00	ogra	- did some more work on edubuntu-network-auth-server
06:00	ogra	- more ltsp-management gui work
06:00	ogra	- gnome-screensaver fixes (switched default)
06:00	ogra	- looked over power-manager and ltsp bugs
06:00	ogra	- herd 2
06:00	ogra	- edgy-plusone-thinclient-sound work
06:00	ogra	- some edulinux stuff (that will get a lot more in the near future)
06:00	ogra	* next week:
06:00	ogra	- even more ltsp-manager
06:00	ogra	- more edubuntu-network-auth-server
06:00	ogra	- finish edgy-plusone-thinclient-sound implementation
06:00	ogra	- edulinux server preparations
06:00	ogra	* approved specs:
06:00	ogra	- ltsp-fat-clients -no further work
06:00	ogra	- edubuntu-network-auth-server - slow progress
06:00	ogra	- edubuntu-network-auth-client - not started
06:00	ogra	- edgy-plusone-thinclient-sound - started
06:00	ogra	- ltsp-management-gui - started
06:00	ogra	- student-control-panel-upgrade - started by cbx33
06:00	ogra	- edubuntu-on-two-cds - not started (planned for the sprint)
06:00	ogra	- ltsp-persistent-home - ... sbalneav (still waiting for code review, pitti ?)
=== pitti is not aware of blocking anything, can you please mail me?
06:01	cjwatson	edulinux == http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EduLinux ?
06:01	ogra	pitti, will do .. probably only the LP page needs update
06:01	ogra	cjwatson, https://wiki.edubuntu.org/Edulinux
06:01	ogra	the name will change
06:01	cjwatson	yay for name clashes
06:02	ogra	eurolinux (which would be appropriate and was the old name) is taken as well
06:02	ogra	name suggestions that involve the EU are welcome btw ;)
06:02	cjwatson	ogra: thanks
06:02	cjwatson	rodarvus: here?
06:03	ogra	he will attack moodle for main the next weeks and take over ieces of edubuntu CD building
06:03	ogra	*pieces
06:03	ogra	(since i will travel a lot for edulinux ill have to shorten my CD testing in the future)
06:03	cjwatson	ok

06:03	cjwatson	Keybuk: next
06:04	Keybuk	Done:
06:04	Keybuk	* phone calls with team members
06:04	Keybuk	* management training/intro in London
06:04	Keybuk	* upstart development for replacement-initscripts
06:04	Keybuk	To do:
06:04	Keybuk	* LCA next week
06:04	Keybuk	* udev/kernel/etc. planned for sprint
06:05	Riddell	Keybuk: are you talking at LCA?
06:05	pitti	Keybuk: do you expect to finish all your udev/upstart specs with your new manager duties, or do you fan them out?
06:05	Keybuk	Riddell: I am, yes
06:06	Keybuk	pitti: I'm intending to fan out most of the udev related ones
06:06	doko	Keybuk, cjwatson: any word on the merge/sync from etch?
06:06	Keybuk	there's not actually "much work" left in those, mostly just testing things
06:06	Keybuk	and will be taking advantage of the sprint to do that, along with handing off some of the work
06:06	Keybuk	doko: ?  I don't recall that discussion
06:06	cjwatson	Keybuk: mailed to distro-team I think
06:06	doko	Keybuk: see my mail to distro-team
06:07	iwj	Testing code is a good way to get familiar with it so farming that out is a good idea.  (Oops, I seem to be volunteering.)
06:07	Keybuk	ah yes, on tuesday, sorry
06:07	Keybuk	doko: it's possible
06:07	Keybuk	but not today
06:07	iwj	s/Testing/Debugging/ really ...
06:07	Keybuk	iwj: yes, that was my oh-so-cunning plan :)
06:07	Keybuk	doko: the principle blocker is disk space
06:08	doko	Keybuk: not our problem, file a ticket =)
06:08	cjwatson	unstable and testing shouldn't be that much out of sync at the moment?
06:08	Keybuk	doko: and my time, of which there's a very huge negative lack right now :-/
06:08	cjwatson	negative lack? perfect, you have lots of time
=== cjwatson runs away
06:09	Keybuk	cjwatson: yes, integer underflow on $freetime
06:09	cjwatson	Keybuk: thanks, we should keep moving - merges/syncs -> #ubuntu-devel perhaps

06:09	cjwatson	sfllaw: next
06:09	sfllaw	Done
06:09	sfllaw	* Holiday (Happy New Year everybody!)
06:09	sfllaw	* Flu
06:09	sfllaw	* SRU: tzdata
06:09	sfllaw	* Bug triage
06:09	sfllaw	* Contracts for interns
06:09	sfllaw	To do
06:09	sfllaw	* Bug triage
06:09	sfllaw	* SRUs
06:09	sfllaw	* Get ready for interns on the 15th (computers, desks, etc.)
06:09	sfllaw	* Write more wiki documentation
06:09	sfllaw	* Hug day next week
06:09	sfllaw	Bug stats
06:10	sfllaw	* Open (20871) +139 over last week
06:10	sfllaw	* Critical (20) -1 over last week
06:10	sfllaw	* Unconfirmed (10631) +92 over last week
06:10	sfllaw	* Unassigned (15810) +185 over last week
06:10	sfllaw	* All bugs ever reported (70500) +606 over last week
06:10	cjwatson	please keep me informed about what's happening with the interns
06:10	sfllaw	Will do.  They seem excited to show up on Monday.
06:10	dholbach	sfllaw: did you talk to the guys forming the mozillateam?
06:10	cjwatson	I hope we can make good use of them
06:10	sfllaw	dholbach: I did and responded to their questions.
06:10	sfllaw	Same.
06:11	BenC	sfllaw: Can we have one assigned to each distro team member? :)
06:11	sfllaw	BenC: I only have two interns and it is likely that they won't have enough skill in the beginning to make that worthwhile.
06:11	sfllaw	The third one will be working with cr3 on automated test cases.
06:12	BenC	cool, that's a good place for extra man power
06:12	ogra	yeah
06:12	cjwatson	sfllaw: thanks
06:12	pitti	sfllaw: automated test cases> I'd be interested to get in the loop in that discussions (kees and I have this package-tests bzr branch)
06:13	sfllaw	pitti: All right.

06:14	cjwatson	matthewrevell: is there anything you'd like to bring up, or are you primarily lurking this time round?
06:14	matthewrevell	cjwatson: I'm mostly lurking, but there are three small things I'd like to mention:
06:15	matthewrevell	1. If you have any suggestions for or annoyances with Launchpad, please feel free to badger me.
06:15	cjwatson	please do
06:15	matthewrevell	2. I'm compiling a weekly list of top user-affecting issues, to take to the rest of the LP team. I may ask memebers of this team if there are things you
06:15	matthewrevell	you'd like to see on that list
06:16	matthewrevell	3. Fix-it Friday is a regular thing now and a great opportunity to get small fixes done quickly.
06:16	matthewrevell	Cheers :)
06:16	iwj	matthewrevell: bug 52766
Ubugtu	Bug 52766 on http://launchpad.net/bugs/52766 is private
06:17	matthewrevell	iwj: thanks, I'll take a look
06:17	iwj	`Unreadable formatting of bug bodies', for those who aren't in the appropriate access group.
06:17	iwj	Incidentally I think it's a mistake that that bug has been marked as private, and I'd appreciate it if you could look into and/or review that decision.
06:18	Riddell	matthewrevell: bug 78434
Ubugtu	Malone bug 78434 in launchpad "product page layout broken in konqueror" [Undecided,Confirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/78434
06:18	matthewrevell	Riddell: Thanks
06:18	matthewrevell	iwj: I'll raise the private issue.
06:18	iwj	matthewrevell: Thanks.
06:20	iwj	cjwatson: *prod*, you're being chairbeing, aren't you ?
06:25	cjwatson	sorry, distracted chairbeing. yes.
06:25	cjwatson	I believe we're done. Further launchpad issues => appropriate channels.
06:25	cjwatson	AOB?

06:25	iwj	There's the winmodem driver question from earlier.
06:25	iwj	But the whole team needn't hang around for that unless they're interested.
06:25	cjwatson	I think Scott and I may disagree somewhere but I think specific non-free drivers should be a TB decision.
06:25	Keybuk	no, I agere
06:25	iwj	Right.
06:25	cjwatson	There are some free drivers that can be used in there, aren't there? At least for one piece.
06:25	Keybuk	iwj: as part of that spec, you'll need to research which drivers are out there; which are free, which are binary-only and which need binary firmware blobs
06:25	iwj	Yes, there is one modem supported by a free driver and I was going to look into the state there and see if we can get it included.
06:25	iwj	Keybuk: Right, I did that.  Only one modem supported without binary drivers, unfortunately.
06:25	iwj	That is, without binary _drivers_ (as opposed to firmware blobs).
06:25	Keybuk	ok, and which were supported by binary drivers?
06:25	Keybuk	and which binary drivers?
06:25	cjwatson	binary firmware blobs is likely to be fairly uncontroversial for inclusion given the number we already have
06:25	iwj	Oh, a fair few.
06:25	Keybuk	iwj: so those need to be tested, and if we can easily support them, a decision on each driver given to the TB
06:25	iwj	I haven't answered that question in detail but there are around half a dozen of the proprietary drivers.
06:25	mjg59	Most modern winmodems (with the exception of Conexant chipsets) have free kernelspace drivers
06:25	Keybuk	e.g. off hand, the hsfmodem daemon could probably be packaged
06:25	cjwatson	I think -> #ubuntu-devel
06:25	iwj	mjg59: I must have been looking in the wrong place.
06:25	mjg59	iwj: snd-intel8x0m, for instance
06:25	cjwatson	thanks everyone; adjourned
06:25	mjg59	But yeah. -> -devel
06:25	iwj	OK.
06:25	pitti	thanks, guys
</pre>
