{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
07:32	elmo	ok, let's get started
07:33	elmo	We'll skip the IRC item .. again
07:33	Seveas	
07:33	elmo	do we need to revisit the localisation / translation team leader thing yet?
07:33	elmo	Seveas: mark isn't here
07:33	Seveas	elmo, I know, that's why I typed the smiley
07:34	elmo	Seveas: oh - that looked like a '?' in my broken client
07:34	zakame	it is a ?
07:34	mako	i just assumed you were saying "tu"
07:34	tomveens	Who has a broken client?
07:34	Seveas	ah, sorry about that, I'll cut down on my unicode addiction. Anyway, what do people actually want from the CC regarding the localization business?
07:35	elmo	I'm not sure - let's skip it for now, I'll talk to Mark OOB
=== mako nods
07:35	makl10n	elmo: before you move ofrward I want to draw your attention toward my nomination
07:35	elmo	makl10n: for the localization?  sure, did you want to say something about it?
07:36	Kamion	makl10n: which one are you? just trying to map IRC nicks to wikinames
07:36	Seveas	Mahay Alam Khan
07:37	Kamion	ok
07:37	makl10n	Seveas: yap
07:37	makl10n	shall I change my nick
07:37	Kamion	no
07:37	Kamion	makl10n: would be nice if you set up your client so that /whois told us your name, though
07:37	Kamion	doesn't require changing your nick
07:38	zakame	hmm we forgot that; who's who?
=== zakame is Zak elep
07:38	makl10n	me using a bad client, can't find the option
07:39	makl10n	better change my nick.........
07:39	Seveas	makl10n, what did you want to say regarding your nomination?
=== makl10n is now known as xmakl10n
07:39	Kamion	don't worry about the IRC configuration business now - we know who you are now
07:39	xmakl10n	I want to withdraw my name ......... I
=== xmakl10n is now known as makl10n
07:40	makl10n	I thought you were having a tab complition conflict with mako
07:41	makl10n	Kamion: I want to withdraw my nomination from the localisation / translation team leader
07:41	elmo	makl10n: ok - any particular reason?
07:42	makl10n	mmm... I guess OgMaciel is better than after going through his profile.
07:42	OgMaciel	makl10n: ;)
07:43	elmo	ok
07:43	mako	that's fine
07:43	makl10n	When I get the mail regarding the call for nomination, I thought you were asking  leader for individual language
07:43	elmo	OgMaciel: does your new job change anything for you?
07:43	OgMaciel	elmo: it just may
07:43	makl10n	OgMaciel: hi
07:43	Kamion	makl10n: ah, that seems to have been a not uncommon misunderstanding
07:43	OgMaciel	makl10n: hello there
07:44	elmo	OgMaciel: ok - can you let us (CC) know by email once you know for sure?
07:44	elmo	shall we move onto loco teams?
07:44	elmo	or team
=== Lure [n=lure@ubuntu/member/lure] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
07:44	OgMaciel	elmo: will do... mind you I still don't have internet at home though
07:44	OgMaciel	;(
07:45	makl10n	OgMaciel: I shall love to assist you ...if you ask. Only if the Localisation / Translation Leader needs an assistant ;)
07:46	mako	lets move onto loco teams
07:46	OgMaciel	makl10n: I believe this "job" is too big for someone going at it alone part-time... so a group of "assistants" would be awsome
07:46	elmo	RussellJohn - here?
07:46	OgMaciel	;)
07:46	mako	any word from sabdfl?
07:46	Ekushey	elmo: present
07:47	Ekushey	i represent the ubuntu-bd loco team
07:47	elmo	mako: no - I wonder if he got lost :/ - I'll SMS ping him
07:47	zakame	OgMaciel: is there some ToDo now up? :)
=== Ekushey is lagging badly
07:48	Seveas	Ekushey, could you please introduce the team
07:48	Ekushey	Seveas: the wikipage of the ubuntu-bd team lives at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BangladeshiTeam
07:49	OgMaciel	zakame: we have actually drawn a few "duties"
07:49	Ekushey	Seveas: and our site is at www.ubuntu-bd.org, which is localised in bengali
=== amachu [n=amachu@59.144.12.61] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
07:49	zakame	OgMaciel: ooh! where can I find moreinfo
07:50	makl10n	Seveas: what are duties of a LoCo team, and who should lead the team ?
07:50	Ekushey	Seveas: we've a team of 20+ dedicated volunteers who are helping to spread ubuntu in bangladesh
07:50	mako	Ekushey: wow, that's great
07:51	Ekushey	Seveas: we're particularly intersted in promoting Edubuntu and Xubuntu
07:51	mako	it sounds like your showing at the conference was also very strong
07:52	Ekushey	mako: yeah, we're very happy about the week-long fair that we attended. some snapshots here: http://gallery.linux.org.bd/thumbnails.php?album=29
07:53	Ekushey	the best part is that we got a lot press attention and the journalists got to know that there's something called ubuntu!
07:53	makl10n	I regret to say, but I've objection about Bangladeshi loco team
07:53	Ekushey	mako: do u have any particular question? i'm lagging badly and i might get disconnected in any time
07:54	Seveas	makl10n, please share them
07:54	zakame	mako: hmm why is that?
=== Lure [n=lure@ubuntu/member/lure] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
07:55	makl10n	they just started doing these...but there are lots of people who has been doing things for OSS / Linux and particularly for Ubuntu.....why they are not in the team
07:55	mako	makl10n: are you suggesting that they are not welcome in the team?
07:55	zakame	err I mean makl10n
07:55	Ekushey	makl10n: for instance, whom?
07:55	makl10n	yap, they are not welcome....... like me. I am not welcome nin the team
07:56	zakame	hmm, why aren't you welcome?
07:56	makl10n	zakame: I don't know !
07:57	Ekushey	mak10n: u don't know? then how can u say this?
07:57	Kamion	makl10n: did you try to join the team and were rejected?
07:57	zakame	makl10n: you mean to say you an Ekushey belong to the same locality?
07:57	makl10n	have you ever heard about Ankur Group of Bangladesh. they are doing the most of effort.....but the lead of that group Mr. Jamil Ahmed is not in the loco team
07:58	gnomefreak	makl10n: you were deactivated if mak is you LP id
07:58	Ekushey	Kamion: he left the launchpad team twice
07:58	makl10n	yes, I can forward e-mail correspondence regardings this. (anyone can join online, but not welcome in their events)
07:58	Ekushey	mak10n: can u please keep your personal interests out of this?
07:59	Kamion	e-mails can be sent in confidence to community-council@lists.ubuntu.com
07:59	Kamion	Ekushey: personal interests?
07:59	Seveas	Ekushey, this does not seem to be 'personal interests'
07:59	zakame	makl10n: but is this other group pushing for ubuntu, or just FOSS in general?
08:00	makl10n	zakame: have you heard of Ankur Group
08:00	Ekushey	Seveas: he's mentioning about the LUG that i belonng to, not Ubuntu-BD
08:00	zakame	makl10n: no, that's why I'm asking?
08:00	Seveas	Ekushey, ah
08:00	makl10n	this is the group working for last couple of years.......and the team working for lots of projects...just visit www.bengalinux.org
08:01	Kamion	I can't make head or tail out of this. Please remember that the CC is not an expert in Bangladeshi LUG politics, and explain with that in mind
08:01	zakame	makl10n: a LoCoTeam isn't exactly the same as a LUG, from my understanding
08:01	Kamion	makl10n: it's perfectly reasonable for there to be a separate group doing Ubuntu-specific things, even if there are other local groups working to advance free software in general. Is that what you object to?
08:02	zakame	makl10n: I for example belong to both PLUG and ubuntu-PH; each grp has their own goals and the means of achieving them
08:02	mako	it's even ok to have overlapping locos, although it should definitely be avoided
08:02	gnomefreak	ok that link doesnt say anything about ubuntu it is FLOSS
08:02	makl10n	Yap, there should be a LoCo team, but who is leading the team
08:03	makl10n	the man who is isolated for the FOSS community of a country
08:03	mako	if the current membership or leadership of any loco is barring or making certain groups or individuals unwelcome, that's important for us to know
08:03	Kamion	makl10n: "isolated"?
08:03	Ekushey	????
08:03	jenda	<suggestion>I think both parties should send an email explaining their PoV to the CC, and perhaps bring back the topic next time? </suggestion>
=== lfittl_ [n=lfittl@85-125-229-117.dynamic.xdsl-line.inode.at] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
08:03	makl10n	jenda: you're correct.
08:04	mako	it's not clear to me that all sides even understand what the problem is
08:04	zakame	ummm, yes, perhaps more info ought to be brought up
08:04	Kamion	I agree with jenda; there's obviously a lot of background argument here, which we need to be filled in on before making a decision
08:04	makl10n	zakame: lets brought up in the next meeting
08:04	jenda	mako: I think that would be clear from teh emails sent.
08:04	makl10n	is anyone of you attended "debconf' in extremadura ?
08:05	mako	no, although i don't see what that has to do with the ubuntu loco team
08:05	Ekushey	mako: this guy was after us from the beginning
08:05	Ekushey	mako: i really don't understand why he's after us
08:05	Ekushey	mako: he's taking the entire issue personally...
08:05	zakame	mako: thats a `many' :P
08:05	Ekushey	mako: and he sent me hate mails when we formed the team!
08:06	zakame	and yeah, what does debconf hav to do with this?
08:06	makl10n	mako: then I would introduce someone better them him who deserve to be our (Bangladesh) loco team leader
08:06	Kamion	Ekushey: if this is a case of a single person with a grudge, then that's not a barrier; but I'm sure you understand that we need to take complaints seriously
08:06	Kamion	so it needs to be investigated
08:06	Seveas	Ekushey, makl10n: please summarize your points of view in a mail to the council. This fight isn't going anywhere and in the interest of time we should be moving on
08:06	zakame	Ekushey: well present some proof of it then
08:06	mako	makl10n: you're going to need to explain what the problem is first
08:06	mako	yes
08:07	mako	and i'm running out of time here
08:07	Ekushey	Kamion: sure thing. let him proof if he can.
08:07	makl10n	thanks....
08:07	makl10n	I don't want to prove anything, I just want to suggest better name for the LoCo team leader
08:07	zakame	its kinda weird though; ai'nt ubuntu all about community? :P
08:08	Kamion	makl10n: this isn't about nominations; other people who want to be involved in leading a loco team should step up themselves
08:08	Kamion	we expect leaders to take their own initiative
08:08	makl10n	please just go through this.......and rest will be in next meeting or in you mail boxes.... https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-bd/2006-July/000048.html
08:08	Ekushey	God, this guy has personal problems with me and he's trying to ruin everything!
08:09	zakame	ok, perhaps its time to move on
08:09	makl10n	Ekushey: I didn't say anything personal. but you are bashing me .......
08:09	Ekushey	mako, Seveas, zakame: what's my next step?
08:09	amachu	hi
08:09	amachu	every one
08:09	zakame	yo amachu
08:09	Seveas	makl10n, Ekushey: please calm down
08:09	zakame	Ekushey: heed Seveas
08:10	Seveas	Ekushey: please summarize your points of view in a mail to the council so this can be revisited next time
08:10	mako	Ekushey: just email the council email list
08:10	Kamion	Ekushey: best is to send a calm, reasoned mail to community-council@lists.ubuntu.com describing the situation and what effect it has on the bd team
08:10	Ekushey	mako: sure, np
08:10	tomveens	All we need is a smoke and a next subject
08:10	mako	i really need to run, still no sign of mark?
08:11	zakame	hmm I thought he's just walking to his flat or something?
08:11	superm1	as we move on, i'm not sure how quickly we're going thru each applicant.  if we are running around 45 minutes from now, and I won't be making it up - could I possibly be bumped ahead?  I have to leave in 50 min
08:11	amachu	zakame: i am here to volunteer for "Localisation / Translation Team Leader"
08:11	zakame	superm1: better prepare your arsenal then
08:12	zakame	amachu: ping OgMaciel
08:12	elmo	mako: I'll phone him
08:12	mako	great..
08:12	elmo	while I'm doing that - we should decide if we want to do the kamion+elmo show, with you reading logs, or simply postpone or what
08:12	amachu	OgMaciel: Hi, i am here to volunteer for "Localisation / Translation Team Leader"
08:12	superm1	I'll do the best I can, so long as i have MOTU buddies around :)
08:13	LaserJock	heh
08:13	zakame	superm1: ooh MOTU aspirant! :)
=== sabdfl [n=sabdfl@ubuntu/member/pdpc.silver.sabdfl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
08:14	sabdfl	hi folks
08:14	gnomefreak	hi sabdfl
08:14	matid	Hi sabdfl
08:14	tseliot	hi
08:14	mako	sabdfl: great
08:14	sabdfl	elmo: sorry, got to the phone as you hung up and realised...
=== keescook waves hello
08:14	zakame	heya sabdfl
08:14	sabdfl	hi all
08:14	mako	sabdfl: i've got another meeting i need to run to
08:14	mako	sabdfl: we're at new member candidates new
08:14	amachu	zakame: is OgMaciel around?
08:14	mako	now
08:14	mako	i might be able to pop back in a bit
08:14	zakame	amachu: he ought to be
08:14	mako	and i'll definitely read teh log
08:14	sabdfl	mako: ok i'll step into them shoes
08:14	OgMaciel	amachu: hold on... be right back
08:14	mako	talk to you soon!
=== crimsun [n=crimsun@pdpc/supporter/silver/crimsun] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
08:15	zakame	yo crimsun
08:15	sabdfl	who's first!
=== Admiral_Chicago [n=freddy@st0660990722.monm.edu] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
08:15	amachu	OgMaciel: Ok
08:15	elmo	DaveSullivan lophyte (September 18)
08:15	lophyte	that's me
08:15	zul	cd
08:15	elmo	lophyte: go for it
08:15	lophyte	Hey everyone, my name is Dave Sullivan. My wiki page is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DaveSullivan, and my launchpad can be found at http://launchpad.net/people/dsullivan. I recently started the Toronto chapter of the ubuntu-ca team, and in just a week's time we managed to organize a successful Software Freedom Day celebration, in which we handed out nearly 100 CDs and over 150 brochures, advocating and raising awareness for Ubuntu
08:15	lophyte	More details about my activity can be found on my wikipage. Thanks for your consideration. Any questions?
08:16	sabdfl	lophyte: what kind of class?
08:16	OgMaciel	amachu: let's take this offline but I'm afraid I don't have too much time
08:16	lophyte	class?
08:16	sabdfl	OgMaciel: congrats on the new post
08:16	sabdfl	lophyte: "presentation on ubuntu to a class"
08:16	amachu	OgMaciel: sure.. Please guide me what should i do?
08:17	OgMaciel	sabdfl: thanks...  I'm very happy here indeed...  I think for the first time in a long time too
08:17	lophyte	sabdfl: ahh.. the presentation was in a "professional skills" class, of mostly average end-users
08:17	sabdfl	lophyte: what do you do in real life?
08:17	lophyte	unemployed at the moment
08:18	lophyte	looking for work.. preferably linux adminstrator type work
08:18	sabdfl	lophyte: toronto loco team sounds very positive, what kind of folks are mostly members of the team?
=== rexbron [n=rexbron@complex1-372-023.resnet.yorku.ca] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
08:18	lophyte	we had about 10 people come out to our first meeting.. a few people who were completely new to Linux, a few who had used Linux but were new to Ubuntu, and a few who had been using Ubuntu for a while
08:18	lophyte	so we had a good mix
08:19	sabdfl	any interesting observations from the completely new folks?
08:19	zakame	hmm intersting
08:19	sivang	hi sabdfl
08:19	lophyte	well there was one guy who actually lives outside of the city.. he suggested we start a 'mentoring' program where more advanced users would mentor new users 1-on-1, and that's something we're definitely going to be discussing soon
08:19	sabdfl	hey sivang!
08:19	rexbron	hay lophyte
08:19	lophyte	heya rexbron
08:20	sabdfl	ok, +1 from for the loco work, elmo?
=== sivang hugs sabdfl
08:20	nixternal	elmo, Seveas, Kamion, mako, sabdfl:  Thanks for holding this meeting first and foremost. lophyte is an outstanding contributor to the advocation of Ubuntu. He has successfully setup and runs the Ubuntu Toronto LoCo. He helps out tremendously with the UWN and is journying out further every day in the community. Outstanding candidate for Ubuntu Member!
08:20	sabdfl	s/from/from me/
08:20	nixternal	that took forever to type ;)
08:20	lophyte	we also hope to get a few video-minded members together and shoot some ubuntu promotional videos to be posted on ubuntuvideo.com
08:20	rexbron	yup
08:21	tomveens	I'm thinking
08:21	lophyte	rexbron's one of our members, actually :)
08:21	rexbron	=D
08:21	Kamion	ah, didn't realise you'd started on UWN work as well - that's listed as future plans on your wiki page
08:21	sabdfl	hi kamion
08:22	Kamion	hi, just alternating between dinner and meeting here
08:22	jenda	I'll second nixternal on the UWN business.
08:22	rexbron	I'm gussing that SFD has been mentioned...
08:22	rexbron	eh lophyte?
08:22	Kamion	I was just reading the SFD link off Dave's wiki page
08:22	lophyte	rexbron: yup, its on my wikipage and I mentioned it earlier
08:22	rexbron	good
08:23	nixternal	yes Kamion, he helps out big time with UWN work and within the Ubuntu Marketing Team. Great ideas, and enjoys working on anything Ubuntu that he can. That I really appreciate in lophyte!
08:23	Kamion	it sounds like it was a great success; impressive
08:23	lophyte	also, the CC should have a recommendation for me from Corey Burger in their email
08:23	lophyte	he sent it 2 weeks ago, approximately
08:23	nixternal	as long as Ubuntu Toronto don't outshine Ubuntu Chicago I am OK :) muhehe
08:23	lophyte	haha
08:24	Kamion	ah, yes, indeed
08:24	zakame	lol
08:24	Kamion	"I have worked with Dave as part of the Ubuntu Canada loco team and have found him to be both consistency courteous and a hard worker. He recently organized the 2006 Software Freedom Day celebration in Toronto, including getting 6 other people to help out and securing a venue in a high traffic location. He has also been doing some general organization of Ubuntu users in Toronto."
08:24	Kamion	(corey)
08:24	Seveas	impressive
08:25	Kamion	so I'm happy with lophyte, good testimonials for Ubuntu advocacy work and documentation
08:26	sabdfl	do we need a third from elmo, or is two considered sufficient?
08:26	Seveas	2 down, one to go
08:27	Seveas	sabdfl, so far the CC used majority voting
=== lophyte wonders where elmo took off to
08:27	nixternal	ice cream truck must have drove by his place
08:28	lophyte	haha
08:28	zakame	lol
08:28	highvoltage	hehe
08:28	Kamion	I wonder if they do Subway trucks ...
08:28	nixternal	i wish
08:28	sabdfl	elmo will be back in a sec
08:28	Kamion	ok, let's keep going and he can catch up
=== lfittl [n=lfittl@85-125-229-117.dynamic.xdsl-line.inode.at] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
08:28	elmo	sorry, ack
08:28	zakame	as in subway sandwich?
08:29	Seveas	woo!
08:29	sabdfl	welcome aboard lophyte!
08:29	Seveas	lophyte, congratulations!
08:29	Kamion	who wants to drive lp?
08:29	zakame	oh there he is with the radio
08:29	jenda	must've been the icecream.
08:29	sabdfl	Kamion: willdo
08:29	lophyte	thanks :D
08:29	jenda	lophyte: congrats :)
08:29	Kamion	well voluntold
08:29	nixternal	lophyte: congrats homer!
08:29	matid	lophyte: Congrats
08:29	lophyte	thanks everyone
08:29	Seveas	frodon, you're up
08:30	frodon	yes i am ;)
08:30	zakame	rock on lophyte
08:30	frodon	i will start presenting myself
08:30	Seveas	good
08:30	frodon	I'm a french 25 years old digital designer for a semi-conductor company.
08:30	frodon	Really impressed by ubuntu, i use this distribution since the beginning of hoary and decided to get involved helping users, writing guides and archiving usefull informations.
08:30	frodon	I'm involved in the UDSF project since (almost) the beginning and i spend as many time as i can to make this project a success.
08:31	frodon	I mainly provide support (more than 2500 posts) through www.ubuntuforums.org where i am a moderator since may 2006.
08:31	frodon	I'm, in general, interested in providing support and documentation for ubuntu users.
08:31	frodon	launchpad profile : https://launchpad.net/people/frodon
08:31	Seveas	I'm still confused by the UDSF/docteam split - what's up with that?
08:31	jenda	frodon has been a great help in the forums, but also in the forums' IRC channel (#ubuntuforums) - especially since he joined the forum staff.
08:31	tseliot	Frodon is really an asset of the forum. He is doing an impressive work to keep the forum clean and ordered. And I guarantee that it's not an easy task, given the always increasing number of members (hence also of posts, spam, flamewars, etc.) of the forum. He's very efficient. Furthermore he is also an invaluable member of the UDSF and, in my opinion, one of the reasons of its success.
08:32	LaserJock	Seveas: I believe it is a "work in progress" ;-)
08:32	frodon	Seveas, it's just 2 differents ways to provide documentaion to ubuntu users
08:32	jenda	(The question has been on my mind for a long time, Seveas. Would love to hear a good answer)
08:32	Seveas	frodon, is there any collaboration between the 2 teams?
08:32	frodon	the UDSF reach 2 milions hits last week :)
08:33	frodon	yes there's a team created for this purpose
08:33	Seveas	how's that going?
08:33	jenda	frodon: isn't it a bit of effort waste, there? Why don't the teams work together on a single resource? The approaches don't seem all that different.
08:33	frodon	https://launchpad.net/people/wikiforumteam
08:34	frodon	unfortunatly this team isn't really active for the moment
08:34	frodon	we have planned to share a page to collect togetther all the good guides generated by the forum
08:34	Burgwork	basically the issue was that the UDSF viewed themselves are archivers of forum content, rather than creators of docuemntation
08:34	nixternal	i can back frodon up on why it isn't that active right now. USDF posters/authors aren't responding to emails we send asking for their permission to post on our wiki
08:34	frodon	exactly Burgwork
08:35	Burgwork	except that is not the view of the documentation team
08:35	Burgwork	however, I am not certain we need to be discussing this right now
08:35	Seveas	good point
08:36	Seveas	but do you as docteam member think the udsf and thus frodons contribution to it is a good thing for the Ubuntu community?
08:36	Burgwork	yes, totally
08:36	sabdfl	frodon: what's ubuntu-graphic-drivers all about?
08:36	Burgwork	given how inactive the doc team has been during edgy, we need all the people we can get
08:37	tseliot	sabdfl: you can check this about the ubuntu-graphic-drivers
08:37	frodon	it' a team created by tseliot, which maintain a repositoy with latest nvidia and ATI drivers
08:37	tseliot	http://albertomilone.com/driver.html
08:37	Seveas	sabdfl: tseliot expressed interest in integrating this with ubuntu proper at the previous meeting
08:38	sabdfl	can either of you guys come to UDS Mountain View, Nov 5-10?
08:38	Kamion	I was under the impression that l-r-m was reasonably up-to-date at the moment
08:38	sabdfl	we'll be talking a lot about graphics drivers, aiglx
08:38	tseliot	Unfortunately I can't
08:38	Seveas	Kamion, for edgy yes, for dapper it may need an update
08:38	tseliot	:-(
08:38	sabdfl	and we'll have folks there from nvidia and ati as well as intel
08:38	Kamion	Seveas: true
08:38	Seveas	sabdfl, I'll be there and intend to join tseliots effort
08:38	sabdfl	ok
08:39	tseliot	great
08:39	frodon	about doc team colaboration, we can easily on the UDSF side provide all the links to the good guides generated by the forum to the doc team and it's what we planned
08:39	Seveas	(I already do updated fglrx)
08:39	sabdfl	frodon: are you a forum moderator?
08:39	Seveas	frodon, that would rock
08:39	frodon	yes i am sabdfl
08:39	sabdfl	frodon: +1 from me on the basis of sustained forums contribution - kamion, elmo?
08:40	elmo	ack WRT the forums.  it's perhaps orthogonal to frodon's application, but I'm a little concerned by the UDSF/wiki split
08:40	elmo	sorry, typing and talking
08:41	elmo	I meant.  'ack to frodon, also on the basis of sustained forums and UDSF work'
08:41	sabdfl	agreed on the udsf / docteam needs addressing, i wonder if there will be reps of both at uds?
08:42	Kamion	I remember we went over the UDSF fairly exhaustively a year or so back - might be worth digging out the IRC logs and seeing what's changed
08:42	frodon	other point, the wiki license is not really compliant to collect information from the forum
08:42	LaserJock	sabdfl: I'll be there for doc team
08:42	Kamion	I'm fine with frodon for membership on the basis of sustained forums staff work
08:42	Seveas	frodon, congratulations!
08:43	tseliot	Congrats!
08:43	LaserJock	I believe the biggest issue is licensing, wrt to doc team/UDSF
08:43	zakame	congrats frodon
08:43	matid	Congratulations
08:43	frodon	thanks :)
08:43	Seveas	sebastean, you're up next
08:43	sebastean	hello
08:44	superm1	Now, sebastean, joejaxx ahod__  would you mind me jumping ahead of you given how long these are running?  I'm going to be having to leave in about 15-20 min.
08:44	sebastean	ok
08:44	ahod__	You can go ahead of me
08:44	joejaxx	sure i think i might have to go next time at the current moment
08:44	superm1	ok
08:44	Seveas	superm1, ok, please go ahead
08:44	superm1	ok thx
08:44	superm1	Hi, My name is Mario Limonciello (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/superm1).  I was present at the last CC meeting.
08:45	superm1	I have been doing some work with the MOTU team the last few weeks with regards to backstep, mythtv, and mythplugins and was looking to apply for membership, and eventually MOTUship.
08:45	superm1	I've put in a big effort in getting the mythtv suite up to the current release version, and had quite a few late nights in #ubuntu-motu straightening out correct format for packaging and such.
08:45	superm1	Last time you guys mentioned to bring along someone, so i wooed Laserjock & imbrandon into tagging along :)
08:45	Seveas	superm1, how long have you been active within the MOTU?
08:46	superm1	well i'd say its been about a month now
=== ozamosi [n=ozamosi@ubuntu/member/ozamosi] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
08:46	superm1	i did the packaging for backstep myself, with a few revus
08:46	superm1	since it wasn't in debian
08:47	Seveas	superm1, if MOTU contibutions are your only contributions then we will have to ask you to come back later. Generally we look for at least two months of sustained activity
08:47	Kamion	there's quite a bit on that wiki page - just reading
08:48	superm1	Seveas, i have been maintaining a myth repo actually the last few months
08:48	tomveens	are these rules written?
08:48	superm1	before i started to get into MOTU
08:48	Seveas	ah
08:48	superm1	since around aprilish
08:48	superm1	i just wanted to make this official
08:48	superm1	and start getting things into universe and multiverse properly
08:48	sabdfl	superm1: i'm very excited by the mythtv work, it's an amazing platform but i think one where the quality of packaging is essential
08:48	Seveas	that is great
=== Seveas agrees with sabdfl
08:49	Seveas	LaserJock, imbrandon: can you comment on/cheerlead for superm1?
08:49	LaserJock	sure
=== keescook is looking forward to getting some time to try out superm1's mythtv packages. :)
08:49	LaserJock	I helped superm1 with backstep
08:50	LaserJock	he's doing good work in -motu
08:50	LaserJock	learning packaging, integrating into the team
08:50	LaserJock	there are a few MOTUs looking at mythtv
08:50	LaserJock	so it's good to have somebody else hop on board and put time into it
08:51	superm1	I remember back in breezyish days how myth just worked out of the box without compiling and such.  I am hoping to help keep it that way for edgy, edgy+n
08:51	sabdfl	+1 from me on the back of motu contribution, ati driver beta team, mythtv and a clear picture of what superm1 is working on
08:52	sabdfl	superm1: any chance you can make it to Mountain View, Nov 5-10, to meet with the other multimedia guys who are gathering there?
08:52	superm1	I'd have to see
08:52	superm1	i'd love to
08:53	superm1	have to talk to real life employer and such :)
08:53	sabdfl	ok, see if you can make it - should be a big multimedia buzz
08:54	sabdfl	kamion, elmo?
08:55	Kamion	just reading still
08:55	elmo	ack from me
08:55	Kamion	yeah, this is looking good to me, really glad to have somebody looking after mythtv properly
08:56	Kamion	+1
08:56	superm1	yay! :)
08:56	sabdfl	superm1: have you applied for membership in ubuntumembers in LP?>
08:56	Seveas	congratulations superm1!
08:56	sabdfl	i am trying to approve you there but don't see the request
08:56	Seveas	sebastean, now you're really up next
08:56	matid	Congratulations!
08:56	superm1	Oh no i haven't, i didn't realize i was supposed to
08:56	zakame	rock the MOTU superm1
08:56	superm1	i'll look for it really quick and add myself
08:57	Kamion	superm1: https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntumembers/+join
08:57	sebastean	Hello, I'm a member of the LoCo Ubuntu Sweden, and what I do is to check so everything works because I'm the leader, after ozamosi who started the LoCo. We have this website, ubuntu-se.org, with a a forum and a wiki, and I help admin and moderators out, plan for the future and so on, I'm also the contact person for members. I like graphics and I hav design the theme for the forum and some posters...
08:57	Kamion	(from memory)
08:57	sebastean	was it my turn.. ?
08:57	Kamion	sebastean: yep
08:57	superm1	sabdfl, okay i added
08:57	sabdfl	sebastean: how long have you been leading ubuntu-se.org?
08:57	sebastean	good, I did som preporation..
08:57	sebastean	1 month maybe..
08:58	sebastean	not a long time
08:58	ozamosi	he's been very active in the loco before that as well
08:58	sebastean	a started to write alot in the forum helpin out..
08:59	sabdfl	sebastean: wiki page? lp url?
08:59	sebastean	Ihttp://ubuntu-se.org/Wiki
08:59	sebastean	what is lp?
08:59	matid	Launchpad
09:00	sabdfl	we usually ask folks to prepare a wiki page for themselves which outlines their contribution and plans
09:00	sebastean	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JohanLundmark
09:00	sabdfl	also, folks usually register in Lp so we can see what bug tracking, translation etc they are contributing
09:00	sebastean	here it is ;)
09:01	sebastean	I've not done any translation yet but I will to get to know all of the parts of the LoCo
09:01	sabdfl	sebastean: ok, i very much like the fact that you are stepping up to a leadership role in your loco team, but I think you need to spend a bit more time learning more about how the ubuntu community organises itself
09:01	sabdfl	for example, LP (translation, bug fixing, etc)
09:02	sabdfl	i think if you make some good contributions there over the course of the next month you would IMO be over the threshold
09:02	sabdfl	sound reasonable?
09:02	sebastean	ok
09:02	sebastean	yeah thats fine
09:03	sabdfl	ok cool - generally very good work, loco teams are very important
09:03	sabdfl	unless elmo or kamion feel differently, let's jump to the next candidate.
09:04	gnomefreak	joejaxx: are we skipping you today?
09:04	Kamion	no, that's fine by me, sounds like he's on the right track but ...
09:04	gnomefreak	you were 2 people ago
09:04	joejaxx	no we are not i was wanting my turn
09:04	gnomefreak	k
09:04	sabdfl	joejaxx: roll on
09:04	joejaxx	gnomefreak: superm1 wanted to go ahead of me
09:04	joejaxx	Good Afternoon Everyone. My name is Joseph Jackson IV (I am also known in the open source world as Joe Jaxx). I am 19, a student, os developer and windows sys/net administrator. I love programming and operating system development. I discovered the Ubuntu Linux Project about a year ago and I have been involved ever since. I am a strong advocate for Ubuntu because of its excellent hardware support and open community. I am mostly involved in pr
09:04	elmo	(fine by me too)
09:05	Kamion	joejaxx: you were cut off at "involved in pr"
09:05	Kamion	(IRC has a line length limit)
09:05	joejaxx	whoops
09:06	joejaxx	I am mostly involved in providing support to Ubuntu users and I am also involved in the Mubuntu Project. The future that I whould like to see for Ubuntu is having it run on a vast range of computers (older and newer), which is why i created Fluxbuntu. My wiki page is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JoeJaxx and my Launchpad page is https://launchpad.net/people/joejaxx.
09:06	tomveens	looks great
09:07	Seveas	doesn't look too great me, to be honest. Most of joejaxx' effort is spent on fluxbuntu, which is not part of the ubuntu project. And grep joejaxx #ubuntu.log | wc -l only says 10
09:08	Seveas	other than that, he'sa great guy and fluxbuntu is cool
09:08	joejaxx	Seveas: i most give support outside of that channel
09:08	Seveas	I wish it'd be integrated in ubuntu proper
09:08	joejaxx	mostly*
09:08	sabdfl	tell us about fluxbuntu?
09:08	gnomefreak	i agree with Seveas
09:08	Seveas	joejaxx, unfortunately there's no way for us to confirm that
09:08	joejaxx	Seveas: yeah i know
09:08	joejaxx	it is quite alright
09:09	zakame	IRQ: I'm supposed to cheer keescook on his membership, but I have to go now since I've pretty much lost sleep tonight.  I've left my testimony to him, however, so he can present that when its his turn.
09:09	joejaxx	sabdfl: basically the idea behind fluxbuntu is it is supposed to be able to run on a vast amonut of computers
09:09	joejaxx	sabdfl: it can run on a Pentium2 with 32MB
09:09	joejaxx	that is the lowest we have tested it
09:10	Seveas	zakame, noted. Thanks and goodnight!
09:10	joejaxx	sabdfl: it allows people who cannot afford to get a Pentium4 to reuse their older computers
09:10	joejaxx	sabdfl: for example schools, and other organizations
09:10	LaserJock	I'd also like to note that joejaxx has recently been working with MOTU to get fluxbuntu packages into Universe
09:11	zakame	Seveas: merci, good night all! :D
09:11	juliux	joejaxx, why should they use fluxbuntu instead of xubuntu?
09:12	joejaxx	juliux: xubuntu is lightweight in a since
09:12	gnomefreak	LaserJock: joejaxx is there a way to get a fluxbuntu-desktop package instead of say seperate packages?
09:12	joejaxx	juliux: but with fluxbuntu it is lighter runs on more computers it also has a strict diet of lightwight applications
09:12	juliux	joejaxx, thxs
09:12	joejaxx	juliux: you are most welcome
09:12	LaserJock	gnomefreak: of course
09:13	joejaxx	gnomefreak: yes
09:13	juliux	joejaxx, i will test it if i found some old hardware at home;)
09:13	gnomefreak	:)
09:13	joejaxx	juliux: ;)
09:14	sabdfl	joejaxx: i very much support your goals with fluxbuntu, +1 from me on the basis of commitment to join the MOTU team and get that into ubuntu through the MOTU
09:15	sabdfl	joejaxx: any particular changes, other than selection of apps and window manager?
09:15	joejaxx	sabdfl: well customization of fluxbox for the user
09:15	joejaxx	sabdfl: fluxbox can be a pain to setup
09:15	sabdfl	and you make it Just Work?
09:15	joejaxx	also the menu updating works which is great
09:16	joejaxx	sabdfl: we configure everything with fluxbox for the end user
09:16	joejaxx	right now we are releasing developmental releases so we are still adding things
=== nalioth [i=nalioth@freenode/staff/ubuntu.member.nalioth] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:16	sabdfl	does the user have to make any decisions, or is it a standard, good-by-default config?
09:16	joejaxx	sabdfl: it is good by default
09:16	joejaxx	sabdfl: some of the users are advance fluxbox users so they change things on there own though
09:17	sabdfl	right
09:17	joejaxx	sabdfl: we are also developing somthing called the Dashboard
09:17	sabdfl	elmo, kamion?
=== gnomefreak would maybe change the livecd boot up screen to use the fluxbuntu logo instead of ubuntu (just out of maybe a confused user)
09:17	joejaxx	which is like a common control panel to configure fluxbuntu
09:17	joejaxx	gnomefreak: well the thing with that is
09:18	joejaxx	i cannot set vga=785
09:18	joejaxx	so when i install the custom usplash
09:18	joejaxx	it comes up black on the livecd
09:18	joejaxx	but works on the hdd install
09:18	Kamion	you shouldn't have to - usplash uses svgalib, not the vesa framebuffer
09:18	elmo	ack - but with the same basis of commitment to better integration with ubuntu as a whole
09:18	joejaxx	so i left the usplash
09:18	Kamion	at least in edgy
09:19	joejaxx	Kamion: yes we are currently using dapper until edgy is finalized
09:19	sabdfl	we *love* the new u-splash, it showed up for me on my laptop for the first time today
09:19	Kamion	joejaxx: how much effort are you putting into mubuntu vs. fluxbuntu?
09:19	joejaxx	Kamion: well with mubuntu
09:19	Kamion	incidentally that's a really confusing name - we'd been talking about mubuntu as an embedded distro, and multimedia is just about the other end of the spectrum
09:20	Kamion	(mu as in the Greek micro)
09:20	joejaxx	i am helping MMA create the base system
=== dolson [n=dana@ppp-66-225-185-128.vianet.ca] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:20	joejaxx	and also with the mubutnu-* meta package once we get the paackage list finalized for each
09:21	_MMA_	Hi all. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Mubuntu Post some ideas. ;)
09:21	joejaxx	i am using my knowledge from my fluxbuntu development with the mubuntu
09:22	joejaxx	Kamion: the funny thing is i was coming out with a "mubuntu" (multimedia) and i joined the canonical mubuntu project afeter i found out one was being created
09:23	joejaxx	so i am helping that project instead
09:23	joejaxx	mubuntu that is
09:23	joejaxx	the canonical one
09:23	Kamion	ok, just try not to get involved in so many pies that you can't do a good job on all of them ...
09:24	gnomefreak	i would think alot of legal issues would go along with mubuntu
09:24	Kamion	that would be my main concern, since they seem like very different projects
09:24	Kamion	but aside from that, and with the note raised by sabdfl and elmo that we'd like to get your fluxbox work integrated better, +1
09:24	_MMA_	I would love to get with others to pull our ideas together. Right now the plan if for me to go to the UDS Mountain View. I would love to talk with anyone there.
09:24	sabdfl	welcome aboard, joejaxx
09:25	dolson	congrats joejaxx
09:25	matid	Congrats, joejaxx
09:25	joejaxx	sabdfl: dolson thanks
09:25	gnomefreak	congrats joejaxx
09:25	Seveas	congratulations!
09:25	joejaxx	gnomefreak: thank you
09:25	lophyte	congrats joejaxx
09:25	joejaxx	Seveas: lophyte :)
09:25	gnomefreak	joejaxx: yw
09:25	joejaxx	Seveas: lophyte thanks
09:25	Seveas	Andrew Hodgkinson?
09:25	sabdfl	who's up next?
09:25	ahod__	I'll go.
09:26	ahod__	Hi.  I'm a senior software engineer and have worked for Novell for the past 11 years. For most of that time, my efforts have been focused on developing and supporting the FLAIM database technology.  FLAIM is used in projects such as iFolder, Hula, CASA, and Novell's eDirectory (closed source).
09:26	nalioth	w00t joejaxx !
09:26	ahod__	I recently created a native Ubuntu package for FLAIM and would like to see it kept up-to-date in Ubuntu Universe.  My purpose in joining the community is to volunteer to maintain the native Ubuntu package for FLAIM.  More info can be found at my wiki site http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AndrewHodgkinson.  My launchpad info can be found at https://launchpad.net/people/ahodgkinson.
09:27	Kamion	it would be great to have somebody actively maintaining flaim, ifolder, et al; Mez packaged libflaim ages ago, and it's in universe, but it hasn't been maintained
09:27	Kamion	do you think you can take on any of the other flaim-using projects you mentioned?
09:27	ahod__	I know.  We (the FLAIM maintainers) have made a lot of changes and improvements since then.
09:27	sabdfl	xflaim in particular looks interesting
09:28	ahod__	I have helped with iFolder on a limited basis, but wouldn't mind doing more.
09:28	ahod__	We just added c# and java bindings to xflaim.
09:28	sabdfl	ahod__: have you spent any time with the MOTU?
09:29	sabdfl	they would be good to help i.t.o. packaging etc, which is quite different to the rpm world as you know
=== whiprush [n=jorge@64.62.190.212] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:29	whiprush	hi guys
09:29	ahod__	No a lot up to this point.  I have submitted FLAIM and XFLAIM to the REVU site.
09:29	sabdfl	out of curiosity, are the MOTU good about getting back to folks who submit stuff to REVU?
09:29	ahod__	We have .deb packages available for FLAIM and XFLAIM.
09:30	sabdfl	as part of your upstream build and publish process?
09:30	ahod__	sabdfl:  No, they aren't.
09:30	slomo	ahod__: for c# stuff you might want to join the mono team :) more members would be always good, especially someone caring about ifolder,etc
09:30	sabdfl	not good at getting back? or not part of the build process?
=== ..[topic/#ubuntu-meeting:Ubugtu] : Calendar: http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event | Logs: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/ | 04 Oct 12:00 UTC: Edubuntu | 05 Oct 07:00 UTC: Ubuntu Development Team | 05 Oct 21:00 UTC: Kubuntu | 10 Oct 20:00 UTC: Technical Board | 11 Oct 20:00 UTC: Edubuntu | 12 Oct 15:00 UTC: Ubuntu Development Team
09:30	ahod__	Yes.  We build .deb packages as part of our standard build process.
09:30	sabdfl	ah, ok
09:31	ahod__	Not good at getting back.
09:31	sabdfl	dholbach: can you put REVU and MOTU onto the agenda for UDS Mountain View please? we should straighten that out
09:32	dholbach	sabdfl: Yeah, I'll take care of that.
09:33	LaserJock	heh
09:33	sabdfl	i'm very intrigued and would like to have you involved but normally would have more behind someone before +1 on membership
09:34	sabdfl	i think we need to hook you up with dholbach for some quality motu time, get the packages in, and then +1 on membership and motu simultaneously
09:34	Seveas	sounds sane
09:34	ahod__	ok
09:34	sabdfl	ahod__: do you think your flaim packages are edgy material?
09:34	Kamion	I'd have been inclined to say +1 on the basis that getting knowledgeable upstreams involved is always a good thing, but if it doesn't slow down Andrew's MOTU acceptance, then that's fine too
09:35	Kamion	consider me on the record as +1 for later
09:35	ahod__	They have been well tested.  I think that they should be included in Edgy so that they are available to support iFolder, etc.
09:35	sabdfl	dholbach: could you put ahod__ in touch with a very good motu for now, to get flaim and others into shape for edgy, then follow up with him yourself after the release to see how it's gone?
09:35	Kamion	dholbach or one of the other MOTUs would need to ack a universe freeze exception, but given that flaim has been languishing it sounds a worthwhile one to me
09:35	dholbach	sabdfl: I'm happy to do that
09:36	dholbach	Kamion: yeah, I agree :)
09:36	whiprush	ahod__: I've been waiting for a flaim/ifolder person for a year, I'd like to help also.
09:36	ahod__	whiprush:  That would be great.
09:36	sabdfl	can't do better than whiprush :-)
09:37	sabdfl	ahod__: holler in my direction (mark@ubuntu.com) if there are glitches in getting your latest stuff into edgy, i'll iron out any wrinkles
09:37	sabdfl	then after that i would also +1 membership
09:37	ahod__	ok.  If anyone has more questions, feel free to send me an e-mail (ahodgkinson@novell.com)
09:38	Seveas	ok, matid: you're up next
09:38	matid	Ok
09:38	matid	Hello. My name is Mateusz Drozdzynski (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/MateuszDrozdzynski and http://launchpad.net/people/matid). I'm very passionate about OSS, I've been using Linux for about 6 years now and I doubt I could ever turn away from it.
09:38	Seveas	(ahod__ welcome to Ubuntu, I'd love to see you as member in the future)
09:38	matid	I'm an Ubuntu user since Warty and I've been testing the development releases since Hoary. I'm encouraging all of my friends to use Ubuntu and I provide them with free, life-time, round-a-clock support.
09:38	matid	I'm involved in the bug triage as a member of the Bug Squad, Ubuntu Desktop Bugs and Ubuntu QA Team. I'm also willing to help out with the packaging and I'd like to become a MOTU in the future.
09:38	matid	I've joined Telepathy team make sure Telepathy will rock in Edgy+1 by contributing my bug triage abilities together with some coding and packaging.
09:38	matid	Together with Polish Linux Users Group, which I'm a member of, we organized an event promoting the Linux amongst windows users called "Poznaj Linuksa". I'd like to start coordinating out efforts to promote Linux between PLUG and Ubuntu LoCo teams.
09:39	matid	One of my current plans is to create localized Quality Assurance teams to form a bridge between Ubuntu developers and users who can't file bugs in English.
09:39	matid	You can read more on my wiki page: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/MateuszDrozdzynski
09:39	matid	I've also brought some fellow BugSquad, Desktop Bugs and QA members: Daniel Holbach (dholbach), Simon Law (sfllaw), Sebastien Bacher (seb128), John Vivirito  (gnomefreak) and Richard Johnson  (nixternal). I hope they can say something positive about me ;)
09:39	matid	Sorry for such a long intro ;)
09:39	Seveas	localized QA ftw!
09:40	gnomefreak	he has done alot of bug work. i have seen his name for a whjile just never knew who he was until 3 days ago
09:40	seb128	matid has been doing some good bug triage work and is playing with telepathy packages which is nice too
09:40	gnomefreak	s/whjile/while
=== co_op_er [n=cooper@host-87-242-0-109.prtelecom.hu] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:41	dholbach	Yeah, I'm happy with his triage efforts too and am glad he became member of the telepathy team some days ago
09:41	dholbach	ahod__: I sent you a private message - hope that's ok
09:42	sfllaw	I'm very pleased with matid's work.
=== Seveas too
09:42	Seveas	more triagers on the block is a good idea
09:42	Seveas	and he's serious about it
09:43	sabdfl	very nice to see the bug karma there matid
09:43	matid	Seveas: Thanks
09:43	matid	sabdfl: Thanks
09:43	sabdfl	matid: how long have you been active on the bug squad?
09:43	matid	And thanks for all my fellow QA members ;)
09:44	matid	sabdfl: About two months right now
09:44	sabdfl	ok, +1 from me on the back of ongoing bug triage over the course of 2 months
09:46	Seveas	elmo, Kamion ?
09:46	matid	I'm currently spending ab. 1/2 of my free time to contribute to Ubuntu
09:46	matid	And I'm really serious about the localized QA teams
09:46	Kamion	well, I did have to tell Mateusz off a while back for rejecting one of my bugs when he shouldn't, but that happens to a fair few people :)
09:47	Kamion	and that *was* a while backk
09:47	matid	I have many friends who would likely file many bugs but they can't do it since the language barrier
09:47	Kamion	+1 for sustained bugsquad work and helping out with telepathy
09:47	matid	Kamion: Sorry about that :)
09:47	Kamion	it happens :)
09:47	sabdfl	matid: how do we get more people to help out on the LP support tracker? i see you've helped solve someone's issue there too
09:48	Seveas	Kamion, tbh, ubiquity is one of the hardest-to-triage packages ;)
09:48	sabdfl	Kamion: that's because your software has such subtle bugs :-)
=== dholbach hugs matid
=== matid hugs dholbach back
09:48	matid	sabdfl: Hmm...
=== EtienneG [n=etienne@montreal.canonical.com] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:49	gnomefreak	there are only like 6 support requests open atm
09:49	matid	sabdfl: I think it should be easier to file support request from the Ubuntu itself, we lack an application to do it
09:49	matid	sabdfl: And localizing the support tracker would help a lot too
09:49	matid	sabdfl: I'm still pointing the same issue out, but I think that's crucial to have Launchpad translated.
09:50	sabdfl	the "Get help online..." links should take people more directly there
09:50	Kamion	Seveas: yeah, I've been trying to improve that ... problem with the installer is that you have to live with last release's bugs for a long time
09:50	matid	It should be given a higher priority
09:50	sabdfl	matid: we definitely plan to make the support tracker multilingual, more so than the rest of LP
09:50	sabdfl	flacoste is working on that, chat to him on #launchpad if you're interested and have ideas
09:51	sabdfl	not sure we want to encourage multilingual bug reports though
09:51	sabdfl	:-)
09:51	sabdfl	did elmo ack?
09:51	matid	sabdfl: About this 'Get help online...', I think that's a good idea. It should help the support tracker become a default way of handling support requests
09:51	Seveas	sabdfl, not yet
09:51	matid	sabdfl: We should at least have some teams to help non-English users file the bugs
09:52	Seveas	whilst waiting for elmo should we continue with the next candidate?
09:53	elmo	please carry on, I'm on the phone
09:53	Seveas	ok
09:53	elmo	will catach up ASAP
09:53	Seveas	kristog is up next
09:53	matid	Ok
09:53	kristog	hello, i'm Riccardo Setti, i live in Milano (Italy), and i'm a high school student. In my spare time i help Debian and since may
09:53	kristog	i'm an official Debian developer (you can find more information about my Debian work
09:53	kristog	http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=riccardo+Setti&comaint=yes).
09:53	kristog	I joined the Ubuntu community one year ago, in this period i was not really active, i started to do real work for Ubuntu
09:53	kristog	when dholbach started the telepathy team.
09:53	kristog	My (directly) contributions to Ubuntu are some telepathy packages, (in fact this is a team, i cannot say wich package is "mine" and wich
09:53	kristog	not ;) ) we work close with upstream to do our best to provide a good support for it in Ubuntu,
09:53	kristog	i joined the galago team and the qa team .
09:53	kristog	My future work will be integrate as much as I can telepathy galago and tapioca in Ubuntu (IM, desktop presence, voip framework), start
09:53	kristog	maintain some Desktop apps like gnome-power-manager, network-manager, and..who will know this?
09:54	Seveas	dholbach, any comments on the telepathy effort?
09:54	dholbach	kristog ROCKs and was a huge asset in the telepathy team - we talked a year ago about galago packages already and it was great to collaborate with him
09:54	Seveas	wow
09:55	dholbach	he's a nice a guy, friendly, helped other people to do packaging - I'm *very happy* with him
09:55	seb128	kristog does a really good job
=== robitaille [n=daniel@ubuntu/member/robitaille] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:56	dholbach	his packaging skills are good, he's good to talk to people (upstream, users, fellow package maintainers), maintains an overview and is easy to work with
09:56	dholbach	http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Telepathy/Modules for his work in telepathy
=== Plug [n=crb@203.167.190.117] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:57	seb128	and he seems to be wanting to help on gnome-power-manager bugs, which is really welcome
09:57	slomo	i can completely agree to daniel here... i already worked with him in Debian before and it was nice to work with him there and in Ubuntu, he has very good packaging knowledge, etc
09:58	Seveas	sabdfl, Kamion ?
09:59	sabdfl	kristog: do you have an ubuntu wiki or LP data to point to?
09:59	dholbach	https://launchpad.net/people/giskard
09:59	kristog	sabdfl: LP: https://launchpad.net/people/giskard
09:59	elmo	(ack for matid)
09:59	Seveas	elmo, thanks, matid: welcome!
09:59	gnomefreak	congrats matid
09:59	kristog	sabdfl: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RiccardoSetti
09:59	matid	Thanks everyone!
10:00	Seveas	(sabdfl: member candidate wikipages are linked from the CC agenda)
=== matid hugs everyone
10:01	sabdfl	ok, +1 for kristog from me on the back of seb128 and dholbach's recommendations
10:01	sabdfl	welcome, matid
10:01	kristog	sabdfl: thank you :)
10:01	matid	sabdfl: Thanks
10:01	slomo	also it would probably be really good to have him caring about n-m i guess as nobody does yet and it could really need some work and i would be fine sponsoring his work for main :)
10:01	Kamion	I'm happy with kristog on the basis of recommendations, Debian work, and oh god please somebody look after n-m
10:02	sabdfl	n-m?
10:02	Kamion	network-manager
10:02	Seveas	network-manager
10:02	sabdfl	YES!
10:02	Seveas	ok, so that's +2 from sabdfl ;)
10:02	sabdfl	my rarely-used casting vote :-)
10:02	sabdfl	elmo?
10:02	kristog	ahhaha
10:03	elmo	ack
10:03	kristog	thank you elmo
10:03	Seveas	welcome aboard kristog !
10:03	kristog	thank you everyone :)
10:03	Seveas	now make n-m rock kthxbye ;)
10:03	slomo	congrats kristog :)
10:03	sabdfl	kristog: have you applied to join the ubuntumembers team in LP?
10:03	Seveas	next up is keescook
10:03	dholbach	congratulations kristog - great to have you here!
10:03	keescook	Hello!  I'm Kees Cook (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/KeesCook and https://launchpad.net/people/keescook).  I've been using Ubuntu since Hoary (and switched most of the OSDL infrastructure to it from Redhat).  I've gotten involved in bug triage and packaging, and I now work with pitti on the Ubuntu Security Team, where I have been helping release security updates since August (sendmail, krb5, clamav, coreutils, gdb, and more on the way).  I want to see U
10:03	keescook	I asked pitti, zakame, and crimsun to say good things about me.  If I smile real nice, I'm hoping other will too.  :)
10:03	keescook	Here's what zakame asked me to pass on before he left:
10:03	keescook	<zakame> "I've been observing Kees' work on resolving bugs in Malone, and I believe he's doing great work in making Ubuntu better; furthermore, I have worked with him as my mentor closely during my stint on the Google Summer of Code to great success: I have learned a lot of new stuff thanks to him and his project Sendpage, and hence I totally believe that he will be a valuable Ubuntu member."
10:03	seb128	dholbach: congrat
10:03	seb128	ups
10:03	seb128	kristog: congrat
10:04	kristog	sabdfl: no, ATM i was busy with telepathy and ohters thig :)
10:04	kristog	seb128: thank you :)
10:04	matid	seb128: ;)
10:04	dholbach	seb128: thanks for congratulating me for another good desktop / telepathy members - congrats to you too! ;-)
=== dholbach hugs seb128
10:04	sabdfl	kristog: https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntumembers/+join then ping me
10:04	pitti	I have worked with kees for a fair while now; he's marvellous at all kinds of security related stuff, a quick learner wrt. packaging issues, dived into bug triaging as well as new packaging, etc.
=== kristog hugs seb128 dholbach slomo
10:04	pitti	kristog: welcome!
10:05	sabdfl	keescook: methinks we need package upload karma to do you justice
10:05	sabdfl	(and all the other dev's)
10:05	Seveas	pitti, so you're *finally* no longer almost on your own wrt security?
10:05	keescook	sabdfl: yeah.  :)
10:05	Seveas	sabdfl, indeed
10:05	pitti	Seveas: indeed, and I can't tell you how grateful I am :)
10:05	pitti	sabdfl: yeah, I want upload karma for langpacks :)
10:05	sabdfl	how many USN's can we attribute to keescook to date?
10:06	sabdfl	pitti: ...with a pony, no doubt
10:06	pitti	one officially released one, and about 5 that are in the works
10:06	dholbach	Although I didn't work too closely with Kees yet, I saw he started triaging bugs in no time, changed wiki pages, etc - he really takes things really seriously. :)
10:06	keescook	2, I think.  krb5, gdb.
10:06	pitti	ah, right, krb5, too; sorry
10:07	keescook	dholbach: got you your QA emblem too.  ;)
10:07	pitti	he's curious to understand everything in the Ubuntu community and has good ideas, too
10:07	dholbach	hehe, yeah right - his artistic skills are marveloous :)
=== zul looks forward to eventually being bugged by keescook :)
10:07	keescook	woohoo someone thinks I can draw!  (the inkscape guys will not agree)
10:08	sabdfl	i know you'll make a substantial contribution very quickly, but for membership we usually look for a couple months contribution
10:08	sabdfl	is it pedantic to hold off a month or so?
10:08	keescook	sabdfl: sure, I kept that in mind.  I was hoping my krb5 (aug) would count.
10:08	keescook	but I'm happy to wait if that's needed.
10:08	elmo	sabdfl: we've waived the requirement in the past for Canonical people
10:08	Seveas	sabdfl, other canonical employees (eg jono) were accepted given that being employed by canonical almost ensures a continued contribution
10:08	elmo	sabdfl: on the assumption that they're contract will guarantee the couple of months of contribution
10:09	elmo	s/they're/their/
10:09	sabdfl	elmo: and this is for distro team folks, i assume?
10:09	sabdfl	as opposed to dodgy suits?
=== pitti thinks it won't be easy to stop keescook now :)
10:09	elmo	sabdfl: distro + community so far, yeah
10:09	Kamion	we generally can't assume that non-distro-team employees will continue to contribute to Ubuntu directly
10:09	sabdfl	ok, +1 from me since I know kees will make a great contribution and is already full time
10:10	Kamion	I'm entirely happy with keescook for membership
10:10	elmo	Kamion: I don't think we've had any non-distro people apply
10:10	Kamion	for all the completely obvious reasons
10:10	elmo	have we?
10:10	sabdfl	sigh
10:10	Seveas	elmo, not that I know of
10:10	Kamion	elmo: Etienne Goyer did, I think? Robert Collins?
10:10	elmo	anyway, ack for me keescook from me too, as a no brainer
10:10	elmo	Kamion: ah, I guess so
10:10	sabdfl	he most definitely has some brains
=== zorglu_ [n=zorglub@134.43.102-84.rev.gaoland.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:10	Kamion	I think there've been others
10:10	sabdfl	welcome aboard, kees, are you in the LP queue?
10:10	keescook	yay!  thanks everyone.  :)
10:10	Seveas	kees, welcome aboard!
10:11	sabdfl	got it
10:11	pitti	keescook: \o/ welcome
10:11	keescook	sabdfl: LP ubuntu-members queue?  yup, should be.
10:11	sabdfl	approved
10:11	Seveas	We're at the end of the list, I just want to know whether the council already decided about Rolando Blanco
10:11	sabdfl	is that it? any latecomers?
10:12	nixternal	i will go again, the first time was so much fun ;)
10:12	Kamion	I don't think there's been anything by mail about Rolando, unless I missed it?
10:12	lophyte	haha
10:12	lophyte	nice, nixternal :P
10:12	Seveas	Kamion, I sent it yesterday
10:12	Kamion	oh yes
10:12	sabdfl	got it
10:12	Kamion	there've been no followups yet I'm afraid
10:13	Seveas	ok, then I'll leave him on the agenda for now. I'd appreciate it to hear a decision at the next meeting
10:13	sabdfl	+1 from me for rolando on the back of the .ve loco team
10:13	Seveas	(or now, thanks sabdfl ;))
10:14	sabdfl	OK!
10:15	sabdfl	well done, and thanks everybody (Seveas for steering, mako, elmo, kamion for listening)
10:15	sabdfl	any other business?
10:15	Seveas	datetime of next meeting
10:15	sabdfl	i've been poor about attendance, and i see some items are pending me on the agenda
10:15	Kamion	just read through the mails, I'm OK with Rolando as well
10:15	Seveas	Kamion, great!
10:16	Seveas	sabdfl, maybe it's better if we speak about that in person at UDS, I forgot to bring it up in Brussels
10:16	sabdfl	have things settled on freenode after the sad death of lilo?
10:16	Seveas	sabdfl, not sure, will ask the freenode staff
10:16	keescook	if only there was SSL on freenode...
10:16	sabdfl	ok, will we have the whole CC at UDS?
10:17	Kamion	assuming I can actually manage to get in touch with the US embassy about that, er, little visa waiver matter
=== mc44 [n=m@ip-81-170-102-110.cust.homechoice.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
10:17	sabdfl	Kamion: you and me both :-)
10:17	sabdfl	mako?
=== sivang wonders which event took place in Brussels
10:18	Seveas	EuroOscon
10:18	Kamion	sabdfl: oh, did you see my mail to community-council@ saying that I'd like to retire from the CC and let others have a turn?
10:18	sivang	Seveas: oh :)
10:18	sabdfl	i'll definitely mail mako re sponsorship if he's available and not already on the list
10:18	sabdfl	Kamion: yes, wanted to discuss succession recommendations!
10:19	Seveas	elmo, if you'd be so kind as to vote for/against Rolando Blanco, I can remove him from the agenda
10:19	elmo	Seveas: ack
10:19	sabdfl	Kamion: thank you for an outstanding contribution setting the standard for future CC members
10:19	Seveas	elmo, great, thanks a lot!
10:19	Seveas	Kamion, indeed, thanks a lot!
10:20	Kamion	it's been a fun ride, but my family have been complaining about all the late-night meetings for some time ;-)
10:20	Kamion	if we want to talk about succession at UDS, that could be doable
=== Seveas has to go now - please decide on a datetime for next meeting today, see you all next time
10:21	jenda	Will we still talk a bit about the IRC problem when this is finished?
10:21	jenda	aha, right.
=== robitaille will have to start reserving 4-hour slots for future CC meeting on the Fridge calendar :)
10:22	elmo	hey, I'm stuck at the office without food - this isn't fun for me either :-P
10:23	sabdfl	elmo: indian?
10:23	elmo	sabdfl: they only deliver for you
10:24	sabdfl	i could deliver for you
10:24	juliux	if you are in germany in the next months take a look at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ConferenceAppearances we are happy if somebody can join us at one of this expos ;)
=== Plug [n=crb@203.167.190.117] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
=== remon [n=remon@210-64-dsl.ipact.nl] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Konversation]
10:25	elmo	sabdfl: haha, thanks, but it's OK, I'll just run away home, if we're done here
10:25	sabdfl	we're done. next datetime?
10:25	sabdfl	17th?
=== keescook [n=kees@mylar.outflux.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting []
10:26	Kamion	yes - 1200 UTC maybe?
10:26	elmo	works for me
10:26	sharms	I was wondering if anyone knows who made those ubuntu t-shirts printed on ubutnu brown?
10:26	sabdfl	tollef, iirc
10:27	sabdfl	is 12:00 UTC still 13:00 BST then?
10:27	mc44	sabdfl, yes
10:27	mc44	until 29th
10:28	matid	http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=10&day=17&year=2006&hour=12&min=0&sec=0&p1=0
10:28	matid	;)
10:29	sabdfl	ok see you folks then - i'll update the page
=== tseliot [n=tseliot@host153-251-dynamic.10-87-r.retail.telecomitalia.it] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["Kopete]
10:30	Kamion	sabdfl: thanks
10:30	sabdfl	done
10:30	sabdfl	night all!
</pre>
